Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection - Metadata Header
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/)
Title: Lone Star Steel Company and United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing Energy, Allied Industrial Service Workers International Union (USWA) Local 4134 (2005)
K#: 2531
Employer Name: Lone Star Steel Company
Location: TX Lone Star
Union: United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing Energy, Allied Industrial Service Workers International Union (USWA)
Local: 4134
SIC: 3312	NAICS: 331111
Sector: P	Number of Workers: 1250
Effective Date: 07/18/05	Expiration Date: 07/31/08
Number of Pages: 116	Other Years Available: Y
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School, http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
AGREEMENT
BETOKEN LONE STAR STEEL COMPANY
AND THE
UNITED STEEL, PAPER AND FORESTRYt RUBBER, MANUFACTURING ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL SERVICES WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
LOCAL NO, 4134
JULY 16, 2005 - JULY 31, 2008
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paragraph Page
WSkKKMtKT .................................. 1	5
Section 1 PURPOSE AND INTENT...................................... 6
Section 2 SCOPE GF AGREEMENT...................................... S
Enplcyoe Defined......................	10	8
Removal and Return to Checkoff X*ist ..	12	g
Supervisory Personnel Working ........	13	B
Local Working Conditions .............	19	9
section 3 KWW»0®NT .............................................. 11
Section 4 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE PARTIES .................. 12
Intimidation or Coer a ion .............	41	12
Union Activity .......................... 42	12
Ho Strike Clause......................... 43	12
Jurisdiction of Arbitrator	49	14
Non^diecrimination Clause ............	54	14
Civil Rigtits Committee .............,	58	15
Section 5 CHECKOFF AND DEDUCTIONS .......................... 16
Union Dues .............................  60	16
Deduction Designee ...................... 65	16
Savings Bonds Deduction .............. ♦.	66	1?
Political Action Deduction ...........	67	17
Section 6 ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES .............................. 18
Limitation Period® ...................	68	18
Filing Limitation ....................	69	18
Discussion of Request or Complaint ...	70	18
Definition of Grievance ..............	71	18
Grievance Procedure ...........................  19
Filing a Grievance ...................  72	19
processing of Grievances -............  86	20
Union Grievance »-...................  102	24
Suspension of grievance procedure	. ■	104	24
Access to Facilities ...............	105	24
Union Grievance Counit tee ............. 106	25
Cooksey's Failure to taever.........	107	25
j
Paragraph Pago
Section 7 ARBITRATION........................................... 27
Selection of Arbitrators..................... ill	27
Payment of Arbitrators	......, 113	28
Authority of Arbitrator	114	23
De termination of Uatrosctivity .. 116	23
Suspension of Arbitration ................    123	29
Section 8
DISCHARGE AND SUSPENSION CASKS .................... 30
Hearings .................................... 125	30
Appeal ...................................... 126	31
Limitation of Suspension Period .. l . . .	129	31
Authority of Arbitrator...................... 130	31
Notification to the Union . . ......,	132	31
Section 9 M2T3 OT* PAI ......................................... 32
Standard Hourly Wags Kates . ......... .,	133	32
Profit Sharing Payments -.. .... . . , . .. „	134	33
Clean-up Laborer Pay ■ ■>•	. < •	135	33
Shift Differentials ......................... 136	33
Sunday Premium Pay	F ... .........  .	141	34
Wage Incentive, gainsharing............. 144	34
Job Assignment . . . . - «-	„	153	36
Injury Pay	........ 154	36
Pay Periods and Fay Days	155	36
Description and	Classification	.......	36
Purpose .........................«...	156	36
Continuity	.	157	37
Procedure for	New	or Changed	Jobs ..	159	37
Exhibit G ..................................... 42
Jury Pay -................................  194	43
Bsreavement Fay ,	, 165	43
Beation 10 HOCRS OF WORK..................................... 44
Scope ....................................    186	44
Normd Workday................................ 187	44
Normal work Pattern ......................... IBS	44
Schedules .........................-.	44
Deviations	    190	44
Posting ..................................  191	45
Changing ...............................    192	45
Reporting Allowance	..........	19B	46
Overtime * Holidays.........	205	47
Fay for Holidays Not Worked .......... 219	49
2
Paragraph Page
Honduplioticn......................,..	223	50
Diatribntion of Overtime ............    225	51
Section 11
VACATIONS ....................................... 52
Eligibility............................. 227	52
Length of Vacation .................. .	229	52
Holidays within	a	Vacation	231	52
Postponement of Vacation.............	232	53
Scheduling of	Vacation*	., ., .......... 233	53
Partial Week ........................... 235	53
Vacation Pay .........................	236	54
Vacation Upon Retirement <............	239	54
Section 12 SENIORITY ........................................ 55
Seniority Defined ............*......... 239	55
Line of Progreaeion Seniority ......	240	55
Sequence Seniority ........ .......	241	55
Continuous Service Seniority .......	242	55
Employees Defined ...................-	243	55
Probationary Enployee .........,, , .,	244	55
Regular Employee	  246	56
Seniority List . *. .	 .	247	56
Line* o£ Progression	. . . . .........	250	57
Proeptibn " Waivers	..................	262	56
Permanent Transfer	 ............... t,.	266	59
Tv^orary Transfer	...................	272	61
Twporary Vacancies	274	61
Decrease in Force ...................... 277	62
Inequity in Sours .	.	265	63
Fitnaaa and Ability	266	63
Termination of Seniority	267	64
U^Icyee Address ........................ 299	63
Absenteeism ................ *.......... 300	65
Layoff Pool ............................ 301	65
Military Leave.......................... 311	SB
Military Replacements ................	312	66
Medical Leave of Abranoa................ 313	69
Family Leave.........................    315	69
General Leave of Absence ..............  316	70
Medical or General Leave of Absence ..	317	70
leave of Absence of Union Officers ,. .	318	70
Snperviaory Iiq>loyeeB ................. 319	70
Shift Preference .....................	321	71
3
Paragraph Page
Section 13 SAFETY AND HEALTH ........................... 72
Objective and Obligations of Parties .	325	72
Protective Devices, Wearing Apparel .. 329* -	72
Dispute* .....,.........................	330 '	73
Section 14
SEVERANCE ALLOHAHCE .................... 74
Conditions of Allowance ..............	333	74
Eligibility ............................ 334	74
Scale of Allowance ...............       337	75
Calculation of Allowance .............	33B	75
Payment of Allowance ................    339	75
Nondvplication of Allowance ..........	340	75
Section IS	'	•
BENEFITS ................................. 342	'	76
Section 16
DATE of TERMINATION ...................... 343	76
SIGNATURES ■.............................. 346	77
LITTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
Overpayment of Temporary Disability Income Benefits ......................	70
Temper ary Disability
Inocoe Benefits	.	05
Vacation Scheduling ...................	82
Shift preference — Walders ...........	B4
Lunch Breaks ......................................  85
Physicals .................................  86
Pit Vtilitynan ...................................   83
Job Retention Pending Suspension Determination ......................  89
Contracting Out	91
E. W. Pipe Mill Finishing
Job preference ....,,.. r..,..>..,...,.	93
Expedited Arbitration Procedure ........ 95
Discipline ................. 9B
Drug, Alcohol and Inhalants Screening Program ...................	99
Mobile Equipsnant Operator Specialty Tubing .............................. 104
Layoff Benefit Plan....................	105
Safety Shoes ....................................    106
Electrical Technician .................	108
Day Shift Assignments	109
Voluntary Layoff During Planned Temporary Shut Down ..........................  110
Safety Agreement..................................   112
4
j
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT, which id made affective as of j July 10, 2005 at 12:01 AM., is entered into by and between L3NE STAR STEEL COMPANY or its Successors (hereinafter sometimes referred to as the "Company”) t and UNITED STEEL, PAPER AND FORESTRY, RUBBER, MANUFACTURING ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL SERVICES WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, or its Successors (hereinafter referred to as the "Union").
The Company recognises the Union as the ex- 2 clui i ve collective bargaining representative of the employees of the Company's Lone Star, Texas plant as defined in Section 2 ' Scope of Agreement. Accordingly, the union makes this Agreoment in its capacity aa the exclusive collective bargaining representative of such employees.
5
SECTION 1 PURPOSE AND INTENT
The purpose of the Company and Union in 3 entering into this labor contract is to set forth their agreement on rates of pay, hours of work and other conditions of employment so as to promote orderly and peaceful relations with the eoployees to achieve uninterrupted operations in the plant end to achieve the highest level of employes performance consistent with safety, good health and sustained effort.
The Company and the Union encourage the high- 4 •st possible degree of friendly < cooperative relationships between their respective representatives at all levels with and between all employees. The officers of the Company and the Union realise that this goal depends on more than words in a labor agreementt that it depends primarily on attitudes between people in their respective organizations and at all levels of responsibility. They believe that proper attitudes must be based on full understanding of J and regard for, the respective rights and responsibilities of both the Company and the Union. They believe also that proper attitudes ..are of major importance in the local plant where day-to-day-'Operations and administration of the Labor Agreement denand fairness and understanding.
They believe that these attitudes can be en- 5 oouraged beat when it is made clear that the Company and Union Officials, whose duties involved negotiation of this Labor Agreement are not antiunion or anti-companyt but are sincerely concerned with the best interests and well-being of the business and all employees.
Accordingly, the Company and the Union as 6 evidence of their attitude and intent, have agreed that during the life of this Agreement # representatives of the Company and the Union at all levels will meet at reasonable times upon request of either party, The purpose of such meetings is understood to be an appraisal of the problems, if
6
any, which have arisen in the application, administration and interpretation of this Agreement, and which nay he interfering with the attainment of their joint objectives as set forth above* Such meetings shall not be for the purpose of conducting continuing collective bargaining negotiations, nor in any way to modify, add to, or detract from the provisions of thia ftgrnnitont
By such an arrangement, the parties are 7 affording concrete evidence of a sincere attempt to accomplish the goal of cooperative good industrial relations and of their purpose to find ways to overcome difficulties or influence interfering with the attainment of the goal^
By such arrangement, the parties believe that B they, as men of good will with sound purpose, may best protect private enterprise and ita efficiency ifk the interests of all, as well as the Legitimate interest of organisations within ths framework of a democratic society in which regard for fact and fairness is essential.
Neither this section nor the agreement of the 9 Company to recognize the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining representative of the Company employees listed in section 2 shall give rise to any claim of any right on the part of any employee or the Union or of any obligation an the part of the Company except as specifically stated therein.
7
SECTION 2 SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
The term '’employee" as used in this 10 Agreement, applies to all production and maintenance employees at the Company plant, except officer clerical and accounting personnel, mill clerks exclusive of scrap weighersr guards, watchmen, messengers, bricknasons, final inspectors and professional personnel, employees in the personnel, police, purchasing, telephone, traffic, fire and safety departments, and supervisory personnel with authority to promote, hire, fire, or effectively to recoomend such action.
The use in this contract of the masculine 11 form of any pronoun or other word is intended to include reference to persons of both sexes*
An employee who is promoted or transferred 12 from a job in the bargaining unit to a job outside the bargaining unit as defined above shall be removed from the check-off list on the first of the month following the date of such promotion or transfer* Similarly, an employee returned to a job within the bargaining unit for five (5) days in any one (1) month shall be reinstated on the check-off list for such month.
Supervisory personnel shall not routinely 13 perform work regularly performed by employees in the bargaining unit except:
Cl| instruction of bargaining unit 14 employees,
(2)	emergency,	15
(3)	training, experimental or research pur- 15 poses when new machinery or equipment is installed or when revised operating procedures are adopted,
(4> minor, preliminary trouble shooting and 17 incidental relief of scheduled employees.
8
A Violation of this provision shall be IB redressed by the Company by payment to the senior s^loyee in layoff from the seniority unit or an «nployee who should have performed the work.
Local Working Conditions
The term "local working conditions1' as used 19 herein means specific written agreements entered into between the Company and the Union which shall reflect detailed application of the subject matter of this contract within the scope of wages, hours of work, cr other conditions of employment,	In
order to provide a convenient means to develop an orderly application of the principles of this contract to the various departments of the Company and to encourage the parties to engage in good faith bargaining in the solution of any problems in such local application of these contractual principles, it is hereby agreed that the parties may validly provide binding 11 local working conditions" by mutual agreement.
Such local working conditions shall be co- 20 extensive with this contract in time and consis* tent with the ether provisions of this contract. They shall be numbered in order by mutual agreement of the parties in order to formally place them in status of "local working conditions" as herein defined.
fiuch local working conditions shall be 21 executed for the Co^>any by the individual designated to handle industrial relations • They shall be executed for the Union by the Chairman of the Grievance Committee of the Local Union and by the Department Grievance Committeeman and by an international Representative.
It la recognised that the desires of the 22 affected amipluyees with reference to any proposed new local working condition under canalderation is a matter to be determined within the Union.
9
Xs recognised end understood that as of this 23 date the following "local working conditions" have been reduced to writing and are in affect:
(2)	Switching	24
(7)	Material Handling,	25
Mobile Equipment Operator
(0)	R, W. Pipe Mill, No.	1	26
- 25 Ton Crane Agreement
(14)	Sequence Seniority Rules	27
(17)	Specialty Tubing	28
- Mobile Equipment Operator
(21}	Casing/Llne Pipe/Tubing Finishing	29
(25)	Heat Treating	30
(27)	Millwright - Air Conditioning	31
(26)	Electric Weld Pipe Mills	32
- Coil Maker Unit
(29)	Specialty Tubing - Waste watsr	Operator 33
(30)	Quality laboratory	34
10
SECTION 3 MANAGEMENT
The management cf the business and plant and the direction of the working forces, including, but not llm<ted to, the right to hire, suspend or discharge for lust cause t assign, schedule or transfer employees, adopt new or changed methods of performing the work, prescribe reasonable general plant rules and the right to relieve employees from duty because of lack of work, or for other legitimate reasons, and to contract cut work, is vested exclusively in the Company, and the Coapany retains all rights that , it legally had, subject to the restrictions of law or a specific provision of this Agreement*
In the exercise of its right, however, 3 <5 whether here enumerated, or here or elsewhere retained, the Company agrees not to discriminate as herein provided against any member of the Bargaining Unit and to exercise its prerogatives for legitimate business reasons. The Company in the exercise of its rights shall observe the provisions of this Agreement*
11
SECTION 4 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE PARTIES
Each of ths parties hereto acknowledge the 37 righto and responsibilities of the Other party and agrees to discharge its responsibilities under this Agronmnnt.
The Union fits officer* and representatives, 3B at all levels} and all employees of the Colony are bound to observe the provisions of this Agree* sent*
The Company (its officers and representatives, at all levels) is bound to observe the provisions of this Agreement.
in addition to the responsibilities that may 40 be provided elsewhere in thia Agreement, the following shall be observed:
1.	There shall be no intimidation or 41 coercion of employees into joining the Union or continuing their membership therein.
2.	There shall be no Union activity on Com- 42 pany time,
3.	There shall be no strikes, work 43 stoppages, slowdowns, or interruptions or impeding of work. Ho officer or representative of the Union, whether local or international, shall authorise, instigate, aid or condone any such activity. Ho employee shall instigate, aid or participate in any such activity. Any violation of this subdivision may be punished by discharge or suspension, as the Company may determine.
In the event of any strikes, work stop- 44 pages, slowdowns, or interruptions or impeding of work, the Coepany may elect to proceed to immediate arbitration. The Company and the Union shall each designate and make an authorised repre-tentative available for selection of the arbitrator and the arbitration hearing within 24
12
I
hours of the Company's rfiquost for* arbitration.
The Company and the Union shall immediately advise the other of Ue identity of ita representative.
The Company and union representatives 45 shall immediately select the arbitrator as follows:
a.	If there ia no agreement between the 46 Company's designated representative and the Union's designated representative on an arbitrator within 24 hourst they shall seiset the arbitrator by the selection process set forth in Section 7A hereof, except that all four (4) arbitrators shall be included in the selection list.
b.	Ifr after going through the selection 47 process sat forth in Section 1 A, the designated representatives are unable to agree on the arbitrator or none of the arbitrators named therein are available for a hearing within 72 hours after the Company has notified the Union of its intent to arbitrate, the Company or Union representative may request the American Arbitration Association, to furnish, by the most expedient method, a list of names of five (5) imnediately available arbitrators. The Company and Union representative shall then inmediately select the arbitrator by equal strikes from the list of arbitrators submitted by the American Arbitration Association.
c.	If either the Company ox Union repro- 4G sentative, for any reason, fails or refuses to meet and act within the required 24-hour period to select the arbitrator, the other representative may select the arbitrator by chance drawing from the list of four (4> arbitrators set forth in Section 7A. If none are immediately available for a hearing, such representative shall then select by chance drawing the arbitrator from the list of five (5> arbitrators submitted by the American Arbitration Association. The case shall then
13
proceed to arbitration as aoon oo the arbitrator can possibly hear the matter. The arbitrator shall render his decision within 24 hours following conclusion of the hearing.
In any arbitration proceeding in which it 49 is sought to set aside disciplinary action, the arbitrator shall have jurisdiction only to determine whether the employee in question did in fact individually violate thia provision.
The Company agrees that in the case of 50 slowdowns it will not intentionally discriminate between employees whom it knows to be similarly situated; however, this obligation shall not be enforceable in arbitration, but only in a court of competent jurisdiction.
The Company shall have the right to seek 51 judicial specific enforcement of the no-strike agreement herein contained. The parties expressly agree that any and all proceedings to enforce this provision shall be filed with; maintained in, and decided by the District Court of Norrie County, State of Texas, 76th Judicial District, but this provision concerning jurisdiction shall not extend to suits for damages for violation of the nostrike agreement.
4.	The applicable procedures of this Agree- 52 mant will be followed for the settlement of all grievances.
S.	There shall be no interference with the 53 right of the employees to become or continue as mnsilmrn of the Union.
6,	There shall be no discrimination, re- 54 straint or coercion against any employee because cf membership in the Union.
7,	There shall be no lockouts.	55
B.	All grievances shall be considered care- 5$ fully and processed promptly in accordance with the applicable procedures of this Agreement.
14
9,	Th* provisions of this Agreement shall be 57 applied to all employ as a without regard to race, color, aex, religion, creed or national origin as required by Law,
The Company and Union agree to form a 59 Joint Committee on Civil Rights, The Union's representation on the Committee shall consist of no more than five (5) isembers plus the Local President and Chairman of the Grievance Cocumittee. The Joint Committee will meet on request to review Civil Rights matters and advise the Company and the Union concerning such matters,
The Civil Rights Committee cannot, how- 59 aver, file or process grievances. This function is reserved to the Grievance Committee.
15
SECTION 5
CHECKOFF AND DEDUCTIONS
The Company, on receipt of an individual 60 written authorization from employees, on United Steelworker a of America Checkoff Authorisation Foma and in accordance with the provision* thereof, will deduct from each pay period the Union dues of such employee a for that pay period, and initiation fees if permitted by State and Federal Law, in amounts as determined in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the International Union now in effect* and promptly remit the same to the international Secret a ry/Treasu rar of the Union.
The authorisation shall not be irrevocable 61 for • period of more than one (1) year or beyond the termination data of this Agreement, whichever occurs sooner.
The Company shall submit to the Financial 62 Secretary of the Local Union or hie designated representative promptly after the close of the first pay period of each month a revised list of employees who have checkoff cards on file with the CoffTT^y but from whom no dues were deducted during the preceding month. This list will show the reason why the Company did not make such deductions.
The Union shall indemnify and save the 63 Company harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability that shall arise out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the Company in reliance upon the written authorisation furnished to the Company under the provision* of this Section.
It i* understood that the Company’s Agreement 64 is lireited to authorised deduction* from the employee’s pay, and that the Company is not liable for the dues of any employee who ceases to be due any pay.
The Company, on receipt Of individual written 65
16
authorisation from employees in form satisfactory to the Company and in accordance with such author!ration, will deduct from the employee's pay for each pay period the proper amount and pay such axacunt to Northeast Texas Federal Credit Union.
The Company < on receipt of individual written 66 authorisation Cron employees in term satisfactory to the Company and in accordance with such authorisation, will deduct from the employee's pay the amount of $50.00 or any multiple thereof, in the second pay period of each month, and purchase U.S. Savings Bonds which shall be delivered to the osplcyee as soon as practicable. No employee with less than 6 months' continuous service will be eligible to participate in this plan.
The Company, on receipt of individual written 67 authorization from employees on United. Steelworkers Political Action check-off authorization form will deduct from the et^loyee's pay an amount designated by the employee (multiples of One ($1.00J Dollar} per month, and pay such amount to the Treasurer, united Steelworkers of America Political Action Fund. Such amounts deducted by the Company will be transmitted quarterly. This will be by one check, but the listing shall be by asperate monthly lists. Thia authorization may be terminable at any tine by written notice to that effect individually signed by the employee and received by the Company. The signing of such United Steelworkers of America Political Action Fund checkoff form and the making of such voluntary contributions are not conditions of the membership in the Union or of employment with the Cozpany. The Union shall indemnify and save the Company harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability that shall arise out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the Company for the purpose of complying with any of the provisions of this Agreement.
17
J	SECTION 6
ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES "
A.	Limitation of Periods
All periods prescribed in this Agreement for the filing er presentation of grievances, taking appeals from the various steps of the grievance procedure, and other time limits within which certain acta nay be done, shall be jurisdictional and the expiration of any such tine lludt shall be an absolute bar to ths act, filing, step, appeal or other thing limited thereby, and no such time limit may be waived by either party except in a writing signed by a duly authorised representative of such party.
B.	Filing Limitation
It is the purpose of this section to provide procedure for prompt, equitable adjustment of claimed grievances. it is understood and agreed that unless otherwise specified elsewhere in this Agreement, grievances to be considered hereunder must be filed within ten (10> days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays after the date on which the fact or events upon which such alleged grievance is based shall have existed or occurred.
C.	Discussion of Request ox Complaint
Any employee who believes that he has a justifiable request or conplaint shall discuss the request or cosplaint with his foreman, with or without the grievance or assistant grievance corrnitteoman being present, as he nay elect, in an sttempt to settle sama.
D.	Definition of Grievance
■Grievance" as used in this Agreement is limited to a 71 complaint which has not been settled as a result of the discussion required by Subsection C and which involves the interpretation or application of, or compliance with, specific provisions of this Agreement.
18
E.	Gri«var.c« Procedure
1* Filing a Grievance
a,	X complaint which has net. been 72 settled within two (2) days as a result of the discussion required by Subsection C to be considered further, must be filed promptly in writing ,
b.	Grievances initially filed in the 73 first stop of ths grievance procedure shall be in writing on grievance forms furnished by the Coni' patty and shall bo dated and signed by the employee and hie grievance or assistant grievance carnaltteeman ► Grievances initially filed in the second or third step of the grievance procedure shall specify the group of employees affected and be signed by the group of such complaining employees of the department or plant and their grievance cnnaii ttunman or oonuittocmon.
a. No employee shall be entitled to col- 74 lect any monay or derive any benefit from a grievance settlement or arbitration award unless he signed the grievance prior to its filing. All grievances must set forth the following:
(1)	Name and badge number(s)	75
of grievant(s)t
(2)	Date of alleged contract	76
violation,
(3)	Section and/or paragraph number 77 of the contract which was claimed to have been violated, provided that errors may be corrected by amendment at or prior to Step 2 hearing,
(4> Statement of facts supporting 79 the claim, including a sufficient statement of names, dates, times, shifts and places to enable the Company to adequately investigate the grievance.
19
(5) Remedy sought.
79
If, in the opinion of the Company, 80 the grievance , although timely filed t does not sufficiently set forth the above date, the same shall be returned to the grievance ccramit teaman for completion and returned to the Company within a maximum of seven (7) days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.
d.	Grievances shall be filed initially 91 in the following steps of the grievance procedure depending upon the subject matter of the alleged grievance:
(1)	Grievances which allege 82
violation* directly affecting only the employees working under a particular foreman shall be filed in Step 1 and be answered by such foreman,
(2}	Grievances which allege 83
violations directly affecting only ths employees working under a particular department manager but under more than one (1) foreman shall be filed in Step 2 end be answered toy such department manager or his representative.
(3)	Grievances which	allege 84
violations directly affecting employees working under acre then one department manager shall be listed on agenda forme, discussed at the next Step 3 meeting and be answered by the Manager of Labor Relations or his representative.
e.	Grievances which are not filed 85 initially in the proper step of the grievance procedure shall be referred to the proper step for discussion and answered by the Company and the Union Representatives designated to handle grievances Ln such step.
2. Processing of Grievances
Step 1. The employee, if dissatisfied 56 with the disposition of his complaint as presented
20
to his foreman, may have his grievance presented to his foreman by his assistant grievance committeeman and/or grievance committeeman with or without the employee being present as the employee may elect, Three (3) copies of the grievance form, properly filled out and signed, shall be presented to the foreman. The foreman shall answer the grievance within five <5) days, excluding Saturdays t Sundays and holidays from date of presentation by inserting his decision on the grievance form, signing and dating same and returning two (2) copies to the grievance or assistant grievance eemttitteaman.
If the foreman's decision is not appealed 87 to Step 2, the grievance shall be considered settled on the basis of the decision made and shall not be eligible for further appeal. Such settlement shall not establish a precedent*
Step 2. In order for a grievance to be 86 considered further, it shall be appealed to the department manager within five (5) days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays from date on which the grievance form is returned, An appealed grievance or a grievance properly filed initially in this step shall be discussed in an sttenpt toward settlement at a mutually convenient time between the grievance and/or assistant grievance committeeman, Chairman of the Grievance Coots! t tea and the manager of the department and/or his representatives, and answered within five (5) days, eject nd* »g Saturdays, Sundays and holidays from date of appeal or initial filing. The manager** decision and the date thereof shall be recorded on all three (3) copies of the grievance form. Two (2} copies are to be returned to the Grievance Committee. The third copy is to be forwarded to the office of the Manager of Labor Relations, Either party may call witnesses who are employees of the Coupany and whose attendance shall be limited to the time required for their testimony.
If the department manager’s decision is 69 not appealed to Step 3, the grievance shall be
21
considared settled on the basis of the decision last made and shall not be eligible for further appeal. Such settlement shall not establish a precedent.
Step 3> In order for a grievance to be 90 considered further, it shall be appealed within five (5) days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays for consideration at a meeting of the Department Grievance Committeeman, Chairman of the Grievance Coonittee, International Representative and the department manager and/or his representative, the Manager of Labor Relations and/or his representative, on the earliest date of mutual convenience, but within fifteen (15) days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. An appealed grievance or a grievance properly filed initially in this Step shall be listed on agenda forms by the Grievance Committee and Management and copies of such forma shall be exchanged not loss than three 13) days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays before such meeting. Grievances not listed on the agenda shall not be disCussed except as imitually agreed upon. Grievances properly on the agenda or matters not discussed in prior Steps, may, by mutual agreement, be referred back for further consideration or discussion in a prior Step. Either party may request a statement of facts to be made available not later than three (3) days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays preceding the date set for the Step 3 meeting. Either party may call witnesses who are fflployoes of the Cc^iany and attendance shall be limited to the time required for their testimony. Except for witnesses, the Step 3 meeting shall be limited to the representatives of the Company and the representatives of the union, unless Otherwise mutually agreed upon in advance of the meeting,
Grievances discussed and not settled in 91 such meetings shall be answered in writing by Company management within ten (10) days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays after the date of such meeting unless by mutual agreement a differ
22
ent date for disposition is agreed upon- Such writtan decision may ba sat forth in minutes of Stop 3 meetings t hereinafter provided for, or attached thereto.
Minutes of all Step 3 nestings shall ba 92 prepared and signed by the Supervisor of Labor Relations and/or his representatives and shall be signed by the Manager of Labor Relations and/or the Manager of Industrial Relations. Two (2) copies of such minute a shall be forwarded to the International Representative not later than ten (101 days। excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays r after the date on which the meeting was held, unless by mutual agreement a different date for disposition is agreed upon. Minutes shall conform to the following general outlines?
a> Date and place of meeting.	93
b.	Names and positions of those present 94 and those absent.
c.	Identifying number and description of 95 such grievance diecussed.
d.	Grief statement of Union's position. 9$
e.	Brief statement of Company's $7 position.
f.	Summary of the discussion.	96
g.	Decision reached.	99
In order for a grievance to be considered 100 further, ths complaining party shall either (1} invoke arbitration by filing a written request therefore with the Company within ten (10} days , excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, after the receipt by the Union of the Company’s written decision in Step 3f or (2) file suit in a court of ccspetent jurisdiction within twenty (20) days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, after the receipt of the Company’s written decision in Step 3, and in such case, nothing in the grievance
23
I
or arbitration procedure shall affect the court1 fl power to determine whether the claimed violation involved in the grievance constituted a violation of this contract.
If the decision in thia Step 3 is net 101 appealed to arbitration or to a court at above providedj the grievance shall be considered settled on the baaie of such decision and shall not be eligible for further appeal,
3,	Union Grievance
The grievance procedure may be utilized 102 by the Union in processing grievances which allege a violation of the obligations of the Company to the Union as such, which shall not include any grievance which claims any compensation or personal rights on behalf of any individual employee or group of employees*
in processing such grievances, the Union 103 shall observe the specified time limits in appealing, and the Company aha 11 observe the specified time limits in answering*
4,	Suspension of Grievance Procedure
If the Agreement is in fact violated by 104 the occurrence of a strike, work stoppage, slowdown, or interruption or impeding of work, the Company, at its option, may refuse to discuss or process any grievance while such violation continues, provided that the time limit for filing any grievance shall not be affected hereby*
5*	Access to Facilities
The representative of the International 105 Union who Customarily handles grievances in Step 3 shall have access to the plant, subject to established rules of the plant, at reasonable times to investigate grievances in Step 3 with which he is concerned*
24
F.	Union Grievance Committee
The Union may daainnata grievance coonittee IOS men, but no more than one (1> from each department. Xaaistant grievance ccamittaemen may be designated, but there shall be no more than one (1> grievance rnimnittonrinn or assistant on each turn in each seniority unit. Each grievance commit toeman and assistant shall be an employee of the department which he represents. Any grievance committeeman or assistant shall, upon reasonable notice to and approval by his immediate supervisor, be afforded such minimum time off without pay aa may be required for the purpose of investigating the facts essential to the settlement of a grievance or to participate in grievance meetings. A grievance committeeman or assistant shall be limited to the handling of grievances in procedural Steps 1 and 2 and discharge and suspension cases within the department represented by him.
G.	Companyr9 Failure to Answer
In the absence cf mutual agreement in writing 107 between the Union and the Company to extend the Company's tine to answerr and if a grievance is not answered by the Company within the specified time limit, or if processing of grievances is wrongfully suspended, the Local Union grievance committee in the first two (2) steps, and the third step representative of the Union in the third stop, shall have the right to appeal to the next step or to declare the grievance granted at the Union's option. if the grievance has been declared granted by the Union, upon notification in writing to the Company, the Company shall comply therewith, but such settlement shall not constitute a precedent in any other case.
In order to invoke these provisions, the 108 grievance must have been properly filed and served both upon the department representative and the Manager of Labor Relations or his representative. The signatures of the departmental representative and the Manager cf Labor Relations or his
25
representative on the grievance ehall validate the filing of the grievance and aosaenne the running of the liAite.
26
SECTION 7 ARBITRATION
A.	Tflhen any grievance la properly appealed co 10 J arbitration in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, the parties will attempt to agree on an arbitrator from a panel consisting of Don Rays, Bar old Moore t Edward Bankston and Diane Massey. In the event that either Don Rayes or Bare Id Moore cannot serve as a permanent member of the arbitration panel, then Norman Bennett shall be nuaed to such panel» tn the event either Edward Bankston or Diane Massey cannot serve as a permanent member of such arbitration panel, then Patrick Rardin shall be named as a member of the panel« it is agreed that, in any event, at all times the Company and the Union shall each have two designated members on such panel.
If the parties cannot mutually agree on the 110 designation of an arbitrator from the said panel, one (1) name shall be drawn from all the names in such a manner as to leave the designation to chance, and chance alone. After an arbitrator'a name has been drawn, and he has actually served, or will actually serve, his name will be omitted from ths panel until the panel is reduced to one by three (3} selections by chance, at which time the panel will be restored to the original four (4}, and the process will be repeated.
The arbitrator shall be selected as stated 111 above and notified of his appointment to hear the grievance within thirty (30> days from the date the grievance is appealed to arbitration. Any party failing to cooperate to observe the thirty 130) day time limit shall default on the grievance <
The arbitrator shall proceed to hear and 112 determine the grievance, and the tine and place of the hearing shall be fixed by agreement between the parties involved and the arbitrator.
27
The Ccopany and the Union shall share equally 113 the payment of the fans and expeneea of the arbitrator.
The dociaicn of the arbitrator shall be 114 final and binding and shall be rendered by the arbitrator within thirty (30) days from the date of the hearing. The arbitrator shall not have jurisdiction or authority to add to, detract from or alter in any way the provisions of this Agreement, and he shall not have authority to pass upon questions relating to his own jurisdiction.
Xn any proceeding seeking to require arbltra- 115 tion or to enforce, modify or set aside a decision or award of the arbitrator, none of the provisions of this contract shall deprive a court of its power to determine questions of arbitrability, or the jurisdiction of the arbitrator, or the validity of any decision or award of the arbitrator.
B.	Arbitration awards may or may not be retro- 116 active, as the equities of particular cases may dmand, but no money or back pay shall be awarded to any employee for time during which the employee did not work except in suspension and discharge and seniority cases and cases involving vacation or holiday pay, and in order to receive an award of pay in all cases except those in which vacation or holiday pay is claimed, an employee must prove that he would have worked and received said pay but for the contract violation.
Actual earnings minus necessary and 117 legitimate expenses and unemployment benefits which are paid to an employee, for the period tor which back pay is awarded shall bo deducted from such award.
The effective date for adjustment of griev- 219 ances relating to:
1.	Suspension and discharge cases or cases 119 involving rates of pay for new or changed jobs, shall be determined in accordance with the
28
provialone of Sections 6 and 9, respectively, of ths Agreement;
2' Seniority cases shall be the date the an- 120 plcyea notified hie supervisor that he is entitled to the job under the provisions of Section 12—Seniority, or the data of filing a written grievance in Step 1 of Section ^--Adjustment of Grievances, whichever is earlier;
3.	Rates of pay (other than new or changed 121 jobsH overtime, allowed time and vacations shall be the date of the occurrence or non-'Occurrence of the event upon which the grievance is based.
The effective data for adjustment of 122 grievances involving matters other than those referred to in paragraphs 1, 2, and 3 above shall be no earlier than the date the grievance was first presented in written form in Step 1 of Section 6-- Adjustment of Grievances, All grievances resulting in payment of money by settlement, or award, shall be paid as promptly as possible,
C,	If this Agreement is violated by the occur- 123 rance of a strike, work stoppage, slowdown, or interruption or impeding of work, the arbitrator, if so directed by the Company, shall refuse to consider or decide any cases concerning the Union or eoploywea involved in such violations as described in this paragraph while such is continuing,
D,	The right of any party to process a grievance 124 to arbitration is dependent upon the contract being in full force and effect.
29
section b DISCHARGE AHD SUSPENSION CASES
Within ten (10) days, excluding Saturdays, 125 Sunday a and holidays, of the imposition of any disciplinary penalty by the Company, the employe® who io disciplined, if he believes he has been unjustly dealt with, may request in writing a hearing and statement of the offense. Such hearing shall be held before hi a manager or such other rep-resent a tive designated by the Company from time to time. The employee may have his Union representative present at the hearing if he chooses t and both parties shall have the right to call witnesses and introduce evidence. The hearing must be held and the Coo^any's decision made within ten (10) days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, after the written request for the hearing. If no hearing is requested within the time herein specified, the disciplinary action taken by the Company shall become final.
At any such hearing, the facts concerning the 12$ case shall be made available to both parties. After such hearing ( if the same is held, the Company may affirm, revoke or modify the disciplinary penalty. If the discharge or suspension is revoked, the employee shall be returned to employment and receive full CQspensatlo-n at his regular rate of pay for the time lost, subject to credits provided in Section 7, except actual earnings, unless it is agreed by the parties hereto that such employee shall be disciplined without pay as a condition of such revocation. If the Company's decision is not satisfactory, the Union shall have the right to appeal, in writing, within five (5) working days such decision to a review of the facts of the case by the Manager of Labor Relations and the International Staff Representative, and/or Chairman, Union Grievance Committee. Such review shall be held as promptly aa is practical at a mutually agreed to time.
After such review, if either party desires to 127
30
hsvs another hearing to investigate the case further r euch rehearing shall be set at a mutually agreed to time in order to have necessary witnesses present.	-
If after such review or rehearing, the Com- 129 pany's decision is not satisfactory, the International Union Representative shall have the right to appeal the Company's action to arbitration by request in writing filed with the Company within ten (10) days after the Company's decision on review or rehearing.
In exercising its disciplinary power to eus- 129 pend, the Company agrees that no employee shall be suspended without pay for a period of over thirty (30) working days for any one (1) offense.
In arbitration, neither party shall be 130 limited to the evidence presented at the hearing. The arbitrator may, if he finds that there was not just cause for a discharge, order the employee reinstated with full compensation, partial compensation or no eonpensation.	In a suspension
case, the arbitrator shall have authority to modify the period of suspension only in cases of aus-pensions exceeding ten <1Q) working days in length; in suspensions of ten (10) working days or less, the arbitrator nay determine only whether there was just cause for suspension.
The arbitrator shall not have the power to 131 pass upon his own jurisdiction or authority, but the award shall be final and binding within the limits of his authority. The prcoedcre herein set out as applicable to disciplinary cases is exclusive, and the procedure in such cases shall not be governed by Section 6 or Section 7, except that the arbitrator, shall be selected in the manner specified in Section 7 and the credits specified in Section 7, except actual earningst shall apply to any award of back pay.
The Company shall notify the Union of suspen- 132 eions or discharges by mailing a copy of each notice to the Local Union, Post Office Sox 0127, Lone Star, Texas 75(68, as soon as possible,
31
SECTION 9 RATES OF PAY
A.	Standard Hourly Waga Scale
Effective on the dates specified below, the 133 standard hourly wage scale for the respective job classes shall bo as follows, except clean-up laborer pay.
STANDARD HOURLY WAGE RATES
	EFFECTIVE	bate	
Job	2005	2006	2007
Class	July 18	Aug 1	
1-2	$13,762	$14,175	614.600
3	14.015	14,436	14.869
4	14,269	14.697	15.138
5	IS.522	14.958	15.406
6	14.956	15.404	15.B66
7	15.390	15,852	16.328
8	IS.824	16.299	16.788
»	16.259	16.746	17.249
10	16.656	17.156	17.670
11	17.055	17.566	18.093
12	17.452	17.976	18.515
13	17.050	10.305	18.937
14	10.249	10,796	19.360
IS	10.646	19.205	19.782
16	19.045	19.616	20,205
17	19.442	20.026	20.626
IB	19.841	20.436	21.C49
19	20.238	20.846	21.471
20	20.636	21.255	21.893
21	21.035	21.666	22 a316
22	21.432	22.075	22.737
23	21.031	22.406	23.160
24	22.220	22.895	23.582
25	22.626	23.305	24.004
26	23.025	23.715	24.427
27	23.422	24.125	24.849
28	23.821	24.535	25*271
29	24.210	24.945	25.693
30	24.617	25,356	26.116
31	25.015	25,765	26.530
32	25.412	26.178	26.960
32
B.	Profit Sharing Payments
All es^loyoes shall participate in a Profit 1^4 Sharing Plan as agreed to by the Company end the Union effective with th* contract dated July Id, 2005, and starting with the third quarter 2005. The current Company voluntary profit sharing plan will be discontinued for hourly employees effect-tive July 18, 2005*
C.	Clean-up Laborer Pay
employees hired as clean-up laborer will be 135 paid $3*00 per hour less than the regular rate of pay for Job Class 1-2 a* specified in A* above.
D.	Shift Differentials
1.	For hours worked on the MC" or afternoon 136 shift, there shall be paid a premium rate of 25 cents per hour. For hours worked on the "A" or night shift, there shall be paid a premium rate of 35 cents per hour.
2.	For purposes of applying the aforesaid 137 shift differentials, the ’'A" shift will be an eight hour period which may begin, any time between 10 p.iu. and midnight, the ”B" shift will be an eight hour period which may begin any time between 5 a,m. and 6 a.s. and the "C" shift will be an eight hour period which may begin any time between 2 p>m, and 4 p.m. For work performed before or after ths established eight hour shift an employee will be paid the applicable shift differential, if any.
3* The premium rate for shift differentials 13g shall not be applied as, or considered a part of, th* employee's basic applicable rate.
4-	Shift differential shall be paid for 139 allowed time, or reporting time, when the hours for which payment is made would have called for a shift differential, if worked.
3r Shift differential shall be included 140
33
in th* calculation ef ovartim* con^sanoation. Shift differential shall not be added to the base hourly rat* for the purpose of calculating incentive, gain sharing ar profit sharing earnings, but shall be cartputed by multiplying the hours worked by the applicable differential and the amount so determined added to earnings.
E.	Sunday Premium Pay
1.	Premium pay shall be paid for all hours 141 worked by an employs* on Sunday at a rate of one and one-quarter (1 1/4) times the regular rate of pay* This promirm for each hour worked on Sunday will be paid even though an employee may also be entitled to the overtime rate of pay for the same hours worked an Sunday if the provisions of Section JO-F, Overtime ~ Holidays are satisfied.
2.	For the purpose of this provision, Sunday 142 shall be deemed to be the twenty-four (24) hours beginning with the turn-changing hour nearest to 12:01 a.n., Sunday.
3-	Sunday premium pay and the standard 143 hourly wage rate shall be paid for reporting allowance hours.
F.	Hage Incentive and/or Gainsharing
The Company, at its discretion, toay establish 144 ■ago incentive, and gainsharing plans (hereinafter referred to as ■■’plan'’ or "plans") to provide additional compensation above the standard hourly rates established in Subsection A of this Section for improvements outlined in a specific plan such as quality, safety, manpower, material yield, production, supply usage, profits, etc.
The Company may adjust any such existing plsn 145 or plans, or if necessary, may establish new plans to replace existing plans when they believe revisions, or replacement, are needed because of new or changed conditions resulting from improvements made in the interest of improved methods and/or products and/or from changes in equipment, manufacturing processes and/or methods, materials
34
process-ed, and/or quality and/or manufacturing standards or in response to changes in law, corporate structure or policy -
Such new or changed plans shall be 146 established in accordance with the following procedure.
1,	Management will develop the proposed new 147 or changed plan.
2.	The proposal will then be submitted to 148 representatives	designated	by the Union
representing the employees affected for the purpose of explaining the proposal. Management shall< at such time, furnish such explanation with regard to ths development of the plan or new or changed plan as shall be reasonably required in order to enable the Union representative to under -stand how such plan was developed and shall afford to such Union representatives a reasonable opportunity to be heard with regard to the proposed plan or changed plan.
3,	The proposal plan may be installed when 14g Management i» satisfied that reasonable explanations and discussions have taken place as required in 2 above.
4,	Nc question relating to the installation, 150 adjustment, change or revision of plans shall be arbitrable under this agreement.
5.	The Company reserves the right not to l^l implement any such plan or plans.
G.	Job Assignment
When an employee la assigned and performs the 152 duties of a higher job. he shall receive the rate of such higher rated lob. When an employee is demoted or is temporarily assigned to a lower rated job, ho shall receive the rata of such lower job except that he shall be entitled to his regular rate for the balance of the shift.
35
The Company will net assign an employee to a 153 job other than a scheduled job or a job he occupies as of right because of a temporary vacancy, as the ease may be, if his own job is assigned to another employee to perform while he is so reassigned; provided, however, that this restriction does not apply to the reassignment of an employee to another job in the same job class box. In the cast of a job within the same job class box the Company retains its right of assignment. Normally, the Company will exercise its right to reassign within a box so as to leave employees on the jobs scheduled for the week so far as practicable.
H* injury Pay
If an employee, while engaged in work for 154 which he was regularly scheduled, shall be injured and the Company Medical Representative shall determine that he is not physically fit to continue to porfera such work, he shall be paid for the remaining hours of his regularly scheduled workday at his established rate of pay for such work and in no case less than eight 48) hours pay for his regularly scheduled workday,
I.	Pay Pariode and Pay Daya
*11 employees shall have their earnings com- 155 puted and shall be paid on a bi-weekly basis. Pay shall be made available to imirl Tiyann not later than ten (10) days after the close of each pay period snd shall not be paid on Saturday, Sunday or a holiday.
J,	Description and. Classification of New or Changed Jobs
It is understood that the agreed job doser ip* 15fi ticns shall serve only as the basis from which to classify the jobs, and not to support a claim of improper work assignment. The right of the Company to assign work shall not be limited by the fact that the particular work is not in the job description of the employee to which it is>
36
assigned or by the fact that the particular work is in ths job description of another.
The job description and classification for 157 each job in effect as of the date of this Agreement. shall continue in effect unless Cl) Management changes the job content (requirements of the job as to the training, skillt responsibility, effort and working conditions) to the extent of one (1) full job class or more; (2) the job is terminated; (3) the description and classification are changed in accordance with mutual agreement of officially designated representatives of the Company and the Union,
When and if , from time to time r the Company 158 at its discretion establishes a new job or change the job content (requirements of the job as to training, skill, responsibility, effort and working conditions) of an existing job to the extent of one <1} full job class or more, a new job description and classification for the new or changed job shall be established in accordance with the following procedure;
1.	Management will develop a description and 159 classification of the job in accordance with Articles III, IV and V of the Wage Hate Inequities Agreement dated June 1< 1996.
2,	The proposed description and classifies.* 160 tion will be submitted to the Union Job Classification Committee, who shall review the job classification promptly and arrange, from time to time, to confer with the Management Committee for the final review and approval of the job description and classification as outlined hereafter. During such joint reviews, the two (2) committees may each select one {1} departmental representative to participate in the job description and classification review of the respective department,
3.	The Union will establish a Union Job 161 Classification Committee to be composed of not more than three (3) of the plant employees
3?
designated as representatives
of the Union.
4.	The Company will establish a Job 162 Classification Committee to be composed of not mor* than three (3) representatives of Management designated by the Company.
5« IC the job description and classification 163 is correct as originally submit ted;
a.	Both copies will be a tanped in the 164 approved manner and signed by the Chairman of the Union Committee and the Chairman of the Management Committee.
b.	The Union copy will be retained by ^5 the Chairman of the Union Committee.
e. The Management copy will be retained 16$ by the Chairman of the Company committee.
6.	If the job description and classification jg? is not correct as originally submitted, the two (2) committees will endeavor to agree as to mutually satisfactory correctives.
If agreement is reached,, revised cop- ^gg iss of the job description and classification will be supplied by the Company to replace the original copies and the same procedure outlined in Paragraph 5 above for the approval and distribution of the new copies will be carried out.
7,	If agreement is not reached by the two 169 [2] committees:
a.	The points of difference will be noted on both copies.
b.	Management shall install the proposed 171 description and classification and the standard hourly wage rate for the class to which the job is thus assigned. The employees affected stay at any time within thirty (30) days file a grievance alleging that the job is improperly classified under the job description and classification program
38
agreed between th* parties hartto* Such grievance shall be processed under the grievance and arbitration procedure of thia Agra affiant end settled in accordance Kith the job descript Lon and classification provisions of thia Agreement* If the grievance ie submitted to the arbitration procedure, the factor to be arbitrated and the evaluation placed upon those factors by the Union and the Company shall be made known to each other; and the jurisdiction of the arbitrator is limited to those factors in dispute. Bis decision shall be effective as of the date when the disputed job description and classification was put into effect.
B* Each approved job description shall be 172 staroped in the lower right-hand corner and the signature of the authorized parties shall indicate approval.
This, approval stamp is to contain the 173 following particulars:
39
9,	In addition to the provisions of the 17^ basic labor agreement in effect, but without prejudice to the rights of the employees involved or the Company with respect to the description end classification of jobs under such agreementt the following procedures are set forth to aid the Company and the Union to Keep accurate records regarding the jobs which have been described and classified:	*
a» Whan Management changes a job, but 175 the job content change is less than one (3-) full job class, a supplementary record shall be established to maintain the job description and classification on a current basis and to enable subsequent adjustment of the job description and classification for an acuuDUleticn of small job content changes as follows;
(1)	Management shall prepare, on the jig form set forth as Exhibit G below, a record of the change involved, such record to become a supple-•ent to the job description and classification and be transmitted to the appropriate Union representative through the procedure of thia contract. This record shall contain statements of the additions to er deletions from the job description, the factor classifications in effect before the job was changed, the proposed new factor classifications and the net total change,
(2)	When and if an accumulation of 177 such fractional job content changes equals one (1) full job class or more, a new job description and alas si flea tion for the job shall be established in accordance with this contract.
b. When Management terminates a job, a 179 record os to cancellation of the applicable job description and classification shall be established as follows:
(1} Management shall prepare, on the 179 fora set forth as Exhibit G below, a record of the cancelled job description and classification. Thia record shall contain identification of the job,
40
OTICK OF JO© DBSCUPT1QH AND CLASSIFICATION CQANSK
Cocfipany_______________________________________________________________
Departnent 	 Standard coda	.
subdivision ,	Standard Titie
Plant	 Plant Title 
Data Plant Code
DBSOUPTIVB CBM4GB9: CLASSIFICATION CHANGE
Factors	1	2	3	4	5	S	7	S	»	10	11	12	Hat Change
Eeffacitive Claasifi-ca-tion													
Changed Clltsifi-ca-tion													
KXBIBIT O
K,	Jury pay
An employ®® called Cor jury duty shall, for 1^4 each day of jury cervics an scheduled work day, receive hie standard hourly wage rate for hours lost due to such service, but not to exceed eight 18) hours in addition to the pay received by bun for jury service> Th® employe® shall verify hie service on a jury by having the deft of the Court execute a company form obtained by th® employee from the department manager or from the Payroll Department,
L.	Bareavauxant Pay
Upon proof of kina hip by the employee, when death occurs to an employee's legal spouse or his/her children, another* fatherr toothat-in-law, f a then-in-lawr son-in-law t daughter-in-1a*, spouses1 grandparents, eon, daughter, brother, pi star, grandparents, or grandchildren, an employee, upon request, will be excused far up to a maximum of three (3| scheduled shifts (Or for such, fewer shifts as the employee stay be absent J which fall within a three <3) consecutive calendar day period; provided, however, that one such calendar day shall be the day of the funeral/memo rial service, and the employee must actually attend the funeral/memorial service to be excused, When it is established by the employe® that he attended the funeral/memorial service, an employee excused hereunder shall, for each day of funeral/memorial service leave taken on a scheduled workday, receive his standard hourly wage rate for hours lost due to such funeral/memorial service Leave, but not to exceed eight (8) hours per day for each scheduled workday lost.. An employee will not receive funeral/memorial service pay when it duplicates pay received for time not worked for any other reason, Tim® thus paid will not be counted as hours worked for purpose* of determining overtime or premium pay liability.
43
SECTION 10 HOURS OF WORK
A.	Scope
Thia section defines the normal hours of work 1B6 and shall not ba construed an a guarantee of hours of sack par day or per week. This section shall not be considered as any basis for the calculation of payment of overtime which is covered solely by Section 10-F, Overtime—Holidays.
B.	Normal Workday
The normal workday shall ba eight (B) hours 137 of work in a twenty-four 124} hour period. The hours of work shall be consecutive except when an unpaid lunch period is provided in accordance with prevailing practices.
C.	Normal Work Pattern
1.	Ths normal work pattern shall be five (5) IBS consecutive workdays beginning on the first day of any seven (7)-consecutive-day period. The seven (7) -consecutive-day period is a period of one hundred and sixty-eight (1SB) consecutive hours and may begin on any day of the calendar weak and extend into the next calendar week. On shift changes, the one hundred and sixty-eight < 16B) consecutive hours may become one hundred and fifty- two (152) consecutive hours depending upon the changes in the shift.
2.	a work pattern of loss or more than five ujj (5) workdays in the seven (7)-consecutive-day period shall not be considered as deviating from the normal work pattern provided the workdays are consecutive.
D.	Schedules
1.	All employees shall be scheduled on the iso basis of the normal work pattern except where; (a) such schedules regularly would require the payment
44
of overtime; (b) deviations from the normal workpattern are necessary became of power demands* customer orders and requirement®, breakdowns or other matters beyond the control of Management; or (c> schedule# deviating from the normal work pattern are established by tiijrnnmnrt between Plant management and the Chairman of the grievance committee and the department grievance committee -
2.	Schedules showing en^loyees1 work days 191 shall be posted or otherwise made known to employees in accordance with prevailing practices but not later than Friday of the week preceding the calendar week in which the schedule becomes effective unless otherwise provided by local agreement* provided that if a schedule is posted after Thursday, any enqployee affected thereby who is not scheduled to work on Friday and Saturday of that week shall be notified of the schedule. in case of a Thursday posting t the Company will attempt to notify any aoployee affected thereby who has completed his work week prior to the posting ( by telephoning the employee at a telephone number he provided to the Company, Any employee not contacted prior to 4:00 p,m. Saturday shall call the designated plant number to attempt to obtain his schedule. The employee's failure to call shall not result in a penalty to the employee or the Company.
3.	Schedules may be changed by Management at 192 any time except when by local agreement schedules are not to be changed in the absence of mutual agreement; provided, however, that any changes made after Friday of the week preceding the calendar week in which the changes are to be effective shall be explained at the earliest practicable time to the grievance or assistant grievance com-mi tteeman of the employee affected; and provided further that* with respect to any such schedules, no changes shall be made after Friday except for power demands, custocesr orders and requirements, breakdowns or other matters beyond the control of Management.
4,	Any employee whose schedule is changed ^93 contrary to the provisions of Paragraph 3 above so
45
contrary to the provision* of Paragraph 3 above so a* to chang* hi* work day* or hie days off will receive four (4) hour* regular pay. It i* understood, however, that for the purposes of this paragraph * the following doe* not constitute a schedule change:
a.	A change of reporting time (shift) 194 within the posted scheduled day.
b.	Adding a work day to a posted	195
schedule.
c.	Deleting a work day from a pasted 196 schedule.
5.	Should change* be made in schedules con- 197 trary to the provisions of Paragraph 3 above so that an employee is laid off on any day within the five {5) scheduled days and is required to work on what otherwise would have been the sixth (6th) or seventh (7th) day in the schedule on which ho was scheduled to commence work, the employee shall be paid for such sixth (6th) or seventh (7th) day worked at overtime rates in accordance with Section 10-F, Overtime—Holiday*.
E.	Reposting Allowance
1.	An employee who is scheduled or noti- 199 fled to report and who does report for work shall ba provided with and assigned to a minimum of four (4) hour* of work on the job for which he was scheduled or notified to report, or in the event such work is not available, shall be assigned or reassigned to another job for which ho is qualified, provided he is not paid loss than the rate for the job for which he reports. In the event when ha reports for work no work is available, ho shall be released from duty and credited with « reporting allowance of four (4) times the standard hourly wage rate of the job for which he was scheduled or notified to report, or, on a holiday, four |4) times the holiday rate of pay for hours worked on « holiday (4 x 1) in addition to the normal holiday pay for holidays not worked. when an employee who start* to work is released from duty before he works a minimum of four (4) hours, he shall be paid for the hours worked in accor-
46
dance with Section 9—Rate* of Pay end credited with a reporting allowance equal to the standard hourly wage rate of the job for which he was scheduled or notified to report mil tipi led by the unutilized portion of the four (4) hour minimum. Unless he la notified prior to the end of hie previous work, shift, an employee who is called to report prior to hi* next scheduled hour of reporting will receive at least four (4) hours of pay,
2.	The provisions of this Subsection E shall 1$9 not apply in the event that:
(a) Strikes, work stoppages in con- 200 noction with labor disputes, failure of utilities beyond the control of management or acts of God interfere with work being provided; or
An employee is not put to work or is 201 laid off after having been put to work, either at his own request or due to his own fault; or
(o) An employee refused to accept an as- 202 eignment or reassignment within the first four (4) hour* as provided in Paragraph 1 above; or
(d> Management gives reasonable notice 203 of a change in scheduled reporting tine or that an employee need not report. For the purposes of this Subsection reasonable notice shall be contact of the wnployee or some responsible person at ths employee's telephone contact number before he leaves for work,
3, If an employee is called out and begins to 204 work no later than one hour after the beginning of the shift and works for the balance of the shift, he shall be paid for the entire shift.
F. Overtime—Holidays
1,	This section shall not be construed as a 205 guarantee of hours of work per day or per week, or a guarantee of days of work per week♦
2,	Definition of Terms
47
(al Ttw payroll week shall consist of	20$
seven (7) consecutive days beginning at 12; 01 • ,h. , Sunday or at a turn-changing hour nearest to that time.
(bl The workday for the purpose of thia 207 Section la the twenty-four (24) hour period beginning with the time the employee begins work, except that a tardy es^loyee's workday shall begin at the time it would have begun had he not been tardy.
(a) The regular rate of pay, as the term 208 is used in Subsection 3 below, shall mean the hourly rate which the employee would have received for the work had it been performed during non-o ver time hours.
3. Conditions under which overtime rates 203 shall be paid:
(a)	OvortiM at the rate of one and one- 210 half (1 1/2) times the regular rate of pay shall be paid for;
(1)	Hours worked in excess of eight 211 (0} hours in a workday;
(2)	Hours worked in excess of forty 212 (40) hours in a payroll week;
(3)	Hours worked on the sixth (6th) 213 or seventh (7th) workday in a payroll week during which work was performed on five (5) other workdays;
(4)	Hours worked on the sixth (6th) 214 or seventh (7th) workday of a seven (?)-consscu-tive-day period during which the first five (5) day a were worked, whether or not all of such days fell within the same payroll week, except when worked pursuant to schedules mutually agreed to as provided for in Subsection D of Section 10--Hours of Work; provided, however, that no overtime will be due under such circumstances unless the employee shall notify his foreman in writing on forms furnished by the Company of a claim for overtime
4S
within A period of ton (ID) d*yfir excluding Sat urdays, Sundays and holidays, after such sixth (8 th} ct seventh (7 th) day it worked; and provided further that on shift change* the seven (7) -consecutive-day period of one hundred and sixty-eight (188 J consecutive hours may become one hundred and fifty-two (152) consecutive hour* depending upon the change in shift;
(5)	Score worked in excess of 120 215 per two'week pay period and hours worked on the seventh (7**) work day in a payroll week will be paid at 2.0 tires the hourly rate (1.5 overtime plus 0.5 penalty).
(6)	Hours worked under the condi- 216 tion specified in Subsection D-5 of Section 10— Hours of Work.
(b)	For all hours worked by an employee 217 on any of the holidays specified below, premium pay shall be paid at the rate cf two and one-half (2 1/2) tires his regular rate of pay.
The holidays specified are January 21$ 1, Good Friday, Memorial Day, July 4, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, the day after Thanksgiving, the day before Christmas and Christmas Day. If Christmas falls on Monday, the following Tuesday shall be recognised as the “day before Christmas'* holiday. The holiday shall be ths twenty-four (24} hour period beginning at the turn-changing hour nearest 12:01 a.m. of the holiday. If the calendar holiday is on Sunday, for the purpose of this agreement, the holiday shall be the following Monday.
G.	Pay for Holidays Not Worked
1.	Effective as of the date of this Agree- 219 rent, an eligible employee who does not work on a holiday listed la Subsection 3 (bl above shall be paid eight (8) times his average straight time hourly rate of earnings.
49
2.	Ab used in this Subsection t an eligible 220 employee le one who has completed 240 hours of work since his lest hire; end (a) has perfomsd work in at least two {2] work days in the payroll weak in which the holiday occurred, or (b) received at least twenty-four (24) hours allowed ties in the payroll week in which the holiday occurred, or {c) a coebiuation of (a) and (b) which totals twenty-four (24) hours. Provided however, if the Company schedules a temporary shut down, requiring mandatory vacation, during a week when a holiday occurs, eligible employees who do not have sufficient unuaed vacation time to be required to take a vacation pursuant to Subsection C of Section 11 ehall be paid for the unworked holiday.
3.	When a holiday occurs during an eligible 221 employee's scheduled vacation, he shall be paid for the unworked holiday in addition to his vacation pay,
4.	If an eligible employee performs work on 222 a holiday, but works loss than eignt (6) hours, he shall be entitled to the benefits of this Subsection to the extent that the number of hours worked by him on the holiday is Iwao than eight (9)-
H,	Nondupllcation
Payment of overtime rates shall not be duplicated for the easts hours worked, but the higher of the applicable rates shall be used, Hours compensated for at overtime rates shall not be counted further for any purpose in determining overtime liability under the same or any other provisions provided, however, that hours worked on a holiday shall be counted for the purpose of computing overtime liability under Subsection F 3 (a) (1), 3 (a>(3}, 3 (a) (4), 3(a)(5), end 3 (a) (S) above.
Hours paid for but not worked shall not be 224 counted in determining overtime liability.
50
I.	Distribution of Overtime
In ordfir to promote the distribution of over- 225 time on as fair and equitable basis as is practicable t the Company agrees that overtime worked shall be posted in the various departments every sixty (60) days and a copy furnished to the Union President* Inequalities including overtime refused shall be adjusted by the Company as opportunity offers between employees in the same job titles and departments. However, the remedy for assignment of overtime outside the job title shall not be the award of back pay.
By local working condition the parties may 226 otherwise provide for the distribution of overtime in the various departments.
51
SECTION 11 VACATIONS
A, Eligibility
1,	Employees will be eligible for vacations 227 on January 1 of each year, if otherwise qualified, provided the employee worked or was on vacation in 50t of the pay periods during the preceding calendar year t
2.	Continuous service shall date from the 220 date of first employment by the Coopany (but not earlier than March 16, 1944}, or subsequent date of employment following a break in continuous service, whichever date is later.
B.	Length of Vacation
1,	Vacation benefits fcr eligible employees 229 are as follows.
Employee’s
Continuous Service
1 year but less than
3 years but less than 10 10 years but less than 17 1? years but less than 25
25 years or more
Length of Vacation
1 week
2 weeks
3 weeks
4 weeks 5 weeks
2.	A week’s vacation shall consist of seven 230 (7) consecutive days, a two (2) weeks* vacation shall consist of fourteen (14} consecutive days, a three (3} weeks* vacation shall consist of twenty-one (21) consstutive days, a four (4) weeks' vacation shall consist of twenty-eight (29) consecutive days, and a five (5} weeks' vacation shall consist of thirty-five O5> consecutive days.
3.	Holidays falling within a vacation period 231 are to be counted as vacation days, and are not additional to the vacation period.
52
4 * Vacations may not be postponed from one 232 (1) calendar year to another. An employaa May be offered vacation pay in lieu of a vacation.
C.	Scheduling of Vacations
Each employee eligible for a vacation shall 233 request his vacation period promptly after December 1. Vacations will, so far as practicable, ba granted nt tines most desired by employees (longer departmental service eaployees being given preference as to choice); but the final right to r	allot vacation periods and to change such
allotments is exclusively reserved to the Company
I	in order to insure orderly operation of the plant.
The parties may, by local working conditions, otherwise provide fox the scheduling of vacations and for preferences in the various departments.
The Company may declare a temporary shut down of oparationa at least thirty (30) days in advance of shutdown before requiring mandatory vacation and all employees having unused vacation time can be required to take vacation during that period of time as	provided	in the table below; provided,
however,	that if	unforeseen	circumstances	make
j	such notification	impossible,	the Conpany	shall
give as much notice as practical under the circum-.	stances.
I	Eligible Weeks Mandatory Vac. Week(e)
'	2	1
3	1
4	1
I	5	1
gpIDKLIWES FOR PARTIAL WEEK OF VACATION:
J	1) Vacations must have prior approval of the 233
department. 2) Must give ten (10) days advance notice of vacation date requested unless an emer-
•	gency or extenuating circumstance exists. 3) Must
<	select which week of scheduled vacation remaining
V	to be used. 4) The vacation week selected must
I	be used for all vacation days. 5) Enployees with
:	only one (I) week plus a partial week of
vacation time remaining shall be considered to be
53
two (2) week* in the event of an outage requiring mandatory vacations. In the event mandatory vacation* are required, the employee oust take the whole week remaining. 6) Only one (1} additional approved person will be allowed to take vacation day(a} at any one time if the regular vacation schedule ia filled- 7) vacations granted will be in order of request, not by seniority, provided they do not affect the efficiency of operations, 6) No partial weak vacation* will be allowed be* yond the first Saturday in December, 9) Vacation days remaining at the time the vacation was originally scheduled must ba taken that week, 10) No advance pay for partial week vacation*,
D. Vacation Pay
Bach employee granted a vacation will be paid 236 at his average hourly rate of earnings in the preceding payroll year excluding add-on compensation for wage incentive, gainsharing and/or profit sharing, adjusting such average hourly rate to reflect intervening general wage changes. Sours of vacation pay for each vacation week shall be the average number of hours worked per week by the employee (but not lea* than forty 140) nor more than fifty-two (521K
Vacation pay, if requested, will be made 237 available on any day other than Saturday, Sunday and holidays to an employee prior to the beginning of his vacation.
If an employee shall retire or die on or be- 230 fere December 31 of any year in which he ha* worked or been on vacation at least 50t of the pay periods, he or hi* heir* (in the case of a deceased employes) shall receive the above vacation benefits.
54
SECTION 12
SENIORITY
A.	Seniority Defined
Seniority, ss used in thia Agreement, shall 239 be confined in its application to the employees of the Company, in the Lines of Progression as set out in this Agreement. For the purposes of Jthis Agreement there shall be three types of Seniority.
1.	Line of Progression Seniority
Line of Progression Seniority is herein 240 defined as the total length of continuous service in a specific Line of Progression since the first day of assignment by Lone Star Steel in that Line of Progression as a Regular Employee.
2.	Sequence Seniority
Sequence Seniority is herein defined as 241 the total length of service in a specific Sequence within a specific Line of Progression since the first day of assignment by Lone Star Steel in the Sequence as a Regular Employee. Sequence Seniority rules for departments with Sequence Seniority are governed by Local Working Condition No. 14.
3.	Continuous Service Seniority
Continuous Service Seniority shall be 242 calculated from the date of first employment (but not earlier than March 16, 1944) or re*employment following a break in continuous service.
B.	Employees Defined
This Agreement covers two types of employees 243 as follows*
1.	Probationary Employee, A Probationary 244 Employee is one hired with a view to filling a regular position, and one who, before being advanced to the status of a Regular Employee, must
55
I
serve for a period of 520 actual work hours during which his qualifications for the work can be determined.	.	*
Probationary employees nay be tran- 24 5	-
sferred, laid off or discharged at the exclusive discretion of the Company. If accepted ss Regular	j
Employees, their seniority shall begin at the date of their original employment.
2.	Regular Employee. A Regular Employee 246 shall be one who is employed for the routine conduct of the Company's business, who works on production and maintenance, who has satisfactorily passed through the probationary period»
C.	Seniority Liat
A Seniority List showing the Line of Progres- 247 si on Seniority and Sequence Seniority of all Regular Employees covered by thia Agreement has been prepared by the Company, and has been accepted by the parties as the official Seniority List under this Agreement» Revised copies of the Seniority List will be furnished to the Union quarterly.
From and after the date of this Agreement, ail motor inspectors, motor room attendants, electri c al technicians, e 1 ectri ci an wi ramen, electrician linemen, electrician armature winders, outer repairmen, instrument repairmen, electronic repairmen, millwrights, machinists, welders, blacksmiths, carpenters, painters, end pattern makers to include any others agreed to by the Company and the Union shall have their seniority calculated on a plant-wide basis and applied to the lines of progression where they exist.
*
Mo maintenance employee as listed above shall 249 have the right to a particular place of work or shift, except as provided in Section 12of this Agreement, and the Company shall have the right to	t
assign work to any such maintenance employee anywhere in the plant; however, those maintenance employees who formerly carried their seniority in an assigned maintenance seniority
56
unit shall bo given preference by the Company in order of such former seniority for the purpose of scheduling man for regular maintenance in such employees' former assigned maintenance departments, which preference shall apply in case of layoffs and recalls. The term * regular maintenance work*1 as used herein means running (whistle call) and recurring preventive maintenance work which i s necessary from week to week and which can accurately be predicted by Management. The Company shall have the exclusive right to determine from tima to time the number of men who are necessary to be scheduled for regular maintenance work. In no case shall an employee be assigned to a particular department or work area as disciplinary action.
i
D.	Lines of Progression
In all cases, Line of Progression Seniority 250 and Sequence Seniority if applicable shall be applied to established lines of progression. Employees shall be promoted, and demoted, in the established lines of progression* Ho employee shall bump between unconnected jobs in eases of pronto* tion. demotion, increase of force ox dec re see of fores.
All lines of progression agreed upon by the 251 Ccnpany and the Union shall continue in effect unless changed as hereinafter provided.
1/ Hew or changed lines of progression shall 252 be established in accordance with the following procedure. The new or changed line of progression will be prepared by Management and submitted to the Grievance Committeeman, who shall review the line of progression promptly and arrange from time to time to confer with the department manager concerned for final review and approval of the line of progression,
2, If the line of progression is correct as 253 originally submitted:
(a)	So th copies will be stamped in 254
57
the approved mvmor and sigiied by the Grievance Committeeman, president of the Local uni on t Department Manager and Company Representative.
lb) The Union copy will be retained by 255 the President of the Local Union.
(c) The Management copy will be retained 255 by the Manager of Industrial Engineering»
3. If agreement is not reached by the two 257 committees:
Management shall install the proposed 258 line of progression. The employee or employees affected may at any time within thirty (30) ’days file a grievance protesting the line of progression or the extent of change. Such grievance shall be processed under the grievance and arbitration procedure of thia Agreement, and the arbitrator, in considering aaae, shall consider (1) current operating conditions and the Company's need for flexibility and change, and (2) whether the Company's action was unreasonable, with reference to the need for preservation of mploywe security and opportunity for promotion.
If a job is separated from a line of pro* 255 grassion and isolated without being connected with another line of progression, the Company will fill the job in accordance with the factors listed in Section 12, subject to any requirement that employees take and pass a test as a requirement to fill such job.
In the event of reduction of forces. Line 250 of Progression Seniority and Sequence Seniority if applicable shall be applied as provided herein.
It is understood the Company has 261 exclusive rights to determine if a temporary or permanent opening is to be filled.
E. promotion
The method by which waivers may be executed
58
262
and revoked is SB follow*; If an employee in a line of progression does not desire to progress to the next higher job box in the line of progression, he nay decline to do so only by signing and delivering to his foreman, at least five (5} days prior to the offer of the vacancy, a waiver of such higher job which waiver shall apply to all higher jobs and be irrevocable for eighteen (18} months and shall autcasatically renew itself and continue in effect for subsequent periods of eighteen (18} months unless the etq>loyee revokes the waiver in writing within fifteen (15) days prior to the expiration of such first or subsequent period of eighteen (16) months.
The following procedures will be applicable in connection with waivers; If at the level below the vacancy, there is no employee who has not waived promotion, the Company will draft the junior qualified employee who is below the vacancy to fill it, provided such employee does not have a physical limitation supported by an appropriate doctor's certificate. If such employee does have such physical limitations, the Company shall have the right to continue the draft in inverse order of seniority.
When promoting employees, consideration shall 264 be given to Seniority and Fitness and Ability. When Fitness and Ability are relatively equal, Seniority shall govern* The determination of Fitness and Ability shall be the responsibility of the company? provided that, in the event an eoployee feels that such determination has been unfairly made, he may present the complaint under the Grievance Procedure*
An employee when promoted shall always be paid 265 at the prevailing rate for the Classification to which he is assigned.
I, Transfers
1,	Permanent Transfer	266
Prior to hiring a new employee or
59
transfer-ring an esq>loyee for an opening on a now existing line of progression entry level job, if the Company, in its opinion, decides to fill suoh opening, ths Company shall transfer the moat senior plant aorv-ice employee who has specifically requested transfer to the line of progression in which the opening exists and who then possesses the necessary training and skills f which may include results of any aptitude and/or job related testingf ability and physical fitness to perform the work.
If no such qualified employee haa 267 requested transfer to a particular line of progression opening, the Company at its option may fill such opening as it seas fit*
Any opening shall be defined as an opening 268 which in the opinion of the Company is going to be filled for more than thirty (30 J working days and which results from a transfer, quit, death, retirement, discharge or an increase of forces,
Any employee requesting transfer must sub* 269 mit such request in writing on forms furnished by the Company to ths Labor Relations Department at least ten <10> days prior to such opening existing.
No employee may request transfer before 270 having attained at least one (1) year of service with the Company and has not transferred in the last twelve (12} months prior to filing a request for the transfer. No employee shall request transfer to more than two (2) seniority units (lines of progression) at any one time*
If an employee is transferred to another 271 lino of progression pursuant to these provisions or otherwiser either he or the Company may, within the first thirty (30J days of work by the employee, elect that he return to his former line Of progression. Tn addition, he may, with the consent of the Company, return to his former line Of progression during a period of six (6) months* If he returns, his seniority in his original line
60
of progression shall include the period worked in the new line of progression, Except tor such right of return, such transferred employee's seniority in the line of progression shell comnenee on the date of his entry therein.
2,	Temporary Transfer
If the Company elects to teuporarily 272 trans-for an employee, he shall accept such transfer and his seniority shall continue to accrue in his regular Lino of Progression, a temporary transfer shall be understood to mean a transfer made by emergency, the inability of the Company to fill a necessary job or production requirements.
On temporary transfers, the employee will 273 receive the rate of the job worked if higher than th* scheduled job.
G, Temporary Vacancies
A vacancy of thirty (30) calendar days or lose 274 (unless created by a five (5] consecutive week vacation) shall, if the Company decides to fill such vacancy, be filled by pushup in the line of progression by the regular schedule on the shift, provided that a qualified employee is available on the shift. If a qualified employee is not available on the shift for pushup and the Company cannot fill the job without overtime from within the line of progression, the Company will fill the vacancy by doubling over at the point of vacancy. A stan shall be considered available for doubling when he is still in the work area. If the Company cannot fill a vacancy as provided above, it may fill the vacancy as it sees fit, provided that the Company will make a reasonable call out effort where practical, if the work is anticipated to be four (4) hours or more*
When it is known to the Company at the time a 275 vacancy occurs that it will exceed thirty (30) calendar days, the Comp any, shall j to the greatest degree consistent with the efficiency of the
61
operations and the safety of the employees, assign the employee with the longest applicable service in the unit who possesses the necessary shills, fitness and ability to perform the work.
By w local working conditions* the parties nay 276 otherwise provide for the filling of temporary vacancies*
H, Decrease in Force
When it is necessary to curtail forces in a 277 Line of Progression due to lack of work, changes brought about by technological developments or other reasons, consideration shall be given first to Sequence Seniority if applicable, Line of Progression Seniority, particular skills and abilities required to perform available work.
When particular skills and ability are rela* 278 tively equal , Lino of Progression Seniority shall govern*
Determination of particular skills and ability 279 shall be the exclusive right and responsibility of the Company; provided that in the event an employee feels that such determination has been unfairly made, he may present a complaint under the Grievance Procedure.
In ths event a decrease of work, other than 260 decreases which may occur from day to day, results in a reduction to an average of thirty-two (32) hours per week for the employee in the seniority unit, and a further decrease of work appears imminent, which in the Company's judgment may continue for an extended period and will necessitate a decrease of force or a reduction in hours worked for such employees below an average of thirty-two (32) hours pec week, the Management and the Grievance Caimi ttee will confer in an attempt to agree as to whether a decrease of force shall be affected in accordance with this Section, or the available hours of work shall be distributed as equally between such employees as is practicable with due regard for the particular
62
skill* and abilities required to perform the available work.
In the event of disagreement, Management shall 281 not divide the work on a basis les* than thirty-two (32) hours per week.
When a reduction of forces or a reduction in 282 hours is necessary, the Company will post the names of these employees affected forty-eight (48) hours prior to such reduction unless cancellation of order*r changes in cubtamers' requirements, power demands, breakdowns, accidents or other emergency makes such notice impossible.
Employees affected by such reduction who have 2B3 completed their work week prior to the posting shall be given reasonable notice of layoff by the Company. Reasonable notice shall be contact of the employee er some other responsible person at the employee's telephone contact number currently on file.
Any question, or grievance, arising from such 284 reduction of forces or	hours shall be
presented	within ten	(10)	days	excluding
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, from the date of posting. This posting shall ba made in the departments concerned.
I.	Inequity in Hours
Notwithstanding any provision of the seniority 285 section, no grievance shall be filed, and the Company shall not be liable far inequality in hours worked between a junior and senior employee on different shifts during a work week when a breakdown, change in customer requirements, variation of power demand or acts of God causes such inequality.
J.	Fitness and Ability
in the measurement of necessary fitness and 236 ability, principal consideration win be given to whether the employee (a) has the necessary phy-
63
si cal qualifications to do the work, and (b) baa had trainiog and experience directly related to the job. Before the Company decide* that an employee does not have the ability to perform the work such employee shall receive reasonable training and a reasonable trial period (not to exceed five [5] days unless extended by the Company) on the job in which the employee must demonstrate reasonable progress and proficiency ■ Howevert an employee who is medically restricted from performing one or more specific jobs may progress, provided there is a vacancy, to higher job* connected by arrows to the restricted jobs if he haa the seniority, ability, and physical fitness,
K.	Termination of Seniority
The seniority of an employee shall terminate under any of the following conditions,
(1)	When he quits.
(2)	When he Is discharged.
(3)	When he is laid off for a period in ex* cess of twenty-four (24) consecutive months or for employees with fifteen (15) or more years of aer* vice laid off for a period in excess of thirty-six (36) consecutive months.
(4)	Absence extending beyond, the period of a leave of absence granted by the Company.
(5)	When he is temporarily laid off and fails to return to work after recall as provided herein.
The following procedures of recall shall apply:
a)	Notice of recall shall be made in either a telephone notification or by certified mail of both,
b)	Actual receipt of certified mail, cr a failure or refusal to accept certified mail,
287
268
289
250
251
292
293
294
295
64
■hall constitute notice of recall.
cl The employee meat confirm (by tala- 296 phone or written notice) within 72 hours after
notice of recall hia intent to return to work.
d) The employee must actually report to 297 work within nine (9) days after notice of recall.
<61 At such tine as the Company issues a 29B recall notice to an employee in layoff, a copy of thia notice will be mailed to the Union at Post Office Box 0127, Lone Star, Texas 75669.
L.	Employee Address
Employees are required to keep the Personnel 299 Department of the Company advised at all times as to their current correct address and telephone number, which will be used in giving notice Of recall.
11.	Absenteeism
Any employee absent four (4) consecutive work 300 days without notifying the Company and without a satisfactory excuse for such absence will be considered to have voluntarily terminated his employment and will be dropped from the payroll. If such employee is absent due to illness of five {5) or more consecutive work days, he must obtain a proper leave of absence as set forth in Section 12-Q of the labor agreement, or he will be considered to have voluntarily terminated unless there are major mitigating circumstances■
N. Layoff Pool
Prior- to hiring new employees, the Company 301 shall recall employees who have been laid off except when <11 the skill, ability or physical fitness for a particular Job is not available among employees in layoff status, or (2) in special cases, operating efficiency in the department where the vacancies exist would be
65
i^aired by the inability of the Company to train emplcywes for permanent job vacancies.
All employ mb in layoff status except employ* 302 eat with fifteen (15) years or more of continuous service at ties of layoff shall be listed in the layoff pool. Any employee with fifteen (15) years or more of continuous service at time of layoff upon a reduction of force in his department shall be placed in departmental layoff until such employee shall request in writing to be placed in the layoff pool. Any employee with fifteen (15) or store years of service must advise the Company immediately upon notification of layoff, or, if thereafter at least five (5) days prior to the beginning of the payroll week that he desires to be placed in the layoff pool.
The Company agrees to call employees from the 303 layoff pool to fill vacancies in different departments according to continuous plant service sc far as practicablef giving consideration to (II avail-able and necessary skills and abilities* (2> the length of tiraa available to fill the particular vacancy, and (3) the practicability of notifying and securing the senior man by the time he is needed.
If an employee in the layoff pool refuses to accept recall to a different department or fails to report for a ^cb as instructed, the Company shall not toe obligated to again offer him recall to any job not within hie seniority unit during that period of layoff unless such failure results from hi a physical disability verified by a doctor's certificate.
If the Company has exhausted the layoff pool 305 and cannot fill existing vacancies without hiring new employees/ the Company shall have the right to recall employees who are in a layoff status in inverse order of seniority on a oompulsory basis. Such failure to accept compulsory recall shall result in voluntary termination of employmentt unless such failure results from his physical disability verified by a doctor's certificate*
66
The CosqW will notify the Union when proceeding under thia section.
in order for employees to be selected in 30c accordance with the third paragraph of this section for recall to jobs outside their seniority unit; they must be available as followst (1) Enployees who are receiving state unemployment benefitsf or applicants thereof, must be available for work within twenty-four (24) hours of actual receipt of notification by the Company, or actual delivery of nailed notification to the address supplied by the employe®. (2> Employees who are not being paid state unemployment benefits must be available for work within four (4} days of actual receipt of notification from the Company r or actual delivery of mailed notification to the address supplied by the onployee.
The Company may assign any available employee 307 from the layoff pool to a job while waiting for the employee properly recalled to report for work on such job.
Ho employee who is recalled to a different 34g line of progression under this section will accrue seniority in such line of progression unless he is transferred to that line of progression. Promotions, demotions, or layoffs among two (2> or more such employees within one (1> line of progression will normally be based on their relative length of service in such line of progression unless management determines that operating efficiency would be materially haa^pered thereby. ttie Company shall have no duty to replace an employee who has been properly assigned to a vacancy hereunder with another employee of longer plant service who subsequently enters the layoff pool.
When an employee is working from ths layoff 309 pool in a lire of progression in which he does not have seniority and a vacancy occurs in the line of progression in which he has seniority, which vacancy is expected to last no longer than two (2) scheduled work weeks, the Company, may as long as
67
he ie working in such department, at ita option, elect to fill such vacancy without recalling such eoployee, After the expiration of such two (2) scheduled work weeks the employee may elect to return to his own department.
Notwithstanding any other provision of thia 310 Section 12«N—Layoff Pool - if an employee is Laid off due to the permanent shutdown of his departwont or to the discontinuance of a job or jobs in his department, in addition to the employee's right to be placed in the layoff pool, the Company will transfer him to a new line of progression at such time as a job exists to which recall rights to his regular department or seniority unit do not exist in eons other employee, provided that such laid-off employee has the ability and physical fitness for such job and other related jobs in such line of progression. In case of such a transfer, the employee7 a seniority in the new line of progression shall eoaoMnoe on the date of the transfer.
O,	Military Leave
Any employee who has been or is inducted into 311 the Armed Forces Of the United States or who has been or shall be required by law to enter into any other service of the United States shall, upon satisfactory completion of such service and presentation to the Company of the proper certificate thereof, be entitled to such rights or reinstatement and preservation of seniority rights as are now and may hereinafter be provided by Federal Law.
P.	Military Replacements
It is agreed that the employment of 312 individuals to replace employeea entering the Armed Forces of the United States shall be on a tOTporary basts within the meaning of the Selective Training and Service Act of 1540, the smendments thereto, and all related laws.
68
Q,	Medical Leave of Absence
An employee shall be granted medi cal leave 313 without pay up to twelve (12) months upon the employee furnishing the personnel office of the Company an appropriate doctor's certificate setting forth the period of time needed for recovery, which medical leave will be extended for an additional period of not to exceed eighteen (IB) months or for employees with fifteen (IS) or more years of service not to exceed twenty-four (24) months upon presentation of a further certificate from a doctor* Total continuous medical leave shall not be greater than thirty (30) months for employees with less than fifteen {15) years service and thirty-six (36) months for enployees with fifteen (15) or more years service.
Should the Company find that an employee 3H cannot be returned to his old job because of physical incapacity to perform his former work or because of recurrence of his former illness by working in his former assignment, then by mutual agreement of the Cf^p^^y and the Union the said employee may be transferred to another job without loss of seniority if such a job opening exists. The Company will conply with the law in reference to the Americans with Disabilities Act, where applicable. If the employee's treating physician differs with the Company's finding that the employee cannot perform one or more of the essential functions of his former job, then the Company and the Union will meet and confer on a process to resolve the difference. if no resolution can be reached, the Union may seek arbitration to define a process to resolve the difference.
R,	yem-i ly Leave
The Company will comply with the regulations 315 governing the Family Leave Act.
69
8. General Leave of Absence !	- ■ - - =
whan the requirements of the Company win 316 permit, an employee may, in the sola discretion of the Company, upon his written request and for reasonable cause, be granted leave of absence without pay for a period not exceeding thirty (301 days.
T.	Medical or General Leave of Absence
An employee absent on medical or general 317 leave, who without tha consent of the Company, engages in any other employment, will be terminated. t
U.	Leave of Absence of Union Officers
Upon adequate notice to the Company, leave of 318 absence for the purpose of accepting positions with the international or Local union shall be available to a reasonable number of employees, but not to exceed four <4( employees in the case of the Local Union. Leave of absence shsll be for a period not in excess of three (3> years, and will be renewed for a further period. Continuous service shall not be broken by the leave of absence, but will continue to accrue, except when an employee accepts a position with the International Union, he will not continue to accrue service toward pension rights after one year with the international Union,
V.	Supervisory Employees
Bmployoes promoted to positions excluded under jjg the definition ot ’employee" in Section 2—Scope of Agreement - shell retain seniority rights, but shall not accumulate further seniority except when working as a temporary foreman (which work does not exceed 220 days during year one (1> of this agreement, 200 days during year two (2) of this agreement, and 180 days during the third year of this ri grooms nt when working in any year, starting
70
from the effective date of this contract), ihiring any period when such employee working aa a temporary foreman accumulate* seniority in th* bargaining unit, ha ehall have the right to return to his seniority unit in the bargaining unit at any tine. If discharged during such period, he shall be entitled to invoke the grievance and arbitration procedure to the extent of protecting his ^oto in the bargaining unit. Acceptance cf such promotion to temporary foreman shall not deprive any employee of his usual statutory rights as an employee. The Company will mail monthly to the Union a list of persons and their working days so temporary foreman as herein provided,
It is recognised, however, that the selection 320 of individuals to fill supervisory positions shall be determined exclusively by the Company.
W.	shift Preference
The manager in those	depar tenants	which 321
work non-rotating shifts, shall assign employees to shifts according to the preference of the senior man; providing, however, the scheduling of employees in this manner shall not adversely affect the efficient operations of the department.
In no case shall an employee be assigned a particular shift as disciplinary action.
Any employee exercising shift preference will 323 not be entitled to any overtime as a result of being rescheduled, unless payment is required under Federal Wage and Hour laws*
No employee can exercise shift preference in a 323 period of less than ninety (90) days from the last date he exercised shift preference unless a permanent opening occurs, or unless it is agreeable with Management,
Any employee exercising shift preference must 324 give the Company two weeks* advance notice in writing of his desire to exercise shift preference.
7J
SECTION 13 SAFETY AND HEALTH
A> Objective and obligation* of the Par tie*
The Company, in compliance with the Gocupa- 325 tional safety and Health Act of 1970, shall furnish to each employee employment and a place Of employment free from recognised hazards that are causing er are likely to cause death or serious physical hans. Further, the Company shall comply with occupational safety and health standards promulgated under the Act-
The Company and the Union will cooperate in 32g the continuing objective to eliminate accidents and health hazards. The Company shall continue to make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its employees at the plant during ths hours of their employment.
The Company will notify the President of the 327 Local Union or his designated representative of any industrial accident that results in death of a member of the Bargaining Unit. Such notification shall be made promptly after notification la given to next of kin*
The Company, once each year, will provide 329 the President of the Local Union, a copy of OSHA Form 200* Summary of Occupational Injuries and Illness, or its equivalent.
B.	Protective Devices, Wearing Apparel
And Equipment
Protective devices, wearing apparel and other 329 oguifnent necessary to properly protect employees from injury shall be provided by the Company in accordance with practices now prevailing in the plant or as such practices may be improved from time to time by the Company* Goggles* gas masks, face shieldsr respirators, special purpose gloves, fire proof, water proof or acid proof protective clothing when necessary and required shall be provided by the Company without coat, except that the
72
Company may assess a fair charge to cover loss or willful destruction thereof by the employee®. Where any such equipment or clothing is now provided, the present practice covering charge for lose or willful destruction by the employee shall continue. Proper heating and ventilating systems shall be installed where needed.
C.	Disputes
Any enployee or group of employees who believe 330 that they are being required to work under conditions which are unsafe or unhealthy beyond the normal haxard inbarent in the operation in question shall first report such conditions to their immediate supervisor and then shall have the right to:
1.	File a grievance in the third step of the 331 grievance procedure for preferred handling in such procedure and arbitration; or
2.	Relief from the job or jobs, without loss 332 to their right to return to such job er jobs, and at Management's discretion, assignment to such other employment as may be available in the plant; provided, however, that no employee, other than communicating the facts relating to the safety of the job, shall take any steps to prevent another employee from working on fch® job. Should it be determined through the grievance procedure that an unsafe condition existed as claimed by the employee, the employee will be compensated for any time lost.
73
SECTION 14 SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE
A.	Conditions of Allowance
When, in the sole judgment of the Company, it 933 decides to discontinue permanently a department of the plant or substantial portion thereof and termi-nata the employment of individuals, an employee whose employsaent is terminated either directly or indirectly as a result thereof because he was not entitled to other employment with the Company under the provisions of Section 12— Seniority ~ of thia Agreement shall be entitled to a severance allowance in accordance with and subject to the following provisions. This Section, however, shall not apply in the event of permanent closing of the entire plant*
B.	Eligibility
Such an employee to be eligible for a sever- 334 ancs allowanes shall have accumulated throe <3} or more years of continuous Company service subsequent to July 22, 1947, as computed in accordance with Section 12 — Seniority - of thia Agreement.
In lieu of severance allowance, the Company 335 may offer an eligible "T1 "y** a job, in the same job class for which he is qualified, in another department of the Company, The employee shall have the option of either accepting such new employment or requesting his severance allowance*
If an employee accepts such other employment, 336 his continuous service record shall be deemed to have commenced as of the date of the transfer, except that for the purpose of severance pay under this section and for purposes of Section 11—Vacations - his previous continuous service record shell be maintained and not be deemed to have been broken by transfer.
C.	Scale of AlIowanoe
74
1
An eligible individual eball receive severance 33? allowance baaed upon the following weeks for the corresponding continuous Coa^?any service subsequent to July 22, 1947.
Continuous	Weeks of
Company Service Severance Allowance
3 years	but	less	than	5	years ........H.	4
5 years	but	less	than	7	years ...........	6
7 years	but	less	than	10	years ........... 7
10 years or more............«..........     h„.... 8
D.	Calculation of Allowance
A week's severance allowance shall ba deter- 338 mined in accordance with the provisions for calculation of vacation allowances as set forth in Section 11-Vacationa.
E.	payment of Allowance
payment shall be made in a luntp sum at the 339 tiara of termination.
F.	No reduplication of Allowance
Severance allowance shall net be duplicated 340 fox the same severance, whether the other obligation arises by reason of contract law or otherwise.
If an individual is, or shall become, entitled 341 to any discharge, liquidation, severance or dismissal allowance, or payment of similar kind of reason of any law of tbe united States of America, or any of the states, districts, or territories thereof subject to its jurisdiction, the total amount of such payments shall be deducted from the severance allowances to which the individual may be entitled under this section, or any payment made by the Company under this section may be offset against such payments. Statutory unemployment compensation payments shall be excluded from the npnduplication provisions of this paragraph.
75
SECTION 15 BENEFITS
Of even date herewith the parties have exe- 342 outed two (2) contracts pertaining respectively to an insurance program and a pension program. The performance of said contracts is a material consideration to the Union in the execution of thia collective bargaining contract.
SECTION 16 DATE OF TERMINATION
The terms and conditions of this Agreement 343 shall be effective July 10 r 2005 and continue in effect until midnight July 31, 2008. Sixty (60) days prior to such date, either party may notify the other in writing of its desire to negotiate upon the terms and conditions of a new contract to be effective after termination of this Agreement , and thereupon the parties shall meet at reasonable time and engage in good faith collective bargaining.
Notices to ba given under this Agreement shall 344 be given by certified mail; be completed by and at the time of mailing, and if by the Company be addressed to the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubbert Manufacturing Energy, Allied industrial and Service Workers International Union, P.O. Box 9699, Houston, Texas 77213-0699, and if by the Union to the Company at Highway 259 South, Post Office Box 1000, Lone Star, Texas 75668-1000.
Either party may, by written notice, change 345 the address to which certified, mail notice to it shall be given.
76
In witness whereof the parties hereto have 346 executed this Agreement.
UNITED STEEL, PAPER AND FORESTRY, RUBBER, MANUFACTURING ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL SERVICES workers international union:
/o/ Leo W. Gerard /s/ Jim English /a/ Ton Conway /a/ Leon Lynch /a/ Terry Bonds /fl/ John Patrick /SZ B. L. Thompson
LOCAL UNION NO. 4134:
it! Randy Dean ZsZ Baraid E. Collins ZsZ James Doug Jacobs /a/ Joe W. Newsome /.i/ A. Duane Beck ZSZ Jason Collins 76/ Killa J. Suataiea
LONE STAR STEEL COMPANY
/a/ W. Byron Dunn ft) John R. Wittig ftl John Shivers /a/ Dave Mitch fa) Jerry J, Chapman ZS/ Eddie L. Jones, Jr. /GZ Cloven Barnard
77
July 10. 20Q&
OVERfAYJCNr OF TEMPORARY DISABILITY IMCOMR BENEFITS
Mr. H. L, Htumpeuci
US* International Representative
District 12, sub-□!strict 3
United Steel, J*aper end Forestry, Robber. Manufacturing Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Worker* International Union P. 0. Box 4694
Uwe ton, TX 77213
Dear Mr. Thompson!
During the current negotiations. the Company has brought to the attention of the Union that soma of our disabled wployees have failed to reimburse the Company for the overpayment of Tecporary Disability Income Sanofits received by them, Thia occura when the disabled enployae receive* Temporary Disability Income Benefit* in excess of twenty-six (26> weeks after he/she has furnished te the Company written proof that he/she has applied for Disability Benefit* under the social Security Act, and 1* denied ouch benefit*. but at a later data receives tha Social Security benefit* retroactively.
To alleviate thia problem, tbe Union agrees to the relieving eondl tions:
An seployae oust sign *n appropriate written promise te assign and repay such monies a* might be advanced fro® his kigas, accrued vacation benefits, pension benefits. Social Security benefit* er any other related Compensation payments in the event social security payment* are made retroactive r and authorise the company to deduct er withhold such monies from any sums due the employee.
If any such sagilcyee fails ex refuses to honor his written promise voluntarily, ths United Steel, Paper end forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union shall advise and strongly urge the default*
78
Page 2
Overpayment of T«ti»zbzy Dia ability Income Benefit!
ing an^loyee to proo^tly pay hl a juat due debt. If such •Rployee a till rofuaea to honor such just debt, the Ccnpany may take ouch a tape j including the withholding or deduction of such tnoniea, a a it deems necessary, to enforce the proadao and aaaigmnent to pay stade by the defaulting oc^loyee.
3,	Ki char the Cocspany or the Union can terminate this latter
agreement in its entirety upon thirty (30) day a written notice to the other.
Yours very truly
LOSE STAB STEEL CCHFANY
/«/ Eddie L, Jones, Jr. Manager, Labor Relatione
A0R2ED TO AND ACCEPTED:
UNITED STEEL, PAPER AND FORESTRY, RUBBER, MANUFACTURING ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION,
/•/ EL L. Thongjaqn, USW International Represent* Live total Union Nq, 4134
79
July IB, 2005
TlMFCfthAY DISABILITY INCCHE BENEFITS
Mr, L> Thcupson
USB International Represantativa
District 12, Dub-District 3
United Steal, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufaetoting Energy, Allied industrial and sarvioa workers international Union
P. Oh Box 9699
Houston, TX 77213
Dear Hr, Thompson:
During our current negotiations the Union has seriously urged that bo«m disabled saoploywes have bad payment of their claims for workers' Cccpensaticn Benefits delayed by doubts or dispute concerning coverage, and that the trnipurury disability inume benefits provided by the Company are not paid during the period of delay.
To alleviate thia problan the Conpany agrees, that, upon request by the ampleyoe, it will as use payment to be made of any tsnporary disability incons benefits which are being delayed only toy the pendancy of the disputed workers' Compensation claim subject to the following conditions;
1,	The stnployoe sign an appropriate written premise to assign and repay such money as might be eg advanced from his wages, accrued Vacation benefits, pension benefits, Social Security benefits or Workers* compensation payments if it is later da tn mined that the sickness or disability is oonpensable under the Workers* Condensation law. A form of such promise Is attached hereto,
2,	If any suoh employee fails or refuses to honor bis written promise voluntarily, the United Btesl, Paper end Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied industrial and servl cs Workers International union shall advise and strongly urge the defaulting eoplcyee to pra^tly pay his just due debt* If
80
Page 2
Tmuporary Disability income Benefits
such SfEployee still refutes to honor such just debt, the Cmpany may take such •tops, including th* withholding or deduction of such monies, as it desma necessary to enforce the premia* and aaaignoent to pay made by the defaulting employee.
3. Cither the Ccnpany or the Union oan terminate thio letter agreement in iti entirety upon thirty (30} days written notice to the other.
Your* very truly, LONE STAR STEEL cOfPANY
/a/ Eddie L. Jones, Jr. MaAsaer, Labor Relations
AGREED TC AND ACCEPTED:
UNITED STEEL, PAPER AND FORESTRY, RUBBER, MANUFACTURING ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE WORKERS INTERHATIQNAL UNION.
/•/ R. L> Thompson, USW International Representative Local Union No. 4134
81
July IB, 2005
VACATION SCHEDULING
Hr* J* Randy bean, President Local Union He* 4134 United Staal, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workere International Union P* 0* Boa 0127 Lone Star, TX 7546B
Doer Hr* Dean;
Please be advised the Company designates the following period of tine for vacation scheduling for 2005, 2006, 200?, 2009*
L Scheduling of vacations for the calendar year 2005 shall bo during the period January 2, 2005 through beosnber 31, 2005*
2.	Scheduling of vacations for the calendar year 2006 shall bo during the period January 1, 2006 through January 6, 200?,
3,	Scheduling cf vacations for the calendar yaar 2007 shall bo during the period January 7, 200? through January 5r 2009,
4.	Scheduling of vacations for the calendar year 2009 shall be during the period January 6, 2000 through January 3, 2009*
82
Page 1
Vacation Srfieduling
In the event th* vacation allotment during the week of 25, 2005 through Decetaber 91, 200$ it not filled by ^^loyeea eligible for 2005 vacations, the Company will allow any remaining unfilled allotments to be filled by the is «ployeas eligible for their 2005 vacation* by seniority.
The came principle as outlined in the preceding paragraph will apply during the vacation period* December 31, 2005 through January 5, 2007 P December 30, 2007 through January 3, 2003.
Your* vary truly.
LOHS STAR STBEL COMPANY
/s/ Eddie L. Cones, Jr. Managert Labor Relatione
AGREED TO AMD ACCEPTED:
UNITED STEEL, PAPER AND FORESTRY, RUBBER, MANUFACTURING ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION.
/a/ J. Randy Dean, President Ideal Union No. 4134
83
July 19, 2005
SHIFT PREFERENCE — WILDERS
Kr. J. Randy Dean, President
Local Union Ho, 4134
United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber,
Manufacturing Energy, Allied Industrial and
Servioe Workers International Union F. O. Box 0127 Lona Star, TX 75668
Baar Mr. Dean:
Rafarente is made to shift pro fa rones for welder* plant wide,
The Company will consider any requests from smployoes of the Welding trade or craft unit who desire reassignment to another area of the plant in order to secure a desired shift.
The Company win attempt to reassign end honor such requests based on needs of the Company and }ust reason given by the aapleyee for ouch change. However, the final right of assignment to a particular area remains with aanagement,
You understand that this letter is written as evidence of the Company's good faith intentions, but is not contractual and will give rise to no legal rights or claims arbitrable or otherwise.
Toura very truly, LOHE 8TAR STEEL COMPANY
/*/ Eddie L. Jonas, Jr, Manager, letoor Raiationa
AGREED TO AMD ACCEPTED t
UNITED STEEL, PAPER AND FORESTRY, RUBBER, MANUFACTURING ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
/s/ J. Randy Dean, President
Local union No. 4134
84
July 16. 200$
LUNCH BREAKS
Nr. J, Randy Dmji, president Local Union Wq. 4134 United Steel, Peps? *nd Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing Ensrgy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union P. 0. Boa 0121 Lone Star, TX ?5fi68
Bear Mr. Dean:
It is the Cacspany’* intent and purpose that, except in rare emergen ey situation*. employes* will have the time and opportunity to eat their lunches at some reasonable tine during the work shift Inert* lly the timm will be th* mid-three-hour periodJ.
You understand, of course, that we cannot guarantee a particular time to be set aside for lunch breaks, and cannot ensure against etwargency situations which may arise.
Ra hope that any complaints concerning this situation win be brought to ny attention.
Yours very truly,
[£we star steel, company
/*/ Eddie L. Jones r Jr. Manager, Imbet Halations
AGREED TO AND ACCEPTED;
UNITED STEEL, PAPER AND FORESTRY, RUBBER, MANUFACTURING ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
/s/ J. Randy Dean, President
Local union No. 4134
8J
July 10, 2002
CCMPJWY PHYSICAL®
Kr. H, L* Thompson
U®W international Representative
District 12, Sub-District 3
United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing Energy, Allied industrial and Service ttnrltars International Union
F. O. Bcm 9€»9
Hou■ton, TX 77213
Dear Mx. Thca^von;
Th* following understanding is hereby reached between the parties:
1.	The Company shall have the option to schedule employee* to take their physical examinations and eye and hearing teste either on the employees' scheduled work time or co a oon-work time basis.	It is not the intent of the
Cospany to schedule all employees on a non-work tian basis,
2.	If an satplcyoa is required by the Company to take a physical exam nation on non-work time, the Company shall pay autdi employes one <1} hour allowed time pay at the standard hourly rate of Jeb Class 2 for the under 40 year age physical examination, and two 12} hours allowed tiM pay at the standard hourly rote for the 40 year and over physical examination, The previsions of this paragraph shall not apply to eye and hearing tests, and ths Company shall have no obligation to pay any employee allowed time pay hereunder for eye and hearing testa if an eovluyee is required by the Company to take such eye and hearing tests on a non-work basis.
86
Pago 2
company Myalcalo
3, TM Company may, at ita aolo option, dkaaentinua the giving of physical axaminatigna at any tine,
Toura very truly,
LC*E STAR STEEL CCHFANY
/a/ £ddia L. Jcwir jr, Manager, Labor Relation
A0REED TO AND ACCEPTED;
UNITED StUl, PAPER XHD F0RE8TPY. RUBBER, WkXUFACTtmiHG KXZftCr, ALLIED INDUS TRIAL AND MRVICB WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNIC*
/*/ Kr. B* L, ItKxnpean, OCT International Repreientativa Local union No. 4134
87
July ISj 2005
PI? UTlLlTYMAN
Me* J. Hardy Dean, Pxeeident too»l Union Ho, 4134 United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber Ifenufacturing Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Worker* InternaLionel Union p, 0. Box 012? tone Iter, TX 75069
Pear Mr< Drtn;
It is Ufxier stood *nd agreed that ne »aployee working the job of Pit Utilitynan may sign a waiver of prcwaoticn to the job of Soaking Pit Heater.
Yours very truly,
LOME STAR STEEL COMPANY
/a/ Eddie L. Jonee, Jr. Manager, Labor Ralatlcm
ASREED TO ARD ACCCPTKtli
UNITED STEEL, PAPER AND FORESTRY, RUBBER. MANUFACTURING 2NERCY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE WORKERS INTERNAT1CNAL VNIOM
/■/ J. Randy Dean, President
Local Union No. 4134
S3
July lfir 2005
JOB RfTENTION PENDING SUSPENSION DETERMINATION
Mr* H- V. Thcnpeon
Usw international Representative
Diatriat 12, Sub-Distr io t 3
United steelt Paper and forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers international Union
P. O« Bex 9€9P
Muston, TX 'H213
Dear Mr. Thompson!
1,	Nothing in thia egroemenfe shall restrict the CcTipany't right to remove the charged employe* for the be Lance of •Mth employe*’■ shift nor shell the Company be repaired to delay imposition of auaponsien where, because of exceptional and unvaual circunistancee, the Company hai reasonable cause to believe that the wnployee's early return would endanger the safety- of other employees or property -
2.	whenever an en^loyee io charged with an offense for which ths Company proposed a suspension period *fl penalty, the Company will not retnove the charged anployee frcn active wort for three (3} calendar days [excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays) following notice to the charged employee of proposed discipline; in the event the charged employee within sucb three-day period duly files with the Company a written professt of the discipline, then such enployoe will not bw removed from active work until a final administrative determination has been made in the oaaa,
3.	For purposes of this agreement, the procedure and tine Unite will follow the applicable provisions of the collective bargaining agreement to the extent they are not in conflict herewith, except that the dspertaeht level hearing and decision (provided in
89
Page 2
Job Het Anti on Pending Suspension determination
Bestion B) shall oeour within five (5) days (excluding Saturdays r Sundays, and holidaysJ after the protest of the discipline ia filed; and the Union will have three (31 days to appeal the Company's departmental level decision. The administrative determination shall be final, to the extent that the Company may remove ths charged employee from active work, when the Company's Director of ubor Relations {or his designated agent) has issued a written decision in the case following oonsultation with the Union's international Representative lor hie designated agent). further processing of the charged employee's grievance shall follow the applicable provisions of ths collective bargaining agreement.
4,	ho twit ha fading anything herein to the contrary, the
provisions of the poll active bargaining agreement shall oontinue unaffected in any manner by this agreement as to all discharges and to all suspensions pursuant to Paragraph 1 above.
5> Bitter the Company or the union may terminate this agreement in its entirety upon thirty (30) days written notice to the other.
Yours vary truly.
LONE STAR STEEL COMPANY
/a/ Eddie L. Jones, Jr. Manager, Labor Relations
AGREED TO AND ACCEPTED:
UNITE? ?TEEL, PAPER AND TORUS TRY, RUBBER, MANUFACTURING ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE RORKER3 INTERNATIONAL ONION
/■/ H, L. Thonpson, U5K International Representative Local Union No. 4134
90
July IQ, 2005
CONTRACTING OUT
Mr. J. Randy Dean, prsBident LOOAl Union No. 4134 United Steel, Paper Bind For««try. Rubber, Manufacturing Energy,, Allied Irwiuatrial and Service Sorters International Union p,.0< Box 0137 LOfra Star, IX 75650
Dear Hr, Ooan:
The subject of contrasting cut work has again bean a focus of discussion during collective bargaining negotiations. Both Ebe Company and Union have expressed the seriousness of this issue.
7T*e Company has, during the term of the previous oollective bargaining agreement, demonstrated its sensitivity to the views cf the Union by displacing certain outside contractors and performing work with bargaining unit employees.
ve confirm again to the union that the Company will not make any major changes in our pest contracting practices without first discussing the situation with the Union. Of course ** will continue to be willing to discuss the status of current outside contractors at our regular monthly joint Company, Union meetings.
91
Page 2
Contracting Out
You understand that chia letter 1* not contractual and give* rive to no legal olein, arbitrable or othamisa.
Yours very truly,
LONE STAR STEEL COMPANY
/■/ Zddie L, Jones, Jr. Manager, Labor Relations
AGREED TO AND ACCEPTED I
UMITEO STEEL, PAPER AND FORESTRY, RUBBER, MANUFACTURING ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
/s/ J, Randy Dean, President Local Union No. 413
92
July IB, 2005
I. PIH MILL FINISHING JOB PREFERENCE
Mr, J. Randy &8inj President Local Union No* 4134 United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Porkers International Union p. o. ana 012?
Lone Star, TX 75€68
Dear MT. Burka1
Reference is eade to old Local Working Condition No, 21.
Please be advised that at the request of the Union resulting fm ccntoining the Casing/Line Pipe Finishing and Tube Finishing lines of progression into one (1} line of progression and combining the two seniority units into one, the company agrees to accept from employees in the Finishing Seniority Unit a written request of preference not to be Mslgoed to certain jobs within certain job bloat boxes as shown by the line of progression. It is the intent of the Cospany to honor ouch request unless such request effects employee schedules or the Company's ability to operate properly on a shift, and the preference shall be as follows:
The Cosparry shall grant each wnplcyes regularly a fl signed to the
Pipe Processor	Block	III	box,	four	(4>	preference*,
Pipe Processor	Block	II	box,	six	(4)	preferences and
Pipe Processor	Block	I	box,	two	<2>	preferences.
It is agreed and understood the preference? of not to be assigned will not be valid in the event of temporary pro-
93
Pag* 2
E. V. Pip* Mill Finishing Job Prof*rone*
notion or demotion cauMtS by vacation replacement, absenteeism or on-th*"Bl)if t vaxianoaa in operating levala,
Yours vary truly,
LOME STAR STEEL COMPANY
/■/ Eddie L. Jansa, Jr. Manager, Labor Relations
AGREED TO AND ACCEPTED:
UNITED STEEL, PAPER AND FORESTRY, RUBBER, MANUFACTURING ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
/a/ J, Randy Dean, Preaidant Local union No. 4134
94
July 1ft, 2 QOS
EXftDlTJC N®I1RA7IQK PFOCEDUKE
Mr, H. L» Thompson
USW International Representative
District 12, £ub-DiStrict 3
United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing Energy, Allied Industrial and Betvlca Worters international Union
P. O. Box PB99
Bouaton, IX 77213
Dear Hz, Thgapson:
By agreement, the following stipulations shall govern a Expedited Arbitration Procedure adopted on an expatItnentai basis for the ten* of three years beginning July 1ft, 2005 aM ending July 31, 2008 between Lone Star Steel Company and the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Kilted Industrial and Service Porkers International Union.
1. Expedited Arbitration shall be applicable only in disciplinary gaaaa that do net require interpretation of collective bargaining agreement language.
3.	Except as otherwise provided herein, the regular grievance and. arbitration prcoadurea stipulated by tte general bargaining agreement in terete between the parties during rhe experimental period shall bo applicable to Expedited Arbitration cases.
3.	Witbin ton <10} days after receipt of disciplinary co see appealed to arbitration, the Union's Staff Representative and the Company's Step 3 representative shall confer and determine whether the particular D* Case is to be submitted to regular arbitration or to the Expedited Arbitration Procedure. No d-Chh« nay be referred to Expedited Arhi.tralien without the prior written approval of both parties hereto.
95
p*ge 2
Expedited Arbitration Procedure
As to any diacipLioary case refereed back to Stop 2 repro* sentotives by the Stop 3 representative of the Parties, th* Chai naan of the Local Union Grievance Comraitte* may reccwnend such cues to the Expedited Arbitration Procedure by notifying the Ccatftany in writing within seven days of receipt of the xeforraJ. frco Step 3 ropresontativos.
The partlee shall thereupon notify the Special Arbitrator to eat * date for hearing the case within five (5J day* after his receipt of notification.
4.	The parties hereby designate Mr. tt. Kike Earley of Gregg County f Texas at Special Arbitrator, to have sole jurisdiction over Expedited Arbitrations between the parties. should Mt. Barley bacon* unable or unwilling to continue serving at Spacial Arbitrator for the renal Oder of the experimental period t bis replacement must be approved by both parties prior to appo^-htment.
It is further agreed, should a need arise for the appointment of a second Special Arbitrator due to unforeseen problems, then by mutual agreement, the parties may appoint another arbitrator in addition to the first arbitrator.
The parties hereby agree to review, on or about July 10, 2006 and again on or about each year thereafter, the continued appointment of the Special Arbitrator (a). If the parties cannot mutually agree to the continuance of appointment of the Special Arbitrator^ j the parties will mutually select another Special Arbitrator to fill the vacancy.
96
Page 9
Expedited Arbitration Proeadiira
3. The decieion Of th* arbitrator in Expedited Arbitration oaaea shall be final and binding in the «m« manner at regular arbitration eaaoa,
6,	Neither party shall. ever cite any Expedited Arbitration award a* a precedent in another arbitration ease,
7,	The Special Arbitrator ehall render hie written decision within two (2) working day* following the date of bearing»
9,	fete written brief* shall be filed in Expedited Arbitration oaves.
To Indi oats your approval and agreement to thia under* tending, please sign at th* place provided below.
Tour* very truly, LOHS STAR 6VEIL COMPANY
/*/ Eddie L. Jones, Jr. Manager, Labor Relatione
AGREED TO AND ACCEPTED:
UNITED STEED, PAPER AND FORESTRY , RUBBER, MANUYACTVRING ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
/a/ B. l. Thcftpeon, USW international Representative Local Union No. 1134
97
July 16, 2005
DTSCIPLIHt
Mr. J, Randy Dean, pruidant Local Union HO. 4134 United stool. Paper and F© re* try, Rubber, Manufacturing Snargy, Allied Industrial and Service Work ora International Union P. 0, aw 0127 Lone star, TX 75669
Dear Hr. Dean:
The Company and Union recognize that an vtployee who has received aria or more notice* of discipline ehculd have a fair opportunity to eliminate there through **ti • factory wort per romance.
Therefore, it ia agreed that after an envloyoe ha* iuc' oeatfully oocepleted twenty-four (24) ountknuoua month* of work tine without diaclpline tunleu* a shorter time ia mutually ■greed between the Conpany and the Union) previous notice* of discipline will not thereafter be used against him in arbitra-' tlon.
Sy thia Bean* an wipioyee may be reauaured that ho ha* ■ucceaafolly corrected hia record.
Thia agrMmant ahull tonal net* upon expiration of the general bargaining agreetMnt currently in force between Lone Stat Steel Ceetpany and the united steel, paper and For try. Rubber t Manufacturing, Energy, Allied indue er lai and service worker* International union.
Your* very truly, LONE STAR STEEL COMPANY
fuf Eddie L> Jcnee, Js, Manager, Labor Relation*
MSUKD to AND ACCEPTED:
UNITED STEEL, PAPER JK> PCTEWTRT. SUSSER, HAKVTACTOBI HO IMERCY, ALLIED IKDOSfRIAL AND JERVIS HQRKXR5 INTERHATICKAL UNION
/■/ J. Randy Dean, preaiderit Local Union Mo. 4134
9g
July 18, 2005
CHUG, AWOHOL AND INHALANTS SCREENING PROGRAM
Mr. H- L- ThOBpscn usw international Representative District 12, eub-Diitriat 3 United Steel, Paper end Facettry, Rubber, Manufacturing Energy, Allied Industrial and Service workers international Union P. C. Boa P65»9 Houston. TX 77213
Dear Mx. Thompson:
The following understanding is hereby reached between the parties:
1.
The potential problstn of substance abuse or substance dependency poses a serious threat to the safety of all eoployeaa and the Ccnpany1* operations. The ref or a, the Company and Union ^oin together In the development of a testing procedure for all employees in an effort to keep drugs, alcohol, and inhalants, out of the workplace. It is the desire of the Cteqpany and Union to create a safer work environment and at the earn time offer assistance to those employees who have substance abuse or dependency problem* and the opportunity to over com such problem so they can beccma a safer and more productive person.
The Canparry policy end penalty for possession, use or distribution of illegal or unauthorised drugs, alcohol, inhalant* and prescription drugs (except when taken as prescribed by the wployees' doctor and declared with the Coipany before testing) now established will be applicable to all ernployoas of the Ccopany.
Assistance will be offered to employees who cctsa forward reguesting assistance prior to reaching a point of being tested for cause or any disciplinary action, Mei stance may be provided under the present health care plan.
99
Page 2
Drug, Aleohol and inhalants Screening Program
4. Th* acrMOlhg program ahalL constat of: 1) tasting of eeployaea for cause, 2) testing of ertployees returning to wort frota layoff status and iMVt of absence (normally six months) and 3) random testing .
$, The Cdafiany nay require enployecs to undergo testing procedures by transporting such eepleyoea to a person (a) or tasting facility of its choice to conduct such testing.	The Manager of lebcr Relations or his
designee{>1 from the Human Resources department shall be the parson(s) authorized to decide whether any enplcyee shall undergo such testing. Employees to be tested must sign a eon sent to be tested and release of information results form before tasting. Employees refusing to sign such release and undergo testing will be subject to temlnstLon or considered a voluntary quit.
€. The typos of testa which could ho adnini stored include hair, blood, urine or ether appropriate test.
TESTING FOR CAUSE:
trqployeea to bo tested for cause era mnployses who have exhibited aksiormal, or unsafe behavior as observed or as reported, for example:
Attitude * Irritable, argumentative, irrational, eta.
Attendance • Absent from work/ tardiness
Work Performance - Poor quality, conflict with fallow workers, problem following instructions, unsafe acta, etc.
Bpee^t - slurred, incoherent, disjointed, fast, slow, etc.
100
PMfl* 3
Drug, Aleehel and Inhalants screening Program
Reflexes - Hyperactive, alew
Muscular rovrant - Tremors
Coordination ~ Lack of eye-hand, balance, walk, etc,
lyea - Dilation of pupil*/ failure to respond to light, etc.
Vital Signs - Abnormal blood pressure r sweating, pulse, respiration or rnmjiorititro
WWPOf TEaTlKQ:
A, The Company will demonstrate its commitment to a drug free work place through random tasting of sn^loyeeo, who are not otherwise covered under the DOT (Deparnt of TransportationJ or FRA {Federal Railway Act J testing programs,
p. Selection of employees to bo tested will bo done through a statistical random number generation to select badge numbers. A representative of the Union will have ths option cf attending this process. This random-depleting process will contain all scq>loyewB minus those that have been tested due to random selection within the contract year. The badge nvrtsn will be confidentially provided to the nurse with the medical department, who will then coopers badge numbers to a coopt) ter print our co genera co an employee name Hoc.
C, Khan notified of selection for testing, the strtployeo will have a reasonable amount of tine (as agreed to by the plant nurse and employee) te report to the medieal department or to the test aefaini st rater.
101
Pagw 4
Grog, Alcohol and Inhalants Screening Program
D» Failure to report, after proper notification, will constitute refusal to be tatted and will result in the snployee^a termination,
E. Once notified, the employee will be guided through the testing program by the plent nurse.
7, Employees with positive test result* will be terminated.
G.	Medical assistance, through the health plan, will be available to those who ct**e forward to the Human Resources bepartmeat prior to notification Cor testing.
H,	A drug awareness training program will be conducted for employees prior to the effective date of the testing program, The training program will cover company policy, abuse problMas> and general information about drugs,
I.	The policy will be become effective January 1, 2001.
J.	Random testing viH begin April 1, 2002.
Osplcyaes with positive test results tested for cause or rinloB testing are subject to termination.
Eavloyees who enter a rehabilitation facility must ccwcpleta the recommended program of the facility for their particular problem. Ths program may consist of the following:
1st In-Patient Care which includes detoxification, partialpating and counseling.
<bl Intensive Out-Patient care which includes attendance, participatifTi and counseling,
lol Out-Patient Caro which includes attendance, participation »T*d counseling.
102
Page a
Druflf Alcohol and Inhalants Screening Program
(d) After Gara which requires joining and attendance in reeoenended organisations for a specif led tins.
Es^leywae who fail or refuse to cos^lote the reeoerwndad program will be subject to termination.
Yours very truly.
WNE STAR STEEL CCHFAXY
/a/ Eddie L. Jones Manager, Labor Relations
AGREED TO AKU ACCEPTED:
UNITED STEEL, PAPER AND TORES TRY. RUBBER, MANUFACTURING ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND service workers international UNION
/s/ 0, L. l?iai(Monr U5W international Representative Local Union Ho. 4134
103
July 18. 2005
MOBIU EQUIPMENT OPERATOR SPECIALTY TUBING
Nr. J- Randy Dean, President Local Union No, 4134 Unital Steal, Paper and Foraatry, Rubber, Matmfncluring Energy, Allied Indufttrial and Service workers international Union P, o. Box 0127 icne star, nc T5668	'
Dear Mr, Dean:
Reference ia made co the company proposal during negotiations regarding Mobile Equipraent Operator in Specialty Tubing servicing facilities octaide their seniority unit, except the Melling Mills.
The conpeny and union agree on ceca a ions when Mobile Equipment coverage is not required for a full scheduled turn, those facilities may be serviced by Mobile Equipment Operators free Specialty Tubing by making up to six (6) lifts or a eaxinum of two (2) hours during the scheduled turn.
Yours very truly,
LONE STAR STEEL COMPANY
/s/ Eddie L. Jones, Jr. Manager, labor Relations
AGREED TO AND ACCEPTEDt
UNITED STEEL, PAPER AND TQRESTWf, RUBBER, MANUFACTURING ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
/•/ j, Randy Peart, President Local Union He. 4134
104
July 1ft , 2GQ&
MYOfF BENEFIT PLAN
Mr, H. L. Thompson USS international Jlepresentativa Di*triet 12, sufc-Di strict 3 United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturlng Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Norkera International Union P. O. Box 9599 Houston, TX 77213
dear Mr. Thompson;
It 1* mutually agreed that the Layoff Benefit Plan (LOB) is hereby auspended for the duration of the Labot Agreement dated July 1ft, 200S.
Thia agreement shall be coterminoue with the new contract and shall expire or terminate therewith-
Tour* very truly,
LQNE STAR STEEL CCHPANY
Zs/ Eddie L« Jones, Jr, Manager, Labor Relations
AGREED TO AND ACCEPTED;
UNITED STEEL, PAPER MTO FORESTRY, RUBBER, MANUFACTURING ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
/*/ B, L. Thoffipeon, U£W international Representative Local UnLCU'i No. 4134
10i
July 16, 2005
SAFETY SHOES
Mr. U Thnwgxon
USW International Representative
District 12, Sub-Oi»tri<Jt 3
United Steel, Paper end tors*try, Rubber, Manufacturing Energy, Allied industrial and Service Markers international Union
F. 0. Box 9660
S^trn, IX 77213
Dear Mr. Thompson;
Effective July 16. 2005, employe** who on that date Hava one year of continuous service and are in active work status or return to active work status within the year shall receive a safety shoe credit allowance up to a maximum of 6115,00 to be applied to the purchase price of one pair of safety shows for their wear at work in the plant-
An afi^ldyos with less than arts year of continuous service will also be eligible for a pair of safety shoes as described above ’ however, if the •mployew terminates Sffployeent before one year of continuous service, the credit allowance will be deducted frcxn the wtplcyae's last pay check.
During the life of the contract effective July 16. 2005. the above safety shoe allowanes will be made »e outlined above for each full year of the contract-
Credit allowances cannot be carried over from one period of eligibility to ths ether.
Employees desiring to use credit allowance to purchase shoes jnust cone by Labor Politicos Department the week prior to the data shoes are needed to make a request and ds tarmine eligibility.
J 05
P*gs 2
Safety Shoes
In addition to th* safety sho* credit allowance above, the Qongrsny agree! to furnish upon dssBonetrated need, one <i) additional Shoe voucher per year in the following department job olaasifioationa: Specialty Tubing - Kill Supplier, Plokling area production and maintenance amplcyees; Electric Arc Furnace - Steel Pourer, Ladlwoan; Masonry ' Mason Laborer; 3'■Hi Rolling Mill - Soarfer; FWVN Finishing ■ Cridan Cutoff Operator,
Application for an additional shoe voucher for job classifications not named may be made through the safety Department, and reviewed by lebor Relations, Upon justification ef a dgoonatrated need one <1> additional shoe voucher per year *111 be issued^
Tours very truly,
LONE STAR STEEL CCMPANY
/■/ Eddie L, Jones, Jr* Manager, Labor Relation*
AGREED TO AND ACCEPTEDr
UNITED STEEL t PAPER AND FORESTRY, RUBBER, MANUFACTURING WIRffr, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATlCWAL UNION
/*/ Bl Z>. Thcc^son, USW International Representative taxsai Union No* 4134
107
I
July 18, 2005
electrical tjcknician
WORK ASSXGMMTS
Me. J. Randy Dwit, President
Looal Union No< 413 d
United Steal, Paper and Forestry, Rubbar, Manufacturing Energy, Allied Induatrial and Service Worker* International Union
P. Q, Box 0121
Lone Ster, ft 7566B
Dear Mr* Dean:
It ia undaretood and agreed by both the Ccnpany and the Union that on occasions when new job* are developed they may have multiple duplicate job functions. it ia also understood and agreed a* a result Of developing the new job of Electrical Teohnicxian and its job functions* it is not the intent of the Ccmjany to assign work now being performed by the Electronic Repairman and flee tr onia Taahniaien to the Electrical Technician for the purpose of dieplacing them on their job*.
Your* very truly,
LONE STAR STEEL COMPANY
/a/ Eddie L. Jonas, Jr. Manager, Labor Relationa
AGREED TO and ACCEPTED:
UNITED STEEL* PAPER AND FWESTRt* RUBBER, MANUFACTURING 3K3GRY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
/a/ Randy Dean* President Local Union No. 4134
108
July IS. 2005
DAT SHIFT ASSIGNMENTS
Mr. if. L- Thompson	'
U6W international Representative r ,
District 12f Sub-District 3	'
united BtMl, Paper and Forestry, Rubbery	’
Itami factoring Energy,' Allied industrial and Service aoxfcer• international Union
P. O. BOX S$99
BoUstOU, TX 77213
Dear Nr. Thompson;
The Ccopany and Union hereby agree to the following with regard to straight day	shift jobs for trade and craft
employ MA:	' '	' u<
It ia agreed' future" permanent vacancies on the "day" shift in an aonigned area where the vacancy occurs shall be offered to the moat senior employee who ia not currently working a straight day' job and who has submitted a written rc-sssignjacnt request to Labor Relation a ten (10) day a in advance of the opening. '	1 '
It ia also understood and agreed employees requesting ‘assignment to the vacancy must possess the required skills, seniorityr ability ' and physical fitness to perform the required duties'of the >cb opening.
Tours very truly, LONE' STAR STEEL COMPANY
/a/ Eddie l. Jones, Jr. '	Manager, Labor Relations
AQUID TO AND ACCEPTED:	;	*	*
UNITED STEEL; PAPER AND FORESTRY,* RUBBER, MANUFACTURING ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE W0RHR5 INTERNATIONAL
UNION ”1	'.	’	’
/s/ H. L. Thotpsoc, U3W International Representative ’ Local union No. 4134
109
July ISj 2005
VOLUNTARY IAYQI7 DURING PMXHXD TtKPORAftY SHUT DOW
Hr. H. L. Thmtpson usw intamatlcnsl Representative District 12, Sub-District 3 United St««L Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Mamafirt-iiring energy, Allied Industrial and service sorters international union P. O. BOS 9009 Bouston, TX 77213
Doer Mr. Thanpoofi:
It is agreed between i^ne Star Steel Ccwpany and the united Steelf Paper and Forestry, Rubber, MinefactorIng, Energy, Al 11*1 Industrial and Service Workers international union, Lonl No. *134, that the following stipulations shall govern a Voluntary Layoff during temporary shut downs on an experimental basis.
I,	During periods established by the Cdnpeny for temporary shutdowns, poeiticns may be scheduled by the Company in accordance with Section 12 of the labor Agreea^nt. Those cupleyees with seniority to work during outages nmy volunteer to enter layoff status. The Company shall decide whether the requested voluntary layoff would interfere with the Cc^any’s ability to staff its manning requirsmnts, such as crane operators. The voluntary layoff period will not exceed the period of ths Shutdown or a maziam of four weeks, unless otherwise agreed to by the Company and the Union,
2.	Szployoes volunteering for layoff during periods of outages will bo required to remain in layoff status for the duration of the designated outage and may not exercise seniority rights to displace any personnel scheduled to work during the period of the outage,
3,	EtEpleyoes wishing to volunteer for layoff are required to submit a written request to Labor Relatione, at least ten (ID) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays) in advance of the
110
Page 2
VQUWWr IAYCOT DURINO PLANNED TEMFCftART SHUTDOWN
•ffwtivQ date of the outage- One* th* layoff notice has been posted those Indi vidua Is listed shall bo obligated to partioipate per thole request in the scheduled layoff/outage•
4.	This letter does not In any way effect the provisions of paragraphs 242 or 2W or the histories! and/or precedent application of either of those paragraphs, or any other provision of the collective bargaining sgreonant.
B, Either the CcMBpany or the Union may fully to ruinate thio latter agreement in its entirety upon thirty {30> days written notion to the other.
Yours very truly, LOHE STAR STEEL QtXFAjfY
/a/ Eddie L. Jonas, Jr.
Manager, Labor Raiatione
AGREED TO AND ACCEPTED:
UNITED STEEL, PATER AMD FORESTRY, RUBBER> MANUFACTURING tNERCY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
/s/ B- L. Thotepeon, UsW international Representative [ceai union no. 4134
UI
July 18, 2005
SAF1TT AGREEMENT
Mf. H. L Thonfjson
USW International nepreesfi Estiva
District 12, Sub-District 3
United Steel r Paper and rare* try, Rubber, Manufacturing Enargy. Allied induetrial and Service wetter* international union P. O- Bex 9<M
Houston, TX 77213
Dear Mr, Tbtic^won r
Safety issues are a prlnary concern ©f both the Cce^any and the Union, It is agreed that eny perceived safety issue should be discussed and solved at the earlieat reasonable tine. Therefore, the following procedure shall be followed by both the Company and the Union:
1.	Any hourly w^loyee obwerving what ia perceived • safety issue shall report such condition to their 1 inns ill ate supervisor *
2,	If such condition is not addressed or corrected, □onsidering tbs particular issue, within a reasonable titae, the enployoe shall ccaaplote * safety con^laint font specifying the perceived issue and report such condition to their Union department Grievance Cosedtteenan or Assistant CosaiiittMfun.
3.	The Union Grievance Gomi tteaman or Assistant Grievance OotiBittMnan shall then present the written safety ocupiaint fora to the deporteent Supervise? for discussion and proper solution/result-
4,	if the union Grieve nee Caimi t teaman or Assistant Grievance Counit freeman is not satisfied with the result of such discussion, he shall uso the 'Safety Hotline* to report such natter to the Safety Managar designated by the Vice-President of Hunan Resources, who will then, when presented with the written complaint form, discuss ths situation to achieve the proper solution/resul t >
112
Page 2
SAFETY ACRZEMEtfT
5,	if the parosived Issue is not satisfactorily resolved, the union Grievance coamitteeman or Assistant Grievance Cdtmi ttewaan may schedule an appearance at the designated place, at the end of any planned program to present and discuss the perceived safety issue.
e,	if the perceived issue is not resolved, the matter then nay be presented to the Manager of Labor Relations.
7, if the perceived issue la not resolved by the Manager of i^bor Relations, a fornal grievance ikay ba filed, than the matter may proceed to arbitration under section 23 of the parties* cell act! vs Bargaining Agreement.
This letter represents the cemnitatent of the Con^aany er<i the Union to maintaining a safe workplace for all Lone Star Steel «agilcyee»»
Yours vary truly, LONE STAR STEEL COMPANY
Zs/ Eddie L. Jonos, Jr. Manager, Labor Relations
AGREED TO AKE ACCEPTED:
UNITED STEEL, PAPER MID FORESTRY, RUBBER, MANUFACTURING ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
7e/ L« Ihtf^peoo, UfSW International Representative Local Union Me. 4134
H3