AGREEMENT
This AGREEMENT, is made and entered into by and between Local Union No. 1600 of THE INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, A.F.L.- C.I.O. (hereinafter referred to as the "Union”) and PPL Corporation (referred to in the former collective bargaining agreements with the Union as PP&L, Inc., and/or Pennsylvania Power & Light Company) as agent in fact for its subsidiaries that employ employees represented by the Union, and their successors and assigns, hereinafter all jointly referred to as the "Company.1’
An absolute precondition to the sale, lease, transfer, or takeover by sale, lease, transfer, assignment, corporate reorganization, receivership, bankruptcy proceedings of the entire operation, or any part thereof is that any purchaser, transferee, lessee, or assignee shall agree and become party to and bound by all the terms, conditions, and obligations of the Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the parties and the mutual promises and agreements hereinafter contained, it is agreed that:
PURPOSE
The Company is engaged in a number of business operations in both regulated and non-regulated sectors which furnish essential public services which vitally affect the health, safety, comfort and general wellbeing of the people living in the area served by the Company. The very existence of these sectors is conditioned and dependent upon the faithful performance of its charter obligations and responsibilities in serving the public at large.
These obligations and responsibilities, which apply to both the Union and the Company, require that any difference arising between them be adjusted and settled in an orderly manner without interruption of service to the public.
In view of such obligations and responsibilities on the part of both the Union and the Company and in order that the Company, its employees and the general public may mutually benefit, it is agreed as follows:
ARTICLE I
REPRESENTATION
Section 1. Recognition
A.	Pursuant to the Certification issued by the National Labor Relations Board to Local Union No. 1600 and to the former Local Union No. 1520, both of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, in Bargaining Units which have merged, the Company recognizes the Union, Local Union No. 1600, as the exclusive bargaining agent for all of the Company’s physical, clerical, part-time (bargaining unit) who work less than twenty (20) hours per week, and specific temporary employees, excluding full-time or part-time (less than 20 hours per week) (1) confidential secretaries, executives, managerial employees and all supervisory employees and guards within the meaning of the National Labor Relations Act, (2) all professional engineers and all other professional employees of the Employer within the meaning of the National Labor Relations Act, and (3) college undergraduates employed by cooperative and summer employment.
B.	Whenever the word "employee” appears hereafter in this Agreement, it shall be considered to refer only to those employees for whom the Union is, in the preceding Paragraph of this Article, recognized as the bargaining agent.
The job titles of the eligible employees are listed in Exhibit A attached hereto and made a part hereof. It is understood that the job titles listed in Exhibit A are those which are currently active. Other titles may be established, or inactive titles activated or titles eliminated at any time as provided in Section 1 of Article VI.
ARTICLE 11 COMPANY-UNION RELATIONS
Section 1.	Union Shop
A.	All employees eligible for Union membership as described in Article I will be required to be members of the Union as a condition of continued employment.
B.	For the purposes of this Section 1, an employee wilt be considered to be a member of the Union:
(1)	If there is in effect for him an authorization for deduction of the Union’s standard dues and assessments. OR
(2)	If in fact his standard dues and assessments have been paid or tendered to the Union.
C.	All presently employed, new and rehired employees who are covered by this Agreement, upon completion of a period of employment of thirty (30) days, must, as a condition of continued employment, tender the initiation fees, standard dues and assessments uniformly required as a condition of acquiring and retaining membership in the Union. It is agreed that the Financial Secretary of the Union shall notify the Company by certified mail when a member of the Union has become delinquent in tendering either the standard dues, initiation fees or assessments uniformly required and the Company shall discharge said member at the end of thirty (30) days after receipt of such notification, unless said member tenders to the Union the delinquent dues, initiation, or assessment fees during this thirty (30) day period where upon the Financial Secretary of the Union shall immediately so notify the Company, in writing by certified mail. The Union agrees to accept and retain as members all such employees without discrimination. The Union agrees that it will not require the Company to discharge any such employee for any reason other than failure of the employee to tender the standard dues, initiation fees, or assessments uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership in the Union.
D.	The Company agrees to deduct Union dues and assessments from the pay of each employee from whom it receives a lawful written authorization and will continue to make such deductions while the authorization remains in effect.
Such deductions shall be made from the payroll for the month following the month in which written authorization is received by the Company. The sums so collected shall be paid by the Company to the Financial Secretary of the Union.
Section 2.	No Solicitation on Company Time
A. The Union, its agents or any of its members shall not solicit employees for Union membership, collect dues or engage in other Union activities on Company time. However, nothing herein is intended to restrict normal conversation between employees that does not interfere with the efficient performance of work.
Section 3.	Regulation — Government Agencies
A.	The parties hereto recognize that the business of the Company is subject to regulation by the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission and other governmental agencies in accordance with law. The parties agree that such regulation shall be respected and complied with by both parties to this Agreement,
B.	In accordance with the Code of Federal Regulations, National Standards, and Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) Regulatory Guides, any employee assigned to perform work on a temporary or permanent basis at Susquehanna S.E.S. will be required to satisfactorily complete training and retraining in, but not limited to, the following areas:
Appropriate Plans and Procedures
Radiological Health and Safety
Industrial Safety
Plant Controlled Access Areas and Security Procedures
Use of Protective Clothing and Equipment
Quality Control and Assurance
Skills and Technical Training
C.	In accordance with the Code of Federal Regulations, National Standards and Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) Regulatory Guides, any employees who may be required to perform work on a temporary or permanent basis at Susquehanna S.E.S. will be subject to the Access Authorization Program as described in Article XI of this Agreement.
Section 4.	Cooperation
A.	In fulfilling its responsibilities, the Union agrees that the employees covered by this Agreement will individually and collectively perform safe, efficient and diligent service; will cooperate in gaining the maximum efficiency in the use of men and materials; will respect and abide by the Company’s rules and regulations; will use their influence and best efforts to protect the interests of the Company; and will cooperate in promoting and advancing the welfare of the Company at all times as a matter of enlightened self-interest.
B.	The Company agrees to use its best efforts to obtain a fair and impartial administration of this Agreement by its supervisors.
C.	The Company and the Union agree to continue their policy of being an Equal Opportunity Employer and of non-discrimination against any individual because of such individual’s race, color, religion, sex, handicap, national origin, age, veterans’ status or sexual orientation.
D.	Wherever in this Agreement a male noun or pronoun is used in reference to an employee, it is intended to include either male or female employees.
Section 5.	Functions of Management
A.	The Union recognizes the exclusive right of the Company to determine its operating policies and manage its business in the light of experience, business judgment and changing conditions. It is understood and agreed that all rights, powers or authority possessed by the Company prior to the signing of this Agreement shall be retained by the Company. However, the Grievance Procedure hereinafter set forth in Article III shall be applicable to complaints regarding the meaning, application, interpretation or administration of any provision of this Agreement limiting the following functions of Management, which are the only ones limited by this Agreement; namely, the right to: determine the qualifications of and select employees for promotion; transfer employees from one job to another and from one classification to another; determine the number and arrangement of work shifts; determine the starting and stopping time of each shift; contract for construction or other work when in the judgment of the Management such action is to the best interest of the Company; determine which employees shall be laid off; determine the work to be performed by employees; discipline employees for misconduct on the job or other violation of rules and discharge employees for just cause.
B.	Any aspect of Company provided benefits not covered by a specific provision of the Agreement or any other signed agreements is agreed to have been expressly eliminated as a subject for bargaining and during the term of the Agreement may not be raised for future bargaining or negotiations even though such benefit may not have been within the knowledge or contemplation by one or both of the parties at the time they negotiated or signed this Agreement. It is understood and agreed that included among the rights retained by the Company under this Paragraph is the right to modify or terminate any such benefit.
C.	Other functions of Management include the right to determine the qualifications for and select its managerial and supervisory forces; select and hire new employees and determine the qualifications needed; determine the number of employees it will have in its service at any time; prepare job titles and definitions; adopt, and revise when necessary, reasonable rules and regulations governing the operation of its business and the conduct of its employees on the job; introduce new plants and facilities; relocate facilities; discontinue the operation of plants and facilities and introduce new methods to improve operating efficiency.
D.	The Company will have the right to contract out work when needed skills are not available from present employees; when public and customer relations require it; when present employees cannot complete the work in the required time; when it is economical to do so; or when peaks of work would require a temporary increase of the Company’s forces with subsequent lay-off of such additional forces. No employee will be laid off or suffer loss of regular straight time pay as a result of this provision.
E.	It is understood and agreed, however, that the functions of Management referred to in this Section 5 are not all-inclusive and that the omission of any of the usual inherent and fundamental rights of Management does not constitute a waiver of such rights by the Company.
Section 6.	No Strikes or Lockouts
A. Under no circumstances shah there be any strike, stoppage, cessation of work, sympathy strike, slow down, picketing, concerted refusal to work overtime, concerted mass sickness, continuous Union meetings, labor holidays or other interference with or interruption of the Company’s business during the term of this Agreement.
Any employee who violates the foregoing provisions shall be subject to immediate discharge. Such discharge shall not be subject to arbitration except on the limited issues as to whether the employee has engaged in the prescribed activity. Under no circumstances shall there be any lockout during the term of this Agreement.
Section 7.	Meetings and Conferences
A.	The Company agrees that its accredited representatives will meet with the accredited representatives of the Union on all questions that may arise under the provisions of this Agreement.
B.	When meetings are arranged and are to be held during working hours, each Union representative who is an employee of the Company shall give his immediate supervisor at least twenty-four (24) hours’ notice, when possible, prior to any such meeting, in order that arrangements can be made to relieve him from duty.
C.	Union representatives who are employees of the Company will be paid at their regular rates for time spent during scheduled working hours while attending such meetings, and will be paid for travel expenses (mileage reimbursement per Exhibit E, tolls and parking). Lodging, meals or any other expenses will not be paid, unless the parties specifically agree otherwise. These types of meetings include Voluntary Protection Program (VPP), Health & Safety Committees, Job Safety Analysis (JSA), and other meetings/conferences agreed to by the Company. Company approval is required for the number of paid participants for each of these meetings and conferences. Union representatives will not be paid for time spent in attendance at arbitration cases.
D,	The Company will pay eight (8) Union representatives who are employees of the Company their regular rates for time spent during scheduled working hours while attending joint meetings for the purpose of contract negotiations. They will not be paid for any expenses incurred.
E.	The designated representatives of the Company and the Union shall conduct joint Meet and Discuss Sessions on items of mutual interest. Requests shall be made by either party in writing and the parties shall then mutually agree to meet within a reasonable period of time. This provision shall not alter the application or interpretation of the existing provisions of the Contract unless mutually agreeable to both parties.
Section 8.	Use of Bulletin Boards
A. Bulletin board space provided by the Company for the use of the Union shall not be used by the Union or its members for disseminating propaganda of a controversial or political nature, nor the posting of notices of an inflammatory nature.
Section 9.	Leave of Absence - Union Representatives
A.	Employees elected or appointed to a Local 1600 Union Office requiring their absence from work, upon written request presented reasonably in advance, will be granted a leave of absence without pay, if the Company’s operating conditions permit, for a period not to exceed three (3) years. Before a leave of absence is granted, the employee shall be required to undergo a physical examination, equivalent to the current preemployment examination, performed by a qualified physician, to be paid by the Union, with results submitted to the Company’s Medical Department. The employee will accumulate Seniority and Company Service during such leave of absence.
B.	Individuals requesting a return from an authorized Local Union 1600 leave of absence, shall undergo a physical examination by a qualified physician, identical to the physical taken before beginning the leave of absence, to be paid by the Company prior to the return, with the results submitted to the Company’s Medical Department. If the Company has had sufficient notice in writing, and the individual is medically qualified to perform the job duties of the former job classification, the individual shall be reinstated to that job classification at the former work location provided the individual is qualified to perform the work. If the individual is not medically qualified to be reinstated to the former job classification, the request for return will be referred to the Disability Committee for placement in accordance with Article VIII, Section 10 of this Agreement. Such person shall remain on leave of absence status until the Disability Committee provides a job classification.
When returning to the former job classification at the former work location, the employee with least seniority in that job classification at that work location shall return to his/her former job classification. Such return and any subsequent moves as a result of the reinstatement shall be administered in the same manner. Employees forfeit
4
any promotional opportunities which occurred during the leave of absence. When returned to employment, they shall be entitled to benefits set forth in this Agreement (see Article VII, Section 1, Paragraph D),
C,	A Union representative, while on leave of absence, may participate in the following Company plans and the total cost of coverage under such plans shall be borne by the Union or the Union representative:
(1)	Group Life Insurance.
(2)	Retirement Plan.
(3)	Health Care Plan Options.
(4)	Accidental Death or Dismemberment.
(5)	Dental Plan Options.
(6)	Vision Care Plan.
ARTICLE III
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 1.	Definition
A. The term grievance shall mean any dispute or disagreement arising over the meaning and application of the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
Section 2.	Time Limits
A.	Failure to comply with any of the prescribed time periods in each step of the Grievance Procedure contained herein, shall constitute forfeiture of the grievance by the delinquent party unless the parties have jointly agreed to waive such time limits.
B,	The working days specified in this Grievance Procedure exclude Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.
Section 3.	Grievances
A.	Before a written grievance may be submitted, the aggrieved employee or the aggrieved employee and the Union Steward must discuss the complaint with the appropriate supervisors within five (5) working days from the date of occurrence giving rise to the grievance.
B.	Grievances in order to be considered and be subject to adjustment must be made in writing, signed by the aggrieved employee, and must specify the Article and Section of the Agreement upon which the grievance is based, within ten (10) working days from the date of the complaint discussion. Any individual employee or group of employees shall have the right to present grievances and to have them adjusted, provided such adjustment is not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement and a Union representative has been given opportunity to be present at such adjustment.
C.	Grievances involving one employee shall be taken up with the employee’s immediate supervisor.
D.	Grievances involving more than one employee in the same general group (operators at one power plant, linemen in one region, clerks in one department, etc.) shall be taken up with the immediate supervisor of all the employees involved,
E.	Grievances involving more than one employee not in the same general group, grievances of a system-wide nature, indefinite suspensions, and grievances by the Union against the Company may be taken directly to the Third Step of the Grievance Procedure by mutual agreement of the designated representatives of the Company and the Union.
F.	Grievances involving the discharge of an employee may be taken directly to the Third Step of the Grievance Procedure by either party.
G.	Within ten (10) working days of receiving the written grievance, the appropriate supervisor shall submit a written response to the grievant and a copy to the Union Steward.
Section 4.	First Step
A. if the appropriate supervisor’s response does not settle the grievance, then within ten (10) working days of
the aforesaid response, the grieving party shall notify the appropriate supervisor in writing that a disagreement still exists. Within ten (10) working days of the aforesaid notice the appropriate supervisors, Union Steward and employee shall meet to resolve the grievance.
Section 5.	Second Step
A. If a satisfactory settlement is not reached in the First Step, then within ten (10) working days following the First Step meeting, the grieving party shall notify the appropriate supervisor in writing that a disagreement still exists. Within ten (10) working days of the aforesaid notice, the appropriate supervisors, Union Steward and Chief Steward shall meet to resolve the grievance.
Section 6.	Third Step
A. If a satisfactory settlement is not reached in the Second Step, then within ten (10) working days following the Second Step meeting the grieving party shall notify the Di rector-Labor Relations that a disagreement still exists. Within thirty (30) working days the delegated representatives of the Company, the Union Steward, Chief Steward and Local President shall meet and endeavor to reach a satisfactory settlement. An International Representative of the I.B.E.W. may be present at this step only to assist the Local Union.
Section 7.	Arbitration
A. If a settlement is not reached at the conclusion of the Third Step discussion and the grievance concerns the meaning or application of the terms of this Agreement, either party shall have the right to submit it to arbitration in the following manner:
(1)	A request for arbitration of said grievance must be submitted by either party to the other not later than fifteen (15) working days, but not thereafter, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holidays from the last meeting held with the designated representatives of the President or said grievance shall no longer exist. In the event such written notice is given by either party to the other, within ten (10) working days steps shall be taken by the Company and the Union for appointment of an arbitrator, in accordance with the Labor Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association as in effect on the date of execution of this Agreement. The findings of the arbitrator shall be binding upon both parties for the duration of this Agreement.
(2)	It is mutually agreed and understood by both parties hereto that the arbitrator shall have no power to add to, or subtract from, or modify any of the terms and provisions of this Agreement, or Agreements made supplementary hereto.
(3)	Each party shall bear the expenses of its witnesses and any other expenses incurred in the presentation of its case, and the other expenses incidental to arbitration shall be borne equally by the Union and the Company.
ARTICLE IV
HOURS OF WORK, SCHEDULES AND OVERTIME
Section 1.	Definitions
A.	WORK WEEK: A work week consists of any seven (7) consecutive days designated by the Company, Whenever possible, the work week will contain five (5) eight (8)-hour scheduled work days. The present work week is seven (7) consecutive days ending Sunday midnight except in those cases where the W-day and ST-days span midnight.
B.	WORK DAY (W-Day): A work day is normally the twenty-four (24)-hour period from midnight to midnight of the day on which an employee is scheduled to work. When a normal work day spans midnight, time shall be charged on the day in which the majority of hours is worked. When the normal work day is divided evenly before and after midnight, time shall be charged on the day on which work was started.
C.	DAY OFF (ST-Day): A day off or an ST- (scheduled time off) day is normally the twenty-four (24)-hour period from midnight to midnight of the day on which an employee is not scheduled to work. When an employee’s work day spans midnight, the employee’s ST-day will be a twenty-four (24)-~hour period commencing at the end of his normally scheduled hours.
6
D. NORMAL WORK SCHEDULES: Normal work schedules will specify for each employee the work week, the
W-days, the ST-days and working hours of each W-day.
E.	REGULAR RATE: The regular rate is the weekly rate divided by forty (40) hours.
F.	OVERTIME RATES: Time and one-half is one and one-half (V/2) times the regular rate. Double time is two (2) times the regular rate.
G,	HEADQUARTERS: Headquarters are the respective locations established by the Company where employees report for work or work assignments.
H.	EMERGENCY: An emergency is any situation wherein it is necessary for the Company and its employees to take immediate action in order to restore or maintain service to the public, prevent serious injury, save life, meet unforeseen responsibilities or prevent damage to property or interruption of service to the public.
Section 2.	Working Hours
A.	The parties hereto recognize that the business of the Company requires continuous operation for twenty-four (24) hours of every day. In such operation it is inherent that working schedules must be established by the Company and may from time to time be changed to meet changing conditions.
B.	Norma! work schedules will be established by the Company and posted for each employee or group of employees.
Section 3.	Temporary Changes in Working Hours and Work Schedules
A.	Temporary changes in work schedules or working hours will be made:
(1)	When an employee is substituting for another employee who is off duty. When notification of such substitution occurs after the beginning of a work week in which the substitution is to occur, only the working hours of the substituting employee’s W-days will be changed for that work week. If the substitution extends beyond the end of the work week, or if the substitution starts at the beginning of a work week, the schedule of the substituting employee will be the normal work schedule of the relieved employee.
(2)	When it is necessary to carry out work which must be done outside normal working hours, such as work on equipment which cannot be made available during normal working hours, and work in two (2) or more shifts on equipment which is out of service for overhaul or because of breakdown and which must be returned to service promptly. Except where otherwise provided in this Section, when such changes are made, (a) only the working hours of the W-days may be changed; (b) the ST-days will not be changed; (c) temporary schedules will be prepared and posted at the Headquarters of the employees involved; (d) such temporary changes in work schedules may be made on any day of the calendar week. Subsections (a) and (b) of this Paragraph A (2) shall not be applicable to employees involved in equipment outages that have a direct effect on the operating capacity of power generating stations.
(3)	When an employee is scheduled to attend a formal training school or other Company training programs. In these cases, both the W-days and ST-days will be changed to conform with the training schedules. If the employee is notified forty-eight (48) hours before the beginning of that work week, overtime for a temporary change in work schedules will not apply.
B.	An employee working on a temporarily changed schedule may be returned to his normal work schedule at any time. Lunch periods established for such schedules shall not exceed one hour.
C.	Normal work schedules will not be changed temporarily for short emergencies. When an employee is called out for emergency work, he ordinarily will be dismissed when the emergency is over.
D.	Changes other than those of a temporary nature in norma! work schedules will be made when justified by experience or changed conditions. Such changes may become effective at the beginning of any work week and notice thereof shall be posted at least forty-eight (48) hours before the beginning of that work week.
E.	See Exhibit F for application of Section 3 and Section 4.
Section 4.	Overtime
A.	The following will be considered overtime and paid for at time and one-half:
(1)	Hours worked outside of scheduled hours; i.e., normal work schedule or temporarily changed schedule, whichever is in effect at the time.
(2)	Hours worked on the first W-day of a changed shift schedule providing a substitution for an employee off duty, which had not been scheduled for the substituting employee prior to quitting time on the last W-day of the work week preceding the substitution. This applies only to the first such change in any work week. For the purpose of this Paragraph, such changed shift schedule is one which involves a change from one shift to another—day shift to middle or night shift, etc., and does not include either a change involving only different hours in the same shift or a return from a temporary shift schedule to a regular shift schedule.
(3)	The first eight (8), ten (10), or twelve (12) hours of a regularly scheduled shift while working on a temporarily changed schedule as provided in Section 3 A (2) of this Article IV where the temporary change in work schedule requires a change in the employee’s starting time from one group of hours to another as shown in the following table:
STARTING TIME	GROUP
5:00 A.M. to 12:59 P.M.	I
1:00 P.M. to 8:59 P.M.	II
9:00 P.M. to 4:59 A.M.	III
(4)	Hours worked by an employee who is called out to work during his vacation. This is in addition to his straight time vacation allowance pay.
B.	The following will be considered overtime and paid for at double time:
(1)	Any hours worked on the second ST-day in a work week.
(2)	Each consecutive hour worked immediately following sixteen (16) consecutive hours worked.
C.	Work on a Contract Holiday/Actual Holiday (Article VII 4 B) will be paid for as follows:
(1)	When it is a W-day, all scheduled hours worked will be paid for at time and one-half. In addition, straight time will be paid for the scheduled hours.
(2)	When it is an ST-day, the number of hours actually worked, which would have been scheduled for the employee if it were a W-day or which were scheduled for the employee for whom he is substituting, will be paid for at:
(a)	Double and one-half time, when it is the second ST-day in a work week.
(b)	Double time on the first ST-day.
In addition, straight time will be paid for such hours.
(3)	All other hours worked will be paid for at double time.
D.	When working at foreign utilities during emergency conditions, employees will be paid for all compensable hours at one-half time premium over their regular hourly rate in addition to the Labor Agreement’s normal pay practices.
Section 5.	Rest Periods
A.	Rest periods shall be applicable in accordance with the following provisions when employees are called out or when arrangements are made in advance for work during non-scheduled hours provided employees are eligible as defined in the “Rest Period Rules" of Exhibit B of this Agreement.
B.	Employees working for a period that consists of at least three (3) overtime hours, and up to sixteen (16) consecutive overtime hours, shall be entitled, when relieved from duty, to a rest period as shown on the table in Exhibit B. If scheduled hours fall within the time designated as a rest period, the employee will be paid straight time pay for these scheduled hours. Employees required to work during scheduled hours that fall within the prescribed rest period, will receive pay at time and one-half the employee’s straight time rate for such hours worked.
C,	Employees working sixteen (16) or more consecutive hours shall be entitled, when relieved from duty, to an eight (8)~hour rest period or a rest period as shown on the rest period table, whichever is greater, without loss of straight time pay for scheduled hours falling within the rest period. However, employees required to work during this period will be paid two times the straight time rate for any hours worked within eight (8) hours after being released from the previous work period and their rest period will be calculated using the twelve (12)-hour cumulative rule as provided for in Exhibit B.
D.	The intent of rest periods is for employees to be released from work when they have worked sufficient overtime hours to become eligible for a rest period. If an employee requests to be released on rest period, their request shall be granted unless there is an emergency or the company is unable to obtain relief, when necessary.
E.	The rest period table as described in Paragraphs B and C of this Section 5 is not applicable to vacation days, holidays, paid personal time off and ST-days.
Section 6.	Exempt - Non-Exempt Employees
A.	Both parties recognize that certain employees covered by this Agreement are in jobs which are exempt from the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act and that employees may be hired or transferred to new jobs which will likewise be exempt. In order to meet the requirements of the Act, the Company will continue to classify all employees as exempt or non-exempt,
B.	Some of the jobs may be of such nature that the work cannot be scheduled to conform to a definite schedule (such as a forty (40)-hour week or five (5) eight (8)-hour days) and that, therefore, the overtime provisions of this Agreement may not be applicable to these jobs.
C.	It is agreed that for any new jobs in which there are employees eligible for Union membership, the Union and Company will jointly determine whether the work is of this nature.
Section 7.	Residence Requirement
A.	Employees in the job classifications listed below must reside within thirty (30) miles driving distance between their home and their Job Headquarters.
Customer Service Clerk (Customer Contact Center)
Customer Service Assistant III
Customer Service Representative
Customer Service Representative-Shift
Electrician Leader-FS (UG, Subs and Network)
Electrician-Nuclear
Electrician Leader-Nuclear
Equipment Operator-FS
Helper-Electrical-Nuclear
Helper-FS Regional Electrical (UG, Subs and Network)
Helper-FS Regional Mechanical
Helper-FS Regional T&D
Helper-Mechanical-Nuclear
instrument Man
Instrument Man-Trainee
Journeyman Electrician-FS (UG, Subs and Network)
Journeyman Electrician Trainee (UG, Subs and Network)
Journeyman Electrician-Nuclear
Journeyman Lineman-FS
Journeyman Lineman Trainee~FS
Journeyman Mechanic-FS Regional
Journeyman Mechanic Trainee-FS Regional
Lineman Leader-FS
Material Handler-RM
Mechanic Leader~FS Regional
Mechanic-Nuclear
Mechanic Leader-Nuclear
Troubleman-FS
Senior Customer Service Representative
Anyone who enters these progression lines or changes work location by promotion, demotion, or transfer must meet the residency requirement.
B.	Employees at Susquehanna S.E.S. in all job classifications, (excluding steno and clerical, Warehouse Operations, and Utility Workers-SSES), must reside within thirty (30) miles driving distance between their home and their Job Headquarters, unless agreed to otherwise by the parties.
Section 8.	Call-Out Roster
A.	It is understood that all employees of the Company shall be considered as subject to call-out for emergencies or prearranged work at any time. Whenever necessary, the Company will maintain at the respective Headquarters a roster of certain employees likely to be called and will select from these lists on a rotating or cumulative overtime basis as applicable such available employees as are needed. The purpose of this arrangement is to provide an equitable distribution of overtime work when required. Being subject to call-out is not to be considered as hours of work and no additional compensation will be paid to cover this responsibility. The Company will maintain records of overtime worked or offered by job classification. However, full equalization of overtime cannot be guaranteed. See Exhibit H for Cumulative Overtime Procedures.
B,	Employees who exhibit a poor call-out response record shall be subject to Article VI, Section 5, Paragraph J and Article VIII, Section 2, Paragraph F of this Agreement.
C.	Employees who have completed sixteen (16) or more hours of consecutive work and have been released from work assignments will not be called out to work, regardless of their position on the call-out roster, during an eight (8)-hour period following completion of the work, unless it becomes impossible to secure qualified replacements.
Section 9.	Call-Outs
A.	When an employee is called out to work during non-scheduled hours, he shall be paid overtime compensation for the actual time worked. A minimum compensation equal to four (4) hours' pay at straight time shall apply when it exceeds the amount of overtime compensation earned during the call-out.
B.	In the event the call-out occurs on a Contract Holiday/Actual Holiday (Article VII 4 B), the employee shall be compensated in accordance with this Section 9, or the provisions of Section 4C of this Article IV, whichever is greater.
C.	The minimum compensation is not to apply in cases where an employee is called out immediately preceding his scheduled working hours of a W-day and the minimum time period overlaps his scheduled hours.
D.	In order to determine the number of employees to be called out for distribution line work, the guidelines described in Exhibit C shall be followed.
Section 10.	Prearranged Work
A.	When arrangements are made in advance for work during non-scheduled hours, the employee will be paid for the actual time worked. The minimum compensation, if he worked, or if he reported and the job was canceled, shall be an amount equal to four (4) hours’ pay at straight time and shall apply when it exceeds the amount of overtime compensation earned during the period. In the event the prearranged work occurs on a Contract Holiday/Actual Holiday (Article VII 4 B), the employee shall be compensated in accordance with this Section 10 or the provisions of Section 4C of this Article IV, whichever is greater.
B.	The minimum compensation is not to apply in cases where an employee reports for work immediately preceding his scheduled working hours of a W~day and the minimum time period overlaps his scheduled hours.
Section 11.	Overtime Premium
A. The Company shall provide an overtime premium payment to an employee that is equivalent to 5% of total overtime compensation earned by the employee, payable each pay period in accordance with the formula described in the Summary of Agreement dated July 2, 1982.
Section 12.	Job Canceled
A.	Employees will be informed of job cancellations as soon as possible.
B.	The minimum compensation referred to in Sections 9 and 10 of this Article IV will not apply:
(1)	When a call-out is canceled and the employee is notified before leaving home.
(2)	When a prearranged job scheduled for Saturday is canceled and the employee is notified of the cancellation by quitting time of his last scheduled workday.
(3)	When a prearranged job scheduled for Sunday is canceled.
NOTE: It is the scheduled employee’s responsibility to contact a predetermined employee after 7:00 P.M. Saturday but prior to the starting time of the prearranged job to determine whether there has been a cancellation.
(4)	When a prearranged job, for any time other than Sub-Section (2) and (3) above, is canceled and the employee is notified before he leaves home and at least one (1) hour before he is scheduled to report at Headquarters or on the job.
C.	If the job is canceled after the time limitations specified in Paragraph B (2), (3) and (4) of this Section 12, the employee may elect to either report or accept the job cancellation. If reporting, they will be given First Aid, Safety or other instructions or other work, and will be allowed the minimum compensation, provided they accept these miscellaneous assignments. If the employee accepts the job cancellation and elects not to report to work, the minimum compensation shall not apply. Employees who report for work and are not offered any other assignments will be eligible for the minimum compensation.
Section 13.	Shift Differentials
A,	A shift differential for hours worked will be paid to employees working on an established rotating or alternating shift job or an established fixed shift job whose shift is regularly scheduled to start during the Afternoon Shift or Night Shift as part of their regular work week.
B.	A shift differential will be paid as an addition to the regular straight time hourly rate to an employee who is regularly scheduled and works on the Day Shift, Afternoon Shift or Night Shift Saturday or Sunday; the Afternoon Shift or Night Shift, Monday through Friday, as follows:
STARTING TIME	SHIFT	SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
5:00 A.M. to 12:59 P.M.	Day (Monday to Friday)	None
5:00 A.M. to 12:59 P.M.	Day (Saturday or Sunday)	$1.90 per hour
1:00 P.M. to 8:59 P.M.	Afternoon	$1.90 per hour
9:00 P.M. to 4:59 A.M.	Night	$1.90 per hour
*Shift Differentia! per hour rates will be effective and increased as follows: May 11, 2015 to $1.95, and May 9, 2016 to $2.00 per hour.
C.	For purposes of applying the aforesaid shift differential all hours of the regularly scheduled work day period worked by an employee shall be considered as worked on the shift on which he is scheduled and starts work.
D.	Shift differential shall be computed at the appropriate rate of pay up to a maximum of double time the shift differential applicable to the shift in which the overtime hours occurred,
E.	An employee temporarily assigned to work in a shift job, or as a replacement for a regular employee in a shift job, shall be paid for the hours so worked the shift differential applicable to the assigned shift job.
F.	A shift differential will not be allowed in connection with payment for any overtime worked outside the time limits of his normal regular day schedule by an employee assigned to day work. However, such an employee whose entire regularly scheduled straight time work-day period is temporarily changed to start during the Day Shift, Afternoon Shift or Night Shift Saturday or Sunday; the Afternoon Shift or Night Shift, Monday through Friday shall be paid as an addition to his straight time rate the shift differential applicable to the changed shift on which the employee starts work, until he is returned to his regular schedule.
G.	No shift differential shall be included in pay received for vacation, sick leave, jury duty, holiday off with pay, other time off with pay, for holiday pay on a holiday worked or in the calculation of minimum pay under the call-out provisions included in this Agreement.
ARTICLE V SENIORITY
Section 1.	New Employees
A. Seniority will be credited to an employee only after six (6) months of continuous employment but shall include this first six (6) months’ period. During this six (6)-month period, the employee shall be considered probationary and the Company shall have the sole and exclusive right to discharge such employee and Article III of the Agreement shall not apply.
Section 2.	Promotions - Transfers - Demotions
A.	The Company will give preference to the employee with seniority when fitness and ability among employees are substantially equal in considering them for the purpose of promotion, transfer or demotion.
B.	For such purposes, employees in an established line of progression (such as operating jobs within a power plant, jobs within a coal gang, and line workers systemwide) will be considered before those not in that line of progression.
C.	When non-supervisory employees covered by this Agreement are placed in supervisory jobs, their seniority, for this purpose, will be determined by the following:
(1)	Temporary
(a)	Non-supervisory employees who are promoted to supervisory positions when there is a temporary increase in work load; when additional temporary supervisory manpower is essential; or when other comparable situations arise have a right to return to their former job classification at their former work location for a period of six (6) months following their promotion: however, the employee will not accrue 1600 or job seniority for time spent as a supervisor and they will not pay Union dues or remain on the call-out roster. In this situation, 1600 or job seniority will not be a criteria for selection. In order to maintain rights in their former Union job, they must be returned to non-supervisory status within six (6) months of the temporary promotion. If they return after the six (6)-month period, they will be placed in an entry level position and for 1600 or job seniority purposes will only be considered to be ahead of other employees with less than six (6) months of Company Service. It is further understood that the utilization of this provision is not intended to provide temporary supervisors on a continual basis to circumvent the creation of permanent supervisors.
(b)	Non-supervisory employees temporarily promoted to supervisory positions as substitutes for supervisors who are off duty for reasons such as sickness, injury, vacation, receiving training, military
service and jury duty will be selected by job seniority in the highest classification in the progression line at the work location provided fitness and ability are substantially equal. If the supervisory position needing to be filled has no bargaining unit progression line reporting to it or it has more than one bargaining unit progression line reporting to it, the local Chief Steward or a Business Representative of Local 1600 will meet with the appropriate management personnel to identify the qualified employee for substitution. The employee selected will have the right to refuse the temporary promotion. In the event the employee refuses, the next qualified employee may be selected. In this situation the employee will continue to accrue job Seniority, pay Union dues, and remain on the call-out roster. Pay treatment will be in accordance with Article VI, Section 4, Paragraph A of this Agreement. However, this pay increase does not apply to those employees who substitute for supervisors as part of their normal job duties.
(2)	Permanent
(a)	Non-supervisory employees who are promoted to supervisory positions have a right to return to their former job classification at their former work location for a period of six (6) months following their promotion. However, the employee will not accrue 1600 or job seniority for the time spent as a supervisor and they will not pay Union dues or remain on the call-out roster. In order to maintain rights in their former Union job, they must be returned to non-supervisory status within six (6) months of the promotion. If they return after the six (6)-month period, they will be placed in an entry level position and for 1600 seniority purposes will only be considered to be ahead of other employees with less than six (6) months of Company Service.
(b)	When former non-supervisory employees have held a supervisory position for six (6) months or longer and are returned to non-supervisory jobs, for disability reasons only, they will be placed in such a manner as to be able to perform meaningful work without adversely affecting the job seniority or overtime of employees in that line of progression. These cases will be referred to the Disability Committee for resolution.
D.	(1) A transfer in this Paragraph D is defined as a change from one job to another in the same job classification and progression line.
(2)	Employees cannot transfer to a job in the same progression line or change jobs to other progression lines during the first six (6) months of employment. Employees will be considered for promotions in their line of progression during the first six (6) months of employment based on their ability and job seniority. For posted job vacancies, employees with less than six (6) months’ Company Service may submit job bidding forms. However, only employees who have attained six (6) months’ Company Service must be given consideration for the posted job.
(3)	Transfer requests shall be made in writing by the employee before a vacancy exists and employees shall forward a copy to the Local Union Business Office. For seniority purposes, employees requesting a transfer will be considered on the basis of their job seniority in comparison to the job seniority of employees in the next lower job classification in the progression line. Transferred employees will retain their job seniority date for promotional purposes only.
(4)	Employees with more than six (6) months Company Service voluntarily requesting a transfer within the same job classification and same progression line are restricted to one (1) transfer every five (5) years for each job classification. This applies to all job classifications and all progression lines. No transfer requests will be allowed across progression lines.
An employee who was displaced and obtains a job at a different facility within their progression line will have no time limits for honoring transfer letters as long as they are attempting to return to the facility they were originally displaced from. This would also apply if they were attempting to return to any closer facility within their progression line. For example, if an employee was displaced from a job at the Harrisburg SC, and obtained a job in the placement process at the Newport SC, he would be allowed to submit transfer requests to either West Shore SC or Harrisburg SC without the five (5y year restriction.
(5)	Employees in the Office Jobs Concept with more than six (6) months Company Service requesting tc change jobs to other progression lines must enter those progression lines at bottom entry level jobs
For seniority purposes, employees changing jobs to other progression lines will receive a new job
seniority date effective the start of the first pay period after notification of selection,
(6)	Employees with more than six (6) months Company Service transferring on posted job vacancies will not be restricted to the one (1) transfer rule. For seniority purposes, employees transferring on a posted job vacancy within the same progression line will retain their original job seniority date. Employees who change jobs to other progression lines as a result of bidding on a posted job vacancy will receive a new job seniority date effective the start of the first pay period after notification of selection.
(7)	Voluntary return rights within the first six (6) months of a job change shall be restricted to progression line promotions and posted jobs. Employees who accept a posted position at a location and voluntarily return during their probationary period will not be permitted to rebid the same job classification at that location for four (4) years.
(8)	Employees entering Apprenticeship Programs on or after August 2, 1982 are restricted from bidding into other Apprenticeship Programs after the six (6)-month probationary period has been completed.
E.	The Company may administer tests for determining the aptitudes of employees being considered for entry level positions and for entry into formal training programs. After suitable training, tests of achievement and ability may be administered for the purpose of determining qualifications for progression within formal training programs, and to comply with governmental regulations.
Employees will not be required to successfully complete tests to retain a job classification unless periodic testing is specifically required as a part of a formal training program or by governmental regulations. If an employee successfully performs a job for six (6) months within the past five (5) years without having taken the appropriate entry test(s), this test(s) will be waived for this employee.
Employees who fail a minimum entry test two (2) times will be restricted from re-testing for a period of six (6) months from the date of the second test. If the employee can show the Company that they have made efforts to improve their skills, the six (6) month restriction will be waived.
Employees who meet or exceed test cut-off scores will be considered to have passed the test on an equal basis, and will be considered for job openings in accordance with Article V, Section 2, Paragraph A of the Labor Agreement.
The confidentiality of all tests shall be preserved and actual test questions, employee answer sheets and individual test scores will not be released by the Company. The Company will review actual test questions and results with employees upon request, for all skill assessment tests for purposes of identifying strengths and weaknesses. Upon request the Company will continue its practice of reviewing the areas of strengths and weaknesses related to aptitude tests with employees.
If a question arises regarding test administration or the validity of a test relative to the job in question, it may be submitted through the Grievance Procedure of Article III for resolution. It is further understood that tests and agreements on testing reached prior to August 2, 1982 will remain in effect and for the purpose of filling job vacancies, the Company may administer tests to determine job qualifications, which will be discussed with the Union prior to implementation. Any resulting disputes may be submitted through the Grievance Procedure,
F.	If an employee voluntarily quits, or was discharged for cause, and is rehired, he will not receive credit for his previous period of Company Service. If an employee is reemployed within two (2) years after layoff, he will receive credit for Company Service and 1600 Seniority, but will be given a new job seniority date.
G.	Seniority will not be considered when it is necessary to rearrange temporarily an employee’s duties to meet an emergency.
H.	The Company will notify the Local Union President before the effective date of any promotion, transfer, demotion or lay off. if a disagreement arises concerning the Company’s decision involving fitness, ability and/or seniority, such disagreement may be submitted under Article HI of this Agreement.
I.	The Company will provide the Union with monthly computer updates of employee information as agreed to in the Memorandum of Agreement signed April 6, 1987.
J,	If an employee, selected to fill a job vacancy, is delayed in reporting to such job because the Company is unable to release him, he will be credited with seniority from the start of the first pay period after the notification of his selection. If the new job represents a promotion for the employee, the employee will receive the appropriate pay credit two (2) pay periods following the start of seniority credit, and will be considered on probation for a period of six (6) months from the day the employee reports to the new job. In the event the new job represents a transfer or demotion, the employee will receive the appropriate pay credit and begin the six (6) months probationary period at the time the employee actually reports to the new job.
K.	Voluntary and involuntary job changes shall be handled as follows:
(1)	When employees voluntarily or involuntarily demote in the same line of progression during the six (6) months’ probationary period, they will demote to their former job classification at their former work location. They will receive job seniority in the lower classification for all time spent in the higher classification. Employees voluntarily or involuntarily returning from a job in another line of progression during the six (6) months’ probationary period will return to the job classification at the work location where they last satisfactorily completed their probationary period. Employees voluntarily returning will receive no seniority credit in the job they return to for the time spent in the other progression line. However, seniority credit will be resumed starting with the first pay period after receipt of their written request to return. Employees involuntarily returning will receive seniority credit in the job they return to for the time spent in the other progression line.
(2)	When employees involuntarily demote in their progression line after the six (6) months’ probationary period for reasons other than displacements, they will return to the next lower job classification they are capable of performing satisfactorily, which may result in subsequent promotions for other employees in the line of progression, unless a vacancy exists in the lower classification. Employees will receive job seniority credit in the lower job classification for the time spent in the higher classification.
(3)	When it is necessary to involuntarily return employees to jobs outside their progression line after the six (6) months’ probationary period, consideration will be given to the employee’s previous Company Service and experience. New seniority date for progression line and/or department service shall be established effective the date of the employee's return. If such employees are returned to the job they previously held because a non-supervisory employee promoted to a supervisory position and subsequently returns within six (6) months of that promotion, the returned employee will receive seniority credit in the job they return to for the time spent in the other progression line.
(4)	To demote voluntarily after the six (6) months’ probationary period, employees may request to be placed in a vacancy in a lower job classification in their progression line. If the employee did not previously hold the lower job classification satisfactorily, the Company will compare duties found in the higher classification with those in the lower classification when considering these demotion requests. If a disagreement arises, the Union retains its rights under Article III. If a vacancy is not available and it is possible to demote the employee to a job classification in the progression line through subsequent promotions in the progression line, with the approval of the Company and Local Union Office, such a move may be initiated. For job seniority purposes, the employee will receive no seniority credit in the lower classification for time spent in the higher classification. However, if the employee subsequently promotes to the higher classification, he will be credited with the time previously held in the higher classification.
(5)	When a vacancy occurs within a progression line and employee requests for demotion and/or transfer are on record prior to the vacancy, they will be considered along with promotional candidates. Employees shall forward a copy of the demotion or transfer request to the Local Union Business Office. For seniority purposes, the consideration order will be determined by comparing their job seniority in their respective job classifications. The employee with the greatest job seniority date will receive first consideration.
L.	Posting Jobs
When a vacancy exists and a replacement is not available from the method of filling vacancies prescribed in Section 2 of this Article V, the Local Union Chief Steward and the responsible Management representatives shall arrange to post, for seven (7) calendar days, a notice of the vacancy to the extent deemed necessary and receive bids for the job. Employees desiring to be considered must make application during the prescribed period to the appropriate Management representatives and shall forward a copy to the Local Union Business Office. The Local Union Office and the employees making application will be notified of the results of each posting and the IBEW Local 1600 Seniority date used to select the successful bidder. For the purposes of administering this paragraph the Company may utilize a web-based system for posting vacancies, bidding on vacancies and all notifications to employees. Such notice of vacancies shall be posted for ten (10) calendar days.
M.	Entry Level Jobs
(1)	When vacancies exist in the following entry level jobs, they shall be filled in the subsequent manner:
Communications Maintenance Technician Assistant Drafter-Level I
Facilities Management Worker
Handyman Brunner Island/Montour
Handyman-Effluents
Handyman-System Shops
Operator Helper Susquehanna
Surveyor-Level I
Technician-Trainee (reference MA 01-9910)
Transportation Handyman
(a)	The first and second vacancy shall be posted systemwide for all employees. For seniority purposes they will be considered on the basis of their I.B.E.W. Local 1600 Seniority.
(b)	The third vacancy shall be filled by a newly hired employee. If no one bids the first or second vacancy, a new employee will be hired.
(2)	The jobs of Steno/Clerk-Entry, Clerk-Cash Receipts, Administrative Support Clerk, Call Center Representative, Enrollment Billing Clerk, Logistics Worker and Customer Service Assistant I will be filled by newly hired employees,
(3)	When vacancies exist in the following job titles, the first and second vacancy shall be filled by newly hired employees: Assembler, Facility Worker-Peaking Power, Helper-Electrical-Nuclear, Helper-FS Generation-Electrical, Helper-FS Generation-Electrical-Shift, Helper-FS Generation-Mechanical, Helper-FS Generation-Mechanical-Shift, Helper-FS Regional-Electrical-Subs, Helper-FS Regional-Electrical-UG/N, Helper-FS Regional-T&D, Helper-Mechanical-Nuclear, Helper-RM-Material, Instrument and Control Technician Helper-Susquehanna, Laborer-Mechanical, Service Tech Entry, and Handyman-Effluents.
The third vacancy shall be posted systemwide for all employees. For seniority purposes, they will be considered on the basis of their IBEW Local 1600 seniority. If no one successfully bids and accepts the third vacancy, a new employee will be hired,
(4)	Employees in the Office Jobs Concept may submit a written request for a job change to a vacancy in the positions of Steno/Clerk-Entry, Customer Service Clerk (regional progression lines only), Enrollment Billing Clerk and Clerk-Cash Receipts, and will be given consideration for vacancies in accordance with Exhibit I. Employees outside the Office Jobs Concept may also request to fill a vacancy in one of these positions and will be considered for every third vacancy in accordance with Exhibit I, provided all requests from Office Jobs Concept employees are considered and they are qualified to perform the job. When several employee requests are on record for an Office Jobs Concept vacancy and they meet the selection criteria for a iob vacancy, the qualified candidates shall be considered on the basis of their LB.E.W. Local 1600 Seniority.
N.	Above Entry Level Jabs
? 6
(1)	For those Advanced Level Office Jobs Concept positions in the General Office that are posted, General Office OJC employees will receive first consideration. For seniority purposes they will be considered on the basis of their General Office OJC seniority. Those bidders outside of the General Office OJC will be considered second based on their IBEW Local 1600 seniority.
(2)	If vacancies occur in other jobs and they cannot be filled in accordance with normal procedures, they shall be posted systemwide for all employees. For seniority purposes, they will be considered on the basis of their IBEW Local 1600 Seniority.
(3)	If no one successfully bids the vacancy, a new employee will be hired.
O.	In the event the successful bidder for a posted job returns to his/her former job classification within the six (6) months’ probationary period, the same job vacancy number and list of bidders will be utilized to fill the vacancy. However, if the successful bidder promotes in the line of progression or bids and accepts another posted job vacancy during the six (6) months’ probationary period, the vacated job will be filled in accordance with the requirements of the next vacancy number.
P.	For purposes of this Agreement, LB.E.W. Local 1600 Seniority shall constitute all service accrued in the former Employees Independent Association, former LB.E.W. Local 1520, former U.W.U.A., former Hershey Electric Company, former Pennsylvania Mines Corporation, and any time in LB.E.W. Local 1600.
Section 3.	Lay Off
A.	<6 Months Employees with less than six (6) months service are subject to lay off without regard to function or departmental manpower requirements. During this six (6) months period, the Company shall have the sole and exclusive right to lay off such employee and Article HI of the Agreement shall not apply.
B.	>6 Months Regular, full-time employees covered by this Agreement with six (6)-months or more service may be subject to lay off in accordance with this Article.
C.	Notification The Company will notify full-time employees ten (10) working days, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, prior to the effective date of lay off, provided such employee has attained 6 months of continuous service.
Section 4.	Specific Temporary Employees
A. Personnel employed by the Company for temporary work, not to exceed nine (9) months, shall be designated as “specific temporary.” They shall not accrue job seniority and/or Company Service for the duration of their employment, and shall have no bidding rights. Upon completion of the temporary work, they shall be terminated.
The rate of pay for specific temporaries shall be no less than the minimum of the job classification for which they are employed, not to exceed the equivalent of a B~3 rate of pay. They will be required to comply with Article II, Section 1 of this Agreement. Employee benefits and entitlements will be limited to: Workers’ Compensation and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance; time and one half for all hours over eight (8) on a W-Day; time and one half for all hours worked on the first ST-Day; time and one half for all hours worked on a holiday; double time for all hours worked on the second ST-Day; double time for sixteen (16) or more consecutive hours; change of shift premium; shift differential and meal allowances. The Company will have the sole and exclusive right to terminate such employees and Article III of the Agreement shall not apply.
This provision will not limit the Company’s right to contract out work as stated in Article II, Section 5, Paragraph D, or Article XIII, Section 2, Paragraph E (1).
Section 5.	Part-Time Employees
A.	Personnel employed by the Company for situations where there is no need for a full-time position, less than 20 hours per week, shall be designated as “part-time worker.” The need for using such employees will be reviewed with representatives of Local 1600 prior to the commencement of such work. If there is a reduction in the workload at any location in such classifications the part-time employees will be released prior to affecting the full-time employees.
B.	The rate of pay for part-time employees will be the first step of the appropriate salary table for the classification of work for which they are hired. With satisfactory performance, progress to the subsequent salary table steps will be at 26 pay period intervals. Part-time employees will be eligible to bid on full-time positions based on their qualifications prior to the hiring of a new full-time employee. They will be considered after all full-time employees who bid the same vacancy. Their seniority rights relative to other part-time employees will be based on their respective dates of hire.
C,	Employee benefits will be limited to: Health Care Coverage - eligible after 30 days of employment with employee payment of 20%; Vacation - forty (40) hours a year after one year of employment; Holiday Pay - eligible if a regularly scheduled W-day; Personal Time Off (Mini-Vacation) - eight hours mini-vacation per year; Sick Leave - up to 24 hours per year after three (3) months of employment; Employee Savings Plan - eligible after one year of employment; Flexible Spending Accounts - eligible after one year employment; Accidental Death or Dismemberment - equal to three (3) times annualized base pay; Group Life Insurance - $10,000 and Workers’ Compensation - eligible.
D.	Specific rules and guidelines for part-time employees in the Customer Care Center are addressed in Article XIV.
ARTICLE VI
JOB DESCRIPTIONS, CLASSIFICATIONS AND SALARY TABLE PROCEDURES
Section 1.	Job Descriptions - Classifications
A.	The Company will maintain job titles and descriptions, job classifications and salary tables in order to secure a uniform and orderly method of determining compensation for various duties performed.
B.	As needed to meet changed needs or conditions, management retains the right to prepare new, eliminate old, revise or modify job descriptions, qualifications and job classifications.
In the event a new or revised job is of substantially different content or qualifications than previously existed in the classification, the rate of pay shall be negotiated. Pending conclusion of the negotiations, affected employees shall be paid pursuant to management’s initial proposal. In the event that the parties reach an impasse in their negotiations, the matter will be submitted to the process provided for under Exhibit M.
C.	The job description for each employee describes, in general, his responsibilities and the duties he is expected to perform. All bargaining unit job descriptions shall be deemed to contain the phrase “Performs such other related duties as assigned or as necessary”, which is intended to cover;
(1)	The performance of any assignments of lower classifications (or level of work).
(2)	The performance of any assignments of same classifications (or level of work) which are not specifically enumerated in the job description.
(3)	The performance of any assignment of higher classifications (or level of work) which is required in emergencies or to help for short and intermittent periods, or as a recognized part of the employees’ training and progression.
Further, these duties shall also include other work for limited periods when necessary to meet service requirements or to substitute for sickness or vacation; or when normal work is slack; or while training for advancement to higher jobs.
The statement, “Duties include, but are not limited to” precedes a statement of the predominant and most important duties of the job. It is not practical to list in detail all duties that may be included, but all of major importance, both in determining the rate for the job and in time consumed, will be enumerated, and duties not enumerated will be incidental or of minor importance.
D.	The number of employees in each job title is limited by the amount and the nature of the work to be done. If a job vacancy occurs, the Company will notify the Union within three (3) weeks thereafter whether such vacancy will be filled.
Section 2.	Salary and Hourly Wage Tables
A.	This agreement provides for a general wage increase for all employees of 2.5% effective May 12, 2014; 2.5% effective May 11, 2015; and 2.75% effective May 9, 2016.
B.	See Exhibit A for Salary and Hourly Wage Tables.
Section 3.	Combination Jobs
A. When an employee has a relief or utility job title and regularly works in two or more job classifications covered by this Agreement, the rate of pay for this combination job shall be the average of the rates applicable to the two highest jobs in which he regularly works.
Section 4.	Temporary Transfers or Substitutions
A.	When an employee temporarily relieves or substitutes for an employee in a higher classification who is off duty with regular pay due to sickness or injury, he shall be paid at the rate of his regular classification during such period of substitution. When the pay of the relieved employee is reduced during the period of substitution, or the relieved employee has been off duty for two (2) pay periods, the employee selected to fill the job shall then be paid the appropriate rate of the relieved employee’s classification. When an employee temporarily relieves or substitutes for an employee in a higher classification due to vacation or other absence, he shall be paid at the rate of his regular classification during such period of substitution.
B.	An employee who temporarily relieves or substitutes for an employee in a lower classification shall continue to receive the pay of his regular classification.
C.	When one employee is substituted for another in a shift position, and a choice cannot be made without overtime, an employee with the same job title as the absent employee will be selected where possible. This provision will not increase overtime payments over the minimum necessary to accomplish substitution.
Section 5.	Salary Progression for New, Reemployed, Rehired, Promoted, Transferred and Demoted Employees
A.	NEW EMPLOYEES hired to fill any of the jobs covered by this Agreement shall be considered probationary for the first six (6) months of their employment. For jobs with multiple step increases, they shall be hired at the First Step and will receive the Second Step at the end of six (6) months, if they are to be continued in the Company’s employ beyond the end of that period. Employees on the “A” salary table receive step increases in accordance with the appropriate Apprentice Program agreements.
B.	STEP INCREASES FOR NEW EMPLOYEES who have completed their probationary period and who are performing satisfactorily in their jobs shall be made at salary table intervals measured from the date the Second Step was attained.
C.	REEMPLOYED EMPLOYEES:
(1)	Those who had been laid off, but still retain their 1600 Seniority and Company Service, will be given the salary table rate to which they are entitled by a consideration of their Company Service. First step if Company Service is less than one (1) year; second step if Company Service is one (1) year or more but less than 5 years: third step if Company Service is five (5) years or more.
(2)	Step increases for reemployed employees who are performing satisfactorily in their new jobs shall be made at salary table intervals.
D.	REHIRED EMPLOYEES
(1) Those who resigned, were discharged, or were laid off and no longer retain their 1600 Seniority or
Company Service, will be given:
(a)	The First Step, if their previous service with the Company was less than one (1) year.
(b)	The Second Step, if their previous service with the Company was one (1) year or more.
E.	PROMOTED EMPLOYEES are those assigned to a job in a higher classification for which the maximum weekly rate is $5.00 or more above the maximum rate for the old job. They will be considered as on probation for the first six (6) months in the new job. The salary table step for promoted employees will be the next higher rate above their present rate which provides an increase of $5.00 per week, or the Third Step of the new rate (provided they have attained five (5) years Company Service), whichever is greater. Whenever the promotion date coincides with the date for a step increase, the step increase shall be made and the rate for promotion then determined.
Salary step treatment for employees on the “F:i Table with less than two (2) years Company Service who promote to a new salary table group will be determined as follows:
(1)	Select “B” Table salary group that has a maximum rate corresponding to the “F” Table hourly rate.
(2)	Convert Company Service to a step on the “B” Table salary group.
(3)	Apply rules for promotion from that step to the new salary table group.
(4)	The next step increase will be based on Company Service.
F.	STEP INCREASES FOR PROMOTED EMPLOYEES who have completed their probationary period and who are performing satisfactorily in their jobs shall be made at salary table intervals measured from the date of promotion, except:
(1)	If the amount of the promotion increase of the new job is $5.00 or more but still less than the amount of the next step increase the employee would have received in his old job, the date of his next step increase will be the date on which he would have received a step increase in the old job.
G.	TRANSFERRED EMPLOYEES are those assigned to another job for which the maximum weekly rate is less than $5.00 above or below the maximum rate for the old job. They will be on probation for the first six (6) months in the new job. Transferred employees will receive the salary table step for the new job corresponding to the step they attained on the old job. The next step date will remain the same. Employees transferring from single rate jobs on the “F” Table to another salary table who have less than two (2) years’ Company Service will receive the salary step corresponding to their Company Service. The next step increase will be based on Company Service,
H.	“A” SALARY TABLE: When employees on the “A" Salary Table change jobs to another salary table, their current step rate will be utilized to determine promotion, transfer or demotion.
I.	DEFERRED STEP INCREASES: Step increases for employees who have been off duty for one (1) pay period or more, for reasons other than vacation, or step increases for employees on modified duty who are not performing the primary duties of their job description will be postponed for a corresponding period.
J.	UNSATISFACTORY PERFORMANCE:
(1)	Any employee who is not performing satisfactorily in his job will be subject to demotion and, in unusual cases, to discharge. If he is an employee who has completed his period of probation but has not reached the maximum rate for his job, he will, if his progress in the job is unsatisfactory, also be subject to having his step increases held up until satisfactory progress is shown.
(2)	No action will be taken in accordance with the above until the employee has been forewarned by his supervisor and the reasons why his performance or progress is considered unsatisfactory fully explained to him. In ail such cases, the Union’s accredited representative will be kept informed regarding the employee's status and any contemplated change in his status.
(3)	When it is necessary to demote an employee due to his inability to perform his job, he will be given as much notice as possible and his salary rate will be reduced in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph K (2) or (3).
K.	DEMOTIONS occur when employees change to jobs whose maximum weekly rate is $5.00 or more below the maximum rate for their present job.
(1)	When it is necessary to demote an employee in connection with a job change as a result of the provisions in Article X, (Placement Process) and Article VIII, Section 10, Paragraph C (Disabled Employees), he will be given as much notice as possible, and shall have his salary reduced in 25% increments every 6 months for a period of 18 months in order to reach the appropriate rate of pay of the lower job. The first reduction will occur when the employee physically reports to the job.
(2)	When it is necessary to demote an employee because he has failed to meet the job requirements while on probation or upon completion of a temporary job, his salary rate will be reduced to the step he would have attained in his former job. The reduction in salary rate will be made immediately upon the employee assuming the duties of the lower job. The same procedure will apply when the demotion to his former job classification is at his request and for his personal advantage during the probationary period.
(3)	When employees demote after the probationary period, their salary will be reduced to the step for which their Company Service qualifies them or the next lower step rate below their present rate, whichever is less. The reduction in salary will be made immediately upon the employees assuming the duties of the lower job and subsequent step increases will follow in six (6) months or be determined by their Company Service depending on the method used to determine the rate.
L.	TIME INTERVALS: The time intervals referred to in this Section 5 of Article VI shall be interpreted as follows, in conformance with present practices and interpretations.
Equivalent
Monthly Interval	Bi-Weekly Time Interval
6 Months or 1/2 Year	13 Bi-Weekly Pay Periods
12 Months or 1 Year	26 Bi-Weekly Pay Periods
18 Months	39 Bi-Weekly Pay Periods
M.	EFFECTIVE DATES: The salary changes referred to in this Section 5 of Article VI shall become effective at the beginning of the payroll period following completion of the prescribed period of employment.
Section 6.	Bi-Weekly Pay Days
A.	Bi-weekly salary and overtime for the current pay period will be paid on or before the fifth calendar day after the close of the pay period.
B,	All paper pay checks and paper direct deposit advices will be mailed to an employee's specified address via the United States Postal Service. The Company will continue its current payroll practices of depositing pay checks in the mail 2 days before payday (e.g., Wednesday for a Friday payday) in an effort to ensure that employees will receive their checks on payday. The Company will continue to provide electronic payment (i.e., direct deposit) options to employees which will ensure that the employee's pay is deposited to their account and the funds are available on payday. If the Company fails to meet the deadlines specified above, the Company will reimburse employees for any resulting reasonable late fees or banking fees directly related to the Company not meeting the deadlines specified above.
ARTICLE VII
VACATION, LONGEVITY PAY, HOLIDAYS
FOR FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES
Section 1.	Vacation Allowance
A.	An employee having a period of employment with the Company of at least one (1) year shall be entitled to vacation allowances as shown below:
Period of Employment
1 Year But Less Than 2 Years
Vacation Allowance
40 Hours ( 5 Days)
2	Years But Less Than 5 Years	80	Hours (10 Days)
5	Years But Less Than 6 Years	88	Hours (11 Days)
6	Years But Less Than 7 Years	96	Hours (12 Days)
7	Years But Less Than 8 Years	104	Hours (13 Days)
8	Years But Less Than 13 Years	120	Hours (15 Days)
13	Years But Less Than 15 Years	136	Hours (17 Days)
15	Years But Less Than 22 Years	160	Hours (20 Days)
22	Years But Less Than 30 Years	200	Hours (25 Days)
30	Years Or More	240	Hours (30 Days)
B.	Subject to the provisions covered in Sections 3 A and 3 B of this Article, an employee may elect to take any vacation allowance in excess of eighty (80) hours (ten (10) days) as longevity pay.
C.	All vacation and longevity pay will be regular pay (based on salary tables) the employee would have received on his regular job. Longevity pay shall be paid on the basis of the employee’s regular straight time rate in effect for the last complete pay period in November of each year and paid on the regular pay day for that pay period.
D.	Employees leaving the Company due to a lay off will have the option to retain or be paid for their remaining vacation allotment This allotment must be utilized/paid by year end. If reinstated, such employees must work for a period of four (4) pay periods before receiving any accrued vacation allowance. Employees leaving the Company due to a leave of absence will have the option to retain five (5) days of their vacation allowance. They will be eligible to take any remaining and accrued vacation allowance two (2) pay periods after reinstatement. In both cases, vacation allowance will be prorated on the basis of the actual time worked by the employees in the previous year.
E.	Employees may convert eight (8), sixteen (16) or twenty-four (24) hours of their annual vacation allowance to Personal Time Off (Mini-Vacation). Employees are required to submit their request for this conversion to the Company prior to November 1st of the previous year.
Section 2.	Period of Employment
A.	An employee shall be considered to have had a period of employment of one (1) year as soon as he has been on the payroll twelve (12) full calendar months and shall be entitled to his first vacation in the calendar year during which he completes his first year of employment.
B.	The periods of employment referred to in this Article VII shall be similarly measured.
C.	For these purposes if a year of employment is completed between December 1 and December 31, inclusive, it will be considered as having been completed on November 30.
D.	An employee’s Company Service and 1600 Seniority shall terminate when he quits, is discharged for cause, is laid off and fails to return to work after due notice or has not been recalled to work within twenty-four (24) months after the date laid off. If rehired new Company Service and 1600 Seniority dates will be established.
Section 3.	Qualifications and Regulations—Vacations and Longevity Allowances
A.	Vacation schedules covering the period from January 1 to March 31 of each year shall be prepared on or before November 1 of the preceding year. Schedules covering the period from April 1 to December 31 shall be prepared on or before March 1 of that year. These schedules shall be considered tentative and may be modified by, or with the approval of, the Department Head as unforeseen conditions develop.
B.	These schedules shall be prepared by the Department Head using as a basis dates (first, second and third choices) selected by the employees. It shall be the responsibility of the Department Head to schedule these vacations throughout the entire year in order that the Company’s business and operation may continue in an efficient manner. Whenever there is a conflict in dates, it will become a matter to be straightened out between the employees involved. If this procedure fails, the Department Head will decide the matter, taking into consideration
length of service of the employees involved, the reasonableness of each employee’s claim
the settlement of similar conflicts in previous years and all other pertinent factors.
to the particular time,
C.	A vacation may begin at any time provided it is properly coordinated with the vacation periods of other employees involved.
D.	Except as provided in Section 3 L of this Article, vacations may be split into periods of not less than eight (8) scheduled hours, with the approval of the Department Head.
E.	Employees who work other than an eight (8) hour schedule, will take vacation In accordance with their normally scheduled hours. For these employees only, after scheduling all full day vacations, any partial day vacation hours remaining may be scheduled with supervisory approval.
F.	All scheduled hours elapsing while an employee is on vacation shall be counted as a part of the vacation except that when a Contract Holiday falls on any W-day in the period, it shall not be counted as vacation.
G.	Vacations shall not be postponed by the Company to avoid paying overtime.
H.	An employee who is in the Company's employ on December 31 of any current calendar year, or the next preceding work day to such date, and whose employment with the Company does not terminate on such day, and employees laid off December 31 shall be entitled in the next succeeding calendar year to the same vacation period, including longevity allowance, to which he was entitled during the said current calendar year. However, an employee who initially during such succeeding calendar year becomes entitled to increased vacation or longevity allowance under Paragraph A of Section 1 of this Article VII, upon meeting the eligibility requirements of said Sections shall be entitled to the vacation allowance therein provided.
I.	In event of termination of employment of an employee for any cause prior to taking of the full vacation allowance or payment of longevity allowance to which he is entitled as provided in the next preceding Paragraph, such employee shall be paid the longevity allowance, if any, and an amount of vacation pay (as defined in Section 1 C of this Article VII) in lieu of such vacation allowance equivalent to the pay which he would have received in respect of such vacation period or the part thereof not completed, had such vacation been taken immediately prior to such employment termination. In the event of termination of employment due to death of an employee who has not received the vacation or longevity pay to which he is entitled, payment will be made to the person legally entitled thereto for his vacation and longevity allowance less any portion of that allowance the employee had previously received.
J.	In addition to the vacation and longevity allowance provided in the foregoing provisions of this Article, an employee who retires shall receive an additional allowance. This allowance shall be determined by applying to his regular vacation and longevity entitlement for the current calendar year the same ratio as the number of full calendar months worked in the current calendar year bears to twelve (12) months and rounding the result to the nearest multiple of eight (8) hours. For the purpose of this Paragraph, an employee whose employment terminates because of long term disability shall be considered as one who retires. An additional allowance determined in the same manner will be paid to the person legally entitled thereto for an employee who dies.
K.	Except as provided in Section 3 L of this Article, vacation allowance not taken in the calendar year during which the employee is entitled thereto cannot be accumulated and added to the vacation allowance of succeeding year or years unless the employee was prevented from taking his full vacation allowance because of illness, injury or at supervisory request with mutual agreement. Unused vacation allowance as a result of illness or injury shall be taken as soon as it can be scheduled after the first full pay period following the employee’s return to work; and in the case of supervisory request, within the first three (3) months of the succeeding calendar year. When an employee is permitted to take such vacation, it shall not be considered part of the employee’s vacation entitlement for any succeeding calendar year under the provisions of Section 3 H of this Article.
L.	An employee, subject to the approval of the Department Head, may elect not to take all his vacation allowance in the calendar year in which he is entitled thereto but may elect to carry over vacation allowance into the succeeding calendar year under the following conditions:
(1)	A minimum of eight (8) hours must be carried over and taken in one period within the first six (6) months of the succeeding calendar year.
(2)	Eligible employees shall indicate their intent to carry over vacation as early as possible in the current year but, in no event, later than November 1.
(3) When an employee is permitted to take such vacation, it shall not be considered part of the employee’s
vacation entitlement for any succeeding calendar year under the provisions of Section 3 H of this Article.
M.	(1) When an employee is off duty because of sickness or injury at the time his vacation is scheduled to begin, the vacation may be rescheduled.
(2)	Employees who become hospitalized while on vacation may reschedule that portion of their vacation which was spent in the hospital, provided the hospitalization was of more than one (1) day’s duration and a hospital certificate containing the admission and release dates is submitted to the Company.
(3)	When sickness or injury occurs after scheduled vacation has begun and the vacation period extends into the succeeding work week(s), the vacation scheduled for the succeeding work week(s) may be rescheduled, provided the employee properly reports off prior to the start of the next work week.
Section 4.	Holidays
A,	The following legal holidays will be recognized by the Company as Contract Holidays and observed on days when they are nationally observed, except as provided in Paragraph B of this Section 4: New Years Day, Presidents’ Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day; in addition, the day following Thanksgiving Day and the last Work Day (Monday to Friday, inclusive) preceding the day on which Christmas is observed will be recognized as a Contract Holiday.
B.	When a Contract Holiday falls on a Sunday, it shall be observed on the following day (Monday) and the premium pay for the holiday shall apply on the Monday only.
When a Contract Holiday falls on a Saturday, the Company shall have the option of observing it on that Saturday and allowing eight (8) hours’ pay to those employees who do not work on that day or of designating the preceding Friday or succeeding Monday as the day on which the holiday is observed, and the premium pay shall apply on the day observed only.
NOTE: The observances in this Paragraph B are applicable to all employees except Fossil Plant Operators, FS Generation-Shift employees, Coal Yard employees, and Troublemen, These work groups whose schedules include Saturday and/or Sunday as W-days will observe New Year’s Day, Independence Day, Christmas Day and the day preceding Christmas on the actual holiday and the premium pay shall apply to the actual day(s) only.
C.	When a Contract Holiday is observed on a scheduled W~day, those employees who ordinarily work on that day and who are not required to carry on the Company’s essential operations will be given their regularly scheduled hours off with pay. Those employees in positions from which they cannot be spared on the holiday will be compensated in accordance with the provisions of Section 4 C of Article IV.
D.	When a Contract Holiday is observed on an ST-day, those employees in positions from which they can be spared on some W-day during the week will have their work schedule changed so that the holiday becomes a scheduled W-day (which they get off with pay) and another scheduled W-day within that pay period becomes an ST-day. This shall not apply in the case where the Contract Holiday falls within an employee’s vacation period. Those employees in positions from which they cannot be spared on any W-day during the week will be allowed eight (8) hours’ pay at their regular rate, provided they did not work and receive holiday premium.
E.	Employees who are absent with pay on the day before and/or the day after a holiday, due to illness or injury, will receive holiday pay for the holiday. An employee who is absent from work without pay on the W-day preceding a Contract Holiday and the next W-day following a Contract Holiday shall forfeit his right to holiday pay.
F,	An employee will not be entitled to any holiday pay until he has attained a period of employment of six (6) months.
ARTICLE VIII GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1.	Sick Pay
A. Employees hired after May 16, 2010 will receive 40 hours of sick pay on the anniversary date of their
employment Unused sick time can be accumulated to a maximum of 160 hours.
As of July 1, 2014, employees hired prior to May 16, 2010, will receive no further accruals to their sick bank until his/her sick bank falls below 1200 hours, and thereafter may receive up to a maximum of 80 hours of sick pay on the anniversary date of their employment but will not accumulate more than a maximum of 1200 hours going forward.
The day an employee becomes ill is the date from which the sick pay entitlement for that period of disability is determined. Therefore, when a disabled employee crosses an anniversary date of Company Service, any additional entitlement is not available for the period of disability already in progress. However, the additional entitlement is available for future absences upon the employee's return to work. Employees who work other than an eight (8) hour schedule, will take sick pay in accordance with their normally scheduled hours. All sick pay is paid at the straight-time hourly rate.
B.	All full-time bargaining unit employees will be eligible for a Short-term Disability (STD) plan. Shortterm Disability (STD) will be provided at 60% of base pay after five (5) work days of continuous absence or after full sick pay is exhausted if the absence exceeds five (5) work days. Maximum duration of the STD program is 180 calendar days of continuous absence or until eligible for long-term disability or recovery, whichever occurs first. Short-term Disability will be provided in accordance with the PPL Shortterm Disability Program for Bargaining Unit Employees.
C.	To be eligible for sick pay, an employee must have completed a period of employment of six (6) months and have properly reported the cause of the absence in accordance with established procedures. New employees who complete their six (6)-month probationary period will be eligible to borrow sixteen (16) hours of sick pay from the forty (40) hours that they will be entitled to after one year of employment.
D.	All cases of illness or injury must be bona fide. If there is a question regarding the nature of the illness or injury, medical certification may be required. False claim for sick pay shall subject employees to disciplinary action.
E.	Employees are required to furnish medical certification of illness for all absences in excess of three (3) in a pay period year or anytime an employee is out three (3) or more consecutive days. All medical certification is to be an original (e.g., no copies or fax) and must be submitted to the employee’s supervisor or Company designee at the employee’s start time when the employee is cleared to return to work.
All Medical Certification must include the following:
1.	The healthcare provider’s signature/stamp with facility contact information;
2.	Patient’s name;
3.	Date services provided;
4.	Return to work date;
5.	Any work restrictions (if applicable)
In addition, for all absence occurrences in excess of three (3) in a pay period year, a proper medical certification must also include: 6) information stating that the illness covered the complete period for which the employee is seeking pay. This information may be based on the health care provider’s actual knowledge or information reported to the health care provider by the employee.
All requests for sick leave beyond three (3) consecutive days will be administered in the same manner as the Company’s Short-Term Disability Plan. The supervisor will make the initial contact to the disability administrator.
Employees returning to work without proper certification will have the period of absence charged to “Time Off Without Pay - No Permission" as follows:
1.	From the fourth occurrence of illness and each subsequent illness within the pay
period year; or.
2.	After an employee is out three (3) or more consecutive days
Employees scheduled to work either Saturday or Sunday, who are ill on one or both of these days, and properly report off, shall have up to a maximum of forty-eight (48) hours to obtain medical certification for the conditions specified in 1 and 2 above.
F.	The Company will pay the difference between the employee’s full pay and the amount paid by Workers’ Compensation for employees absent from work due to occupational disease or injury. The amount of time available for such allowances will be calculated in the same manner as basic sick pay under Paragraph A above (e.g,, employees hired after May 16, 2010, will have a maximum of 40 hours per year and total of 160 accrued hours). When such allowances are exhausted, employees will receive Workers Compensation and/or Long Term Disability payments in accordance with the eligibility requirements of those programs.
(1)	To be eligible for such payments, employees absent from work due to occupational injury must properly notify the Company of an accident before the end of the W-day if the injury occurs during non-scheduled hours in the absence of a supervisor. Occupational disease must be reported as soon as possible but no later than forty-eight (48) hours after the onset of the disease to be eligible for the payments provided in this Paragraph-
Section 2.	Absences From Duty With and Without Pay
A.	(1) Employees having a period of employment of six (6) months or more will be allowed time off with pay in the event of the death of someone in their immediate family. Except as otherwise provided in this Paragraph, they will be excused from all work schedules from the time of notification of the death and will be expected back to work on their first scheduled work day following midnight of the day after the funeral. In cases where the absence exceeds six (6) calendar days, employees are required to secure their supervisor’s approval. However, in unusual circumstances where burial delays occur such as military deaths, etc., the absence may be deferred following a review of the circumstances and with supervisor's approval. Any additional time required by the employee may be charged to vacation, personal time off (mini-vacation) or taken as time off without pay. Definition of immediate family is employee's wife (or husband), father, mother, stepfather, stepmother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, sister, son, daughter, stepchild, grandmother, grandfather, granddaughter, grandson, legal guardian, spouse's legal guardian, domestic partner (Affidavit of Domestic Partnership required) or any relative residing in the immediate household of the employee. An employee shall be granted one (1) day leave to attend the funeral in the event of the death of his stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half sister, step-grandfather or step-grandmother. If an employee is on vacation when a death occurs in the employee's above family relationships, that portion of remaining vacation which coincides with the allowance for time off under this provision may be rescheduled.
(2)	Employees having a period of employment of six (6) months or more will be allowed time off with pay during regularly scheduled hours:
(a)	To serve on a jury, providing they are chosen at random and are not volunteering for the duty; or subpoenaed as a third party witness to a dispute for appearance at court. However, employees acting as an agent, employee or arresting officer of a governmental authority, agency or business precipitating the litigation shall not be considered as a third party witness and this time off shall be charged to the proper personal time off codes.
(b)	To serve on election day at a Polling Place provided the employee serves in the capacity of Constable, Judge of Elections, Majority Inspector, or Minority Inspector.
(c)	To serve with their National Guard or Reserve Unit for short emergency duty.
(d)	To report for veteran’s periodic medical examination in connection with a military disability.
B.	Personal Time Off (Mini-Vacation)
(1)	Employees having a period of active employment of six (6) months or more in the previous calendar year:
If they are on the active payroll anytime during the current year, they will be allowed twenty-four (24) hours off with pay during that year, to be used for Personal Time Off (Mini-Vacation); such as illness in the family, attendance at funerals other than Paragraph A (1), dentist or doctor appointments, tardiness or absence due to snowstorms, attendance at graduation ceremonies, religious holidays, or for any other personal reason.
(2)	Employees who had less than 6 months of active service in the previous calendar year:
If they are on the active payroll between January 1st and June 30th inclusive, they will be allowed sixteen (16) hours of Personal Time Off (Mini-Vacation) that year. If they are on the active payroll between July 1st and December 31st inclusive, they will be allowed eight (8) hours of Personal Time Off (Mini-Vacation) that year.
(3)	New employees (those who have not completed their initial probationary period) must attain 6 months of service before they are eligible for any Personal Time Off (Mini-Vacation). If they attain 6 months of service between January 1st and June 30th inclusive, they will be allowed sixteen (16) hours of Personal Time Off (Mini-Vacation) that year. If they attain 6 months of service between July 1st and December 31st inclusive, they will be allowed eight (8) hours of Personal Time Off (Mini-Vacation) that year.
(4)	All Personal Time Off (Mini-Vacation) may be taken in increments of at least one (1) hour and must be approved by the employee's supervisor. In unusual circumstances or extreme weather conditions, this Personal Time Off (Mini-Vacation) may be granted in less than one (1) hour increments at the request of the employee and with the approval of the supervisor. In addition, employees may convert eight (8), sixteen (16) or twenty four (24) hours of their annual vacation allowance to Personal Time Off (MiniVacation). Employees are required to submit their request for this conversion to the Company prior to November 1st of the previous year.
(5)	An employee may carry over any unused entitlement of this Personal Time Off (Mini-Vacation) from one year to the next but not to exceed a total of eighty (80) hours. If employees resign, retire or promote to a supervisory position with entitlement remaining, the following options will be available:
(a)	If they can be spared, they will be allowed to utilize the remaining entitlement prior to their leave from the Company or non-supervisory job. However, this entitlement cannot be utilized to become eligible for the following year’s entitlements.
(b)	If they cannot be spared or elect not to utilize their remaining entitlement as time off, employees will be compensated for the remaining entitlement.
(c)	If employees are discharged, all remaining Personal Time Off (Mini-Vacation) will be canceled.
(6)	In the event of the death of an employee, payment for any accumulated Personal Time Off (MiniVacation) hours remaining will be made to the person legally entitled thereto.
C.	Absence from duty because of illness must be reported in the following manner:
(1)	It is the responsibility of employees to report off to their supervisor or a designated Company representative before the usual starting time every day of their illness which includes reporting off on ST -days if employees are scheduled for prearranged work.
(2)	Employees returning from absence after 5 or more scheduled work days with restrictions shall provide the restrictions to their supervisor or a designated Company representative prior to their return to work. The Company reserves the right to review the restrictions to determine of the employee can be allowed to return to work. The review of restrictions will be completed within 3 business days. If the review exceeds 3 business days the employee will be paid “Time-off with pay with permission”.
(3)	When an employee is hospitalized or has an illness that can result in a lengthy absence, it is the responsibility of the employees to establish a line of communication with their supervisor whereby an understanding is reached concerning the approximate duration of the illness. Once
this line of communication is established, agreement for intervals of periodic reporting should be
reached between the supervisor and the employees.
(4)	To be eligible for call-outs and/or prearranged work, employees must report their availability to their supervisor or a designated Company representative at least one (1) hour before the end of their last scheduled W-day prior to the day of the prearranged work and/or call-out roster duty.
D.	Unexcused absences will be subject to disciplinary action as provided in Section 5 A of Article II. Such absences include time off without permission, time off for illness not properly reported and time off for alleged illness which subsequent investigation proves to be not valid,
E.	Time off without pay may be granted in unusual circumstances with supervisory permission after all accumulated mini-vacation entitlements have been utilized.
F.	Pay will also be deducted for time off for disciplinary purposes.
Section 3,	Leave of Absence Without Pay
A. Employees will be eligible for a Child Care Leave of Absence in accordance with the terms and conditions outlined in Exhibit G.
Section 4.	Inclement Weather
A.	Certain normal work will be postponed by the Company’s supervisors or their designated representatives due to severe weather conditions and employees will be held during scheduled hours for emergencies. Workmen will be excused from working aloft on poles or structures, etc., when temperatures are 10°F or below at the job location. Sound judgment will be used in determining the type of work to be done at temperatures above 10°F where wind is a factor. Line Crews, walking meter readers, and Electrical and Mechanical Crews will restrict their work to indoor activities when temperatures drop to 5°F or below. Work during emergencies will be performed regardless of weather conditions.
B.	When outside work is postponed, employees may be given First Aid, Safety, or other instructions, or may be assigned to work indoors or in sheltered locations,
C.	Employees will not lose any scheduled time due to inclement weather, provided they accept miscellaneous assignments during such weather.
Section 5.	Meal Allowance
A.	An employee will be expected to provide one (1) meal for a regularly scheduled or prearranged work period,
B.	A shift worker will follow shift worker rules when temporarily assigned to a day worker schedule; and a day worker will follow shift worker rules when temporarily assigned to an afternoon, night or rotating shift schedule. This assignment could be as short as one (1) day duration.
C.	The allowance for all meal entitlements will be $16 per meal and will be accounted for on the employees’ time tickets. (This amount will include tax and gratuity for the meal.)
D.	The Company will pay the appropriate meal allowance specified in Paragraph C as follows:
(1)	Day Workers - Unscheduled Hours
(a)	Meal entitlements at 6:00 A.M., 12 Noon, 6:00 P.M. and 12 Midnight.
(b)	If they have been called out and report at least one-half hour before their regular starting time, they will be entitled to a meal entitlement time during that continuous work period.
(2)	Shift Workers - Call-Outs and Hold-Overs
(a) One (1) meal entitlement if working two (2) or more but less than six (6) hours’ overtime after the
employees’ regular or prearranged shift.
(b)	Two (2) meal entitlements if working six (6) to ten (10) hours’ overtime after the employees’ regular or prearranged shift.
(c)	One (1) meal entitlement if prearranged to work for a period of two (2) or more but less than six (6) hours’ overtime before the employees’ regular shift and two (2) entitlements for six (6) to ten (10) hours before.
(d)	One (1) meal entitlement if called out to work at least one-half hour before regular starting time, two (2) meal entitlements if called out to work for a period of two (2) or more but less than six (6) hours’ overtime before the employees’ regular or prearranged shift and three (3) entitlements for six (6) to ten (10) hours before.
(e)	A shift worker will follow day worker rules when prearranged or called out to work during hours which are not contiguous to his regular shift. This includes shift workers who are called out or prearranged to work on a ST-day.
(3)	The minimum call-out allowance shall not be used to determine the eligibility for meal entitlements.
(4)	Meal entitlements shall not be applicable when time worked is a result of the Portal-to-Portal Act due to transporting tools in personal vehicles from one location to another, or in accordance with Article VIII, Section 6, Paragraph F of this Labor Agreement.
E.	For day workers, when arrangements are made in advance for work during non-scheduled hours, the following conditions will apply:
(1)	The employee will be expected to provide one (1) meal for that work period. However, if the work period includes two (2) meal entitlement times, the employee will get one (1) meal allowance and, if the prearranged work is split into more than one (1) work period, the employee will be entitled to a meal if both work periods include a meal entitlement time.
(2)	When the work period is interrupted for a meal period, the time to eat meals will not be paid for.
F.	If the Company furnishes or pays the cost of the meal, the meal allowance is not applicable.
G.	When work periods involve a meal time during scheduled or non-scheduled hours, the time to eat the meal shall not be considered time worked for compensation purposes. The meals shall be taken when practicable.
HL Employees performing emergency work for other utilities will be paid for the time required to eat when work is suspended for a meal period. When eating meals while on emergency assignments within the PPL service territory, employees will only deduct the time spent inside the restaurant from their time paid. The intent is to exclude payment for time spent in the restaurant to order and eat a meal, but include payment for time to travel to and from the restaurant from the job site.
Section 6.	Travel Expenses/Per Diem Allowance
A,	The Company will pay expenses for employees who are required to temporarily work away from their regularly assigned Headquarters or attend training schools within the Company’s designated service area. Compensation shall be administered in accordance with the procedures described In this Section 6 and Exhibit E.
(1)	Exhibit E for both temporary work assignments and training assignments within the service territory.
(2)	Emergencies, see Paragraph E.
(3)	Mileage computation, see Paragraph F.
For purposes of this Section 6, the Company’s designated service territory shall be defined as the Company's geographical franchised area or any Company-owned facility.
B.	For purposes of assignments lasting more than one day as described in Paragraph A of this Section 6 employees have a daily choice of either “staying” or “commuting”.
(1)	STAYING
(a)	Employees who are assigned to temporary work locations 70 or more one-way miles from their residence, within the service territory, will receive a per diem allowance of $110 for each work day of the assignment.
(b)	Employees who are assigned to training assignments 70 or more one-way miles from their residence, within the service territory, will receive $100 for each work day of the assignment and one (1) round trip per week, time and mileage.
(2)	COMMUTING - Employees who elect to travel on a daily basis shall receive only the expenses as defined in Exhibit E under the appropriate commuter column.
C.	For purposes of assignments as described in Paragraph A of this Section 6, lasting one day or less, employees are considered as "commuting" and shall receive only the expenses as defined in Exhibit E under the appropriate commuter column.
D.	For temporary work assignments or training assignments outside the service territory the following shall apply:
(1)	The Company reserves the right to decide the method, assume the cost and arrange transportation.
(2)	For pay purposes, only time spent traveling during hours that coincide with regular scheduled hours shall be considered time worked, provided the employee is traveling by public transportation. For all other modes of transportation, only the operator of the vehicle shall be compensated for travel time that coincides with regular scheduled hours. When traveling on ST-days, for purposes of determining the coinciding hours that relate to regular scheduled hours, all employees shall be considered to be working a schedule beginning at 7:00 A.M. and ending at 3:00 PM
(3)	The Company shall provide lodging. The type and location of lodging shall be at the discretion of the Company. There shall be no monetary allowance in lieu of Company-provided lodging.
(4)	The Company will pay reasonable out-of-pocket expenses.
(5)	There shall be no compensation for study time during non-scheduled working hours.
E.	In emergency conditions, the Company will pay reasonable out-of-pocket expenses for all employees assigned away from their regular Work Headquarters to a temporary Work Headquarters. The emergency shall be considered in effect from departure at the regular Work Headquarters and terminate upon return arrival at the regular Work Headquarters. Therefore, during this time period, the meal allowances and entitlements as provided in Section 5, Paragraphs C and D, of this Article VIII are not applicable.
in emergency conditions, employees who are assigned to their regular Work Headquarters shall continue to receive the meal allowances and entitlements as provided in Section 5, Paragraphs C and D of this Article VIII unless the Company furnishes or pays the cost of the meal.
F.	The mileage allowance for employees utilizing their personal vehicles with the authorization of the Company in the performance of their job duties or under Exhibit E of the Labor Agreement will be the current IRS rate. During the remainder of this Agreement, the mileage reimbursement rate will be the maximum allowance permitted by the IRS code without documentation. In addition, employees who are being reimbursed for mileage or while driving a Company vehicle on Company business will also be reimbursed, with receipts, for actual tolls and parking fees.
G.	Travel expenses for incidental mileage, e.g.., training school or work assignment to motel, motel to restaurant, etc., are not eligible for reimbursement.
H- Employees who request and are granted the right to utilize their personal vehicles in the performance of their job duties while on Company business shall be paid total mileage in accordance with Paragraph F of this Section 6.
Section 7.	Safety and Health
A.	The Company shall establish health, safety and other rules and regulations for observance by employees. All employees shall be subject to such rules and regulations and disregard or violation thereof shall constitute cause for disciplinary action.
B.	It is agreed that Safety and Health Committees consisting of non-supervisory and supervisory employees will be maintained at various points on the system as required. Bargaining unit employees on local Safety and Health committees and Voluntary Protection Program (VPP) committees will be appointed by the Local 1600 President.
Section 8.	Equipment Furnished
A.	The Company shall furnish to the employees working on or near energized lines and equipment and the employees shall use, as instructed, all equipment necessary to provide protection in accordance with general practice throughout the electric utility industry.
B.	The Company shall furnish and the employees shall use, as instructed, raincoats, rain hats, rubber boots and other similar equipment which is necessary over and above the employees’ normal work clothing to protect the employees when required to work in wet weather.
C.	Employees who are required to climb poles or towers will be supplied with leather work gloves by the Company.
D.	The Company will furnish certain employees with uniforms for identification purposes and the employees will be required to wear the complete uniform at all times while performing the duties of their job.
E.	The Company will provide an employee with all tools required by the Company for the performance of the job and will replace the employee’s present tools as they wear out
F.	The Company shall furnish welders with special protective equipment.
G.	The Company will furnish radiation protective clothing and equipment which must be utilized by employees in accordance with Susquehanna S.E.S. procedures. This protective clothing and equipment shall be maintained by the Company,
H.	Flame Resistant (FR) Clothing
(1)	For employees in PPL Electric Utilities, see Exhibit O.
(2)	Employees in PPL Generation will follow MA 07-1970 and MA 07-1970A.
Section 9.	Medical Examinations
A.	Applicants for employment shall be required to take medical examinations at the expense and direction of the Company.
B.	The Company may also require, at its discretion and expense, medical examinations of employees at any time and will give weight to the results of such examinations in determining their future status in accordance with procedure outlined in Section 10 of this Article VIII. Under this provision, mental/nervous disabilities must be certified by a psychiatrist or psychologist (masters level or above) licensed to practice independently as a behavioral health professional.
C.	Biological Monitoring Medical Examinations will be provided as necessary and employees will be required to comply with these examinations. A waiver to the X-ray portion of the examination may be granted to an employee upon substantiation of having been subjected to X-rays in the previous six (6Xmonth period. When granted, employees must sign the waiver.
hi
Section 10.	Disabled Employees
A.	If an employee becomes permanently partially disabled and is either unable to perform the essential functions of their regular job after reasonable accommodations have been made, or when a change in jobs is indicated by a physician, the case shall be referred to a joint committee of Union and Company representatives known as the Disability Committee. The Joint Disability Committee will authorize the request to have the employee release medical information to the Joint Disability Committee. The Committee shall study all factors and giving due emphasis to the length of service, pay and regular job, shall place the employee as advantageously as possible into a vacant position in which the employee is able to perform the essential functions satisfactorily. The disabled employee being reassigned by action of the Disability Committee will be given preference over any other employees, with less 1600 Seniority, for any vacancy they are capable of filling. The Joint Disability Committee will have access to Sections 1,2, 4, or 8 of Article X to provide additional opportunities to permanently place this employee. The rate of pay shall be the same as that paid other employees in that position except as provided in Paragraphs B and C of this Section 10.
If there is a conflict in medical opinions, the employee shall be examined by an impartial physician or specialist selected by the Joint Committee and paid for by the Company. When an employee cannot be reasonably accommodated in their existing position, employees will be provided meaningful work within their limitations to the extent such work is available and consistent with their current rate of pay until placement by the Committee.
If the Committee is unable to resolve a particular issue brought to it within 90 calendar days after the Committee receives all information pertaining to the case, the employee will be temporarily placed in the title of “Utility Person” until such time as the Committee places the employee in an available job consistent with the employee’s capabilities. Placement in the “Utility Person” classification will be on an incumbent only basis. Duties assigned to such individuals will vary depending upon their capabilities. The rate of pay shall be the same as that paid other employees for comparable assignments except as provided in Paragraphs B and C of this Section 10.
Employees in the “Utility Person” classification will be provided on-the-job training as the circumstances justify to improve their future job prospects.
Any unilateral placement by the Company without concurrence of the Committee may be submitted to arbitration in accordance with Article III of the Labor Agreement.
After having been placed in another job by the Disability Committee, employees with twenty (20) or more years of service will not be subject to further demotion, because of such disability, as long as they remain at work. However, when circumstances warrant, they may be reassigned other duties.
B.	Employees placed in alternative positions as a result of disability shali receive the rate of pay and all pay increases applicable to the job classification to which they are assigned. However, if such assigned job has a lower rate of pay than their regular job, they shall not receive a rate of pay less than the following percent of their regular rate of pay in their former job at the time of placement if they have a period of employment of:
Less than 20 years -	75%
20 or more years -	100%
Should they recover from the disability, they may be employed in their former job with accumulated seniority and other privileges if they are physically and mentally qualified to perform the duties required.
C.	An employee assigned to a job having a lower rate of pay than their regular job under this Section 10 shall have their rate of pay reduced in accordance with the provisions of Article VI, Section 5 K (1).
Section 11.	Extended Illness or Temporary Disability
A.	An employee who is absent due to illness or temporary disability will accrue job seniority, 1600 Seniority, and Company Service during the entire period of time the employee is absent. Refer to Exhibit K for job seniority adjustments while on Long Term Disability.
An employee with ten (10) or more years of Company Service will be eligible for any promotional opportunities that occur within his progression line during the entire period of absence. An employee with less than ten (10) years of Company Service will only be eligible for a promotional opportunity that occurs within his progression line during the period of time resulting from the sum of his full sick pay entitlement plus vacation and Personal Time Off (Mini-Vacation) entitlements.
When a promotional opportunity occurs, the Company will contact the employee who is off duty to determine if he is interested in the vacancy. If the employee elects to promote and is accepted, the vacancy will be filled on a temporary basis and will be held for the employee. The employee’s former job will then be filled on a permanent basis.
If additional promotional opportunities occur, the employee must again be contacted. Only one (1) job will be held for an employee; i.e., if he accepts a second promotion, the first one he accepted will be filled by another employee on a permanent basis.
When a promotion is held for an employee, the appropriate pay credit and six (6) months’ probationary period will begin at the time the employee actually reports to the new job. The employee will be credited with job seniority from the start of the first pay period after notification of selection.
B.	All temporary transfers or substitutions made as a result of extended illness or temporary disability will be handled in accordance with Article VI, Section 4.
C.	Step increases or apprenticeship program increases and anniversary dates for employees who have been off duty for one pay period or more for reasons of illness or temporary disability or step increases for employees on modified duty who are not performing the primary duties of their job description will be postponed for a corresponding period. Additionally, general wage increases for employees off duty for one pay period or more for such reasons will be deferred until the employee returns to full duty unless the employee is on modified duty as the result of an on-the-job accident in which case the employee will receive the general wage increase applicable to the job the employee is performing.
Section 12.	Non-Supervisory Work By Supervisors
A. A supervisor shall not perform regularly scheduled non-supervisory work which interferes with his supervisory responsibilities or results in the elimination of a non-supervisory job. A supervisor shall not do the work ordinarily performed by a non-supervisory employee solely to prevent overtime work by a non-supervisory employee. This shall not prevent a supervisor from doing any type of work in an emergency or for the purpose of training and instruction.
This Section shall not prevent working supervisors from performing such work as has been a customary part of their job in the past.
Section 13.	Moving Expenses
A. The Company will provide, during the term of this Agreement, a Non-Supervisory Moving Expense Plan as described in Exhibit D.
Section 14.	General Office Bus and Parking Subsidy
A. The General Office Bus and Parking Subsidy shall be continued during the term of this Agreement. The $24 fee paid by employees toward the cost of parking in the General Office will be paid monthly on a before-tax basis.
Section 15.	Safety Shoes
A.	The allowance toward the purchase of safety shoes will be $65 per year. Employees who do not buy safety shoes in a calendar year may carry over the $65 annual allowances for up to four (4) successive years in order to accumulate a maximum allowance of $260. Employees will be eligible for reimbursement for the purchase of one or more pair of shoes in a calendar year, but the purchase of one or more pair must be submitted in one settlement transaction for the calendar year they were purchased. Any unused portion of the carryover allowance may not be carried over into
any other succeeding calendar years. Reimbursement will continue to be provided for actual
expenses up to the applicable maximum allowance.
B.	If safety shoes are required for their job, new employees, after six (6) months of employment, will be eligible for reimbursement for up to $130 for the purchase of safety shoes during their initial year of employment. Reimbursement will be provided for actual expenses only. Any unused portion of the $130 allotment in the initial year of employment can be carried over to the next calendar year. Employees who receive this $130 allotment will not be eligible for the $65 annual safety shoe allowance during the next calendar year.
Section 16.	Safety Glasses
A.	The allowance toward the purchase of prescription safety glasses, if required for your current job, will be $60 per year. Employees who do not buy safety glasses in a calendar year may carry over the $60 annual allowance for up to three (3) successive years in order to accumulate a maximum allowance of $180. Employees will be eligible for reimbursement for the purchase of one or more pair of glasses in a calendar year, but the purchase of one or more pair must be submitted in one settlement transaction for the calendar year they were purchased. Any unused portion of the carryover allowance may not be carried over into any other succeeding calendar years. Reimbursement will continue to be provided for actual expenses up to the applicable maximum allowance.
B.	If safety glasses are required for their job, new employees, after six (6) months of employment, will be eligible for reimbursement for up to $90 for the purchase of safety glasses during their initial year of employment. Reimbursement will be provided for actual expenses only. Any unused portion of the $90 allotment in the initial year of employment can be carried over to the next calendar year. Employees who receive this $90 reimbursement will not be eligible for the $60 annual safety glasses allowance during the next calendar year.
ARTICLE IX
MILITARY SERVICE
Section 1.	General
A. The Company and the Union have agreed on a detailed plan for employees who enter and return from military service, which meets the reemployment provisions of the Universal Military Training Act as amended by the Vietnam Era Veterans Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974. The Company will grant military leave and intends to treat every employee returning from military service, insofar as possible, as though there had been no interruption in his employment.
Section 2.	Leave of Absence
A.	Employees who enter military service will be considered to be on military leave for the period and under conditions prescribed by law. Although the law makes no provision for employees entering the Merchant Marine, the Company will give due consideration, with respect to leave of absence, to each such case.
B.	In order that employees entering the military have time off to settle personal affairs before leaving for military service, they will be allowed time off with pay as follows:
(1)	When enlisting or drafted as an active employee for the first time - up to 5 work days off
(2)	Mandatory periodic training - no days off
(3)	Call-up to active duty for fess than 60 days - up to 3 work days off
(4)	Call-up to active duty for 60 days or more - up to 5 work days off
Time off with pay for employees who volunteer for active duty will be reviewed by the parties on a case-by-case basis. Each employee entering military service will be entitled to the same vacation allowance as he would be if he were voluntarily leaving the Company. If he should need more time without pay for this purpose, his leave will start at a mutually agreeable earlier date.
C.	An employee entering military service will be paid in full, for time worked and allowed with pay, on the day he is released from duty with the Company or as soon thereafter as practicable.
D.	The entire cost of the Group Life Insurance of a participating employee entering military service will be borne by the Company for a period of two (2) calendar months following the last calendar month in which the employee worked. At the end of such two (2) calendar months, the Group Life Insurance coverage will cease. However, the employee’s life insurance will be paid in the event of his death during the following thirty-one (31)~day period. During such two (2) calendar months and during such thirty-one (31)-day period, he has the privilege of converting all or part of his Group Life Insurance, without medical examination, to a regular policy.
E.	Employees who enter military service will have their participation in the Retirement Plan suspended until their return to active employment. Benefit entitlement for employees who do not return to active employment will be determined in accordance with the termination of employment provisions of the Plan.
Section 3.	Reinstatement
A.	Employees who return from military service and comply with the reemployment provisions of the Act will be restored to their former positions, or to positions of like seniority, status and pay, unless circumstances have so changed as to make it impossible or unreasonable. In addition, such employees will:
(1)	Be credited with the time they were in military service in determining their position on the salary tables.
(2)	Be given promotions to such jobs in the regular line of progression as may have become vacant during their absence, provided that they are qualified and would have been selected by Management as the logical persons to fill the jobs.
(3)	If pay is based on salary tables, the promotion date for determining the salary table step will be the date or dates the employee who replaced the veteran was promoted. If such dates are not available, the promotion date for determining the salary table step will be the date the veteran starts in the higher job.
If pay is based on wage tables, the pay will be the present hourly pay for the job to which the veteran is promoted.
B.	In order for an employee returning from military service to be eligible for the benefits under this Plan, he must:
(1)	Have left a position other than a temporary position.
(2)	Have a certificate of satisfactory completion of such training and service,
(3)	Be qualified to perform the duties of such position.
(4)	Apply for reemployment within ninety (90) days after he is relieved from such training and service or from hospitalization continuing after discharge for a period of not more than one (1) year.
C.	A disabled employee returning from military service if not qualified to perform the duties of his former position by reason of disability sustained during such service but qualified to perform the duties of any other positions will be restored to such other position as will provide him with like seniority, status and pay or to a position which is the nearest approximation thereof consistent with the circumstances in the case.
D.	Group Life Insurance Plan:
An employee returning from military service will be eligible for the regular amount of insurance based on his annual earnings.
E.	Retirement Plan:
(1)	The time spent in military service will be counted in determining eligibility, vesting and benefit accrual. This affords the employee the opportunity to receive the same retirement benefits under the Plan as if there had been no interruption in employment.
(2)	if contributions were required under the Plan during any period of the employee's absence, the employee will be able to receive contributory credit for that time provided the employee pays the monthly contributions which were not made during the leave,
F.	Vacation and Longevity Allowance:
The time spent in military service will be counted as a period of employment with the Company in determining vacation and longevity allowance,
G.	Attending School:
(1)	Employees who decided to attend school before resuming work and so notify the Company:
(a)	Will be given preference over other applicants if they wish to work for the Company on leaving school, and
(b)	If hired, will be treated as former employees and the time spent with the Company and in military service will be counted as a period of service with the Company.
Section 4.	On-The-Job Training
A. The Company will continue its on-the-job training programs as long as there is a need for the training and will establish new programs as needed in order that veterans may take advantage of the training provided under applicable laws.
Section 5.	Periodic Military Training
A. Where an employee who is a member of a reserve military organization of the United States requires absence from work in order to attend a mandatory training period, the Company will, in any calendar year, grant such employee a leave of absence of up to two (2) weeks (eighty (80) scheduled hours) and will pay such employee the difference between the regular pay he would have received if he had worked and his Government pay. To the extent that the mandatory training period exceeds two (2) weeks, the Company will grant additional time off without pay.
ARTICLE X
PLACEMENT PROCESS
PURPOSE: The purpose of this Article is to provide opportunities for the placement of displaced employees and eliminate temporary letters while streamlining the placement process. It is not intended solely to provide severance, layoff or retirement opportunities for employees who have not been affected by this process.
The company will identify the job classification and location of the excess position(s). The Labor Relations Department will give 10 working days notice to the Local 1600 Union Office of any decision to displace employees as a result of a reduction, elimination or reassignment of work, during which the following procedures will apply.
Note: See the end of this Article X for a Flow Chart of the Placement Process.
Section 1. Box 1
The local chief steward or union representative will meet with the appropriate supervisor to identify the displaced employees. If agreement is not reached, representatives from the Local 1600 Union Office will make the decision during this 10-day period.
A. Employees whose work has been eliminated or have been bumped by this process may retire if eligible, elect enhanced severance, select layoff or proceed through the placement process. Employees who retire will be eligible for benefits as described below. Employees will have 5 working days from receiving retirement/severance information to make a decision.
(T) Voluntary Early Retirement for Employees Identified in the Placement Process.
Employees who are displaced, bumped or qualify as volunteers for displacement will be eligible for special early retirement benefits if they have attained age 55 or over at any time prior to placement. Qualified employees will receive the following benefits:
(a)	One weeks’ pay for each year of Company Service, prorated to the nearest full month, and will be payable in the form of a lump sum at the date of retirement.
(b)	100% of their pension benefit accrued to the date of their retirement in the form of a single life annuity.
(2)	It is agreed that employees who voluntarily accept termination under the provisions of this special program:
(a)	May be asked to release the company from liability for any claims of age discrimination under federal and state laws.
(b)	Will retire on the first day of a month approved by the company as the effective date, taking into consideration the availability of qualified replacements, an orderly transition of duties and the employees’ preferences.
(3)	Enhanced Severance for Employees Identified in the Placement Process
Employees who are displaced, bumped or qualify as volunteers for displacement, and who are not eligible for or do not elect to retire, will be eligible for enhanced severance benefits regardless of their age or years of 1600 Seniority.
Enhanced severance benefits will be equal to two weeks’ pay for each year of Company Service, prorated to the nearest full month, and will be payable in the form of a lump sum at the date of termination.
If these options reduce the number of employees to the appropriate level, no further action is required.
(4)	NOTES:
(a)	Reemployment rights will only apply to the layoff provision.
(b)	Employees will be handled in the process below in order of their Local 1600 Seniority.
(c)	If a vacancy is available in the same classification at the same location, the employee will be placed in the vacancy and no further action is required.
Section 2.	Box 2
Canvass the displaced employee's progression line at the same location for volunteers to retire/sever to create an appropriate vacancy. An appropriate vacancy is a job at the same classification which the displaced employee must accept, or a lower or higher job in the progression line that the displaced employee is willing to accept. Employees who volunteer to retire to create an appropriate vacancy will receive the retirement benefits, as listed above, if they are at least 55 years of age. Employees placed in the Utility Person title per Article VIII, Section 10, are eligible to volunteer in accordance with this Article. However, a displaced employee who selects a Utility Person in the placement process must meet all the minimum entry requirements of the regular job classification held by the Utility Person.
A.	If an appropriate vacancy exists in the same job classification at the same location, the process ends.
B.	The canvass for volunteers will last no more than 5 working days from the day the employee receives the volunteer form.
C.	The volunteer will have 5 working days to accept the offer of retirement/severance after receiving their benefit information from the Company. These days will run concurrently.
D.	Any vacancies created through this process will be filled by a progression line promotion. Employees will have 24 hours to accept or decline the promotion.
E.	If a vacancy occurs at a higher level, fill through a progression line canvass. If a displaced employee declines the promotion and no one in the progression line wants the job, then move to Box 6 without red tag.
If someone in the lower job takes the promotion and the displaced employee is willing to roll back, he will take the lower job rate of pay through pay tapering.
F.	If more than one employee at a work location volunteers for retirement or severance, the most senior employee (1600 Seniority) who would create an appropriate vacancy for the displaced employee may retire or sever.
Section 3.	Box 3
If the displaced employee has not been placed in Box 2, the displaced employee will bump the most junior employee (1600 Seniority) in the same classification at their current work location.
A. A bumped employee will be handled as follows:
(1)	All employees on the property as of May 18, 1998 will have full access to this placement process when they reach 10 years. Until that time, the employee will have LIFO*.
(2)	All employees hired after May 18, 1998 will have LIFO* until they reach 15 years, at which time they will have full access to the placement process.
Section 4.	Box 4
If Box 3 is not available, and if the displaced employee chooses a preferred location, canvass other preferred work locations in the same progression line for volunteers in the same rate or classification to retire or sever. The resulting vacancy must be at a location in a classification designated by the displaced employee. If a vacancy is created, the displaced employee will be placed in that vacancy and the process ends. Employees placed in the Utility Person title per Article VIII, Section 10, are eligible to volunteer in accordance with this Article. However, a displaced employee who selects a Utility Person in the placement process must meet all the minimum entry requirements of the regular job classification held by the Utility Person.
OR
Section 5,	Box 5
If Box 4 is not available or no location is selected, the displaced employee may bump the most junior employee (1600 Seniority) at the next closest work location where the same classification exists, in the same progression line.
OR
Section 6.	Box 6
At the same location, the displaced employee may rollback to next lower job in their progression line and bump the most junior employee (1600 Seniority) in that classification at 100% red-tag. However, those employees who decline a promotion in Section 2 Paragraph E will be pay tapered to the rate of pay for the job. If this option is available, but the employee declines and chooses to go to Box 8, the employee loses red-tag rate of pay. If this option is not available, go to Box 7 with 100% red-tag.
Section 7.	Box 7
At the next closest work location where lower jobs exist in the progression line, the displaced employee may rollback to the next lower job in their progression line that the displaced employee’s 1600 Seniority will allow and bump the most junior employee (1600 Seniority) in that classification at 100% red-tag. However, those employees who decline a promotion in Section 2 Paragraph E will be pay tapered to the rate of pay for the job. If this option is not available or not selected, the employee moves to Box 8 with a 100% red-tag rate of pay.
Section 8.	Box 8
Canvass al! employees for volunteers to retire or sever. From this list, the displaced employee can select up to 5 progression lines designating job classifications and locations they are willing to accept. If a vacancy is created, the displaced employee will be placed in that vacancy and the process ends. Employees placed in the Utility Person title per Article VIII, Section 10, are eligible to volunteer in accordance with this Article. However, a displaced employee who selects a Utility Person in the placement process must meet all the minimum entry requirements of the regular job classification held by the Utility Person.
A.	Step 1 - In determining eligibility compare the displaced employee’s 1600 Seniority to the 1600 Seniority of the employee in the progression line who would be eligible to promote to the vacancy created by the volunteer. If the displaced employee has the 1600 Seniority and qualifications, they take the vacancy and allow the volunteer to leave.
B.	Step 2 - If the displaced employee does not have the 1600 Seniority and qualifications to fill the job of the volunteer, and has designated the next lower job as one of their preferences, fill the vacancy through a progression line promotion and then compare the 1600 Seniority of the displaced employee to the 1600 Seniority of the employee in the progression line who would be eligible to promote to the resulting vacancy. If the displaced employee has the 1600 Seniority and qualifications, they take the vacancy and allow the volunteer to leave,
C.	Step 3 - If necessary, continue this process until the displaced employee fits somewhere in the progression line where there is a volunteer holding a job designated by the employee.
If the displaced employee cannot fit into any designated job in the progression line, then there is no appropriate vacancy created and therefore the volunteer cannot leave.
(1)	If Box 6 is available and the employee elects to go to Box 9, there will be no red-tag rate of pay.
(2)	If Boxes 6, 7, or 8 are unavailable or no selection is made in Box 7 or no progression line selected in Box 8, the employee can select from Box 9 at 100% red-tag.
OR
Section 9,	Box 9
If the employee is not handled in Box 8, he then moves to Box 9 selecting a bumpable level job (B-04 and below) by 1600 Seniority or moves to Box 10.
A.	If Box 6 is available and the employee elects to go to Box 10, the employee will assume the rate of the selected job through the pay tapering process,
B.	If Box 7 is unavailable or no location was selected, or if Box 8 was unavailable or no progression line selected or no job was selected in Box 9, the employee moves to Box 10 with 100% red-tag rate of pay.
OR
Section 10.	Box 10
Bump LIFO* employee based on 1600 Seniority and qualifications. The Union will handle employees in Box 10 within 30 days of the date the last displaced employee reaches Box 10. Employees displaced after the 30-day clock starts, if eligible, can go through Boxes 1 to 9 and wait until the current employees in Box 10 are handled. Both parties agree to cooperate in the administration of this process. All employees’ pay and expenses will be paid in accordance with the labor agreement. Employees not handled in Box 10, and who are eligible for a company offer as defined below, will move to Box 11.
Section 11.	Box 11
Except as provided in this section, no regular, full-time employee hired prior to May 18, 1998 who has attained ten (10) or more years of 1600 Seniority, or hired after May 18, 1998 who has attained fifteen (15) or more years of 1600 Seniority, shall be laid off because of a reduction, elimination or reassignment of work, unless the employee has exercised all of his rights under the placement process. In the event of such a reduction, elimination or reassignment of work, the employee will have access to the placement process stated above with 39
pay protection signified by the term "red-tag”. If the employee utilizes the placement process without securing a job, the company will select for the affected employee a job, which may then be available anywhere within the bargaining unit. If the employee selects this offer, their pay will be red-tagged unless previously lost in the placement process. In making such selection, the Company will consider the qualifications of the employee, his residence, his potential for training and contribution to company efforts now and in the future and his 1600 Seniority and that of other employees affected. Moving expenses will be paid by the company in accordance with Article VIII, Section 13. Company offers under this paragraph shall not be subject to Article III of the labor agreement.
*LIFO Eligibility Definition:
Employees hired prior to May 18, 1998 with less than 10 years of 1600 Seniority.
Employees hired after May 18, 1998 with less than 15 years of 1600 Seniority.
Section 12.	Notes
A.	If the employee is bumped in Boxes 3 to 9, go to Section 3 Paragraph A for processing.
B.	If the employee is bumped in Box 10 (LIFO employee), the employee can bump only those with less 1600 Seniority than he has.
C.	A displaced or bumped employee can elect enhanced severance/layoff/retirement at any step of the process.
D.	Any vacancy not created by this process will be filled in the following sequence: 1) recall of displaced employee, 2) progression line promotion/demotion (includes transfers), and 3) post. If a displaced employee is the successful bidder and still has their red-tag, they will be awarded the bid job at their 100% red-tag rate of pay or at the rate of the job if it is higher. If the employee voluntarily leaves this bid job during the probationary period, the employee then becomes displaced and loses the red-tag rate of pay. If the employee involuntarily leaves the bid job, they will keep their 100% red-tag rate of pay.
E.	Employees who reject the Company offer in Box 11 or are unable to select a position in Box 10 will retain their Article II rights.
Section 13.	Associated issues
A.	Recall Rights - employees who are displaced will retain recall rights to their former progression line from which they were displaced for a period of 4 years as provided below. The demotion criteria are no longer applicable for recall.
Employees may be considered for vacancies declared by the Company in either higher, equal or lower job classifications in their former progression line, based on the following order of consideration:
(1)	Same Job Classification - Employees who held the vacant job classifications prior to their placement in another progression line. Employees will be considered based on their Local 1600 Seniority ranking. Employees recalled to their former job will have their previous job seniority date restored.
(2)	Higher or Lower Job Classification - Fill through normal progression line promotion/demotion rules. Fill subsequent vacancies through #1 above.
Employees with return rights may request to be placed in their former progression line in a vacancy in a higher or lower job classification than the one from which they had been displaced if the vacancy is not filled through normal progression line rules. Employees will be considered based on their Local 1600 Seniority. Recall rights will be satisfied if the employee returns to a higher or lower job in the progression line.
These opportunities remain in effect for a period of four years from the date the employee reports to their new job in another progression line, regardless of the number of opportunities extended. However, an
40
employee who refuses recall back to their former job at their former work location will lose their recall
rights.
Returning employees who accept a lower level job in their former progression line will receive job	|
classification seniority credit for the time previously spent in that job classification and will retain their red-	|
tagged rate of pay, if applicable.	।
(3)	In the event the vacancy is not filled pursuant to Paragraphs 1 and 2 above, it will then be posted. If it	|
cannot be filled through the posting process it will be filled through the reemployment provisions.	।
B.	Reemployment - employees, who have been laid off, shall have reemployment rights for 2 years. An	|
employee who refuses a reemployment offer to their former job at their former location will be considered	J
to be resigned.	[
C,	Red-tag - The term Red-tag shall mean the employee’s regular rate of pay shall not be reduced from that	f
which he received in his former job and he will receive all applicable pay increases or portions thereof	|
when the maximum rate of the job he is performing equals or exceeds such pay. Employees who are red-	f
tagged and subsequently bid to a new progression line will retain their red-tagged rate if any of the jobs in that progression line are equal to or higher than their current position. Such employees who return to their former job during their probationary period will retain their red-tagged rate of pay. If a red-tagged employee bids to a progression line/job with no equal or higher job, they will lose their red-tag and will assume the rate of the new job. Such employees who return to their former job during their probationary period will lose their red-tagged rate of pay. Comparisons will be at the top step of the jobs to determine whether it is an equal or higher level job.	i
D.	Bumping Criteria - The bumping criteria for all jobs in Exhibit A will be consistent with the minimum entry	j
requirements as set forth in the job descriptions. Any changes to the testing criteria in the minimum entry	|
requirements are subject to negotiations.	|
E.	Probationary Period - does not apply to jobs accepted through this placement process (including progression line promotions associated with this placement process). Hardships, involuntary demotions and job swaps associated with this process will be handled between the parties on a case-by-case basis.
F.	Pay Taper - employees who have been demoted and who are not red-tagged in connection with a job change as a result of the placement process shall have their salary reduced in 25% increments every 6 months for a period of 18 months in order to reach the appropriate rate of pay of the lower job. The first reduction will occur when the employee physically reports to the job.
G.	Temporary Assignments - displaced employees who are temporarily assigned to a higher rated job will be paid the higher salary after four (4) pay periods of reporting to the job. Displaced employees who are assigned to an equal or lower job will continue to receive their current rate of pay.
H.	Residence Requirements - employees who are handled under the placement process will not be required to move to accept a job with residence requirements.
I.	Service - employees who are laid off and return to employment will not have their Company Service or 1600 Seniority adjusted for the time while on lay off.
J.	Vacation/Mini Vacation - employees headed for lay off will have the option to retain or be paid for their remaining vacation/mini-vacation allotment. The allotment must be utilized/paid by year end.
K.	Time Limits
(1)	Box 1, 2 and 3 - The employee will have a total of five (5) working days to accept or reject their offer after receiving the retirement/severance information and/or all the jobs and locations available in Boxes 2 and 3.
(2)	Box 4, 5, 6 and 7 - The employee will have a total of two (2) working days to accept or reject their offer
after receiving all the jobs made available through boxes 4, 5, 6 and 7.
(3) Box 8 and 9 - The employee will have a total of two (2) working days to accept or reject their offer after
receiving al! the jobs made available through Boxes 8 and 9.
(4)	Box 10- The Union will handle employees in Box 10 within thirty (30) working days of the date the last displaced employee reaches Box 10.
(5)	Box 11 - If an employee with job security has not been handled through the previous boxes, they will receive a Company offer and will have a total of two (2) working days to accept or reject this offer.
L.	Lay Off
<6 Months-Employees with less than six (6) months’ service are subject to lay off without regard to function or departmental manpower requirements. During this six (6) months’ period, the Company shall have the sole and exclusive right to lay off such employee and Article III of the Agreement shall not apply.
>6 Months-Regular, full-time employees covered by this Agreement with six (6)~months’ or more service may be subject to lay off in accordance with this Article.
Notification-The Company will notify full-time employees ten (10) working days, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, prior to the effective date of lay off, provided such employee has attained 6 months of continuous service.
42
Employees with job/pay security
#1 The Company will identify the job classification & location of the excess position(s). ।
Labor Relations gives W day notice to 1600 office. Local Chief ar union rep & j supervisor meet to ID the displaced employee(s). if no agreement 1600 office decides!
within 10 day period. Displaced empfoyee(s) can retire, sever or layoff j
Employees without job/ nay security
,...i.........................
i #2 Canvass all jobs at same i location & same progression i line for volunteers to retire/ i sever to create appropriate vacancy
#3 Displaced employee i	..............................1
must bump junior by	i Displaced employee is j
1600 seniority in same	I placed. Bumped employee ,
job & location. All -Available ► goes to #2 if employee has 4
bumped employees may i	job/pay security, #10 if no
retire, sever, layoff	job/pay security.
........... ........... ............................................
Appropriate Vacancy Found	Not Available
______________________Y..........................
#4 Canvass other preferred locations, same rate or classification, same progression line for volunteers to retire/ sever (must accept if at preferred locations) ...... ............ ~.......... ..............
No Appropriate Vacancy or No Preferred Location ........................YL......................
#5 At next closest location, displaced employee may bump junior 1600 in same classification, same progression line
Appropriate	i
i Displaced employee must accept
■■■■■■ Surnped Employee
Vacancy Found
If Available Bat Declines. No Rec-(ag From Here To End
#8 Canvass all employees for volunteers
j #6 At same work location, displaced
i employee rolls back to next lower job in progression line & bumps most junior by 1600 at 100% red-tag
.....Bumped Employee....
to retire/sever. Displaced; employee selects up to 5 i progression lines designating jobs & locations willing to accept. Employee
selects job that 1600 seniority and
qualifications enable him )■ to take
Not Available ......	.....Y ..............    . #7 At next closest location, displaced employee may rollback to next available lower job in progression line & bump junior by 1600 at 100% red-tag
if Not Available or Not Selected, 100% Red-tag
....i	। ........	.........
,	. , .. J #9 Select bumpable
■or, No Appropriate Vacancy-^
or, No Progression Line Selected
level job
B04 and below)
■Bumped Employee
.~Eumped Employee
(If Box 6 Is available but declined, no Red-tag;
Or (If Boxes 7 & 8 unavailable ar no locatlari/p regress Ion ime/iob selected, i 100% Red-tag If employee lias job/pay security)
Job/Pay Security
#11 Company wilt j make job offer
Y
: If reject Company offer, sever employment
#10 LIFO-Bump employee without job/pay security
No Job/Pay Security
Y
Layoff
Note: This chart is a simplified illustration of the steps in the placement process. The actual, detailed language of the process is controlling in “he even- of any conflict between the two documen’s.
ARTICLE XI SUSQUEHANNA STEAM ELECTRIC STATION
Section 1.	Genera!
A.	As provided herein, this Article XI contains provisions solely for the purpose of operating the Company’s Susquehanna Steam Electric Station (SSES).
B.	At any time the Company determines it will not have a sufficient number of licensed operators for plant operation, the Company reserves the exclusive right to employ or utilize qualified individuals to assume these licensed positions. The employment or utilization of such individuals will have no adverse effect on promotions to Plant Control Operator.
C.	In case of an emergency in which the Company activates the Nuclear Emergency Response Organization (NERO) nothing in the Labor Agreement shall, in any way, inhibit or restrict the Company from taking any action it feels necessary to protect the health and safety of the public or the station’s employees or facilities,
D.	Unescorted Access ~ In order to comply with regulations of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), the Company has developed a “Fitness For Duty Program” and an “Access Authorization Program” for certain employees who work at Susquehanna SES or who otherwise require unescorted access authorization/unescorted access (UAA/UA) as part of their assigned job duties. The Company will discuss with Local 1600 any changes to these programs prior to their effective date. The Company and Union agree upon the following with regard to bargaining unit employees:
1.	Confidentiality of all information obtained during the fitness for duty or security screening process will be protected as described in station procedures in accordance with applicable NRC regulations.
2.	Access Authorization processing for employees with UAA/UA or otherwise seeking UAA/UA will be accomplished in accordance with the Fitness for Duty procedures and Site Access Program procedures. The local union will be notified when a determination is made with regard to the denial or revocation of access of one of their members. The aforementioned decisions are subject to the review and appeal process in accordance with 10CFR Part 76. The provisions of this section of Article XI are intended to deal only with the status of an employee’s UAA/UA. Any discipline imposed as a result of a violation of company policy is not covered by this section and will be addressed in accordance with the appropriate Company policy or procedure,
3.	Every job posting for positions requiring UAA/UA will clearly notify the applicant that the position requires unescorted access authorization and/or unescorted access. During employment interviews, the applicant will be advised that he or she will be subject to a background check, Fitness for Duty (FFD) testing, psychological evaluation and other requirements for the purpose of determining eligibility for UAA/UA, and is required to sign written authorization to this effect.
4.	APPLICATION FOR UAA/UA
a.	Employees within the Company without UAA/UA who apply for a position requiring UAA/UA and are denied UAA/UA will be returned to their former position.
b.	Employees who currently hold UAA/UA and are subsequently denied UAA/UA will be treated as follows:
i.	The employee will have ninety (90) days to address all issues identified as the basis for the denial. During this period the employee may be offered a temporary work assignment by the Company if available. If no work is available, the employee will be removed from duty and will not be paid. The employee will be paid for any hours actually worked as assigned by management.
it.	The employee must reapply for UAA/UA by the end of the ninety (90) day period. If an employee reapplies for UAA/UA and is again denied UAA/UA, the Company will identify any appropriate vacancy in which the employee is qualified and may be placed. The Company
will meet with a representative from the Union to discuss the placement. The employee may choose not to accept the transfer, but if accepted this placement will be final and the employee will have no return right to the previous position. If no appropriate vacancy is identified by the Company or if the employee chooses not to accept an offered position, then the employee will be placed on unpaid status. If no appropriate vacancy was initially identified by the Company, the employee will be considered for appropriate future vacancies for a maximum of six (6) months from the date of the denial. If the employee refuses an offered vacancy, then the Company will have no further obligation to offer any further available positions. If the employee does not receive an offer for a vacant position by the end of the six (6) month period, the employee’s employment will be immediately terminated.
iii	. The time periods set forth in Section D.4.a and b. may be extended by the Company or by agreement of the parties as addressed below.
iv	. The parties agree to meet and discuss whether the issues providing the basis for the denial of UAA/UA can be addressed within the period set forth in paragraph D.4.b.i above, and the parties may mutually agree to extend the time period. If such an extension is agreed upon and after the extended period of time the employee still cannot regain his or her UAA/UA the employee will be handled in accordance with 4.b.ii above.
v.	For employees whose unescorted access authorization is subject to administrative withdrawal because information is received that could impact adversely upon their trustworthiness and reliability or while action is taken to complete or update some element of their unescorted access authorization, the employees will continue to be compensated at their full-time regular pay without any allowance for overtime. During such time, management may at its sole discretion provide work for the employee to perform that does not require UAA/UA.
5.	FITNESS FOR DUTY/BEHAVIOR OBSERVATION PROGRAM
a.	The company currently has in effect a Fitness for Duty (FFD)/Behavior Observation Program (BOP) which complies with applicable NRC regulations. Penalties for confirmed positive drug or alcohol tests as well as any violation of the FFD program will be imposed in accordance with applicable NRC regulations and MA 09-0800. Employees losing UAA/UA as a result of a violation of the Drug and Alcohol or the Behavior Observation programs will be handled in accordance with paragraph 4.b above.
b.	Employees may reapply for UAA after successful completion of any treatment as determined by the Substance Abuse Expert (SAE).
c.	The Company will discuss with the Union any decisions with respect to changes to the Company’s Fitness for Duty/Behavior Observation program prior to the effective date of such changes. The Company shall maintain the sole and exclusive right to determine the employment status of employees refusing to enter, participate in, or be screened as part of the Program and Article III of this Labor Agreement shall not apply. In such cases the employee will be required to provide the Company with a written statement that he/she has refused to participate in the access authorization screening process.
E.	Temporary Positions in Radiation Protection (RP) - The Company may, from time to time, employ Specific Temporary Junior Radiation Protection Technicians and Senior Radiation Protection Technicians. Duties will be limited to the tasks they are qualified to perform as indicated in TMX or applicable equivalent training matrix. The rate of pay for Junior Radiation Protection Technicians will be B-12 1st Step. The rate of pay for Senior Radiation Protection Technicians will be B-14 1st Step. Except as noted above, all other conditions of Article V, Section 4 of the Labor Agreement will apply. This provision shall not restrict the use of contract personnel as provided in Article II, Section 5, Paragraph D.
F.	ALARA “ Work assignments and overtime assignments will be made with consideration given to the radiation exposure level of the employee and the station ALARA goals in addition to other factors such as type of work, skills required and cumulative overtime. Employees who have reached their maximum 45
exposure level or are nearing the level will be reassigned to other work within their job description. If this is not possible, the employee will be assigned other type work with no reduction in salary.
G.	On-Site Inspections ™ Employees will be required to fully cooperate with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission Inspectors and inspectors from other regulatory agencies.
H.	Medical and Psychological Examinations - The Company may require medical and psychological examinations of employees at its discretion and expense.
I.	Handyman Effluents Fire Brigade Bonus - Employees in the classification of Handyman-Effluents at Susquehanna, who have successfully completed Fire Brigade Training will be paid a premium of $3000.00 for such duty. The premium will be paid to the affected employees who hold the classification of Handyman-Effluents on December 31 of each year as a lump sum payable no later than the second pay period of the following year. The $3000.00 premium will be prorated for employees who did not hold the classification of Handyman-Effluents for the entire year. Employees who leave the position of Handyman-Effluents prior to December 31, will not be eligible for any premium payment for that year.
J.	Temporary Promotions to Training Instructor - The Company may, from time to time, promote bargaining unit employees to the non-bargaining unit of Training Instructor. Such assignments may be for a minimum of one week and a maximum of six months. Bargaining unit employees promoted under this provision will remain in the bargaining unit and continue to accrue Local 1600 and job seniority and pay Union dues. Selection will be on a voluntary basis by job classification seniority when fitness and ability among volunteers are substantially equal. Management reserves the right to specify the criteria to be used in selecting individuals for this assignment If there are no volunteers management may use other methods to fill the position. Employees temporarily promoted under this provision shall receive a premium of 15% above their current rate of pay. It shall not be considered a promotion for any employee to assist an Instructor or perform OJT/TPE. This provision does not apply to any employee where classroom training is considered part of the job description or Operations Employees which are covered in Section 2 below,
K.	Temporary Promotions to Supervisor - Non-supervisory employees may be temporarily promoted to supervisory positions for a period of time not to exceed six (6) months from the date of promotion for major overhauls and the refueling process. Such temporary promotions will be limited to the actual period of time required for such events plus a period of time not to exceed three (3) pay periods (42 days) prior to the start of the outage for preparatory work and two (2) pay periods (28 days) following completion of the outage for total associated work. The following conditions will apply for these assignments:
1.	They will sustain no loss in job seniority or bargaining unit service for time spent in the supervisory status.
2.	They will be removed from the call-out roster.
3.	They will continue to pay Union dues at their permanent rate of pay.
Supervisory replacement for substitution purposes will be handled in accordance with Article VI, Section 4, Paragraph A. All other temporary promotions to supervisor will be handled in accordance with Article V.
Section 2.	Operations Employees (Provisions specifically for employees in the Operations Department, both Licensed and Non-Licensed classifications)
A.	Entry, Progression, Licensing, and Requalification of Operations Employees
1.	Except for candidates hired as Plant Control Operator in Training (PCOIT), employees will enter the NPO progression line as an Operations Helper. Upon entering the NPO training class, the employees will be promoted to Nuclear Plant Operator in Training (NPOIT). Upon successful completion of the training program, the employees will be promoted to Nuclear Plant Operator (NPO).
46
2.	All employees entering the NPO line of progression after May 12, 2014 (“New NPOs”) shall be required to progress to Plant Control Operator - Susquehanna (PCO). Employees already in the line of progression as of May 12, 2014 (“Current NPOs”) are not required to progress to PCO.
3.	NPO Progression
a.	NPOIT’s will progress to NPO upon completing all required qualifications in accordance with the station’s Non-Licensed Operator Training Program.
b.	Employees who are unable to complete the program or otherwise fail the training program in accordance with the NPO Training Program Procedures will be demoted to Handyman-Effluents. Such employees may be allowed to re-enter the NPO line of progression only with management’s approval.
4.	Employees in the classification of NPO are required to maintain their qualification. In the event an employee has NPO qualifications that are temporarily suspended or removed the employee will be provided remediation in accordance with station procedures. If an employee is unable to regain the suspended qualifications, the employee’s NPO qualification may be revoked. If revoked, the employee will be demoted to Handyman-Effluents. Such employees may be allowed to re-enter the NPO line of progression only with management’s approval. NPO’s will be paid a lump sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for passing Job Performance Measures and a comprehensive examination on the first try during annual requalification exam.
5.	NRC Initial Licensed Operator Program (ILO)
a.	When management determines to conduct an Initial License Operator (ILO) class, management will fill the training class with NPO’s, other internal candidates (posting) or external candidates as set out below.
i.	The Company will first notify NPO’s prior to the start of training and the NPO’s must then notify the Company within two weeks after receiving notification whether they choose to enter the ILO Training Class.
ii.	If there are not enough NPO volunteers to fill the number of positions set for ILO class, management may post the remaining positions system-wide, select candidates from outside the bargaining unit or may select “New NPO’s” by seniority, starting with the most senior based on job class seniority.
iii.	“New NPO’s” may decline the first offering of attending ILO class, however, such employees must accept any further offer to attend ILO class. “New NPO’s” declining a second offer to attend will be demoted to Handyman-Effluents.
iv.	Candidates selected to enter the ILO class will be promoted to the position of Plant Control Operator in Training (PCOIT).
v.	PCOIT’s will not be eligible for plant related overtime while in ILO class and will be required to make vacation schedule adjustments to coincide with the ILO class schedule.
b.	PCOIT’s and PCO’s are restricted, except by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union, to bid a posted vacancy outside the Susquehanna SES operations progression line for a period of five (5) years following the start of formal operator license training. During this period, these employees are not eligible for a leave provided in Article II, Section 9 of this Agreement
6.	NRC Licensing
a.	Management retains the right to determine if a PCOIT will take the NRC License Examination.
b.	PCOIT’s who successfully pass the NRC Licensed Operator Examination will be promoted to PCO in accordance with the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
7.	Failure to License
a.	A PCOIT who is not selected to take the NRC exam, fails the exam, or is removed at any time prior to taking the exam, is considered to have failed to license.
b.	If there is a concurrent ILO class being conducted the employee may be placed into that concurrent class upon agreement between management and the affected employee. Employees not immediately placed in an existing class will be demoted to NPO provided they have previously held the position. Employees who have not previously held the position of NPO will be demoted to Handyman-Effluents.
c.	If the demoted employee was a “Current NPO” he may re-apply for selection into a future class at management’s discretion.
d.	if the demoted employee was a “New NPO” he may re-apply or may be selected by management to attend a future class.
i.	“New NPO’s” who fail to license a second time will be demoted to Handyman-Effluents.
ii.	“New NPO’s” who fail to license on the first attempt and then decline the second offer will be demoted to Handyman-Effluents.
iii.	“New NPO’s” who decline the first offer, then accept the second offer and then fail the first attempt to license will be demoted to NPO. Should an employee volunteer or be selected to attend ILO class a second time and subsequently fail, the employee will be demoted to Handyman-Effluents,
e.	“New NPO’s” will not be subject to being required to attend ILO class, as long as there continues to be enough volunteers to attend ILO class or management decides to fill remaining positions in ILO class with external candidates.
8.	License Requalification
a.	Plant Control Operators must maintain their operating license in accordance with station procedures.
b.	PCO’s who re-qualify during the annual license requalification will be paid a premium each pay period equal to $1.00 per hour for all hours paid as a PCO. The premium amount will continue until the next annual requalification period. The premium amount will also continue each time the PCO successfully completes the subsequent annual requalification.
c.	In the event an employee’s PCO License Operator qualification is temporarily suspended or removed, the employee will be provided remediation in accordance with station procedures. If an employee is not able to regain the Licensed Operator qualification or the employee’s license is revoked by the NRC, the employee will be demoted to NPO provided the employee previously held the position. Employees who have not previously held the position of NPO will be demoted to Handyman-Effluents. Management retains the right to determine if a PCO who has had his license revoked will be allowed to attend ILO class at a future time. Employees who were promoted to PCO who were previously considered a “New NPO” may be required to attend ILO class again in accordance with section 5, above.
d.	Employees who have had their license revoked and who then attend ILO class a second time, if allowed or required by management, who fail to license or who later lose their license a second time will be demoted to Handyman-Effluents. Such employees will be prohibited from bidding back into the Operator line of progression in Nuclear.
9.	The parties recognize that obtaining a Reactor Operator’s license is a serious commitment by both the Company and the employee. Therefore, employees promoted to PCOIT shall have 6 months from the start of ILO class to make a decision to voluntarily return to his previous
position, if the employee has previously held a position with the Company. Employees who are
promoted to PCO shall have no voluntary return rights to any position.
10.	SRO Progression - Employees entering the Senior Reactor Operator (SRO) license program will be immediately promoted to a position outside the bargaining unit. Such employees may voluntarily return to their previous position in accordance with Article V, Section 2, Paragraph C.2 of the Labor Agreement.
B.	Licensed Operator Class Incentives
1.	No overtime will be paid for study time. Three lump sum payments will be made upon the successful completion of the following exams if passed on the first attempt:
Generic Fundamentals	$2000.00
Systems Finals	$2000.00
Plant Certification	$6000.00
2.	Employees who pass the above exams on a subsequent attempt will receive 50% of the bonus amount for that exam as referenced in Paragraph B.1.
3.	Any employee removed from ILO class or any PCO who is demoted and returns to ILO class is prohibited from receiving any of the bonuses referenced in Paragraph B.1 the employee may have previously received.
4.	Employees promoted to PCO will be paid a lump sum payment of $20,000 upon promotion.
Section 3.	Operations Special Projects and Temporary Promotions
A.	Special Projects - This section addresses any assignment that is off normal shift rotation for a period of greater than 60 calendar days in one calendar year.
1.	Assignments will be for a maximum of two years. After two years the individual must decide to continue in the same assignment, choose another assignment if available or return to shift. Once a job is selected the volunteer is not eligible for other assignments until the two year time period is over. If involuntarily removed from an assignment before two years, the individual will be available to select from the next assignment(s) offered based on seniority. An employee who is involuntary removed due to poor performance will not be allowed the same opportunity without approval by management. Employees may request to be removed from the assignment and will be released when a replacement is selected and turnover is complete.
2.	Whenever an assignment is available, it will be offered on a volunteer basis using IBEW Local 1600 Job Class seniority, when fitness and ability among operators are substantially equal. If no volunteers are obtained, the Company may select the most junior NPO or PCO to fill the position.
3.	Notification of the availability of an off shift assignment will be made to each eligible person via e-mail. Once notified, an answer must be given within 14 working days of the date the e-mail was sent. If no answer is received, this will be considered a refusal.
4.	Vacation picks for off shift assignments shall be selected within the individual off shift group and logged in the appropriate book. These picks will not affect vacation selection for the on-shift operators. If removed from an off shift assignment before the two year period is up, any vacation selected will be granted. If voluntarily removed from the assignment, vacation must be selected from the available vacation in the on-shift vacation book.
5.	Overtime for on-shift coverage will be offered to the on-shift personnel first. Off shift personnel may sign up in the voluntary overtime book and may be selected for on-shift overtime and building coverage in the event there are no on-shift personnel available. They will then be considered for on shift overtime in accordance with the existing callout procedures.
B.	Temporary Promotions - This section provides an alternative means to temporarily promote Operators to perform work normally performed by non-bargaining unit employees. Operators temporarily
promoted under this provision will be allowed to perform the duties of the assignment and still maintain the ability to perform their bargaining unit job function. Operators temporarily promoted under this section will continue to pay union dues and will sustain no loss of Local 1600 or job seniority.
1.	Selection will be on a voluntary basis by job classification seniority when fitness and ability among the volunteers are substantially equal. Management reserves the right to specify the criteria to be used in selecting individuals for the temporary promotion. If there are no volunteers management may use other methods to fill the required position.
2.	An employee who is involuntarily removed due to poor performance will not be allowed the same opportunity without approval by management Employees may request to be removed from the assignment and will be released when a replacement is selected and turnover is complete.
3.	Operators temporarily promoted under this section shall receive a premium of 10% above the employee’s current rate of pay.
4.	The following list provides examples of the type of work that may be assigned under this provision. Prior to adding to the below list, management will discuss the assignment with the chief steward to assure that it is not work normally performed by bargaining unit employees.
a.	Providing oversight of a crew consisting primarily of contractors during outages and other peak work activities.
b.	Performing the duties of the OPCAT position.
c.	Performing the duties of Evolution Coordinator.
d.	Performing duties of System Clearance Holder.
e.	PC or PLC programming, web site programming and/or scripting. Database creation for data tracking and management programs, performance improvement, status control, etc. Includes the creation of support documentation and presentations.
5.	Temporary Promotion to Operations Instructor
a.	Requires a union operator’s involvement for a time period of approximately two years. Operators will remain in the bargaining unit and continue to accrue seniority and pay union dues.
b.	Selection will be on a voluntary basis by job classification seniority when fitness and ability among the volunteers are substantially equal. Management reserves the right to specify the criteria to be used in selecting individuals for the temporary promotion. If there are no volunteers, management may use other methods to fill the required position.
c.	An employee who is voluntarily removed due to poor performance will not be allowed the same opportunity without approval by management Employees may request to be removed from the assignment and will be released when a replacement is selected and turnover is complete.
d.	Notification of the training assignment will be made to each eligible employee via e-mail. Once notified, an answer must be given within 14 working days of the date the e-mail was sent. If no answer is received, this will be considered a refusal.
e.	Vacation picks for training assignments shall be selected within the training group and logged in the appropriate book. These picks will not affect vacation selection for the on~shift operators. If involuntarily removed from a training assignment before the two year period is up, any vacation selected will be granted. If voluntarily removed from the assignment, vacation must be selected from the available vacation in the on-shift vacation book.
f.	Operators promoted under this section to Operations Instructor shall receive a premium of 15% above the employee’s current rate of pay. To be considered a promotion to Operations
Instructor the Operator will normally be assigned to the Training Department to perform the duties of a non-bargaining unit Instructor. It shall not be considered a promotion for any Operator to assist an Instructor with training, validate tests, or perform OJT/TPE.
6.	Temporary Promotions to Operations Procedure Writer - Nuclear Plant Operators who are assigned to the Site Procedure Group to create new procedures where none exist will be paid a premium of 10% above their current rate of pay during this assignment.
7.	Temporary Promotions for ILO Surrogate - Plant Control Operators who are asked to fill in as a surrogate for initial license operator training will be paid an upgrade of 5% above their current rate of pay during this assignment Management may change the schedule of the selected employee to accommodate the training schedule.
Section 4.	Outage Provisions
A.	Outage Schedules - For planned and unplanned outages, a shift schedule may be implemented for employees in the Operations, Radiation Protection, and Nuclear Maintenance Departments. The outage schedule shall consist of five, eight (8) hour days per week with pre-arranged overtime of up to four (4) hours each day, plus turnover time, if required. ST days shall be staggered so that the station achieves a leveled workforce throughout the outage. Pre-arranged overtime may be scheduled on the employees’ ST days except as limited by NRC regulations.
B.	ST Day Compensation - Employees who are not allowed to work both ST days due to NRC regulations will be compensated at the double-time rate of pay for any hours worked on the ST day they do work. Employees not restricted by NRC regulations will be compensated in accordance with Article IV.
C.	Chemistry - During outages, for a period of up to one week prior to breaker opening up to one week following breaker closure, Chemistry Technicians working in the Chemistry Department at SSES may volunteer to work in the RP Department. Duties will be limited to the following: RCA greeter, analysis and calculations required to complete airborne concentration evaluations, assist with routine surveys under the direction of a qualified RP Technician and assist with the issuance of special dosimetry under the direction of a qualified RP Technician. Chemistry Technicians will continue to accrue Chemistry Tech progression line seniority and will not accrue any RP progression line seniority. Chemistry Technicians will continue to be paid at their current rate of pay. Chemistry Technicians will complete the OJT/TPE for the duties specified above. Any qualifications received will be suspended upon completion of the assignment. These qualifications cannot be used to enhance the Chemistry Technicians position in future displacements and/or for bumping purposes. Time and experience will not be accrued to allow any progression beyond the duties specified above. Chemistry Technicians will not be forced to work overtime to cover shifts left vacant by the Chemistry Technicians working in the RP Department. If volunteers cannot be found, the technician will not be released from Chemistry.
Section 5.	Nuclear Maintenance
A. Promotions to Leader - When management determines to promote to a Leader on either a permanent or temporary basis, employees will be selected from the Leader pool based on job classification seniority. Temporary Leader assignments may also require specialty qualifications. (For example, if a temporary Leader position requires the incumbent to be a qualified welder, more senior employees without the welder qualification may be bypassed for selection). Management will notify a Local 1600 Chief Steward if a less senior employee is selected on this basis.
Temporary Leader assignments will be for a minimum of one day to a maximum of six (6) months.
Section 6.	Schedules
To the extent any matter regarding scheduling of employees at SSES is not expressly provided below, these employees at SSES shall be covered by the remainder of the collective bargaining agreement, as applicable.
Rotating Shift Schedules
The parties agree that employees in the Radiation Protection, Operations, and Chemistry progression lines and the Handyman-Effluents classification are considered shift workers and may work schedules of either eight, ten or twelve hour shifts and schedules containing such shifts. All other employees will continue to work schedules in accordance with Article IV.
1.	Normal Schedules
Management will establish a rotational schedule for each of the above groups. Prior to January 1, of each year, management will meet with the affected group to determine if a new rotation is desired by either party. Start times for the 12-hour portions of the schedule will normally begin at 7:00 am or 7:00 pm. Start times for the 5-8’s portion will normally begin at 7.00 am. The Company shall meet and discuss with the Union any decision to make changes to start times for other than a temporary nature.
2.	Temporary Schedule Changes
Temporary changes in start times may be made for business reasons. Changes to schedules may be made in accordance with the provisions of Article IV, Section 3. In addition, temporary changes may be made for the purposes of substitution, System Outage Window, planned or unplanned outages, entering into a limiting condition of operation for whose action statement length is for 72 hours or more or for assignment to special projects. The schedule change may be either to move to one of the 12 hour per day weeks (shift coverage) or to an evening or night shift on the 5-8’s schedule.
Employees on the 5-8’s portion of the schedule will be utilized for schedule changes. If the particular schedule contains a specifically designated Relief Week, employees on the Relief Week will be asked to have their schedule changed. If there are no volunteers from the Relief Week, or if there is no specific Relief Week or there are no more available Relief Week employees, employees on other 5-8’s weeks in the schedule will be canvassed. If there are no volunteers, the least senior qualified employee will be selected. Employees already working on a 12-hour portion of the schedule may be allowed to volunteer for a change in schedule with management’s approval.
Employees scheduled for training may not volunteer to have their schedule changed or be called out for overtime without the approval of management.
Changes other than those described above will be made in accordance with Article IV, Section 4. Employees will be notified by the end of normal day shift Friday the previous week. Employees not notified by this time will be entitled to Shift Change Premium in accordance with Article IV, Section 4, Paragraph A(3).
3,	Overtime
Emergent needs for night shift or weekend coverage of less than a full schedule week may be filled by pre-arranged or callout overtime in accordance with the overtime provisions of Article IV. No employee shall work an overtime shift that subsequently makes that employee unavailable for the employee’s normal shift, without management’s approval.
4.	Pay Practices
a.	The work week is Monday to Sunday. The first working shift will begin at 7:00 pm Sunday night. Accordingly, 7:00 pm is established as midnight for 12-hour rotating shift workers.
b.	Straight time shall be paid for the 12-hour portions of the schedule with overtime at the appropriate rate for all hours worked outside those hours.
c,	Time and one-half shall be paid for all hours worked beyond the fourth hour to the twelfth hour on the fourth 12 hour day in the payroll work week.
d.	During any work week where the scheduled hours are less than 40, straight time will be paid only for those hours worked in the schedule.
e, All hours worked on ST days will be paid at the appropriate rate of pay in accordance with
Article IV, Section 4 of the Agreement.
f.	The last ST day of any payroll week will be designated as the second ST day for the purposes of overtime.
g.	All paid absences, such as vacation, sick time, jury duty and bereavement pay, will be charged and paid at a straight time rate based on the employee’s scheduled shift for that day.
5.	Holiday Pay
a.	When it is an employee’s schedule ST day and the employee does not work the employee will be paid 8 hours of straight time pay for the holiday.
b.	When it is an ST day and the employee works, the number of hours actually worked, which would have been scheduled for the employee if it were a W day or which are scheduled for the employee for whom he is substituting, will be paid at:
i.	Double and one-half time when it is the second ST day in a work week.
ii.	Double time on the first ST day.
All other hours worked will be paid for at double time. In addition the employee will receive 8 hours of straight time for the holiday whether it is the first ST day or the second ST day.
c.	When it is a W day and the employee works, the employee will be paid at time and one-half for the scheduled hours worked. In addition, the employee will be paid at straight time pay for holiday equal to the number of hours the employee was scheduled, i.e., an employee scheduled to work 8 hours on the holiday will receive 8 hours of holiday pay, an employee scheduled to work 10 hours on the holiday will receive 10 hours of holiday pay and an employee scheduled to work 12 hours will receive 12 hours of holiday pay. Any hours worked in excess of the employee’s scheduled hours will be paid at double time.
d.	When it is a W day, and the employee requests to be off and it is approved by the supervisor, the employee will be paid straight time pay for the holiday equal to the number of hours the employee was scheduled for, i.e. an employee scheduled to work 8 hours on the holiday will receive 8 hours of holiday pay, an employee scheduled to work 10 hours on the holiday will receive 10 hours of holiday pay and an employee scheduled to work 12 hours will receive 12 hours of holiday pay.
6.	Vacation
Employees who are left with part-day vacations may schedule such hours during the current year with supervisory approval as a partial day vacation, receive longevity pay or carry over the hours to the next year.
7.	Meals
Employees working a scheduled shift shall provide their own meals. Meal entitlements will be provided for overtime hours worked outside scheduled hours in accordance with Article VIII, Section 5, Paragraph D.
ARTICLE XII
PPL ELECTRIC UTILITIES FIELD SERVICES
This Article XII applies to the following employees in PPL Electric Utilities,
Section 1.	Organization
This article applies only to those employees in PPL Electric Utilities in the progression lines and job titles below. The following progression lines will be systemwide for promotions, demotions, or transfers with roster locations and region assignments for work rights and shipping purposes.
A.	Progression Lines - PPL Electric Utilities
The progression lines covered under this Article for PPL Electric Utilities are as follows:
1.	Field Services - Regional
a.	Mechanical
b.	Electrical
c.	Transmission and Distribution Lines
d.	Equipment Operation
2,	Resource Management - Transportation
a.	Mechanic
b.	Material
B.	Job Classifications
The following job classifications exist in the above progression lines. All future hires, promotions, demotions, or transfers will involve these job classifications.
Electrician Leader-FS-Subs
Electrician Leader-FS-Underground
Electrician Leader-Network
Equipment Operator-FS
Groundhand-FS
Helper-FS-Regional-Electrical-Subs
Helper-FS-Regional-Electrical-Underground/Network (UG/N)
Helper-FS-Regional-Mechanical
Helper-FS-Regional-T&D
Journeyman Electrician-Substation
Journeyman Electrician-Underground/Network (UG/N)
Journeyman Electrician-Trainee-Subs
Journeyman Electrician-Trainee-Underground/Network
Journeyman Lineman-FS
Journeyman Lineman Trainee-FS
Journeyman Mechanic-FS-Regional
Journeyman Mechanic-Trainee-FS-Regional
Laborer-Mechanical
Laborer-Electrical
Lineman Leader-FS
Mechanic Leader-FS-Regional
Transportation Handyman-RM
Transportation Journeyman Mechanic-RM
Transportation Material Handler-RM
Transportation Mechanic-RM
Transportation Mechanic Leader-RM Troubleman-FS
C.	Roster Locations
54
For work assignment purposes, all employees in the above lines of progression will be rostered at one of the following locations.
Field Services - Mechanical & Electrical
Bethlehem Bloomsburg Buxmont Carbondale Cocalico Frackville Hamlin
Harrisburg Hazleton Honesdale Juniata Lancaster Lehigh Montoursville
Orwigsburg	West Shore
Pocono	Wilkes-Barre
Scranton
Sinking Spring
Sunbury
Susquehanna 230Kv Yard
Field Services - Transmission & Distribution
Bethlehem Bloomsburg Buxmont Carbondale Cocalico Elizabethville Frackville Hamlin Harrisburg Hazleton
Honesdale Lancaster Lehigh Lock Haven Marion Heights Montoursville Newport Orwigsburg Panther Valley Pocono
Quarryville Scranton Sinking Spring Sunbury West Shore White Haven Wilkes-Barre
Resource Management - Transportation
Bethlehem	Honesdale
Bloomsburg	Lancaster
Brunner Island SES Lehigh
Buxmont Cocalico Elizabethville Frackville Harrisburg Hazleton
Quarryville
Scranton
Sunbury
Susquehanna SES System Facilities Center West Shore Wilkes-Barre
Lock Haven Martins Creek SES Montour SES Montoursville Newport Pocono
For work assignment purposes of Mechanical & Electrical and Transmission & Distribution employees, the geographic boundaries of the six (6) regions of the service territory will be used. The Susquehanna 230 Kv Switching Station will be considered in the Susquehanna Region for work rights.
Promotions and temporary assignments in the progression lines listed in Paragraph A above will be based on Job Classification Seniority.
D.	Promotional Opportunities
1.	Employees in the Field Services regional progression lines T&D will advance per the 2006 Summary of Agreement Attachment 8 and Letter of Understanding 10-0930,10-0470.
2.	Employees in the Field Services regional progression lines Electrical will advance per the 2006 Summary of Agreement, Attachment 7, 9 and Letter of Understanding 11 -0100, 11 -0090.
3.	Employees in the Resource Management Transportation progression line will advance per the 1998 Summary of Agreement as amended by Memorandum of Agreement 06-0030 and Letter of Understanding 09-0030.
4.	Employees in the Field Service Regional progression line Mechanical will advance per the 2006 Summary of Agreement, Attachment 10.
J
5.	Leader Selection:	j
Promotions to Permanent and Temporary Leader positions in the Electrical, T&D and Mechanical	|
progression lines will be determined by MA 09-1000 and 09-1000A.	I
I
Section 2.	Temporary - Work Assignments	I
I
A.	Intra-Regional/lnter-Regional assignments - assigned to a location other than an individual’s normal	f
work location	|
Intra-Regional and Inter-Regional work assignments outside of an individual’s assigned roster	|
location will be handled in the following manner. If additional personnel are needed at a particular	(
work location, the Company will retain the right to make the sole determination where personnel are	f
needed, what classification of personnel are needed and what roster location or roster locations will	|
supply the personnel.	|
When possible at least one (1) pay period prior to the start of the assignment, the work location supplying the individuals will conduct a canvass identifying interested volunteers.
A canvass form identifying the scope of the work, location(s), targeted start/stop dates and working hours, will be utilized to identify volunteers. The most senior volunteers will be selected.
If no volunteers are identified, the most junior employee by job classification/specialty at the roster location will be assigned.	|
B.	General	|
Work schedules for both Intra-Regional and Inter-Regional temporary work assignments will be determined by management and may be offered in either 5 (five) eight hour days/Monday through Friday or 4 (four) ten hour days/Monday through Thursday or Tuesday through Friday.
Individuals assigned to Intra-Regional and Inter-Regional temporary work assignments will have the option to exempt themselves from the overtime roster at their assigned roster location for the duration of the assignment.
For commutes 30 miles and over, the driver will be paid full commuting mileage from their residence to the work location (no 30 mile deduct). For assignments under 30 miles employees will be compensated per current contract language.
The parties agree to meet on a quarterly basis to discuss issues or concerns around temporary assignments.
C.	Normal Customer Restoration
For Intra-Regional customer restoration assistance started during non-scheduled working hours, crews may be dispatched intact if it is deemed expedient. When no on duty resources are available and additional resources are needed, the appropriate work location roster will be utilized. The Overtime Opportunities Agreement shall apply.
D.	Emergency and Foreign Utility Assignments
When it is necessary to dispatch Local 1600 personnel on emergency inter-regional assistance and foreign utility assistance during scheduled or non-scheduled working hours, or intra-regional assistance during non-scheduled working hours, the Company will retain the right to make the sole determination where personnel are needed, and what classifications of personnel are needed and what roster location or roster locations will supply the personnel Employees will then be selected by job classification/specialty in conjunction with their position an the overtime roster at the time they are to be dispatched. However, for intra-regional and inter-regional emergency assistance
I
I
crews may be dispatched intact if it is deemed expedient by management. Foreign Utility roster use	|
reference Overtime Opportunities Agreement	|
I'
E.	Specialties	f
The recognized specialty of Network will be considered for sending a senior person out or allowing	|
a junior person to remain at their regular work location. If an employee has this specialty, it will be	|
indicated on the work location roster. (Reference 2006 Summary of Agreement). The former	j
Telecommunications specialty designation will be per the 2002 Summary of Agreement.	f
I?
F.	Overtime Procedures	|
MA 13-0520 (Overtime Opportunities Agreement) will remain in effect for alt job classifications	j
covered by that agreement.	j
Transportation will continue to follow MA 12-0220.	j
Section 3.	Staffing
A. Temporary Furlough
In the event the workload declines to a level where there is a need to reduce the workforce,	|
management will identify the excess employees by job classification and roster location. The	|
necessary reductions will be made in the following manner:	|
1.	Voluntary Furloughs: Employees at the identified roster location may volunteer for temporary furlough and they will be released on the basis of their job classification seniority, with senior employee given first choice. Second preference to volunteer will be given to employees in the same progression line at other roster locations and they will be released on the basis of their job classification seniority, with senior employee given first choice. Such temporary furloughs will be for specific time durations and volunteers will return no later than the specified ending date. There is no limit on voluntary furloughs.
2.	Rollbacks: If there are not enough volunteers, employees hired after May 18, 1998, may either bump the most junior employee hired after May 18, 1998, in their job classification and progression line or rollback to lower positions within their progression line based on their Local 1600 Seniority. If they do not bump another employee, they will be assigned to an available Utility Worker position closest to their home based on Local 1600 Seniority. In all cases, the employee will assume the rate of pay for the classification selected. Such employees will be subject to furlough or temporary assignments to other classifications for up to twelve (12) pay periods per rolling year until they attain fifteen (15) years of Local 1600 Seniority.
3.	Employees on furlough will continue to accrue Company Service, Local 1600 Seniority, and receive full benefits, excluding coverage for any injury while working for another employer.
4.	If employees are on furlough or rolled-back in this process, contractors cannot be utilized in such employees’ region or roster location to perform unscheduled, critical work the Company employees would have normally performed for more than five (5) days during any furlough period. If contractors are used and employees are not offered the opportunity to return, such employees will be paid at the rate of pay for their regular classification for all days that contractors work in their region or roster location.
Section 4.	General
A.	Travel Time
Travel time both ways between work headquarters and the job win be considered time worked.
B.	Short Shifting
Employees who have their work schedule changed, per the Labor Agreement, will have at least eight (8) hours of rest at home. They will be released from their regular assignment at the time they are notified. Employees who have their work location changed will have at least eight (8) hours of rest at home before reporting to the new location.
C.	Safety
The parties agree all employees need to be committed to maintain an accident-free environment. No employee will be expected to perform work assignments for which they have not been trained or have an equivalent level of practical experience.
When PPL employees perform work for others, they will follow PPL Safety Rules. In these situations, PPL Energy Control Process procedures will be followed as closely as possible.
When a lineman is working in the danger zone, a second lineman will be at that location.
D.	Training - Transportation
Formal training will be provided to employees at each level of the progression line. Employees will begin training on the appropriate modules when they promote/select the new position. Employees must pass associated module testing in their current position prior to being considered for future promotions. Failure of training modules is not cause for an employee to be removed from their current position and employees who fail may re-test. Training will be completed within four (4) years of the date of promotion/selection. If a vacancy occurs before the employee completes all the modules, he will not be denied the promotion.
E.	Modified Duty
Employees who are released for limited duty by a physician or medical specialist following a period of illness or injury will be considered for available work under the following conditions.
1.	Modified duty resulting from an occupational disease or injury will be provided if the employee is able to perform satisfactorily.
2.	Modified duty resulting from a non-occupational disease or injury may at the Company’s discretion be provided if the employee is able to perform satisfactorily.
Employees who are on modified duty as the result of an occupational disease or injury will have preference for any available work and for assignments closer to their permanent residence.
The rate of pay for employees on modified duty will be determined in accordance with Article VIII, Section 11C. Work assignment and training school expense provisions of this Agreement will apply when an employee is on modified duty. The assignment of overtime will be at the discretion of the Company. This provision for modified duty will not apply when the sickness or injury is the result of willful intention to injure ones self (or some other person), by commission of any crime, or as a consequence of working for an employer other than the Company or working for remuneration through self-employment.
F.	Rescheduling Vacation Day Associated with Rest Period
When an employee works on non-scheduled hours and meets the requirements of Exhibit B prior to a scheduled vacation day, the employee will be entitled to take appropriate rest and reschedule their vacation.
G,	Extended Daylight Coverage
Reference 2006 Summary of Agreement, Attachment 6.
I
ARTICLE XIII	f
EASTERN FOSSIL	& HYDRO ORGANIZATION	|
Section	1.	General	|
This Article applies only to those employees in the Eastern Fossil and Hydro organization.	|
A.	Training Program	[
This Training and Development Program will enable the majority of trainees in the Instrument and	|
Plant Operation Progression Lines to advance to the skilled level over a five-year period. A training	|
period of five years is appropriate for most individuals who possess the aptitude, background and	|
preference for Instrument Man or Plant Equipment Operator type of work.	|
A periodic review between the parties of the PEOT and l&C apprenticeship training programs will be	[
conducted as needed to ensure proper content for/implementation of the training programs.	|
B.	Testing
The tests for the EF&H Operator and Instrument Man progression lines will be the appropriate Edison Electric Institute (EEI) Aptitude tests as validated by EEI, currently the MASS/POSS.
C.	Short Shifting
Employees who have their work schedule changed, per the Labor Agreement, will have at least eight (8) hours of rest at home. They will be released from their regular assignment at the time they are notified. Employees who have their work location changed will have at least eight (8) hours of rest at home before reporting to the new location.
D.	Safety
The parties agree all employees need to be committed to maintain an accident-free environment. No employee will be expected to perform work assignments for which they have not been trained or have an equivalent level of practical experience.
When PPL employees perform work for others, they will follow PPL Safety Rules. In these situations, PPL Energy Control Process procedures will be followed as closely as possible.
The President of Local 1600 shall select the bargaining unit members of joint Safety and Health Committees.
E.	Modified Duty
Employees who are released for limited duty by a physician or medical specialist following a period of illness or injury will be considered for available work under the following conditions:
1.	Modified duty resulting from an occupational disease or injury will be provided if the employee is able to perform satisfactorily.
2.	Modified duty resulting from a non-occupational disease or injury may be provided if the employee is able to perform satisfactorily.
Employees who are on modified duty as the resuit of an occupational disease or injury will have preference for any available work and for assignments closer to their permanent residence.
The rate of pay for employees on modified duty will be determined in accordance with Article VIII, Section 11C. Work assignment and training school expense provisions of this Agreement will apply when an employee is on modified duty. The assignment of overtime will be at the discretion of the Company. This provision for modified duty will not apply when the sickness or injury is the result of willful intention to injurs ones self (or some other person), by commission of any crime, or as a
consequence of working for an employer other than the Company or working for remuneration through self-employment
F.	Temporary Furlough
In the event the workload declines to a level where there is a need to reduce the workforce, management will identify the excess employees by job classification and work location, A temporary furlough is defined as unpaid time off, on a temporary basis, for a projected period of time, for a minimum of thirty (30) calendar days, but not to exceed one hundred twenty (120) calendar days. The company will give employees a ten (10) calendar day notice of temporary furlough status. The company agrees that it will not contract out work at the specific work location, unless:
•	It is work not normally done by the temporarily furloughed bargaining unit employees;
•	It is associated with major plant modifications or major projects; or
•	There is unscheduled, critical work not lasting more than ten (10) calendar days. If contractors are utilized and exceed ten (10) calendar days, and affected employees are not offered the opportunity to return, such employees will be paid at the rate of pay for their regular classification for all days in excess of the ten (10) days that the contractors work at their specific work location. This payment will be made in the first pay period upon return to work.
1,	The process for employee selection for temporary furlough status will be as follows:
a.	The company will inform Local 1600 of the number of employees by job classification within their respective progression lines to be temporarily furloughed and the qualifications within the classifications that must be retained. This notification will be completed at least five (5) calendar days prior to the notification to the affected employee(s).
b.	The company will ask for volunteers in those classifications identified. The company reserves the right to reasonably deny volunteer requests based on qualifications needed to complete remaining work. Whenever qualifications are equal, Local 1600 seniority will be utilized.
c.	If the company cannot meet the requirements of the needed reductions with volunteers, then the employee with the lowest Local 1600 seniority in the identified classifications will be temporarily furloughed.
d.	Employees identified for temporary furlough will be allowed to “bump” into lower classifications within their progression line and work location, provided they have the qualifications based on training requirements to perform the work. Employees who bump down in classification will retain their current rate of pay. Step increases will not be deferred. During a temporary furlough status, apprenticeship and/or training programs may be suspended.
e.	For those employees identified for temporary furlough, either volunteers or non-volunteers, they will continue to receive full time benefit plans contained in Exhibit N, excluding coverage for any injury while working for another employer, The company will pay the employee contribution for medical, dental, vision, life and AD&D while on unpaid temporary furlough status, based on employee elections at the time of temporary furlough. These employees will also continue to earn company seniority, Local 1600 seniority and job classification seniority on a continuous basis throughout the period of temporary furlough.
f.	Employees may elect to use vacation while on temporary furlough, sell it back, reschedule during the current calendar year or carry vacation over to the following year. Employees will continue to accrue vacation while on temporary furlough.
g.	Employees may elect to use mini vacation while on temporary furlough. In the event the temporary furlough extends into the new calendar year, employees will be paid for mini vacation in excess of the maximum allowable carryover upon return to work. Employees will continue to accrue mini vacation while on temporary furlough.
60
2.	Recall from temporary furlough status
a. Employees will be recalled from temporary furlough status based on the following:
i.	The company will inform Local 1600 of the classification(s) and qualifications needed for its operations.
ii.	Then, the recalls will be based on Local 1600 seniority, recalling the most senior qualified employee first The company will provide ten (10) calendar days’ notice for an employee recall. However, if the Company recalls employees due to unscheduled, critical work, only five (5) days’ notice will be provided. In this situation, if employees do not return to work on the specified date, the “rate of pay” penalty will not apply to the respective employee. Employees will be notified by their current phone number on record, and a certified letter will be sent to employees. (It is the employee’s responsibility to ensure that the company has accurate contact information).
If an employee is recalled from temporary furlough status in accordance with the original projection, and the employee does not return to work on the specified date of recall, the company will consider the employee to have voluntarily terminated employment, absent a valid illness, accident or emergency.
When an employee is recalled back to work prior to the end of the projected temporary furlough period, the employee must make every reasonable attempt to meet this return date. However, if an employee cannot meet this return date, the parties agree to meet and discuss on a case-by-case basis.
Section 2. Field Services Generation
This section applies only to those employees in Field Services Generation holding the job titles listed below.
The following progression lines will be systemwide for promotions, demotions, or transfers with roster location assignments for work rights and shipping purposes.
A.	Progression Lines
The progression lines are: Field Services Generation-Electrical, Field Services Generation-Mechanical, Field Services Generation-Electrical-Shift and Field Services Generation-Mechanical-Shift
B.	Job Descriptions
The following job classifications exist in the above progression lines. All future hires, promotions, demotions, or transfers will involve these job classifications,
Electrician Leader-FS Generation
Electrician Leader-FS Generation-Shift
Electrician-FS Generation
Electrician-FS Generation-Shift
Generation Planner-F$ Generation-Electrical
Generation Planner-FS Generation-Electrical-Shift
Generation Planner-FS Generation-Mechanical
Generation Planner-FS Generation-Mechanical-Shift
Helper-FS Generation-Electrical
Helper-FS Generation-Electrical-Shift
Helper-FS Generation-Mechanical
Helper-FS Generation-Mechanical-Shift
Journeyman Electrician-FS Generation
Journeyman Electrician-FS Generation-Shift
Journeyman Mechanic-FS Generation
Journeyman Mechanic-FS Generation-Shift	j
Mechanic-FS Generation	I
Mechanic-FS Generation-Shift	j
Mechanic Leader-FS Generation	[
Mechanic Leader-FS Generation-Shift	j
Utility Worker-FS (Not attached to a progression line)	|
C.	Roster Locations	|
For work assignment purposes, all employees in the above lines of progression will be rostered at	I
one of the following locations. Management will determine appropriate staffing levels at each roster	(
location.	|
Brunner Island Unattached
Montour
Unattached Roster
The Unattached Roster will not be attached to any specific plant roster location. Employees assigned to the Unattached Roster will not have work rights to any roster and they will not have work rights before contractors are used at any location, except as set forth in Article II, Section 5, Paragraph D. Their assigned work location may be changed at any time.
1,	Employees on the Unattached Roster will not be paid commuting mileage if they live within 30 miles of their assigned work location based on the most direct route. For commutes over 30 miles, the driver will be paid full commuting mileage from their residence to the work location (no 30 mile deduct). Car pool rules will apply. If the work assignment is 70 or more one-way miles from the employee’s residence, the employee will be eligible for the per diem in accordance with Exhibit E of the Labor Agreement
2.	a. Employees on the Unattached Roster prior to 8/16/12 will be part of the FS Gen systemwide Mechanical/Electrical 9-year incumbent progression line.
Employees entering the Unattached Roster 8/16/12 and after with commitment letters to the FS Gen Shift progression line will be part of the FS Gen 9-year incumbent progression line until they are assigned to their respective commitment location on the Shift progression line.
b.	Unattached Roster employees going to the FS Gen Shift progression line will start their new progression line date when they enter the line.
c.	Employees on the Unattached Roster will not be required to meet residency requirements.
3.	All employees on the Unattached Roster must be able to obtain and retain site access to the SSES plant and agree to work at SSES as assigned. Loss of clearance will be handled on a case by case basis between the parties.
4.	Staffing - New Helpers will be hired into the Unattached Roster into the FS Generation Electricai/Mechanical or Electrical/Mechanical-Shift progression lines. The first and second Helper vacancies shall be filled by a newly hired employee. The third vacancy shall be posted systemwide for all employees. If no one successfully bids the third vacancy, a new employee will be hired (Article V, Section 2, Paragraph M (3)).
5.	Hiring Unattached for Future Roster/Shift Positions - All newly hired Unattached Roster personnel will be designated for future roster/shift positions on one of the Shift progression lines at Brunner Island or Montour. During the hiring process for the Unattached Roster personnel, each individual will be designated for a specific plant roster/shift position, based on their home residence in proximity to a specific plant location.
£ I I a. This designation will be reviewed with the employee during the hiring process and	|
documented on a Roster/Progression Line assignment form. The employee's signature will	|
indicate concurrence.	j
b.	As openings occur on plant rosters, personnel from the Unattached Roster will be offered the	|
positions based on progression line seniority. If transfer requests are on file, the positions will	j
be filled in accordance with Article V, Section 2, Paragraph D. If the positions are not filled	j
through this process, the junior pre-designated Unattached Roster personnel will be placed in	J
the positions. (After being placed in the new roster/shift position, the employee retains the	|
right to request a transfer per Article V, Section 2, Paragraph D). Vacancies not filled by this	|
process will be filled in accordance with Article V, Section 2, Paragraph M (3) of the Labor	j
Agreement	|
c.	The signed forms and a database will be maintained for pre-designating newly hired	|
Unattached Roster personnel to a plant roster/shift position. Copies of the signed forms will
be sent to IBEW Local 1600.	\
Article X will apply to employees assigned to the Unattached Roster. For the purposes of Article X, for displaced Unattached Roster employees, the “same work location” refers to the Unattached Roster, the “next closest work location” refers to the work location closest to the employee’s residence where the job exists and their Local 1600 seniority allows them to bump. The Unattached Roster can be designated as a “preferred” location for displaced employees.
D.	Promotions and temporary assignments in the progression lines listed in Paragraph A above will be	(
based on Job Classification Seniority.
E.	Work Assignments
1.	Temporary Assignments
Field Services Generation employees will have work rights on their plant rosters according to job classification seniority. Shipment of employees outside of their plant roster will be according to job classification seniority. No plant roster can be both a sender and receiver of employees of like rates/skills. However, for assignment in or out of Susquehanna SES, management will select employees based on NRC requirements, such as, security clearance, radiation exposure, literacy requirements. The parties recognize the special requirements needed to work at Susquehanna SES; therefore, due to an inability to gain access to SSES, it may be necessary to send employees to an alternate roster. Contractors may be assigned to a roster to perform unscheduled, critical work for no more than seven (7) calendar days while employees assigned to those rosters are shipped out with no penalty. If contractors remain on site past the seven (7) calendar days but not to exceed fourteen (14) calendar days, the employee that is shipped out of their roster will receive an additional $100 per day penalty for the days in excess of seven (7) calendar days. If the contractor remains on site past fourteen (14) calendar days the individual that is shipped out of their roster will receive the $100 per day penalty for the entire time the contractor is on site, starting from day one. Payments to individuals will be based on the same number of employees as there are contractors on site by Local 1600 seniority.
The parties recognize that situations may occur where it is necessary to take immediate action to restore or maintain operating capacity of a generating station. In these situations, employees may be required to remain at a work assignment outside their roster while other employees are brought in with like skills. Under these circumstances, the employees will remain outside their roster for a period normally not to exceed seven (7) days and shall not exceed fourteen (14) calendar days. Those employees who remain outside their roster during this period will be eligible for travel time and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses including mileage, meals, and lodging where applicable for any days of the assignment in excess of seven calendar days.
General
Employees will be temporarily assigned to other work locations in PPL’s service territory as necessary. For non-service territory work, the Company will provide the Union with timely
notification of the work location and entire scope of the work. For this work, the Company will maintain volunteer lists of employees and will conduct another canvas for volunteers for each job. For voluntary assignments outside the service territory, the senior-most qualified volunteer will be sent first. If sufficient volunteers are not secured, the junior people by job classification systemwide will be assigned to the job. Employees assigned to this work will have the option to return home on a biweekly basis paid for by the Company. The parties also agreed to meet to discuss enhancements to encourage people to volunteer.
2.	Specialties
The recognized specialties that will be considered for sending a senior person out or allowing a junior person to remain at their regular work location are welding, machining, electronics and equipment operation. If an employee has one or more of these specialties, it will be indicated on the work location roster.
The number of specialties will be designated for each region. Employees can apply for these specialties and selections will be based on seniority and demonstrated ability. Employees desiring to obtain a specialty will be given the opportunity based on the need within a classification. Employees will communicate their interest in a specialty by letter to management with a copy to the Local Union stating their classification and the specialty desired. Upon an anticipated need for the specialty within a classification, management will train the employee based on seniority in the classification of those who have submitted a request.
Employees who desire to discontinue their specialty status will submit a letter to management with a copy to the Local Union stating their intent to discontinue the specialty and reasons for the request. Requests for certified medical reasons will be granted. Other requests to discontinue a specialty will be granted based on securing a trained replacement.
3.	Overtime Procedures for Field Services Generation
With respect to overtime opportunities, the parties will continue to abide by Arbitrator Skonier’s Award in Case No. 14 300 01900 10 CNN (G10-GO-14, MA 06-1360), and the guidelines and process for establishing and modifying such guidelines that has been followed since that award was issued.
4.	Call-out Response
Employees who exhibit a poor call-out response shall be subject to Article VI, Section 5, Paragraph J, and Article VIII, Section 2, Paragraph F, of the Labor Agreement
F.	Staffing
1.	Utility Worker Pool
The parties agree to establish a pool of temporary employees, Utility Worker, to replace contractors performing Building Custodian, Handyman-Power Production and laborer-type work. This pool will also provide opportunities for employees covered under Article XIII when their workload declines and it is necessary to temporarily reduce the work force. This provision will replace the use of Specific Temporaries in Article XIII.
New employees will be hired to work as Utility Workers. Their Local 1600 Seniority will be the date of hire regardless of the number of layoffs and such employees are eligible to bid on posted jobs while actively employed. In the event a period of layoff exceeds thirteen (13) pay periods a new Local 1600 Seniority date will be established. They are not eligible for benefits and travel expenses nor guaranteed forty (40) hours per week. Utility Workers will receive the same employee benefits and entitlements as defined in Article V, Section 4, Paragraph A as Specific Temporary employees. If an employee is bumped by an Article XIII employee, they can bump other Utility Workers with less Local 1600 Seniority.
The intent of this concept is to replace the contractors doing this work with Local 1600
employees.
When regular Article XIII employees are assigned to this pool, they will be given the Utility Worker position closest to their home by Local 1600 Seniority and will continue to receive benefits and travel expenses in accordance with the Labor Agreement.
Utility Workers on layoff will have reemployment opportunities before a new employee is hired into the Utility Worker Pool.
2.	Temporary Promotions
Employees will be temporarily promoted to meet Field Services Generation welding needs.
3.	Temporary Promotion to Supervisor
Non-supervisory employees may be temporarily promoted to supervisory positions in accordance with Article V, Section 2, Paragraph C(1) a, b.
G.	General
1.	Jobs Postponed or Canceled
Whenever crews report for regular work and the job is canceled or postponed, they will be given First Aid, Safety, or other instructions or other work, and will be allowed, provided they accept miscellaneous assignments, a minimum pay for that day equal to the pay for eight (8) hours at straight time rates.
Whenever crews report for prearranged overtime work and the job is canceled or postponed they will be given First Aid, Safety, or other instructions or other work, and will be allowed, provided they accept miscellaneous assignments, a minimum pay for that day equal to the pay for four (4) hours at straight time rates. If the employee accepts the cancellation of prearranged overtime and elects not to report to work, the minimum compensation shall not apply. Employees who report for work and are not offered any other assignments will be eligible for the minimum compensation.
2.	Travel Time
Travel time both ways between work headquarters and the job will be considered time worked.
3.	Training
The parties agree to establish joint management/bargaining unit teams to assess training courses and develop new mechanical and electrical progression line training curriculums commensurate with the FS-Generation Job descriptions. The teams will recommend those core training courses where successful course completion is a pre-requisite for promotion to the next step in the progression line. The union and company will agree on the number of team members.
As the employee completes various training modules associated with the respective levels in the progression line, the job duties will be based on the training given and the satisfactory completion of the training modules.
An employee who cannot successfully complete the training required for promotion to the next step will be held in the current step. Within a period of 6 months, this person will be allowed to retake the tests necessary for promotion. If unsuccessful on a second attempt to pass these tests, specifics of the case will be reviewed by the parties.
ARTICLE XIV CUSTOMER CARE CENTER
Section 1.	General
A.	The parties recognize that transition to a non-regulated energy market will require the Company to develop new facilities, work groups, job descriptions, rates of pay, benefits and appropriate work practices.
B.	Currently, the Company is contracting out (outsourcing) the telemarketing functions while they explore and analyze the possibility to internally develop an infrastructure to support these functions.
C.	Experience with this effort will be evaluated through July 1999, If it is determined that such work will continue to be required, steps will be taken to transition the work back to Local 1600, commencing no later than July 31, 1999. When this occurs, the new telemarketing job description, rate of pay, benefits, and other work practices will become effective.
Section 2.	Operating Rules and Understandings
A.	Overtime will be paid for time worked over eight (8) hours per W-day (Monday through Saturday) and hours worked on ST-days.
B.	Call-out and prearranged rosters will be established by Local 1600 and the Company. In the event agreement is not reached, Exhibit H will be utilized.
C.	The ratio of Customer Agents to Lead Customer Agents will be normally ten (10) and up to fifteen (15) to one (1). If beyond fifteen (15), another Lead will be established.
D.	Customer Care Center jobs will be considered bumpable level jobs per the Labor Agreement. Any employee who bumps into the Customer Care Center must be qualified and have successfully passed the appropriate job qualification test. Pay tapering will apply to employees electing these jobs.
E.	Customer Care Center employees having four (4) years of uninterrupted Local 1600 service within the Care Center progression line will be able to utilize the placement process per Article X. Time spent out of the line for the following reasons will not be considered a break in service, but will not be credited to the four (4) year period:
(1)	Bidding on posted positions and returning within six (6) month probationary period
(2)	Military leave of absence
(3)	Personal leave of absence
(4)	Child care leave of absence
(5)	Medical leave of absence
(6)	Union leave of absence
This language will not restrict the employees’ option to bump within the Care Center before meeting the four (4) year eligibility requirement. Any employee entering the Care Center with Article X rights will retain those rights.
F.	If reductions occur within the Customer Care Center, employees will have the option to bump within the Customer Care Center by Local 1600 Seniority. The most junior bumped employee will be laid off unless there are contractors working whose work they can perform or they can bump a junior part-time employee working in the Customer Care Center. If the person affected was hired prior to May 18, 1998, they can exercise their displacement rights in accordance with Article X.
G.	All Customer Agents, Lead Customer Agents and Call Center Representatives will be subject to silent call monitoring, remote call monitoring and side by side call monitoring in accordance with the law.
H.	In the event the senior Customer Agent is assigned to substitute for a Lead Customer Agent for any reason, the substitute will be paid the appropriate CC-03 rate of pay if the substitution extends beyond one (1) day within the work week.
I.	While it is not the intent to fully staff the Customer Care Center with part-time employees, part-time employees will be utilized to efficiently address the work load and Company recruiting needs. Part-time
employees will not be scheduled to work less than two (2) hours a day or more than twenty (20) hours a week. In the case of job sharing, part-time workers will not exceed 25% of the total full-time staffing level by job classification.
J.	Employees will be offered the opportunity to bid and test for the positions of Customer Agent-Billing and Customer Agent-Calls semi-annually (every 6 months) in June and December. When a position vacancy occurs (determined by the approval date of the personnel requisition), it will first be offered to employees who have submitted a request for a lateral transfer, if no candidates accept or exist, the position will then be offered to the bidders who have successfully passed all of the required tests, and the Call Center Representatives, according to IBEW Local 1600 seniority. Employees who have submitted their bids but have not completed al! of the required tests will have to wait until the next available vacancy after all of the required tests are completed.
K.	The parties agree to jointly develop all appropriate job qualification tests,
L.	All provisions of the Labor Agreement will apply unless modified by the above rules.
ARTICLE XV
TERM OF AGREEMENT
Section 1.	Governmental Agencies
A. If any part of this Agreement requires submission to and/or the approval of any governmental agency, the Company and the Union agree to cooperate in complying with the requirements of any such governmental agencies. It is understood and agreed that all such benefits, or portions thereof, as are required to be submitted to a governmental agency, for approval or rejection or modification, shall be contingent upon and subject to, the action of such governmental agency. If such governmental agency should grant only a portion of such benefits or should deny to the Company the right to grant any portion of such benefits, this Agreement shall nevertheless remain in effect as so modified for the full term hereof.
Section 2.	Term of Agreement
A.	This Agreement shall become effective May 12, 2014. It shall remain in full force and effect up to and including May 21, 2017, except to the extent provided in Paragraph B below, and shall continue in full force and effect from year to year thereafter, unless at least sixty (60) days prior to any expiration date either party notifies the other, in writing, of its desire to amend or to terminate the Agreement.
B.	Should the parties fail to reach an agreement by May 21, 2017, the expiration date of this Agreement notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the Company shall not be obliged to make premium payments under the various benefit plans on behalf of employees who are on strike for the duration of the strike.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused these presents to be subscribed this 14th day of May, 2014.
RFC.Corporation	'
* Stephen R. Russo
Senior Vice President-^R&S and Chief Human Resources Officer
PPL Services Corporation, Acting as Agent for PPL Corporation
LOCAL UNION 1600 OF INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
Michael W. Wert
President-Financial Secretary
Exhibit A
Job Titles, Job Codes & Salary Grades
Incumbent only
Job Title	Job Code	Salary Grade
		
Abstract & Survey Assistant	8901	B15
		
Administrative Support Clerk	3262	CC2
		
AMR System Operator	4100	B09
		
Apprentice Operator Cash Receipts	3121	KE1
		
Assembler	5735	B04
		
Bookkeeper	4605	B11
		
Bookkeeper Senior	4708	B12
		
Call Center Representative	3260	CC1
		
Cash Receipts Leader	3123	B09
		
Chemistry Technician Helper Susquehanna	8735	B08
		
Chemistry Technician Level 1 Susquehanna	8732	B15
		
Chemistry Technician Level II Susquehanna	8733	B77
		
Clerk Cash Receipts	2813	B01
		
Coal Equip. Operator 1	6405			B05
		
Coal Equip. Operator II	6408	B08
		
Coal Equip. Operator III	6409	B09
		
Coal Equip, Operator IV	6411	B11
		
Combined Cycle Technician	3871	B16
		
Communications Maintenance Technician	8930	B14
		
Communications Maintenance Tech, Assistant	4930	B11
:Crane Operator			6437 :	B08	
					
Customer Agent - Billing							3263 :	CC2		—
Cusiumer /Xgenc - Cails			—			3261	CC2	
69
		
Customer Contact Representative	4511	B10
		
Customer Representative A	4211	CS3
		
Customer Representative B	3911	CS2
		
Customer Service Assistant 1	5267	CC2
		
Customer Service Assistant 11	5268	B01
		
Customer Service Assistant 111	5269	B03
		
Customer Service Clerk*	3606	CS1
		
Customer Service Representative	4200	CS3
		
Customer Service Representative Shift	4201	CS4
		
Data Acquisition & Translation Operator	3579	B09
		
Designer Drafting	9010	B16
		
Development Assistant-Training Center	4330	B08
		
Distribution Service Representative	4450	B09
		
Distribution Technician	2787	A10
		
Distribution Technician Trainee	2777	A10
		
Drafter Level 1	4110	J01
		
Drafter Level II	4610	J 02
		
Effluents Technician 1	2843	B08
		
Effluents Technician II	2842	B11
		
Electric Equip. Repairman 1st Class	8442	B13
		
Electric Equip. Repairman 2nd Class	8443	B09
		
Electric Equip. Repairman 3rd Class	8444	B06
		
Electric Equip. Repairman Leader	8543	B15
		
Electrical Test Technician	2796	A12
		
Electrical Test Technician-EF&H	5166	B16
		
Electrical Test Technician -Trainee	2766	A12
		
Electrical Test Technician-Trainee-EF&H	5167	A12	i
	 	 	 			
Electrician - FS Generation	3286	F04. F05 or F06 i
Electrician - FS Generation-Shift	4820	F04, F05 or F06
		
Electrician-Nuclear	6013	F05( F06, or F07
		
Electrician Leader - FS Generation				3282		F13	
Electrician Leader - FS Generation-Shift	4821	F13
		
Electrician Leader - FS - Network			4317		F12	
Electrician Leader - FS - Subs						4338				F12	
Electrician Leader-FS - UG									4313			F12	
Electrician Leader-Nuclear	6017	F14
		
Engineering Design Technician	2781	A10
		
Engineering Design Technician Trainee	2771	A10
		
Enrollment/Billing Clerk	3590	KE1
		
Equipment Operator - FS			___		3243		 F07 			
Expenditure Requisition Clerk	4513	B09
		
Facilities Management Worker	4597	F01
		
Facilities Management Worker-Part time	4598	F01
		
Facilities Worker-Peaking Power	5183	F01
		
Facilities Technician 1	4599	B58
		
Facilities Technician II	4600	B10
		
Facilities Technician III	4601	B12
		
Facility Records Specialist	3861	B08
		
Field Meter Technician	 		5307		B15	
Fire Protection Specialist			8713		B12	
Fossil Fuels Clerk	4340	B08
		
General Utility Man	3080	B15
		
G e n era 1 U ti 1 i ty M a n Spec j alistMart ins Creek	5123	F12
Generation Planner-Electrical-FS Generation	4577	F11
		
Generation Planner-Electrical-FS Generation-Shift	4822	F11
^Generation Planner-MechanicaLFS Generation
Generation Planner-Mechanical-FS Generation-Shift	4823	F11
		
Groundhand - FS	4321	F21
		
Handyman Brunner Island/Montour	4612	B03
		
Handyman Effluents	 		2847		B04	
Handyman Power Production		5862		B03	
Handyman System Shops	4001	B03
		
Helper Effluents	2846	BOS
		
Helper-Eiectrical-Nuclear	6011	F03
		
Helper - FS Generation - Electrical	3290	F03
		
Helper - FS Generation - Electrical-Shift	4824	F03
		
Helper - FS Generation - Mechanical	3289	F03
		
Helper - FS Generation - Mechanical-Shift	4825	F03
		
Helper - RM - Material			 		3293		F03
Helper - FS - Regional - Electrical - Subs	4323	A07 (Step 1 only)
		
Helper - FS - Regional - Electrical - UG		 		4324	A07 (Step 1 only)
Helper - FS - Regional - Electrical - UG - Network	4325	A07 (Step 1 only)
		
Helper - FS - Regional - Mechanical			3291	A07 (Step 1 only)
Helper - FS - Regional T&D	 	 		3288	AQ8 (Step 1 only)
Helper-Mechanical-Nuclear	6010	F03
		
Holtwood Specialist - Electrical	5393	F10
		
Holtwood Specialist - Electrical-Trainee	5394	A13
		
Holtwood Specialist Lead Operator	5392	F11
		
Holtwood Specialist-Mechanical	5395	F10
		
Holtwood Specialist - Mechanical-Trainee	5396	A13
		
Holtwood Specialist ™ Operations	5397	F10
		
Holtwood Specialist - Operations-Trainee	5398	A13
		
■nstmment & Control Technician Helper Susq.	8770	BOS
Instrument & Control Technician •	i Susq.	8766	B14	'
Instrument & Control Technician Level II Susq.	8767	;	Bi6 		
		
Instrument Man	8660	A05
		
Instrument Man Trainee	8661	A05
		
Insulation Technician	2786	A12
		
Insulation Technician Trainee	2776	A12
		
Insulation Test Assistant	3797	B35
		
Journeyman Electrician - FS Generation	3284	F07, F08or F10
		
Journeyman Electrician - FS Generation-Shift	4826	F07, F08 orF10
		
Journeyman Electrician - Network	4332	A07 (Step 7 only)
		
Journeyman Electrician-Nuclear	6015	F08, F09, orF11
		
Journeyman Electrician - Substation	4326	A07 (Step 7 only)
		
Journeyman Electrician - Trainee - Subs	4328	A07 (Steps 2-6 only)
		
Journeyman Electrician - Trainee -- N	4333	A07 (Steps 2-6 only)
		
Journeyman Electrician - Trainee - UG	4331	A07 (Steps 2-6 only)
		
Journeyman Electrician ~ UG	4329	A07 (Step 7 only)
		
Journeyman Lineman - FS	3246		A08 (Step 7 only)	
		
Journeyman Lineman Trainee - FS	4339	A08 (Steps 2-6 only)
		
Journeyman Mechanic - FS Generation	3278	F07, F08 orF10
		
Journeyman Mechanic - FS Generation-Shift	4827	F07, F08 orF10
		
Journeyman Mechanic - FS - Regional	3279	A07 (Step 7 only)
		
Journeyman Mechanic-Nuclear	6014	F08, F09, or F11
		
Journeyman Mechanic Trainee - FS - Regional	4341	A07 (Steps 2-6 only)
		
Junior Radiation Protection Technician	6019	B13
		
Junior Radiation Protection Technician - Instruments	6021	B14
		
Lab Worker-Metering Support	4120	B07
		
Laboratory Svcs. Assistant	5145	B06
		
Laboratory Technician 1		608	i
		
Laboratory Technician h	IT ?	BOQ	■
Laboratory Technician 111	5153	B11
		
Laboratory Technician IV	5154	B15
			 	
Laborer-Mechanical	4337	F21
		
Laborer-Network	4335	F21
		
Laborer-Substation	4334	F21
		
Laborer-Underground	4336	F21
		
Lead Customer Agent - Billing	3265	CC3
		
Lead Customer Agent - Calls	3264	CC3
		
Licensed Operator Candidate	8979	B15
		
Line Clearance Inspector	2985	B12
		
Line Maintenance Inspector	2995	B10
		
Lineman Leader - FS	3249	F12
		
Logistics Worker	4134	B03
		
Logistics Worker - GO*					4176		B03	 J
Maintenance Clerk Generation		 		4316		 B06
Maintenance Technical Clerk	4314	B08
		
Martins Creek Mechanic *	4602	F06
		
Martins Creek Specialist	4664	F10
		
Material Clerk - Generation	4318	B09
		
Material Clerk - Generation-Shift	4871	B09
		
Material Clerk - Metering Support	4119	B09
		
Material Clerk Specialist	 		3460		B12	
Material Handler - RM	3250	F07
		
Mechanic - FS Generation	3280	F04, F05 or F06
		
Mechanic - FS Generation-Shift	4828	F04, F05 or F06
		
Mechanic - Nuclear	6012	F05, F06, or F07
		. i
Mechanic Leader- FS Generation	3276	F13	I
Mechanic Leader- FS Generation-Shift		F13	i
		
Maecanic Leader- FS - Regional		F12	;
		
Mechanic Leader-Nuclear	6016	F14
		
Mechanic/Welder Building Department	6538	B09
		
Messenger	6040	B05
		
Meter Installer 1st Class	8336	B12
		
Meter Technician	2782	A12
		
Meter Technician Trainee	2772	A12
		
Nuclear Fuel Cycle Clerk	4614	B10
		
Nuclear Information Services Technician	3794	B11
		
Nuclear Plant Operator Susquehanna	8790	B20
		
Nuclear Plant Operator in Training (NPOIT)	8794	B19
		
Nuclear Systems Clerk	4621	B10
		
Operating Experience Coordinator	4117	B13
		
Operations Assistant-Level II	4398	B08
		
Operations Support Clerk	3750	B08
		
Operations Support Specialist	3765	B10
		
Operator Cash Receipts	3122	KG2
		
Operator Cash Receipts/lncumbent	3814	C04
		
Operator Helper Susquehanna	8793	B08
		
Operator Office Svcs./Incumbent*	3816	C04
		
Operator-Output Center/Records Center	4730	B06
		
Operator-Output Center/Records Center-Incumbent *	4731	B08
		
Peaking Power Specialist	3584	F09
		
Performance Technical Clerk	4310 		B08
		
Planning Technician	2780	A10
		
Planning Technician Trainee	2770	A10
..		
Plant Chemical Technician	3893	B13
		
Plant Control Operator	3970	B14	i
		
Plant Control Operator Brunner island	0972		 B14	1
		
Plant Control Operator Hydro	8971	B14
		
Plant Control Operator Martins Creek	8973	B14
		
Plant Control Operator Susquehanna	8974	B24
		
Plant Control Operator in Training (PCOIT)		8976		B21		
Plant Control Specialist Martins Creek	5121	F11
		
Plant Equip. Operator	8787	B13
		
Plant Equip. Operator Trainee	8788	A06
		
Power Production Trainer (Temporary Position Only)	9001	BT1
		
Predictive Specialist-Electrical-FS Generation	4579	F11
		
Predictive Specialist-Mechanical-FS Generation	4580	F11
		
Print Technician-Printing Services *	2837	B08
		
Property Maintenance Repairer			5510		B08	
Protection & Control Technician*	2795	A10
		
Protective Equip. Tester	3054	B06
		
Purchasing Clerk	4518	B08
		
Quality Assurance Clerk	4530	B08
		
Radiation Protection Technician Helper	6018	B07
		
Relay & Protection Technician 		2783		A10	
Relay & Protection Technician Trainee	2773	A10
		
Repairer Recording Demand Equip. & Instruments	8236	B11
		
Results Analyst	8170	B11
		
Senior Clerk	4623	B10
		
Senior Customer Service Representative	5270	CR1
		
Senior Drafter	8910	B14
		
Senior Effluents Technician	4212	B73
		
Senior Fossil Fuels Clerk	4350	B09
		
Senior Lab Worker - Metering Support	4118	B09	i
	 	 . .			i
Senior Laboratory Svcs. Assistsn:	5150	B07	i
Senior Logistics Worker - GO*			4175	B04
				
Senior Prot. Equip. Tester			3055	808
				
Senior Radiation Protection Technician			6020	B18
				
Senior Radiation Protection Technician - Instruments			6022	B76
				
Senior Technical Assistant Susquehanna	-		7961	B10
				
Senior Technical Assistant-Radiologic. & Environ. Svcs.			7956	B12
				
Senior Technical Clerk			4426	B09
				
Senior Tool Repairer			3790	B10
				
Senior Tractor Trailer Operator			8045	B09
				
Service Tech			6241	B08
				
Service Tech-Entry			4866	B05
				
Serviceman (1520)*			7010	B08
				
Specific Temporary - Clerk/Steno			3305	KE1 (Step 1 only)
				
Specific Temporary - FS			4311	FOO
				
Specific Temporary Junior Radiation Protection Technician			6023	B22
				
Specific Temporary - Logistics Worker			4135	B03 (Step 1 only)
				
Specific Temporary - Operating I			5505	B02 (Step 1 only]	
				
Specific Temporary - Operating II			5805	B03 (Step 1 only) I
				
Specific Temporary Senior Radiation Protection Technician			6024	B23
				
Steno/Clerk Entry			3221	KE1
				
Steno/Clerk General-C			3819	C03
				
Steno/Clerk General-KG			3222	KG2
				
Steno/Clerk General-SG			4975	SG2
				
Stockman - Generation			6045	B07
				
Stockman - Generation-Shift			4872	B07
i Student Technician	: 2719 ;	A99		
			
Surveyor imvei i	\ ZKh [		BOB	i
			
iSurveyc' L.eveI I;	285/		B10	i
	 ■■ 	 ■ 						
System Leader	3619	B15
		
System Planning Clerk	4440	B08
		
System Trainer	3646	B12
		
Technical Assistant Susquehanna	7960	B08
		
Technical Asst. Radiolog. & Environ. Svcs.	7955	B11
		
Technical Clerk - Chemical Laboratory	4005	B09
		
Technical Clerk Specialist	3865	B10
		
Technical Helper - Radiolog. & Environ. Svcs.	3530	B07
		
Technical Records Analyzer & Coder	4570	B11
		
Technical Records Input Operator*	4370	B08
		
Technical Support Specialist	3760	B10
		
Technical Technician Training Assistant	3636	BT1
		
Telecommunications Technician	2789	A10
		
Telecommunications Technician Trainee	2779	A10
		
Temporary Customer Agent	4869	CC2
		
Temporary Maintenance Coordinator	3629	F12
		
Tool & Material Clerk	3745	B07
		
Tool & Material Clerk - Logistics	4585	B07
		
Tool & Material Svcs. Leader	3770	B13
		
Tool & Material Svcs. Leader - EF&H	3942	B13
		
Tool & Material Svcs. Leader-EF&H-Shift	4870	B13
		
Tool & Material Support Clerk	3755	B09
		
Tool Repairer-1 st Class	3791	B09
		
Tool Repairer-2nd Class	3792	B08
		
Tractor Trailer Operator	8042	B08
		
Transportation Handyman - RM	3253	F02
		
Transportation Journeyman Mechanic - RM	0204	F08i
Transportation Material Handler - RM		F05	i
Transportation Mechanic - RM		3256		 F04	
Transportation Mechanic Leader - RM	3257	F10
		
Troubleman - FS	3258	F11
		
Universal Services Representative	4727	CS3
		
Utility Man Martins Creek	3071	B43
		
Utility Man Shift	3073	B43
		
Utility Man Yard - BRU/MON	3589	B14
		
Utility Man Yard - MC	3588	B13
		
Utility Worker A-FS	3259	F01
		
Utility Worker B - FS	3364	F01
		
Utility Worker C - FS	3365	F01
		
Utility Worker - FS (Non-Drivers)	3429	F01
			
Exhibit A-2014
Effective 5-12-14
A" SALARY TABLE IBEW Local 1600
For Jobs as Defined in Apprentice Training Programs Progression Schedule* of Weekly and Hourly Rates
GROUP	1ST STEP	2ND STEP	3RD STEP	4TH STEP	5TH jjtEP	6TH STEP
A05	957.60 23.940 55.00%	1131.72 28.293 65.00%	1305.80 32.645 75.00%	1479.92 36.998 85.00%	1654.04 41.351 95.00%	1741.08 43.527 100.00%
A06	1044.48 26.112 65.00%	1157.00 28.925 72.00%	1269.48 31.737 79.00%	1381.96 34.549 86.00%	1494.44 37.361 93.00%	1606.92 40.173 100.00%
A07	1031.32 25.783	1130.48 28.262	1243.04 31.076	1355.52 33.888	1467.96 36.699	1580.44 39.511
	7TH STEP					
	1643.52 41.088					
A08	1031.32 25.783	1130.48 28.262	1243.04 31.076	1355.52 33.888	1467.96 36.699	1580.44 39.511
	7TH STEP 1666.32 41.658					
A10	1218.76 30.469 70.00%	1349.32 33.733 77.50%	1479.92 36.998 85.00%	1610.48 40.262 92.50%	1741.08 43.527 100.00%	
A12	1265.80 31.645 70.00%	1401.40 35.035 77.50%	1537.04 38.426 85.00%	1672.64 41.816 92.50%	1808.28 45.207 100.00%	
A13	1088.08 27.202 65.00%	1255.48 31.387 75.00%	1422.88 35.572 85.00%	1548.40 38.710 92.50%	1673.96 41.849 100.00%	
A99	560.00
14.000
* Time intervals between steps are defined in Apprentice Programs
Normally a year between steps.
Effective 5-12-14		"B" SALARY TABLE Progression Schedule* of Weekly and Hoi		IBEW Local 1600	
GROUP	Time and Merit I 1ST STEP			trly Rates 4TH STEP	5TH STEP
		2ND STEP	3RD STEP		
B01	669.64	703.20	736.64	770.24	803.52
	16.741	17.580	18.416	19.256	20.088
B02	736.64	770.24	803.52	837.40	870.40
	18.416	19.256	20.088	20.935	21.760
B03	803.52	837.40	870.40	903.88	937.96
	20.088	20.935	21.760	22.597	23.449
B04	870.40	903.88	937.96	971.20	1004.32
	21.760	22.597	23.449	24.280	25.108
B05	937.96	971.20	1004.32	1037.80	1071.08
	23.449	24.280	25.108	25.945	26.777
B06	1004.32	1037.80	1071.08	1104.44	1138.28
	25.108	25.945	26.777	27.611	28.457
B07	1071.08	1104.44	1138.28	1171.84	1205.40
	26.777	27.611	28.457	29.296	30.135
B08	1138.28	1171.84	1205.40	1238.92	1272.36
	28.457	29.296	30.135	30.973	31.809
B09	1205.40	1238.92	1272.36	1305.56	1339.20
	30.135	30.973	31.809	32.639	33.480
B10	1272.36	1305.56	1339.20	1372.92	1406.40
	31.809	32.639	33.480	34.323	35.160
B11	1339.20	1372.92	1406.40	1439.88	1473.04
	33.480	34.323	35.160	35.997	36.826
B12	1406.40	1439.88	1473.04	1506.84	1540.28
	35.160	35.997	36.826	37.671	38.507
B13	1473.04	1506.84	1540.28	1573.40	1606.92
	36.826	37.671	38.507	39.335	40.173
B14	1540.28	1573.40	1606.92	1640.24	1673.96
	38.507	39.335	40.173	41.006	41.849
B15	1606.92	1640.24	1673.96	1707.08	1741.08
	40.173	41.006	41.849	42.677	43.527
B16	1673.96	1707.08	1741.08	1774.60	1808.28
	41.849	42.677	43.527	44.365	45.207
B17	1741.08	1774.60	1808.28	1841.52	1874.92
	43.527	44.365	45.207	46.038	46.873
B18	1606.92	1640.24	1673.96	1707.08	1915.20
	40.173	41.006	41.849	42.677	47.880
B19	1741.08	1774.60	1808.28	1841.52	
	43.527	44.365	45.207	46.038	
B20	1885.20				
	47.130				
B21	2073.68				
	51.842				
B22	1406.40				
	35.160				
B24	2208.16 55.204	2241.48 56.037	2274.76 56.869	2308.08 57.702	2341.52 58.538
B35	1506.36 37.659	1540.88 38.522	1575.32 39.383	1608.84 40.221	1643.52 41.088
B58	937.96 23.449	971.20 24.280	1004.32 25.108	1037.80 25.945	1071.08 26.777
	6TH STEP	7TH STEP	8TH STEP	9TH STEP	10TH STEP
	1104.44 27.611	1138.28 28.457	1171.84 29.296	1238.92 30.973	1272.36 31.809
B73	1620.36 40.509				
B76	1841.36 46.034				
B77	1915.20 47.88				
B78	1988.96 49.724				
BT1	1848.08 46.202				
*Time Intervals between steps -13 pay periods
Effective 5-12-14
"CC” SALARY TABLE
IBEW Local 1600
Time and Merit Progression Schedule* of Weekly and Hourly Rates
GROUP	1ST STEP	2ND STEP
CC1	540.52	573.08
	13.513	14.327
CC2	589.52	638.64
	14.738	15.966
CC3	736.96	835.08
	18.424	20.877
CR1	1383.64 34.591	
*Time intervals between steps -13 pay periods
"CS" SALARY TABLE
Time and Merit Progression Schedule* of Weekly and Hourly Rates
GROUP	1ST STEP	2ND STEP	3RD STEP	4TH STEP	5TH STEP
CS1	669.68 16.742	737.00 18.425	803.68 20.092	870.68 21.767	937.96 23.449
CS2	933.68 23.342	970.12 24.253	1017.32 25.433	1071.08 26.777	1111.20 27.780
CS3	1037.80 25.945	1084.64 27.116	1133.28 28.332	1184.20 29.605	1238.92 30.973
CS4	1171.84 29.296	1205.40 30.135	1238.92 30.973	1272.36 31.809	1305.56 32.639
CS5	1424.80
35.620
*Time intervals between steps -13 pay periods
Effective 5*12-14	”F” SALARY TABLE Weekly and Hourly Rates		IBEW Local 1600
GROUP	RATE	GROUP	RATE
FOO	493.60 12.340	F08	1540.28 38.507
F01	710.24 17.756	FOO	1643.52 41.088
F02	937.96 23.449	F10	1673.96 41.849
F03	1031.32 25.783	F11	1690.84 42.271
F04	1271.44 31.786	F12	1778.76 44.469
F05	1339.16 33.479	F13	1841.36 46.034
F06	1420.20 35.505	F14	1857.72 46.443
F07	1473.04 36.826	F21	777.52 19.438
"J" SALARY TABLE
Time and Merit Progression Schedule* of Weekly and Hourly Rates
GROUP	1ST STEP	2ND STEP	3RD STEP	4TH STEP	5TH STEP
J01	1004.32	1037.80	1071.08	1104.44	1138.28
	25.108	25.945	26.777	27.611	28.457
	6TH STEP	7TH STEP			
	1171.84	1205.40			
	29.296	30.135			
	1ST STEP	2ND STEP	3RD STEP	4TH STEP	5TH STEP
J02	1272.36	1305.56	1339.20	1372.92	1406.40
	31.809	32.639	33.480	34.323	35.160
	6TH STEP	7TH STEP	8TH STEP	9TH STEP	
	1439.88	1473.04	1506.84	1540.28	
	35.997	36.826	37.671	38.507	
*Time intervals between steps -13 pay periods
Effective 5-12-14	"K" SALARY TABLE	SBEW Local 1600
Time and Merit Progression Schedule* of Weekly and Hourly Rates
GROUP	1ST STEP	2ND STEP	3RD STEP	4TH STEP	5TH STEP
KE1	672.80	704.28	735.56	766.84	798.28
	16.820	17.607	18.389	19.171	19.957
KG2	715.20	744.56	773.60	805.16	837.16
	17.880	18.614	19.340	20.129	20.929
	6TH STEP	7TH STEP	8TH STEP	9TH STEP	10TH STEP
	870.84	904.84	948.88	992.52	1036.40
	21.771	22.621	23.722	24.813	25.910
KG4	766.84	798.28	829.44	863.20	897.64
	19.171	19.957	20.736	21.580	22.441
	6TH STEP	7TH STEP	8TH STEP	9TH STEP	10TH STEP
	933.68	970.12	1017.32	1064.16	1111.20
	23.342	24.253	25.433	26.604	27.780
*Time intervals between steps -13 pay periods
Effective 5-12-14	”SG” SALARY TABLE	SBEW Local 1600
Time and Merit Progression Schedule* of Weekly and Hourly Rates
GROUP	1ST STEP	2ND STEP	3RD STEP	4TH STEP	5TH STEP
SG2	721.56	732.40	743.36	754.52	765.84
	18.039	18.310	18.584	18.863	19.146
	6TH STEP	7TH STEP	8TH STEP	9TH STEP	10TH STEP
	777.32	788.96	800.80	812.84	825.00
	19.433	19.724	20.020	20.321	20.625
"AVERAGE” SALARY TABLE
Represents the Mean of the Two Salary Table Groups Shown Time and Merit Progression Schedule* of Weekly and Hourly Rates
GROUP	1ST STEP	2ND STEP	3RD STEP	4TH STEP	5TH STEP
B43	1506.68	1540.12	1573.60	1606.84	1640.44
(Formerly B14/13)	37.667	38.503	39.340	40.171	41.011
*Time intervals between steps -13 pay periods.
Effective 5-12-14
tBEW Local 1600
MISCELLANEOUS SALARY TABLES FOR INCUMBENTS ONLY
WEEKLY/HOURLY RATES
SALARY TABLE & GROUP	1ST STEP	2ND STEP	3RD STEP	4TH STEP	5TH STEP
CO1	0.00	0.00	0.00	0.00	937.96
	0	0	0	0	23.449
CO3 (1)	936.76	998.96	1030.08	1092.96	1155.56
	23.419	24.974	25.752	27.324	28.889
C04	1004.32	1071.08	1104.44	1171.84	1238.92
	25.108	26.777	27.611	29.296	30.973
6TH STEP
(1) Time intervals between steps -13 pay periods Promotion from C01 to C03 is to the first step of C03
Exhibit A-2015
Effective 5-11-15
A" SALARY TABLE	IBEW Local 1600
For Jobs as Defined in Apprentice Training Programs Progression Schedule* of Weekly and Hourly Rates
GROUP	1ST STEP	2ND STEP	3RD STEP	4TH STEP	5TH STEP	6TH STEP
A05	981.52	1160.00	1338.44	1516.92	1695.36	1784.60
	24.538	29.000	33.461	37.923	42.384	44.615
	55.00%	65.00%	75.00%	85.00%	95.00%	100.00%
A06	1070.60	1185.88	1301.20	1416.48	1531.80	1647.08
	26.765	29.647	32.530	35.412	38.295	41.177
	65.00%	72.00%	79.00%	86.00%	93.00%	100.00%
A07	1057.12	1158.76	1274.12	1389.40	1504.64	1619.96
	26.428 7th STEP 1684.60 42.115	28.969	31.853	34.735	37.616	40.499
A08	1057.12	1158.76	1274.12	1389.40	1504.64	1619.96
	26.428 7th STEP 1707.96 42.699	28.969	31.853	34.735	37.616	40.499
A10	1249.24 31.231 70.00%	1383.08 34.577 77.50%	1516.92 37.923 85.00%	1650.76 41.269 92.50%	1784.60 44.615 100.00%	
A12	1297.44 32.436 70.00%	1436.44 35.911 77.50%	1575.44 39.386 85.00%	1714.48 42.862 92.50%	1853.48 46.337 100.00%	
A13	1115.28 27.882 65.00%	1286.84 32.171 75.00%	1458.44 36.461 85.00%	1587.12 39.678 92.50%	1715.80 42.895 100.00%	
A99	560.00
14.000
*Time intervals between steps are defined in Apprentice Programs.
Normally a year between steps.
Effective 5-11-15
“B” SALARY TABLE
IBEW Local 1600
	Time and Merit Progression Schedule*		of Weekly and Hourly Rates		
GROUP	1ST STEP	2ND STEP	3RD STEP	4TH STEP	5TH STEP
B01	686.40 17.160	720.80 18.020	755.04 18.876	789.48 19.737	823.60 20.590
B02	755.04 18.876	789.48 19.737	823.60 20.590	858.32 21.458	892.16 22.304
B03	823.60 20.590	858.32 21.458	892.16 22.304	926.48 23.162	961.40 24.035
B04	892.16 22.304	926.48 23.162	961.40 24.035	995.48 24.887	1029.44 25.736
B05	961.40 24.035	995.48 24.887	1029.44 25.736	1063.76 26.594	1097.84 27.446
B06	1029.44 25.736	1063.76 26.594	1097.84 27.446	1132.04 28.301	1166.72 29.168
B07	1097.84 27.446	1132.04 28.301	1166.72 29.168	1201.12 30.028	1235.52 30.888
B08	1166.72 29.168	1201.12 30.028	1235.52 30.888	1269.88 31.747	1304.16 32.604
B09	1235.52 30.888	1269.88 31.747	1304.16 32.604	1338.20 33.455	1372.68 34.317
B10	1304.16 32.604	1338.20 33.455	1372.68 34.317	1407.24 35.181	1441.56 36.039
B11	1372.68 34.317	1407.24 35.181	1441.56 36.039	1475.88 36.897	1509.88 37.747
B12	1441.56 36.039	1475.88 36.897	1509.88 37.747	1544.52 38.613	1578.80 39.470
B13	1509.88 37.747	1544.52 38.613	1578.80 39.470	1612.72 40.318	1647.08 41.177
B14	1578.80 39.470	1612.72 40.318	1647.08 41.177	1681.24 42.031	1715.80 42.895
B15	1647.08 41.177	1681.24 42.031	1715.80 42.895	1749.76 43.744	1784.60 44.615
B16	1715.80 42.895	1749.76 43.744	1784.60 44.615	1818.96 45.474	1853.48 46.337
B17	1784.60 44.615	1818.96 45.474	1853.48 46.337	1887.56 47.189	1921.80 48.045
B18	1647.08 41.177	1681.24 42.031	1715.8 42.895	1749.76 43.744	1963.08 49.077
B19	1784.60 44.615	1818.96 45.474	1853.48 46.337	1887.56 47.189	
B20	1932.32 48.308				
B21	2125.52 53.138				
B22	1441.56 36.039				
1578,80
B24	2263.36 56.584	2297.52 57.438	2331.64 58.291	2365.80 59.145	2400.04 60.001
B35	1544.00	1579.40	1614.72	1649.08	1684.60
	38.600	39.485	40.368	41.227	42.115
B58	961.40	995.48	1029.44	1063.76	1097.84
	24.035	24.887	25.736	26.594	27.446
	6TH STEP	7TH STEP	8TH STEP	9TH STEP	10TH STEP
	1132.04	1166.72	1201.12	1269.88	1304.16
	28.301	29.168	30.028	31.747	32.604
B73	1660.88 41.522
B76	1887.40 47.185
B77	1963.08 49.077
B78	2038.68 50.967
BT1	1894.28 47.357
'Time intervals between steps -13 pay periods
Effective 5-11-15
"CC" SALARY TABLE
IBEW Local 1600
Time and Merit Progression Schedule* of Weekly and Hourly Rates
GROUP	1ST STEP	2ND STEP
CC1	554.04	587.40
	13.851	14.685
CC2	604.24	654.60
	15.106	16.365
CC3	755.40	855.96
	18.885	21.399
CR1	1418.24 35.456	
*Time intervals between steps -13 pay periods
”CS" SALARY TABLE
Time and Merit Progression Schedule* of Weekly and Hourly Rates
GROUP	1ST STEP	2ND STEP	3RD STEP	4TH STEP	5TH STEP
CS1	686.44 17.161	755.44 18.886	823.76 20.594	892.44 22.311	961.40 24.035
CS2	957.04 23.926	994.36 24.859	1042.76 26.069	1097.84 27.446	1139.00 28.475
CS3	1063.76 26.594	1111.76 27.794	1161.60 29.040	1213.80 30.345	1269.88 31.747
CS4	1201.12 30.028	1235.52 30.888	1269.88 31.747	1304.16 32.604	1338.20 33.455
CS5	1460.44
36.511
*Time intervals between steps »13 pay periods
Effective 5-11-15	”F" SALARY TABLE Weekly and Hourly Rates		IBEW Local 1600
GROUP	RATE	GROUP	RATE
FOO	505.96 12.649	F08	1578.80 39.47
F01	728.00 18.200	F09	1684.60 42.115
F02	961.40 24.035	F10	1715.80 42.895
F03	1057.12 26.428	F11	1733.12 43.328
F04	1303.24 32.581	F12	1823.24 45,581
F05	1372.64 34.316	F13	1887.40 47.185
F06	1455.72 36.393	F14	1904.16 47.604
F07	1509.88 37.747	F21	796.96 19.924
"J" SALARY TABLE
Time and Merit Progression Schedule* of Weekly and Hourly Rates
GROUP	1ST STEP	2ND STEP	3RD STEP	4TH STEP	5TH STEP
J01	1029.44	1063.76	1097.84	1132.04	1166.72
	25.736	26.594	27.446	28.301	29.168
	6TH STEP	7TH STEP			
	1201.12	1235.52			
	30.028	30.888			
	1ST STEP	2ND STEP	3RD STEP	4TH STEP	5TH STEP
J02	1304.16	1338.20	1372.68	1407.24	1441.56
	32.604	33.455	34.317	35.181	36.039
	6TH STEP	7TH STEP	8TH STEP	9TH STEP	
	1475.88	1509.88	1544.52	1578.80	
	36.897	37.747	38.613	39.470	
*Time intervals between steps -13 pay periods
Effective 5-11-15
"K" SALARY TABLE
iBEW Local 1600
Time and Merit Progression Schedule* of Weekly and Hourly Rates
GROUP	1ST STEP	2ND STEP	3RD STEP	4TH STEP	5TH STEP
KE1	689.64	721.88	753.96	786.00	818.24
	17.241	18.047	18.849	19.650	20.456
KG2	733.08	763.16	792.96	825.28	858.08
	18.327	19.079	19.824	20.632	21.452
	6TH STEP	7TH STEP	8TH STEP	9TH STEP	10TH STEP
	892.60	927.48	972.60	1017.32	1062.32
	22.315	23.187	24.315	25.433	26.558
KG4	786.00	818.24	850.16	884.80	920.08
	19.650	20.456	21.254	22.120	23.002
	6TH STEP	7TH STEP	8TH STEP	9TH STEP	10TH STEP
	957.04	994.36	1042.76	1090.76	1139.00
	23.926	24.859	26.069	27.269	28.475
*Time intervals between steps -13 pay periods
Effective 5-11 -15	"SG” SALARY TABLE	IBEW Local 1600
Time and Merit Progression Schedule* of Weekly and Hourly Rates
GROUP	1ST STEP	2ND STEP	3RD STEP	4TH STEP	5TH STEP
SG2	739.60	750.72	761.96	773.40	785.00
	18.490	18.768	19.049	19.335	19.625
	6TH STEP	7TH STEP	8TH STEP	9TH STEP	10TH STEP
	796.76	808.68	820.84	833.16	845.64
	19.919	20.217	20.521	20.829	21.141
"AVERAGE" SALARY TABLE
Represents the Mean of the Two Salary Table Groups Shown Time and Merit Progression Schedule* of Weekly and Hourly Rates
GROUP	1ST STEP	2ND STEP	3RD STEP	4TH STEP	5TH STEP
B43	1544.36	1578.64	1612.96	1647.00	1681.44
(Formerly B14/13)	38.609	39.466	40.324	41.175	42.036
*Time intervals between steps -13 pay periods.
Effective 5-11-15
IBEW Local 1600
MISCELLANEOUS SALARY TABLES FOR INCUMBENTS ONLY
WEEKLY/HOURLY RATES						
SALARY TABLE & GROUP	1ST STEP	2ND STEP	3RD STEP	4TH STEP	5TH STEP	6TH STEP
CO1	0.00	0.00	0.00	0.00	961.40	
	0	0	0	0	24.035	
CO3(1)	960.16	1023.92	1055.84	1120.28	1184.44	
	24.004	25.598	26.396	28.007	29.611	
CO4	1029.44	1097.84	1132.04	1201.12	1269.88	
	25.736	27.446	28.301	30.028	31.747	
(1) Time intervals between steps -13 pay periods Promotion from C01 to C03 is to the first step of C03
Exhibit A-2016
Effective 5-09-16
"A” SALARY TABLE
IBEW Local 1600
For Jobs as Defined in Apprentice Training Programs Progression Schedule* of Weekly and Hourly Rates
GROUP	1ST STEP	2ND STEP	3RD STEP	4TH STEP	5TH STEP	6TH STEP
A05	1008.52 25.213 55.00%	1191.88 29.797 65.00%	1375.28 34.382 75.00%	1558.64 38.966 85.00%	1742.00 43.550 95.00%	1833.68 45.842 100.00%
A06	1100.04 27.501 65.00%	1218.48 30.462 72.00%	1336.96 33.424 79.00%	1455.44 36.386 86.00%	1573.88 39.347 93.00%	1692.36 42.309 100.00%
A07	1086.20 27.155	1190.64 29.766	1309.16 32.729	1427.60 35.690	1546.00 38.650	1664.52 41.613
	7th STEP 1730.92 43.273					
A08	1086.20 27.155	1190.64 29.766	1309.16 32.729	1427.60 35.690	1546.00 38.650	1664.52 41.613
	7th STEP 1754.92 43.873					
A10	1283.56 32.089 70.00%	1421.12 35.528 77.50%	1558.64 38.966 85.00%	1696.16 42.404 92.50%	1833.68 45.842 100.00%	
A12	1333.12 33.328 70.00%	1475.96 36.899 77.50%	1618.76 40.469 85.00%	1761.60 44.040 92.50%	1904.44 47.611 100.00%	
A13	1145.96 28.649 65.00%	1322.24 33.056 75.00%	1498.56 37.464 85.00%	1630.76 40.769 92.50%	1763.00 44.075 100.00%	
A99
560.00
14.000
*Time intervals between steps are defined in Apprentice Programs.
Normally a year between steps.
Effective 5-09-16
B” SALARY TABLE
IBEW Local 1600
Time and Merit Progression Schedule* of Weekly and Hourly Rates
GROUP B01	1ST STEP 705.28 17.632	2ND STEP 740.64 18.516	3RD STEP 775.80 19.395	4TH STEP 811.20 20.280	5TH STEP 846.24 21.156
B02	775.80 19.395	811.20 20.280	846.24 21.156	881.92 22.048	916.68 22.917
B03	846.24 21.156	881.92 22.048	916.68 22.917	951.96 23.799	987.84 24.696
B04	916.68 22.917	951.96 23.799	987.84 24.696	1022.84 25.571	1057.76 26.444
B05	987.84 24.696	1022.84 25.571	1057.76 26.444	1093.00 27.325	1128.04 28.201
B06	1057.76 26.444	1093.00 27.325	1128.04 28.201	1163.16 29.079	1198.80 29.970
B07	1128.04 28.201	1163.16 29.079	1198.80 29.970	1234.16 30.854	1269.48 31.737
BOS	1198.80 29.970	1234.16 30.854	1269.48 31.737	1304.80 32.620	1340.04 33.501
B09	1269.48 31.737	1304.80 32.620	1340.04 33.501	1375.00 34.375	1410.44 35.261
B10	1340.04 33.501	1375.00 34.375	1410.44 35.261	1445.92 36.148	1481.20 37.030
B11	1410.44 35.261	1445.92 36.148	1481.20 37.030	1516.48 37.912	1551.40 38.785
B12	1481.20 37.030	1516.48 37.912	1551.40 38.785	1587.00 39.675	1622.20 40.555
B13	1551.40 38.785	1587.00 39.675	1622.20 40.555	1657.08 41.427	1692.36 42.309
B14	1622.20 40.555	1657.08 41.427	1692.36 42.309	1727.48 43.187	1763.00 44.075
B15	1692.36 42.309	1727.48 43.187	1763.00 44.075	1797.88 44.947	1833.68 45.842
B16	1763.00 44.075	1797.88 44.947	1833.68 45.842	1869.00 46.725	1904.44 47.611
B17	1833.68 45.842	1869.00 46.725	1904.44 47.611	1939.48 48.487	1974.64 49.366
B18	1692.36 42.309	1727.48 43.187	1763.00 44.075	1797.88 44.947	2017.08 50.427
B19	1833.68 45.842	1869.00 46.725	1904.44 47.611	1939.48 48.487	
B20
B21
1985.44
49.636
2183.96
54.599
1622.20
40.555
B24	2325.60 58.14	2360.72 59.018	2395.76 59.894	2430.84 60.771	2466.04 61.651
B35	1586.48 39.662	1622.84 40.571	1659.12 41.478	1694.44 42.361	1730.92 43.273
B58	987.84 24.696	1022.84 25.571	1057.76 26.444	1093.00 27.325	1128.04 28.201
	6TH STEP 1163.16 29.079	7TH STEP 1198.80 29.970	8TH STEP 1234.16 30.854	9TH STEP 1304.80 32.620	10TH STEP 1340.04 33.501
873	1706.56 42.664				
B76	1939.32 48.483				
B77	2017.08 50.427				
B78	2094.76 52.369				
BT1	1946.36 48.659				
Time intervals between steps -13 pay periods
Effective 5-09-16
"CO" SALARY TABLE
IBEW Local 1600
Time and Merit Progression Schedule* of Weekly and Hourly Rates
GROUP	1ST STEP	2ND STEP
CC1	569.28	603.56
	14.232	15.089
CC2	620.84	672.60
	15.521	16.815
CC3	776.16	879.48
	19.404	21.987
CR1	1457.24 36.431	
*Time intervals between steps -13 pay periods
"CS" SALARY TABLE
Time and Merit Progression Schedule* of Weekly and Hourly Rates
GROUP	1ST STEP	2ND STEP	3RD STEP	4TH STEP	5TH STEP
CS1	705.32 17.633	776.20 19.405	846.40 21.160	917.00 22.925	987.84 24.696
CS2	983.36 24.584	1021.72 25.543	1071.44 26.786	1128.04 28.201	1170.32 29.258
CS3	1093.00 27.325	1142.32 28.558	1193.56 29.839	1247.16 31.179	1304.80 32.620
CS4	1234.16 30.854	1269.48 31.737	1304.80 32.620	1340.04 33.501	1375.00 34.375
CS5	1500.60
37.515
*Time intervals between steps -13 pay periods
Effective 5-09-16		"F" SALARY TABLE	IBEW Local 1600
		Weekly and Hourly Rates	
GROUP	RATE	GROUP	RATE
FOO	519.88	F08	1622.20
	12.997		40.555
F01	748.04	F09	1730.92
	18.701		43.273
F02	987.84	F10	1763.00
	24.696		44.075
F03	1086.20	F11	1780.80
	27.155		44.520
F04	1339.08	F12	1873.36
	33.477		46.834
F05	1410.40	F13	1939.32
	35.260		48.483
F06	1495.76	F14	1956.52
	37.394		48.913
F07	1551.40	F21	818.88
	38.785		20.472
"J” SALARY TABLE
Time and Merit Progression Schedule* of Weekly and Hourly Rates
GROUP	1ST STEP	2ND STEP	3RD STEP	4TH STEP	5TH STEP
J01	1057.76	1093.00	1128.04	1163.16	1198.80
	26.444	27.325	28.201	29.079	29.970
	6TH STEP	7TH STEP			
	1234.16	1269.48			
	30.854	31.737			
	1ST STEP	2ND STEP	3RD STEP	4TH STEP	5TH STEP
J 02	1340.04	1375.00	1410.44	1445.92	1481.20
	33.501	34.375	35.261	36.148	37.030
	6TH STEP	7TH STEP	8TH STEP	9TH STEP	
	1516.48	1551.40	1587.00	1622.20	
	37.912	38.785	39.675	40.555	
*Time intervals between steps -13 pay periods
Effective 5-09-16	««» SALARY TABLE	IBEW Loca! 1600
Time and Merit Progression Schedule* of Weekly and Hourly Rates
GROUP	1ST STEP	2ND STEP	3RD STEP	4TH STEP	5TH STEP
KE1	708.60	741.72	774.68	807.60	840.76
	17.715	18.543	19.367	20.190	21.019
KG2	753.24	784.16	814.76	847.96	881.68
	18.831	19.604	20.369	21.199	22.042
	6TH STEP	7TH STEP	8TH STEP	9TH STEP	10TH STEP
	917.16	953.00	999.36	1045.28	1091.52
	22.929	23.825	24.984	26.132	27.288
	1ST STEP	2ND STEP	3RD STEP	4TH STEP	5TH STEP
KG4	807.60	840.76	873.52	909.12	945.40
	20.190	21.019	21.838	22.728	23.635
	6TH STEP	7TH STEP	8TH STEP	9TH STEP	10TH STEP
	983.36	1021.72	1071.44	1120.76	1170.32
	24.584	25.543	26.786	28.019	29.258
”SG” SALARY TABLE
Time and Merit Progression Schedule* of Weekly and Hourly Rates
GROUP	1ST STEP	2ND STEP	3RD STEP	4TH STEP	5TH STEP
SG2	759.92	771.36	782.92	794.68	806.60
	18.998	19.284	19.573	19.867	20.165
	6TH STEP	7TH STEP	8TH STEP	9TH STEP	10TH STEP
	818.68	830.92	843.40	856.08	868.88
	20.467	20.773	21.085	21.402	21.722
"AVERAGE" SALARY TABLE
Represents the Mean of the Two Salary Table Groups Shown Time and Merit Progression Schedule* of Weekly and Hourly Rates
GROUP	1ST STEP	2ND STEP	3RD STEP	4TH STEP	5TH STEP
B43	1586.80	1622.04	1657.28	1692.28	1727.68
(Formerly B14/13)	39.670	40.551	41.432	42.307	43.192
Time intervals between steps -13 pay periods.
Effective 5-09-16
MISCELLANEOUS SALARY TABLES FOR INCUMBENTS ONLY
IBEW Local 1600
SALARY TABLE & GROUP	1ST STEP	2ND STEP	WEEKLY/HOURLY RATES		
			3RD STEP	4TH STEP	5THSTEP 6THSTEP
CO1	0.00	0.00	0.00	0.00	987.84
	0	0	0	0	24.696
CO3 (1)	986.56	1052.08	1084.88	1151.08	1217.00
	24.664	26.302	27.122	28.777	30.425
CO4	1057.76	1128.04	1163.16	1234.16	1304.80
	26.444	28.201	29.079	30.854	32.620
(1) Time intervals between steps -13 pay periods Promotion from C01 to C03 is to the first step of C03
EXHIBIT B
REST PERIOD RULES & TABLE
In accordance with Article IV, Section 5 of the Labor Agreement, the following rules shall be applicable for determining “qualifications of eligibility” and “length of rest period”.
RULES:
1.	Employees must actually work a minimum of three (3) non~scheduled overtime hours.
2.	When the number of non-scheduled hours worked and the time of the overtime completion are represented on the rest period table, mathematical “rounding off” principles are applicable.
3.	All overtime hours worked during the twelve (12)-hour period prior to starting time is accumulative for purposes of determining total non-scheduled hours worked provided the sum of the non-scheduled hours worked equals or exceeds the three (3)-hour requirement as defined in Rule #1.
4.	For purposes of determining the time of the overtime completion:
a.	Starting time of the scheduled work hours is always utilized if the work is not completed and/or the employee cannot be released at starting time.
b.	If more than one work period is involved, utilize the hour that the last work period ended.
c.	Travel time is not utilized in determining the time of overtime completion.
5.	The rest period table is not applied to vacation days, holidays, paid personal time off and ST-days (also see Article XII, Section 4, Paragraph F).
EXHIBIT B REST PERIOD TABLE ALL SCHEDULES
Ai:	ftours worses; curing fhs iz-hcoi' period pnc? to starring time may be accirmuiated.
EXHIBIT C
TWO MEN ON A CALL-OUT
In an effort to insure proper understanding as to the number of employees to be called out, the following guidelines are set forth and are established on a sunset to sunrise basis.
A.	CALL-OUTS WHERE TWO EMPLOYEES WILL BE DISPATCHED FOR DISTRIBUTION LINE TROUBLE (Second man will be called from the applicable roster.)
1,	Fires of major proportions or where information indicated it is probable that a second man is needed to assist.
2.	Reports of broken poles pertaining to auto accidents, etc.
3.	Reports of wires down; reports of wires burning or sparking.
4.	Severe driving conditions due to ice, snow or fog.
5.	When work to be done involves working directly on energized primary circuits.
6.	Primary line work that will have to be done in darkness (including patrolling). (See exceptions
below.)
7.	“UD” distribution trouble.
B.	CALL-OUTS WHERE ONE EMPLOYEE WILL BE DISPATCHED FOR DISTRIBUTION LINE TROUBLE
1.	No-light involving one customer or restricted block of customers. (Normally performed by tap or transformer fuse replacements or closing of OCR.)
2.	Customer service complaint, such as flickering lights, voltage or partial service.
3.	Re-connects.
4.	Street light bulb replacement.
5.	Substation check. (Visual inspection, including load and voltage check.)
6.	Load or voltage check on lines.
7.	Switching.
It is obvious that no set of rules can be written to cover all situations that may occur. The above rules are set forth as a guideline only. It will be the responsibility of the employee receiving the call-out to conscientiously assess the situation at hand and determine if an additional employee is required.
Good judgment must also be used in responding to emergency situations which may require that the first man available proceed promptly while the second man, if required, will follow in a second vehicle.
This item is concerned with call-outs only and should in no way restrict or change the present practices involving the work of employees in the Troubleman-FS or any other classifications.
EXHIBIT D
N0N-SUPERV1S0RY MOVING PLAN
STATEMENT OF POLICY
It is the intent of the Company’s Non-Supervisory Moving Expense Policy to minimize the inconvenience and financial hardship for those employees who qualify under the provision of the Plan. To accomplish this, the Company will as specifically noted below (1) pay reasonable living or commuting expenses for a period of up to 90 calendar days, during which arrangements can be completed by the employee to obtain new living quarters and accomplish the necessary disposition of the former living quarters; (2) pay the cost of moving the household effects when this is performed by professional movers; and (3) pay real estate commission fees for selling a presently owned residence when employees move at the request of the Company,
ELIGIBILITY
A.	Employees must have a minimum of two (2) years’ Company service unless they are being promoted in a progression line to a job with residence requirements in which case there is no minimum.
LIVING, COMMUTING AND MOVING EXPENSES
A, The following examples are situations where expenses will be paid in the manner so described:
1.	Promotions in a progression line to a different work location.
a.	Job has residence requirement, or
b.	Job has no residence requirement and it is mutually agreed that it is in the best interest of both the employee and the Company to have the employee live in the general area of his Job Headquarters. Company's decision will be made by the Labor Relations Department to get uniformity.
Living, commuting and moving expenses will be paid,
2.	Filling a "posted" job at a different work location. New job may be more, same or less pay.
a.	Job has residence requirement, or
b.	Job has no residence requirement and it is mutually agreed that it is in the best interest of both the employee and the Company to have the employee live in the general area of his Job Headquarters, Company’s decision will be made by the Labor Relations Department to get uniformity.
Living, commuting and moving expenses will be paid.
3.	Promoting in a progression line or filling a posted job at the same work location.
a.	Job has residence requirement, or
b.	Job has no residence requirement and it is mutually agreed that it is in the best interest of both the employee and the Company to have the employee live in the general area of his Job Headquarters. Company’s decision will be made by the Labor Relations Department to get uniformity.
Only moving expenses will be paid.
4.	Job change due to;
a.	Displacement
b.	Disability
c.	Work relocation
d.	Management decision to return employee to former job during a probationary period of a new job
Living, commuting and moving expenses will be paid.
In all of the above, it must be in the best interest of the employee and the Company to have the employee live in the general area of his new Job Headquarters.
B.	The following examples are situations where expenses will not be paid:
1.	Move is occasioned solely by the employee’s desire or convenience such as a home in a different section of the same locality,
2.	When an employee asks for a change in work location, other than a posted job, and takes a demotion or lateral transfer in his own progression line.
3.	Where an empioyee is taking a posted job and he has been reimbursed for moving expenses in the last two (2) years.
4.	Employee’s job and work location is moved from one (1) location to another location in the same general community.
5.	Moves of employees from one (1) Job Headquarters to another unless requested by the Company on a long-term basis.
REAL ESTATE EXPENSES
For all except A-2 and A-3 above, if the employee owns and resides in a home that must be sold to make a move to a new work location, the Company will pay the appropriate real estate commission fee if a realtor was utilized in selling the home. All other costs are the responsibility of the employee.
DEFINITION OF A MOVING PERIOD
Employees may elect to meet the residence requirement any time during the probationary period but no later than 90 calendar days after completing their probationary period unless an extension is granted. The 90 calendar day period for receiving living or commuting expenses will commence at the option of the employee but no later than the completion of the probationary period. During this 90 calendar day period, employees have a daily choice of either "staying over" or "commuting."
CESSATION OF LIVING/COMMUTING EXPENSES
If employees are in the process of collecting living/commuting expenses and during this period elect not to relocate to take the position, expenses shall terminate immediately.
If employees, in the process of collecting living/commuting expenses, are declared unacceptable to meet the requirements of the job, they will continue to receive expenses until they can be returned. However, expenses shall not exceed the prescribed time as allowed in the Moving Expense Plan.
EXTENSION OF MOVING PERIOD
This Plan allows as much as a 90 calendar day extension beyond the original normal 90 calendar day period in cases where the employee is (1) experiencing difficulty in disposing of an existing residence, (2) obtaining quarters at the new location or (3) is obligated to delay his move because of family circumstances.
Where an employee is being held up on his move because of not being able to sell his home, the extension will only be granted if he can prove his “asking price" has been realistic. If the employee requests, the Company will have independent local appraisals made at its expense.
If an employee has not moved his personal possessions within the moving period for which he is allowed living expenses, he will have his mover’s bills paid at such time when he actually moves, provided the move is made within one (1) year from the date he reports to his new job.
Likewise, if he has not sold his home during the period for which he is allowed living expenses, and subsequently sells his home within a year from the date he reports to his new job, the real estate commission fee, if applicable, will be paid by the Company.
In considering if an extension is warranted, it must be ascertained to the satisfaction of the employee's supervisor that real efforts are being made to effect the move and that there is a consequent real need for the extension. The principle of extension is never to grant more days than needed. There may be several extensions, but the total of such extension is not to exceed 90 calendar days, which, with the original 90 calendar day period, would result in a final limit of 180 calendar days.
BASIS FOR HANDLING MOVING EXPENSES
The following “ground rules" will be applied:
1.	Staying Over - Motel expenses and meals will be paid on a reasonable out-of-pocket basis. Weekly Round-Trip Home - Mileage allowance covering one (1) round-trip per week at the rate specified in the Labor Agreement.
2.	Commuting Daily - Mileage allowance as specified in the Labor Agreement.
3.	Familiarization Allowance - If an employee elects not to move and decides to commute on a continuing basis, his transportation will be paid for a period of two (2) weeks to enable him to familiarize himself with his new work location.
4.	Selection of Mover - The employee must contact the Traffic Section of the Procurement Department, Allentown, to arrange for a reputable freight carrier to transport the personal household items of the
employee and his/her family. The bill should be made out to PPL and it will be paid directly to the
mover.
5.	Realtor Fee - Since the realtor fee is payable at the time of settlement, the employee may elect to pay this fee at this time and be reimbursed for these expenses, or may request that a check from the Company be prepared, payable to the realtor, for the appropriate fee.
6.	Appraisals - To assure that the employee is getting the true value for his home, and at the same time assuring that the employee’s asking price is realistic, a competent and impartial appraisal should be obtained no later than two (2) weeks after the effective date the employee reports to his new work location. If the employee is agreeable, the Company will have independent appraisals made at its expense.
7.	Tax Rulings - Under present law, regulations and interpretations, the Company is required to withhold Federal and State Income Taxes from certain items reimbursed under this policy. These items are subject to withholding at the time of payment and must be reported as part of the total wages shown on the annual W~2 form furnished to the employee. To help offset the additional Social Security Tax, Federal and State Income Taxes as a result of relocation, the Company will provide tax offset provisions (gross-up) for taxable items covered under this exhibit.
8.	Employee’s Responsibility ~ The employee who is eligible for reimbursement for expenses under this policy should carry out his plans and arrangements to move in a manner which will keep his related expenses to a reasonable minimum and at the same level as if he were incurring al! such expenses for his own personal account,
9.	Employees may opt out of this Exhibit D and select the PPL General Procedure 504-Relocation Expenses for Employees to include the Relocation Expenses for Homeowners (Homesale Assistance) dated July 1, 2012, and Relocation Expenses for Renters dated March 18, 2012.
EXHIBIT E
TEMPORARY WORK ASSIGNMENTS AND TRAINING ASSIGNMENTS WITHIN THE SERVICE TERRITORY
LENGTH OF ASSIGNMENT	ONE DAY		MORE THAN ONE DAY	
One-way Miles From Home To Assignment	Less than 70 miles	70 miles or more	Less than 70 miles	70 miles or more
Commute	IRS mileage rate (5) excluding miles of normal commute (max, of 30 miles each way) (1)(4) (6)	IRS mileage rate (5) excluding miles of normal commute (max. of 30 miles each way) Time for 1 round trip. (W) (6)	IRS mileage rate (5) excluding miles of normal commute (max. of 30 miles each way) (1) W (6)	
Stay	——	—	—	Per Diem Work Assignment 	(2)	 Per Diem Training Assignment (1)(2)(3)(6)
(1)	All compensable mileage measured from employee's home to the temporary work headquarters or training location minus the distance from his home to his regular work location (maximum of 30 miles each way).
(2)	For work and training assignments, per diem allowance for each work day of the assignment. For allowance amounts refer to Article VIII, Section 6 (B).
(3)	For training assignments only, one round trip per week, time and mileage, excluding miles of normal commute (maximum of 30 miles each way). Mileage expense is not applicable to passengers or if Company offers transportation.
(4)	Mileage expense is not applicable to passengers or if Company offers transportation. Those employees car pooling will receive mileage expense from their home to a reasonable meeting point (excluding miles of normal commute - max. of 30 miles each way). In no case will the reimbursement to the car poolers exceed the reimbursement had they driven the entire distance to the temporary assignment or training location.
(5)	Refer to Article VIII, Section 6 (F).
(6)	Employees who are being reimbursed for mileage or driving a Company vehicle on Company business will also be reimbursed, with receipts, for actual tolls and parking.
106
EXHIBIT F
TEMPORARY CHANGE IN WORKING HOURS-SUBSTITUTION
To understand this provision, each situation must be addressed individually. This Exhibit separates Substitution from Temporary Change in Schedule.
1.	SUBSTITUTION FOR EMPLOYEE WHO IS OFF DUTY
a.	When notification of a schedule change occurs after the beginning of the work week in which the substitution is to occur, only the working hours of the substituting employee will be changed, not the ST-days.
b.	When notification of a schedule change occurs before the beginning of the work week in which the substitution is to occur, or the substitution continues beyond the end of a work week, the work schedule of the substituting employee will become that of the relieved employee.
In 1(a) in accordance with Article IV, Section 4, Paragraph A (2), since the notification of the substitution occurred after the start of the work week in which the substitution is to occur, the substituting employee would receive V/2X for the first change of working hours on the first W-day and the employee’s ST-days for that week would not be changed.
In 1(b) since notification of the substitution occurred before the start of the work week in which the substitution is to occur, the substituting employee would assume the schedule of the relieved employee.
Therefore, in 1(b) if the employee is notified before quitting time of his last W~day of the preceding work week, premium pay for the change is not applicable. However, if he is notified after quitting time of his last W~day of the preceding week but before the start of the work week, premium pay for the first change is applicable and he would assume the shift of the relieved employee.
When this occurs, (both 1(a) and 1(b)) - since it becomes in fact a substitution, the employee is relieved of his original shift assignment, therefore, meal allowances or rest periods which could be associated with the employee’s original shift are not applicable. For substitution purposes, the meal allowance is applicable when:
1.	An employee is called out for substitution purposes on his ST-day or
2.	An employee is called out to substitute for split shift operation in which case the employee would retain the responsibility for his originally scheduled shift.
Utility classifications and operators or employees on extra duty assignments were specifically established to provide substitution for time off requests such as vacation, sickness and personal time off. Since these requests can be for less than a full week's duration, it is possible for a utility employee to provide substitution for more than one employee in any one work week. In order to provide this multiple substitution, it is not practical to assign the utility employee the ST-days of one of the employees for whom the substitution is being provided. In such cases the ST-days are assigned as necessary to allow the maximum substitution. In many instances, due to time off requests, these employees’ schedules cannot be determined until the week preceding the work week and, therefore, schedules are posted forty-eight (48) hours prior to the work week in accordance with Article IV, Section 3D. Subsequent changes for substitution after the forty-eight (48)-hour notice are governed by 1(a) on page 1 of this Exhibit.
It must be remembered that substitution may have to occur with a minimum of notification, however, this in practically all cases is beyond the control of the Company.
2.	TEMPORARY CHANGE OF SCHEDULE
Temporary change of schedules (Article IV, Section 3, Paragraphs A (2) and (3)) occur as a result of the necessity to complete work on equipment that must be taken out of service and the work must be done outside normal working hours. This could include scheduled overhaul of equipment or unforeseen breakdown of equipment. In addition, in accordance with Paragraph (3) it may occur as a result of scheduling an employee to attend Company training schools or programs.
Excluding Paragraph (3), when this occurs, only the working hours of the employee’s W-days will be changed, not the ST-days. An exception here is equipment outages that have a direct effect on the operating capacity of power generating stations as specified in the Labor Agreement where employee’s ST-days may be changed.
Article IV, Section 4, Paragraph (3) provides pay at 1toX for the first eight (8), ten (10), or twelve (12) hours of a regularly scheduled shift while working on a temporarily changed schedule. Should this occur on the employee’s ST-day, since the employee is already receiving premium pay, he would not be entitled to premium pay on the first W-day. In addition, if an employee has already been credited for a normal work shift for the day (i.e., worked or rest period) and is informed and incurs the initial change of shift as supplemental overtime on the same day, since he is already receiving premium overtime pay it would not in effect carry over to the next W~day. If the employee has already supplied one meal for the day in question, the Company will assume the additional meal entitlements. If the employee has not supplied a meal, he is responsible for the first meal as spelled out in Article VHi, Section 5, Paragraph A. In any case, if eligible, the employee Is entitled to shift differential for the change of shift and work rules applying to shift workers become applicable.
On prearranged equipment outages and attendance at schools or training programs, since schedules are known in advance, the employee is usually notified well in advance of the change. On prearranged equipment outages, regardless of length of notification, the employee receives premium pay for the first eight (8), ten (10), or twelve (12) hours of a regularly scheduled shift change and is relieved of all responsibilities of his originally scheduled shift. In the case of attendance at schools or training programs, if the employee is notified forty-eight (48) hours before the beginning of the work week, overtime for a temporary change in work schedule will not apply. However, if notified less than forty-eight (48) hours before the beginning of the work week, the overtime will apply.
Unscheduled equipment outages or breakdowns are unpredictable and advance notification many times is impossible. In any event, once the employee is notified that his normal shift is changed, he is relieved of all responsibilities for his original shift. Premium pay will apply to the first eight (8), ten (10), or twelve (12) hours of a regularly scheduled shift change and allowances such as meal allowances and rest period for his original shift are not applicable.
EXHIBIT G
CHILD CARE AND MEDICAL LEAVE
OF ABSENCE
A.	CHILD CARE AND MEDICAL LEAVE
1.	All employees who have worked twelve (12) months and at least 1,250 hours in the previous twelve (12)-month period will be eligible for an unpaid child care and/or medical leave of absence as stated in the Family Medical Leave Act:
a.	If employees are married to each other and request a child care leave, each employee will be entitled to Company subsidized health care coverage not to exceed twelve (12) weeks.
b.	The twelve (12) week entitlement of Company-paid health care coverage is renewed at the end of each pay period year and is not cumulative nor does any unused portion get carried over from year to year.
2.	Rights Upon Reinstatement-Child Care
a.	Employees who are granted a child care leave of absence up to twenty-six (26) weeks, upon return to the Company will be reinstated to the same job, work location and rate of pay that they held prior to the child care leave of absence.
b.	Employees who are granted a child care leave of absence from twenty-six (26) weeks up to fifty-two (52) weeks, upon return to the Company, will be reinstated to a job at their former work location when an opening is available. If no opening is available at that work location, the employee will be considered for the first available job opening. Upon reinstatement, the employee will receive the rate of pay applicable to that job. However, the employee will have a commitment to the first job vacancy in the employee’s former job classification at his/her work location. Employees will lose this commitment if they voluntarily change jobs before the commitment is fulfilled. Employees who refuse a vacancy offered by the Company at the termination of the child care leave of absence will be considered to have resigned.
c.	Female employees, who are on extended illness due to pregnancy and childbirth and decide to return to work immediately upon certification by their doctor that they are no longer disabled, will be entitled to reinstatement in accordance with the policy on extended illness due to maternity. Their vacation, wage increases and other benefits will be handled under the existing policies. Female employees who are granted a child care leave are required to submit to their supervisor a certification from their doctor at the end of their disability.
B.	CONDITIONS APPLICABLE TO CHILD CARE AND MEDICAL LEAVE OF ABSENCE
1.	While on leave of absence employees cannot work for another employer or become self-employed without the approval of the Company. Employees who work for another employer or become selfemployed without Company approval will be considered to have resigned.
2.	It will be the employee’s responsibility to contact the offices of Local Union 1600, IBEW, regarding payment of Union dues during their leave of absence.
3.	Job seniority will not accrue during the period of the leave of absence except for any time period that employees may be eligible for sick pay; and upon return to the Company, the employee’s job seniority will be adjusted to reflect the amount of time the employee was on the leave of absence.
4.	Employees on leave of absence will not be considered for promotional opportunities and are not eligible to bid on any vacancies that occur during the leave of absence.
5.	Benefits, Vacations, Wage Increases
a.	Benefits - (Life Insurance, Health Benefits, Dental and Long Term Disability) Coverage in the amount the employees had at the time of the leave may be retained by the employees paying the Company’s full composite cost for the duration of the leave.
b.	Retirement - Employees on leave of absence will have their participation in the PPL Retirement Plan/PPL Savings Plan suspended until their return to active employment. Upon return, the employee will have the opportunity to make payments equal to the full costs including interest in order to make themselves whole for the duration of the leave of absence. Employees who do not return to the Company will participate in the usual vesting provisions available under the credited service requirements of the Plan.
c.	Vacation - Prior to a child care or medical leave of absence in excess of 12 weeks, an employee must utilize all except five (5) days of remaining vacation entitlement, either as time off or payment for remaining entitlement.
Upon return to work, vacation entitlement will be prorated on the basis of actual time worked by the employee in the previous year and the year he/she returns and added to any allowance the employee elected to retain when commencing the leave of absence. These allowances may be scheduled two (2) pay periods after reinstatement. Proration is not applicable to any time period that employees are eligible for sick pay and will only be applied for leaves in excess of two (2) weeks.
Example 1: An employee whose normal vacation entitlement is fifteen (15) days takes a child care leave commencing September 1, 1991 retaining three (3) days of vacation. The leave terminates March 1, 1992. When the employee returned he/she will have worked 8/12 of 1991 and will work 10/12 of 1992. Therefore, in 1992 the employee would receive 8/12 of his/her vacation entitlement or ten (10) working days (rounded to the closest whole day) plus the three (3) retained vacation days. These vacation days may be scheduled after April 1, 1992. In 1993, the employee would receive 10/12 of his/her vacation entitlement which is thirteen (13) days.
Example 2: An employee whose total vacation entitlement is 96 hours is granted a paternal intermittent child care leave without pay encompassing twelve (12) full weeks (3 months) in 1994. When determining the succeeding year’s vacation allowance, the employee would receive 9/12 of the 96 hours vacation entitlement totaling 72 hours of available 1995 vacation time.
d.	Mini-Vacation - Employees will not be required to utilize mini-vacation prior to leave of absence. Upon their return, employees will be eligible to use any mini-vacation that was not utilized prior to going on leave of absence, and will be eligible for any additional mini-vacation in accordance with Article VIII, Section 2, Paragraph B.
e.	Wage Increases
(1)	Step increases for employees who return to work will be postponed for a corresponding period of time in accordance with Article VI, Section 5, Paragraph I of the Labor Agreement.
(2)	General wage increases for employees will be deferred until the employee returns to work. Employees who are reinstated to a lower position than that which they held prior to leaving will receive the general wage increase applicable to that job.
f.	Employees will be eligible for leave in the case of a serious health condition for themselves or to care for a spouse, child, parent or a domestic partner (Affidavit of Domestic Partnership required - see 2006 Summary of Agreement) with a serious health condition. Parent-in-law is not included.
g.	If employees are married to each other and request a leave to care for a spouse, child, or parent(s) with a serious health condition, each employee’s leave can not exceed twelve (12) weeks. Providing care for a parent-in-law is not applicable.
Example: Employee A takes a six (6) week leave to care for his ill mother. Employee B has twelve (12) weeks leave available to care for her ill mother or father, and Employee A has six (6) weeks remaining to care for his ill mother or father.
h.	Upon reinstatement from a medical leave employees will return to the same job, work location and rate of pay they held prior to the medical leave of absence.
EXHIBIT H
CUMULATIVE OVERTIME PROCEDURES
1.	Whenever necessary, the Company will maintain rosters of certain employees likely to be called and will select from these rosters such employees as are needed on a cumulative overtime basis by job classification.
2.	Overtime will be assigned with an attempt to equalize the opportunity for overtime by job classification at a work location.
3.	Separate rosters will be maintained for call-out and prearranged overtime. Equalization of overtime for call-out and prearranged work will be separate.
4.	In areas of the Company where calls involving overtime are not the responsibility of the Customer Service Representative Shift, the appropriate supervisor initiating the calls shall be responsible for administering the provisions of this Exhibit.
5.	Total call-out overtime hours contiguous to an employee’s regular shift (before or after) which exceed two (2) hours will be charged to the cumulative overtime call-out roster. The supervisor will inform the Customer Service Representative Shift as soon as possible after the overtime work is completed so the cumulative call-out roster can be adjusted accordingly,
6.	Employees will be charged for time worked or time offered. Time offered includes situations such as, employee is not available for work; there is no answer; telephone line is busy; employee isn’t home; employee reports sick after having worked his regular shift. In these cases, time offered will be chargeable for any call-outs up to the employee’s normal starting time the next day.
7.	The amount of time charged to a person is determined by the number of hours worked by the employee who responds to the call or works the prearranged job.
8.	For vacation and sickness purposes, it will be the employee’s responsibility to inform the supervisor and the party responsible for initiating the call (in most cases the Customer Service Representative Shift) when the employee should be taken off and put back on the roster. If the employee fails to do so, he will be considered as available for overtime work and charged accordingly. In cases where an employee is unavailable to notify the Customer Service Representative Shift (i.e. hospitalized, etc.), the supervisor will inform the Customer Service Representative Shift of the employee’s unavailability on behalf of the employee and will so inform the employee. However, when the employee is again available, it will be the employee’s responsibility to initiate the appropriate notification.
9.	Employees entering a progression line or promoting into a higher classification will be assigned the amount of overtime equal to the average overtime of the employees in that classification.
10.	Normally, the person called/assigned first is the person with the least amount of overtime, providing continuity of work is not adversely impacted by a work unit change, or unless the skills necessary are not available; or in cases of extreme emergency. In these situations, it is necessary to inform the bypassed employee of such action giving reasons for the bypass. Bypassed employees and employees who are inadvertently missed will have the opportunity to equalize the overtime by remaining low person on the cumulative overtime list. While the Company cannot assure complete equalization of overtime, periodic review between the appropriate Steward and the responsible supervisor should provide assurance that the effort is being made to the extent possible.
11.	The call-out roster will be updated on a daily basis and the prearranged roster will be updated per prearranged job. The Customer Service Representative Shift will provide current reports to the field locations.
12.	It is understood by the parties that the clerical responsibilities for the call-out roster maintenance will have no effect on the Customer Service Representative Shift’s rate of pay.
EXHIBIT I
JOB CHANGE REQUESTS FOR ENTRY LEVEL
OFFICE JOBS CONCEPT POSITIONS
In accordance with Article V, Section 2, Paragraph M(2) of the Labor Agreement, the jobs of Steno/Clerk-Entry, Clerk-Cash Receipts, Administrative Support Clerk, Call Center Representative, Enrollment Billing Clerk, Logistics Worker, and Customer Service Assistant I will be filled by newly hired employees. However, employees may request a job change to one of these positions. If such requests are submitted prior to the vacancy, employees shall be considered on the following basis before hiring from the street, provided they meet the minimum entry requirements for the position.
1.	Requests from employees in the same progression line in the same division* if qualified and performing satisfactorily in existing position.
2.	Requests from employees in other OJC progression lines in the same division* if qualified and performing satisfactorily in existing position.
3.	Requests from employees in OJC progression lines from other divisions* if qualified and performing satisfactorily in existing position.
4.	Requests from employees in progression lines outside the OJC in the same division* if qualified (for every third vacancy only provided none of the above requests are on record).
5,	Requests from employees in progression lines outside the OJC outside the division* if qualified (for every third vacancy only) provided there are no requests on record as cited in (1), (2) and (3) above.
NOTE: Requests to demote to the entry level job within the same progression line will be considered along with transfer requests in accordance with Article V, Section 2, Paragraph K (5). Examples of the aforementioned process are described in the Office Jobs Concept Administrative Procedures dated June 25, 1985.
*The designation of divisions also includes power plants and General Office.
EXHIBIT J
RESIDENCE REQUIREMENTS
As an electric utility providing an essential service to a public which is rapidly becoming even more dependent upon our service, we recognize our responsibility to provide such service with the highest possible degree of continuity.
Although much can be and has been done to meet this responsibility by the installation of modern facilities, in the final analysis it can only be fully accomplished by having sufficient numbers of key personnel available to report for duty rapidly when emergency conditions arise.
STATEMENT OF POLICY
Al! jobs designated in Article IV, Section 7 of the Labor Agreement have residence requirements and as such will be governed by the following statements:
1.	The residence requirement in accordance with Article IV, Section 7, Paragraphs A and 8 stipulates employees must live within thirty (30) miles’ driving distance between home and their Job Headquarters. Distance is defined as the mileage driven on the most commonly used roads.
2.	All new employees and all employees in jobs that are not designated as having a residence requirement, who wish to be considered for jobs which are designated as having residence requirement, must agree to move to a location within the prescribed requirements to the Job Headquarters or forfeit the right to be considered.
3,	Employees who are incumbents in a line of progression and are assigned to a Job Headquarters as of the date of this Agreement and whose jobs will now have a residence requirement will not be asked to move to retain their present job and will be considered for any future promotions in that line of progression at that particular Job Headquarters. However, should these employees desire to be considered for promotions or transfers in other lines of progression or other work locations within their present line of progression, they will then be expected to meet the residence requirement of that job. For example, a Journeyman Lineman is assigned to a Job Headquarters “A” and his home is beyond the prescribed travel limitations. He need not move to retain his present job and he will be considered for any future promotion at Job Headquarters “A”. However, should a promotion become available to him at any other work location, he must then agree to meet the residence requirements of that job.
In addition to the above, if employees decide to relocate their residence while in their incumbent position, they will be required to comply with the residence requirement. Incumbent employees with residency waivers will continue under those waivers.
4.	Any employee who has agreed to move as a condition for placement in a job who subsequently refuses to honor his commitment shall be demoted or transferred to a job not having a residence requirement.
5.	Employees who are handled under the placement process will not be required to move to accept a job with residence requirements. However, such employees will be subject to the uniform residence requirement outlined above if they subsequently bid into jobs shown as having such a requirement.
6.	In addition, if the Company establishes a new Job Headquarters either through consolidation of facilities or by building new headquarters, employees whose jobs have residence requirements will not be subject to the new requirements as long as they continue to work at the new headquarters,
7.	It will be the joint responsibility of the employee and his supervisor to see that the provisions of the uniform residence requirements are maintained. However, disputes regarding the interpretation of the residence requirement will be resolved by the Local Chief Steward and the supervisor involved.
8.	It will not be mandatory that employees be required to move during the probationary period of their new job. They will, however, be required to conform to the provision of this policy within 90 days after the probationary period ends, unless an extension is granted by mutual agreement due to extenuating circumstances.
9.	The Non-Supervisory Moving Plan (Exhibit D) will apply.
EXHIBIT K
LONG TERM DISABILITY CONDITIONS OF RETURN
I.	The following guidelines are applicable to employees on Long Term Disability. In the event of an off-the-job injury, all return to work from LTD regardless of the duration of the disability, will be treated under Paragraph D (3) below.
A.	When it is necessary to fill vacancies created by employees who become eligible for LTD benefits, they shall be filled on a permanent rather than a temporary basis.
B.	All requests to return to the work force from an LTD status, or subsequent to the cessation of the benefit, shall be predicated upon medical and/or psychological certification authorizing the employee’s return to work.
C.	If an employee is unable to return to their regular job from LTD, they shall be handled by the Disability Committee in accordance with Article VII! of the Labor Agreement.
D.	Following are the conditions of return applicable to the designated leave periods:
1.	Employees either notifying the Company or returning to the Company within six (6) months from the effective date of their LTD status shall return to their former job classification and former work location, provided they are capable of satisfactorily performing the duties of the job. They shall receive job seniority and Company service credit for the duration of their LTD absence. If a vacancy is not available when they are certified to return, they shall bump the junior employee in their former job classification at their former work location, provided the job classification vacancy created by the employee who left on LTD status was filled. In cases where the job classification vacancy is not filled and the employee returns from the LTD status, placement will be handled per paragraph H of this Exhibit K.
2.	Employees either notifying the Company or returning to the Company after six (6) months, but less that two (2) years from the effective date of their LTD status shall return to their former job classification and former work location provided they are capable of performing the duties of the job and such a vacancy exists. When they return to their former job classification at their former work location, their job seniority date will be adjusted for the period of their absence. However, Company service shall be credited for the duration of the leave. If a job vacancy in their former job classification at their former work location is not available, employees shall be returned to an available job vacancy within the scope of their experience and skills with a commitment to their former job classification and work location. They shall receive the rate of pay commensurate with paragraph H of this Exhibit K. If they are returned to a job in another progression line, their commitment shall be eliminated if they subsequently change jobs voluntarily; promote within the new progression line; or do not take the first opportunity to exercise their commitment.
3.	Employees requesting to return to the work force after cessation of their LTD payments and two (2) or more years from the effective date of their LTD status shall be placed in an entry level job vacancy, when available, in line with their experience and skills with no commitments. They shall receive the rate of pay commensurate with the job to which they are returned, A new job seniority date shall be established; however, Company service shall be credited for the duration of the leave,
E.	Employees who have not returned to the work force within a two (2)-year period from the effective date of their LTD status and who do not qualify for continued benefits under the LTD Plan shall be notified by the Company when their LTD benefit ceases, with a reminder that failure to request a return to work within ninety (90) days from notification of benefit cessation shall result in termination of their employment.
F,	In all cases of return to the work force as cited above, vacation shall be prorated as follows:
1.	Vacation - calendar year basis. Example - Employee is absent on LTD from October 10, 1991 to March 14, 1992, In accordance with Article VII, Section 3, Paragraph J of the Labor Agreement, vacation for 1992 will be prorated based on time worked in 1991, and employee will be paid off prior to leaving on LTD, Therefore, employee is not eligible for further vacation entitlement for 1992. In 1993, the employee will receive ten-twelfths’ (10/12) vacation entitlement based on total time worked in 1992,
G,	When employees return to their former job classification and former work location, step increases and apprenticeship program anniversary dates for returns in D-1 and D-2 above shall be resumed in accordance with the schedule in effect at the time the employees left on LTD.
H.	The Joint Disability Committee will have the option to temporarily place a permanent, partially disabled employee returning from Long Term Disability into an existing 40-hour, 52-week Utility Worker position. If this option is selected, the Committee will attempt to find a suitable Utility Worker position at the same or closest location,
An employee returning from Long Term Disability without restrictions will be given the option of being placed in an existing 40-hour, 52-week Utility Worker position until a permanent placement becomes available in accordance with Exhibit K. If this option is selected the Company wiH attempt to find a suitable Utility Worker position at the same or closest location.
Employees returning to work from Long Term Disability to an assigned job that has a iower rate of pay than their former job classification shall not receive a rate of pay less than the following percent of their regular rate of pay in their former job classification.
Less than 20 Years - 75% 20 or more Years ~ 100%
Employees have the responsibility to notify the Company of their desire to return to work as soon as possible. If the Company disagrees with the medical opinion to return the employee to work and requires an Independent Medical Examination (IME) or Independent Psychological Examination (IPE), the Company will have three weeks from the date the Company receives the appropriate medical information from the employee’s treating health care professional(s) to schedule and conduct its examination. The Company will be given another two weeks to receive and review the results of the IME/IPE. In addition, the Company will be provided an additional two weeks to test the employee (if necessary) and provide a suitable job placement for return to work. If the results of the Company’s examination are the same as the employee’s health care provider(s), wages of the eventual job placement will begin no later than seven weeks after the Company’s receipt of the employee’s medical information. After the employee returns to work, the Company will reimburse the employee for time and mileage associated with testing for job placement. The Company will have met its seven week job placement commitment if the employee declines a suitable Utility Worker position. However, the employee will continue to be considered for other suitable positions under Exhibit K.
EXHIBIT L
SCRANTON OPERATING AREA
In accordance with the I.B.E.W. merger of former Local 1520 into Local 1600 during the term of this Agreement the following provisions are only applicable to the incumbent employees in the Scranton Operating Area as of August 22, 1994. Except to the extent cited below, all other provisions of the Local 1600 Agreement will apply to Scranton Operating Area employees as well.
I.	Sick Leave Plan - Regular employees who were in the Company:s employ prior to August 20, 1979. will be granted wage allowances during periods when absent from work and unable to work due to illness or injury, excluding illnesses and injuries as a consequence of working for an employer other than the Company or working for remuneration through self-employment, under the following qualifications and conditions and in accordance with the schedule given below.
A.	QUALIFICATIONS:
1.	Must be a regular employee (not part-time or temporary).
2.	Must have completed a minimum of six months’ continuous service.
3.	After accumulating five days’ sick leave in a year without a physician's statement certifying as to the nature of his or her illness or injury, an employee may be required by the Company to provide such certification for subsequent absences in that year.
4.	No sick leave will be allowed for illness caused by willful intention to injure oneself (or some other person), by commission of any crime, or as a consequence of working for an employer other than the Company or working for remuneration through self-employment.
5.	Must adopt such remedial measures as may be commensurate with his or her disability, and permit such examinations and inquiries by the Company’s medical representative as, in its judgment, may be necessary to ascertain employee’s condition and the suitability of the remedial measures taken, and the Company may decline payment under this Plan on the basis of the Company’s medical representatives’ findings and recommendations.
6.	Must have reported the cause of his or her absence in accordance with Article VIII, Section 2 of this Labor Agreement.
7.	All cases of illness or injury must be bona fide. Unjust claims for sick leave allowance shall subject offending employee to disciplinary action.
B.	SCHEDULE OF WAGE OR SALARY ALLOWANCE:
1.	In the event any regular employee is absent from work because of illness or injury, then beginning with the first scheduled working day, the employee will be paid at the usual pay periods at regular straight time rate of pay for all regularly scheduled working hours as determined by his normal schedule, up to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week, on the following basis except as provided in Paragraph 5 below:
	FULL TIME - followed by - HALF TIME			
YEARS OF SERVICE	Monthly Basis	Hourly Basis	Monthly Basis	Hourly Basis
25 yrs.-and over	6 months	1,020 hours	6 months	1,020 hours
2.	If such employee is absent from work more than once during any calendar year, the wage allowance for sick leave will be granted as often as or as long as is permitted within the schedule shown above until the full provisions have been entirely used.
3.	There shall be no change in the wage rate for any employee on sick leave. Any change in wage rate shall take place only after he has returned to work.
4.	Any disability that extends from one calendar year into the succeeding calendar year or beyond an employee’s anniversary date in any calendar year shall not entitle an employee to additional wage allowance for sick leave until he has returned to work and has met the requirements of Paragraph (1) above.
5.	In the event a regular employee is absent from work by reason of occupational disease or injury, the Company will pay the employee his regular straight time pay until such time that a medical doctor (or doctors) as selected in accordance with Article VIII, Section 9 certifies that the employee is physically capable of returning to work in any job classification, or placed in a different job classification under the terms of Article VHl, Section 10 of this Agreement. If such employee is entitled to Workers’ Compensation and/or Social Security, the Company will pay to the employee such an amount as will when combined with the Workers’ Compensation and/or Social Security payments equal his regular straight time pay. To be eligible for such payments, employees absent from work due to occupational injury must properly notify the Company of an accident before the end of the W-day during which it occurs, or at the beginning of the next W-day if the injury
116
occurs during non-scheduled hours in the absence of a supervisor. Occupational disease must be reported as soon as possible but no later than forty-eight (48) hours after the onset of the disease to be eligible for the payments as herein provided in this Paragraph 5. If, however, the Workers' Compensation and/or Social Security payments are greater than the employee’s regular straight time pay, then in that case the Company will make no payment to the employee. While absent from work under this provision, employees will continue to accrue Company service but shall not accrue allowances for vacation or mini-vacation.
The time during any calendar year during which an employee receives payment because of occupational disease or injury shall not be deducted from the wage or salary allowance time to which an employee is entitled in such calendar year as shown in the above schedule.
6.	Where the employee has more than one rate per hour, sick leave shall be figured on the rate that was used the largest percentage of the time during previous six (6) months,
7.	Sick leave credit is not cumulative from one calendar year to another.
8.	In the case of an employee with a medically declared terminal illness, the half-time wage allowance for sick leave as set forth in the above schedule will be extended for an additional period of twenty-four (24) months.
9.	Employees with more than one (1) year of Company Service who have had no time off with or without pay under the Payroll Codes in this Paragraph, for twenty-six (26) consecutive pay periods measured from the last point where SICKS (Sick At Half-Time Rate), SICK (Sickness), INJOF (Injury Off Duty), INJON (Injury On Duty), BABY (Sickness-Maternity), NPERM (No Pay-Off No Permission), NINJF (No Pay Sickness/lnjury Off Duty) and NINJN (No Pay, Injury On Duty), BABYR (Sickness - Maternity Reduced Pay) have been charged, will be granted one (1) additional day off with pay. However, where charges to INJON are less than eight (8) hours, the measuring period is not interrupted. This additional day off is considered vacation entitlement subject to all provisions of Article VIL
IL Vacations - In application and administration of Article VII of this Labor Agreement, the following two items in those provisions are modified only to the extent described below:
A.	Vacation may be split into periods of not less than four (4) scheduled hours.
B.	An employee with eight or more years of service may elect not to take al! his vacation allowance in a calendar year and carry over the unused portion to a succeeding year. Such carryover may only be taken in units of eight (8) hours and must be utilized within the first three (3) months of the succeeding calendar year.
III.	Leave of Absence - The Leave of Absence policies as specified in Exhibit G of this Labor Agreement will be applicable to all employees regardless of any prior Union affiliation except that incumbent Scranton Operating Area employees as of August 22, 1994, returning to their former job classification will retain their original job classification seniority date without any adjustment.
IV.	Progression Line (Promotions/Demotions/Transfers) - In accordance with Article V, Section 2, Paragraph A, of the Labor Agreement, for purposes of seniority when considering employees for promotion, demotion and transfer, the Scranton Operating Area progression lines will be continued for all incumbent employees in the Scranton Operating Area as of August 22, 1994, except all former Scranton Operating Area employees that were included as part of the creation of the Mobile Work Force.
In accordance with Article V, Section 2, Paragraph B, of this Labor Agreement, prior to advertising any Northeast Division vacancy through a job posting in the Northeast Division Progression Line, employees who have a transfer request on file prior to the vacancy will receive consideration. For seniority purposes, Local 1600 service as defined in the August 22, 1994, Summary of Agreement will be utilized.
V.	Personal Time Off {Mini-Vacation) - In application and administration of Article VIII, Section 2, Paragraph B, of this Labor Agreement, the Personal Time Off provision has been modified only to the extent that wherever one hour increments are referenced, time off for incumbent Scranton Operating employees as of August 22, 1994, may be taken in increments of one-half hour with the approval of supervision.
VI.	Displaced Incumbent Employees - When incumbent Scranton Operating Area employees as of August 22, 1994, are declared displaced by the Company, they will be handled under the process described in the August 22, 1994, Summary of Agreement between IBEW Local 1600 and PPL. All former Scranton Operating Area employees covered under Article XIX will be given the option to be placed under Boxes 1, 2, 4, or 8 of the new Placement Process (Article X)-
EXHIBIT M JOB EVALUATION PROCESS
This Exhibit embodies the understanding of the parties relative to the evaluation process for Bargaining Unit job descriptions. This process will determine salary grades for newly created or revised job descriptions that are submitted to the Job Evaluation Committee with a request for evaluation.
Job Evaluation Committee
The Job Evaluation Committee consists of six primary members, three members appointed by IBEW Local 1600 President-Financial Secretary and three members appointed by the HR, Labor & Employment VP. The committee will have a pool of a minimum of six (6) secondary members who are appointed as identified above for substitution purposes. If a primary member is unable to attend a committee meeting, it is their responsibility to secure substitutes. A minimum of four committee members (two bargaining unit and two management) must be present to determine a final evaluation of a job description. All members, including secondary members, of the Job Evaluation Committee must complete team building training.
Job Evaluation Process
A request to evaluate a newly created job description is initiated by department management. Following submission of a REQUEST FOR JOB EVALUATION/REEVALUATION FORM, Labor Relations will assist the department in uniformly formatting a JOB DESCRIPTION PART I FORM. The Company will review the new job description with Local 1600 prior to forwarding it to the Job Evaluation Committee.
Upon receipt of a request for evaluation, the Job Evaluation Committee will select individuals with knowledge of the job being evaluated for interviews. The committee will compile all information received and evaluate the position. Decisions of the committee will be made by consensus. (If the team cannot reach agreement on the appropriate level for a particular factor, the team has the flexibility to assign a value between two levels to gain consensus). The JOB DESCRIPTION PART II FORM will become part of the job description after it is completed by the Job Evaluation Committee. Their determination of the proper rate of pay will be furnished to Labor Relations and Local 1600. This determination shall not be subject to Article III of the Labor Agreement
A request to reevaluate an existing job description may be initiated by an incumbent employee or appropriate supervisor completing a REQUEST FOR JOB EVALUATION/REEVALUATION FORM. Information provided must indicate significant changes to the job description that warrant a reevaluation. If departmental management does not approve the request, Bargaining Unit employees may appeal the decision to the office of Local 1600. If the request is approved by department management, the revised job description will be forwarded to Labor Relations for uniform formatting and discussion with Local 1600. The decision to forward a revised job description to the Job Evaluation Committee shall be jointly made by Labor Relations and Local 1600. Disagreements regarding whether to submit a reevaluated existing job description to the Job Evaluation Committee shall be resolved through the grievance procedure.
Upon receipt of a request for reevaluation, the Job Evaluation Committee will select a representative number of incumbents and supervisors, including the initiator, to complete an evaluation questionnaire. The committee will also select individuals for interviews with knowledge of the job being evaluated. The committee will compile all information received from the questionnaire and interviewees and evaluate the position. Decisions of the committee will be made by consensus, (If the team cannot reach agreement on the appropriate level for a particular factor, the team has the flexibility to assign a value between two levels to gain consensus). The JOB DESCRIPTION PART II FORM will become part of the job description after it is completed by the Job Evaluation Committee. Their determination of the proper rate of pay will be furnished to Labor Relations and Local 1600. This determination shall not be subject to Article III of the Labor Agreement.
Miscellaneous
The filling of newly created positions and the pay treatment of employees who fill them will be in accordance with the Labor Agreement.
Pay treatment for all incumbent employees in an existing job that is reevaluated to a higher salary table by the Job Evaluation Committee will be to the salary step on the new table which corresponds to the step attained on the lower table. Their next step date will remain the same. Such increases will be effective at the beginning of the first pay period following the receipt of the request to reevaluate the existing job description by Labor Relations and Local 1600. In the event an existing job is reevaluated to a lower salary table by the committee, the pay of incumbent employees shall be red-tagged effective at the beginning of the first pay period following the Job Evaluation Committee's determination.
EXHIBIT N EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
It is agreed the method of providing all benefits, unless expressly stated, shall be determined by the Company, including selection of insurers, administrators, and record keepers as well as determination of the methods of plan funding.
I.	Retirement Plan
The Retirement Plan as amended on May 12, 2014 and as outlined in the July 2014 “Summary Plan Description” booklet shall be continued during the term of this Agreement for employees hired before July 1,2014.
II.	Employee Savings Plan
The current PPL Employee Savings Plan Summary Plan Description currently in effect shall be continued during the term of this Agreement for full time employees hired before July 1, 2014 and all part-time employees. Full time employees hired on or after July 1, 2014 are not eligible.
A.	The Company matching contribution to the Employee Savings Plan will be 100% up to the first 3% of an employee's before tax contribution on a before-tax, after-tax, or Roth 401 (k) basis.
B.	Eligible employees will be automatically enrolled in the Employee Savings Plan 90 days from their date of hire at a rate of 3%, unless they otherwise opt out of participation.
C.	The employee contribution through automatic payroll deductions remains as follows:
♦ From 2% to 50% of their pay (in whole percentages) on a before-tax, after-tax, or Roth 401 (k) basis
• The sum of before-tax, after-tax, and Roth 401 (k) contributions may not exceed 50% of their base pay for the pay period.
III.	Retirement Savings Plan
Full time employees hired on or after July 1, 2014 will be participants in the Retirement Savings Plan as of the first day of the month following the date of hire.
A.	Company shall provide to all eligible active employees a 3% fixed contribution on employee base earnings each pay period.
B.	Eligible employees may elect to contribute 2-50% of their base earnings. The Company will match 75% on up to the first 6% of employee contributions.
1.	Employee contributions may be either on a before-tax and/or Roth 401(k) (after-tax) basis.
IV.	Group Life Insurance
The Group Life insurance Plan and the Supplemental Insurance Plan as described in the current “Summary Plan Description" booklet shall be continued during the term of this Agreement for active employees.
A.	The Company provides two basic life insurance coverage options:
1.	Two (2) times annual wages; or
2.	350,000
B.	Employees may purchase Supplemental life insurance in the amount of 1-3 times annual base wages for Supplemental life insurance in excess of two (2) times annual wages.
Combined maximum life insurance (Basic and Supplemental) cannot exceed $600,000.
V.	Accidental Death or Dismemberment Insurance
The company will provide, at no cost to the employee, accidental death or dismemberment insurance as described in the “Summary Plan Description” booklet. The full amount of the Accidental Death or Dismemberment benefit is three times base annual salary up to a maximum of $500,000.
VI.	Survivor Income Protection
For employees hired before July 1, 2014, the Survivor Income Protection (SIP) Plan as described in the Life Insurance Summary Plan Description will be amended to reflect a one-time lump sum payment to a surviving spouse of a deceased PPL employee equal to three times base monthly earnings effective July 1, 2014. Surviving spouses already receiving a benefit will continue under the plan until benefits end per the “Summary Plan Description”.
Employees hired on or after July 1, 2014 will not be eligible for Survivor Income Protection (SIP) Plan coverage.
VII.	Long Term Disability Insurance
A.	The Long Term Disability Insurance Plan as described in the "Summary Plan Description” booklet will remain in effect for the term of this Agreement. The guaranteed benefit is 60 percent of the employee’s base monthly earnings at the time disability occurs. The maximum monthly benefit is $5,000.
B.	Beginning July 1, 2014, benefit continuation in PPL-sponsored Medical, Dental, Vision, Basic Life, Supplemental Life, Spouse Life, Child Life and pension accrual will continue for a maximum length of time based on years of service.
0-15 years of service	2 years maximum; not to exceed time approved for LTD
15-30 years of service	5 years maximum; not to exceed time approved for LTD
30* years of service	7 years maximum; not to exceed time approved for LTD
•	Service on first day of continuous disability commencement (whether sick, STD, or no pay) ♦	Service used to count years of service is years eligible for benefits at PPL	
C.	Mental or nervous disabilities must be certified by a psychiatrist or a psychologist (masters level or above) licensed to practice independently as a behavioral health professional.
D.	The conditions for employees returning from Long Term Disability are described in Exhibit K of this Agreement.
VIIL	Health Plan for Active Employees
The Company agrees to provide Health and Welfare benefits to all current eligible bargaining unit employees during the term of this agreement.
Employees hired before January 1, 2015 are eligible for three Health Plans:
•	PPO90
» Your Choice High
•	Your Choice Low
Employees hired on or after January 1, 2015 are eligible for two Health Plans:
•	Your Choice High
*	Your Choice Low
Each plan will have its own deductibles, co-payments and co-insurance amounts as outlined in the 2014 Summary of Agreement. An employee may select any one of the plan options when they are hired or during the annual benefit enrollment period. For employees hired before January 1. 2015, if the employee fails to enroll in a medical option, they will automatically be enrolled in the PPO 90 Option. For employees
hired on or after January 1, 2015, if the employee fails to enroll in a medical option, they will
automatically be enrolled in the Your Choice High option.
The Company shall administer the PPL sponsored options (medical and drug) and select all administrators, carriers and providers of medical coverage. The method of providing the benefits under these plans shall be determined by the Company.
Employees will have three coverage options tiers:
•	Employee Only
•	Employee plus 1
•	Employee plus 2 or more
Employee Health Plan Contributions
Active full-time employees will pay for the health plan in terms of a percentage of cost of the plan, with caps.
2015 Bi-weekly employee contribution	PPO90	Your Choice -High	Your Choice -Low
Employee only	15% (cap $42)	0%	0%
Employee plus 1	15% (cap $84)	0%	0%
Employee plus 2 or more	15% (cap $126)	0%	0%	I
2016 Bi-weekly employee contribution	PPO90	Your Choice -High	Your Choice -Low
Employee only	16% (cap $45)	7% (cap $20)	0%
Employee plus 1	16% (cap $89)	7% (cap $35)	0%
Employee plus 2 or more	16% (cap $135)	7% (cap $45)	0%
2017 Bi-weekly employee contribution	PPO90	Your Choice -High	Your Choice -Low
Employee only	17% (cap $48)	10% (cap $25)	0%
Employee plus 1	17% (cap $96)	10% (cap $45)	0%
Employee plus 2 or more	17% (cap $144)	10% (cap $60)	0%
Employee contributions toward the cost of coverage will be on a before-tax basis through payroll deduction to the extent permitted by law or regulation.
Prescription Drug Benefits
Co-payments for prescription drug benefits for the PPO90 plan are as follows:
2015	Generic	Preferred Brand	| Non-Preferred Brand |
Retail (up to 31-day supply)	$10.00	$28.00	|	$48.00	|
Mail Order (90-day maximum supply	$20.00	$56.00	!	$96.00	|
2016	Generic	Preferred Brand	| Non-Preferred Brand
Retail (up to 31-day supply)	$10.00	$28.00	j	$48.00
Mail Order (90-day maximum supply	$20.00	$56.00	J	$96.00
2017	Generic	S	Preferred i	Brand	Non-Preferred Brand
Retail (up to 31 -day supply)	$10.00	I	$30.00	$50.00
Mail Order (90-day maximum supply	$20.00	i	$60.00	$100.00
Coverage for contraceptives and diabetic pump supplies continues.
Spousal Surcharge
Employees who wish to elect primary coverage for their spouse under any Medical Plan option offered by the Company will be required to make a monthly contribution through payroll deduction if such spouse is a full-time employee of another employer that provides access to medical benefits. So long as the arrangement is permitted under the Internal Revenue Code, these payroll deductions will be on a pre-tax basis. These payments will be in addition to any other payments required for coverage under any Medical Plan option. The spousal surcharge will be adjusted to $100 per pay period on January 1, 2015; $105 per pay period on January 1, 2016; and $110 per pay period on January 1, 2017.
IX.	Wellness Initiative
Current employees will have the opportunity to take a Health Risk Assessment with Capital Blue Cross. Full-time employees completing the assessment by December 1, 2014 will be eligible for a onetime $50 contribution to either an HSA or Health Care FSA for the 2015 plan year. 2015 full-time new hires will be eligible if they take the health risk assessment within 3 months from their date of hire.
X.	Vision Care Program
The Vision Care Program Plan in effect today as described in the “Summary Plan Description” booklet will remain in effect for the term of this Agreement. Employees will pay the actual cost of the plan through biweekly pre-tax deduction.
Employees will have three coverage options tiers:
*	Employee Only
•	Employee plus 1
•	Employee plus 2 or more
XI.	Dental Plan
The Dental Care Plan as described in the “Summary Plan Description” booklet will remain in effect for the term of this Agreement.
The Company shall provide Dental Assistance to full-time employees at no cost.
Employees electing Dental Plus will pay the difference between the cost of Dental Plus and Dental Assistance for their coverage tier through bi-weekly pre-tax deduction.
Employees will have three coverage options tiers:
•	Employee Only
•	Employee plus 1
•	Employee plus 2 or more
XII.	Flexible Spending Accounts
Flexible Spending Accounts will be available to employees to make voluntary payroll deduction on a before-tax basis for dependent care and/or eligible health care costs as outlined in the “Summary Plan Description” booklet.
XIII.	Domestic Partners
Benefits will be available to same-sex domestic partners of active, unmarried PPL bargaining unit employees as follows:
Medical
Dental
Vision
•	Spouse life insurance
•	Child life insurance
Children of same-sex domestic partners may also be eligible (must live in the same household as the employee). Affidavit of same-sex domestic partnership for employee benefits is required.
XIV.	Post-Retirement Health Care Coverage
Employees hired on or after July 1, 2014 are not eligible for pre-65 or post-65 retiree health benefits or Company-paid retiree life insurance.
For anyone hired prior to July 1,2014, the term “retiree” hereinafter applies to active employees who retire during the term of this collective bargaining agreement and commence monthly pension payments.
For all active employees who retire during the term of this agreement:
A.	Retirees Under Age 65
Retirees will have the same medical coverage plan options available to active bargaining unit employees. Retirees are not eligible for Company contributions to Health Savings Accounts.
The Company will provide retirees with $7,200 per individual ($14,400 per couple or family).
The retirees’ annual contribution will be determined on a calendar year basis and will be effective on each January 1 during the term of the agreement The Company shall determine the rates for each PPL-sponsored option (medical and drug) based on the most recent three (3) years of claim experience projected to the next calendar year using expected medical trend. Employee contributions will be set as rates less the above-mentioned cap. The cost of providing medical coverage for Bargaining Unit retirees will continue to be determined separately from the cost of providing medical coverage to management retirees. The contributions will continue to be payable on a monthly basis.
Retirees have the option to opt in/opt out of the PPL sponsored options (medical and drug) at the time of the annual enrollment or as a result of family status change.
B.	Retirees Eligible for Medicare (Age 65 and older)
Medicare will pay primary for both medical expenses and prescription drugs, and retirees must enroll in Medicare Part B and Part D.
PPL will provide retirees hired prior to July 1, 2014 with a Health Reimbursement Account (HRA). The Company’s annual contribution to the HRA for retirees and their spouses will continue to be $1,950 per individual ($3,900 per couple or family) for the term of this agreement.
The Company will provide “Medicare Coordinator” support service offering individual post-65 plans with enrollment support.
• Participants will elect individual insurance plans, including Part D prescription drug plans.
C.	Retiree Life Insurance
The Company will provide employees hired prior to July 1, 2014 life insurance in the amount of two times their annual base salary at the time of retirement. Beginning at age 65, this insurance will reduce incrementally until age 70 where it will remain at $15,000.
XV.	Education Assistance Program
The Education Assistance Program currently in effect as outlined In the “Summary Plan Description” booklet shah be continued during the term or this Agreement.
XVL	Employee Counseling Service
The Employee Counseling Service, also known as the Employee Assistance Program (EAR), will be provided to all employees during the term of this Agreement.
XVII.	Voluntary Benefit Plan Options
Employees will be able to access other insurance programs through payroll deductions. These programs offer employee savings through group discounts. It is agreed that the method of providing these programs shall be determined by the Company.
EXHIBIT O
FLAME RESISTANT (FR) CLOTHING
This Exhibit embodies the understanding between the parties concerning the implementation of a Flame Resistant (FR) clothing program for employees in PPL Electric Utilities.
Bargaining Unit job classifications that are required to wear FR clothing will be divided into two categories of use based on the frequency to exposure of arc flash hazards. These categories will be Primary and Secondary users.
Primary Users
Primary users are defined as those job classifications that may be exposed to potential arc flash hazards on a frequent basis (daily). These job classifications include but are not limited to the following:
Lineman Leader, Troubleman, Journeyman Lineman, Journeyman Lineman Trainee, Helper-Regional T&D, Electrician Leader-Subs, Journeyman Electrician-Subs, Journeyman Electrician Trainee-Subs, Helper-Regional Electrical-Subs, Electrical Leader-Network, Journeyman Electrician-Network, Journeyman Electrician Trainee-Network, Helper-Regional Electrical-Network, Electrician Leader-UG, Journeyman Electrician-UG, Journeyman Electrician Trainee-UG, Helper-Regional Electrical-UG, Service Tech, Meter lnstaller-1/C, Field Meter Technician, Insulation Technician, Insulation Technician Trainee, Insulation Test Assistant, Street Light Repairman, Electrical Test Technicians & Trainees, Meter Technician & Trainees, Electrical Equipment Repairman Leader, Electrical Equipment Repairman 1C/2C/3C and employees temporarily placed as Utility Persons who are frequently exposed to potential arc flash hazards.
Allotments:
The company will provide the following allotment to new Primary User employees who have completed their probationary period:
Five (5) Long Sleeve T-shifts, Henley’s, Mock Tees/Turtleneck or Button Down shirts - Employee can mix and match between styles up to 5 shirts total
Five (5) Cargo Pants, Painter or Jeans - Employee can mix and match between styles up to 5 pants total
Pair of Bibs (Insulated), Bibs (Uninsulated), or Coveralls (Uninsulated) - Employee can mix and match up to two items
Two (2) Light duty Sweatshirts
One (1) Winter coat
One (1) Outer Garment - (Fleece Jacket, Three Season Jacket or Hoodie)
Upon ratification of the contract, current Primary Users may exchange damaged or worn out clothing as described in the general section below.
Secondary users:
Secondary users are defined as those job classifications that may be exposed to potential arc flash hazards on a semi-frequent basis (weekly). These job classifications include but are not limited to the following:
Senior Lab Worker-Metering Support, Equipment Operators, Mechanic Leader-Regional, Journeyman Mechanic-Regional, Journeyman Mechanic Trainee-Regional, Helper-Regional-Mechanical, Service Tech-Entry, Customer Contact Representative, Fire Protection Specialist and employees temporarily placed as Utility Persons who have limited and infrequent exposure to potential arc flash hazards and employees temporarily placed as Utility Persons who are exposed less frequently to potential arc flash hazards.
Allotments:
The Company will provide the following allotments to new Secondary User employees who have completed their probationary period:
Two (2) Coveralls (Uninsulated)
Upon ratification of the contract, current Secondary users may exchange damaged or worn out coveralls as described in the General Provisions section below.
General Provisions
Primary and Secondary users may exchange worn out or otherwise damaged FR clothing for new clothing with supervisor approval. The company reserves the right to determine the serviceability of all Personal Protective Equipment including FR clothing, All exchanges will be at no cost to the employee.
Exchanges will only be approved one for one. An employee can only exchange an approved clothing type for the same clothing type. Mixing and matching of clothing types is not permitted.
The parties recognize that certain tasks to be performed will require Class 4 arc flame protection. The company will have available all the FR clothing necessary to perform such tasks.
Employees are required to care for and maintain their FR clothing per the manufacturer’s instructions.
Employees who negligently lose FR clothing or who negligently or intentionally damage clothing will be required to replace such items at their own expense.
The employees in job titles of Groundhand and Laborer will be excluded from a full allotment by virtue of their job descriptions. Upon being placed in the title of Groundhand/Laborer these employees will only receive coveralls as needed with supervisor approval.
FR clothing supplied by the company will only be utilized for company business purposes and non-company business use is prohibited.
The company reserves the right to select the FR clothing vendor and to select FR clothing styles and color choices. The company will inform Local 1600 of any changes prior to implementation.
EXHIBIT P CUSTOMER CONTACT CENTERS
This Exhibit embodies the understanding between the parties relative to the revised progression lines for the Customer Contact Centers located in Lehigh and Scranton.
The parties agree to create/maintain the following positions:
♦	Customer Service Assistant-1 (CSA-I)
♦	Customer Service Assistant- II (CSA-II)
•	Customer Service Assistant- III (CSA-III)
•	Customer Service Representative (CSR)
•	Customer Service Representative - Shift (Lehigh only) (CSR-Shift)
•	Senior Customer Service Representative (Senior-CSR)
The following positions will be eliminated from the CCC progression line:
•	Collection Assistant
•	Customer Service Clerk - Customer Contact Center
Job descriptions and primary duties, within each job description, have been established. A listing of available training modules is shown at the end of this Exhibit.
Initial staffing for the newly created positions will be accomplished in the following manner:
Customer Service Clerk:
•	Within sixty (60) days of the ratification of this agreement by the parties, existing Customer Service Clerks will be offered a one time opportunity to promote to CSA-III, Step 5 (testing is waived) OR remain an incumbent CS Clerk at existing salary table.
•	The four (4) incumbent Customer Service Clerks, located in the Customer Contact Center (Lehigh), will retain duties of the Customer Service Clerk should they not promote.
•	The position of Customer Service Clerk in the Customer Contact Center progression line is eliminated. Incumbents who remain in the position will be eliminated through attrition and the duties will revert to the appropriate Job classification within the CCC progression lines.
Customer Service Representative:
•	Existing Customer Service Representatives will remain in the CSR position, at the existing salary table.
Customer Service Representative - Shift:
•	There are no changes to the CSR-Shift position under this agreement.
Senior Customer Service Representative:
•	A new position of Senior-CSR will be added to the Lehigh and Scranton progression lines.
•	This position will be responsible for the daily assistance and direction of work as related to the lower positions within the Progression Lines (excluding CSR-Shift).
•	The Senior-Customer Service Representative duties and responsibilities will be as noted on the newly created job description,
•	Promotions from CSR to Senior-CSR will be made as vacancies arise. Promotions will be based on the seniority of those CSRs who have successfully completed the Senior CSR Skills Assessment at a local community college. The training program will be developed by Human Resources with agreement from IBEW Local 1600 and Customer Services.
Part-Time CSR positions:
•	Within sixty (60) days of the ratification of this agreement by the parties, existing part-time CSRs will be offered a one time opportunity to convert to a full-time CSR position and will retain their Local 1600 seniority date. New company service and job seniority dates will be established.
♦	Part-time CSRs who do not choose to convert during these sixty (60) days will remain part-time CSRs and may elect to accept promotional opportunities in the future following the language under future promotional opportunities, immediately below.
Future promotional opportunities within the newly created progression lines will be filled in the following
manner:
Part-time Customer Service Representative (CSR-PT)
•	Will be offered the opportunity to promote to an open full time position of CSA-III as vacancies arise, based on job seniority among the Part-time Customer Service Representatives and the CSA-lls, providing they have satisfactory performance.
♦	They will retain their Local 1600 seniority date. New company service and job seniority dates will be established.
Customer Service Representative (CSR):
•	Will be offered the opportunity to promote to Senior Customer Service Representative as described above, providing they have satisfactory performance.
•	Lehigh based CSRs will be offered the opportunity to promote based upon job seniority, to a Customer Service Representative - Shift position as vacancies arise.
Customer Service Assistant-Ill (CSA-III):
•	Will be offered the opportunity to promote, based upon job seniority, to CSR, as vacancies arise, providing they have satisfactory performance.
Customer Service Assistant-ll (CSA-II):
•	Will be offered the opportunity to promote, based upon job seniority, to CSA-III as vacancies arise.
Customer Service Assistant-I (CSA-I):
•	Will be offered the opportunity to promote, based upon job seniority, to CSA-II as vacancies are created, or promote to CSA-II automatically after 12 months providing they have satisfactory performance.
•	This position will be considered the entry level position and vacancies will be filled by newly hired employees.
Overtime opportunities will follow the language in the CCC Overtime Opportunities Memorandum of Agreement for the following job classifications: CSA I, II, and III, CSR, and Sr. CSR.
The parties agree to meet and discuss staffing plans for the CCC per Article II, Section 7E, following ratification. These meetings would generally be held on an annual basis unless there are substantial changes in work load and/or staffing, causing the parties to meet sooner.
This Exhibit applies only to the progression lines mentioned above, will not prejudice either party’s position in the future and may not be cited as precedent in any future proceedings except to enforce the terms of this agreement.
This table depicts the alignment of existing training modules under the new CCC progression lines established in this Exhibit This listing depicts the training available by job classification, but it does not represent a required level of training for all employees within a specific job classification. The parties agree to meet and discuss significant changes to this training structure, as stated in Article II, Section 7E of the Labor Agreement Significant changes are when modules move from one job classification to another.
Proposed CCC Progression Line ~ Major Functions & Training Modules				
CSA-I	CSA-ll	CSA-fH	CSR	!	Sr-CSR
CTP Res Payment Agreements CTP Res Start/Stop Service CSS Account Maintenance Foundational Tools Outage Problems	CSS Res and Non-Res Collection CSS Res Start/Stop Service Small C&l Start/Stop Service Res BackOffice Billing	New and Upgraded Electric Service Res Energy Education C&l BackOffice RebiHing Res Billing Cails Mise Cails	Small C&l Energy Ed Small C&l Billing Cails Renewable Energy Advanced Billing	i Escalated Contacts Traimng/Coaching Group Meeting Leader
New Employee Orientation	Disconnect Service Orders	Billing Cails-Residential	Billing Cafls-Small C&l	Sr. CSR Skills
Web Retrieval	Add Customer	Callout Response-Advanced	Energy Education Small C&l	Instructor Orientation
Payment Assistance	Connect Service Orders-Residential	Budget Billing Calls	RTS Systems & Options	Instructor Training
Budget Billing Basics	POS ID and Security Deposits	WMS Intro	Responding to Legislative Complaints	
Residential Reco CTP	Connect Service Orders~Non Residential	REMS!	Renewable Energy-Processing Applications	
Lost and Misapplied Pmts introduction	Act 54 Introduction	Initiating WRs for New Service	Advanced Renewable Energy Training	
On Track Overview	Complaints and Disputes 2	Initiating WRs for Change of Service	LP Billing	
WATT Application	PA State Sales Tax Rule introduction	initiating WRs for Removals	Summary Billing	
PUC Dec Entry	Rate Schedules Introduction	Cancelling & Reactivating Work Orders	Mixed Meter Rebiliing	
Web Self Service Application Overview	Establishing and Removing an Area Light	initiating WRs for Relocation of Company Facilities	OnTrack RebiHing	
Programs to Help Customers	Customer Choice	Relocations, Tree Trimming, Mise Investigation Orders	OnTrackBankruptcies	
Revenue Protection Intro	Budget Billing Explanation and Adj	Initiating WRs for Area Lights	Holiday Lighting	
Aspect Phones & Screen Pop	Landlord Coding	Energy Education-Residential	PUC Hearings	
Cail Handling Expectations	Meter Reading and Billing	MyPPL Analyzer	Theft/Sensitive Acct RebiHing	
Telephone Techniques	CSS Payment Agreements	Carbon Calculator	Outside Attorney Interface	
Language Interpreter	Overdue Final Bills	Request Credit		
Call Intercept	Residential Reco CSS	Healing Customer Relationships		
CS Letters Introduction	Non-Residential Termination	Area Light Rebilllng		
Office Communicator	Non-Residential Reconnection	C&l Back Office Billing & WFMs		
HuP-Three Point Communication	Special Agreements	Bankruptcies		
VPP	Service Orders and Field Orders Introduction	Line Extension Guarantee Billing		
Standards of Conduct and Integrity	Electronic Funds Transfer	Rate Change Requests/RebiHing		
Facility Emergency Plan	Collection Referrals	TOU Rebilllng		
Human Performance	PUC Mediation Response			
Hazard Communication	Continuous Account Transfer Reversal			
Managing the Collection Experience	Residential High Balance WATT Referrals			
Complaints & Disputes 1	Working Faxed 30 Day Med Certs			
Residential Dunning	Transferring Balance form Final led or Written off			
CTP Stop	Caring for Customers			
CTP Transfer	Introduction to Basic Billing			
CTP Start	Residential WFMs			
Customer Choice Introduction	Rate Schedules			
Landlord Coding introduction	Pennsylvania State Sales Tax Rules			
Reaching for Stellar Service	Late Payment Charges			
Components of Electric Bill	Issuing a Duplicate Bill			
CSS Introduction	Transfers & Refunds			
CSS Retrieval	Late Payer Program			
Account information	Rejected Bills			
Documenting Contacts with Customers	Calculating and Applying Interest			
Maintaining Account Information	Security Deposit Waiver Mailbox			
Operation Help Enrollments	Due Date Change Requests			
Third Party Notification	EFT Billing			
Web Self Service Application	Adjust Metered Usage Application			
CSR Web Administration	Budget Billing RebiHing			
Web Self-Service Application Admin	Res Stopped Meter WATT Prep			
Power Problems	Res Stopped Meter RebiHing			
PA OneCall Introduction	Sales Tax Exemptions/Certificates \	j			
	Connect at Wrong Address	i	i	j	i			
	Referrals to Attorneys	i	i	i	i			
2015 Pay Periods / Pay Dates / Holidays
ppi
Pay Period
Ending Date
PP Sun Mon Tue Wed Thu	Fri	Sat
JANUARY		
m 2		3
CH CD CO	9	10
11 12 13 14 15	16	17
2 @ 19 20 21 22	23	24
25 26 27 28 29	30	31
FEBRUARY		
3 0 2 3 4 5	6	7
8 9 10 11 12	13	14
4 (g)/T6\ 17 18 19	20	21
22 23 24 25 26	27	28
MARCH		
tn co CM e	6	7
8 9 10 11 12	13	14
e @ 16 17 18 19	20	21
22 23 24 25 26	27	28
(g) 30 31		
Payday
! \ Contract Holiday
APRIL
1 2 03 4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
«	(J2)	13	14	15	16	R7l	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
5	@	27	28	29	30
MAY
ZU 2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
@	11	12	13	14	[151W
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
" ®Z^26	27	28	[29]	30
31
JUNE
	1		2	3	4	5	6
12	Cv	8	9	10	11	r 12 j	13
	14	15	16	/	18	IT	20
13		22	23	24	25	[26]	27
	28	29	Ju				
PP Sun Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat
JULY
1	2 /T\	4
Q 6	7	8	9 [TOI	11
12 13	14	15	16 17	18
@ 20	21	22	23 [24]	25
26 27	28	29	30 31
AUGUST
1
(2)	3	4	5	6	FT]	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
@	17	18	19	20	[2T|	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29
® 31
SEPTEMBER
1	2	3	m	5
6	8	9	10	11	12
™ @	14	15	16	17	[181	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
20 (§) 28 29 30
OCTOBER
1 [JF] 3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
21	0	12	13	14	15	QQ	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
22	@	26	27	28	29	[30]	31
NOVEMBER
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
23	0	9	10	11	12	[13]	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
24	(g)	23	24	25 /HE3	28
29 30
DECEMBER
1	2 3 4 5
25 0 7 8 9 '!0 Pl I 12
13 14 15 16 17 18 19

2016 Pay Periods / Pay Dates I Holidays
ppi
PP Sun Mon Tue Wed
JANUARY
Pay Period
Ending Date
Payday
]\ Contract Holiday
1	Q)	4	5	6
10	11	12	13
2	@	18	19	20
24	25	26	27
3	®
FEBRUARY
1 2 3
7 8 9 10 .....
4	16	17
21 22 23 24
5	(§) 29
MARCH
1	2
6	7	8	9
6	@	14	15	16
20	21	22	23
z	(g)	28	29	30
APRIL
3	4	5	6
8	(fp)	11	12	13
17	18	19	20
5	@	25	26	27
MAY
12	3	4
10	0)	9	10	11
15	16	17	18
11	@	23	24	25
29 /30\ 31
JUNE
1
12	(|)	6	7	8
12	13	14	15
’3	@	20	21	22
Thu Fri Sat
H\ 2 7 m 9
14 15 16
21 [221 23
28 29 30
4 5 6
11 12 13
18 [W] 20
25 26 27
3 4 5
10 11 12
17 pT8] 19
24 25 26
31
1 2
7 8 9
14 p51 16
21 /22\ 23
28 [29" 30
12 13 14
19 20 21
26 [271 28
11
18
23 [24 ; 25
5 6 7
2 3 4
PP Sun Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat
JULY
1	2
Q	£4\ 5	6	7 m	9
10	11	12	13	14 15	16
15 @	18	19	20	21 f22]	23
24	25	26	27	28 29	30
16 (31)
AUGUST
1	2	3	4	[~5~| 6
7	8	9	10	11	12 13
17	(g)	15	16	17	18	[Wl 20
21	22	23	24	25	26 27
18	@	29	30	31
SEPTEMBER
1 l~2] 3
4	/~5\ 6	7	8 9	10
io	(H)	12	13	14	15 pi6]	17
18	19	20	21	22 23	24
20	(§)	26	27	28	29 [30
OCTOBER
1
2 3 4 5 6 7 8
21 Q) 10 11 12 13 [14] 15
16 17 18 19 20 21 22
22 (§) 24 25 26 27 [2S~] 29
30 31
NOVEMBER
1 2 3 4 5
23 0	7	8	9	10	[TT]	12
13	14	15	16	17	TT	19
24 @	21	22	23	26
27	28	29	30
DECEMBER
1	2 3
as 0 5 6 7 8 |~9l 10
11 12 13 14 15 16 17
2017 Pay Periods / Pay Dates I Holidays
Pay Period
Ending Date
Payday
Contract Holiday
PP Sun Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat
JANUARY
1	3	4	5	m	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
2	@	16	17	18	19	[20“]	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
3	@	30	31
FEBRUARY
1	2	R	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
4	@	13	14	15	16	[17]	18
19 /2S\	21	22	23	24	25
3	@	27	28
MARCH
1 2 R 4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
s	@	13	14	15	16	R	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
7	@	27	28	29	30	[31~|	1
APRIL
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
a	(J)	10	11	12	13	R	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
3	@	24	25	26	27	[28]	29
30
MAY
1	2	3	4	5	6
10	Q)	8	9	10	11	R 13
14	15	16	17	18	19 20
11	@	22	23	24	25	[26] 27
28	/29\	30	31	1	2	3
JUNE IM Imm
ppij
PP Sun Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat
JULY
1
(2)	3	<4\	5	6	R	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
15 (g)	17	18	19	20	R	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29
15	31
AUGUST
1	2 3 R 5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
17	@	14	15	16	17	R	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
18	@	28	29	30	31
SEPTEMBER
"T1 2
3 /4~\ 5	6 7 8 9
19	(W)	11	12	13	14	15	16
	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
20	(R)	25	26		28	29	30
	OCTOBER						
	1	2	3	4	5	6	7
21	(8)	9	10	11	12	13	14
	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22		23	24	25	26	27	28
	29	30	31				
NOVEMBER
12 3 4
23 Q)	6	7	8	9	R	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
24 @	20	21	22	25
26	27	28	29	30
DECEMBER
1	2
6 7 Rol 9
13 14 15 16
20 21 p2\[ 23
27 28 29 30