Honeywell
AGREEMENT
between
Honeywell, Federal Manufacturing & Technologies, LLC
and
Local Lodge No. 778 International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers
Effective November 21, 2011 through November 19, 2017
1
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLES	PAGE
ARTICLE 1.	AGREEMENT ............................................... 3
ARTICLE 2.	INTENT ...................................................3
ARTICLE 3.	RECOGNITION ..............................................3
ARTICLE 4.	REPRESENTATION............................................3
ARTICLE 5.	UNION RESPONSIBILITY .................................... 5
ARTICLE 6.	MANAGEMENT................................................5
ARTICLE 7.	UNION SECURITY ...........................................6
ARTICLE 8.	NO STRIKE, WORK	STOPPAGE, SLOW-DOWN OR LOCKOUT .......... 6
ARTICLE 9.	CHECK-OFF ................................................7
ARTICLE 10.	NO DISCRIMINATION........................................9
ARTICLE 11.	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE .................................... 9
ARTICLE 12.	DISCIPLINE ............................................ 12
ARTICLE 13.	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME............................. 13
ARTICLE 14.	HOLIDAY PAY............................................ 16
ARTICLE 15.	SENIORITY.............................................. 17
ARTICLE 16.	VACATION AND PAID ABSENCE...............................26
ARTICLE 17.	LEAVES OF ABSENCE ......................................28
ARTICLE 18.	JURY DUTY PAY...........................................30
ARTICLE 19.	HEALTH, SAFETY, & ENVIRONMENT ..........................30
ARTICLE 20.	APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM .................................31
ARTICLE 21.	ESTABLISHMENT OF WAGE RATES FOR NEW JOB CLASSIFICATIONS.32
ARTICLE 22.	INSURANCE PROGRAM AND PENSION PLAN .....................33
ARTICLE 23.	BULLETIN BOARDS ....................................... 33
ARTICLE 24.	SECURITY REQUIREMENTS ..................................33
ARTICLE 25.	WAGES AND SENIORITY GROUPINGS ..........................34
ARTICLE 26.	COST-OF-LIVING ALLOWANCE................................40
ARTICLE 27.	BEREAVEMENT PAY ....................................... 42
ARTICLE 28.	EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE ................................ 42
ARTICLE 29.	SAVINGS PLAN .......................................... 43
ARTICLE 30.	CONTRACT VALIDITY ......................................43
ARTICLE 31	- DURATION...............................................44
2
ARTICLE 1.	AGREEMENT
A. This Agreement, dated at Kansas City, Missouri, effective the 21st day of November, 2011 between Honeywell, Federal Manufacturing & Technologies, LLC, hereinafter called the Company, and Local Lodge Number 778 of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, AFL-CIO, hereinafter called the Union, is entered into by the parties to provide an orderly collective bargaining relationship.
b. This Agreement supersedes the Agreement entered into the 13th day of October, 2008 and all Supplements thereto, which are hereby terminated, except the Status Quo Agreements of April 1, 1964.
ARTICLE 2.	INTENT
It is the intent, in the true sense of the word, of both the Union and the Company to conduct all matters in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and to maintain a harmonious relationship among all persons who have duties and responsibilities in the administration of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. It is the further intent that the provisions of this Agreement be carried out with fairness on the part of both the Union and the Company beginning with the Stewards and Supervisors of the respective departments, and to protect the interest of the Government and the public. The above reference to the Government and public interest shall not be subject to the Grievance Procedure nor the arbitration provision of this Agreement in any respect.
ARTICLE 3.	RECOGNITION
The Company, recognizes the Union, as the exclusive representative as certified under the decision of the National Labor Relations Board (Case #17 RC 588), for the purpose of collective bargaining with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment and other conditions of employment in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and within the scope of the Labor-Management Relations Act of 1947 (as amended) for all production and maintenance employee(s), including interior and outside transportation employee(s), chauffeurs, timekeepers and counters, but excluding all salaried office, engineering, research, plant protection, medical, safety, time study, and supervisory or other non-bargaining unit employee(s) with the authority to hire, promote, discharge, discipline or otherwise effect changes in the status of employee(s) or effectively recommend such action.
ARTICLE 4.	REPRESENTATION
A.	Effective January 1, 2012, the Union shall be represented by three (3) grievance Committeepersons. Effective January 1, 2013, the Union shall be represented by two (2) grievance Committeepersons. Additionally, there will be one (1) Steward for each sixty (60) employees within the bargaining unit. Each January, based on December 31 headcount, the number of Stewards will be adjusted to conform to the above ratio.
Committeeperson(s), Stewards and Steward alternates shall be selected from among the employees in the bargaining unit. A Steward shall be assigned to the shift and department or one of the departments represented. It is agreed that no probationary employee shall be eligible to serve as a Union representative in any capacity.
3
B.	The Union shall notify the Company as to who occupies the Committeeperson position(s), which shifts he/she is on, and the makeup of the grievance committee. Such notification shall be January of each year.
C.	Stewards, or alternates in the absence of the Steward from the plant, will handle complaints, investigations and grievances as outlined in Step 1 of the Grievance Procedure and shall be permitted to attend any subsequent step of the Grievance Procedure.
D.	There will be one (1) regularly scheduled meeting each week between the grievance committee and the Company when necessary to handle grievances which have reached the second or third step of the Grievance Procedure as outlined herein. Should circumstances so warrant, there will be additional meetings by mutual agreement of the parties, with the understanding that the parties will make every effort to hold the number of meetings and the time spent in all meetings to a minimum.
E.	Union Business Time
1.	The Company will pay Committeeperson(s) for the time spent in the performance of their Union duties during regular working hours, including time spent attending meetings in the second, third, and fourth steps of the Grievance Procedure, up to a maximum of 40 hours per week per Committeeperson, non-accumulative excluding arbitration hearings per Article 11 paragraph D.
2.	Stewards will be paid for time spent in the performance of their Union duties, including attendance at second and third step grievance meetings, during regular working hours, up to a maximum of five (5) hours per week, non-accumulative.
3.	All time shall be paid at the employee's current straight time hourly rate. Any Committeeperson attending a grievance meeting who regularly works on a night shift shall receive night shift premium. Union duties shall be limited to such duties as defined herein.
F.	Grievance Committeeperson(s), Stewards and Steward alternates will continue to work at their assigned jobs at all times except when necessary to leave their work to attend grievance meetings or to handle grievances as provided herein.
G.	Stewards and Committeeperson(s), when required to leave their jobs to handle complaints, investigations and grievances, shall explain to their immediate Supervisor the reason for leaving their jobs. It is understood and agreed that a Steward will be allowed to investigate complaints or grievances only in those departments which the Steward represents, unless the Committeeperson needs the technical assistance of a Steward in investigating a complaint or grievance in a department not represented by the Steward. Upon entering the department in which the complaint or grievance exists, the Stewards or Committeeperson(s) shall notify the Supervisor of that department of their presence and purpose. When union business arises in controlled access areas, the company will take reasonable action to help a union representative gain access to the subject area on a timely basis. The Union agrees to hold to a minimum all time spent on Union business.
4
H.	The names of all grievance Committeeperson(s), Stewards, and Steward alternates, covered by this Agreement shall be given in writing to Labor Relations prior to the time of their taking office. The Company shall recognize grievance Committeeperson(s), Stewards, and Steward alternates on the workday following receipt, in writing, from the Union Office of notice of the identities of said officials.
I.	Grievance Committeeperson(s), Stewards, or Steward alternates, shall not be permitted to enter the plant on Union business on other than their regular shifts unless permission is granted by the Company. Grand Lodge Representatives or other representatives of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers shall be granted access to the plant provided such access is in complete accord with all security or other Company regulations. Permission for such access shall be requested of Labor Relations.
J.	Employees may be absent from work on Union business during their regular shifts without pay when prior arrangements are made with Labor Relations with at least three (3) working days’ notice, in writing, by an officer of the Union, with the understanding that the total absent from work under this paragraph will not exceed thirteen (13) in number at any one time, or a number mutually agreed to by the parties in each instance.
K.	Committeeperson(s) and Stewards shall not be transferred or loaned to another department they do not represent without their consent. Committeeperson(s) and Stewards shall not be displaced without their consent to another shift as long as their classification exists on the shift to which they are assigned.
ARTICLE 5.	UNION RESPONSIBILITY
The Union recognizes the responsibility imposed upon it as the exclusive bargaining agent of the employees covered by this Agreement and realizes that, in order to provide maximum opportunities for continuing employment, good working conditions, and fair and equitable wages, the Company must be in a cost position consistent with fair labor standards. The Union, through its bargaining agency, assumes responsibility for cooperating with the management in the attainment of these goals. The Union agrees that it will cooperate with management in encouraging employees to discharge the duties of their respective job classifications in a diligent and efficient manner. The Company recognizes the Union's responsibility and agrees to cooperate with the Union in representing its members or feepayers at plant sites as provided for in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 6.	MANAGEMENT
A.	Except as specifically limited by this Agreement, the management of the Company and the direction of the working forces, including but not limited to the products to be manufactured, the location of plants, the schedules and fair standards of production, the schedules of hours and shifts, the methods, processes and means of manufacturing, the right to hire, promote, demote and transfer employees, to establish rules of conduct, to discharge or discipline for good and sufficient cause, and to maintain discipline and efficiency of employees, are the sole and exclusive rights and responsibilities of the Company.
5
B.	It is understood that this clause will not be used for purposes of discrimination against any member or fee-payer of the Union and is subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 7.	UNION SECURITY
A.	Upon the effective date of this Agreement, all employees in the bargaining unit as defined by the National Labor Relations Board shall become members in good standing or fee-payers of the Union. Thereafter all employees hired into the bargaining unit shall as a condition of employment become members of the Union in good standing or feepayers in accordance with the Constitution and By-Laws of the Union, thirty (30) days from the date of their employment. The Union shall not use this provision of the Agreement to discriminate in any way against any employee who was not formerly a member or fee-payer of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers.
B.	Notwithstanding any other provisions contained herein, if an employee who is a member or fee-payer of the Union shall be transferred or promoted out of the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement, and shall thereafter in any manner be returned to said unit, whether by transfer, demotion, or otherwise, such employee shall be permitted thirty (30) days in which to rejoin the Union. This Article shall be so construed as to comply in all respects with the provisions of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947 (as amended.)
ARTICLE 8.	NO STRIKE, WORK STOPPAGE, SLOW-DOWN OR LOCKOUT
A.	The Union will not call or sanction any strike or concerted work stoppage and guarantees fully to support the Company in maintaining operations. Employees shall not cause or participate in any strike, work stoppage, slow-down, picket line, or other interference of any kind with operations, whether brought about by a union or any group or individual; and violations shall be cause for discharge of any one or more of the violators or for other disciplinary action by the Company. The term "participate" in this section shall not be interpreted to cover the action of any employee who fails to report for work where the employee may be subjected to violence. In the event that any employee represented by the Union violates this Article, the Union shall, within forty-eight (48) hours after receipt of written notice from the Company, take the following action:
1.	Advise the Company in writing that the prohibited act has not been sanctioned by the Union.
2.	Provide copies of the following notice for posting at Company sites:
We have been advised by Honeywell, Federal Manufacturing & Technologies, LLC, that an act prohibited by Article 8, No Strike, Work Stoppage, Slow-Down or Lockout, of the current collective bargaining agreement, has occurred. Inasmuch as such act has not been sanctioned by the Union, if you are engaged in any such act you are hereby instructed to cease participation immediately.
6
Local Lodge No. 778 International Association of
Machinists and Aerospace Workers
By _______________________________
“THIS NOTICE IS POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
PROVISIONS OF THE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT BETWEEN HONEYWELL, FEDERAL MANUFACTURING & TECHNOLOGIES, LLC, AND THE UNION."
3.	The above notice directed to the bargaining unit personnel shall have been published in substantial size in the major Kansas City, Missouri daily newspaper. Compliance by the Union with the above provisions will preclude the Union and its agents and officers from liability, and the Union members or fee-payers who have not violated this Article from discipline, including discharge, during the life of this Agreement with respect to any damage suffered by the Company arising from or out of any violation of this section.
B.	There shall be no lockout by the Company during the life of this Agreement.
C.	If it is contended that any employee discharged for a violation of this Article did not in fact commit such violation, a grievance may be processed in accordance with the grievance procedure in this Agreement.
d. The no-strike provisions of this Agreement shall not be binding upon the Union in the event the Company fails or refuses to abide by the decision of an arbitrator which has been rendered pursuant to the grievance procedure in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 9.	CHECK-OFF
A.	Commencing with the dues or fees deduction for the first calendar month following ratification of this Agreement, the Company agrees to deduct Union membership initiation fees and monthly dues or fees levied by the International Union or Local Union in accordance with the Constitution and By-Laws of the Union, from the pay of each employee who is or who becomes a member or fee-payer of the Union, within the scope of the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement, and who, in writing, in accordance with the Authorization for Check-Off, has voluntarily authorized the Company to do so for the period covered thereby.
B.	The Authorization for Check-Off shall be on a Company approved form provided by the Union.
C.	Deductions shall be made only in accordance with the provisions of said Authorization for Check-Off, and with the provisions of this section of the Agreement.
D.	A properly executed Authorization for Check-Off form for each employee for whom Union membership dues or fees are to be deducted hereunder shall be delivered to the Company before any payroll deductions are made. Deductions shall be made thereafter only under Authorization for Check-Off forms which have been properly executed and
7
are in effect. Any Authorization for Check-Off which is incomplete or in error will be returned to the Union by the Company.
E.	After receipt of the Authorization for Check-Off form, the Union membership dues or fees for any calendar month shall be deducted from the pay check for the first week ending in that month, providing the employee has sufficient net earnings to cover the Union membership dues or fees. In the case of employees rehired, or returning to work after layoff, leave of absence, or being transferred back into the bargaining unit, who previously have executed Authorization for Check-Off form, deductions will be made for membership dues or fees as provided herein.
F.	In cases where a deduction is made which duplicates a payment already made to the Local Union by an employee, or where a deduction is not in conformity with the provisions of the Union Constitution and By-Laws, refunds to the employee will be made by the Local Union.
G.	Deductions for any calendar month shall be remitted to the designated financial officer of the Local Union as soon as possible after the fifteenth (15th) day of that month. The Company shall furnish the designated financial officer of the Local Union, monthly, with a list of those for whom deductions have been made and the amounts of such deductions.
H.	Any employee whose seniority is broken by death, quit, discharge or layoff or who is transferred to a classification not in the bargaining unit, shall cease to be subject to checkoff deductions beginning with the month immediately following the month in which the death, quit, discharge, layoff or transfer occurred. The Local Union will be notified by the Company of the names of such employees following the end of each month.
I.	Any dispute which may arise as to whether or not an employee properly executed or properly revoked an Authorization for Check-Off form shall be reviewed with the employee by a representative of the Union and a representative of the Company. Should this review not dispose of the matter, the dispute may be referred to arbitration, which decision shall be final and binding on the employee, the Union and the Company. Until the matter is disposed of, no further deductions shall be made.
J.	The Company shall not be liable to the International Union or its Local by reason of the requirements of this section of the Agreement for the remittance or payment of any sum other than that constituting actual deductions made from employee wages earned.
K.	The Union shall indemnify and save the Company harmless from any and all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability that shall arise out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the Company in reliance upon certified lists furnished to the Company by the Union, or for the purpose of complying with any of the provisions of this Article.
L.	In the event any member or fee-payer is absent, due to vacation, leave of absence or on layoff and there was no dues or fees deduction for a particular month, the Company shall, upon written request by the Union, on the next payroll deduction, withhold from the employee's pay the amount as shown on the billing from the Local Lodge for the employee's designated dues or fees, initiation or reinstatement fees, for which the employee was absent, plus the employee's current monthly dues or fees. The Company
8
will notify the Financial Secretary of the Locals involved of any transfers between the respective locals of employees covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 10.	NO DISCRIMINATION
A.	The Company will not interfere with, restrain, or coerce the employees because of lawful activity in the Union.
B.	There shall be no solicitation for Union membership or dues or fees or other Union activity during working hours, except as provided in this Agreement.
C.	The Company will not discriminate against any employee because of age, sex, race, color, creed, religion, national origin, veteran status, disability, or Union membership. The Union recognizes the obligation of the Company concerning equal employment opportunity.
ARTICLE 11.	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
A.	A grievance shall be construed to mean any dispute between the Union and the Company or between the Company and any employee or group of employees concerning the effect, interpretation or application of any of the terms of this Agreement, or any alleged breach or violation of this Agreement. All complaints or grievances shall be resolved only as provided for in the Grievance Procedure which follows:
B.	No complaint or grievance will be considered which is not submitted to the immediate Supervisor or Human Resources Generalist under Step One within twenty (20) working days after the employee was aware of the occurrence. Retroactive monetary claims shall be limited to a thirty day period prior to the date the grievance was first submitted in writing to the Company. This thirty day retroactive monetary claim limitation shall not apply in the instance where an employee who has been laid-off out of the plant is recalled and within thirty days following the date of return to work submits a written grievance to the Company alleging that the recall was not in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
C.	Grievances regarding discharges or disciplinary layoffs must be filed with the Labor Relations Department within five (5) working days from the date the employee is orally notified or written notification of the action is dispatched to the employee’s last known address, except in those instances where the Union is unable to locate a discharged employee the time limit will be seven (7) working days. Written notification is defined as notification by expedited delivery service.
D.	In the interest of expeditious settlement of grievances, a witness, who may or may not be the aggrieved employee, may be called into any step of the Grievance Procedure in order to submit additional facts or oral testimony which were not introduced during the preceding steps of the Grievance Procedure and which are deemed necessary by the parties in order to arrive at a mutually satisfactory settlement of the grievance. Either party may call its witnesses, who may or may not be employees of the Company but whose only interest shall be to submit facts which are pertinent to the grievance. Any employee witness who appears at the employee’s request or at the request of the Union, and at a time other than during the employee's regular shift, shall not receive pay for time
9
spent attending the grievance meeting. Union requested attendees including grievance Committeepersons, business representative(s), legal counsel, witnesses, the grievant(s), the Steward or Stewards involved at arbitration hearings shall be paid by the union.
E.	If the Company fails to meet the time limitations as set forth in this Article, the grievance will automatically move to the next step of the grievance process. If the Union fails to meet the time limitations as set forth in this Article, the grievance will become null and void. Time limitations may be extended by mutual agreement of both parties.
F.	The Grievance Procedure shall conform to the provisions of the Labor-Management Relations Act and shall operate as follows:
Step 1 - Any employee having a complaint shall discuss the complaint with the immediate Supervisor and may request and will be granted the attendance of the Steward. If the Steward finds it necessary, the Steward may request and will be granted the presence of a Committeeperson. If the Supervisor deems it necessary, the Supervisor may request the attendance of the Human Resources Generalist or other appropriate members of Management, not to exceed two (2) in number. If this complaint is not settled within two (2) working days, the employee shall reduce the grievance to writing on the form provided by the Company for this purpose, which grievance shall be signed by the employee. Whereupon within two (2) working days, the immediate Supervisor, or a management representative shall render a decision in writing. If the answer is accepted, the Steward and the employee shall sign the acceptance. If it is not accepted, the Steward shall within an additional two (2) working days sign the grievance and submit it to Step 2.
Step 2 - In the event a satisfactory settlement is not reached in Step 1, the Steward shall receive the Union's copy of the grievance and the Company's copy shall be delivered by the department to Labor Relations for processing in Step 2 by the Grievance Committee and representatives of the Labor Relations Department. It is understood that an appeal within two (2) working days of the decision rendered in Step 1 shall not be invalidated by additional time intervening prior to the next scheduled committee meeting. No matter of a classified or restricted nature may be discussed at any meeting attended by persons who do not have the appropriate security clearances. The Company shall render its decision in writing within ten (10) working days from the date of this meeting, unless an extension of time is mutually agreed to, which, if not resolved, may be appealed by either party within ten (10) working days from the date of the decision to Step 3.
Step 3 - In this step the Union will be represented by its Business Representative(s), the Grievance Committee, and any other duly authorized Union representatives who will meet with the Manager of Labor Relations or other duly authorized Company representatives, within ten (10) working days following the date of the appeal. It is understood that an appeal within the ten (10) working days of the decision rendered in Step 2 shall not be invalidated by additional time intervening prior to the next scheduled meeting between Union and Company representatives. No matter of a classified or restricted nature may be discussed at any meeting attended by persons who do not have the appropriate security clearances. The Company shall render its decision in writing within ten (10) working days from the date of this meeting, unless an extension of time is mutually agreed to, which, if not resolved, may be appealed by either party within ten (10) working days from the date of the decision to Step 4.
10
Step 4 (Part 1) - Within five (5) working days of the appeal to arbitration, the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service shall be requested to submit a panel of five (5) names, from which each party shall alternately strike a name until only one (1) name remains, and this person shall be the arbitrator. Within seven (7) working days after receiving the list of arbitrators, the Company and the Union will meet to strike the list of arbitrators, and the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service shall be notified jointly of the name of the arbitrator selected by the parties. An arbitrator for a particular hearing shall be notified by the parties of the time and place for the hearing, which time and place shall be mutually agreed to.
Discharges which occur more than fifteen (15) days prior to a scheduled hearing and which are appealed to arbitration will be heard at that scheduled hearing. Those occurring within the fifteen (15) days prior to any scheduled hearing will be heard at the next subsequent hearing. This provision shall in no way prevent the parties, by mutual agreement, from agreeing to an ad hoc hearing immediately in any discharge case.
It is understood and agreed that neither party shall present information in an arbitration hearing which has not been made available previously to the other party.
Each party may submit post-hearing briefs to the arbitrator which state the position of the parties and furnish to the arbitrator any arguments in support thereof. If either party submits briefs or other written arguments to the arbitrator following the hearing, the other party will be furnished with copies of such material simultaneously with its being furnished to the arbitrator.
Step 4 (Part 2) - The arbitrator shall have no power to add to, subtract from or modify any of the terms of this Agreement, or any other terms made supplemental hereto, or to arbitrate any matter not specifically provided for by this Agreement or to arbitrate any new provision into this Agreement. The arbitrator's authority is to interpret and apply provisions of the Agreement. The arbitrator shall have no power to establish new or change the existing wage rate structure or establish new or change existing job content or to decide any matter pertaining to production standards. The arbitrator shall render a decision, in writing, to both parties within thirty (30) days after the closing of the hearing. The hearing shall be considered closed when arguments are concluded or when the transcript of the proceedings, if any, is received by the arbitrator or upon submission of the post-hearing briefs of the parties. The parties may by mutual consent agree to request of the arbitrator an "on the spot" decision or written award without an opinion. There shall be no appeal from the arbitrator's decision, which shall be final and binding upon the Company, the Union and the employees.
Costs pertaining to the arbitration proceedings shall be shared equally by the Union and the Company, except that the Company agrees to defray any costs of hearing rooms. If there is a transcript of the proceeding the party desiring such record will pay the entire cost, except that if the opposing party desires a copy of the transcript, the total cost of the stenographic record will be borne equally by the parties. Nothing in this provision shall preclude either party from making a mechanical recording of the hearing.
Step 4 (Part 3) - In disciplinary layoff and discharge cases, the arbitrator shall have the power to adjudge the guilt or innocence of the employee involved and review any penalties imposed on employees and modify or amend penalties, if in the arbitrator's judgment the penalty is too severe. If the arbitrator shall adjudge the employee innocent of the offense for
11
which the employee was disciplined or discharged and so orders, the Company shall reinstate the employee in full with accumulated seniority, and in case the employee was penalized by loss of working time, will pay back wages less any time during the period the employee was off wherein the plant was not operating on a standard workweek resulting from shorter hours, shutdowns for any reason, including emergency and inventory, and less any money the employee received from any other employment during the period the employee was off, including self-employment, Unemployment Compensation or Worker's Compensation, except that where an employee has had supplemental employment at the time of discharge and continues such employment, that portion of earnings which may be attributed to such supplemental employment normally performed outside the employee's regular Company working hours shall not be deducted by the arbitrator in awarding back pay and the Union may introduce evidence concerning such earnings at the arbitration hearing.
ARTICLE 12.	DISCIPLINE
A. The Company may discipline, suspend or discharge any employee for good and sufficient cause. The Company will notify a Committeeperson on the employee's shift or the Steward of an employee who has been suspended or discharged before the employee leaves the plant. The employee may, upon request, see a Committeeperson or Steward before leaving the plant, in a private place within the plant and for a reasonable period of time. The Company will apprise the employee of this right. Upon request the Company will furnish to the Union the employee's most recent address as shown on the employment record. If the employee desires to make a complaint, the employee shall reduce the complaint to writing, sign it and deliver it to the Union, who shall file it with the Labor Relations Department within five (5) working days after the action complained of, except in those instances where the Union is unable to locate a discharged employee the time limit will be seven (7) working days.
B.	A member of the grievance committee shall introduce the employee's complaint into the second step of the Grievance Procedure. A meeting will be held within five (5) working days unless an extension is mutually agreed to by the parties. The Union may request a postponement, not to exceed fifteen (15) days, with the understanding that the Company shall not be obligated to pay any award beyond the date set for the original meeting unless the case is referred to arbitration. In no case is a delay caused by the Union to cause a loss to the Company by reason of the delay.
C.	The decision of the Company in any step will be final unless notice of appeal to succeeding steps, including arbitration, is filed with the Company within seven (7) working days after the Company has rendered its decision.
D.	A copy of any written discipline shall be given to the employee. All written discipline shall have a twenty (20) month retention and referral period, except that the first written discipline received by an employee shall have an eight (8) month retention and referral period. Any disciplinary layoff or termination with subsequent reinstatement will have a twenty-four (24) month retention and referral period from the date of issuance. It shall be incumbent upon the employee or the Union to request the discipline record be returned to the employee upon expiration. After a period of twenty-eight (28) months has elapsed from the latest written discipline, then the retention and referral periods set forth above shall begin anew, except for a disciplinary layoff or termination with subsequent reinstatement.
12
ARTICLE 13.	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
For the purpose of this Agreement, the regular workweek will begin at 11:00 p.m. Sunday and end at 11:00 p.m. the following Sunday.
A.	Shifts
1.	On each shift, eight (8) hours of work and an unpaid lunch period will constitute a regular day’s work.
B.	Straight Time
Regular straight time hourly rates shall be paid for:
1.	The first eight (8) hours worked in any continuous twenty-four (24) hour period beginning with the starting time of the employee's shift.
2.	The first forty (40) hours worked in the employee's workweek, less all time for which daily, Saturday, Sunday or Holiday overtime has been earned. Paid vacation will be considered as time worked.
C.	Time and One-Half
Time and one-half shall be paid for:
1.	All hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day in any continuous twenty-four (24) hours beginning with the starting time of the employee's shift, except as hereinafter provided.
2.	All hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours in the workweek, less all time for which daily, Saturday, Sunday or Holiday overtime has been earned.
3.	All hours worked on Saturday.
4.	All hours worked in advance of the employee's regular starting time on Monday or on the day following a holiday.
5.	This provision is not applicable when employees request and are allowed by their Team Manager to work irregular hours.
D.	Double Time
Double time shall be paid for:
1.	All hours worked on Sunday.
2.	All hours worked on those holidays specified elsewhere in this Agreement.
13
E.	Exception to Overtime Payment
1.	Employees working in necessary continuous seven (7) day operations, such as maintenance, involving work on Saturday, Sunday and Holidays, shall be paid time and one-half for all hours worked on the sixth (6th) day of their regular workweek, and double time for all hours worked on the seventh (7th) day of their regular workweek and for the holidays referred to in paragraph D., "Double Time". Employees assigned on standby basis for the purpose of servicing equipment and maintaining continuous operations on Saturday and Sunday as part of their five day workweek shall not be required to work with regular crews or perform tasks on Saturday or Sunday normally performed by other employees in the same classification on regular work days. If on occasion required to do so, the employees involved will be paid at the applicable rate for Saturday and Sunday as such. It is understood and agreed that this clause does not apply to any classification where the nature of the duties is similar seven days a week. Preference for days off of those employees assigned to continuous seven-day operations will be determined by seniority, except that such preference shall not be exercised more often than once in each six (6) months.
2.	Employees who are sent off-site for training purposes by the Company will not receive payment for more than eight (8) hours per day or for Saturday or Sunday unless the employees actually work or are in training for more than eight (8) hours in a given day or on Saturday or Sunday. In connection with training outside the Greater Kansas City area, actual travel time between cities by approved public conveyance shall be considered as hours worked, regardless of the shift to which the employee is assigned.
F.	Assignment of Overtime Work
1.	When overtime is required in a given classification it will be the policy and intent of the Company to offer overtime opportunities to those employees in the classification who desire to work overtime. However, in the event no employee desires to work overtime, it shall be the prerogative of the Company to require employees in the classification to perform overtime work, or the Company may, at its discretion, have the work performed by employees in another classification. The Company will consider other options before requiring compulsory overtime.
2.	When overtime work is required the Company will make a reasonable effort to provide for an equitable distribution of overtime work among employees in the same classification within the department and on the shift involved. If an employee is loaned to another department to work overtime, the overtime worked will be charged against the employee for the purpose of overtime distribution in the employee's regular department. In Production Inspection the word "department" shall be construed to be the production department to which the inspector is assigned, irrespective of numerical department designation. When overtime work is required on primary power distribution systems or on secondary power distribution in connection with the primary systems within the sub-stations, in the Electrician classification, the overtime provisions of this article shall not apply. Except for Craft classifications assigned outside the Maintenance organization, overtime in the Maintenance Crafts will be distributed on a plant-wide basis by classification. Equitable distribution implies a need to keep the
14
overtime distribution on as even a basis as possible, normally within sixteen (16) hours, considering the composite needs of the department.
3.	A weekly record of overtime hours worked shall be maintained by the department and each week the Steward will be advised as to the identities of the employees scheduled for daily, Saturday, Sunday or Holiday overtime. Insofar as practicable and consistent with production requirements, the Company will make every effort to notify employees scheduled for Saturday overtime and their Stewards by the end of the shift on Thursday; those scheduled for Sunday overtime by the end of the shift on Friday; those scheduled for holiday overtime by the end of the shift two (2) days prior to the holiday; and those scheduled for daily overtime two (2) hours prior to the end of their shift.
4.	Overtime distribution shall be made on a calendar year basis beginning the last Monday of each June. Grievances regarding overtime distribution may be filed by employees who believe they have not shared in the overtime as provided in F.2. above.
5.	When an employee has not shared in the overtime as provided herein, the employee shall be afforded the next overtime available for which qualified within the same year as provided in F.4. above.
6.	When overtime is required within a department, job classification and shift, no probationary employee, trainee or apprentice shall be scheduled for overtime until all other employees involved are afforded the opportunity to work the overtime. Uncleared employees will not be permitted to work overtime where the performance of such work requires access to classified material or security areas.
7.	When an employee has completed the probationary period or has been transferred to a different job classification, department or shift, the employee shall then commence to share equitably in the distribution of future overtime without regard to the previous overtime status of the employee or the other employees involved.
8.	Any employee who is offered overtime work and refuses shall be considered to have worked such overtime for the purposes of overtime distribution. This paragraph will not apply to Union officers on regularly scheduled meeting dates.
G.	Reporting Time
1.	Any employee who is scheduled to work without having been previously notified that there would be no work shall receive in such instances four (4) hours of work or four (4) hours of pay at the employee's current rate in lieu thereof. This provision will not apply where any condition beyond the control of the Company may make it impractical for the Company to provide four (4) hours of work or to notify employees in advance that there would be no work on a regularly established work day.
2.	When an employee is recalled to work after having completed the regular shift, the employee shall receive four (4) hours of work or four (4) hours of pay at the applicable rate in lieu thereof. This provision will not apply where the employee is requested to return to work after the employee has clocked out at the end of the
15
regular shift but where the employee is still on the plant premises. In this instance the employee will receive one (1) hour of work or one (1) hour of pay at the applicable rate in lieu thereof.
ARTICLE 14.	HOLIDAY PAY
A.	All hourly employees coming under the scope of this Agreement shall be paid for the following holidays for the duration of this Collective Bargaining Agreement provided the employee has at least thirty (30) days of employment as of the date of the holiday.
Holiday (s)	Year 1 (12)	Year 2 (13)	Year 3 (13)	Year 4 (13)	Year 5 (13)	Year 6 (12)
Thanksgiving Day	11/24/2011	11/22/2012	11/28/2013	11/27/2014	11/26/2015	11/24/2016
Friday after Thanksgiving	11/25/2011	11/23/2012	11/29/2013	11/28/2014	11/27/2015	11/25/2016
Christmas Holiday Period (weekdays only)	12/26/2011 through 12/30/2011	12/24/2012 through 12/31/2012	12/24/2013 through 12/31/2013	12/24/2014 through 12/31/2014	12/24/2015 Through 12/31/2015	12/26/2016 through 12/30/2016
New Years	01/02/2012	01/01/2013	01/01/2014	01/01/2015	01/01/2016	01/02/2017
Good Friday	04/06/2012	03/29/2013	04/18/2014	04/03/2015	03/25/2016	04/14/2017
Memorial Day	05/28/2012	05/27/2013	05/26/2014	05/25/2015	05/30/2016	05/29/2017
Independence Day	07/04/2012	07/04/2013	07/04/2014	07/03/2015	07/04/2016	07/04/2017
Labor Day	09/03/2012	09/02/2013	09/01/2014	09/07/2015	09/05/2016	09/04/2017
B.	An employee eligible under the provisions of this clause shall receive eight (8) hours' pay at the then current base rate including night shift premium for each designated holiday.
C.	An employee who has been scheduled to report for work on a holiday and who fails to report for work shall not receive holiday pay unless the employee can prove to the Company's satisfaction that the employee was physically unable to do so.
D.	An employee who works any of the above holidays shall receive holiday pay and also will be compensated for all work performed in accordance with the Hours of Work and Overtime Clause of this Collective Bargaining Agreement.
E.	An employee shall receive the holiday pay provided some time is worked during the week prior to or during the week in which the holiday falls. An employee who has fulfilled the requirements of this paragraph for the first day of the Christmas Holiday Period will have fulfilled those requirements for all holidays during the Christmas Holiday Period.
F.	When a holiday falls within the approved vacation or two week military leave period of an employee who is eligible to receive holiday pay, and the employee is absent from work during the regularly scheduled workweek because of vacation or two week military leave, the employee shall be paid for the holiday.
16
ARTICLE 15.	SENIORITY
A.	Probationary Period
An employee who has been in the employment of the Company for ninety (90) consecutive days, after being granted a security clearance, without a break in service shall be considered a regular employee of the Company and granted seniority. Until receiving seniority, an employee shall be subject to layoff, discipline, or discharge at the sole discretion of the Company. Upon completion of the probationary period, an employee shall be credited with seniority as of the starting date of employment. Probationary employees who have been terminated and who are rehired within twenty-five (25) working days after being terminated shall be considered to have been continuously employed. The Company shall maintain seniority records on all employees covered by this Agreement, a current copy of which will be furnished to the Union Grievance Committee.
B.	Definition and Computation
1.	Seniority shall be defined as the length of service of the employee with the Company in the bargaining unit beginning with the starting date of initial employment or the starting date of rehire, whichever is later.
2.	When employees have the same starting date, seniority order shall be established by the permanent employee number as recorded in Human Resources.
3.	An employee, while on approved leave of absence for other than educational purposes, will continue to accumulate seniority.
4.	Any employee who is transferred out of the bargaining unit for any reason shall have no contractual right to return to the bargaining unit and no such employee shall be returned to the bargaining unit in a classification in which employees are on layoff. Upon return to the bargaining unit such employee shall be credited with only that seniority held at the time the employee left the bargaining unit, except that for the first ninety days after return to the unit, such employee shall have no seniority rights. Upon completion of ninety days in the bargaining unit, the employee's seniority shall be credited as stated above in accordance with the definition and computation provisions of this section. It is understood and agreed that an employee will not be returned to the bargaining unit in a classification in which the employee has not previously worked. An employee who has transferred out of the bargaining unit and is subsequently laid-off out of the plant will not be returned to the bargaining unit from layoff with seniority.
C.	Loss of Seniority
Seniority shall be lost for the following reasons:
1.	Voluntary quitting or accepting Lump Sum Payment in Lieu of Recall Rights as provided elsewhere in this Article.
17
2.	Discharge for good and sufficient cause.
3.	Failure to accept reinstatement and make arrangements for pre-employment processing within three (3) working days of receiving a recall offer from the Company. The offer will be by certified letter to the laid-off employee's last known address. A date for returning to work will be established by Human Resources dependent upon successful completion of the pre-employment process and Company work schedules. Where an employee for valid reasons is unable to return to work or to notify the Company within three (3) working days, the employee shall, upon presenting satisfactory proof to the Company of inability to return to work or to so notify the Company, be reinstated to the job, with seniority.
4.	Failure to return to work at the expiration of an approved leave of absence or accepting gainful employment during a leave of absence.
5.	Employees on layoff out of the plant shall have recall rights only for a period of three (3) years or for a period of time equal to one-half (1/2) the employee's total accumulated seniority at the time of layoff, whichever is greater. Employees on layoff in classifications within the plant shall have unlimited recall rights, subject to the other provisions of this Agreement.
6.	An employee who remains away from work for any reason is obligated to notify their Supervisor in person or through their agent on the first (1st) day of absence unless the employee's Supervisor has previously approved the absence. An employee who fails to notify the Company during three (3) consecutive days of absence shall be deemed to have quit unless the employee can establish that it was physically impossible to so notify the Company. Repeated failure to notify the Company on the first (1st) day of absence will result in appropriate disciplinary action. Notice as referred to herein shall be to employee's Supervisor. The employee, upon providing notice of an absence for personal business, shall specify the period of and reason for the absence. The employee must provide the Company with information where they can be contacted in order that notification of approval or disapproval may be provided. If the absence is not approved, the Company will so notify the employee. In the event the absence exceeds three (3) working days, it shall be the responsibility of the employee to request a leave of absence. An employee who reports ill and remains away from work for more than three (3) working days will be responsible for requesting a leave of absence, which leave shall be subject to revocation and the employee subject to discharge upon failure to present satisfactory proof of illness upon return to work or within one (1) week of the day they request an extension, whichever first occurs. In the event the employee is unable to provide satisfactory proof of illness within one (1) week from the date the request for an extension is made, it shall be incumbent upon the employee to request an extension of time from the Company for providing proof of illness.
D.	Layoffs and Recalls
1.	Reduction in Force and Voluntary Election of Lump Sum Payment in Lieu of Recall Rights.
18
An employee to be laid off out of the plant will be eligible for a Lump Sum Payment in Lieu of Recall Rights as outlined in this Section. The Company reserves the right to conduct a voluntary reduction in force, where an eligible employee would be permitted to volunteer for permanent layoff and, in return, be eligible for a Lump Sum Payment in Lieu of Recall Rights as outlined below. An employee volunteering to receive a Lump Sum Payment in Lieu of Recall Rights shall forfeit recall rights as provided elsewhere in this Article. However, such election will not preclude the employee from being rehired by the Company.
a.	To be eligible for a Lump Sum Payment in Lieu of Recall Rights, an employee must remain actively at work until the last day of work designated by the Company. However, if the employee is on medical leave on the last day of work designated by the Company, the employee must notify the Company of their choice of retaining recall rights or receiving a Lump Sum Payment in Lieu of Recall Rights. This notification must be made within thirty (30) days of when the employee would have otherwise been laid off out of the plant had they been actively at work.
b.	An employee shall not be entitled to a Lump Sum Payment in Lieu of Recall Rights unless permanently laid off out of the plant. An employee who accepts a job with the Company, quits, retires, otherwise terminates, or is terminated prior to the date of layoff shall not be entitled to a Lump Sum Payment in Lieu of Recall Rights.
c.	A Lump Sum Payment in Lieu of Recall Rights shall be based on the employee's length of service on the effective date of layoff. The Lump Sum Payment in Lieu of Recall Rights shall equal one week of pay (i.e., 40 hours at the employee's base rate plus Cost-of-Living Adjustment in effect on the date of layoff) for each full year of Company service as of the employee's layoff date. The maximum payment will not exceed twenty-six (26) weeks of pay. Additionally, and regardless of election, all affected employees may continue to be covered under the active group medical plan for which they were enrolled at the time of layoff for six (6) months after the date of layoff with no cost to the employee.
d.	Upon completion of a properly executed copy of a General Release of Claims Form by the company, an employee shall receive a Lump Sum Payment in Lieu of Recall Rights within ten (10) calendar days following the effective date of termination. An employee who fails or refuses to sign a General Release of Claims Form will not be entitled to a Lump Sum Payment in Lieu of Recall Rights and will be laid off with recall rights.
2.	Voluntary Layoff Election Process
a.	Announce job classifications and number of employees to be impacted.
b.	Employees in those impacted job classifications may indicate their interest in volunteering by completing a General Release of Claims Form within five (5) working days.
19
c.	Volunteers will be selected up to the number announced, based on seniority with the most senior employee selected first.
d.	If insufficient volunteers are received, the selections for the remaining employees will be based on least senior within the job classifications affected.
e.	Committeepersons and-Stewards shall have top seniority in their respective job classifications in the event of a layoff, except they shall retain their normal classification seniority for eligibility for voluntary layoff election.
f.	The Company will accept notification of election of Lump Sum Payment in Lieu of Recall Rights from a senior employee in advance of or during an approved leave of absence.
3.	In all cases of temporary layoffs for periods not exceeding five (5) working days or any extension mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union, seniority shall govern, except that under no circumstances shall the Company be required in such cases to change the job assignment of any employee involved, which change would entail a break-in or training period, or to change the employee's present department or shift. It is understood and agreed that no employee shall be affected by this temporary layoff clause by being laid-off temporarily for more than five (5) working days during any thirty (30) calendar day period. During periods of physical inventory, seniority shall govern in the scheduling of employees to work within each department and on each shift involved. In the event overtime work is required during and on inventory, this overtime shall not be charged in considering overtime distribution. As it applies in this paragraph, in Production Inspection the word "department" shall be construed to be the production department to which the employee is assigned, irrespective of numerical department designation.
4.	Reductions of force shall be initiated with the employee in the classification with the least amount of seniority. This employee shall be permitted to displace the junior employee in the job classifications of the same maximum rate in the same group, provided the latter employee has less seniority. If there is no employee in a job classification of the same maximum rate in the same group with less seniority, the employee shall be permitted to displace the employee with the least amount of seniority in the next lower job classifications in the same group, providing the latter employee has less seniority than the displacing employee. If there is no employee in the next lower job classifications with less seniority, the employee shall have displacement rights in each of the remaining wage levels within the occupational group as outlined above. When displacement within the occupational group involves displacement into parallel classifications and the employee involved has previously held one of the parallel classifications, the employee may elect to displace into that classification previously held rather than displace the junior employee in the parallel classifications.
5.	When an employee, who has previously held seniority in a job classification which is located outside that employee's present occupational group, reaches a point of layoff in their present job classification, the employee may elect to exercise displacement rights as outlined in paragraph 4 above, or the employee may elect to return to a job classification where that employee previously held seniority. If the employee elects
20
to leave the current group, the employee shall have no further displacement rights within that group, other than into job classifications where the employee has previously held seniority.
6.	If, as a result of a reduction in force, an employee's normal displacement rights would cause that employee to displace another employee in a job classification in which the employee has not previously worked or in which the employee cannot perform the work, the employee shall be permitted to waive that displacement right and to exercise the rights in the next step of the layoff procedure.
7.	An employee who does not wish to exercise displacement rights may elect to be laid-off in the employee's present classification with recall rights in that classification and any other classifications where the employee already has recall rights.
8.	An employee who displaces another employee or who is absorbed into a classification must be capable of satisfactorily performing the work. The employee will have twenty (20) working days during which to demonstrate the ability to satisfactorily perform the work. Failure on the part of the employee to demonstrate during this period the ability to perform the work required will result in that employee being laid-off with no further displacement rights. It is understood between the parties that an employee shall be permitted to claim displacement rights into classified work only if that employee has the required security clearance. If a cleared employee requires a higher level of clearance to perform classified work, such clearance will be processed through appropriate Government channels.
9.	When an employee who has exhausted displacement rights and is to be laid-off out of the plant is qualified to perform the work of a related job in an equal or lower rated job classification where a valid employment opening exists Human Resources will give consideration to that employee on the basis of qualification and ability and, where qualification and ability are relatively equal, seniority shall be the determining factor. An employee placed into a job classification under these circumstances will have no seniority in that job classification.
10.	When an employee has no displacement rights and is to be laid-off out of the plant as a result of a reduction in force, the employee shall be notified on the ninth (9th) working day previous to the layoff, providing that employee is not absent from the plant. Such an employee shall receive a minimum of seventy-two (72) hours' work or, in the event there is no work available, seventy-two (72) hours' pay at the employee's base rate in lieu thereof, subsequent to the time of notification.
11.	Recalls will be governed by the respective seniority rights of the employees involved, irrespective of whether they have exercised displacement rights within the plant or have been laid-off out of the plant. It is understood and agreed that in the steps referred to above, an employee, for displacement and recall rights, will be considered to have stopped momentarily in each step of the layoff procedure and to have recall rights as if the employee had been laid-off in each step of the procedure.
12.	Where an employee has exercised displacement rights and has subsequently been placed on a permanent layoff from a lower classification, the employee shall have
21
recall rights to any job classification from which the employee was downgraded or placed on permanent layoff because of a reduction in force.
13.	An employee on layoff who accepts an opportunity to work in a job classification of an equal or lower pay rate than the one from which the employee was laid-off shall not thereby prejudice rights to recall to the classifications from which the employee was laid-off. An employee who accepts such an opportunity and qualifies in a higher rated job classification than that from which the employee is laid-off shall have no further recall rights.
14.	The parties recognize that automation and advanced technology will continue to change the way work is accomplished at the Company. The Union will be consulted concerning the development and implementation of automation and technological change and the potential effect upon represented employees. Any reduction in headcount resulting from the implementation of new technology will normally be accommodated through attrition. If an employee is to be laid-off out of the plant as the result of the implementation of new technology, the Company will make available on-the-job training to the displaced employee for another bargaining unit position of equal or lower pay, provided an approved opening exists for which the employee can reasonably be trained. In such cases, the employee will continue to retain the current classification and rate of pay. Upon completion of the referenced training, the employee will be reclassified to the new classification and paid accordingly. It is further understood that an employee who has been laid-off out of the plant as a result of new technology or automation will be considered for any approved opening for which the employee can reasonably be trained. Employees displaced due to such action will retain recall rights in accordance with other provisions of this Article.
15.	A graduate apprentice will not be eligible for reclassification into the journeyman classification until all laid-off journeymen have been recalled or recall rights have been exhausted.
16.	Apprentices will be laid-off in accordance with negotiated apprentice standards and applicable provisions of this Article. Apprentice graduates, on layoff, who have never held the journeyman classification, will be eligible for recall into the journeyman classification based on seniority. In no case will an apprentice graduate be reclassified until valid openings exist.
E.	Shift Preference
1.	Subject to the Company's right to make any temporary shift transfers to not exceed ten (10) working days' duration, senior employees shall have preference for shift assignments as provided below. At the expiration of the tenth (10th) working day, the employee shall be returned to the original shift unless an extension, not to exceed ten (10) additional working days, has been mutually agreed to by the Company and the employee's Union Steward. Any further extension(s) must be agreed to by the Company and the Grievance Committee.
2.	An employee with at least one (1) year of seniority may request of the immediate Supervisor, in writing, a transfer to another shift which shall be limited to the employee's present job classification and department. The employee shall-then be
22
permitted, within fifteen (15) working days, to displace the employee having the least amount of seniority on the shift of the employee's preference. An employee having insufficient seniority to displace for shift preference within the employee's department shall be permitted to place on file in the Human Resources Office on the form provided by the Company for that purpose a request for the shift of the employee's preference in the employee's present classification. Human Resources, upon receipt of such application, shall arrange, within twenty (20) working days from the time the application was submitted to the employee's Supervisor, for the employee to displace the junior employee in the classification in the plant, on the shift of the employee's preference, providing the junior employee has less seniority. An employee, who in exercising layoff displacement rights is required to displace an employee on a shift not of the employee's preference, may file a shift preference as outlined above but, due to the exigencies of the situation, if such employee files a shift preference within five (5) working days of arriving on the new shift, the employee will be permitted to exercise shift preference within five (5) working days instead of the twenty (20) days stated above.
3.	Shift transfers will be made only on the Monday following the date when the employee would be eligible to exercise shift preference rights unless at the discretion of the Company the transfer is made prior to the stated Monday. It is understood and agreed that if an employee's eligibility date falls on Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday, the shift transfer will be made on the Monday prior to the eligibility date, and if the eligibility date falls on Thursday or Friday, the shift transfer will be made on the Monday following the eligibility date.
4.	No displacement, for shift preference, of or by a probationary or uncleared employee or an employee in a trainee classification shall be permitted.
5.	An employee, having once exercised shift preference rights, will not be permitted to again exercise shift preference for a period of six (6) months from the date of transfer to the shift of the employee's preference. The request may be submitted fifteen (15) working days prior to the expiration of the six (6) month period. If an employee is transferred to another shift by the Company, that employee's shift preference rights will be reinstated.
6.	All Government security requirements must be complied with on all requests for shift transfers and the employee must be able to perform satisfactorily the work required on the shift to which the employee wishes to transfer. If a cleared employee requires a higher level of clearance to exercise shift preference, such clearance will be processed through appropriate Government channels.
F.	Job Posting System
1.	The parties agree that the Company shall have the unrestricted right to determine whether job vacancies shall be filled by hiring from outside the Company or from within the bargaining unit. Openings will be posted on the Company job posting system for five (5) regularly scheduled working days - and applications from either bargaining unit employees or non-bargaining unit employees will be accepted. The application must be completed on the employee's own time.
23
a.	The Company agrees that when the job openings to be filled are bargaining unit jobs, then bargaining unit employees will be considered before non-bargaining unit employees. On all bargaining unit job openings, the applications of all bargaining unit employees for the particular classification shall be reviewed by Human Resources and, where qualifications and ability are relatively equal, the senior qualified employee will be given an opportunity to try out. This trial period shall be no less than three (3) nor more than thirty (30) working days, during which period of tryout the employee shall retain the previous classification. Upon establishing qualification for the new classification, the employee shall be reclassified to the new classification, which reclassification shall become effective on the Monday following the date that the employee is determined to be qualified, but in no event later than the Monday following the thirtieth (30th) working day of tryout. The Company will furnish to the Union weekly a list of job reclassifications made during the previous week. In the event no bargaining unit employee bids on the job opening or no bargaining unit employee is qualified, then the Company will consider applications submitted by non-bargaining unit employees or hire from the outside.
On a weekly basis the Company will provide the Union a list of current Bargaining Unit job openings. Upon request, the Company will apprise the Union of the basis upon which selections for job openings were made and the respective qualifications of the selected employee(s). Further, internal applicants who are not selected will be notified and may discuss the selection process with the selecting Manager and be advised where improvement may be made.
b.	Applications will be considered without regard to the shift upon which the opening is to be filled. Refusal to accept an offer to try out for a job opening will disqualify the employee for any reclassification for a period of six (6) months.
c.	In instances where an employee is currently on probation, completed probation, or has been reclassified to a new classification, the employee will not be eligible for placement under this provision for a period of six (6) months.
d.	Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section concerning the eligibility of employees to apply for job openings, the Company will accept an application from an employee for a lower or lateral rated job when the employee's physical condition prohibits continuing in the employee's present classification or when it is in the best interests of the parties. When the application is for medical downgrade it must be supported by medical proof satisfactory to the Company both as to the physical inability to continue in the employee's present job and the physical ability to perform satisfactorily the duties of the job for which the employee is applying.
e.	On reclassification to a trainee classification, the employee shall be reclassified to the trainee classification effective on the first work day as a trainee. During the first twenty (20) working days, an employee may request to be removed from the trainee classification and returned to the most recently held classification. Thereafter, an employee may request removal from the trainee classification, subject to approval by the Company. This does not preclude the Company from removing from the trainee classification an employee who does not meet the
24
required standards. Any matter respecting the Company's removal of an employee from the trainee classification will be subject to the grievance procedure.
2.	All Government security requirements must be complied with on all requests for reclassification and uncleared employees will not be offered a reclassification which would entail their access to classified information. If a higher level of clearance is required for reclassification, such clearance will be processed through appropriate Government channels.
3.	If no qualified applicant is available to fill a particular vacancy, the Company shall have the right to fill the vacancy.
G.	Loaning of Employees in Same Classification Between Departments
1.	No employees shall be loaned to another department under any circumstances for a period to exceed ten (10) consecutive working days at any one time, unless an extension of time is mutually agreed to by the parties. In the event the period of loan exceeds ten (10) working days, or any mutually agreed to extension, the employee shall be transferred to the department into which the employee has been loaned. When employees are moved from one department to another, employees will be informed that they are being transferred or loaned to the other department, as the case may be. Supervision will notify the Steward if the loan period is greater than five (5) consecutive working days.
2.	Loaning of Employees to Other Classifications
Employees may be loaned to another classification to address business needs and to best utilize resources. Such loans may be made without regard to the existence of employees with recall rights to a particular classification subject to limitations described herein. An employee loaned under this section may be displaced for shift preference within the loaned department but shall not be eligible to exercise shift preference. While on loan, an employee may not apply for another loan assignment. Supervision will notify the Committeeperson on the employee’s regular shift when such loans are made.
a.	Loans of Eighty (80) Working Days or Less
The senior employee(s) with internal recall rights to the specific classification will be offered first preference for the loan(s). If there are no employee(s) with internal recall rights, employees will be selected by management. Due consideration will be given to employees who wish to volunteer for such assignments on an availability, seniority and qualifications basis.
b.	Loan Extension Process
A mutual agreement between the Company and the Servicing Union Representative will be necessary in the event that a loan exceeds the eighty (80) working day period. Extensions will be in thirty (30) working day increments.
25
H.	Reclassification to Vacancies Where Employees Are On Layoff
It is understood that no employee will be hired for a classification, reclassified or promoted to a vacancy in a classification where an employee is on layoff with recall rights.
I.	Applications by Employees on Layoff
Applications filed by employees who are subsequently laid-off out of the plant will be considered for job vacancies. It is further understood and agreed that employees who are on layoff outside of the plant may apply for job openings through the Job Announcement System.
J.	Nothing in Article 10 of this Agreement shall in any way modify or nullify the application of any of the foregoing seniority provisions.
ARTICLE 16.	VACATION AND PAID ABSENCE
A.	Effective with this agreement a paid vacation will be granted to employees covered by this Agreement who have been employed by the Company at least ninety (90) days. Thereafter, a paid vacation will be granted on an anniversary date basis provided all other requirements of this Article are met. Vacation pay will be at the employee's straight time rate in effect at the time the vacation begins, exclusive of overtime premiums but to include applicable night shift premium.
Seniority
90 days - 3 years
Vacation Time
3-10 years 10-15 years 15-20 years 20-25 years 25 and over
40 hours
80 hours
120 hours
140 hours
160 hours
200 hours
Beginning with the employee’s first anniversary date and thereafter, new vacation allowance will be awarded on the employee's anniversary date. Each employee may carry over a maximum of 120 hours of unused vacation from the preceding vacation year.
B.	Any employee who transfers from outside the Bargaining Unit after the effective date of this Agreement will be credited with total continuous Company service for the purposes of computing vacation eligibility.
C.	To receive a paid vacation for which an employee is eligible in accordance with Paragraph A. above, the employee must have worked or received pay during thirty-one (31) pay periods of the preceding twelve (12) months. An employee who fails to qualify for thirty-one (31) pay periods will be eligible for a pro-rata vacation and pay based on the following schedule:
26
Number of Pay Periods
Worked for Which Pay Was Received
26
19
Percent of
Vacation Allowed
80%
60%
D.	Employees who, for any reason, are separated from the payroll will be paid for any unused earned vacation. Employees who retire, or are laid-off and retain seniority, will be paid, at the time of retirement or layoff, vacation earned during the preceding twelve (12) months. This payment will be at the rate in effect at the time of retirement or layoff and the check will be mailed to the employee's last known address on the records maintained by the Company.
E.	Vacation schedules will require the approval of management. Employees are to indicate their vacation preference by April 1 for the current calendar year. Preference for vacations will be confined to the department, classification and shift and shall be based upon seniority at the time vacations are scheduled. In Production Inspection the word "department" shall be construed to be the Production Department to which the inspector is assigned, irrespective of numerical department designation. The scheduled vacation of an employee who is subsequently transferred to another department, classification or shift shall not be changed due to such transfer. Employees will not be permitted to come forward after April 1 and displace other employees by attempting to schedule or reschedule their vacation. Employees shall be notified at least two weeks prior to the commencement of their vacation of the approval or cancellation of their scheduled vacation.
F.	Vacation may be taken in one hour (1) increments. Daily and partial day vacation must be requested at least one (1) working day in advance and will be approved by supervision on a first-come, first-served basis, taking into account departmental requirements. Partial day vacation during the first half of the shift must be requested and approved by the end of the shift on the workday preceding the vacation; partial day vacation during the last half of the shift must be requested and approved prior to the beginning of the vacation. Exceptions to approval requirements for daily and partial day vacation may be made under extenuating circumstances at the sole discretion of supervision. Payment for such vacation will be included in the employee's regular paycheck. An employee will not receive vacation pay unless the employee takes a physical vacation. While on vacation an employee may terminate their vacation and, if eligible, the employee may apply for an approved leave of absence.
G.	For vacation purposes only, employees who have been laid off and subsequently rehired after recall rights have expired will receive credit for seniority earned prior to layoff.
H.	Effective January 1, 2012, bargaining unit employees will be eligible for paid absence time as outlined in the schedule below. Paid absence will be granted annually in January based on service with the company as of January 1, of that year. Paid absence will be at the employee’s straight time rate in effect at the time used, exclusive of overtime premiums but to include applicable night shift premium. Paid absence can be taken in one (1) hour increments. Paid absence time cannot be carried over from year to year and unused time will not be paid out upon separation.
27
Seniority 90 days
Paid Absence Allowance
8 hours
ARTICLE 17.	LEAVES OF ABSENCE
A.	Except as hereinafter provided, leaves of absence without pay for jury duty, court appearances, military service, political office, or extended full time duty with the Local, District, Grand Lodge or the International Union, or AFL-CIO Industrial Department, shall be granted employees who have completed their probationary period, upon the presentation of satisfactory evidence for the necessity for such leaves. Any employee on full time duty with the Union, as defined above, shall return to work within thirty (30) days following completion of the Union assignment.
B.	Leaves of absence without pay for personal business shall be granted to employees who have completed their probationary period when justification satisfactory to management is presented and when work schedules permit. Approved leaves of absence for personal business shall not exceed thirty (30) days or any approved extension thereof. Where possible, an employee requesting such a leave shall make the request at least five (5) days in advance of the effective date of the leave. It is understood and agreed that an employee will not be required to use vacation to cover urgent personal business.
c.	Leaves of absence without pay for educational purposes not to exceed one (1) year will be granted to employees with at least one (1) year of seniority upon timely application therefor, for full time attendance at an educational or training institution which is industry-related. Effective on the date of commencement of such leaves, employees will be treated for all purposes as voluntary quits except as they may fulfill the conditions outlined below for return to employment. An employee granted an educational leave who returns to active employment will not be granted another such leave for at least one (1) year. If within fifteen (15) days after cessation of such educational pursuits, the employee applies for re-employment, the employee will be re-employed in accordance with seniority rights and the other applicable provisions of this Agreement. Upon application for re-employment, the employee will furnish proof from the school attended of full time attendance and the period of such attendance. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 15.B.3., of this Agreement, if re-employed, the employee will be credited with the total amount of seniority held at the time of commencement of such leave. It is understood and agreed that such leaves shall be granted only where production requirements permit and replacements are available.
D.	Where an employee who has completed the probationary period requests a leave of absence without pay for personal health reasons, in no event to exceed twelve (12) months or any extension thereof mutually agreed to by the parties, the employee may be permitted such leave of absence to be based upon satisfactory medical proof which shall be supplied by the employee to the Medical Department of the Company. An employee requesting a leave of absence for medical reasons shall be subject to examination by a Plant Physician. When an employee has been granted a leave of absence for a specific period of time it will be the employee's responsibility to request an extension of such leave if additional time off is required. The determination of the justification for such a leave of absence shall be made by the Company. The initial leave of absence for health reasons will be for a period of up to thirty (30) days and when a medical statement is
28
submitted to support an extension, such extension will be granted for a length of time consistent with the diagnosis and recommendation of the employee's personal physician, subject to review and concurrence by the Company Medical Department. A leave of absence which is granted for personal health reasons shall be deemed to be continuous if the employee is subsequently placed on another leave for the same general condition after working less than twenty-five (25) working days following completion of the previous leave of absence.
E.	When leaves of absence are granted, the employee, upon return to duty, will be returned to a job of like classification if such a job still exists. However, if circumstances have eliminated such comparable jobs, the employee will be reclassified to the most nearly comparable job for which qualified. When an employee fails to return to work at the expiration of the approved leave of absence or accepts gainful employment during the leave of absence, the employee will be terminated.
F.	Employees on leave for personal business may return to work at any time prior to expiration of the leave, providing work is available. Employees on leave for personal health reasons may return to work prior to expiration of such leave upon release by their doctor, subject to the approval of the Company's Medical Department.
g. The amount of seniority which an employee will be credited upon reinstatement following the completion of the leave of absence is provided for in the Seniority clause of this Agreement.
H.	Any employee who is called to and performs short-term active duty of thirty (30) days or less, including annual active duty for training, as a member of the United States Armed Forces, Reserves or National Guards shall be paid by the Division for each day partially or wholly spent in performing such duties, if the employee otherwise would have been scheduled to work for the Division and does not work, an amount equal to the difference, if any, between (1) the employee's straight time hourly rate (including applicable cost of living allowance and night shift premium) on the last day worked but excluding overtime, and any other premium for the number of hours up to eight (8) that the employee otherwise would have been scheduled to work, and (2) daily military earnings (including all allowances except rations, subsistence and travel). The Division's obligation to pay an employee for performance of military duty under this paragraph is limited in the Federal Government fiscal year to a maximum of ten (10) scheduled working days for annual training purposes plus an additional ten (10) scheduled working days if the employee is activated for an emergency situation (excluding training) by appropriate Government authority. In order to receive payment under this paragraph, an employee must give the Division prior notice of such military duty and upon return to work must furnish the Division with a statement of military pay while on such duty.
I.	The provisions of this Article recognize and shall conform to the requirements of the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA). Requests for a leave of absence for personal reasons or other family related reasons under the FMLA must be submitted on the prescribed leave form. Such leaves will be processed according to the provisions of the FMLA.
29
ARTICLE 18.	JURY DUTY PAY
A.	Any employee who is called to and reports for jury duty shall be paid by the Division for each day spent in performing jury duty, provided the employee otherwise would have been scheduled to work for the Division and does not work, an amount equal to but no more than eight (8) hours' pay at the employee's regular straight time hourly rate (including applicable cost-of-living allowance and night shift premium). The Division's obligation to pay an employee for performance of jury duty under this paragraph is limited to a maximum of seventy-five (75) days in any calendar year. In order to receive payment under this paragraph, an employee must give the Division prior notice of the summons for jury duty and must furnish satisfactory evidence that jury duty was performed on the days for which the employee claims such payment. The provisions of this paragraph are not applicable to an employee who, without being summoned, volunteers for jury duty.
B.	In addition to normal service as a juror, an employee who is required to report during normal working hours for selection or rejection as a juror, will be considered to have performed "jury duty" during the process of being selected or rejected, provided that the employee has reported in response to an official summons and has otherwise fulfilled all of the contractual requirements for eligibility. An employee will not be considered eligible for "jury duty" pay, however, in instances where the official summons provides a time span for reporting and such time span makes it possible for the employee to report on regular days off or outside normal working hours.
C.	Any employee who is required to report during normal working hours in response to an official summons for selection or rejection as a juror will receive four hours' pay for the time required to be away from work. Should the employee elect to work a portion of the shift, either before or after such jury service, the total regular hours for which the employee may be paid in that day will not exceed eight.
D.	Employees who are currently assigned to second or third shift will be temporarily transferred to first shift for the period of time they are required to serve on jury duty.
ARTICLE 19.	HEALTH, SAFETY, & ENVIRONMENT
A.	Health, Safety and Environment (HS&E)
The Company will recognize an HS&E Committee consisting of three (3) Company representatives and three (3) Union representatives that may be from the Grievance Committee. This committee will act as an advisory committee to promote and assist the Company in maintaining a safe and healthy place to work. This committee will bring to the attention of the Company any unsafe or unhealthy conditions or environmental concerns in the plant, and participate in issue resolution and communications. The HS&E Committee will meet on a need basis, but in any event, not less than monthly.
The Company shall continue to make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its employees during the hours of their employment. An employee or Union Steward shall draw any HS&E concern to the attention of the immediate Team Manager who shall review the concern with the employee and/or Union Steward. In the event the concern remains unsolved, the appropriate HS&E representative will review the concern. In the
30
event the concern still remains, a Union representative of the HS&E Committee will review and attempt to resolve the concern. If the job is considered safe by the Team Manager and the HS&E representative(s), the employee shall be required to perform it. When an HS&E representative is not available on the second and third shifts, the concern will be reviewed by a Management representative and a Union representative. If a more detailed review is needed, the appropriate HS&E representative(s), the Team Manager and the Union representative involved will fully investigate the concern and the Company will render a decision. Should the decision of the HS&E representative not satisfy the Union and/or employee involved, the Union Business Representative will attempt to resolve the concern with the HS&E Director and shall be subject to the grievance procedure thereafter, beginning at Step 3.
The Company, as it deems necessary, may have the Medical Department make such physical examinations of its employees as considered advisable to determine the physical fitness of employees for their jobs and to determine any health hazards. The Company will continue to provide necessary protective equipment for the use of employees.
B.	Good Housekeeping
1.	Each employee is personally responsible for maintaining neatness and orderliness in the employee's assigned department.
2.	Cleaning of machines is not to include the following:
a.	Washing of machine,
b.	Cleaning requiring use of ladders or other related equipment.
c.	Cleaning out machine chip pits.
Housekeeping in Electronic Areas shall be "responsible for normal good safety and housekeeping practices at assigned work area." This does not preclude the employee from participating in a general plant clean-up when necessary.
3.	Employees shall comply with all HS&E requirements, including appropriate use, clean-up, handling and storage of personal protective equipment and monitoring equipment, within the scope of employees’ respective job classifications. Employees shall also verify that such equipment is in proper working condition before it is used.
4.	Employees shall comply with applicable rules relating to the handling, transportation, maintenance and storage of hazardous waste and chemicals and other environmental, safety and health matters, within the scope of employees respective job classifications.
ARTICLE 20.	APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
A.	The parties have provided for Apprenticeship Programs by supplemental agreements, which supplemental agreements by reference hereto are made a part of this Agreement. In the event management has a need to restore an Apprenticeship Program(s) during this
31
Agreement, the parties will use the present supplemental agreements as a baseline to discuss and agree upon any changes.
B.	No matter respecting the provisions of the Apprenticeship Program shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure established in this Agreement.
C.	Nothing herein shall restrict the Union and the Company in the future from establishing additional apprenticeship programs and any such program shall be made a part of this Agreement.
D.	Apprentices will be covered under the provisions of the Grievance Procedure in matters not provided for in the Apprenticeship Standards.
ARTICLE 21.	ESTABLISHMENT OF WAGE RATES FOR NEW JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
A.	When new jobs arise which cannot be properly placed in classifications which have been established previously, the Company will establish new job classifications and place within the wage structure. A copy of the new classification and rate shall be furnished to the Union Committee. Thereafter, within thirty (30) days from the effective date of such new job classification, the Union may request a review of the base rate being paid on the new job classification. When the Company and the Union have mutually agreed on a base rate for the new job, such base rate, if different from the one originally established by the Company, shall be effective as of the date the new job classification was effective, and all hours worked within such new job classification shall be paid for accordingly. The job classification rate will be established by the job comparison method. In the event a dispute should arise regarding the establishment of the base rate, the Union may present data from its own sources, including the methods and procedures of the National Metal Trades Association, for comparison purposes to support its position. When the new job is in the trainee classification, the Union will be given thirty (30) days' notice prior to its implementation.
B.	When the parties, after a period of thirty (30) days, cannot agree upon the seniority group where a new job is to be inserted, the issue of the proper group slotting of the job may be submitted by either party to arbitration.
C.	Any dispute arising as to the proper classification of an employee or employees as the result of a grievance claiming that new work should be performed by a new job classification, will be subject to the Grievance Procedure, including arbitration.
Conversely, where the Company has decided that a new job exists and the Union claims that the work should be slotted into an existing classification, the dispute may be made the subject of a grievance which may be processed through the Grievance Procedure, including arbitration. This section shall in no way authorize the arbitrator to establish or pass on wage rates.
D.	In the assignment of employees to new classifications, in the event an employee has previously performed the work and is qualified, the employee may, if a junior employee is assigned to the work, process a grievance through the Grievance Procedure, including arbitration.
32
ARTICLE 22.	INSURANCE PROGRAM AND PENSION PLAN
A.	The parties have provided for an Insurance Program and a Pension Plan by supplemental agreements (which supplemental agreements are set forth in separate documents and made parts of this Agreement as if set out in full herein, subject to all the provisions of this Agreement). It is recognized that employees may select either the Insurance Program referenced above or a Health Maintenance Organization, but will not be permitted to change from one to the other except at certain specified times, which will be at least once a year.
B.	No matter respecting the provisions of the Insurance Program or the Pension Plan shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure established in this Agreement. Employees may avail themselves of the claims review process as outlined in the current Group Insurance Program Booklet.
C.	It is understood and agreed that employees on leave for full time duty with the Local, District, or Grand Lodge of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers shall be covered by the provisions of the Insurance Program and Pension Plan in the same manner as employees actively at work, except that such number to be covered shall not exceed ten (10) at any one time. Insurance Program coverage will be for the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 23.	BULLETIN BOARDS
A.	The Company will provide space on lock-type bulletin boards for the posting of Union notices pertaining to:
Notice of Union recreational and social affairs
Notice of Union Elections
Notice of Union appointments and results of Union elections
Notice of Union meetings and topics to be discussed
The Company will make every effort to see that approved Union notices are posted uniformly on all official bulletin boards throughout the plant.
B.	No notice regarding work stoppage, strike or slowdown of production shall at any time be posted on the bulletin boards or Company property.
C.	All notices for posting shall first be submitted to Labor Relations.
ARTICLE 24.	SECURITY REQUIREMENTS
The Union agrees that, where Government security regulations are placed upon the Company, such regulations will govern the acceptance or rejection of an employee for work coming under those regulations. The Union agrees that it will not file a grievance where the Company has removed from the payroll any employee who has not received a security
33
clearance or whose security clearance has been revoked. This provision does not affect any rights or remedies available through Government procedures.
An employee whose security clearance has been suspended shall be subject to the requirements of applicable DOE Orders on suspension of access authorization.
ARTICLE 25.	WAGES AND SENIORITY GROUPINGS
For employees hired prior to January 1, 2012:
A.	Effective November 21, each employee covered under this Collective
Bargaining Agreement will be granted an increase in his/her straight time hourly wage rate (exclusive of Cost-of-Living Allowance, shift premium and any other premiums) of 1.0%.
B.	Effective October 15, 2012, each employee covered under this Collective
Bargaining Agreement will be granted an increase in his/her straight time hourly wage rate (exclusive of Cost-of-Living Allowance, shift premium and any other premiums) of 2.5%.
C.	Effective October 14, 2013, each employee covered under this Collective
Bargaining Agreement will be provided with a $2,000 Lump-Sum payment.
D.	Effective October 13, 2014, each employee covered under this Collective
Bargaining Agreement will be granted an increase in his/her straight time hourly wage rate (exclusive of Cost-of-Living Allowance, shift premium and any other premiums) of 2.5%.
E.	Effective October 12, 2015, each employee covered under this Collective
Bargaining Agreement will be granted an increase in his/her straight time hourly wage rate (exclusive of Cost-of-Living Allowance, shift premium and any other premiums) of 2.5%.
F.	Effective October 10, 2016, each employee covered under this Collective
Bargaining Agreement will be granted an increase in his/her straight time hourly wage rate (exclusive of Cost-of-Living Allowance, shift premium and any other premiums) of 2.5%.
34
	Increase Date and Amount		Increase Date and Amount		Increase Date and Amount		Increase Date and Amount		Increase Date and Amount	
Wage	11/21/2011		10/15/2012		10/13/2014		10/12/2015		10/10/2016	
Grade	1.0%		2.5%		2.5%		2.5%		2.5%	
1	$	0.21	$	0.53	$	0.54	$	0.55	$	0.57
2	$	0.28	$	0.71	$	0.73	$	0.75	$	0.77
3	$	0.30	$	0.75	$	0.76	$	0.78	$	0.80
4	$	0.30	$	0.75	$	0.77	$	0.79	$	0.81
5	$	0.30	$	0.75	$	0.77	$	0.79	$	0.81
6	$	0.31	$	0.77	$	0.79	$	0.81	$	0.83
7	$	0.31	$	0.78	$	0.80	$	0.82	$	0.84
8	$	0.31	$	0.79	$	0.81	$	0.83	$	0.85
9	$	0.31	$	0.79	$	0.81	$	0.83	$	0.85
10	$	0.32	$	0.80	$	0.82	$	0.84	$	0.86
11	$	0.32	$	0.80	$	0.82	$	0.84	$	0.86
12	$	0.32	$	0.81	$	0.83	$	0.85	$	0.87
13	$	0.32	$	0.81	$	0.83	$	0.85	$	0.87
14	$	0.33	$	0.83	$	0.85	$	0.87	$	0.89
15	$	0.33	$	0.83	$	0.86	$	0.88	$	0.90
16	$	0.33	$	0.85	$	0.87	$	0.89	$	0.91
17	$	0.34	$	0.85	$	0.87	$	0.89	$	0.92
18	$	0.34	$	0.86	$	0.88	$	0.90	$	0.93
19	$	0.34	$	0.87	$	0.89	$	0.91	$	0.93
20	$	0.35	$	0.88	$	0.90	$	0.92	$	0.95
21	$	0.35	$	0.89	$	0.91	$	0.93	$	0.96
22	$	0.36	$	0.91	$	0.93	$	0.95	$	0.98
23	$	0.37	$	0.93	$	0.95	$	0.97	$	1.00
G.	Shift Differential
A night shift premium of eighty-five cents ($.85) per hour on all hours worked will be paid to all hourly rated employees regularly assigned to the second and third shifts. Shift premium shall be included in payment for Holidays, Vacation, Jury Duty, Short-Term Military and Bereavement Leaves.
35
h. The wage grades, schedule of wage rates effective November 21, 2011, October 15, 2012, October 14, 2013, October 13, 2014, October 12, 2015, October 10, 2016 progression times and seniority groupings are set forth as follows:
WAGE TABLE(s)
Wage Grade	Classifications	11/21/2011	10/15/2012	Rate 10/14/2013	lange 10/13/2014	10/12/2015	10/10/2016
1	Custodian	21.05	21.58	21.58	22.12	22.67	23.24
2	Laborer	28.38 -	28.48	29.09	-	29.19	29.09 -	29.19	29.82	-	29.92	30.57 -	30.67	31.34	-	31.44
3		29.74 -	29.84	30.49	-	30.59	30.49 -	30.59	31.25 -	31.35	32.03	-	32.13	32.83	-	32.93
4	Electronic Assembler	29.88 -	29.98	30.63	-	30.73	30.63	-	30.73	31.40 -	31.50	32.19 -	32.29	33.00	-	33.10
5		30.06 -	30.16	30.81	-	30.91	30.81	-	30.91	31.58 -	31.68	32.37 -	32.47	33.18	-	33.28
6	Material Supplier Production Fabricator Timekeeper	30.70 -	30.85	31.47 -	31.62	31.47 -	31.62	32.26 -	32.41	33.07 -	33.22	33.90	-	34.05
7	Material Handler	31.11	-	31.26	31.89	-	32.04	31.89 -	32.04	32.69 -	32.84	33.51	-	33.66	34.35	-	34.50
8	Chemical Material Handler Inspector ElectricalMechanical Physical Test X-Ray Operator	31.38 -	31.53	32.17 -	32.32	32.17 -	32.32	32.98 -	33.13	33.81	-	33.96	34.66	-	34.81
9	Assemble r-Adj u stor, Special Precision Assembler Special Projects	31.55 -	31.70	32.34	-	32.49	32.34 -	32.49	33.15 -	33.30	33.98 -	34.13	34.83	-	34.98
10		31.75 -	31.90	32.55	-	32.70	32.55 -	32.70	33.37 -	33.52	34.21	-	34.36	35.07 -	35.22
11		31.96 -	32.11	32.76	-	32.91	32.76 -	32.91	33.58 -	33.73	34.42	-	34.57	35.28	-	35.43
12	General Machinist, Manufacturing Inspector, Gage Repair and Calibration Plater	32.16 -	32.31	32.97 -	33.12	32.97 -	33.12	33.80 -	33.95	34.65 -	34.80	35.52	-	35.67
13	Photo Tooling Fabricator Transport Fabricator	32.35 -	32.50	33.16	-	33.31	33.16 -	33.31	33.99 -	34.14	34.84 -	34.99	35.71	-	35.86
14	Welder	33.02	-	33.17	33.85	-	34.00	33.85 -	34.00	34.70 -	34.85	35.57 -	35.72	36.46	-	36.61
15	Inspector & Tester Electronics Mobile Industrial Equipment Mechanic	33.23	-	33.38	34.06	-	34.21	34.06 -	34.21	34.92	-	35.07	35.80 -	35.95	36.70	-	36.85
16	Telemetry Technician	33.62	-	33.82	34.47 -	34.67	34.47 -	34.67	35.34 -	35.54	36.23	-	36.43	37.14	-	37.34
17		33.85 -	34.05	34.70	-	34.90	34.70 -	34.90	35.57 -	35.77	36.46 -	36.66	37.38	-	37.58
18		34.22	-	34.42	35.08	-	35.28	35.08 -	35.28	35.96 -	36.16	36.86 -	37.06	37.79	-	37.99
19		34.49 -	34.69	35.36	-	35.56	35.36 -	35.56	36.25 -	36.45	37.16 -	37.36	38.09	-	38.29
20		34.91	-	35.11	35.79	-	35.99	35.79 -	35.99	36.69 -	36.89	37.61	-	37.81	38.56	-	38.76
21	Electronic Equipment Technician Millwright Operating Engineer	35.31	-	35.51	36.20	-	36.40	36.20 -	36.40	37.11	-	37.31	38.04 -	38.24	39.00	-	39.20
22	Electrician Inspector, Tool & Precision Gage Pipefitter Tool Maker	36.10 -	36.30	37.01	-	37.21	37.01	-	37.21	37.94 -	38.14	38.89 -	39.09	39.87 -	40.07
23	Machine Repairperson	36.80 -	37.00	37.73 -	37.93	37.73 -	37.93	38.68 -	38.88	39.65 -	39.85	40.65 -	40.85
36
INCUMBENT WAGE RATES AND PROGRESSION TIMES
Wage Grades	Progression Time	Rate of Progression
2-5	6 Months	Progresses in increments of $.05 each 3 months to mid-point at end of 3 months and to maximum at end of 6 months.
6-15	9 Months	Progresses in increments of $.05 each 3 months to maximum at end of 9 months.
16-23	12 Months	Progresses in increments of $.05 each 3 months to mid-point at end of 6 months and to maximum at end of 12 months.
With respect to progression within the various ranges an employee, after having progressed to the midpoint or beyond of the job classification, may at the discretion of the Company be promoted to the next step in the progression range in a shorter period than the normal progression time.
37
WAGE RATES AND PROGRESSION TIMES FOR EMPLOYEES HIRED ON OR AFTER JANUARY 1, 2012
Wage Grade	Clas s iflcations		Hire	1 year from Hire	2 years from hire	3 years from hire	4 years from hire	5 years from hire
			55%	60%	65%	70%	80%	90%
1	Custodian	20.84	11.46	12.50	13.55	14.59	16.67	18.76
2	Labore r	28.20	15.51	16.92	18.33	19.74	22.56	25.38
3		29.54	16.25	17.72	19.20	20.68	23.63	26.59
4	Electronic Assembler	29.54	16.25	17.72	19.20	20.68	23.63	26.59
5		29.86	16.42	17.92	19.41	20.90	23.89	26.87
6	Material Supplier	30.54	16.80	18.32	19.85	21.38	24.43	27.49
	Production Fabricator	30.54	16.80	18.32	19.85	21.38	24.43	27.49
	Timekeeper	30.54	16.80	18.32	19.85	21.38	24.43	27.49
7	Material Handler	30.95	17.02	18.57	20.12	21.67	24.76	27.86
8	Chemical Material Handler	31.22	17.17	18.73	20.29	21.85	24.98	28.10
	Ins pector Ele ctrical-Me ch Physical Test	31.22	17.17	18.73	20.29	21.85	24.98	28.10
	X-Ray Operator	31.22	17.17	18.73	20.29	21.85	24.98	28.10
9	Assembler- Adjustor Special Precision		17.26	18.83	20.40	21.97	25.11	28.25
	Assembler Special Projects	31.39	17.26	18.83	20.40	21.97	25.11	28.25
10		31.58	17.37	18.95	20.53	22.11	25.26	28.42
11		31.79	17.48	19.07	20.66	22.25	25.43	28.61
Wage Grade	Clas s iflcations		Hire	1 year from Hire	2 years from hire	3 years from hire	4 years from hire	5 years from hire
			65%	70%	75%	80%	85%	90%
12	Ge neral Machinist, M anufacturing	31.99	20.79	22.39	23.99	25.59	27.19	28.79
	Inspector, Gage Re pair and Calibration	31.99	20.79	22.39	23.99	25.59	27.19	28.79
	Plate r	31.99	20.79	22.39	23.99	25.59	27.19	28.79
13	Photo Tooling Fabricator	32.18	20.92	22.53	24.14	25.74	27.35	28.96
	Trans port Fabricator	32.18	20.92	22.53	24.14	25.74	27.35	28.96
14	Welder	32.84	21.35	22.99	24.63	26.27	27.91	29.56
15	Inspector & Tester Electronics	33.05	21.48	23.14	24.79	26.44	28.09	29.75
	Mobile Industrial Equipment Mechanic	33.05	21.48	23.14	24.79	26.44	28.09	29.75
16	Tele metry Technician	33.49	21.77	23.44	25.12	26.79	28.47	30.14
17		33.71	21.91	23.60	25.28	26.97	28.65	30.34
18		34.08	22.15	23.86	25.56	27.26	28.97	30.67
19		34.35	22.33	24.05	25.76	27.48	29.20	30.92
20		34.76	22.59	24.33	26.07	27.81	29.55	31.28
21	Electronic Equipment Technician	35.16	22.85	24.61	26.37	28.13	29.89	31.64
	Millwright	35.16	22.85	24.61	26.37	28.13	29.89	31.64
	Operating Engineer	35.16	22.85	24.61	26.37	28.13	29.89	31.64
22	Electrician	35.94	23.36	25.16	26.96	28.75	30.55	32.35
	Inspector, Tool & Precision Gage	35.94	23.36	25.16	26.96	28.75	30.55	32.35
	Pipe ftte r	35.94	23.36	25.16	26.96	28.75	30.55	32.35
	Tool Maker	35.94	23.36	25.16	26.96	28.75	30.55	32.35
23	Machine Re pairperson	36.63	23.81	25.64	27.47	29.30	31.14	32.97
38
SENIORITY GROUPINGS AEROSPACE WORKERS	
Group A 1.	General Machinist, Manufacturing 2.	Production Fabricator	Group G 1. X-Ray Operator
Group B 1. Timekeeper Material Supplier	Group H 1. Inspector, Gage Repair and Calibration
Group C 1. Assembler Special Projects	Group I 1. Electronic Equipment Technician
Group D 1.	Chemical -Material Handler 2.	Material Handler 3.	Laborer 4.	Custodian	Group J 1. Machine Repairperson
Group E 1.	Assembler-Adjustor, Special Precision 2.	Electronic Assembler	Group K 1. Mobile Industrial Equipment Mechanic
Group F 1.	Inspector & Tester Electronics 2.	Inspector, Electrical-Mechanical Physical Test	Group L 1. Telemetry Technician
	Group M 1. Transport Fabricator
SENIORITY GROUPINGS MAINTENANCE	
Group A 1. Pipefitter	Group C 1. Millwright
Group B 1. Electrician	Group D 1. Operating Engineer
SENIORITY GROUPINGS TOOLING, MODEL SHOP, TOOL INSPECTION AND PLATING	
Group A 1. Tool Maker	Group D 1. Plater
Group B 1. Inspector, Tool and Precision Gage	Group E 1. Photo Tooling Fabricator
Group C 1. Welder	
39
ARTICLE 26.	COST-OF-LIVING ALLOWANCE
A.	Each employee covered by this Agreement shall receive a Cost-of-Living Allowance as set forth in this Article.
The amount of the Cost-of-Living Allowance beginning November 21, 2011 shall be forty-nine cents ($.49). Thereafter during the period of this Agreement, adjustments in the Cost-of-Living Allowance shall be computed in accordance with B., C. and D. of this section.
B.	Basis for Allowance
1.	The amount of the Cost-of-Living Allowance shall be determined and redetermined in accordance with changes in the official Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (CPI-W) United States City Average, published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor (1967=100) based upon the 1982-1984 Consumer Expenditure Survey. The Index used for determining the Cost-of-Living Allowance shall be the revised Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (CPI-W), United States City Average, published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor (1967=100), in which the homeownership component is based on a rental equivalency measure, hereinafter referred to as the Index.
2.	Continuance of the Cost-of-Living Allowance shall be contingent upon the availability of the Index in its present form and calculated on the same basis as the Index for January 2012 unless otherwise agreed upon by the parties.
3.	If the Bureau of Labor Statistics changes the form or the basis of calculating the official Consumer Price Index, the parties agree to request the Bureau to make available, for the duration of this Agreement, a monthly Consumer Price Index in its present form and calculated on the same basis as the Index for January 2012.
C.	Determination of Allowance
1.	During the period of this Agreement, adjustments in the Cost-of-Living Allowance shall be made at the following times:
Effective Date of Adjustment	Three (3) Month Average of the BLS Consumer Price Indexes:
January 2, 2012	September, October, November 2011
April 2, 2012	December 2011, January & February 2012
July 2, 2012	March, April, May 2012
October 1, 2012	June, July, August 2012
January 7, 2013	September, October, November 2012
April 1, 2013	December 2012, January & February 2013
July 1, 2013	March, April, May 2013
October 7, 2013	June, July, August 2013
January 6, 2014	September, October, November 2013
40
April 7, 2014	December 2013, January & February 2014
July 7, 2014	March, April, May 2014
October 6, 2014	June, July, August 2014
January 5, 2015	September, October, November 2014
April 6, 2015 July 6, 2015	December 2014, January & February 2015 March, April, May 2015
October 5, 2015	June, July, August 2015
January 4, 2016	September, October, November 2015
April 4, 2016	December 2015, January & February 2016
July 4, 2016	March, April, May 2016
October 3, 2016	June, July, August 2016
January 2, 2017	September, October, November 2016
April 3, 2017	December 2016, January & February 2017
July 3, 2017	March, April, May 2017
In determining the three-month average of the Index for a specified period, the computed average shall be rounded to the nearest one-tenth (0.1) Index point. The amount of the Cost-of-Living Allowance shall be adjusted on the basis of one cent ($.01) per hour for each four-tenths (0.4) point change in the three-month average of the Indexes. The amount of Cost-of-Living Allowance shall be in accordance with the following table, subject to the restrictions of paragraph C.2.:
Three-Month Average BLS Consumer Index (1967=100)	Cost-of-Living Allowance
663.8 - 664.1	0.00
664.2 - 664.5	0.01
664.6 - 664.9	0.02
665.0 - 665.3	0.03
665.4 - 665.7	0.04
665.8 - 666.1	0.05
666.2 - 666.5	0.06
and so forth with one-cent ($.01) adjustments for each four-tenths (0.4) point change in the average Index for the appropriate three months as indicated in paragraph C.l.
2.	The amount of Cost-of-Living Allowance payable under the provisions of this section shall be paid in the regular weekly paychecks.
3.	In the event the Bureau of Labor Statistics does not issue the appropriate Indexes on or before the beginning of one of the pay periods referred to in paragraph 1., any adjustment in the Cost-of-Living Allowance required by such appropriate Index shall be effective at the beginning of the first pay period after receipt of such Index.
4.	No adjustments, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made in the amount of the Cost-of-Living Allowance due to any revision which later may be made in the published figures for the Index for any month or months specified in paragraph 1.
41
D.	1. In no event will a decline in the three-month average BLS Consumer Price Index below 642.2 provide the basis for a reduction in the base wage rate by job classification.
2.	The amount of any Cost-of-Living Allowance in effect at the time will not be added to the base wage rates but will, however, be taken into account in computing overtime, in determining reporting pay, call-back pay, pay for vacations, pay for unworked holidays, bereavement pay, jury duty pay and short-term military duty pay.
ARTICLE 27.	BEREAVEMENT PAY
A.	When death occurs in an employee’s immediate family (as defined below), the employee on request will be excused for any three (3) consecutive regularly scheduled working days to include the day of the funeral and excluding Saturdays and Sundays following the date of death.
Immediate family member:
Employee's spouse (former spouse if minor children are involved)
Child, foster child, grandchild, great grandchild
Brother, sister
Parent, grandparent, great grandparent
Parent/grandparent of spouse
Brother/sister-in-law, son/daughter-in-law
Same-sex domestic partner, child, foster child, parent, grandparent, brother or sister of a domestic partner
Common-law spouse in states where common-law marriage is recognized, child, foster child, parent, grandparent, brother or sister of a Common-law spouse
Includes step relationships of above
Another blood relative actually residing with the employee
Another individual who stood in place of a parent when the employee was a child A child for whom the employee acts in a parental capacity
B.	After making written application therefore, the employee shall receive pay for any scheduled hours of work up to eight (8) per day for which the employee is excused, excluding Saturday and Sunday, provided the employee attends the funeral, except under acceptable extenuating circumstances.
C.	Payment shall be made at the employee's regular straight-time rate, including applicable night shift premium, as of the last day worked.
ARTICLE 28.	EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE
A.	Courses must be directly related to the employee's current work assignment or probable future assignment within the Company and taken outside normal working hours at an accredited college, business school, high school, trade or vocational school. Seniority employees actively at work will be reimbursed for 100% tuition and related fees (excluding parking) up to a maximum of $5,250 per calendar year. A passing grade must be earned in order to be eligible for reimbursement.
42
B.	The following programs are considered job-related and will be approved when the needs cannot be met within the Company:
1.	Courses which will improve the employee's skill on their present job. This includes courses designed to update employees in the technology of their trade or occupation and courses directed toward qualifying an employee as an apprentice in the skilled trades.
2.	Courses which relate to the next job in the logical development of an employee's career.
3.	Courses which will prepare an employee for openings are expected to occur in the future and for which a sufficient number of qualified employees are not available.
4.	Courses taken to complete the requirements for a grammar school certificate or high school diploma.
5.	Any required or pertinent elective courses taken in a degree-seeking program in a field related to the employee's job or appropriate to their career with Honeywell Inc.
C.	The grievance procedure set forth in the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Corporation and the Union shall have no application to, or jurisdiction over, any matter relating to this program.
D.	Employees signing an educational assistance application agree to repay FM&T for any amount reimbursed by FM&T for educational assistance described in the application if the employee voluntarily terminates employment or is discharged for cause within 12 months after course completion.
ARTICLE 29.	SAVINGS PLAN
A.	Features of the Honeywell Savings Plan will be governed by provisions of the Plan document as it may be amended by the Plan administrator.
B.	No matter respecting the provisions of the Plan shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure established in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 30.	CONTRACT VALIDITY
A.	If any provision of this Agreement is declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the validity of the remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby.
B.	This Agreement is subject to all applicable Federal and State Laws and any rules and regulations issued pursuant thereto.
C.	The waiver of any breach or condition of this Agreement by either party shall not constitute a precedent in the future enforcement of all the terms and conditions of this Collective Bargaining Agreement.
43
ARTICLE 31	- DURATION
A.	This Collective Bargaining Agreement is effective November 21, 2011 and shall remain in full force and effect until midnight November 19, 2017, and shall thereafter be continued in full force and effect from year to year and shall be renewed for successive years unless notice of termination or a desire to modify or change this Agreement is given in writing by either party at least sixty (60) days before the expiration date. Upon receipt of such notice a conference shall be arranged for within fifteen (15) days. This provision shall not be interpreted to require a meeting prior to forty-five (45) days before the expiration date of this Agreement.
B.	During the term of this Agreement neither party shall demand any change in this Agreement, nor shall either party be required to bargain with respect to this Agreement, nor shall a change in or addition to this Agreement be an objective of or be stated as reason for any strike or lockout or other exercise of economic force or threat thereof by the Union or the Company.
C.	In the event both parties agree to early negotiations, nothing contained in this Agreement will preclude the parties from doing so.
d. The parties acknowledge that during negotiations which resulted in this Agreement, each had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or matter not removed by law from the area of collective bargaining, and that the understandings and agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement. Therefore, the Company and the Union, for the life of this Agreement, each voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter referred to or covered in this Agreement, or with respect to any subject or matter not specifically referred to or covered in this Agreement, even though such subjects or matter may not have been within the knowledge or contemplation of either or both of the parties at the time they negotiated or signed this Agreement.
44
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused their names to
be subscribed by their duly authorized officers and representatives this 5th day of December, 2011.
LOCAL LODGE NO. 778,
INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINIST AND AEROSPACE WODVCDQ ACT Cm
Claude Harris
HONEYWELL, FEDERAL
45
INDEX
ARTICLES	PAGE
AGREEMENT .............................................3
APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM................................31
BEREAVEMENT PAY.......................................42
BULLETIN BOARDS ......................................33
CHECK-OFF .............................................7
CONTRACT VALIDITY ....................................43
COST-OF-LIVING ALLOWANCE .............................40
DISCIPLINE ...........................................12
DURATION .............................................44
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE ...............................42
HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT ......................30
ESTABLISHMENT OF WAGE RATES FOR NEW
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS ................................32
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE ...................................9
HOLIDAY PAY ..........................................16
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME ...........................13
INSURANCE PROGRAM AND PENSION PLAN ...................33
INTENT ............................................... 3
JURY DUTY PAY ........................................30
LEAVES OF ABSENCE ....................................28
MANAGEMENT ........................................... 3
NO DISCRIMINATION .................................... 9
NO STRIKE, WORK STOPPAGE, SLOW-DOWN OR LOCKOUT ....... 6
RECOGNITION .......................................... 3
REPRESENTATION ....................................... 3
SAVINGS PLAN .........................................43
SECURITY REQUIREMENTS ................................33
SENIORITY ............................................17
UNION RESPONSIBILITY ................................. 5
UNION SECURITY ....................................... 6
VACATION AND PAID ABSENCE ............................26
WAGES AND SENIORITY GROUPINGS ........................34
46
JOB DESCRIPTIONS
AGREEMENT BETWEEN
Honeywell, Federal Manufacturing and Technologies, LLC
Honeywell
AND
Local Lodge No. 778 International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers
November 21, 2011
47
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Classification
Job Code
Page
Assembler-Adjustor, Special Precision	8001	49
Assembler Special Projects	8029	50
Chemical-Material Handler	8026	51
Custodian	7656	52
Electrician	7605	53
Electronic Assembler	3403	54
Electronic Equipment Technician	8002	55
General Machinist, Manufacturing	8018	57
Inspector Electrical-Mechanical Physical Test	7803	58
Inspector, Gage Repair and Calibration	8004	59
Inspector and Tester Electronics	7832	60
Inspector Tool & Precision Gage	8017	62
Laborer	7655	63
Machine Repairperson	7514	64
Material Handler	8023	65
Material Supplier	2002	66
Millwright	7607	67
Mobile Industrial Equipment Mechanic	7732	68
Operating Engineer	7622	69
Photo Tooling Fabricator	7556	70
Pipefitter	7609	71
Plater	3205	72
Production Fabricator	2003	73
Telemetry Technician	3436	74
Timekeeper	7907	75
Tool Maker	2004	76
Transport Fabricator	8028	77
Welder	8015	78
X-Ray Operator	7819	79
48
Date:	11/21/11
Classification:	ASSEMBLER-ADJUSTOR, SPECIAL
PRECISION
Code Number: 8001	Wage Grade: 9
Plans, assembles, and fits piece parts and sub-assemblies to fabricate complex, precision assemblies which require a high degree of precision, skill, dexterity, versatility, and ingenuity as well as judgment and self discipline. Plans, sets up, and operates all equipment, including joining equipment, necessary to the performance of the task. Uses all types of electrical, electronic, and mechanical test equipment and measuring devices pursuant to the task. Performs adjustments, alterations, and modifications to product. Times and finely tunes all electrical and mechanical components necessary to meet design specifications and requirements. May be required to rework, repair, or replace sub-assemblies and piece parts. May be required to determine methods and procedures and to develop techniques on requested projects and special order design. Works from prints, schematics, sketches, specifications, and written or oral instructions. Diagnoses and makes post mortem analyses, troubleshoots, and interprets subassemblies and final assemblies to determine failures, or potential failure, causes and malfunctions. Experience in clean room or clean work station practices and disciplines or a thorough working knowledge of contamination control and its restrictions is a requisite. Work requires experience in sequencing, logic, switching functions, and relative motions and interferences of electrical and mechanical components as recognized in the instrument or watchmaking field. May require long periods of concentration and manipulative dexterity. Must be familiar with and be able to apply electrical or electronic circuitry techniques. Must be able to verify all work and be responsible for producing functional and operational product, conforming to design specifications. Work assignments may be experimental or prototype, involving extensive development and requiring comprehension and individual judgment. Performs all necessary paperwork, records, identifying and in-process operations pursuant to the task. Spends time performing duties of the Electronic Assembler classification as required whether or not employees are on layoff from the Electronic Assembler classification. May perform in-process inspection. May check and top off lubricants as necessary. Responsible for complying with applicable provisions of Article 19. Health, Safety, and Environment of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
49
Classification:	ASSEMBLER SPECIAL PROJECTS
Date:	11/21/11
Code Number: 8029	Wage Grade: 7
This classification is restricted to use by the Applied Technologies organization.
Must obtain and retain a higher level clearance in order to qualify for and remain in the classification.
Performs electrical and mechanical fabrication and assembly operations including storage, receipt, dispersal and control of material, preparation, assembly, verification, test of components and products, packaging and shipping. Operations performed include (but not limited to) electrical, mechanical, and chemical processing, finishing, soldering, welding, laser processing, bonding, encapsulation. Plans, sets up, and operates all equipment, including joining equipment, necessary to the performance of the task. Employee may be required to develop methodologies and make setups to perform the work and gain engineering approval as required. Employee will be required to work from work directions, engineering drawings, schematics, wiring diagrams, sketches, and other written and verbal instructions. Completes the necessary paperwork and records data on products and tests. Performs visual, mechanical, and electrical verification of own work and the work of others. Performs all security tasks as needed and may be required to travel, hand carry material to other locations, and perform work at those locations. Performs operations involved in preparing, combining, connecting, and fabrication of components and subassemblies into assemblies. On electrical and electronic assemblies, including microminiature versions, performs potting, encapsulation or impregnation, including oven operations and applying the finishing touches necessary to complete the assembly. May be required to perform brush application of touch-up paint and overcoating materials and to move product between departments as well as to and from potting, cleansing, and degreasing areas located within the same group of departments. May perform in-process inspection. May check and top off lubricants as necessary. Responsible for complying with applicable provisions of Article 19. Health, Safety, and Environment of Collective Bargaining Agreement.
50
Classification:	CHEMICAL-MATERIAL HANDLER
Date:	11/21/11
Code Number: 8026	Wage Grade: 8
Responsible for the receipt, maintenance of records, and inventorying of controlled wastes. Operates a computer to maintain records dealing with excess property, precious metals, hazardous wastes, and classified scrap. Responsible for the receipt and inventorying of excess property, precious metals, radioactive wastes, hazardous wastes, and classified scrap. Responsible for operating the hazardous material tank farm, mixing crib, and staging areas; conducting inspections of all areas, and maintaining inventory and inspection records for hazardous waste operations. Responsible for emergency chemical spill cleanup. Responsible for precious metal recovery operations. Issues supplies and containers to operating departments. Performs cleanup of controlled materials and decontaminates as required. Is responsible for pumping controlled waste to and from tanks, sumps and pits, and cleans transfer equipment involved. Uses all tools and equipment necessary to the performance of the task and may perform minor routine maintenance. Works from written or oral instructions. Performs necessary paperwork pursuant to the task. Must be familiar with chemical compatibilities and characteristics, spill cleanup and decontamination procedures, segregation of controlled waste emergency response procedures, personal protective equipment, Federal and State regulations, packaging/labeling, comprehension and understanding of work related documents, and operation of assigned equipment. Spends time performing duties of the Material Handler classification as required whether or not employees are on layoff from the Material Handler classification. Will be required to pass a Professional Certification examination as required by applicable regulations. Responsible for complying with applicable provisions of Article 19. Health, Safety, and Environment of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
51
Classification:	CUSTODIAN
Date:	11/21/11
Code Number: 7656
Wage Grade: 1
Perform associated cleaning and housekeeping duties in office and factory areas, including but not limited to emptying trash baskets and trash containers, vacuuming carpet, washing windows, mopping, stripping, sealing and waxing floors. Clean, scrub, sanitize and power wash restrooms and service with necessary supplies. Clean and service plant cafeteria(s). Clean machining areas and machines, operate walky stacker, walk behind sweepers, walk behind scrubbers in performance of assigned duties. Use all necessary tools and equipment including but not limited to brooms, mops, vacuum cleaners, window cleaning equipment, washing machines, dryers, buffers, ladders etc. May use choreboy, scooter and bicycle to expedite duties. Responsible for complying with applicable provisions of Article 19. Health, Safety, and Environment of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
52
Classification:	ELECTRICIAN
Date:	11/21/11
Code Number: 7605	Wage Grade: 22
Installs, maintains, alters, repairs, adjusts and tests plant wiring, electrical and electronic equipment which shall include but not be limited to lights, electric motors, machines, equipment controls, radios and communication systems, meters, clocks, attendance recording mechanisms, environmental control systems and utilities. This, however, does not prohibit other employees from changing general illumination lamps and bulbs where no assembly or disassembly of equipment is required. May perform electrical repair, modification and maintenance of mobile industrial equipment as required. Charges and repairs batteries and battery charging equipment. May lubricate equipment during performance of assigned duties. May adjust electrical instruments with thermal or capillary sensing units pursuant to the task. Uses all tools and equipment pursuant to the task, including hand or power equipment to hoist and move personnel and materials, except mobile cranes. May transport tools, materials and equipment to and from job site which are to be used by employees in the Electrician job classification. Performs related tasks as necessary in the completion of the employees primary work assignment in the Electrician job classification. Works from prints, sketches, specifications, and written or oral instructions and does paperwork pursuant to the task. May have completed an electrician apprenticeship or possess related experience. Responsible for complying with applicable provisions of Article 19. Health, Safety, and Environment of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
53
Classification:	ELECTRONIC ASSEMBLER
Date:	11/21/11
Code Number: 3403	Wage Grade: 4
Performs operations involved in preparing, combining, connecting, and fabrication of components and subassemblies into assemblies, including printed circuit boards. On electrical and electronic assemblies, including microminiature versions, perform potting, encapsulation or impregnation, including oven operations and applying the finishing touches necessary to complete the assembly. Work is diversified and requires skilled fitting, adjusting, timing and compensating where tolerances are close but methods are prescribed. May be required to perform brush application of touch-up paint and overcoating materials and to move product between adjacent departments as well as to and from potting, cleansing, and degreasing areas located within the same group of departments. Performs cable lacing and cart line operations. Uses hand power tools necessary to performance of the tasks such as shearing, notching, riveting, sawing, punching slotting, trimming, scrubbing, fusing, filing airpresses, special welding equipment, sanders, drills, bandsaws, molding machines, engraving equipment, automatic wire cutting and stripping equipment, abraders, leak detectors, power strippers, multitype coil winders, hoists, jigs, fixtures, induction soldering equipment, soft soldering equipment, soldering irons and torches not requiring mixing chambers, director/verifiers, flow solder equipment, potting premix machines, ultrasonic cleaners, degreasers, spray cleaners, and mechanical gages and continuity testers used as an assembly aid, and not for testing, necessary to the performance of the task. The welding equipment is to be used only for the purpose of connecting electronic components and/or wires and where
knowledge of welding techniques is not required. Operates heat transfer equipment as required. Works from prints, assembly drawings, written or visual or oral instructions and engineering specifications. With the use of continuity tester or visual aid, is responsible for verifying own work for conformance to standards furnished for the operation. May be required to check potted items prior to cleanup. May be required to do own rework. Performs necessary paperwork.
May perform in-process inspection. May check and top off lubricants as necessary. Responsible for complying with applicable provisions of Article 19. Health, Safety, and Environment of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
54
Classification:	ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN
Date:	11/21/11
Code Number: 8002	Wage Grade: 21
Lays out, fabricates, modifies, assembles and proves-in electronic, electromechanical, pressure, vacuum, computerized, environmental and scientific test equipment and systems. Assembles printed circuit boards and vector boards used in the manufacture of test equipment. Installs, maintains, inspects for conformance to specifications, services, troubleshoots and calibrates electronic, electromechanical, pressure, vacuum, environmental, computerized and scientific test equipment and systems, including electrical service boxes (inside test equipment), laboratory instruments, meters, lasers, computers and data acquisition systems. Test equipment is defined as equipment or gaging which electrically or electromechanically accepts the product or is used in the manufacture of the product. May perform related tasks as necessary in the completion of the employee's primary work assignment in the Electronic Equipment Technician classification. Performs complete check-out of testers and effects calibration. Performs complete evaluation of new or modified equipment and determines its acceptability. Determines that test equipment meets design intent and functions properly. Performs rework and replacement of components. Performs evaluation on test equipment as directed by the engineer and all evaluation on consecutive out-of-tolerance calibration readings. May write and use programs to assist in the prove-in, evaluation, calibration, maintenance and repair of test equipment. Makes any necessary setups and must be familiar with and apply electrical and electronic circuitry techniques, principles, formulae and troubleshooting techniques. Work is characterized by extremely critical calibration requirements and lack of definite procedural information which necessitates development of special servicing techniques. Works from schematics, wiring diagrams, wire running lists, sketches, engineering change notices, drawings, sheet metal layouts, machine drawings and other written or verbal instructions. Results require interpretation and analysis. Normally responsible for verifying own work for conformance to standards and specifications furnished for the operation and will be required to perform rework. Responsible for maintaining and repairing standards used in the calibration of test equipment, meters, special resistors, engineering and quality laboratory instruments. Responsible for all drawings and prints as a part of the print package in assigned work area. Performs necessary paperwork and must be familiar with procedure and specification requirements related to the work normally performed. Uses and may maintain equipment necessary to the performance of the task. Must have technical school, college, military electronic training, or equivalent in addition to related experience. Computer programming and technical mathematics may be required, in addition to theory and application of digital electronics, microprocessors, R. F. and environmental control. May perform in-process inspection. May check and top off lubricants as necessary. Responsible for complying with applicable provisions of Article 19. Health, Safety, and Environment of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
(Continued)
55
Classification:	ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN
Date:	11/21/11
Code Number: 8002
Wage Grade: 21
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING:
The Electronic Equipment Technician job description dated March 14, 1988, represents only the combined duties and responsibilities of the Electronic Equipment Technician and Electronic Equipment Fabricator classifications as discussed and agreed to during 1987 contract negotiations. It does not represent any addition, change or expansion of duties, nor is it intended to affect or change any current duties of any other job classification, either salaried or hourly.
56
Classification:	GENERAL MACHINIST, MANUFACTURING
Date:	11/21/11
Code Number: 8018	Wage Grade: 12
Sets up for self and operates all types and sizes of equipment that is identified under machine shop terminology as lathe, mill, grind, profile, transfer, bore, hob, lap, thread, balance, hone, drill, automatic screw machines and flexible manufacturing systems; including special attachments, handling and/or holding devices. Flexible manufacturing system is defined as an automated production system for the manufacture and in process work verification of product consisting of more than one machine tied together by an automated handling system, all controlled by a computer. Equipment design or name may include one or more of the aforementioned characteristics. Control of machine performance may range from manual operation to that of automatic cycling and tape or computer control. May perform machine language editing. Acquires and installs holding devices, jigs, fixtures, accessories, measuring instruments, and cutting tools necessary to the performance of the task. May be required to perform set-up and operation of a flexible manufacturing system and simultaneous operation of more than one electrical discharge machine, deburr operations and open set-up machining. Work requires close tolerances and fine finishes. Works from prints, sketches, specifications, job layouts, written and/or oral instructions. Practices good workmanship and makes proper utilization and selection of speeds, feeds, wheels, cams, grinding angles, and cutting tools when not prescribed. May be required to machine locating surfaces and tool clearance reliefs on soft jaws, face plates, collets and fixture bases, or other general purpose holding devices when they are to be used for fabrication of product prior to removal from equipment. Recognizes tool wear and replaces or changes worn tools. May in conjunction with flexible manufacturing system inventory, order and maintain a supply of cutting tools, measuring probes and accessories. May be required to dress own grinding wheels to restore the working surface to original condition. May be required to prepare material for machine operations such as sawing, grinding and lapping. Uses all necessary tools, fixtures and gages and where required performs minor touch-up, hand grinding and honing of tools. May perform sand blast operations as required. may perform hand work such as straightening/forming or radiusing/blending. Must have a working knowledge of
shop mathematics. Responsible for checking produced parts to standards furnished for the operation. May be required to do rework and perform in-process packaging. Performs necessary tasks and paperwork for the proper movement and control of parts and material in conjunction with flexible manufacturing systems, including hand or electric trucking. Responsible for maintenance of departmental accessory storage areas. May perform in-process inspection. May check and top off lubricants as necessary. Responsible for complying with applicable provisions of Article 19. Health, Safety, and Environment of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
57
Classification:	INSPECTOR ELECTRICAL-MECHANICAL
PHYSICAL TEST (F2)
Date:	11/21/11
Code Number: 7803	Wage Grade: 8
Performs visual, mechanical, and electrical inspection functions which do not require electrical or electronic knowledge, on electrical, mechanical, or electromechanical parts or materials to determine conformance to predetermined limits. Performs mechanical and physical electrical inspection using equipment which is go-no-go or is calibrated directly in the unit being measured.
Electrical test results do not require interpretation or analysis and no electrical adjustments of the item being tested are required. Minor adjustments of test equipment not requiring knowledge of electrical circuitry may be necessary. Performs physical testing, both destructive and nondestructive on materials, piece parts, sub-assemblies and assemblies where tolerances and quality standards are furnished, using prescribed methods and procedures. Responsible for performing tests such as Compression, Deflection, Elongation, Tensile Strength, Crush Testing, Hardness Testing (involving the necessity for mount making) and Leak Detection. Performs thickness testing of inorganic coatings (involving the necessity for making mounts).
Uses gages, test equipment, and other tools and devices necessary to the performance of the task. Operates equipment to induce artificial environmental conditions for testing, but performs no inspections while under induced artificial environmental conditions. Records and is responsible for the accuracy of inspection data. Responsible for proper handling of parts, including packaging and for proper care of equipment used. Inspects the product for proper packaging prior to release from the department. Responsible for preparation of parts and inspection for detection of surface flaws by use of dye penetrant methods, determination of dimensions and finishes, conformance to specifications for rejection or acceptance of an item.
Requires a working knowledge of arithmetic. Initiates and/or completes necessary quality records, test data, and other associated paperwork required to accomplish acceptance, rejection, and movement of material. Works from prints, drawings, sketches, specifications, packing sheets and other written or verbal instructions. May perform in-process inspection. May check and top off lubricants as necessary. Responsible for complying with applicable provisions of Article 19. Health, Safety, and Environment of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
58
Classification:	INSPECTOR, GAGE REPAIR AND CALIBRATION Date: 11/21/11
Code Number: 8004	Wage Grade: 12
Services and maintains (which does not require knowledge of electronic circuitry or affect electronic calibration) all types of special design gages and capital gaging equipment. Performs necessary layouts and inspection setups to check mechanical functioning of design gages. Works with Production, Inspection, Process Engineering and Gage Design in performance of duties. Performs minor repairs which shall not alter gaging equipment dimensions. Calibrates capital type gaging equipment dimensions. Calibrates capital type gaging equipment as required. May be required to calibrate dial indicators, torque equipment, force gages and other details of design gages and capital gaging equipment. Inspects, calibrates, repairs and adjusts standard and A.G.D. gages including, but not limited to, thread ring gages, snap gages, micrometers, torque equipment, dial indicators (excluding maintenance indicators unless requested) and plug gages to established procedures or other applicable specifications. Operates a crib or a receiving station which will include checking equipment out and in, maintaining stock and keeping necessary records. Requires an understanding of standard gages, shop mathematics and handbook formulae. Makes necessary setups and operates all precision equipment necessary to the performance of the task. Must have a thorough knowledge of mechanical gaging and their functions. May perform in-process inspection. May check and top off lubricants as necessary. Responsible for complying with applicable provisions of Article 19. Health, Safety, and Environment of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
59
Classification:	INSPECTOR & TESTER ELECTRONICS (F1)
Date:	11/21/11
Code Number: 7832
Wage Grade: 15
Performs:
•	Inspection, evaluation and evaluational troubleshooting functions on electronic, electrical and electromechanical units and systems. Typical items shall include but are not limited to, fusing systems, radar systems, timer systems, telemetry assemblies, x-units and various types of interconnecting devices and battery packs.
•	Set-ups necessary in the completion of the task. Methods and procedures for inspection operations are not always predetermined.
•	Tests using any electrical, electronic, mechanical and environmental test equipment, including leak detectors, which may be highly technical and require special hook-ups to determine performance not attainable with standard prescribed tests.
•	Necessary adjustments of product or test equipment (not voiding calibration) or unit being tested to determine acceptability or reasons for malfunctioning of the unit or equipment used. May be required to develop fixtures, devices or methods to be used in Receiving Inspection for acceptance inspection.
•	Nonfunctional evaluations such as visual and mechanical inspection for correct assembly and dye penetrant inspection for surface flaws.
•	Electronic troubleshooting, in-process test, and component selection operations on items and systems composed of electronic circuitry. Typical items and systems are radar receivers, telemetry assemblies and radar systems. Methods and procedures for test and troubleshooting functions are not always predetermined.
•	Disassembly operations on the product for the purpose of troubleshooting diagnosis, and may be required to perform reassembly and test operations to the degree necessary to assure correction of the malfunction.
•	Inspection of product for proper packaging prior to release from the department.
In the performance of the duties set forth above, use may be made of various tools and equipment, such as test and troubleshooting equipment including open setup, soft soldering tools, environmental chambers, jigs and fixtures, gages and check fixtures, and hand tools necessary to the performance of the task.
(Continued)
60
Classification:	INSPECTOR & TESTER ELECTRONICS
Date:	11/21/11
Code Number: 7832	Wage Grade: 15
Must be capable of interpreting all types of specifications, equipment readings, indications, and results. Must be able to determine cause of failure, proper methods and equipment to be used in evaluating all types of material and parts in satisfying specification requirements. May be required to examine and evaluate test data (FM&T or vendor) of product being inspected for purposes of acceptances or rejection. Results of tests may require interpretation and analysis.
Works from prints, assembly drawings, written, visual or oral instructions and engineering specifications. Completes necessary paperwork and identification pursuant to the task. Responsible for proper handling of parts, including packaging and for proper care of equipment used. Job requires considerable knowledge and experience in electronics, high frequencies, radar theory and application. May perform in-process inspection. May check and top off lubricants as necessary. Responsible for complying with applicable provisions of Article 19. Health, Safety, and Environment of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
61
Classification:	INSPECTOR TOOL AND PRECISION GAGE
Date:	11/21/11
Code Number: 8017	Wage Grade: 22
Inspects tools, molds, design gages, test stands, fixtures, templates, set-up devices, and related items for workmanship, material, completeness and conformance to drawings or other applicable specifications. Inspects product as required by the Inspection Traveler and Inspection request forms, first piece part, tool made samples, pre-production models, prototypes and other piece parts which may be used to evaluate and approve development and manufacturing processes. Works with Engineers, Designers, Tool Room and Engineering Shop personnel to facilitate fabrication and inspection techniques. Works from prints, specifications and other written or oral instructions. May be required to perform inspection work without use of design gages, drawings, or specifications. Requires knowledge of Tool Design, Tool Room and Engineering Shop Operations. Makes precise measurements which may involve accumulative and calculated dimensions. Sets up and operates all types of inspection instruments, including gages and multiaxis computerized measuring machines. Must possess a working knowledge of shop mathematics including geometry and trigonometry. May program inspection computer tapes on piece parts, gages, fixtures or other related items and loads product and capability tapes. Must be able to analyze and interpret data and performs identification and paperwork related to the task. May perform in-process inspection. May check and top off lubricants as necessary. Responsible for complying with applicable provisions of Article 19. Health, Safety, and Environment of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
62
Classification:	LABORER
Date:	11/21/11
Code Number: 7655	Wage Grade: 2
Move office and factory furniture and equipment as required. Digs and fills ditches, pits and trenches not associated with Millwright tasks. Operates power equipment including road grader, bulldozer and fork truck with blade attachment necessary for the removal of snow, debris and dirt, sit down sweeper, sit down scrubber and all other polishing and scrubbing machines.
Loads, unloads and drives dump truck and pickup truck for the maintenance department on either company property or public highways and make a report of any accident. Cleans coolant pits, machine chip pits, ducts, fans, blowers, eliminators and cooling towers. Performs minor dismantling of equipment to facilitate cleaning. Cleans overhead pipes, ducts, light fixtures, light shades and machines, using when necessary, ladders, cherry pickers, telescoping platforms and crows nests. Mows lawn, operates lawn sprinklers, cuts weeds, cares for shrubbery and keeps grounds clear of paper, refuse and leaves. Applies sealer to cement and wood block floors. Removes snow, spreads salt and/or sand on walks and driveways. Capable of wearing and using all safety equipment applicable to tasks when needed. Performs minor maintenance and emergency repairs on equipment limited to simple replacement of worn out parts. Empties trash baskets and trash containers, vacuums carpet, washes windows, mops, strips, seals and waxes floors. Cleans, scrubs, sanitizes and power wash restrooms and service with necessary supplies. Cleans and services plant cafeteria(s). Cleans machining areas and machines. In accordance with General Process Instructions, maintains Production Clean Rooms only. May be called to support crafts in performance of preventive maintenance activities. Operates walky stacker, walk behind sweepers, walk behind scrubbers in performance of assigned duties. Uses all necessary tools and equipment including but not limited to brooms, mops, vacuum cleaners, window cleaning equipment, washing machines, dryers, buffers, ladders etc. May use choreboy, scooter and bicycle to expedite duties. Comply with all applicable provisions of Article 19. Health, Safety, and Environment of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
63
Classification:	MACHINE REPAIRPERSON
Date:	11/21/11
Code Number: 7514	Wage Grade: 23
Performs mechanical, electrical, piping, hydraulic and structural maintenance including troubleshooting, modification or repair of production equipment and inspection equipment. Electrical and piping duties shall be defined as the load side of the isolation component from the main distribution system to and including the equipment. Production equipment is defined as any equipment, used to store, plate, grind, drill, clean, shape or form materials by cutting, impact, pressure and electrical techniques, or by a combination of these processes. Included are retrievers and machine gages which are power-driven machines, not portable, used to measure shapes, forms and surface characteristics of products in relative or absolute matter. Normally disassembles and assembles machine tool mechanisms involving close fitting bearings, spindles, clutches, brakes, auxiliary couplings, cams, gears, shafts, hydraulic and pneumatic components and control mechanisms. Determines causes for and corrects production equipment or inspection equipment failures. Lays out and performs machining and bench operations to make replacement and repair parts. Installs and/or repairs such things as pumps for machine tools, air and refrigeration compressors, vacuum pumps, reduction gear units, and pneumatic hand tools. In conjunction with repair of refrigeration equipment on site only, may work with the assistance of a refrigeration Pipefitter. In conjunction with repair of electrical components may call on qualified Electrician. May call on other qualified crafts as necessary. May lubricate equipment during performance of assigned duties. May install filters on production equipment and inspection equipment. Uses all tools and equipment pursuant to the task, including hand or power equipment to hoist, move, unload, install, set, maintain alignment and level existing inspection and production equipment components, including pumps. May transport tools, materials and equipment to and from job site and may perform related tasks as necessary. May order stock and maintain spare parts for production and inspection equipment. Performs necessary paperwork. Knowledge and use of techniques and procedures for hand stoning, lapping or scraping ways and slide surfaces may be required. Performs difficult and precise production and inspection equipment alignments including leveling, condition and capability tests. Knowledge of shop mathematics and industrial hydraulics common to machine tools, molding and draw presses may be required. Uses handbook formulae, charts, tables, tools and precision measuring instruments necessary to the performance of the task. Works from sketches, prints, specifications, and written or oral instructions. Responsible for following good safety and housekeeping practices in accordance with Article 19. Health, Safety, Environment of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. Is able to wear all proper personal protective equipment.
64
Classification:	MATERIAL HANDLER
Date:	11/21/11
Code Number: 8023	Wage Grade: 7
Performs work involved in reclamation, recycling, salvage, scrap and waste disposal operations, including controlled materials. Disassembles units and separates component parts and materials. Prepares and segregates component parts for future use, rework, and disposal. Tests to determine types of materials involved and performs operations necessary for the disposition of materials. Receives, stores, counts, wraps, maintains records, weighs, inventories, loads and unloads materials and controlled waste and issues supplies and containers to operating departments. May perform in-process packaging. Performs clean-up of controlled materials and decontaminates as required. Empties and cleans trash containers for reuse in the controlled waste program. Pumps controlled waste to or from tanks, sumps and pits, and cleans transfer equipment involved. Services machines by changing, adding or removing cutting oils and coolants. Determines the correct cutting oil or coolant from charts or instructions and performs own trucking and movement of materials used. Services machines and equipment with lubricating oils and greases. Operates paper mill, reclamation and recycling equipment, incinerators, and equipment used in the destruction of materials and other items. Operates washer and container cleaning equipment when controlled materials are involved, including movement of material. Loads and unloads vehicles, operates power equipment including bulldozer, hand operated truck, fork truck, barrel dumper, tractor, and dump or pickup truck and transports items as required. Uses all tools and equipment necessary to the performance of the task and may perform minor routine maintenance. Works from written or oral instructions. Performs necessary paperwork pursuant to the task. Must be familiar with chemical compatibilities and characteristics, spill clean-up and decontamination procedures, segregation of controlled waste, emergency response procedures, personnel protective equipment, Federal and State regulations, packaging/labeling, and operation of assigned equipment. Responsible for complying with applicable provisions of Article 19. Health, Safety, Environment of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
65
Classification:	MATERIAL SUPPLIER
Date:	11/21/11
Code Number: 2002	Wage Grade: 6
Responsible for control of finished and raw production, non-production, chemicals, explosives, safety supplies, durable tooling, test equipment, development materials, maintenance, repair and operating supplies that require movement between non-adjacent departments within FM&T and local city pickups and/or deliveries. Receives, records, stocks, weighs, counts, secures production and non-production material in bonded stockrooms within FM&T and local city site(s). Prepares, records and issues stockroom materials. Prepares and packages material to be shipped, including interior/exterior marking with labels or stencil and applies material protection as required. Maintains inventory data bases. Loads and unloads transportation vehicles as required (except where special handling equipment and/or rigging is involved). Equipment use includes hand tools, overhead crane, counting scales, computers, bar code scanners, printers, boxmaker, bag sealers, power saws and various material handling aides. Required to mark tools and label product and parts to support current FM&T requirements. Able to operate passenger car, van and/or trucks safely while obeying applicable highway laws, city ordinances and safety regulations to prevent injury to persons, property and material. Performs assignments in accordance with applicable engineering drawings, specifications, work instructions and other written and verbal directions. Completes paperwork and computer data entries as required by the task. Responsible for complying with applicable provisions of Article 19. Health, Safety, and Environment of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
66
Classification:	MILLWRIGHT
Date:	11/21/11
Code Number: 7607	Wage Grade: 21
Performs maintenance of buildings and repairs and assembles factory and office furniture shelving. Erects, alters and repairs factory and office partitions. Removes tile and wood blocks from floor and places in trash containers, prepares surface for reinstallation and installs tile and wood block floors. Constructs concrete forms for foundations and mixes, transports and finishes concrete and asphalt. Breaks up, removes and transports concrete and building blocks as required. Digs and fills ditches, pits and trenches associated with the task. Sets fire brick and pours furnace sand. May assist in alterations, repair and maintenance of machinery and machine tools as required. Machine tools are defined as power-driven machines, not portable, used to shape or form materials by cutting, impact, pressure and electrical techniques, or by a combination of these processes. Included are machine gages which are power-driven machines, not portable, used to measure shapes, forms, and surface characteristics of products in relative or absolute matter. Unloads, installs, sets, aligns and levels machinery and machine tools, including pumps. On installation involving assembly and disassembly of machinery and machine tools is assisted by Machine Repairperson as required. Installs and aligns first drive coupling from source of power on installation. Lays out, fabricates and otherwise finishes and installs sheet metal and plexiglass used in conjunction with heating or cooling equipment, exhaust systems or machine guards. Performs welding and maintenance carpentry work necessary to the performance of the task. Sprays, brushes or rolls paints, enamels or related materials to produce various finishes on plant facilities, machinery, equipment, factory and office furniture, shelving and signs. Performs surface preparation for painting and cleans equipment, work area and containers following usage. Installs, repairs and maintains locks. Transports materials and equipment requiring rigging or special handling equipment. May lubricate equipment when necessary in the performance of related tasks. Uses all tools and equipment pursuant to the task including hand or power equipment to hoist and move personnel and materials. May transport tools, materials and equipment to and from job site which are to be used by employees in the Millwright job classification. Performed related tasks as necessary in the completion of the employee's primary work assignment in the Millwright job classification. Must possess a knowledge of shop mathematics. Performs paperwork pursuant to the task. Works from prints, sketches, specifications and written or oral instructions. Responsible for complying with applicable provisions of Article 19. Health, Safety, Environment of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
67
Date:	11/21/11
Classification:	MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
MECHANIC
Code Number: 7732
Wage Grade: 15
Performs repair, modification and maintenance of industrial equipment, such as internal passenger and hand or powered material moving equipment, bicycles, gasoline engines and carts. Performs routine fueling of vehicles. Makes necessary adjustments and performs required motor overhauling and general vehicle equipment and accessory repair. Uses hand and power driven tools and machinery necessary for performance of the task. May check completed repairs by operating equipment. Maintains small supply of parts as needed for proper repair. Performs necessary paperwork. Responsible for complying with applicable provisions of Article 19. Health, Safety, Environment of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
68
Classification:	OPERATING ENGINEER
Date:	11/21/11
Code Number: 7622	Wage Grade: 21
Operates steam generators (except portable steam jinnies), steam turbines, refrigeration and air conditioning equipment, oil and gas-fired boilers and heaters, electric motors, emergency diesel generators, pumps, blowers, air compressors, and other equipment used in connection with plant and process heating, ventilating and refrigeration systems. Performs preventive maintenance checks and vibration analysis on environmental control equipment. May use all tools and equipment pursuant to the task, including hand or power equipment to hoist and move personnel and materials, except mobile cranes. May transport tools, materials and equipment to and from job site which are to be used by employees in the Operating Engineer job classification. May perform related tasks as necessary in the completion of the employee's primary work assignment in the Operating Engineer job classification. Makes necessary adjustments for efficient operation. Descales and washes water sides and cleans fire sides of boilers, as required.
Conducts chemical tests of water used in boilers, cooling towers, demineralizers and chilled water, and condensate return systems and cleans fuel oil strainers. Mixes and introduces chemical into systems to maintain prescribed conditions. Lubricates equipment in boilerhouses. Also may lubricate other equipment when necessary in the performance of related tasks. Maintains record of tests performed and chemical added. Checks industrial waste disposal system and makes adjustments for proper conditions and regulation of discharge from system as directed. Rotates roll type filters, as required. Maintains cleanliness of equipment including removal by hand of debris from inlet and outlet of cooling towers, and may remove and replace covers and guards to inspect and perform minor maintenance and routine operational adjustments to insure safe, continuous operation. Inspects equipment and installs and removes charts, log sheets and other production records to assure proper equipment functioning. Makes periodic written reports regarding condition of equipment as directed by supervision. Works from written and oral instructions and does paperwork pursuant to the task. May receive and verify fuel oil shipments. Must have at least three years experience operating large industrial type refrigeration equipment (250 tons or over) and high pressure boilers (125 h.p. or over). Responsible for complying with applicable provisions of Article 19. Health, Safety, and Environment of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
69
Classification:	PHOTO TOOLING FABRICATOR
Date:	11/21/11
Code Number: 7556	Wage Grade: 13
Performs photographic processes necessary to produce and repair photo tooling. Operates image reproduction equipment. Processes film and makes copies of plotter prepared art work and inspection aids. Uses measuring equipment to ascertain that reductions and reproductions meet specified requirements. Stages photo tooling, applies protective coating, builds verification overlays, and cuts photo tooling to size. Locates and punches tooling holes in film. Operates and adjusts computer equipment to produce single and multiple photoplots; must determine number of images standard tool format will accommodate and proper spacing of images, per defined engineering criteria. Requires a knowledge of photo processing in order to expose and develop photo sensitive materials to meet specified requirements. May be required to weigh, measure, and mix chemicals necessary to prepare the various solutions. Works from prints, process drawings, written or oral instructions, and engineering specifications. May be required to use shop mathematics in the performance of the task. Is responsible for verifying work for conformance to requirements. Prepares necessary records and paperwork. May perform inprocess inspection. May check and top off lubricants as necessary. Responsible for complying with applicable provisions of Article 19. Health, Safety, and Environment of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
70
Classification:	PIPEFITTER
Date:	11/21/11
Code Number: 7609	Wage Grade: 22
Certifies, fabricates, assembles, installs, alters, maintains and dismantles all piping and plumbing, including hangers and supports, and pipe cutting, bending and welding activities necessary to the performance of the task. Installs, maintains and repairs necessary piping on refrigeration, heating and air conditioning equipment. Installs and dismantles unit heaters and coolers, shell type heat exchangers, tanks and package boilers. Installs filters, seals and packing on air, refrigeration, heating and air conditioning equipment except compressors in the shop for rebuild. Certifies, installs, adjusts and maintains such items as gages, regulators, temperature control devices, recording instruments and flow meters pursuant to the task (excluding calibration). Installs insulation and covering on all piping and equipment as described above. May lubricate equipment when necessary in the performance of related tasks. Uses all tools and equipment pursuant to the task, including hand or power equipment to hoist and move personnel and materials except mobile cranes. May transport tools, materials, and equipment to and from job site which are to be used by employees in the Pipefitter job classification. Performs related tasks as necessary in the completion of the employee's primary work assignment in the Pipefitter job classification. May perform cleaning of roof cooling towers pursuant to the task. Works from prints, sketches, specifications, and written or oral instructions and does paperwork pursuant to the task. May have completed a Pipefitter apprenticeship or possess related experience. Responsible for complying with applicable provisions of Article 19. Health, Safety, and Environment of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
71
Classification:	PLATER
Date:	11/21/11
Code Number: 3205	Wage Grade: 12
Performs surface preparation activities such as polishing, buffing, wire brushing and rough grinding. Conducts metal finishing operations such as alumaliting, phosphate treating, etching, dichromate treatment, bright dipping, chemical milling, electroforming, H.A.E., and surface treatment of magnesium, acid dip, black oxide finishing and other related processes on parts, tools, fixtures, molds and dies. Responsible for preparation and treatment of materials in chemical and electrolytic baths. Loads, unloads, racks, masks, plugs, washes, rinses, plates and dips materials and may be required to do vapor blasting and degreasing. Performs special processing operations for deposition of pure and alloy metals on all type base materials.
Prepares or renews chemical solutions, regulates flow of electric currents, and makes necessary solution additions. May be required to perform stripping operations on coated parts. Determines process sequence when not prescribed and exercises care and skill to preserve contours and finishes. Recognizes and reports effects of unbalanced solutions, changes and dresses own wheels and devises and constructs necessary anodes and racks. Work requires a thorough knowledge of anodizing and plating processes and operations. Uses all necessary hand and power tools, fixtures, measuring devices and gages necessary to the performance of the task. Works from prints, specifications, and written or verbal instructions. Performs necessary paper and identification work and verifies work for conformance to inspection standards for the operation. May perform in-process inspection. May check and top off lubricants as necessary. Responsible for complying with applicable provisions of Article 19. Health, Safety, and Environment of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
72
Classification:	PRODUCTION FABRICATOR
Date:	11/21/11
Code Number: 2003	Wage Grade: 6
Responsible for production requiring handwork and assembly operations on mechanical, electrical, plastic, rubber, and sheet metal products, including assemblies requiring repair, modification, retrofit or conversion. Performs a variety of tasks including sheet metal layout and construction work, shearing, sawing, brush alodine, heat treating, deburring, sandblasting, marking, molding, bonding, paint application, cleaning operations on equipment and product. Sets up, operates, and monitors all processing equipment necessary to perform job task. Selects tools when not prescribed. May assist Tool Makers and Welders and performs machine operations such as drilling, tapping, tool sharpening, shearing, sawing with metal cutting bandsaw and hand fit work as directed. May work under the direction of a journeyman, but may also be assigned work by a Team Manager, if such work is not normally performed by a journeyman and the work request can be completed without the guidance or assistance of a journeyman. May be required to cut material to finished dimensions. Performs painting per drawing requirements. May be required to maintain storage of machine accessory items. Performs work necessary for the proper movement and control of parts and materials within the department and may use hand operated electric fork trucks. Performs in process packaging. Performs necessary cleaning operations on equipment and product to assure quality work. Works from prints, specifications, regulations, sketches, written and oral work instructions. Responsible for work verification and performs rework as required. Completes paperwork and computer data entries as required by the task. May perform in-process inspection. May check and top off lubricants as necessary. Responsible for complying with applicable provisions of Article 19. Health, Safety, and Environment of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
73
Classification:	TELEMETRY TECHNICIAN
Date:	11/21/11
Code Number: 3436	Wage Grade: 16
Performs operations in preparation, combination, connection and fabrication of components and sub-assemblies into telemetry and other assemblies including printed circuit boards, in special area(s) with potential usage of general plant equipment. Performs tests, trimming, troubleshooting, component selection and rework to assure completion of assemblies. On electrical and electronic assemblies including microminiature versions, performs bonding, potting, impregnation, including oven operations and application of finishing touches necessary to complete the assembly. Uses all tools, techniques and equipment as well as gages and testers necessary to the performance of the task including IC lead bending machines, surface mount technology, flatpack reflow soldering, and vapor phase reflow soldering. Works from assembly drawings, schematics, wiring diagrams, engineering change documents, sketches and other written, visual and oral instructions. Work assignments are diversified and require skilled fitting, adjusting, timing and compensating where tolerances are close and methods may or may not be prescribed. Developmental and experimental activities can be involved that may require interpretation and analysis. Normally responsible for verifying own work including in-process work verification utilizing equipment and devices that may be required. Is required to make necessary adjustment of product or test equipment (not voiding calibration) to assure proper operations. Interprets test equipment readings, indications and results to determine degree of conformance to specifications. Performs evaluations on out-of-tolerance conditions and is required to perform disassembly operations on the product for the purpose of troubleshooting diagnosis and is required to perform reassembly and test operations to the degree necessary to assure correction of the malfunction. Methods and procedures are not always defined. Makes set ups necessary in the completion of the task. Performs necessary paperwork. Must have technical school, college, military technical or equivalent, in addition to related experience.
Computer programming and technical mathematics may be required, in addition to theory and application of digital electronics and microprocessors. May perform in-process inspection. May check and top off lubricants as necessary. Responsible for complying with applicable provisions of Article 19. Health, Safety, and Environment of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
74
Classification:	TIMEKEEPER
Date:	11/21/11
Code Number: 7907
Wage Grade: 6
Records and verifies attendance as required, reconciles attendance hours and distributes and/or reconciles man hours worked under direct and indirect labor categories. Verifies work being performed in the areas against the labor charge as indicated on the production traveler or factory order routing. Sets correct time on job clocks (except impulse clocks). Conducts a random status check on selected production equipment. Conducts a daily physical floor check as required and serves as paymaster for all hourly personnel. Distributes sundry papers and documents. Uses required office equipment and performs necessary paperwork. Responsible for complying with applicable provisions of Article 19. Health, Safety, and Environment of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
75
Classification:	TOOL MAKER
Date:	11/21/11
Code Number: 2004	Wage Grade: 22
Plans, develops, coordinates, fabricates, assembles, repairs, alters and builds parts, assemblies, tools, fixtures, gages, molds, and dies used in support of any type orders for any type of customers (production, development, laboratories, special, experimental, engineering projects, etc.). May assist in production areas, at the direction of engineers or management, in start-up and troubleshooting activities. Uses all equipment, techniques, and tools as required by the assignment. Performs related tasks as necessary in the completion of the associate's primary work assignment in the Tool Maker classification. Uses new technology as applicable to the basic job assignment. May be required to verify that completed work conforms to requirement or specification. May cut new soft jaws and cut new steps in existing soft jaws. Must be able to work from engineering drawings, sketches, or other written or oral instructions as well as tool design drawings. Requires the completion of a formal Tool and Die Apprenticeship or equivalent experience and knowledge. May perform in-process inspection. May check and top off lubricants as necessary. Responsible for complying with applicable provisions of Article 19. Health, Safety, and Environment of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
76
Classification:	TRANSPORT FABRICATOR
Date:	11/21/11
Code Number: 8028	Wage Grade: 13
Sets up, fits, cuts, rivets, trims, grinds, files, drills, solders, saws, laces and otherwise completes all work associated with parts and assemblies of transportation devices. This includes subassemblies requiring fabrication, repair, modification, retrofit or conversion. Sets up equipment and lays out work for self and other employees. May be required to perform rework for self and others as well as provide replacement of assemblies and associated piece parts. Uses all tools necessary to performance of the tasks such as but not limited to shearing, notching, riveting, sawing, punching, slotting, trimming, scrubbing, fusing, filing, airpresses, sanders, drills, bandsaws, molding machines, engraving equipment, automatic wire cutting and strippers, multitype coil winders, hoists, jigs, fixtures, soldering tools, ultrasonic cleaners, degreasers, spray cleaners, continuity testers (used for assembly aid), hoists, electric, hand and stand-up fork trucks, air and hand operated hydraulic presses, measuring devices, stretch presses electrical discharge forming devices, rolls, power shears, press brakes, mechanical tubing and teflon cable benders, metal spinning lathes, routers, power jacks, shrinkers and stretchers, and uses necessary precision measuring instruments. Uses all equipment and materials associated with brake assembly. Builds and prepares necessary assembly aids. Operates foam mixing and dispensing equipment. Installs piping, motor generators, heaters and other such equipment as well as special systems such as explosive and pressure systems. Prepares surface and applies paints and coating materials within the assembly area. May use welding equipment where knowledge of welding techniques is not required. Performs light and heavy sheet metal assembly work as required. May be required to perform paint stripping, brush paint, touch-up, alodine and paint dripping operations to effect a finished product. May be required to work from prints, specifications, sketches and to other written, visual or oral instructions. Verifies and/or certifies work and may submit to Quality Assurance (QA) or Department of Energy (DOE). Must obtain and retain applicable certifications required for the assembly of the product and may be tested to assure proper skill levels. Shall comply with applicable environmental, safety and health regulations, including appropriate use, clean-up, handling and storage of personal protective equipment and monitoring equipment. Must meet security requirements as determined by the customer. Performs necessary paperwork. May perform in-process inspection. May check and top off lubricants as necessary. Responsible for complying with applicable provisions of Article 19. Health, Safety, and Environment of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
77
Classification:	WELDER
Date:	11/21/11
Code Number: 8015	Wage Grade: 14
Operates all types of welding equipment, operates flame cutting equipment including travelgraph, and may use furnace brazing equipment. Performs torch tool hardening and annealing, electron beam welding, all types of torch and fusion bath soldering, cutting, brazing, aluminum welding and fusion welding on metal and plastic materials. Welds tooling, parts and materials. Work involves close tolerance assembly on all phases of welding. May assist Process Engineer in evaluating equipment and processes and in developing welding settings as required. Requires a working knowledge of heat treating, annealing, and stress relieving. May be required to pass certification tests to comply with welding requirements. Uses all tools, fixtures and equipment necessary to the performance of the task. Works from prints, specifications and other written or oral instructions. Responsible for checking work for conformance to standards furnished for the operation. May perform in-process inspection. May check and top off lubricants as necessary. Responsible for complying with applicable provisions of Article 19. Health, Safety, and Environment of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
78
Classification:	X-RAY OPERATOR
Date:	11/21/11
Code Number: 7819
Wage Grade: 8
In accordance with instructions, specifications and standards, sets up and operates nondestructive testing equipment which shall include but is not limited to x-ray, tensile testing, fluorescent penetrant and magnetic particle equipment, radiation gages and other related equipment necessary to the performance of the task. Processes radiographs, recognizes and interprets all types of flaws, does film processing and reading. Must be able to recognize and prevent film handling artifacts. Packs, stamps, moves and ships materials and parts. Job requires proficiency in operation of all types of x-ray equipment. May perform all necessary paperwork pursuant to the task. May perform in-process inspection. May check and top off lubricants as necessary. Responsible for complying with applicable provisions of Article 19. Health, Safety, and Environment of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
79