
MEAT AGREEMENT
Between
ALBERTSON’S LLC (Denver, Colorado)
and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS, LOCAL #7 (Denver, CO)
Chartered by the
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
CONTRACT TO EXPIRE SEPTEMBER 14, 2013
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE 1	RECOGNITION AND EXCLUSIONS.....................................1
ARTICLE 2	SERVICE IN MEAT-DELICATESSEN DEPARTMENTS, PLANTS...............2
ARTICLE 3	UNION SECURITY AND CONDITIONS..................................4
ARTICLE 4	CHECKOFF.......................................................5
ARTICLE 5	NEW EMPLOYEES, TRANSFERRED EMPLOYEES...........................5
ARTICLE 6	RIGHTS OF MANAGEMENT...........................................6
ARTICLE 7	DEFINITIONS OF CLASSIFICATIONS.................................6
ARTICLES	RATES OF PAY...................................................7
ARTICLE 9	PAY FOR WORK IN HIGHERZLOWER CLASSIFICATIONS...................8
ARTICLE 10	NOREDUCTION...................................................8
ARTICLE 11	WORKWEEK......................................................9
ARTICLE 12	OVERTIME......................................................9
ARTICLE 13	SUNDAY PREMIUM...............................................10
ARTICLE 14	TRAVEL PAY...................................................10
ARTICLE 15	NIGHT PREMIUM................................................10
ARTICLE 16	HOLIDAYS AND HOLIDAY PAY.....................................10
ARTICLE 17	VACATIONS....................................................12
ARTICLE 18	SCHEDULING POSTING...........................................14
ARTICLE 19	REPORTING PAY/MINIMUM DAILY SCHEDULE.........................14
ARTICLE 20	MINIMUM WEEKLY SCHEDULE......................................14
ARTICLE 21	TIME CARDS/NO FREE WORK/PAY DAY..............................14
ARTICLE 22	SPLIT SHIFTS.................................................15
ARTICLE 23	STORE MEETING................................................15
ARTICLE 24	LUNCHBREAKS..................................................15
ARTICLE 25	RELIEF PERIODS...............................................15
ARTICLE 26	PROBATIONARY PERIOD..........................................15
ARTICLE 27	SENIORITY............................................    :....16
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
ARTICLE 28	AVAILABLE HOURS..............................................17
ARTICLE 29	ROTATION OF SHIFTS...........................................19
ARTICLE 30	UNSCHEDULED OVERTIME.........................................20
ARTICLE 31	REDUCTION IN HOURS...........................................20
ARTICLE 32	LAYOFFS......................................................21
ARTICLE 33	TRANSFER FROM STORE TO STORE.................................22
ARTICLE 34	NEW STORE LANGUAGE.........................................  22
ARTICLE 3 5 LEAVES OF ABSENCE...........................................23
ARTICLE 3 6 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE...........................................24
ARTICLE 37	JURY DUTY....................................................25
ARTICLE 38	SICK LEAVE...................................................25
ARTICLE 39	INJURY ON THE JOB............................................27
ARTICLE 40	CHILD CARE DISCOUNT PROGRAMS.................................27
ARTICLE 41	FLEXIBLE BENEFITS PLANS......................................27
ARTICLE 42	HEALTH BENEFITS..............................................27
ARTICLE 43	NON-DUPLICATION OF BENEFITS..................................34
ARTICLE 44	PENSION FUND.................................................35
ARTICLE 45	HEALTH AND WELFARE OR PENSION DELINQUENCIES..................44
ARTICLE 46	DISCHARGE AND NO DISCRIMINATION..............................44
ARTICLE 47	UNION REPRESENTATIVE VISITATION..............................45
ARTICLE 48	UNION STEWARD................................................45
ARTICLE 49	GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE..........................45
ARTICLE 50	NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT.......................................47
ARTICLE 51	STORE OR PLANT CLOSING.......................................47
ARTICLE 52	BULLETIN BOARD...............................................49
ARTICLE 53	SHOP CARD....................................................49
ARTICLE 54	UNIFORMS/EQUIPMENT...........................................49
ARTICLE 5 5 SAVING CLAUSE...............................................49
ARTICLE 56 REMEDY FOR ERRORS............................................50
ARTICLE 5 7 TERM OF AGREEMENT...........................................51
COST OF LIVING..........................................................52
APPENDIX “A”............................................................53
APPENDIX “B”............................................................57
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING..............................................  58
SAFETY COMMITTEE....................................................  58
TRANSFERRED EMPLOYEES-SENIORITY.......................................59
RETAIL MEAT PRACTICES.................................................60
NEW STORE CROSS CHECKS................................................63
AMICABLE RELATIONSHIP/ADR.............................................64
EMPLOYEE BUY OUT......................................................65
LETTER OF AGREEMENT REGARDING ABC CHECKOFF FROM 2002..................66
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
ALBERTSON’S, LLC.
and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS, LOCAL NO. 7
DENVER METRO MEAT AGREEMENT
TERM OF AGREEMENT: MAY 10, 2009 THROUGH SEPTEMBER 14,2013
THIS AGREEMENT has been made and entered into by and between ALBERTSON’S, LLC., hereinafter referred to as the “Employer,” and LOCAL NO. 7, UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, CLC, hereinafter referred to as the “Union.”
WITNESSETH:
That for and in consideration of the mutual promises and conditions hereinafter set forth, and in order to assure and secure the benefits intended to be derived by the employees and the Employer under these Articles of Agreement herein, it is hereby expressly understood and agreed as follows:
ARTICLE 1 RECOGNITION AND EXCLUSIONS
Section 1. The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining representative for all meatcutters, apprentices, wrappers, butcher block sales persons, and delicatessen employees, clean-up personnel, including part-time workers who work regularly one (1) day or more a week, employed by the Employer in the meat market or markets owned or operated by the Employer in the metropolitan area of Denver, Colorado (as such area is shown on the map attached hereto and by this reference made a part hereof) but excluding all store managers, courtesy clerks, office and clerical employees, janitors, parking lot attendants, food clerks, warehouse employees, watchmen, guards and professional employees, and supervisors as defined in the National Labor Relations Act, as amended, and all other employees. The current non-union stores in Denver as of the date of the ratification of this Agreement shall be accreted into this bargaining unit upon the Union’s demonstration, through a card check, of majority status.
Any new stores opened within the contractual boundaries of this contract shall be accreted to this Agreement.
1
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
ARTICLE 2 SERVICE IN MEAT-DELICATESSEN DEPARTMENTS, PLANTS
Section 2. All worked performed in the meat department and delicatessen department will be done by members of the bargaining unit. For the purpose of this Agreement, the meat department is defined as the area occupied by the meat storage rooms, the meat preparation rooms and the service and/or self-service display cases where fresh, smoked, cooked and frozen meats, poultry, fish or seafood are offered for retail sale. With the exception of poultry products, the pricing of all meat products shall be done on the premises, except as provided herein. Notwithstanding, the employer may have specialized sanitation work, such as cleaning of ceiling tiles, grease traps, drains, walls, etc., performed by personnel outside the bargaining unit.
(a.) Bargaining unit employees shall perform the work of cutting or preparation of meats that are cut, processed or prepared on the Employer’s premises for immediate human consumption. All fresh, cured, smoked, or frozen meat, refrigerated luncheon meats, fish, poultry and rabbits shall be handled by employees within the bargaining unit. Nothing in this agreement shall be construed to prevent non-bargaining unit employees from selecting customer purchases from the sales floor throughout the entire store, including the storage and retrieval thereof.
(b.) No one other than employees covered by this Agreement shall be permitted to perform the cutting or preparation of meat or food in meat departments, meat markets, or delicatessen departments on the Employer’s premises, except as set forth below:
(1)	This does not include the transaction of the checkstand.
(2)	No representative of Management above the level of Head Meatcutter
(except for owners, partners, and/or officers of the Employer) shall perform the work customarily assigned to employees in the bargaining unit, except:
(a) when a bargaining unit employee who has been scheduled to work fails to report as scheduled; or (b) in connection with the instruction or training of an employee or employees; or (c) in connection with the opening of a new or remodeled store; or (d) in connection with the simple straightening of display cases; or (e) in connection with the removal of outdated, distressed, or damaged merchandise from display cases; or (f) in connection with floor maintenance work in the meat and deli departments; or (g) in response to a specific customer request.
(3)	Rack Jobbers and Driver Salesmen. All rack jobbers and driver salesmen will make deliveries to the back room at which time it will become Bargaining Unit work exclusively except as set forth below:
(a) All salesmen or rack jobbers may:
2
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
(b)
(c)
(i)	Set up promotional displays. A promotional display is a temporary display. It is set up because of special promotional allowances, new products, or is situation or season oriented.
(ii)	Stock merchandise during the time period immediately preceding and the two (2) week period after a new store opening or the reopening of a store after a remodeling.
(iii)	All vendors will be allowed to perform three (3) major resets, per section, per store, per year.
(iv)	All vendors may rotate stock, check code dates and remove out-of-date or damaged merchandise, clean product, shelves and racks, affix coupons or other promotional materials to products, and they may properly realign and display the merchandise left on the shelves.
(v)	Stock and perform all work in connection with the sale of beverages, herein defined as soda pop, liquid mixes (such as tonic water, soda, Tom Collins), beer, water (seltzer, mineral, flavored sodas), wine (where carried) and non-carbonated fruit juices and juice-flavored drinks packaged in a manner similar to soda pop items, chips and pretzels, Dr. Brown’s pop, cookies and crackers, pizza, ice cream, specialty foods, gourmet foods, natural foods and all greeting cards (and all related products such as bows, wraps, candles, balloons, ribbons), if directly delivered to the store. For the purposes of this provision, the product categories as used herein shall be interpreted to include all products delivered by such vendor. Additionally, all vendors shall be allowed to stock and otherwise maintain any J-hook and clip strips program.
It is understood and agreed that the exceptions provided in this Section are based solely on the type of merchandise sold by the salesman and not the Union or non-Union status of the salesman.
Rack jobbers or driver salesmen who deliver bread or bakery products, dairy products, or magazines, newspapers or paperback books shall be allowed to continue.
3
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
(d)	A Meatcutter shall be on duty at all times that fresh meat is offered for sale in the market from 6:00 a.m. until 8:00 p.m. daily, except that this requirement shall not apply during meal periods and after 6:00 p.m. where there are no more than two (2) regular full-time Meatcutters and one (1) part-time Meatcutter employed in the particular market. A first (1st) year apprentice shall not be assigned to work alone, except during lunch hours, break periods, or in markets where only one (1) Joumeyperson Meatcutter is scheduled for the day.
(e)	Retail clerks may assist in meat department clean up work provided such assignments do not conflict with applicable child labor and/or safety and health regulations.
Section 3.	It is understood that the cutting of all retail cuts of fresh meat offered for sale will continue to be performed in the market, unless the Employer transfers said work, in which case the following paragraph will be applicable:
If the Employer transfers the cutting and fabricating of retail cuts of fresh meats presently being performed in its retail store or stores, covered by this Agreement to a location or locations outside of said retail store or stores, the Employer will continue to recognize the Union as the bargaining agent for the meatcutters, apprentices and wrappers employed by the Employer in the cutting and fabricating of retail cuts of fresh meat, and the seniority rights provided in this Agreement shall continue to apply throughout the bargaining unit, including said new location or locations of the Employer.
Section 4.	No retail employee shall be required to maintain restrooms.
ARTICLE 3 UNION SECURITY AND CONDITIONS
Section 5.	Provided the parties to this Agreement have complied with all State and Federal statutes concerning Union security matters, the provisions of these Sections 5, 6, and 7 shall be applicable.
Section 6.	Union Shop. All present employees of the Employer who fall within the bargaining unit, as set forth in Section 1 hereof, shall, as a condition of continued employment, be or become members of Local 7, UFCW, between the thirty-first (31st) and thirty-fifth (35th) day following the date of the signing of this Agreement, and shall remain members of the Union in good standing during the life of this Agreement.
Section 7.	All employees hired after the date of the signing of this Agreement, who fall within the bargaining unit as set forth in Section 1, shall as a condition of continued employment, become members of the Union between the thirty-first (31st) and thirty-fifth (35th)
4
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
day following the date of their last employment and shall remain members of the Union in good standing during the life of this Agreement.
Section 8.	“Good standing” is interpreted to mean the payment or tendering of initiation fees and periodic Union dues to an authorized agent of the Union.
Whenever the Union requires the Employer to discharge any employee for failure to join or to maintain his membership in the Union in good standing in accord with the terms of this Article, the Union agrees to furnish the Employer an itemized copy of the delinquent’s account with the Union together with a written request for discharge. The Employer will discharge any employee who falls within the bargaining unit as described in Section 1 hereof within ten (10) days after the receipt of said written request for discharge, unless within said ten (10) day period the delinquent employee pays or tenders his delinquent initiation fee and/or delinquent Union dues to an authorized agent of the Union.
ARTICLE 4
CHECK OFF
Section 9. The Employer agrees to deduct the weekly dues, legal rejoining fees and uniform assessments (including initiation fees for new employees) from the net amount due each employee in the bargaining unit as described in Section 1 hereof who has furnished the Employer (either directly or through the Union) with an individual written authorization for making such deductions on a form mutually agreed upon between the Employer and the Union. It is understood that the checkoff authorization is to be entirely voluntary upon the part of each such individual employee and that any such employee may revoke his individual checkoff authorization upon giving thirty (30) days written notice to the Employer and the Union. The Employer agrees to remit all such deductions to the President of the Local Union within ten (10) days after the last pay period of each month.
The Union shall indemnify and hold the Employer harmless against any and all suits, claims, demands and liabilities which arise out of, or by reason of, any action which shall be taken by the Employer for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this Article.
ARTICLE 5
NEW EMPLOYEES, TRANSFERRED EMPLOYEES, PROMOTED OR DEMOTED
Section 10.	When an employee is hired for a job, or transferred or promoted or demoted into a bargaining unit job as described in Section 1 hereof, the Employer agrees within three (3) days to fill out a mutually agreeable form in triplicate, which advises the employee of his obligation to join the Union. One (1) copy of this form will be given to employee and one (1) copy will be mailed to the Union in a stamped, addressed envelope provided by the Union.
5
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
ARTICLE 6
RIGHTS OF MANAGEMENT
Section 11.	The Employer retains the right to manage its business, to direct the working forces, to establish reasonable standards of dress, and to make necessary rules and regulations for the conduct of the business, providing that said rules and regulations are not in conflict with the terms of this Agreement in any way.
ARTICLE 7 DEFINITIONS OF CLASSIFICATIONS
Section 12.	Head Meatcutter. Shall be considered the employee responsible for the operation of the market, and the Union will not recognize any employee as Head Meatcutter who is not employed full time in the meat market in any store covered by this Agreement.
Section 13.	Apprentice Meatcutter. If, in the opinion of management (management means higher management than the Head Meatcutter), an apprentice is fully qualified to perform the duties of a Joumeyperson Meatcutter prior to three (3) years of service with a minimum of six thousand, two hundred and forty (6,240) hours of actual work experience on the job, the Employer may advance such apprentice to the duties and pay of a Joumeyperson Meatcutter.
When apprentices have worked three (3) years, and the equivalent hours as set forth above, they automatically become Joumeyperson and shall be paid as such.
During an apprentice’s three (3) years training period, he shall be assigned from time to time to all jobs normally done in the particular market.
One (1) apprentice shall be allowed to every two (2) Joumeypersons or a fraction thereof in each market, and one (1) additional apprentice to every two (2) additional Joumeypersons in said market. This limitation on apprentices may be related during emergency periods when the Union is unable to furnish qualified Joumeypersons to the Employer.
Section 14.	First Cutter. In markets where there are three (3) Joumeypersons or apprentices or more, in addition to the Head Meatcutter, the Employer may at its sole discretion select a qualified Joumeyperson to be the First Cutter. A First Cutter need not be replaced while temporarily relieving a Head Meatcutter or while absent from work.
Section 15.	Wrappers. The work allotted to employees falling in the classification of “wrappers” shall be strictly confined to wrapping, weighing, pricing and tagging the packages and clean-up work in this particular department as well as cleaning cases and pans, traying of rewraps, ordering of merchandise, receiving, checking and putting away loads. Wrappers may also be required to stock and rotate cases with fresh meat, cooked and smoked meats and frozen food. Additionally, meat wrappers may use the tools of the trade, except the band saw, to perform work in response to a specific customer request.
6
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
Section 16.	Clean-Up Personnel. Employees assigned as “Clean-Up Personnel” shall clean all work areas of the meat and delicatessen departments, including walls, freezer, walk-in box, hold box, cutting room and wrapping area, as well as cleaning blocks, meat and delicatessens cases and disassembled power tools and equipment.
Clean-Up Personnel shall not disassemble or reassemble power tools or equipment nor handle meat or delicatessen products in display cases.
If Clean-Up employee is found to be doing any work other than set forth above, all hours so spent shall be paid for at the starting apprentice rate.
The Employer retains the right to schedule such employees for a minimum of two (2) hours per day.
Section 17.	Deli Employees. The work allotted to employees falling in the classification of “Deli Employee” shall be strictly confined to packaging, preparing, selling and pricing all items offered for sale in this department. Such work shall also include use of tools of the trade and such clean-up and other work associated with the practical operation of the department.
Section 18.	Butcher Block Supervisor. May be designated at the discretion of management and is not a required classification.
Section 19.	Butcher Block Sales Clerk. Butcher Block sales persons shall be allowed to perform all work in connection with the processing and sale of product in a specialty meat or seafood department. It is further understood that a Butcher Block Sales Clerk may perform all duties of a meat wrapper. Butcher Block sales persons will be considered a separate group for purposes of applying the seniority provisions in Articles 27 through 33. It is farther understood that Butcher Block Sales Clerks may perform all work necessary for the handling and sale of product in their department, including the cutting and processing of all meat and, in response to a specific customer request.
Section 20.	New Classification. When a newjob is created by the Employer, the Union shall be notified immediately, and a new wage rate for such job shall be determined by the Employer and the Union.
Section 21.	Work Between Classifications. It is understood that employees may perform incidental work in another classification without violating this Agreement.
ARTICLE 8
RATES OF PAY
Section 22.	The classifications, wages and special conditions applicable to employees are set forth in Appendix “A”, attached hereto, and, by this reference made a part hereof.
Section 23.	[DELETED]
7
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
ARTICLE 9 PAY FOR WORK IN HIGHER/LOWER CLASSIFICATIONS
Section 24.	When an employee is required to perform work in a higher classification, he shall receive the higher rate, based on his experience; but, if required to perform in a lower classification, he shall retain his regular rate, except in the case of actual demotion, when the employee shall receive pay according to his classification.
Section 25.	When a Delicatessen Clerk is assigned by the Employer to assume the duties and responsibilities of the Delicatessen Manager for a continuous period of one (1) week or more, such employee shall be paid the Delicatessen Manager rate of pay for all hours worked while so assigned.
Section 26.	When a Joumeyperson relieves a Head Meatcutter for one (1) week or longer, he shall be paid the contract rate of pay for Head Meatcutter for such time spent in relief.
(a) It is expressly understood and agreed work in a higher classification shall first be offered to workers in that classification who are in the store and available before lower classified employees are temporarily assigned thereto if the need arises the same day. In the event the need arises one (1) day or more in advance, the work shall be offered to all workers in the higher classification before lower classified employees are temporarily assigned thereto.
ARTICLE 10 NO REDUCTION
Section 27, No employee shall have his hourly wage reduced who may now be receiving more than the minimum wage called for in this Agreement, nor shall his hours be lengthened unless he is properly compensated therefore in accord with the terms of this Agreement, and employees shall not be reclassified to defeat the purpose of this Agreement, unless otherwise agreed between the parties. No employee shall be asked to make any verbal or written agreement that shall conflict with this Agreement in any way.
Section 28. During the life of this Agreement, the Employer shall not raise or lower hourly rates of pay except as dictated by the wage scales set forth elsewhere in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 11 WORKWEEK
Section 29. The workweek shall coincide with the calendar week. Forty (40) hours to be worked in any five (5) eight (8) hour days shall be the basic workweek for regular full-time employees.
Regular full-time employees shall be scheduled for at least forty (40) hours of work to be performed in five (5) days unless reduced in accordance with seniority. Regular full-time employees shall be scheduled for at least thirty-two (32) hours of work to be performed in four
8
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
particular workweek. The Sunday premium shall not be averaged into the employee’s straight time rate for the purpose of determining the rate upon which daily or weekly overtime is based in any workweek under Section 28 above. Employees hired on or after May 1,2005 shall not be eligible for Sunday Premium.
ARTICLE 14 TRAVEL PAY
Section 33. When an employee is transferred from one store to another store during his workday, reasonable time spent in traveling between said stores shall be considered as time worked. Required travel between stores in the employee’s personal vehicle shall be reimbursed at the IRS rate exclusive of travel to and from the employee’s home. No employee will be required to use his personal vehicle to conduct Company business.
ARTICLE 15 NIGHT PREMIUM
A premium of fifty cents (500) per hour shall be paid for all work performed between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. to all employees. Employees whose shifts are scheduled to end at 12:00 midnight need not be paid any premium under this Section even where it is necessary for them to remain on the job for a short period in order for them to complete their work, provided that such additional period does not exceed fifteen (15) minutes.
Night premium shall not apply where an employee is working at overtime or on a holiday.
ARTICLE 16 HOLIDAYS AND HOLIDAY PAY
Section 34.	All employees hired on or before April 30, 2005 who have completed their probationary period shall be paid for the following holidays whether or not they fall on what would normally be a workday for the employees involved: New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day. Such employees shall be entitled to two (2) personal holidays, which must be requested two (2) weeks in advance and approved by the Store Manager.
All employees hired on or after May 1, 2005 who have completed their probationary period shall be paid for the following holidays whether or not they fall on what would normally be a workday for the employees involved: Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day. Such employees shall be entitled to one (1) personal holiday after two years of service, 2 personal holidays after 3 years of service, and 3 personal holidays after four years of service. Such holidays must be requested two (2) weeks in advance and approved by the Store Manager.
Section 35.	The Employer may operate its stores at its sole discretion on any of the holidays recognized in this Agreement. The Employer will staff on Christmas Day by voluntary
10
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
(4)	days (exclusive of the holiday) during a week in which a holiday occurs, unless reduced in accordance with seniority.
Upon mutual agreement between the employer and the employee, a regular full-time employee may work four (4) ten (10) hour days to constitute .the standard workweek, except in holiday weeks when the standard workweek, at the employer’s discretion, may be five (5) eight (8) hour days or four (4) eight (8) hour days. Unless modified herein, the provision of this Agreement shall apply to such standard workweeks.
1.	Overtime to be paid for all time worked in excess of ten (10) hours in any one (1) day.
2.	Payment for bereavement leave shall not exceed the straight-time hours scheduled per day missed up to a maximum of twenty-four (24) hours pay.
3.	After eight (8) hours of work in a ten-hour workday only, the employee shall be entitled to a third fifteen-minute break.
4.	Payment for jury duty shall not exceed eight (8) hours pay per day missed less what he is paid for serving on the jury. Pursuant to Section 103, the Employer may reschedule employees required to serve on jury duty, including but not limited to, scheduling them five (5) eight (8) hour days.
5.	Sick leave pay will be paid, if eligible, and following the full workday absence, if such applies, not to exceed the number of hours scheduled on the day missed.
ARTICLE 12
OVERTIME
Section 30, Overtime compensation at the rate of time and one-half (1- l/2x) the employee’s base hourly rate of pay shall be paid under the following conditions:
(a)	For all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any one (1) day.
(b)	For all time worked in excess of forty (40) hours in any one (1) workweek as
described above.
Employees scheduled and working more than five (5) days in a workweek will receive time and one-half (l-l/2x) for the day on which the least number of hours was worked.
Sec	tion 31. It is understood and agreed that overtime compensation shall not be paid twice for the same hours of overtime work.
ARTICLE 13
SUNDAY PREMIUM
Section 32. The premium rate for work performed on Sunday as such shall be one and one fourth times (l-l/4x) the employee’s regular straight time rate of pay. The Sunday premium shall in no instance be offset against any weekly overtime which may be due under subparagraph (b) of Section 28 above because of the fact that the employee worked over forty (40) hours in the
9
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
sign up list only. To the extent the Employer does not receive sufficient volunteers in a store, the Employer may schedule by inverse seniority.
Section 36.	To be eligible for the personal holidays during each calendar year, an employee must be on the payroll as of January 1 of each year. The personal holidays must be taken during the respective calendar year. An employee whose employment terminates prior to his having taken his personal holidays shall not be entitled to holiday pay in lieu thereof. In the event an employee fails to schedule his personal holiday by October 1 of the calendar year, the Employer will select a date and schedule such employee for his remaining personal holidays for that year. Further, personal holidays shall be granted by seniority, and classification.
Section 37.	When a holiday falls on Sunday, the following day shall be observed.
Section 38.	Holiday Pay for Full-Time Employees. As pay for an unworked holiday, regular full-time employees will be paid at straight time for the number of hours they would normally have worked on the day in question, but not to exceed eight (8) hours. If the holiday falls on a day which would normally have been such employee’s scheduled day off, he shall be paid eight (8) hours at straight time as pay for the unworked holiday.
Section 39.	Holiday Pay for Part-Time Employees. Holiday pay for part-time employees who have completed their probationary period, and who otherwise qualify, shall be based on the number of hours worked in the calendar week immediately prior to the week in which the holiday occurs, divided by five (5). Provided the employee actually performs work in the calendar week immediately prior to the holiday week (unless on vacation or receiving sick pay for time not worked during such week or during the first thirty (30) days of an absence for which an employee is receiving Workers’ Compensation), the employee shall not receive less than three (3) hours holiday pay.
Section 40.	Qualifications for Unworked Holiday Pay. In order to qualify for pay for an unworked holiday an employee, otherwise eligible for such pay under the terms of this Article, must work his regularly scheduled day immediately preceding the holiday and his regularly scheduled day immediately following the holiday unless he has been previously excused from such work by the Employer or unless he was prevented from so working due to a bona fide illness. No employee on leave of absence shall be eligible for holiday pay.
Section 41.	An unworked holiday, even though paid for under the terms of this Article, shall not be counted as a day worked for the pinpose of computing overtime pay in a holiday workweek.
Section 42.	Premium Pay for Holiday Work. Holiday Premium will be paid at the rate of one and one-half times (l-l/2x) the employee’s regular rate of pay for hours worked on contractual holidays. Non probationary employees who are hired on or after May 1, 2005, who work on a holiday shall be paid one dollar ($1.00) per hour worked on such holiday, in addition to the holiday pay provided herein.
11
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
Section 43.	Holiday Scheduling. No later than the second Wednesday prior to the beginning of the week in which a holiday observed hereunder occurs (exclusive of personal holidays), the Employer shall post in each store a holiday volunteer work list. An employee desirous of working the upcoming holiday, in the job assignment which he normally performs, shall sign such list no later than the Tuesday prior to the holiday week Signing of another employee’s name on such list shall be cause for disciplinary action.
The Employer will select the necessary employees from this list in accordance with seniority and ability, within each store and department, and provided the employee normally performs the work required. Should the Employer not be able to staff his schedule requirements through this procedure, qualified employees shall be assigned the remaining available schedules by reverse seniority and ability within their respective classifications within each department and store. Nothing herein shall be construed to require pay for time not worked during the forty-five (45) day period following a violation of the same.
Section 44.	The Employer will not reschedule the hours of work in the workweek immediately prior to the workweek in which the holidays occur in order to defeat the purpose of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 17
VACATIONS
Section 45. All regular employees covered by this agreement, who were hired on or before April 30,2005 and who have worked eight hundred and thirty two (832) or more hours in their anniversary year, shall receive one (I) week's paid vacation after one (1) year continuous service, two (2) weeks paid vacation after two (2) years continuous service, three (3) weeks paid vacation after five (5) years continuous service, four (4) weeks paid vacation after twelve (12) years continuous service and five (5) weeks paid vacation after twenty (20) years continuous service.
All regular employees, who are hired on or after May 1, 2005 and who have worked one thousand forty (1,040) or more hours in their anniversary year, covered by this agreement, shall receive one (1) week's paid vacation after one (1) year continuous service, two (2) weeks paid vacation after three (3) years continuous service, and three (3) weeks paid vacation after eight (8) years continuous service.
Such vacation shall be paid at straight-time rates. The number of hours for which such employees shall be paid for a vacation week shall be the average number of weekly hours worked during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding the employee's anniversary date of employment, not to exceed 40 hours pay for each week of vacation. Hours paid for vacations, holidays and sick leave shall be considered as hours worked for the purpose of computing vacation amounts. No pro-rata vacation will be paid at termination.
Section 46. Effective January 1, 1991, the Employer will convert the employees’ weekly vacation allotment to a daily vacation allotment by multiplying the number of weeks of vacation due by 5. The hours paid for each day of vacation will be based on the average weekly hours of
12
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
vacation as calculated in Section 44, divided by 5. Employees may be allowed to take vacation one day at a time subject to approval by the Employer and based upon the following requirements:
1.	Daily vacation may not be scheduled through the annual sign-up procedure.
2.	Daily vacation must be requested of the Store Manager in writing by Tuesday prior to the posting of the schedule for the week in which the time off is requested.
3.	Employees may not receive more than five days vacation pay in any calendar week.
4.	Not more than one (1) week five (5) days may be taken one day at a time per anniversary year.
5.	Weekly vacation requests shall take preference over daily vacation requests.
If one of the holidays listed elsewhere herein falls during an employee’s vacation, the employee shall receive an extra day of vacation pay because of it. In the event a regular full-time employee covered by this Agreement, who has been employed for two (2) years or longer, voluntarily quits or is discharged for reasons other than dishonesty or drunkenness or being under the influence of illegal narcotics, such employee shall be paid pro rata vacation pay earned up to the time the employment relationship is severed.
Section 47-48 [DELETED]
Section 49,	The Employer shall pay the employee the vacation pay accrued during the employee’s anniversary year prior to the taking of the vacation (if requested in writing at least two (2) weeks in advance of vacation).
Section 50,	Scheduling of Vacations. The Employer will post a roster by January 1st of each year. Employees shall sign the roster as to their preference for vacation, in that year, no later than March 1st.
Section 51, The Employer retains the right to determine the number of employees who may be on vacation at any given time. However, in no event shall it be less than one (1) person per store. If a dispute arises between employees as to vacation preference, Company seniority within the classification in the market shall govern. For the purposes only of this Section and Article, Joumeyperson Meatcutters, First Cutters and Head Meatcutters shall be considered one (1) classification.
Section 52. Employees who are entitled to more than two (2) weeks of vacation may elect to schedule their vacations at two (2) different times during the year in amounts of no less than one (1) week at a time.
13
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
ARTICLE 18 SCHEDULING POSTING
Section 53.	The Head Meatcutter will post the work schedule in ink for the following week in each market not later than 9:00 a.m. on Friday. This schedule shall include the employee’s first initial and last name. This work schedule will not be changed by Management for that particular workweek except where the change is predicated on circumstances beyond the control of Management such as, but not limited to, sickness, injury, wide fluctuations in volume, Acts of God. Such up-to-date work schedules are to be posted weekly. This clause shall not be construed as preventing Management from calling in employees for extra work outside of the posted schedule, from requiring overtime work outside of the posted schedule or from bringing in additional employees where it appears advisable in the opinion of Management. Any changes in the work schedule will be reflected on the posted schedule at the time the change is made.
The Employer shall designate the starting time for employees. The employee shall be dressed and ready to go to work at his starting time.
Section 54.	Regular full-time employees called in on their scheduled day off shall not have the balance of their scheduled workweek altered as a result of such call-in.
ARTICLE 19 REPORTING PAY/MINIMUM DAILY SCHEDULE
An employee called in or scheduled for work shall be guaranteed four (4) hours of pay at the applicable rate, with the understanding that an employee may be called in or scheduled for less than four (4) hours if he is unavailable for the full four (4) hours.
ARTICLE 20 MINIMUM WEEKLY SCHEDULE
No regular employee shall be scheduled for less than twenty (20) hours in a workweek, if the employee is available.
ARTICLE 21 TIME CARDS/NO FREE WORK/PAY DAY
Section 55.	Each employee is required to record his own time, using the system provided by the Employer, prior to starting work and upon completing of work and before and after lunch periods. No employee shall have the right to record any other employee’s time. Any employee violating these provisions, working off the clock or giving free time may be discharged.
Section 56.	Employees shall receive their pay each week. In case of discharge from employment of any employee, upon request, the final paycheck will be made available within seventy-two (72) hours after the discharge.
14
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
ARTICLE 22 SPLIT SHIFTS
Section 57.	There shall be no daily split shifts.
ARTICLE 23
STORE MEETING
Section 58. All time spent by an employee actually attending any store meeting where his attendance is required by the Employer shall be counted as time worked with a minimum of one (1) hour at the applicable rate of pay when an employee is called back for such a meeting. In the event the employee is required to attend more than four (4) meetings per calendar year, the call-in provisions of Article 19 shall apply. The Company will make a reasonable effort to schedule store meetings to inconvenience the fewest number of employees as business conditions permit.
ARTICLE 24
LUNCH BREAKS
Section 59. Lunch Periods, Each employee who is scheduled to work in excess of five (5) hours in a day shall receive, on his own time, a one (1) hour lunch period, or, upon mutual agreement between the employee and the Employer, a one-half (1/2) hour lunch period at approximately the middle of his workday.
Individual employee’s change of lunch period from one (1) hour to one-half (1/2) hour, or vice versa, shall occur only at the beginning of a new work schedule.
Employee’s scheduled lunch periods will be set forth on the schedule, but the parties recognize it may be necessary to alter the lunch period schedule due to the needs of the business.
In a market where a Meatcutter on duty at all times is required, a full shift Meatcutter working alone, and not given a lunch break, shall be scheduled for a minimum of nine (9) hours of work and pay, which will include eating lunch and break periods on the Employer’s time.
ARTICLE 25
RELIEF PERIODS
Section 60. The Employer will give employees a break period of fifteen (15) minutes in their shift before the meal period and in their shift after the meal period.
ARTICLE 26
PROBATIONARY PERIOD
New employees shall be on probation for a period of thirty (30) calendar days, during which time they may be discharged by the Employer for any reason whatsoever, and during this probationary period, they shall not acquire any seniority status. If an employee is retained in the
15
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
employ of the Employer after said thirty (30) calendar days, his seniority shall then date back to the first (1st) day of said thirty (30) calendar day probationary period. This probationary period may be extended an additional thirty (30) calendar days by mutual agreement between the Employer, the Employee and the Union.
ARTICLE 27 SENIORITY
Section 61.	Length of continuous service in the employ of the Employer shall govern in layoffs and rehires within a particular classification in the bargaining unit as described in Article 1, Section 1, whenever the ability of the employees involved is substantially equal.
Section 62.	Termination of Seniority. Seniority shall terminate for any of the following reasons:
(a)	Voluntary quitting.
(b)	Overstaying a granted leave of absence or vacation.
(c)	Failure to report for work upon recall after a layoff within five (5) days after mailing of recall notice sent by registered letter to the last address furnished in writing to the Employer by the employee.
(d)	Discharge for just cause.
(e)	Continuous layoff for a period in excess of twelve (12) months.
Section 63.	Seniority List, Bargaining unit seniority lists shall be provided to the Union on no more than two (2) occasions during the calendar year, upon request by the Union.
Section 64.	Definition of Full-Time Employee. A regular full-time employee is described as an employee who has been hired as such or scheduled or worked forty (40) hours or more a week for four (4) consecutive weeks in his home store, except for employees hired as or advanced to a full-time schedule between June 1st and September 15th and except for Delicatessen Clerks advanced to a full-time schedule between November 15th and January 15th. If the employee who has worked the four (4) forty (40) hour weeks is not the senior employee who has expressed his desire for full-time status, as set forth in Article 28, Section 80, such employee shall remain in part-time status, and the senior qualified employee in that classification who has expressed his desire for full-time status shall be changed to full-time status.
Section 65.	When a holiday week is one of the four (4) consecutive weeks, hours paid for the holiday (not worked) will count in determining if an employee has met the four (4) week, forty (40) hour requirement.
Section 66.	Involuntary Loss of Full-Time Status. An employee who has achieved the status of regular full-time shall retain that status unless he is scheduled for, or worked less than, forty (40) hours per week for twelve (12) consecutive weeks, at which time he shall be reclassified as part-time.
Section 67.	Voluntary Reduction to Part-Time. A full-time employee who has requested and has been assigned a part-time schedule shall immediately be classified as part-time.
16
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
Section 68.	Promotions. The Employer agrees to make promotion to lesser qualified jobs than First Cutter and Assistant Deli Manager to the most senior qualified employee. The employee shall make such desire known to the Employer in writing. Seniority shall prevail throughout the entire number of stores of the Employer in the area covered by this Agreement.
A promotion is an assignment to a classification which has a higher top rate than the classification being vacated.
Section 69.	Probationary Period for Promotions. When any employee is promoted to a higher classification, he shall be on probation for a period of thirty (30) days. The probationary period may be extended an additional thirty (30) calendar days by mutual agreement between the Employer, employee, and the Union. An employee disqualified during the probationary period shall be returned to his old classification.
Section 70.	Demotion for Just Cause. Except under the provisions of this Section, no employee shall be demoted from a higher classification within the bargaining unit without just cause, which includes business need.
Section 71.	A Delicatessen Manager who is being demoted (voluntarily or involuntarily) shall have the option of accepting a Delicatessen Clerk position, or in the case where the Delicatessen Manager previously was a Joumeyperson Meatcutter for that Employer, may return to the Meat Department to preserve his rate of pay. Any employee, as of May 1,1980, who has been demoted and has not had his pay reduced shall be red-circled during the term of this Agreement. A Joumeyperson meatcutter shall not be forced to accept a Delicatessen Manager position which pays a lesser hourly rate of pay than the Joumeyperson Meatcutter Rate.
Section 72.	Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the Employer from hiring into a Joumeyperson or top rate position should the Employer deem it necessary.
ARTICLE 28
AVAILABLE HOURS
Section 73, The Employer agrees not to schedule two (2) part-time employees in the same classification back to back each day in their weekly schedules within an individual market or delicatessen where it is possible to combine their total posted weekly schedules so that one (1) full-time employee can be used.
Floaters. A “Floater” is a meatcutter or wrapper who an Employer regularly assigns to work in more than one store.
No Employer shall have any obligation to use Floaters at any time. If an Employer elects to use floaters it shall be done in accordance with the following general principles.
1.	When an Employer determines there are hours necessary to be scheduled for floaters, the seniority of floaters shall be honored, first in the weekly scheduling
17
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
of floaters to the fewest number of stores as is practicable, and, secondly, in scheduling a floater the greatest number of hours (up to 40) in a week as is practicable.
2.	The Employer may schedule floaters by district or by bargaining unit.
3.	Any full-time meatcutter or wrapper reduced to less than forty (40) hours or more
than four (4) consecutive weeks in his store may notify his store manager of his request to be reassigned within his classification as a floater. If there are less senior full-time employees receiving forty (40) hours in floater assignments, the employee will be reassigned as a floater the following week. An employee who receives such reassignment waives his right to reassignment at his previous store, should more hours subsequently become available. Full-time floaters desiring non-floating assignments may request same in writing to the person designated by the Employer, and such assignments shall be made in seniority order when such opening occurs.
Section 74. Full-time scheduled vacancies shall be filled as defined elsewhere in this Agreement.
Section 75, Employees who have requested additional hours or full-time status, in writing, as set forth above, shall have until noon on the Saturday following posting of the schedule to take issue with that schedule or his right to take issue shall be waived. Should he raise such issue in timely fashion and should it not be resolved, it shall be subject to the grievance procedure set forth elsewhere in this Agreement. It shall be the responsibility of each employee to make himself aware of the schedule and any changes made therein.
Section 76, Additional Hours, Additional hours are those created by increased schedules, termination or transfers within the classification which the Employer deems necessary to fill.
Section 77.	When it is necessary to work additional hours, the additional hours shall be assigned to employees in the same classification in the store who are scheduled for less than forty (40) hours in the week, in the order of seniority, provided the employee possesses the ability and skill to perform the work required and provided the employee is available to work the necessary hours and has notified the department head in writing of his desire for additional hours. Such written notification shall be furnished to the department head no later than the close of business on Wednesday to be implemented on the following week’s schedule. Nothing herein shall be construed to require the scheduling of additional hours for any employee which will provide him more than forty (40) hours in a week, or five (5) days of work.
Section 78.	The employee being assigned the additional hours shall not have the right to accept such hours in part, but shall be obliged to accept the entire weekly schedule as written. It is understood, however, each employee who has made written request for additional hours may revoke such request by written notice to the department head no later than the close of business on Wednesday of the week proceeding the week involved.
18
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
Section 79.	Written requests shall remain in effect until forty (40) hours is achieved or such request is revoked. Written requests are not transferable from store to store.
Section 80.	It is understood and agreed the Employer retains the right to require hours of work even though an employee has not requested additional hours.
Section 81,	The Employer will send the Union “request list”, no later than March 1st and September 1st of each calendar year.
Section 82.	Full-Time Request List. For retail stores, there shall be established a “full-time request” list. This shall be made up of the names of employees in the retail store in the bargaining unit who have made written request during the first fifteen (15) days in January (to be effective from the first (1st) workweek in February until the first (1st) workweek in August) or on the first (1st) fifteen (15) days in July (to be effective from the first (1st) workweek in August until the first (1st) workweek in February) of each year in which they state their wish to receive a full-time assignment, regardless of the hours or shift. Such written request shall be submitted to the designated Employer representative. This request shall remain in effect until the following request period or until assigned full-time.
Section 83.	When an employee who has been assigned a full-time status schedule for the immediately preceding twelve (12) or more weeks is terminated because of quit or discharge, or is transferred by the Employer, or when a new position of full-time is created within an existing store, the job vacancy created by such quit, discharge, transfer or new job creation shall be filled by assignment of the most senior qualified employee in the same classification as the job vacancy who has signed the then-current “full-time request” list, when it is deemed necessary to fill the vacancy. When the new assignment is within ten (10) miles of the store in which the employee is working, the employee so assigned shall be required to fill the new assignment regardless of hours, shift or store location within the bargaining unit. In the event the new assignment is to a store more than ten (10) miles from the store in which the employee is working, the employee may refuse the new assignment, but must so advise the Employer at the time this assignment is offered. It is understood, however, each employee who has made written request for a full-time assignment retains the right to revoke such request by written notice submitted to the designated Employer representative at any time prior to the time he is offered such full-time assignment. If an employee revokes such request, that employee cannot renew his request until the next regular request period.
Section 84.	This Section is intended to maximize the number of hours a senior employee can work, up to and including forty (40) hours per week, but shall not be construed to be a guaranteed workweek.
ARTICLE 29 ROTATION OF SHIFTS
Section 85.	Each week, the Employer will alternate the schedules within a classification within each store after 6:00 p.m., so that such work may be evenly divided as far as it may be
19
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
practical. The above shall not apply to employees who, of their own volition, want to work the hours after 6:00 p.m.
ARTICLE 30 UNSCHEDULED OVERTIME
Section 86, Unscheduled Overtime Hours. Daily overtime not previously scheduled shall be offered in seniority order within the department, the classification, and the store to the employees present when the need for overtime arises. Nothing herein shall be construed to require the scheduling of overtime when another employee’s scheduled hours can be extended, or part-time employees may be called in without overtime penalty. Hours unclaimed under this procedure may be assigned in reverse order of seniority among those employees within the department within the classification within the store present when the need for overtime arises.
Overtime assignments of four (4) hours or more may be filled by calling in employees, in seniority order, within the classification and the department on their non-scheduled day without violating this Section.
ARTICLE 31 REDUCTION IN HOURS
Section 87.	Reduction in Hours. When a reduction in hours is necessary within the store, as opposed to a layoff in the workforce, hours will be reduced from employees in the affected classification who have not requested additional hours in writing as set forth elsewhere in this Agreement, before any reduction shall occur in the employee group which has requested additional hours.
Section 88.	If, after all part-time employees in the affected classification in the store have either had their hours reduced to 24 or have been laid off, it is still necessary to reduce hours in the store, the least senior full-time employee in the store must have his hours reduced to 24 before the hours of any other full-time employee in the affected classification are reduced. Any floater hours scheduled in that store may be claimed by the most senior full-time employee in that store who has had his hours reduced below (40) in the classification in which the floater hours are available. Nothing in this Article shall be construed to require pay for time not worked for the forty-five (45) day period following a violation of the same.
Full-time employees who have been reduced for the immediately preceding five (5) consecutive weeks to less than forty (40) hours per week shall have the right to bump the least senior employee in the bargaining unit who was schedule forty (40) hours in the prior week. The employee being displaced shall take the schedule of the employee bumping. This right shall apply to joumeyperson status employees within their classification.
20
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
ARTICLE 32 LAYOFFS
Section 89,	Seniority, Joumeyperson and Apprentice Meat Cutters will be considered one classification for the purpose of layoff.
Section 90,	Seniority. Delicatessen Clerks and Department Managers will be considered as a separate group for the purpose of applying the Seniority provisions of this Agreement.
Section 91	Seniority, Butcher Block Sales Persons will be considered as separate group for the purpose of applying the seniority provisions of this Agreement
Section 92.	Layoff Procedure. When a reduction in the workforce is necessary, as opposed to a reduction in hours, the following procedure shall be used.
1.	A regular full-time employee being laid off may displace the shortest service regular full-time employee within his classification within the bargaining unit. The regular full-time employee so displaced may displace the shortest service part-time employee in the same classification in the bargaining unit. In the event there is no less senior employee performing work in the same classification, this displaced employee may displace the least senior employee in a lower classification in which he previously performed (six) months of service in the classification for the Employer.
2.	A part-time employee being laid off may displace the shortest service part-time employee within his classification within the bargaining unit.
3.	Any employee with displacement rights under the procedures above shall be allowed to take a layoff in lieu of displacing any employee.
4.	It is understood that, in any event, only a more senior employee can displace another employee under the procedure.
5.	It is expressly understood and agreed the following shall apply to all of the options set forth above. If the shortest service employee being bumped is within a ten (10) mile radius from the displaced worker’s store, the shortest service employee will be bumped. If the shortest service employee is working at a store outside the ten (10) mile radius from the displaced employee’s store, the displaced employee may displace a less senior employee.
Laid off employees, and employees who accept a job in a lower classification in lieu of layoff, shall be recalled as needed, in order of seniority, to jobs they are qualified to perform. The Employer shall not hire a new employee or promote an existing employee into a position for which a laid off employee or employee who accepts a job in a lower classification is qualified and available to perform.
21
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
An employee accepting a layoff rather than accepting a job in a lower classification may inform the Employer in writing at the time of the layoff of his desire to be recalled to a lower classification which was not available at the time of his layoff, and such notification shall be honored when a vacancy occurs. The notice shall specify the lower classification to which the employee desires recall. It is understood that any employee on layoff from the classification where the vacancy occurs shall have preferential rights to such vacancy.
Section 93.	Recall Procedure. Laid off employees shall be recalled as needed, in the order of seniority, to jobs in the classification from which they were laid off. The Employer shall not hire a new employee into a classification in which there are laid off employees at that time. The Employer shall offer recall to a job in the classification from which an employee was laid off prior to promoting another employee into that classification.
A full-time employee accepting recall to a part-time position shall be reclassified to part-time status. Similarly, a part-time employee recalled to a full-time position, shall be reclassified to full-time status.
Section 94.	Nothing in this Article shall be construed to require pay for time not worked during the forty-five (45) day period following a violation of the same. (This Section is not applicable to unscheduled overtime hours violations or disciplinary violations.)
ARTICLE 33
TRANSFER FROM STORE TO STORE
Transfers from store to store shall not be made or denied for capricious, arbitrary or discriminatory reasons. Full-time employees desiring a transfer to another store within the bargaining unit in order to be nearer their residence may indicate their desire for transfer in writing to the person designated by the Employer. Such transfer requests will be considered at the time an opening occurs within their classification and status. Nothing in this Article shall be construed to require pay for time not worked for the forty-five (45) day period following a violation of the same.
ARTICLE 34
NEW STORE LANGUAGE
In the event of the opening of a new store within the bargaining unit (not a replacement of an existing store) the following procedure shall apply:
1.	At least four (4) weeks prior to the opening of a new store, the Employer will post a sheet in each location for interested employees to sign if desirous of a transfer to the new location. The sheet shall remain posted for at least ten (10) days.
2.	Job openings either at the new store or created by transferring employees at their former store shall first be billed by employees on layoff in the classification of the vacancy before any new employees are hired or current employees are promoted.
22
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
3.	Employees who have signed the new store transfer request sheet shall be given consideration based on their qualifications and the requirements of the store. It is understood that the Employer may move employees from its own competitive stores which may be impacted by the new store opening before consideration of other employee desires.
4.	In the event the Employer opens new stores within the geographical area of this Agreement, as set forth in Article 1, not less than sixty percent (60%) of the initial staffing of the new store shall be made by employees covered by this bargaining agreement, if available.
ARTICLE 35
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section 95.	Sickness, Injury, or Pregnancy. Leaves of absence shall be granted for up to eighteen (18) months without pay when an employee with three (3) months of continuous service is unable to work because of bona fide sickness, accident, disability, or pregnancy. However, in the event such an employee is unable to return to work at the end of eighteen (18) months of leave, he shall be entitled to an additional leave of six (6) months if he submits satisfactory medical evidence that he will be able to return to duties within his classification within the said additional period.
Section 96.	Personal Leaves of Absence without pay for reasonable periods not to exceed thirty (30) days may be granted by the Employer to employees who have completed (1) year of service for other reasons mutually agreed to between the Employer and the employee. The thirty (30) day period may be extended by an additional thirty (30) days by mutual agreement between the Employer and employee.
Section 97.	All seniority granted employees under the terms of this Agreement shall be subject to the rights granted by law to the employees volunteering, called or conscripted for active military service under the National Guard Act of 1940 and the Selective Service Act of 1942, and any additions or amendments thereto, or rulings and interpretations thereof by any authorized court or agency.
Section 98 Leaves of absence without pay for Union business not to exceed (6) months may be granted by the Employer to employees who have completed one (1) year of service. The six (6) months may be extended by an additional six (6) months by mutual agreement between the Employer and employee.
Section 99. Leave of Absence for Care of Newborn or Adopted Child. For employees with one (1) year of continuous service in the bargaining unit, a Leave of Absence for either parent shall be granted without pay for a period of up to twelve (12) months for the purpose of Newborn or Adopted Child Care. The employee shall be guaranteed reinstatement in accordance with their seniority. An employee who wished to change his or her date of return to work shall notify the Store Manager two (2) weeks in advance and shall be returned to work as set forth above. The Leave of Absence for either parent must end no later than twelve (12) months from
23
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
the date of birth or date of adoption. The Employer may require verification of the parent relationship to the newborn or to the adopted child.
Section 100, Leave of Absence for Family Care. A family care leave, without pay, shall be granted, upon request by an employee for a total of up to six (6) consecutive months within a two (2) year period. The employee requesting the leave must have a minimum of one (1) year’s continuous service in the bargaining unit at the time of the request. The employee shall be guaranteed reinstatement in accordance with their seniority at the end of their leave. Any employee who wishes to change his or her date to return to work shall notify the Store Director two (2) weeks in advance of the date they intend to return. The purpose of this leave shall be to care for seriously ill family members. For the purpose of this leave, “family members” shall be:
1.	Spouse and parents of the employee.
2.	Biological or adopted unmarried children under nineteen (19) years of age and full-time students up to age 23.
3.	A child of any age who is incapable of self-support.
4.	Any relative residing in the employee’s home and dependent upon the employee for care.
The employee shall be required to present satisfactory evidence of serious illness of the family member, the expected duration of the absence, and the reason for the employee’s involvement.
Section 101, All leaves of absence must be requested in writing to the person designated by the Employer, unless the employee is physically disabled to the extent that such advance request is not possible, and shall state: (1) the reasons, (2) date leave is to begin, and (3) expected date of return to work. Leaves of absence shall be granted in writing in advance, and a copy shall be given to the employee.
Section 102, The employee must be qualified to resume his regular duties upon return to work from an approved leave of absence. A doctor’s certificate verifying that the employee is able to resume his normal duties may be required. The employee shall be returned to the job previously held, or to a job comparable with regard to rate of pay no later than on the first weekly schedule made up after the department designated by the Employer has received notice in writing of the employee’s availability, provided the Employer received such notice no later than Wednesday immediately prior to the Friday scheduling.
ARTICLE 36
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
Section 103. Upon request an employee covered by this Agreement shall be granted the necessary time off with pay at his regular straight-time rate of pay in order to make arrangements for and/or attend a funeral occasioned by a death in his immediate family, and/or for grieving. Such time off with pay shall in no event exceed three (3) regularly scheduled working days, and the amount of such paid time off actually granted shall normally depend upon the distance involved. The immediate family is defined as the employee’s father, mother, spouse, children, step-child, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother, sister, step-parents, grandparents and
24
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
grandchildren. In the event of the death of a grandparent of the employee’s spouse, the Company shall allow the affected employee to take one (1) day bereavement leave with pay to attend the funeral. Payments shall not be made hereunder where the relative’s death occurs while the employee is on vacation or on a leave of absence. If an employee is notified of the death of his spouse, parent, child or grandchild while at work, he shall be granted the remainder of the day off and paid for scheduled work hours that day. This shall not be counted as part of the above three (3) days. Employees must attend the funeral in order to qualify for pay, and the Employer may require satisfactory evidence confirming the relationship of the deceased person. Additional time, without pay, shall be granted as needed by the employee up to seven (7) days.
Section 104. No schedule shall be changed for the express purpose of making the employee’s day off replace a day that otherwise would have been paid for under these provisions.
ARTICLE 37 JURY DUTY
Section 105. Whenever any employee covered by this Agreement is required to serve on a petit jury during his regular working hours, the Employer agrees to pay such employee the difference between what he is paid for serving on the jury and what he would have received from the Employer in straight-time pay had said jury duty not prevented him from being at work. On any scheduled workday, the employee shall promptly report to complete any remaining hours of his scheduled workday; provided, no employee shall be required to so report for work on any day on which he has served and been compensated by the Court for at least eight (8) hours jury duty, nor shall any employee who reports back to work under this Section be required to work more than ten (10) hours, less the number of hours for which served and was compensated for jury duty by the Court on that day.
Section 106.	When the Employer requests an employee to appear in Court, he shall be compensated at his regular straight-time hourly rate of pay for such time.
Section 107.	The Employer may require a statement from the Court Clerk certifying attendance.
ARTICLE 38
SICK LEAVE
(a)	All employees covered by this Agreement who normally work one hundred four (104) hours a month or more and who have been continuously employed by their Employer for a period of at least one (1) year, shall be entitled to six (6) days of sick leave with pay.
Employees hired on or after May 1, 2005 who have completed three (3) consecutive years of employment shall commence accumulating sick leave credit of up to two (2) hours for each month that such employee works at least one hundred twelve (112) hours in a four week month or one hundred forty (140) hours in a five week month. Such credit
25
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
shall be determined by dividing the actual hours worked for such month by one hundred sixty (160) hours (in a four week month) or two hundred (200) hours in a five week month times two (2). Unused sick leave shall not exceed a maximum accumulation of sixty (60) hours.
(b)	For Employees hired on or before April 30,2005, unused sick leave shall be cumulative, and, after the first (1st) year of continuous employment, said employee shall accumulate unused sick leave at the rate of one-half (1/2) day per month of continuous employment in which they work one hundred four (104) hours, but not to exceed a maximum accumulation of six hundred (600) hours. (An otherwise eligible employee shall get no credit toward accumulation of sick leave for any continuous service prior to May 1, 1958, which was the date used for the beginning of accumulation under the sick leave plan instituted by the Employer and the Union in a prior Labor Agreement which was signed December 19, 1958).
(c)	A doctor’s certificate or other authoritative verification of illness may be required by the Employer. Upon request from the employee, said sick leave is to commence with the second (2nd) day of absence, employees hired on or after May 1, 2005 sick leave is to commence on the third (3) scheduled workday’s absence due to sickness or injury (except in the case of occupational injury in which event sick leave shall commence on the first (1st) day following injury which the employee would have worked had the injury not occurred) and shall be paid at the rate of one (1) day of pay until such sick benefit allowance is used up. An employee who has accumulated two hundred forty (240) hours of unused sick leave shall also be entitled to sick leave on the first day of absence due to sickness or injury.
(d)	For the purpose of this Article one (1) day of pay shall mean eight (8) hours of pay at the employee’s regular classification rate for those days which the employee would have worked had the disability not occurred, calculated at straight-time. No employee shall receive pay, under any combination of sick leave and Worker’s Compensation or Weekly Indemnity which exceed the lesser of his regular pay or eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week at his straight-time hourly rate of pay. The waiting period herein provided before sick pay commences, shall apply for each illness or injury in case the sick benefit allowance has not been used up in previous illnesses.
(e)	Sick leave shall be paid to part-time employees who normally work one hundred four (104) hours a month or more on the basis set forth above on a pro rata of total hours worked during the year preceding the anniversary date as a ratio to two thousand eighty (2,080) hours, but can accumulate only for a maximum of six (6) years.
(f)	Sick leave benefits are not convertible to cash.
26
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
ARTICLE 39
INJURY ON THE JOB
Section 108. When an employee is injured on the job, there shall be no deduction from the employee’s pay for the day in which the employee was injured and reported for medical care.
ARTICLE 40
CHILD CARE DISCOUNT PROGRAMS
Section 109.	Albertson’s LLC agrees to participate with United Food and Commercial Workers, Local No. 7 on discount programs established with the local child care facilities.
ARTICLE 41
FLEXIBLE BENEFITS PLANS
Section 110.	Albertson’s LLC agrees to participate in a Child Care Flexible Benefit Plan. The administrator of the Plan shall be selected by the Company.
ARTICLE 42
HEALTH BENEFITS
Section 111.	Trust Fund. The Rocky Mountain UFCW Unions and Employers Health Benefit Trust ("Health Benefit Trust") is a trust fund jointly administered by an equal number of Trustees representing the Employer and the Union. All contributions provided for in this Article will be paid into the Health Benefit Trust. The Trust Fund is to be jointly administered by an equal number of Trustees representing the Employer and the Union. There shall be three (3) Plans of benefits, Plan A, Plan B and Plan C with contributions as provided herein. As a condition of receiving the contributions provided above, the Trustees of the Plan will:
1.	Establish Plan(s) of benefits, which can be supported by the contributions provided in this Agreement, and
2.	Maintain the Trust in a fully funded status as provided herein and in the Trust Agreement.
The Trustees shall establish a separate accounting of income and expenses for participants of the Fund who agree in their collective bargaining Agreements to a fixed contribution rate as described below. The Trustees are expressively prohibited from using the contributions of the Employers contributing on fixed contribution rate basis to pay benefits for participants of other employers who have not adopted these fixed contributions.
Section 112.	Employer Contributions and Benefit Levels - The Employer agrees to contribute the following amounts per month for each eligible employee:
27
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
Employees hired on or before April 30.2005
	PLANA	PLANB
Effective January 1,2008	$755.42	$604.33
Effective June 1,2009 (May hrs)	$379.02	$303.21
Effective June 1,2010 (May hrs)	$447.63	$358.10
Effective June 1,2011 (May hrs)	$602.71	$482.17
Effective June 1,2012 (May hrs)	$807.14	$645.70
Employees hired on or after May 1. 2005
	PLANA	PLANB	PLANC
Effective January 1, 2008	$649.84	$519.88	$327.51
Effective June 1,2009 (May hrs)	$326.04	$260.84	$16432
Effective June 1,2010 (May hrs)	$385.07	$308.06	$194.07
Effective June 1,2011 (May hrs)	$518.48	$414.79	$26130
Effective June 1,2012 (May hrs)	$69433	$555.47	$349.93
Section 112a. Employee Co-Premiums: Effective July 1, 2005, employees who are eligible to participate and enroll in the Health Plan shall as a condition of such participation make a monthly co-premium payment equal to $5.00 per week if enrolled in employee only coverage, $10.00 per week if enrolled as employee plus spouse or employee plus children and $15.00 per week if enrolled in family coverage. Such co-premiums shall be made by payroll deduction and forwarded to the Trust Fund on a monthly basis by the Employer.
Section 113.	Enrollment and eligibility: Effective calendar year enrollment period beginning January 1,2010, the Plan shall conduct an annual enrollment in accordance with the following procedure.
General Rule
• Currently Enrolled
o If enrolled for 2009 and no changes desired - need not do anything -terms of enrollment for 2009 remain in effect until coverage under the Plan terminates or until a change is desired.
o If enrolled and a change is desired - need to timely complete new enrollment form on same basis as in prior years.
o If not enrolled in 2009, but want to enroll for 2010 or for a subsequent year, need to timely complete enrollment form on same basis as in prior years.
■ Newly eligible employee must initially make a positive election to enroll in the Plan. Terms of initial enrollment will remain in effect until coverage under the Plan terminates or until a change is desired.
28
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010'
Special Rules
•	Newly eligible employees - must enroll within 90 days.
•	Current special enrollment event rules that remain in effect
•	Newly acquired dependent - must enroll within 30 days. The effective date of coverage will be:
•	Marriage - the date of marriage.
•	Birth of a dependent - the date of birth.
•	Adoption or Placement for Adoption of Dependent - date of adoption or placement for adoption.
o Employee or dependent lose coverage under another plan - must enroll within 30 days (Exception: if loss of coverage is under this Plan, individual has 60 days to enroll under Plan). The effective date of coverage will be the first day of the month following the termination of coverage.
o Special disenrollment rules that remain in effect:
B Dependent spouse becomes covered under spouse’s employer’s plan or employment status so that the spouse is no longer eligible to participate in a health plan sponsored or maintained by his/her employer - Plan must be notified within 60 days of spouse’s coverage to discontinue payment of working spouse fee. The cessation of the working spouse fee is prospective only.
■	Disenrollment - if dependent loses status as eligible dependent or an employee or dependent becomes covered under another plan - must disenroll within 60 days of event causing loss of coverage or effective date of coverage under another plan. The reduction in the weekly payroll deduction is prospective only.
o New Procedures/rules.
" Administration office will need to do semi-annual verification of continuation of student status of known students plus any child who attains age 19 in the spring and fall of each calendar year.
■	For first claim filed by spouse each calendar year, administration office will need to verify working status of spouse and if working, determine if covered by employer’s plan.
o Continuation of Rule Regarding Special Enrollment Events
■	Employees currently enrolled in the Plan shall continue to be enrolled in the Plan unless they make a positive election to discontinue their enrollment or change their coverage. A discontinuation in coverage may be made within sixty (60) days of a special enrollment event as defined by the Plan. Administration Office will need to do semi-annual verification.
29
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
...
Employees must initially make a positive election to enroll in the Plan. Enrollment is for the entire plan of benefits for the Plan and an employee’s failure to make an initial positive enrollment into the Plan shall result in such employee being ineligible for all benefits of the Plan for the remainder of the calendar year or until there has been a special enrollment event as provided in the Plan’s Rules and Regulations, whichever occurs first
The administrator of the fund will use the enrollment data in order to establish the eligibility of employees and their dependents for participation in plan coverage. None other than those employees contained on the enrollment report shall receive benefits from the Trust without the express authorization of the Trustees. The administrator will promptly notify the Trustees in writing of any instances where coverage has been provided to persons who are not included in the enrollment data, or where a claim for payment has been submitted by or on behalf of such person.
The Fund will audit its enrollment and claims records at least once within each 24 month period to ensure that no employees of the Employer, or the dependents of such employees, are participating in plan coverage for which they are not eligible and to ascertain that claims and other plan expenses are being paid in accordance with the Plan’s provisions.
Section 113a. Initial Eligibility - Part-time employees hired before May 1, 2005 who on April 30, 2005 have met the initial eligibility requirement for benefits under the Trust will continue to be eligible for coverage provided the employee enrolls in the Plan beginning in 2005, and further provided the employee has made the required employee co-premium payment. Such employees shall continue to be eligible for Plan A if such employee was eligible for Plan A on April 30, 2005. Employee’s who were eligible for and were participating in Plan B on April 30, 2005, shall participate in Plan B until such employee has been covered under such Plan B for 24 months. Thereafter, such employee may advance to Plan A provided they continue to enroll and meet the eligibility requirements of the Plan. Employees hired on or before April 30, 2005, who are not eligible for coverage as of April 30, 2005 shall be required to meet initial eligibility for Plan B, and subsequent eligibility to begin participation in Plan A, as provided in the predecessor agreement which terminated in 2004.
All part-time employees hired on or after May 1, 2005 shall, beginning the first of the month following 12 calendar months of employment (but not before January 1, 2010 with regard to their eligible dependents), be eligible to enroll and participate in the Health Plan, under the Health Plan C. Upon completion of the first (36) months of eligibility under Plan C, such employee and their eligible dependents may enroll in Plan B for the next (36) months of eligibility under Plan B. Thereafter, provided the employee continues to maintain eligibility, such employee and their eligible dependents may enroll and participate in Plan A.
Full-time employees shall on the first of the month after 3 months of employment, be eligible to enroll with their eligible dependents in Plan B, and after (36) months of eligibility under Plan B, shall be allowed to enroll with their eligible dependents in Plan A.
30
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
Section 113b. On-going Eligibility - After satisfying initial eligibility requirement provisions and enrollment in the Health Plan, the employee must continue to meet the monthly on-going eligibility requirements as a condition of continued participation in the Health Plan. Enrolled employees who work (80) hours in a (4) week month or (100) hours in a (5) week month shall be eligible for coverage on a lag month basis. For the purpose of this Article, hours worked shall include hours paid directly by the Company for holiday, vacation, jury duty, bereavement leave and sick pay.
Employees shall continue to be eligible for benefits provided they enroll for coverage in accordance with this Article. In any event, all employees must continue to meet all eligibility requirements of the Plan as a condition of continued eligibility.
Section 114. Trust Plan Changes. The Trustees on the earliest date possible shall revise the plan of benefits to include:
•	The Plan’s current coordination of benefit provision and credit balance system shall be replaced with a coordination of benefit provision that limits payment to the maximum payable under the Plan.
•	The Plan shall adopt a fee of $100 per month for a spouse of a covered employee who is eligible to enroll in health coverage at their employer, but fails to do so, as a condition of enrollment in this Plan.
•	Adopt the long term funding policy contained herein.
•	The Parties agree to adopt true managed care approaches to providing mental/nervous and physical benefits under the Plan. The Plan Administrator should not perform such managed care.
•	The Parties will adopt cost control measures that will aid the Fund in managing costs within the contributions provided by the Employers and Participants to this Plan.
Effective January 1, 2010, the Trustees of the Plan shall be directed to adopt the following modifications to the active plan(s) of benefits:
Health and Care Management
Direct Trustees to Implement Integrated Health and Care Management Programs. The programs shall be designed to progress over the term of the Agreement to “best-in-class” levels with respect to the key characteristics listed below:
•	Quality education campaign for ail participants
•	Superior participant communications, including robust web tools
•	Superior participant information tools
•	Analytics measuring participation, compliance, and results
31
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
•	Very strong comprehensiveness of programs
«	High levels of integration
•	Strong physician behavior change mechanisms
•	Significant levels of medical and drug trend reduction
1.	Establish a health risk assessment questionnaire to be completed annually. If employee and spouse complete annually, such employee’s co-premium to the Plan shall be reduced $5 per month for each employee and spouse (max $10) for that enrollment’s calendar year. An HRQ must be completed each year during enrollment to be eligible to receive the HRQ incentive for each year. During the term of this Agreement, the Trustees may, by mutual agreement, reallocate the HRQ incentive amounts provided above.
2.	Establish 24-hour nurse call-in line and/or medical decision support.
3.	Develop a medical management program that targets high-risk participants with chronic diseases such as diabetes, obesity, asthma and cardiovascular disease. In order to encourage participant engagement In such programs and to enhance the goal of improving health status a series of incentives must be developed.
There is recognition that incentives may take various forms and will likely evolve and change over time based on program experience with a goal of maximizing program effectiveness and reducing health costs and medical trend. The initial focus will be a thorough educational campaign in connection with program roll out
4.	Establish free and/or reduced cost educational programs such as:
a.	Weight management
b.	Smoking cessation
c.	High Cholesterol
5.	Reduce prescription drug co-pays as shown below for participants taking maintenance drugs (and related supplies which require a prescription) for certain disease states which would include categories of drugs such as:
a.	Hypertension
b.	High cholesterol
c.	Diabetes control drugs
d.	Asthma
e.	Glaucoma
f.	Osteoporosis
32
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
Drug Class	Co-Pay
Generic	$2.50
Formulary Brand	$10
Nonformulary Brand	$20
It is understood that the Plan’s consultants will continue to evaluate the effectiveness of including these scheduled drug categories on Plan costs and based on their recommendations the Trustees may remove drugs from this list and/or add other categories of drugs consistent with the objective of increasing compliance with prescribed drug therapies which will lower plan costs and trend.
6.	Complex/Catastrophic Care Management to provide case management of the entire health care and treatment for participants with high-risk health conditions.
7. Preventive health care at medically appropriate times (see below)
Service	PPO coverage (In-network)
Mammography	Plan pays 100%
Routine Annual Physical Exam	Plan pays 100%
Well-baby care	Plan pays 100%
Childhood Immunizations	Plan pays 100%
Papanicolaou (Pap) smear and pelvic examination	Plan pays 100%
Prostate specific antigen (PSA) testing	Plan pays 100%
Colonoscopy	Plan pays 100%
Utilize nationally recognized guidelines as a basis for coverage.
Section 114a. Long Term Funding Policy
1.	The parties recommend to the trustees that a Minimum Reserve Requirement be established equal to IBNR reserves plus a lag month reserve. The Fund consultants shall calculate the IBNR and lag month reserve requirement at least once every twelve months beginning on (date to be set by trustees) and report these amounts to the Trustees at their next regularly scheduled meeting. Any withdrawing employer shall reimburse the Fund for their participants claims run off.
2.	If the market value of the assets at any twelve-month review point is ever below the calculated minimum reserve requirement level as calculated by the Fund consultants, then the Fund consultants shall prepare recommendations for benefit plan redesign and/or employee co-premium contributions such that the dollar amount of any such deficiency will be fully recovered by the end of the 12-month period beginning after the trustee meeting in which the deficiency is first projected.
33
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
3.	No changes are permitted that would violate any contractual agreement between the Fund and any third party vendor.
4.	If the Fund consultants cannot agree on a recommended plan of benefit redesign and/or employee co-premium contributions, and the Trustees cannot agree to a corrective action plan, by virtue of deadlock motions, then the trustees must act to adopt the recommended corrective action plan that has the least adverse impact on plan participants, however, one set of Trustees may exercise the Fund’s dispute resolution procedure on an expedited basis to determine if other corrective actions must be taken.
5.	The minimum reserve target defined above is solely meant to be a “floor”. It is not also a “ceiling”. That is, no Trustee action is required or expected in the event that reserve levels are above the minimum reserve target.
6.	Deleted.
Section 115.	Extended Benefits. An employee who has been eligible for benefits for six (6) months or more immediately prior to becoming physically disabled and thereby unable to work, shall continue to be eligible for benefits during his continuing period of disability, up to a maximum of six (6) months.
Section 116.	Retiree's Benefits. The Employer will contribute eighteen dollars and thirty-four cents ($18.34) per month per eligible active bargaining unit employee, covered under this Agreement, in the Health Plan to subsidize the self pay costs of providing Health and Welfare benefits to eligible retirees under the Rocky Mountain UFCW Unions and Employers Health Benefit Plan (the “Retiree’s Health Plan.”).
Effective for employees who retire on or after October 1,1996, the eligibility requirements for participation in Retiree’s Health Plan shall be:
Employees retiring on or after October 1, 1996, must have a combined total of 15 years of service and have attained age 50, or be totally disabled, at the time of his termination of employment.
ARTICLE 43
NON-DUPLICATION OF BENEFITS
Section 117. In the event any law or governmental regulation requires any payment from the Employer for benefits which would replace, supplement or modify the Medical, Surgical and Hospital Service, Dental Plan, Pension Plan, Prescription Plan, Vision Plan or other benefit provided under this Agreement, the amount of such payments shall be deducted from the contributions for such benefits required under the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
34
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
ARTICLE 44
PENSION FUND
Section 118. Employer Contributions. Effective January 1,2010 (December hours) for all employees covered by this Agreement, the Employer shall pay eighty-nine cents ($0.89) per hour for all hours worked at straight time (including hours worked on Sunday, vacation and holiday hours paid) into the Denver Area Meatcutters UFCW Unions and Employers Pension Plan, which shall be jointly administered by the Union and the Employer by an equal number of trustees as provided in an agreement establishing such Pension Fund.
In the event the New Hire Benefit goes into effect as provided herein, then effective with hours worked after the adoption of such Benefit, the Employer shall pay an additional ten cents ($0.10) per hour for all hours worked at straight time (including hours worked on Sunday, vacation and holiday hours paid) to fund the benefit
New Hire Benefit
If the Trustees adopt the Alternate Schedule described herein, and such Schedule becomes fully effective, the Trustees are authorized to amend the Plan (if they believe it is appropriate to do so) in order to provide the following Benefit for those participants whose employers have adopted the Alternate Schedule herein. Newly hired employees hired on or after March 6, 2005 shall be eligible to receive an accrual rate per month for each year of credited service earned by such employees, commencing on January 1,2010 (i.e. for service on or after January 1,2010) subject to the following terms, conditions and limitations:
•	Funding through an employer supplemental contribution of ten cents ($0.10) per hour;
•	Normal retirement age of 65;
•	The accrual rate shall be ten dollars ($10) per month for each year of credited service earned between January 1,2010 and December 31,2012;
•	The accrual rate shall be fifteen dollars ($15) per month for each year of credited service earned on or after January 1,2013;
•	Any adjustable benefits otherwise provided by the Plan, including but not limited to Rule of 80 Pension, are inapplicable to this “new hire” benefit, and
•	Agreement by the Plan’s co-actuaries that the “new hire” benefit can be funded by the ten cents ($0.10) per hour employer contribution, otherwise the benefit shall be in the amount, up to $10 or $15 per month per year of credited service as specified above, the co-actuaries agree can be provided by said funding.
Section 118a. Funding Policy.
1.	The Trustees shall, no later than April 1, 2005, adopt the following Long Tenn Funding Policy. Such Long Term Funding Policy shall be applicable for plan year 2005 and subsequent plan years. Effective with the January 2005 contribution payment, the Employer will increase the hourly contribution provided for above by $0.15 per hour from $1.16 to $1.31 for employees hired on or before April 30,2005. Effective with the first contribution payment after ratification, the Employer will increase the hourly contribution from $1.31 to $1.51 for employees hired on or before April 30, 2005.
35
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
This $0.15 per hour increase in contribution is a “supplemental” contribution dedicated solely to improving the funding of the pension plan, will not be used to increase benefits and will be discontinued at the times set forth in paragraph 2.
2.	This supplemental contribution shall continue to be made until the earlier of such time the Plan reaches a financial state whereby either: (i) the funding ratio of the Plan (actuarial value of assets over actuarial liability) is at least 100%; or any contribution of the employers would not be deductible for federal income tax purposes in the year in which it is required to be made. However, unless changes are needed to support contribution deductibility, no changes shall be made when the Plan has withdrawal liability.
Effective January 1, 2010 (December hours) the supplemental contribution provided above in subsections 1 and 2 shall no longer apply and shall be replaced by any supplemental contribution that may be provided in the Pension Protection Act section of this Agreement
3.	If as of any valuation date commencing with the 01/01/06 valuation, a funding deficiency is projected to occur in less than 5 years, the Trustees will reduce benefits such that a projected funding deficiency will not occur within any of the 8 years following the valuation date. The parties agree to apply for section 412(e) relief if available before the benefit reductions are enacted. It is understood that application for section 412(e) requires the parties to reduce benefits as a condition of the application. Such section 412(e) application, if approved, must cure the funding deficiency as prescribed above.
If the section 412(e) application is not approved, or not acted on, within 18 months of the valuation date (for example 01/01/06 valuation), then the Trustees will immediately enact benefit reductions to cure the funding deficiency as prescribed above.
4.	In no event will benefit reductions be delayed to or beyond a time that would expose the employers to liability beyond the supplemental contribution including but not limited to liability for the payment of excise taxes or additional contributions. Any deadlocked issue over the enactment of benefit reductions and/or the application of this policy shall be submitted to expedited arbitration ahead of any other matter pending arbitration. Such expedited arbitration shall occur within 60 days of the request for arbitration and the arbitrator shall render his decision within 60 days following the close of the hearing in the matter.
5.	The parties authorize and direct the Trustees of the Plan to develop Maintenance of Equity Policy for employers that do not adopt this agreement upon renewal of the collective bargaining agreement (or for new agreements).
6.	If the Plan experiences a minimum funding deficiency, any excise tax that is levied against the employers will be allocated amongst such employers in a way that first makes all employers not contributing the full amount of the supplemental contribution responsible for fully paying any accumulated missed supplemental contributions with interest. Thereafter, the balance of any excise tax remaining will be allocated to all employers in proportion to their non-supplemental contribution rate. Finally, for any employer not adopting this agreement, future benefits will be
36
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
based on the assumption that $. 15 of the current rate being contributed are deemed to be supplemental.
7.	The parties recognize there is a possibility of merger of the Denver Area Meatcutters Pension Fund with the Rocky Mountain UFCW Union and Employers Pension Plan and give full authority to effectuate such merger to the Board of Trustees of the two pension plans without further approval of the parties of this Agreement.
Said Pension Fund shall be used to provide benefit pensions for eligible employees of the Employer as provided in a Pension Plan, the terms and provisions of which are to be agreed upon by the parties hereto; said Pension Plan shall, among other things, provide that all benefits under the Plan and costs, charges and expenses of administering the Plan and all taxes levied or assessed upon or in respect of said Plan or Trust or any income there from shall be paid out of the Pension Fund.
Said Pension Plan and Trust Agreement establishing the Pension Fund have been submitted to the United States Treasury Department and the United States Department of Labor for the approval and rulings satisfactory to the Employer, that said Plan is qualified under I.R.C. Section 401, et seq. and that no part of such payments shall be included in the regular rate of pay of any employee.
If, for any reason, the United States Treasury Department and the United States Department of Labor withholds approval and rulings satisfactory to the Employer, the parties to this Agreement hereto agree to negotiate other fringe benefits or wage increases in the amount equal to the cents per hour provided for in this Article for all hours worked at straight-time in lieu of payments into the Pension Fund.
The Employer shall be represented by its employees, or some other representative on the Board of Trustees administering such Pension Plan. A copy of the Trust Agreement and any amendments thereto shall be made a part hereto as if herein at length set forth, when adopted.
Section 118b. The Employer will direct its trustee to expedite the adoption of new prohibitive employment rules which restrict employment while drawing pension.
Section 118c. Pension Protection Act (“PPA”) The bargaining parties agree and understand the Employer may be obligated to make pension contributions in addition to the base contribution rate specified in the Employer Contributions Section. The amount of any such supplemental contribution shall be determined as follows:
i.	Alternate Schedule Contribution Rate: In the event the Trustees of the Plan adopt the Rehabilitation Plan Alternate Schedule attached hereto as Alternate Schedule, the Employer shall pay the contribution rate required in Alternate Schedule (modified only as provided herein) of one dollar and fifty one cents ($1.51) per hour effective January 1,2010 (on December hours) which includes the rate of eighty nine cents ($0.89) per hour described in the Employer Contribution section above and a supplemental contribution of sixty two cents ($0.62) per hour. In the event
37
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
the New Hire Benefit goes into effect as provided herein, then effective with hours worked after the adoption of such Benefit, the Employer shall pay a total of contribution rate of one dollar and sixty one cents ($1.61) per hour which reflects the sum of the contribution rate required in the Employer Contribution section, the supplemental contribution rate of this section and the new hire benefit contribution rate provided herein.
ii.	Default Schedule Contribution Rate: In the event the Trustees of the Plan do not adopt the Rehabilitation Plan Alternate Schedule, but instead adopt a legally valid “Default Schedule” within the meaning of the PPA, the Employer shall pay the contribution rate required under the Default Schedule effective January 1,2010 (on December hours); provided that in no event shall such contribution rate be payable prior to the effective date of all of the benefit adjustments required under the Default Schedule. For example, if the Default Schedule benefit adjustments do not become effective until the start of the Rehabilitation Period under the PPA, the Employer shall not be required to pay the Default Schedule contribution rates until that time.
If any required Default Schedule contribution rate exceeds the rate provided for under subsection (i) above, then each annual increase in the top pay rate provided for in this contract shall be permanently reduced by fifteen cents ($0.15) per hour, effective with the next scheduled pay rate increase following the Implementation of the Default Schedule contribution rate. The permanent reductions provided for herein shall continue year after year. It is understood that each annual top rate increase will be reduced until either sufficient reductions have occurred so as to equal the amount of the increase to the supplemental contribution rate of subsection (i) caused by the implementation of the Default Schedule or until the date on which the Employer implements contribution rates which are reduced to, or below, the contribution rates under subsection (i) above and in accordance with subsection (vii) below, whichever occurs first, but in no event shall any such wage reductions made be restored.
(iii)	Long Term Funding Policy Contribution Rates: In the event the Alternate Schedule in subsection (i) above and the Default Schedule in subsection (ii) above are not applicable during the term of this Agreement, but the Long Term Funding Policy is implemented, the Employer shall not be obligated to pay a supplemental contribution under any other provision of this Agreement, but shall continue to pay the base contribution specified in the Employer Contribution Section plus a supplemental contribution under this subsection (Hi) that shall not exceed sixty two cents ($0.62) per hour. This supplemental contribution shall be a contribution amount which as the same proportionate value relative to the value of the benefit adjustments under the Long Term Funding PoHcy as the value of the supplemental contribution of sixty two cents ($0.62) per hour under subsection (i) has to the value of the benefit adjustments under the Alternate Schedule. This approach shall be accomplished by utilizing the following formula: a) the present value of benefit adjustments under the Long Term Funding Policy, divided by b) the present value
38
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
of benefit adjustments under the Alternate Schedule, multiplied by c) the supplemental contribution of sixty two cents ($0.62) per hour under subsection (i). These calculations shall be made by the employer consultants and shall be final and binding on ail parties.
For example: If $5M is the present value of benefit adjustments under the Long Term Funding Policy and if $10M is the present value of benefit adjustments under the Alternate Schedule and sixty two cents ($0.62) per hour is the supplemental contribution under subsection (i), then the supplemental contribution under this subsection (iii) is $0.62 times $5M divided by $10M, or thirty one cents ($031) per hour.
(iv)	It is understood and agreed that the Employer may reduce the amount of any of the above supplemental contributions due the Trust (but not below zero) by the amount of any surcharge, deficiency or excise tax required to be paid by the Employer any time after entering Critical Status. The supplemental contribution provided for herein shall be dedicated solely to improving the funding of the Plan, and shall not be used to increase or improve benefits, and will be reduced or discontinued upon determination by the Plan’s Trustees, based on projections provided by the Plan’s actuaries, that such supplemental contribution are no longer needed to support the level of benefits provided for under the Plan in accordance with the provisions of subsection (vii) below.
(v)	As a result of the Plan’s having been certified as being in Critical Status for the Plan
Year beginning January 1,2009, the Trustees are authorized to adopt the Rehabilitation Plan Alternate Schedule attached as Alternate Schedule hereto (if they believe it is appropriate to do so). If the Alternate Schedule is adopted by the Trustees, it is hereby deemed approved by the bargaining parties and automatically incorporated into this Agreement
(vi)	In no event shall any contribution increases be required during the term of this Agreement as a result of any annual updates or other changes to the Rehabilitation Plan Alternate Schedule or, if applicable, to any Default Schedule.
(vii) In the event the Trustees determine, based on projections provided by the actuaries for the Plan, that, at any time during the term of this Agreement, an Alternate Schedule or Default Schedule with lesser contribution rates and/or benefit reductions would be sufficient to reasonably enable the Plan to emerge from Critical Status by the end of the Rehabilitation Period, the Trustees may amend the Alternate Schedule or Default Schedule in a manner that, to the extent possible, would restore reduced benefits and would reduce the Employer’s supplemental contribution in an equal manner and amount, based on actuarial equivalence, provided that such modifications to the Alternate Schedule or Default Schedule would still allow the Plan to emerge from Critical Status by the end of the Rehabilitation Period, taking into account to the extent legally permitted any relief available under IRC Section 431(d). In the event the Trustees amend the Alternate
39
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
Schedule or Default Schedule as provided in this subsection (vii), then the parties agree to adjust the supplemental contribution rates provided above to reflect the lower rates in the amended Alternate Schedule or Default Schedule. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if, prior to the effective date of any benefit cuts specified in the Alternate Schedule or the Default Schedule, the Trustees determine that (a) such benefit cuts are no longer required to avoid Critical Status or to have a valid Rehabilitation Plan, and (b) supplemental contributions could be reduced or eliminated, then the Employer supplemental contribution could be reduced or eliminated accordingly, and the Employer shall be further entitled to recoup the value of any supplemental contribution paid prior to the effective date of the benefit reductions et forth in the Alternate Schedule or Default Schedule. This provision shall apply regardless of the reason for the Trustees’ determination, including a change in the law (e.g. a further extension of the Plan’s green status) and/or improved investment returns. The value of the contributions shall be recouped via a suspension of contributions in an amount equal to the amount of the supplemental contribution paid.
(viii) The Board of Trustees is authorized to take all reasonable measures to cooperate and assist in achieving the objectives set forth in this section.
40
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
ALTERNATE SCHEDULE
Denver Area Meatcutters UFCW Unions and Employers Pension Fund Schedule of Contributions and Benefits
Rehabilitation Plan - 2009 Plan Year Alternate Schedule
Contribution and Benefit Adjustments
•	Total contribution rate of one dollar and fifty one cents ($1.51) per hour on January 1,2010 (December hours). All contributions are deemed to be inclusive of any surcharges, deficiency, and/or excise tax any time after entering Critical Status.
•	In the event the Board of Trustees adopts a New Hire benefit, the total contribution rate will increase to one dollar and sixty one cents ($1.61) per hour effective January 1,2010 or with the adoption of such benefit
•	Elimination of 100% of the value of all adjustable benefits on all accrued benefits and future benefit accruals to the maximum permitted by law, except as noted below. Adjustable benefits to be eliminated include the following:
—	Rule of 85 Pension;
—	Subsidized Early Retirement Reduction Factors;
—	Age 60 Supplement;
—	Post-Retirement Death Benefits in Excess of QJSA (including Three Year Certain & Life benefit and the Five Year Certain & Life benefit);
—	Pre-retirement Death Benefits in Excess of QPSA (including the $2,000 lump sum return of contributions death benefit);
—	Payment options other than Single Life Annuity and QJSA; and
—	All other adjustable benefits within the meaning of Code section 432(e)(8)(A)(iv) (other than Disability Pension and modified Rule of 80 Pension as described below).
• The following adjustable benefits shall be retained:
—	Disability Pension; and
—	Rule of 80 Pension, except that this benefit will be modified to require that a Participant must have attained age 55 at his Termination Date in order to be eligible
•	Reduction of future benefit accruals to $30 per month of credited service for credited service on or after January 1,2010.
41
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
•	Benefit reductions effective January 1,2010
Rehabilitation Period
January 1,2010 through December 31, 2022.
Plan to Emerge from the Red Zone and Annual Benchmarks to Assess Progress Toward Emergence
The Plan’s actuaries certify that the Contribution and Benefit Adjustments shown above are sufficient for the Plan to emerge from the Red Zone at the end of the Rehabilitation Period based on the funded status of the Plan as of January 1, 2009 before the addition of any New Hire benefits. In the event that the New Hire benefits are implemented, the Plan’s actuaries certify that with the additional contributions specifically designated to fund the New Hire benefits, the plan is still reasonably expected to emerge from Critical Status after such benefit increases, as shown in the annual benchmarks including the New Hire benefits.
These schedules will be updated as needed throughout the Rehabilitation Period. Progress toward emergence from the Red Zone will be measured by the Plan’s Funding Standard Account Credit (Deficiency) Balance being greater than (less than) the amounts in the following projections. These projections have been made in accordance with the provisions of the Pension Protection Act of 2006 including:
•	Contribution rates in accordance with the Collective Bargaining Agreement effective for hours worked in December 2009 payable in January 2010.
•	An assumption of the same number of contributable hours as reported for the actuarial valuation as of 1/1/2008. The reasonableness of this assumption has been verified by the Trustees.
•	No market related investment gains or losses from 9/30/2009 forward and no other actuarial gains or losses from 1/1/2009 forward.
42
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
ALTERNATE SCHEDULE
Denver Area Meatcutters UFCW Unions & Employers Pension Plan Annual Benchmarks for Emergence from the Red Zone
As of	Funding Standard Account Credit (Deficiency) Balance	Funding Standard Account Credit (Deficiency) Balance With New Hire Benefits
12/31/2010	$ 20,082,000	$	20,219,000
12/31/2011	22,099,000	22345,000
12/31/2012	21,184,000	21,514,000
12/31/2013	17344,000	17,735,000
12/31/2014	12,909,000	13340,000
12/31/2015	6,771,000	7,222,000
12/31/2016	1,174,000	1,624,000
12/31/2017	(2394,000)	(1,865,000)
12/31/2018	(3,510,000)	(3,122,000)
12/31/2019	(2,483,000)	(2,157,000)
12/31/2020	(1,808,000)	(1365,000)
12/31/2021	(1329,000)	(1,190,000)
12/31/2022	51,000	65,000
12/31/2023	783,000	648,000
12/31/2024	5395,000	5,090,000
12/31/2025	7,826,000	7,549,000
12/31/2026	12,275,000	12,019,000
43
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
ARTICLE 45 HEALTH AND WELFARE OR PENSION DELINQUENCIES
Section 119, If the Employer fails to make monthly health and welfare or pension contributions, as set forth herein, he shall be notified by Certified or Registered Mail of his delinquency, either by the Health and Welfare Administrator or the Pension Plan Administrator, and if said remittance is not paid within ten (10) days, notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement, the Union, without the necessity of giving any other or further notice shall have the right to strike or to take such action as it shall deem necessary until such delinquent payments are made. The Employer hereby waives the requirement of any other notice or notices being given by the Health and Welfare Administrator or the Pension Plan Administrator or by the Union to him or to anyone else other than such notice or notices expressly provided for in this Article.
ARTICLE 46 DISCHARGE AND NO DISCRIMINATION
Section 120. No employee shall be discharged without just and sufficient cause.
Section 121, The Employer hereby agrees not to discriminate against any employee or discharge him because of membership in the Union and/or for upholding Union principles. Employees may not wear buttons, patches or any other type of insignia while at work unless it is worn in connection with a recognized and Company sponsored promotion or is requested by the Store Director for business reasons. Each employee shall be allowed to wear one (1) Union button of normal size.
Section 122.	No employee shall be discharged or threatened for refusing to cross or work behind any primary picket line established by any labor organization at the Employer’s premises, nor shall the Union be deemed to be in violation of this Agreement if its members choose to honor any such picket line.
Section 123.	The Employer and the Union agree that each will fully comply with the applicable laws and regulations regarding discrimination against any employee, or applicant for employment, because of such person’s race, religion, color, national origin, sex, age or disability.
Section 124, No employee who because of his religion has conscientious objections to working on his Sabbath will be required to work his Sabbath as a condition of employment. If the rights of the employees under this paragraph operate in conflict with the seniority provisions contained elsewhere in this Agreement, the right of seniority shall prevail.
Section 125. Wherever the masculine gender is used in this Agreement, it shall be deemed to include the feminine gender.
Section 126. It is recognized that the Employer may sponsor donations to worthy charitable organizations of a non-political nature. However, no employee shall be told a specific amount he must contribute. There shall be no compulsion with regard to contributions.
44
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
ARTICLE 47 UNION REPRESENTATIVE VISITATION
Section 127, The President or the business representative of Local #7 shall have the right of entering the premises of the Employer for the purposes of interviewing employees, except such representatives shall not in any way interfere with or disrupt any employee’s production or ability to service customers. The said representatives shall make their presence known to the supervisory person in charge upon entering the premises. The Employer shall, upon the request of an authorized Union representative, furnish satisfactory evidence to ascertain whether employees are being paid in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. The Chief Executive Officer, or his Deputy, may inspect the dues books of employees during working hours. It shall be the Union Representative’s obligation at all times to gather any and all payroll, schedules and time card information relevant to a written grievance from the store itself. The Store Director shall provide this relevant information to the Union Representative within seventy-two (72) hours after the request (exclusive of Saturdays and Sundays).
ARTICLE 48 UNION STEWARD
Section 128. The Union shall have the right to designate one (1) Steward per store who shall perform their Steward duties in such a way as not to interfere with the service of the Employer. Such Stewards shall have top seniority for the purpose of layoff within their classification in that store. The designated representative of the Employer must be advised in writing by the Union of the name of the Steward in the store before the employee will be recognized as a Steward.
Section 129, Employee’s Right to Union Representation, When an employee is involved in a disciplinary interview where the probable result of such interview will be the imposition of disciplinary action, the employee may request Union representation.
Section 130.	The Employer shall schedule Union Stewards off without pay one (1) day per year for the purpose of attending a Union seminar. Schedules shall be arranged so that stewards will not suffer any loss in pay.
ARTICLE 49 GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
Section 131.	Should any dispute or complaint arise over the interpretation or application of this Agreement, there shall be an earnest effort on the part of the parties to settle such promptly through the following steps, and failure to follow the procedures set forth shall result in forfeiture of the grievance.
Section 132.	Step 1. By conference during scheduled working hours between the Steward, if requested by the employee or the Employer, and/or the Union’s Business Representative and/or the aggrieved employee and the designated Employer representative.
45
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
Section 133, Step 2, If the grievance cannot be satisfactory resolved under Step 1 above, the grievance shall be reduced to writing and submitted to the representative designated by the Employer to handle such matters. Such submission shall be made within twenty (20) days of the date of the occurrence of the event which gives rise to the grievance and shall clearly set forth the issues and contentions of the aggrieved party or parties and must reasonably allege a specific violation of an express provision of this Agreement. (In the case of a discharge the time limits shall be fourteen (14) days.) The Employer designee and the Union Business Representative shall meet within ten (10) days after receipt of written notice of the grievance and attempt to resolve the grievance. In the event the Employer designee assigned to handle the grievance does not have an office in the area where the grievance arises, this meeting may be discussed by phone; furthermore, the time limits of this meeting may be postponed by mutual agreement of the parties.
Within thirty (30) days of the Union’s receipt of a written response from the Company to the written grievance, the Union Representative and the grievant will contact the appropriate Company representative by conference telephone call.
In an instance where an employee feels he has not been paid in accordance with the wage progression scales set forth herein, such employee shall have an obligation to bring this to the attention of the Store Manager as soon as the employee first has knowledge of such alleged error. In the event the employee has been improperly paid, said payment error shall be corrected on a retroactive basis but not beyond ninety (90) days prior to the date on which the grievance is presented in writing.
Section 134. Sten 3, If the grievance is not satisfactorily adjusted in Step 2, either party may, with reasonable promptness, but in no event later than thirty (30) days from the date of Step 2 meeting, in writing, request arbitration and the other party shall be obliged to proceed with arbitration in the matter hereinafter provided. The parties shall forthwith attempt to agree upon an impartial arbitrator.
The parties agree to conduct quarterly grievance resolution meetings (alternating between the Company’s headquarters and the Union’s offices) for the purpose of attempting to resolve outstanding grievances between the parties. The parties will reach agreement on a hearing date for otherwise arbitrable grievances requested to be set for arbitration by the Union within 60 days of the Union’s request to set such a hearing day. The parties specifically agree that the actual hearing itself may occur outside of this 60-day period, but within six (6) months from the date the Union has requested such a hearing date. The parties can extend such deadlines by mutual agreement.
Section 135. In the event the parties are unable to reach agreement upon the selection of an arbitrator within fifteen (15) days of the written request for arbitration, the party requesting arbitration may, with reasonable promptness, request a panel of five (5) arbitrators from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. The parties shall agree upon at least two (2) additional geographical areas to submit to the FMCS for purposes of requesting panels of arbitrators. From this panel of five (5) names, each party shall alternately strike two (2) names, the moving party striking first. The remaining arbitrator from the list shall be the impartial
46
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
arbitrator. A finding or award of the arbitrator shall be final and conclusive upon the parties hereto.
Section 136. The arbitrator shall have all the rights, power, and duties herein given, granted and imposed upon him; but his award shall not change, alter or modify any of the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement. The parties specifically agree that the hearing shall be conducted in accordance with recognized, formal arbitration practices and procedures. The parties also agree that post hearing briefs shall be written and submitted to the arbitrator in all discharge and contract interpretation cases unless otherwise mutually agreed to by the parties. In those cases where the grievance is sustained, the Employer will pay the arbitration expenses. In those cases where the grievance is denied, the Union will pay the arbitration expenses. If the grievance is denied in part and sustained in part, the parties will share the expenses equally. The arbitrator will issue his decision within thirty (30) calendar days after the close of the proceedings. This thirty (30) day calendar time limit may be extended by mutual agreement between both parties.
Section 137, In the event either party refuses to arbitrate on demand of the other party and an order compelling arbitration is obtained in Federal Court on the basis contended by the moving party, the refusing party will pay to the moving party reasonable legal fees incurred, up to Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00). Similarly, if the moving party fails to prevail in such an issue, the moving party will pay reasonable legal fees incurred up to Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00) to the refusing party.
ARTICLE 50 NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
Section 138, During the life of this Agreement, there shall be no lockout, strike, picketing, boycotting, stoppage of work, anti-Company publicity, corporate campaign activity or other economic action of whatsoever nature against the Company.
It is understood that it shall be a violation of this Agreement for the Union or its agents to require its members to observe picket lines set up by any labor organization at the premises of the Employer.
It also is recognized that various monies from Local 7 are paid to UFCW International Union funds. The Local does not control such funds. Consequently, the UFCW International Union’s use of those funds for corporate campaign purposes will not be a violation of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 51 STORE OR PLANT CLOSING
Section 139. In the event the Employer closes or sells a store or plant and employees are terminated as a result thereof, such employees are entitled to pay equal one (1) week’s pay for each year of continuous service commencing with the third (3rd) year of continuous service up to, but not to exceed eight (8) weeks pay at their regular rate. However, those employees who
47
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
have an incomplete year of continuous service as an employee will receive pro rata severance pay for that year as follows:
0-3 months equals twenty-five (25%) of a week’s pay.
3-6 months equals fifty percent (50%) of a week’s pay.
6-9 months equals seventy-five percent (75%) of a week’s pay.
Over 9 months equals one week’s pay.
Severance pay shall be computed on the average hours worked per week for the fifty-two (52) weeks preceding a voluntary layoff or termination.
The Employer shall continue contributions to the Pension and Health and Welfare Trust Funds for three (3) full months following termination on an hourly basis in direct relationship to the severance pay received for those employees who secure employment with a contributing Employer in the Pension and Health and Welfare Trust Funds.
All monies due employees, including severance pay, shall be paid in a lump sum upon termination.
An employee who is terminated and who is eligible for severance pay, and accepts severance pay, forfeits his seniority and has no recall rights. However, an employee may elect to accept a voluntary layoff not to exceed ninety (90) days. At the end of the ninety (90) day period, if he has not been recalled, he will be paid severance pay and forfeit his seniority. Any extensions of this ninety (90) day period must be agreed upon in writing and signed by the employee, a representative of the Union and the Employer. In no case will such extension exceed a total of six (6) months from the date the employee accepted the layoff.
If an employee is offered a transfer or other employment with the Employer within forty (40) miles of the store or plant in which he was last working and he refuses to accept the transfer or other employment with the Employer he forfeits his rights to severance pay and Pension and Health and Welfare contributions.
If a store or plant is sold and the successor Employer offers employment to an employee who is otherwise eligible for severance pay under the terms of this Article and the new job is comparable, then no provisions of this Article shall apply.
The Employer agrees to give the employees and the Union four (4) weeks notice in advance of a store or plant closing or sale. When such notice is given, an employee shall remain with the Employer until the plant or store closes, or forfeit his rights under this Article, unless mutually agreed to by the employee, Employer and Union.
No benefits shall accrue under the terms of this Article unless the Employer makes a business decision to close or sell a store or plant. If a store or plant closing is caused by fire, flood, storm, land condemnation or remodeling, then this Article shall not apply.
48
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
In the event of a store or plant closing, employees shall be allowed to exercise their seniority under their respective layoff procedures.
ARTICLE 52
BULLETIN BOARD
Section 140. The Employer agrees to furnish a bulletin board for the use of the Union within each store. Material placed upon the bulletin board shall be restricted to the following type of notices:
a.	Notices of Union recreational and social affairs.
b.	Notices of Union elections, Union appointments, and the results of Union
elections.
c.	Notice of Union meetings.
The bulletin board is not to be used by the Union or its members for disseminating propaganda of any kind whatsoever, and among other things, it shall not be used for the posting of material of a political or controversial nature or for advertising purposes. Any document placed on the bulletin board must be signed by an officer or official representative of the Union.
ARTICLE 53 SHOP CARD
Section 141. The Union Shop Card is the property of the United Food and Commercial Workers, International Union, AFL-CIO, and is loaned to the Employers for display who sign and abide by this Agreement. The Shop Card may be removed from any market by the Chief Executive Officer of Local No. 7 or his deputy for any violation of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 54
UNIFORMS/EQUIPMENT
Section 142, The Employer agrees to furnish all linens or uniforms required by the Employer for use in the markets and delicatessen and to launder same, except for wash and wear garments. It is further provided that all handsaw frames and handsaw blades shall be furnished by the Employer. The employer will also furnish an oil stone in each market for the use of employees in sharpening all hand tools.
ARTICLE 55
SAVING CLAUSE
Section 143. If, during the terms of this Agreement, or during any renewal or extension of the same, any Federal or State Law is enacted, or any rule or regulation is issued under any Federal or State Law, which would make compliance by the Union, the Employer, employees, or any of them, with the terms, provisions or condition of this Agreement a violation of any of said laws, rules or regulations, then such terms, provisions or conditions shall become inoperative and of no effect from the effective date of any such law, regulation or rule. The remainder of this
49
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
Agreement not in conflict with any of said laws, rules or regulations shall continue in full force and effect.
In the event of any such terms, provisions or conditions becoming inoperative and of no effect, either party to this Agreement may open the same for bargaining only as to substitute provisions, if any, for those provisions made inoperative upon a thirty (30) day written notice to the other party.
It is specifically understood that the no-strike and no-lockout provision set forth elsewhere in this Agreement shall remain in effect throughout the term of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 56 REMEDY FOR ERRORS
Section 144. If an error is made by management in the application of the provisions of this Agreement resulting in a lost work opportunity for the aggrieved employee such as vendor stocking, scheduling and assignment of hours disputes (except for Section 88), classification issues, and work jurisdiction matters, and the affected employee immediately files a grievance with the union and Albertson’s Labor Relations Department, the employee shall be made whole by being permitted to work the number of hours lost. Such hours shall be above and beyond the posted schedule. The employee shall advise management anytime after the next schedule is finalized for the workweek of their desire to exercise their right to work the additional hours. An aggrieved employee may not demand such remedy on an overtime or premium pay basis if the alleged violation occurred on what would have been straight-time for such employee. The employee must exercise this right to work within four (4) weeks of the settlement of error with the employee or such right shall be forfeited and no further remedy shall be required. In the event of a subsequent violation in the same store of the same article within six (6) months of a previous violation, the employee shall be eligible for monetary damages.
50
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
ARTICLE 57
TERM OF AGREEMENT
Section 145. The parties acknowledge that during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement each had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or matter not removed by law from the area of collective bargaining, and that the understandings and agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement. Therefore, the Employer and the Union, for the life of this Agreement each voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right, and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter referred to or covered in this Agreement or with respect to any subject or matter not specifically referred to or covered in this Agreement even though such subject or matter may not have been within the knowledge or contemplation of either or both of the parties at the time that they negotiated or signed this Agreement
THIS AGREEMENT shall be in full force and effect from 12:01 a.m., May 10, 2009, and shall remain in full force and effect until midnight, September 14,2013, and shall automatically be renewed from year to year thereafter unless either party desires change or termination at the expiration of said Agreement. In such event the party desiring such change or termination shall notify the other party in writing sixty (60) days prior to the expiration date.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties above-named have signed their names and/or affixed the signatures of their authorized representatives this /Q day of fislliy/nyy, 2011.
ALBERTSON’S, LLC.
UFCW LOCAL NO. 7 DENVER, COLORADO, Chartered by the UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
By:
Andrew Scoggin
Senior Vice President, Labor Relations
& Human Resources
President
51
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 0S/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
COST OF LIVING
Effective May 4, 1986, there shall be a cost-of-living allowance based on the increase in the revised Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers, published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor (1967=100) between March, 1985 and March, 1986. For hourly rated employees covered by this Agreement, there shall be a one cent (10) per hour adjustment for each hill .4 point increase in that Index which exceeds an increase of five point five percent (5.5%) in the Index during the period between March, 1985 and March, 1986. It is understood that if the rates of pay for the classification are less than the Joumeyperson Meatcutter rate, such classification shall receive the same percentage increase in the cost-of-living as the Joumeyperson Meatcutter.
52
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
RETAIL MEAT AGREEMENT
APPENDIX “A”
(Denver, Colorado)
The minimum hourly rates of pay for the indicated classifications shall be as set forth below on the dates indicated. The Employer may hire any employee at any rate in the progression schedule at its sole discretion.
Rate Determination
Employees hired before May 1,2005 who remain in their classification after commencement of this Agreement shall be paid in accordance with the “Employees Hired and Assigned in the Bargaining Unit Prior to 5/1/05” wage schedule while they remain in that classification.
Demotions, Step Downs and layoffs:
An employee who is demoted, steps down, or who is laid off in accordance with this Agreement, shall be placed back in the same wage schedule in which the employee was working immediately prior to their assignment into management or promotion into the classification from which they are being demoted, stepping down or laid off. In determining the proper progression level for an employee demoted, stepping down, or laid off from a classification with a higher “thereafter” hourly rate to a classification with a lower “thereafter” hourly rate, such affected employee shall be placed in the appropriate progression level in the rate schedule referenced in this paragraph based on their experience in the newly assigned classification, regardless of whether such assigned rate results in a reduction in hourly rate. In determining prior experience hereunder, the Employer will give recognition to the verified number of hours of actual work experience in the same classification which said employee may have performed for the Employer and the verified number of hours of actual work experience on a comparable job which said employee may have performed within the previous five (5) years for any other employer in a similar retail grocery operation.
Promotions, new hires and new entrants into the bargaining unit:
Employees hired into, or assigned to, or promoted to a different classification in the bargaining unit on or after May 1,2005 shall be assigned to the “Employees Hired into the Bargaining Unit or assigned or promoted on or after 5/1/05” wage scale. Employees who are promoted to a different classification after April 30,2005 shall not receive a reduction in their hourly rate of pay if when promoted to such classification they are being paid an hourly rate of pay greater than the minimum, unless they are above the “thereafter” hourly rate in which case they will immediately be paid the “thereafter” hourly rate. When such employee is paid less than the “thereafter” hourly rate, prior to receiving an increase in their hourly rate of pay, they must work 1,040 hours at their current rate before promotion to the hourly rate in the new classification that would give them an increase in their hourly rate of pay.
53
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
Wages
Employees Hired and assigned in the Bargaining Unit Prior to 5/1/05	September 9. 2007	First Sunday	September	September	September
		after Ratification	12.2010	11,2011	9,2012
Meatcutter					
1st 1040 Hours	$11.30	$11.30	$11.30	$11.30	$11.30
2nd 1040 Hours	$12.36	$12.36	$12.36	$12.36	$12.36
3rd 1040 Hours	$13.23	$13.23	$13.23	$13.23	$13.23
4th 1040 Hours	$14.12	$14.12	$14.12	$14.12	$14.12
5 th 1040 Hours	$14.99	$14.99	$14.99	$14.99	$14.99
6th 1040 Hours	$15.89	$15.89	$15.89	$15.89	$15.89
Joumeyperson	$18.25	$18.55	$18.80	$19.05	$1930
					
Butcher Block Clerk					
1st 960 Hours	$8.39	$8.39	$8.39	$8.39	$8.39
2nd 960 Hours	$8.64	$8.64	$8.64	$8.64	$8.64
3rd 960 Hours	$9.45	$9.45	$9.45	$9.45	$9.45
4th 960 Hours	$10.89	$10.89	$10.89	$10.89	$10.89
5th 960 Hours	$12.36	$12.36	$12.36	$12.36	$12.36
Thereafter	$15.15	$15.45	$15.70	$15.95	$16.20
					
Service Deli Clerk					
1“ 1040 Hours	$7.29	$7.29	$7.29	$7.29	$7.29
2nd 1040 Hours	$8.63	$8.63	$8.63	$8.63	$8.63
3rd 1040 Hours	$9.97	$9.97	$9.97	$9.97	$9.97
4th 1040 Hours	$11.29	$11.29	$11.29	$11.29	$11.29
Thereafter	$13.87	$14.17	$14.42	$14.67	$14.92
					
Meat Wrapper					
1st 960 Hours	$8.64	$8.64	$8.64	$8.64	$8.64
2nd 960 Hours	$9.45	$9.45	$9.45	$9.45	$9.45
3rd 960 Hours	$10.89	$10.89	$10.89	$10.89	$10.89
4th 960 Hours	$12.36	$12.36	$12.36	$12.36	$12.36
Thereafter	$15.15	$15.45	$15.70	$15.95	$16.20
					
Meat Clean Up					
1st 520 Hours	$6.91	$6.91	$6.91	$6.91	$6.91
2nd 520 Hours	$7.36	$7.36	$7.36	$7.36	$7.36
Thereafter	$8.24	$8.54	$8.79	$9.04	$9.29
					
Meat Manager	$18.63	$18.93	$19.18	$19.43	$19.68
First Cutter	$18.38	$18.68	$18.93	$19.18	$19.43
Deli Manager	$18.25	$18.55	$18.80	$19.05	$19.30
54
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
Butcher Block Supervisor	$16.55	$16.85	$17.10	$17.35	$17.60
Employees Hired into the Bargaining Unit or assigned or promoted on or after 5/1/05	September 9, 2007	First Sunday after Ratification	September 12,2010	September 11,2011	September 9,2012
Meatcutter					
1st 1040 Hours	$10.65	$10.65	$10.65	$10.65	$10.65
Next 1040 Hours	$11.15	$11.15	$11.15	$11.15	$11.15
Next 1040 Hours	$11.30	$11.30	$11.30	$11.30	$11.30
Next 1040 Hours	$12.36	$12.36	$12.36	$12.36	$12.36
Next 1040 Hours	$13.23	$13.23	$13.23	$13.23	$13.23
Next 1040 Hours	$14.12	$14.12	$14.12	$14.12	$14.12
Next 1040 Hours	$15.01	$15.01	$15.01	$15.01	$15.01
Next 520 Hours	$15.89	$15.89	$15.89	$15.89	$15.89
Thereafter	$18.25	$18.55	$18.80	$19.05	$1930
					
Butcher Block Clerk					
1st 1040 Hours	$8.39	$8.39	$8.39	$8.39	$8.39
Next 1040 Hours	$8.64	$8.64	$8.64	$8.64	$8.64
Next 1040 Hours	$8.89	$8.89	$8.89	$8.89	$8.89
Next 1040 Hours	$9.14	$9.14	$9.14	$9.14	$9.14
Next 1040 Hours	$9.39	$9.39	$9.39	$9.39	$9.39
Next 1040 Hours	$9.69	$9.69	$9.69	$9.69	$9.69
Next 1040 Hours	$10.13	$10.13	$10.13	$10.13	$10.13
Next 520 Hours	$12.36	$12.36	$12.36	$12.36	$12.36
Thereafter	$15.15	$15.45	$15.70	$15.95	$16.20
					
Service Deli Clerk					
1st 1040 Hours	$8.09	$8.09	$8.09	$8.09	$8.09
Next 1040 Hours	$8.39	$8.39	$8.39	$8.39	$8.39
Next 1040 Hours	$8.64	$8.64	$8.64	$8.64	$8.64
Next 1040 Hours	$8.89	$8.89	$8.89	$8.89	$8.89
Next 1040 Hours	$9.14	$9.14	$9.14	$9.14	$9.14
Next 1040 Hours	$9.69	$9.69	$9.69	$9.69	$9.69
Next 1040 Hours	$10.13	$10.13	$10.13	$10.13	$10.13
Next 520 Hours	$11.28	$11.28	$11.28	$11.28	$11.28
Thereafter	$13.87	$14.17	$14.42	$14.67	$14.92
					
Meat Wrapper					
1st 1040 Hours	$8.39	$8.39	$8.39	$8.39	$8.39
Next 1040 Hours	$8.64	$8.64	$8.64	$8.64	$8.64
Next 1040 Hours	$8.89	$8.89	$8.89	$8.89	$8.89
55
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
Next 1040 Hours	$9.14	$9.14	$9.14	$9.14	$9.14
Next 1040 Hours	$9.39	$9.39	$9.39	$9.39	$9.39
Next 1040 Hours	$9.69	$9.69	$9.69	$9.69	$9.69
Next 1040 Hours	$10.13	$10.13	$10.13	$10.13	$10.13
Next 520 Hours	$12.36	$12.36	$12.36	$12.36	$12.36
Thereafter	$15.15	$15.45	$15.70	$15.95	$16.20
					
Meat Clean Up					
1st 520 Hours	$7.01	$7.01	$7.01	$7.01	$7.01
2nd 520 Hours	$7.51	$7.51	$7.51	$7.51	$7.51
Thereafter	$8.49	$8.79	$9.04	$9.29	$9.54
					
Meat Manager	$18.63	$18.93	$19.18	$19.43	$19.68
First Cutter	$18.38	$18.68	$18.93	$19.18	$19.43
Deli Manager	$18.25	$18.55	$18.80	$19.05	$1930
Butcher Block Supervisor	$16.55	$16.85	$17.10	$1735	$17.60
Effective not later than the second Sunday following ratification, all employees who have been continuously employed for one consecutive year, to the date of ratification, shall receive a gift card (net of taxes) equal to $1,000 for top rate FT employees, $500 for top rate PT employees and $400 for employees in wage progression.
Payroll checks will be provided to the workers in an envelope from the Employer that can be reused by the Employer (employees must return the envelope to the Employer immediately after having received their payroll checks).
56
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
APPENDIX “B”
Based on the Union’s commitment that Safeway and King Soopers will continue to pay an hourly bonus as they have in the past, Albertson’s will pay an additional fifteen cents (150) [five cents (050) for meat clean-up], payable on all hours worked each fiscal quarter to employees employed throughout the entire fiscal quarter and within thirty (30) days of the end of the quarter. Albertson’s LLC will pay the hourly bonus on hours paid for the duration of this agreement.
Converted $.20 of prior contract quarterly bonus to current pension contribution.
57
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
RETAIL MEAT AGREEMENT
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING SAFETY COMMITTEE
Letter of Understanding made by and between ALBERTSON’S, LLC. and UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION LOCAL NO. 7.
The Company and the Union will establish a Safety Committee made up of two (2) representatives of the Company and two (2) representatives of the Union and five (5) independent employee representatives. The purpose of the Committee shall be to exchange information regarding any and all work-place hazards. The Committee will meet in July, 1990, and one other time in 1990. Thereafter, the Committee shall meet twice each year. The parties to this Agreement may exchange safety information between meetings as needed. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to create an arbitrable issue, nor shall the Committee have the authority to alter the Collective Bargaining Agreement in any fashion. The Company will order checkstand floor mats for its stores. This Agreement shall not be construed to ascribe to the Union any increased liability.
Signed /Q day of ffchrUflry____________, 2011*
ALBERTSON’S, LLC.
UFCW LOCAL NO. 7 DENVER, COLORADO, Chartered by the UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
By:
Andrew Scoggin
Senior Vice President, Labor Relations
& Human Resources
President
58
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
RETAIL MEAT AGREEMENT
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING TRANSFERRED EMPLOYEES-SENIORITY
Letter of Understanding made by and between ALBERTSON’S, LLC., and UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL NO. 7.
An Albertson’s employee transferring from one bargaining unit to another within Local No. 7’s jurisdiction shall retain his seniority based on his most-recent date of hire with the Company anywhere.
An Albertson’s employee transferring into a bargaining unit represented by Local No. 7 from a bargaining unit not represented by Local No. 7 will not have seniority for the first thirty (30) days of employment. After thirty (30) days of employment within said bargaining unit, the employee’s seniority will be his most recent date of hire with the Company anywhere.
It is understood and agreed that an employee can transfer into the new said bargaining unit provided such employee does not bump another employee from his job or take hours being worked by another employee.
Signed IQ day of February
2011.
ALBERTSON’S, LLC.
UFCW LOCAL NO. 7 DENVER, COLORADO.
Chartered by the UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
By:
Andrew Scoggin
Senior Vice President, Labor Relations
& Human Resources
Kim Cordova President
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
RETAIL MEAT AGREEMENT LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RETAIL MEAT PRACTICES
Albertson’s, LLC. (“Employer”) and Local No. 7, United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, CLC (“Union”) are parties to a Labor Agreement which has as its terms 12:01 a.m., May 10, 2009, through September 14, 2013.
During the course of the negotiations of said Labor Agreement, the parties agree that despite any language in the Labor Agreement which may appear to be contradictory, the Employer may engage in practices set forth below:
1.	Buying trimmed beef consisting of front quarters and hind quarters without brisket, navel, flank,
and kidneys.
2.	Buying primal cuts as follows: Chuck Packinghouse Rib Full Loin Round
3.	Buying supplemental items and retail cuts as follows: Flank Steaks Brains Hearts Tails
Blocked, Skinned and/or sliced Livers
Trepas
Tripe
Tongues
4.	Buying beef in the following forms:
(a)	Forequarter: Blade Chuck Arm Chuck Boneless Chuck Boneless 3-Way Chucks Boneless Chucks Netted or Tied Chuck Tenders 4x3 Primal Rib Boneless Rib Eye 2” Lip or Rib Boneless Rolled and Tied Clods Boneless Briskets Inside Skirts Outside Skirts Cube Meat - All Types Stew Beef - All Types
Any type wholesale Short Ribs, BBQ Clod, Prime, Flanker, etc.
60
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
(b)	All types of coarse and fine grind ground meats including: Beef Patties.
(c)	Hindquarters:
Whole Boneless Rounds
Gooseneck Rounds
Inside Rounds
Eye of Round
Boneless Bottom (Flat)
Regular Knuckles
Peeled Knuckles
Whole Tenderloins
Tenderloin Butts
Boneless Top Loin Strip-NY
Bone-In Strip Loin (1x1)
Hanging Tenders
(d)	All Corned, Pickled, and/or Smoked Beef Items.
(e)	All Frozen Beef Items.
5.	Buying the following prepackaged meat products:
Tray pack Ground Pork
Tray pack Chorizo Sausage
Ground Meat Chub
Caninos Bulk Sausage and Patties
Italian Sausage Crumbles
All cuts whole Primal Beef in Cryovac bag
Bar-B-Q Beef Back Ribs
All types — Pork Spareribs
All types — Center Cut Boneless Pork Loin
Cryovac bag Shoulder Picnic Roast
Cryovac bag Whole Pork Leg
Cryovac Marinated Beef Roasts
Marinated Pork Shoulder Roast
Pre-cooked Baby Backribs
Advance Cooked & Breaded Patties - all
Smoked Pork Chops
Tray pack Country Sausage Tray pack Italian Sausage Italian Link Sausage and Patties Italian Meatballs Breakfast Link Sausage All types -- Bratwurst All types -- Pork Baby Back Ribs All types -- Pork Tenderloins Boneless Whole Pork Loin Cryovac bag Shoulder Butt Roast Marinated Pork Chops Marinated Tri-tip Roasts Pre-cooked Beef Baqkribs Fully cooked sliced Meats Bucket Beef Liver Side Pork
6.	Buying any and all cuts of meats (including prepackaged beef and pork products other than those listed in paragraph 5) which at any time during the life of this Agreement are offered for sale in 10% or more of the retail meat departments in the geographic area covered by the Labor Agreement referred to above and which are covered by labor agreements with the Union.
7.	The foregoing Paragraph 6 shall not apply if the Employer establishes a meat plant for the production of retail cuts within the geographic jurisdiction of the Union.
8.	In consideration of the foregoing, the Employer agrees, with respect to paragraphs 1-4 above, that no employee employed by it on May 1, 1980, covered by the labor agreement referred to above, shall have his or her present regular weekly hours of work of up to forty (40) hours per week reduced as a
61
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
direct result of any changes in the buying practices contained therein. In addition, the Employer agrees, with respect to paragraph 6 above, that no employee employed by it on August 11, 1996, covered by the labor agreement referred to above, shall be laid off or have his or her present regular weekly hours of work of up to forty (40) hours per week reduced as a direct result of any changes in the buying practices contained therein. “Present regular weekly hours of work” shall be defined as the average weekly hours worked during the 1 year period before May 11,1996.
9.	The parties recognize and agree that this Letter of Understanding shall not restrict in any way the Company’s ability to lay off or reduce the hours of employees described in paragraph 8 for legitimate business reasons. In the event that an employee alleges his/her layoff or reduction in hours is the direct result of the Company’s introduction and sale of new prepackaged beef or pork items, the President of the Union and a representative of the Employer’s Labor Relations Department will meet and discuss the employee’s concerns. If the layoff or reduction in hours is based on business reasons other than the sale of new prepackaged items, the Employer will provide evidence of the business reasons. If the union can demonstrate that there is no other legitimate business reason for the layoff/reduction, the union may then proceed to file a grievance claiming that the layofl/reduction is the direct result of the Company’s sale of new prepackaged beef or pork items in accordance with the procedures specified in Article 49 of the Labor Agreement. It is expressly understood that the guarantee provided for in paragraph 8 above shall be applied on an individual store basis and may only become effective upon a showing in an individual store that specific work is no longer being performed in the store’s meat department due to the Company’s purchase from an outside source of a similar pre-cut, prepackaged item other than those listed in paragraph 5 above.
Signed this /Q day of Uhruary_______________• 2011.
ALBERTSON’S, LLC.	UFCW LOCAL NO. 7 DENVER, COLORADO,
Chartered by the UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
By:
Andrew Scoggin
Senior Vice President, Labor Relations
& Human Resources
President
62
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
RETAIL MEAT AGREEMENT
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NEW STORE CROSS CHECKS
Letter of Understanding made by and between ALBERTSON’S, LLC. and UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION LOCAL NO. 7.
Should the Union demonstrate its majority representative status of the Clerks unit as defined in the foregoing Agreement at any new Employer conventional store within the Denver metropolitan area through a cross-check of authorization cards, the terms and conditions applicable to these employees will be identical to the other Employer Denver conventional stores as set forth in the Agreement and the Employer will include such new unit in the Denver metropolitan area conventional stores bargaining unit effective the first (1st) day of the month following the month in which the Union’s majority status is established.
Signed this ID day of February, 2011.
ALBERTSON’S, LLC.
Andrew Scoggin
Senior Vice President, Labor Relations & Human Resources
UFCW LOCAL NO. 7, DENVER, COLORADO, Chartered by the UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
By:
Kim Coj^ova President
63
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
RETAIL MEAT AGREEMENT
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING AMICABLE RELATIONSHIP/ADR
Letter of Understanding made by and between ALBERTSON’S, LLC. and UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION LOCAL NO. 7 regarding the withdrawal of certain grievances as follows:
As evidence of a good faith working relationship between UFCW Local 7 and Albertson’s, and for the purpose of encouraging Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR), Local 7 agrees to counsel any employee with a complaint(s) and/or allegation(s) of illegal employment discrimination or violation of other state or federal law of Local 7’s policy to address and resolve such issues through utilization of the collective bargaining agreement’s grievance process. Local 7 will counsel any employee with such a complaint that the employee also may have rights under applicable civil rights and/or other laws enforced by state and federal agencies and that the employee can exercise his/her discretion to utilize either, or both, processes.
Signed this |Q day of
, 2011.
ALBERTSON’S, LLC.
UFCW LOCAL NO. 7, DENVER, COLORADO, Chartered by the UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
By:
Andrew Scoggin
Senior Vice President, Labor Relations
& Human Resources
Kim Cordova President
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
RETAIL MEAT AGREEMENT
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING EMPLOYEE BUY OUT
The Employer, at its discretion, may establish a buyout program as follows:
1.	Employees with ten (10) or more years of service who elect this buyout by a date determined by the Employer and who work through their release date.
9	$500 per year of service - Part-time employees
•	$ 1,000 per year of service - Full-time employees
2.	Employer retains the right upon notification to the Union to:
•	establish offer dates and release dates
•	terminate or extend the program
•	require employees to sign a waiver and release
•	limit the maximum payout under this program to any employee to 20 years of service
3.	The employer may limit, by bargaining unit, the number of employees who can take this buyout at each store or facility. If more employees elect than permitted - Go by seniority.
4.	Program not subject to Grievance and Arbitration Procedure
Signed this
of februflry.
3 2011.
ALBERTSON’S, LLC.
UFCW LOCAL NO. 7, DENVER, COLORADO, Chartered by the UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
Andrew Scoggin
Senior Vice President, Labor Relations
& Human Resources
65
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010
RETAIL MEAT AGREEMENT
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING ABC CHECKOFF (2002)
The Employer agrees to deduct amounts designated by employees for the Active Ballot Club (“ABC’9 when the Employer has been furnished an individual written authorization for making such deductions on a form mutually agreed upon between the Employer and the Union. It is agreed that the ABC authorization is to be entirely voluntary upon the part of each individual employee and that any such employee may revoke his ABC check off authorization upon giving thirty (30) days written notice to the Employer and the Union.
Signed this
iq_ day of febmry , 2011.
ALBERTSON’S, LLC.
UFCW LOCAL NO. 7, DENVER, COLORADO, Chartered by the UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
By:
Andrew Scoggin
Senior Vice President, Labor Relations
& Human Resources
Kim Cofdovsr President
66
Denver Meat Contract
Term: 05/10/09 TO 09/14/13
Ratification Date 1/28/2010