
AGREEMENT
Between
DARLING NATIONAL L.L.C. (Edible Plant)

Effective January 17, 2010 to January 16, 2013
and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS, LOCAL NO. 7, AFL-CIO
and
OPERATING ENGINEERS LOCAL UNION 1
THE OFFICES OF LOCAL 7 ARE LOCATED IN THE
UFCW BUILDING
7760 West 38th Avenue, Suite 400 Wheat Ridge, Colorado 80033-9982
Telephone - 303-425-0897 Toll Free - 1-800-854-7054
Website: www.ufcw7.org
If you should have any questions or wish to file a grievance, contact your Union Representative or come to the Local Union office.
MEMBERS’ OATH & OBLIGATION:
I, (your name), pledge to uphold Union principles, to support and participate in the endeavors of this Union. I promise to conduct myself in a manner that will reflect credit upon this organization.
Nil II
’ a VOICE for working,America
Kim C. Cordova, President Cindy Lucero, Secretary-Treasurer
AGREEMENT Between DARLING NATIONAL L.L.C and UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS LOCAL UNION 7 and OPERATING ENGINEERS LOCAL UNION 1
EFFECTIVE: January 17, 2010 to January 16, 2013
CONTENTS
Article	Title	Page
Agreement.............................................................1
Article 1	Recognition............................................................1
Article 2	Successors.............................................................2
Article 3	Union Shop.............................................................2
Article 4	Check Off..............................................................2
Article 5	Management.............................................................4
Article 6	Reporting For Work............i........................................4
Article 7	Call Back..............................................................4
Article 8	Hours Of Work - Overtime...............................................4
Article 9	Holidays...............................................................6
Article 10	Guaranteed Work........................................................7
Article 11	Rest Periods...........................................................8
Article 12	Seniority..............................................................8
Article 13	Plant Visitation......................................................14
Article 14	Vacations.............................................................14
Article 15	Wage Scales...........................................................16
Article 16	Dishcharge............................................................16
Article 17	Grievance And Arbitration.............................................17
Article 18	Hospital, Surgical, Weekly Indemnity And
Life Insurance.......................................................18
Article 19	Leave Of Absence......................................................18
Article 20	Pay Check.............................................................19
Article 21	Bulletin Board........................................................19
Article 22	Equipment.............................................................19
Article 23	Funeral Leave.........................................................19
Article 24	Jury Duty.............................................................20
Article 25	Night Premium.........................................................21
Article 26	First Aid.............................................................21
Article 27	Lunch Period..........................................................21
Article 28	No Discrimination.....................................................21
Article 29	Picket Line...........................................................21
Article 30	Savings Clause....................................................... 22
Article 31	Contracting Out Maintenance Work......................................22
Article 32	Term Of Agreement.....................................................22
Appendix "A"	Wage Scales.........................................A-l
Appendix "B"	Health Benefit Program..............................B-l
Appendix "C"	Pension Plan........................................C-l
Letter Of Understanding.............................................D-l
Letter of Understanding.............................................D-2
AGREEMENT
Between
DARLING NATIONAL L.L.C. (Edible Plant) and UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS LOCAL UNION 7 and
OPERATING ENGINEERS LOCAL UNION 1
EFFECTIVE: January 17, 2010 to January 16, 2013
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT, by and between DARLING NATIONAL L.L.C, 5800 York Street, Denver, Colorado, hereinafter referred to as the “Company”, and LOCAL UNION 7 of the UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS, AFL-CIO, LOCAL 1 of the INTERNATIONAL UNION OF OPERATING ENGINEERS, hereinafter referred to as the ’’Union”.
ARTICLE 1
RECOGNITION. The Company recognizes the Unions, United Food and Commercial Workers Local 7, and Operating Engineers Local 1 as the sole collective bargaining agents for all employees, including engineers, but EXCLUDING truck drivers, office and clerical employees, professional employees, salesmen, guards and supervisors employed at the Company's plant located at 5800 York Street, Denver, Colorado.
ARTICLE 2
SUCCESSORS. It is expressly understood and agreed that this Agreement shall be binding upon the Company and Union. In the event the Company sells or leases its business, all terms and conditions of said labor Agreement shall be assumed by the purchaser of the business.
ARTICLE 3
UNION SHOP. All present employees covered by this Agreement and coming under the jurisdiction of the Union, as set forth in the Recognition Clause, Article 1, shall, as a condition of employment, become members of the Union on the thirty-first day (31 st) following the date of their last employment, and shall remain members in good standing during the term of this Agreement. All new employees covered by this Agreement and coming under the jurisdiction of the Union, as set forth in the Recognition Clause, Article 1, shall, as a condition of employment, become members of the Union on the thirty-first (31st) day following the date of their last employment and shall remain members in good standing during the term of this Agreement. "Good standing," for the purpose of this Agreement, is interpreted to mean the payment or tendering of initiation fees and periodic Union dues.
Those employees who maintain a non-member status or change their status to a nonmember status and are covered by the terms of this Agreement shall be required to pay, as a condition of employment, an initial service fee (unless an initiation fee has already been paid), and monthly (or otherwise) service fees in an amount not to exceed the amount of full member initiation fees and monthly dues to the Union for the purpose of aiding the Union in defraying costs in connection with the Union's obligations and responsibilities as the exclusive bargaining agent of the bargaining unit herein.
ARTICLE 4
CHECK OFF. The Company agrees, during the life of this Agreement, to deduct from the net earnings due an employee on each pay period the weekly dues only on a check-off authorization form as outlined below. Said authorization must be properly executed by the
2
employee and presented to and accepted by the Company. All provisions contained in said form are agreed to by the Company and the Union and made a part of this Agreement.
The Company agrees to remit such deduction to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union ten (10) days after the first pay period of each month. Upon written notice from the Union that an employee is thirty (30) days in arrears in the payment of his Union dues, the Company will discharge the employee unless within fifteen (15) days from the date of said written notice said employee shall pay and fully discharge his indebtedness to the Union. The Union agrees to indemnify and save harmless the Company from any payment the Company may be required to make in favor of any employee whose employment is terminated pursuant to any such request.
VOLUNTARY CHECK-OFF FORM
_________________20_
I hereby certify that Local No._______________________is my designated
collective bargaining representative and 1 hereby voluntarily authorize and direct to deduct from any earnings due me on the pay period in each month
my initiation fee and monthly union dues in such sums as may be established from time to time by said Local Union in accordance with the Constitution and laws of the Union and applicable provisions of State and Federal laws, and pay same to said Union. This authorization may be revoked by me at any time upon thirty (30) days' written notice to the Company and the Union, or upon termination of my employment.
This authorization shall be subject to any limitation required by law or regulation of any authorized governmental agency.
Employee
ACCEPTED:
________________________________________________(Company)
By__________________________________________________________
(Not valid until signature checked and authorization accepted by the Company.)
3
ARTICLE 5
MANAGEMENT. The management of the plant and the direction of the working forces, including the right to hire, suspend or discharge for proper cause, or transfer and the right to relieve employees from duty because of lack of work or for other legitimate reasons is vested exclusively in the Company.
ARTICLE 6
REPORTING FOR WORK. Whenever employees are scheduled to work or have been notified to report for work, and upon arrival at the plant, find no work available, such employees shall be paid for four (4) hours at the hourly rate for their job. If the employees begin work, or work less than four (4) hours, through no fault of their own, such employees shall be paid for a minimum of four (4) hours.
The above provisions shall not apply when work is not available by reason of an Act of God or circumstances beyond the control of the Company.
ARTICLE 7
CALL BACK. Any employee who has completed his work and has left the plant premises and is, after having left the plant premises, called to perform work within twenty-four (24) hours from his regular start of such day's work, shall be paid for all time worked pursuant to such recall at time and one-half (1 ’/t) his regular rate and will be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours at time and one-half (1 '/i) his regular rate.
ARTICLE 8
HOURS OF WORK - OVERTIME. Overtime at the rate of time and one-half (1 Vi) the employee’s base hourly rate of pay for their classification of work shall be paid under the following conditions:
(a)	For all hours worked in excess of the forty (40) hours per week exclusive of the lunch periods.
(b)	For all hours worked in a day in excess of eight (8) hours, exclusive of lunch periods.
4
Time and one-half (1 ‘/i) the employee's base hourly rate of pay for their classification of work shall be paid for all Saturday and/or Sunday work providing the employee has worked all available hours during the work week, except in the event an employee is off due to a bona fide illness or an excused absence. This does not include personal time off.
It is understood and agreed, however, that overtime penalties will not be paid twice for daily and weekly overtime hours worked.
Employees must give the Company at least twenty-four (24) hours' notice that they will not be able to work any overtime the next day should the Company determine that overtime must be worked.
Employees shall be notified by 12:00 noon on Friday when the Company schedules Saturday and/or Sunday as a work day. Notification shall be by posting in the employees' lunch and break areas.
All regular full-time employees shall be given the opportunity to work on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays prior to the employment of probationary or part-time employees. Overtime shall be offered in order of seniority, by job classification, for overtime work on Saturday, Sunday and Holidays, provided the employee is qualified to perform the job. It is further understood and agreed that all regular full-time employees shall be given the opportunity to work all available hours during the work week prior to the employment of probationary or part-time employees.
If a sufficient number of employees do not accept the overtime by seniority, the Company can require junior employees who are qualified to do the work. For purposes of equalization of overtime, an employee who turns down overtime shall be considered as having worked for equalization purposes.
Starting times will be established by the Company. Once established on Monday, the starting time will not change for the week, except in the case of emergency, acts of God, or other conditions beyond the control of the Company.
5
ARTICLE 9
HOLIDAYS. The following days are recognized as holidays under this Agreement: New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, and two (2) personal holidays. The named holidays shall be celebrated in accordance with the day designated by the Federal government, or otherwise designated by the majority of the major packers in the Denver Area. Personal holidays shall be taken with seven (7) days advance written notice to management and approval in writing. To the extent possible, employees may schedule their personal holidays on consecutive days.
All employees covered by this Agreement shall receive eight (8) hours' compensation at their straight-time hourly rate of pay for unworked holidays above mentioned, including holidays occurring on Saturday.
Employees laid off for lack of work the week prior to the holiday week and recalled during the holiday week will receive holiday pay.
In the event that any of the above-mentioned holidays should fall on Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed as the official holiday. Holidays which fall on Saturday shall be celebrated on the preceding Friday.
Absence without leave or through claimed sickness which has not been confirmed by a reputable physician on the regularly scheduled workday preceding and the day immediately following any of the above-mentioned holidays will result in cancellation of holiday pay.
Employees who work on Memorial Day will be compensated for hours worked at time and one-half (1 'i) their hourly rate of pay in addition to the eight (8) hours' compensation at the straight-time rate which the employee shall receive for an unworked holiday.
Employees who work on New Year's Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day will be compensated for hours worked at double time (2X) their hourly rate of pay in addition to the eight (8) hours' compensation at their straight-time rate which the employee shall receive for an unworked holiday.
6
Employees who are absent because of illness or injury and who are receiving compensation under the Workmens' Compensation Act or weekly indemnity under the Weekly Indemnity provision of this Agreement will be considered as working. The Company will pay the difference between what the employee receives under Workmens' Compensation and/or under the Weekly Indemnity provision. In no case will an employee receive more than eight (8) hours' pay at his straight-time rate for any holiday.
Hours paid for but not worked on a holiday, except holidays occurring on Saturday for which the employee receives eight (8) hours' pay at straight-time, will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing weekly overtime; however, if the holiday is worked, only hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours will be used in computing overtime in excess of forty (40) hours since the employee has been credited for eight (8) hours on the holiday whether such holiday is worked or is not worked.
ARTICLE 10
GUARANTEED WORK. The weekly guarantee for all regular full-time employees shall be forty (40) hours' work at forty (40) hours' straight-time pay said guarantee to be completed in five (5) eight (8) hour days exclusive of lunch periods Monday through Friday, with time and one-half (1 !4) for Saturday work as such, providing the employee has worked all available hours during the work week, except in the event an employee is off due to a bona-fide illness or an excused absence, this does not include personal time off. Four (4) times each contract year, the Company may notify an individual employee of a shorter work week, in which event, the guarantee shall be reduced to thirty-two (32) hours of straight-time pay. A thirty-two (32) hour work week must be actually worked to be counted. If not all the shifts are to work the short work week, employees, by seniority, shall be allowed to work the full work week.
(a)	The work week to be defined as beginning at 12:01 a.m. on Monday and ending at 12:00 midnight on the following Sunday. The payroll day would be the calendar day which would run from midnight to midnight.
(b)	If an employee works a shift which begins on one calendar day and extends into the following calendar day, only one day of work is permitted and it is
7
considered to be the day on which the shift begins. This does not apply to Sundays or Holidays.
Holidays (eight (8) hours), whether worked or unworked, will be counted in fulfilling the forty (40) hour work week guarantee.
An employee who is tardy or is excused from work for a part of a day or a part of a week for any reason, shall have his guarantee reduced by the number of hours of work which he missed by such absence.
An employee who does not report for work on a day or days of the work week for any reason or who is discharged for cause or who voluntarily quits, shall have his guarantee reduced by the amount of work which he could have secured if he had reported for work.
In the event an employee is absent for any reason and does not report the reason for such absence to the Company by noon of the day of said absence, the Company shall not utilize his services the following day, and his guarantee shall be reduced by the number of hours he could have worked had he not been absent.
Employees who work in a higher rated classification for four (4) or more hours in a day shall receive the higher rate for the entire day.
The weekly guarantee shall not apply when work is not available by reason of an Act of God or circumstances beyond the control of the Company.
ARTICLE 11
REST PERIODS. The Company and the Union recognize that rest periods will be taken in accord with the needs of the business. An employee working a full workday can take a rest period during the first (1st) half of his shift and a rest period during the second (2nd) half of his shift. The rest periods shall not exceed fifteen (15) minutes.
ARTICLE 12
SENIORITY. Seniority shall be determined by the length of service in a unit.
1.	Seniority units are as follows:
8
a.	Mechanical, maintenance and engineering
b.	Production and clean-up
Notwithstanding the following, there shall be separate seniority for all purposes for employees with three (3) or less years of service at 5701 York and 5800 York, except in the event that one location closes, Company-wide seniority shall apply for purposes of layoff and recall or in the event there is a layoff at one location which the Company anticipates will last six (6) weeks or more, then the employee who has the most seniority and who, in the Company’s judgment, has the present skills, abilities and qualifications to perform the job, may use his seniority to displace a less senior employee at the other plant.
2.	Regular Full-Time Employees. A regular, full-time employee shall be considered as an employee who has completed thirty (30) working days within a sixty (60) calendar day period. However, in the event the Company hires a C.G. Operator outside the bargaining unit, there shall be an additional fifteen (15) day training period. If the employee does not satisfactorily complete the training period, the Company may discharge such employee and the employee shall not have recourse to the grievance or arbitration procedure. When the employee has qualified as a regular full-time employee, his name will be placed on the seniority list and his seniority date will begin as of the date thirty (30) days prior to the date he qualified as a regular full-time employee.
3.	Probationary Employees. A probationary employee is an employee who is not
qualified as a regular full-time employee. Probationary employees may be discharged at the discretion of the Company without recourse by either the employee or the Union. Probationary employees shall be laid off before any regular full-time employees are laid off for lack of work, provided the senior employee retained can perform the necessary work performed by the probationary employee to the satisfaction of the Company.
4.	Plant Seniority. Plant seniority is defined as the number of years, months and days from the date an employee qualifies as a regular full-time employee and remains in the continuous employment of the Company in accordance with paragraph 2 above.
9
5.	Unit Seniority. Unit seniority is defined as the number of years, months and days a regular full-time employee has been employed in a unit, provided, however, that no employee may gain unit seniority until such time as he has bid on an open job on a plant posting of a vacancy or a new job except as otherwise provided herein.
6.	Posting Seniority Lists. The Company will post on the bulletin boards on January 1 and July 1 of each year a seniority list by plant seniority and by unit seniority of all regular full-time employees and famish one (1) copy of each to the Union and one (1) copy of each to the Chief Shop Steward.
7.	Job Bidding. When a vacancy occurs in a unit or a new job classification is established, notice shall be posted on the bulletin board and employees within the unit will be given an opportunity to bid on the vacancy or new job. Employees shall have forty-eight (48) hours, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, in which to declare their desire to be considered for such vacancy or new job. Employees within the unit will be given first consideration to fill the vacancy or new job. It is recognized, however, that seniority will prevail provided that the employee can perform the job to the satisfaction of the Company, or learn it in a reasonable time. The Company shall determine what constitutes reasonable time as set forth above.
When no employee in the unit has indicated a desire to fill such vacancy, and the Company hires an employee from outside the plant, or transfers an employee from another unit, his plant and unit seniority shall commence as provided in Paragraph 2 of this Article.
When a permanent vacancy occurs which the Company desires to fill, the Company will post such vacancy within ten (10) calendar days after the vacancy occurs and will fill such vacancy within thirty (30) calendar days after it has been awarded.
8.	Absent Employee's Right to Bid. If a senior employee in a unit is absent due to illness, vacation or permitted leave of absence, he shall be allowed to exercise his seniority not later than five (5) days after his return to his regular job but not thereafter. The man temporarily promoted to the job during the absence of the senior qualified man will receive the rate of pay for the job he is temporarily filling, but he will be returned to his former position
10
and rate of pay on the return to work of the senior qualified man, as will all others affected by the promotion. The rate of pay attached to the job taken by the senior qualified man upon his return shall be as of the day he begins performing the duties of the new job and in no case retroactive.
9.	Temporary Assignments. During the period the job vacancy or new job classification is not filled because of the bidding procedures, the Company has the right to fill such job opening until successful bidder is placed on the job. In any case, the Company will fill a temporary vacancy of seven (7) consecutive days or longer on the basis of seniority provided the employee filling such vacancy can perform the work. The employee temporarily filling the job will return to his former position when the successful bidder is placed on the job. The above job bidding is only for permanent openings. The Company has the right to transfer employees within a unit in order to fill vacancies on a temporary basis of less then seven (7) consecutive days or in cases of emergency or for vacation relief, without regard to any of the above procedures.
The Company has the right to fill vacancies without regard to seniority or to the bidding procedure when such vacancy is caused by absence of employees due to among other reasons, illness or leave of absence when such temporary vacancy is less than seven (7) consecutive days, or for vacation relief for the period of the scheduled vacation.
10.	Application of Seniority. Unit seniority shall be applied in determining layoffs, rehiring, and shift preference. An employee can only exercise his or her seniority once during any six (6) month period for shift change. It is recognized, however, that in applying seniority, unit seniority will prevail provided the individual can perform the job to the satisfaction of the Company. In the event of a unit layoff as provided for above, an employee with unit seniority shall have the right to displace any employee in the unit with lesser unit seniority at the rate for such job, provided he can perform the work to the satisfaction of the Company. If he is not qualified to perform the job of such junior employee because that job is semi-skilled or skilled job, then he shall have the right to displace an unskilled employee in the unit with lesser unit
11
seniority, at the rate for such job, provided such employee is junior to him and provided he can perform the job to the satisfaction of the Employer, or go off the payroll.
Employees exercising their rights under the above provision who are unable to perform the job claimed shall sacrifice any other bumping privileges and be placed on layoff status.
When work in the unit in which laid off employees or employees working in other units who were affected by the layoff requires additional employees, then the employees on layoff or who are working in other units shall be returned to their regular units. These vacancies shall not be subject to the bidding procedures.
When all employees have been recalled to a unit as outlined above and it becomes necessary to assign additional employees to such unit, they shall be assigned from layoff status by unit seniority, provided they can perform the work to the satisfaction of the Company.
11.	Transfer of Employees. In the event a job vacancy or new job which has been established is not filled in accordance with the bidding procedure as outlined in Paragraph 7 above, then the following procedure may be followed:
By Company: An employee transferred by the Company to another unit shall retain his seniority in the unit from which transferred for a period not to exceed six (6) calendar months, unless he was employed for less than six (6) calendar months in that unit, in which case he shall retain seniority in that unit for the period of his employment in that unit from which transferred, and his seniority in said unit shall start from the date of said transfer.
No employee will be transferred to another unit if he or she does not wish to accept such transfer.
In the event of a transfer as provided for above, the employee so transferred shall retain the fringe benefits acquired by seniority in the unit from which he was transferred. (Vacations, health and welfare, etc.)
12.	Termination of Seniority. Seniority shall terminate for any of the following reasons:
a.	Voluntary quitting.
12
b.	Discharge for cause.
c.	Failure to report to work after a layoff within three (3) working days after receiving a written registered notice or telegram to return to work to the last address furnished the Company by the employee. It is understood and agreed that the Company may contact laid off employees in person or by telephone. If an employee is contacted in person or by telephone, and does not report for work, the Company will comply with the above provision of this paragraph C before his seniority can be terminated. The Company agrees that if an employee complies with the provisions of this paragraph but is unable to return to work within the three (3) working days herein provided for good and sufficient reasons, it will grant an additional three (3) days for reporting. The employee, however, must notify the Company within the three (3) working days' period of his inability to return to work within that period. An employee laid off due to reduction of force must keep the Company advised of any change of address by means of written notice to the Plant Manager. If an employee notifies the Company within the three (3) day recall period set forth above of an inability to return to work within the three (3) day period, the employee shall be allowed an additional two (2) days to report to work.
d.	Absence from work for a period of three (3) working days when such absence has not been reported by the employee to the Company.
e.	Layoff for lack of work for a period in excess of six (6) months.
f.	Employees accepting supervisory positions with the Company for periods in excess of three (3) months.
g.	Employees accepting Union positions for a period in excess of one (1) term.
13.	Military Service. All seniority granted employees under the term of this Agreement shall be subject to the rights granted by law to the employee volunteering, called or conscripted for active military service under the National Guard Act of 1940 and the Selective Service Acts of 1942 and 1948 and any additions or amendments thereto, or rulings and interpretations thereof by any authorized Federal Court or Federal Agency.
14.	Unit Closing. In the event of the closing of a unit, the employees in such unit shall be allowed to exercise their plant seniority to replace any individual in the plant with less seniority provided they are qualified to perform such job. In such exercise of seniority the employees shall carry all seniority from their former unit. In the event of a unit closing, the Company shall give the employees so affected fifteen (15) days' notice of such unit closing.
13
15.	The Company will endeavor to work employees within their respective jurisdiction except in case of emergency.
16.	In the event that employees are on layoff when a position is posted for bid, and no employee currently working bids for the position, the Company shall offer the job to employees eligible for recall in seniority order and shall provide training for the employee, if necessary, in conformity with the training provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 13
PLANT VISITATION. A representative of the Union shall have access to the plant for the purpose of investigating conditions therein, under the terms of this Agreement, and to adjust any grievances or complaints therein. Before entering the plant, such representative must call at the office of the official designated by the Company and secure permission. Conferences between Union representatives and an employee and/or employees shall be so conducted so that there shall be no interference with or interruption of the Company's production.
ARTICLE 14
VACATIONS. The Company will grant one (1) week's vacation with pay to all employees who have been in the continuous service of the Company for one (1) year preceding the period in which the vacation is to be taken. The Company will grant two (2) weeks' vacation with pay to all employees who have been in continuous service of the Company for a period of three (3) years preceding the period in which the vacation is to be taken. The Company will grant three (3) weeks' vacation with pay to all employees who have been in the continuous service of the Company for a period of eight (8) years preceding the period in which the vacation is to be taken. The Company will grant four (4) weeks' vacation with pay to all employees who have been in the continuous service of the Company for fifteen (15) years preceding the period in which the vacation is to be taken.
Employees shall be eligible for a vacation in each year if they have worked a minimum of fifteen hundred and sixty (1560) hours during their anniversary year preceding the vacation.
14
When a senior employee desires to split his vacation, he shall have seniority preference on the first choice only.
Vacation pay shall be based on the total hours worked in the preceding calendar year, but shall not be less than forty (40) hours per week.
Forty (40) hours' pay at the employee's regular straight-time hourly rate of pay shall constitute one (1) week's vacation pay. Eighty (80) hours' pay at the employee's regular straight-time hourly rate of pay shall constitute two (2) weeks' vacation pay. One hundred twenty (120) hours' pay at the employee's regular straight-time rate of pay shall constitute three (3) weeks' vacation pay. One hundred sixty (160) hours' pay at the employee's regular straight-time hourly rate of pay shall constitute four (4) weeks' vacation pay.
The right to determine the vacation period shall rest with the Company so as to insure the continuous and proper operation of his business. Seniority will generally govern in the granting of vacations.
The last hiring date of the individual employee shall determine his eligibility for vacation. Vacation shall be taken at any time after the employee's anniversary hiring date but prior to his next anniversary hiring date. Vacations shall not be cumulative.
In case of leave of absence granted an employee, his anniversary hiring date for the purpose of determining eligibility for vacation shall be changed by adding to it the period of his absence on leave. The vacation week shall be the same as the payroll week and all vacations shall start on the first day of the payroll week.
The Company may give vacation pay in lieu of an employee taking vacation time off with pay if mutually agreed on. Vacation pay should be paid immediately preceding each employee's vacation period or paid out at the employee's vacation due date if the employee elects to take pay instead of time off.
The number of hours worked in a week or Weekly Indemnity or Workmens' Compensation pay received in a week will constitute a week's work. Where any of the holidays
15
set forth in Article 9 occur during an employees' vacation period, the employee shall be paid for that holiday or his vacation may be extended one (1) day.
The Company will post a vacation schedule on January 1 of each year. Employees will be required to indicate their vacation preference by April 1, of that year.
Employees who have not chosen their vacation period by April 1 as provided above will be allotted vacations periods at the discretion of the Company.
Employees' vacation times will be approved and announced by the Company by the fifteenth (15th) of April. The vacation week shall be the same as the payroll week and all vacations shall start on the first (1st) day of the payroll week. Vacation pay will be paid the employee on the last day of work prior to starting of his vacation period. The Company reserves the right to reschedule vacations if business conditions necessitate.
It is understood and agreed that when a vacation schedule has been established, the schedule cannot be changed for any employee unless requested by either the Company or the employee, and said changes mutually agreed upon by the Company and employee.
ARTICLE 15
WAGE SCALES. The wage scales and classifications shall be set forth in Appendix "A", attached hereto and by this reference made a part hereof.
ARTICLE 16
DISCHARGE. No employee covered by this Agreement shall be suspended, demoted or dismissed without just and sufficient cause. Sufficient cause for discharge shall include among other reasons, absenteeism or tardiness, dishonesty, negligence, incompetence, insubordination, theft, fighting, malicious destruction of Company property, intoxication while on duty or refusal to perform any reasonable work, service, or labor when required to do so by the Company.
It is understood and agreed that investigations on discharge as set forth herein will be handled through the Grievance Procedure as provided in Article 17 of this Agreement.
16
If it is found that an employee has been unjustly discharged, he or she will be reinstated with fall rights and will be compensated for his or her wages for the period of suspension, dismissal or demotion, but nothing herein shall prevent the parties from modifying this provision, if the circumstances justify such action.
Investigation, grievance procedure and settlement of any claim on discharge must be completed within ten (10) days after the filing of such complaint with the Union, except arbitration proceedings may require additional time with the consent of Company and Union.
ARTICLE 17
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION. A Grievance Committee of not more than three (3) employees shall be designated by the Union to represent the employees in the bargaining unit. Grievance Committeemen shall be allowed such time off as is reasonably required. All grievances must be presented within five (5) working days of the event which gave rise to the grievance.
The grievance procedure shall be established as follows:
(a)	Grievance discussed between aggrieved employee and the foreman in the presence of the appropriate committeeman. Answer in twenty-four (24) hours.
(b)	If not settled, then grievance must be reduced to writing in five (5) working days and discussed between grievance committee and management. Answer in fortyeight (48) hours.
(c)	If not settled, then grievance discussed between grievance committee, representative of the International and management. Answer in forty-eight (48) hours.
In the event that a dispute, difference or grievance cannot be satisfactorily settled through the grievance procedure above outlined, there shall be no lockout, strike or stoppage of work, and the Company and the Union shall submit the matter for decision to a Board of Arbitration to be constituted as hereinafter set forth:
(a)	The Company and the Union each shall select an arbitrator within forty-eight (48) hours, and the two (2) thus chosen shall select a third impartial arbitrator, and the three (3) thus chosen shall constitute the Board of Arbitration to hear and to determine the matter in dispute or controversy, and a finding or award of the said Board shall be final and conclusive upon the parties hereto.
17
(b)	Should the two (2) arbitrators chosen by the parties pursuant to Section (a) above be unable to agree within forty-eight (48) hours after their selection upon a third member of the Board of Arbitration, then, and in that event, the third impartial arbitrator shall be chosen from a panel of five (5) arbitrators residing within the State of Colorado submitted by the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service upon the written request to the two (2) arbitrators, and a finding or award of the said Board shall be final and conclusive upon the parties hereto.
It is understood and agreed between the parties that the Board of Arbitration constituted as set forth in Item (a) or (b) above, shall not have the power to add to, subtract from or modify any of the terms of this Agreement.
Each party shall bear the expenses of its own arbitrator but the expense of the third arbitrator shall be shared equally between the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 18
HOSPITAL, SURGICAL, WEEKLY INDEMNITY AND LIFE INSURANCE. Effective January 2010, the Company shall contribute eighty per cent (80%) of the premium cost for the employee only share of the contribution to the Rocky Mountain UFCW Unions and Employers Health Benefit Fund on behalf of each eligible employee who elects to enroll. The Company shall not make any contribution for retiree's health benefits. The contribution on behalf of each eligible employee shall be made to a Union-Company Joint Trustee Health and Welfare Fund. It shall be the duty of the Joint Trustees to set benefits and provide coverage for the eligible employees. The eligibility qualifications set out in Appendix B shall continue throughout the term of this Agreement.
If the premium cost increase of health insurance from 2011 to 2012 is less than 7%, then either party may open the contract for the purpose of discussing transferring any savings to pension. Notice must be given 15 days after January 1,2012 to reopen the contract.
ARTICLE 19
LEAVE OF ABSENCE. An employee may, on his or her written request to the foreman of the department, and for good and sufficient reason, be granted a leave of absence without loss of seniority but without pay, for a period of fourteen (14) days, but not to exceed thirty (30) days, with the privilege of renewal at the discretion of the Company. Leaves of absence shall
18
not be used for the purpose of extending the particular employee's vacation unless he has secured the approval of the Company at least two weeks prior to taking said vacation, and shall not be used for the particular employee to seek or obtain other employment. An employee desiring leave of absence shall check with the Company regarding insurance coverage during such leave of absence. The Company may grant a leave of absence to an employee accepting a Union position not to exceed one (1) term of office.
Pregnancy will be treated the same as any other illness and/or in accordance with applicable law.
ARTICLE 20
PAY CHECK. The check with which the Company pays the employees will state all deductions, hourly rates, hours worked, straight-time and overtime. It is understood and agreed that the employees shall be paid on a weekly basis.
ARTICLE 21
BULLETIN BOARD. The Union shall be privileged to post bulletins having to do with the Union's official business on the bulletin board provided by the Company. Before doing so, however, they must first secure the approval of the plant superintendent.
ARTICLE 22
EQUIPMENT. The Company agrees to famish all required safety equipment, and to famish all tools that are twelve (12) inches or more and to replace all broken tools. Each employee shall be allowed up to a maximum of sixty dollars ($60.00) per year for the purchase of boots. Employees will be compensated fifteen (15) minutes per day for clothes changing time. Employees must change into their work clothes prior to punching in and punch out prior to changing out of their work clothes.
ARTICLE 23
FUNERAL LEAVE. When a regular fall-time employee is absent from work because of the necessity of arranging for and attending the faneral of a member of his immediate family, the Company will pay him for eight (8) hours at his regular rate of pay for each day of absence
19
up to a maximum of three (3) workdays. Employees may receive an additional seven (7) days of unpaid funeral leave for any funeral out of the country.
1.	The employee is on the active payroll on the date of the death of a member of his immediate family, and
2.	The employee notifies his supervisor of the purpose of his absence not later than the first (1st) day of such absence, and
3.	Payment will be made for a day of absence only if such day is one (1) of the three (3) days during which the gang in which the employee is employed did work and on which the employee would have worked had it not been for the absence, and
4.	The employee shall furnish proof satisfactory to the Company of the death, his relationship to the deceased, the date of the funeral, and the employee's actual attendance at such funeral.
For purposes of this paragraph, a member of an immediate family means only the employee's spouse, child, stepchild, mother, father, sister, brother, grandmother, grandfather, grandchildren, mother-in-law, and father-in-law.
ARTICLE 24
JURY DUTY. When an employee is called for jury service, he or she shall be compensated for time lost from his or her job at his or her regular hourly rate less the compensation received for jury duty, but in no case more than eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week, Monday through Friday.
Employees shall not be expected to report for work on their job if they are required to report for jury duty in the morning and afternoon. In the event they are excused from jury duty, prior to noon and are not required to report back after noon, they should report for work as soon as possible after being released from jury duty and work all hours available.
Any employee working on the night shift who is called for jury duty and who reports and serves on the jury shall not be required to report on his regular night shift. However, he should, if at all possible, inform the Company as to whether or not he is or is not serving on the jury-
20
If an employee is excused and does not serve on the jury, he or she will be required to work his or her regularly scheduled shift.
ARTICLE 25
NIGHT PREMIUM. Employees working second shift shall receive Ten Cents ($0.10) over their regular rate. Employees working third shift shall receive Twenty Cents ($0.20) over their regular rate.
ARTICLE 26
FIRST AID. The Company shall furnish and maintain a first aid station in the plant at a location accessible to all employees.
ARTICLE 27
LUNCH PERIOD. There shall be an established (non-paid) lunch period of thirty (30) minutes for all employees. The day operator and night operator will receive one-half (%) hour's pay in addition to his regular day's pay when and if he works through his lunch period.
ARTICLE 28
NO DISCRIMINATION. The Company and the Union recognize that they are required by law not to discriminate against any person with regard to employment or union membership because of his or her race, creed, religion, color, sex, age, national origin or ancestry and hereby declare their acceptance and support of such laws. This shall apply to hiring, placement, upgrading, transfer, or demotion, recruitment, advertising or solicitation for employment, training during employment, rates of pay or other forms of compensation, selection for training, layoff or termination, application for and admission to union membership.
ARTICLE 29
PICKET LINE. No employee shall be discharged or threatened for refusing to cross or work behind any primary picket line established by any labor organization at the Company’s premises, nor shall the Union be deemed to be in violation of this Agreement if its members choose to honor any such picket line.
21
ARTICLE 30
SAVINGS CLAUSE. In the event any provision of this Agreement shall be declared invalid by a Court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not invalidate the entire Agreement; and further, should any Federal or State law, government rule or regulation issued by any of its departments, agencies, or representatives affect any provision of this Agreement, the provisions or provision so affected shall be made to conform to the law or determination and all other provisions not so affected shall continue in full force and effect.
ARTICLE 31
CONTRACTING OUT MAINTENANCE WORK. The Company has the right to subcontract maintenance work and to determine what work is to be assigned to the contractor. However, before contracting maintenance work that bargaining unit employees are qualified to perform, the Company will solicit bargaining unit employees to perform the work. If there are not sufficient employees with the necessary qualifications who are willing to perform the work in the time needed, the Company may contract out the work.
ARTICLE 32
TERM OF AGREEMENT. This Agreement shall be in effect from the 17th day of January, 2010 and shall remain in effect until the 16th day of January, 2013 and shall continue in full force and effect from year to year thereafter unless the Agreement is terminated or changed pursuant to the following conditions:
1.	If either party elects to terminate the Agreement such party shall, on a date not less than sixty (60) days prior to the expiration date of the Agreement, give notice to the other party of intention to terminate, and by such action the Agreement shall, for all purposes, terminate as of the expiration date of the Agreement.
2.	If either party elects to change any of the provisions of the Agreement, such party shall, on a date not less than sixty (60) days prior to the expiration date of the Agreement, give written notice to the other party specifying the changes desired. Changes in the Agreement shall be limited to those outlined in writing and all items of the Agreement not specifically set forth in the written notice shall be regarded as automatically renewed. Negotiations shall begin within
22
sixty (60) days prior to the expiration date of the Agreement, unless mutually agreed otherwise.
3.	In the event that either party shall notify the other party of his desire to change the terms of the Agreement pursuant to the above paragraphs, then, and in that event, the other party shall have ten (10) days from the date of the receipt of the written notice to serve a notice upon the notifying party specifying any changes that may be desired.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties above-named have signed their names and affixed
the signatures of their authorized representatives this 5~fday of	2010.
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL DARLING NATIONAL L.L.C. WORKERS UNION LOCAL NO. 7,
INTE ENG
ATI ON A}, UNION OF OPERATING AE-UNION NO. 1
By_________________________
23
APPENDIX "A1
WAGE SCALES. The wage scales and classifications shall be as follows:
A.	PRODUCTION UNIT
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS LOCAL 7
	Rates per Hour	Rates per Hour	Rates per Hour
Classifications	Effective 1/17/10	Effective 1/16/11	Effective 1/15/12
Operator - Edible	13.77	14.02	14.27
Relief*	13.67	13.92	14.17
Labor	13.41	13.66	13.91
B.	ENGINEERING UNIT
OPERATING ENGINEERS LOCAL 1
	Rates per Hour	Rates per Hour	Rates per Hour
Classifications	Effective 1/17/10	Effective 1/16/11	Effective 1/15/12
Engineer	14.65	14.90	15.15
Maintenance Man	14.38	14.63	14.88
Maintenance Helper	13.63	13.88	14.13
NEW HIRE RATES
A.	OPERATORS UNIT
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS LOCAL 7
1st three (3) months - $1.00 less than labor rate.
Next three (3) months - $.75 less than labor rate.
Next three (3) months - $.50 less than labor rate.
Next three (3) months - $.25 less than labor rate After twelve (12) months - full rate.
B.	ENGINEERING UNIT
OPERATING ENGINEERS LOCAL 1
1st three (3) months - $1.00 less than maintenance helper rate.
Next three (3) months - $.75 less than maintenance helper rate.
Next three (3) months - $.50 less than maintenance helper rate.
Next three (3) months - $.25 less than maintenance helper rate.
After twelve (12) months - full rate.
LEADMAN The Company reserves the right to appoint a Leadman at its discretion. A Leadman shall receive $1.00 per hour above the labor rate. The Company may assign one Leadman for all employees covered by this Agreement.
* Relief - Must be forklift trained; must be able to operate Ross and/or processing room; must work overtime as needed; starting time will be subject to change; other duties as assigned. The Relief person shall only receive the Operator rate when filling that position for vacation relief or other vacancies.
If after six (6) months either the Company or the Union wishes to discontinue the Relief position, either party may give notice to the other in writing. The parties will then meet to discuss the possible discontinuance. If the parties are unable to agree, the position will be discontinued after thirty (30) days.
A-2
APPENDIX "B1
HEALTH BENEFIT PROGRAM
ELIGIBILITY QUALIFICATIONS
A.	EMPLOYEES:
All regular full-time employees who elect to enroll will become insured on the first (1st) of the month following the date they acquire six (6) months' seniority as outlined in Article 12, Seniority, of this Agreement.
It is understood that the above has no effect, nor does it alter, amend or modify any other provision of the contract, and continues to be subject to the rules and regulations of the Master Insurance Policy.
B.	TERMINATION OF BENEFITS:
1.	Benefits will terminate at the end of the month in which an employee is absent for one (1) of the following reasons:
a.	On Strike
b.	In Military Service
c.	On Leave of Absence
d.	Discharged
e.	Voluntarily Resigns
2.	Benefits will, however, continue to the end of the month following the month in which an employee is absent because of lack of work.
C.	CONTINUATION OF COVERAGE WHILE DISABLED:
All coverage shall remain in effect for the month following the month or the period, if any, of two (2) weeks for each year of service with the Company, whichever is greater, in which an employee is absent because of occupational or non-occupational illness or injury.
D.	SELF-PAYMENT OF PREMIUM:
Employees shall have the right to self-pay for a period not to exceed six (6) months in the event they have either:
a.	Lost eligibility as a result of being on strike, on leave of absence because of lack of work, or
B-l
b.	Are newly employed and have not yet established eligibility in accordance with the following:
(1)	In order to self pay for a period not to exceed six consecutive months, the employee who is newly employed and not otherwise eligible must make arrangements with the Company for payroll deductions within thirty (30) days after establishing seniority.
(2)	Employees who have lost eligibility as a result of being on strike, on leave of absence, or because of lack of work, may maintain their insurance coverage for a period not to exceed six (6) consecutive months, at group rates, by making their premium payments in advance.
(3)	Employees who have lost eligibility shall have the right to convert to an individual policy, without medical examination, in accordance with the terms of the Master Insurance Policy.
E.	REINSTATEMENT OF ELIGIBILITY:
Employees who have lost eligibility as a result of leave of absence, layoff for lack of work, military service, on strike, or occupational or non-occupational disability, shall be reinstated and the Company shall pay the premium, effective the first (1st) day of the month in which they return to work, if they return to active full-time employment within the first ten days of such month.
F.	DEPENDENTS:
Dependents include only the employee's wife (or husband) and each unmarried child whom the employee is under legal obligation to support, and who has not reached nineteen (19) years of age.
G.	WORKMENS’ COMPENSATION:
The hospitalization and surgical insurance shall not apply in any case resulting from any injury or illness which is compensable under any Workmens' Compensation or Occupational Diseases Act covering the employee or his dependents.
H.	TERMINATION OF INSURANCE:
The program coverage shall terminate if any employee voluntarily quits or is discharged for cause, provided, however, that coverage will continue until the end of the month in which his employment is terminated.
B-2
1.	In the event a regular full-time employee, who is eligible to be covered under the Program, refuses to or neglects to execute the necessary forms which will require the Company to contribute the cost of coverage of said employee and/or his dependents under the above plan, then and in that event, the Company shall not be liable for said contributions or any hospital or surgical expenses incurred by said employee and/or his dependents.
2.	In the event an employee refuses to sign up for the Program, the Union will be notified immediately.
3.	It is understood and agreed that this Appendix represents a synopsis of the benefits, and shall be subject to the provisions of such policies.
4.	It is further understood that all covered employees shall be furnished with a copy of such policies as mentioned above, along with a Group Insurance Identification Card.
B-3
APPENDIX "C
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS LOCAL NO. 7
PENSION PLAN. Effective March 1, 2010, the Company shall contribute a total of seventy-five cents ($0.75) per hour for all hours actually worked, not to exceed forty (40) hours, in a workweek to the Denver Area Meatcutters & Employers Pension Plan. Effective March 1, 2011, the Company shall contribute eighty cents ($0.80) per hour for all hours actually worked, not to exceed forty (40) hours in a workweek to the Denver Area Meatcutters & Employers Pension Plan. Effective March 1, 2012, the Company shall contribute eighty-five cents ($0.85) per hour for all hours actually worked, not to exceed forty (40) hours in a workweek to the Denver Area Meatcutters & Employers Pension Plan. Further, no contributions will be required until an employee has qualified as a regular full-time employee, as no payments will be required for probationary employees or so-called casual employees. Payments will be made into a Company-Union Pension Fund which shall be jointly administered by Trustees representing the Union and the Company. The Company agrees to pay into the Fund not later than the fifteenth (15th) of the month for hours worked in the previous month based on the above requirement.
A Trust Agreement will be worked out and agreed to by both the Union and Company Trustees establishing said Pension Fund and the administration of such Fund.
Said Pension Fund shall be used to provide benefit pensions for eligible employees of the Company as provided in the Pension Plan, the terms and provisions of which are to be agreed upon by the parties hereto; said Pension Plan shall, among other things, provide that all benefits under the Plan and cost, charges and expenses of administering the Plan and all taxes levied or assessed upon or in respect of said Plan or Trust or any income therefrom shall be paid out of the Pension Fund.
Said Pension Plan and Trust Agreement establishing the Pension Fund shall be submitted to the United States Treasury Department and the United States Department of Labor for the approval and rulings satisfactory to the Company, that said Plan is qualified under
C-l
I.R.C. Section 401, et seq„ and that no part of such payments shall be included in the regular rate of pay of any employee.
It is agreed by and between the parties hereto that when the Pension Plan is approved by the United States Treasury Department and the United States Department of Labor and becomes operative and the Company makes contributions into the Fund, those employees covered by this Agreement shall automatically cease to participate in the Company’s Retirement Plans and Profit-Sharing Plans then in effect.
A copy of the Trust Agreement and any amendments thereto shall be made a part hereto as if herein at length set forth, when adopted.
In consideration of the Pension Plan Payments provided above, it is agreed by the parties hereto that on or after July 1, 1973, employees under the jurisdiction of this Agreement who reach the age of sixty-five (65) may be retired at the sole discretion of the Company.
C-2
OPERATING ENGINEERS LOCAL 1
PENSION PLAN. Effective March 1, 2010, the Company shall pay monthly into the Central Pension Fund of the International Union of Operating Engineers and Participating Employers, seventy-five cents ($0.75) per hour for each hour paid for or worked in the preceding month, by each employee of the Company performing work under the classification as set forth in Appendix "A" of this Agreement. Effective March 1, 2011, the Company shall pay monthly into the Central Pension Fund of the International Union of Operating Engineers and Participating Employers, eighty cents ($0.80) per hour for each hour paid for or worked in the preceding month, by each employee of the Company performing work under the classification as set forth in Appendix “A” of this Agreement. Effective March 1, 2012, the Company shall pay monthly into the Central Pension Fund of the International Union of Operating Engineers and Participating Employers, eighty-five cents ($0.85) per hour for each hour paid for or worked in the preceding month, by each employee of the Company performing work under the classification as set forth in Appendix “A” of this Agreement.
The Company is not required to contribute for hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in a day or in excess of forty (40) hours in a week.
The payments shall be used by said pension fund to provide retirement benefits for eligible employees in accordance with the pension plan as submitted by the Union and approved by the Trustees chosen in accordance with Section 302(c) of the Labor-Management Relations Act of 1942, as amended.
The Company agrees to become a party of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust and agrees to be bound by all the terms and provisions of said Agreement and Declaration of Trust which is to be made a part of this Agreement and agrees to be bound by all the action taken by the said Company Trustees pursuant to the said Agreement and Declaration of Trust.
It is understood and agreed that the pension plan referred to herein shall be such as will qualify for approval by the International Revenue Bureau of the United States Treasury
C-3
Department, so as to allow the Company an income tax deduction for the contributions paid hereunder. A certified copy of said approval will be furnished to the Company.
C-4
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
In the event of a permanent closing of Darling National L.L.C, edible plant, bargaining unit employees who have completed their probationary period shall have preferential hiring status over employees hired from the street. Employees shall be allowed to transfer to Darling National L.L.C, inedible plant based on seniority when in the judgment of the Company, skills, abilities and qualifications are reasonably equal. Employees who are laid-off as a result of this process shall retain recall rights for six (6) months. The Company shall have sole discretion in determining what job classifications are necessary and the number of employees necessary within any job classification. Employees who transfer pursuant to this letter of understanding shall retain seniority only for the purposes of vacation and benefits.
The foregoing shall take precedent over any other language or provision of this Agreement.
D-l
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
The Union and Company acknowledge and agree that the maintenance of a drug free workplace is of paramount concern in order to provide a safe workplace for all Company employees. The Company shall have the right during the term of this Agreement to test any employee for drug and alcohol usage pursuant to the provisions of such test as set forth by the United States Department of Transportation’s Federal Motor Carrier Safety Act (FMCSA) regulations and/or the Company’s Substance Abuse Policy, which policy is incorporated by reference herein. Employees who fail to pass the drug/alcohol test shall be terminated. If, however, an employee admits to drug and/or alcohol abuse to the Company prior to being designated for testing and who agrees to complete a bona fide rehabilitation program, shall not be terminated.
D-2
WEINGARTEN RULES
Under the Supreme Court's Weingarten decision, when an investigatory interview occurs, you should ask if it is for disciplinary action. If so, the following rules apply:
Rule I: The employee must make a clear request for union representation before or during the interview. The employee cannot be punished for making this request.
Rule II: After the employee makes the request, the Employer must choose from among three options. The Employer must either:
A.	Grant the request and delay questioning until the union representative arrives and has a chance to consult privately with the employee, or
B.	Deny the request and end the interview immediately, or
C.	Give the employee a choice of:
(1)	having the interview without representation or
(2)	ending the interview.
Rule III: If the Employer denies the request for union representation, and continues to ask questions, it commits an unfair labor practice and the employee has a right to refuse to answer. The Employer may not discipline the employee for such a refusal.
INSURANCE and PENSION
When you have questions regarding eligibility, benefits, or how to file a claim, please contact the fund office at the following address, where the staff will be pleased to assist you:
MEDICAL/VISION CLAIMS
ZENITH ADMINISTRATORS
PO BOX 447
5511 W. 56th AVENUE, #250
ARVADA, CO 80001-0447
TELEPHONE: 303-430-9334
TOLL FREE: 1-800-527-1647
DENTAL
DELTA DENTAL OF COLORADO
PO BOX 173803
DENVER, CO 80217-3803
TELEPHONE: 303-741-9300
PENSION
ZENITH ADMINISTRATORS PO BOX 1327
5511 W. 56th AVENUE, #250
ARVADA, CO 80001-1327
TELEPHONE: 303-430-9476
TOLL FREE: 1-800-390-3083
DO NOT GO SUSPENDED!!!
REMEMBER, IF YOU LEAVE THE INDUSTRY FOR ANY REASON (termination, lay-off, leave of absence, etc.) apply for your withdrawal card. This must be done within 30 days from the last day worked. This protects your union status in the event you should ever return to the industry. Failure to get a withdrawal card will result in SUSPENSION from the Union and a reinstatement fee will be charged. If you leave the industry IT IS YOUR OBLIGATION TO GET A WITHDRAWAL CARD!
The withdrawal card will be issued at no cost, the only requirement being that your initiation fee be fully paid and your dues must be paid for the month in which you request the withdrawal card. The withdrawal card is good indefinitely and allows you to become a member of any local union affiliated with the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union without payment of any additional fee(s). Withdrawal card must be deposited with the union office within 30 days after returning to work or it becomes null and void and the reinstatement fee must be paid. All persons returning to work with a withdrawal card must fill out a new application and authorization.
WITHDRAWAL CARD REQUEST FORM
When your employment terminates, or if you are laid off, or on a leave of absence over 30 days, you should request a Withdrawal Card.
SS #__________________________________________
Name Date
Address_______________________________________
City State Zip Home Phone CO____________________ Store #
Job Class Last Day Worked
Dues must be paid for the month in which you request a withdrawal card.
NOTES
ACUERDO
Entre
DARLING NATIONAL, L.L.C.
y
UNION DE TRABAJADORES UNIDOS DE COMERCIO Y ALIMENTOS LOCAL 7
y
INGENIEROS DE OPERACION LOCAL 1
EFECTIVO: El 17 de enero de 2010 al 16 de enero de 2013
INDICE DE MATERIAS
ARTICULO	TITULO	PAGINA
Acuerdo	1
1	Reconocimiento	1
2	Sucesores	1
3	Estado de Uni6n	2
4	Deducciones	2
5	Gerencia	3
6	Reportarse a Trabajar	4
7	Llamada para que Regrese a Trabajar	4
8	Horas de Trabajo - Tiempo Extra	4
9	Dias Festivos	5
10	Trabajo Garantizado	7
11	Periodos de Descanso	8
12	Senorfa	8
13	Visitation de la Planta	14
14	Vacaciones	14
15	Escala Salarial	16
16	Despido	16
17	Demandas y Arbitration	17
18	Hospital, Quirurgico, Indemnizacion Semanal y Seguro de Vida 18
19	Ausencia con Permiso	18
20	Cheques de Pago	19
21	Tabion de Anuncios	19
22	Equipo	19
23	Permiso para Funeral	19
24	Deberes de Jurado en Corte	20
25	Premios de Tumo	20
26	Primeros Auxilios	21
27	Periodo de Comida	21
28	No Discrimination	21
29	Linea de Piquete (picket line)	21
30	Clausula de Ahorros	21
31	Subcontratando Trabajo de Mantenimiento	22
32	Duration del Acuerdo	22
Apendice “A” (Escalas de Sueldo)	A-l
Apendice “B” (Beneficios de Salud y Plan de Seguro)	B-l
Apendice “C” (Plan de Pension)	C-l
Carta de Entendimiento	D-l
Carta de Entendimiento	D-2
ACUERDO
Entre
DARLING NATIONAL, L.L.C. (Planta Comestible)
y
UNION DE TRABAJADORES UNIDOS DE COMERCIO Y ALIMENTOS LOCAL 7
y
INGENIEROS DE OPERACION LOCAL 1
EFECTIVO: El 17 de enero de 2010 al 16 de enero de 2013
ACUERDO
ESTE ACUERDO ha sido hecho y entrado por medio de DARLING NATIONAL, L.L.C, 5800 York Street, Denver, Colorado, ahora en adelante la “Companla” y LA UNION DE TRABAJADORES UNIDOS DE ALIMENTOS Y COMERCIO, LOCAL 7, AFL-CIO, LOCAL 1 de la UNION INTERNACIONAL DE INGENIEROS DE OPERACION, ahora en adelante referida como la “Union”.
ARTICULO 1
RECONOCIMIENTO. La Compania reconoce a la Union de Trabajadores Unidos de Alimentos y Comercio, Local 7 y los Ingenieros de Operation Local 1 como los unicos y exclusivos agentes de negociaciones para todo los empleados incluyendo ingenieros, pero con EXCLUSION de conductores de camiones, empleados y secretarias de oficinas y empleados profesionales, vendedores, guardias y supervisores que trabajan en la planta de la Companla localizada en 5800 York Street, Denver, Colorado.
ARTICULO 2
SUCESORES. Es expresamente entendido y convenido que este Acuerdo sera obligatorio para la Companla y la Union. En caso de que la Compania venda o arrienda su
1
negocio, todos los terminos y condiciones de dicho contrato de trabajo seran asumidos por el comprador del negocio,
ARTICULO 3
ESTADO DE UNION. Todos los empleados actuates cubiertos por este Acuerdo y bajo la jurisdiction de la Union, como se establece en la clausula de Reconocimiento, Articulo 1, deberan, como condition de empleo, convertirse en miembros de la Union en el treinta y un (31) dia de trabajo siguiente a la fecha de su ultimo empleo, y seguiran siendo miembros de pleno derecho durante el plazo de este Acuerdo. Todos los nuevos empleados cubiertos por este Acuerdo y bajo la jurisdiction de la Union, como se establece en la clausula de Reconocimiento, Articulo 1, deberan, como condition de empleo, convertirse en miembros de la Union en el treinta y un (31) dia de trabajo siguiente a la fecha de su ultimo empleo, y seguiran siendo miembros de pleno derecho durante el plazo de este Acuerdo. La “Buena Fe” para el proposito de este Acuerdo, se interpreta como el pago de initiation de cuotas de inscripci6n y cuotas periodicas de la Union.
Aquellos empleados que mantienen estado de no-miembro o cambian su estado a no-miembro y estan cubiertos por los terminos de este Acuerdo seran requeridos a pagar como condition de empleo una cuota inicial de servicio (a menos que una cuota inicial de initiation ya se ha pagado), y una cuota mensual (si no) en una cantidad que no exceda el total de iniciaci6n y las cuotas mensuales a la Uni6n para el proposito de ayudar a la Union en el pago de los gastos relacionados con las obligaciones y responsabilidades de la Union como el agente exclusive de negociaciones en esto.
ARTICULO 4
DEDUCCIONES. La Compania se compromete, durante el plazo de este Acuerdo, a deducir de las ganancias netas de cada empleado en el primer periodo de pago de cada mes las cuotas mensuales solo en una forma de deducciones autorizada como se indica abajo. Dicha autorizacion debe ser debidamente ejecutada por el empleado y presentada y aceptada por la Compania. Todas la disposiciones contenidas en dicha forma son acordados por la Compania y la Union y forman parte de este Acuerdo.
2
La Compania se compromete a remitir dicha deduction a la Secretaria-Tesorera de la Union diez (10) dias despues del primer periodo de pago de cada mes. Mediante notificacion escrita de la Union que un empleado esta retrasado treinta (30) dias en el pago de sus cuotas, la Compania despedira al empleado, a menos que dentro de quince (15) dias el empleado pague el cabal cumplimiento de su deuda a la Union. La Union se compromete a indemnizar y proteger a la Compania de cualquier pago que es requerida hacer a favor de cualquier empleado cuyo contrato termina antes de tai solicitud.
FORMA PARA DEDUCCIONES VOLUNTARIAMENTE AUTORIZADAS ____________________________________________________________,20______
Por la presente certifico que la Local No.
es mi representante designado de las negociaciones colectivas y por la presente voluntariamente autorizo y ordeno a deducir de mis
ingresos en el periodo de pago de las cantidades que
puedan ser establecidas de vez en cuando por dicha Union Local en conformidad con la Constitution y las leyes de la Union y las disposiciones aplicables de las leyes Estatales y Federates y pagar lo mismo a la Union. Esta autorizacion puede ser revocada por mi en cualquier momenta a los treinta (30) dias de aviso escrito a la Compania y a la Union, o a termination de empleo.
Esta autorizacion sera sujeta a cualquier limitation requerida por ley o reglas de cualquier agencia de gobiemo autorizado.
Empleado(a)
ACEPTADO:
________________________________________________(Compania)
Por__________________________________________________________
(No es valida hasta que la firma sea verificada y la autorizacion aceptada por la Compania.)
ARTICULO 5
GERENCIA. La gerencia de la planta y la direction de la fuerza de trabajo, incluyendo el derecho de contratar, suspender o despedir por causa adecuada, o transferir, y el derecho de relevar a los empleados del servicio debido a falta de trabajo u otras razones legitimas corresponde exclusivamente a la Compania.
3
ARTICULO 6
REPORTARSE A TRABAJAR. Cuando los empleados son programados para trabajar o Ies notifican que se reporten a trabajar y al Hegar a la planta no hay trabajo disponible, a esos empleados les pagaran cuatro (4) horas al redito de su sueldo de trabajo. Si los empleados empiezan a trabajar y trabajan menos de cuatro (4) horas por causas ajenas, les pagaran el minimo de cuatro (4) horas.
Las disposiciones anteriores no aplicaran cuando el trabajo no esta disponible debido a Actos de Dios o circunstancias fuera del control de la Compania.
ARTICULO 7
LLAMADA PARA QUE REGRESE A TRABAJAR. Cualquier empleado que haya cumplido con su trabajo y le, despues que se haya ido del local de la planta, Haman para que haga un trabajo dentro de veinticuatro (24) horas desde su inicio regular de trabajo por ese dia, le pagaran todo el tiempo que trabajo, en conformidad a la Hamada, a tiempo y medio (1 /z) de su sueldo regular y sera garantizado un minimo de cuatro (4) horas a tiempo y medio (1 %) de su sueldo regular.
ARTICULO 8
HORAS DE TRABAJO-TIEMPO EXTRA. Bajo las siguientes condiciones al empleado le pagaran horas extras en la tarifa de tiempo y medio (1 14) por hora del page basico para la clasificacion del trabajo:
(a)	Por todas las horas trabajadas en exceso de cuarenta (40) horas por semana, excluyendo el periodo de comida.
(b)	Por todas las horas trabajadas en un dia en exceso de ocho (8) horas, excluyendo el periodo de comida.
Al empleado le pagaran tiempo y medio (1 1/2) por todos los sabados y/o domingos al pago de base regular por hora por su clasificacion de trabajo proveido que el empleado haya trabajado todas las horas disponibles durante la semana de trabajo, excepto en caso que un empleado este fuera por enfermedad de buena fe o ausencia con permiso, esto no incluye tiempo personal.
Es entendido y acordado; de cualquier modo, que las sanciones de tiempo extra no se pagaran el doble por horas de tiempo extra trabajadas diariamente o semanalmente.
4
Los empleados tienen que darle a la Compania por Io menos veinticuatro (24) horas de preaviso que no van a poder trabajar las horas extras el dia siguiente si la Compania determina que tienen que trabajar horas extras.
Los empleados seran notificados el viemes a mediodia cuando la Compania programa trabajo para el sabado o domingo. La notificacion sera colocada en la cafeteria y las areas de descanso.
Todos los empleados regulares de tiempo completo tendran la oportunidad de trabajar los sabados, domingos y dias festivos antes de que ofrezcan las horas a empleados de medio tiempo o empleados que estan a prueba. Tiempo extra sera ofrecida por senoria y por clasificacion de trabajo, para tiempo extra en sabado, domingo y dias festivos, proveido que el empleado este calificado para realizar el trabajo. Ademas, se entiende y es acordado que a todos los empleados de tiempo completo les daran la oportunidad de trabajar todas las horas disponibles durante la semana de trabajo antes de ofrecerlo a los empleados que esten a prueba o de medio tiempo.
Si una cantidad insuficiente de empleados no aceptan las horas extras por senoria, la Compania puede requerir que los empleados con menos senoria y que esten calificados hagan el trabajo. Por el proposito de distribuir las horas extras por igual, a un empleado que rechaza las horas extras Ie daran credito de haber trabajado las horas ofrecidas.
El horario para empezar a trabajar sera establecido por la Compania. Una vez que haya sido establecido en lunes, el horario para empezar a trabajar no cambiara para la semana, excepto en caso de emergencia, Actos de Dios, u otras condiciones fuera del control de la Compania.
ARTiCULO 9
DIAS FESTIVOS. Bajo este Acuerdo los siguientes dias seran observados como dias festivos: Dia de Ano Nuevo, Dia Memorial, Dia de la Independencia, Dia Laboral, Dia de Accidn de Gracias, Dia de Navidad y dos dias personales. Todos los dias festivos seran celebrados el dia designado por el gobiemo Federal, o designado por la mayoria de las empacadoras en el area de Denver. Pueden tomar los dias personales con siete (7) dias de notificacion anticipada a la gerencia y aprobacion escrita. Con el alcance posible, que los empleados pueden programar sus dias personales en dias consecutivos.
5
Todos los empleados cubiertos por este Acuerdo recibiran compensation por ocho (8) horas de su redito de pago de tiempo regular por los dias festivos mencionados arriba que no trabajen, incluyendo dias festivos que caen en sabado.
Empleados despedidos por falta de trabajo la semana antes del dia festivo y le Haman que regrese a trabajar durante la semana del dia festivo le pagaran el dia festivo.
En caso que cualquier dia festivo mencionado arriba cae en domingo el siguiente lunes sera observado como el dia festivo oficial. Dias festivos que caen en sabado seran observados el viemes anterior.
Ausencia sin permiso o por alego de enfermedad que no ha sido confirmada por un medico reconocido en la jomada de trabajo regular el dia antes y el dia siguiente de cualquier dia festivo mencionado arriba resultara en cancelaci6n de pago del dia festivo.
Empleados que trabajen el Dia Memorial seran compensados por horas trabajadas a tiempo y medio (1 '/t) de su redito de pago en adicion a ocho (8) horas de compensation a redito de tiempo derecho el cual el empleado recibira por un dia festivo que no trabaje.
Empleados que trabajen en Ano Nuevo, Dia de Independencia, Dia Laboral, Accion de Gracias o Navidad seran compensados por las horas trabajadas a tiempo doble (2x) de su redito de pago en adicion a ocho (8) horas de compensaci6n a redito de tiempo derecho el cual el empleado recibird por un dia festivo que no trabaje.
Empleados que estan ausentes por enfermedad o lastimaduras y estan recibiendo compensation bajo la Ley de Compensation de Trabajadores o indemnidad semanal bajo la provision de Indemnidad Semanal de este Acuerdo seran considerados que estan trabajando. La Compania pagara la diferencia entre lo que el empleado recibe de la Compensation de Trabajadores y/o la provision de Indemnidad Semanal. En ningiin caso un empleado recibira mas de ocho (8) horas a redito de tiempo regular por cualquier dia festivo.
Las horas pagadas pero no trabajadas en un dia festivo, excepto dias festivos que caen en sabado por el cual el empleado recibe ocho (8) horas de tiempo regular seran contadas como horas trabajadas para el proposito de calcular las horas extras de la semana; pero, si trabaja el dia festivo, solamente horas trabajadas en exceso de ocho (8) horas seran usadas para calcular el
6
tiempo extra en exceso de cuarenta (40) horas, ya que le dieron credito al empleado por ocho (8) horas por el dia festivo aunque haya trabajado o no.
ARTICULO 10
TRABAJO GARANTIZADO. La semana de trabajo garantizado para todos los empleados de tiempo complete sera de cuarenta (40) horas de trabajo a cuarenta (40) horas de pago a tiempo regular, se cumplira tai garantia en cinco (5) dias de ocho (8) horas de trabajo de lunes a viemes no incluyendo periodos de comida, con tiempo y medio (1 ‘A) por trabajo en sabado, proveido que el empleado haya trabajado todas las horas disponibles durante la semana de trabajo, excepto en el evento que el empleado este fuera por enfermedad o ausencia con permiso, esto no incluye tiempo personal. Cuatro (4) veces cada ano del contrato, la Compania puede notificarle a un empleado individual de una semana corta, en el cual, la garantia sera reducida a treinta y dos (32) horas de pago a tiempo regular. Tienen que actualmente trabajar una semana de treinta y dos (32) horas para que cuente. Si no, todos los tumos tienen que trabajar una semana corta, a los empleados por senoria, se les permitira que trabajen la semana completa.
(a)	La semana de trabajo sera definida como empezar a las 12:01 a.m. el lunes y terminar a las 12:00 de la media noche el siguiente domingo. El dia de nomina de pago sera el dia de calendario que corre de media noche a media noche.
(b)	Si un empleado trabaja un tumo que empieza en un dia calendario y se extiende a otro dia calendario, solamente se permite un dia de trabajo y es considerado ser el dia que empezo el tumo. Esto no aplica a domingos o dias festivos.
Dias festivos (ocho (8) horas), aunque trabaje o no, sera contado para cumplir con la garantia de cuarenta (40) horas de trabajo por semana.
Un empleado que llegue tarde o tiene permiso para estar fuera parte del dia o parte de la semana por cualquier razon, tendra la garantia reducida por la cantidad de horas que perdio por tai ausencia.
Un empleado que no se reporte a trabajar por un dia o dias de la semana por cualquier razon o si es desocupado por causa o deja el trabajo voluntariamente, tendra la garantia reducida por la cantidad de trabajo que pudo haber asegurado si se hubiera reportado a trabajar.
Si un empleado esta ausente por cualquier razon y no reporta la razon de tai ausencia a la Compania para medio dia de dicha ausencia, la Compania no utilizara sus servicios el siguiente
7
dia, y su garantia sera reducida por la.cantidad de horas que pudo haber trabajado si no hubiera estado ausente.
Empleados que trabajen en una clasificacion mas alta por cuatro (4) horas o mas en un dia recibiran el sueldo mas alto por el dia completo.
La garantia semanal no sera aplicada cuando no haiga trabajo disponible por razones de Actos de Dios o circunstancias fuera de control de la Compania.
ARTICULO 11
PERIODOS DE DESCANSO. La Compania y la Union reconocen que tomaran los periodos de descanso en acuerdo con las necesidades del negocio. Un empleado que trabaja todo el dia puede tomar un periodo de descanso durante la primera (lra) mitad (1/2) de su tumo y un periodo de descanso la segunda (2da) mitad (1/2) de su tumo. Los periodos de descanso no sobrepasaran quince (15) minutos.
ARTiCULO 12
SENORIA. La senoria sera determinada por la duration de servicio en la unidad.
1.	Las unidades de senoria son como siguen:
a.	Mecanico, mantenimiento y ingenieria
b.	Production y limpieza
A pesar de lo siguiente, habra propositos separados de senoria para empleados con tres (3) anos o menos de servicio en 5701 York y 5800 York, en caso de que uno de los locales se cierre, senoria aplicara por toda la Compania para el proposito de descansos y recontratacion o en caso que haya descanso en uno de los locales en el cual la Compania anticipa que durara seis (6) semanas o mas, entonces el empleado que tiene mas senoria y que, en la opinion de la Compania, tiene las aptitudes presentes, habilidades y calificaciones para realizar el trabajo, puede usar su senoria para reemplazar a un empleado con menos senoria en la otra planta.
2.	Empleados Regulares de Tiempo Completo. Un empleado regular de tiempo completo sera considerado como un empleado que ha completado treinta (30) dias trabajados dentro de un periodo de sesenta (60) dias calendarios. Pero, en caso que la Compania ocupe un operador C. G. fuera de la unidad negociadora, habra un periodo adicional de entrenamiento de quince (15) dias. Si el empleado no completa el periodo de entrenamiento satisfactoriamente, la
8
Compania puede desocupar al empleado y el empleado no podra recurrir a los procedimientos de la demanda o arbitration. Cuando el empleado califique como empleado regular de tiempo complete su nombre sera colocado en la lista de senoria y la fecha de senoria empezara en la fecha de treinta (30) dias antes de la fecha que califico como empleado regular de tiempo complete.
3.	Empleados a Prueba. Un empleado que esta a prueba es un empleado que no esta calificado como un empleado regular de tiempo complete. Empleados que estan a prueba pueden ser desocupados a la discrecion de la Compania sin tener que recurrir por cualquiera del empleado o la Union. Un empleado que este a prueba puede ser descansado antes que cualquier empleado regular de tiempo complete sea descansado por falta de trabajo, proveido que el empleado con mas senoria retenido pueda realizar satisfactoriamente el trabajo necesario que hacia el empleado de la Compania que esta a prueba.
4.	Senoria en la Planta. Senoria en la planta es definido como la cantidad de anos, meses y dias de la fecha que un empleado califica como un empelado regular de tiempo completo y permanece en continuo servicio en la Compania de acuerdo con el parrafo 2 mencionado arriba.
5.	Senoria en Unidad. Senoria en unidad es definido como la cantidad de anos, meses y dias de la fecha que un empleado regular de tiempo completo ha sido empleado en una unidad, proveido, pero, que ningun empleado puede adquirir senoria de unidad hasta tai tiempo que haya firmado para un trabajo abierto en un anuncio de vacantia o acepta un trabajo nuevo como se disponga otra cosa.
6.	Anunciar las Listas de Senoria. La Compania anunciara la lista de senoria en el tabion de anuncios el 1 de enero y el 1 de julio de cada ano por senoria en la planta y senoria de unidad de todos los empleados regulares de tiempo completo y le dara una (1) copia a la Union y una (1) copia al Jefe de los Delegados.
7.	Oferta de Trabajo. Cuando ocurre una vacancia en una unidad o se establece una clasificacion de un trabajo nuevo, un anuncio sera colocado en el tabion de anuncios y a los empleados dentro de la unidad les daran la oportunidad de que firmen la vacancia o nuevo trabajo. Los empleados tiene cuarenta y ocho (48) horas excluyendo sabados, domingos y dias festivos para declarar su deseo de ser considerados para la vacancia o trabajo nuevo. Los
9
empleados dentro de la unidad seran considerados primero para llenar la vacancia o el trabajo nuevo. Es reconocido, sin embargo, que la senoria prevalecera con la condition que el empleado puede realizar el trabajo a la satisfaccion de la Compania, o aprenderlo en un tiempo razonable. La Compania determinara que constituye un tiempo razonable por lo anteriormente indicado.
Cuando ningun empleado en la unidad ha indicado su deseo de llenar la vacantia y la Compania ocupa a un empleado fuera de la planta, o transfiere a un empleado de otra unidad, su senoria de la planta y la unidad comenzara como es indicado en Parrafo 2 de este Articulo.
Cuando una vacancia permanente ocurre el cual la Compania desea llenar, la Compania anunciara la vacancia dentro de diez (10) dias calendarios despues que ocurre la vacancia y llenara la vacancia dentro de treinta (30) dias calendarios despues que haya sido concedido.
8.	Derecho de Empleados Ausentes para Firmar un Trabajo. Si un empleado con mas senoria de una unidad esta ausente debido a una enfermedad, vacaciones o ausencia con permiso, el/ella sera permitido ejercer su senoria no mas tardado de cinco (5) dias despues de su regreso a su trabajo regular pero no despues del quinto dia. El empleado temporalmente promovido al trabajo durante la ausencia del empleado calificado con mas senoria recibira el redito de pago por el trabajo que esta haciendo temporalmente, pero lo regresaran a su previa position y al redito de pago anterior cuando regrese el empleado con mas senoria calificado, asi como afectados por la promoci6n. El empleado calificado con mas senoria recibira el redito de pago adjunto con el trabajo asumido el dia que empiece hacer las tareas del nuevo trabajo pero en ningun caso sera retroactivo.
9.	Asignacion Temporal. Durante el periodo de la vacancia del trabajo o la clasificacion de trabajo nuevo no ocupan alguna persona para la position debido a los procedimientos de oferta de trabajo, la Compania tiene derecho de ocupar a una persona para llenar tai trabajo hasta que pongan al empleado que se gano el trabajo exitosamente. En cualquier caso la Compania llenara la vacancia temporal de siete (7) dias consecutivos o mas por base de senoria con la condition que el empleado que Ilene la vacancia pueda realizar el trabajo. El empleado que ocupo el trabajo temporalmente regresara a su previa position cuando pongan al empleado que se gano el trabajo exitosamente. La oferta de trabajo mencionada arriba es solamente para apertura de trabajos permanentes. La Compania tiene derecho de transferir empleados dentro de la unidad para llenar las vacancias en base temporal de menos de siete (7)
10
dias consecutivos o en casos de emergencias relevo de vacaciones, sin tener en cuenta cualquiera de los procedimientos mencionados arriba.
La Compania tiene derecho de llenar las vacancias sin tener en cuenta la senoria o a los procedimientos de oferta de trabajos cuando tai vacancia es causada por ausencia de los empleados debido a otras razones, enfermedad o ausencia con permiso cuando tai vacancia temporal de menos de siete (7) dias consecutivos o relevo de vacaciones por el periodo de las vacaciones programadas.
10.	Aplicacion de Senoria. Senoria por unidad aplicara en la determinacion de descansos, recontratacidn, y preferencia de tumo. Un empleado solamente puede ejercer su senoria una vez durante cualquier periodo de seis (6) meses durante el cambio de tumo. Es reconocido, pero, en aplicar la senoria, la senoria por unidad prevaleceri con la condition que el individuo pueda realizar el trabajo a la satisfaction de la Compania. En caso de un descanso como es proveido arriba, un empleado con senoria por unidad tiene derecho de reemplazar a cualquier empleado en la unidad con menos senoria por unidad al redito para el trabajo, con la condition que el empleado pueda realizar el trabajo a la satisfaction de la Compania. Si no esta calificado para hacer el trabajo de un empleado con menos senoria porque el trabajo especializado o semi-especializado en la unidad con menos senoria de unidad, al redito del trabajo, proveido que el empleado tenga menos senoria que el y con la condition que pueda realizar el trabajo a la satisfaction del Patron, o salirse de la nomina de pago.
Empleados que ejercen sus derechos bajo la provision mencionada arriba y que no puedan realizar el trabajo reclamado sacrificaran cualquier otro privilegio de quitarle el trabajo a otra persona y ponerlos en el estatus de descansado.
Cuando el trabajo en una unidad donde descansaron los empleados o los empleados estan trabajando en otras unidades que fueron afectadas por el descanso requiere empleados adicionales, entonces los empleados que fueron descansados o que esten trabajando en otras unidades serin regresados a su unidad regular. Estas vacancias no seran sujetas a los procedimientos de oferta de trabajo.
Cuando le llamen a los empleados que regresen a trabajar de nuevo a una unidad como es indicado arriba es necesario asignar empleados adicionales a esa unidad, ellos serin asignados
11
del estatus de descanso por senoria en la unidad con la condition que puedan realizar el trabajo a la satisfaction de la Compania.
11.	Transferencia de los Empleados. En caso de que una vacancia de trabajo o un trabajo nuevo que haya sido establecido no se Ilene en conformidad con los procedimientos de ofertas de trabajos como es indicado en Parrafo 7 mencionado arriba, entonces pueden seguir el siguiente procedimiento:
Por la Compania: Un empleado que foe transferido a otra unidad por la Compania retendra su senoria en la unidad de la cual foe transferido por un periodo que no excedera seis (6) meses calendarios, a menos que el empleado foe contratado por menos de seis (6) meses calendarios en esa unidad, en cuyo caso el/ella conservara su senoria en esa unidad por el periodo de su empleo en esa unidad de la que foe transferido, y su senoria en dicha unidad empezara desde la fecha que foe transferido.
Ningun empleado sera transferido a otra unidad si el o ella no desea aceptar tai transferencia.
En caso de una transferencia como es mencionado arriba, el empleado conservara los beneficios adquiridos por senoria en la unidad de la cual foe transferido. (Vacaciones, salud y bienestar, etc.)
12.	Termination de Senoria. La senoria scri terminada por cualquiera de las siguientes razones:
a.	Dejar el trabajo voluntariamente.
b.	Desocupado por causa.
c.	Si un empleado es descansado y no se reporta a trabajar dentro de tres (3) dias de recibir una carta registrada o un telegrama a la ultima direction proveida por el empleado a la Compania indicando que se regrese a trabajar. Es entendido y acordado que la Compania se puede comunicar con los empleados descansados en persona o por telefono. Si se comunican con un empleado en persona o por telefono y no se reporta a trabajar, la Compania cumplira con la provisi6n mencionada arriba del parrafo C antes de que su senoria pueda ser terminada. La Compania esta de acuerdo que si un empleado cumple con las provisiones de este parrafo pero no puede regresar a trabajar dentro de los tres (3) dias de trabajo proveidos aqui por buenas y suficientes razones, le concederan tres (3) dias adicionales para que se reporte. Pero, el empleado le tiene que notificar a la Compania dentro del periodo de los tres (3) dias de trabajo
12
de su incapacidad de regresar a trabajar dentro de ese periodo. Si un empleado fue descansado debido a la reduccion de trabajo el/ella debe mantener a la Compania asesorada de cualquier cambio de domicilio por medio de notificacion escrita al Gerente de la Planta. Si un empleado notifica a la Compania dentro de los tres dias (3) dias del periodo que le llamaron como es establecido arriba de una incapacidad para regresar a trabajar dentro del periodo de tres (3) dias, al empleado le concederan dos (2) dias adicionales para reportarse a trabajar.
d.	Ausencia del trabajo por un periodo de tres (3) dias de trabajo cuando tai ausencia no ha sido reportada por el empleado a la Compania.
e.	Descanso por falta de trabajo por un periodo en exceso de seis (6) meses.
f.	Empleados que acepten posiciones de supervisor con la Compania por periodos en exceso de tres (3) meses.
g.	Empleados que acepten posiciones con la Unidn por periodos en exceso de un (1) termino.
13.	Servicio Militar. Toda la senoria concedida a los empleados bajo los terminos de este Acuerdo seran sujetos a los derechos concedidos por ley a los empleados voluntaries, llamados o reclutados para el servicio militar activo bajo la virtud de la Ley Guardia Nacional de 1940 y el Acta de Servicios Selectivos de 1942 y 1948 y cualquier adicion o modification o resoluciones y la interpretation del mismo por cualquier Tribunal Federal o Agenda Federal autorizada.
14.	Cierre de Unidad. En caso que se cierre una unidad, los empleados de tai unidad seran permitidos ejercer su senoria de la planta para reemplazar a cualquier individuo con menos senoria en la planta proveido que esten calificados para hacer el trabajo. En dicho ejercicio de la senoria los empleados lievaran toda la senoria de la unidad anterior. En caso de que se cierre la unidad, la Compania les dara a los empleados afectados quince (15) dias de anticipo del cierre.
15.	La Compania se esforzara por trabajo de los empleados dentro de su respectiva jurisdiction, excepto en casos de emergencia.
16.	En caso que los empleados esten descansados cuando anuncien una position, y ningun empleado que este trabajando no firma para la posici6n la Compania le ofrecera a los empleados que scan elegibles para que les llamen de nuevo por senoria y le proveeran entrenamiento al empleado, si es necesario, en conformidad con las provisiones de entrenamiento de este Acuerdo.
13
ARTICULO 13
VISITACION DE LA PLANTA. Un Representante de la Union tendra acceso a la planta para el proposito de investigar las condiciones de alii, bajo los tcrminos de este Acuerdo, y para ajustar cualquier demanda o quejas alii antes de entrar a Ja planta, el representante tiene que llamar a la oficina del oficial designado por la Compania y obtener permiso. Conferencias entre el Representante de la Uni6n y el empleado y/o empleados seran conducidas sin interferencias o interrupcion de la produccion de la Compania.
ARTICULO 14
VACACIONES. La Compania les concedera una (1) semana de vacaciones pagada a todos los empleados que han estado en servicio continue con la Compania por un (1) ano antes del periodo en cual tomaran las vacaciones. La Compania les concedera dos (2) semanas de vacaciones pagadas a todos los empleados que han estado en servicio continue con la Compania por un periodo de tres (3) anos antes del periodo en cual tomaran las vacaciones. La Compania les concedera tres (3) semanas de vacaciones pagadas a todos los empleados que han estado en servicio continue con la Compania por un periodo de ocho (8) anos antes del periodo en cual tomaran las vacaciones. La Compania les concedera cuatro (4) semanas de vacaciones pagadas a todos los empleados que han estado en servicio continuo con la Compania por un periodo de quince (15) anos antes del periodo en cual tomaran las vacaciones.
Los empleados seran elegibles para vacaciones cada ano si han trabajado un minimo de mil quinientas sesenta (1560) horas durante su aniversario el ano antes de sus vacaciones.
Cuando un empleado con mis senoria desea dividir sus vacaciones, solamente tendra preferencia en la primera seleccion.
El pago de las vacaciones sera basado en las horas trabajadas el ano anterior, pero no sera menos de cuarenta (40) horas por semana.
Cuarenta (40) horas al pago de tiempo regular del empleado constituira una (1) semana de pago de vacaciones. Ochenta (80) horas al pago de tiempo regular del empleado constituira dos (2) semanas de pago de vacaciones. Ciento veinte (120) horas de pago al pago de tiempo regular del empleado constituira tres (3) semanas de pago de vacaciones. Ciento sesenta (160)
14
horas al pago de tiempo regular del empleado constituira cuatro (4) semanas de pago de vacaciones.
El derecho para determinar el periodo de vacaciones sera de la Compania para asegurar la continua y apropiada operation del negocio. La senoria prevalecera en la concesion de las vacaciones.
La ultima fecha de contratacion del individuo determinara la elegibilidad de sus vacaciones. Pueden tomar las vacacione cualquier tiempo despues de la fecha del aniversario del empleado pero antes de la siguiente fecha del aniversario. Las vacaciones no seran acumuladas.
En caso que le concedan ausencia con permiso al empleado, la fecha del aniversario de su contratacion sera cambiada con el proposito de determinar la elegibilidad de las vacaciones agregandola al periodo de su ausencia con permiso. La semana de vacaciones sera igual a la semana de pago de nominas y todas las vacaciones empezaran el primer dia de la semana de nomina de pago.
La Compania le dara el pago de las vacaciones en vez de que el empleado tome tiempo libre si es acorado mutuamente. El pago de las vacaciones sera pagado inmediatamente antes del periodo de vacaciones o le pagara al empleado en la fecha de las vacaciones si el empleado elige tomar el pago en vez del tiempo libre.
La cantidad de horas trabajadas en una semana o el pago de Indemnidad Semanal o Compensation de los Trabajadores recibido en una semana constituira una semana de trabajo. Cuando cualquiera de los dias festivos establecidos en Articulo 9 cae en el periodo de las vacaciones del empleado, al empleado le pagaran el dia festive o le extenderan sus vacaciones por un (1) dia.
La Compania publicara el calendario de las vacaciones el lro de enero de cada ano. Los empleados seran requeridos a seleccionar su preferencia de sus vacaciones para el lr0 de abril de ese ano.
Los empleados que no hayan seleccionado el periodo de sus vacaciones para el lra de abril como es indicado arriba seran asignados el periodo de sus vacaciones a la discrecion de la Compania.
15
Las vacaciones de los empleados seran aprobadas y publicadas por la Compania el quince (15) de abril. La semana de las vacaciones sera igual a la semana de nomina de pago y todas las vacaciones empezaran el primer (1“) dia se la semana de nomina de pago. Al empleado le pagaran las vacaciones el ultimo dia de trabajo antes de empezar el periodo de sus vacaciones. La Compania reserva el derecho de reprogramar las vacaciones si las condiciones del negocio lo requieren.
Es entendido y acordado que cuando establezcan un calendario de las vacaciones, no podran cambiar el horario para cualquier empleado solamente que sea solicitado por ambos la Compania o el empleado, dichos cambios son acordados mutuamente por la Compania y el empleado.
ARTICULO 15
ESCALA SALARIAL. La escala salarial y las clasificaciones establecidas en Apendice “A”, adjunto a la presente y por esta referencia hacen parte del mismo.
ARTICULO 16
DESPIDO. Ningun empleado cubierto por este Acuerdo sera suspendido, demotion o desocupado sin causa justa o suficiente. Causa suficiente para el despido incluira entre otras razones, ausentismo o Hegar tarde, deshonestidad, negligencia, incompetencia, insubordination, robo, pelear, destruction maliciosa de la propiedad de la Compania, intoxication mientras esta trabajando o rehusar a realizar cualquier trabajo razonable, servicio, o mano de obra cuando sea requerido hacerlo por la Compania.
Es entendido y acordado que investigaciones sobre el despido como es establecido aqui seran tratados por medio de los Procedimientos de las Demandas como es proveido en Articulo 17 de este acuerdo.
Si encuentran que un empleado ha sido despedido injustamente, el o ella sera restituida a su puesto con todos los derechos y su sueldo sera compensado por el periodo de la suspensi6n, despido o demotion, pero nada aqui previene que las partes modifiquen esta provision, si las circunstancias justifican tai action.
Las investigaciones, procedimientos de las demandas y arreglos de cualquier reclamo en despedidas deben ser completadas dentro de diez (10) dias despues de la presentation de la
16
denuncia con la Union, excepto procedimientos de arbitracion pueden requerir tiempo adicional con el consentimiento de la Compania y la Union.
ARTICULO 17
DEMANDAS Y ARBITRACION. Un Comite de las Demandas de no mas de tres (3) empleados sera designado por la Union para que representen a los empleados de la unidad de negociaciones. Empleados de! Comite de las Demandas seran permitidos tiempo libre como sea razonablemente requerido. Todas las demandas deberan ser presentadas dentro de cinco (5) dias del evento el cual dio lugar a la queja.
Los procedimientos de las demandas seran establecidos como sigue:
(a)	Las demandas seran discutidas entre el empleado agraviado y el supervisor en la presencia del empleado apropiado del comite. Respuesta en veinticuatro (24) horas.
(b)	Si no se arregla, entonces la demanda debera ser por escrito en cinco (5) dias de trabajo y discutida entre el comite de las demandas y la gerencia. Respuesta en cuarenta y ocho (48) horas.
(c)	Si no se arregla, entonces la demanda sera discutida entre el comite de las demandas y el representante de la intemacional y la gerencia. Respuesta en cuarenta y ocho (48) horas.
En caso de una controversia, desacuerdo o no puedan resolver la demanda satisfactoriamente por medio de los procedimientos mencionados arriba, no habra un cierre patronal, huelga o paro del trabajo y la Compania y la Union someteran este asunto para decision del Consejo de Arbitraje que se constituye como se expresa a continuation:
(a)	Ambos la Compania y la Union seleccionaran un arbitro dentro de cuarenta y ocho (48) horas, y los dos (2) elegidos seleccionaran un tercer arbitro impartial, y los tres (3) elegidos constituiran el Consejo de Arbitraje para escuchar y determinar el asunto en disputa o controversia, y la decision o conccsion de dicho Consejo sera final y conclusive sobre las partes aqui.
(b)	Si los dos (2) arbitros seleccionados por las partes en conformidad a la Section (a) mencionada arriba no puedan Hegar a un acuerdo dentro de cuarenta y ocho (48) horas despuds de su decision sobre el tercer miembro del Consejo de Arbitraje, entonces, y en ese caso, el tercer arbitro imparcial sera seleccionado de un panel de cinco (5) arbitros que residen dentro del Estado de Colorado sometido por el Servicio Federal de Mediation y los Servicios de Conciliation a solicitud escrita a los dos (2) arbitros y la decision o concesion del Consejo sera final y conclusive sobre las partes aqui.
17
Es entendido y acordado entre las partes que el Consejo de Arbitraje constituido segun lo establecido en el Punto (a) o (b) mencionados arriba, no tendran el poder para agregar, sustraer de o modificar cualquiera de los terminos de este Acuerdo.
Cada parte pagara los gastos de su propio arbitro, pero los gastos del tercer arbitro seran compartidos igualmente entre la Compania y la Uni6n.
ARTICULO 18
HOSPITAL, QUIRURGICO, INDEMNIZACION SEMANAL Y SEGURO DE VIDA. Efectivo enero de 2010, la Compania contribuira ochenta por ciento (80%) del costo del premio para la parte de la contribucion del empleado solamente a los fondos de Rocky Mountain UFCW Union y Beneficios de Salud del Empleador departe de cada empleado elegible que elige registrarse. La Compania no hara cualquier contribucion a los beneficios de salud para los jubilados. La contribucion sera sometida en nombre de los empleados elegibles a un Fondo Fideicomisario de Salud y Bienestar Conjunto de la Uni6n-Compania. Sera el deber de los Fideicomisarios Conjuntos para establecer los beneficios y proveer cobertura a los empleados elegibles. Las calificaciones de elegibilidad establecidas en Apendice B continuaran durante el plazo de este Acuerdo.
Si el aumento del costo del premio de seguro de salud del 2011 al 2012 es menos de 7%, entonces cualquiera de las partes puede abrir el contrato con el proposito de discutir la transferencia de cualquier ahorro a la pension. Deberan dar notificacion 15 dias despues del 1 de enero de 2012 para abrir el contrato de nuevo.
ARTICULO 19
AUSENCIA CON PERMISO. El empleado puede, con solicitud escrita al supervisor del departamento, y con buena y suficiente razon, ser concedido una ausencia con permiso sin perder su senoria pero sera sin pago, por un periodo de catorce (14) dias, pero no sobrepasara treinta (30) dias con el privilegio de renovacidn a la discrecidn de la Compania. Las ausencias con permiso no seran usadas con el propdsito de extender las vacaciones de un empleado particular a menos que haya asegurado la aprobacidn de la Compania por lo menos de dos (2) semanas antes de tomar dichas vacaciones, y no sera para que el empleado particular busque o obtenga otro trabajo. Un empleado que desea tomar ausencia con permiso debe verificar con la Compania
18
sobre cobertura de seguro durante tai ausencia. La Compania le puede conceder una ausencia con permiso a un empleado para que acepte una position con la Union que no sobrepase un (1) plazo de oficina.
Embarazo sera tratado como cualquier otra enfermedad y/o en conformidad con la ley aplicable.
ARTICULO 20
CHEQUES DE PAGO. El cheque con que la Compania les paga a los empleados indicara todas las deducciones, sueldo por hora, horas trabajadas, tiempo regular y tiempo extra. Es entendido y acordado que a los empleados les pagaran una vez por semana.
ARTICULO 21
TABLON DE ANLTNCIOS. La Union tendra el privilegio de colocar anuncios que tienen que ver con negocio oficial de la Union en el tablon de anuncios proveido por la Compania. Antes de hacerlo, sin embargo, primero tienen que conseguir la aprobaci6n del superintendente de la planta.
ARTICULO 22
EOUIPO. La Compania se compromete a proporcionar todo el equipo de seguridad requerido, y toda la herramienta de doce (12) pulgadas o mds y reemplazar toda la herramienta quebrada. A todos los empleados se les permitira hasta un maximo de sesenta ($60.00) d61ares por ano para la compra de botas. Los empleados seran compensados quince (15) minutos por dia por el tiempo para cambiarse de ropa. Los empleados deben ponerse la ropa de trabajo antes de ponchar para dentro y ponchar para fuera antes de quitarse la ropa de trabajo.
ARTICULO 23
PERMISO PARA FUNERAL. Cuando un empleado regular de tiempo complete se ausenta del trabajo para el proposito de arreglar o asistir al funeral de un miembro de su familia inmediata, la Compania le pagara al empleado por ocho (8) horas de su pago regular por cada dia de tai ausencia hasta lo maximo de tres (3) dias de trabajo. Los empleados pueden recibir siete (7) dias adicionales sin pago para cualquier funeral fuera del pais.
1.	El empleado este activo en la ndmina de pagos en la fecha que ocurre el fallecimiento del miembro de la familia inmediata del empleado y
19
2.	El empleado notifique a su supervisor del proposito de su ausencia no mas tardar de el primer dia de tai ausencia; y
3.	El dia de ausencia se pagara solamente si tai dia es uno (1) de los tres (3) dias cuando la cuadrilla del empleado lo trabajo y que lo hubiera trabajado el empleado si no hubiera ocurrido la ausencia, y
4.	El empleado proveera prueba satisfactoria a la Compania del fallecimiento, la relation del empleado al difunto, la fecha del funeral, y prueba de asistencia actual del empleado en tai funeral.
Para el proposito de este parrafo, un miembro inmediato de la familia significa solamente el conyuge, hijo(a), hijastro(a), madre, padre, hermana, hermano, abuela, abuelo, nieto(a), suegra y suegro.
ARTICULO 24
DEBERES DE JURADO EN CORTE. Cuando a un empleado le Haman para servicio en el jurado, el o ella sera compensado por el tiempo perdido de su trabajo a su pago regular menos la compensaci6n recibida por el jurado, pero en ningun caso mas de ocho (8) horas por dia o cuarenta (40) horas por semana, de lunes a viemes.
No se espera que los empleados se reporten a trabajar si son requeridos a reportarse al jurado en la manana o en la tarde. En caso que se excusa del jurado antes de mediodia y no es requerido a que regrese despuds de mediodia, deben reportarse a trabajar lo mas pronto posible despuds de ser liberado del jurado y trabajar todas las horas disponibles.
Un empleado que trabaje el tumo de la noche y le Haman para servir en el jurado no sera requerido reportarse a su tumo regular de la noche. Pero, debe, si es posible informarle a la Compania si esta sirviendo en el jurado.
Si un empleado es excusado y no presta servicio en el jurado, el o ella son requeridos a reportarse a trabajar su tumo regular.
ARTICULO 25
PREMIOS DE TURNO. Empleados que trabajan lo que es considerado el segundo tumo recibiran diez centavos (100) arriba de su pago regular; empleados que trabajan lo que es considerado el tercer tumo recibiran veinte centavos (200) arriba de su pago regular.
20
ARTICULO 26
PRIMEROS AUXILIOS. La Compania proveera y mantendra un puesto de primeros auxilios en la planta en un local accesible a todos los empleados.
ARTICULO 27
PERIODO DE C0M1DA. Se establecera un periodo de comida (sin pago) de treinta (30) minutos para todos los empelados. El operador de dia y el operador de noche recibiran media hora (1/2) de pago en adicion a su pago regular por el dia cuando trabaje a traves de la hora de comida.
ARTICULO 28
NO DISCR1MINACI0N. La Compania y la Union reconocen que por ley son requeridos a no discriminar contra cualquier persona con relation al empleo o membrecia de la Union debido a su raza, credo, religion, color, sexo, edad, origen national, ascendencia y por lo presente declarar su aceptacion y apoyo de tales leyes. Esto se aplicara a la contratacion, la colocation mejora, transferor, democi6n, reclutamiento, propaganda o solicitation de empleo, entrenamiento durante el empleo, redito de pago u otras formas de compensation, selection para entrenamiento, descanso o termination, solicited para y admision a la membrecia de la Union.
ARTICULO 29
LINEA DE PIOUETE (PICKET LINE). Ningun empleado sera desocupado o amenazado por negarse a cruzar o trabajar detras de cualquier linea de piquete primaria establecida por cualquier organization laboral en el local de la Compania, ni la Uni6n se considerara en violation de este Acuerdo si los miembros deciden respetar tai linea de piquete.
ARTICULO 30
CLAUSULA DE AHORROS. En el caso de que alguna disposition de este Acuerdo sea declarado invalido por el Tribunal de jurisdicci6n competente, dicha decisi6n no invalidara el Acuerdo completo; y mis, si cualquier ley Federal o Estatal, reglamento del gobiemo expedido por cualquiera de sus departamentos, agencias o representantes afectan cualquier provision de este Acuerdo, las provisiones o provisi6n se hara para cumplir con la ley o determinaci6n y todas las provisiones que no son afectadas continuaran en pleno vigor y efecto.
21
ARTiCUL0 31
SUBCONTRATANDO TRABAJO DE MANTENIMIENTO. La Compania tiene derecho de subcontratar trabajo de mantenimiento y determinar que trabajo sera asignado al contratista. Pero, antes de subcontratar trabajo de mantenimiento que los empleados de la unidad de negociaciones estan calificados para hacer el trabajo, la Compania solicitara que los trabadores de la unidad de negociaciones hagan el trabajo. Si no hay suficientes empleados con las calificaciones necesarias que esten dispuestos para hacer el trabajo en el tiempo necesario, la Compania puede subcontratar el trabajo.
ARTICULO 32
DURACION DEL ACUERDO. Este acuerdo estara en efecto desde el 17 de enero de 2010, y permanecera en efecto hasta el 16 dia de enero de 2013, y continuara en pleno vigor y efecto de ano a ano despues, a menos que el Acuerdo se termine o sea cambiado de conformidad con las siguientes condiciones:
1.	Si cualquiera de las partes elige terminar el Acuerdo tai parte debe, en una fecha no menos de sesenta (60) dias antes de la fecha de expiraci6n del Acuerdo, dar notificacidn a la otra parte de su intension de terminar, y por tai accidn el Acuerdo debe, a todo propdsito, terminarse a partir de la fecha de expiration del Acuerdo.
2.	Si cualquiera de las partes elige cambiar cualquiera de las provisiones del Acuerdo tai parte debe, en una fecha no menos de sesenta (60) dias antes de la fecha de expiration del Acuerdo, darle una notificacidn escrita a la otra parte especificando los cambios deseados. Los cambios en el Acuerdo serin limitados a esos indicados por escrito y todos los articulos del Acuerdo que no se hayan especificado en la notificacidn escrita serin reconocidos como automiticamente renovados. Las negociaciones empezaran dentro de sesenta (60) dias antes de la fecha de expiration del Acuerdo, a menos que mutuamente acuerden lo contrario.
3.	En caso de que cualquiera de las partes notificara a la otra parte de su deseo de cambiar los terminos del Acuerdo en conformidad con los pirrafos anteriores, entonces, y en ese caso, la otra parte debera tener diez (10) dias de la fecha de recibir la notificacidn por escrito a enviar una notification a la parte notificante especificando cualquier cambio que sea deseado.
22
EN FE DE LO CUAL, las partes arriba mencionadas han firmado sus nombres y colocado las firrnas de su representante autorizado este_dia de de 2010.
UNION DE TRABAJADORES UNIDOS DE DARLING NATIONAL L.L.C.
COMERCIO Y ALIMENTOS, LOCAL 7,
AFL-CIO
Por-S- Por-5-
Por Por
INGENIEROS DE OPERACION LOCAL 1
Por___________-S-___________
Por_________________________
23
APENDICE “A”
ESCALAS DE SUELDO. Las escalas de sueldo y clasificaciones son como siguen:
A. UNIDAD DE PRODUCCION
UNION DE TRABAJADORES UNIDOS DE COMERCIO Y ALIMENTOS
LOCAL 7
Clasificaciones Operador - Comestible Relevo* Mano de Obra	Sueldo por Hora Efectivo 1/17/10 13.77 13.67 13.41	Sueldo por Hora Efectivo 1/16/11 14.02 13.92 13.66	Sueldo por Hora Efectivo 1/15/12 14.27 14.17 13.91
B. UNIDAD DE INGENIEROS INGENIEROS DE OPERACION LOCAL 1			
	Sueldo por Hora	Sueldo por Hora .	Sueldo por Hora
	Efectivo	Efectivo	Efectivo
Clasificaciones	1/17/10	1/16/11	1/15/12
Ingeniero	14.65	14.90	15.15
Mantenimiento	14.38	14.63	14.88
Ayudante de Mantenimiento	13.63	13.88	14.13
SUELDO PARA EMPLEADOS NUEVOS
A.	UNIDAD DE OPERADORES
UNION DE TRABAJADORES UNIDOS DE COMERCIO Y ALIMENTOS
LOCAL 7
litres (3) meses -$1.00 menos del sueldo laboral
Siguientes tres (3) meses - $.75 menos del sueldo laboral
Siguientes tres (3) meses - $.50 menos del sueldo laboral
Siguientes tres (3) meses - $.25 menos del sueldo laboral
Despues de doce (12) meses - sueldo complete
B.	UNIDAD DE INGENIEROS
INGENIEROS DE OPERACION LOCAL 1
l"tres (3) meses - $1.00 menos del sueldo del ayudante de mantenimiento
Siguientes tres (3) meses - $.75 menos del sueldo del ayudante de mantenimiento Siguientes tres (3) meses - $.50 menos del sueldo del ayudante de mantenimiento Siguientes tres (3) meses - $.25 menos del sueldo del ayudante de mantenimiento Despuds de doce (12) meses - sueldo complete
A-l
LIDER La Compania reserva el derecho de asignar un Lider a su discretion. Un Lfder recibira $1.00 mas por hora arriba del sueldo laboral. La Compania puede asignar un Lider para todos los empleados cubiertos por este Acuerdo.
*Relevo debera ser entrenado en montacargas; ser capaz de operar Ross y/o el cuarto de proceso; debe trabajar tiempo extra cuando sea necesario; la hora para empezar a trabajar serii sujeto a cambiar; otras tareas asignadas. La persona de Relevo solamente recibira el sueldo de Operador cuando ocupe esa position para el relevo de vacaciones u otras vacancias.
Si despues de seis (6) meses cualquiera de las partes de la Compania o la Union desean discontinuar la position de Relevo, cualquier parte puede notificar a la otra por escrito. Entonces las partes se reuniran para discutir la posibilidad de discontinuation. Si las partes no pueden Hegar a un acuerdo, la position sera discontinuada despues de treinta (30) dias.
A-2
APENDICE “B”
PROGRAMA DE BENEFICIOS DE SALUD
CALIFICACIONES DE ELEGIBLIDAD
A.	EMPLEADOS:
Todos los empleados regulares de tiempo completo que eligen registrarse seran asegurados el primero (lro) del mes despues de la fecha que adquieran seis (6) meses de senoria como establecido en Articulo 12, Senoria, de este Acuerdo.
Es entendido que lo mencionado arriba no tomara efecto, ni altera, enmienda o modifica cualquier otra provision del contrato, y continiia ser sujeto a los reglamentos de la Poliza de Seguro primaria.
B.	TERMINAC1ON DE LOS BENEFICIOS:
1.	Los beneficios se terminaran al final del mes en el cual un empleado este ausente por una (1) de las siguientes razones:
a.	Huelga
b.	En el Servicio Militar
c.	En Ausencia con Permiso
d.	Desocupado
e.	Deja el Trabajo Voluntariamente
2.	Los beneficios, sin embargo, continuaran hasta el fin del mes despues del mes en el cual el empleado estaba ausente debido a falta de trabajo.
C.	CONTINUACION DE COBERTURA MIENTRAS ESTA INCAPACITADO:
Toda la cobertura permanecera en efecto para el mes siguiendo el mes o periodo, si cualquiera, de dos (2) semanas por cada ano de servicio con la Compania, el que sea mas, en el cual un empleado este ausente debido una enfermedad o lastimadura relacionada coii el trabajo o no.
D.	PAGO PROPIO DEL PREMIO:
Los empleados tendran el derecho de hacer su propio pago por un periodo que no exceda seis (6) meses en caso que tengan cualquier:
a.	Perdio la elegibilidad por resultados de estar en huelga, ausencia por falta de trabajo, o
b.	Son nuevos y no han establecido elegibilidad en conformidad a lo siguiente:
B-l
(1)	A fin de pagar uno mismo durante un periodo que no exceda seis (6) meses consecutivos, el empleado que es nuevo y de otro modo no es elegible tiene que hacer arreglos con la Compania para deducciones del pago de nominas dentro de treinta (30) dias despues de establecer senoria.
(2)	Empleados que hayan perdido elegibilidad por resultados de estar en huelga, en ausencia con permiso, o debido a falta de trabajo, pueden mantener su cobertura de seguro por un periodo que no exceda seis (6) meses consecutivos, a reditos de grupo, haciendo los pagos del premio por adelantado.
(3)	Empleados que han perdido su elegibilidad tendran el derecho de convertirse a una poliza individual, sin una examination medica, en conformidad con los terminos de la Poliza Principal de Seguro.
E.	REINTEGRACION DE ELEGIBILIDAD:
Empleados que han perdido elegibilidad por resultados de ausencia con permiso, descansados por falta de trabajo, servicio militar, en huelga, incapacidad laboral o no laboral, seran reintegrados y la Compania pagara el premio efectivo el primer (ler) dia del mes en el cual ellos regresan a trabajar, si regresan a empleo activo de tiempo completo dentro de los primeros diez dias de tai mes.
F.	DEPENDIENTES:
Dependientes solamente incluyen la esposa del empleado (esposo) y cada hijo soltero el cual el empleado esta bajo la obligation de mantener, y no ha llegado a la edad de 19 anos.
G.	COMPENSACION DE TRABAJADORES:
El seguro de hospitalization y cirugia no se aplicara en todo caso, que resulten de cualquier lastimadura o enfermedad que es indemnizable bajo cualquier Compensation de Trabajadores o la Ley de Enfermedades Laborales cubriendo al empleado o a sus dependientes.
H.	TERMINACION DE SEGURO:
La cobertura del programa se terminara si cualquier empleado deja el trabajo voluntariamente o es descansado por causa, proveido, sin embargo, la cobertura continuara hasta el fin del mes en cual el empleado es terminado.
1.	En caso que un empleado de tiempo completo, que es elegible para ser cubierto bajo el Programa, se niega o ignora a otorgar las formas necesarias el cual requiere que la Compania contribuye el costo de la cobertura de dicho empleado y/o sus dependientes bajo el plan mencionado arriba, entonces y en ese caso, la Compania no sera responsable de dichas contribuciones o cualquier gasto de hospital 0 cirugia efectuados por dicho empleado y/o sus dependientes.
B-2
2.	En caso que un empleado se niega a registrarse en el Programa, la Union sera notificada inmediatamente.
3.	Es entendido y acordado que este Apendice representa un sinopsis de los beneficios, y sera sujeto a las provisiones de tales polizas
4.	Ademas se entiende que todos los empleados cubiertos seran proporcionados con una copia de tales polizas mencionadas arriba, junto con una Tarjeta de Identificacion del Plan de Seguro.
B-3
APENDICE “C”
UNION DE TRABAJADORES UNIDOS DE COMERCIO Y ALIMENTOS LOCAL 7
PLAN DE LA PENSION. Efectivo el 1 de marzo de 2010, la Compania contribuira un total de setenta y cinco centavos (S0.75) por hora por todas las horas actualmente trabajadas, no excederan cuarenta (40) horas, en una semana de trabajo al Plan de Pension de los Cortadores de Came del Area de Denver. Efectivo el 1 de marzo de 2011, la Compania contribuira ochenta centavos ($0.80) por hora por todas las horas actualmente trabajadas, no excederan cuarenta (40) horas, en una semana de trabajo al Plan de Pension de los Cortadores de Carne del Area de Denver. Efectivo el 1 de marzo de 2012, la Compania contribuira ochenta y cinco centavos ($0.85) por hora por todas las horas actualmente trabajadas, no excederan cuarenta (40) horas, en una semana de trabajo al Plan de Pension de los Cortadores de Carne del Area de Denver. Ademas, no se requiere contribucion hasta que el empleado haya calificado como un empleado regular de tiempo completo, como no se requiere ningun pago de los empleados que estan en prueba o empleados casuales. El pago se efectuara en un Fondo de Pensiones de la Compania y de la Union el cual sera administrado conjuntamente por los Fideicomisarios que representan la Compania y a la Union. La Compania se compromete a pagar al Fondo a mas tardar el quince (15) del mes por las horas trabajadas en el mes anterior basado en el requisite anterior.
Un Acuerdo de Fideicomiso sera elaborado y acordado por ambos la Union y los Fideicomisarios de la Compania estableciendo dicho Plan de Pension y la administration de tales Fondos.
Dichos Fondos de la Pension seran usados para proveer beneficios de la pension a los empleados de la Compania elegibles como es proveido en el Plan de la Pension, los terminos y disposiciones de las cuales han de ser acordadas por las partes del mismo; dicho Plan de la Pension debe; entre otras cosas, proveer todos los beneficios bajo el Plan y el costo, los cargos y gastos de administration del Plan y todos los impuestos recaudados o establecidos en funcion o en respecto de dicho Plan o Fideicomiso o cualesquier otros ingresos de alii seran pagados de los Fondos de la Pension.
Dicho Plan y el Acuerdo de Fideicomiso establecido por los Fondos de la Pension sera sometido al Departamento Tesorero de los Estados Unidos y al Departamento de Labor de los
C-l
Estados Unidos para su aprobaci6n y la decisi6n satisfactoria a la Compania, que el dicho Plan es calificado bajo el I.R.C. Section 401, et seq., y que ninguna parte de tai pago sera incluido en el pago regular de cualquier empleado.
Es acordado por y entre las partes del mismo que cuando el Plan de Pensiones sea aprobado por el Departamento Tesorero de los Estados Unidos y el Departamento de Labor de los Estados Unidos y se convierta operativo y la Compania empieza hacer contribuciones a los Fondos, los empleados cubiertos por este Acuerdo automaticamente dejan de partitipar el Plan de Jubilation de la Compania y el Plan de Reparto de Utilidades que esten en efecto.
Una copia del Acuerdo de Fideicomiso y sus posibles modificaciones, se haran parte como si aqui al fin haya sido establecido, cuando sea adoptado.
En consideration de los Pagos del Plan de Pension proveido arriba, es acordado por las partes aqui que en o despues del 1 de Julio de 1973, los empleados bajo la jurisdiction de este Acuerdo que lleguen a la edad de sesenta y cinco (65) pueden ser retirados a la discrecion de la Compania.
C-2
INGENIEROS DE OPERACION LOCAL 1
PLAN DE LA PENSION. Efectivo el 1 de marzo de 2010, la Compania debera pagar mensualmente a la los Fondos de la Pension Central de la Union Intemacional de los Ingenieros de Operation y Empleadores participantes, setenta y cinco centavos ($0.75) por hora por cada hora pagada o trabajada el mes anterior, por cada empleado de la Compania realizando el trabajo bajo la clasificacion estabiecida en Apendice “A” de este Acuerdo. Efectivo el 1 de marzo de 2011, la Compania debera pagara mensualmente a la los Fondos de la Pension Central de la Union International de los Ingenieros de Operation y Empleadores participantes, ochenta centavos ($0.80) por hora por cada hora pagada o trabajada el mes anterior, por cada empleado de la Compania realizando el trabajo bajo la clasificacion establecido en Apendice “A” de este Acuerdo. Efectivo el 1 de marzo de 2012, la Compania debera pagara mensualmente a la los Fondos de la Pension Central de la Union International de los Ingenieros de Operation y Empleadores participantes, ochenta y cinco centavos ($0.85) por hora por cada hora pagada o trabajada el mes anterior, por cada empleado de la Compania realizando el trabajo bajo la clasificacion establecido en Apendice “A” de este Acuerdo.
La Compania no esta obligada a contribuir por horas trabajadas en exceso de ocho (8) horas en un dia o en exceso de cuarenta (40) horas por semana.
Los pagos seran usados por dichos fondos de la pension para proveer beneficios de jubilation para los empleados elegibles en conformidad con el plan de la pensidn sometida por la Union y aprobada por los Fideicomisarios escogidos en conformidad de Section 302(c) el Acta de Relaciones Laborales de 1942, en su version modificada.
La Compania se compromete a ser parte del Acuerdo y Declaration de Confianza y se compromete a cumplir con todos los terminos y provisiones de dicho Acuerdo y Declaration de Confianza el cual serA parte de este Acuerdo y se compromete a cumplir con todas las acciones tomadas por dichos Fideicomisarios de la Compania en conformidad a dicho Acuerdo y Declaration de Confianza.
Es entendido y acordado que el plan de la pension referido aqui debera ser tai que se clasificara para aprobaci6n de la Oficina de Ingresos Internationales del Departamento de Tesoro
C-3
de los Estados Unidos, a fin de permitir a la Compania una deduccion fiscal de las cotizaciones pagadas a continuation. Una copia certificada de dicha aprobacion sera proporcionada a la Compania.
C-4
CARTA DE ENTENDIMIENTO
En caso de un cierre permanente de la planta comestible Darling National L.L.C., los empleados de la unidad de negociaciones que hayan completado su periodo probatorio tendran el estatuto preferencial de contratacion sobre los empleados contratados de la calle. Los empleados podran transferirse a la planta incomestible de Darling National L.L. C. basado en la senoria, cuando en criterio de la Compania, habilidades, capacidades y calificaciones son razonablemente igual. Empleados que hayan sido descansados como resultado de este proceso conservaran los derechos de que les llamen de nuevo por seis (6) meses. Solamente la Compania tendrd la discrecion para determinar cuales clasificaciones de trabajo son necesarias y la cantidad de empleados necesarios dentro de cualquier clasificacion de trabajo. Empleados que sean transferidos en conformidad con esta carta de entendimiento conservaran su senoria solamente para el proposito de vacaciones y beneficios.
Lo anterior tomara precedente sobre cualquier otro lenguaje o provisidn de este Acuerdo.
D-l
CARTA DE ENTENDIMIENTO
La Union y la Compania reconocen y aceptan que el mantenimiento de un lugar de trabajo libre de drogas es una preocupacion extrema con el fin de proporcionar un lugar de trabajo seguro para todos los empleados de la Compania. La Compania tendra el derecho durante el termino de este Acuerdo de poner a prueba a cualquier empleado por el uso de alcohol y drogas en conformidad con las provisiones de tai prueba como fue establecida por el reglamento de el Acta de Seguridad de Autotransporte del Departamento Federal de los Estados Unidos (FMCSA) y/o la Poliza de Abuso de Sustancias de la Compania, que la poliza se incorpora por referencia en este documento. Empleados que no pasen la prueba de droga/alcohol seran desocupados. Sin embargo, si un empleado admite uso indebido de drogas y/o alcohol a la Compania antes de ser designado para la prueba y se compromete a completar un programa de rehabilitacion de buena fe no sera desocupado.
D-2
REGLAS WEINGARTEN
Dentro de la decision del Tribunal Supremo de Weingarten, cuando ocurre una entrevista investigadora, usted debera preguntar si es para accion disciplinaria. Si es, las siguientes reglas se aplican:
Regia I: El empleado debera solicitar claramente por representation de la Union antes o durante la entrevista. El empleado no puede ser castigado por hacer esta solicitud.
Regia II: Despues que el empleado haga la solicitud, el empleador deber de escoger dentro tres opciones. El empleador puede:
A.	Conceder la solicitud y retrasar las preguntas hasta que llegue el representante de la union y tiene la oportunidad de consultar privadamente con el empleado, o
B.	Negar la solicitud y terminar la entrevista inmediatamente, o
C.	Parle al empleado la option de:
1.	tener la entrevista sin representacion o
2.	terminar la entrevista.
Regia III: Si el empleador niega la solicitud para representacion de la union, y contimia preguntando preguntas, esta cometiendo una practica laboral injusta y el empleado tiene el derecho de negar en contestar. El empleador no puede disciplinar al empleado por tai negation.
SEGURO y PENSION
Cuando tenga preguntas sobre elegibilidad, beneficios o como presentar una reclamation, comuniquese con la Oficina de Fondos en la siguiente direction, donde el personal estara disponible para ayudarle:
MEDICO/VISION ZENITH ADMINISTRATORS PO BOX 447 5511 W. 56th AVENUE, #250 ARVADA, CO 80001-0447 TELEFONO: 303-430-9334 LLAMADA GRATUITA: 1-800-527-1647
DENTAL
DELTA DENTAL OF COLORADO POBOX 173803 DENVER, CO 80217-3803 TELEFONO: 303-741-9300
PENSION
ZENITH ADMINISTRATORS PO BOX 1327 5511 W. 56th AVENUE, #250 ARVADA, CO 80001-1327 TELEFONO: 303-430-9476 LLAMADA GRATUITA: 1-800-390-3083
iiiQUE NO LO SUSPENDAN!!!
RECUERDE, SI USTED DEJA LA INDUSTRIA POR CUALQUIER RAZON (termination, descanso, permiso de ausencia laboral, etc.) solicite su tarjeta de retiro. Esto se debe hacer dentro de 30 dias del ultimo dia trabajado. Esto protege su estado de la union en el caso que usted regrese a la industria. Falta de conseguir una tarjeta de retiro resultara en una SUSPENSION de la Union y una cuota de restablecimiento sera cargado. Si usted deja la industria, ;ES SU OBLIGACION DE CONSEGUIR UNA TARJETA DE RETIRO!
La tarjeta de retiro sera dada sin costo, el unico requisito es que su cuota de initiation sea completamente pagada y sus cuotas deben ser pagadas por el mes en el cual usted solicita la tarjeta de retiro. La tarjeta de retiro es buena indefinidamente y permite que usted se haga un miembro de cualquier union local afiliada con la Union Intemacional de Trabajadores Unidos de Alimentos y Comercio sin el pago de cualquier otra cuota. Las tarjetas de retiro deben ser depositadas en la oficina de la union dentro de 30 dias despues de regresar al trabajo o sera nula y anulada y la cuota de restablecimiento debe ser pagada. Todas las personas que regresan al trabajo con una taijeta de retiro deben llenar una solicitud y autorizacion nueva.
FORMA DE SOLICITAR LA TARJETA DE RETIRO
Cuando su empleo termina, o si lo despiden, o en un permiso de ausencia laboral por mas de 30 dias, usted debe solicitar una Tarjeta de Retiro.
SS#____________________________________________________
Nombre Fecha
Direction______________________________________________
Ciudad Estado Codigo Postal
Telefono Casero Compania#Tienda
Clase de Trabajo Ultimo Dia Trabajado
DEUDAS DEBEN SER PAGADAS POR EL MES EN EL CUAL USTED SOLICITA UNA TARJETA DE RETIRO.
NOTAS
LAS OFICINAS DEL LOCAL 7 ESTAN LOCALIZADAS EN
EDIFICIO DE UFCW
7760 West 38<h Avenue, Suite 400
Wheat Ridge, Colorado 80033-9982
Telefono - (303) 425-0897
Llamada Gratuita - 1-800-854-7054
Pagina de Web: www.ufcw7.org Facsimile - (303) 424-2416
Si usted tiene cualquier pregunta o desea presentar una queja, comuniquese con su Representante de la Union o venga a la oficina de la Union Local.
JURAMENTO Y OBLIGACION DE LOS MIEMBROS:
Yo, (su nombre), prometo defender los principios de la Union, a apoyar y participar en los esfuerzos de esta Union. Prometo conducirme de una manera que refleja credito en esta organization.
MJFCWW
una VOZ para los trabajadores de America
Kim C Cordova, Presidenta Cindy Lucero, Secretaria-Tesorera
ACUERDO
Entre
DARLING NATIONAL, L.L.C.
Efectivo el 17 de enero de 2010 al 16 de enero de 2013
y
TRABAJADORES UNIDOS DE ALIMENTOS Y COMERCIO, LOCAL NO. 7
y
INGENIEROS DE OPERACION LOCAL 1