AGREEMENT
Between
Butterball, LLC
Longmont, Colorado
2010-2013 Contract
and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS, LOCAL NO. 7
Chartered by the
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-CIO
THE OFFICES OF LOCAL 7 ARE LOCATED IN THE
UFCW BUILDING
7760 West 38,h Avenue, Suite 400
Wheat Ridge, Colorado 80033-9982
Telephone - 303-425-0897 Toll Free - 1-800-854-7054
Website: www.ufcw7.org
If you should have any questions or wish to file a grievance, contact your Union Representative or come to the Local Union office.
MEMBERS’ OATH & OBLIGATION:
I, (your name), pledge to uphold Union principles, to support and participate in the endeavors of this Union. I promise to conduct myself in a manner that will reflect credit upon this organization.
J a VOlCE for working America
Kim C. Cordova, President Cindy Lucero, Secretary-Treasurer
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE TITLE	PAGE NO.
AGREEMENT....................................1
1	RECOGNITION....................................1
2	RIGHTS OF MANAGEMENT...........................2
3	NON-DISCRIMINATION.............................2
4	SENIORITY......................................4
5	CHECK OFF......................................4
6	PLANT VISITATION...............................5
7	UNION STEWARD..................................6
8	GRIEVANCES...................................  6
9	ARBITRATION....................................7
10	LINE SPEED.................................... 8
11	NO STRIKE-NO LOCKOUT...........................9
12	CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES OF PAY...............9
13	NO PAY REDUCTION..............................10
14	SHIFT PREMIUMS................................10
15	PAGER. ON-CALL................................10
16	SPLIT SHIFTS..................................10
17	JOINT LABOR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE..............10
18	SAFETY........................................11
19	INJURY ON THE JOB.............................12
20	HEALTH & WELFARE BENEFITS.....................12
21	BUTTERBALL LLC HOURLY BARGAINING UNIT
EMPLOYEE’S 401 (K) PLAN.....................14
22	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME....................15
23	GUARANTEED WORK WEEK..........................17
24	REPORTING PAY.................................17
25	CALL BACK PAY.................................17
26	REST/LUNCH PERIODS............................18
27	VACATIONS.....................................19
28	HOLIDAYS......................................20
29	JURY DUTY.....................................21
30	FUNERAL LEAVE.................................22
31	WELLNESS DAYS.................................23
32	JOB BIDDING...................................23
33	CLOTHING/EQUIPMENT PROVISION..................25
34	LEAVES OF ABSENCE.............................27
35	LAY-OFF.......................................29
36	SUBCONTRACTING................................30
I
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE TITLE	PAGE NO,
37	JURISDICTION..................................30
38	VARIOUS PROVISIONS............................31
LOCKER INSPECTIONS.......................31
PAYDAY...................................31
DEPARTMENTS..............................31
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION.....................31
BULLETIN BOARD...........................31
GIFTS....................................31
EXCUSED ATTPNr>ANCP POINTS	31
FREEZER PREMIUM......................... 3i
39	SEPARABILITY..................................32
40	NO INTERFERENCE LANGUAGE - NEUTRALITY.........32
41	TERM OF AGREEMENT.............................32
APPENDIX A	- CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES OF PAY..........34
LOWER 14.................................34
UPPER 14-SOUTH...........................34
UPPER 14-NORTH...........................34
UPPER 20.................................35
LOWER 20.................................35
FRANK PACK...............................35
SPICE....................................35
BOX MAKING...............................35
OVENS....................................35
QUALITY ASSURANCE........................35
WAREHOUSE................................36
APPENDIX B	- ON-CALL WEEKEND STAFF.....................37
-II-
AGREEMENT
Between
BUTTERBALL, LLC, LONGMONT, COLORADO
And
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS
LOCAL NO. 7
Chartered by the
UNITED FOOD AND
COMMERCIAL WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-CIO
TERM: April 12, 2010 to April 12, 2013
AGREEMENT
This agreement has been made and entered into by and between BUTTERBALL, LLC in Longmont, Colorado, hereinafter referred to as the “Employer” and UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL NO. 7, AFL-CIO, hereinafter referred to as the “Union.”
WITNESSETH that for and in consideration of the mutual promises and conditions hereinafter set forth, and in order to assure and secure the benefits intended to be derived by the employees and the Employer under these ai tides of agreement herein, it is hereby expressly understood and agreed as follows:
ARTICLE 1
RECOGNITION
Section 1	The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining representative for all employees, employed at the Employer’s plant at Longmont, Colorado; but excluding office clerical employees, sales employees, guards, professional employees, workers currently represented by the Engineer’s Union, and supervisors as defined in the Act.
Section 2	All work or services performed within the bargaining unit shall be performed exclusively by bargaining unit members except in cases of absenteeism, emergencies, training purposes, or for special projects; however, such work shall not result in a loss of work to the bargaining unit members as a result of management working.
Section 3	The Employer agrees that during the term of this Agreement they will not request, require, coerce, recommend or enter into any individual agreement or contract with any
-1-
individual or group of bargaining unit employees, which in any way conflicts with the terms and provisions of this Agreement or in any way interferes with the rights or privileges of employees and the. status and rights of the employee’s bargaining agent who is a party to this Agreement.
Section 4	All employees covered by this Agreement shall, as a condition of employment, commencing thirty (30) calendar days after hiring or transfer into the bargaining unit, be required to share equally in the cost of maintaining and operating the collective bargaining agency in accordance with its rules.
Section 5	“On-call weekend staff’ shall be covered by the terms and conditions set forth in Appendix B only.
ARTICLE 2
RIGHTS OF MANAGEMENT
The Employer retains the right of managing the plant, to direct the work force and to make necessary rules and regulations for the conduct of the business, provided that the rules and regulations are not in conflict with the terms of this Agreement in any way.
ARTICLE 3
NON-DISCRIMINATION
Section 1 Non-Discrimination. The Company and the Union are committed to maintaining a work environment that is free from discrimination. In the administration of this Agreement and, in accordance with applicable federal and state law, neither the Company nor the Union shall discriminate against any employee because of that employee’s race, color, sex, religion, national origin, age, marital status, veterans status, or disability.
Section 2 Harassment Prohibited. Harassment of any employee due to that employee’s race, color, sex, religion, national origin, age, marital status, veterans status, or disability is also prohibited by this Agreement as well as federal and state law. Harassment consists of unwelcome conduct, whether verbal, physical or visual, that is based upon a person’s protected status, such as race, color, sex, religion, national origin, age, marital status, veterans status, disability or other protected status. The Company will not tolerate harassing conduct that affects tangible job benefits; that interferes unreasonably with an individual's work performance; or that creates an intimidating, hostile or offensive working environment.
a. Sexual Harassment. Sexual harassment includes unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other physical, verbal or visual conduct based on sex, when:
(i)	Submission to the conduct is an explicit or implicit term or condition of employment;
(ii)	Submission to or rejection of the conduct is used as the basis for an employment decision; or
-2-
(iii)	The conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual's work performance, or creates an intimidating, hostile or offensive working environment.
Prohibited sexual harassment may include explicit sexual propositions, sexual innuendo, suggestive comments, jokes, obscene language or gestures, displays of obscene material, and physical conduct. Harassment on the basis of other protected status may include comments based on race, color, sex, religion, national origin, age, marital status, veterans status, disability, jokes, offensive language or gestures, or displays of material offensive to members of the above described groups.
Section 3 Complaint Procedure. If the employee feels they have been the subject of discrimination or harassment whether by other employees, supervisors, vendors, customers, or a Union agent or steward, they should immediately notify their immediate supervisor. If the supervisor is unavailable or if the employee believes it would be inappropriate to contact their supervisor, the employee should immediately contact the Human Resource Department. The Company will investigate all such complaints thoroughly and promptly. To the fullest extent practicable, the Company will keep cornplaints and terms of their resolution confidential. If an investigation confirms that harassment has occurred, the Company will take corrective action, up to and including immediate termination of employment of any employee found to have violated the provisions of this Article. The Company forbids retaliation against anyone who has truthfully reported harassment.
Section 4 Reasonable Accommodation. In the administration of this Agreement, the Company and the Union will provide reasonable accommodations to qualified employees with a disability. Any employee who seeks such an accommodation must inform the Company, in writing, describe the requested accommodation and cooperate with the Company and the Union in seeking to identify reasonable alternatives. The need for and extent of such accommodations shall be determined by the Company in accordance with its interpretation of the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act and Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, even if such accommodations may be in conflict with another provision of this Agreement. However, in the event a reasonable accommodation may necessitate the modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, the Company and the Union will meet to discuss same.
Section 5 Union Responsibilities. The Union acknowledges the Company has a policy that prohibits discrimination or harassment of employees. If any bargaining unit employee notifies the Union of an alleged violation of this Article, the Union will encourage the employee to bring the matter to the attention of the Company in accordance with the Company’s policy. Once a complaint has been presented to the Company, the Union will cooperate with the Company in its investigation.
-3-
ARTICLE 4 SENIORITY
Section 1 Employees seniority date shall be the date of their most recent hiring by the Employer, uninterrupted by a termination. Department seniority means the most recent continuous service date of an employee in a department. Plant seniority means the most recent hire date of an employee. Plant seniority shall prevail for earning vacation, bidding outside of the department, earning benefits and for volunteers. Beyond this, unless a specific provision is contrary, it is the intent to use plant seniority within departments.
Section 2 New employees shall be on probation for their first sixty (60) calendar days, during which time they may be discharged by the Employer for any reason whatsoever, and. during this period, they shall not acquire any seniority status. Employees retained in the employ of the Employer after said probation period, shall have their seniority date back to the first (‘fj day of said probation period. The probationary period may be extended an additional thirty (30) calendar days by mutual agreement between the Employer, employee and the Union.
Section 3	No employee who falls within the bargaining unit shall be discharged, disciplined, or demoted without good and sufficient cause.
Section 4	Seniority shall terminate for any of the following reasons:
A.	Voluntarily quitting.
B.	Overstaying a granted leave of absence or vacation.
C.	Failure to report for work upon recall after layoff within four (4) working days after receipt of notification by certified mail to the last address furnished in writing by the employee to the Employer. Such recall notice shall not be required if the return to work date is given to the employee at the time of layoff.
D.	Discharge for just cause.
E.	Continuous layoff for a period in excess of twelve (12) months.
F.	Absence from work for a period of three (3) consecutive working days when such absence has not been reported by the employee.
G.	Employees accepting non-bargaining unit positions with the Employer for a period in excess of twelve (12) months.
ARTICLE 5 CHECK OFF
Section 1	Employer Obligations. On each payday the Employer agrees to deduct the weekly Union Dues and initiation fees from the net amount due each employee in the bargaining unit who has furnished the Employer (either directly or through the Union) with an individual
-4-
written and signed authorization form. It is understood that the check-off authorization is voluntary upon the part of each such individual employee and that any such employee may revoke the individual check off authorization upon giving thirty (30) days written notice to the Employer and the Union.
Section 2	Payment to Local Union. The Employer agrees to remit to the applicable Local Union the amount of dues and initiation fees weekly within seven (7) days after each weekly pay period.
Section 3	Failure to Pay Dues or Fees. Before any termination of employment pursuant to this section becomes effective, the employee involved shall first be given written notice by the Union to pay his or her delinquent dues or fees. If the employee fails to pay such delinquency, the Union shall notify the Employer, in writing, of the delinquency and may request the termination of employment of such employee within seven (7) days in receipt of such letter. The Employer shall be required to terminate such employee unless the employee pays such delinquency within said seven (7) day period.
Section 4	Changes in the Amount of Dues / Initiation Fees. The Union shall be
privileged to change the amount of weekly dues and initiation fees to be deducted by the Employer upon thirty (30) days written notification to the appropriate Human Resources Manager or Plant Manager.
Section 5	Indemnification of the Employer. The Union hereby agrees to indemnify and hold the Employer harmless from and against any loss, liability, damages, costs, attorney fees, penalties or interest arising out of the Employer’s compliance with the terms of this Article.
Section 6	The Company agrees to deduct amounts designated by employees for the UFCW Active Ballot Club (ABC) when the Company has been furnished an individual written authorization for making such deductions. It is agreed that the ABC authorization is to be voluntary. The Company agrees to remit the ABC contributions in the same manner as the Union dues.
ARTICLE 6
PLANT VISITATION
During the term of this Agreement, no more than two (2) previously designated non-employee union representatives shall have access to the plant for the purpose of investigating conditions therein, under the terms of this Agreement, and to adjust any grievances or complaints therein. In addition, the Union President and Butterball, LLC employees on leave of absence shall have access. Before entering the plant, such representative shall notify Human Resources. A Company representative has the option of accompanying the Union Representative while in the plant. Conferences between Union Representatives and an employee, or employees, shall be conducted so that there shall be no interference with, or interruption of, the Employer’s production.
-5-
ARTICLE 7
UNION STEWARD
Section 1	The Union shall have the right to appoint a Chief Plant Steward as well as one (1) Steward per department who shall perform Steward duties in such a way as not to interfere with the service of the Employer.
Section 2	The Union must advise the Employer in writing of the designated representatives before they will be recognized as Stewards.
ARTICLE 8 GRIEVANCES
Section I A grievance is defined as an alleged violation of the specific terms of this Agreement, and shall be handled as stated below.
Section 2	Process
Step 1 The aggrieved employee and/or steward shall submit a written grievance to the immediate supervisor within four (4) working days of the occurrence of the event which gives rise to the grievance. If the employee so desires, a Steward may be present during this discussion. The immediate supervisor shall give an answer to the employee within three (3) working days of the discussion.
Step 2 If the grievance is not resolved under the procedure above, the grievance shall be presented to the Department Manager. A Step 2 meeting with the Department Manager shall be undertaken within ten (10) working days of receipt of the written grievance. The Department Manager shall give a written answer to the Union within five (5) working days of the meeting with the Union Representative.
Step 3 If the grievance is not resolved under the procedure above, the grievance shall, within ten (10) calendar days of the Department Manager’s answers, be discussed by the Union Representative (and steward at the Union Representatives’ discretion) and Human Resource Manager. The Employer shall give a written answer to the Union within five (5) working days of the meeting with the Union Representative.
Section 3
A.	Written disciplinary notices and suspensions will be issued within four (4) working days of the date the employer gains knowledge of any alleged violation of Company rules.
-6-
B.	Attendance related discipline will be issued within four (4) business days, excluding weekends, and holidays.
C.	Suspensions shall be effective immediately and all days consecutive.
D.	The Company shall have either the department Union steward or the Chief steward present for any written disciplinary action, if so desired the employee may not have a steward present. The Union steward will be provided with a copy of such documents.
E.	Any grievance which cannot be satisfactorily adjusted by the parties can be taken to arbitration.
ARTICLE 9
ARBITRATION
Section 1 In the event a dispute, misunderstanding or controversy shall arise between the parties hereto during the life of this Agreement which cannot be settled in accordance with the grievance procedure as set forth above, then, and in that event the Union shall, within six (6) working days, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, after receipt of the Employer’s written answer in the grievance procedure, notify the Employer of its desire to have the dispute processed through the arbitration procedure. The Chief Executive Officer of the Union shall have the exclusive right to determine whether or not the grievance shall be submitted to arbitration by the Union. The parties shall forthwith attempt to agree upon the selection of an impartial arbitrator.
Section 2 In the event the parties are unable to reach agreement upon the selection of an arbitrator within fifteen (15) days of the written request for arbitration, the party requesting arbitration will within seven (7) days request a panel of seven (7) arbitrators from the Federai Mediation and Conciliation Service. From this panel of seven (7) names, each party shall alternatively strike three (3) names, the moving party striking first. The panel striking process shall be completed within fifteen (15) days from receipt of the panel. The remaining arbitrator from the list shall be the impartial arbitrator and shall be notified within thirty (30) days of the date of selection to schedule a hearing. A finding or award of the arbitrator shall be final and conclusive upon the Company, the Union and affected employees..
Section 3 Unless agreed to otherwise by the parties, any matter processed to arbitration will be heard in chronological order based upon the date of the step 1 written grievance submission as follows: first, discharge cases and next any other disputes, misunderstandings or controversies between the parties.
Section 4 The arbitrator shall have all the rights, power, and duties herein given, granted and imposed; but the award shall not change, alter or modify any of the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement. The expense of the Arbitrator shall be paid by the losing party as determined
-7-
by the Arbitrator. All other expenses including attorney’s fees shall be paid by the parties incurring them. The arbitrator will issue a decision within thirty (30) calendar days after the close of the proceedings. This thirty (30) day calendar time limit may be extended by mutual agreement between both parties.
ARTICLE 10
LINE SPEED
Line speed will not be effective during the life of this agreement and will not be reinstated unless and until the Company returns evisceration and deboning to the operations at the Longmont Plant. The parties agree that line speed Article 10 in its entirety only applies to evisceration and deboning and not any other operations.
Section 1	Concerns may be brought to the attention of the Company by employees, stewards or Union Representative.
The area or department supervisor and the union representative will meet and review any such concern. If there is a disagreement between the parties, the matter will be immediately brought to the attention of the Human Resources Manager and/or Labor Relations Manager prior to filing a grievance.
The Human Resources Manager and/or Labor Relations Manager will review the concern along with the area or department supervisor and union representatives(s) in an effort to appropriately resolve the matter.
It is expressly understood and agreed that the foregoing shall not affect the time limits set forth in the grievance procedure.
Section 2	The Industrial Engineers of the Union and Company may study and resolve the issue.
Section 3	If not resolved in Section 2, a mutually agreed upon qualified, professional industrial engineer will study the configuration. This 3rd party industrial engineer will make the final binding resolution.
Section 4	In the first (lsl) instance, the Corporation shall determine the line speed and crewing. In the event the Union believes the same is unsafe, unreasonable or creates a job overload, it may grieve the same.
Section 5	The Corporation shall maintain, and provide to the Union, logs which document line speed and crewing. Further, the Corporation shall notify the Union of modifications to line speed and/or crewing.
-8-
Section 6 In the event the line speed and/or crewing is found to constitute a job overload, unsafe situation, is unreasonable, or varies from the mutually agreed to line speed and crewing standards (through arbitration or otherwise), the workers directly affected shall be paid an additional half time (% x) pay for all such hours. In no event shall such time be less than ninety (90) minutes. The directly affected workers shall be those who are working in the jobs which are under crewed and/or which have line speeds in excess of the correct amounts. It is expressly understood and agreed the Corporation shall have a fifteen (15) minute grace period during start up on evis line and the boning line.
Section 7 Once crewing and/or line speeds are mutually established, through arbitration or otherwise, the same shall be binding upon both parties.
Section 8 In addition, either party may refer any grievance to a two (2) member Review Board within thirty (30) days. The Board will be comprised of the Local UFCW President and the Company Human Resources Director. Hearing participants will include the Local UFCW Director and the facility Human Resources Manager or Labor Relations Manager who shall make presentations before the Review Board. Hearings will be held at a mutually convenient date but not later than thirty (30) days following the referral for a hearing. Following the closing of a hearing, the Review Board will immediately deliberate in order to render a decision which will be final and conclusive upon the Company, the Union and affected employees(s). The Board shall have authority only to interpret and apply the Agreement.
ARTICLE 11
NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
Section 1	The Union, on its behalf and on behalf of the employees covered by this Agreement, agrees that they will not authorize, encourage, engage or participate in any strikes, slowdowns, work stoppages or picketing during the life of this Agreement.
Section 2	The Employer agrees there will be no lockouts during the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 12
CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES OF PAY
Section 1 The job classifications and minimum hourly rates of pay shall be set forth in Appendix A attached hereto and by this reference made a part hereof.
Section 2 The Employer shall notify the Union if any new bargaining unit job classification(s) is(are) created. The Employer shall set a wage scale for such new job classification, and such wage scale shall be consistent with those set forth in Appendix A. Such scale shall become effective on the date the new job classification commences operation. The Union retains the right to dispute through the grievance and arbitration procedures the question of whether or not the wage scale for the new job is consistent with those set forth in Appendix A.
-9-
ARTICLE 13
NO PAY REDUCTION
It is expressly understood and agreed that no current employee shall suffer a reduction in their regular rate of pay as a result of the adoption of this Agreement. This Article does not apply in cases of actual demotion as set forth in the Agreement.
ARTICLE 14
SHIFT PREMIUMS
Section 1 Employees scheduled to work the afternoon shift shall receive a premium of thirty-five cents ($.35) above the normal rate per hour for all hours worked on that shift.
cents ($.50) above the normal rate per hour for all hours worked on that shift.
Section 3	Shift premiums shall be figured into the hourly rate for overtime, holiday pay and vacation pay.
Section 4	Plant seniority will prevail in choice of start times or shifts when job openings occur, provided the employee is qualified to perform the necessary work. An employee’s option to change shifts or start-times may be exercised only once during each four (4) months.
ARTICLE 15
PAGER/ON-CALL
An employee who is required to carry a pager unit or remain on-call during off-duty hours for shift stand-by to cover for unscheduled absences/emergencies shall be paid forty cents ($.40) an hour premium for all hours paid during the work week in which the employee was required to carry a pager or remain on-call, exclusive of “on-call weekend staff’ covered under Appendix B.
ARTICLE 16
SPLIT SHIFTS
The Employer agrees not to schedule split shifts, except for those situations covered by the Callback Pay Article.
ARTICLE 17 JOINT LABOR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
Section 1 Butterball, LLC and the United Food and Commercial Workers Local 7 agree to form a combined committee of bargaining unit employees and management. The purpose of this committee will be to discuss mutual solutions to issues affecting labor-management relations in an attempt to improve communications, relationships and to create a customer focused workplace.
-10-
Section 2	The committee shall meet monthly, unless otherwise agreed.
Section 3	Employer representation to the Committee shall include the Complex Manager or designee and representatives from Operations, Safety and Human Resources.
Section 4	Union representation to the Committee shall include the Local UFCW President or designee(s), and a combined total of three (3) Union appointed employee representatives. The employee representatives shall be paid for time lost from their regular shift. If the meeting is not held during their regular work shift, the employee will be paid for the actual time spent attending such meeting up to a maximum of one (1) hour.
Section 5	This committee shall cease to exist at the discretion of either the Union or Employer. However, before a decision is made to discontinue the committee, the Local UFCW President and the Human Resources Director will meet to discuss the reasons for the decision.
ARTICLE 18
SAFETY
Section 1 The Employer and the Union, on behalf of all employees, agree to cooperate fully in promoting safety and the use of proper safety equipment. It is the responsibility of all employees to follow and support the Employer’s Safety related Policies and Programs.
Section 2 The Employer and the Union will establish a Central Safety Steering (CSS) Committee. The primary purpose of this Committee is to: promote and help monitor compliance with the Employer’s Safety Programs, promote the use of safe operating procedures, recommend solutions to safety issues and to help educate employees on safe work practices. This Committee will consist of 4 Employer representatives (Complex Manager or designee, Safety Manager, Operations Manager, and the Human Resources Manager) and four (4) Union appointed bargaining unit members. The Union appointed employee representatives will be paid for time lost from their regular shift to attend such meeting up to a maximum of one (1) hour per meeting. It is the Complex Manager’s or designee’s responsibility to evaluate the CSS Committee’s recommendations and to advise the CSS Committee, of the action taken, if any, at the next safety meeting.
Section 3 The Union agrees to cooperate fully with Management in the administration of the Company's safety policies. The Union agrees to immediately report to Management any potential safety hazard which come to its attention or the attention of its stewards in the plant, including information of employee illnesses arising out of workplace activities. The Union specifically agrees to provide any and all information it may have, whether through surveys by its engineers, employee surveys, or anecdotal information provided to supervisors or union officers concerning cumulative trauma disorders complained of or suffered by employees and reported either directly or indirectly to the Union, its stewards, agents and officers.
-11-
Section 4 A designated Union CSS Committee member shall be notified promptly of the occurrence of any work related illness or accident resulting in an OSHA Recordable injury/illness. The designated Union CSS Committee member and the Safety Manager or designee shall conduct a joint investigation of the incident and report their findings to the CSS Committee.
Section 5 Local 7 agrees to actively participate and support the reestablishment of OSHA VPP status at the facility to assure a safe and healthful workplace. It is understood that a cooperative relationship is required to meet OSHA VPP criteria and to support the Company’s Health and Safety Programs, including but not limited to, ergonomics; employee education and training on safe work practices; accident investigation; and hazard analysis, recognition, and reporting.
ARTICLE 19
INJURY ON THE JOB
Section 1	When an employee is injured on the job, there shall be no deduction from the employee’s pay for the day on which the employee was injured and reported for medical care.
Section 2	Employees shall be paid for all time spent receiving required medical attention, on site or at the Company doctors’ clinic, resulting from an on the job injury.
Section 3	The employer will have first aid supplies available to injured employees and shall attempt to have personnel trained in first aid procedures on the premises.
Section 4	There will be a clearly established first aid procedure/policy for all shifts.
ARTICLE 20
HEALTH & WELFARE BENEFITS
Section 1 Group Health & Welfare Benefits. During the term of this Agreement, the Company will provide eligible bargaining unit employees with the following Group Health & Welfare benefits. The nature and level of benefits to be provided under the above Plans / Programs and the claims / dispute resolution procedure will be generally described in the applicable Summary Plan Description(s) (SPD). A copy of the SPD(s) will be made available to the Union and to employees.
1.	Medical
Effective August 1, 2010, increase deductible:
a)	Individual from $350 to $500 in network
b)	Family from $875 to $1,000 in network
c)	Individual from $350 to $1,000 out of network
d)	Family from $875 to $2,000 out of network
e)	Increase physician office services copay from $15 to $25 for both primary and specialist, in network
-12-
2.	Dental - Increase annual maximum per person per contract year from $600.00 to $900.00
3; Prescription Drug
Effective August 1,2010, increase minimum copay from S7/S20/S30 to S10/S25/S30
4.	Life Insurance
5.	Accidental Death & Dismemberment (AD&D)
6.	Short Term Disability (STD)
Section 2 Employees Eligible for Coverage. Employees shall become eligible for the Employer’s Group Health & Welfare Benefits, on the 181st consecutive calendar day following their date of hire and in accordance with the applicable SPD. Employees must complete and return within the prescribed time, the required enrollment forms as outlined in the respective SPD(s) to receive the benefit(s). See SPD(s) for details.
Section 3 Employee Contributions. Eligible employees and the Employer will share the cost of providing medical and prescription drugs (Rx) benefits. Eligible employees shall continue to pay the below amounts toward medical and Rx benefits.
Type of Coverage	Employee Contribution Effective 6/7/2010 Effective 4/11/2011 Effective 4/9/2012		
Employee Only	$12.00 per week	$13.00 per week	$14.00 per week
Family	$28.00 per week	$30.00 per week	$32.00 per week
Employee contributions will be deducted from the employee’s weekly paycheck. If, for any pay period, there are insufficient wages due and payable to the employee to cover the Employee Contribution, the employee must, unless he/she is on an approved FMLA leave, pay directly to the Company, not later than the employee’s normal payday, the amount of the contribution owed by the employee.
Section 4 Benefit Claims and Disputes. Benefit claims must be submitted according to the claims procedure for the applicable benefit plan. No dispute over any benefits arising under or relating to this Article shall be submitted for consideration under the grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement, with the exception that the setting of employees current rates shall be subject to the grievance and arbitration provision of this agreement. All studies and reports related to changes in the employees contribution rate will be shared with the Union 15 days prior to implementation.
Section 5 Continuation of Coverage. In the event an employee eligible for benefit coverage above is unable to work:
A.	Because of illness or injury off the job for one month or more, supported by the written statement of a medical doctor, the Employer will pay for the cost of one
-13-
month’s insurance premium / equivalent after the date of illness or injury. Monthly insurance premiums / equivalent contribution thereafter until return to work will be paid by the employee.
B.	Because of an on-the-job injury for one month or more, the Employer will pay up to two (2) months’ insurance premiums / equivalent after the date of injury. Monthly insurance premiums / equivalent contribution thereafter until return to work will be paid by the employee.
C.	Subject to the approval of the insurance carrier, employees not eligible for Employer contribution may purchase the benefits of the Group Insurance and Dental Plan by payment of monthly premiums under the Group Plan.
Section 6 Right to Change Provider. The Employer reserves the right to contract with an insurance provider(s) or a plan administrator of its choice and/or to self administer a plan to provide benefit levels comparable to those that have been agreed to under this Labor Agreement. The Employer reserves the right to change such provider(s) during the term of this Agreement. Except as otherwise provided in this Article, nothing contained in this Agreement shall supersede the actual terms of the plan as described in the SPD nor prevent the Employer from making changes to the plan or SPD from time to time provided the benefit levels remain comparable to those that have been negotiated. However, it is agreed that should the employer change insurance providers or plan administrators, employees who are currently eligible for and receiving benefits for an existing condition, shall not be disqualified from being eligible for coverage by the new provider due to such pre-existing conditions during the conversion period The method of funding for and the administration of the Health & Welfare benefits covered under this Labor Agreement are the sole responsibility of the Company.
ARTICLE 21
BUTTERBALL LLC HOURLY BARGAINING UNIT EMPLOYEE’S 401(K) PLAN
Section 1 The Company shall make available to all qualified employees (employees with one (1) year of service) the UFCW Local 7 401(K) Plan under the following general guidelines:
Employees may make 401 (K) contributions on a pre-tax basis. Employees may save in whole percentages, from two percent (2%) to ten percent (10%) of their pay on a pre-tax basis. The pre-tax contribution cannot exceed ten percent (10%) of total compensation. Total compensation includes base pay plus overtime and any other cash compensation; it does not include sick leave pay. Contributions are made every pay period through payroll deduction. The Company will contribute twenty cents ($0.20) to the employee’s account for every one dollar ($ 1.00) of the first five percent (5%) contributed by the employee.
-14-
ARTICLE 22
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Section 1 The Employer will endeavor to furnish employees at least forty (40) hours of work each week. Nothing in the above sentence, however, shall be construed as any guarantee of any particular number of hours per day or per week. The work week shall coincide with the calendar week (Sunday through Saturday).
Section 2 Overtime pay at the rate of one and one-half times (1 1/2) the employee’s regular straight-time hourly rate shall be paid under the following conditions:
A.	For all hours of work in excess of eight (8) hours per day, provided the employee works all hours made available by the Employer during the work week.
B.	For all hours of work in excess of forty (40) hours in any one (1) work week.
C.	For all hours of work performed on the sixth (6th) consecutive day of work,
provided the employee works all hours made available during the week.
D Pay at the rate of time and a half (I'/ix) the employees’ regular straight time hourly rate shall be paid for all hours of work on the fifth (5th) consecutive day of work for employees assigned to work four (4) consecutive ten (10) hour days, provided the employee works all hours made available during the week. Such premium rate shall not continue beyond the seventh (7th) consecutive day.
E.	Pay at the rate of two times (2x) the employees’ regular straight time hourly rate shall be paid for all hours of work on the sixth (6th) consecutive day of work for employees assigned to work four (4) consecutive ten (10) hour days, provided the employee works all hours made available during the week. Such premium rate shall not continue beyond the seventh (7th) consecutive day.
Section 3 Pay at the rate of two times (2x) the employees’ regular straight time hourly rate shall be paid for all hours worked on the seventh (7lh) consecutive day of work for employees assigned to work five (5) eight (8) hour days or less provided the employee works all hours made available during the week. Such premium rate shall not continue beyond the seventh (7lh) consecutive day.
Section 4 It is understood and agreed that daily overtime work will be offered in plant seniority order, within the affected department to those employees qualified to perform the jobs on which overtime is required. The Employer agrees to give notice of daily overtime no later than six (6) hours into the employees shift. Off-duty day overtime will be offered in plant seniority order to qualified employees who normally perform the work. In the event the Employers’ need cannot be filled, the hours shall be assigned in reverse seniority order to those persons normally performing the work. However, in no event shall an employee be forced to
-15-
work more than twelve (12) hours in a day. Regardless of a past settlement, the parties will enforce as written.
Section 5 Employees shall not be required to work more than six (6) consecutive days, only in case of an emergency will employees be required to work on the seventh day. However, no employee will be required to work fourteen (14) consecutive days.
Section 6	Employees who are absent during the week may be forced to work the weekend.
Section 7	Working less than eight (8) hours.
A.	If employees must be sent home early, one (1) hour or less, the employees who
have completed their work will be sent home.
B.	If employees must be sent home early, more than one (1) hour, those employees in the affected department who volunteer in order of seniority will be sent home first, then unqualified employees, finally the least senior employees.
Section 8	Step up pay will be awarded to the higher scale in situations where an employee is qualified to and is performing work normally performed by a higher classification provided the employee works on the job after one (1) continuous hour in a shift when assigned by the supervisor. The step up pay will not be paid for training for a higher classification position.
Section 9	There shall be no pyramiding of overtime payments.
Section 10	The Employer is required to give thirty-six (36) hours notice of mandatory weekend, or regularly scheduled off days overtime, except in cases of demonstrable emergency.
Section 11	Four (4) tcn (l 0) hour days
A.	The Employer, at its discretion may assign employees or groups of employees to four (4) consecutive ten (10) hour day schedules in which hours shall be offered by seniority to those qualified to perform the work. In the event the Employers’ needs cannot be filled, the hours shall be assigned in reverse seniority order to those persons who normally perform the work. In such cases the employer will give five (5) working days notice.
B.	Employees working four (4) consecutive ten (10) hour day schedules shall receive ten (10) hours of pay for holidays, funeral leave, and jury duty.
C.	Overtime to be paid for all time worked in excess of ten (10) hours in any one day.
D.	Pay at the rate of two times (2x) the employees’ regular straight time hourly rate
-16-
shall be paid for all hours of work on the sixth (6th) consecutive day of work for employees assigned to work four (4) consecutive ten (10) hour days, provided the employee works all hours made available during the week. Such premium rate shall not continue beyond the seventh(7th) consecutive day.
ARTICLE 23
GUARANTEED WORKWEEK
Section 1 Employees who have completed their probationary period are guaranteed thirty-two (32) hours of work each week for thirty-six (36) weeks provided the employee reports to and works all hours as directed, excluding natural disasters defined by “A.cts of God” such as, but not limited to, fire, flood, wind, tornadoes, earthquakes, snow, ice, lightning, storms, power failure, utility interruptions, explosions, or other causes beyond the Employer’s control.
Section 2 Eligibility is based upon being an active employee on the payroll, the employee works all hours available, employee works the first day of the scheduled week, the employee works the day before and after a holiday. This provision of this Article shall not apply in any work week during which normal plant operations are restricted due to causes beyond the reasonable control of the Company such as Acts of God, stoppages of work by any Union, fire, flood, or emergency causing damage to or breakdown of plant equipment or machinery.
ARTICLE 24
REPORTING PAY
An employee who reports for work at the beginning of a normally scheduled workday without having been advised previously by the Employer not to report for work, who is then denied employment on that day, shall receive four (4) hours of pay at the employees’ regular straight-time hourly rate of pay, unless the plant or any given unit thereof is not capable of operation due to conditions beyond the control of the Employer. It is understood and agreed that the employee must keep the Employer informed at all times of the employees’ cunent address and phone number, or the employee shall be ineligible for any reporting pay as set forth above.
ARTICLE 25
CALL BACK PAY
Section 1 An employee who has left the plant premises after completing a day of work and is recalled to work prior to the starting time of the employees’ next regularly scheduled workday shall be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours of work or pay at the rate of one and one-half times (1 1/2) the straight-time hourly rate. It is understood and agreed that a current address and phone number of the employee must be provided to the Employer at all times, or the employee shall be ineligible for any callback pay as set forth above.
Section 2 An employee recalled to work on the employees seventh (T*) day of the work week shall be paid for not less than four (4) hours at double time (2x) the straight-time hourly
-17-
rate. An employee recalled to work on a Holiday shall be paid for not less than four (4) hours at double time (2x) the straight-time hourly rate plus Holiday pay.
ARTICLE 26
REST/LUNCH PERIODS
Section 1 The Employer may implement any of the break/lunch options as described below provided the change in option is posted by Thursday noon of the week prior to the new scheduled start date. Breaks will be uninterrupted except in the case of emergency defined by “Acts of God” and emergencies related to the protection, health and safety of our employees and food products. However, should either rest or lunch period be interrupted, the Company shall provide another uninterrupted fifteen (15) minute or thirty (30) minute break of equal length and value.
a)	There will be a thirty (30) minute rest period every two and one-half (2 1 /2) hours. The first thirty (30) minute rest period will be a paid break, and the second thirty (30) minute rest period will be an unpaid lunch.
b)	The Employer will provide one (1) fifteen (15) minute paid rest period during the first half of each shift and one (1) fifteen (15) minute paid rest period during the second half of each shift. The second rest period will be granted only when employees work seven (7) hours or more in a day.
Section 2 Only under emergency circumstances can a work period extend to three (3) hours. The ONLY reason a work period may extend to three and one-half (3 1/2) hours is under emergency circumstances, and the additional thirty (30) minutes is needed to complete the work day.
Section 3 Employees normally scheduled to work five (5) eight (8) hour days shall be provided an additional fifteen (15) minute rest period if they complete nine and one-half (9 1/2) hours of work and work is going to continue, likewise an additional fifteen (15) minute break will be provided after twelve (12) hours of work are completed.
Section 4 Employees scheduled to work four (4) ten (10) hour days shall be entitled to a third (3rd) fifteen (15) minute paid break after eight (8) hours of work, likewise an additional fifteen (15) minute paid break will be provided after ten and one-half (101/2) hours of work are completed.
Section 5 Employees will be given not less than thirty (30) minutes nor more than one (1) hour off without pay, for meal periods, once each full shift.
Section 6 The Employer will schedule the starting times for lunch periods and shall not deviate from such schedule in excess of thirty (30) minutes before or after the scheduled starting times. Such schedules may be revised by the Employer as the needs of the business dictate, but shall not be revised in a workweek once that workweek has begun, except for cases of emergency.
-18-
Section 7 If the rest or lunch period is interrupted and can not be re-scheduled and taken during the employee’s shift, the Company shall pay the appropriate rest or lunch period.
ARTICLE 27
VACATIONS
Section 1	A regular full-time employee is an employee who has been scheduled to work (or be on vacation or be on authorized leave of absence granted by the Employer, or be on layoff because of lack of work) fifty-two (52) weeks during the employeels anniversary year.
Section 2	Vacation schedule
A.	A regular full-time employee shall be entitled to one (1) week of paid vacation after completion of one (1) full year of service with the Employer.
B.	A regular fall-time employee shall be entitled to two (2) weeks of paid vacation after completion of three (3) fall years of service with the Employer.
C.	A regular fall-time employee shall be entitled to three (3) weeks of paid vacation after completion of nine (9) fall years of service with the Employer.
D.	A regular fall-time employee shall be entitled to four (4) weeks paid vacation after completion of fifteen (15) fall years of service with the Employer.
E.	A regular fall-time employee shall be entitled to five (5) weeks paid vacation after completion of twenty (20) fall years of service with the Employer.
F.	Regular full-time employees who have completed twenty-five (25) fall years of service with the Employer will receive a special vacation pay allowance annually, in recognition of their service. The payment will be $400 (less applicable withholdings).
G.	Employees eligible for three (3) weeks of vacation or more may take one (1) week . of vacation, one day at a time. Single day vacations must be scheduled in advance by mutual agreement between the employee and the department head. If there is a dispute, plant seniority within the department shall govern. Pay for each such day will be calculated in accordance with the below Section 3.
Section 3	Computation of vacation pay will be the then current hourly rate of pay when the vacation actually starts times forty (40) hours for employees with a minimum of 1800 hours worked in the last anniversary year for each week of vacation. Those employees not satisfying this requirement will receive vacation based on gross wages earned in the last anniversary year divided by forty-six (46) weeks.
-19-
Section 4 The Company shall post a notice February 15th of each calendar year and the employees will sign the roster as to the choice of vacation. This list will remain posted for selection until April 1st of each calendar year. In cases of conflicting requests for vacation periods, plant seniority within the department shall prevail. The determination of the time of the year during which vacations may be scheduled, including the right to shut down for vacation purposes, remains the decision of the Employer. As business circumstances allow, the Company will not schedule less than one (1) person per department at any one time.
Section 5 All employees shall receive a copy of their vacation request after it is approved by their immediate supervisor.
■Section 6 The Company shall post the approved vacation schedule of vacations requested between February 15 and April 1, by no later than April 15.
Section 7 Employees who voluntarily resigned or retire from their employment with the Company and who meet the eligibility requirement in either A or B below will be paid pro-rata vacation.
A.	Employees who have 25 or more years of service and are 55 years or older and resign voluntarily or retire from employment with the Company will receive prorata vacation if they are otherwise qualified.
B.	Employees who are determined by Social Security (SS) to be totally and permanently disabled at the time they ceased regular work with the Company will receive pro-rata vacation. The employee must provide the Company with proof from SS that they were deemed totally and permanently disabled as per the above.
Section 8 When requested by an employee in advance, vacation pay will be in a separate check prior to vacation except individual days will be included in the employee’s regular pay check.
ARTICLE 28 HOLIDAYS
Section 1 Each non-probationary employee shall be paid for the following unworked holidays, whether or not they fall on what would normally be a workday for that employee: New Year’s Day, Fourth of July, Thanksgiving Day, Employee’s Birthday, Memorial Day, Labor Day, Christmas Day and One (1) Floating Day.
-20-
Section 2
A.	Employees with four (4) years of service or more, will be granted one (1) additional floating holiday, on their anniversary date. These employees will have the option of not working the floating holiday, or working the holiday and being paid their regular straight-time hourly rate for eight (8) hours,
B.	Floating holidays must be scheduled in advance by mutual agreement between the employee and the department head. If there is a dispute, plant seniority within the department shall govern.
Section 3	As pay for an unworked holiday, the regular straight-time hourly rate of the employee will be paid for the number of hours the employee would normally have worked on the day in question, but not to exceed eight (8) hours, except for employees scheduled four (4) ten (10) hour days as stated in Article 22, Section 11, part B.
Section 4	In order to qualify for pay for an unworked holiday, an eligible employee must work their regularly scheduled workday immediately preceding the holiday and the regularly scheduled workday immediately following the holiday.
Section 5	An unworked holiday paid for under the terms of this Article, shall be counted as a day worked for the purpose of computing overtime pay in a holiday workweek.
Section 6	In the event an employee’s birthday falls on one of the other holidays observed here above, the next scheduled work day shall be observed as the birthday.
Section 7	In the event that one of the above-named holidays falls on a Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed as the holiday.
Section 8	If it is necessary that an employee perform work on one of the above-mentioned holidays, one and one-half time (1 1/2) the employee’s regular straight-time hourly rate of pay shall be paid for all hours worked (exclusive of road drivers), in addition to the holiday pay This section shall not apply to floating holidays.
ARTICLE 29 JURY DUTY
Se	ction 1 Any employee who receives notice to report for any jury service must immediately show such notice to the Employer.
Se	ction 2 An employee who has completed the probationary period and who is required io serve on a jury during regular working hours shall be paid the difference between the amount paid for serving on the jury and the amount the employee would have received from the
-21-
Employer in straight-time pay had said jury duty not prevented the employee from being at work, provided the employee meets the following requirements:
A.	The employee immediately showed the notice of forthcoming jury service to the Employer at the time it was first received, as set forth in the first paragraph of this Article.
B.	The employee turned in to the Employer the check or cash received for jury service, along with proper substantiation of the time required to be present for jury service.
C.	The employee reported for work the day after the last day of jury service.
D.	1'he employee notifies their supervisor when they are released from jury duty for
the day, to determine whether the employee should report to work prior to the end of the working day.
Section 3 Payment for jury duty shall not exceed eight (8) hours pay per day missed less what is paid for serving on the jury, except for employees scheduled four (4) ten (10) hour days as stated in Article 22, Section 11, part B. The Employer may reschedule employee(s) required to serve on jury duty, including but not limited to, scheduling them five (5) eight (8) hour days.
Section 4 Afternoon and Graveyard 2nd and 3rd shift employees will be temporarily transferred to the day shift while serving on jury duty, provided the employee gives sufficient advance notice.
ARTICLE 30
FUNERAL LEAVE
Section 1 A non-probationary employee who promptly reports to the Employer the necessity of absence from work for the purpose of arranging or attending and/or grieving the funeral of an immediate family member will be paid three (3) days pay (not to exceed twenty-four (24) straight time hours) for such absence, except for employees scheduled four (4) ten (10) hour days as stated in Article 22, Section 11, part B.
Section 2 For attending out of state funerals, the employee may be granted two (2) extra non paid days. Prior to any such payment being made, the Employer reserves the right to request and receive from the employee verification of the death in the immediate family. Payment of funeral leave shall only be for normally scheduled work days, Monday through Saturday. In the event additional non-paid days are needed to attend an out-of-state funeral, the Company will accommodate employees’ requests on a case by case basis.
Section 3 For the purpose of this Article, “immediate family” includes the employee’s mother, father, spouse, son, daughter, step children, brother, sister, grandparent, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandchildren, son-in-law and daughter-in-law.
-22-
Section 4 For attending and/or grieving the funeral of uncles, aunts, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, or grandparents of spouse, the employee will be given three (3) non-paid days off. In the event additional non-paid days are needed to attend an out-of-state funeral, the Company will accommodate employees’ requests on a case by case basis.
Section 5 Nothing contained in the Article shall be construed to authorize funeral leave payment while an employee is on vacation, leave of absence, holiday or in the down season.
ARTICLE 31 WELLNESS DAYS
Section 1	Each employee who has completed probation may earn Wellness days. Wellness days shall be earned at the rate of 2 hours per calendar month of perfect attendance and can be taken in either four (4) or eight (8) hour increments. .
Section 2	Perfect attendance shall mean working all available hours during the week unless departure is initiated by the supervisor or manager on duty. The Employer will exclude personal holidays, vacations, funeral leave, jury duty, and FMLA.
Section 3	Wellness hours will accrue each calendar month. Time will begin on the first day of the month and end on the last day of the month.
Section 4	An employee may carry over from the current calendar year to the next calendar year, a maximum of forty (40) hours of unused wellness time, regardless of when the hours were earned. All unused Wellness hours shall be paid to the employee upon termination of employment.
Section 5	Wellness hours earned will be distributed to all supervisors at the end of each tracking period, and will be posted in the departments.
Section 6	The employee may take pay in-lieu of time off by requesting same with 14 days notice to the Employer.
Section 7	Employees who have at least eight (8) Wellness hours accrued shall be allowed to use one (1) Wellness Day, at a time, for emergencies.
ARTICLE 32 JOB BIDDING
Section 1 Vacancies which occur in the bargaining unit as the result of an employee quitting or being discharged, or as the result of the establishment of a new job shall be posted. The Employer shall post the job vacancy notice the first Thursday morning after the vacancy, and it will remain posted until the following Wednesday morning. Employees interested in such
-23-
vacancy shall have until the end of their Tuesday shift to sign their name on the posted notice. Signing another name other than your own may result in discipline. If any holiday falls within the posting time period, the notice will remain available for an additional day. Upon request, the Employer will provide the Union with one (1) copy of the initial job posting and bidders. After the initial award is made, the Employer will display for a minimum of forty-eight (48) hours a copy of the original posting, which will include the employee(s) initially awarded the bid. All successful bid award employees shall be given a period of thirty (30) working days to demonstrate ability to satisfactorily performing the job. Employees, who do not perform satisfactorily, shall be returned to their former position/shift. Employees will also have fifteen (15) working days to evaluate the job and shall have the option to return to their former position/shift, once every twelve (12) months. Nevertheless, the vacancy shall be filled within thirty (30) working days as set forth below in accordance with plant seniority.
Section 2 In filling such vacancy, the Employer shall give the position to the senior bidding employee (except for jobs listed in Section 3 below) in the department where the vacancy occurs, provided they can perform the job. If not filled in this manner, the Employer shall give the position to employees from outside the department who have signed the job posting, in order of seniority (except for jobs listed in Section 3 below), provided such employee can perform the job. During the period in which the bidding procedure is taking place, the Employer retains the right to fill the job at its discretion.
Section 3 Employees bidding for the following jobs must have the pre-qualifying minimum qualifications listed on the job vacancy sheet and successfully complete an interview process. In the event of equally qualified employees, then seniority shall prevail. The jobs include: All Department Trainers and All Unit Clerks. Individuals who are employees on the date of ratification of this agreement are “grandfathered” for their current position.
Section 4 Employees who successfully bid a job shall be moved within thirty (30) days. Employees not moved within the thirty (30) days shall receive the higher rate of pay beginning with the thirty first (31st) day of the successful bid. Employees who are not moved within the thirty (30) day period shall receive 25 cents per hour above the rate for the job in question until they arc placed on their bid job.
Section 5 An employee who successfully bids on a job shall not be allowed to exercise bidding rights during the next three (3) months.
Section 6 In the event the Employer deems it necessary to temporarily re-assign employees from their regular duties, the Company shall request volunteers from the affected departments. In the event there are no volunteers, the Employer shall use reverse seniority in re-assigning employees to other duties. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the Employer from continuing these practices.
Section 7	A temporary work assignment is identified as any work assignment with a duration of four (4) calendar weeks for a non-probationary employee.
-24-
Section 8	The Employer retains the right to select leadpersons without consideration of seniority, and the Employer also retains the right to change leadpersons or discontinue the utilization of such jobs at any time.
ARTICLE 33
CLCTHING/EQUIPMENT PROVISION
Section 1	The Employer agrees to provide haimets, gloves, aprons, frocks, coveralls and freezer coats where use of such clothing is required; coveralls for outside employees; provided the employee has signed a deduction authorization. Employees may get such equipment replaced by the Employer only by turning in equipment wom out by work on the Employer’s premises.
Section 2	The Employer will continue the practice of laundering work clothing and the practice of selling boots to employees at the Employer’s cost.
Section 3	The Employer will continue to provide all required safety equipment at no cost to the employee. Upon termination the employee must return all such safety equipment provided, or the replacement cost will be deducted from final pay.
Section 4	In the event any employee is required to work in the freezer area, regardless of length of time in the freezer, the Employer shall provide at no cost to the employee, proper freezer attire, which may include but is not limited to overalls, freezer boots, insulated gloves and face masks.
Section 5
A.	All employees will be required to wear ANSI approved safety footwear with non-slip soles, which are easily cleaned.
B.	Employees in their probationary period will be provided with basic approved footwear at the Employer's expense however, should they prefer a different type of footwear they may purchase, through a company provider, at their own expense other Company approved footwear. If the employee chooses to purchase the footwear they will receive their annual reimbursement upon completion of their probationary period.
C.	If a non-probationary employee should prefer footwear other than the basic approved footwear the Employer will provide for all or part of the cost of the footwear, through a company provider, that meets the Employer's requirements once per year. The cost paid by the Employer is based on the employee's job function.
-25-
D.	The Employer will provide a selection of at least two types of footwear at no cost to the employee annually, with other footwear available at an additional cost based on the employee's job function as listed below:
Job Function.............................................Maximum	Amount Paid
Utility Groups, Warehouse, Ovens...................................$100.00
Employees Working Outdoors*, Coolers/Freezers, Material Handling...$75.00
Production, Sanitation.............................................$60.00
(♦Employees who work outdoors will continue to be provided winter footwear at the Employer's expense. To receive replacement winter footwear worn or damaged footwear must be turned in to the company.)
The Company will retain present language for the first year and should Company move to providing boots at no cost, then Section 5 D. will be deleted.
Section 6
A.	Should the Company require it, all employees will wear ANSI approved eye-wear.
B.	The Company will provide non-prescription protective eye-wear to all employees working within our facility.
C.	The Company will also provide one pair of prescription protective eye-wear, based on the following requirements:
i.	Must have at least six months seniority.
ii.	Must be purchased from an approved selection of eye-wear through either of two (2) Company approved vendors.
iii.	Replacement only for normal work related wear and tear or prescription change.
iv.	Eye examination is at the cost of the employee.
D.	The maximum amount paid by the Company is $95.00.
Section 7	Tools and equipment required by the Employer shall be furnished by the Employer and remain the property of the Employer, but shall be furnished only after the employee has signed a deduction authorization.
Section 8	Employees who are required to provide their own personal hand tools and if such tools become worn out or broken, the Company agrees to replace such tools with tools of equal quality at no cost to the employee. Employees must turn in a receipt for the new purchase with the worn or broken tool.
-26-
Section 9	The Company will provide one (1) steel for employees doing knife jobs, and shall replace steels that are no longer serviceable due to normal wear and tear, and returned to the Company for replacement.
Section 10	The Company shall pay for knife sharpening.
ARTICLE 34
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section 1 When the circumstances of the business permit, the Employer may grant a leave of absence in writing for a period not to exceed thirty (30) consecutive days without pay to an employee who has completed the probationary period. When the circumstances of the business permit, and when an employee has made a request to the Employer for an extension prior to the expiration date of the initial leave, the Employer may grant an extension to the original leave for a period not to exceed an additional thirty (30) days. Employees may be granted one (1) personal leave (anything other than medical) each calendar year, except for the month of December.
Section 2 It is understood and agreed that leaves of absence in writing generally will not be granted to any employee unless replacement employees are available to work, but it is recognized that an unusually serious situation could result in deviation from this practice.
Section 3 The Employer agrees to grant the necessary time off, without pay or fringe benefit cost and without loss of accrued seniority, to any employee who is elected, appointed or designated by the Union to attend a labor convention or to serve in any capacity on legitimate official Union business provided, however, that advance notification is given the Employer in sufficient time to secure a relief worker for the job involved and provided that in no case shall there be more than five (5) employees off work simultaneously under this provision nor more than two (2) employees for extended periods of time.
Section 4 In the event of a documented and verifiable family emergency, employees shall be granted, once per the contract, five (5) consecutive work days off without pay and without incurring points. No employee will be forced to use vacation or floating holidays in place of these five (5) days.
Section 5	Employees shall, in addition to the above, be allotted one (1) personal day without pay to be used at their discretion, every anniversary year.
Section 6	Family & Medical Leaves (FMLA)
A.	Leave Entitlement. An employee who has been employed by the Company for 12 months and who has completed 1,250 hours of work during the 12-month period immediately preceding the commencement of such leave, will be entitled to leave under the Family and Medical Leave
-27-
Act of 1993 (“FMLA”) in accordance with its provisions and the provisions of this Section 6.
B.	Year for Purposes of Determining Leave Entitlement. For purposes of determining an employee’s leave entitlement under the Act, the 52-week period immediately preceding the commencement of leave under the Act shall be the applicable measuring period.
C.	Employee Responsibilities
(i)	Application for Leave. An eligible employee must complete a written application for an FMLA leave. Where the need for a leave was not known in advance due to accident, illness, or circumstances beyond the employee’s reasonable knowledge or control, an application maybe completed upon the employee’s first reasonable opportunity to do so. In all other cases where FMLA leaves are known in advance, the application should be completed and submitted thirty (30) calendar days prior to the commencement of the leave.
(ii)	Physician’s Certification. In order for an FMLA leave to be approved, it is the responsibility of the employee to obtain from his or her physician a fully executed Physician’s Certification form, which will be provided to the employee by the Company. The failure of the employee to obtain and submit the completed Physician’s Certification form may result in the delay or denial of an FMLA leave, in which event, the leave may be treated as an unexcused absence.
(iii)	Cooperation. An employee on an approved FMLA must provide periodic reports as requested by the Company in order to keep the Company informed as to the employee’s status and expected date of return. A returning employee must provide the Company with a minimum of 3 work days of notice of his or her expected return date.
(iv)	Fitness for Duty. Prior to returning from an FMLA leave involving their own serious health condition, an employee may be required to successfully pass a fitness for duty examination to be paid for by the Company.
(v)	Failure to Return. An employee who fails to return upon the expiration of an approved FMLA leave will be considered a voluntary quit.
-28-
D.	Applicability of Grievance Procedure. Alleged violations of this section shall be subject to the grievance procedure of this Agreement.
Section 7 Non-FMLA Qualified Medical Leaves of Absence. A request for an unpaid non-FMLA qualified medical leave of absence due to illness or accident may be granted to a non-probationary employee whose disability prevents the employee from performing his/her regular duties or other duties to which he /she may be assigned and who plans to return to work. The employee may be required to furnish a certificate from a physician verifying the reason for the medical leave of absence and the scope of the employee’s limitations as they relate to performing duties within the Plant. Such physician's statement must state the approximate length of absence from work that the employee requires, not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days. Leave can be extended with supporting medical verification of the employee’s status for up to sixty (60) calendar day intervals. Employees so required must also submit to the Human Resources Manager or designee a physician's release statement prior to returning to work. Employees who desire to return to work prior to expiration of an approved leave must notify the Company of their desire to return to work no later than 12 noon the previous day. Failure of an employee or a member of his immediate family to promptly furnish such certificate and release shall result in his immediate discharge.
Section 8	Employees on medical leave must provide periodic updates of their recovery progress and anticipated return to work dates.
Section 9	An employee who is absent from work for a period of twelve (12) consecutive months shall have his seniority terminated.
Section 10 it is specifically understood that when an employee incurs a work related injury/illness while on duty: that his seniority shall not be limited; that he can be required to provide a certificate from the attending physician; that the Company shall furnish transportation to and from the place of medical treatment when determined necessary by the Company for the dav of the injury and that in such case, the employee shall be paid for the balance of the regular shift if unable to return to work on the day of the injury/illness.
ARTICLE 35
LAY-OFF
Section 1 In case of layoffs within a department the least senior, by plant seniority, shall be laid off first, provided the remaining employees can perform the required functions of the department. Employees laid off from their department shall be given preferential consideration for any job vacancy which exists at the time of their layoff, provided they are qualified to perform same to the satisfaction of the Employer. If no job vacancy exists at the time of the layoff, the employees shall have the option to displace the shortest service employee in their jurisdictional union whose job they are qualified to perform to the satisfaction of the Employer, or accept the lay off. An employee who elects to refuse the aforementioned opportunities to fill job vacancies shall be considered to have voluntary quit.
-29-
Section 2 For Layoffs of forty-five (45) days or less, lead-persons and employees in positions listed in Article 32 Section 3 shall be considered a separate classification, however, the Company shall not use this classification to circumvent the contract.
Section 3 Employees who are displaced from their original job shall retain the right to be recalled to that job prior to any other employee being assigned thereto; however, such employees who elect to bid on a job vacancy during this period shall forfeit their right to recall to their original job.
Section 4 If the job of an employee is eliminated permanently, the employee shall displace the shortest service employee in accordance with plant seniority within the department whose job the employee is qualified to perform to the satisfaction of the Employer. The shortest service employee in the department who is thereby displaced shall be treated the same as any other laid off employee, under the procedures set forth previously in this Article.
ARTICLE 36
SUBCONTRACTING
Section 1	There shall be no subcontracting of bargaining unit work unless the Employer first meets with the Union representing the employees involved. At such a meeting, the Employer will set forth the reasons for the subcontracting and the goals to be achieved by such action. The employer will give serious consideration to alternative solutions offered by the Union.
Section 2	There shall not be any subcontracting of work within the plant premises except for special projects which the bargaining unit members are not qualified to perform.
ARTICLE 37 JURISDICTION
Section 1	There shall be no interchange between employees represented by the Operating Engineers and those represented by the United Food and Commercial Workers. If any employee leaves the jurisdiction of one Union and goes to a job within the jurisdiction of the other Union because of a successful job bid, the employee shall retain all benefits, except seniority.
Section 2	Departments are as set forth below:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS:
i.	Ovens
ii.	Further Processing - Packaging, Box	Packaging and Palletizing
iii.	Boxing
-30-
iv.	Raw Manufacturing
v.	Warehouse
Section 3 It is understood that the Employer has a past practice of temporarily assigning an employee from one jurisdiction to another.
ARTICLE 38
VARIOUS PROVISIONS
Section 1	Locker Inspections: The Company shall advise all employees one (1) week in advance of any locker changes or sprays. If the USDA requires an inspection with less than a one (1) week notice, a Union Steward must be present.
Section 2	Pay Day: The Employer will issue paychecks before lunch breaks, barring Acts of God or equipment breakdowns.
Section 3	Departments: Department as referred to in the agreement shall be the departments specified in Appendix A.
Section 4	Physical Examination: In the event the Employer requires an employee to have a physical examination by a Company doctor, the Employer will pay for the cost of said examination.
Section 5	Bulletin Board: The Union(s) may place material on the designated bulletin boards. This material shall be limited to Union notices for social and recreational events, Union meetings, elections, and appointments. A Union officer must sign all posted items. Notices shall not include advertising, political notices, nor documents which are derogatory and/or inflammatory towards the Company in any manner. The Union will be provided keys for the locked bulletin boards. Notices which comply with the above may also be distributed within the Company’s non-work areas, but only after obtaining the approval of the Human Resources Manager or designee.
Section 6	Gifts: The Employer at its sole discretion may determine whether any gifts of any value are to be given bargaining unit employees. It is understood that the gift and its value are determined at the sole discretion of the Employer.
Section 7	Excused Attendance Points: An employee who is verified to be ill and is sent home by the medical staff shall not be subject to points under the attendance policy.
Section 8	Freezer Premium: Walkie Operators and Product Stager (Lower 20) employees who are regularly assigned to the freezer shall receive seventeen cents ($0.17) per hour added to their hourly rate in Appendix A.
-31-
ARTICLE 39 SEPARABILITY
The provisions of the Agreement are deemed to be separable to the extent that if and when a court of competent jurisdiction adjudges any provision of this Agreement in its application and the Employer to be in conflict with applicable laws. Such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions of the Agreement, but such remaining provisions shall continue in full force and effect; provided, further, that in the event any provision or provisions are so declared to be in conflict with applicable law, both parties shall meet within thirty (30) days for the purpose of renegotiating an Agreement on the provisions so invalidated.
ARTICLE 40 NO INTERFERENCE LANGUAGE - NEUTRALITY
The Company shall do what is necessary to ensure its officers, representatives, supervisors and/or agents shall not attempt to influence a Colorado Labor Peace Act election or any internal Union election campaign and/or vote.
ARTICLE 41 TERM OF AGREEMENT
Section 1 The parties acknowledge that during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement each had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or matter not removed by law from the area of collective bargaining and that the understandings and agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement. Therefore, the Employer and the Union, for the life of this Agreement, each voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right, and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter referred to, or covered in this Agreement even though such subject or matter may not have been within the knowledge or contemplation of either or both of the parties at the time that they negotiated or signed this Agreement. “Part-time weekend staff’ shall not apply to the statements above, and may be modified to the extent described in the appropriate Article or Appendix.
Section 2 The Agreement shall be in full force and effect from the 12lh day of April, 2010 and shall remain in full force and effect until midnight the 12th day of April, 2013, and shall automatically be renewed from year to year thereafter unless either party desires change or termination at the expiration of said Agreement. In such event, the party desiring such change or termination shall notify the other party in writing at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration date specifying changes desired. Changes in the Agreement shall be limited to those outlined in writing by either party, and the negotiations shall begin within fifteen (15) days after the receipt of such notice.
-32-
Section 3 IN WITNESS WHEROF, the parties above named have signed their name and/or affixed the signatures of their authorized representatives this 12th day of April 2010.
United Food and Commercial Workers
mroittee
Butterball, LLC
Walter Davis, Director of Human Resources
ecker, Human Resources Manager
Miguel Ramirez, Operation Manager, FP
Lin<ia Thomas, HR Generalist
Hamm l/a4-uez, Nt
Pablo Rodriguez, Negotiating Committee
s—! y (j	utrr
Eliodora Garcia, Negotiating Committee
Ma&n Rico, Negotiating Committee
egotiating Committee
Abundio Canaies, Negotiating Committee
-33-
APPENDIX A CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES OF PAY
Section 1 The following classifications and minimum hourly rates of pay shall be in effect for the following classifications on the dates indicated. It is understood the Employer specifically retains the right to pay above the rates set forth herein.
Section 2 The starting wage rate progression is as follows:
	Start	6 months	12 months (base rate)
04/11/2010	$9.20	$9.70	$11.05
04/11/2911	$9.20	$9.70	$11.05
04/09/2012	$9.45	$9.95	$11.30
Section 3 All active employees on the payroll as of April 11, 2011 will receive a onetime lump sum payment of $350.00. All wage progressions shall be increased by $0.25 effective April 9, 2012.
Department	Pay Groups	4/11/10	4/9/12	Job Classifications
Lower 14	UFCW			
	Base	$11.05	$11.30	General Labor-Sample Tasks:(Frank Hanger, Oven Loader)
	Operator	$11,25	$11.50	Frank Blender Operator, Frank-a-matic Operator, N. Shirmatic Blender Operator, Shirmatic Operator, Square, Walkie Operator
	Skilled Operator	$11.60	$11.85	Batcher/ Grinder/Mixer
	Facilitator	$11.75	$12.00	Lead, Trainer, SPC, PC, Production Clerk
Upper 14 - South	UFCW				
	Base	$11.05	$11.30	General Labor-Sample Tasks: (Netters, Pocket Loaders, Rack/Tank Pullers, Rack Unloader, Box Maker, Code Dater, Scaler/Palletizer/ Scanner)
	Operator	$11.25	$11.50	Roll Stock Operator, Walkie Operator
	Skilled Operator	$11.60	$11.85	8490 Operator
	Facilitator	$11.75	$12.00	Lead, Trainer, SPC, PC, Production Clerks
Upper 14 - North	UFCW				
	Base	$11.05	$11.30	General Labor-Sample Tasks: (Batcher)
	Operator	$11.25	$11.50	Injector Operator, Pickle Makers, Walkie Operator
	Skilled Operator	$11.60	$11.85	Tumbler Operator, Stuffer Operator, Tipper Tie, Grinder/Mixer Operator
	Facilitator	$11.75	$12.00	Lead, Trainer, SPC, PC, Production Clerk
-34-
Department	Pay Groups	4/11/10	4/9/12	Job Classifications
Upper 20				UFCW
	Base	$11.05	$11.30	General Labor-Sample Tasks: (Rack Unloader, Box Maker/Packer, Palletizer, Rack Puller, Casing Stripper, Racker, Net Stripper, Bagger)
	Operator	$11.25	$11.50	Fryer Operator, Walkie Operator BCE Scale, RTE Sanitarian
	Skilled Operator	$11.60	$11.85	8600 Operator
	Facilitator	$11.75	$12.00	Lead, Trainer, SPC, PC, Production Clerk
Lower 20				UFCW
	Base	$11.05	$11.30	General Labor-Sample Tasks: (Rack Unloader, Box Maker/Packer, Palletizer, Inspect/Line Stacks, Tub Mover/Multivac Loader)
	Skilled	$11.20	$11.45	Check Weigher
	Operator	$11.25	$11.50	Product Stager, P.oll Stock Operator, Walkie Operator, Janitor, RTE Sanitarian
	Skilled Operator	$11.60	$11.85	Slicer Operator
	Facilitator	$11.75	$12.00	Lead, Trainer, SPC, PC, Production Clerk
Frank Pack				UFCW
	Base	$11.05	$11.30	General Labor-Sample Tasks: (Check Weigher/Packer, Palletizer, Box Maker, Frank Sorter/Keyboard)
	Operator	$11.25	$11.50	Roll Stock Operator, Walkie Operator
	Skilled Operator	$11.60	$11.85	Peeler Operator
	Facilitator	$11.75	$12.00	Lead, Trainer, SPC, PC, Production Clerk
Spice				UFCW
	Base	$11.80	$12.05	General Labor
	Operator	$12.00	$12.25	Mixer Operator, Walkie Operator
	Skilled	$12.45	$12.70	Fork Lift Operator
	Facilitator	$12.95	. $12.20	Lead, Trainer
Box Making				UFCW
	Base	$11.05	$11.30	General Labor-Sample Tasks: (Box Truck Unloader, FP Transport, Labeler)
	Operator	$11.25	$11.50	Tray Form Operator
	Facilitator	$11.75	$11.00	Lead, Trainer
Ovens				UFCW
	Operator	$13.48	$13.73	Oven Operator
	Facilitator	$13.98	$14.23	Lead, Trainer, HACCP Verifier
Quality Assurance				UFCW
	Facilitator	$11.75	$12.00	Lab Tech, SPC
-35-
Department | Pay Groups j 4/11/10 | 4/9/12 |
Job Classifications
Warehouse
UFCW
Base	$11.05	$11.30	General Laborer
Operator	$11.25	$11.50	Walkie Operator
Skilled Operator	$12.45	$12.70	Forklift Operator
-36-
APPENDIX B
ON-CALL WEEKEND STAFF
Section 1
A.	When weekend work (Saturday and Sunday) is not able to be appropriately staffed from the regular full time work force, “On-call weekend staff’ may be utilized. The Company will first ask for volunteers from the regular full time staff, before scheduling on-call staff.
B.	The Company shall post every Monday, a Saturday and Sunday volunteer sign up sheet that will remain posted until 8:00 a.m. Wednesday. Employees who wish to work on Saturday and/or Sunday will sign.
C.	On-call staff will be limited to work on Saturday and Sunday only, and will not exceed twenty (20) hours in those two (2) days.
D.	No on-call staff may be utilized during any lay off period, or when there is a reduction in work force.
Section 2	On-call staff shall be entitled to the following benefits: Qualified employees shall receive wage scales in Appendix A, Night shift premiums, Daily overtime, Reporting pay, and Clothing.
Section 3	If on-call employees roll over to regular full time status, all days worked shall be counted toward time periods specified to receive benefits. Once employees are rolled over to regular full time status they shall become active members in good standing.
Section 4	This on-call staff program can be eliminated by either Union with a one hundred and twenty (120) day written notice if:
A.	Either International office or Local Union Executive Board deems that this program violates the Union constitution, bylaws, policies or,
B.	This program is not serving its purpose and/or intent.
-37-
NOTES
INDICE DE MATERIAS ARTICULO TITULO	PAGINA
ACUERDO........................................1
1	RECONOCIMIENTO..................................1
2	DERECHOS DE LA GERENCIA.........................2
3	NO DISCRIMINACION...............................2
4	SENORIA........................................ 4
5	DEDUCCIONES.....................................5
6	VISITACION A LA PLANTA..........................6
7	DELEGADO DE LA UNION............................6
8	DEMANDAS........................................6
9	ARBITRACION.....................................7
, 10	VELOCIDAD DE LAS LINEAS.........................8
11	NO HUELGA - NO CIERRE PATRONAL.................10
12	CLASIFICACIONES Y CANTIDADES DE PAGO...........10
13	NO REDUCCION DE PAGO...........................10
14	PREMIOS DE TURNO...............................10
15	LOCALIZADOR/PERMANECER EN LLAMADA..............11
16	TURNOS IRREGULARES.............................11
17	COMITE MIXTO DE GERENCIA Y OBREROS.............11
18	SEGURIDAD......................................12
19	LASTIMADURA EN EL TRABAJO......................13
20	BENEFICIO DE BIENESTAR Y SALUD.................13
21	PLAN DE 401(K) PARA EMPLEADOS DE LA UNIDAD
NEGOCIADORA PAGADOS POR HORA DE BUTTERBALL, LLC.15
22	HORAS DE TFABAJO Y TIEMPO EXTRA................16
23	GARANTIA DE TRABAJO SEMANAL....................18
24	PAGO POR REPORTARSE............................19
25	' PAGOPORSERLLAMADODEREGRESO...................19
26	PERIODOS DE DESCANSO/COM1DA....................19
27	VACACIONES.....................................20
28	DIAS FESTIVOS..................................22
29	SERVICIO DE J URADO............................23
30	AUSENCIA DE FUNERAL............................24
31	DIAS GANADOS....-..............................25
32	PETICIONAR PARA TRABAJO........................26
33	PROVISION DE ROPA/EQUIPO.......................27
34	PERMISO DE AUSENCIA LABORAL....................29
35	DESPIDO........................................32
36	SUBCONTRATACION................................33
37	JURISDICCION...................................33
-I-
INDICE DE MATERIAS ARTICULO TITULO	PAGINA
38	VARIAS PROVISIONES............................34
INSPECCIONES DE CAJ6N......................34
DIA DE PAGO ............................... 34
DEPARTAMENTOS..............................34
EXAMEN FISICO..............................34
TABLERO DE AVISOS..........................34
REGALOS....................................34
PUNTOS PARA ASISTENCIA EXCUSADA.............34
PREMIO DEL CONGELADOR.......................34
39	SEPARABILIDAD..................................35
40	LENGUAJE DE NO INTERFERENCE - NEUTRALIDAD......35
41	DURA CION DEL ACUERDO..........................35
APENDICE A............................:.......37
CLASIFICACIONES Y CANTIDADES DE PAGO..........37
14DE ABAJO..................................37
14 DE ARRIBA-SUR............................37
14 DE ARRIBA - NORTE........................37
20 DE ARRIBA................................38
20 DE ABAJO.................................38
EMPAQUE DE FRANKS...........................38
ESPECIA.....................................38
HACER CAJAS.................................38
HORNOS.........................-............38
ASEGURAR CALIDAD............................38
ALMACEN.....................................39
APENDICE B....................................40
PERSONAL DE FIN DE SEMANA QUE PERMANECE EN LLAMADA....................................40
-II-
ACUERDO Entre
BUTTERBALL, LLC. LONGMONT, COLORADO
Y
TRABAJADORES UNIDOS DE ALIMENTOS Y COMERCIO LOCAL NO. 7
Fundado antiguamente por la
UNION INTERNACIONAL DE TRABAJADORES UNIDOS DE ALIMENTOS Y COMERCIO, aFL-CIO
PLAZO: 12 de abril de 2010 al 12 de abrii de 2013
ACUERDO
Este acuerdo a sido hecho y entrado por medio y entre BUTTERBALL, LLC. en Longmont, Colorado, ha la cual se referira en lo sucesivo como el “Empleador” y la UNION DE TRABAJADORES UNIDOS DE ALIMENTOS Y COMERCIO, LOCAL NO. 7, AFL-CIO, ha las cuales en lo sucesivo se referira como “Uni6n.”
PRESENCIADA POR TESTIGOS que para y en consideration de las promesas mutuas y condiciones ahora en adelante, y para afirmar y asegurar los beneficios deseados ser derivados por los empleados y el Empleador bajo estos articulos aqui acordados, por este medio esta expresamente entendido y conformado como sigue:
ARTICULO 1
RECONOCIMIENTO
Section 1 El Empleador reconoce a la Union como el unico representante para la unidad negociadora colectiva para todos los empleados trabajando en la planta del Empleador en Longmont, Colorado; pero excluyendo empleados de oficina, empleados de ventas, guardias, profesionistas, trabajadores actualmente representados por la Union Ingeniera, y supervisors como definido en el Acto.
Section 2 Todo el trabajo o servicios hechos dentro de la unidad negociadora sera hecho exclusivamente por miembros de la unidad negociadora con exception en casos de absentismo,
-1-
emergencias, propositos de entrenamiento o por proyectos especiales; sin embargo, tai trabajo no resultara en perdida de trabajo para los miembros de la unidad negociadora como resultado de que la gerencia trabaje.
Section 3 El Empleador esta de acuerdo en que durante el termino de este Acuerdo no pediran, requeriran, coerceran, recomendaran o entraran a cualquier acuerdo o contrato individual, con cualquier individuo o grupo de empleados de la unidad negociadora, que en cualquiera manera hace conflicto con los terminos y provisiones de este Acuerdo o que interfiera de algun modo con los derechos o privilegios de los empleados y el estado y derechos del agente negociador de los empleados que es una parte de este Acuerdo.
Seccion 4 Todos los empleados cubiertos por este Acuerdo seran, como condici6n de empleo, comenzando treinta (30) dias civiles. despues de ser contratados o transferidos a la unidad negociadora, requeridos a compartir igualmente en el costo de manteniendo y operando la agencia negociadora colectiva en acuerdo con sus reglas.
Seccion 5 “Personal de fin de semana que permanece en Hamada’ seran cubiertos por los terminos y condiciones publicadas en Apendice B solamente.
ARTICULO 2
DERECHOS DE LA GERENCIA
El Empleador retiene el derecho de administrar la planta, dirigir las fuerzas laborales y establecer las normas y reglas necesarias para el manejo del negocio, a condition que las normas y reglas no esten de ninguna forma en conflicto con los terminos de este Acuerdo en cualquier manera.
ARTICULO 3
NO DISCRIMINACION
Seccion 1 No Discrimination. La Compania y la Union estan de acuerdo en mantener un ambiente de trabajo que esta fibre de discrimination. En la administration de este Acuerdo y, en acuerdo con ley aplicable federal y estatal, ni la Compania ni la Union discriminara contra cualquier empleado con respeto a su raza, color, sexo, religion, origen nacional, edad, estado matrimonial, estado veterano, o incapacidad.
Seccion 2 Hostigamiento Prohibido. Hostigamiento a cualquier-empleado con respeto a su raza, color, sexo, religion, origen nacional, edad, estado matrimonial, estado veterano, incapacidad, u otro estado protegido. La Compania no tolerara conducta de hostigamiento que afecta beneficios tangibles del trabajo; que interfiere irrazonablemente con la ejecucion de trabajo de cualquier individuo; o que crea un ambiente de trabajo de intimidad, hostil o ofensivo.
a. Hostigamiento Sexual. Hostigamiento sexual incluye avances sexuales indeseables, petition para favores sexuales, y otra conducta fisica, verbal o visual
-2-
basada en sexo, cuando:
(i)	Sumision a la conducta es un terminq o condition explicito o implicito de empleo;
(ii)	Sumision a o rechazamiento a la conducta es usada a base de una decision de empleo; o
(iii)	La conducta tiene el proposito o efecto de interferir irrazonablemente con la ejecucion de trabajo de cualquier individuo, o crea un ambiente de trabajo de intimidad, hostil o ofensivo.
Hostigamiento sexual prohibido puede incluir proposiciones sexuales explicitos, insinuaci6n sexual, comentarios sugestivos, bromas, lenguaje o gestos obscenos, exhibiciones de material obsceno, y conducta fisica. Hostigamiento a base de otro estado protegido puede incluir comentarios basados en raza, color, sexo, religion, origen national, edad, estado matrimonial, estado veterano, inhabilidad, bromas, lenguaje o gestos ofensivos, o exhibiciones de material ofensiva a miembros de los grupos descritos arriba.
Section 3 Procedimiento de Quejas. Si el empleado siente que ha sido sometido a discrimination o hostigamiento ya sea por otros trabajadores, supervisores, vendedores, clientes, o algiin agente o delegado de la Union, deben de inmediatamente notificar ha su supervisor inmediato. Si el supervisor no esta disponible o si el empleado cree que seria inapropiable de contactar a su supervisor, el empleado debe inmediatamente contactar al Departamento de Recursos Humanos. La Compania investigara todas tales quejas completamente y prontamente. En toda su extension practicable, la Compania mantendra quejas y terminos de su resolution confidential. Si una investigation confirms que ha ocurrido hostigamiento, la Compania tomara action correctiva, hasta e incluyendo termination de empleo inmediato al empleado encontrado de haber violado las provisiones de este Articulo. La Compania prohibe venganza contra cualquier persona que ha verdaderamente reportado hostigamiento.
Section 4 Acomodaciones Razonables. En la administraci6n de este Acuerdo, la Compania y la Union proveera acomodaciones razonables a empleados calificados con una incapacidad. Cualquier empleado que desea tai acomodacion debe informar a la Compania, en escrito, describir la acomodacion solicitada y cooperar con la Compania y la Union en buscar para identificar altemativas razonables. La necesidad de y cierto punto de tales acomodaciones seran determinadas por la Compania en acuerdo con su interpretation de los requisites del Acto de Americanos con Incapacidades y Titulo VII del Acto de Derechos Civiles de 1964, aunque tales acomodaciones puedan estar en conflicto con otra provision de este Acuerdo. Sin embargo, en caso de que una acomodacion razonable pueda necesitar la modificaci6n o renuncia de cualquier provision de este Acuerdo, la Compania y la Uni6n tendran una junta para discutir lo mismo.
-3-
Section 5 Responsabilidades de la Union. La Union reconoce que la Compania tiene una poliza que prohibe la discrimination u hostigamiento de empleados. Si algiin empleado de la unidad negociadora colectiva notifica a la Union de una violation alegada de este Articulo, la Uni6n animara al empleado a traer el asunto a la atencion de la Compania en acuerdo con la poliza de la Compania. Cuando una queja ha sido presentada a la Compania, la Union cooperara con la Compania en su investigation.
ARTICULO 4
SENORIA
Section 1 La senoria de los empleados sera la fecha de su contratacion mas reciente por el Empleador, sin haber sido interrumpida por un despido. Senoria por departamento significa la fecha de servicio continue mas reciente de un empleado en un departamento. La senoria de la planta significa la fecha de contratacion mas reciente de un empleado. La senoria de la planta prevalecera para ganar vacacidn, peticionar por trabajo fuera del departamento, obtener beneficios y para voluntaries. Mas alia de esto, a menos que una provision especifica sea contraria, es el intento de usar la senoria de la planta dentro los departamentos.
Section 2 Los empleados nuevos estaran en probation por sus primeros sesenta (60) dias civiles, durante cual tiempo podran ser despedidos por el Empleador por cualquier razon, y, durante este periodo, no adquiriran ningun estado de senoria. Empleados retenidos en el servicio del Empleador despues de dicho periodo de probation, tendran su fecha de senoria fechada al primer (1) dia de tai periodo de probacidn. El periodo de probation puede ser extendido treinta (30) dias civiles adicionales por acuerdo mutual entre el Empleador, empleado y la Union.
Section 3	Ningun empleado dentro de la unidad negociadora colectiva sera despedido, disciplinado, o degradado sin causa buena y suficiente.
Section 4	La senoria se terminara por cualquiera de las siguientes razones:
A.	Abandonando el trabajo voluntariamente
B.	Quedarse mas tiempo de lo que se le concedio para permiso de ausencia laboral o vacation
C.	Falta de reportar al trabajo sobre re-empleo despues del despido dentro de cuatro (4) dias laborales, despues de recibo de notification por correo certificado a la ultima direction proveida en escrito por el empleado al Empleador. Tai aviso de re-empleo no sera requerido si la fecha de regresar al trabajo es dado al empleado al tiempo del despido.
D.	Despido por causa justa
-4-
E.	Despido continuo por un periodo en exceso de doce (12) meses
F.	Ausencia del trabajo por un periodo de tres (3) dias laborales consecutivos, cuando
tai ausencia no ha side reportada por el empleado.
G.	Empleados aceptando posiciones con el Empleador que no estan en la unidad negociadora colectiva por un periodo en exceso de doce (12) meses.
ARTICULO 5 DEDUCCIONES
Seccion 1 Obligaciones de Empleador. En cada dia de pago el Empleador esta de acuerdo en deducir la Cuota Sindical semanal y la cucta de initiation de la cantidad neta de cada empleado en la unidad negociadora que ha dado al Empleador (ya sea directamente o a traves de la Union) con una forma de autorizacion individual escrita y firmada. Se entiende que la autorizacion de deduction es voluntaria por parte de cada empleado individual y que tai individuo puede revocar su autorizacion de deduction individual despues de dar treinta (30) di'as de noticia escrita al Empleador y la Union.
Seccion 2 Pago para la Union Local. El empleador esta de acuerdo de remitir a la Union Local aplicable la cantidad de cuotas y cuotas de iniciaciones semanalmente dentro de siete (7) dias despues de cada periodo de pago semanal.
Seccion 3 Falta de Pagar Cuotas u Honorarios. Antes de que cualquier termination del empleo conforme a esta seccion sea efectiva, la Union dai a el empleado implicado primero el aviso escrito de pagar sus cuotas u honorarios delincuentes. Si el empleado falla de pagar tai delincuencia, la Union notificara al Empleador, en escrito, de la delincuencia y puede pedir el despido de empleo de tai empleado dentro de siete (7) dias en recibo de tai carta. El Empleador sera requerido de despedir tai empleado a menos que el empleado pague tai delincuencia dentro el periodo dicho de siete (7) dias.
Seccion 4 Cambios en la Cantidad de Cuotas I Cuotas de Initiation. La Union tendra el privilegio de cambiar la cantidad de cuotas semanales y cuotas de initiation que son deducidas por el Empleador con treinta (30) dias de notification escrito al apropiado Gerente de Recursos Humanos o Gerente de la Planta.
Seccion 5 Indemnizacion del Empleador. La Union esta de acuerdo de indemnizar y de sostener fibre al Empleador sin dano de y contra de cualquier perdida, responsabilidad, danos, costos, costos de abogados, multas o interes que resultan del cumplimento del Empleador con los terminos de este Articulo.
Seccion 6 La Compania esta de acuerdo de deducir las cantidades dcsignadas por los empleados para el UFCW Active Ballot Club (ABC) (UFCW Club Activo de Boletas) cuando la
-5-
Compania ha sido proveida con una autorizacion escrita individual para hacer tales deducciones. Es acordado que la autorizacion de ABC es voluntaria. La Compania acuerda de remitir las contribuciones de ABC en la misma manera que las cuotas sindicales.
ARTICULO 6 VISITACION A LA PLANTA
Durante el plazo de este Acuerdo, no mis de dos (2) representantes de la union previamente designados que no son empleados tendran acceso a la planta para el proposito de investigar condiciones alii dentro, bajo los terminos de este Acuerdo, y para ajustar cualquier demanda o quejas alii dentro. Ademas, el Presidente de la Union y los empleados de Butterball, LLC en permiso de ausencia laboral tendran acceso. Antes de entrar a la planta, tai representante notificara a Recursos Humanos. Un representante de la Compania tiene la option de acompanar al Representante de la Union mientras que esta en la planta. Conferencias entre los Representantes de la Union y un empleado, o empleados, serin conducidas de manera que no interfiera con, o interrupcion de la production del Empleador.
ARTICULO 7 DELEGADO DE LA UNION
Section 1 La Union tendra el derecho de nombrar un Jefe de Delegados de la Planta y un (1) Delegado por departamento el cual hara sus deberes de Delegado de tai manera que no interfiera con el servicio del Empleador.
Section 2 La Union le avisara al Empleador por escrito los nombres de los representantes designados antes que sean reconocidos como Delegados.
ARTICULO 8 DEMANDAS
Section 1	Una demanda es definida como una violation alegada de los terminos especificos de este Acuerdo, y se manejara como indicado abajo.
Section 2	Proceso
Paso I El empleado danado y/o delegado sometera una demanda escrita al supervisor inmediato dentro de cuatro (4) dias laborales de que ocurrio el evento que dio motivo a la demanda. Si el empleado lo desea, un Delegado puede estar presente durante esta discusion. El supervisor inmediato dara una respuesta al empleado dentro de tres (3) dias laborales de la discusion.
Paso II Si la demanda no se resuelve bajo el procedimiento de arriba, la demanda sera presentada al Encargado del Departamento. Una junta del Paso 2 con el Encargado del
-6-
Departamento se lievara a cabo dentro de diez (10) dias laborables del recibo de la demanda escrita. El Encargado del Departamento dara una respuesta escrita a la Union dentro de cinco (5) dias laborables de la junta con el Representante de la Union.
Paso III Si la demanda no es resuelta bajo el procedimiento de arriba, la demanda sera, dentro de diez (10) dias civiles de las respuestas del Encargado del Departamento, discutida por el Representante de la Union (y delegado a la discrecion del Representante de la Union) y Encargado de Recursos Humanos. El Empleador dara una respuesta escrita a la Union dentro de cinco (5) dias laborales de la junta con el Representante de la Union.
Section 3
A.	Suspensior.es y avisos disciplinarios escritos seran dados dentro de cuatro (4) dias laborales de la fecha en que el Etnpleador tuvo conocimiento de cualquier violation alegada de reglas de la Compania.
B.	Discipline relacionada a la asistencia sera dada dentro de cuatro (4) dias laborables, excluyendo fines de semana y dias festivos.
C.	Suspensiones seran efectivas inmediatamente y todos los dias consecutivos.
D.	La Compania tendra el delegado de la Union del departamento o el Jefe de delegados presente por cualquier action disciplinaria escrita, si lo desea el empleado no tiene que tener un delegado presente. El delegado de la Union sera proveido con una copia de tales documentos.
E.	Cualquier demanda que no pueda ser ajustada satisfactoriamente por las partes podra ser llevada a arbitration.
ARTICULO 9
ARBITRACION
Section 1 En caso que durante la duration de este Acuerdo ocurra una disputa, equivocation o controversia en las partes de aqui que no pueda ser resuelta de acuerdo al procedimiento de demandas como mencionado arriba, entonces, y en ese caso la Union, dentro de seis (6) dias laborales, excluyendo sabados, domingos y dias festivos, despues de haber recibido la respuesta escrita del Empleador en el procedimiento de demandas, notificara al Empleador de su deseo de tener la disputa procesada a traves del procedimiento de arbitration. El Jefe Ejecutivo de la Union tendra el derecho exclusive para determinar si la demanda sera o no sera sometida a arbitration por la Union. Las partes trataran en seguida de ponerse de acuerdo en la selection de un arbitrador impartial.
-7-
Seccion 2 En caso que las partes no puedan ponerse de acuerdo en la selection de un arbitrador dentro de quince (15) dias de la petition escrita para arbitration, la parte pidiendo la arbitration dentro de siete (7) dias solicitara un panel de siete (7) arbitradores del Servicio Federal de Mediation y Conciliation. De este panel de siete (7) nombres, cada parte altemativamente tachara tres (3) nombres, comenzando con la parte que solicito el panel. El proceso de tachar del panel sera completado dentro de quince (15) dias del recibo del panel. El arbitrador que quede en la lista sera el arbitrador impartial y sera notificado dentro de treinta (30) dias de la fecha de selection para programar una audiencia. La decisidn o concesion del arbitrador sera final y conclusive sobre la Compania, la Union y empleados afectados.
Seccion 3 A menos que sea acordado de otra manera por las partes, cualquier asunto procesado a arbitration sera escuchado en la orden cronologica basado en la fecha de la sumision de la demanda escrita del paso 1 como sigue: primero, retirar casos y en seguida cualesquier otras disputas, desacuerdos o controversias entre las partes.
Seccion 4 El arbitrador tendra todos los derechos, poderes y obligaciones dados aqui, concedidos, e impuestos; pero su decision no cambiara, altemara o modificara ninguno de los terminos y condiciones estipulados en este Acuerdo. El gasto del Arbitrador sera pagado por la parte perdidosa segun lo determinado por el Arbitrador. El resto de los gastos incluyendo honorarios de abogado seran pagados por las partes que los incurren. El arbitrador dara su decision dentro de treinta (30) dias civiles despues del cierre del procedimiento. Este limite de tiempo de treinta (30) dias civiles puede ser prolongado por acuerdo mutuo entre ambas partes.
ARTICULO 10
VELOCIDAD DE LAS LINEAS
La velocidad de las lineas no estara en efecto durante el plazo de este acuerdo y no sera reintegrado a mcnos que la Compania regrese las operaciones de evisceration y deshuesar a la Planta de Longmont. Las partes acuerdan que el Articulo 10 de la velocidad de las lineas en su totalidad solo se aplica a evisceration y a deshuesar y ninguna otra operation.
Seccion 1 Preocupaciones pueden ser traidas a la atencion de la Compania por empleados, delegados o Representante de la Union.
El supervisor del area o del departamento y el representante de la union se uniran para revisar cualquier tai preocupacidn. Si hay un desacueido entre las partes, el asunto sera traido inmediatamente a la atencion del Encargado de Recursos Humanos y/o el Encargado de Relaciones de Trabajo antes de archivar una demanda.
El Encargado de Recursos Humanos y/o el Encargado de Relaciones de Trabajo revisaran la preocupacion con el supervisor del area o del departamento y representante(s) de la union en un esfuerzo para apropiadamente resolver el asunto.
-8-
Es expresamente entendido y acordado que lo antedicho no afectara los h'mites de tiempo indicados en el procesamiento de demandas.
Seccion 2 Los Ingenieros Industriales de la Union y la Compania pueden estudiar y resolver el asunto.
Seccion 3 Si no esta resuelto en Seccion 2, un ingeniero industrial profesional, al cual ha estado de acuerdo mutuamente estudiara la configuration. Este Ingeniero Industrial de tercera parte hara la resolution vinculante final.
Seccion 4 En la primera (1™) instancia, la Corporation determinara la velocidad de la linea y el equipo de obreros. En el evento que la Union cree que lo mismo es inseguro, desrazonable o crea un sobrecargo de trabajo, puede demandar lo mismo.
Seccion 5 La Corporacion mantendra, y proporcionara a la Union, registros que documentan la velocidad de la linea y el equipo de obreros. Ademas, la Corporation notificara a la Union de modificaciones a la velocidad de la linea y/o el equipo de obreros.
Seccion 6 En el evento que la velocidad de la linea y/o el equipo de obreros se encuentra a constituir un sobrecargo de trabajo, situation insegura, es desrazonable, o varia de los estandares convenidos mutuamente de la velocidad de la linea y equipo de obreios (por arbitration o de otra manera), los trabajadores afectados directamente seran pagados un tiempo medio adicional (‘/z x) por todas tales horas. En ningun evento sera tai tiempo menos de noventa (90) minutos. Los trabajadores directamente afectados seran los que estan trabajando en los trabajos que estan bajo del equipo de obreros y/o que tienen la velocidad de la linea en exceso de las cantidades correctas. Es expresamente entendido y convenido que la Corporacion tendra un periodo de gratia de quince (15) minutos durante el empezar en la linea de evis y la linea de deshueso.
Seccion 7 Una vez que el equipo de obreros y/o las velocidades de las lineas se establecen mutuamente, por arbitration o de otra manera, lo mismo sera vinculante sobre ambas partes.
Seccion 8 Ademas, cualquier parte puede referir cualquier demanda a un Consejo de Revision de dos (2) miembros dentro de treinta (30) dias. El Consejo sera compuesto del Presidente del Local UFCW y el Director de Recursos Humanos de la Compania. Participantes de la audiencia incluira el Director del Local UFCW y el Encargado de Recursos Humanos o el Encargado de Relaciones de Trabajo de la instaiacion que haran presentaciones antes del Consejo de Revisiones. Audiencias se lievaran a cabo en una fecha mutualmente conveniente pero antes de treinta (30) dias siguiendo la referencia para la audiencia. Siguiendo el cierre de la audiencia, el Consejo de Revisiones deliberara inmediatamcnte en orden de hacer una decision que sera final y conclusiva sobre la Compania, la Union y el (los) empleado(s) afectado(s). El Consejo tendra la autoridad solamente de interpretar y aplicar el Acuerdo.
-9-
ARTICULO 11
NO HUELGA- NO CIERRE PATRONAL
Seccion 1 La Union, en nombre propio y en nombre de los empleados cubiertos por este Acuerdo, acuerda que no autorizara, animara, o participara en ningunas huelgas, retrasos, paros laborables o formation de piquetes laborales durante el plazo de este Acuerdo.
Seccion 2 El Empleador acuerda que no habra ningunos cierres patronales durante el termino de este Acuerdo.
ARTICULO 12 CLASIFICACIONES Y CANTIDADES DE PAGO
Seccion 1 Las clasificaciones de trabajo y las escalas minimas de pago por hora estan indicadas en el Apendice A ir.cluido aqui y por esta referencia como parte integral de aqui.
Seccion 2 El Empleador notificara a la Union si cualquier(es) nueva(s) clasificacion(es) de trabajo de la unidad negociadora es (son) creadas. El Empleador fijara una escala de sueldos para tai clasificacion nueva de trabajo, y tai escala de sueldo sera conforme a !o estipulado en el Apendice A. Tai escala sera efectiva en la fecha en que la nueva clasificacion de trabajo comienza operation. La Union conserva el derecho de disputar a traves del proceso de demandas y arbitration la pregunta de si la escala de pago para el trabajo nuevo es o no es consistente con las estipuladas en el Apendice A.
ARTICULO 13
NO REDUCCION DE PAGO
Es expresamente entendido y acordado que ningun empleado coniente sufrira una reduction en su escala de pago regular como resultado de la adopcion de este Acuerdo. Este Articulo no aplica en casos de degradation actual como estipulado en el Acuerdo.
ARTlCULO 14
PREMIOS DE TURNO
Section 1	Empleados asignados a trabajar el tumo de la tarde recibiran un premio de treinta y cinco centavos ($.35) arriba de la escala de pago normal por hora por todas horas trabajadas en ese tumo.
Seccion 2 Empleados asignados a trabajar el tumo noctumo recibiran un premio de cincuenta centavos ($.50) arriba de la escala de pago normal por hora por todas horas trabajadas en ese tumo.
Seccion 3 Premios de tumo seran figuradus dentro de la escala de pago per hora por tiempo extra, pago por dia festivo y pago de vacation.
-10-
Section 4 Senoria de la planta prevalecera en la selection de tiempos de empiezo o tumos cuando vacancias de trabajo ocurran, con la condition que el empleado este calificado para hacer el trabajo necesario. La option del empleado de cambiar tumos o tiempos de empiezo pueden ser ejercitados solamente una vez durante cada cuatro (4) meses.
ARTICULO 15
LOCALIZADOR/PERMANECER EL LLAMADA
El empleado que es requerido cargar una unidad localizadora o permanecer en Hamada durante horas fuera del trabajo para estar dispuesto a cubrir tumos por ausencias/emergencias no programadas sera pagado cuarenta centavos ($.40) por hora de premio por todas horas trabajadas durante la semana laboral en cual el empleado fue requerido cargar el localizador o permanecer en Hamada, exclusivo de personal de fin de semana que permanece en Hamada cubierto bajo Apendice B.
ARTICULO 16
TURNOS IRREGULARES
El Empleador esta de acuerdo de no programar tumos irregulares, excepto en aquellas situaciones cubiertas por el Articulo de Pago por ser Llamado para Regresar.
ARTICULO 17
COMITE MIXTO DE GERENCIA Y OBREROS
Section 1 Butterball, LLC y los Trabajadores Unidos de Alimentos y Comercio del Local 7 estan de acuerdo de format un comite combinado de empleados de la unidad negociadora y la gerencia. El proposito de este comite sera para discutir soluciones mutuas a asuntos afectando relaciones de obreros-gerencia con la intention de mejorar comunicaciones, relaciones y para crear un lugar de trabajo enfocado en clientes.
Section 2	El comite se reuniri mensualmente, a menos que sea acordado de otra manera.
Section 3	La representation del Empleador al Comite incluyera el Gerente del Complejo o
designado y representantes de Operaciones, Seguridad y Recursos Humanos.
Section 4	La representation de la Union al Comite incluyera el UFCW Presidente del Local o designado(s), y una combination total de (3) tres representantes de los empleados nombrados por la Union. Los representantes de los empleados seran pagados por cl tiempo perdido de su tumo regular. Si la junta no se lleva a cabo durante el tiempo de tumo de trabajo regular, el empleado sera pagado por el tiempo actual de atender tai junta hasta el rnaximo de una (1) hora.
-11-
Seccion 5 Este comite dejara de existir a la discrecion de cualquier Union o Empleador. Sin embargo, antes que una decision sea hecha para descontinuar el comite, el Presidente del Local UFCW y el Director de Recursos Humanos se uniran para discutir las razones de la decision.
ARTICULO 18 SEGURIDAD
Seccion 1 El Empleador y la Union, en nombre de todos los empleados, estan de acuerdo en cooperar completamente en promover la seguridad y el uso correcto del .equipo de seguridad. Es la responsabilidad de todos los trabajadores de seguir y apoyar las Politicas y Programas relacionadas a la Seguridad del Empleador.
Seccion 2 Ei Empleador y la Union establecerai: un. Comite Central de Iniciativas de Seguridad. El proposito primario de este Comite sera para: promover y ayudar con el reviso de complacencia con los Programas de Seguridad del Empleador, promover el uso seguro de procedimientos de operation,'recomendar soluciones a asuntos de seguridad y para ayudar a educar a los empleados de practicas seguras de trabajo. Este Comite consistira de cuatro (4) representantes del Empleador (Gerente del Complejo o designado, Gerente de Seguridad, Gerente de Operaciones, y el Gerente de Recursos Humanos) y cuatro (4) miembros de la unidad negociadora nombrados por la Union. Los representantes de los empleados nombrados por la Union seran pagados por su tiempo perdido de su tumo regular para asistir a tai junta hasta un maximo de una (1) hora por junta. Es la responsabilidad del Gerente de! Complejo o del designado de evaluar las recomendaciones que haga el Comite CSS y aconsejar al Comite CSS, de cualquier action tomada, si hay, en la junta de seguridad siguiente.
Seccion 3 La Union esta de acuerdo en cooperar completamente con la Gerencia en la administration de las politicas de seguridad de la Compania. La Uni6n esta de acuerdo de reportar inmediatamente a la Gerencia cualquier peligro potential de seguridad que se ponga a su atencion o a la atencion de los delegados en la planta, incluyendo information de enfermedades de empleados debido de las actividades del lugar de trabajo. La Union especificamente esta de acuerdo de proveer cualquier y toda information que tenga, ya sea por encuestas por sus ingenieros, encuestas de los empleados, o information anecdotica proveida a los supervisors o los oficiales de la Union respecto a trastomos de trauma acumulativo quejas o sufrido por los empleados y reportado directamente o indirectamente a la Union, sus delegados, agentes y oficiales.
Seccion 4 Un miembro del Comite CSS designado por la Union debe de ser notificado prontamente de la ocurrencia de cualquiera enfermedad relacionada al trabajo o accidente rcsultando en una lastimadura/enfermedad informada a OSHA. El miembro del Comite CSS designado por la Union y el Gerente de Seguridad o designado conducira una investigation junta del incidente y reportar sus resultados al Comite CSS.
-12-
Seccion 5 Local 7 acuerda de activamente participar y apoyar el reestablecimiento del estado de OSHA VPP en la instalacion para asegurar un lugar de trabajo seguro y saludable. Es entendido que una relation cooperativa es requerida para cumplir con el criterio de OSHA VPP y apoyar los Programas de Salud y Seguridad de la Compania, incluyendo pero no limitado a, ergonomia; education y entrenamiento de empleados sobre las practicas de trabajo seguro; investigation de accider.te; seguridad/velocidad de la linea; y analisis de peligro, reconocimiento, y reportando.
ARTICULO 19
LASTIMADURA EN EL TRABAJO
Seccion 1 Cuando un empleado se lastima en el trabajo, no habra deduction en el pago del empleado por el dia en que el empleado se lastimo y se presento para recibir atencion medica.
Seccion 2 Empleados seran pagados por todo el tiempo recibiendo la atencion medica requerida, en el sitio o en la clinica del doctor de la Compania, resultado de una lastimadura en el trabajo.
Section 3	El Empleador tendra provisiones de primer auxilio disponibles para empleados lastimados y tratara de tener personal entrenado en procedimientos de primer auxilio en la location.
Section 4	Habra un procedimiento/poliza de primer auxilio claramente establecido para todos tumos.
ARTICULO 20 BENEFICIO DE BIENESTAR Y SALUD
Section 1 Beneficios de Salud y Bienestar. Durante la duration de este Acuerdo, la Compania proveera a empleados elegibles de la unidad negociadora con los siguientes beneficios de Salud y Bienestar. La natura y nivel de beneficios que seran proveidos bajo el antedicho Plan/Programa y el procedimiento de reclamos/ resoluciones de disputas sera generalmente descrito en la Description del Sumario del Plan aplicable (SPD). Una copia del (SPD) estara disponible para la Union y los empleados.
1.	Medico
Efectivo 1 de agosto de 2010, aumento de deducible
a)	Individual de $350 a $500 en grupo
b)	Familiar de $875 a $1,000 en grupo
c)	Individual de $350 a $1,000 fuera de grupo
d)	Familiar de $875 a $2,000 fuera de grupo
e)	Aumentar el copago del servicio medico de oficina de $15 a $25 para ambos primario y especialista, en el grupo
-13-
2.	Dental - aumentar el maximo anual por persona por ano del contrato de $600.00 a $900.00
3.	Prescription para Drogas
Efectivo el 1 de agosto de 2010, aumentar el copago mfnimo de $7/$20/$30 a $10/$25/$30
4.	Seguro de Vida
5.	Seguro de Muerte Accidental & Desmembracicr. (AD&D)
6.	Seguro de Incapacidad de Plazo Corto (STD)
Seccion 2 Empleados Elegibles para Cobertura. Empleados seran elegibles para los Beneficios de Salud & Bienestar del Empleador, enel dia civil consecutivo 181 despues de la fecha de su empleo y en acuerdo con el (SPD) aplicable. Empleados deben completar y regresar dentro el tiempo. prescribio, las formas de inscription requerida como mencionada en ei respectivo SPD(s) para recibir el beneficio(s). Para detalles vea el SPD(s).
Seccion 3 Contribuciones del Empleado. Empleados elegibles y el Empleador juntos pagaran el costo de proveer beneficios medicos y Prescription de Drogas (Rx). Empleados elegibles continuaran pagando las cantidades de abajo hacia beneficios medicos y de Rx, a menos que sean modificados por la Seccion 4 abajo.
Tipo de Cobertura	Contribution del Empleado Efectivo 6/7/2010 Efectivo 4/11/2011	Efectivo 4/9/2012		
Empleado Solamente	$12.00 por semana	$13.00 por semana	$14.00 por semana
Familia	$28.00 por semana	$30.00 por semana	$32.00 por semana
Contribuciones del empleado seran deducidas del cheque de pago semanario. Si, por cualquier periodo de pago, hay salaries insuficientes debidos y pagable al empleado para cubrir la Contribution del Empleado, el empleado debe, a menos que el/ella este en avsencia aprobada de FMLA, pagar directamente a la Compania, no mas tardado que el dia de pago normal del empleado, la cantidad de la contribution debida por el empleado.
Seccion 4 Reclames y Disputas de Beneficios. Reclames de beneficios deben ser sometidos en acuerdo con el procedimiento de reclamos para el plan de beneficio aplicable. Ninguna disputa sobre cualquier beneficio bajo o en relation de este Articulo sera sometido para consideration bajo las provisiones de demandas y arbitration de este Acuerdo, con la exception de la fijacion de las cantidades actuales de empleados que seran sujetos a la provision de demanda y arbitration de este acuerdo. Todos estudios y reportes relacionados a cambios de la contribution del empleado seran compartidos con la Union 15 dias antes de implementation.
Seccion 5 Continuation de Cobertura. En caso que un empleado elegible para cobertura de beneficios arriba no puede trabajar:
-14-
A.	Por enfermedad o lastimadura no relacionada con el trabajo por un mes o mas, con una nota escrita de un doctor medico, el Empleador pagara por el costo de la prima/equivalente de seguro por un mes despues del dia de enfermedad o lastimadura. Contribuciones mensuales de primas/equivalente de seguro despues hasta el regreso al trabajo seran pagadas por el empleado.
B.	Por una lastimadura en el trabajo por un mes o mas, el Empleador pagara hasta dos (2) meses de primas/ equivalente de seguro despues del dia de lastimadura. Contribuciones mensuales de primas/equivalente de seguro despues hasta el regreso al trabajo seran pagadas por el empleado.
C.	En acuerdo de la aprobacidn del corredor de seguro, empleados que no son elegibles para contribucidn del Empleador pueden comprar los beneficios del Seguro de Grupo y el Plan Dental por page de primas mensuales bajo el Plan del Grupo.
Section 6 Derecho de Cambiar el Proveedor. El Empleador reserva el derecho de contratar con un proveedor(es) de seguro o administrador del plan de su option y/o administrar por si mismo un plan para proveer niveles de beneficio comparables a esos que han sido acordados bajo este Acuerdo Laboral. El empleador reserva el derecho de cambiar tai proveedor(es) durante el termino de este Acuerdo. Excepto como de otra manera proveido en este Articulo, nada contenido en este Acuerdo reemplazara los terminos actuales del plan como descrito en el SPD ni prevenir el Empleador de hacer cambios al plan o SPD de tiempo a tiempo con tai que los niveles de beneficio permanecen comparable a esos que han sido negociados. Sin embargo, es acordado que si el Empleador cambia proveedores de seguro o administradores del plan, empleados que son elegibles actualmente para y reci'uiendo beneficios para una condition existente, no seran descalificados de ser elegibles para cobertura por el proveedor nuevo debido a tales condiciones que ya existen durante el periodo de conversion. El metodo de financiar y la administration de los beneficios de Salud & Bienestar cubiertos bajo este Acuerdo Laboral sera la responsabilidad sola de la Compania.
ARTICULO 21
PLAN DE 401(K) PARA EMPLEADOS DE LA UNIDAD NEGOCIADORA PAGADOS POR HORA DE BUTTERBALL, LLC
Section 1 La Compania hara disponible a todos empleados calificados (empleados con un (1) ano de servicio) el Plan de 401 (K) del UFCW Local 7 bajo las siguientes reglas generales:
Empleados pueden hacer contribuciones de 401(K) en la base antes de impuestos. Empleados pueden ahorrar en porcentajes enteros, de dos por ciento (2%) a diez por ciento (10%) de su pago en la base antes de impuestos. La contribucidn antes de impuestos no puede exceder diez por ciento (10%) de la compensation total. Compensation total
-15-
incluye el pago base mas tiempo extra y cualquier otra compensation en efectivo; no incluye pago de ausencia de enfermedad. Contribuciones se hacen cada periodo de pago por medio de deduction de cheque. La Compania contribuira veinte centavos ($0.20) a la cuenta del empleado por cada ddlar ($1.00) de los primeros cinco por ciento (5%) contribuido por el empleado.
ARTICULO 22
HORAS DE TRABAJO Y TIEMPO EXTRA
Section 1 El Empleador La Compania se esforzara en proveer a los empleados a lo menos cuarenta (40) horas de trabajo cada semana. Nada en la frase arriba, sin embargo, se tomara como garantia de un numero determinado de horas por dia o por semana. La semana laboral debe coincidir con la semana de calendario (domingo hasta sabado).
Seccion 2	- El pago de tiempo extra en la cantidad de tiempo y medio (1 14) del sueldo regular
de tiempo derecho por hora del empleado sera pagado bajo las condiciones siguientes:
A.	Por todas horas de trabajo en exceso de ocho (8) horas por dla, con la condition que el empleado trabaje todas las horas disponibles del Empleador durante la semana laboral.
B.	Por todas horas de trabajo en exceso de cuarenta (40) horas en cualquier una (1) semana laboral.
C.	Por todas horas de trabajo trabajadas en el sexto (6'°) dia consecutivo de trabajo, con la condition que el empleado trabaje todas las horas disponibles durante la semana.
D.	Pago a la cantidad de tiempo y medio (1 J4x) del sueldo regular de tiempo derecho por hora de los empleados sera pagado por todas horas de trabajo en el quinto (5“) dia consecutivo de trabajo para empleados asignados a trabajar cuatro (4) dias consecutivos de diez (10) horas, con la condition que el empleado trabaje todas las horas hechas disponibles durante la semana. Tai cantidad de prima no continuara despues del septimo (71”0) dia consecutivo.
E.	Pago a la cantidad de dos veces (2x) del sueldo regular de tiempo derecho por hora de los empleados sera pagado por todas las horas de trabajo en el sexto (6t0) dia consecutivo de trabajo para empleados asignados a trabajar cuatro (4) dias consecutivos de diez (10) horas, con la condition que el empleado trabaje todas las horas disponibles durante la semana. Tai cantidad de prima no continuara despues del septimo (7m0) dia consecutivo.
-16-
Seccion 3 El pago en la cantidad de tiempo doble (2x) del sueldo regular de tiempo derecho por hora de empleados sera pagado por todas las horas trabajadas en el septimo (7m°) dia consecutivo de trabajo para empleados asignados a trabajar cinco (5) dias de ocho (8) horas por dia o menos con la condition que el empleado trabaje todas horas que fueron disponibles durante la semana. Tai cantidad de premio no continuara mas alia del septimo (7m°) dia consecutivo.
Secci6n 4 Se entiende y esta de acuerdo que el trabajo de tiempo extra diario se ofrecera por orden de senoria de la planta, dentro del dcpartamento afectado a aquellos empleados calificados para hacer los trabajos donde el tiempo extra es requerido. El Empleador esta de acuerdo en avisar sobre el tiempo extra diario no mas tarde de seis (6) horas dentro del tumo de los empleados. El tiempo extra en un dia normalmente fuera de la jomada laboral se ofrecera por orden de senoria de la planta a los empleados calificados que normalmente hacen el trabajo. En caso que las necesidades del Empleador no puedan ser satisfechas, las horas se asignaran por orden de reversa senoria a aquellas personas que normalmente hacen el trabajo. Sin embargo, en ningun caso el empleado sera forzado a trabajar mas de doce (12) horas en un dia. Sin hacer caso de un arreglo anterior, las partes esforzaran como escrito.
Seccion 5 Empleados no seran requeridos a trabajar mas de seis (6) dias consecutivos, solo en caso de una emergencia los empleados seran requeridos a trabajar en el septimo dia. Sin embargo, ningun empleado sera requerido a trabajar catorce (14) dias consecutivos.
Seccion 6 Empleados que esten ausentes durante la semana podran ser forzados a trabajar el fin de semana.
Seccion 7 Trabajando menos que ocho (8) horas.
A.	Si empleados deben ser mandados a casa temprano, una (1) hora o menos, los empleados que hayan cumplido su trabajo seran mandados a casa.
B.	Si empleados deben ser mandados a casa temprano, mas que una (1) hora, aquellos empleados en el departamento afectado que se ofrecen voluntariamente en orden de senoria seran mandados a casa primero, entonces empleados no calificados, finalmente los empleados con menos senoria.
Seccion 8 Pago aumentado se concedera a la cantidad mas alta en situaciones donde un empleado es calificado y esta haciendo el trabajo normalmente hecho por una clasificacion mas alta con la condition que el empleado haga el trabajo despues de una (1) hora continua en un tumo cuando asignado por el mayordomo. El pago aumentado no sera pagado por entrenamiento para una position de clasificacion mas alta.
Seccion 9 No habra acumulacion piramidal por pagos de tiempo extra.
-17-
Seccion 10 El Empleador es requerido a dar treinta y seis (36) horas de noticia por adelantado cuando es mandatario trabajar el fin de semana, o tiempo extra por dias regularmente no trabajados, excepto en casos de emergencia demostrable.
Seccion 11 Cuatro (4) dias de diez (10) horas:
A.	El Empleador, a su discrecion puede asignar empleados o grupos de empleados a trabajar horarios de cuatro (4) dias consecutivos de diez (10) horas por dia en cual horas seran ofrecidas por senoria a aquellos calificados. para hacer el trabajo. En evento que las necesidades del Empleadorr.o puedan ser llenadas, las horas seran asignadas en orden reversa de senoria a aquellas personas quien normalmente hacen el trabajo. En tales casos el Empleador dara cinco (5) dias laborables de noticia.
B.	Empleados trabajando horarios de cuatro (4) dias de diez (10) horas recibiran diez (10) horas de pago por dias festivos, ausencia funeral y servicio de jurado.
C.	Tiempo extra sera pagado por todo tiempo trabajado en exceso de diez (10) horas en cualquier un dia.
D.	Pago a la cantidad de dos veces (2x) del sueldo regular de tiempo derecho por hora de los empleados sera pagado por todas horas de trabajo en el sexto (6’°) dia consecutivo de trabajo para empleados asignados a trabajar cuatro (4) dias consecutivos de diez (10) horas, con la condicion que el empleado trabaje todas horas hechas disponibles durante la semana. Tai cantidad de prima no continuara despues del septimo (7m0) dia consecutivo.
ARTICULO 23
GARANTIA DE TRABAJO SEMANAL
Seccion 1 Empleados que han completado su periodo de probaci6n se les garantizan treinta y dos (32) horas cada semana por treinta y seis (36) semanas con la condici6n que el empleado se reporta a trabajar y trabaja todas las horas como es debido, excluyendo desastres naturales definidos por “Fuerza Mayor”, tai como, pero no limitado ha, incendio, inundation, aire, tornados, terremotos, nevadas, hielo, relampagos, tempestades, falla de electricidad, interrupciones de utilidades, explosiones, o cualquier otras causas que esten fuera del control del Empleador.
Seccion 2 Elegibilidad se basa en ser un empleado activo en la nomina de pago, el empleado trabaja todas las horas disponibles, el empleado trabaja _ei primer dia de la semana programada, el empleado trabaja el dia antes y despues de un dia festive. La provision de este Articulo no se aplicara en ninguna semana laboral durante la cual las operaciones normales de la planta estan restringidas debido a causas fuera del control razonable de la Compania tales como Fuerzas Mayores, pares de trabajo por cualquier Union, fuego, inundation, o emergencia causando dano a o descomposici6n de equipo o maquinaria de la planta.
-18-
ARTICULO 24
PAGO POR REPORTARSE
Un empleado que se presente a trabajar al comienzo de un dia de trabajo programado normal sin que haber sido previamente notificado por el Empleador que no se presente a trabajar, quien es negado trabajo en ese dia, recibira cuatro (4) horas de pago del sueldo regular de tiempo derecho por hora de los empleados, a menos que la planta o alguna de sus unidades no es capaz de operation debido a condiciones fuera del control del Empleador. Esta entendido y acordado que el empleado mantendra al Empleador informado todo el tiempo de su direction actual y numero de telefono, o el empleado no sera elegible para recibir pago por reportarse como indicado arriba.
ARTICULO 25
PAGO POR SER LLAMADO DE REGRESO
Section 1 Un empleado que se ha ido de la planta despues de haber terminado su dia de trabajo y es llamado a trabajar antes del tiempo de comienzo de su proximo dia de trabajo programado regular se le garantizaran un minimo de cuatro (4) horas de trabajo o pago en la cantidad de tiempo y medio (I'/z) de la cantidad de su sueldo de tiempo derecho por hora. Esta entendido y acordado que una direction actual y numero de telefono del empleado debe ser proveido al Empleador en todos tiempos, o el empleado no sera elegible para recibir pago por ser llamado de regreso como indicado arriba.
Section 2 Un empleado llamado para regresar a trabajar en su septimo (7m°) dia de la semana de trabajo sera pagado por no menos que cuatro (4) horas a tiempo doble (2x) de la cantidad regular de tiempo derecho por hora. Un empleado llamado para regresar a trabajar en un dia festivo sera pagado por no menos de cuatro (4) horas a tiempo doble (2x) de la cantidad regular de tiempo derecho por hora mas pago de dia festivo.
ARTICULO 26
PERIODOS DE DESCANSO/COMIDA
Section 1 El Empleador puede implementar cualquiera de las optioner de descanso/comida como descrito abajo con la condition que el cambio de option esta anunciado antes del jueves a medio dia de la semana antes de la fecha nueva de comienzo. Periodos de descanso no seran interrumpidas excepto en el caso de emergencia definido por “Fuerza Mayor” y emergencias relacionadas a la protection, salud y seguridad de nuestros empleados y productos de comida. Sin embargo, si se interrumpa el periodo de descanso o comida, la Compania proveera otro periodo de descanso sin interruption de quince (15) minutos o treinta (30) minutos de valor y duration equivalents.
-19-
a)	Habra un periodo de descanso de treinta (30) minutos cada dos horas y media (2 %). El primer periodo de descanso de treinta (30) minutos sera un periodo pagado, y el segundo periodo de descanso de treinta (30) minutos sera para la comida sin pago.
b)	El Empleador proveera un (1) periodo de descanso pagado de quince (15) minutos durante la primera mitad de cada tumo y un (1) periodo de descanso pagado de quince (15) minutos durante la segunda mitad de cada tumo. El segundo periodo de descanso se concedera solamente cuando empleados trabajan siete (7) horas o mas en un dia.	-
Seccion 2 Solamente bajo circunstancias de emergencia se puede extender un periodo de trabajo a tres (3) horas. La UNICA razon por la cual un periodo de trabajo se puede extender a tres horas y media (3 /I) es bajo circunstancias de emergencia, y los treinta (30) minutos adicional es se necesitan para cumplir el dia de trabajo.
Seccion 3	Empleados normalmente programados para trabajar cinco (5) dias de ocho (8) horas
seran proveidos un periodo de descanso adicional de quince (15) minutos si completan nueve horas y media (9 %) de trabajo y el trabajo va a continuar, igualmente un periodo de descanso adicional de quince (15) minutos sera proveido despues que doce (12) horas de trabajo sean completadas.
Seccion 4 Empleados programados para trabajar cuatro (4) dias de diez (10) horas tienen el derecho a un tercer (3r0) periodo de descanso de quince (15) minutos despues de ocho (8) horas de trabajo, igualmente un periodo de descanso adicional de quince (15) minutos sera proveido despues que diez horas y media (10'A) de trabajo sean completadas.
Seccion 5 Les daran a empleados no menos de treinta (30) minutos ni mas de una (1) hora sin pago, por periodos de comida, una vez cada tumo complete.
Seccion 6 ■ El empleador programara los tiempos de comienzo para periodos de comida y no se desviara de tai horario en exceso de treinta (30) minutos antes o despues de las horas de comienzo programadas. Tales horarios pedran ser corregidos por el Empleador como las necesidades del negocio mandan, pero no seran corregidos en una semana laboral una vez que esa semana laboral ha comenzado, excepto en casos de emergencia.
Seccion 7 Si el periodo de descanso/comida esta interrumpida y no puede ser tomada durante el tumo del empleado, la Compania pagara el periodo de descanso/comida apropiado.
ARTICULO 27 VACACIONES
Seccion 1 Un empleado regular de tiempo complete que ha sido programado para trabajar (o estar de vacaciones o estar en permiso de ausencia laboral concedido por el Empleador, c estar
-20-
descansado por falta de trabajo) cincuenta y dos (52) semanas durante el ano aniversario del empleado.
Seccion 2 Horario de vacaciones:
A.	Un empleado regular de tiempo complete tendra derecho a una (1) semana de vacaciones pagadas despu6s de haber cumplido un (1) ano complete de servicio con el Empleador.
B.	Un empleado regular de tiempo complete tendra derecho a dos (2) semanas de vacaciones pagadas despues de haber cumplido tres (3) anos completos de servicio con el Empleador.
C.	Un empleado regular de tiempo complete tendra derecho a tres (3) semanas de vacaciones pagadas despues de haber cumplido nueve (9) anos completos de servicio con el Empleador.
D.	Un empleado regular de tiempo complete tendra derecho a cuatro (4) semanas de vacaciones pagadas despues de haber cumplido quince (15) anos completos de servicio con el Empleador.
E.	Un empleado regular de tiempo complete tendra derecho a cinco (5) semanas de vacaciones pagadas -despues de haber cumplido veinte (20) anos completos de servicio con el Empleador.
F.	Empleados regulares de tiempo completo despu&s de haber cumplido veinte y cinco (25) anos completes de servicio con el Empleador recibiran un pago subsidio de vacaciones anualmente, en reconocimiento de sus servicios. El pago sera $400 (menos retention de impuestos aplicables).
G.	Empleados elegibles para tres (3) semanas de vacaciones o mas pueden tomar una (1) semana de vacaciones, de un dia a la vez. Vacaciones de un dia a la vez deben de ser programados adelantado por arreglo mutuo entre cl empleado y el encargado del departamento. Si hay alguna disputa, senoria de la planta dentro del departamento gobemara. Pago por tai dia sera calculado en acuerdo con la Seccion 3 abajo.
Section 3 La computation del pago de vacaciones sera la cantidad de pago por hora de entonces cuando las vacaciones comienzan multiplicada por cuarenta (40) horas para empleados con un minimo de 1800 horas trabajadas en el ultimo ano aniversario por cada semana de vacaciones. Aquellos empleados que no cumplen con este requisite recibiran vacaciones basadas en el sueldo bruto ganado en el ultimo ano aniversario dividido por cuarenta y seis (46) semanas.
-21-
Seccion 4 La Compania anunciara un aviso el 15 de febrero de cada ano civil y los empleados firmaran la lista para elegir sus vacaciones. Esta lista permanecera anunciada para seleccionar hasta el 1 abril de cada ano civil. En caso de conflictos en las peticiones para periodos de vacaciones, la senoria de planta dentro del departamento prevalccera. La determinacion del tiempo del ano durante cual las vacaciones pueden ser programadas, incluyendo el derecho de cerrar para propositos de vacaciones, permanece la decision del Empleador. Conforme a lo que permitan las circunstancias del negocio, la Compania no programara a menos de una (1) persona por departamento en cualquier tiempo.
Seccion 5 Todos los empleados recibiran una copia de su solicitud de vacaciones despues que haya sido aprobada por su supervisor inmediato.
Seccion 6 La Compania anunciara el horario de vacaciones aprobadas de vacaciones solicitadas entre el 15 de febrero y 1 de abril, no mas tarde del 15 de abril.
Seccion 7 Empleados que voluntariamente resignaron o se retiran de su empleo con la Compania y que cumplen con el requerimiento de elegibilidad de A o B abajo seran pagados vacaciones a prorrata.
A.	Empleados que tienen veinte y cinco (25) anos o mas de servicio y que son mayores de 55 anos y que voluntariamente se resignan de su empleo o se retiran del empleo con la Compania recibiran vacaciones a prorrata si estdn calificados.
B.	Empleados que estan determinados por Seguro Social (SS) de estar totalmente y permanentemente incapacitado en el tiempo que dejaron el trabajo regular con la Compania recibiran vacaciones a prorrata. El empleado debe proveer a la Compania ccn prueba de SS que fueron declarados totalmente y permanentemente incapacitados en acuerdo de lo arriba.
Seccion 8 Cuando solicitado por un empleado en adelante, el pago de vacaciones sera hecho en un cheque separado antes de las vacaciones excepto dias individuales cuales seran incluidos en el cheque de pago regular del empleado.
ARTICULO 28 DIAS FESTIVOS
Seccion 1 Cada empleado no probatorio sera pagado por los siguientes dias festivos no trabajados, caigan o no en lo que normalmente seria un dia de trabajo por ese empleado: Ano Nuevo, Cuatro de Julio, Dia de Gracias, Cumpieanos del Empleado, Dia Conmemorativo, Dia del Trabajo, Navidad y Un (1) Dia Flotante.
-22-
Seccion 2
A.	Empleados con cuatro (4) anos de servicio o mas, seran concedidos un (1) dia festivo flotante adicional, en su fecha aniversario. Estos empleados tendran la opcion de no trabajar en el dia festivo flotante, o trabajando el dia festivo y ser pagados su sueldo regular de tiempo derecho por hora por ocho (8) horas.
B.	Los dias festivos flotantes deberan ser programados por adelantado de acuerdo mutuo enire el empleado y el encargado del departamento. Si hay alguna disputa, la senoria de la planta dentro del departamento gobemara.
Seccion 3 Como pago por un dia festivo no trabajado, el sueldo regular de tiempo derecho por hora del empleado sera pagado por el numero de horas que el empleado normalmente hubiera trabajado en el dia en cuesticn, pero no exceder ocho (8) horas, excepto para empleados programados cuatro (4) dias de diez (10) horas como indicado en Articulo 22, Seccion 11, parte B.
Seccion 4 En orden para calificar para el pago del dia festivo no trabajado, un empieado elegible debe trabajar su dia de trabajo regulannente programado inmediatamente antes del dia festivo y el dia de trabajo regulannente programado inmediatamente despues del dia festivo.
Seccion 5 Un dia festivo no trabajado pagado bajo los terminos de este Articulo, sera contado como un dia trabajado para el proposito de computar pago de tiempo extra en una semana laboral con dia festivo.	-
Seccion 6 En caso de que el cumpleanos de un empleado caiga en uno de los otros dias festivos observados aqui arriba, el siguiente dia laboral programado sera observado como el cumpleanos.
Seccion 7	En caso de que uno (1) de los dias festivos antedichos caiga en un domingo, el lunes
siguiente sera observado como el dia festivo.
Seccion 8 Si es necesario que un empleado haga trabajo en uno de los dias festivos mencionados arriba, sc le pagara tiempo y medio (1 'A) del sueldo regular de tiempo derecho por hora por todas las horas trabajadas (exclusive de camioneros), ademas de su pago de dia festivo. Esta seccion no se aplicara a los dias festivos flotantes.
ARTICULO 29
SERVICIO DE JURADO
Seccion 1 Cualquier empleado que reciba un aviso para reportarse para cualquier servicio de jurado debe inmediatamente mostrar tai aviso al Empleador.
-23-
Seccion 2 Un empleado que ha completado el periodo de probation y que es requerido servir en un jurado durante horas de trabajo regulares sera pagado la diferencia entre la cantidad pagada por servir en el jurado y la cantidad que hubiera recibido del Empleador en pago de tiempo derecho si tai jurado no hubiera prevenido al empleado estar en el trabajo, con la condition que el empleado cumpla los siguientes requisitos:
A.	El empleado mostro inmediatamente al Empleador el aviso de servicios de jurado al tiempo que fue recibido por primera vez, como se estipulo en el primer parrafo de este Articulo.
B.	El empleado entrego al Empleador el cheque o efectivo recibido por servir en el jurado, junto cori el comprobante adecuado del tiempo requerido para estar presente en los servicios juridicos.
C.	El empleado se presento al trabajo el dia despues del ultimo dia del servicio juridico.
D.	El empleado notifica a su supervisor cuando es despedido del deber de jurado por el dia, para determinar si el empleado debe regresar al trabajo antes del final del dia laborable.
Seccion 3 Pago por servicio de jurado no excedera ocho (8) horas por dia perdido menos lo que es pagado por servir en el jurado, excepto para empleados programados cuatro (4) dias de diez (10) horas como estipulado en Articulo 22, Seccion 11, parte B. El Empleador puede reprogramar empleado(s) requeridos servir en un jurado, incluyendo pero no limitado a, programandolos a cinco (5) dias de ocho (8) horas.
Seccion 4 Empleados de tumos de la tarde y noctumo 2do y 3™ seran temporalmente transferidos al tumo de dia mientras esten sirviendo en el jurado, con la condition que el empleado de noticia por adelante suficiente.
ARTICULO 30
AUSENCIA DE FUNERAL
Seccion 1 Un empleado que no esta en su periodo de probation que con prontitud reporta al Empleador la necesidad de ausencia del trabajo para el proposito de arreglar o asistir y/o estar de luto por el funeral de un miembro de su familia inmediata se le pagaran tres (3) dias (que no exceda de veinte y cuatro (24) horas de tiempo derecho) por tai ausencia, excepto para los empleados programados cuatro (4) dias de diez (10) horas como indicado en Articulo 22, Seccion 11, parte B.
Seccion 2 Por asistir a los funerales fuera del estado, el empleado podra ser concedido dos (2) dias adicionales sin pago. Antes de hacer tai pago, el Empleador reserva el derecho de pedir y
-24-
recibir del empleado verification de la muerte en la familia inmediata. El pago por la ausencia de funeral sera unicamente por los dias laborables programados normalmente, lunes a sabado. En el evento que se necesite dias adicionales sin pago para asistir a una funeral fuera del estado, la Compania complacera las solicitudes de los empleados en un caso por caso.
Seccion 3 Para el proposito de este Articulo “familia inmediata” incluye la madre del empleado, padre, esposo(a), hijo, hija, hijastros, hermano, hermana, abuelos, suegra, suegro, nietos, yemo y nuera.
Seccion 4 Por asistir y/o estar de luto del funeral de tios, tias, cunada, cunado, o abuelos del conyuge, el empleado sera dado tres (3) dias de descanso sin pago. En el evento que se necesite dias adicionales sin pago para asistir a una funeral fuera del estado, la Compania complacera las solicitudes de los empleados en un caso por caso.
Seccion 5 Nada contenido en este Ajticulo sera interpretado a autorizar pago de una ausencia por funeral mientras que el empleado este de vacaciones, permiso de ausencia iaboral, dia festivo o en la estaci6n de cierre.
ARTICULO 31 DIAS GANADOS
Seccion 1 Cada empleado que ha completado su periodo de probation puede ganar dias Ganados. Dias ganados seran ganados a la cantidad de dos (2) horas por cada mes civil de perfecta asistencia y pueden ser tornados en incrementos de cuatro (4) o ocho (8) horas.
Seccion 2 Asistencia perfecta significa trabajando todas las horas disponibles durante la semana a menos que la salida sea iniciada por el supervisor o manejador que esta encargado. El Empleador excluyera dias festivos personales, vacaciones, dias de funeral, dias de jurado, y FMLA.
Seccion 3 Horas ganadas se aoumularan cada mes civil. El tiempo empezara en el primer dia del mes y terminara en el ultimo aia del mes.
Seccion 4 Un empleado puede cargar del ano civil actual al siguiente ano civil, un maximo de cuarenta (40) horas de tiempo ganado no usado, sin haccr caso de cuando las horas fueron ganadas. Todas las horas ganadas no usadas seran pagadas al empleado sobre la termination de empleo.
Seccion 5 Horas ganadas seran distribuidas a todos los supervisores al final de cada periodo revisado, y seran anunciadas en los departamentos.
Seccion 6 El empleado puede tomar el pago en lugar de tiempo de descanso si pide lo mismo con un aviso de 14 dias al Empleador.
-25-
Seccion 7 Empleados que tienen a lo menos ocho (8) horas ganadas acumuladas seran permitidos usar un (1) dia ganado, a la vez, para emergencias.
ARTICULO 32 PETICIONAR PARA TRABAJO
Seccion 1 Vacancias que ocurren en la unidad negociadora como un resultado de un empleado que deja de trabajar o es despedido, o como un resultado del establecimiento de un trabajo nuevo sera anunciado. El Empleador anunciara la noticia de vacancia del trabajo el primer jueves por la manana despues de la vacancia, y seguira anunciada hasta el siguiente miercoles por la manana. Empleados interesados en tai vacancia tendran hasta el final de su tumo el martes para firmar su nombre en la noticia anunciada. Firmando otro nombre con exception del propio puede resultar en disciplina. Si cualquier dia festivo cae dentro del periodo de tiempo del anuncio, la noticia seguira siendo disponible por un dia adicional. A petition, el Empleador proveera a la Union con una (1) copia de los anuncios de trabajos iniciales y solicitantes. Despues de que se haga la concesi6n inicial, el Empleador anunciara por un minimo de cuarenta y ocho (48) horas una copia del anuncio original, que incluira el(lo's) emplcado(s) inicialmente concedido(s) la petition. Todos los empleados con exito de la petition les daran un periodo de treinta (30) dias laborables para demostrar la capacidad de satisfactoriamente hacer el trabajo. Empleados, que no hacen el trabajo satisfactoriamente, seran regresados a su posicion/tumo anterior. Los empleados tambien tendran quince (15) dias laborables para evaluar el trabajo y tendran la option de regresar a su posicion/tumo anterior, una vez cada doce (12) meses. Sin embargo, la vacancia sera llenada dentro de treinta (30) dias laborables segun lo dispuesto abajo en acuerdo con senoria de la planta.
Seccion 2 En ilenar tai vacancia, el Empleador le dara la position al empleado de mas senoria que peticiono (excepto los trabajos alistado en Section 3 abajo) en el departamento donde ocurra la vacancia, con tai que pueda hacer el trabajo. Si no es llenada de esta manera, el Empleador les dara la position a empleados fuera del departamento (excepto los trabajos alistado Section 3 abajo) que hayan firmado el anuncio de trabajo, por orden de senoria, proveido que tai empleado pueda hacer e.l trabajo. Durante el periodo en que el procedimiento de peticionar esta en proceso, el Empleador retiene el derecho de Ilenar el trabajo a su discrecion.
Seccion 3 Empleados peticionando para los trabajos siguientes deben tener las calificaciones minimas para precalificar indicadas en la hoja de trabajos vacantes y con exito completar un proceso de entrevista. En el caso de empleados calificados igualmente, entonces senoria prevalecera. Los trabajos inciuyen: Todos los Entrenadores del Departamento y Todos Trabajadores de la Unidad. Individuos que son empleados en la fecha de ratification de este acuerdo son “conservados permanentemente” por su position actual.
Seccion 4 Empleados que tengan exito en peticionar un trabajo seran movidos dentro de treinta (30) dias. Empleados no movidos dentro de treinta (30) dias recibiran la cantidad de pago mas alta comenzando con el treinta y un (31) dia de la petition exitosa. Empleados que no son
-26-
movidos dentro del periodo de treinta (30) dias recibiran 25 centavos por hora sobre la cantidad para el trabajo en cuestion hasta que sean puestos en su trabajo de petition.
Seccion 5 Un empleado que tenga exito en peticionar el trabajo no sera permitido a ejercitar sus derechos de peticionar durante los siguientes tres (3) meses.
Seccion 6 En el evento que el Empleador piense necesario a re-asignar temporalmente empleados de sus obligaciones regulares, la Compania pedira voluntaries de los departamentos afectados. En el evento que no haya voluntaries, el Empleador usara la senoria reversa en re-asignar empleados a otras obligaciones. Nada aqui dentro sera traducido a prohibir el Empleador de continuar estas practicas.
Seccion 7 Una asignacidn de trabajo temporal es identificada como cualquier asignacion de trabajo con una duration de cuatro (4) semanas civiles para un empleado que no este en periodo de probation.
Seccion 8 El Empleador retiene el derecho de seleccionar jefes sin considerar la senoria, y el Empleador tambien retiene el derecho de cambiar jefes o descontinuar la utilization de tales trabajos en cualquier tiempo.
ARTICULO 33
PROVISION DE ROPA/EQUIPO
Seccion 1 El Empleador esta de acuerdo de proveer redes para el cabello, guantes, mandiles, batas, cubre todos y chaquetas de congelador donde uso de tai ropa es requerido; impermeables para los atrapadores, cubre todos paia empleados que trabajen afuera, camioneros y empleados de mantenimiento; con la condition que el empleado haya firmado una autorization para la deduction. Empleados podran tener tai equipo reemplazado por el Empleador solo por medio de entregar el equipo gastado por e! trabajo en el establecimiento del Empleador.
Seccion 2 El Empleador continuara la practica de lavar la ropa de trabajo y la practica de venderles botas a los empleados al costo del Empleador.
Seccion 3 El Empleador continuara a proveer todo equipo de seguridad requerido a ningun costo al empleado. Sobre la termination el empleado debe regresar todo tai equipo de seguridad proveido, o el costo de reemplazo sera deducido del pago final.
Seccion 4 En el evento que cualquier empleado sea requerido a trabajar en el area de congelador, indiferente a la duration de tiempo en el congelador, el Empleador proveera al empleado sin costo, guantes con insolation y mascaras de la cara.
-27-
Seccion 5
A.
B.
C.
D.
Seccion 6
A.
B.
Todos empleados seran requeridos de ponerse calzado de seguridad aprobado por ANSI con suelas que no se resbalen, que son facilmente limpiadas.
Empleados en su periodo de probation seran proveidos con calzado basico aprobado al costo del Empleador sin embargo, si prefieren un tipo de calzado diferente ellos pueden comprar, por medio de un proveedor de compania, a su propio costo otro calzado aprobado por la Compania. Si el empleado decide comprar el calzado recibiran su reembolso anual despues de cumplir su periodo de probation.
Si un empleado que no esta en probation prefiere otro calzado que el calzado basico aprobado el Empleador proveera para todo o parte del costo del calzado, por medio de proveedor de la compania, que cumple con ios requisites del Empleador una vez por ano. El costo pagado por el Empleador estabasado en la funcion de trabajo del empleado.
El Empleador proveera una selection de a lo menos dos tipos de calzado a ningun costo al empleado anualmente, con otro calzado disponible a un costo adicional basado en la funcion de trabajo del empleado como alistado debajo:
Funcion de Trabajo	Cantidad Maxima Pagada
Grupos de Utilidad, Almacen, Homos	$100.00
Empleados Trabajando Afuera*, Congelador/Lleleras,
Manejo de Material	$75.00
Production, Saneamiento	$60.00
(*Empleados que trabajan afuera continuaran de ser proveidos calzado de inviemo al gasto del Empleador. Para recibir calzado de inviemo rcemplazo el calzado gastado o danado debe ser entregado a la compania.)
La Compania conservara el lenguaje presente por el primer ano y si la Compania decide proveer calzado a ningun costo, entonces Seccion 5 D sera eliminada.
Si la Compania lo requiere, todos los empleados se pondran cansancio de la vista aprobado por ANSI.
La Compania proveera cansancio de la vista no-prescripci6n protective a todos empleados trabajando dentro de nuestra facilidad.
-28-
C.	La Compania tambien proveera un par de cansancio de la vista de prescription protective basado en lo requisites siguientes:
i.	Tiene que tener a 16 menos seis meses de senoria.
ii.	Tiene que ser comprado de una selection de cansancio de la vista aprobado
por medio de dos (2) vendedores aprobado por la Compania.
iii.	Reemplazo solo por desgaste o deterioro debido al uso de trabajo normal o cambio de prescription.
iv.	Examen de ojos es al costo del empleado.
D.	La maxima cantidad pagada por la Compania es $95.00.
Seccion 7 Herramienta y equipo requerido por el Empleador sera proveido por el Empleador y permanecera la propiedad del Empleador, pero sera proveido solamente despues de que el empleado ha firmado una autorizacion de deduction.
Seccion 8 Empleados requeridos proveer su propia herramienta de mano personal y si tai herramienta se gasta o se quiebra, la Compania esta de acuerdo de reemplazar tales herramientas con herramientas de calidad igual a ningun costo al empleado. Empleados deben entregar un recibo para la compra nueva con la herramienta gastada o quebrada.
Seccion 9 La Compania proveera un (1) afilon para empleados haciendo trabajos de cuchillo, y reemplazaran afilones que ya no se pueden usar dado a desgaste o deterioro debido al uso normal, y regresado a la compania para reemplazo.
Seccion 10 La Compania pagara para afilar los cuchillos.
ARTICULO 34
PERMISO DE AUSENCIA LABORAL
Seccion 1 Cuando las circunstancias del negocio lo permitan, el Empleador podra conceder un permiso de ausencia laboral por escrito porun periodo que no exceda treinta (30) dias consecutivos sin pago a un empleado que haya completado el periodo de probation. Cuando las circunstancias de negocio lo permitan, y cuando un empleado haya pedido al Empleador una extension antes de la fecha de expiration del permiso inicial, el Empleador puede autorizar una extension al permiso original por un periodo que no exceda treinta (30) dias adicionales. Empleados pueden ser concedidos un (1) permiso de ausencia personal (cualquier cosa que no sea medica) cada ano civil, a menos por el mes de diciembre.
-29-
Seccion 2 Esta entendido y acordado que los permisos de ausencia laboral por escrito en general no se concederan a ningun trabajador a menos que empleados de reemplazo esten disponibles para trabajar, pero se reconoce que una situation excepcionalmente seria puede resultar en desviarse de esta practica.
Seccion 3 El Empleador esta de acuerdo en conceder el tiempo libre necesario, sin pago o sin pago de beneficios y sin perdida de la senoria adquirida, a cualquier empleado que sea elegido, nombrado o designado por la Union para asistir a una convention laboral o servir en cualquier capacidad en asuntos oficiales de la Uni6n legitimos, sin embargo, esa notification adelantada sea dada al Empleador con tiempo suficiente para asegurar un trabajador de ayuda para el trabajo afectado y con la condicidn que en ningun caso habra mas de cinco (S) empleados simultaneamente tuera del trabajo bajo esta provision ni mas de dos (2) empleados para periodos de tiempo cxtcndidos.
Seccion 4 En caso de una emergencia familiar documentada y verificable, empleados serin concedidos, una vez por el contrato, cinco (5) dias laborales consecutivos libres sin pago y sin incurrir puntos. Ningun empleado sera forzado a usar su vacation o dias festivos flotantcs en lugar de estos cinco (5) dias.
Seccion 5 Empleados seran dados, ademas de lo arriba, un (1) dia personal sin pago para ser usado a su discretion, cada ano de aniversario.
Seccion 6 Ausencia Medica Familiar (FMLA)
A.	Derecho de Ausencia. Un empleado que ha estado trabajando con la Compania por 12 meses y que ha completado 1,250 horas de trabajo durante el periodo de 12 meses inmediatamente procedentes del comienzo de tai ausencia, tendra el derecho de la ausencia bajo el acto de Ausencia Medica Familiar de 1993 (“FMLA”) en acuerdo con sus provisiones y las provisiones de esta Seccion 6.
B.	Ano para Propositos de Determinar el Derecho de Ausencia. Para propositos de determinar el derecho de ausencia del empleado bajo el Acto, el periodo de las 52 semanas procedentes inmediatamente del comienzo de ausencia bajo el Acto sera el periodo aplicable de medir.
C.	Responsabiiidad del Empleado.
(i)	Solicitud para Ausencia. Un empleado elegible debe llenar una solicited escrita para la Ausencia Medica Familiar (FMLA). Cuando la necesidad para una ausencia no foe realizada en adelantado debido a un accidente, enfermedad o por circunstancias tuera del reconocimiento razonable o control del empleado, una
-30-
solicitud puede ser llenada en la primera oportunidad razonable para llenarla. En todos los otros casos donde se sabe en adelantado de una ausencia FMLA, la solicitud debe ser llenada y sometida treinta (30) dias civiles antes del comienzo de la ausencia.
(ii)	Certificacion del Medico. Para que una ausencia bajo (FMLA) sea aprobada, es la responsabilidad del empleado de obtener de su medico una forma de Certification del medico llenada completamente, que sera proveida al empleado por la Compania. El fallo del empleado de obtener y entregar la forma de Certification del medico llenada puede resultar en la demora o negation de una ausencia bajo FMLA, en que caso, la ausencia puede ser tratada como una ausencia sin permiso.
(iii)	Cooperation. Un empleado con ausencia bajo (FMLA) aprobada tendra que proveer reportes periodicamente como solicitado por la Compania en orden para mantener la Compania informada del estado del empleado y fecha que espera regresar. Un empleado al regresar debe proveer a la Compania un minimo de 3 dias laborables de aviso de su fecha que espera regresar.
(iv)	Condition Fisica para Trabajar. Antes de regresar de una ausencia bajo (FMLA) por causa de una condition seria de su salud, el empleado puede ser requerido pasar un examen con exito para determinar su condition fisica para trabajar este examen sera pagado por la Compania.
(v)	Fallar de Regresar. Un empleado que falla de regresar sobre la expiration de una ausencia aprobada de (FMLA) sera considerado una termination voluntaria.
D.	Aplicacion del Procedimiento de Demandas. Violaciones alegadas de esta seccion seran sujetas al procedimiento de demandas de este Acuerdo.
Seccion 7 Permiso de Ausencia Laboral Medica no Calificada bajo (FMLA). Una solicitud para una ausencia laboral medica no calificada bajo (FMLA) debido a enfermedad o accidente puede ser concedida a un empleado que no esta en probation que la incapacidad le previene de poder hacer su trabajo regular o otros trabajos que puedan ser asignados y que tiene planes de regresar al trabajo. El empleado puede ser requerido que presente un certificado de su medico verificando la razdn de la ausencia medica y el estado de las limitaciones del empleado en relation de hacer su trabajo en la planta. Tai declaration del medico debe indicar la cantidad de tiempo de tiempo aproximado de ausencia laboral que el empleado requiere, que no exceda treinta (30) dias calendarios. La ausencia puede ser extendida con apoyo de verification medico del
-31-
estado del empleado por hasta sesenta (60) dias calendarios. Empleados requeridos tambien deben someter al Gerente de Recursos Humanos o designado una declaracion antes de regresar al trabajo. Empleados que desean regresar a trabajar antes de la expiracion de una ausencia aprobada deben notificar la Compania de su deseo de regresar a trabajar antes de las 12 de medio dia del dia anterior. Falta del empleado o un miembro de su familia inmediata de proveer tai certificado y con prontitud resultara en su despido inmediato de su trabajo.
Seccion 8 Empleados que estan en Ausencia Medica deben proveer actualizaciones periodicamente de su progreso de recuperacion y fechas anticipadas del regreso al trabajo.
Seccion 9 Un empleado que esta ausente del trabajo por un periodo de doce (12) meses consecutivos se le terminara su seiioria.
Seccion 10 Esta especificamente entendido que cuando le ocurre a un empleado una lastimadura/enfermedad relacionada a su trabajo mientras en el trabajo; que su senorfa no sera limitada; que puede ser requerido proveer un certificado de su medico; que la Compania proveera transportation para ir y venir del lugar de su tratamiento medico cuando determinado que es necesario por la Compania por el dia de la lastimadura y que en tai caso, el empleado sera pagado por el resto de su tumo regular si no puede regresar al trabajo en el dia de su lastimada/enfermedad.
ARTICULO 35
DESPIDO
Seccion 1 En caso de despidos dentro de un departamento, la persona con menos seiioria, por senoria de la planta, sera despedida primero, con la condition que los empleados que se queden pueden hacer las funciones requeridas del departamento. Empleados despedidos de su departamento se les dara consideraci6n preferential para cualquier vacantia de trabajo que exista al tiempo de su despido, con la condition que este calificado para hacer el mismo a satisfaction del Empleador. Si no existe ninguna vacancia al tiempo del despido, los empleados tendran la option de desplazar al empleado de menos servicio en su Union jurisdictional, cuyo trabajo esten calificados para hacer a satisfaction del Empleador, o aceptar el despido. Un empleado que elija rechazar las oportunidades antes mencionadas para llenar vacancias de trabajo sera considerado haber renunciado voluntariamente su empleo.
Seccion 2 Para Despidos de cuarenta y cinco (45) dias o menos, encargados y empleados en posiciones enumeradas en Articulo 32 Seccion 3 seran considerados una'clasificacion separada, sin embargo, la Compania no usara esta clasificacidn para evitar el contrato.
Seccion 3 Empleados que son desplazados de su trabajo original conservaran el derecho de ser llamados a ese trabajo antes que otro empleado sea asignado a el; sin embargo, tales empleados que elijan peticionar una vacancia de trabajo durante este periodo renunciaran su derecho de reclamar su trabajo original.
-32-
Seccion 4 Si el trabajo de un empleado es eliminado permanentemente, el empleado desplazara al empleado con menos tiempo de servicio de acuerdo con la senoria de la planta dentro del departamento cuyo trabajo el empleado es calificado hacer a la satisfaction del Empleador. El empleado con menos tiempo de servicio en el departamento que haya sido desplazado sera tratado igual que cualquier otro empleado despedido, bajo los procedimientos anteriormente estipulados en este Articulo.
ARTICULO 36 SUBCONTRATACION
Seccion 1 No habra subcontratacion de trabajo de la unidad negociadora a menos que el Empleador se reuna primero con la Union que representa los empleados afectados. En tai junta, el Empleador expondra las razones de la subcontratacion y las metas que se van a alcanzar con tai action. El Empleador dara seria consideration a soluciones altemativas propuestas por la Union.
Seccion 2 No habra subcontratacion de trabajo dentro de los cstablecimientos de la planta excepto para proyectos especiales los cuales los ntiembros de la unidad negociadora no esten calificados para hacer.
ARTICULO 37 JURISDICCION
Seccion 1 No habra intercambio entre empleados representados por la Union de Ingenieros Operadores y aquellos representados por la Union de Trabajadores Unidos de Alimentos y Comercio. Si cualquier empleado deja la jurisdiction de una Union y va a un trabajo dentro la jurisdiction del otra Union por causa de tener exito en peticionar un trabajo, el empleado retendra todos beneficios, menos la senoria.
Seccion 2 Departamentos son como siguen:
TRABAJADORES UNIDOS DE ALIMENTOS Y COMERCIO
i.	Homos
ii.	Procesamiento Adicional, Empaquetar, Empaquetar en Cajas Paletizadores
iii.	Cajas
iv.	Elaboration Cruda
v.	Almacen
-33-
Seccion 3 Se entiende que el Empleador tiene una practice pasada de asignar un empleado temporalmente de una jurisdiction a otra.
ARTICULO 38
VARIAS PROVISIONES
Seccion 1 Inspecciones de Cajon: La Compania le avisara a todos empleados una (1) semana en adelantado de cualquier cambio de cajones o fumigaciones. Si el USDA requiere una inspection con menos de una (1) semana de aviso, un Delegado de la Union estara presente.
Seccion 2 Dia de Pago: El Empleador distribuira cheques de pago antes de periodos de comida, excepto a Fuerza Mayor o quebradura de equipo.
Seccion 3 Departamentos: Departamento como referido en el acuerdo seran los departamentos especificados en Apendice A.
Seccion 4 Examen Fisico: En el evento que el Empleador requiera que un empleado tome un examen fisico por un medico de la Compania, el Empleador pagara el costo de tai examen.
Seccion 5 Tablero de Avisos: La Uni6n(s) podra colocar material en los tableros de avisos designados. Este material se limitara a avisos de la Union para eventos sociales y de recreation, juntas de la Union, elecciones y nombramientos. Un oficial de la Union debera firmar todos los avisos colocados. Los avisos no incluiran publicidad, avisos politicos, o documentos que sean de alguna forma despectivos y/o inflamatorios hacia la Compania. La Union sera proveida con Haves para los tableros de avisos que se cierran con Haves. Noticias que cumplen con lo ante dicho tambien pueden ser distribuidas dentro de las areas que no se hace trabajo de la Compania, pero solamente despues de obtener la aprobacion del Gerente de Recursos Humanos o designado.
Seccion 6 Regalos: El Empleador a su discrecion propia determinara si se daran regales de algun valor a los empleados de la unidad negociadora. Es entendido que el regalo y su valor son determinados a la discrecion propia del Empleador.
Seccion 7 Puntos para Asistencia Excusada: Un empleado que es verificado en estar enfermo y mandado a casa por el personal medico no sera sujeto a puntos bajo la poliza de asistencia.
Seccion 8 Premio del Congelador: Empleados de Walkie Operators (Boning) y Product Stager (Lower 20) que regularmente son asignados al congelador recibiran diez y siete centavos ($0.17) por hora agregado a su cantidad por hora en Apendice A.
-34-
ARTICULO 39 SEPARABILIDAD
Las provisiones del Acuerdo se estimaran independientes a tai grado que si y cuando una tribunal de jurisdicci6n competente decide cualquiera provision de este Acuerdo en su aplicacion y el Empleador estar en conflicto con leyes aplicables. Tai decisi6n no afectara la validez de las provisiones restantes del Acuerdo, pero tales provisiones restantes continuaran en vigor y efecto; con la condition, adernas, que en caso de que alguna provision o provisiones se declaren en conflicto con la ley aplicable, ambas partes se reuniran dentro de un plazo de treinta (30) dias para el proposito de renegociar un Acuerdo a las provisiones anuladas.
ARTICULO 40
LENGUAJE DE NO INTERFERENCE - NEUTRALIDAD
La Compania hara lo que es necesario para asegurar que sus oficiales, representantes, supervisores y/o agentes no procuraran de influenciar una eleccion de Colorado Labor Peace Act o cualquier campana de eleccion interna de la Union y/o voto.
ARTICULO 41
DURACION DEL ACUERDO
Seccion 1 Las partes reconocen que durante las negociaciones que resultaron en este Acuerdo cada uno tuvo la oportunidad y derecho ilimitado de hacer demandas y propuestas con respeto a cualquier asunto o materia no removido por la ley de la area de negotiation colectiva y que los entendimientos y acuerdos a los que se llegaron por las partes despues de haber ejercitado ese derecho y oportunidad estan estipulados en este Acuerdo. Por esto, el Empleador y la Union, durante el termino de este Acuerdo, cada uno voluntariamente y absolutamente renuncia el derecho, y cada una esta de acuerdo que la otra no sera obligada a negociar colectivamente con respeto a algun asunto o materia referido o cubierto en este Acuerdo aunque dicho asunto o materia no hubiera sido dentro del conocimiento o contemplation de una o ambas partes en el tiempo en que se negocio o firmo este Acuerdo. “Personal de Fin de Semana” no se aplicaran a las frases arriba, y pueden ser modificadas a la extension descrita en el apropiado Articulo o Apendice.
Seccion 2 Este Acuerdo entrara en vigor y sera efectivo desde el 12 de abril de 2010 y permanecera en vigor y efectivo hasta la media noche del 12 de abril de 2013, y sera renovado automaticamente ano tras ano despues a menos que cualquier parte desea cambio o termination en la expiration de tai Acuerdo. En tai evento, la parte que desee tai cambio o termination notificara a la otra parte por escrito a lo menos sesenta (60) dias antes de la fecha de expiration especificando los cambios que se desean. Cambios en el Acuerdo se limitaran a esos delineados por escrito por cualquiera parte, y las negociaciones comenzaran dentro quince (15) dias despues del recibo de tai noticia.
-35-
Seccion 3 EN FE DE LO CUAL, las partes nombradas arriba han firmado su nombre y/o puesto las firmas de sus representantes autorizados este 12 dia de abril de 2010.
United Food and Commercial Workers	Butterball, LLC
International Union, CLC, Local No. 7
-s-__________________________________________
Kim Cordova., UFCW Local 7 President
-s-__________________________________________
MarkNemitz, UFCW Local 7 Representative
-s-____________________
Walter Davis, Director of Human Resources
-s-________________________________________
Jodie Klecker, Human Resources Manager
-s-	_______________________________________
Oscar Saenz, UFCW Local 7 Representative
-s-______________________________________
Miguel Ramirez, Operation Manager, FP
-s- :	-s-
Lorenzo Sanchez, UFCW Local 7 Representative Linda Thomas, HR Generalist
-s-__________________________________________
Juana Vasquez, Negotiating Committee
-s-	_______________________________________
Pablo Rodriguez, Negotiating Committee
-s- _________________________________________
Eliodora Garcia, Negotiating Committee
-s- _________________________________________
Matilde Vasquez, Negotiating Committee
-s-	_________
Martin Rico, Negotiating Committee
-s-		
Juan Salvador Lopez Serrano, Negotiating Committee
-s-____________________________;	
Abundio Canales, Negotiating Committee
-36-
APENDICE A CLASIFICACIONES Y CANTIDADES DE PAGO
Seccion 1 Las siguientes clasificaciones y cantidades minimas de pago por hora entraran en vigor para las clasificaciones siguientes en las fechas indicadas. Es entendido que el Empleador retiene el derecho especifico de pagar arriba de las cantidades aqui estipuladas.
Seccion 2 La progresion de la cantidad de pago es como sigue:
	Comenzar	6 meses	12 meses (cantidad base)
4/11/2010	$9.20	$9.70	$11.05
4/11/2010	$9.20	$9.70	$11.05
4/9/2010	$9.45	$9.95	$11.30
Seccion 3 Todos los empleados activos en la nomina de pago a partir del 11 de abril de 2011 recibiran un pago de cantidad fija por una vez de $350.00. Todas las progresiones de salario seran aumentadas por $0.25 efectivo el 9 de abril de 2012.
Departamento	Pago de Grupos	4/11/2010	4/9/2012	Clasificaci6n de Trabajos
14 de Abajo	UFCW			
	Trabajo Base	$11.05	$11.30	General Labor -Sample Tasks: (Frank Hanger, Oven Loader)
	Operador	$11.25	$11.50	Frank Blender Operator, Frank-a-matic Operator, N. Shirmatic .Blender operator, Shirmatic Operator, Square, Walkie Operator
	Operador Habil	$11.60	$11.85	Batcher/Grinder Mixer
	Facilitador	$11.75	$12.00	Lead Trainer, SPC, Production Clerk
14 de Arriba Sur	UFCW			
	Trabajo Base	$11.05	$11.30	General Labor -Sample Tasks: (Netter, Pocket Loaders) Rack/Tank Pullers, Rack Unloader, Box Maker, Code Dater, Scaler/Palletizer/Scanner)
	Operador	$11.25	$11.50	Roll Stock Operator, Walkie Operator
	Operador Habil	$11.60	$11.85	8490 Operator
	Facilitador	$11.75	$12.00	Lead Trainer, SPC, Production Clerk
14 de Arriba Norte	UFCW			
	Trabajo Base	$11.05	$11.30	General Labor-Sample Tasks: (Batcher
	Operador	$11.25	$11.50	Injector Operator, Pickle Makers, Walkie Operator
	Operador Habil	$11.60	$11.85	Tumbler Operator, Staffer, Operator, Tipper Tie, Grinder/Mixer Operator
	Facilitador	$11.73	$12.00	Lead Trainer, SPC, Production Clerk
-37-
Departamento	Pago de Grupos	4/11/2010	4/9/2012	Clasificacidn de Trabajos
20 de Arriba	UFCW			
	Trabajo Base	$11.05	$11.30	General Labor -Sample Tasks: (Rack Unloader, Box Maker/Packer, Palletizer, Rack Puller, Casing Stripper, Racker, Net Stripper, Bagger)
	Operador	$11.25	$11.50	Fryer Operator, Walkie Operator, BCE Scale, RTE Sanitarian
	Operador Habil	$11.60	$11.85	8600 Operator
	Facilitador	$11.75	$12.00	Lead Trainer, SPC, Production Clerk
20 de Abajo	UFCW			
	Trabajo Base	$11.05	$11.30	General Labor -Sample Tasks: (Rack Unloader, Box Maker/Packer, Palletizer, Inspect/Line Stacks, Tub Mover/Multivac Loader)
	Habil	$11.20	$11.45	Check Weigher
	Operador	$1L25	$11.56	Product Stager, Roll Stack Operator, Walkie Operator, Janitor, RTE Sanitarian
	Operador Habil	$11.60	$11.85	Slicer Operator
	Facilitador	$11.75	$12.00	Lead Trainer, SPC, Production Clerk
Empaque de Franks	UFCW			
	Trabajo Base	$11.05	$11.30	General Labor-Sample Tasks: (Check Weigher/Packer, Palletizer, Box Maker, Frank Sorter/Keyboard)
	Operador	$11.25	$11.50	Roll Stock Operator, Walkie Operator
	Operador Habil	$11.60	$11.85	Peeler Operator
	Facilitador	$11.75	$12.00	Lead Trainer, SPC, Production Clerk
Especia	UFCW			
	Trabajo Base	$11.80	$12.05	General Labor
	Operador	$12.00	$12.25	Mixer Operator, Walkie Operator
	Operador Habil	$12.45 '	$12.70	Forklift Operator
	Facilitador	$12.95	- $12.20	Lead Trainer, SPC, Production Clerk
Hacer Cajas	UFCW			
	Trabajo Base	$11.05	$11.30	General Labor-Sample Tasks: (Box Truck Unloader, FP Transport, Labeler)
	Onerador	$11.25	$11.50	Tray Form Operator
	Operador Habil	$11.75	$11.00	Lead Trainer
Homos	UFCW			
	Trabajo Base	$13.48	$13,73	Oven Operator
	Facilitador	$13.98	$14.23	Lead, Trainer, HACCP Verifier
Asegurar Calidad	UFCW			
	Trabajo Base	$11.75	$12.00	Lab Tech, SPC
-38-
Departamento	Pago de Grupos	4/11/2010	4/9/2012	Clasificacion de Trabajos
AJmacen	UFCW			
	Trabajo Base	$11.05	$11.30	General Laborer
	Operador	$11.25	$11.50	Walkie Operator
	Operador Habil	$12.45	$12.70	Forklift Operator
-39-
APENDICE B
PERSONAL DE FIN DE SEMANA QUE PERMANECE EN LLAMADA
Seccion 1
A.	Cuando trabajo de fin de semana (sabado y domingo) no puede ser propiamente llenado con personal de la fuerza laboral que trabaja tiempo complete regularmente, “Personal de fin de semana que permar.ecen en Hamada” pddra ser utilizada. La Compania primero preguntara por voluntaries de la fuerza laboral que trabaja tiempo complete regularmente, antes de poner en horario a personal que permanecen en Hamada.
B.	La Compania anunciara cada lunes, una hoja de firma para voluntarios de sabado y domingo que se quedara anunciada hasta las 8:00 a.m. miercoles. Empleados que desean trabajar el sabado y/o domingo firmaran.
C.	Personal que permanece en Hamada seran limitados a trabajar solamcnte sabado y domingo, y no trabajaran mas que viente (20) horas en esos dos (2) dias.
D.	■ Ningun personal que permanece en Hamada sera utilizado durante cualquier periodo de despido, o cuando hay reduction en la fuerza laboral.
Seccion 2 Personal que permanece en Hamada tendra el derecho de recibir los siguientes beneficios: Empleados calificados recibiran las cantidades de pago en Apendice A, Primas del tumo noctumo, Tiempo extra diario, Pago por reportarse, y Ropa.
Secci6n 3 Si empleados que permanecen en Hamada se convierten a estado de tiempo complete regular, todos los dias trabajados seran contados hacia periodos de tiempo especificados para recibir beneficios. Tan pronto que los empleados se conviertan a estado de tiempo complete regular, seran miembros aciivos en buena posicion.
Seccion 4 Este programa de.personal que permanece en Hamada puede ser eliminado por la Union con un aviso escrito de ciento veinte (120) dias si:
A.	Ambas oficina International o Consejo Ejecutivo de la Union Local piensa que este programa viola la constitution, reglamentos, polizas de la Union o,
B.	Este programa no esta sirviendo su proposito y/o intention.
-40-
NOTAS
LAS OFICINAS DE LOCAL 7 ESTAN LOCALIZADAS EN EL
' EDIFICIO DE UFCW
7760 West 38th Avenue, Suite 400
"Wheat Ridge, Colorado 80033-9982
Telefono - (303) 425-0897
Llamada Gratuita - 1-800-854-7054
Pagina de Web: www.ufcw7.com
Si usted tiene cualquier pregunta o desea archivar una demanda, comuniquese con su Representante de la Union o venga a la oficina de la Union Local.
JURAMENTO Y OBLIGACION DE MIEMBRO:
Yo, (su nombre), prometo defender los principios de la Union, a apoyar y participar en los esfuerzos de esta Union. -'Prometo conducirme de una manera que refleja credito en esta organization.
i’uria-VPZipa'ra.los’trabajaliorestie Americas
Kim C. Cordova, Presidenta Cindy Lucero, Secretaria-Tesorera
ACUERDO
Entre
BUTTERBALL, LLC Longmont, Colorado
y
TRABAJADORES UNIDOS DE ALIMENTOS Y COMERCIO, LOCAL NO. 7
Fundado antiguamente por la
UNION INTERNATIONAL DE TRABAJADORES UNIDOS DE ALIMENTOS Y COMERCIO