Attachment 7
Prevailing Wage Determination
Agreement between San Francisco Window Cleaning Contractors Association and Window Cleaners Union, SEIU Local 1877, AFL-CIO
-307-
WINDOW CLEANERS AGREEMENT
April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2013
by and between
SAN FRANCISCO WINDOW CLEANING CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION
and
WINDOW CLEANERS UNION - SEIU LOCAL 1877, AFL-CIO
THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into this 1st day of April, 2010 by and between the San Francisco Window Cleaning Contractors Association, hereinafter called the Employer, and the Window Cleaners Union, Service Employees International Union, Local 1877, hereinafter called the Union. The terms of the Agreement shall apply to all signatory Employers as listed on the signature page of this Agreement.
SECTION 1,	RECOGNITION
The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for all window cleaners employed by the Employer in San Francisco. In order to be recognized by the Union, the Employer must have an established place of business and must employ at least one (1) full time window cleaner. Also, the Employer must furnish the Union with a certificate of Workers' Compensation Insurance for his employees directly from the insurance company involved.
SECTION 2,	UNION MEMBERSHIP AND HIRING
(a)	Union Membership: It shall be a condition of employment that all employees covered by this agreement and hired on dr after its effective date shall, on the thirtieth day following the beginning of such employment, become and remain members in good standing of the Union or tender to the Union the initiation fees and periodic dues that are the obligation of members. Checkoff provisions are set forth in Section 23.
For the purpose of this Section only, tender of the initiation fees not later than the thirty-first (31st5 day following the date of employment or not later than the thirty-first (31st) day following the effective date of this Agreement, whichever is later, and tender thereafter of the regular monthly periodic dues uniformly required as a condition of retaining membership shall, for the purpose of this Agreement, constitute membership in good standing in the Union.
-308-
If the Employer uses persons not members of the Union as window cleaners (except conscientious objectors or financial core members), it shall be recognized as a violation of this Agreement. The Board of Arbitration established in Section 22 below, shall assess a reasonable penalty against the Employer, in the event of such employment violation. It shall not be a violation of this Agreement for janitors who are not members of this Union to wipe off glass doors and spot-clean partition glass; however, janitorial employees shall not use natural sponges, window cleaners7 brushes or squeegees.
(b)	Hiring: When new or additional employees are needed, the Employer shall notify the Union of the number of employees needed. Applicants for jobs shall be referred by the Union to the Employer on a non-discriminatory basis.
The Employer shall be the sole judge of the competency of all applicants and reserves the right to reject any applicant referred by the Union. The Employer agrees within one (1) day of the date of hiring to notify the Union of the names, phone numbers and addresses of the persons hired.
In hiring, the Employer shall give preference to applicants previously employed as window cleaners in the local labor market area, which shall be defined to mean the City and County of San Francisco. It is expressly understood that neither the Employer nor the Union shall discriminate against any applicant for employment or employee because of religious creed, race, sex, union membership or age as defined in the Age Discrimination Act as amended.
If the Union is unable to refer to the Employer suitable applicants for employment within two (2) days (working days), the Employer may then hire persons from other sources, provided the Employer on the date of hiring shall notify the Union of the name, phone numbers and address of each person hired.
(c)	Probation period: There shall be a forty-five (45) working days probationary period for a new employee. The probationary period shall be applicable to each Employer for which the employee works until the new employee works more than forty-five (45) working days for one Employer.
During the probationary period, the Employer may discharge the employee without cause and without recourse to the grievance procedure. .
2
-309-
SECTION 3-	SENIORITY
Seniority is the right accruing to employees through length of service which entities them to appropriate preference in layoffs, rehiring and vacation.
Seniority shall be terminated by discharge for cause, resignation, retirement or failure to return from an authorized leave of absence or failure to return from vacation unless good cause for such failure is shown. In the event of a lay-off, employee's seniority shall be protected for twelve (12) months. If an employee is recalled to work within the twelve month period and does not report to work, then his seniority is terminated.
In all cases of layoffs, the principal of seniority shall apply. If the Employer is required to reduce the size of his crew, then the last person hired shall be the first person laid off, If an employee is laid off outside his seniority date because he lacks a particular skill, when the Employer regains that particular work that can be performed by the more senior employee, then the more senior employee will be recalled with no change in his seniority date. Recall shall be done on a weekly and not daily basis. This means if there is less than one week's work, recall is not mandatory.
It is understood that the Leadman shall be the last employee laid off because of the type of responsibilities required of the job. This provision shall apply to only one person per company and the Employer shall notify the Union of the person designated under this provision. The Employer agrees that the Leadman will not perform Journeyman work (i.e. window cleaning) if, in fact, a Journeyman with more seniority would be laid off. Once all the more senior Journeymen are recalled, the Leadman may perform Journeyman work, if necessary.
SECTION 4.	HOURS AND OVERTIME
(a)	The maximum workweek shall be thirty-seven and one-half (37 Vz) consecutive hours segregated into five (5) working days of seven and one-half (7 Vz) hours. The workweek shall be Monday through Friday, with Saturdays and Sundays off, The hours of work shall be from 5:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m., 6:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m., 7:00 a.m, to 3:00 p.m., 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. (Hotels only). Employees shall receive a one-half (1/2) hour between 11:00 a.m. and 11:30 a.m. for lunch. Employees must take a full half (1/2) hour for lunch and no employee shall substitute part of the lunch period for any part of the regular working day. Any work performed in addition to the specified hours contained herein shall be paid at the overtime rate of pay. A twenty (20) minute rest period two (2) hours after starting time shall be given each employee. The Union pledges its best
3
-310-
efforts to enforce the provisions of a seven and one-half (7 16) hour day, and agrees to discipline any member found to be in violation thereof. It is understood the employees covered by this Agreement will at all times conduct themselves on the job in an orderly and business-like fashion.
If there is a shift change, notification shall be given by Thursday noon for the following week. If a building requires cleaning at different times, the Employer shall establish a swing or grave shift. Any such shift shall start after 1:00 p.m. and shall be eligible for a shift premium of forty ($0.40) cents per hour. Any shift starting after 1:00 p.m. shall be offered to the most senior qualified employee and down the seniority list until exhausted. If no employee volunteers, the least senior qualified employee shall be assigned such shift.
The parties recognize the principle that the Employer and the Union shall maintain proper and reasonable times on the jobs. In the event of any question concerning reasonable time for performing a job, Employer and Union shall promptly meet and confer in good faith effort to reach agreement. If the representatives fail to agree, the disagreement shall be handled in accordance with the provisions of Section 22 below.
Any problems relating to work schedules, rest periods and lunch periods in connection with scaffold and bos'n chair work shall be determined promptly by agreement between Employer and Union. If the representatives fail to agree, the disagreement shall be handled in accordance with the provisions of Section 22 below.
(b)	The maximum workweek with a holiday, as designated in Section 6 below, shall be reduced seven and one-half (7 16) hours for each holiday falling within that workweek.
(c)	Employees covered by this Agreement will not be employed by more than one (1) Employer at any one (1) time, or be self-employed, while in the employ of an Employer covered by this Agreement, subject to approval of the Union.
(d)	Overtime work shall be on the following basis:
a.	Time and one half (1 V2) after seven and one half (7 16 ) hours worked in a day and double time after twelve (12) hours in a day; and
b.	'Time and one half (116) for work performed on Saturday provided that the employee must have completed thirty seven and one half (37 V2) hours in the preceding Monday-Friday unless 37 16 hours of work were not available to the employee based on his/her seniority.
4
-311-
c.	Double time for work performed on Sunday provided that the employee must have completed thirty seven and one half (37 V?) hours in the preceding Monday-Friday unless 37 1/a hours of work were not available to the employee based on his/her seniority, and further provided that the employee has not refused Saturday overtime for that same weekend.
Paid non-work hours and daily overtime hours shall be counted as worked hours for the purpose of determining Saturday and Sunday overtime.
SECTION 5.	SPLIT SHIFTS
There shall be no split shifts, but in case of emergency of any store that might change display windows in late afternoon or evening, the employee shall be permitted to go back and wash the inside of said windows at overtime rates. This overtime will not have to be taken off the following week. When an employee is called back to work after completing his regular shift, he shall receive a minimum of two (2) hours work or two (2) hours pay at the applicable overtime rate.
SECTION 6,	HOLIDAYS
The following holidays will be observed:
New Year's Day Presidents' Day Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day	Veteran's Day Thanksgiving Day Day after Thanksgiving Christmas Day Floating Holiday*
Employees shall be eligible for all holidays except the floating holiday upon completing their probation.
* Employees shall be eligible for their floating holiday one year from their date of hire with the Employer. The employee shall request the floating holiday in writing at least two weeks prior to the date s/he wishes to take it and the request shall be by mutual agreement.
If a holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, it shall be observed on the following Monday, provided that in cases of emergency, special arrangements can be made with the Union. If a holiday falls on a Thursday, an employee who gives the Employer one (1) week notice will be permitted to take the following Friday off on his own time without penalty. If a holiday falls on a Tuesday, an
5
-312-
employee may be permitted to take the previous Monday off on his own time without penalty provided the entire shop agrees or it is mutually agreed to by the Employer and employee,
All employees shall receive a full day's pay for the observance of said holidays, regardless of the day on which the holiday occurs, provided such employees have reported to work on their regular working day immediately before and immediately after said holiday. An employee shall have been considered to have reported for work, if absence on the day before or after said holiday is due to express permission of the Employer or to a bona fide illness, or to a dispute between Employer and Union that has resulted in work stoppage. An employee required to work on a holiday shall be paid by the Employer for whom he works at the rate of double time in addition to his regular pay. Under no condition whatsoever shall work be permitted on Labor Day. No man shall be laid off for the purpose of defeating this provision.
SECTION 7. WAGES
(a)	The minimum hourly wage for all journeymen and for all scaffold and bos'n chair work shall be as follows:
	April 1, 2010	April 1, 2011	Ap. 1, 2012
Base	$19.95	$20.25	$20.65
Scaffold/Bos'n Chair	$21.41	$21.71	$22.11
(b)	If the Employer posts the position for Leadman, the job shall be open for bid. If the skills and ability are relatively equal seniority shall govern.
Skills and ability required for the Leadman position are the following:
1.	The ability to communicate with building managers and/or engineering staff.
2.	Must be able to read and explain OPUS requirements.
3.	Must have knowledge of CAL-OSHA, ANSI-IWCA, 1-14 standards and CA Labor Code that governs window cleaning operations as long as information is posted in the shop.
4.	Must be able to conduct monthly safety training meetings.
The Leadman shall receive one dollar and twenty-five cents (1.25) per hour premium over the rate of job he is performing. General duties shall be as follows:
Under general supervision instructing employees in Company's overall method of operation. Assigns employees to particular duties, inspects and checks the
6
-313-
employee's work for efficiency and accuracy. Must integrate his operations with those of other crews and department whenever necessary. Also oversees compliance of Safety Regulations.
(c)	Inexperienced persons may be hired by the Employer, subject to all provisions of this Agreement, provided that no journeyman window cleaner shall be displaced as a result of such employment, except that the Employer may retain inexperienced employees with longer seniority than newly hired Journeymen for the purpose of training only. The ratio of any one (1) inexperienced employee to four (4) journeyman window cleaners shall not be exceeded, except that shops employment less than (4) journeymen window cleaners may hire not more than one (1) inexperienced person. Inexperienced employees shall be paid the following minimum hourly wages:
	Start	After	After	After
		975	1950	2925
		hours	hours	hours
		worked	worked	worked
Effective 4/1/10				
Base:	$13.00	$14.00	$15.00	$16.95
Scaffold/Bos'n Chair:	$14.50	$15.50	$16.50	$18.41
Journeyman rates paid: after 3900 hours worked
Any inexperienced employee who has served a portion of his training period with one Employer and is subsequentiy hired by another Employer, part to this Agreement, may be credited with the training time served, upon mutual agreement of the Employer and the Union. When an inexperienced person is hired, it shall be compulsory that the inexperienced person work with a journeyman for a period of not less than six (6) months, regardless of the scale that the inexperienced person may be paid. If an inexperienced person is not qualified to perform the work he shall either be laid off, or, by mutual agreement between the Union and the Employer, his training time may be extended. There shall be no reduction of hours for any employee as a result of the signing of this Agreement.
An Employer hiring inexperienced persons shall be required to train such persons in all phases of the window cleaning craft.
At no time shall an inexperienced person be allowed to work more than seven and one-half (7 V2) hours per day or more than thirty-seven and one-half (37 V2) hours per week without the prior approval of the Union.
7
-314-
Journeymen window cleaners must be required to do all phases of window cleaning work as requested by the Employer, provided that no employee shall be disciplined under this provision without prior notice to the Union and discussion of the specific case involved. If the parties fail to agree, the case shall be handled as provided in Section 22 below.
SECTION 8, HEALTH INSURANCE, DENTAL VISION, PRESCRIPTION DRUG AND LIFE INSURANCE
(a) Health Insurance
1.	This Section expresses the understanding of the parties concerning Employer contributions to the General Employees Trust Fund on behalf of employees covered by this Agreement and their dependents.
2.	All employer contributions referred to in this Section shall be paid into the General Employees Trust Fund, created under the terms of said plan in accordance with the procedures set forth below. It is understood that all questions concerning eligibility of employees for coverage shall be determined by the Trustees of the said Trust Fund.
The Employer shall provide benefits as contained in the agreed upon worksheet between the Employer and the Union of Menu Plan C18 through General Employees Trust Fund for eligible employees and dependents. .The cost of the current Plan, as of March 1, 2010 is $902.83 per month.
3.	Between the first (1st) and the tenth (10th) day of each month, the Employer shall submit to the Trust Fund a list of all employees who have worked seventy-five (75) hours or more during the preceding calendar month. The list shall indicate the number of hours worked by each employee. Paid vacations, paid holidays, and paid sick leave are considered as hours worked in computing group insurance plan contributions. The Employer shall pay into the Trust Fund each month an amount to cover the cost of the benefits.
New employees hired after April 1st, 2010 (with the exception of returning Journeyman employees) shall become initially eligible for payment of the Health and Welfare premium after working nine hundred seventy five (975) hours and then working a minimum of seventy-five (75) hours in a subsequent calendar month. The definition of a "returning journeyman" who would not have to wait for a health and welfare contribution as defined above is a journeyman who has worked as a window cleaner for a signatory or me-too employer in the City and County of San Francisco within twenty-four (24) months of being hired by his/her
8
-315-
current employer. Any journeyman on payroll of a signatory or me-too employer as of the date of ratification does not have to wait nine hundred seventy five (975) hours for health care, (delete last sentence?)
4.	The Employer agrees that the employee benefits established by the General Employees Trust Fund shall be maintained for the life of this Agreement. If the present carrier shall, as a result of loss experience, elect to increase the premiums, the Employer agrees to pay such increases as may be necessary in order to maintain the present employee benefits.
5.	The Employer shall comply with all provisions of the Trust Fund and shall maintain, furnish and make available for audit at Employer's office such data and records as the Trustees may require as provided in the Trust Fund.
6.	If any employee works seventy-five (75) hours or more in the calendar month but is not listed by the Employer, the Employer shall be personally liable and fully responsible for all claims that may be incurred by such employees in the same amounts as through the employee had in fact been listed. This personal liability, however, does not in any way relieve the Employer of his liability to make payments under this Agreement.
7.	The Employer hereby accepts the terms of that certain Agreement and	'
Declaration of Trust entered into at San Francisco, California, creating the General Employees Trust Fund and further agrees to become a party to said Agreement and Declaration of Trust. Employer hereby agrees to be bound by all of the provisions of said Agreement and Declaration of Trust and hereby acknowledges prior receipt of a copy thereof.
8.	If an employee who has had .six (6) months or more of service is injured or ill, the Employer shall continue to make monthly contributions on his behalf for at least two (2) months.
SECTION 9.	PENSION
There is hereby established plan for the purpose of providing pension or retirement benefits to employees covered by this Agreement The Employer agrees to make periodic contributions on behalf of all employees covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement to the Service Employees International Union National Industry Pension Fund ("Fund") in the amounts specified below. The Employer hereby agrees to be bound by the provisions of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust establishing the Fund, as it may from time to time be amended, and by all resolutions and rules adopted by the Trustees pursuant to
9
-316”
the power delegated to them by that agreement, including collection policies, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged.
Effective April 1, 2010, based on March, 2010 hours the contribution rate to the Fund shall be two dollars and fourteen cents ($2.14) per hour for each straight time hour worked and paid for. Paid vacation, paid holidays and paid sick leave are considered as hours worked in computing contributions.
The Employer and the Union agree to adopt the Preferred Schedule for Benefit Changes and Supplemental Contributions adopted by the Trustees of the National Industry Pension Fund (NXPF), and any amendments thereto, for the life of this Agreement.
SECTION 10.	SICK LEAVE AND FUNERAL LEAVE
Effective June 1, 1978 every employee covered by this Agreement who has been employed by his Employer shall be permitted to accumulate five (5) days sick leave per year accumulated at the rate of 1.7 days for each four (4) months of service.
This paid leave can be used for a bona fide illness, accident or funeral leave, or to care for an immediate family member as defined below. This five (5) days per year shall be accumulated to a maximum of thirty (30) days.
Every employee shall earn sick leave for each month in which he/she works the 75 hours per month needed to qualify for Health & Welfare benefits. Paid vacations, paid holidays, and paid sick (eave are considered as hours worked for computing eligibility for paid sick and funeral leave each month.
Earned paid leave benefits shall be paid in the following manner:
Rrst (1st) full workday's absence, no pay except where the employee is hospitalized on such first (1st) day; succeeding workday's absence, full pay until earned sick leave benefits are exhausted.
The waiting period herein provided before full pay commences shall apply to each employee and not each illness or accident. Employees working for one (1) Employer will only have one (1) waiting period. Employees working for multiple Employers shall have one (1) day wait for the first illness or accident for each Employer.
If the employee desires to utilize any earned leave for funeral leave it shall be for a death in the immediately family and immediate family shall be defined as:
10
-317-
Spouse, Domestic Partner, Son, Daughter, Father, Mother, Brother, Sister, Grandson, Granddaughter, Grandfather and Grandmother.
Upon resignation, voluntary quit, retirement, discharge, or layoff, all unused sick leave shall be paid to the affected employee at his hourly rate of pay.
The Union and the Employer hereby expressly waive the provisions of Chapter 12W to the Administrative Code of San Francisco relating to paid sick leave. Those provisions shall have no application to the employees covered by the Agreement between the Employer and the Union during the term of this Agreement.
SECTION 11.	SCAFFOLD AND BOS'N CHAIRS
All Scaffolds and Bosh Chairs must be hung by men who work on same. A minimum of two (2) journeymen must work together on all Scaffolds and Bos's Chairs whenever practicable. Inexperienced employees shall not be allowed to work on Scaffolds or Bosh Chairs, until the inexperienced person has worked at the trade for at least six (6) months. Then the inexperienced person must work with a journeyman.
SECTION 12,VACATIONS
All employees who work continuously for one (1) Employer for one (1) year shall receive a minimum of ten (10) days vacation with pay at the prevailing straight time rate annually.
All employees who work continuously for one (1) Employer for two (2) years or more shall receive a minimum of twelve (12) days vacation with pay at the prevailing straight time rate annually.
All employees who work continuously for one (1) Employer for five (5) years or more shall receive a minimum of fifteen (15) days vacation with pay at the prevailing straight time rate annually.
All employees who work continuously for one (1) Employer for twelve (12) years or more shall receive a minimum of twenty (20) days vacation with pay at the prevailing straight time rate annually.
Employees whose employment terminates after six (6) months or more shall receive vacation pay prorated on the basis of one (1) days pay for each month of service during the first (1st) five (5) years of employment, and on the basis of one and one-fourth (1 -A) days pay for each month of service thereafter.
11
-318-
Employees whose employment terminates after twelve (12) years of employment shall receive vacation pay prorated on the basis of one and two-thirds (1 2/3) days pay for each month of service.
Every employee shall earn vacation for each month in which he/she works the 75 hours per month needed to qualify for Health & Welfare benefits. Paid vacations, paid holidays, and paid sick leave are considered as hours worked for computing eligibility for vacation each month.
SECTION 13,	MILITARY SERVICE
All Window Cleaners entering the military service of the United States shall, upon their return to civilian life, retain their former shop seniority, providing they are physically fit and apply for their former jobs within ninety (90) days.
SECTION 14,	TRAVEL
(a)	All commercial vehicles shall be furnished by the Employer. Each contractor may designate as many men as are necessary to drive the contractor's vehicles and also clean windows, subject to notification to the Union. These men shall not be allowed to clean windows or drive vehicles more than thirty-seven and one-half (37 ¥2) hours per week. The contractors name, telephone number and address must appear on the vehicle driven by the employee. All vehicles must be driven by a journeyman, unless otherwise authorized by the Union. Unless authorized by the Employer and the Union, no vehicle shall be used in any manner by an employee after working hours, but shall be returned to the shop each day. No employee shall be disciplined or discharged because of a refusal to drive the contractor's vehicle.
(b)	All traveling time and transportation expenses shall be paid by the Employer, except that an Employer may require an employee to report directly to a job and to leave any job at the end of the working day without providing transportation expense or travel time to first job or from last job, provided that all assigned work is within the city limits of San Francisco. All out-of-town work shall be voluntary, and no employee shall be voluntary, and no employee shall be required to accept out-of-town assignments.
SECTION 15* RESTRICTIONS
The foreman shall not be allowed to clean windows. This section does not apply to principal owners.
12
-319-
SECTION 16,	EQUIPMENT
Employers shall furnish the employee all normally issued tools and working equipment for that day and the employee shall be held responsible for same except when ordered to leave tools on the job in an unsecured area. The company will notify the employee as to who in the company will issue and receive tool inventory.
All new window cleaning tools must be submitted for approval by the person to employ such new tools. They shall be screened by the joint committee consisting of two (2) representatives of the Union and two (2) representatives of the Employer. They shall not be put into use without the prior approval of said committee. It is recognized that the loss of the Company issued "bucket tools" other than for loss due to bona fide accidents of normal wear and tear will be grounds for the employee to replace the "bucket tools" at the Company cost.
SECTION 17,	SUBCONTRACTING
No piece work or sub-contracting of work shall be allowed unless mutually agreed upon by the Union and the Employer.
SECTION 18,	SAFETY
(a)	Suitable belts must be used on all buildings that have anchor bolts. Ropes on belts and on Bos'n Chairs must be renewed every six (6) months, or on demand of employee.
(b)	No windows shall be cleaned that are not in good working order.
(c)	No window cleaner shall be allowed to work on an extension ladder more than four (4) hours in any one (1) day. Only in case of extreme emergency, where an employee can finish a job, one (1) hour more will be permitted.
(d)	A person shall be placed at the foot of all ladders in use that exceed eighteen(18) feet in length. Two (2) window cleaners shall work together on extension ladders which are extended thirty-six (36) feet or more in length.
(e)	It is agreed that when the personal safety of a member is concerned, his refusal to work on defective windows, or inadequate window cleaning equipment, shall not be sufficient cause for discharging of the employee and it is
13
-320-
further agreed that said member will not be penalized for such refusal by a the Employer.
(f)	All other safety conditions not specified herein, but which form a part of the rules and regulations of the California Occupational Safety and Health Administration (Cal-OSHA) for Window Cleaners, shall be observed by the Employer.
(g)	When the personal safety of a member is concerned, his refusal to pass through a picket line shall not constitute a violation of this Agreement.
(h)	Where add is used on scaffold work, steel falls shall be used instead of rope falls. Whenever employees are obliged to use acid in the course of their employment, Employers shall furnish employees with rubber gloves or other necessary equipment.
(i)	The Parties agree to establish a Labor-Management Committee of a maximum of seven (7) members from each side. This committee is meant to discuss areas of mutual concern such as safety, training and the preservation of standards in the Window Cleaning Industry. It is not intended to discuss contractual issues.
SECTION 19,	BREAKAGE
Employees shall not be held responsible for any breakage or damage, and no deductions shall be made from the employee's wages for any breakage or for insurance, public liability, property damage, employees compensation or for any other reason or purpose except those deductions required by law. Deductions may be made from employees' wages in order to purchase group insurance, provided that the Union is advised in advance concerning the proposed establishment of any group insurance plan the employee agrees voluntarily to be a party to such a group insurance plan.
SECTION 20.	DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
Any Employer discharging or disciplining a member of the Union must have just and reasonable cause. In case of a dispute, it shall be taken up under Section 22 of this Agreement
14
-321-
SECTION 21,
SHOW-UP PAY
Any employee who is ordered to work and is not put to work must receive two (2) hours pay. Any employee instructed not to come to work because of rain or wind will not be entitled to show up pay if informed within four (4) hours prior to the start of the shift. Such notification shall be solely based on seniority of people who work out of the shop and shall not be for punitive, discriminatory or personal favoritism reasons. Any employee who is put to work shall be guaranteed seven and one-half (7 Vz) hours work or pay.
SECTION 22,	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
In case of a grievance or dispute concerning the interpretation or application of the terms of this Agreement, a representative from the Union and a representative from the Employer shall immediately attempt to settle the grievance or dispute.
The right to grieve is lost if the grievance is not brought up in writing within thirty (30) working days from the time the Union is aware of such dispute.
If the parties are unable to do so, a Board of Adjustment composed of two (2) representatives from the Union and two (2) representatives from the Employer shall, within ten (10) working days after written notice is mailed by either party to the other, meet to consider all questions under dispute and endeavor to arrive at a satisfactory settlement
By advance mutual agreement of the Parties, an Adjustment Board as described above can be convened with the addition of a neutral mediator. The mediator will provide a non-binding recommendation to the parties to assist the parties in settling the grievance. If the parties reach a settlement, it shall be reduced to writing the day of the Board of Adjustment and signed off by the Board members.
The parties may file for Arbitration if the grievance is not settled at the Board of Adjustment. The party riling the Arbitration shall notify the other in writing within twenty business (20) days of the Board of Adjustment.
The Arbitrator shall be selected by mutual agreement between the parties. If the parties are unable to agree upon an arbitrator, they shall request a list of nine (9) arbitrators from the FMCS. Upon receipt of such a list, the parties shall alternately strike one (1) name from the list until one name remains. That
15
-322-
person shall serve as arbitrator. The party striking the first name shall be determined by the flip of a coin. The costs of the Arbitration shall be borne equally by the parties. The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the Employer, the Union and the employee(s). The Arbitrator shall have no authority to add to, amend, delete or modify this Agreement
SECTION 23.	CHECKOFF
(a)	The employer agrees to deduct from the pay of each employee the membership dues required to maintain good standing as defined by the Constitution and Bylaws of the Union.
(b)	Membership dues shall be deducted in the following manner:
1.	Deducting for monthly dues shall be made from each paycheck based on the percentage established by the Union up to the maximum monthly dues amount commencing with the second (2nd) month of employment.
2.	Deduction for initiation fees, in the case of new employees not members of the Union, shall be deducted from the second (2nd) pay check received by such employee during the second (2nd) month of their employment.
(c)	All sums deducted for monthly dues and initiation fees shall be remitted to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union not later than the last day of the calendar month in which such deductions are made, together with a list showing the names and addresses of employees and the amount of deductions made.
(d)	It is understood and agreed between the parties that deduction of Union membership dues shall be made only on the basis of written authorization from the individual affected.
(e)	The Union agrees to indemnify and hold the Employer harmless as to this provision.
SECTION 24.	MISCELLANEOUS
(a)	The Employer agrees to notify the Union of all jobs and also agrees to give notice to the Union of all new jobs and Job cancellations within thirty (30) days.
(b)	The Union shall have the right to inspect the payroll concerning any employees covered by this Agreement, including records showing straight time and overtime work.
16
-323-
(c)	"During the term of this Collective Bargaining Agreement, the San Francisco Window Cleaning Contractors Association and Service Employees International Union Local 1877 shall each appoint three (3) persons to a joint labor/management study committee. The purpose of the joint Study Committee will be to examine the feasibility and practicality of creating a joint labor/management state certified apprenticeship program including the costs that would be attached to creation of such an apprenticeship program. The committee will attempt to arrive at a joint recommendation during the term of this Collective Bargaining Agreement and present such recommendation to Service Employees International Union Local 1877 and the San Francisco Window Cleaning Contractors Association for further discussion between the Parties/'
(d)	Most Favored Nations Clause: If, during the term of this Agreement, the Union enters into a collective bargaining agreement or allows practices with another employer or group of employers employing employees in the classifications covered hereunder which provided for a total compensation package of wage rates or economic fringe benefits which are favorable to any employer than the total of the corresponding or similar provisions of the Agreement, then it is agreed that those more favorable conditions will become effective under the terms and conditions of this Agreement on the same date that they become effective under the other collective bargaining agreement.
(e)	Alcohol and Drug Testing:
1)	Purpose. This policy is to provide guidelines for "reasonable suspicion" alcohol and controlled substance testing to be effective April 1, 2000.
7) Scope, This policy applies to all employees of the Employers signatory to this Agreement.
3)	Definitions, For the purpose of this policy, controlled substances are the drugs that the Federal Department of Transportation (D.O.T.) has defined in its drug testing program. These drugs are marijuana, cocaine, opiates, amphetamines and phencyclidine (PCP).
4)	POLICY
A. General Rules,
No employee shall report for duty or remain on duty while having an alcohol concentration of 0.04 or greater, or use any controiled substance except when the use is pursuant to the instructions of a physician who has advised the
17
-324-
employee that the substance does not adversely affect the employee's ability to safely perform his/her job duties.
An employee whose conduct indicates that he/she is not in a physical condition to perform his/her job safely and efficiently will be required to submit to an alcohol and/or a controlled substance test.
, A manager must have a "reasonable suspicion" that the employee is under the influence of, or adversely affected by, alcohol or a controlled substance. Reasonable suspicion exists when there is a clear indication of impairment based on objective evidence and/or based on specific personal observation by a manager who can attest to the appearance, behavior, speech or breath odor of the employee. The manager will document his/her observations and reasons for requesting testing, and get a witness where there is at least one (1) additional employee at the same worksite. Those observations may include but are not limited to:
•	Abnormal work performance;
•	Any combination of physical conditions and/or symptoms such as unsteady balance, alcohol on breath, glassy eyes, reddened eyes, unsteady gait, etc.;
•	Abnormal person behavior or unusual interpersonal relations on the job;
♦	It is the Employer's policy to test for the abuse of drugs and alcohol following certain accidents on the job, AND when an individual is involved in an OSHA-reportable accident. An accident is defined as requiring more than first aid (e.g. treating by a physician or hospitalization), injuries that require lost time (at least 16 day), or loss of consciousness. When such accidents occur, a urine drug screen and breath alcohol test will be done.
The Employer will provide training to make managers aware of the above conditions.
An accident that occurs under suspicious circumstances or without any logical explanation may establish "reasonable suspicion" for requiring the employee involved to be tested; however, the mere fact that an accident occurred is not sufficient in itself to establish reasonable suspicion. In any case, an employee involved in a work-related accident who is the victim of another's carelessness shall not be subjected to any testing merely because he/she requires medical treatment
18
-325-
Failure by an employee to submit to a test when reasonable suspicion exists shall be grounds for termination. Any employee who tests positive for a controlled substance and/or an alcohol test showing a concentration of 0.04 or greater or is in violation of any part of this policy may be subject to disciplinary action which could include suspension and/or termination.
If an employee tests positive or if they volunteer to enter a program, they must enter a program for rehabilitation. Upon successful completion of this program they will be allowed to return to work; however, if they test positive a second time, they shall be terminated without recourse to the grievance procedure.
B. Reasonable Suspicion Testing Procedure.
All alcohol and controlled substance testing will be performed at a qualified collection site. Alcohol testing will be done by Breathalyzer (evidential breath testing device) and controlled substance testing by urine specimen (an initial screening test is done and if necessary a conformation test using gas chromatography/mass spectrometry). Alcohol and controlled substance testing will be done during an employee's paid time.
All samples which test positive for controlled substances will be confirmed using a chromatography/mass spectrometry test, or it may be confirmed by use of a superior or equally reliable test if such becomes available.
The employee, at his/her personal expense, will have the opportunity to have a reputable testing facility test the same sample as was submitted to the original test facility. Accepted chain of custody procedures must be followed and the test facility selected by the employee must meet all standards set by Federal/Health Agencies for laboratory performance using certified Medical Technologists and Technicians. An employee may request the independent test by notifying the Employer or its manager in writing within two (2) calendar days after the day when the employee is informed of the test results. The test result will be kept confidential and will be available only to a designated Employer representative, a designated Union representative, or a designated legal representative.
None of the testing procedures are intended to be in violation of the law, and if any part of this Policy comes to be in violation of Federal, State law or City Ordinance, only that part shall be void and it shall not nullify any other provisions of this policy.
-326-
f) If the Employer goes out of business, the parties agree to meet to discuss severance pay.
SECTION 25	- NO STRIKE/NO LOCKOUT
The language and spirit of this Agreement guarantees the prompt and faithful performance by the Employer and the Union of ail obligations imposed by the terms of this Agreement. The parties, therefore, mutually agree that during the term of this Agreement, the Employer shall not lock out its employees, nor shall the Union or its members either cause, sanction, or engage in any strike, or slowdown or stoppage of work of the Employer's business. In the event of a violation of the provisions of this Section, the Union shall, upon notice from the Employer, immediately direct the affected employees to resume immediately normal operations.
It is understood that the observance by an individual member of the Union of a lawful picket line or another labor organization, which picket line has been sanctioned by the San Francisco Labor Council, shall not constitute a breach of this Agreement.
SECTION 26,	INDUSTRY STABILIZATION
(a)	The Employer shall contribute five cents ($.05) for each straight-time hour worked by employees under this Agreement to the Maintenance Cooperation Trust Fund, whose purpose is to enforce wage and hour, OSHA, insurance and other laws affecting the Window Cleaning Industry.
(b)	The Union agrees that no employee working under this Agreement shall engage in any window cleaning in the commercial office, commercial residential or retail sectors in the City and County of San Francisco which is not under the terms of this Agreement.
SECTION 27,	TERM OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall become effective as of April 1, 2010 and shall remain in effect until March 31, 2013, and shall continue from year to year thereafter, provided, however, that each party reserves the right to give notice, in writing, to the other at least sixty (60) days prior to March 31, 2013 of its desire to change or terminate said agreement.
Signed this day of „	2010.
20
-327-
FOR THE SAN FRANCISCO
WINDOW CLEANING CONTRACTORS UNION SEIU ASSOCIATION
FOR THE WINDOW CLEANERS
BY:
\ Sarnes Beard
CAL 1877
By:
Colin O'Lea Union Re
entative
Dan Lucero, CBM
arcra
Glasstech
Armando Bautista, Delta
Signatory Window Cleaning Employers:
ABLE BUILDING MAINTENANCE
CAPITAL BUILDING MAINTENANCE CENTURY WINDOW CLEANING
DELTA WINDOW CLEANING
ELITE WINDOW CLEANING, INC.
GLASSTECH
LEWIS & TAYLOR BUILDING MAINTENANCE
21
-328-
NATIONAL INDUSTRY PENSION FUND APPENDIX FOR COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS BETWEEN EMPLOYERS AND SEIU LOCALS
Section 1,	COVERAGE
The Sen Francisco Window Cleaning Contractors Association, acting on behalf of all Employers signatory this Agreement ("Employer"), agrees to make periodic contributions on behalf of all employees covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement to the Service Employees International Union National Industry Pension Fund (‘’Fund”) in the amounts specified in Section 3 below.
Section 2.	TERM
The Employer agrees to become and remain a participating employer in the Fund throughout the term of this Collective Bargaining Agreement, including any . extensions thereof.
Section 3,	CONTRIBUTIONS
(a)(1) As of April 1, 2010, the Employer agrees to contribute to the Fund $2.14 per straight time hour worked and paid for all employees covered by the Agreement.
(b)	Contributions required by this provision shall be paid to the Fund on or before the fifteenth day of the month following the period for which contributions are due or before such other date as the Trustees may hereafter determine
(c)	Contributions shall be transmitted together with a remittance report containing such information, in such manner, and on such form as may be required by the Fund or their designee.
Section 4.	TRUST AGREEMENT
The Employer hereby agrees to be bound by the provisions of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust establishing the Fund, as it may from time to time be amended, and by all resolutions and rules adopted by the Trustees pursuant to the powers delegated to them by that agreement, including collection policies, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged. The Employer hereby designates the Employer members of the Fund's Board of Trustees, or their duly selected successor(s), as its representatives on the Board
Section 5.	COOPERATION
The Employer and Union agree to cooperate with the Trustees of the Fund in distributing Plan booklets, literature, and other documents supplied by the Fund Administrator and in obtaining and providing such census and other data as may be required by the Fund's Administrator or Trustees to enable them to comply with the applicable provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act.
22
-329-
Section 6.	APPROVAL BY TRUSTEES
The undersigned parties acknowledge that the provisions of this Article and the participation of the employees covered by it are subject to approval by the Trustees of the Fund and that the Trustees reserve the right to terminate, at their sole and unreviewable discretion, the participation of the employees covered by this Agreement and to establish the level(s) of benefits to be provided. Termination may be directed by the Trustees for reasons including, but not limited to, failure of the Employer to timely pay contributions and expiration of a Collective Bargaining Agreement, The parties further acknowledge that the Trustees* acceptance for participation in the Fund of the employees covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement is limited only to the categories of employment covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement at the time application for acceptance occurs and the admission of other categories of employment to participate in the Fund will require specific acceptance by the Trustees,
Section 7.	MISCELLANEOUS
In the event of any inconsistency between this appendix and the Collective Bargaining Agreement, the terms of this Appendix shall prevail.
For the Employer:	For the Union:
By: ._________—
James Beard
By:
Colin O'Leary
Date:
Date:
23
-330-
WINDOW CLEANERS AGREEMENT - April 10, 2010 to March 31, 2013
SECTION 1.	RECOGNITION	PAGE	1
SECTION 2.	UNION MEMBERSHIP AND HIRING	1
SECTION 3.	SENIORITY	3
SECTION 4.	HOURS & OVERTIME	3
SECTION 5,	SPLIT SHIFTS	5
SECTION 6.	HOLIDAYS	5
SECTION 7.	WAGES	6
SECTION 8.	HEALTH INSURANCE, DENTAL, VISION	
	PRESCRIPTION DRUG & LIFE INSURANCE	8
SECTION 9.	PENSION	9
SECTION 10.	SICK LEAVE & FUNERAL LEAVE	10
SECTION 11.	SCAFFOLD AND BOS'N CHAIRS	11
SECTION 12.	VACATIONS	11
SECTION 13.	MILITARY SERVICE	12
SECTION 14.	TRAVEL	12
SECTION 15.	Restrictions	12
SECTION 16.	EQUIPMENT	13
SECTION 17.	SUBCONTRACTING	13
SECTION 18.	SAFETY	13
24
-331-
SECTION 19.	BREAKAGE	14
CFCTTON 70 1 JL^#I> XUi	DISCHARGE & DISCIPLINE	14
SECTION 21	SHOW-UP PAY	15
SECTION 22.	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	is
SECTION 23.	CHECKOFF	16
SECTION 24.	MISCELLANEOUS	16
SEC 1 ION 25.	NO STRIKE/NO LOCKOUT	20
SECTION 26.	INDUSTRY STABILIZATION	20
SECTION 27.	TERM OF AGREEMENT	20
TABLE OF CONTENTS.		22
25
-332-