COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT FOR
ROADS, BRIDGES AND AIRPORTS
BETWEEN
OPERATIVE PLASTERERS & CEMENT MASONS
LOCAL #692 Area #821
and
ROAD, BRIDGES, AND AIRPORT CONTRACTORS
May 1, 2012
through
April 30, 2017
CEMENT MASONS
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT FOR ROADS, BRIDGES AND AIRPORTS
Term of Agreement
May 1, 2012 through April 30, 2017
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this 1st day of May, 2012 by and between the Road, Bridges, and Airport Contractors (“Employer”) working in the jurisdiction of Local Union #692 -Area #821, Operative Plasterers and Cement Masons, which consists of counties of Bartholomew, Brown, Clark, Dearborn, Floyd, Jackson, Jefferson, Jennings, Lawrence, Ohio, Orange, Ripley, Scott, Shelby, Switzerland, and Washington county all in the State of Indiana and any other contractors who become signatory to this Agreement (“Employer”), and Local #692 Area #821 Operative Plasterers’ and Cement Masons’ International Association (“Union”),”.
THIS AGREEMENT by and between the Employer and the Union is the result of coordinated bargaining between the Union and various employers working in the jurisdiction of Local union #692, Area #821. The Union acknowledged and agreed to the use of coordinated bargaining in reaching this Agreement.
WITNESSETH that the Preamble and Declaration of Principles, contained in Article I hereof have been adopted and made a part of this Agreement and have been affirmed as the principles under which the contracting parties agree to operate, based upon the understanding that both parties have a common interest in furthering the construction industry by establishing a working system for harmonious relations necessary to improve and further the relationship between the Employer, Union, and the public which we serve.
The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that the term “Employee” as used in this Agreement means Cement Mason Local #692, Area #821 members who are Employees of the Employers and who are performing bargaining unit work defined in Article 4 of this Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the above recitals, and the terms and conditions that follow, the parties hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1	- PREAMBLE AND DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES
1.1	THIS AGREEMENT entered into between the above named parties for the purpose of securing optimum productivity, preventing strikes and lockouts, and facilitating a peaceful adjustment of all grievances and disputes that may arise between the Employer and the Union in the Road, Bridge, and Airport Construction Industry in the jurisdiction of the Union. This Agreement shall not apply when the Employer is the project owner.
ARTICLE 2	- RECOGNITION
2.1	Pursuant to Section 9(a) of the Labor-Management Relations Act, the Employer recognizes the Union as the exclusive majority representative of all Employees in the bargaining
2
unit defined in this agreement (“Employees”). This majority status has been established by the Union’s unequivocal demand for recognition based on the Union having shown or having offered to show an evidentiary basis of the Union’s majority support. Section 9(a) status may have also resulted based on a National Labor Relations Board certification that the Union is a majority representative of the Employees performing bargaining unit work covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 3	- EQUAL REPRESENTATION
3.1	The Union, realizing its duty under the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, as amended, and to the extent that is the exclusive representative, recognizes that it must represent all Employees in the bargaining unit equally, without discrimination, irrespective of membership or non-membership in the Union.
ARTICLE 4	- CRAFT JURISDICTION
4.1	This Agreement shall have jurisdiction over all finishing in back of a machine such as rodding of all concrete with longitudinal floats and the finishing of all concrete surfaces, including pervious concrete, whether by float, leveling, striking off, trowel, belting, brooming, burlapping or tineing, whether by hand or machine with less than six horsepower motor, or any other method not herein mentioned to bring concrete to a uniform surface; all poured walls (median/barrier/crash, etc.); the operation of multi-blade troweling machines; all edging and put in all black stripes and caulking for curbs, sidewalks and driveways.
4.2	Employees shall do all rubbing and grinding of concrete surface on bridges, viaducts, underpasses, tunnels and highways where uniform surfaces are required whether done by hand or machine. All pointing and patching, brooming, burlapping and breaking of all wall ties, all grouting and dry packing; setting of all forms for sidewalk, side ditches, curb and gutter, or any other form that is one board high, which is set to grade except the main line forms. All epoxy glass fiber fabric wrapping of concrete after standard prep work has been completed. Stamping, staining, stenciling, acid etching, coloring, dusting, washing (for the finishing process only), and release agents applied to concrete, concrete coatings and toppings and, all work tasks for which it has been given jurisdiction as determined by the last prior decision or agreements, if any, as approved by the Plan for the Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes in the Construction Industry (“Plan”) or approved by the National Building and Construction Trades Department of the A.F.L.- C.I.O.
4.3	In the event of a jurisdictional dispute between the Union and another union, Union agrees to immediately submit the jurisdictional dispute and itself to the jurisdiction of the Plan.
4.4	The Employer and the Union agree to be bound by all terms and provisions of the Plan, including the Procedural Rules and Regulations, or its successor organization. The parties agree to abide by those provisions of the Plan requiring compliance with the decisions and awards of the Administrator, Arbitrator(s) or the National Arbitration Panels established under the Plan, and to fulfill the obligations of the Employer and the Union, respectively, as set forth in the Plan under this Agreement.
3
ARTICLE 5	- WORKING CONDITIONS
5.1	Foreman. The Foreman shall be selected at the sole discretion of the Employer as determined by operational requirements and shall be paid according to the rates contained in Section 7.1.
5.2	The Foreman will be in charge of all work coming under his jurisdiction. The parties agree that Employees will take orders from their Foreman or from the Employer or his appointed representative that is in charge of the other crafts on the job. In no case shall a Craft Foreman have the authority to hire or discharge Employees.
ARTICLE 6	- TOOLS
6.1	Tools. Employees agree to furnish their small tools, such as hand floats and trowels, and the Employer agrees to furnish large tools and any special edgers that are required, also rubbing stones with handles and brushes.
ARTICLE 7	- HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME, AND PAYMENT
7.1	Workday and Workweek. Eight (8) hours shall constitute a regular workday. Forty (40) hours within five (5) days, Monday through Friday inclusive shall constitute a workweek, except when designated holiday intervenes.
7.2	Overtime Payment.
(a)	All work over 8 hours daily or after 40 straight time hours weekly shall be paid at time and one-half. All work performed on Saturday will be paid at time and one-half, except when being used as a make-up day.
(b)	Saturday As A Make-up Day. Saturday may be used as a make-up day only for Employees who have worked for the Employer four or fewer days during the current pay period due to inclement weather. Time and one-half will be paid for any time worked over eight (8) hours or after forty (40) hours straight time, whichever comes first when using Saturday as a make-up day. Saturday as a make up day is at the sole option of the Employee.
(c)	If any other craft, on the same project, receives overtime at one and one-half (1 ^) times the regular rate of pay, because Saturday is not a make-up day for the other craft, then the Employees covered by this Agreement shall also be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1 ^) times the regular rate of pay. However, overtime pay on Saturday may be denied to any Employee who habitually calls off from work earlier in the week when work was made available after the Employer and the Business Agent agree there is a pattern to the Employee’s call-offs.
7.3	A normal lunch period of 30 minutes shall be allowed near the mid point of the shift. If the full thirty (30) minutes is not allowed for lunch, then the Employee shall be paid at the regular rate as if there were no time taken for lunch. Once established by the Employer the project starting time may be changed by the Employer as required by operational needs.
4
7.4	Wage Payment. Employees will receive their wages each week on Employer’s established payday, and are to be paid during the working hours on the job where they are employed unless prevented by strike or act of God. Each Employee when paid shall receive a statement showing the number of straight time and overtime hours, his straight time hourly rate and all deductions and payments required by law or this Agreement.
7.5	Layoff or Discharge. Employees to be terminated shall be paid the following day either at a place mutually agreed upon, or mailed to Employee’s residence. Failure to comply with Section 7.4 and 7.5 will subject the Employer to an additional two (2) hours pay for every 24 hours period of failure to comply after the Employer is made aware of the non-payment.
7.6	Shift Work.
(a)	Two Shifts. For two (2) shifts, the starting times will be compatible with other crafts. The second shift shall receive eight hours pay for seven and one-half hours of actual work. Overtime rates of time and one half shall apply after seven and one half hours worked. Fringe benefits shall be paid on eight hours for the seven and one-half hours worked.
(b)	Three Shifts. The third shift shall receive eight hours pay for seven hours of actual work. Overtime rates of time and one-half shall apply after seven hours worked. Fringe benefits shall be paid for eight hours for the seven hours worked.
7.7	Report to Work and Commencement of Pay.
(a)	If an Employee reports for work and cannot start because of an equipment breakdown, he shall be paid for two (2) hours show-up time. If the Employee starts to work and works more than two (2) hours Employee shall be paid for four (4) hours. If the Employee works for more than four (4) hours Employee shall be paid for eight (8) hours.
(b)	Inclement Weather (rain, snow, sleet). If there is a work stoppage due to inclement weather, the Employee will be paid no less than one (1) hour. After the one (1) hour Employee will be paid for hours worked.
(c)	On premium work days, premium pay will be paid only for those hours actually worked by the Employee.
7.8	Holidays - All work done on New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Sundays, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, day after Thanksgiving, and Christmas Day, or any day celebrated as such, shall be paid for at the rate of double time. If an Employee needs the day after Thanksgiving off, he shall give the Employer five (5) days notice. Employer will refrain from scheduling work on Labor Day, except in an emergency to save life or property.
7.9	Wage and Fringe Benefit Bond.
(a)	In order to insure the payment of the wages and/or fringe benefits that are legally due under this Agreement, the local unions may require an Employer to deposit surety bond in
5
the amount not to exceed Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00). Said bond will be with a surety licensed to do business in the State of Indiana.
(b)	It is expressly understood that the sole purpose of such a bond is for the benefit of the Employees working under this Agreement and for the purpose of insuring that they receive the wages and fringe benefits provided herein.
ARTICLE 8	- WAGES, WELFARE, APPRENTICESHIP, AND PENSION FOR LOCAL #692
AREA #821
May 1, 2012 to April 30, 2017
8.1	Wages and Fringe Benefit Contributions.
(a)	See Appendix A for wage and fringe benefit breakdown.
(b)	Scaffold and Premium Rate - All hanging or swinging scaffold shall conform to applicable federal and state safety statutes and regulations. Employees working on said scaffolds shall receive twenty-five ($0.25) cents per hour above the regular Journeyman rate for the first twenty-five (25) feet or fraction thereof above working ground below, and twenty-five ($0.25) cents for each additional twenty-five (25) feet or fraction thereof. This applies to either above or below the ground surface. OSHA approved safety harnesses shall be furnished to and worn by all Employees while working on said scaffolds.
8.2	Welfare Fund.
(a)	On work covered by this Agreement, the Employer agrees to pay into the Indiana State Council of Plasterers and Cement Masons Welfare Fund (“Welfare Fund”) the amount provided for in Section 8.1(a) above for each hour worked by Employees. Payments shall be made in accordance with Section 8.8 below and on the dates, in the manner, form and in accordance with the rules and regulations, as adopted by the Trustees of the Welfare Fund.
(b)	The Employer agrees to be bound by the Agreement and Declaration of Trust entered into establishing the Welfare Fund and by any amendments thereto.
(c)	The Trustees of the Welfare Fund, the Employee and Union recognize and accept their joint responsibility to comply with the health insurance continuation provisions of the COBRA Act of 1986 and shall cooperate so that all parties are in compliance.
(d)	Changes in Health and Welfare Fund Contributions. It is further understood and agreed that if it is necessary for the Union to request a raise in the Employer contribution to the Welfare Fund, the Union shall notify the Employer in writing sixty (60) days prior to the effective date of the requested change. The request change shall be deducted from wages. There shall be no increase in the total wage and fringe package.
6
8.3	Pension Fund.
(a)	On work covered by this Agreement, the Employer agrees to pay into the Indiana State Council of Plasterers and Cement Masons Pension Fund (“Pension Fund”) the amount set forth in Section 8.1(a) above for each hour worked by Employees. Payments shall be made in accordance with Section 8.8 below and on the dates, in the manner, form and in accordance with the rules and regulations as adopted by the Trustees of the pension fund.
(b)	The Employer agrees to be bound by the Agreement and Declaration of Trust establishing the Pension Fund and by any amendments thereto.
(c)	The Pension Fund shall be administered in accordance with all provisions of applicable law.
(d)	Changes in Pension Fund Contributions. It is further understood and agreed that if it is necessary for the Union to request a raise in the Employer contribution to the Pension Fund, the Union shall notify the Employer in writing sixty (60) days prior to the effective date of the requested change. The request change shall be deducted from wages. There shall be no increase in the total wage and fringe package.
8.4	Dues. It is agreed that the amount of working dues check-off per hour that is to be deducted from the Employee’s earned income shall be an amount duly established by the Union in accordance with their by-laws and constitution. Said deduction shall only be made from the Employee’s wages after the Employer has been duly furnished a proper authorization card by the Employee as called for by Labor-Management Law. Said payments shall be made in accordance with Section 8.8 below.
8.5	Apprenticeship.
(a)	The Employers agree the contribution rate for the Apprenticeship Funds shall be the amount set forth in Section 8.1 above, for each hour worked by an Employee.
(b)	It is agreed that there shall be established a Joint Apprenticeship Training Committee comprised of an equal number of Employee and Employer representatives. This Committee shall be run in compliance with all applicable laws, and the Apprenticeship Training Program shall be administered in accordance with the provisions of the National Labor Relations Act, as amended, and also in accordance with the provision of the trust agreement, which established the Apprenticeship Training Fund.
7
(c)	Apprenticeship Wages
1st Period:	0	to 800 Hrs	- 60% of Journeyman Rate +	100% Benefits
2nd Period:	801	to 1600 Hrs	- 70% of Journeyman Rate +	100% Benefits
3rd Period:	1601	to 2400 Hrs	- 75% of Journeyman Rate +	100% Benefits
4th Period:	2401	to 3200 Hrs	- 80% of Journeyman Rate +	100% Benefits
5th Period:	3201	to 4000 Hrs	- 85% of Journeyman Rate +	100% Benefits
6th Period:	4001	to 4800 Hrs	- 90% of Journeyman Rate +	100% Benefits
7th Period:	4801	to 5600 Hrs	- 95% of Journeyman Rate +	100% Benefits
8.7	Employee Benefit Rates. The Employee benefit rates set forth in Section 8.1(a) above for each hour worked for Health & Welfare, Pension, Vacation, Apprenticeship, Dues Check-Off and BCRC shall be combined into one check made payable to the Indiana State Council of Plasterers & Cement Masons H&W and Pension Fund and mailed to P.O. Box 50440, Indianapolis, Indiana 46250. The amount paid shall be in accordance with any changes in required payments during the term of this Agreement.
8.8	Liquidated Damages, Audit and Collections.
(a)	A liquidated damages charge of fifteen percent (15%) is imposed for all delinquent payments of amounts required to be paid hereunder. A payment is considered delinquent if not received at the designated depository by the 20th day of the month following the end of the month when the work was performed. The parties agree that the Trustees of the Funds enumerated herein have authority to alter the date upon which payments are considered delinquent and the liquidated damages percentage to be assessed. Payment of said liquidated damages shall accompany the payment of the delinquent account. The parties acknowledge that the amount of administrative costs imposed by late payments is difficult to determine and that the 15 percent liquidated late charge assessment is reasonable under the circumstances.
(b)	In the event any Employer fails to pay fringe benefits as set forth in this Agreement, and/or fails to have sufficient funds in the bank to pay checks issued to the Employees, the Union has the right to immediately withhold and withdraw the services of its members from such Employer and/or picket said Employer.
(c)	When an Employer becomes delinquent in the payment of fringe benefits, said Employer shall then be required to pay each individual trust fund on a weekly basis. These payments shall be mailed by certified mail in accordance with Section 8.8 above.
(d)	The Employer agrees to submit, upon request, all requested records to the Trustees of the various Funds or their designated agents or representatives for the purposes of conducting audits to determine the Employer’s compliance with the terms of this Agreement and the various Trust Agreements.
(e)	If found to be delinquent, the Employer is obligated to pay all audit costs, attorney fees, court costs and any and all other related costs incurred by the Funds in the audit and delinquency recovery process.
8
(f)	The parties acknowledge that the Trustees of the various Funds applicable herein have full authority and discretion in the manner in which they audit contractors and collect delinquencies.
ARTICLE 9	- RESPONSIBILITY AND RIGHTS
9.1	Insurance Coverage. No Employee shall work for any Employer unless said Employer has its Employees insured under the State Workmen’s Compensation Laws and is complying with Social Security Unemployment Insurance Acts and all laws covering the same regardless of the number of Employees employed by the Employer.
9.2	Access to Premises. The Union’s president or business agent, carrying proper credentials, shall be allowed to visit the jobs during working hours to interview the Employer, steward, or Employees, but shall in no way hinder or interfere with the progress of the job.
9.3	Steward. The Union shall have the right to designate a qualified journeyman as a steward from the Employer’s Project work force. Steward shall be given an opportunity to work when two or more Employees, excluding the foreman, in the bargaining unit are working on the project, whether during or outside regular hours, in order to perform their duties of enforcement of this Agreement.
9.4	Subcontracting.
(a)	The territorial and occupational jurisdiction of the Union as stated in this Agreement shall be recognized to the end that the Employer agrees that it shall not use for the performance of such covered work, any person, company, or concern that does not observe the same wages, fringe benefits, hours and conditions of employment as enjoyed by the Employees covered by this Agreement.
(b)	Project Agreement. In addition, the Union agrees that it will accept from a subcontractor a project agreement under the same terms and conditions set forth under Section 9.4(a).
ARTICLE 10	- APPRENTICESHIP
10.1	Apprenticeship and Training Program.
(a)	The parties agree to participate in the Joint Apprenticeship Program now in operation between the Union and the Employer, which is registered with the U.S. Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training. The Apprenticeship and Training Program is an organized, written plan embodying the terms and conditions of employment and training, and supervision of one or more apprentices, designated as Apprenticeship Standards for Cement Masons Local #692 - Area #821. There will be a State Joint Apprenticeship Committee consisting of the “Board of Trustees” of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust.
9
(b)	Should the APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM, for any reason, be abandoned at the State level, the contributions called for herein shall be disbursed in the manner set forth in the most current Trust Document.
10.2	Apprentice Ratio.
(a)	One (1) apprentice shall be allowed each Employer for the first journeyman Employee working on the job and one (1) additional apprentice for each two (2) additional journeyman employees working on the job. The ratio may be waived with a mutual agreement between the business agent and the Employer.
(b)	All apprentices must attend all schooling and/or off-the-job training required by the relevant Committee.
(c)	On any job where there are two (2) or more journeyman working, one (1) apprentice may be placed on the job upon mutual agreement between the Employer and the Union. The Union shall recruit and enroll a sufficient number of apprentices to meet the demands of the program. (If the Employer requests apprentices and no qualified apprentices are provided within 24 hours, the Employer may obtain additional employees from any source on a short term basis not to exceed two (2) working days.)
(d)	The Apprenticeship Standards shall be registered with the Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training, Employment Training Administration, U.S. Department of Labor.
10.	3 Apprenticeship Requirements
(a)	When classes are in session during the school, the apprentice(s) must satisfactorily complete related technical training prior to receiving period wage increases. Each apprentice must complete a minimum of 144 hours per year; for 3 years, totaling a minimum of 432 hours over the term of apprenticeship or as amended from time to time.
(b)	The Employers agree to make contributions to the Cement Masons Local #692 -Area #821 Joint Apprenticeship Fund in the amounts set forth in Section 8.1(a).
ARTICLE 11	- ADJUSTMENT OF DISPUTES
11.1	There shall be no stoppage of work on account of any difference of opinion or dispute which may arise between the parties to this Agreement relative to settlement of grievances, unless such is expressly authorized in some other Article of this Agreement.
11.2	All differences of opinion or disputes over the provisions of this Agreement shall be handled by the following grievance procedure:
Step 1: If a difference of opinion or dispute arises, it shall be discussed by the Employee with their immediate supervisor within fifteen (15) days of the event giving rise to the dispute. Disputes over rates of pay or hours worked must be raised within 30 days of the event
10
Step 2: If the difference of opinion or dispute cannot be adjusted or settled at Step 1, it shall be reduced to writing and referred to the Employer’s representative and the Union within five (5) days of the Step 1 discussion. The Union and Employer shall meet and discuss the dispute, and the Employer shall provide the Union with a written answer within ten (10) days of the Step 2 meeting.
Step 3: If the parties fail to agree, the dispute shall be referred within ten (10) days of receiving the Employer’s written response, to a Grievance Panel established under this Agreement to hear disputes. The Grievance Panel shall consist of four (4) members, two (2) appointed by the Union and two (2) by the Employer. The Grievance Panel shall meet within fourteen (14) days of receiving the written grievance and shall hear evidence from both parties to the dispute. If, by majority vote, the Grievance Panel renders a decision, it shall be final and binding on both parties. The Grievance Panel shall notify the parties in writing of its decision within five (5) days of the hearing.
Step 4: If the Grievance Panel deadlocks, either party may refer the grievance to the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (“FMCS”) for final and binding arbitration. The party wishing to refer the matter to FMCS will request a list of five (5) arbitrators within 30 days of receiving a written notification of the deadlock by the Grievance Panel. The parties shall select an arbitrator from the list provided by FMCS by each party alternatively striking a name until only one remains, who shall be appointed as the arbitrator. The expenses of the arbitrator shall be borne by the losing party.
11.3	Strikes and Lock-Outs: There shall be no strikes, lock-outs, slowdowns, work stoppages or interruption of work for any reason for the duration of this Agreement, except as provided for in this Agreement.
11.4	Jurisdictional Disputes: The grievance procedure shall not apply to any jurisdictional dispute. All jurisdictional disputes shall be settled under the procedures contained in Article 4 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 12	- UNION SECURITY
12.1	All Employees covered by this Agreement shall be required as a condition of employment, to become members of the Union after the 8th day of employment or the 8th day after date of execution of this Agreement, whichever is later. Membership is available to any new Employee on the same terms and conditions generally applicable to all Employees. All Employees shall maintain their membership therein in accordance with the foregoing but shall forfeit his/her right of employment, and upon receipt of written notice of non-payment from the Union; provided, however that the foregoing shall be interpreted, construed and applied in accordance with the applicable provision or provisions of the National Labor Relations Acts, and all state and federal laws as amended.
(a)	The Employer agrees to respect the jurisdictional rules of this Agreement and shall not direct or require their employees, or persons other than the Employees in the bargaining unit, to perform such work.
11
(b)	Employees who are more than sixty (60) days in arrears with their Union dues shall be replaced by a paid-up member who is a qualified Employee by written request by the Business Agent.
12.2	The Employer shall have the right, if he elects to do so, to bring in Cement Masons from outside the territorial jurisdiction of Area #821 in a number not to exceed fifty percent (50%) of the Employees to be employed by Employer with respect to a given crew assigned to a given project; if the assigned crew has an odd number, the odd numbered person will be supplied by jurisdiction with the odd numbered person being supplied by the home jurisdiction.
12.3	Identification Documents. Further is agreed that the Union will notify its members that when a member reports to work as a “new hire” for an Employer, the member shall bring the required documents showing citizenship status to the Employer required by law so that “I-9” forms can be completed prior to the Employee starting work.
12.4	The Employer shall attend a Project pre job meeting if the Union requests such a meeting.
ARTICLE 13	- SAVINGS CLAUSE
13.1	Any provision contained herein that is contrary to or held to be in violation of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, or any federal law now in force hereafter enacted, or hereafter becoming effective shall be void and of no force or effect, and this Agreement shall be construed as if said void provision here were not a part thereof, it is being intended, however, that the other provisions of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby. It is further agreed that should compliance with any Federal Law, or amendment thereof, or any other regulation issued thereunder, now or hereafter in force and effect, prohibit the carrying out of any of the provisions of this Agreement, then to the extent of such deviation or prohibition, effective on the effective date of such law, order or regulation, this Agreement shall be deemed to have been automatically amended, effective on the effective date of such law, order or regulation.
ARTICLE 14	- DISCRIMINATION
14.1	The Union and Employer shall fully comply with all the requirements and provisions of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, Executive Order No. 11246, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act, and the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, and in accordance therewith, do hereby agree that there shall be no discrimination for, or against any employee or applicant for employment, because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, or disability.
ARTICLE 15	- DURATION, AMENDMENT, AND TERMINATION
15.1	Term. This Agreement shall become effective May 1, 2012, and remain in effect to and including April 30, 2017. It shall continue in effect from year to year thereafter May 1st to and
12
including April 30th of each year, unless notice for amendment or termination is given in the manner provided herein.
15.2	Notice to Amend or Terminate. Either party desiring to amend or terminate this Agreement must notify the other party, in writing at least sixty (60) days prior to April 30, 2017, and any April 30th thereafter of any year. Whenever notice is given for amendments(s) the nature of the amendment(s) desired must be described in the notice, and until a satisfactory conclusion is reached therein the original provision(s) of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
15.3	Prior Agreements Superseded. This Agreement supersedes and renders null, void, and ineffective any prior Agreement between the parties and all or any provisions of such Agreements.
ARTICLE 16	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
16.1	The Employer retains full and exclusive authority for the management of its operations. The Employer retains all management rights not specifically limited by the terms of this Agreement, including, but not limited to the selection and hiring of all personnel; the selection of all supervision; promotion, transfer and discharge of Employees. The Employer shall be sole judge of the qualifications of an Employee.
16.2	No rules, customs or practices shall be permitted or observed which limit or restrict productivity, efficiency or limit or restrict the joint or individual working effort of Employees, except as provided by this Agreement.
16.3	Parties agreeing to this management rights provision also agree that the implementation and enforcement of any policy or practice resulting from this provision shall be subject to the parties’ grievance and arbitration provisions.
ARTICLE 17	- ENTIRE AGREEMENT
17.1	This Agreement represents the entire Agreement between the parties and is the result of negotiation in which both parties had the opportunity to negotiate their proposals with the other. During the life of this Agreement, there shall be no further demands made upon either party. No change shall be permitted in this Agreement without the written approval of the Union and Employer.
ARTICLE 18	- UNIFORM DRUG/ALCOHOL ABUSE PROGRAM
18.1	Substance Abuse Policy. The Union and the Associated General Contractors of
Indiana, Inc., and/or signatory Employer hereby agree that the drug testing program set forth in the Indiana Union Construction Resource Center Substance Abuse Policy ("Policy") is incorporated by reference herein and made a part of this Agreement. The Trustees of the Indiana Union Construction Industry Substance Abuse Trust Fund ("Fund") shall have the authority to
13
amend the terms of the Policy to which employees working under this Agreement will be subject.
The administration of the Policy will be funded by contributions to the Fund. The Trustees of the Fund shall have the authority to determine the amount to be contributed by signatory Employers to defray the cost of the Policy. The Trustees may set the contribution at any rate up to ten cents ($.10) per hour depending on the Trustees assessment of the amount needed to fund the Policy adequately to fulfill its purposes. Once the rate has been set, the Trustees may adjust the rate of contribution from time to time within the parameters set forth above, provided the Trustees give the Employer(s) at least sixty (60) days notice of any such adjustment.
It is agreed that the Employer contribution to the Fund is not part of the wage/fringe package under this Agreement, but is instead a separate additional contribution made by the Employer solely to fund the Policy. Accordingly the establishment or adjustment of the rate of contribution by the Trustees shall not affect the wage rates or the amounts set forth for contributions to fringe benefit funds under this Agreement.
14
SIGNATURE PAGE ROADS, BRIDGES, & AIRPORTS AREA 821
IN WITNESS THEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement this 1st day of May, 2012.
EMPLOYER	UNION
Company	Name
Officer Signature	Title
Printed Name	Name Title
15
APPENDIX A - WAGES
CEMENT MASONS, LOCAL UNION #692 - AREA #821
RATES EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2012 THROUGH APRIL 30, 2013
Journeyman Cement Mason (CM) Rate Foreman (5% above Journeyman) Health & Welfare Pension Fund Apprentice Fund IUCSAT	$23.58 $24.76 $6.34 $4.25 $0.40 $0.07
TOTAL Package Cement Mason (CM)	$34.64
Work Dues (DEDUCT) International Dues (DEDUCT)	$1.56 $0.35
Effective May 1, 2013 there will be a sixty five cent ($0.65) increase to be applied to benefits only.
Effective May 1, 2014 there will be a fifty cent ($0.50) increase to be applied to benefits only.
Effective May 1, 2015 there will be a fifty cent ($0.50) increase. Twenty-five cents of which is to be applied to benefits only, and the remaining twenty-five cents to be disbursed as needed.
Effective May 1, 2016 there will be a fifty cent ($0.50) increase. Twenty-five cents of which is to be applied to benefits only, and the remaining twenty-five cents to be disbursed as needed.
16