COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
DYNCORP INTERNATIONAL, LLC.
(5-RC-15850)
AND
INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS
AND AEROSPACE WORKERS, AFL-CIO, DISTRICT LODGE 4,
LOCAL LODGE 24
AT
ANDREWS AFB
EFFECTIVE
SEPTEMBER 1, 2012 through AUGUST 31, 2016
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE
Table of Contents
Purpose of Agreement
Article I	- General Conditions of Contract
Article II	- Union - Company Relations
Article III	- Grievance Procedure and Arbitration
Article IV	- Seniority
Article V	- Employment Conditions
Article VI	- Employee Privileges
Article VII	- Pay Provisions
Article VIII	- Job Descriptions (See Appendix E)
Article IX	- Management Rights/Subcontracting
Signature Page
Appendix A	- Classifications and Rates of Pay
Appendix B	- Employee Benefits Plans
Appendix C	- Attendance Policy
Appendix D	- Inclement Weather
Appendix E	- Job Descriptions
PAGE NUMBER
Page 1
Page 2
Page 3
Page 9
Page 12
Page 16
Page 20
Page 23
Page 28
Page 31
Page 32
Page 34
Page 35
Page 37
Page 39
Page 41
Page 42
- 1 -
PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement, entered into by and between DynCorp International LLC, Andrews Support Division(hereinafter called "the Company"), and the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, AFL-CIO, District Lodge No. 4, Local Lodge No. 24 (hereinafter called "the Union"), a non-profit organization, evidences the desire of the parties hereto to promote and maintain harmonious relations between the Company and its employees, as they are defined in Article I, Section 2, of this Agreement, and the Union as their Representatives.
The purpose of this Agreement is to provide for wages, benefits, terms and conditions of employment for employees in the bargaining unit, and to ensure industrial peace. To this end, it is recognized that there must be mutual understanding, harmony and cooperation among employees and between employees and the Company, and the Union and the Company; that operations must be uninterrupted and duties faithfully performed in order for the Company and its employees to fulfill their mutual and vital responsibilities to both the public and to the Government; and that the business of the Company must be operated with economy and efficiency with due regard to competitive conditions. It is recognized by the Agreement to be the duty of the Company, the Union, and the employees to cooperate fully, both individually and collectively, for the advancement of said conditions.
It is agreed that the parties desire to enter into this Agreement to establish wages, hours, and working conditions and to provide for the peaceful settlement of disputes and grievances that may arise affecting the employees covered hereby. The parties recognize the skills and the abilities of the bargaining unit are unique and distinct in the interest of National Security and are highly skilled and dedicated professional in supporting Andrews Support Division (ASD) Special Air Missions (SAM) missions carrying world leaders.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
- 2 -
ARTICLE I
GENERAL CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT
Section 1-	General Provisions
(A)	In reaching this Agreement, the parties hereto have fully exercised and complied with any and all obligations to bargain and have fully considered and explored all subjects and matters in any way material to the relationship between the parties. In negotiating and agreeing to this contract, all matters concerning which parties could contract have been considered and disposed of.
(B)	The parties acknowledge that during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement, each had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to all proper subjects of collective bargaining and that all such subjects have been discussed and negotiated upon and the agreements contained in this Agreement were arrived at after the free exercise of such rights and opportunities. Therefore, the Employer and the Union, for the life of this Agreement, each voluntarily and unqualifiedly waive the right and each agrees the other shall not be obligated to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter not specifically referred to or covered in this Agreement, even though such subject or matter may not have been within the knowledge or contemplation of either or both of the parties at the time they negotiated or signed this Agreement.
The parties understand and agree that this Agreement covers all bargained for conditions of employment, and that the Employer has the right, at its discretion, to change, modify or amend conditions of employment not so covered as its business judgment dictates.
(C)	It is understood wherever in this Agreement employees or jobs are referred to in the male or female gender it shall be recognized as referring to both males and females
(D)	This Agreement can be changed or modified by mutual agreement only by a document in writing signed on behalf of both parties hereto by their duly authorized representatives.
(E)	The waiver of any conditions or breach of this Agreement by either party shall not constitute a precedent for any further waiver of such condition or breach.
(F)	It shall be the duty of the Company and its representatives and the Union and its representatives to comply with and abide by all of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 2	- Recognition and Exclusive Representation
(A)	Definition of Bargaining Unit and Employees Covered by this Agreement.
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole exclusive representative and bargaining agent with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours and other conditions of employment for the bargaining unit comprised of all full-time regular part-time employees as defined in (5-RC-15850) employed by DynCorp InternationalLLC, Andrews Support Divisionlocated at Andrews AFB. The word "employee" or "employees", as used in this Agreement, means all employees of the Company employed at the aforementioned site in job classifications listed in Appendix A of this Agreement and those provided for in Article VIII of this Agreement: The Company has also agreed to include Plan & Scheduler I, II and III employees in the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement.
(B)	Excluded are all branch managers, assistant branch managers, production supervisors, aircraft supervisors, including transient and dock aircraft supervisors, electronic technician
- 3 -
supervisors, aircraft quality control inspectors, quality branch instructors, all aircraft employees already organized, office clerical employees, professional employees, managerial employees, guards and supervisors as defined by the Act.
(C)	Non-Bargaining Unit Personnel
It is understood and agreed that there are times when non-bargaining unit employees may be required to perform work customarily performed by bargaining unit employees. It is also understood that Supervisors and others will be required to work with tools only to meet requirements under the conditions listed below. Therefore, the Company shall have the right to utilize non-bargaining unit employees under one or more of the following conditions:
(1)	For instruction and training purposes.
(2)	For tests, evaluation and/or experimentation purposes.
(3)	In emergencies as defined by the Company at its sole discretion provided such actions do not result in a layoff or reduction in force. Where practical, the Company will notify the applicable steward in advance of the utilization or otherwise notify by email the applicable Union Steward within a reasonable amount of time after the utilization.
(4)	As required to assist in working a malfunction/discrepancy on a scheduled aircraft that must be corrected expeditiously in order to successfully launch the aircraft when bargaining unit employees with the necessary skills are not immediately available. Where practical, the Company will notify the applicable steward in advance of the utilization or otherwise notify by email the applicable Union Steward within a reasonable amount of time after the utilization.
(5)	In limited circumstances where the satisfaction if the Company’s obligation and responsibilities as a contractor may be jeopardized, when bargaining unit employee’s with the necessary skills are not immediately available. Where practical, the Company will notify the applicable steward in advance of the utilization or otherwise notify by email the applicable Union Steward within a reasonable amount of time after the utilization.
(6)	When an employee fails to report to work and other qualified employees are not available. Where practical, the Company will notify the applicable steward in advance of the utilization or otherwise notify by email the applicable Union Steward within a reasonable amount of time after the utilization.
(7)	Customer Flying Crew (FCC) personnel initial or proficiency training requirements.
(8)	Third party technicians by the Company or other technicians provided by the Customer
that will not result in a layoff or reduction in force.
Section 3	- Period of Agreement and Ratification
(A)	This agreement shall be effective September 1, 2012 and shall remain in full force and effect up to and including August 31, 2016, and thereafter from year to year unless written notice to modify, amend, or terminate the Agreement is served by either party upon the other at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration date of this Agreement.
* Where not otherwise specified, any reference to "days" in this Agreement shall mean calendar days.
- 4 -
(B)	Any notice given under this section shall be deemed to be served by the Union when mailed postage prepaid, registered mail, return receipt requested, or delivered in hand, to the Company’s Division Manager for service upon the Company, and such notice shall be deemed to be served by the Company when similarly mailed, or delivered in hand, to the assigned Business Representative, District Lodge No. 4, for service upon the Union. The date of mailing shown on the registered mail return receipt or the date of written receipt of personal service shall be the controlling date for purposes of Section 3 (A) of this Agreement.
Section 4	-Successors and Assigns
In the event the Employer decides to sell, transfer or assign the business, this Agreement will be subject to existing Federal Labor Law.
Section 5	- Separability
(A)	Should any part hereof or any provisions herein contained be rendered or declared invalid by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation or a decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidation of such part or portion of this Agreement shall not invalidate the remaining portions hereof and they shall remain in full force and effect.
(B)	The Company and the Union shall, within thirty (30) days, negotiate the provision of the Agreement affected by such legislation or court decree. Any modification or changes to this agreement brought about by the above negotiations shall be in writing and signed by the parties hereto.
Section 6	- Strikes and Lockouts
(A)	The Union, its officers, agents, representatives, stewards and the employees covered by this Agreement agree that during the term of this Agreement there shall be no strikes, including sympathy strikes, honoring or observance of any picket line(s), (whether or not such picket line(s) is sanctioned by the Union), sit downs, slowdowns, work stoppages or any acts that interfere with the Employer’s operations and services it renders. The Union, its officers, agents, representatives and stewards by accepting such provisions has assumed the responsibility of affirmatively preventing violations of this Article. The Employer shall have the right to selectively discipline any employee(s) who violate(s) this provision, up to and including termination, and the union is precluded from arguing disparate treatment. An arbitrator has only the jurisdiction to decide whether or not the affected employee(s) so disciplined did in fact violate the provisions contained herein.
The Employer agrees that during the term of this Agreement there shall be no lockouts.
(B)	In the event of an alleged violation of Section 6(A) of this Article, the Company may immediately apply to the proper United States District Court for injunctive relief, including a temporary restraining order, prohibiting the continuation of such an alleged violation, pending submission of the matter to arbitration and the issuance and enforcement of the arbitrator’s order.
In addition to any other remedy set forth in this Article, the Company, without submitting the issue of damages to arbitration, may institute in any Court of competent jurisdiction, an action against the Union for damages suffered by the Company as a result of a violation of this Article. The remedies set forth in this Article are not exclusive, and the Company may pursue whatever other remedies are available to it at Law or equity.
- 5 -
Section 7	- Security Regulations
(A)	The parties to this Agreement hereby recognize the Company's obligations in its contracts with the Government pertaining to security, security clearances, and access to Government-managed property, and agree that nothing contained in this Agreement is intended to place the Company in violation of its contracts and/or security agreements with the Government.
(B)	In the event that the U.S. Military Service or other Government Agency duly concerned with security regulations or operations on Government-managed property, advises the Company that any employee in the Union bargaining unit is restricted from access to Government-managed property, or restricted from work on or access to classified information and material, the Union agrees that such action as the Company may take pursuant to its contractual and/or security obligations to the Government will not be contested, nor will such action be a subject of the grievance procedure contained in Article III of this Agreement.
(C)	In the event that such Government Agency following the taking of such action within one year advises the Company that such an employee is no longer restricted from access to Governmentmanaged property or restricted from work on or access to classified information and material, the Company shall promptly reinstate the employee with seniority, to the same job classification held at the time such action was taken, subject to the applicable seniority provisions of the Agreement, if he/she promptly applies for such reinstatement within fifteen (15) days.
(D)	It is understood by and between the parties that, as a necessary condition of employment as defined in the Company’s offer letter of employment, employees shall be subject to investigation for security clearances, special access requests, national agency check and/or unescorted entry authorization under regulations prescribed by the Department of Defense, or other agencies of the United States government on government work. Failure to apply, maintain, or gain a security clearance and/or the denial of required clearances and unescorted entry authorization by such governmental agency will be cause for release from the Company, due to inability to meet job requirements.
In the instance of an initial clearance rejection known as an “interim denial” any employee’s hired after the effective date of this Agreement will have twelve (12) months from his/her date of hire to obtain his/her security clearance. At which time, if the clearance is not awarded by the proper authorities, the employee will be subject to termination at the sole discretion of the Company. Said twelve (12)month provision may be extended at the sole discretion of the Company.
During the process of a security clearance renewal or periodic investigation as required by the department of Defense (DOD) or other agencies of the United States government an employee’s clearance is withdrawn, the employee’s employment under the terms of this agreement will continue for up to twelve (12) months provided the clearance is still being processed. In the event that the required clearance is not granted within those twelve (12) months the other provisions of this Article I, Section 7 will apply. This period may be extended at the sole discretion of the Company.
It is understood that there shall be no liability on the part of the Company or the Union for any release growing out of the denial of clearance and/or unescorted entry authorization by the United States Government and/or non-receipt of a required clearance.
Failure for whatever circumstances to meet the above requirements shall not be a cause of action under the Grievance and Arbitration provisions contained in this Agreement.
- 6 -
Section 8	- Nondiscrimination
It is the intent of the Company and the Union to provide employees with a working environment that is free from all forms of discrimination and harassment which is or which may become unlawful during the period of this Agreement. To this end, the parties agree to comply with all applicable laws, statutes and regulations concerning nondiscrimination in employment.
Section 9	- Union Security (Agency Shop and Check Off)
(A)	All employees in the bargaining unit must as a condition of continued employment be either a member of the Union and pay union dues or pay an agency fee to the Union, but not both.
(B)	All employees within the bargaining unit on the effective date of this agreement who are not union members must, as a condition of continued employment, pay to the Union while on the active payroll, an agency fee equal in amount to monthly membership dues, beginning with the month following the month in which they accumulate thirty (30) days’ continuous service in the bargaining unit since their last date of hire or rehire. Employees entering the bargaining unit or employees who are rehired with seniority or transferred with seniority into the bargaining unit after the effective date of this Agreement who do not become union members, or having become do not remain union members, must, as a condition of employment, while on the active payroll, pay such fee to the Union commencing the month following the month in which they accumulate thirty (30) days’ continuous service in the bargaining unit if such entry is prior to the fifteenth (15th) day of that month or commencing with the month following the month of such entry into the bargaining unit if such entry is on or after the fifteenth (15th) day of that month.
(C)	Employees who are union members on the effective date of the Agreement shall continue to pay membership dues to the Union as a condition of continued employment while in the bargaining unit and on the active payroll as long as they remain members of the Union; employees within the bargaining unit who after the effective date of this Agreement become members of the Union shall pay, while on the active payroll, an original initiation fee and membership dues to the Union, as a condition of continued employment while in the bargaining unit and while remaining a Union member; provided that in no event shall the initiation fee and membership dues exceed the amount specified in the Constitution and/or By-Laws of the Union.
(D)	Any employee required to pay an agency fee, membership dues, or initiation or reinstatement fee as a condition of continued employment who fails to tender the agency fee or initiation, reinstatement, or periodic dues uniformly required, shall be notified in writing of his delinquency. A copy of such communication shall be mailed to the Company not later than fifteen (15) days prior to such request that the Company take final action on a delinquency. The Company will within ten (10) workdays, after receipt of notice from the Union, discharge any employee who is not in good standing in the Union or fails to pay applicable agency fees as required by paragraphs A - D of this Article. Any employee so discharged shall be deemed to be discharged for “just cause”. “Good standing” is defined as in compliance with standards permitted by NLRB and court decisions relating to Union shop requirements.
(E)	The Company agrees to deduct from an employee's payroll check, Union dues, initiation fees, assessments, or agency fees for all employees covered by this Agreement, provided that the Union or the employee delivers to the Company a written authorization to make such deductions, signed by the employee, irrevocable for one year or the expiration date of this agreement, whichever shall occur sooner. The Company shall make deductions for each member or agency fee payer from the first pay of such member or agency fee payer each month.
- 7 -
(F)	Such payroll deductions referred to in paragraph (E) of this Article shall be remitted to the Secretary Treasurer of the Union the week immediately following the payroll deductions are made. The Company shall furnish to the Secretary Treasurer of the Union monthly, a record of those from whom deductions have been made and the amounts of the deductions. The company shall provide to the Secretary Treasurer of the Union with a listing, on a monthly basis, of all newly hired or laid-off employees.
(G)	Should an employee be promoted or transferred to a managerial/salaried classification not covered by this Agreement, the Company shall cease deducting applicable service fees or dues from such employee. When ceasing to deduct applicable service fees or dues for reasons cited in this section, the Company shall submit the names of such employees, and the reasons for no deduction to the Financial Secretary of District Lodge No 4.
(H)	Nothing contained in this Article shall be construed to require the Company to violate any applicable law. It is understood and agreed that the Union will save, hold harmless and indemnify the Company from any and all claims, demands, suits or any other forms of liability that shall arise out of the execution, placing in effect or carrying out of the terms of this Article by the Company.
- 8 -
ARTICLE II
UNION - COMPANY RELATIONS
Section 1-	Union Stewards
(A)	Upon execution of this Agreement, the Union shall promptly furnish the Division Manager, in writing, the name(s) of the Union Steward(s). Thereafter, the Union shall promptly advise the Division Manager, in writing, of any change in Stewards. No Steward will be recognized as such by the Company prior to receipt of written notice of notification. From among the bargaining unit employees employed by the Company at this location, the Union will designate and the Company will recognize not more than six (6)Union Stewards plus one (1) Chief Steward to serve as the Union’s agents in the representation of employees. Union Stewards shall be selected to represent the employee in the following work areas: Aircraft Branch, Helicopter Branch and Maintenance Branch.
(B)	Except as otherwise specifically provided for in the Agreement, union stewards shall not be compensated by the Company for their duties on behalf of the Union. Compensation shall be governed by the following rules:
1.	Jointly scheduled meetings such as monthly communications meetings, grievance meetings, and arbitrations - Each party shall be responsible to compensate their respective representatives and any persons they select to attend such meetings.
2.	Meetings scheduled at the unilateral request of the Union - the Union shall compensate all attendees from the Union. Such meetings involve steward training, Union Elections, Union Conferences, etc.
3.	Meetings scheduled at the unilateral request of the Company - The Company shall compensate all attendees from the Union. Such meetings involve:
a.	Periodic or special communications meetings called by management for the purpose of communications of Company events, policies or plans.
b.	Shop Stewards called in by the Company when requested by an employee to be present for investigations that may result in discipline. When requested by the employee, the Company will notify the shop steward on duty prior to starting the investigation.
c.	To discuss safety hazards and/or make safety recommendations to the management of his/her area.
(C)	With prior notice to and with permission of the Union Steward’s Branch Manager and subject to other provisions of this agreement, the Union Steward shall be authorized to do grievance investigation on Company time - The Company shall be obligated to relieve from duty and compensate at straight time rates the Steward(s) doing such investigation up to a maximum of three (3)hours per week for each Steward and six (6)hours for the Chief Steward.
(D)	The scope of the Stewards activities on Company time shall be limited to the following:
1)	To consult with an employeeregarding the presentation of a request or clarification concerning this Agreement, complaint, or grievance which the employee desires the Steward to be present.
- 9 -
2)	To investigate a complaint or grievance of record before presentation.
3)	To present a request concerning this Agreement, complaint, or grievance to an employee's Supervisor in an attempt to settle the matter for the employee or group of employees who may be similarly affected.
4)	For discussions with Stewards of the authorized Business Representative of the Union on employee complaints or grievances or on matters arising out of the application of this Agreement.
(E)	It is agreed that a Steward may receive, but not solicit, grievances from employees. For purpose of this agreement, the term "solicit" means the steward will receive grievances from employees and not petition for grievances.However, this does not limit the Steward from notifying the employee(s) that he/she has been grieved due to a breach or violation of this agreement. The Union recognizes and agrees that a Steward will carry out his/her duties with a minimum of interference with the orderly progress of Company work. Where necessary, the Stewards work schedule or assignment will be adjusted where practical, to allow for time to conduct Company - Union business as specified below:
1)	The parties agree that theunion official as defined in Article III Section 1 B for the affected employee may attend the grievance meeting. If the employee’s Steward is unavailable, a Steward from another Branch may represent the employee in the grievance meeting. It is also agreed that the investigation of grievances is the primary role of the Steward.
2)	To represent the local Union at Step I, Step II and Step III of the grievance procedure as provided in Article 3, the grievance procedure.
Section 2	- Business Representatives and Union Officials
Full time representatives of the Union shall have access to the Company's operations for the purpose of contacting Stewards regarding employee Complaints or grievances or matters arising out of the application of this Agreement. Such visits shall be subject to such regulations as may be made from time to time by the Company, the U.S. Military Services, and other government agencies. It is agreed that the Company will not impose regulations, which will render ineffective the intent of this provision.
Prior to entering the Company's operations, the Business Representative shall notify the Program Manager or his/her designee on the date and time he/she will be on the facility. While in Company areas requiring badging, the UnionRepresentative(s) shall be escorted at all times by a Company representative that has been designated by the Division Manager. The Union Representative(s) must remain in non-work areas unless in the investigation of a grievance, his/their presence in a nonworking area is considered to be essential as decided by the Division Manager. The failure of any Union Representative(s) to follow the procedures outlined above will be considered just cause to permanently bar said Representative(s) from the premises.
Section 3	- Bulletin Boards and Posting Notices
(A)	It is agreed that the Union will be permitted, in each work area, to post on bulletin boards provided by the Company.
1)	Notices	of	Union	recreational affairs.
2)	Notices	of	Union	elections and election	results.
3)	Notices	of	Union	appointments.
- 10 -
4)	Notices of Union meetings.
5)	Other notices as mutually agreed to by the parties.
Any Company data (i.e. seniority lists, or any Company information that is stamped Proprietary, Confidential, or Company Private, etc.) furnished to the Union needs to be protected as Company proprietary information and cannot be given to outside third parties. Information provided to the Union shall not be duplicated. The Union bulletin board will be secured and locked at all times and the keys to the bulletin boards will be kept in the possession of the Company. The Union Steward for the branch shall also have a key to the bulletin board. Violations of the above will lead to dismissal if the information is released / duplicated to an outside third party by a Union Steward/Employee and permanent disbarment from Company property if released/duplicated by a full time Union Representative
(B)	The Union will be afforded a total of six (6)locked 3ft. by 4ft. foot bulletin boards clearly identified as "Union Business" where only Union notices will be displayed.
Shop Stewards will have full access to the Union Bulletin Board(s) to post notices in accordance with the provisions contained herein.
Said bulletin boards will be located in the following places.
1.	One	(1)	in	Hangar #2, TA,
2.	One	(1)	in	Hangar #1, the Heli Tool Room
3.	One	(1)	in	Hangar #6(CTK)
4.	One	(1)	in	the Sheet Metal Shop, Bldg. #1791.
5.	One	(1)	in	the ISO Dock area in Hangar #7.
6.	One	(1)	in	the AGE Shop
Section 4	- Information Provided to the Union
(A)	The Company will furnish to the Union Business Representative information, as required by law.
(B)	In the event of an employee being suspended or terminated, the Company will notify the appropriate Shop Steward or Chief Steward within twenty four (24) hours.
- 11 -
ARTICLE III
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATION
Section 1	- Definitions
A.	Grievance -The term grievance as used in this Agreement is a claim involving the interpretation, application or claim of breach or violation of applicable provision(s) of this Agreement that the Company or an employee has not been able to adjust. The grievance must identify the applicable provision(s) of the Agreement that is claimed to have breached or violated and the remedy sought. All references and procedures in this Article which refer to “employee” grievances refer to the Company as well, as the Company also has the right to file a grievance under this Article.
B.	Union Official -The term Union Official as used in this agreement means, Any DynCorp personnel elected to hold Local Lodge 24 Executive Board positions.
Section 2	- Grievance Procedure
Step One. The parties agree that all complaints and grievances should be resolved, whenever possible, with the immediate supervisor and the employee involved. It is the intent and purpose of the parties to provide a fair and equitable procedure for the orderly settlement of all grievances. Any employee with a complaint or issue should contact the appropriate supervisor within five (5) business days after the employee had knowledge or should of have knowledge of the alleged occurrence in order to discuss and resolve the issue. Both parties will make every effort to resolve the issue. The employee may have his/her Union Business Representative and Chief Steward and a Steward and a Union Official and any witnesses deemed necessary by the union who will give first hand testimony present if desired. The Company shall inform the employee of the right to have a Union Representative present prior to the start of any investigation meeting that could lead to discipline, however no settlement shall be made without the presence of a Union Official or Chief Steward / Steward.
Any grievance settlements at Step One of the grievance process, whether by concession, withdrawal. settlement agreement or resolution actions or a failure of either party to abide by the time limits of this section, shall not constitute a precedent binding the Company or the Union, unless the parties agree, in writing that such settlement shall set a precedent binding on future grievances.
Step Two	If the grievance is not satisfactorily settled as outlined in Step one (1), a written
grievance may then be presented to the Branch Manager or his designated representative no later than five (5) working days after receipt by the Union Assigned Business Representative and/or Union Official of the decision rendered in Step One (1) hereof. The Branch Manager and/or designated company representatives shall meet with the Union Business Representative and Chief Steward and Grievant and Stewards and a Union Official and any witnesses deemed necessary by the union who will give first hand testimony in an attempt to resolve the matter and render a written decision thereon within five (5) working days after said meeting/appeal. If a settlement is reached, it will be reduced to written form and the matter shall be considered closed. If the Branch Manager fails to provide a written decision within this time limit, the grievance remedy shall be
- 12 -
advanced to the next step of this procedure.
Any grievance settlements at Step two of the grievance process, whether by concession, withdrawal, settlement agreement or resolution actions or a failure of either party to abide by the time limits of this section, shall not constitute a precedent binding the Company or the Union, unless the parties agree, in writing that such settlement shall set a precedent binding on future grievances.
Step Three If not satisfactorily settled as outlined in Step Two (2) above, the written grievance may then be presented to the Director of Maintenance or Business Manager no later than five (5) working days after receipt by the Union Assigned Union Business Representative and/or Union Official of the decision rendered in Step two (2) hereof. The Director of Maintenance and/or Business Manager and/or designated company representatives shall meet with the Union Business Representative and Chief Steward and Grievant and Stewards and Union Officials and any witnesses deemed necessary by the union who will give first hand testimony in an attempt to resolve the matter and render a written decision thereon within five (5) working days after said meeting/appeal. If a settlement is reached it will be reduced to written form on the grievance form and the matter shall then be considered closed. If the Director of Maintenance or Business Manager fails to provide a written decision within this time limit, the grievance remedy shall be advanced to the next step of this procedure.
Any grievance settlements at Step Three of the grievance process, whether by concession, withdrawal, settlement agreement or resolution actions or a failure of either party to abide by the time limits of this section, shall not constitute a precedent binding the Company or the Union, unless the parties agree, in writing that such settlement shall set a precedent binding on future grievances.
If the parties fail to resolve the grievance as outlined in Step Three, the Union may appeal the grievance to arbitration within thirty (30) days after written decision of step three.
Grievances arising out of a suspension without pay or a discharge shall be submitted directly to Step three described in Section 2 herein. Should the Union elect to pursue such a grievance, the written grievance signed by the employee must be submitted to the Director of Maintenance or Business Manager within five (5) working days of the effective date of the action. If a written grievance is not submitted to the Director ofMaintenance or Business Manager within five (5) working days of the effective date of the action, the right of the employee or Union to grieve the action is waived and no further action can be taken thereon. Such failure to act timely shall not set a precedent binding upon the Union or the Company for future grievances.
It is understood that a Union Official or Chief Steward may file grievances on behalf of the Union's interest under this agreement. Therefore, if a grievance pertains to the Company's interpretation of the intent and purpose of the application of a specific article and section of this agreement that has wide bargaining unit effect, the grievance may be filed by a Union Official on behalf of the Union. Further, if a grievance relates to policy and affects numerous employees, the grievance shall be consolidated and filed by the Chief Steward on behalf of the group of employees
(A)	If the two parties' representatives are unable to reach a settlement; either party may request a list of qualified arbitrators from the United States Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service within thirty (30) days of the written decision and notify the other party of such request. The request shall be
- 13 -
for a list of seven (7) arbitrators. The Union and the Company shall alternately strike one name from such list (the right to strike the first name having been determined by lot) until only one name remains and that person shall be the arbitrator.
(B)	It is understood that the time limits specified herein may be extended by mutual written agreement of the parties.
(C)	The Company and the Union may mutually agree to combine the grievance of an employee and other similarly affected employee's in order to eliminate the need for multiple filings of grievances. If no other Agreement on this issue is reached, either party may request an Arbitrator to combine the grievances and the Arbitrator's decision is final.
(D)	The Company and the Union may mutually agree in writing to waive any prior step of the grievance procedure and proceed directly to Step three of the grievance procedure as it is described in Section 2 of this section.
(E)	The Union shall have authority, with respect to any employee covered by this Agreement, to decline to process a grievance, complaint, or dispute if in the judgment of the Union such grievance or dispute lacks merit or justification under the terms and conditions of this Agreement, or has been adjusted or justified under the terms of the Agreement to the satisfaction of the Union.
(F)	It is mutually agreed that should an employee be unavailable to sign a grievance form and deliver it to the Company within the time limits specified in Steps Two and Three of the grievance procedure, the Union may forward the grievance unsigned.
(G)	No employee shall be discharged, suspended or otherwise disciplined without just or sufficient cause.
Any employee, who had been discharged, or suspended, shall be granted an interview with his Union Official before he/she is required to leave the premises when practical.
In all cases involving discharge, demotion or other discipline, the employee involvedandthe Union Official shall be notified in writing of the action and the reason for such action.
Section 3	- Arbitration
(A)	The parties' representatives shall make the necessary arrangements to arbitrate the grievance. In the event the parties' representatives are unable to agree upon the issue, the arbitrator shall determine the issue.
(B)	The arbitrator shall have the authority to determine, the rules of evidence and procedure and
to adjourn or continue the hearing from time to time. All expenses incurred by the arbitrator including the fee and expenses which he authorized in connection with the arbitration, shall be shared equally by the parties. Costs incurred by the respective parties for their witness(es) shall be borne by the respective party.
(C)	This Agreement constitutes a contract between the parties which shall be interpreted and
applied by the parties and by the arbitrator in the same manner as any other contract under the laws of the land. The function and purpose of the arbitrator is to determine disputed interpretation of terms actually found in the Agreement, or to determine disputed facts upon which the application of the Agreement depends. The arbitrator shall have the authority to interpret and apply the provisions of this agreement. The arbitrator shall not have the authority to amend or modify this Agreement or to
- 14 -
establish new terms and conditions of this Agreement. The decision of the arbitrator shall be in writing and shall not be made until both parties have had reasonable opportunity to present their case, together with oral arguments. The parties shall file post hearing briefs within thirty (30) days of the hearing. The thirty (30) day requirement may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties. Said decision shall be given not later than thirty (30) days after the date the post hearing briefs are received by the arbitrator. It is understood and agreed that a decision of the arbitrator made in accordance with the requirements hereof shall be final and binding on both parties and the employee(s).
(D)	The parties will conduct arbitration cases at a location within twenty-five miles of Andrews Air Force Base.
- 15 -
ARTICLE IV
SENIORITY
Section 1	- Basis of Seniority and Establishment of Seniority Rights
(A)	Probationary Period
All employees shall be considered probationary employees for the first sixty (60) working days of active employment. During this period, all new hires will be required to complete a union orientation not to exceed thirty (30) minutes in duration per session. Throughout this period, supervision will evaluate the probationary employee as to such factors as, but not limited to, work habits, willingness to accept varied work assignments and training, safety, productivity, quality of work, attendance, and ability to work with others. Upon completion of his/her probationary period, the employee will become a regular employee whose seniority will be retroactive to his/her first day of employment. Supervisory determinations as to retention, reassignment, or termination of probationary employees anytime during the sixty (60) working day probationary period are not subject to the Grievance and Arbitration Articles of this Agreement.
(B)	Company Seniority
For purposes of this Agreement, Seniority of an employee is the length of his/her accumulated service with the Company as defined solely by the Company or its predecessor company.
Company seniority begins on the date the employee was hired by the Company or by a predecessor of the Company,in any job classification provided for in this agreement and represents all accumulated time for which the employee has served as an employee of the Company or a predecessor of the Company.
(C)	Bargaining Unit Seniority
For employees covered by this Collective Bargaining Agreement, effective October 1, 2005 Bargaining Unit Seniority begins on the date the employee was hired by the Company, at the specific site covered by this CBA, in any job classification provided for in this Agreement representing all continuous service at the site since the inception of the service contract. Bargaining unit seniority represents all accumulated time for which the employee has served as an employee of the Company at the specific Company site governed by this CBA.
For employees hired after ratification of the agreement,Bargaining Unit Seniority begins upon the hire or transfer date to the site covered by this collective bargaining agreement.
When two (2) or more employees have the same seniority date, seniority will be determined by alphabetical order starting with the employee’s last name, first name, and if necessary middle name.
(D)	Re-entering the Bargaining Unit
An employee who re-enters the bargaining unit within six (6) months from a position taken outside the bargaining unit but within the Company may return to the last classification held, provided a vacancy is open for that classification and he/she meets the definition of fully qualified as defined in Article IV, Section 2 and has sufficient bargaining unit seniority to return. For purposes of this paragraph, bargaining unit seniority does not accumulate while outside the bargaining unit.
- 16 -
(E)	Seniority for vacation eligibility and benefit determination purposes will not be affected by Sec 1(D) above. The employee’s bargaining unit seniority would be frozen until such time as the employee returned to the bargaining unit within the six (6) month period contained in Sec. 1(D) above and would accumulate going forward from the date of return.
Section 2	- Application of Seniority
(A)	Job openings/vacancies for all positions shall be awarded based on Bargaining Unit Seniority within classification and qualifications.
(B)	CONUS TDY assignments shall be made on the basis of a rotating seniority list of volunteers within classification and qualifications. Any employee who had volunteered to be on the list who refuses such an assignment will be moved to the bottom of the list. In the event of insufficient volunteers assignments will be made in reverse seniority order among those qualified in the applicable classification(s).
(C)	Time permitting for CONUS MRTsand CONUS PLs the senior qualified volunteer employee within the classification and qualifications on the then working shift will be offered the assignment.
(D)	Effective September I, 2012 based on the number of employees designated by the Company, within classifications and qualifications, will be offered in seniority order to volunteer for OCONUS TDYs. This pool will be put into use when all volunteers have received all necessary shots and obtained passports. OCONUS TDY assignments shall be made on the basis of a rotating seniority list of volunteers in the pool within classification and qualifications. Any employee who had volunteered to be on the list who refuses such an assignment will be moved to the bottom of the list. In the event of insufficient volunteers assignments will be made in reverse seniority order among those qualified in the applicable classification(s) within the pool.
(E)	The Company will pay for all shots, passports and any other requirements related to OCONUS TDYs as defined in Article Vll, Section 9.
Section 3	-Layoffs and Recalls
When a reduction is required, the affected employee(s) and the Chief Steward will be notified by the applicable supervisors ten (10) working days in advance of such a reduction.
When a reduction is required, probationary employees will be laid off first. When a reduction is required in any Electronic Technician (ET) classification in a Branch, the least senior ET employee(s) will be laid off by Branch.
When a reduction is required in the Maintenance Branch, the least senior employee(s) in the Work Center/Classification to be reduced will be laid off. When a reduction is required in the Helicopter Branch, the least senior employee(s) in the Classification to be reduced will be laid off. When a reduction is required in the Aircraft Branch, the least senior employee(s) in the Classification to be reduced will be laid off. Transient Alert Center will be treated separately as an individual Work Center for the purposes of this Article IV, Section 2. When a reduction is required in the Transient Alert Center, the least senior employee(s) in the Work Center/Classification to be reduced will be laid off. Before hiring the Company will recall the most senior laid off Employee(s) to perform the work in areas from which laid off.
- 17 -
As an exception to Sec 3(c) of this Article IV, when an employee reports within five (5) days in response to recall that he or she cannot report to work within fifteen (15) days due to a temporary disability as documented by a Doctor's note, that employee will be permitted to report to work within thirty (30) days. During such delay, the Company may recall the next senior employee to perform the work. An employee who refuses such a temporary recall will still be eligible for recall as defined in this Article IV.
Section 4	- Loss of Seniority
Employees shall lose all seniority rights and employment shall cease for any of the following reasons:
a.	Resignation
b.	Discharge for just cause.
c.	Failure to report to work within fifteen (15) days after recall from layoff.
d.	Absence due to layoff for	twenty-fourmonths.
e.	If the employee fails to return from a Company approved Leave of Absence, within 3
calendar days, unless extended by the Division Manager.
f.	If the employee gives a false reason for a Leave of Absence or engages in gainful
employment with another employer during such leave.
g.	If any monetary settlement is made with an employee covering total disability.
h.	If an employee falsifies information on his/her application for employment. The falsity
may become known at any time after the employee’s date of hire.
i.	No call no show for work for three (3) consecutive scheduled workdays, unless
extended by the Division Manager.
j.	Failure for any reason, to secure a government clearance within twelve (12)from date of
hire in accordance with Article I, Section 7.
k.	Refusal to take a drug test directed by the Company, as required by Company Policy.
Section 5	-Seniority List & Seniority Rights
(A)	Seniority List
The Company shall prepare and maintain a Seniority List by classification and Branch to record the Company seniority and bargaining unit seniority of each employee in the bargaining unit. This list will be made available in each branch. Bargaining Unit employees shall have access to the list. The Union Stewards and Chief Steward shall each be provided an electronic copy of the Seniority List and shall be notified of all changes on a quarterly basis. Monthly, the Company shall provide a list to the Chief Steward with the names of bargaining unit employees who have resigned, who are promoted outside of the bargaining unit and who have gone on a leave of absence. Each employee shall have the right to grieve any error in his/herseniority status. Any Company data including seniority list(s) that is stamped Proprietary, Confidential or Company Private, etc. furnished to the Union needs to be protected as
- 18 -
Company proprietary information and cannot be given to outside third parties. Information provided to the Union shall not be duplicated.
(B)	A laid off employee will continue to retain and accumulate seniority for twenty-four (24) months. After this twenty-four (24) month period, if the employee is not recalled, he/she will lose all seniority.
Section 6	-Job/ Vacancy Openings
A Job Opening and a Vacancy shall be defined as a need for a person to fill a position that consists of days off, hours of work, crew assignment and work center/branch
All job openings will be posted on a posting board in each branch for five (5) working days.
The posted Job Opening/Vacancy will consist of the Job Description contained in this CBA along with the work center, crew, shift and Regular Days Off for the position.
Copies of all Job Opening/Vacancy will be given to the Chief Steward.
Employees who apply for a position and are not selected will be given feedback why he or she was not selected by the hiring manager within one week after selection. The Chief Steward will be notified of the selection of an employee for a Job Opening/Vacancy and given a list of those who applied and were not selected for the opening within a week after selection.
Any employee can apply for a Job Opening/Vacancyby completing an application form provided by the Company along with a current resume.
Any employee promoted will serve a thirty (30) day probationary period during which time he or she may be removed from such a position for failure to meet performance requirements. An employee so removed will be returned to his or her previous position.
Section 7	- Shop Steward/Executive Board Seniority
To the extent permissible under Law, Shop Stewards and members of the Executive Board employed by the Company shall be given seniority over all employees whom they represent during reduction in forces, provided there is full time work in their classification. If there is not such full time work, the Company will assign such Employee to a position commensurate with his/her skills and experience.
If for any reason an employee ceases to hold one of the specified Union positions and, as a result, no longer has sufficient natural bargaining unit seniority to remain in the classification, the employee shall be transferred or subject to layoff in accordance with the seniority principles of this Agreement. The Union shall promptly notify the Company in writing when there is a change in the designation of Shop Stewards or members of Shop Committees.
- 19 -
ARTICLE V
EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS
Section 1	- Working Conditions
(A)	General
The Company agrees to maintain working conditions in all its operations and working establishments in accordance with Federal Law and the laws of the State, County and City of its place of operation.
(B)	Safety Rules and Regulations
1)	Employees shall be required to comply with all safety rules and regulations established by the Company and government agencies and to wear such protective clothing or use such safety equipment as may be required and furnished by the Company.
2)	The Union may assign up to two (2) employees in addition to the Chief Steward as members of the Site Program Safety Committee to participate in the meeting of the Safety Committee and to investigate employee health and safety concerns after notification to their Supervisor and the applicable Branch Manager in the area being investigated.
3)	The Company shall provide emergency first aid kits in each tool room, or work center to care for the employees in case of injury.
4)	The Company shall notify the applicable Union Steward and or Chief Steward of employee on the job injuries which occur in a work center within a reasonable amount of time after the injured employee notifies the Company.
5)	No employee will be disciplined or threatened with discipline or will suffer any change in his/her working conditions as result of said employee bringing health or safety concerns to the attention of the Company, Union or Government Agencies.
6)	No employee will be disciplined or threatened with discipline or will suffer any change to his/her working conditions as result of calling “Knock it Off”.
(C)	Clothing and Safety Equipment
As directed by the Company, no protective clothing and safety equipment will be utilized by the employee during his/her performance of jobs requiring such equipment unless first sanitized by the employee.
(D)	Acts of Sabotage
Employees will use their best efforts to prevent any acts of sabotage or willful damage to Company property or employee property or materials. To that end, all employees will immediately report to their supervisor any acts of sabotage or willful damage to property or materials, or any threat to sabotage or willfully damaging such property.
- 20 -
(E)	Medical Examinations
Should the Company have reason to believe an employee covered hereby is physically or mentally unable to satisfactorily perform the duties of his/her job classification, such employee shall be required to take such medical examination as may be directed by the Company. The Company shall pay for such examination. The Company will select a board certified physician that will conduct the medical examination. In the event the Company requires a medical examination for the purposes of job requirement for non-probationary employees, the cost of the examination shall be borne by the Employer. When such an active employee loses time from his or her regularly scheduled work day to attend such an examination, that lost time will be paid. When a Company scheduled examination under this paragraph (E) is delayed, the employee will be provided work or pay in lieu thereof pending the receipt of the report of that examination which releases the employee to return to work.
(F)	On-The -Job Injury
An employee injured on the job, who is taken off the job for treatment will receive pay for the remainder of his scheduled work day and the day after the injury, unless compensable under Workers Compensation. If the employee’s injury is serious enough to preclude his return to work, where necessary, the Company will furnish transportation as soon as possible for an injured employee to receive medical treatment.
(G)	Employee Assistance
1)	Employee assistance support related to substance abuse problems will be established
at work sites based on duration of the contract, number of employees assigned to the site, and the availability of local resources.
2)	The company will provide an Employee Assistance Program (EAP). Their (800)
number will be posted at each company work-site.
3)	The EAP will provide contacts with local substance abuse counseling agencies and related organizations. The purpose of these contacts will be to obtain assistance in establishing local sources for counseling, education and training, and rehabilitation programs.
4)	Employees seeking assistance will be assured that the strictest possible confidentiality
will be maintained at all times regarding their activities.
5)	Employees who voluntarily admit to a drug/alcohol abuse problem will be granted
leave without pay to participate in a rehabilitation program and shall be entitled to Short Term Disability Benefits during the leave period. A “Request for Leave Of Absence” form will be obtained through Management channels.
(H)	COR Reports
The company shall not discipline any employee as a result of Contract Office Representative (COR) or Quality Assurance reports without the Company investigating the report prior to the issuance of discipline. The employee will be offered Union representation before any such discipline is issued.
- 21 -
(I)	Medical Leave of Absence
Employees who are on a Medical Leave of Absence, MLOA, due to an on the job injury will not be terminated until after fifteen (15) months. All other Medical Leaves of Absences will be six (6) months.
Section 2	-Training/ New Technology
(A)	Hazardous Material Training
Training and certification for hazardous material handling will be accomplished in accordance with applicable State and Federal guidelines.
(B)	New Technology
The Company and the Union agree that it is to their mutual benefit and sound economic and social goals to utilize the most efficient machines, processes, systems, methods and/or materials. In this way, the Company will be able to compete effectively in the marketplace.
In order that employees can better prepare themselves for the skill requirements of the future and in its fulfillment of its obligation to provide information to the Union, the Company will provide notification to the Union full-time Business Representative or his designee of the Company's plans for the introduction of new technology which may affect the employees. This notification will inform the Union of anticipated schedules of introduction of new technology, and will identify areas of skill impacts and any training programs, which may be associated with those impacts. The Union and its representatives will protect the confidentiality of Company sensitive and proprietary information disclosed in the notification. The Company will provide employees in the affected classification(s) in the bargaining unit the opportunity to volunteer for the training. If in its sole discretion the Company decides to provide training, the most senior employee in the applicable classification who volunteers will be selected for training.
(C)	Training Assignments
When the Company requires training, the most senior volunteer in the applicable classification will be selected.
(D)	Work Assignments
No Employee will be required to work independently on an aircraft or on an aircraft system or on any other equipment or process on which he/she has not been properly trained as determined by his or her training records at the system level.
Section 3	- Employee Records
Documentation of disciplinary action will be expired for the purposes of future progressive discipline as follows:
Memo for Record: six (6) months
Letter Of Reprimand: eighteen (18) months (or twelve (12) months if there is no additional offense within that twelve (12) month period).
Disciplinary Suspension: twenty-four (24) months.
- 22 -
ARTICLE VI
EMPLOYEE PRIVILEGES
Section 1-Vacations
A.	Definitions
1)	The term "seniority" as used in this Section, shall be the Company Seniority to which
an employee is entitled under the provisions of Article IV Section 1 of this Agreement.
2)	Pay for each week of vacation for a full-time employee means pay for forty (40) hours
at the employee's base rate of pay excluding shift differential.
3)	Earned vacationcredits as used in this Article shall vest on the employee’s
anniversary date until January 1, 2013. Effective January 1, 2013vacation vests bi-weekly
B.	Vacation
Effective September 1, 2012, employees covered by this agreement shall accrue vacation credits for each creditable work week based on their length of continuous service; however the amount of accrued vacation earned yearly shall vest on the employee’s annual anniversary date as stated in Section 1.
Effective January 1, 2013, all employee’s accrued vacation becomes vested. Effective January 1, 2013, employees covered by this agreement shall vest vacation credits on a bi-weekly basis for each creditable workweek based on their length of continuous service.
An employee may carry over vested paid vacation time off up to the maximum balance that is equal to the amount an employee can vest in the year after his or her last anniversary date in which the vacation accrued. Every effort will be made between the employee and his/her supervisor to schedule vacation time as to minimize the amount of carry over hours. In the event that vacation time cannot be scheduled, an employee will receive pay in lieu of paid time off for all vested paid vacation benefits that exceed the maximum that can be carried over.
Length of service
Accrual Rate	Annual Hours Annual Days
(A)	0 - 48 months (1-4 years)	2.15	112	14
(B)	49 months - 120 months (5-10 years)	3.08	160	20
(C)	Over 120 months (11 years or more)	4.00	208	26
For the purpose of this Article, length of service is defined as continuous service with the Company, wherever employed, and continuous service with the predecessor contractor(s) in the performance of similar work at Andrews Air Force Base, MD.
For the length of service, an ‘A’ employee accrues vacation at the 2.15 hours rate per credited work week from his/her hire date, “on the contract” without a break in service through four (4) full years; upon celebrating his/her actual anniversary date of five (5) full years of service, an employee becomes a ‘B’ level employee and begins to accrue at the 3.08 hours rate per credited work week. Upon celebrating his/her actual anniversary date of eleven (11) full years of service, an employee becomes a ‘C” level employee and begins to accrue at the 4.00 hours rate per credited workweek.
- 23 -
C.	Scheduling of Vacation
1)	Consideration will be given to the employee's personal plans and preference for a suitable time which is acceptable, except that no more than one preferred vacation period or date per employee may be scheduled in any one calendar year. The Company shall endeavor to honor vacation requests as scheduled. If a conflict exists prior to vacation approval, bargaining seniority shall govern, however mission requirements must be met. Once approved, vacation leave will not be bumped for seniority.
2)	Earned vacation may be taken in consecutive weeks or in one (1) week increments or in one (1) day increments or in hourly increments with forty-eight (48) hours of advance notice. Once an employee has submitted a vacation request, the supervisor shall notify the employee in writing within twenty-four (24) hours after submission of vacation request of the approval/disapproval of vacation. Up to two (2) days of vested vacation may be used to cover absence due to illness in one (1) day increments in each employee’s anniversary year provided the employee calls at least one hour in advance from the appropriate supervisor. An employee who uses such two days of vacation will not be assessed points under the Time and Attendance Policy.
(D) Vacation Benefits for an employee who terminates or is terminated, laid off, or who entered the Armed Forces.
(1)	An employee who has vested vacation with pay which has not been used at the time he/she terminates, retires, is terminated, enters the Armed Forces, is laid off, or who dies shall receive such pay for such unused vacation as he/she has earned under the provisions of Subsection (A) and (B) of this Section.
(2)	From September 1, 2012 through December 31, 2012, accrued non-vested vacation benefits will be paid only under one of the following conditions or as required by any applicable legislation either Federal or State in the jurisdiction. After December 31, 2012 there is no accrued non-vested vacation.
(a)	The termination is caused by employee’s death or retirement.
(b)	The employee enlists or is drafted into the Armed Forces of the United States.
(c)	As defined by other applicable federal, State or local law or statute.
Section 2	- Military Reserve Training Leave
(A) An employee on the active payroll of the company who is required to engage annually in up to ten (10) days of military reserve training shall be granted a leave of absence for the period of “annual training” (annual training is not defined as the monthly commitment) and shall be paid the difference between the pay received for the training period and the amount of wages the employee would have received for his normal ten (10) day work schedule. Normal, for the purposes of this section shall mean an eight-hour day work schedule for each day of training at the employee's rate of pay, excluding shift differential.
- 24 -
Section 3	- Bereavement Leave
All employees shall be allowed time off, with pay, in the event of a death in their immediate family as follows:
(A)	Four (4) workdays at the employee’s base rate of pay, in the event of the death of the employee’s father, mother, spouse, sister, brother, children, grandchildren,mother in law, father in law, and step relationships to include child, mother, father, brother or sister. "Children" includes a foster child who dies while placed in the employee's home by a State Agency. An unpaid leave of absence may be granted if the above four (4) days are insufficient.
(B)	Two (2) workdays at the employee’s base rate of pay, in the event of the death of the employee’s brother-in-law, sister-in-law or grandparents, aunt, uncle. An unpaid leave of absence may be granted if the above two (2)days are insufficient.
Section 4	- Leaves Without Pay
(A)	Leaves of absence up to thirty (30) days without pay may be granted at the sole discretion of the Branch Manager. Leaves of absence greater than thirty (30) days for a period not to exceed ninety (90) calendar days without pay may be granted at the sole discretion of the Division Manager. A request for leave must be submitted on a Request for Leave of Absence form, and approved in writing by the Branch/Division Manager prior to the effective date of the leave. A copy of the approved or denied request must be given to the employee. In the event an employee protests the Branch Manager’s refusal to grant a leave of absence, the matter will be referred to the Division Manager or his designee for final determination. Only the Division Manager or his designee may extend a leave of absence.
(B)	In the case of emergency such as death, serious illness, or injury of a member of the employee’s family, a Leave Request may be processed without the employee's signature and subsequent to the employee's departure; however, such emergency leave must be promptly reported, approved by the Branch Manager and forwarded to the Human Resources Office.
(C)	For good and sufficient reason the Company may extend the period of the leave. The leave of absence, properly approved, shall not in any way jeopardize the employee's standing with the Company.
(D)	Employees elected or selected to full-time jobs in the local Union or the International Union, which take them from their employment with the Company shall receive leave of absence, without pay, for a maximum of one (1) year.
(E)	Leaves of absence without pay will be granted by the Company on two weeks written requestof the Union to persons designated by the Union for Official Union business to attend conventions and/or educational training.
(F)	The Company will comply with all Federal posting requirements and responsibilities under the Family and Medical Leave Act.
(G)	Extended military leaves of absence will be administered in accordance with the Uniformed Member Employment Rights Act
- 25 -
Section 5	- Holidays
(A)	Employees shall be granted the following holidays yearly during the life of the agreement:
New Year's Day
Martin Luther King Jr. Birthday
Memorial Day
Independence Day
Labor Day
Veteran's Day
Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Two (2)Floating Holidays
A Floating Holiday may be taken with seventy- two (72) hours of advanced notice. Once an employee has submitted a Floating Holiday request, the supervisor shall notify the employee within twenty-four (24) hours after submission of the Floating Holiday request of the approval/disapproval of the request.
(B)	Full pay for eight (8) hours at the employee base rate of pay excluding shift differential. Fringe benefits for all hours paid shall be paid to employees for each of these holidays regardless of the day of the week upon which the holiday falls or for any day for which holiday pay is due under this Article.
(C)	In order to be eligible for holiday pay, an employee must have worked or have been on a vacation or authorized paid leave the last workday before or the first workday after the holiday; except that when the holiday falls on the day before employment or the day after termination, the employee shall not receive holiday pay.
(D)	Should any the above-named holiday fall on a Saturday or Sunday, the day observed by the Federal Government shall be considered the holiday. Should any of the above-named holiday fall on an employee’s regularly scheduled day off, the holiday may be observed on the last day prior to, or the first day following the employees day off. In the event the holiday falls on the employee’s scheduled workday the employee may.
(a)	Move the holiday to the week before or the week after his normally scheduled days off, or
(b)	Take off the actual day of the holiday
On weeks containing regular Holidays, Management will provide the employeesan opportunity to earn the full straight time pay for that week less the hours paid for that Holiday
The Company reserves the right to require employees covered in this Agreement to perform work on holidays or reschedule holidays in order to meet contractual requirements. When such work is required, employees selected shall be given as much advanced notice as possible.
(E)	If one or more of the above holidays occurs while an employee is on an authorized vacation, holiday pay will be substituted for a vacation day.
Section 6	- Rest and Lunch Periods
(A) Unpaid lunch periods of at least thirty (30) minutes and no greater than one (1) hour will be established by the work center supervisor.
- 26 -
Section 7	- Jury Duty
(A)	When an employee is absent from work in order to serve as a juror or to report to the court in person in response to a jury duty summons, or to serve as a witness at the request of the Company, he shall be paid for those hours for which he is absent from work for such reason during his normal 8-hour work day or normal 5-day work week, less the fee or other compensation paid him with respect to such jury duty. In order to receive pay under this section, the employee must deliver to the Branch Manager the summons calling him for such duty within three (3) working days after it is received by him.
(B)	Pay for such work time lost shall be computed at the employee's base rate of pay and flexible
benefit credit but excluding shift differential pay, at the time of absence. In no case will payment be made for jury duty performed on the sixth or seventh day of an employee's standard workweek or for hours in excess of the employee's regular scheduled work shift.
(C)	An employee must promptly notify his Branch Manager of any notice the employee receives to report for jury duty and must provide the Company with a statement filed by an official of the court certifying the employee's service as a juror or appearance in court for that purpose, and the compensation paid, excluding transportation allowance. Certification from the court clerk must be obtained and turned into the payroll section for all dates the employee is required to appear.
(D)	In no event shall payment under this Article be paid to an employee who is on non-
compensatory or approved time off.
Section 8	- Employee Benefits
The benefits provided and/or offered to employees covered by this Agreement are detailed in Appendix B, Benefits, of this Agreement.
Section 9	- Temporary Duty Assignments (TDY)
(A) Employees who are temporarily assigned away from the site, to which they are permanently assigned to perform work for the Company, will have their transportation provided for by the Company. Such employees will be reimbursed for travel expenses in accordance with the Joint Travel Regulations provided the employee complies with said regulations. The Joint Travel Regulations will be made available to the Union upon request. The Company will pay any additional cost for lodging above the rates listed in the JTR, if the employee has obtained approval from the Branch Manager prior to incurring such expense.
(B)If the employee travels by personally owned vehicle (POV) or company provided vehicle, and the use of such conveyance is Company-directed, the actual time of travel from departure to arrival at the worksite or quarters will be used for the travel time. For travel by POV or Company provided vehicle, travel shall not exceed twelve (12) hours in a twenty-four (24) hour period. Travel time is considered time worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
(C) Employees on TDY assignment will be paid their normal classification rate.
- 27 -
ARTICLE VII
PAY PROVISIONS
Section 1-	Wages
(A) Definitions:
An employee's "base rate", for purpose of this Agreement, shall be the straight time hourly rate of pay applicable to that employee’s classification provided for in Appendix A.
Section 2-	Overtime
(A)	The Company reserves the right to require employees covered in this Agreement to perform overtime work in order to meet contractual requirements. When such overtime is required employees selected shall be given as much advance notice as possible.
(B)	An employee will work no overtime unless the proper supervisory personnel of the Company have authorized it in writing.
(C)	When overtime is assigned, employees will be compensated at a rate of one and one half (1%) times their regular rate for all hours worked or traveled in excess of forty (40) hours in their normal pay week, computed on an actual minute basis and adjusted to the nearest tenth of an hour.
(D)	Overtime shall be subject to policies established for each Work Center. The parties shall establish overtime policies while keeping the intent of fairness in the distribution to qualified personnel.
(E)	For the purpose of this Section, hours worked includes paid vacation, paid holidays, and paidtravel time.
(F)	Overtime pay will be computed at the employee’s base rate of pay including shift differential.
(G)	When an employee is scheduled for mandatory work on his/her regularly scheduled day off, and such work is cancelled, the employee will receive three (3) hours pay at the employee’s base rate of pay.
Section 3	- Hours and Days of Work
(A)	The purpose of this article is to define the normal hours of work, but nothing in this agreement shall be construed as a guarantee of work for any period.
(B)	The standard workday will consist of twenty-four (24) consecutive hours beginning at 0001 hours and ending at 2400 hours (the calendar day).
(C)	The pay week shall begin at 0001 hours on Friday and end at 2400 hours Thursday except for mid-shift. In the event the Company changes the pay week, the Company will provide its employees and the Union with thirty- (30) days notice.
(D)	Forty (40) hours shall constitute the normal week. However, the Company reserves the right to engage, alter, or rotate personnel to work forty (40) hours other than those constituting the
- 28 -
normal work week for the purpose of seven (7) day coverage. In the event that a compressed work schedule is approved by the Company for a Work Center one possible schedule could be as follows:
The normal pay period to consist of one normal thirty-six (36) hour work week and one normal forty-four (44) hour work week. All such hours to be paid at the straight time rate to the extent permissible by Law. Hours worked in excess of the normal hours of work in a compressed work schedule work week to be paid at the rate of time and one-half to the extent permissible by Law.
(E)	Employees	tardy solely because of being verifiably delayed at the gates by the	military will not
be counted	as tardy and will be allowed to complete the hours of their scheduled	work shift.
(F)	Flex Time.	The parties agree that work schedules may need to be temporarily	altered to meet
the needs of employees from time to time. To accommodate absences that are anticipated, an employee may request to alter his/her regularly scheduled hours of work within a workweek. For example, an employee may plan to work two extra hours on Monday in order to leave two hours early for a personal commitment on Tuesday. Work schedule modifications may only occur with notification and approval of the respective supervisor.
Section 4	- Pay Period
(A)	Pay checks shall be issued to employees within eight (8) days after the last day of the pay period and shall represent the earnings of the employee from Friday, the beginning of the first week through Thursday the evening of the second week.
(B)	Payday will customarily be on Friday.
(C)	In the event the Company accounting department changes pay periods, the Company will provide the Union and its employees a thirty- (30) day notice of such a change.
Section 5	- Promotional Increases
When an employee is promoted to a higher paying job classification, his/her base rate will be adjusted to the base rate shown in Appendix A on the date the employee begins work on the new job.
Section 6	- Temporary Promotions
Employees who are temporarily promoted to a higher paid job classification will have his/her base rate adjusted to the rate of pay in effect for the higher paid job for all time spent working in said classification.
Section 7	- Report Time and Call-Back Time
An employee reporting for work in the absence of notice not to report, or an employee called in to work on one of his scheduled days off, or an employee who is recalled after completing a day's assignment and has clocked out and left the facility, shall receive not less than three (3)hours pay at the straight time rate of pay except in cases of emergency beyond the Company’s control considered to be Acts of God.
- 29 -
An employee who is contacted outside of normal hours by a Supervisor or his/her designated representative to answer a work related question will be paid a minimum of thirty (30) minutes and for one (1) hour if the call exceeds thirty (30) minutes.
Section 8	- Uniforms and Tools.
(A)	The Company will provide uniforms (11 shirts and 9 pants, 2 jackets (light and heavy) and coveralls (as required for selected individuals) for all employees per contract year. Also, the Company will provide a safety boot / shoe allowance of one hundred thirty five dollars ($135.00) per contract year for the length of this agreement. The employee must provide proof of purchase to the Branch Manager to obtain the allowed reimbursement. If allowance is not used for the purchase of boots/shoes, the employee may elect to purchase rain gear, and be reimbursed as long as a receipt is provided to the company. The employee shall be reimbursed up to the yearly allowance provided by the contract.
(B)	The Company will provide all work tools required to perform work under this contract. Tools
other than Company provided are not authorized in accordance with Customer Policy and Regulations and are strictly prohibited.
Section 9	- Costs of Examinations Related to Employment
All examinations related to employment, whether requested/directed by the Company, (Medical Exams, Respiratory Exams, Chest X-rays, Physical Exams, Hearing Tests, CDL License Testing, License Exams, Passport.) shall be at the Company’s expense unless otherwise defined by the Company’s new hire Offer Letter. The Company shall make provision for all exams to be taken during the employee’s normal or adjusted hours of work.
Section 10	- On-Call Pay
When employees are required to be available to respond to any means of communication,(i.e.
pagers, cell phones, etc.), for call-in duty they shall be deemed to be “On - Call” and shall receive “On - Call” pay of two dollars fifty cents($2.50) per hour for all hours when employees are required to be available to respond to any form of communications for call - in duty. On - Call duty shall be determined by rotation. On - Call pay shall not be paid for hours actually worked.
Section 11	- Effective Date of Economic Improvements
All first year economic improvements in this agreement are effective September 1, 2012 unless otherwise specified.
- 30 -
ARTICLE VIII
JOB DESCRIPTIONS
Section 1 - Application of Job Descriptions
(A)	The job descriptions included in Appendix E describe typical and normal requirements. These requirements are characteristic of the job and illustrate a level of difficulty of work and are not intended to list or describe all work operations or tasks done within the classification. These requirements do not fit all specific individual work assignments, and the description when written was stated so as to be broad enough to include all variations of work in the classifications.
(B)	If, during the term of this Agreement, it becomes necessary for the Company to establish new job classifications within the bargaining unit, the Company and the Union shall mutually agree upon the proper rate range for the new position. Operations shall not be delayed through failure to immediately agree upon a wage rate applicable to such job classification. In the event the parties fail to come to an agreement on the wage rate of a new job, the matter shall be submitted to binding arbitration under the applicable article of this Agreement and the Arbitrator shall have the authority to establish the rate of pay for any new job classification challenged under this Article.
- 31 -
ARTICLE IX
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Section 1	- Management of the Business Right to Manage
The management of the business of the Employer and the direction of its employees are the exclusive responsibilities of the Employer and that this inherent right is understood and agreed upon by the Union. The Employer reserves and retains the right to exercise solely and ultimately all its inherent management rights. The sole and exclusive rights of the Employer include but are not limited to the following. All inherent managerial prerogatives reserved by Law to the Employer; to be the sole judge of when work output shall be increased or decreased and to determine standards of productivity and to make time studies. The Employer retains the right to select and direct its workforce; to hire, to set and enforce Company Policy, classify and reclassify positions, reassign, transfer, promote, demote, discipline, suspend without pay or discharge with just cause; layoff, train, recognize and reward performance; the unilateral right to determine the number of hours of each shift or shifts to be worked; the unilateral right to establish and/or change work schedules, work shifts, and assignments for each shifts; to fix or change the work week, the work day, the number of hours of work and the number of shifts; the sole right to assign employees and/or jobs from one ‘work center’ to another, or one classification to another; to relieve employees from duty for lack of work and what it may deem other legitimate reasons; to study, or introduce new, or changed methods of providing service to its customers; to determine qualifications for promotions or demotion; to unilaterally install any security equipment or employee monitoring equipment; the sole right to determine and redetermine job content and/or job duties; to unilaterally determine an employee’s fitness for duty through drug testing; to expand, reduce, confine, or shut down any operation or service or method of service whatever may be the effect on employment; the unilateral right to make and enforce new rules and regulations and change existing rules, regulations and working conditions as the Employer deems necessary for the purpose of maintaining order, safety and health; to take such other measures as are necessary to the orderly efficient and economical operation of its business.
The Employer retails the sole right to determine the extent, means and methods of operations, to determine how many employees are needed and on what operations or jobs they shall work. The Employer shall also have the unilateral right to discontinue, change or combine existing departments; the unilateral right to sub-contract out work performed by any department or departments; or to create new departments or provide new services whatever may be the effect on employment; the right tointroduce new, changed or improved services and methods of service and the sole right to determine the facts of when a job or jobs may be added or deleted in whole or part, and when they shall cease or whether they shall be filled temporarily or permanently or staffed by temporary or permanent employees.
The parties to this Agreement hereby recognize the Company’s obligations in its contracts with the Government and nothing in this Agreement shall prevent the Company from fulfilling all its contractual obligations whatever may be the effect on employment.
The Company retains any rights, power and authority not covered in this Agreement.
- 32 -
Section 2	- Subcontracting
The Company has the unilateral right to subcontract out work that it is required to perform under its contract(s) with its customer(s)whatever may be the effect on employment. The employees do not have the right to grieve Subcontracting issues through the Grievance and Arbitration provisions contained in this Agreement.
The Union recognizes that the government may at its sole discretion perform any/all of the work performed by the Company if it so chooses direct the work to other contractors instead of the Company, direct the Company to use another Company to perform work under its contract(s), or direct the Company to take action with regard to one or more employees performing the work required under its contract (s) whatever may be the effect on employment. In such cases, the employees do not have the right to grieve through the Grievance and Arbitration provisions contained in this Agreement.
- 33 -
In witness thereof the parties hereto have caused this Collective Bargaining Agreement to be executed by their authorized agents September 1,2012
International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers District Lodge 4
Joe Flanders
Rick Compher
Gregg French
Alfonso Nuzzo
Steve Murray
Tim Hanson
Mike Kirwan
James Petty
Jason Gast
DynCorp International
George Glasser
Len Campbell
Scott Wood
RussellFatum
- 34 -
APPENDIX A
APPENDIX A
Base Hourly Rates	Current Equity Raise	Year 1 3.00%	Year 2 Year 3 3.00%	3.00%	Year 4 3.50%
Aircraft Mechanic I	$30.56	$31.48	$32.42 $33.39	$34.56
Aircraft Mechanic II	$32.09	$33.05	$34.04 $35.07	$36.29
Aircraft Mechanic III	$33.69	$34.70	$35.74 $36.81	$38.10
Aircraft Cabinetmaker	$30.56	$31.48	$32.42 $33.39	$34.56
Ground Support Equip Mech	$30.56	$31.48	$32.42 $33.39	$34.56
Electronic Tech II	$28.97	$29.84	$30.73 $31.66	$32.76
Electronic Tech III	$31.54	$32.49	$33.46 $34.46	$35.67
Electronic Tech IV	$36.17	$37.26	$38.37 $39.52	$40.91
Rotory Wing Electronic Tech III	$31.54	$32.49	$33.46 $34.46	$35.67
Rotory Wing Electronic Tech IV	$36.17	$37.26	$38.37 $39.52	$40.91
Un Ex. Ordnance II	$33.21	$34.21	$35.23 $36.29	$37.56
Flight Line Instr. |	$32.46	$33.43	$34.44 $35.47	$36.71
T ransient Alert Mechanic	$30.26	$31.17	$32.10 $33.07	$34.22
Aircraft Worker	$24.62	$25.36	$26.12 $26.90	$27.84
Mach/Tool & Die/Aerospace Welder	$30.56	$31.56	$32.51	$33.48 $34.49	$35.69
NDI Level II	$30.56	$31.48	$32.42 $33.39	$34.56
NDI Level III	$32.09	$33.05	$34.04 $35.07	$36.29
Tool & Parts Attenants	$23.12	$23.81	$24.53 $25.26	$26.15
Tool & Parts Atten/Haz Mat Monitor	$24.31	$25.04	$25.79 $26.56	$27.49
Plans & Schedulers I	$20.76	$21.38	$22.02 $22.69	$23.48
Plans & Schedulers II	$22.85	$23.54	$24.24 $24.97	$25.84
Plans & Schedulers III	$25.96	$26.74	$27.54 $28.37	$29.36
Plans & Schedulers IV	$32.21	$33.18	$34.17 $35.20	$36.43
Any employee assigned to the second shift shall receive $0.60 p/hr shift differential in addition to the base rate of pay. Any employee assigned to the third shift shall receive $0.85 p/hr) shift differential in addition to the base rate of pay.
Unexploded Ordnance Tech II employees shall receive a 4% Hazardous Duty Pay Premium.
When such assignments are made by the Company per Article IV, Section 5 of the CBA, Lead Aircraft Mechanics will expected to lead, organize and coordinate daily work activities in the work center. Senior Aircraft Mechanics are expected to have skills and perform at a level significantly above the Aircraft Mechanic assigned within their work center and coordinate daily activities of such mechanics. Lead and Senior pay is established by the Company in each work center. Lead “A” pay will be ten percent (10%) above those mechanics assigned. Lead “B” pay will be seven percent (7%) Senior pay will be four percent (4%) above those assigned.
- 35 -
The company agrees to assign one Lead each (on a shift designated by the Company) in Transient Alert and Viper 8.
FCF crew chiefs will receive $0.75 per hour in addition to their normal base rate of pay.
Employees with one (1) Engine Run Qualification earn one paid day off per quarter. Employees with two (2) or more Engine Run Qualifications earn two (2) paid days off per quarter.
Engine run Certifiers earn one paid day off each (6) months in addition to any other engine run PTO.
Employees who work inside of aircraft fuel cells will receive a premium of fifteen cents ($0.15) per hour worked inside the aircraft fuel cell.
CDDAR Team Chief shall receive a premium of seventy five cents ($0.75) for hours worked performing CDDAR Crew Chief Duties.
CDDAR Team members will receive a premium of thirty five cents ($0.35) for hours worked performing CDDAR team duties.
Re-title the “Machinist/Aerospace Welder” position to “Machinist / Tool and Die Maker / Aerospace Welder” and provide a &1.00 equity adjustment effective September 1, 2012prior to the general wage increase effective September 1, 2012
- 36 -
APPENDIX B
DYNCORP INTERNATIONAL LLC EMPLOYEE BENEFITS PLANS
As these Plans are provided by outside vendors and/or are Company-wide Plans, the Company may find it necessary or desirable to amend, revise or replace some or all of the Plans during the life of this Agreement between the Parties. Should this occur, the Company will immediately advise the Union of such changes and will meet as soon as possible with the Union to negotiate the effect of such changes on the employees covered by this Agreement.
Section 1.	- Group Insurance
Effective September1, 2012, the Company will provide each covered full-time employee with the amount of the Flexible Benefits Credits specified below. These credits will be provided on a pre-tax basis under Internal Revenue Code Section 125. Employees may use these credits to purchase coverage for themselves and eligible dependents from any of the Group Insurance Plans offered under the DynCorp Flexible Benefit Program including Medical, Dental, Vision, Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance, Personal Accident Insurance, Short Term Disability and Long Term Disability Insurance. Pre-tax credits may not be used to purchase Dependent Life Insurance. Any coverage costs in excess of the Company provided credits will be paid by the employees via pretax payroll deductions. Any excess credits will be paid to the employee as additional taxable income.
Flexible Benefit Credits
Effective	09/01/12	09/01/13	09/01/14	09/01/15
Hourly	$6.20	$6.40	$6.60	$6.80
Bi-Weekly	$496	$512	$528	$544
An employee must work and/or be paid for a minimum of forty (40) hours in a bi-weekly Pay Period to receive flexible credits for that Pay Period. Employees may opt out of Benefits coverage for any of the items and shall receive payment for the cost not paid for such benefits up to the maximum amount of the Health and Welfare Benefit rates.
The Company will provide an employee Assistance Program and Business Travel Accident Insurance at no cost to the employee.
Section 2	- I.A.M. National Pension Plan
(A)	The Company shall contribute to the I.A.M. National Pension Fund, National Pension Plan for each day/hour or portion thereof to a maximum of forty (40) hours per work week for which employees in all job classifications covered by this Agreement are entitled to receive pay under this Agreement as follows:
$0.85per hour effective September 1, 2012
$0.90per hour effective September 1, 2013
$0.95per hour effective September 1, 2014
$1.00per hour effective September 1, 2015
(B)	The Company shall continue contributions based on a forty (40) hour workweek while an employee is off work in pay status due to paid vacations or paid holidays.
- 37 -
(C)	Contributions for a new, temporary, probationary, part-time and full-time employee shall be
payable from the first day of employment.
(D)	The Union and Company adopt and agree to be bound by, and hereby assent to, the Trust
Agreement, dated May 1, 1960, as amended, creating the I.A.M. National Pension Fund and the Plan rules adopted by the Trustees of the I.A.M. National Pension Fund in establishing and administering the foregoing Plan pursuant to the said Trust Agreement, as currently in effect and as the Trust and Plan may be amended from time to time.
(E)	The parties acknowledge that the Trustees of the I.A.M. National Pension Fund may terminate the participation of the employees and the Company in the Plan if the successor collective bargaining agreement fails to renew the provisions of this pension Article or reduces the Contribution Rate. The parties may increase the Contribution Rate and/or add job classifications or categories of hours for which contributions are payable.
(G)	This Article contains the entire Agreement between the parties regarding pension and retirement under this Plan and any contrary provisions in this Agreement shall be void. No oral or written modification of this Agreement shall be binding upon the Trustees of the I.A.M. National Pension Fund. No grievance procedure, settlement or arbitration decision with respect to the obligation to contribute shall be binding upon the Trustees of the Pension Fund.
Section 3 - DynCorp International Savings Plan (DISP)
(A) Bargaining Unit employees may participate in the DynCorp International Savings Plan in accordance with the Summary Plan Description.	There will be no Company discretionary or
matching contributions to the Plan on behalf of employees
- 38 -
APPENDIX C
ATTENDANCE POLICY
The Policy utilizes a six (6) month rolling calendar. Points are assessed as follows:
Tardy/Early Quit*	=	1	point
Late**	=	2	points
Absence	=	3	points
No Call/ No Show***	=	4	points
When an employee has accumulated the following points he/she will receive:
6	points	=	Verbal Warning
9	points	=	Written Warning
12	points	=	Suspension 1 day	(without	pay)
15	points	=	Suspension 3 days	(without	pay)
17	points	=	Termination
Accountable Absences:
Personal Reasons
Off The Job Injury
Family Illness
Non-Accountable Absences
Personal Illness - Provided a Doctor’s note is provided on the first day returning to work which documents that the employee was too ill to work for all days of such personal illness.
Absences Approved for Family & Medical Leave (FMLA)
Bereavement
Injury On Job
Jury Duty
Approved Time Off
Vacations
Holidays
Natural Disaster
Traffic Jam which can be documented by the employee to have delayed an employee by more than one (1) hour.
Medical Emergency*****
*	Tardy = Not being at his/her workstation ready to begin work within one (1) minute of the
appointed start time. Including returning from lunch and breaks.
*	*	Late = More than % of scheduled hours. One (1) point will be assessed when an employee
leaves work without prior approval and does not complete his/her shift. Two (2) points will be assessed if an employee does not complete one-half of his/her scheduled hours including mandatory overtime.
*	**	No Call = Failure to notify your supervisor within thirty (30) minutes prior to start time. When
an employee is absent for three (3) consecutive days without calling he/she will be considered to have abandoned their job and will indicate a voluntary termination.
- 39 -
*****
Medical Emergency = Hospitalization to include the immediate family member(s) of the employee. Immediate family members are defined as father, mother, husband, wife, brother, sister, son or daughter. A written noticefrom the attending physician is required.
One (1) point shall be deducted from an employee’s total points for every calendar month of perfect attendance. For the purposes of this provision perfect attendance is defined as a calendar month without any attendance points being assessed to an employee.
Note:	Upon ratification of this Agreement, all employees covered by this Agreement shall have all
accumulated points reset to zero.
- 40 -
APPENDIX D
INCLEMENT WEATHER
All employees covered by this agreement are considered mission essential personnel and are expected to report to work on their regularly scheduled days of work including base closures and state declared emergencies.
Employees who cannot report to work after a State declares a state of emergency will not be assessed time and attendance points.
An employee who reports to work in the event of a base closure or State declared emergency will be provided with eight (8) hours of work on his or her regularly assigned shift.
Any employee who reports to work before or during a base closure or State declared emergency will be offered quarters at Company expense if the employee considers it unsafe to travel home.
In the event that the Company is prevented from assigning work to employees covered by this agreement as the result of a base closure or State declared emergency, such time off shall be paid up to three (3) occurrences per calendar year.
Requests for vacation in situations covered by this Appendix D will be handled on an individual basis
- 41 -
POSITION TITLE: Aircraft Mechanic I
WORKCENTER: Back Shop Maintenance
SUPERVISOR: Production Supervisor
RESPONSIBILITIES SHALL INCLUDE BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO THE FOLLOWING:
Inspects, evaluates and repairs aircraft flight surfaces, structure, fuel tanks, survival equipment and wheel & tire assemblies for assigned and transient aircraft and support equipment. Operates all associated ground support equipment and uses hand tools, special tools, fixtures and adhesives applicable to return aircraft to operational condition. Evaluates, designs, and manufactures logistics improvement projects for Special Air Mission Aircraft. Researches technical data and manufactures structural components, cables, and maintenance, and repair of assigned aircraft and associated equipment. Uses maintenance drawings and blueprints to accomplish repairs on assigned equipment.
Perform aircraft and equipment corrosion inspections. Remove and treat corrosion, and apply protective coatings on aircraft and support equipment. Inspect, repair, overhaul and modify fuel systems equipment and fuel cells. Inspect, repair and repack emergency life rafts, life preservers, and escape slides. Perform shop and flightline maintenance ensuring aircraft structural integrity. Coordinates maintenance efforts with the Maintenance Aircraft Coordination Center and Production Supervisors.Documents discrepancies in applicable forms.Uses Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS) computers.Ensures compliance with applicable safety, housekeeping, tool control, and FOD prevention programs.Must be able to work day shift, swing shift, night shift, and/or weekend shift as required.Must be able to travel to include TDY’s.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS:
Must have a working knowledge of aircraft repair procedures for surfaces, structure, fuel cell or wheel & tire assemblies. A working knowledge of corrosion control techniques and base, federal and Company procedures for handling and disposal of hazardous waste materials is required. Must be able to read, write, speak and understand English. The ability to read and interpret data is required. Completion of specialized courses in aircraft structural repair is required. An FAA Airframe Certificate and or Repairman’s Certificate may be required. Occasional lifting of objects weighing up to 50 pounds is required. Must be able to obtain and maintain a Secret security clearance and Government flightline driver’s license.
- 42 -
POSITION TITLE: Aircraft Mechanic II
WORKCENTER: Flightline/Dock (Helicopter Branch)
SUPERVISOR: Production Supervisor
RESPONSIBILITIES SHALL INCLUDE BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO THE FOLLOWING:
Responsible for support of highly sensitive HQ USAF operational plans and safe air transportation for Cabinet Members, senior military leaders, and visiting foreign dignitaries. Performs scheduled and unscheduled aircraft maintenance, performs repairs and modifications to aircraft structures and structural components of moderate difficulty, maintains and repairs aircraft components including but not limited to flight controls, engines, hydraulics, pneumatics, fuel systems, and mechanical components, applies technical knowledge of airframe and power plant systems in determining equipment malfunctions and applies comprehensive technical expertise to solve moderate to complex problems by interpreting technical documentation such as; blue prints or manufactures manuals.
Work typically requires a thoroughly comprehensive knowledge of aircraft mechanical component troubleshooting/repair procedures and replacement of components, a thorough knowledge of aircraft sheet metal/structural modification and repair and the ability to determine functionality of complex electrical systems. Accomplishes inspections including, but not limited to preflight, thru-flight, basic post-flight, and phase inspections. Assists aircrew in preparation for flight. Launches and recovers aircraft as required. Performs operational checks of all aircraft systems and maintains aircraft appearance and cleanliness.
Operates all associated ground support equipment and uses hand tools, special tools, andfixtures applicable to aircraft. Performs all tasks associated with ground movement of aircraft. Annotates maintenance actions in aircraft records/forms and completes associated Core Automated Maintenance System entries. Practices good housekeeping, tool control, Foreign Object Damage awareness and prevention and safety at all times. Performs other duties related to the occupational field as assigned to include temporary duty and travel. Must be able to work day shift, swing shift, night shift, and/or weekend shift as required.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS:
A minimum of four years working knowledge of helicopter maintenance operations is required. Recent experience on the UH-1N, Bell 212 or UH-1 would be a plus. Knowledge of the use of aircraft hand tools, special tools, and test equipment is required. Must have a working knowledge of aircraft safety requirements and know how to operate portable firefighting equipment. The ability to read, interpret, and comprehend schematic diagrams, drawings, charts, and technical publications are required. An FAA Airframe Certificate may be required. Must be able to obtain and maintain a secret security clearance and flightline driver’s license.
- 43 -
POSITION TITLE: Aircraft Mechanic III
WORKCENTER: Flightline/Dock (Aircraft Branch)
SUPERVISOR: Production Supervisor
RESPONSIBILITIES SHALL INCLUDE BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO THE FOLLOWING:
Responsible for support of highly sensitive HQ USAF operational plans and safe air transportation for Cabinet Members, senior military leaders, and visiting foreign dignitaries. Performs scheduled and unscheduled aircraft maintenance, to include repairs, modifies aircraft structures, structural components and engines of complex to extreme difficulty, maintains and repairs aircraft components including but not limited to flight controls, engines, hydraulics, pneumatics, fuel systems, and mechanical components, and applies technical knowledge of airframe and power plant systems in determining equipment malfunctions and applies technical expertise and guidance to solve complex problems by interpreting technical data such as; blue prints and manufactures manuals.
Work typically requires a thoroughly comprehensive knowledge of aircraft mechanical component troubleshooting/repair procedures and replacement of components, a thorough knowledge of aircraft sheet metal/structural modification and repair and the ability to determine functionality of complex electrical systems. Accomplishes inspections including, but not limited to preflight, thru-flight, basic post-flight, and phase inspections. Launches and recovers aircraft as required. Performs operational checks of all aircraft systems and maintains aircraft appearance and cleanliness.
Operates all associated ground support equipment and uses hand tools, special tools, andfixtures applicable to aircraft. Performs all tasks associated with ground movement of aircraft. Annotates maintenance actions in aircraft records/forms and completes associated CAMS entries. Practices good housekeeping, tool control, FOD awareness and prevention and safety at all times. Performs other duties related to the occupational field as assigned to include TDY and travel. Must be able to work day shift, swing shift, night shift, and/or weekend shift as required. Become proficient to perform maintenance in three classifications (aircraft general, jet engines, and pneudraulics) through CUT.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS:
A minimum of eight years working knowledge of aircraft maintenance operations is required. Knowledge of the use of aircraft hand tools, special tools, and test equipment is required. Must have a working knowledge of aircraft safety requirements and know how to operate portable firefighting equipment. The ability to read, interpret, and comprehend schematic diagrams, drawings, charts, and technical publications are required. Must possess an FAA A&P certificate. Must be able to obtain and maintain a secret security clearance and flightline driver’s license.
- 44 -
POSITION TITLE: Ground Support Equipment Mechanic, Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE)
WORKCENTER: AGE Shop (Maintenance Branch)
SUPERVISOR: Production Supervisor
RESPONSIBILITIES SHALL INCLUDE BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO THE FOLLOWING:
Inspects, repairs and maintains assigned AGE, used to support the transportation of Cabinet Members, and other high-ranking national and international dignitaries. Uses maintenance instructions and technical data in the inspection, maintenance, and repair of assigned ground equipment.Enters required data on maintenance forms. Maintains hand and powered tools in an orderly manner. Completes maintenance data Forms and makes Core Automated Maintenance System (Cams) inputs. Assist in the training and direction of assigned personnel. Practices good housekeeping, tool control, FOD awareness/prevention and safety at all times.Shall perform other duties as assigned, to include TDY and travel.Must be able to work day shift, swing shift, night shift or weekend shift as required. Receives cross-utilization training and is qualified to perform maintenance tasks associated with other classifications
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS:
A working knowledge of powered AGE repair procedures is required. High school diploma or the equivalent is required. Specialized courses in powered AGE maintenance are required. Must be able to read, write, speak and understand English. Two years recent experience as a powered AGE mechanic or equivalent in powered AGE maintenance is required. Duties may involve working with fuels, oils, lubricants, and chemical cleaner and solutions. Must be able to obtain and maintain a secret security clearance and flightline driver’s license.
- 45 -
POSITION TITLE: Transient Alert Mechanic
WORKCENTER: Transient Maintenance (Aircraft Branch)
SUPERVISOR: Aircraft Supervisor
RESPONSIBILITIES SHALL INCLUDE BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO THE FOLLOWING:
Assists aircrew in aircraft maintenance requirements to include the preparation for flight. Launches, recovers aircraft as required. Performs LOX/GOX servicing. Assists aircrew in fuel and refuel fire guard. Performs towing and deicing services.
Operates all associated ground support equipment and uses hand tools, special tools, and fixtures applicable to aircraft. Performs intake and exhaust inspections, thru flight inspections and engine Joint Oil Analysis Program (JOAPS). Performs all tasks associated with ground movement of aircraft.
Practices good housekeeping, tool control, FOD awareness/prevention and safety at all times. Perform other duties related to the occupational field as assigned to include TDY, and travel. Must be able to work day shift, swing shift, and/or weekend shift as required.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS:
A minimum of two years working knowledge of aircraft maintenance operations is required. Knowledge of the use of aircraft hand tools, special tools, and test equipment is required. Must have a working knowledge of aircraft safety requirements and know how to operate portable fire fighting equipment. An FAA Airframe Certificate may be required. The ability to read, interpret, and comprehend technical publications is required. Must be able to obtain and maintain a secret security clearance and flightline driver’s license.
- 46 -
POSITION TITLE: Aircraft Worker
WORKCENTER: Flightline/Dock (Aircraft Branch)
SUPERVISOR: Aircraft Supervisor
RESPONSIBILITIES SHALL INCLUDE BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO THE FOLLOWING:
Is task qualified to perform minor maintenance and repair of assigned aircraft under limited supervision.Performs all servicing, assist with ground handling, and cleaning of assigned aircraft.Assists aircrew in preparation for flight. Launches and recovers aircraft. Performs pre-flight and thru-flight inspections, however,will not be qualified to accomplish basic post-flight operations (BPO). After task qualification, removes and installs aircraft panels and components. Operates ground support equipment and uses hand tools, special tools, and fixtures as required.Practices good housekeeping, tool control, FOD awareness/prevention, and safety at all times. Record maintenance action in CAMS and aircraft forms and records as necessary. Must be able to work day shift, swing shift, night shift, and/or weekend shift as required. Receives CUT and is qualified to perform maintenance tasks associated with other classifications.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS:
A working knowledge of mechanical tools and aircraft safety is required. Must be capable of operating portable fire-fighting equipment. Formal military or civilian aircraft maintenance training is desired. Must be able to read and comprehend technical data. Must have the ability to obtain and maintain a secret security clearance and flightline driver’s license.
- 47 -
POSITION TITLE: Tool Room Attendant
WORKCENTER: Support Section (Aircraft Branch)
SUPERVISOR: Production Supervisor / Branch Manager/Deputy Aircraft Branch Manager
RESPONSIBILITIES SHALL INCLUDE BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO THE FOLLOWING:
Receives, stocks, controls, and inventories tools, Technical Orders (T.O.’s) and support equipment in accordance with established procedures.Issues tools, T.O’s, test equipment, test measurement and diagnostic equipment (TMDE) and support equipment from the tool room, and maintains strict accountability. Performs preventative and minor maintenance on tools and support equipment. Ensures tools and support equipment is clean, oiled, and serviceable. Marks and identifies tools and equipment for quick inventory. Controls calibration schedules for TMDE and ensures overdue calibration items are removed from service and sent for testing. Performs Equipment Custodian duties and manages the Custodian Authorization/Custody Receipt Listing (CA/CRL). Performs duties as building custodian to include Escort duties, Zambonie operator and yard work.Assists Safety representative in snow removal.Practices good housekeeping, tool control, FOD awareness/prevention and safety at all times. May perform other duties related to the classification as assigned to include temporary duty and travel. Must be able to work day shift, swing shift, night shift, and/or weekend shift as required. Receives CUT training and is qualified to perform maintenance tasks associated with other classifications.
Facilitate debrief of assigned aircraft and documents debrief data to aircraft and debrief forms. Enter Aircraft discrepancies into Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS). Communicates debrief information to Plans and Scheduling, MOCC, and Sam 4. Performs input data corrections of aircraft debrief information through CAMS.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS:
Knowledge of applicable Government documents, directives, and technical orders is desired.
Knowledge of the Standard Base Supply System (SBSS), repair cycle system and basic aircraft / engine components is required. Must have knowledge of procedures for handling and disposal of hazardous materials. Minimum of one-year recent experience working with CAMS / SBSS interface or related computer experience is required. Familiarity with Fed Log system is desired. May occasionally handle items that weigh in excess of 40 pounds. Must be able to obtain and maintain a secret security clearance and flightline driver’s license.
- 48 -
POSITION TITLE: Tool Room Attendant / Hazardous Material Monitor
WORKCENTER: Support Section (Aircraft Branch)
SUPERVISOR: Production Supervisor / Branch Manager/Deputy Aircraft Branch Manager
RESPONSIBILITIES SHALL INCLUDE BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO THE FOLLOWING:
Receives, stocks, controls, and inventories tools, Technical Orders (T.O.’s) and support equipment in accordance with established procedures.Issues tools, T.O’s, test equipment, test measurement and diagnostic equipment (TMDE) and support equipment from the tool room, and maintains strict accountability. Performs preventative and minor maintenance on tools and support equipment. Ensures tools and support equipment is clean, oiled, and serviceable. Marks and identifies tools and equipment for quick inventory. Controls calibration schedules for TMDE and ensures overdue calibration items are removed from service and sent for testing. Performs Equipment Custodian duties and manages the Custodian Authorization/Custody Receipt Listing (CA/CRL). Performs duties as building custodian to include Escort duties, Zambonie operator and yard work.Assists Safety representative in snow removal.Practices good housekeeping, tool control, FOD awareness/prevention and safety at all times. May perform other duties related to the classification as assigned to include temporary duty and travel. Must be able to work day shift, swing shift, night shift, and/or weekend shift as required. Receives CUT training and is qualified to perform maintenance tasks associated with other classifications.
Facilitate debrief of assigned aircraft and documents debrief data to aircraft and debrief forms. Aircraft discrepancies into Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS). Communicates debrief information to Plans and Scheduling, MOCC, and Sam 4. Performs input data corrections of aircraft debrief information through CAMS.
Controls Hazardous Waste Management Program and spill response equipment. Reports all hazardous waste spills and action taken to the Production Supervisor. Manages all chemical profiles and MSDS’s for authorized chemicals.Utilizes the AFEMIS system to order authorized chemicals and oils through the Hazmat pharmacy. Prepares and maintains all regulatory records including base conducted ECAMP inspections. Follows government policies and procedures to contain and turn in hazardous waste. Provides hazardous waste training to other employees as required.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS:
Knowledge of applicable Government documents, directives, and technical orders is desired.
Knowledge of the Standard Base Supply System (SBSS), repair cycle system and basic aircraft / engine components is required. Must have knowledge of procedures for handling and disposal of hazardous materials. Minimum of one-year recent experience working with CAMS / SBSS interface or related computer experience is required. Familiarity with Fed Log system is desired. May occasionally handle items that weigh in excess of 40 pounds. Must be able to obtain and maintain a secret security clearance and flightline driver’s license.
- 49 -
POSITION TITLE: Electronics Technician II
WORKCENTER: Maintenance Section (Aircraft Branch)
SUPERVISOR: Avionics Supervisor
RESPONSIBILITIES SHALL INCLUDE BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO THE FOLLOWING:
Performs communications pre-flight, operational checks, handles COMSEC equipment and Keying Material, accomplishes software uploads, modifications, accomplishes service letters and bulletins, troubleshoots, isolates malfunctions and repairs all aircraft electronic, avionic , computer and special communications systems to include communication and navigation, Counter-Measures, and electrical/environmental systems. Reads and comprehends local directives, commercial manuals, and technical orders. Coordinates maintenance activities with other senior personnel as required.
Uses schematics, drawings, and charts to test, operate, and troubleshoot assigned systems. Makes necessary repairs, removes and replaces components, performs software and service upgrades, and adjustments as indicated during installation, test, operational checks, and troubleshooting phases. Performs tasks independently and uses test equipment with little or no supervision. Enters and tracks required data in aircraft Forms and updates Cams. Practices good housekeeping, tool control, FOD/Safety/Security awareness and prevention at all times.Shall perform other duties as assigned, to include cleaning and servicing of aircraft and TDY travel. Receives and provides cross utilization training in other maintenance tasks associated with other classifications. Must be able to work day shift, swing shift, night shift, and/or weekend shift as required.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS:
Must possess a working knowledge of aircraft electronic, avionic, and communications principles, basic computer skills, and system/circuit analysis. Must be able to read and interpret all applicable technical data. Must be able to pass an eye exam and hearing test. An Airframe license is preferred. Desired two years minimum experience on assigned aircraft. Must be able to obtain and maintain a secret security clearance, flight line driver’s license, and all other training requirements as required by contract stipulations.
- 50 -
POSITION TITLE: Electronics Technician III
WORKCENTER: Maintenance Section (Aircraft Branch)
SUPERVISOR: Avionics Supervisor
RESPONSIBILITIES SHALL INCLUDE BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO THE FOLLOWING:
A highly qualified avionic mechanic with documented training and experience that functions as a working team leader. Provides technical direction to assigned personnel to include communication/navigational, inspection, and operational check of system component. Performs removal, repair, installation, inspection, and operational check of system components.Performs both on and off-equipment maintenance. Assist assigned personnel in researching and requisitioning aircraft parts and components and determining reparability and serviceability. Monitors the status of aircraft in work. Plans and coordinates work load with production supervisor and dispatch personnel accordingly. Ensures all maintenance data is correctly entered in Forms and CAMS computers. Monitors quality assurance reports and ensures corrective measures are implemented to improve quality and prevent the development of adverse trends. Ensures that assigned personnel have access to and use adequate technical data during all phases of aircraft maintenance. Maintains supply discipline in the work center at all times. Provides guidance and instruction to all employee’s assigned concerning technical orders, checklist, and hazardous materials. Continuously seeks time to qualify and up-grade personnel in their primary duties and CUT responsibilities. Practices good housekeeping, tool control, FOD awareness/prevention and safety at all times. Will provide input to employee performance reviews when required. Shall perform other duties as may be assigned, to include TDY and travel.Must be able to work day shift, swing shift, night shift and/or weekend shift as required.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS:
Must possess an in-depth knowledge of advanced electronic principles, circuit analysis, comm/nav and instrument equipment, and associated aircraft system maintenance procedures. A strong working knowledge of technical orders and maintenance forms is required. Good communication skills and leadership ability is needed. An FAA Airframe Certificate is preferred. Three (3) years minimum experience on assigned aircraft is desired. Must be able to obtain and maintain a secret or top secret security clearance based upon position, and a flightline drivers license.
- 51 -
POSITION TITLE: Electronics Technician IV
WORKCENTER: Maintenance Section (Aircraft Branch)
SUPERVISOR: Avionics Supervisor
RESPONSIBILITIES SHALL INCLUDE BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO THE FOLLOWING:
Applies advanced technical knowledge to solve unusually complex problems that typically cannot be solve solely by referencing manufactures’ manuals or similar documents. Examples of such problems include determining the location and density of circuitry, evaluating electromagnetic radiation, isolating malfunctions and incorporating engineering changes. Work typically requires a detailed understanding of the interrelationships of circuits. Exercises independent judgment in performing such tasks as circuit analysis, calculating wave forms, and tracing relationships in signal flow. Uses complex test instruments such as high frequency pulse generators, frequency synthesizers, distortion analyzers, and complex computer control equipment..
Performs , maintains and provides technical direction to personnel to include Electronic CounterMeasures, COMSEC Equipment and Keying Material, communication and navigation, guidance/control, clear and secure audio and data communications and electrical/environmental in troubleshooting, removal, repair, installation, modification, software upgrades, inspection, and operational systems and system components. Assists assigned personnel in researching, requisitioning aircraft parts, special tools, components and determining reparability and serviceability. Monitors the status of aircraft in work. Plans and coordinates workloads with production supervisor and dispatch personnel accordingly. Ensures that all maintenance data is correctly entered in forms and Cams. Monitors quality assurance reports and prevent the development of adverse trends. Ensures that assigned personnel have access to and use adequate technical data during all phases of aircraft maintenance. Maintains supply discipline in the work center at all times. Provides guidance and instruction to all employee’s assigned concerning technical orders, checklist, and hazardous materials. Work may be reviewed by supervisor for general compliance with accepted practices.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS:
Must possess a working knowledge of aircraft electronic, avionic, and communications principles, advanced computer skills, and system/circuit analysis. Must be able to read and interpret all applicable technical data. Must be able to pass an eye exam and hearing test. An Airframe license is preferred. Preferred five years minimum experience on assigned aircraft.May be required to obtain and maintain a top secret security clearance. Must be able to obtain and maintain a secret security clearance, flightline driver’s license, and all other training requirements as required by contract stipulations.
- 52 -
POSITION TITLE: Flightline Instructor
WORKCENTER: Flightline/Dock/Avionic (Aircraft Branch)
SUPERVISOR: Deputy Aircraft Branch Manager / Aircraft Branch Manager
RESPONSIBILITIES SHALL INCLUDE BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO THE FOLLOWING:
Aircraft Branch Certifier/Trainer (ABCT) will develop, plan, coordinate, certify, and train assigned DynCorp maintenance personnel on 89th AW assigned aircraft to include aircraft general, jet engines, and pneudraulics; certify/train mechanics on all aspects of aircraft servicing, ground handling, and special interest items as directed by the Deputy Aircraft Branch Manager and or Aircraft Branch Manager.
Responsible for new hire employee initial training, to include the make up of training records, scheduling initial training classes, instruct new hire orientation brief, and certify initial core tasks as outlined by the Deputy Aircraft Branch Manager prior to releasing them to their section supervisors. Uses and ensures technical data is employed in all aspects of Aircraft Branch maintenance training. Updates applicable training course codes in CAMS, and tracks training awaiting action, and overdue statuses. Ensures that all necessary training documentation is completed as required by Air Force and Company directives. Reviews Aircraft Branch training records ensuring all required maintenance training documentation is current and correct.
Will be required to augment flightline operations when dictated by management.Shall perform other duties as may be assigned, to include TDY and travel. Assist in CUT training of maintenance personnel and will be qualified to perform maintenance tasks associated with other classifications. Must be able to work day shift, swing shift, and/or weekend shift as required to ensure all shifts receive identical training requirements to perform their jobs.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS:
A broad working knowledge of aircraft maintenance operations, preferably on 89th AW assigned aircraft. Airframe and or Power Plant Certificate, and a through working knowledge of applicable technical publications are required. Must be computer literate, and demonstrate certifier/trainer capabilities and be able to communicate effectively, both verbally and in writing. Must be able to obtain and maintain a secret or top-secret security clearance and a flightline driver’s license.
- 53 -
POSITION TITLE: Plans and Scheduler I
WORKCENTER: Aircraft Plans and Scheduling (Aircraft Branch)
SUPERVISOR: Plans and Scheduling Supervisor
RESPONSIBILITIES:
performs basic scheduling of maintenance of assigned aircraft, engines, and associated aircraft in accordance with applicable instructions, technical orders, and commercial maintenance programs. Assists in the development of logistics scheduling documents to effectively balance the successful accomplishment of all requirements.
Assists in the Scheduling Supervision in developing and tracking of applicable aircraft and engine maintenance plans. Updates and coordinates daily and weekly flying and maintenance schedules. Forecasts known requirements to meet al scheduled maintenance and inspection requirements and provide for maximum aircraft availability. Monitors the aircraft deferred discrepancy program, conducts monthly aircraft record reviews, and maintains aircraft historical records in accordance with applicable instructions.
Utilizes automated maintenance systems to project airframe and engine availability and associated maintenance requirements. Assists the Scheduling Supervisor in the preparation of aircraft pre-dock inspection requirements and post-dock records reviews.Receives, schedules and records all airframe and engine Time Compliance Technical Orders (TCTOs) for compliance within established timeframes.
Updates manual and automated scheduling systems with accurate information. Coordinates with the 89th Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) and 89th Operations Group Current Operations Office as necessary to maintain and disseminate current operational requirements. Assist in the completion of all AFTO Form 103 requirements for all aircraft depot inputs.
Practices good housekeeping and safety at all times. Performs other duties related to occupational field as assigned.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS:
a minimum of two (2) to three (3) years aircraft scheduling experience is highly desired. Must be proficient in personal computer use to include a working knowledge of MS Office.Must have a strong working knowledge of the Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS). Must possess strong oral and written communication skills and be capable of working in an exceptionally dynamic scheduling environment with strict attention to detail and adherence to applicable policies, procedures and instructions. Must be able to obtain and maintain a secret security clearance.
- 54 -
POSITION TITLE: Plans and Scheduler II
WORKCENTER: Aircraft Plans and Scheduling (Aircraft Branch)
SUPERVISOR: Aircraft Branch Manager
RESPONSIBILITIES:
Responsible for the day-to-day operations of an aircraft Plans and Scheduling office in accordance with AFI 21-101 and other applicable instructions in support of 1st Helicopter Squadron.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Production Control responsibilities include ensuring that associated records and documentation are completed correctly and on time. Assists in coordinating, and developing aircraft scheduling plans for operational and maintenance scheduling requirements for all assigned aerospace vehicles, engines, and related support equipment into long range, quarterly, monthly, weekly and daily plans to make efficient use of resources. Attends required meetings. Ensures the Production Superintendent and Maintenance Supervision are advised of maintenance capability, problem areas, and adherence to production schedules. Represents Maintenance Supervision in coordinating aircraft and equipment utilization, sortie rates and flying hour program with Operations.Acts as the aircraft scheduling focal point for the 89th Airlift Wing Maintenance Operations Center (MOC), 89th Operations Group Current Operations Office, and the 1st and 99th Airlift Squadrons. Develops, and schedules in the Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS) the inspection work packages for major, intermediate level, and scheduled inspections such as aircraft phases; schedules and conducts pre and post-inspection meetings for Phase. Manages the aircraft phase flow.
Documentation Responsibilities include: Maintaining the Aircraft Jacket File; receives, transfers, inspects, files, and updates active and inactive historical documents for assigned equipment. Performs Configuration Management; validates suspense and verifies correct parts are installed in the proper configuration on assigned aircraft. Performs the Time Compliance Technical Order (TCTO), Time Change (TCI) and Special Inspection (SI) Programs; orders required parts/kits, forecasts, schedules and monitors accomplishment, conducts document reviews, chairs required meetings. Maintains the Job Standard Master Listing (JSML) for TCI’s, SI’s, and for Profiles listed in the applicable technical order.
Aerospace Vehicle Distribution Officer (AVDO) Responsibilities include: Assist in the management of the number of assigned, possessed and available aircraft. May submits reports to Higher Headquarters as required. Coordinates the depot program with depot and other agencies to ensure on time input/return from depot maintenance. Reviews all aircraft debriefs via CAMS and aircraft utilization reports. Verifies correct fly hour data is correctly accounted for/updated, reconciles the monthly/yearly fly hour program with Debrief and Operations. Practices good housekeeping and safety at all times. Performs other duties related to occupational field as assigned.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS:
Desire five (5) years experience in plans, scheduling and documentation functions. First-hand experience with 316th Wing / 89th Airlift Wing aircraft scheduling is highly desirable. Must be proficient in personal computer use to include a working knowledge of MS Office and Project.Must have a strong working knowledge of the Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS). Must possess strong oral and written communication skills and be capable of working in an exceptionally dynamic scheduling environment. Must be able to obtain and maintain a secret security clearance.
- 55 -
POSITION TITLE: Plans and Scheduler III
WORKCENTER: Aircraft Plans and Scheduling (Aircraft Branch)
SUPERVISOR: Aircraft Branch Manager
RESPONSIBILITIES:
Responsible for the day-to-day operations of an aircraft Plans and Scheduling office in accordance with AFI 21-101 and other applicable instructions in support of 1st Helicopter Squadron.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Production Control responsibilities include the proper management, and training, of assigned aircraft production controllers to ensure that associated records and documentation are completed correctly and on time. Manages and coordinates aircraft scheduling. Develops operational and maintenance scheduling requirements for all assigned aerospace vehicles, engines, and related support equipment into long range, quarterly, monthly, weekly and daily plans to make efficient use of resources. Attends required meetings. Ensures the Production Superintendent and Maintenance Supervision are advised of maintenance capability, problem areas, and adherence to production schedules. Represents Maintenance Supervision in coordinating aircraft and equipment utilization, sortie rates and flying hour program with Operations. Acts as the aircraft scheduling focal point for the 89th Airlift Wing Maintenance Operations Center (MOC), 89th Operations Group Current Operations Offices, and the 1st and 99th Airlift Squadrons. Prepares, coordinates, and conducts monthly briefings with the office of the Vice Chief of Staff for Air Missions (CVAMS) to insure maintenance and operation requirements are met. Manages, develops, and schedules in the Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS) the inspection work packages for major, intermediate level, and scheduled inspections such as aircraft phases; schedules and conducts pre and post-inspection meetings for Phase. Manages the aircraft phase flow.
Documentation Responsibilities include: Maintaining the Aircraft Jacket File; receives, transfers, inspects, files, and updates active and inactive historical documents for assigned equipment. Manages, and performs Configuration Management; validates suspense and verifies correct parts are installed in the proper configuration on assigned aircraft. Manages, and performs the Time Compliance Technical Order (TCTO), Time Change (TCI) and Special Inspection (SI) Programs; orders required parts/kits, forecasts, schedules and monitors accomplishment, conducts document reviews, chairs required meetings. Manages and maintains the Job Standard Master Listing (JSML) for TCI’s, SI’s, and for profiles listed in the applicable technical order.
Aerospace Vehicle Distribution Officer (AVDO) Responsibilities include: Managing the number of assigned, possessed and available aircraft, submits reports to Higher Headquarters as required. Manages, and coordinates the depot program with depot and other agencies to ensure on time input/return from depot maintenance. Reviews all aircraft debriefs via CAMS and aircraft utilization reports, verifies correct fly hour data is correctly accounted for/updated, reconciles the monthly/yearly fly hour program with Debrief and Operations. Practices good housekeeping and safety at all times. Performs other duties related to occupational field as assigned.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS:
Desired ten (10) years experience in plans, scheduling and documentation functions. First-hand experience with 316th Wing / 89th Airlift Wing aircraft scheduling is highly desirable. Must be proficient in personal computer use to include a working knowledge of MS Office and Project.Must have a strong working knowledge of the Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS). Must possess strong oral and written communication skills and be capable of working in an exceptionally dynamic scheduling environment. Must be able to obtain and maintain a secret security clearance.
- 56 -
POSITION TITLE: Plans and Scheduler IV
SUPERVISOR: Aircraft Branch Manager/Deputy Aircraft Branch Manager/Plans and Scheduling Supervisor
RESPONSIBILITIES:
Responsible for assisting and supporting the Plan and Scheduling Supervisor for day-to-day operations of fixed wing aircraft Plans and Scheduling office in accordance with AF121-101 and the Performance Work Statement (PWS). Will act as the functional lead for the P&S Office in the absence of the Plans and Scheduling Supervisor.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Production Control responsibilities include the proper management, and training, of assigned aircraft production controllers to ensure that associated records and documentation are completed correctly and on time. Spear heads training program for improving abilities of Scheduler Ill's; Updates and ensures correct documentation of training records for Fixed Wing Plans and Scheduling section; Prepares weekly training status updates to Maintenance Supervision on progress of fixed wing Plans and Scheduling Schedulers. Provides CUT training to each Scheduler with the goal of creating the "total person" Scheduler in each billet. Manages and coordinates aircraft scheduling; provides daily, weekly and monthly updates on scheduled maintenance requirements that are within 100 of driving factor, i.e. hours, cycles, landings calendar days etc. Develops operational and maintenance scheduling requirements for all assigned aerospace vehicles, engines, and related support equipment into long range, quarterly, monthly, weekly and daily plans to make efficient use of resources. Attends required meetings. Ensures the Production Superintendent and Maintenance Supervision are advised of maintenance capability, problem areas, and adherence to production schedules. Assists in the research and answering of Contractor Officer Representative (COR) and Quality Assurance (QA) reports.Represents Maintenance Supervision in coordinating aircraft and equipment utilization, sortie rates and flying hour program with Operations.Acts as the th aircraft scheduling focal point for the 89 Airlift Wing Maintenance Operations Control Center (MOCC), 89
Operations Group Current Operations Offices, and the 1 and 99 Airlift Squadrons. Ensures proper preparation, coordination, and execution of monthly briefings with the office of the Vice Chief of Staff for Air Missions (CVAM) to ensure maintenance and operation requirements are met; briefs Maintenance Supervision on any issues, irregularities, and changes to the short or long range schedules as a result of CVAM operations/requests. Manages, develops, and schedules in Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS) the inspection work packages for major, intermediate level, and scheduled inspections such as aircraft Isochronal inspections(ISO); cross checks with CMP.net to ensure timely tracking of Gulfstream chapter five (5) requirements; ensures proper scheduling and execution of pre and post-dock inspection meetings for ISO inspections. Documentation Responsibilities include: Maintaining the Aircraft Jacket File; receives, transfers, inspects, files, and updates active and inactive historical documents for assigned equipment; performs spot checks on jacket files, at least 2 per month. Manages, and performs Configuration Management; validates suspense and verifies correct parts are installed in the proper configuration on assigned aircraft. Manages, and coordinates the Time Compliance Technical Order (TCTO), Time Change Item (TCI) and Special Inspection (SI) Programs; orders required parts/kits, forecasts, schedules and monitors accomplishment, conducts document reviews, chairs required meetings. Manages and maintains the Job Standard Master Listing (JSML) for TCI's, SI's, and for profiles listed in the applicable technical order. Aerospace Vehicle Distribution Officer (AVDO) Responsibilities include: Managing the number of assigned, possessed and available aircraft, submits reports to Higher Headquarters as required. Manages, and coordinates with Program Managers the depot program with the SPO and other agencies to ensure on time input/return from depot maintenance. Reviews all aircraft debriefs via CAMS and aircraft utilization reports, verifies correct fly hour data is correctly accounted for/updated, reconciles the monthly/yearly fly hour program with Debrief and Operations. Practices good housekeeping and safety at all times. Performs other duties related to occupational field as assigned.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS:
Must have a minimum of Eighteen (18) years experience in fixed wing aircraft plans, scheduling and documentation functions. Two (2) or more years experience with 89 Airlift Wing aircraft scheduling is highly desirable. Must be proficient in MS Office and Project.Must have a strong working knowledge of the Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS) and Gulfstream CMP.net. Must possess strong oral and written communication skills and capable of working in an exceptionally dynamic scheduling environment. Must be able to obtain and maintain a secret security clearance. 4/30/2009
- 57 -
POSITION TITLE: FCF Helicopter Mechanic
WORKCENTER: Flightline/ Phase Dock (Helicopter Branch)
SUPERVISOR: Aircraft Supervisor
RESPONSIBILITIES SHALL INCLUDE BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO THE FOLLOWING:
Responsible for support of highly sensitive HQ USAF operational plans and safe air transportation for Cabinet Members, senior military leaders, and visiting foreign dignitaries. Performs scheduled and unscheduled aircraft maintenance to include, repairs, servicing, troubleshooting and ground handling of al 1st Helicopter Squadron helicopters under limited supervision. Accomplishes inspections including, but not limited to, pre-flight, thru-flight, basic post-flight, and phase inspections. Assist aircrew in preparation for flight. Launches and recovers aircraft as required. Performs operational checks of all aircraft systems and maintains aircraft appearance and cleanliness.
Operates all associated ground support equipment and uses hand tools, special tools, and fixtures applicable to aircraft. Performs all tasks associated with ground movement of aircraft. Annotates maintenance actions in aircraft Forms/records and completes associated Core Automated Maintenance System entries. Practices good housekeeping, tool control, Foreign Object Damage awareness/prevention and safety at all times. Perform other duties related to the occupational field as assigned to include TDY, and travel. Must be able to work day shift, swing shift, and/or weekend shift as required.
Performs Functional Check Flights (FCF) as required
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS:
A minimum of four years working knowledge of helicopter maintenance operations is required.
Recent experience on the UH-1N, Bell 212, or UH-1 would be a plus. Knowledge of the use of aircraft hand tools, special tools and test equipment is required. Must have a working knowledge of aircraft safety requirements and know how to read, interpret, and comprehend schematic diagrams, drawings, charts, and technical publications are required. Must have the ability to obtain and maintain a secret clearance and flightline driver’s license. Must have a current physical.
- 58 -
POSITION TITLE: Tool Room Attendant
WORKCENTER: Support Section (Helicopter Branch)
SUPERVISOR: Production Supervisor / Branch Manager
RESPONSIBILITIES SHALL INCLUDE BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO THE FOLLOWING:
Receives, stocks, controls, and inventories tools, Technical Orders (T.O.’s) and support equipment in accordance with established procedures.Issues tools, T.O’s, test equipment, test measurement and diagnostic equipment (TMDE) and support equipment from the tool room, and maintains strict accountability. Performs preventative and minor maintenance on tools and support equipment. Ensures tools and support equipment is clean, oiled, and serviceable. Marks and identifies tools and equipment for quick inventory. Controls calibration schedules for TMDE and ensures overdue calibration items are removed from service and sent for testing. Performs Equipment Custodian duties and manages the Custodian Authorization/Custody Receipt Listing (CA/CRL). Performs duties as building custodian to include Escort duties, Zambonie operator and yard work.Assists Safety representative in snow removal.Practices good housekeeping, tool control, FOD awareness/prevention and safety at all times. May perform other duties related to the classification as assigned to include temporary duty and travel. Must be able to work day shift, swing shift, night shift, and/or weekend shift as required. Receives CUT training and is qualified to perform maintenance tasks associated with other classifications.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS:
Knowledge of applicable Government documents, directives, and technical orders is desired. Knowledge of the Standard Base Supply System (SBSS), repair cycle system and basic aircraft / engine components is required. Must have knowledge of procedures for handling and disposal of hazardous materials. Minimum of one-year recent experience working with CAMS / SBSS interface or related computer experience is required. Familiarity with Fed Log system is desired. May occasionally handle items that weigh in excess of 40 pounds. Must be able to obtain and maintain a secret security clearance and flightline driver’s license.
- 59 -
POSITION TITLE: Tool Room Attendant / Hazardous Material Monitor
WORKCENTER: Support Section (Helicopter Branch)
SUPERVISOR: Production Supervisor / Branch Manager
RESPONSIBILITIES SHALL INCLUDE BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO THE FOLLOWING:
Receives, stocks, controls, and inventories tools, Technical Orders (T.O.’s) and support equipment in accordance with established procedures.Issues tools, T.O’s, test equipment, test measurement and diagnostic equipment (TMDE) and support equipment from the tool room, and maintains strict accountability. Performs preventative and minor maintenance on tools and support equipment. Ensures tools and support equipment is clean, oiled, and serviceable. Marks and identifies tools and equipment for quick inventory. Controls calibration schedules for TMDE and ensures overdue calibration items are removed from service and sent for testing. Performs Equipment Custodian duties and manages the Custodian Authorization/Custody Receipt Listing (CA/CRL). Performs duties as building custodian to include Escort duties, Zambonie operator and yard work.Assists Safety representative in snow removal.Practices good housekeeping, tool control, FOD awareness/prevention and safety at all times. May perform other duties related to the classification as assigned to include temporary duty and travel. Must be able to work day shift, swing shift, night shift, and/or weekend shift as required. Receives CUT training and is qualified to perform maintenance tasks associated with other classifications.
Controls Hazardous Waste Management Program and spill response equipment. Reports all hazardous waste spills and action taken to the Production Supervisor. Manages all chemical profiles and MSDS’s for authorized chemicals.Utilizes the AFEMIS system to order authorized chemicals and oils through the Hazmat pharmacy. Prepares and maintains all regulatory records including base conducted ECAMP inspections. Follows government policies and procedures to contain and turn in hazardous waste. Provides hazardous waste training to other employees as required.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS:
Knowledge of applicable Government documents, directives, and technical orders is desired.
Knowledge of the Standard Base Supply System (SBSS), repair cycle system and basic aircraft / engine components is required. Must have knowledge of procedures for handling and disposal of hazardous materials. Minimum of one-year recent experience working with CAMS / SBSS interface or related computer experience is required. Familiarity with Fed Log system is desired. May occasionally handle items that weigh in excess of 40 pounds. Must be able to obtain and maintain a secret security clearance and flightline driver’s license.
- 60 -
POSITION TITLE: Rotary Wing Electronics Technician IV
WORKCENTER: Maintenance Section (Helicopter Branch)
SUPERVISOR: Branch Manager
RESPONSIBILITIES SHALL INCLUDE BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO THE FOLLOWING:
Applies advanced technical knowledge to solve complex that typically cannot be solved solely by referencing manufactures’ manuals or similar documents. Examples of such problems include determining the location and density of circuitry, isolating malfunctions and incorporating engineering changes. Work typically a detailed understanding of the interrelationships of circuits. Exercises independent judgment in performing such tasks as making circuit analysis and tracing relationships in signal flow. Uses test equipment to include Time Domain Reflectometers, Oscilloscopes, IFF Transponder Test Set and other radio and navigation test sets.
Performs, maintains and provides technical direction to assigned personnel to include COMSEC Equipment and Keying Material, ARC-231 SATCOM and DAMA communication, clear and secure audio and communications and electrical/environmental in troubleshooting, removal, repair, installation, modification, software upgrades, inspection, and operational check of systems and system components. Assist assigned personnel in researching and requisitioning aircraft parts, special tools, components and determining reparability and serviceability. Monitors the status of aircraft in work. Plans and coordinates work loads with production supervisor and dispatches personnel accordingly. Ensures all maintenance data is correctly entered into Forms and Cams. Monitors quality assurance reports and ensures corrective measures are implemented to improve maintenance quality and prevent the development of adverse trends. Ensures that assigned personnel have access to and use adequate technical data during all phases of aircraft maintenance. Maintains supply discipline in the work center at all times. Provides guidance and instruction to all employees assigned concerning technical orders, check lists and hazardous materials. Work may be reviewed by the supervisor for general compliance with accepted practices.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS
Must possess a working knowledge of aircraft electronic, avionic, communication principles, advanced computer skills and system/circuit analysis. Must be able to read and interpret all applicable technical data. Must be able to pass an eye exam and hearing test.Desired five years minimum experience on assigned aircraft. Must be able to obtain and maintain a secret security clearance, flight line drivers’ license, and all other training requirements as required by contract stipulations.
- 61 -
POSITION TITLE: Rotary Wing Electronics Technician III
WORKCENTER: Maintenance Section (Helicopter Branch)
SUPERVISOR: Production Supervisor
RESPONSIBILITIES SHALL INCLUDE BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO THE FOLLOWING:
Responsible for support of highly sensitive HQ USAF operational plans and safe air transportation for Cabinet Members, senior military leaders, and visiting foreign dignitaries. A highly qualified avionics mechanic with documented training and experience, who functions as a working team leader. Provides technical direction to assigned personnel to include communication/navigation, guidance/control, and electrical/environmental in troubleshooting, removal, repair, installation, inspection, and operational check of avionic system components.
Performs both on and off-equipment maintenance. Assists assigned personnel in researching and requisitioning aircraft parts and components and determining reparability and serviceability. Monitors the status of aircraft in work. Plans and coordinates work loads with production supervisor and dispatch personnel. Ensures all maintenance data is correctly entered in Forms and uses Core Automated Maintenance System (Cams) computers. Monitors quality assurance reports and ensures corrective measures are implemented to improve maintenance quality and prevent the development of adverse trends. Ensures that assigned personnel have access to and use adequate technical data during all phases of aircraft maintenance. Maintains supply discipline in the work center.
Provides guidance and instruction to all employees assigned concerning technical orders, checklists, and hazardous materials. Identifies and documents maintenance requirements and identifies the need for maintenance assistance. Practices good housekeeping, tool control, Foreign Object Damage awareness/prevention and safety at all times. Will provide input to Employee performance reviews when required. Performs other duties as assigned to include temporary duty and travel.Must be able to work day shift, swing shift, night shift and/or weekend shift as required.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS:
Must possess an in-depth knowledge of advanced electronic principles, circuit analysis, communication, navigation, and instrument equipment, and associated aircraft system maintenance procedures. A strong working knowledge of technical orders and maintenance forms is required. Good communication skills and leadership ability is needed. Must be able to obtain and maintain a secret or top secret security clearance based upon position, and a flightline drivers license.
- 62 -
POSITION TITLE: Rotary Wing Electronics Technician II
WORKCENTER: Maintenance Section (Helicopter Branch)
SUPERVISOR: Production Supervisor
RESPONSIBILITIES SHALL INCLUDE BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO THE FOLLOWING:
Responsible for support of highly sensitive HQ USAF operational plans and safe air transportation for Cabinet Members, senior military leaders, and visiting foreign dignitaries. Performs operational checks, bench checks, troubleshoots, and isolates malfunctions in aircraft communication/navigation, guidance/control, and electrical/environmental systems. Performs both on and off equipment maintenance. Reads and comprehends local directives and technical orders. Coordinates maintenance activities with other senior personnel as required.
Uses schematics, drawings, and charts to test, operate, and troubleshoot assigned systems. Makes necessary repairs, removes and replaces components, and adjustments during troubleshooting. Performs tasks independently and uses test equipment with little or no supervision. Enters and tracks required data in aircraft Forms and updates Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS). Practices good housekeeping, tool control, Foreign Object Damage awareness/prevention and safety at all times. Shall perform other duties as assigned, to include temporary duty and travel. Cross-utilization trained to perform general crew chief duties including launching, recovering, and refueling aircraft and perform preflight, thru-flight, and basic post-flight inspections. Identifies and documents maintenance requirements and identifies the need for maintenance assistance. Must be able to work day shift, swing shift, night shift and/or weekend shift as required.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS:
Must possess a working knowledge of helicopter electronic principles and circuit analysis. Must be able to read and interpret applicable technical data. Four years minimum experience on assigned helicopters is desired. Must be able to obtain and maintain a secret security clearance and flightline driver’s license.
- 63 -
POSITION TITLE: Plans and Scheduler I
WORKCENTER: Aircraft Plans and Scheduling (Helicopter Branch)
SUPERVISOR: Plans and Scheduling Supervisor
RESPONSIBILITIES:
Performs basic scheduling of maintenance of assigned aircraft, engines, and associated aircraft in accordance with applicable instructions, technical orders, and commercial maintenance programs. Assists in the development of logistics scheduling documents to effectively balance the successful accomplishment of all requirements.
Assists in the Scheduling Supervision in developing and tracking of applicable aircraft and engine maintenance plans. Updates and coordinates daily and weekly flying and maintenance schedules. Forecasts known requirements to meet al scheduled maintenance and inspection requirements and provide for maximum aircraft availability. Monitors the aircraft deferred discrepancy program, conducts monthly aircraft record reviews, and maintains aircraft historical records in accordance with applicable instructions.
Utilizes automated maintenance systems to project airframe and engine availability and associated maintenance requirements. Assists the Scheduling Supervisor in the preparation of aircraft pre-dock inspection requirements and post-dock records reviews.Receives, schedules and records all airframe and engine Time Compliance Technical Orders (TCTOs) for compliance within established timeframes.
Updates manual and automated scheduling systems with accurate information. Coordinates with the 89th Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) and 89th Operations Group Current Operations Office as necessary to maintain and disseminate current operational requirements. Assist in the completion of all AFTO Form 103 requirements for all aircraft depot inputs.
Practices good housekeeping and safety at all times. Performs other duties related to occupational field as assigned.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS
A minimum of two (2) to three (3) years aircraft scheduling experience is highly desired. Must be proficient in personal computer use to include a working knowledge of MS Office.Must have a strong working knowledge of the Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS). Must possess strong oral and written communication skills and be capable of working in an exceptionally dynamic scheduling environment with strict attention to detail and adherence to applicable policies, procedures and instructions. Must be able to obtain and maintain a secret security clearance.
- 64 -
POSITION TITLE: Plans and Scheduler II
WORKCENTER: Aircraft Plans and Scheduling (Helicopter Branch)
SUPERVISOR: Helicopter Branch Manager
RESPONSIBILITIES:
Responsible for the day-to-day operations of an aircraft Plans and Scheduling office in accordance with AFI 21-101 and other applicable instructions in support of 1st Helicopter Squadron.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Production Control responsibilities include ensuring that associated records and documentation are completed correctly and on time. Assists in coordinating, and developing aircraft scheduling plans for operational and maintenance scheduling requirements for all assigned aerospace vehicles, engines, and related support equipment into long range, quarterly, monthly, weekly and daily plans to make efficient use of resources. Attends required meetings. Ensures the Production Superintendent and Maintenance Supervision are advised of maintenance capability, problem areas, and adherence to production schedules. Represents Maintenance Supervision in coordinating aircraft and equipment utilization, sortie rates and flying hour program with Operations.Acts as the aircraft scheduling focal point for the 1st Helicopter Squadron Operations Offices. Develops, and schedules in the Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS) the inspection work packages for major, intermediate level, and scheduled inspections such as aircraft phases; schedules and conducts pre and post-inspection meetings for Phase. Manages the aircraft phase flow.
Documentation Responsibilities include: Maintaining the Aircraft Jacket File; receives, transfers, inspects, files, and updates active and inactive historical documents for assigned equipment. Performs Configuration Management; validates suspense and verifies correct parts are installed in the proper configuration on assigned aircraft. Performs the Time Compliance Technical Order (TCTO), Time Change (TCI) and Special Inspection (SI) Programs; orders required parts/kits, forecasts, schedules and monitors accomplishment, conducts document reviews, chairs required meetings. Maintains the Job Standard Master Listing (JSML) for TCI’s, SI’s, and for Profiles listed in the applicable technical order.
Aerospace Vehicle Distribution Officer (AVDO) Responsibilities include: Assist in the management of the number of assigned, possessed and available aircraft. May submits reports to Higher Headquarters as required. Coordinates the depot program with depot and other agencies to ensure on time input/return from depot maintenance. Reviews all aircraft debriefs via CAMS and aircraft utilization reports. Verifies correct fly hour data is correctly accounted for/updated, reconciles the monthly/yearly fly hour program with Debrief and Operations. Practices good housekeeping and safety at all times. Performs other duties related to occupational field as assigned.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS
Desire five (5) years experience in plans, scheduling and documentation functions. First-hand experience with 316th Wing / 89th Airlift Wing aircraft scheduling is highly desirable. Must be proficient in personal computer use to include a working knowledge of MS Office and Project.Must have a strong working knowledge of the Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS). Must possess strong oral and written communication skills and be capable of working in an exceptionally dynamic scheduling environment. Must be able to obtain and maintain a secret security clearance.
- 65 -
POSITION TITLE: Plans and Scheduler III
WORKCENTER: Aircraft Plans and Scheduling (Helicopter Branch)
SUPERVISOR: Helicopter Branch Manager
RESPONSIBILITIES:
Responsible for the day-to-day operations of an aircraft Plans and Scheduling office in accordance with AFI 21101 and other applicable instructions in support of 1st Helicopter Squadron.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Production Control responsibilities include the proper management, and training, of assigned aircraft production controllers to ensure that associated records and documentation are completed correctly and on time. Manages and coordinates aircraft scheduling. Develops operational and maintenance scheduling requirements for all assigned aerospace vehicles, engines, and related support equipment into long range, quarterly, monthly, weekly and daily plans to make efficient use of resources. Attends required meetings. Ensures the Production Superintendent and Maintenance Supervision are advised of maintenance capability, problem areas, and adherence to production schedules. Represents Maintenance Supervision in coordinating aircraft and equipment utilization, sortie rates and flying hour program with Operations.Acts as the aircraft scheduling focal point for the 1st Helicopter Squadron Operations Offices. Manages, develops, and schedules in the Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS) the inspection work packages for major, intermediate level, and scheduled inspections such as aircraft phases; schedules and conducts pre and post-inspection meetings for Phase. Manages the aircraft phase flow.
Documentation Responsibilities include: Maintaining the Aircraft Jacket File; receives, transfers, inspects, files, and updates active and inactive historical documents for assigned equipment. Manages, and performs Configuration Management; validates suspense and verifies correct parts are installed in the proper configuration on assigned aircraft. Manages, and performs the Time Compliance Technical Order (TCTO), Time Change (TCI) and Special Inspection (SI) Programs; orders required parts/kits, forecasts, schedules and monitors accomplishment, conducts document reviews, chairs required meetings. Manages and maintains the Job Standard Master Listing (JSML) for TCI’s, SI’s, and for profiles listed in the applicable technical order.
Aerospace Vehicle Distribution Officer (AVDO) Responsibilities include: Managing the number of assigned, possessed and available aircraft, submits reports to Higher Headquarters as required. Manages, and coordinates the depot program with depot and other agencies to ensure on time input/return from depot maintenance. Reviews all aircraft debriefs via CAMS and aircraft utilization reports, verifies correct fly hour data is correctly accounted for/updated, reconciles the monthly/yearly fly hour program with Debrief and Operations. Practices good housekeeping and safety at all times. Performs other duties related to occupational field as assigned.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS:
Desired ten (10) years experience in plans, scheduling and documentation functions. First-hand experience with 316th Wing / 89th Airlift Wing aircraft scheduling is highly desirable. Must be proficient in personal computer use to include a working knowledge of MS Office and Project.Must have a strong working knowledge of the Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS). Must possess strong oral and written communication skills and be capable of working in an exceptionally dynamic scheduling environment. Must be able to obtain and maintain a secret security clearance.
- 66 -
POSITION TITLE: Non - Destructive Inspection Technician III
WORKCENTER: NDI Shop
SUPERVISOR: Production Supervisor
RESPONSIBILITIES SHALL INCLUDE BUT NOT BE LIMITED TO THE FOLLOWING:
Performs duties as a Site Level III NDI Technician, IAW NAS-410 and DynCorp International LLC Special Processes and NDT Certifications (DTS-2719) to perform nondestructive inspections of aircraft, engines, and ground support equipment. Coordinates maintenance efforts with the Maintenance Aircraft Coordination Center and Production Supervisors. Ensures the site NDI program is in compliance with NAS-410, current practices and customer requirements. Manages daily NDI activities and specialized training, as necessary for DynCorp NDI technicians. Test and certify assigned personnel in 5 NDI disciplines. Instruct subordinate technicians on all aspects of NDI. Writes employee annual performance reviews on all assigned Level II NDI Technicians. Performs both on and off-equipment maintenance.
Performs nondestructive inspections using industrial radiographic, ultrasonic, eddy current, fluorescent penetrate, magnetic particle, and optical inspection techniques. Performs NDI testing, including that associated with TCTO related inspections, IAW applicable technical data.Notifies maintenance personnel to the extent and location of each defect detected during NDI activities. Documents each defect on the applicable form(s), specifying the extent and location. Uses Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS) computers. Accomplishes process controls, and performs operator maintenance of assigned NDI equipment. Accomplishes joint oil analysis program inspections in support of the Department of Defense as a regional laboratory encompassing approximately 18 agencies and 560 different oil-wetted components.Ensures compliance with all safety, housekeeping, tool control, and FOD prevention programs.Must be able to work day shift, night shift, and/or weekend shift as required.Shall perform other responsibilities as may be assigned, to include TDY and travel.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS:
Must have an in-depth working knowledge of NDI processes. A thorough working knowledge of applicable technical publications is required. Must exhibit leadership abilities and maintain strong verbal and written communication abilities. Possession of a valid NDI Level II Examiner certificate is desired. Must obtain a Repairman’s Certificate within 12 months of employment. Graduation from the U.S. Air Force NDI School or the equivalent is required. Must be able to obtain and maintain a Secret security clearance and Government flightline driver’s license.
- 67 -
POSITION TITLE: Non-Destructive Inspection Technician II
WORKCENTER: NDI Shop
SUPERVISOR: Production Supervisor
RESPONSIBILITIES SHALL INCLUDE BUT NOT BE LIMITED TO THE FOLLOWING:
Performs the duties of an NDI Level II Examiner IAW NAS-410 and is certified for specific techniques in a given method of non-destructive inspections for aircraft, engines, and ground support equipment. Performs both on and off equipment maintenance.Performs certified tasks with minimum supervision.
Performs non-destructive inspections of aircraft, engine components, and ground support equipment, using industrial radiographic, ultrasonic, eddy current, fluorescent penetrate, magnetic particle, and optical inspection techniques. Performs NDI testing, including that associated with TCTO related inspections, IAW applicable technical data. Notifies maintenance personnel regarding the extent and location of each defect detected during NDI activities and documents each defect on applicable forms. Uses Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS) computers. Accomplishes process controls, and performs operator maintenance of assigned NDI equipment. Accomplishes joint oil analysis program inspections in support of the Department of Defense as a regional laboratory encompassing approximately 18 agencies and 560 different oil- wetted components.Ensures compliance with all applicable safety, housekeeping, tool control, and FOD prevention programs.Maintains Technical Orders and Composite Tool Kits.Assists in training and direction of assigned personnel.Must be able to work dayshift, night shift, and/or weekend shift as required.Shall perform other duties as may be assigned, to include TDY and travel.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS:
Must be able to read, write, speak and understand English. Shall have the skills and knowledge to perform specific tests, calibrations, and interpretations and evaluations for acceptance or rejection. A working knowledge of the types and locations of defects to be expected is required. Graduation from the U.S. Air Force NDI School or equivalent is required. Must obtain a Repairman’s Certificate within 12 months of employment. One year of experience in oil analysis is required. Must be able to obtain and maintain a Secret security clearance and a Government flightline driver’s license.
- 68 -
POSITION TITLE: Machinist/ Tool and Die Maker/Aerospace Structural Welder
WORK CENTER: Metal Processing
SUPERVISOR: Production Supervisor
RESPONSIBILITIES SHALL INCLUDE BUT NOT BE LIMITED TO THE FOLLOWING:
Advises on metals machining, designing, and production problems. Designs, manufactures, or modifies special precision tools, gauges, cutting tools, metal dies, or molds used in shaping or forming metal or nonmetallic material and fixtures to facilitate metal working operations. Performs metals technology shop calculations such as determining cutting speeds, feeds, and settings.Uses manual and Computer Numerical Controlled (CNC) metal working machines. To manufacture and repair cams, gears, slots, and keyways for aircraft components, machine repair and aerospace support equipment. Writes programs for CNC machines using manual and Computer Aided Design-Computer Aided Manufacturing (CAD-CAM) methods. Checks completed components and determines serviceability in accordance with drawings and specifications. Disassembles, assembles, and fits component parts using specialized fasteners. Uses metal working equipment and tools to produce surface finishing specifications for components. Extracts broken or damaged screws, nuts, bolts, and aircraft hardware.Checks components for wear tolerances by using precision measuring devices and tools. Enters required data on aircraft forms and makes CAMS inputs.
Performsstructural fusion welding on aircraft/aircraft components and aerospace ground support equipment in accordance with (IAW) technical data.Must have knowledge to select the correct filler materials and shielding gases when producing flight critical welds. Clean parts utilizing liquid, vapor and sand blasting equipment. Read and understand engineering or mechanical drawings/blueprints. Required to fabricate, manufacture, weld, braze, silver solder, cut, preheat-post heat, bend, and saw in the correct sequence to perform welding projects without direct supervision. Design/repair special trailers, and stands used in aircraft maintenance. Perform heat-treating, tempering, annealing, stress relief, and artificial ageing of aerospace metals, tools, dies, jigs, and fixtures I/A/W technical data. Set up and operate the following equipment: Stationary and mobile Mig, Tig, and Arc welders, plasma arc cutter, oxyacetylene cutting torch, heat-treating ovens. Must be able to maintain certification requirements I/A/W T.O. 00-25-252 and Military Specifications 1595 in the following materials: Steel, Stainless Steel, Aluminum, Titanium, and Inconel. May perform duties as a Qualified Weld Inspector by inspecting own welds and those of other qualified welders and may perform duties such as training and re-certification in the various welding processes. Knowledge of hazards of explosive gasses, hazardous rays, and fumes, and proper handling, use, and disposal of hazardous waste and materials Shall perform other duties as may be assigned to include TDY and travel. Must be able to work day shift, night shift, and/or weekend shift as required.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS:
A working knowledge of the welding and machine shop practices and procedures. A technical course in welding and machine shop is also required. Must have the ability to read and interpret technical data. Must be obtain to maintain welding certification. Must be able to obtain and maintain a Secret security clearance and Government Flightline driver’s license
- 69 -
POSITION TITLE: Aircraft Cabinetmaker
WORKCENTER: Cabinet Shop
SUPERVISOR: Production Supervisor
RESPONSIBILITIES SHALL INCLUDE BUT NOT BE LIMITED TO THE FOLLOWING:
Performs maintenance, modifications, and repair of furnishings, cabinets, tables, bulkheads, wood trim and other interior components.Uses maintenance instructions and technical data for inspection, maintenance, and repair on Special Mission aircraft.Evaluates quality cosmetic appearance and serviceability of all installed wood components and plastic laminate panels for scheduled repair.Works with wood, metal and composite materials. Uses and maintains power tools along with other shop equipment. Measures and cuts vinyl’s, plastics, phenolics, composites and metals accurately and with minimal waste. Assembles pins and glues cabinet shells made from polymer and metal honeycombs with high degrees of accuracy. Properly installs drawer slides, hinges, latches and other aircraft specific hardware in subassemblies. Disassembles and reassembles aircraft cabinetry, strips laminate or veneer covering from existing cabinets. Cuts, fits and trims laminate or veneer coverings and repairs damaged cabinetry. Using samples and/or technical drawings, fabricates custom cabinetry. Upon request, designs and fabricates high-end, made to order interior accessories. Remanufactures interior cabinetry items that are beyond repair. Proficient in the use of FAA certified materials and supplies to accomplish cabinetry tasks for use aboard 737, 747, 757 and Gulf steam; G-3 and G-5 series aircraft, among others. Performs preventive maintenance, adjusts and repairs industrial machines.
Coordinates maintenance efforts with the Maintenance Aircraft Coordination Center and Production Supervisors.Documents discrepancies in the applicable form(s).Uses CAMS computers.Assists in monitoring bench and shop stocks. Orders materials and supplies as required. Ensures compliance with the safety, housekeeping, tool control, and FOD prevention programs.Must be able to work day shift, night shift, and/or weekend shift as required.Shall perform other duties as may be assigned, to include TDY and travel.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS:
Must have an outstanding knowledge of cabinetmaking and repair procedures. A minimum of 3 years cabinetmaking experience, preferably working on aircraft interiors is desired. Experience in aircraft cabinetry local manufacturing procedures and installation of components into aircraft using approved attachment points is desired. A working knowledge of procedures for handling and disposal of hazardous waste materials is required. Must be able to read, write, speak and understand English. The ability to read and interpret data is required. Occasional lifting of objects weighing up to 50 pounds is required. Duties may involve working with oils, lubricants, and chemical cleaners and solutions. Must show leadership abilities and communicate effectively, both verbally and in writing. Must obtain a Repairman’s Certificate within 12 months of employment. Must be able to obtain and maintain a Secret security clearance and Government flightline driver’s license.
- 70 -
POSITION TITLE: Unexploded Ordinance Technician II
WORKCENTER: Munitions Shop
SUPERVISOR: Maintenance Branch Manager
RESPONSIBILITIES SHALL INCLUDE BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO THE FOLLOWING:
Responsible to the Munitions Accountable Systems Officer for the accountability of conventional munitions.Provides accounting, research, and requirements computation for all Washington DC area munitions users. Prepares, analyzes and evaluates reports to HQ AMC. Maintains source document files. Monitors time change and supply point forecasts. Performs inventories and reconciliation. Ensures issue, turn-in, receipt, expenditures, conditions, and location changes are processed into the Combat Ammunitions System-Base. Assists in the training and direction of assigned personnel.
Coordinates efforts with the Maintenance Aircraft Coordination Center and Production Supervisors.Assists in monitoring bench and shop stocks. Orders materials and supplies as required. Ensures compliance with the safety, housekeeping, tool control, and FOD prevention programs.Must be able to work day shift, swing shift, night shift or weekend shift as required.Shall perform other duties as assigned to include TDY and travel.
QUALIFICATIONS:
Must have an outstanding knowledge of munitions accountability procedures. Must be able to read, speak, write, and understand English. The ability to read and interpret data is required. Occasional lifting of objects weighing up to 50 pounds is required. Duties may involve working with oils, lubricants, and chemical cleaners and solutions. A minimum of three years recent 89th experience is desired. Must be able to obtain and maintain a Secret security clearance and Government flightline driver’s license.
- 71 -
POSITION TITLE: Maintenance Branch Electronics Technician II (ELEN)
WORKCENTER: Electrical/Environmental Shop
SUPERVISOR: Production Supervisor
RESPONSIBILITIES SHALL INCLUDE BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO THE FOLLOWING:
Accomplishes organization and intermediate-level maintenance on electrical and environmental systems IAW technical data requirements. These components as installed on aircraft used to transport Cabinet Members, and other high-ranking national and international dignitaries. Makes necessary repairs, replaces part, and services LOX/GOX carts. Services and maintains aircraft and AGE batteries. Performs inspections and maintenance on electrical/environmental equipment.Performs repairs of electrical/environmental system components found onboard 89th Airlift Wing Special Air Mission aircraft.
Uses instructions and technical data for inspection, maintenance, and repairs. Assist in the training and direction of assigned personnel. Coordinates maintenance efforts with the Maintenance Aircraft Coordination Center and Production Supervisors.Documents discrepancies in applicable form(s).Uses Core Automated Maintenance System (Cams) computers.Assists in monitoring bench and shop stocks. Orders materials and supplies as required. Ensures compliance with applicable safety, housekeeping, tool control, and FOD prevention programs.Must be able to work day shift, swing shift, night shift or weekend shift as required. Receives cross-utilization training and is qualified to perform maintenance tasks associated with other classifications. Shall perform other duties as assigned, to include TDY and travel.
QUALIFICATIONS:
Must have a working knowledge of electrical and environmental system repair procedures. A working knowledge of procedures for handling and disposal of hazardous waste materials is required. Must be CPR qualified. Must be able to read, write, speak, and understand English. The ability to read and interpret data is required. Completion of specialized courses in electrical and environmental is required. Occasional lifting of objects weighing up to 50 pounds is required. A minimum of three years experience is required. Must be able to obtain an Airframe Certificate within 12 months after employment. Must be able to obtain and maintain a Secret security clearance and Government flightline driver’s license.
- 72 -