
UNITED UNION OF ROOFERS, WATERPROOFERS AND ALLIED WORKERS
AGREEMENT COVERING THE ROOFING INDUSTRY FOR THE JURISDICTION OF
Local Union No. 58 404 North Spruce Colorado Springs
(R)<unionCTIwSbel>5<
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT BETWEEN
ROOFERS LOCAL NO. 58 & COLORADO ROOFING CONTRACTORS
Article
AGREEMENT/WITNESSETH/PURPOSE		1
1.	DEFINITIONS	2
II.	TERRITORY, PROJECTS AND EMPLOYEES	3-4
III.	ASSIGNMENT OF WORK	4-5
IV.	UNION SECURITY	5-6
V.	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME	6-8
VI.	OUT OF CITY JOBS	8-9
VII.	WAGE SCALE AND PENALTIES	9-12
VIII.	ROOFERS SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT PLAN	12-13
IX.	NATIONAL ROOFING INDUSTRY PENSION PLAN	13-14
X.	HEALTH AND WELFARE	14-15
XI.	JOB ASSIGNMENT AND REPORTING TIME	16-17
XII.	EMPLOYMENT OF APPRENTICES	18-19
XIII.	EQUIPMENT	19
XIV.	WORK BY EMPLOYERS	20
XV.	ARBITRATION	20-21
XVI.	SEPARATE INVALIDITY-SEPARABILITY	21-22
XVII.	WORKING RULES	22-23
XVIII.	ROOFERS LOCAL NO 58 SAVINGS PLAN	23-24
XIX.	CONTRACT EXPIRATION	24
XX.	SIGNATURE PAGE	25
	EXHIBITS “A” “B” & “C” WAGE SCALES	26-28
AGREEMENT COVERING THE ROOFING INDUSTRY
FOR THE
JURISDICTION OF ROOFERS, LOCAL #58
This Agreement, made and entered into this _ W.y I, MH_________________________
by and between	Ooftai/ ■ hereinafter referred to as the “Employer”
and the United Union of Roofers/ Waterproofers and Allied Workers, Local No. 58, hereinafter referred to as the “Union”.
The financial Secretary-Business Representative and individual Business Agents of the Roofers Union hereinafter referred to as the “B.A.”.
WITNESSETH:
In consideration of the mutual Covenants and Agreements herein contained, it is hereby agreed by and between the parties hereto, as follows:
PURPOSE
(a) The purpose of this Agreement are to promote a settlement of labor disagreements by conference, to prevent strikes and lockouts, to stabilize conditions in the application of all roofing, waterproofing, siding, shingles and also insulation on roof decks as claimed by Roofer’s International, to be under their jurisdiction: To prevent available delays and expense, and generally to encourage a spirit of helpful cooperation between the Employer and the Employee Group to their mutual advantage.
It is understood that the following terms and conditions relating to the employment of workmen covered by this Agreement have been decided upon, and that following provisions will be binding upon the parties to this Agreement during the term of the Agreements or any renewal thereof.
1
ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS
(a)	EMPLOYER: A roofing and waterproofing contractor is an individual, firm copartner or corporation who contracts and supplies equipment, labor, material or engages in any manner or undertakes to perform any function of the classification of work by contract as specified in Article II (c) of the Agreement.
(b)	FOREMAN “A” - A Journeyman Roofer selected by the contractor to supervise a job, and shall be responsible for the application of the job in compliance with the employers written orders to manage a crew of five or more roofers. A foreman plus four men or more.
(c)	FOREMAN “B” - A Journeyman Roofer selected by the contractor to supervise a job, and shall be responsible for the application of the job in compliance with the employers written orders to manage a crew of four or less roofers. A foreman plus three men or less.
(d)	JOURNEYMAN: A Journeyman Roofer is a person qualified to perform three or more of the services required by the Roofing, Damp-Proofing, Waterproofing Trade and/or the work as claimed in Article II (d).
(e)	INTERMEDIATE JOURNEYMAN: A Intermediate Journeyman is a person qualified to perform one or more of the services required by the Roofing, Damp-Proofing, Waterproofing Trade and/or the Work as claimed in Article II (d).
(1.) All “New-Hire” Journeymen that have not completed Roofers Local 58 Apprenticeship Program will be classified as Intermediate Journeymen until evaluation.
(a) The evaluation program will be jointly administered by the owner/contractor and his/her foreman and conducted in a timely manner with the preliminary evaluation of “New -Hire” Journeymen to be administered with-in thirty (30) days. If the Employee is not evaluated as a Journeyman he/she has the right to request/appeal a further evaluation in the near future.
(f)	APPRENTICE: An Apprentice is defined as one who is learning the roofing and waterproofing trade and who is registered in accordance with the established and prescribed rules of apprenticeship training.
2
(g)	COLORADO ROOFERS JOINT APPRENTICESHIP COMMITTEE: The committee is established in cooperation with the Bureau of Apprenticeship Standard and Training, U.S. Department of Labor Standards and their duties shown therein.
ARTICLE II TERRITORY, PROJECTS AND EMPLOYEE COVERED
I	• 1
(a)	Territory or Area jurisdiction of Local No. 58 is comprised of the entire State of Colorado. The Nebraska counties of Banner, Box Butte, Cheyenne, Dawes, Garden, Kimball, Morrill, Scotts Bluff, Sheridan, and Sioux. The Wyoming counties of Albany, Goshen, Laramie, Natrona, Niobrara, and Platte.
(b)	Employers under this Agreement with Local No. 58 performing work (outside) of territory of Area shown in Article II (a) shall not pay Local 58 men less conditions or wages than established by Agreement with Local 58. Where the local Union has jurisdiction of “Out of City” jobs, a greater wage for the area where the job is located, Local 58 men will then receive the greater wage, expenses, and suitable transportation furnished by the Employer. No employees will be required to ride in an open truck.
(c)	Journeyman Roofers and Apprentices will not be furnished to any roofing contractor who is not signatory to Roofers Local No. 58 Agreement.
(d)	This Agreement shall cover the application of all roofing, waterproofing, damproofing, elasto-plastic roofing, siding, shingles, and also insulation of roof decks, after reaching the job site. All scratching, tear-offs all clean up and removal of materials and debris, attending all kettles, handling of all material preparatory to installation with the exception of the initial stocking by a supplier, and all that is claimed under ARTICLE II of the International Constitution (pgs. 4-9).
(e)	EMPLOYEES COVERED: This Agreement shall cover Journeymen Roofers and Apprentices.
(f)	RECOGNITION: The Employer recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining representative of his Employees covered by this Agreement.
(g)	EXCLUSIONS: This Agreement shall not apply to the following Employees: Executives, Guards, Clerical Personnel and full time Yard Employees.
3
(h)	PRESENT EMPLOYEES: Covered by this Agreement and new Employees hired after the date hereof, as a condition of employment, become members of the Roofers Union with-in eight (8) days following the date of this Agreement, or the date of employment whichever is later and shall remain members in good standing during the Terms of this Agreement, and in all respects conform to the Working Rules and Bylaws of Local 58. “Good-Standing” for the purpose of this paragraph, is interpreted to mean the payment of tendering of initiation fees and periodic Union Dues.
(i)	Any Employer covered by the provisions of this Agreement hereby agrees to check-off from wages the Initiation Fees and Union Dues during the term of this Agreement, providing the Employees have signed a valid standard from Authorization Card, authorizing such deductions. It is the responsibility of the Employer to remit such deductions to the Union in accordance with the terms of the signed Authorization Card, according to the method set forth. The Employer shall be the Agent for receiving such money and the deduction of said Initiation Fees and Union Dues by the Employer shall constitute payment .of such fees and Union Dues by Employee.
(j)	All sums deducted for fees shall be remitted to the Union not later than the fifteenth (15th) day of the following month in which such deductions are made, together with the specifying the following:
(1)	The names of the Employee for whom the deductions are being made.
(2)	The amount of deduction for each Employee.
(3)	The names and Social Security Numbers for all Employees names are listed the Check-Off for the first time during that month.
“In the event that the Employer fails to deduct and remit the proper Union Initiation Fees and Union Dues or fails to comply with any of the terms of this Agreement, the Union may consider any such conduct on the part of the Employer a material breach of Agreement.”
ARTICLE HI
ASSIGNMENT OF WORK
(a)	ASSIGNMENT OF WORK: It is agreed by the Employer that the Journeyman Roofer and Apprentices shall not be required to do any work that is not covered by this Agreement. Work covered by this Agreement shall not be assigned to Employees who have been hired to do other work.
(b)	The B.A. for the Union shall have visitation rights, during work hours on any job, and shall not take up any undue amount of time. The B.A. for the Roofers Local 58 shall
4
be given the address where any Employee is working or will be working at the time such request is made. The B.A. will notify the Employer prior to going on the job site.
(c)	JURISDICTION DISPUTE: There shall be no stoppage of work because of any Jurisdiction Dispute.
ARTICLE IV
UNION SECURITY
(a)	The Employer agrees that he will give the Union the first opportunity to furnish all classes of employment that are provided for in this Agreement. The Employer further agrees that all requests for workmen will be placed with the Union Dispatching Office within a reasonable time, 24 hours prior to the contemplated date of employment of such workmen.
(b)	Selection of applicants for referral to jobs shall be on non-discriminatory basis and shall not be based on, or in any way affected by, Union Membership, Bylaws, Rules, Regulations, Constitutional provisions, or any other obligations or aspects of Union membership requirements.
(c)	Each Union Dispatching Office shall furnish to each workman dispatched to a job a written referral. Such referrals shall be merely written evidence in the workman’s possession that he/she has been dispatched by the Union Dispatching Office in accordance with this Agreement has dispatched him.
(d)	The Employer has the right to request by name any job applicant who previously has been employed within the preceding twelve (12) month period in work covered by the jurisdiction of this Agreement, by an Employer signatory by this Agreement, who shall have registered with the Union. If the said applicant is available, the Union shall refer said applicant to the Employer, regardless of said applicant’s position or priority on the Union’s eligibility lists. The Employer in writing shall confirm such oral request.
(e)	The Employer retains the right to refuse to accept and reject an applicant referred by the Union if said applicant is unsatisfactory to the Employer.
(f)	Members and Applicants of Roofers Local No. 58 are required to register as available for work, on the out-of-work list maintained in the Local Union Office, where they desire to accept employment before they will be eligible for employment in that area.
5
(g)	All Apprentices will be referred under the supervision and as classified by the Colorado Roofers Joint Apprenticeship Committee.
(h)	A Journeyman Roofer, not a member of Roofers Local No.58, may register on the out-of-work list and will be available to the Employer in the same manner as a member. When he/she becomes employed will be subject to ARTICLE II, Section (e), 1.
(i)	The Employer agrees to carry and pay Workman’s Compensation with the reliable insurance company or with the State, in which the work is located, on the Journeyman Roofers and Apprentices under this Agreement, and will upon request file a certificate each year showing coverage with the Union before such Employer will be furnished men by the Union. It is further agreed by the Employer that employment Security Tax will be paid in the State where the work is located on all Journeyman Roofers and Apprentices covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
(a)	WORKDAY AND WEEK: The workweek shall be forty (40) hours, Monday through Friday. The workday or shift shall be eight (8) consecutive hours, exclusive of lunch hour, with a ten-minute break in the morning and afternoon. Men shall not be required to work more than five (5) hours without break for meals.
(b)	The workday may constitute 8 or 10 hours. Anytime after ten (10) hours is overtime. Rate is 1 lA time’s regular rate.
(c)	Journeyman Roofers and Apprentices will show up at the Employers shop or job fifteen (15) minutes before work time. Men will not start working before the designated time. .
(d)	Employers will use. their office of established regular point for assigning of Employees to jobs. When Employees are instructed to report to shop or office, or when job is completed and not so instructed Employees shall report to such assigned point.
(e)	OVERTIME PAY: Time and one-half shall be paid for the time worked in excess of ten (10) hours in any one day, or for forty (40) hours in any one week. Double time shall be paid for Sundays, and the following Holidays: New Years Day, Fourth of July, Memorial Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day.
6
(f)	VOLUNTARY MAKE-UP TIME: The straight time provisions of this agreement may apply on Saturdays or the day before and the day after any of the six holidays to any employee who has not worked forty (40) hours that week. (Called voluntary make-up time,) there will be no discrimination against an employee if employee refuses to work make-up time. Overtime rate shall be paid for time worked in excess of ten (10) hours in one day, or forty (40) hours in a week. Saturdays, or the day before and the day after any of the six holidays, shall be overtime days, except when Saturday or the day before and the day after any of the six holidays is a voluntary make-up day. Saturday may be used as a Voluntary make-up day for a recognized holiday.
(g)	REPORTING TIME: Journeyman Roofers and Apprentices assigned to a job by an Employer shall report as assigned daily until the completion of the job, unless they shall be reassigned or terminated before leaving the job site at the conclusion of the day’s work.
(h)	Journeyman Roofers and Apprentices reporting for work and not so notified as in (g) above, shall receive two (2) hours pay.
(i)	Any Employee terminated by the Employer or terminating himself shall be issued a termination form showing date and reason for termination at the time as discharged or when Employee quits. Any employee who has not worked for the contractor for one month (30) days will be given a layoff slip by the Employer and instructed to contact the Local Union office immediately to register on the “out of work” list and available for work.
(j)	Where an inspection or licensing body with proper authority and jurisdiction over the job in progress, either temporarily or permanently stops the job, the Employees shall either be transferred to another job, without any loss of pay; or incase they are not assigned, they shall receive not less than four (4) hours pay, where the stoppage occurs in the first half of the day or not less than eight (8) hours pay, where the stoppage occurs in the last half of the day.
The Employee designated as Foreman by the Employer shall be responsible for the application of the job in compliance with the Employer’s written notice.
(k)	When Journeyman Roofers and Apprentices are requested by the Employer to stay on the job, they shall be paid for all waiting time at the established rates.
7
(1)	All projects within a ninety (90) mile driving distance of the Employers address of business (or businesses), as determined by “MapQuest” (Address to address, shortest distance) will be considered a “City Job”. Drive time expenses will apply for all projects outside of a sixty (60 mile driving distance of the Employers address of business or businesses), as determined by “MapQuest” (Address to address, shortest distance). All projects outside of the (90) mile driving distance as defined above, will be considered an “Out Of City” job.
(m)	All Employers must designate principal place of business, or businesses. This or these locations will be where employees are referred to by the Union and must be in an incorporated or unincorporated city and/or town.
ARTICLE VI OUT-OF-CITY JOBS
(a)	Journeyman Roofers and Apprentices assigned to “Out-of-City Jobs” shall receive transportation furnished by their Employer. Prior to going on out of city jobs, Employer will advance Journeyman Roofers and Apprentices $30.00/day per diem. When required by their Employer to remain away from their home over night, they shall stay in accommodations arranged and paid for by the Employer, at a maximum of two Employees per room.
(b)	STARTING POINT: For “Out-of-City jobs” shall be the Employers Address of business or businesses.
(c)	When Employees are assigned to “Out-of-City Jobs”, all DRIVE TIME shall start at the STARTING POINT established for the Employers designated place of business. When an Employee is to be assigned work on an “Out-of-City Job” which requires DRIVE TIME, that Employee will be notified by the project Foreman the prior day of such job so that the drive time provisions do not interrupt in the eight hour work day.
(d)	DRIVE TIME and Benefits - There will be no benefits (Local Pension, NRIPP, Health & Welfare, or Apprentice Fund,) paid on DRIVE TIME only if it can be easily identified on the employees paycheck stub as DRIVE TIME.
(e)	When an Employee is sent on an “Out-of-City Job” that requires minimum time, such as a roof leak, measuring a job, patch job or completion of a job, actual time worked and DRIVE TIME will be paid at the prevailing rate for the driver and the passenger(s)
8
up to eight (8) hours. After the eight (8) hours, the driver and passengers will be paid the driver’s overtime rate as defined in Article VIL
(f)	On all jobs located outside of Local No. 58 Area Jurisdiction as shown in Article II, Section (b), the Employer will employ no less than two (2) of his employees from Local No. 58 and will secure the balance of his Employees from the Roofers Local Union having jurisdiction over the Area where the job is located.
ARTICLE VII
WAGE SCALE EFFECTIVE
Exhibit A, B, and C which outlines the Wage Scale for the 2-year duration of this contract will be on the last page of this contract
Exhibit A - Wage Scale - 1st year (May 1, 2014 - October 31, 2014) Exhibit B - 1st yr. 2nd 6 mos. scale (November 1, 2014 - April 30, 2015) Exhibit C - 2nd yr. wage scale (May 1,2015 - April 30,2016)
(a)	WAGE SCALE (CONTINUED): Fifty Cents (.50) per hour “Check-Off’ will be deducted from Employees check for each hour worked and made payable to Roofers Local No.58. The contractor will contribute ten cents (.10) per hour as a full amount to be paid into the Apprenticeship Fund and made payable to Colorado Roofers JATC at One Thirteen Credit Union.	' .
(b)	PITCH PAY RATES: In such case of tear-off, new applications and/or scraping of Coal Tar Pitch. Employees will be paid one dollar ($1.00) above scale until that job is completed. Whatever type of material is to be applied after the pitch tear-off and/or scraping will not change the pitch pay rate for that job.
(c)	ADHESIVE SPRAY REQUIRING AIR POWERED RESPIRATORS: Employer agrees to equip every employee on the job with fresh air supply/self contained respirator masks, that are directly involved with running the equipment and applying material, and further agrees to train Employees on how to properly wear and operate their protective equipment. All employees required to wear the above described respirator masks during the application of this system will be paid one ($1.00) dollar above scale only during the
9
application process. In the event that the system is used on a re-roof project, employees will be paid at standard scale while they are involved in the tear-off process. The applicators will be identified by name and hours in the Foreman’s weekly reports.
(d)	Effective the first day of this contract through the duration, the Employer shall contribute to the International Roofers and Waterproofers Research and Education Fund (.03) per hour for all employees under this agreement. This contribution will accompany and be included with the monthly NRIPP contribution.
(e)	DEATH BENEFIT - In the event that an employee has an immediate family member that passes away, that employee will be paid up to 24 man hours to take care of these personal affairs.
(f)	PENALTIES
(1)	Employer will conduct random or post-accident drug/alcohol testing. Employees that test positive or refuse the post accident test, first offense, will be suspended from work for one week without pay. All costs for positive drug tests will be deducted from employees pay.
(2)	Employees that test positive at a random or post accident drug/alcohol screening or refuse to be tested, second offense, will result in suspension of employment or dismissal as deemed necessary by management. All costs for positive drug tests will be deducted from employees pay.
(3)	Employees that are unable to work on a project under contract because they cannot meet the minimum-security requirements to access that project will be penalized 5% below scale until they meet these requirements and are allowed legal access. The Employer will conduct all employee criminal background checks.
(4)	“Un-Insurable Drivers” - In the event that Foreman “A” or Foreman “B” do not qualify for “Driver Coverage” under the Employers standard Automobile insurance policy, their base pay will be reduced 5% below scale.
(5)	“No Shows”- A “No Show” is defined as an employee who:
(a) Does not show up for work at start time.
(b)Does not come to work without contacting the Foreman or the Field Foreman no later than one hour before start time.
(c)	Does not show up for work, and does not provide a written doctor’s note to the Foreman within 48 hours of his absence.
(d)	Leaves work early without notifying the Foreman before he leaves work.
10
Penalties for “No Shows”
1st Offense- $15.00 deduction from Net pay, after taxes.
2nd Offense- $25.00 deduction from Net pay, after taxes.
3rd Offense- $40.00 deduction from Net pay, after taxes. Termination will be at the discretion of the employer.
DRIVE TIME POLICY & DEFINITIONS:
1.	Service Crew Vehicle - is a company owned vehicle equipped for a 1 -2 man service crew. Driver and Passenger of Service Crew Vehicles will be paid their full prevailing wage from the moment they report to work, until they return to the shop. In the event that DRIVE TIME time occurs beyond a 40 hour work week, THE DRIVER will be paid at the DRIVER OVERTIME RATE.
2.	Contract Crew Truck - “City Job” - is a company owned truck equipped to transport a crew of 1-6 men. DRIVE TIME to the project on a “City Job” is not paid to the DRIVER that drives from his residence direct to the jobsite, or the jobsite to his residence.
•	If the DRIVER “must” stop by the yard to pick up materials in the morning this will be considered “Hours Worked” for the Driver and his assigned helper until materials are loaded and the Contract Crew Truck leaves the shop, at which time DRIVE TIME begins at the DRIVER RATE.
•	If the DRIVER “must” stop by the yard after work to unload materials this will be considered “Hours Worked” for the Driver and his assigned helper while unloading materials. DRIVE time from the Yard to the Drivers Residence will not be paid.
•	DRIVERS picking up or dropping off passengers that ride in the Contract Crew Truck to or from a “City Job” WILL NOT be paid DRIVE TIME.
3.	Contract Crew Truck - “Out of City Jobs” - is a company owned truck equipped to transport a crew of 1 - 6 men. DRIVE TIME to the project on a “Out of City Job” is paid to the DRIVER that drives to and from the Jobsite at the DRIVERS RATE.
11
4.	Contract Van - “Out of City Jobs” is a company owned VAN equipped to transport a crew of 1 - 15 men to “Out of City Jobs” DRIVE TIME to the project on an “Out of City Job” is paid to the DRIVER that drives to and from the Jobsite at the DRIVERS RATE. DRIVE TIME to the project on “City Jobs” is not paid to the DRIVER of a CONTRACT VAN.
5.	DRIVERS ASSIGNED TO ANY COMPANY VEHICLE IS AT THE SOLE DISCRETION OF THE EMPLOYER.
6.	DRIVERS RATE = “MINIMUM WAGE”
7.	DRIVERS OVERTIME RATE = “WEIGHTED AVERAGE” x 1.5 ((BASE WAGE x HOURS WORKED) + (DRIVERS RATE x HOURS DRIVEN))/ TOTAL HOURS WORKED AND DRIVEN X 1.5
8.	For any job requiring more that (1.5) hours of DRIVE TIME one way, as determined by GPS (fastest route), and requiring more than (2) days to completion, the employer shall provide Hotel Accommodations for the crew within reasonable proximity to the job, as determined by the employer. Subsistence for the crew will also be paid for these projects for each man working at least 6 hours per day, or if the crew is stranded and unable to return to the office they are assigned to due to weather.
ARTICLE VIII ROOFERS LOCAL NO. 58 SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT FUND
Section 1 (a): The Employer hereby agrees to pay in to the Roofers Local No. 58 Supplemental Benefit Plan (Local Pension Plan) for each Foreman, Foreman “A”, Foreman “B” and Journeyman employed at the following rate of $1.71 per hour worked during the period of May 1, 2014 through April 30, 2016. The contributions are due on or before the fifteenth (15th) of the following month.
“Hours worked” does not constitute drive time as defined in Article VI, paragraph (c).
Section 1	(b): For Intermediate Journeyman, their rate shall equal the rate of the third (3rd) year first (1st) six Apprenticeship benefit.
Section 1	(c): All Apprenticeship benefit rates will be based on percentages. Such percentages shall be computed using an 85% value of the Journeyman rate as the percentage base.
12
Section 2.	The Employer agrees to be bound by the terms and provisions of the Trust Agreement governing such Trust Fund, and all lawful amendments and revisions thereto hereafter adopted. The Employer further agrees to accept as its representatives the present Employer Trustees and their lawfully appointed successors.
ARTICLE IX
NATIONAL ROOFING INDUSTY PENSION FUND
Section 1.	The National Roofing Industry Pension Fund (“Trust Fund”) was created pursuant to the terms of a certain Agreement and Declaration of Trust dated July 7, 1966, as thereafter amended.
Section 2.	Effective the first day of May 2014, the Employer shall contribute to the Trust Fund on or before the fifteenth (15th) day of the month following the month of employment for which contributions are due. The rate for which the Employer is obligated to pay compensation to each employee shall be the sum of thirty-eight cents (.38) per hour for all Foremen, Assistant Foremen, and Journeymen. The sum of fifteen cents (.15) per hour shall be paid for Intermediate Journeymen and all Apprentices.
Section 3.	The Employer agrees to be bound by and party to the aforesaid Agreement and Declaration of Trust, and any amendment thereto, creating the Trust Fund and ratifies any action taken by the Employers authorized to designate Employer Trustees and any action taken by such Trustees, together with their successor Trustees.
Section 4.	In the event the Employer shall fail to pay the contributions required of said Employer or otherwise fail to comply with the terms of this Article or the rules and regulations adopted by the Trustees of the said Trust, the Union, upon notice from said Trust Fund, may forthwith withdraw Employees from said Employer or utilize other measures available to it until such breach is cured, without first resorting to arbitration. Such remedy shall be in addition to any other remedies available to the Union or the Trustees of such said Trust Fund. If Employees are withdrawn from the Employer in order to collect such contributions, such Employees shall be paid for lost time up to sixteen (16) hours, provided, however, that the Local Union shall have first given the Employer and the Employees five (5) days notice, by certified mail, or its intention to withdraw such Employees.
Section 5.	The contributions required by this Article shall accrue with respect to all working hours, not travel hours, compensated by any working Foreman, Journeyman or
13
Apprentice represented by the Union or for any person doing work within the jurisdiction of the Union and said contributions shall accrue with the respect to all hours worked by Employees covered by the terms of the Agreement within or outside the geographical jurisdiction of the Union, except that when work is performed outside the Union’s jurisdiction where another fringe benefit fund of a similar kind exists and the Employer makes a contribution to that fund, the said Employer shall not be required to make a contribution to the Trust Fund. Article VI paragraph (c) defines travel hours noted above.
Section 6.	Liquidated damages in the sum of ten percent (10%) shall automatically be due and payable on contributions paid past the due date, together with the interest of twelve percent (12%) or such other amount established by the Board of Trustees. In addition, the Employer shall be liable for all cost and Attorney’s fees incurred by the Trust.
ARTICLE X HEALTH AND WELFARE
(a)	Contractor agrees to pay into the National Roofers Union and Employers Joint Health and Welfare Trust Fund $4.13 per hour for May 1, 2014 for every Employee under a Collective Bargaining Agreement of Local Union No. 58. Then $4.59 per hour for May 1,2015.
(b)	Health and Welfare Fund: The Policy provides bond limits of $10,000 for employers expected to hire up to 20 employees and $30,000 for employers expected to employ more than 21.
The Bond would be required from any employer who first becomes obligated to contribute after January: 1, .2010 or from any employer who becomes delinquent in making contributions three months or more in any one year period.
(c)	Throughout the effective term of this Agreement the Contractor and the Union agree to be bound by and to fully comply with all terms and provisions of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust of the National Roofers Union and Employers Joint Health and Welfare Trust Fund, and to fully comply with all rules, regulations and eligibility and standards adopted by the Board of Trustees, together with any and all further amendments, changes and additions to said Trust Agreement and/or to said rules, regulations and eligibility standards which at any time may be adopted by said Board of Trustees.
14
(d)	It is understood and agreed that each Contractor is required to report each straight time hour and each overtime hour worked for each Employee covered by this Agreement and to pay contributions therefore into said Trust, regardless of whether or not such Employee is or is not a member of the Union herein. “Hours worked” does not constitute drive time as defined in Article VI, paragraph (c).
(e)	The aforesaid Trust Agreement provides that each Contractor shall timely file Reports in such form as may be directed by the Trustees covering all full payroll periods ending during the proceeding calendar month; such reports are required to be filed each month even if the Contractor did not employ any Employees covered by this Agreement during that calendar month. Such form or reports are due on or before the fifteenth (15th) of that following month.
(f)	The Trust Agreement provides that if a Contractor fails to timely file his reports or fails to pay contributions as evidence by the reports, each failure constitutes a separate violation of the Trust Agreement. For each violation the aforesaid Trust Agreement provides for the imposition of liquidated damages, arising from each such violation or delinquency.
(g)	The Trust Agreement provides that upon reasonable request therefore and during the regular working hours, an accountant or other representative of the Board of Trustees, shall be entitled to audit the books and records of the Contractor as may be necessary or applicable to determine that the reports and Contributions have been and/or are being properly filed and paid by the Contractor as required by the Trust and Agreement and applicable rules and regulations.
(h)	In the event there is any conflict between the terms and provisions of paragraphs (b), (c), or (e) of this Article and applicable Trust Agreement and/or applicable rules, regulations of eligibility standards adopted by the Trustees during the term or this Agreement, the latter shall prevail.
(i)	If the Board of Trustees determines that the Contractor is delinquent in filing his reports or paying contributions the Union may refuse to furnish any workmen to such delinquent Contractor and/or may direct Employees of such delinquent Contractor, to cease working and/or may impose economical, or legal sanctions against such delinquent Contractor, and such action by the Union shall not be deemed to be in violation of this Agreement.
15
ARTICLEXI
JOB ASSIGNMENT AND REPORTING TIME
(a)	The Foreman “A” shall be a Journeyman Roofer and shall be selected by the Employer for each crew of five (5) or more men on the job. There must be a Roofer on the kettle at all times, when felts are laid and /or gravel is being spread on the jobs fifteen (15) squares or over.
(b)	The Foreman “B” shall be a Journeyman Roofer and shall be selected by the Employer for each crew of four (4) or less men on the job. There must be a Roofer on the kettle at all times, when felts are laid and/or gravel is being spread on the jobs fifteen (15) squares of over.
(c)	On a crew of ten (10) or more men, the Foreman “A” will be a non-working , Foreman. When two (2) or more crews are assigned on the same job, one (1) man will be the Foreman “A” and the other Foreman will be a Foremen “B”. On jobs where there are different crews, such as flat work crews, steep metal crews, and waterproofing crews there shall be a Foreman “A”, or a Foreman “B” on each crew.
(d)	A Journeyman or Apprentice Roofer shall be paid at the proper established rates for all work performed in the shop or on the job this applies to work done either before, after, or during regular established work hours.
(e)	Wages shall be paid in the form of Direct Deposit Bank Transfer to the Employee’s account at the 113 Credit Union or the Employee’s banking institution of choice or with a negotiable check in the shop or on the job at or before 5:00 pm on Friday of each week. When a Journeyman.Roofer or an Apprentice Roofer is terminated he shall be paid in full at once; in accordance with State Law.
(f)	Each Journeyman Roofer and Apprentice shall receive a form with each payment of wages and/or expense from the Employer, that clearly shows total hours worked in a pay period, rate per hour, all expenses reimbursed or paid, itemize each deduction and show net amount of pay for the period. Overtime and regular time hours worked will be shown separately on same form. Any Employer who does not comply with the above will be subject to having all Employees removed from their shops.
16
(g)	Employees will report to the job or shop each day, unless instructed differently before leaving job the last day worked. In case where the weather may stop work, the Employee will either appear at work at starting time or contact person who is designated as Dispatcher or Foreman on the job, for instruction.
(h)	Employees reporting to the shop or job, unless assigned work will leave the shop or job at or before 9:00 A.M. Where Employee is retained by the Employer after 9:00 A.M. he/she will be paid his/her regular rate for each such waiting time. When the Employee is instructed to report back at a later time and starts work, he/she shall receive a minimum of two (2) hours. If he/she does not start work he/she shall receive one (1) hour show up time. If weather conditions do not permit work, no minimum or show up time is required.
(i)	It shall be recognized by the Employer that the Local Union Business Representative shall appoint Stewards in any shop or on any job that he deems necessary and the Employer shall be notified when such an appointment is made. The Steward shall be a working Journeyman who shall in addition to his/her work as a Journeyman, be permitted to perform during working hours such of his/her Union duties as cannot be performed at other times. It being understood and agreed that the Steward’s duties shall be expeditiously as possible and the Employer agrees to allow the Steward a reasonable amount of time to perform these duties. The Steward shall observe conditions of employment and conduct of members to the end that the obligation of the members and the provisions of the Agreement shall be complied with, and if there should be a violation of the same, the Steward shall notify the proper representative of the Employer and if unable to correct the violation shall notify the proper representative of the Employer and if unable to correct the violation shall report same to the B.A. The Steward shall not at any time cause a work stoppage.
17
ARTICLE XII EMPLOYMENT OF APPRENTICES
The Contractor agrees to run the Apprenticeship program with the funds contributed by the Employer. The Apprenticeship Committee will have the right to decide where the funds go. No action will be taken on the funds unless the majority of the Committee is present. The Union and the Employer have a fifty percent (50%) vote.
Contribution: Employer, May 1, 2014 through April 30, 2016 ten cents (.10) per hour worked. “Hours worked” does not constitute drive time as defined in Article VI, paragraph (c).
(a)	The Apprentice shall work under the rules given to the Colorado Roofers, Joint Apprenticeship Committee Standards and in conformity with this Agreement.
(b)	The Apprentice shall work under the supervision of a Journeyman Roofer at all times.
(c)	One (1) Apprentice may or shall be employed on each job employing a qualified Journeyman and one (1) additional Apprentice for each three (3) additional Journeyman regularly employed.
(d)	Section (d) above, shall not change the ratio of Apprentices: the use of “may or shall” is intended to handle a temporary “out-of-ratio” situation, caused by a man not showing up that day. Otherwise, Section (d) is interpreted to mean, “shall be employed”.
(e)	SLATE, TILE, RIGID ASBESTOS SHINGLES, AND SINGLE PLY LOOSE LAID SYSTEMS: Where Journeyman Roofers on slate, tile, rigid asbestos shingles, and single ply loose laid systems in the shop count for the purpose of determining the number of Apprentices allowed, than one (1) Apprentice may be used for each Journeyman Roofer working on slate, tile, rigid asbestos shingles, and single ply loose laid systems.
(f)	HOT MASTIC: Where Journeyman Roofers working on Hot Mastic work are not included in the Shop count for the purpose of determining the number of Apprentices allowed then one (1) Apprentice may be used for each Journeyman Roofer working on hot mastic work. A Journeyman Roofer shall be in charge of the kettle and a Journeyman Roofer shall be in charge at the point of application.
18
(g)	SPRAY WORK: where spray equipment is being operated in crew for spray work may be one (1) Journeyman Roofer and one (1) Apprentice.
(h)	OPERATING KETTLES AND POWER EQUIPMENT: No Apprentice shall be allowed to work at the kettle or with the kettle or power equipment until he has served six (6) months on roofing and waterproofing work, and is rated second half of first year Apprentice by the Colorado Roofers Joint Apprenticeship Committee.
(i)	ROOF REMOVAL: Where Journeyman Roofers are working on Roof Removal and replacement on a daily basis then one (1) Apprentice may be used for each Journeyman Roofer.
ARTICLE Xin EQUIPMENT
(a)	The Employer shall furnish on the job, all ladders, buckets, kettles, ropes, derrick pulleys, roof brackets, shingle cutters, axes, brooms, shovels, spud bars, wheel barrows; also first aid kit and any special tools or equipment necessary for consummation of the job.
(b)	No Journeyman Roofer or Apprentice may furnish equipment or tools for an Employer’s convenience, as shown in Section (a).
(c)	Journeyman Roofers and Apprentices shall provide for themselves all necessary hand tools in usable condition and all personal safety equipment. When a Journeyman or Apprentice show up on the job without hand tools, namely, shinglers, hatchet-with gauge, straight claw hammer, pointing trowel, chalk line, pliers, crescent wrench, tin snips, two knives for roofing, tape measure, and personal safety equipment, namely, hardhat, gloves, safety goggles, safety shoes and respirator, the Employer may lay him off for the day or terminate him. Article V, Section (h) will not apply in this case.,
(d)	No member may lease a truck or other vehicle for use of an Employer hauling material and or equipment. At the discretion of the Contractor no Member shall take a Company vehicle home with him at the close of the day.
19
ARTICLE XIV
WORK BY EMPLOYERS
(a)	When the Employer is a firm or more than one (1) individual; only one (1) such individual can do a substantial amount of work with roofers tools on roofing jobs of that firm and can work in the capacity only with a regular work crew and only after he has proven to the Union to be an owner or part owner of the firm.
(b)	PIECE AND SUB-CONTRACT WORK; The Employers shall not employ Journeyman Roofers, Apprentices or Roofing Crews on a piece work basis or subcontract work to Journeyman Roofers Apprentices or Roofing Crew at any time, except as follows; shingles can be applied on a piecework basis, mutually acceptable between the Business Representative, Employer and Applicator.
(c)	The Employer agrees not to sub-contract work to any other Roofing Contractor who has not signed the Agreement.
ARTICLE XV ARBITRATION
(a)	ARBITRATION; In the event that a dispute cannot be resolved, the matter shall be referred to a Board of Arbitration consisting of one (1) person appointed by each party; the two (2) so appointed to select a third member. The decision of the Arbitration Board shall be final and binding upon both parties, but shall not change any part of this Agreement.
(b)	If the parties cannot agree upon the third (3 rd) member of a panel within seven (7) days then any one or more of the - parties may request the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to submit a panel of Arbitrators for the parties to choose from. The Arbitrator shall hear the matter in dispute and his decision shall be final and binding. The cost of said Arbitrators shall be borne equally between the parties.
(c)	All parties hereto mutually agree to cooperate fully in every legal and proper way to establish and maintain in the Roofing Division of the Construction Industry and within the territory in which they operate a code of ethics and fair practices which will insure compliance with the specific terms of the Agreement and direct efforts individually and collectively as circumstances may warrant and justify to the elimination of unfair competition and destructive practices.
20
If, during the term of the Agreement, any or all of the provisions of the Labor-Management Relations Act of 1947 are amended, repealed, or judicially declared unconstitutional or invalid, or if during the said term of the Agreement, any or all of the provisions of any other Federal, State or Municipal law now in forced or hereafter enacted, repealed or judicially declared unconstitutional or invalid, then and in any said event either party hereto shall have the right, by serving via registered mail, written notice of such desire and intention upon the other party, to re-open this Agreement during its term for the purpose of re-negotiating any article, section, sentence, phrase or word of the Agreement which is or are related to or affected by any such legislative repeal of amendment of by any such judicial declaration; by the term “re-negotiating” as used in this Article is meant the amendment, repeal, supplementing and adding to of any such article, section, sentence, phrase or word contained in this Agreement. Upon receipt of such written notice, the party served with the same shall, as soon as possible, meet confer and bargain with the other party for the purpose above mentioned, provided that in no event shall such meetings, conferences and bargaining’s commence later than thirty (30) days after the receipts of such written notice. In the event re-negotiating, meetings, conferences and bargaining’s have been concluded in a manner mutually agreeable to all parties hereto and the agreement thereon reduced to written form within sixty (60) days after the receipt of the aforesaid written notice, then any article, section, sentence, phrase or word of this Agreement which is or are related to or affected by any of the aforesaid legislative repeal or amendment or judicial declaration shall then remain and be subject to the provisions hereinafter set forth in Article XVII of this Agreement and shall be treated accordingly.
ARTICLE XVI SEPARATE INVALIDITY- SEPARABILITY
(a)	SEPARATE INVALIDITY-SEPARABILITY; Any provisions contained herein that is contrary to or held to be in violation on the part of the Union, its members, or agents, or on the part of the Employer or his agents, of the Labor-Management Relations Act of 1947, or of any other Federal, State or Municipal Law now in force or effect, and this contract shall be construed as if said void provisions herein were not a part of the contract, it being intended, however, that the other provisions of this contract shall not be affected, thereby. It is further agreed that should compliance of any law, Federal or State of amended thereof, or any order or regulation issued there under, now or hereafter in force and effect prohibit the carrying out of any of the provisions of the Agreement, then to the extent of such deviation or prohibition, this Agreement shall be deemed to have been automatically amended, effective on the effective date of such law, order, or regulation. Such amendment to this contract shall remain in effect only so long as said
21
law amendment, order or regulation continues in force, or until the expiration of this Agreement, whichever event shall occur first.
(b)	It shall be the sole responsibility of the Employer to provide a safe work place. The Employer shall comply with all State, Federal and local safety regulations.
ARTICLE XVH WORKING RULES
(1)	Any member working a Holiday or changing hours without proper approval will be subject to charges, trial and penalty.
(2)	On all work “out of city” a large enough crew must be sent to handle the job, unless Local 58 has an office set up in the city where the job is located.
(3)	Roofers or Apprentices will handle all material under our jurisdiction after delivery to any job site.
(4)	Any Roofers or Apprentices refusing to show his paycheck, when requested to show same by a member of Local 58 will be subject to charges.
(5)	Employer shall furnish, on the job at all times, a first aid kit.
(6)	Roofers and Apprentices shall not work with member of any other trade
doing work claimed by Roofer Local Union, subject to charges.
(7)	Roofers and Apprentices working for an Employer signed by a Roofer’s agreement are responsible for the standing of all men employed on the same job.
(8)	Roofers and Apprentices shall receive pay for the time used in moving from one job to another during work hours. At their prevailing rate.
(9)	Roofers and Apprentices are prohibited from carrying hot material on a ladder.
(10)	Roofers and Apprentices are prohibited from strip mopping or in any other manner skip a job, subject to charges.
(11)	Roofers and Apprentices when unable to report to a job as assigned by their Employer in sufficient time will be replaced on the crew.
(12)	Power-Hoisting, Journeymen Roofers may operate j igger hoist, unless used four hours or over in any one day. Foreman shall call the Office for an Operating Engineer. A member of the Operating Engineers Union shall operate all other hoist.
(13)	Any member violating any section of these Working Rules shall be subject to charges and trial. If found guilty, will be subject to penalty.
(14)	All members of the Roofers Local No. 58, when working in the territorial Jurisdiction of another Roofers Local Union, are required to secure a
22
“Clearance Card” from Local 58 and present the “Clearance Card” to the Local Union having jurisdiction over the job before starting work.
(Clearance Card is an introductory form only and required by the Roofers International Union.)
ARTICLE XVIII
SAVINGS PLAN RULES AND REGULATIONS ROOFERS UNION LOCAL NO. 58 SAVINGS PLAN
(1)	In order to provide Journeymen and Apprentices of Roofers Local No. 58 working under this Agreement with a Savings Plan, it is hereby mutually agreed that a sum of fifty cents (.50) per hour worked, effective May 1, 1994 shall be deducted by the Employer and paid into this Savings Plan.
(a)	These Savings Plan payments shall be sent on a monthly basis, with the Employers Report to Roofers Local Union No. 58 Savings Plan, One Thirteen Credit Union, 3505 N. Chestnut St., Colorado Springs, Colorado 80907. Any Employee living outside the sixty (60) mile radius may request to the Employer and Union to pay him on his check instead of the One Thirteen Credit Union.
(b)	The Employer shall make all legal payroll deductions for Income Tax, State Tax, etc., from the total wages and shall then transmit the full amount of the legal payroll deduction on a weekly or monthly basis.
(c)	The Employer’s Report to Roofers Local Union No. 58 Savings Plan shall cover every Employee subject to this Agreement on the payroll for all payroll periods ending within the previous calendar month, except pre-indentured Apprentices.
(d)	On the Employer’s Report to Roofers Local Union No. 58 Savings Plan the following information concerning each Employee shall set forth in separate columns (1) Social Security Number (2) name of Employee (3) Number of hours worked. The total hours worked shall then be added and inserted in the proper space indicated on the bottom of the form.
(e)	The Employer’s Report and accompanying check to Roofers Local Union No. 58 Savings Plan for must be mailed to the Credit Union on or before the 15th day of each calendar month for all hours worked during each payroll period ending in the preceding month. Contractor’s signatory to this Agreement will automatically have all men employed by them, covered by this Agreement, removed from their shop if the report and check covering the previous month’s withholdings are not received by the 25th of any
23
following month. The delinquent Contractor will be liable for any and all expenses of collection, court costs, and attorney fees arising from delinquent collections. Any action by the Union to make collections shall not be deemed to be in violation of the Agreement. Any report received after the 25th day of the following month shall be delinquent and the delinquent Contractor will be required to post a one-thousand dollar ($1,000.00) bond payable to the Roofers Local Union No. 58 Savings Plan, a copy of which will be furnished to the Union, if said Contractor’s reports are not delinquent for one year, he will not have to renew said bond.
(f)	The duplicate copy of the weekly or monthly Employers Report to Roofers Local Union No. 58 Savings Plan Form shall be sent by the Credit Union to the office of the Local Union committee of Roofers Union Local No. 58 Savings Plan.
(2)	The local Union shall pay for all administrative expenses incurred in the operation of the Plan other than those incurred within the individual Employer’s own office.
(3)	The local Union Committee (E-Board) shall make all necessary appropriate rules and regulations to carry out the intent and purpose of the Article.
All Contractors signatory to this Agreement agree to meet and discuss problems relating to our Roofing Industry, at least once each quarter.
ARTICLE XIX CONTRACT EXPIRATION
This Agreement shall be effective May 1, 2014 and shall remain in effect until April 30, 2016. We both further agree to leave the existing contract the same other than the changes negotiated in the Agreement.
24
Article XX NEGOTIATION COMMITTEE COLORADO ASSOCIATED ROOFING CONTRACTORS ASSN.
* President: William R. Hauschildt Vjiljb-President: David M. Singleton Dal Solano
ROOFERS LOCAL NO. 58
Steve Brunette Josh Sabo Dale Solano Karl Staggs Robert Luerssen
UNITED UNION OF ROOFERS, WATERPROOFERS, AND ALLIED WORKERS LOCAL UNION NO. 58
Secretary:
Company Name:
For The Contractor
CENTRAL STATES ROOFING 5925 Omaha Blvd.
--------Colorado Springs, CO 809b
Title:  William	l/'ct p/csi
25
Article VII - Exhibit A
ROOFERS LOCAL # 58
404 North Spruce Colorado Springs, CO 80905 (719) 632-5889
CENTRAL STATES ROOFING
5925 OMAHA BLVD. COLORADO SPRINGS, CO (719) 570-1774
1st year, 1st ■ 6 Months Wage Scale (May 1, 2014 through October 31,2014)
•	BASE WAGE	LOCAL PENSION RATE	NRIPP RATE	HEALTH AND WELFARE	APPRENTICE FUND EMPLOYER	I.R.W.R. EDUCATION FUND	TOTAL WAGE	TOTAL BENEFITS	TOTAL PACKAGE
Foreman 'A'	25.56	1.71	0.38	4.13	0.10	0.03	25.56	6.35	31.91
Foreman 'B*	23.79	1.71	0.38	4.13	0.10	0.03	23.79	6.35	30.14
Journeyman	22.20	1.71	0.38	4.13	0.10	0.03	22.20	6.35	28.55
Intermediate Journeyman 76%	16.87	1.10	0.15	4.13	0.10	0.03	16.87	5.51	22.38
Probationary Apprentice									
1 st three months 48%	10.66	0.70	0.15	4.13	0.10	0.03	10.66	5.11	15.77
1 st Year Apprentice 1 st six months 56%	12.43	0.81	0.15	4.13	0.10	0.03	12.43	5.22	17.65
2nd six months 61%	13.54	0.89	0.15	4.13	0.10	0.03	13.54	5.30	18.84
2nd Year Apprentice									
1 st six months 66%	14.65	0.96	0.15	4.13	0.10	0.03	14.65	5.37	20.02
2nd six months 71%	15.76	1.03	0.15	4.13	0.10	0.03	15.76	5.44	21.20
3nd Year Apprentice 1 st six months 76%	16.87	1.10	0.15	4.13	0.10	0.03	16.87	5.51	22.38
2nd six months 81%	17.98	1.18	0.15	4.13	0.10	0.03	17.98	5.59	23.57
NOTE: Apprentice Supplemental Benefit Fund equals their designated percentage of 85% of Journeyman SBF Rate ($1.71)
Intermediate Journeyman Supplemental Benefit Fund rate equals that of of the 3rd Year 1st Six Months
Apprentice (76%)
NRIPP Rate for Apprentices and Intermediate Journeyman equals 40% of Journeyman Rate
Article VII - Exhibit B
ROOFERS LOCAL # 58
404 North Spruce Colorado Springs, CO 80905 (719) 632-5889
CENTRAL STATES ROOFING
5925 OMAHA BLVD. COLORADO SPRINGS, CO (719) 570-1774
1st year, 2nd - 6 Months Wage Scale (November 1, 2014 through April 30, 2015)
	BASE WAGE	LOCAL PENSION RATE	NRIPP RATE	HEALTH AND WELFARE	APPRENTICE FUND EMPLOYER	I.R.W.R. EDUCATION FUND	TOTAL WAGE	TOTAL BENEFITS	TOTAL PACKAGE
Foreman 'A'	26.84	1.71	0.38	4.13	0.10	0.03	26.84	6.35	33.19
Foreman 'B'	24.09	1.71	0.38	4.13	0.10	0.03	24.09	6.35	30.44
Journeyman	22.80	1.71	0.38	4.13	0.10	0.03	22.80	6.35	29.15
Intermediate Journeyman 75%	17.10	1.09	0.15	4.13	0.10	0.03	17.10	5.50	22.60
Probationary Apprentice 1 st three months 47%	10.72	0.68	0.15	4.13	0.10	0.03	10.72	5.09	15.81
1 st Year Apprentice 1 st six months 55%	12.54	0.80	0.15	4.13	0.10	0.03	12.54	5.21	17.75
2nd six months 60%	13.68	0.87	0.15	4.13	0.10	0.03	13.68	5.28	18.96
2nd Year Apprentice 1 st six months 65%	14.82	0.94	0.15	4.13	0.10	0.03	14.82	5.35	20.17
2nd six months 70%	15.96	1.02	0.15	4.13	0.10	0.03	15.96	5.43	21.39
3nd Year Apprentice 1 st six months 75%	17.10	1.09	0.15	4.13	0.10	0.03	17.10	5.50	22.60
2nd six months 80%	18.24	1.16	0.15	4.13	0.10	0.03	18.24	5.57	23.81
NOTE: Apprentice Supplemental Benefit Fund equals their designated percentage of 85% of Journeyman SBF Rate ($1.71)
Intermediate Journeyman Supplemental Benefit Fund rate equals that of of the 3rd Year 1st Six Months
Apprentice (75%)
NRIPP Rate for Apprentices and Intermediate Journeyman equals 40% of Journeyman Rate
Article VII - Exhibit C
ROOFERS LOCAL # 58
404 North Spruce Colorado Springs, CO 80905 (719) 632-5889
CENTRAL STATES ROOFING
5925 OMAHA BLVD. COLORADO SPRINGS, CO (719) 570-1774
2nd year Wage Scale (May 1,2015 through April 30, 2016)
	BASE WAGE	LOCAL PENSION RATE	NRIPP RATE	HEALTH AND WELFARE	APPRENTICE FUND EMPLOYER	I.R.W.R. EDUCATION FUND	TOTAL WAGE	TOTAL BENEFITS	TOTAL PACKAGE
Foreman 'A'	27.09	1.71	0.38	4.59	0.10	0.03	27.09	6.81	33.90
Foreman *B’	24.27	1.71	0.38	4.59	0.10	0.03	24.27	6.81	31.08
Journeyman	23.09	1.71	0.38	4.59	0.10	0.03	23.09	6.81	29.90
Intermediate Journeyman 75%	17.32	1.09	0.15	4.59	0.10	0.03	17.32	5.96	23.28
Probationary Apprentice 1 st three months 47%	10.85	0.68	0.15	4.59	0.10	0.03	10.85	5.55	16.40
1 st Year Apprentice 1 st six months 55%	12.70	0.80	0.15	4.59	0.10	0.03	12.70	5.67	18.37
2nd six months 60%	13.85	0.87	0.15	4.59	0.10	0.03	13.85	5.74	19.59
2nd Year Apprentice 1 st six months 65%	15.01	0.94	0.15	4.59	0.10	0.03	15.01	5.81	20.82
2nd six months 70%	16.16	1.02	0.15	4.59	0.10	0.03	16.16	5.89	22.05
3nd Year Apprentice 1 st six months 75%	17.32	1.09	0.15	4.59	0.10	0.03	17.32	5.96	23.28
2nd six months 80%	18.47	1.16	0.15	4.59	0.10	0.03	18.47	6.03	24.50
NOTE: Apprentice Supplemental Benefit Fund equals their designated percentage of 85% of Journeyman SBF Rate ($1.71)
Intermediate Journeyman Supplemental Benefit Fund rate equals that of of the 3rd Year 1st Six Months
Apprentice (75%)
NRIPP Rate for Apprentices and Intermediate Journeyman equals 40% of Journeyman Rate