BRICKLAYERS AND ALLIED CRAFTWORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION OF AMERICA
MOSAIC AND TERRAZZO WORKERS & FINISHERS
LOCAL UNION #18MO of the
EASTERN MISSOURI DISTRICT COUNCIL
AGREEMENT WITH
MOSAIC AND TERRAZZO CONTRACTORS OF GREATER ST. LOUIS
May 1, 2015 through June 30, 2018
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT MOSIAC AND TERRAZZO WORKERS AND FINISHERS LOCAL #I8M0
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Agreement
Duration
Union Recognition & Union Security
Work Jurisdiction
Check-offAuthorization
Terrazzo Worker Wage &Benefits
Terrazzo Finisher Wage & Benefits
Overtime & Holidays
Work Outside City Limits
Travel Time
Parking
Working Equipment
Wage Information
Hourly Work Rules
Union Rights
Grievance and Arbitration
Quality of Work
Apprenticeship
Severability
Surety Bond or Letter of Credit
Worker’s Compensation & Unemployment Ins.
Union Conditions
Sub-Contracting
Traveling Contractors
Working Contractor
Most Favored Nation Clause
Safety
Hiring Preference
Preservation of Work
Agreement to Open Contract
Drug Testing
Signature Page
Page 1 Pagel Page 1, 2
Page 2, 3, 4
Page 4
Page 5, 6
Page 6, 7
Page 7
Page 8
Page 8
Page 8
Page 8, 9
Page 9
Page 9
Page 10
Page 10
Page 11
Page 11
Page 11
Page 11
Page 12
Page 12
Page 12, 13
Page 13
Page 13
Page 13
Page 14
Page 14
Page 14
Page 15
Page 15
Page 16
1
AGREEMENT
This Agreement is entered into this 1st day of May, 2015 by and between the TERRAZZO CONTRACTORS, on behalf of its member Terrazzo Contractors of St. Louis and Vicinity, and such other contractors who are signatory hereto and such other contractors who may become signatory hereto (hereinafter referred to as the Employer) and INTERNATIONAL UNION OF BRICKLAYERS AND ALLIED CRAFTWORKERS LOCAL #18 OF EASTERN MISSOURI DISTRICT COUNCIL, AFL-CIO, (hereinafter referred to as the UNION.)
ARTICLE I
DURATION TERMINATION AMENDMENT
This Agreement shall be effective commencing May 1, 2015 and shall continue in full force to and including June 30, 2018. It shall be automatically continued yearly thereafter unless written notice of decision to negotiate a new Agreement in whole or in part, is given in writing by either party to the other not later than sixty (60) days nor more than ninety (90) days prior to the expiration date or any anniversary date thereafter. The parties may at any time mutually agree to change or amend any part of this Agreement and such changes or modifications shall not affect the continuing nature of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
UNION RECOGNITION AND UNION SECURITY
Section 1 Union Recognition Inasmuch as (1) the Union has requested recognition as the majority, Section 9(a), representative of the Employees in the bargaining unit described herein and (2) has submitted or offered to show proof of its majority support by those Employees, and (3) the Employer is satisfied that the Union represents a majority of the bargaining unit Employees, the Employer recognizes the Union, pursuant the Section 9(a) of the National Labor Relations Act, as the exclusive collective bargaining agent for all employees within that bargaining unit, on all present and future jobsites within the jurisdiction of the Union.
Section 2 Future Recognition The Employer agrees that if it has not previously done so, at any time during this agreement it will, upon the Union’s request for recognition as the Section 9(a) representative of the Employees in the bargaining unit described herein, and upon the Union’s submission of proof of majority support by such Employees, voluntarily recognize the Union as the exclusive representative, as defined in Section 9(a) of the National Labor Relations act, of all employees within the bargaining unit on all present and future jobsites within the jurisdiction of the Union. When the Union has requested recognition as majority representative, the Employer’s recognition will be based on the Union’s proof or offer to submit proof. The Employer expressly agrees that it will not condition its recognition upon the result of an election conducted under the rules and regulations of the National Labor Relations Board.
2
Section 3 Union Security No later than eight (8) days following the effective date of this Agreement, all present employees must, as a condition of continued employment, be or become members of the Union; all employees hired after the effective date of this Agreement shall be or become and remain members of the Union no later than eight (8) days following the first day of their employment in accordance with the provisions of Section 9(a) of the National Labor Relations Act, as amended. Failure of any employee to comply with the provisions of this subsection shall, upon request of the Union, result in termination of such employee, provided that the Union has given the employee four (4) days notice that his/her obligation to make payment has not been met and that his/her delinquency renders him/her liable to termination under this section.
The Employer shall not be obligated to dismiss any employee for non-membership in the Union (a) if he/she has reasonable grounds for believing that such membership was not available on the same terms and conditions generally applicable to other members or (b) if he/she has reasonable grounds for believing that such membership was denied or terminated for reasons other than the failure of the employee to tender the periodic dues and initiation fees uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership.
ARTICLE III
WORK JURISDICTION
Section 1	Scope of Work
This Agreement covers all Terrazzo Workers (Mechanics) and Finishers Employees of the Employers engaged in the cutting and assembling of Art Ceramic, Glass mosaic, the casting of all Terrazzo in the shop and on the jobs, whether for interior or exterior purposes and in any public or private building located anywhere within the territorial jurisdiction of the Union.
Section 2	Territorial Jurisdiction
This jurisdiction shall consist of the following counties in the State of Missouri: Clark, Lewis, Marion, Ralls, Pike, Lincoln, Warren, St. Charles, St. Louis, Franklin, Jefferson, Crawford, and including the city of St. Louis.
Section 2a: In the event the territorial or trade jurisdiction of the Union shall be extended during the term hereof, this Agreement shall cover such extensions.
Section 3	Terrazzo Worker (Mechanic) Work is defined as:
1.	Marble Mosaic, Venetian Enamel, and Terrazzo, the cutting and assembling of Art Ceramic, Glass Mosaic, the casting of all Terrazzo in shops and on jobs.
2.	All scratch coat on walls and ceiling where Mosaic and Terrazzo is to be applied shall be done by plasterers, with an allowance of not less than one half-inch bed to be conceded to Mosaic and Terrazzo workers.
3.	All underbed into which Terrazzo strips are inserted, that the preparations, cutting, laying or setting of metal, composition or wooden strips and grounds and the laying and cutting of metal, strips, lath or other reinforcement, where used in Mosaic and Terrazzo work, shall be the work of the Mosaic and Terrazzo worker. The sweeping of the unfinished floor and the use of the roller (hand or powered) are to be done by the Terrazzo worker.
3
4.	The layout of patterns, stenciling of graphics, saw cutting of decorative concrete, stained or dyed, whether applied by spray, trowel, roller, brush, broom or any other process, shall be the work of the Terrazzo Mechanic
5.	All Cement Terrazzo, Magnasite Terrazzo, Dex-O-Tex, rustic or rough washed for interior or exterior of buildings, and any other kind of plastic mixtures composed of marble, granite, blue stone, enamel, mother of pearl, and all other kinds of chips when mixed with cement, rubber, Magnesium, Chloride, Latex and all other plastic binders or any other binding material when used on floors, ceilings, stairs, saddles or any other part of the building such as fountains, swimming pools etc. Also all other substitutes that may be applied under the same method shall be set by Mosaic or Terrazzo Workers. Cutting and assembling of Art Ceramic and Glass Mosaic comes under the jurisdiction of the Mosaic Workers.
Section 4	Terrazzo Finisher Work Is defined as:
1.	The handling of all materials used for Mosaic and Terrazzo work.
2.	Preparing, mixing by hand, by mixing machine or transporting of pre-mixed materials and distributing with shovel, rake, hoe or pail, all kinds of concrete foundations necessary for Mosaic and Terrazzo work, all Cement Terrazzo, Magnasite Terrazzo, Dex-O-Tex terrazzo, Epoxy Matrix Terrazzo, exposed aggregate, rustic or rough washed for exterior or interior of buildings placed either by machine or by hand, and any other kind of mixture of plastics composed of chips or granules when mixed with cement, rubber, neoprene, vinyl, magnesium chloride or any other resinous or chemical substances used for seamless (whether floors, walls or ceilings) systems, and all other building materials, all similar materials and pre-cast Terrazzo work in shops, on the job, all scratch coat used for Mosaic and Terrazzo work and sub-bed, tar paper and wire mesh (2X2 etc.) or lath. The rubbing, grinding, cleaning and finishing of same either by hand or machine or by Terrazzo resurfacing equipment on new or existing floors and such works as listed as Mosaic Terrazzo Local 18 work by the Constitution of the Bricklayers and Allied Craftworkers. When necessary, grinders and finishers shall be allowed to assist mechanics to spread sand bed, lay tar- paper and wire mesh (2X2 etc.) lath.
3.	The finishing of cement floors where additional aggregate of stone is added by spreading or sprinkling on top of the finished base, and trolled or rolled into the finish and then the surface is ground by grinding machines shall be under the jurisdiction of, and performed by, the Mosaic and Terrazzo Local 18.
4.	The handling of all material to be used in the installation process for grinding, polishing of concrete, whether or not stained or dyed, disposal of all debris relevant to work. The grinding, cleaning, polishing, sealing shall be the work of the Terrazzo Finisher
5.	The parties recognize as a result of research and development, new materials and processes are constantly being introduced in the Terrazzo Industry, supplanting and replacing traditional materials and methods. It is therefore, agreed that all new materials and new processed constitutional substitutions for traditional materials and processes in Terrazzo installation shall be deemed as coming within the provisions of this section.
4
6.	Teamwork is essential for the improvement of the Terrazzo Industry. Working together as a team to achieve a high standard of workmanship and productivity is important. All members of Local #18 must do this together to combat the non-union and open shop movement.
6. Terrazzo Contractors shall not bid installing of membrane or 6X6 10/10 mesh on structural Terrazzo. Terrazzo Workers or Finishers shall not install membrane or 6X6 10/10 mesh on structural Terrazzo.
ARTICLE IV
CHECK-OFF AUTHORIZATION
Section 1. Authorization to Deduct: The signed authorization granting the Employer the authority to deduct the amount stated in Section 1 shall read as follows:
I, the undersigned, hereby verify that I am a member in good standing of Bricklayers and Allied Crafitworkers, Local #18 Mo AFL-CIO, and I authorize you to withhold from my weekly pay check a sum equal to 3 % of Total Package per hour for all hours worked by me and to remit said amount to BAC Administrative District Council of Eastern Missouri. The undersigned further agrees and understands that this statement shall constitute and be a full and complete release for the aforesaid deduction from my weekly paycheck when paid to BAC Administrative District Council of Eastern Missouri. This authorization shall be irrevocable for a period of one (1) year from the date hereof or the termination date of the applicable collective bargaining agreement whichever first occurs and shall be renewable for successive one (1) year periods unless I give written notice to the Employer and the Union at least thirty (30) days preceding the expiration of each period of irrevocability.
Date	Signature
Section 2. BAC LU. Dues Check-off The Employer agrees to deduct an amount of one percent (1%) of gross total package for each hour worked from the pay of each employee who is a union member and who executes a voluntary check-off authorization form for the Bricklayers & Allied Craftworkers. Deductions shall be in the amount and at the intervals specified on the check-off authorization from The Employer agrees to transmit BAC LU. dues deductions to the International Union of Bricklayers and Allied Craftworkers. The transmittals shall occur on a MONTHLY basis and shall be accompanied by a list of the names of those employees for whom BAC LU. dues deductions have been made and the amount deducted for each employee. The deduction shall continue for the life of this Agreement for those employees who sign BAC LU. dues authorization forms unless they are revoked individually and in writing.
5
ARTICLE V
WAGES AND BENEFITS
TERRAZZO WORKERS (MECHANICS) RATES OF PAY, WELFARE, PENSIONS
Section 2. Terrazzo Worker (Mechanic) wage and benefits:
The Union shall have the option of allocating a portion of all of the increases in wage rates among various benefit funds specified in Article XIII beginning with the second year term of this Collective Bargaining Agreement. In addition the Union shall have the right during the term of this Agreement to reallocate monies from wages to one or more of the benefit funds and to reallocate monies between various benefit funds. The Employer shall be given at least sixty (60) days advance notice of any such reallocations.
la. Effective May 1,2015 through June 30, 2016 total wages (including fringe benefits increases) will be $45.48. The breakdown shall be as follows: $.60 per hour increase. $.22 of said increase to be contributed into the Local Pension. $.38 of said increase to be contributed to wage or fringe benefits at the Union’s option.
lb. Effective July 1, 2016: $.60 per hour increase. Said increase to be contributed to wage or fringe benefits at the Union’s option.
1 c. Effective July 1,2017: $.60 per hour increase. Said increase to be contributed to wage or fringe benefits at the Union’s option.
Id. Whenever the Union’s option is exercised herein the Union shall notify the Employer of the breakdown between wages and fringe benefits no later than thirty (30) days preceding the effective date.
Ie. The first Mechanic on the job shall receive $.30 cents per hour above the prevailing scale as foreman.
1 f. When a total of three (3) Mechanics are employed on the same job, the foreman will receive $.50 cents per hour above the prevailing scale.
1g. When five (5) or more Mechanics are employed on the same job, the foreman will not use the tools.
Ih. Local pension: On May 1,2015, the Employer shall make contributions in the amount of $4.22 per hour for each hour worked for all Mechanics employees including apprentices into the Ceramic Tile and Marble Masons Pension Fund. All monies due to said Fund shall be paid on or before the 15th day of the month following the month for which the contributions are due.
li. Bricklayers Trowel Trades International Pension Fund: The Employer shall contribute the amount of $1.50 per hour for each hour worked for all Mechanic employees as of May 1,2015 including all apprentices into the Bricklayers & Trowel Trades International Pension Fund.
6
Ij. International Masonry Institute: The parties to this agreement recognize the need for effective apprenticeship and training, which must be met if the industry is to grow and prosper. The parties to this Agreement believe that the I.M.I. is the most effective and efficient instrument for meeting these needs because it offers the greatest possibility of integrating activities in this program area in an effective manner of coordinating through a single regional International system. With this principle in mind, the parties agree as follows: effective May 1, 2015, the employer agrees to contribute to the International Masonry Institute the amount of one percent (1%) of gross total package for each hour worked by each employee.
Section 2 Health & Welfare: The Employer shall contribute the amount of $6.75 per hour for each hour worked by all Terrazzo Mechanics of Local #18 MO including all apprentices per Section 5 of Article XIII as of May 1,2015 into the Bricklayers & Allied Craftworkers International Health Fund. All monies due to said Fund shall be paid on or before the 15th day of the month following the month for which said contributions are due.
Section 3 Local Pension Fund Terrazzo Mechanics: The Employer shall make contributions in the amount of $4.22 per hour for each hour worked by all Terrazzo Mechanics of Local #18 Mo including all apprentices per Section 5 of Article XIII into the Ceramic Tile & Marble Masons Pension Fund as of May 1, 2015. All monies due to said Fund shall be paid on or before the 15th day of the month following the month for which said contributions are due. Pension will be 10% of base wages on future increases rounded to nearest cent.
Section 4 Bricklayers & Trowel Trades International Pension Fund: The Employer shall contribute the amount of $ 1.50 per hour for each hour worked by all Terrazzo Mechanics as of May 1, 2015 including all apprentices per Section 5 of Article XIII into the Bricklayers & Trowel Trades International Pension Fund.
ARTICLE VI
WAGES AND BENEFITS TERRAZZO FINISHER RATES OF PAY, WELFARE, PENSIONS
Section 5: Terrazzo Finishers Wage and benefits:
The Union shall have the option of allocating a portion of all of the increases in wage rates among various benefit funds specified in Article XIII beginning with the second year term of this Collective Bargaining Agreement. In addition the Union shall have the right during the term of this Agreement to reallocate monies from wages to one or more of the benefit funds and to reallocate monies between various benefit funds. The Employer shall be given at least sixty (60) days advance notice of any such reallocations.
5a. Effective May 1, 2015 through June 30, 2016 Terrazzo Floor Machine Operator/Finisher total wages will be $42.19 per hour. The breakdown will be as follows: $.60 per hour increase. Said increase to be contributed in wages or fringe benefits at the Union’s option.
Base Machine Operator total wages will be $42.98 per hour. The breakdown shall be a follows: $.60 per hour increase. Said increase to be contributed in wages or fringe benefits at the Union’s option.
5b. Effective July 1, 2016: $.60 per hour increase. Said increase to be contributed in wages or fringe benefits at the Union’s option.
7
5c. Effective July 1, 2017: $.60 per hour increase. Said increase to be contributed in wages or fringe benefits at the Union’s option.
Section 6 Health & Welfare: The Employer shall contribute the amount of $6.75 per hour for each hour worked by all Terrazzo members of Local #18 MO including all apprentices per Section 5 of Article XIII as of May 1, 2015 into the Bricklayers & Allied Craftworkers International Health Fund. All monies due to said Fund shall be paid on or before the 15th day of the month following the month for which said contributions are due.
Section 7 Local Pension Fund Terrazzo Finisher: The Employer shall make contributions in the amount of $2.72 per hour for each hour worked by all Terrazzo Finisher members of Local # 18 Mo including all apprentices per Section 5 of Article XIII into the Ceramic Tile & Marble Masons Pension Fund as of May 1, 2015. The Employer shall make contributions in the amount of $2.71 per hour for each hour worked by all Terrazzo Base Machine Operator members of Local # 18 Mo including all apprentices per Section 5 of Article XIII into the Ceramic Tile & Marble Masons Pension Fund as of May 1, 2015. All monies due to said Fund shall be paid on or before the 15th day of the month following the month for which said contributions are due. Pension will be 10% of base wages on future increases rounded to nearest cent.
Section 8 Bricklayers & Trowel Trades International Pension Fund: The Employer shall contribute the amount of $1.50 per hour for each hour worked by all Terrazzo Finishers as of May 1, 2015 including all apprentices per Section 5 of Article XIII into the Bricklayers & Trowel Trades International Pension Fund.
ARTICLE VII OVERTIME AND HOLIDAYS
1.	The standard work day shall consist of eight (8) hours of work between the hours of 8:00 am and 4:30 pm with a 30 minute unpaid lunch hour occurring in the middle of the shift. The standard workweek shall consist of five (5) standard workdays commencing on Monday and ending on Friday, inclusive. The normal starting and quitting times may be changed by mutual consent of the Employer and the Union.
2.	All time worked before and after the established eight (8) hour work-day, Monday through Friday, and all time worked on Saturdays, shall be paid for at the rate of time and one/half (1 1/2) the hourly base wage rate in effect. All time worked on Sundays and on the holidays specified in Section 3 of this Article shall be paid for at the rate of double the hourly base wage rate in effect.
3.	All work that shall be done on New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day will be done at the rate of double time.
4.	Each working man will be allowed to take off time to vote in City, State and National elections including primaries and will be paid for same. Such time will begin no later than three (3) hours before the closing of polls.
8
ARTICLE VIII
WORK OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS
1	When a worker is sent to work out of the city of St. Louis at a distance of greater than 100 miles from City Hall, compensation for room and board shall be paid as follows:
Employer agrees to pay actual cost for motel room based on double occupancy for actual days worked up to four days for duration of the job upon presentation of paid receipt. Employer also agrees to pay $25.00 per day on jobs over 100 miles.
It being understood that should an employee be sent to a jobsite by himselfrherself the Contractor shall pay the full room rate and the meal rate shall prevail.
When a worker is working at a distance greater than 250 miles from City Hall he/she shall be paid seven (7) days room and board.
2.	Traveling time to and from out of town jobs shall be paid at the regular scale of wages. If a worker through no fault of his/her own has to return home and cannot finish the job he/she shall be paid travel time and transportation.
3.	When a worker is sent out of town to work and return on the same day, hours worked, travel time and transportation will be paid but no room and board.
ARTICLE IX
TRAVEL TIME
Fares shall be paid according to job site location. The central location beginning at City Hall, St. Louis, Missouri and continuing to the 100-mile room and board limit.
0 thru 50 = $ 0.00
51 thru 60 = 6.00
After 60 miles it will be $3.00 per every 10 miles up to 100 miles. Mileage for out of town jobs shall be .38 cents per mile beyond 100 miles.
ARTICLE X
PARKING
Contractors/Employers agree to pay parking based on actual expenses upon the presentation of paid receipt.
ARTICLE XI
WORKING EQUIPMENT
Each Contractor is to supply to the members of Local 18 working for him, suitable brushes to wash the excess cement wherever terrazzo is to be ground with the Base Machine.
The Contractors will supply all safety equipment, protective equipment, gloves, and tools necessary for working in epoxy and polyesters. The Contractor shall furnish to employees who are working with epoxy materials, upon request, a sufficient number of uniforms (a week) to permit changes, because of the health hazard involved.
9
A uniform shall consist of a pair of trousers and a long sleeve shirt, or a pair of coveralls. Employees are to be responsible for clothing. Should the employee not return clothes, he shall bear the cost of clothing. Contractors agree to work with epoxy in strict accordance with manufacturer’s written instructions and local health regulations. The Union shall reserve the right to remove all employees from any epoxy job where the above is not adhered to strictly. This shall include the rights to notify the city and state health departments of flagrant violations of health hazards.
The Union shall furnish employees to the Terrazzo Contractors when requested, for any epoxy jobs, but no employee shall be laid off, fired or discriminated against, for refusal to work on any epoxies.
The members of this Local Union agree to use epoxies and polyesters approved by the T.C. of A., or equal and strictly adhere to the specifications and directions of these products.
Accident and injury free operation shall be the goal of all Employers and Employees. To this end the Employer and Employee will to the best of their ability abide by and live up to the requirements of the state and Federal Construction Safety Codes and Regulations.
ARTICLE XII
WAGE INFORMATION
All members of Local #18MO shall be paid at least once a week. Friday shall be payday and that pay shall include all time up to the previous Tuesday night. Pay shall be in law money of the United States. They shall be paid not later than 4:30 pm on local work. Employee wage payment will show amount of gross pay and itemized deductions, together with dates of the pay period covered, the name of the Company, the name of the employee and total number of both regular and overtime hours worked and upon request copies will be supplied to the funds and/or the Union office by the Employer.
If the Contractor elects to mail the pay and should any employee not receive his/her pay at his/her residence on the Friday payday, the employer will be charged “waiting time”. The limit is to be two (2) days pay which will begin at 8:00 am and end at 4:30 pm on Saturday and Sunday. No claim will be allowed if the postmark on the letter containing the pay is Thursday PM before payday. If however, the employee is required to pick up his/her check from the shop on Saturday he/she will be paid an additional two (2) hours pay at base pay.
ARTICLE XIII
HOURLY WORK RULES
If a journeyman finishes his/her work before 12:00 NOON, he/she shall be paid four (4) hours wages. If he/she finishes after 12:00 NOON and before 4:30 pm he/she shall be paid eight (8) hours wages.
Any employee who reports ready to start work when ordered by the employer and is not allowed to start, shall be paid for two (2) hours working time, unless the failure to start is due to conditions beyond the control of the employer. In the latter event, however, the employer shall reimburse the employee for traveling expenses, if any.
10
ARTICLE XIV
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION
Joint Arbitration Board - This Joint Arbitration Board shall be composed of six (6) members. Three (3) are to be Employers; signers of this agreement, and three (3) are to be members appointed by the Director of the BAC/ASC of Eastern Missouri. The Employer members shall be elected by the Employers at a meeting of their organization and the Union members to be elected by their Union in the regular manner. Any decisions made by a majority vote of this committee shall be binding upon parties’ signatory to this agreement.
Grievance Procedures - No grievance shall be recognized unless it is called to the attention of the Employer by the Union or to the attention of the Union by the Employer within five (5) days after the alleged violations is committed or discovered.
Step 1: The employee and the Employer try to settle the grievance. This attempt to settle shall be done within five (5) days excluding Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays.
Step 2: If step one does not settle the grievance, it shall be referred to the Director of the BAC/ADC of Eastern Missouri or his designee. The Director or his Designee shall then meet with the Employer and the employee and attempt to settle the grievance. They shall meet within three (3) days excluding Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays.
Step 3: If step two does not settle the grievance it shall be referred to the Joint Arbitration Board within three days excluding Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays. The Joint Arbitration Board shall have five (5) days to reach a decision excluding Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays.
Step 4: If a decision is not reached the Joint Arbitration Board shall select an impartial arbitrator to review with the Board all evidence submitted relating to the grievance and then cast the deciding vote. If the Joint Arbitration Board cannot agree on an arbitrator the matter is then referred to the American Arbitration Association.
All expenses incurred by a special arbitration shall be borne jointly by both parties to this Agreement: (Union and Contractor Association). Any decision reached during the grievance procedures shall be final and binding on all parties but shall not be precedent setting.
ARTICLE XV
UNION RIGHTS
No member of the Union shall be discharge for inquiring about the union status of the workers working on any job, nor shall the Business Agent be interfered with when visiting any building under construction.
11 ARTICLE XVI QUALITY OF WORK
It is further agreed and understood that any workman holding a card in Union Local #18MO mentioned heretofore is a mechanic skilled in the installation of Terrazzo work and that a reasonable production shall be expected. Floor Machine Operators shall see that the floor is properly finished and is grouted in the same day and is rubbed according to international code.
ARTICLE XVII APPRENTICESHIP
All applications for apprentices must be referred to the Arbitration Board and they shall decide as to the Contractors ability to teach the prospective apprentices the trade. The minimum scale
of wages to be paid apprentices shall be as follows:
1st three months
2nd three months
7th month thru 12th month
13th month thru 24th month
25th month thru 36th month
37th month thru 48th month
50% of mechanics wages per hour 55% of mechanics wages per hour 60% of mechanics wages per hour 70% of mechanics wages per hour 80% of mechanics wages per hour 90% of mechanics wages per hour
Finisher (grinder) pay shall increase at the same percentage as the mechanics using the Finishers wages.
Improvers shall be paid 85% of Mechanics wages per hour the first year and 90% the second year.
All new employees will pay all check-off dues.
ARTICLE XVIII
SEVERABILITY
This Agreement shall be paramount to and take precedence over any code, rule, regulation, resolution, order or by-law whatsoever, excepting the laws of the United States, State of Missouri, City of St. Louis, BAC and the National Terrazzo & Mosaic Association, Inc. And the Arbitration Board shall determine its interpretations. Any provisions of this agreement that may be found to be unlawful shall immediately be discounted without in any way affecting the remaining provisions.
ARTICLE XIX
SURETY BOND OR LETTER OF CREDIT
Any new contractor becoming a party to this Agreement after its effective date agrees that he/she will furnish the Union either with a bond, in which the employer is the principal and a qualified surety company is the surety, or a letter of credit from a bank guaranteeing the payment of all wages, fringes and contributions provided for herein and shall furnish to the Union evidence of the procurement and maintenance of bond or letter of credit. The amount of such bond or letter of credit shall be determined in advance at the sole discretion of the Union commensurate with the amount of the employers anticipated payroll for employees, but in no case shall the amount of the bond or letter of credit be for less than $10,000 and shall be secured and maintained for a period of one year. Any contractor failing to pay wages or fringe benefits at the proper time provided herein will secure and maintain such a surety bond or letter of credit.
12
ARTICLE XX
WORKERS COMPENSATION AND UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE
Section 1 Unemployment Compensation Insurance: By the execution of this Agreement, the Employer hereby agrees that he/she shall be covered under the laws of the State of Missouri relating to unemployment compensation insurance and the Employer shall provide coverage for all employees covered by this Agreement.
Section 2 Workers Compensation Insurance: All employees employed by an Employer under this Agreement are to be protected by Workmen’s Compensation Insurance as required Under the laws of the State in which said employees are employed. The Employer shall furnish to Local 18 MO a certificate from the Insurance Company stating that such insurance has been provided. This certificate shall specify the date when such Compensation Insurance expires. The Employer agrees that such Compensation Insurance shall be maintained by him/her throughout the life of this Agreement.
Before any work is undertaken by employees, the above-mentioned certificate must be on file with Local 18 MO prior to starting of the work.
The policies are not cancelable or subject to reduction in coverage until ten (10) days after receipt by the insured and the Union of written notice as evidenced by return receipt.
Section 3 Uniformity of Operation: Any Employer operating in this jurisdiction shall work as provided in this Agreement, and under which all other Employers, parties hereto, now operate within this jurisdiction.
ARTICLE XXI UNION CONDITIONS
An Employer who attempts to reduce wages by inducing an employee to work for less than minimum wages set out in this Agreement shall be deemed guilty of a material breach of this Agreement and the Union shall be free to take whatever action is necessary to remedy said breach, including the right to strike.
In the event the Construction Industry Stabilization Committee is imposed and put in effect while this working agreement is in force, and a decrease in wages is imposed, the contractors agree to put in effect the original pay increase agreed upon on the date the C.I.S.C. is discontinued.
ARTICLE XXII SUBCONTRACTING
Section 1:	The Employer agrees not to sublet, assign or transfer any work covered by this Agreement to be performed at the site of a construction project to any person, firm or corporation, except where the subcontractor subscribes and agrees in writing to be bound by the full terms of this Agreement and complies with all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
13
Section 2:	All charges of violation of this article shall be considered as a dispute and shall be processed in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement covering the procedures for the handling of disputes and the final and binding arbitration of disputes.
ARTICLE XIX
TRAVELING CONTRACTORS
When the Employer has any work specified in Article III of this Agreement to be performed outside the area covered by this Agreement and within the area covered by an agreement with another affiliate of the International Union of Bricklayers and Allied Craftworkers, the Employer agrees to abide by the full terms and conditions of the Agreement in effect in the job site area. Employees covered by this Agreement who are sent to projects outside the area covered by this Agreement shall be paid at least the established minimum wage scale specified but in no case less than the established minimum wage scale of the Local Agreement covering territory in which work is being performed plus all contributions specified in the job site local Agreement The Employer shall in all other matters be governed by the provisions established in the job site local where there is no local Agreement covering the work specified in Article III of this Agreement, the full terms and conditions of this Agreement shall apply.
ARTICLE XXIV
WORKING CONTRACTOR
Any Contractor wishing to use the tools of the trade, must first clear through the Business Agent for permission to do so, and must have at least one other member of this Union in his/her employment. Any Contractor violating this article shall be fined fifty dollars ($50.00) dollars for each violation. Only one officer in a company or corporation will be allowed to use the tools.
ARTICLE XXV
MOST FAVORED NATION CLAUSE
The Union agrees that if it should enter into an Agreement, which provides for terms or conditions of employment which are more favorable than those contained in this Agreement for specific projects, particular segments of the Terrazzo and Mosaic market or certain geographic areas, those terms and conditions of employment will be made available to the employer on the specific projects, particular segments of the market or in those geographic areas covered.
14
ARTICLE XXVI SAFETY
Accident and injury free operation shall be the goal of all Employers and employees. To this end the Employers and employees will, to the best of their ability, abide by and live up to the requirements of the State and Federal Construction Safety Codes and Regulations.
ARTICLE XXVII HIRING PREFERENCES
Subject to the policies regarding traveling members established from time to time by the International Union of Bricklayers and Allied Craftworkers, the Employer, when engaged in any construction work within the geographic area covered by this Agreement, shall in hiring employees covered by this Agreement, give preference to persons residing or normally employed in the geographic area covered by this Agreement. Layoffs shall be in reverse order of hire, except where it is necessary to retain employees with certain skills in order to complete the project.
Out of town Contractors shall be permitted to bring in one (1) Terrazzo Worker (Mechanic) and one (1) Terrazzo Finisher while working within the jurisdiction of the Union covered by this Agreement. If Local 18 MO has no members available for the job then the out of town Contractor may bring in employees from his/her home local.
ARTICLE XXVIII PRESERVATION OF WORK
Section 1 - In order to protect and preserve for the employees covered by this Agreement, all work heretofore performed by them and in order to prevent any device or subterfuge to avoid protection and preservation of such work, it is hereby agreed as follows: If and when the Employer shall perform any work of the type covered by this Agreement at the site of a construction project under its own name or under the name of another, as a corporation, company, partnership, or any other business entity, including a joint venture, wherein the Employer (including its officers, directors, owners, partners or stockholders) exercises either directly or indirectly (such as through family members) any significant degree of ownership, management or control, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be applicable to all such work.
Section 2 - All charges of violations of section 1 of this article shall be considered as a dispute under this agreement and shall be processed in accordance with the procedures for the handling of grievances and the final binding resolution of disputes, as provided in Article XIII of this Agreement. As a remedy for violations of this Section the arbitrator (or arbitration body) provided for in Article XIII is empowered, at the request of the Union, to require an Employer to (1) pay to affected employees covered by this Agreement, including registered applicants and (2) pay into the affected joint trust funds. established under this agreement —ny delinquent contributions of such funds which have resulted from the violations, including such interest as may be prescribed by the trustees or by law. Provision for this remedy herein does not make such remedy the exclusive remedy available to the Union for violation of this section; nor does it make the same or other remedies available to the Union for violations of other sections or articles of this Agreement.
15
ARTICLE XXIX AGREEMENT TO OPEN CONTRACT
It is agreed that in the event either side desires a revision of this agreement on or before its expiration, due notice must be given in writing from either side, and upon receipt of such notice from one to the other, then a committee from each side shall be required to meet in joint conference immediately and within three (3) months thereafter shall agree upon the wage scale, working hours and conditions for the succeeding fiscal year.
ARTICLE XXX DRUG TESTING
The Employer may require employees to submit to testing for alcohol or controlled substances to the extent and in the manner required by applicable law or by a project owner or in any reasonable manner for the purpose of promoting safety in the following circumstances; When there is reasonable cause to believe that an employee has used or is under the influence of such substances during working hours, when an employee has been involved in an accident involving personal injury or property damage on the job, or at random providing that an Employer may not require random testing of any one employee more than twice in any calendar year. Positive test results indicating the presence of non-prescribed marijuana, cocaine, opiates, amphetamines or phencyclidine in any quantity or blood alcohol of 10/1 OOth of one percent or more by weight or failure to submit to the drug and alcohol screen test may result in disciplinary action up to and including dismissal.
In order to enforce this policy it may be necessary to require appropriate biological specimens from both job applicants and/or current employees. When this activity is required, all testing will be conducted by a company approved medical testing laboratory that has been licensed by the state. The company will bear all cost for drug and alcohol testing of employees.
16
ARTICLE XXXI
SIGNATURE PAGE
If both parties are satisfied this Agreement shall continue in force with all rules and regulations up to the time that a party will notify the other party in writing according the Article I and XXV.
Passed and approved this day of, 2015 by the Mosaic and Terrazzo
Contractors of St. Louis and Local Union #18 of the Eastern Missouri Administrative District Council.
UNION
Name
EMPLOYER
Date
Name
Date
Name of Company: ______________________________________________________________________
Signature and Title: __________________________________________________________________
Company Address: ______________________________________________________________________
Telephone: ____________________________________________________________________________
Date:
Anyone found violating this contract will be fined a minimum of two hundred ($200.00) dollars or a maximum of five hundred ($500.00) dollars.
LOCAL #18 MO TERRAZZO WAGE AND BENEFITS MAY 1, 2016 THROUGH JUNE 30, 2017
WORKER (MECHANIC)
WAGE	$32.30 per hr.	
WELFARE	7.00 per hr.	
LOCAL PENSION	4.30 per hr.	
INT’L PENSION	1.50 per hr.	
IPF PEN PROT ACT	.53 per hr.	
I.M.I.	.46 per hr.	
LOCAL DUES	1.38 per hr.	DEDUCT
INT’L DUES	.46 per hr.	DEDUCT
TOTAL	$46.09 per hr.	
FLOOR MACHINE OPERATOR/FINISHER WAGE	$30.54 per hr.	
WELFARE	7.00 per hr.	
LOCAL PENSION	2.80 per hr.	
INT’L PEN.	1.50 per hr.	
IPF PEN PROTACT	.53 per hr.	
I.M.I.	.43 per hr.	
LOCAL DUES	1.28 per hr.	DEDUCT
INT’L DUES	.43 per hr.	DEDUCT
TOTAL	$42.80 per hr.	
BASE MACHINE OPERATOR
WAGE		$31.32 per hr.		
WELFARE	7.00 per hr.		
LOCAL PENSION	2.80 per hr.		
INT’L PEN.	1.50 per hr.		
IPF PEN PROTACT	.53 per hr.		
I.M.I.	.44 per hr.		
LOCAL DUES	1.31 per hr.	DEDUCT	
INT’L DUES	.44 per hr.	DEDUCT	
TOTAL	$43.59 per hr.		
TERRAZZO APPRENTICESHIP WAGE SCALE May 1, 2015 through June 30, 2016
The minimum scale of wages to be paid finisher (helper) apprentices shall be as follows:
1st three months
2nd three months
7th month thru 12th month
13th month thru 24th month 25th month thru 36th month 37th month thru 48th month
50% of finishers wages per hour = $15.27, 55% of finishers wages per hour = $16.80. 60% of finishers wages per hour = $18.32. 70% of finishers wages per hour = $21.38. 80% of finishers wages per hour = $24.43. 90% of finishers wages per hour = $27.49.
’ The minimum scale of wages to be paid worker (mechanic) apprentices shall be as follows:
1st three months	50% of mechanics wages per hour	= $16.15_
2nd three months	55% of mechanics wages per hour	= $17.77
7th month thru 12th month	60% of mechanics wages per hour	= $19.38
13th month thru 24th month	70% of mechanics wages per hour	= $22.61
25th month thru 36th month	80% of mechanics wages per hour	= $25.84
37th month thru 48th month	90% of mechanics wages per hour	= $29.07