AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
SIL-BASE COMPANY
AND
UNITED STEEL, PAPER and FORESTRY, RUBBER, MANUFACTURING, ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL and SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION AFL-CIO-CLC
On behalf of LOCAL UNION NO 5852-21
2011-2014
File: (JSWA 2011-2014
09/19/2011
Page 1 of .33
PREAMBLE
This Agreement is by and between SIL-BASE COMPANY, (hereinafter referred to as Company or Employer j and UNITED STEEL, PAPER and FORESTRY, RUBBER, MANUFACTURING, ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL and SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-CIO-CLC, on behalf of Local Union 5852-21 (hereinafter referred to as the Union).
It is the intent and purpose of the parties hereto that this Agreement will promote a harmonious and sensible relationship between the Employees and the Company and to set forth herein the rates of pay, hours of work, and each and every other term and condition of employment to be observed between the parties hereto.
ARTICLE 1.00 RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive representative for the
purpose of collective bargaining with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours, and other conditions of employment for a bargaining unit composed of all full-time and regular part-time production and maintenance employees employed at the Company’s existing facility in Versailles Borough, Pennsylvania, excluding office clerical employees, sales persons, guards, professional employees, and supervisors as defined in the National Labor Relations Act, as amended.
1.02	The provisions of this Agreement constitute the sole and exclusive procedure for
the processing and settlement of any claim by a covered employee of an alleged violation of this Agreement. As the representative of the employees in the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement, the Union may process, adjust, settle, or withdraw grievances through the grievance procedure, including arbitration, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
1.03	This Agreement cannot be modified, amended, added to, or subtracted from,
except by an instrument in writing signed by the President of the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 2.00 PURPOSE AND INTENT
2.01	By entering into this Agreement, the parties hereto intend to promote the mutual
interest of the Company and its employees, to facilitate the prompt settlement of grievances, and to facilitate the operations of the plant covered hereunder under methods and procedures which will assure, to the fullest extent possible,
File: USWA 2011-2014
09/19/2011
Page 2 of 33
••A
2.02	economy and efficiency of operations, elimination of waste, and realization of the best quantity and quality of production and customer service obtainable in an atmosphere of mutual respect and understanding. It is agreed that all employees shall make an honest and conscientious effort to eliminate waste and increase efficiency in production. Elimination of waste, among other things, specifically means reducing breakage and spoilage, care of equipment, efficient and economical use of time and materials. It is further agreed that a constant increase in the efficiency of production is necessary to the healthfill growth of the Company and to maintain a proper competitive position of the Company throughout the industry. Increase in efficiency of production or maintenance means, among other things, cooperative effort toward finding easier, better, and faster ways of performing operations and the ready acceptance of higher production and maintenance standards due to new technology or other improvements of operations or methods.
2.03	The Company and the Union reaffirm their intention that the provisions of this Agreement will be applied without discrimination because of race, creed, color, sex, (including sexual harassment), age, national origin, handicap, veteran status, membership in the Union.
2.04	The Company shall provide one bulletin board for the use by the Union in an agreed-upon location at the plant for the purpose of posting notices relating to union business.
2.05	The masculine gender, where appearing in the Agreement, shall be deemed to include the feminine gender. ARTICLE 3 .00 STRIKES AND LOCK OUTS
3.01	During the term of this Agreement, the Union and the employees agree, in exchange for the Company’s obligation under Section 3.04 below, that, as to any dispute, of any nature, there shall be no strikes, including, but not limited to, sympathy strikes, unfair labor practice strikes, slow downs, stoppages of work of any kind or other acts of interference with the production, sales, or customer service of the Company’s products. Any violation of this obligation will subject employees to disciplinary action, including discharge.
3.02	It is understood and agreed that in the event of any strike, sympathy strike, unfair labor practice strike, slow down, work stoppage, or other interruption or impeding of the production, sale, or customer service of the Company’s products on the part of in violation of this Agreement, the International Staff representative of the International and all officers of the Local immediately shall:
File: USWA 201J-2014
09/19/201 I
Page 3 of 33
a.	Notify bargaining unit employees of the Company or any of its members that the strike, sympathy strike, unfair labor practice strike, slow down, work stoppage, or other interruption or impeding of work, production, sales or customer service is unauthorized.
b.	Direct its members not to participate in such strike, sympathy strike, slow down, work stoppage, or other interruption or impeding of work production, sales or customer service.
c.	Inform bargaining unit employees that the Company has the right to take disciplinary action, including discharge, against any employee who participates in a strike, sympathy strike, unfair labor practice strike, slow down, work stoppage, or other interruption or impeding of work production, sales or customer service.
3.03	Failure of active employee union officers to comply immediately with the
foregoing will result in disciplinary action, including discharge.
3.04	The Company agrees that it shall not lock out the Union during the term of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE 4.00 MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.01	Except to the extent expressly abridged or limited by a specific provision of this
Agreement, the Company reserves and retains, solely and exclusively, all of its inherent rights to manage and operate the business of the facility covered hereunder prominent among which, but by no means wholly inclusive, are the right to unilaterally decide: the number, location and relocation of its plant(s) or any part thereof; the merger, sale or termination of all or any part of its business; the closing down of the plant, or any part thereof; to alter, rearrange, combine, transfer, assign or cease any job, department, operation or service; the movement of, transfer, and interchange of any work between its plants; the products to be manufactured and the services to be rendered; the work to be contracted out or purchased, including work performed by employees; the types of machinery and equipment utilized; the methods, schedules, and quantities of product to be processed and manufactured; the schedules of production; the number of hours per day or week to be worked by employee; changes in employees’ work schedules, assignments and changes in assignments of work to employees; the process of manufacture, together with the selection, procurement, designing, engineering, and the control of raw materials and products which may be incorporated in production; the production process, methods, schedules, and
File: USWA 2011-2014
09/19/201 I
Page 4 of 33
techniques, including the introduction of new or changed production, maintenance, service or distribution methods; the need for and the layout of machinery and the use or equipment or materials; the customers to be served; the character and size of inventories; financial policy including accounting procedure; prices of goods; services rendered or supplied; customer relations; determination of every aspect of the organization of all internal production, maintenance, service or distribution units, and the extent thereof; the selection, direction, size and make-up of the work force; to hire, test, select, examine, lay off, promote, demote, assign work to, or transfer employees; to discipline, suspend, and discharge employees for just cause; to relieve employees from the duties and assignments because of the lack of work; the standards of quantity and quality of work; job requirements and job content and the standards of service, production and inspection; to make and apply reasonable rules and regulations for service, processing, manufacturing, maintenance, inspection, efficiency, discipline, safety, and other working conditions; to establish or discontinue policies, practices and procedures for the conduct of the business; to establish and otherwise to take such measures as the Company may determine to be necessary for the orderly, safe, efficient, and profitable conduct of the business of the facility covered hereunder.
4.02	Changes in Company rules and orders affecting employees shall be posted on
official Bulletin Boards provided for the purpose and signed by the proper official of the Company. The Union may challenge the institution of or modification of a rule as unreasonable in accordance with the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 5,00 UNION MEMBERSHIP
5.01	All employees covered by this Agreement shall, as a condition of employment,
after thirty (30) days of employment, or thirty (30) days subsequent to the signing of this Agreement, whichever is later, become members of the Union.
5.02	The company shall be obligated under this Article to terminate the employment
of any employee by reason of his failure to comply with Section 5.01 upon receipt of a written request for such termination from the Union, provided that the Company shall have the right to refuse such request if it has reasonable grounds for believing that the request for termination is for reasons other than the failure of the employee to tender the equivalent of the initiation fee and periodic dues uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership. Upon receipt of such written request by the Company, the employee shall have fourteen (14) days to tender the amount owed and thereby avoid termination of his employment.
File: USWA 2011-2014
09/19/201 1
Page 5 ol 3.3
5.03	The Union agrees to indemnify and save the Company harmless for any payment that the Company may be required to make in favor of any employee whose employment is terminated pursuant to any request made under Section 5.02, above. ARTICLE 6.00 CHECKOFF
6.01	Company will checkoff monthly dues and initiation fees or their equivalent, each as designated by the Secretary/Treasure of the International Union, amounts required pursuant to Article 5.00 above, on the basis of individually signed, voluntary checkoff authorization cards which comply with applicable law.
6.02	Checkoff authorization cards will be submitted to the Company through the Local Union’s Financial Secretary at intervals no more frequently than once each month. On or before the last day of each month, the Union shall submit to the Company a summary list of cards transmitted in each month.
6.03	Deductions on the basis of authorization cards submitted to the Company shall commence with respect to dues or their equivalent for the month in which the Company receives such authorization card or in which such card becomes effective, whichever is later. Dues or their equivalent for a given month shall be deducted and calculated on a pay period basis.
6.04	Unless the Company is otherwise notified, the only amounts to be deducted for payment to the Union from the pay of the employee who has furnished an authorization shall be the monthly Union dues or their equivalent. The Company will deduct initiation fees or the equivalent when notified by Union.
6.05	The Company agrees to remit to the Secretary/Treasure of the International Union OR AS DESIGNATED BY THE UNION by check payable to the order of the Local Union all union dues, initiation fees, or their equivalent so deducted from the paychecks of employees. The Secretary/Treasure of the International Union will promptly issue a receipt to the Company for all such dues, initiation fees, or their equivalent received by them. Such funds should be remitted to the Union no later than the 15th day of the month succeeding the month for which the dues are deducted.
6.06	The Union shall indemnify and save the Company harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits, or other forms of liability that shall arise out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the Company for the purpose of complying with any provisions of this Article, or in reliance on any list, notice, or assignment furnished under any of such provisions.
Page 6 of 33
File. USWA 2011-2014
09/19/201 I
6.07
The provisions of this Article shall apply only to the extent that they are in accordance and consistent with applicable Federal and State laws.
ARTICLE 7,00
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01	This procedure is the sole and exclusive procedure available to the employees
and the Union for the resolution of disputes. Should differences arise between the Company and the Union or the employees covered by this Agreement as to the meaning, interpretation, or application of the provisions of this Agreement including a claim that an employee has been disciplined or discharged without just cause, or as to a dispute not covered by this agreement, such differences or claims shall be considered a grievance. Grievances shall be processed in the following manner:
a.	Step 1
The grievance will be reduced to writing and given to the supervisor of the employee involved or his designated representative by the Grievance Person no later than three (3) working days after the occurrence of the event giving rise to the grievance of three (3) working days from the date the employee reasonably should have known of the occurrence. In the event a satisfactory settlement is not reached within five (5) working days, the matter may be referred by the Union to the second step as set forth in subsection (b) no later than three (3) working days thereafter.
b.	Step 2
The Unit President and the Company’s Plant Manager or his designated representative. The Company and Union may each designate one additional representative to attend the meeting. In the event a satisfactory settlement is not reached within ten (10) calendar days after referral, the matter may be referred by the Union to the third step as set forth in subsection (c) no later than five (5) calendar days thereafter.
c	Step 3
The International Staff Representative or his designated representative and the President of the Company, or his designated representative, who will meet on the issue at a mutually agreeable time. The Company and Union may each designate one additional representative to attend the meeting. In the event that such meeting cannot be held within 20 days
File: USWA 2011-2014
09/19/201 I
Page 7 of 33
o
	because of the unavailability of the International Staff Representative or his designated representative, any backpay or other damages shall be tolled until such meeting.
7.02	In the event the last named parties shall fail to make satisfactory adjustment of the grievance within fifteen (15) working days following such meeting, a grievance concerning the meaning, interpretation or application of this Agreement, may be referred by the International to arbitration in the manner described in Article 8.00 below.	!
7.03	। The time limits for filing and referring grievances are to strictly construed. A grievance that is not filed or referred to a higher step or arbitration within such prescribed time limits shall be considered settled and resolved on the basis of the Company’s last answer, which shall be final and binding on the parties and shall not be further processed or pursued in any manner. If the Company! fails to meet or provide an answer within the time periods set forth in the 1st or 2nd steps, the grievance will automatically be referred to the next step without the need for the Union to do so. The parties may agree in writing to the extension of any time limit in this Article.	1 1
7.04	The Company, upon request by an authorized Union representative, will make available to such representative, non-privileged documentary i information necessary for the evaluation or processing of any grievance concerning the meaning, interpretation, or application of this Agreement, provided that, the Company shall not be required to create or compile documents or records not in existence or make available documents which would be unduly burdensome to produce.
7.05	Miscellaneous procedures: a.	To the extent required by the nature of the grievance, the grievant will, at the Union’s request, be allowed to attend meetings held at the 2nd and 3rd step. Employees who attend meetings at Step 2 or 3 shall be paid during the time thereof, if such attendance occurs during a time when they would otherwise be working. b	A non-employee representative of the Union, upon advance notice to the Company, shall have access to the plant, subject to the established plant rules, at reasonable times to study or observe the Company’s operations. Such access shall be allowed during working time but shall not interfere with the Company’s operations.
File: USWA 2011-2014	Page 8 of 33
09/19/201 I

	c.	Where it is reasonably necessary that the investigation of a grievance be conducted during working time by a grievance person who would otherwise be working, the Company will allow such grievance person a reasonable amount of time, paid by the Company, to investigate such grievance. d.	The settlement of any grievance at any step of the foregoing procedure shall not be considered in any matter whatsoever in the processing of any other grievance. e.	The Union for the purpose of effectively representing the bargaining unit employees, may appoint, and the Company will recognize and deal with, (a) President of the Local Union and/or Unit President and (b) one or more stewards or grievance representatives of the Local. ARTICLE 8 00 ARBITRATION
8.01	Only grievances which involve the meaning, interpretation, or application of the provisions of this Agreement shall be subject to mandatory arbitration. Within twenty-five (25) calendar days following the end of the time period for the Company’s answer in Step 3 of the grievance procedure, the Union may refer a grievance to arbitration by written notice to the Company and by a written request to the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service for a list of seven (7) arbitrators who have had training or experience in the subject of the grievance.
8.02	Within twenty (20) calendar days of the receipt of the list form the FMCS, the parties shall meet to select one from the list by alternately striking a name from the list until one (1) name remains. The person so selected shall then hear and decide the grievance in the manner described below.
8.03	Any grievance referred to an arbitrator shall be considered by him within one (1) month from the date it is referred or as soon thereafter as possible. The arbitrator shall render his decision within thirty (30) days following the conclusion of the hearing unless the parties agree otherwise. The decision rendered by the arbitrator shall be final and binding on the parties to this Agreement.
8.04	The arbitrator shall have no authority to modify, add to, or delete any provision of this Agreement.
8.05	The expenses of the Arbitrator, applicable FMCS panel fees, and the arbitration hearing shall be borne equally by the parties. The costs of transcription shall be
File: USWA 2011-2014
09/19/2011
Page 9 of 33
	borne by the party ordering such unless both parties order transcript copies, in which case, the costs of transcription shall be divided equally.
8.06	Time spent by employees at arbitration hearings shall not be paid by the Company. ARTICLE 9,00 WAGES
9.01	Wages will be paid in accordance with the wage schedule set forth in Appendix A which is attached hereto and made a part hereof The new hire entry wages will remain the same for the duration of the contract. During the second and third year of the contract, new hires from the previous year will receive the same amount of increase for that year after the anniversary of their hire date or promotion date.
9.02	Wages shall be paid bi-weekly on Friday. Such wages are for work performed during the two-week pay period ending on the Friday two weeks previous thereto. When a holiday falls on a Friday payday, wages will be paid on the immediately preceding Thursday and, if holidays fall on Thursday and Friday consecutively, wages will be paid on the immediately preceding Wednesday.
9.03	Employees shall be paid at the wage rate corresponding to the job which they are performing. Employees who are transferred or bumped from their scheduled job to another job with a lower wage rate will incur no reduction in wage rate for the first ten (10) working days in performing such work. Thereafter, the lower-wage rate of the job to which the employee is transferred or bumped shall become applicable to such work. An employee, other than an employee being cross-trained, who is assigned to perform the job of mixer, pattern maker, or inspector, shall be paid the new hire rate for such position for time worked herein, rounded to the nearest quarter hour or his regular rate, whichever is higher. An employee demoted to a lower paying job shall be paid the rate of such job upon assumption of the duties thereof. For the purposes of this section, the rate for the job to which an employee hired after the effective date of this Agreement (a new hire) is transferred, bumped, demoted, or promoted shall be the New Hire rate set forth in this Agreement. For employees employed on the effective date of this Agreement, the applicable rate in the case of promotion or assignment to a higher paying job shall be the lowest rate paid for such job which is higher than the employee’s regular rate of pay, and in the case of demotion or assignment to a lower paying job, the highest rate paid for such job which is lower than the employee’s regular rate of pay.
File: USWA 2011-2014	PagelOof33
09/19/2011
ARTICLE 10.00
HOURS OF WORK
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04
The normal work week shall be forty (40) hours based on a normal eight (8) hour
work day schedule, five (5) days per week, Monday through Friday. An employee’s normal work day is the twenty-four (24) hour period beginning with his assigned starting time, and his day of rest begins at the same time on the day or days he is not scheduled to work. His normal work week starts with his assigned work period on Monday. In the event the Company decides to schedule all employees on a particular shift less than a forty-hour per week shift, it will provide the opportunity to the Union to propose and discuss alternatives.
Changes in scheduled shifts shall be posted by noon the Friday of each week.
The Company may change daily starting times by up to one hour by giving notice as early as practicable. The Company may change daily starting or quitting times by more than one hour with forty-eight (48) hours advance notice. In the event of production requirements or exigencies which were not reasonably foreseeable, the Company may change scheduled weekly shifts or daily starting and quitting times by giving notice of such changes as early as practicable.
Employees are required to work hours outside or in excess of the scheduled shift
whenever so directed by the Company. Employee working on a particular task may be required to work a reasonable amount of overtime to complete such task without regard to seniority. Other daily overtime work in a particular job classification offered beyond any particular shift will be offered to employees working at the plant within the job classification by plant seniority. If no such employee within the job classification elects to work such overtime the Company may require the least senior-qualified person within the job classification present to perform the work or offer such overtime by plant seniority to present qualified employees outside the job classification. Nothing requires the Company to offer overtime work at all, or to call in or offer such work to employees not working at the end of the shift. In the event overtime is offered in violation of this provision, the employee who should have been offered the overtime is entitled to pay as a remedy only where the violation is willful and in bad faith. Otherwise, the aggrieved employee shall be entitled, as a remedy, to the next available overtime opportunity for which he is qualified.
No employee shall be required, in any one day, to work more than 12 hours
consecutively, including breaks and lunch periods, provided that employees may
File: USWA 2011-2014
09/19/2011
Page 11 of .33
be held over 12 hours where necessary to complete a task which cannot be left uncompleted.
10.05 Nothing in this Article or any provision of this Agreement is to be construed as a guarantee to hours of work per day or per week, or a guarantee of days of work per week.
ARTICLE 11.00 OVERTIME
11.01	Overtime payments will be made to employees covered by the Agreement under
the following circumstances:
a.	Time and one-half an employee’s hourly wage rate for:
(1)	All hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours in a work week;
(2)	All hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in a work day, provided that such work is assigned, provided further that, where the Company changes a daily starting time or weekly shift in accordance with Section 10.02, an employee who begins such changed shift within the same work day (as defined in Section 10.01 above) as his previous shift shall not be paid overtime under this section if such changed shift commences on or after the 23rd hour of such work day.
(3)	All hours worked on Sunday or any Holiday;
(4)	All hours worked on an employee’s 6th and 7th consecutive day of employment within the seven-day period beginning with the first day of the employee’s scheduled weekly shift, provided that the employee has worked ail scheduled and assigned time during the preceding 5 or 6 days, respectively.
b.	Hours compensated at overtime rate under any one of the above provisions shall not be compensated at overtime rate under any other provision.
c Break and lunch periods shall be counted for the purposes of computing overtime. All other time not actually worked, paid or unpaid, shall not be counted for the purpose of computing overtime.
ARTICLE 12.00
NEW OR CHANGED JOBS
Page 12 of 33
rile: USWA 2011-2014
09/19/201 I
♦
12.01	If, during the term of this Agreement, the Company, in its sole discretion, creates a new job or substantially alters an exiting job by the addition or deletion of duties requiring a significantly higher level of skill and/or responsibility, the Company shall initially assign a wage rate to the new or changed job. If the Union objects to the wage rate so assigned, the objection will be considered a proper subject for the grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement.
12.02	In reaching a decision on the rate to be applied to the new or changed job, the parties and/or an arbitrator shall compare the rate assigned by the Company with the rates of comparable jobs and skills within the plant or, if applicable, the rate for the work as demonstrated by the local job market. Any change in the rate resulting from an arbitration will not be retroactive, unless the arbitrator find that the initial rate was established in bad faith. ARTICLE 13.00 SENIORITY
13.01	The parties recognize the promotions, and other filling of vacancies, decreases in work force, layoffs, and recalls should be determined in relation to any employee’s ability to perform the work, qualifications, and length of continuous service (as defined below). It is recognized, however, that the Company and its management have responsibility for the efficient and profitable operation of the plant. Consequently, except as modified by Section 13.14 and 13.15 below, in all cases of promotion, or other filling of vacancies, decrease in work force, layoff, and recalls, length of continuous service shall be the determining factor only where the employee’s overall skills, qualifications, and ability to perform work are equal.
13.02	For all purposes of this Agreement, continuous service is calculated from the date of first employment with the Company or re-employment following a break in continuous service as described in Section 13.05 below.
13.03	When two or more employees begin work on the same date the Company and Union shall determine the order of their continuous service by alphabetical order of the letters of their last name.
13.04	The Company shall post bi-annually the seniority list of all bargaining unit employees. Such list shall contain each employee’s length of continuous service from the date of his last hire. The Company will supply a copy of the list to the Union.
13.05	Continuous service will be broken with the loss of all seniority rights and an employee shall be considered terminated if an employee:
File: USWA 2011-2014
09/19/201 I
Page 13 of 33
13.06
a.	resigns or quits for any reason:
b.	is discharged for just cause;
c.	is absent from work for three (3) consecutive working days without notifying his supervisor, in which event he shall be considered a voluntary quit. In the event of extreme circumstances beyond the control of the employee which prevent the employee or his immediate family from notifying the Company, this provision shall not apply if notice to the Company is given as soon as practicable;
d.	is laid off a period of eighteen (18) months for his last day of active employment;
e.	is absent due to a non-occupational injury or illness for the lesser of a period of twelve (12) months or his length of continuous service or is absent due to occupational injury or illness for the lesser of a period of twenty-four (24) months or his length of continuous service.
f.	Failure to return to work following a leave of absence or pursuant to a notice of recall from layoff. A recall notice shall be deemed sufficient if communicated directly to the employee or if mailed or otherwise delivered with accompanying proof of attempted delivery to the last address of the employee on the Company’s records with a copy to the Union. Employees have the obligation to notify the employer of address changes. The employees shall report their intention to return within 48 hours. Employees who, because of reasons beyond their control or unforeseen circumstances which prevent them from reporting to work at the end of a leave of absence or the time specified in a notice of recall shall notify the Employer of the reasons therefor and, at the Company’s request, provide documentation of the reason. Such employees must return within a reasonable period of time.
g.	Engaging in other employment while on a leave of absence, unless otherwise agreed to by the Company.
Where the Company decides, in its discretion, to fill a permanently vacant job, or a newly-created job, such job shall be posted for a period of seven (7) calendar days. A job shall be deemed permanently vacant if it is to be filled for more than sixty (60) working days for reasons other than sickness, injury, or, to the extent required by law, military leave. The Company shall similarly post for bidding any temporary vacancy (i. e., a vacancy other than a permanent vacancy) of sixty
File: USWA 2011-2014
09/19/2011
Page 14 of 33
(60) working days or more duration it decides to fill. Such vacancies shall be awarded in accordance with the criteria set forth in Sections 13.01 and 13.08 of this .Article. No employee shall be entitled to a training period to establish or obtain qualifications for the job. However, during the first thirty (30) days, and employee who demonstrates that he is unqualified shall be re-assigned to his former job. During the foregoing bidding procedure, the Company may fill the vacancy or job in any manner it deems fit.
13.07	A temporary vacancy of less than sixty (60) working days which the Company
decides to fill need not be posted. In filling such short-term vacancies, the Company, in order to achieve as much cross-training as possible, will first consider those employees who have indicated a preference, in writing, for such job and the selection among those who have indicated a preference will be based on length of continuous service, provided they have the physical fitness and ability to perform the requirements of the vacancy. The rate of pay for performance of the job during cross-training shall be the employee’s regular rate of pay. The Company shall have the right to judge the performance and qualification of an employee working in such short-term temporary vacancy and the unrestricted right to remove or not re-select such employee for such future vacancies so long as such removal or failure to re-select is not arbitrary or capricious.
1	3 .08 Nothing in this Agreement shall prohibit or limit the Company in its right to seek or fill any permanent or temporary vacancy with applicants not already employed by the Company, provided that, where applicable, a current employee who bids or expresses a cross-training interest according to the procedures set in Section 13.06 and 13.07 above will be awarded the job if his qualifications, skills and ability equal that of the non-employee applicant.
13.0	9 Nothing in this Agreement shall be read to require the Company to create new jobs or to fill any vacancy which occurs in any existing job.
13.10	If any employee becomes disabled and cannot perform his regular job, the Company and the Union will discuss whether or not the employee can be placed in an available job which he is capable of performing. Nothing shall require the Company to so place the employee. However, the Company shall have the right to assign such employee to any available job which he is capable of performing and would be entitled to perform on the basis of seniority.
13.11	Employees absent from work may bid upon job openings occurring during such absence by submitting to the Company a list of all jobs desired to be bid upon during such absence. To be awarded such job, the employee must be capable of reporting to work within a reasonable period of time not to exceed 14 days.
File: USWA 2011-2014
09/19/2011
Page 15 of 33
13.12	Employees absent due to long term illness, injury or military leave, and who,
consistent with Section 13.05 or, in the case of military leave, to the extent required by applicable law, are entitled to return to work, shall be returned to the job they held prior to their absence or, if a reduction in force has occurred, to the job to which they would have otherwise been entitled.
13.13	In the event of a job elimination or decrease in force, within Job Group One, an employee in Job Group One may avoid being laid off by bumping an employee with greater continuous service occupying the same or another job in Job Group One provided he possess greater ability, skills and qualifications and can immediately perform all of the requirements of the job. No such employee, nor any other, shall be entitled to a trial period to establish his ability and qualifications to perform the job. Subject to Article 9, Section 9.03, an employee shall receive the wage rate of the job to which he bumps. In the event of a job elimination or reduction in force within Job Group Two, layoff shall be in accordance with continuous service.
13	14 In the event of a job elimination or decrease in work or force within Job Group One, a Job Group One employee, who could not avoid being laid off under the provision of Section 13.13, may bump a less senior employee in Job Group Two provided he is qualified to perform the work. The Company may also, in its discretion, allow qualified employees in Job Group One jobs, who could not avoid being laid off under the provisions of Section 13.13, to perform the work of more senior employees in Job Group Two jobs and elect to lay-off or not recall Job Group Two employees. In such cases, the Job Group Two employees to be laid-off shall be determined by continuous service.
13.15	In the event of a recall, employees laid off from or assigned out of Job Group One jobs shall be recalled to available Job Group One job openings in inverse order of their layoff or assignment from such group. The Company, in it discretion, may recall laid off Job Group One employees in inverse order of their layoff, to available Job Group Two openings before laid off Job Group Two employees are recalled. Laid off Job Group Two employees shall be recalled to any remaining available Job Group Two job openings in inverse order of their layoff.
13.16	Newly-hired employees shall be regarded as probationary employees for the first sixty (60) working days of their employment. Any probationary employee may be terminated for any reason (other than those specified in Section 2.03) at any time during this probationary period and shall have no recourse under any provision of this Agreement, including the grievance-arbitration procedure hereof, except in the event he alleges his termination was violative of Section
File: USWA 2011-2014
09/19/201 I
Page 16 of 33
	2.03. The Company shall notify the Union of the discharge of a probationary employee. If the employee successfully completes his probationary period, his continuous service will date back to the date of his initial employment.
13.17	In the event of a lay-off which the Company intends to last one week or more, the Company shall provide notice three calendar days in advance. Such notice shall not be required in the event of unforeseen circumstances, emergencies, acts of God or other circumstances beyond the Company’s control which prevent such advance notice. ARTICLE 14,00 SAFETY AND HEALTH
14.01	The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its employees at the Plant during their hours of employment.
14.02	The Company will continue to provide the necessary and proper protective devices, uniforms, and other required equipment, including gloves, but excluding safety shoes. Worn out items will be replaced. However, worn out items must returned by the employee to obtain new items. If a worn out item is not returned, the employee will be charged Company cost for replacement of the equipment.
14.03	Such devices, apparel and other equipment, when provided, must be used and properly maintained by the employee or the employee will be subject to disciplinary action. Any willful destruction of such devices, apparel, or equipment will also result in disciplinary action.
14.04	During each year of this Agreement, the Company shall reimburse full-time non-probationary employees for the purchase of one pair of safety shoes up to a maximum of $85.00. Metatarsal protection is not mandatory for such shoes. To avoid reimbursement, the Company will bring in a vendor who provides safety shoes to employees once a year. Date and time of the scheduled vendor visit will be after working hours and posted in advance. If any employee is not present when the shoe vendor comes to the Company or for the case of any new hire (after probation), the employee will have to purchase his or her safety shoes , and the reimbursement shall be paid upon the production by the employee of the receipt for purchase of such shoes. ARTICLE 15,00 BARGAINING UNIT WORK
File: USWA 201 1-2014
09/19/2011
Page 17 of 3?
1 5.01	The parties expressly recognize that the Company retains its right to continue to
assign work performed by employees covered under this Agreement to its supervisory personnel whenever it deems in its sole discretion such assignment to be appropriate. The Company agrees that it will exercise its right under this provision in good faith and will not utilize this provision in bad faith to deplete the bargaining unit.
15.02 The Company agrees that, during the term of this Agreement only, it shall not utilize leased employees to perform day-to-day production and maintenance work within the facility thereby causing the lay-off of active employees or avoiding the recall of laid-off employees.
1 5.03 This Article in no way modifies or limits Article 4.00.
ARTICLE 16.00 HOLIDAYS
16.01	Holidays observed by the Company will be New Year’s Day, Good Friday,
Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving, the day following Thanksgiving, Christmas Eve, and Christmas Day. When a holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the Friday before or the Monday after, respectively, shall be considered the holiday.
16.02 Employees covered by this Agreement shall be paid holiday pay for the foregoing holidays provided they meet all of the following eligibility requirements:
a.	The holiday falls during a week in which the employee is scheduled to work;
b.	The employee works on the holiday if scheduled and, if not so scheduled, works his scheduled shifts immediately preceding and immediately following the holiday;
c.	An employee who fails to meet the requirements of subsection (b) above shall remain eligible for holiday pay if such failure is the direct result of:
1	personal illness, funeral leave or absence caused by extraordinary and unforeseen circumstances verified by means determined solely, by the Company.
Or
File: USWA 2011-2014
O9/19/2011
Page 18 of 3 3
2	. A layoff commencing the week in which the holiday occurs.
d.	If a holiday falls during the otherwise active employee’s authorized vacation, the employee shall be given an additional day off to be taken on the first work day the employee would have otherwise returned to work following his vacation;
e.	Except as set forth above, laid off employees or other employees not actively employed during the week of the holiday are not eligible for holiday pay.
16.03 Holiday pay shall be at the employee’s hourly wage rate for eight (8) hours.
ARTICLE 17.00
VACATIONS
17.01	During each calendar year, the Company will grant vacations to employees
covered by this Agreement as follows, provided they meet the following eligibility requirements:
a.	After one (1) year of continuous service with the Company but less than two (2) years - One (1) week of paid vacation;
b.	Two (2) years of continuous service with the Company but less than eight (8) years - Two (2) weeks of paid vacation;
c.	Eight (8) or more years of continuous service with the Company - Three (3) weeks of paid vacation.
1 7.02 For each week of vacation, each eligible employee will be paid the forty (40) hours times his hourly wage rate.
17.03	In order to be eligible for a paid vacation an employee must have a total of 12
months of continuous service with the Company and have worked a minimum of thirteen hundred (1,300) hours during the twelve (12) month period preceding his vacation. Only actual time worked shall be credited except that, where an employee is unable to work due to an occupational injury, those hours which the employee would have otherwise worked during the first two months following such injury' shall be considered to have been worked for the purpose of his 1,300 hour requirement.
File: USWA 2011-2014
09/19/2011
Page 19 of 33
17.04	Vacation shall be scheduled by seniority, provided that no two employees in the
same department may take vacation during the same week. An otherwise eligible employee may schedule two weeks vacation in a row provided that no other person in the same department is also scheduled during such period and such shall not result in hardship to the Company. It is recognized that the Company may, where necessary for production requirements, schedule or reschedule vacation or offer to pay the employee in lieu of vacation in its sole discretion.
17 05 If a death for which an employee is entitled to paid funeral leave occurs during an employee’s vacation, such vacation shall be extended by the amount of funeral leave which would otherwise have been granted.
17.06 Upon termination of employment, the employee shall be entitled to be paid for paid vacation benefits accrued and owing as of the date of termination. Such shall be paid at the time of the payment of the employee’s last paycheck.
17.07 Absent agreement by or the direction of the Company, paid vacation benefits cannot be carried over from one calendar year to the next. Accrued paid vacation not taken in any calendar year shall not be taken but shall be paid in the last pay period of each year.
17.08 During each calendar year the Company shall grant to each full-time employee personal days off with pay as follows:
a.	After one (1) year of continuous service with the Company but less than five (5) years - two(2) personal days off with pay.
b.	After five (5) years or more of continuous service with the Company - three(3) personal days off with pay
c.	For each personal day, the employee shall be paid eight (8) times his/her regular rate of pay. Personal days must be scheduled at least 7 days in advance, provided that, no two employees in the same department may take a personal day on the same day. The Company, where necessary for production requirements, may reschedule a scheduled personal day or offer to pay the employee in lieu of the personal day in its sole discretion.
d.	Absent agreement or direction by the Company, personal days may not be carried over from one calendar year to the next.
ARTICLE 18.00
FUNERAL LEAVE
File: USWA 2011-2014
09/19/2011
Page 20 ol 33
18.01	Any employee covered by this Agreement will, upon request, be granted up to a maximum of five (5) scheduled work days off with pay due to death of a current spouse or child and a maximum of three (3) scheduled work days off with pay due to the death of some other member of his immediate family. Any and all scheduled work days granted off pursuant to this Article must be consecutive and fall within the four (4) day period (six (6) day period in the case of a current spouse or child) which includes the day of the funeral; provided, however, that it is established that the employee attended the funeral.
18.02	For purposes of the Article, “immediate family” shall include the employee’s spouse, stepchild, child, parent, step-parent, parent-in-law, grandparent, brother or sister.
18.03	Payment for lost time, as provided in this Article, shall be at the employee’s hourly wage rate time 8 hours per day.
18.04	To receive payment, the employee must immediately give the following information to his Supervisor: a.	Name of deceased person and person’s relationship to employee; and b.	Date and location of the funeral.
18.05	The Company, at the request of an employee and subject to the requirements of this section, will allow unpaid time off for attendance at the funeral of a brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law or daughter-in-law. ARTICLE 19.00 MILITARY SERVICE
19.01	The Company shall afford employees who have completed their military service with the United States or who serve in the Reserve of the Armed Forces or the National Guard with re-employment rights or other rights as they shall be entitled to under the then existing statues. ARTICLE 20.00 INSURANCE
20.01	The insurance program in effect as of the effective date of this Agreement shall remain in effect for the term of this Agreement, however, during the terms of the Agreement, the Company, at its sole discretion, may offer alternate health benefit insurance, which employees may elect at their option. Disputes arising under the insurance program shall be considered a grievance within the meaning of Article 7.00 and 8.00 of this Agreement, except disputes involving life insurance.
File: USWA 2011-2014	Page21of33
09/19/2011
20.02
The amount of insurance to be provide during the term of the agreement are as follows:
Life Insurance/AD&D:
First Year	Second Year	Third Year
$20,000	$20,000	$20,000
Accident & Sickness:		
First Year	Second Year	Third Year
$340 per week	$340 per week	$340 per week
for 26 weeks	for 26 weeks	for 26 weeks
The Company’s obligation to implement the above increases for A & S Benefits is conditioned upon the cost of such increases not exceeding $.023 per hour worked for each $10.00 increase in the benefit amount. In the event such increase exceeds the $.023 cap, the parties will discuss the matter.
Health Benefit Insurance:
During the term of this Agreement, the Company shall pay the following premium. During the 1st year of the contract, there is no cost to the Single filling and $38.00 per pay period to Married and Family filling. During the 2nd and 3rd year of the contract, the employee shall pay any increase above the premium.
1st Year	2nd Year	3rd Year
Single	$326.48	$342.80	$359.94
Married	$922.13	$968.23	$1,016.64
Family	$998.79	$1,048.72	$1,101.15
In the event of increases in the above premium amounts, the Company agrees to allow the Union to submit for consideration a quote for alternative coverage.
Only employees in full-time status, who have successfully completed their probationary period as described in Section 13.16 above are covered under the insurance programs referred to in Section 20.01 above.
File: USWA 2011-2014
09/19/2011
Page 22 of 33
20.03	The Company will pay premiums to cover iaid-off employees with one year or more of continuous service under the insurance programs referred to in Section 20 01 above until the end of the following calendar month in which such lay off occurs.
20.04	The Company shall pay premiums to cover full time employees with one year or more of continuous service who are absent due to illness or injury until the end of the following calendar month in which such absence commenced. Thereafter, to the extent allowed by the insurance plans, such employees may, until their termination, continue to purchase the coverage they would otherwise be entitled to as active employees by paying monthly an amount equal to the premium plus 2%.
20.05	An employee who is recalled from layoff or who returns from a medical absence following termination of Company paid insurance premiums under sections 20.03 or 20.04 shall not be eligible for Company paid continued coverage for any subsequent layoff or illness/injury occurring within six (6) months of the employee’s return. Where an employee is recalled from layoff or returns from a medical absence prior to termination of Company paid insurance premiums under Section 20.03 or 20.04, the number of months of continued coverage following a subsequent layoff or medical absence occurring with six (6) months of the employee’s return shall be reduced by the number of months of coverage provided during the employee’s previous layoff or absence.
20 06	Insurance coverage for employees on leave of absence shall cease at the end of the month in which such leave commences. Employees on such leave may, to the extent allowed by the insurance plans, continue the coverage they would otherwise be entitled to as active employees by paying monthly an amount equal to the premium plus 2%. ARTICLE 21.00 PENSION
21.01	The Company shall offer the Steelworkers Pension Trust with a Company contribution of the following for the life of the contract to non-probationary full-time employees: a.	1st year of the contract - $0.51/hour b.	2nd year of the contract - $0.51/ hour c.	3rd year on the contract - $0.54/hour
File: USWA 201 1-2014	Page23of33
09/19/2011
21 02	The contribution shall be based strictly on the working hours including paid
vacation and holiday paid hours, exclusion of all none working hours due to sickness, disability and injury.
ARTICLE 22.00
BREAKS
22.01	Employees shall receive one paid 10 minute break to be taken during the first
four (4) hours of their daily assigned shift, one paid twenty (20) minute lunch break, and one paid (10) minute break to be taken after the (6th) hour of their daily assigned shift. The Company retains the right to require employees to punch in and out for breaks and the lunch period.
22.02 When an employee works overtime, he shall be entitled to a 10 minute break at the beginning of his (10Ih) tenth hour of employment that day. If the employee works two or more hours overtime, such break shall be paid.
ARTICLE 23.00 CALL IN PAY
23.01	Any employee who is required to report for work at a time other than his
scheduled starting time and who is sent home after completing such work will be paid for the time required to perform such work, but in no event will he be paid less than four (4) hours at his regular hourly rate.
23 .02 Employees who shall report to work not having been notified two (2) hours prior to the start of their shift not to report shall receive at least four (4) hours work or pay at their regular hourly rate.
23.03 The provisions of this Article 23.00 will not apply where the failure of the Company to provide work is caused by a strike, or work stoppage, or for acts of God such as fire, flood, power failure, or civil disorders and bomb treats.
ARTICLE 24 00
JURY DUTY
24.01	An employee who is called for jury service or subpoenaed as a witness for other
than his own behalf in a Federal, State or Municipal Court shall be excused from work for the days on which he serves and he shall receive, for each day of such jury or witness service which he otherwise would have worked, the difference between eight (8) time his regular hourly rate and the payment he receives for
Page 24 of 33
File. USWA 2011-2014
09/19/201 I
jury or witness service. The employee will present proof of service and of the amount of pay received thereof. Employees shall not be compensated for attendance at any other proceedings.
24.02 An employee subpoenaed as a witness in any legal proceeding, including administrative proceedings, shall make all reasonable attempts to limit his absence from work and shall cooperate with the Company is efforts to so limit such absence.
ARTICLE 25.00 ENCAMPMENT PAY
25.01	In the event any employee covered by this agreement who is in the National
Guard or reservist in the Armed Forces of the United States is required to go away on maneuvers or summer encampment or is called out on military duty for a temporary period, the Employer will pay, for each day the employee would have .otherwise worked, the difference between eight (8) times his regular hourly rate and his daily military pay for a period not in excess of three weeks.
ARTICLE 26.00
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
26.01 The Company, in it discretion, may grant a leave of absence to employees who request one for good and sufficient reasons. Employees requesting a leave of absence shall do so in writing and state the reasons thereof.
26.02 Any employee granted a leave of absence shall continue to accumulate continuous service for promotion, lay-off and recall but not for vacation, insurance or any other benefit.
26.03 Upon written request submitted reasonably in advance, employee Union officers will be granted a reasonable amount of unpaid time off to attend union conferences, conventions, etc. When production requirements dictate, the Company shall have the right to deny such time-off, but shall not do so unreasonably.
26.04 A bargaining unit employee will be granted an unpaid leave of absence for the purpose of becoming a full-time employee of the International. During such leave of absence the employee will continue to accumulate continuous service for purposes of promotion, lay-off and recall but not for vacation, insurance or any other benefit.
File: USWA 2011-2014
09/19/2011
Page 25 ot 33
26.05	Employees may return to work before the expiration of their leave of absence by
notifying the Company, in writing, five (5) working days prior to the commencement of the first fi.il 1 weekly shift for which they wish to return. In the event the vacancy created by the leave of absence has been filled, an employee who returns from a leave of absence may return only to an available vacancy for which he is qualified.
26.06 An employee who gives a false reason for requesting a leave of absence shall be considered a voluntary quit as of his last day worked.
ARTICLE 27,00
PLANT CLOSING
27.01 If, during the time of this Agreement, the Employer closes its facility to which this Agreement applies, bargaining unit employees will be given preferential hiring rights, for a period of one (1) year, for vacancies at other Company facilities existing at the time of the closing which perform the same operations making the same product. Such preferential hiring rights apply only to positions for which the employee is fully qualified an shall not conflict with any collective bargaining agreement covering any other facility.
ARTICLE 28.00
PRE-AGREEMENT DISCIPLINE AND PRE-AGREEMENT ACTIONS
28.01	No practice, policy or action taken or not taken by the Company pre-dated this
Agreement shall be used against the Company in the interpretation of any provision of this Agreement including the provision relating to just cause for discipline.
ARTICLE 29 00 CONFLICT WITH LAW
29.01 Any provision of this Agreement which now or subsequently is found by a court of competent authority to contravene a national, state, or local law, or Government regulation, shall be suspended in operation for the period during which such law or regulation is in effect. Such suspension shall not affect the operation or validity of the remainder of the provisions of this Agreement.
Page 26 of 33
File: USWA 2011-2014
09/19/201 I
30.01
30.02
31.01
ARTICLE 30,00
INTERAGATION-MODIFICATION
This Agreement constitutes the sole Agreement between the parties and contains
all the covenants, stipulations and provisions agreed upon by the parties and supersedes any prior or established practices or agreements of any kind. In the administration of or interpretation of this Agreement, the Company shall not be held bound to any preexisting statement, practice, understanding or agreement unless such has been expressly incorporated in and referred to in this Agreement. It is understood and agreed, however, that the Agreement may be amended at any time by a Supplemental Agreement signed by the President of the Company and the Union.
Unless incorporated in a Supplemental Agreement hereto, the waiver by either
Party of a right contained in this Agreement shall not constitute or serve as a binding precedent in the future enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement and no grievance settlement accepted by the parties shall represent or constitute a waiver of any right under, or construction of, any provision of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 31.00 TERMINATION
This Agreement shall become effective as of 12:01 a.m., September 15, 2011,
and shall remain in full force and effect to 11:59 p.m., September 14, 2014, and from year to year thereafter; provided however, that either party may on or before sixty (60) days prior to the expiration date thereof, or any subsequent anniversary date, notify either party by registered or certified mail of its desire to terminate or modify this Agreement.
SIL-BASE COMPANY
UNITED STEEL, PAPER and FORESTRY, RUBBER, MANUFACTURING, ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL and SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-
CIO-CLC, on Behalf of
5852-21
File: USWA 2011-2014
09/19/2011
Page 27 of 33
THE UNITED STEEL, PAPER AND FORESTRY, RUBBER, MANUFACTURING, ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL, AND SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-CIO-CLC, LOCAL UNION 5852-21
International Vice-President Human Affairs
Dire&of - District 10
Letter of Understanding
It is hereby agreed that during the term of this Agreement, the Company may fill the Welder A position with outside applicants, at the wage rate set forth in the wage Appendix to the Agreement, without regard to any limitation or procedure contained in Article 13 of the Agreement. Accordingly, the Company shall be under no obligation to fill the Welder ‘‘A” position initially or otherwise by promotion from within.
STL-BASE COMPANY

Date:
UNITED STEEL, PAPER and FORESTRY, RUBBER, MANUFACTURING, ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL and SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-CIO-CLC, on behalf of Local 5852-21
File: USWA 2011-2014
Page 29 of 33
09/19/2011
n
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
In connection with the negotiations leading to the current Collective Bargaining Ageement, the parties have discussed the issue of drug and alcohol testing of active employees and have reached the following understanding. The Company will not require active employees to undergo a drug or alcohol test. However, where the Company has a reasonable suspicion that and employee has used drugs or alcohol on the plant premises or has reported to work impaired by drugs or alcohol, the Company shall have the right to request that the employee be tested for same In the event that the employee refuses such request and is disciplined, the Company shall have the right to introduce evidence of such refusal in any subsequent arbitration proceeding or other challenge to such discipline. The understanding set forth above does not apply to applicants for employment.
STL-BASE COMPANY
UNITED STEEL, PAPER and FORESTRY, RUBBER, MANUFACTURING, ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL and SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-CIO-CLC, on behalf of Local 5852-21
Page 30 of 33
File: USWA 2011-2014
09/19/2011
APPENDIX A WAGES
Current employees will be "red circled" above the "new hire” rates in their current positions as indicated.
Yearly increase per hour
Is* Year	2nd Year
3rd Year
0.25	0.30	0.50
JOB GROUP #1
Welder “A” (Vacant)	1st Year	2nd Year	3rd Year
New Hires (during 1st Year) (Hire rate/after probationary) * 1st Contract Hires	17.00/17.50	17.00/17.50 17.80	17.00/17.50 18.00 18.30
Welder “B”	1st Year	2nd Year	3rd Year
New Hires (during Ist Year) (Hire rate/after probationary)	15.50/16.00	15.50/16.00 16.30	15.50/16.00 16.50 16.80
Welder “C”	1st Year	2nd Year	3 rd Year
New Hires (during 1st Year) (Hire rate/after probationary)	12.50/13.00	13.30*	13.80*
New Hires (during 2nd Year) (Hire rate/after probationary)	-	12.50/13.00	13.50*
New Hires (during 3rd Year) (Hire rate/after probationary)	-	-	12.50/13.00
MIXER	1st Year	2nd Year	3 rd Year
Mark Poturich	17.25	17.55	18.05
Page 31 of 33
File: USWA 2011-2014
09/19/2011
New Hires (during, Is' Year) (Hire rate/after probationary)	12.50/13.00	13.30*	13.80*
New Hires (during 2nd Year) (Hire rate/after probationary')	-	12.50/13.00	13.50*
New Hires (during 3rd Year) (Hire rate/after probationary)	-	-	12.50/13.00
PATTERN MAKER	1st Year	2nd Year	3 rd Year
Mark Falter	17.00	17.30	17.80
New Hires (during 1st Year) (Hire rate/after probationary)	12.50/13.00	13.30*	13.80*
New Hires (during 2nd Year) (Hire rate/after probationary)	-	12.50/13.00	13.50*
New Hires (during 3rd Year) (Hire rate/after probationary)	-	-	12.50/13.00
INSPECTOR	1st Year	2nd Year	3 rd Year
Russell Large	16.50	16.80	17.30
New Hires (during 1st Year) (Hire rate/after probationary)	12.50/13.00	13.30*	13.80*
New Hires (during 2nd Year) (Hire rate/after probationary)	-	12.50/13.00	13.50*
New Hires (during 3rd Year) (Hire rate/after probationary)	-	-	12.50/13.00
NOTE:
(*) Indicates wage after anniversary of hire or promotion date.
JOB GROUP #2
LABOR
1st Year	2nd Year	3rd Year
Page 32 of 33
File: USWA 2011-2014
09/19/2011
Thomas Tressler
16.50
16.80
17.30
Sydney Cochran	14.90	15.20	15.70
New Hires (during 1" Year) (Hire rate/after probationary')	10.00/10.50	10.80*	11.30*
New Hires (during 2nd Year) (Hire rate/after probationary)	-	10.00/10.50	11.00*
New Hires (during 3rd Year) (Hire rate/after.probationary)	-	-	10.00/10.50
Janitor	Is1 Year	2nd Year	3 rd Year
New Hires (Hire rate/after probationary')	10.00/10.25	10.00/10.25	10.00/10.25
NOTE:
(*) Indicates wage after anniversary of hire or promotion date.
File: USWA 2011-2014
09/19/2011
Page 33 of 33