Stipulation of Agreement made and entered this 1st day of July, 2008 by and between Local 2110, UAW and VVM Holding LLC.
1.	The collective bargaining agreement between the parties is hereby extended in all its terms and conditions for a further period of three years up to and including June 30, 2011, except as set forth below.
2.	Wages:
All employees in the bargaining unit who earn up to $50,000 per year and do not receive commission shall receive the following increases in weekly wage rate:
Effective 7/1/08 - Thirty dollars.
Effective 7/1/09 - Thirty dollars.
Effective 7/1/10 - Thirty dollars.
All employees in the bargaining unit who earn more than $50,000 per year, or who receive commission, shall receive the following increases in weekly wage rate:
Effective 7/1/08 - Twenty-five dollars.
Effective 7/1/09 - Twenty-five dollars.
Effective 7/1/10 - Twenty-five dollars.
BUF eligibility thresholds and rates shall be increased accordingly.
3.	Health benefits:
Effective 7/1/08, all current employees in the unit shall be covered by the UHC Premier plan with no contribution towards the premium for the term of the collective bargaining agreement.
All employees hired after 7/1/08 shall be covered by the UHC Classic plan with no contribution towards the premium for the term of the collective bargaining agreement, except that such employees shall be eligible for coverage by the Premier plan, at no contribution towards the premium, on the first enrollment period (January 1) after eighteen months of employment.
Employees on the Classic plan have the option to enroll in the Premier plan and pay the difference in rate between the plans.
Effective 7/1/08, all employees in the unit shall be covered by the MetLife dental Classic plan with no contribution.
4.	Affirmative Action:
The number of bargaining unit affirmative action coordinators will be reduced from two to one.
Effective 7/1/08, the Mary Wright fellowship program will be extended to three interns per year of three months each. The fellows will be paid $500 per week.
5.	Retirement plans:
The pension plans shall be amended to provide that employer contributions shall be made every four months, except that in the event of layoff, the employee shall be paid the employer contributions pro rata.
This agreement is subject to ratification by the membership.
Agreed: Local 2110, UAW, AFL-CIO
Village Voice Media