Agreement Between
THE BUREAU OF NATIONAL AFFAIRS, INC.
and
WASHINGTON-BALTIMORE NEWSPAPER GUILD
for the
EDITORIAL CORRESPONDENTS UNIT
(July 20, 2013 to July 22, 2016)
ii
Contents
PREAMBLE .......................... 1
ARTICLE I—Recognition ............. 1
ARTICLE II—Probationary, Part-time, and
Temporary Employees; Special Correspondents .................. 2
ARTICLE III—Union Security..........5
ARTICLE IV—Checkoff ............... 6
ARTICLE V—Union Rights ............ 7
ARTICLE VI—Information ............ 8
ARTICLE VII—Functions of Management..................... 11
ARTICLE VIII—No Discrimination..... 13
ARTICLE IX—Minimum Salaries ...... 13
ARTICLE X—Individual Bargaining.... 15
ARTICLE XI—Hours and Overtime .... 16
ARTICLE XII—Holidays ............. 17
ARTICLE XIII—ANNUAL LEAVE ........ 19
ARTICLE XIV—Paid Leave: Sick, Bereavement, Personal, Voting Time,
Parenting ...................... 23
iii
ARTICLE XV—Unpaid Leave: Leave of Absence .........................27
ARTICLE XVI—Health and Life Insurance...................30
ARTICLE XVII—Pensions ............37
ARTICLE XVIII—Job Security .......39
ARTICLE XIX—Transfers ............43
ARTICLE XX—Determination of Service ..45
ARTICLE XXI—Severance Pay ........46
ARTICLE XXII—Grievance and Arbitration Procedures ......47
ARTICLE XXIII—Freedom of Employment ..................... 52
ARTICLE XXIV—Outside Activities . 52
ARTICLE XXV - Military Service....53
ARTICLE XXVI—Court Duty ..........56
ARTICLE XXVII—Expenses ...........56
ARTICLE XXVIII—Tuition Aid........58
ARTICLE XXIX—Work and Family .....60
ARTICLE XXX—FMLA .................60
ARTICLE XXXI—Struck Work ........ 61
iv
ARTICLE XXXII—Maintenance of Present
Benefits .......................62
ARTICLE XXXIII—Duration and Renewal .62
APPENDIX A—Salary Chart ..........66
APPENDIX B—The Bureau of
National Affairs Inc., Employees’ Retirement Plan .................69
APPENDIX C—Side Letter on
Pilot Sabbatical Leave Program . 72
APPENDIX D—Sick Leave Bank ....... 74
APPENDIX E—Life Insurance Addendum .74
APPENDIX F—Health Care Coverage for
Domestic Partners .............. 74
Appendix G—Performance Bonus Pilot
Program ........................ 74
Appendix H—Annual Performance-Based
Bonus Plan ..................... 76
Appendix I—Health Care Chart ..... 78
v
vi
PREAMBLE
The Washington-Baltimore Newspaper Guild has been the certified bargaining representative of most of BNA’s non-supervisory employees for almost as long as BNA has been an independent company.
By setting forth in clear language ever-improving pay and benefits, by helping build an atmosphere of security and fair treatment, and by providing a procedure for the amicable resolution of many job-related problems, the collective bargaining agreements negotiated over the years between BNA and the Guild have contributed much to BNA’s impressive growth.
BNA and the Guild subscribe to the principle that those who benefit from the representation services provided by the Guild should contribute their fair share of support for the maintenance of those services.
ARTICLE I—Recognition
The Publisher recognizes the Guild as the representative of all editorial department employees working as staff correspondents in the United States outside the Washington, DC metropolitan area, excluding all temporary employees, special correspondents, confidential employees who have access to the
1
Publisher’s labor relations data, and supervisory personnel with authority to hire, promote, discharge, discipline, or otherwise effect changes in the status of employees, or effectively recommend such action.
ARTICLE II—Probationary, Part-time, and Temporary Employees; Special Correspondents
1.	Probationary: During the first six months of employment, an employee shall be deemed to be in probationary status provided he is so notified in writing at the time of hiring. Failure to give such advance notice will mean that a new employee is not probationary. At any time during this six-month period, probationary employees may be discharged by the Publisher without challenge by the Guild, except for discharge for reasons as defined in Article VIII, Sections 1 and 2.
2.	Part-time: Employees regularly employed on a part-time basis of one half or more of the regularly scheduled workweek shall receive, at a pro rata scale, all benefits of this Agreement, except as otherwise specified in this Agreement. The calculation for pro rata benefits shall be
2
adjusted at least quarterly to reflect any additional straight-time hours worked by part-time employees over and above their regularly scheduled hours.
Employees who have been continuously employed on both a part-time and a full-time basis shall receive all the benefits of this Agreement, with credit for combined years of continuous employment in both part-time and full-time employment. Severance pay for such employees shall be based on the employee’s weekly pay at the time of dismissal, except where the employee has been required by the Publisher to reduce his hours of regular employment within the 12 months immediately preceding discharge, in which case severance shall be based on the average number of hours worked by the employee prior to said reduction. Severance based on the average number of hours worked by the employee immediately prior to a reduction in hours required by the Publisher also shall be paid to an employee who voluntarily resigns within the 12 months immediately following such reduction in hours. All other benefits of this Agreement shall be based on such employee’s current classification.
Part-time employees shall not be employed where, in effect, such employment would
3
eliminate or displace a regular employee; provided, however, that in the event of a curtailment of work, a full-time employee may be asked to take part-time employment in lieu of being discharged. Further, upon written application of a full-time employee, the Publisher and the Guild may agree to a reduction to part-time status. Such request may be conditioned upon later return to full-time status. No part-time employee covered by this Agreement shall be reduced below one-half of the regularly scheduled workweek or be replaced by other part-time employees working less than one-half the regularly scheduled workweek, for the purpose of depriving him of the benefits of this Agreement.
3.	Temporary: Temporary employees are those hired for a specific task, not to exceed nine months, unless the period is extended by mutual agreement of the parties hereto. Temporary employees shall not be hired to do the regular work of an employee covered by the terms of this Agreement except in the case of a temporary employee hired to take the place of an employee on leave of absence as provided in Articles XV, Article XXX and Appendix C herein on annual leave, or on sick leave. In the case of maternity
4
leave or leave of absence, a temporary employee may be employed for the duration of the regular employee’s leave. A temporary employee who has become, or becomes, a regular employee without a break in service shall have as his or her date of employment his or her date as temporary.
4.	Special Correspondents: Special correspondents are those that work an irregular schedule averaging less than half the regular workweek of 37.5 hours. The Publisher reserves the right to utilize special correspondents for special assignments or where a staff correspondent is unavailable.
ARTICLE III—Union Security
Each present member and each employee who shall subsequently become a member of the Guild shall, as a condition of employment, maintain membership in the Guild in good standing.
Membership in the Guild may be terminated by written notice to the Guild by certified mail, return receipt requested, during the first fourteen (14) days of July 2014, 2015 and 2016. Termination of membership shall
5
become effective 30 days after the postmark date of the notice.
ARTICLE IV—Checkoff
1.	Upon individual authorization in writing, the Publisher will deduct from the employee’s pay and pay over to the Guild not later than the fifteenth day of each month membership dues levied by the Guild for the current month. Such membership dues shall be deducted from the employee’s earnings in accordance with a schedule furnished the Publisher by the Guild.
2.	The individual written authorization provided for herein shall be valid for the life of the Agreement unless revoked by written notice from the employee to the Publisher and the Guild, sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, during the first 14 days of 2014, 2015 or 2016. Otherwise, the authorization shall be automatically renewed and irrevocable.
3.	The Guild agrees that the final paragraph of the individual authorization for checkoff of dues shall read as follows: “I agree to indemnify and save the Publisher harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits, or other forms
6
of liability that may arise out of or by reason of action taken by the Publisher in compliance with the terms of this authorization.”
ARTICLE V—Union Rights
1.	Upon employment, a newly-hired employee shall be presented with a copy of this Agreement. The employee shall also be advised of the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the Unit Chairperson and stewards, noting that they may be consulted concerning the meaning and application of this Agreement.
2.	For the purpose of administering this Agreement, the Unit Chairperson shall name two stewards from the Unit and furnish the Publisher with their names. The Publisher shall compensate the Unit Chairperson and stewards for reasonable time spent investigating or handling complaints and grievances. The Publisher shall compensate either the Unit Chairperson or one of the stewards for time spent attending arbitration proceedings. Long-distance phone calls made by the Unit Chairperson or the stewards in connection with their duties
7
of administering this Agreement shall be paid for by the Publisher.
ARTICLE VI—Information
1.	The Publisher shall supply the Guild and the Unit Chairperson with an electronic list containing the following information for all employees in the unit as of the effective date of this contract: Name, address, classification and salary, BNA section, sex, and minority group. At each six-month interval thereafter, the Guild will be supplied with the names and home addresses of all employees in the bargaining unit.
2.	The Publisher shall inform the Guild and the Unit Chairperson at monthly intervals of (a) merit increases granted by name of the employee, individual amount, previous salary, resulting new salary, and effective date; (b) automatic increases paid by name of the employee, individual amount, resulting new salary, and effective date; (c) changes in classification by name of employee, any salary changes by reason thereof, and effective date; (d) name, date of hiring, classification, and salary of all new hires and transfers into the Unit; (e) resignations,
8
retirements, deaths of employees; (f) changes in the names of employees; (g) copies of new and revised job descriptions; (h) name, date of hire, salary and classification, and purpose of hire for all temporary employees on the BNA payroll; (i) transfers to positions excluded by the Publisher, including name of individual transferred and position transferred to; (j) newly-created excluded positions, including the name of the individual hired; (k) additional excluded positions, including the name of the person hired.
3.	The Publisher shall, upon written request of an employee, permit that employee, or that employee’s designee, to inspect personnel records maintained on that employee and kept at the Home Office (“M” file). The files may not be removed from the Personnel Office and must be reviewed in the presence of a Personnel staff member. The time for inspection shall coincide with the employee’s visit to the Home Office, or, in the event of review by the employee’s designee, at a time as soon as practical to the Personnel Office.
Employees shall have the right to submit a written statement in support of or in
9
opposition to any document in the file. Such statements will be made a part of the file identified as “employee statement” and will be considered at any time the file is reviewed.
Information contained in the files shall not be given to any party outside the company without permission of the employee(s) about whom the information is requested, subpoena or other legal process excepted. When such information is provided by the Personnel Department, with the employee’s permission, a copy of the information will be sent to the employee.
The Personnel “M” file will contain (but not be limited to) documents that are used or have been used or may be used to determine qualifications and fitness for employment, promotion, additional compensation, or termination or other disciplinary action. Excluded from the “M” file will be letters of reference; reference requests from other, prospective employers; records relating to the investigation of a possible criminal offense; medical documents and personal financial documents.
The Unit Chairperson and shop steward shall be permitted prompt access to such documents and records as are necessary for the purpose of conducting official unit business.
10
4.	Correspondents shall receive copies of all legally-required notices posted on BNA bulletin boards and all posted announcements that relate to their employment.
5.	Postings for positions in the home office are made available by the Publisher through the Internet. If this changes, the correspondents shall be provided via e-mail current postings for G-9, G-10 and G-11 positions within the Editorial Department.
ARTICLE VII—Functions of Management Except as limited by a specific term of this Agreement, it is expressly understood and agreed by the parties hereto that nothing contained herein alters or is intended to alter the exclusive right of the Publisher to manage the business, including but not limited to the following rights:
•	to manage and operate BNA’s facilities and locations;
•	to direct its employees;
•	to direct, plan and control all operations;
•	to determine the work assignments of employees covered by this Agreement and the number of employees needed to perform such work;
11
•	to determine the qualifications and responsibilities of employees;
•	to develop and implement performance evaluation programs that do not directly bear upon compensation;
•	to establish and/or change existing operational methods, materials, equipment and facilities;
•	to select and hire employees;
•	to determine and evaluate the competency of employees;
•	to schedule hours of work;
•	to promote, transfer, suspend, discipline and discharge employees; and,
•	to lay off employees.
With respect to workplace policies and other standards of performance and conduct, management will provide the Guild with advance notice of any new policy or material change to any existing policy or performance/ conduct standards. If the Guild wishes to bargain, the parties will bargain the policy/ standards with mutually agreed reasonable frequency for 60 days from the date the Guild requests bargaining with the goal of resolving all differences within the 60 day period.
This enumeration of management rights is not exhaustive and does not exclude other management rights not specified herein, nor
12
shall the non-exercise of any management rights constitute a waiver of the Publisher’s rights.
The parties agree that “a specific term of this Agreement,” (above) for purposes of administering this Article, includes past practice.
ARTICLE VIII—No Discrimination
1.	There shall be no discrimination against any employee because of membership or activity in the Guild.
2.	It is mutually agreed by the Publisher and the Guild to continue the present practice of no discrimination because of sex, sexual orientation, race, creed, color, national origin, age, marital or parental status, political belief, or physical or mental disability.
3.	All references to employees of this Agreement are intended to designate both sexes, and wherever the male gender is used it shall be construed to include both male and female employees.
ARTICLE IX—Minimum Salaries
Effective with the first pay period following ratification of the contract, the salary scale
13
shall be as shown in Appendix A to this agreement. Any employee whose salary falls below the new minimum of his/her salary range shall receive an adjustment to minimum on that date, with no change in anniversary date.
Effective the second pay period in July 2014, the salary scale shall be as shown in Appendix A to this agreement.
Effective the second pay period in July 2015, the salary scale shall be as shown in Appendix A to this agreement.
There shall be no pay cuts during the life of this Agreement except by agreement of the parties.
Salaries shall be paid biweekly.
All salary actions shall be calculated based on current weekly salary, with the resulting new salary rounded to the nearest cent.
On the date of ratification, all regular fulltime and regular part-time employees shall be assigned to a grade based on their city’s grade assignment and shall be placed in a band based on their annual salary.
On their anniversary dates, these employees shall receive their annual increases as set out in the appropriate appendices.
The Publisher shall continue to recognize the policy of merit increases in administration
14
of the salary scale for all employees. An employee who has progressed to the top of the salary range for his/her grade (that is, to Band D for his/her grade) shall be considered for a merit increase at least annually on his/ her anniversary date. A uniform employee appraisal form shall be used for merit review and shall be placed in the employee’s personnel file. Merit increases for employees in Bands A-C shall be 3% of current salary. Merit increases for employees in Band D shall be 2% of current salary.
When a salary within the same grade results in a new annual salary that falls within a higher band of the grade, the higher band into which the new salary falls shall become the employee’s band. If an employee moves from C1 to C2 they will receive an increase that reflects the percentage difference between C1 and C2.
Time spent in a position to which an employee has been temporarily transferred shall count as time spent in the employee’s regular position.
ARTICLE X—Individual Bargaining
The Publisher recognizes the right of individual employees to bargain for wages or conditions better than those provided herein and
15
the right of the Guild to intercede for such employees.
ARTICLE XI—Hours and Overtime
1.	The workweek shall be 37.5 hours for full-time employees, within five consecutive days.
2.	Correspondents who must work more than 37.5 hours in a calendar week shall be paid cash overtime at the rate of time and one-half for hours in excess of 37.5. The correspondent and the Chief of Correspondents may agree that compensatory time shall be given in lieu of cash overtime. If such an agreement is reached, compensatory time shall be scheduled to be taken within a four-week period following the week in which such overtime was worked, at a time mutually agreeable to the correspondent and the Publisher. Compensatory time accrues at time and a half rate. If agreement on compensatory time or cash overtime cannot be reached, the Publisher reserves the right to utilize freelance writers, as specified in Article II, Section 5.
3.	Accrual of cash overtime and accrual of compensatory time must be
16
authorized in advance by the Chief of Correspondents.
4.	Time off with pay on a holiday or on leave shall count as time worked for purposes of this Article.
5.	Correspondents required to travel to and from assignments out-of-town after the regular workday or on scheduled days off shall be given compensatory time off at the rate of time and one-half, provided that they have had the compensatory time and travel approved in advance. Advance approval shall not be required if not possible due to circumstances outside the employee’s control.
6.	Part-time employees who are required to work beyond 37.5 hours in a week are entitled to payment of cash overtime at the rate of time and one-half for any time worked in excess of 37.5 hours.
ARTICLE XII—Holidays
1.	The following holidays or the days legally observed as such shall be granted to all employees without loss of pay: New Year’s Day, Martin Luther King, Jr.’s Birthday, Presidential Inauguration Day, Washington’s Birthday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus
17
Day, Veterans’ Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas, and any additional national holidays recognized by an Act of Congress.
2.	An employee may be required to work on any holiday observed by the BNA Home Office but not generally observed as a holiday in his metropolitan area, in which case he will receive another day off with pay at a time mutually agreeable to the correspondent and the Publisher.
3.	Part-time employees shall receive their customary pay for any of the above holidays which are observed on their regularly scheduled workday and on which they do not work. The amount of pay shall be the rate per hour times the number of hours the employee regularly is scheduled to work on the day on which the holiday is observed.
4.	A full-time employee working at the request of the Publisher on one of the above-listed holidays which is also generally observed as a holiday in his metropolitan area shall be paid for that week at regular salary plus three-tenths of that amount.
5.	A part-time employee working at the request of the Publisher on one of the
18
above-listed holidays which is also generally observed as a holiday in his metropolitan area shall be paid at the appropriate hourly rate for the number of hours worked on such holidays, plus equal amount.
6.	When the Publisher desires any employee to work on one of the above-listed holidays, the Publisher shall make the request to the employee not less than three days in advance of the holiday, except in cases of emergency. No employee shall be required to work on a listed holiday, however, in the absence of a three-day notice.
7.	The Publisher shall follow the leave policy of the Federal Government applicable to employees in the Washington, DC area with respect to holidays which occur on Saturday or Sunday.
ARTICLE XIII—ANNUAL LEAVE
1. Full-time employees shall earn annual leave with pay on the basis of the following schedule of continuous service with the Publisher at the rate of:
1. a) Three weeks per year (4.33 hours per pay period) during the first five years of service;
19
1.	b) Four weeks per year (5.77 hours per pay period) during the sixth year through fourteenth year of service.
1.	c) Five weeks per year (7.22 hours per pay period) during the fifteenth year of service and thereafter.
2.	Annual leave may not be taken until credited. Annual leave shall be credited biweekly, as earned.
3.	As of December 31 of each year, accumulated annual leave may not exceed two weeks plus the number of weeks being earned annually (according to the schedule in Paragraph 1 above) as of December 31, as shown below:
20
Leave Being Earned Annually as of December 31
			Leave Being Earned Annually As of December 31
	5 weeks	4 weeks	3 weeks
Maximum carryover	7	6	5
3.	a) Annual leave balances as of December 31 that are in excess of the maximum described above shall be credited to the home office Guild Sick Leave Bank.
4.	An employee shall have the right, subject to the requirements of the business, to select annual leave periods in accordance with the employee’s length of service with the Publisher, the senior employee in each area exercising first choice; provided, however, that a senior employee may not exercise seniority rights that would require a junior employee to cancel an approved annual leave during the two weeks before a holiday. The employee shall have the right to take the full amount of accrued
21
annual leave in consecutive weeks if desired, provided this does not (a) interfere with the operation of the business, or (b) deprive another employee of the opportunity to have a two-week annual leave in the period between June 1 and September 15. Two consecutive weeks of annual leave are guaranteed each employee during the period June 1 through September 15 provided the employee has accrued such leave and has requested the leave period two months in advance.
5.	Annual leave is to be scheduled at least one day in advance, except in emergencies. The supervisor may refuse annual leave requested in advance only if business requirements necessitate it, and every possible consideration shall be given to such requests. Annual leave which is postponed at the Publisher’s request may be carried over into the succeeding year, notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3 above.
6.	Should a holiday be observed on a regular working day during an employee’s annual leave, the day shall be added to the length of the annual leave.
22
7.	An employee who has completed the initial six-month probationary period and who resigns or who is discharged shall be paid for any annual leave earned but not taken, provided that in cases of resignation, at least two weeks advance notice of the date of resignation is given in writing to the Publisher.
8.	In the event of an employee’s death, annual leave earned but not taken will be paid to the employee’s estate.
9.	nnual leave taken under the provisions of this Article shall not constitute a break in continuity of service and shall be counted as time worked in the computation of all benefits provided in this Agreement, with the exception of the computation of eligibility for FMLA coverage.
ARTICLE XIV—Paid Leave: Sick, Bereavement, Personal, Voting Time, Parenting
1.	Sick leave shall be credited to full-time employees on the basis of one day per four weeks (one accounting period) of service. Part-time employees shall be credited with sick leave on a pro-rata basis. Sick leave may be accumulated. In
23
questionable cases, the Publisher may require presentation of a doctor’s certificate of illness for the allowance of sick leave credit.
2.	Sick leave accumulated under the company policy in effect prior to the date of this Agreement shall be credited to each employee, as of the effective date of this Agreement.
3.	Sick leave may be used for medical and dental appointments, provided the Publisher is given three days’ notice of such appointments. When an appointment is necessitated by an emergency, the three-day notice requirement shall be waived.
4.	Female employees, regardless of seniority, may at any time use accumulated sick leave with pay for periods of disability caused by pregnancy, childbirth, and related conditions.
5.	Employees may use their sick leave to care for their sick children and to care for their step-children who live with them, including adult children who are incapable of self-care because of a mental or physical disability at the time the leave commences.
24
6.	Employees may take up to a total of 15 days paid parenting leave for parenting purposes within the first 90 days prior to and/or following the expected birth or adoption of their child. This section also applies to any female employee whose cohabitating life partner gives birth.
7.	In any given year period, an employee may take up to ten (10) fifteen (15) working days of accumulated leave upon disability of a spouse, parent, or one acting as a parent or co-habitating life-partner requiring homecare, upon presentation of a physicians’ statement attesting to such disability requiring homecare by the employee.
8.	An employee who has exhausted accumulated sick leave may, at his option, be advanced sick leave in an amount equal to the number of days of annual leave he has earned and not taken at that time. This additional sick leave shall not be deducted from his annual leave unless his employment is terminated before he has re-earned the advanced sick leave. Advanced sick leave shall not be granted for paternity or adoption.
9.	Bereavement leave with pay, not to exceed 37.5 hours, shall be granted
25
in the event of death of spouse, child, step-child, parent, step-parent, parent-in-law, one acting as a parent, or cohabitating life-partner; leave of up to 22.5 hours shall be granted in the event of death of grandparent, brother or sister. An additional 7.5 hours of bereavement leave shall be granted to employees required to travel outside the continental United States to attend the funeral of one of the aforementioned parties.
10.	In addition, each employee shall be allowed up to three days of personal leave, all with pay, at any time during each calendar year, scheduling subject to the approval of the Publisher. Such leave shall not be cumulative, shall not be charged against sick leave, and shall not be considered earned. New employees shall be credited with paid personal leave during the calendar year in which they are hired according to the following schedule: Hired before May 1-- three days; hired on or after May 1 and before September 1--two days; and hired on or after September 1 and before December 1—one day.
11.	Any employee registered to vote who ordinarily is required to work on election
26
day shall receive the necessary time off with pay up to two hours to enable him to vote in his jurisdiction.
12.	Leaves taken under the provisions of this Article shall not constitute breaks in continuity of service and shall be counted as time worked in the computation of all benefits provided in this Agreement, with the exception of the computation of eligibility for FMLA coverage.
ARTICLE XV—Unpaid Leave: Leave of Absence
1.	When good cause exists, an employee who has completed one year of service, on request, shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for a period of up to six months. An employee granted such leave shall not be eligible for another for twenty-four months from his return from leave, unless otherwise provided by law. Circumstances constituting good cause for such leave of absence include, but in no way are limited to, the following: maternity, paternity, adoption, personal illness, illness in the family, or death in the family. In special circumstances, all such unpaid leave may be extended by mutual agreement.
27
2.	Leave for Guild business shall be granted to cover (a) attendance by elected delegates at Guild or Communications Workers of America conventions or, in the case of an elected officer of the Guild, attendance at such regular meetings as may be required, provided, however, that not more than one member of the Unit shall avail himself of leaves of absence on Guild business in any one year during the life of this Agreement, and such absences shall be limited to one week at a time; and (b) service in an elected or appointed position in the Guild or an affiliate thereof, or any organization with which the Guild has formal affiliation, such as the AFL-CIO or the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. Leave under subparagraph (a) must be requested five (5) days in advance and under subparagraph (b) requested at least thirty (30) days in advance.
3.	A leave of absence shall be granted to any employee who requests such leave to become a candidate for elective public office or to serve in an elective public office.
28
4.	Leaves taken under the provisions of this Article shall not constitute breaks in continuity of service and shall be counted as time worked in computing all benefits provided for by this Agreement except that (a) holiday pay shall not be granted for holidays falling during such leave periods, and (b) Except for unpaid leave taken for parenting in unpaid leaves of more than 30 days’ duration, the days in excess of the first 30 days shall not be counted as time worked in computing leave and length of service increases except as required by law or in Article XXV of this Agreement.
5.	During all leaves provided under Articles XIV, XV and XXX of this Agreement, the employer shall maintain the employer’s portion of premiums on insurance; employees will be invoiced for their portion.
6.	Upon the conclusion of a leave of absence without pay of no more than six months, the Publisher shall return the employees to their former positions, or in the absence of same, to similar positions. The employee’s position shall not be abolished while an employee is on such leave of absence without prior
29
notice to and consultation with the Unit Chairperson. Unless otherwise provided under law, employees on unpaid leave for more than six months who wish to return to work and are able to do so shall not be guaranteed a position, but may bid on available jobs.
7.	In the event that an employee is discharged during the term of a leave of absence or at the conclusion thereof, the employee shall receive severance pay as provided in Article XXI. The period of the leave of absence shall not be included in the computation of severance pay.
ARTICLE XVI—Health and Life Insurance
A.	For Active Employees
1.	Upon completion of one month’s employment, full-time and eligible part-time employees of the Publisher shall be eligible to participate in the Life, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, Health and Hospitalization, Dental, Vision Care, Prescription Drug and Long Term Disability Insurance ( “Benefits Programs”) provided by the Publisher, in accordance with the terms of such programs as they may from time to
30
time be modified by the Publisher or insurance carriers. Administration of the Benefits Programs, including but not limited to the selection of plans, administrators, providers and insurers, shall reside solely in the Publisher’s discretion. The Guild acknowledges this includes, the right to change the types of plans offered and change plan design, but not to reduce benefits. With the exception of a reduction in benefits, the Publisher’s rights to administer Benefit Programs shall not be subject to arbitration or bargaining with the Guild. While the Publisher has the discretion to determine the financial components of Benefits Programs, the Publisher does not have the discretion to increase employee premiums or to increase the other employee costs listed on Appendix I. The Publisher may decrease such costs with advance notice to the Guild.
2.	Full-time and eligible part-time employees shall be eligible to participate in the Life, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, and Long Term Disability Insurance at no cost to the employee.
31
3.	Effective with the third month’s supply of a maintenance medication dispensed at a retail pharmacy, the co-payment shall double.
4.	Effective May 31, 2010, no new enrollees have been allowed in the Kaiser plan. Effective January 1, 2011, employees enrolled in the Kaiser plan shall pay ten percent of the premium charged to the publisher. Effective December 31, 2014, participation in the Kaiser Plan will be eliminated.
B.	For Retirees
1.	a) Except for Medicare-eligible employees, when employees retire, they shall be eligible to participate in the health benefits that are provided to employees, in accordance with the term of such programs as they may from time to time be modified by the Publisher or insurance carriers.
1.	b) Coverage under BNA health benefit plans will be discontinued for Medicare eligible retirees. In lieu of coverage under BNA, the Publisher will provide tax-free monetary contributions to retirees to buy supplemental Medicare coverage for themselves, their spouses, and/or
32
eligible dependents. Contribution amounts will be $3000 annually for retirees and $2400 annually for retirees’ spouses and/or dependents. The services of an external vendor will be provided free of charge to assist retirees in selecting coverage. BNA will pay the monetary contributions directly to the vendor for the retiree’s use and that of their spouse/depen-dents. Any unused balance at the end of the year can be rolled over. These changes will become effective as soon as administratively possible.
2.	The terms and conditions for retiree participation in the health benefits that are provided to employees shall be as follows:
2.	a) For those who retire under the Rule of 70 option of the retirement plan, the retiree shall pay the full premium for himself and all covered dependents until the retiree reaches age 55. Thereafter, BNA shall pay a percentage of the premium for the retiree’s coverage, calculated as (retiree’s age at retirement + retiree’s years of service at retirement + 5), to the maximum of 95 percent, with the retiree
33
paying a balance until the retiree is enrolled for Medicare. Also thereafter, BNA shall pay a percentage of the premium for the coverage of dependents, calculated as (retiree’s age at retirement + retiree’s years of service at retirement + 5) to a maximum of 90 percent, with the retiree paying the balance.
2. b) For those who retire under the Regular Early (55/15) option or the Special Early (Rule of 85) option of the retirement plan, BNA shall pay a percentage of the premium for the retiree’s coverage, calculated as (retiree’s age at retirement + retiree’s years of service at retirement + 5) to a maximum of 95%, with the retiree paying the balance until the retiree is enrolled for Medicare. Also thereafter, BNA shall pay a percentage of the premium for the coverage of covered dependents, calculated as (retiree’s age at retirement + retiree’s years of service at retirement + 5) to a maximum of 90 percent, with the retiree paying the balance.
2. c) BNA shall pay a percentage of the premium for the coverage of covered
34
dependents, calculated as (retiree’s age at retirement + retiree’s years of service at retirement + 5) to a maximum of 90 percent, with the retiree paying the balance.
2. d) Those who retire under the Normal/ Delayed option of the retirement plan with less than 10 years of service shall not be eligible for health benefits in retirement. Employees hired after September 1, 2010, are not eligible for retiree health benefits.
2. e) A retiree’s premium contribution for himself will not be increased by more than 30 percent in any year.
2. f) A retiree’s premium contribution for his covered dependants will not be increased more than 30 percent in any year.
2. g) Deductibles and co-payments applicable to active employees and their dependents will continue to be applicable to retirees and their dependents. Copayments maximums will be calculated based on average earnings for pension purposes, as computed at the time an employee retires. Such average earnings will be increased by five percent each year.
35
2. h) Retirees and dependents who are eligible for Medicare must enroll for Medicare in order to receive the benefits set out in 1. above.
2. i) Employees may elect, at their option, to decline coverage under the Publisher’s Health and Hospitalization, Vision and Prescription Drug insurance and instead enroll in one of the health maintenance organizations offered. The Publisher will pay the premium for health maintenance organization coverage, but this payment shall not exceed the amount the Publisher would pay for health insurance coverage the employee would be entitled to under the Publisher’s health insurance plan.
2. j) The Publisher shall continue the joint committee established to study health care benefits. The committee shall consist of four members from the Guild, appointed by the Unit Chairperson, and four members from management. All necessary costs for the committee shall be paid by the Publisher.
36
2. k) The Employee Assistance Program agreed upon by the Publisher and the Guild is incorporated within this Agreement by this reference and appears in Appendix H.
2. l) In the event that any government-mandated health insurance program is enacted to provide health, medical, hospitalization, mental health, dental, vision care, prescription drug, or other benefits similar in nature or purpose to those covered by this Article, The BNA-Guild Joint Health Care Committee will meet for the purpose of reviewing the impact of such legislation on the provision of health and welfare benefits, And will agree on suggested recommendations to management as to how savings to the Publisher, if any, would be used.
ARTICLE XVII—Pensions
1.	The Publisher shall continue in effect the BNA Employee’s Retirement Plan, as amended to comply with the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, and shall provide the benefits set forth in Appendix B.
37
2.	Any changes agreed to in the pension benefits covering the Home Office employees, negotiated by the Guild, will be immediately passed through to the benefit of employees covered by this Agreement.
3.	An employee who is no more than 12 months from the date of retirement eligibility under the Normal Retirement provisions or the Special Early Rule (Rule of 85) provisions of the BNA Employees’ Retirement Plan may elect to phase into retirement. Upon three months written notice, of a firm retirement date, an employee may reduce his full time schedule to a part time schedule of no fewer than twenty hours per week. The part time schedule may begin no earlier than one year prior to the date the employee has chosen for retirement. The written notice must include the date the employee has elected to retire, whether that date is based on the Normal or the Special Early provision, the date the employee would like the part time schedule to begin, and the number of hours per week the employee elects to work under the part time schedule. The employees’ salary and benefits will be
38
prorated according to the various provisions of this Agreement.
4.	Effective September 1, 2010, all eligible newly hired employees may participate in a BNA company match 401 (k) Plan. Employees hired after September 1, 2010, will not be eligible to participate in the BNA Employees’ Retirement Plan. The Publisher will contribute 1.0% of base salary and shall match the $.50 per each dollar contributed by the employee up to 8.5% of base salary (4.25%).
ARTICLE XVIII—Job Security
1.	There shall be no dismissals as a result of putting this Agreement into effect.
2.	There shall be no discharge except for just and sufficient cause and after definite written warning to the employee and the Unit Chairperson within the preceding 12 months. Whenever a written warning is issued to an employee, a copy of such notice shall be sent to the Unit Chairperson. Warnings or disciplinary letters in an employee’s personnel file that are more than one year old on the date a file is reviewed for any reason shall be removed from the file. However, they will be retained as part of a
39
separate record for three years from the date issued in the event they are needed to meet the just and sufficient cause standard required by Sections 3 and 4 of this Article.
3.	Dismissals to reduce the force shall require at least two months advance notice to the employee by certified mail-return receipt requested. Such notice shall be preceded or followed up by a telephone call to the affected employee and the Unit Chairperson. The Unit Chairperson shall subsequently receive a letter confirming the notification.
Other dismissals for just and sufficient cause shall require at least two weeks’ written notice upon both the Unit Chairperson and the employee. The employee’s notice shall be sent by certified mail, return-receipt requested and preceded or followed up by a telephone call to the affected employee and the Unit Chairperson. The Unit Chairperson shall subsequently receive a letter confirming the notification. Such written notice shall state the reason for the dismissal and recite the prior written warning(s) issued to the employee and the failure of the employee to correct his or her behavior. Advance notice is waived
40
in cases of discharge for gross misconduct. The company shall justify such discharge by proof beyond a reasonable doubt. Gross misconduct will include but not be limited to plagiarism, workplace violence, theft, workplace possession of illegal drugs or guns, or unauthorized disclosure of the Publisher’s confidential or trade secret information.
4.	Disciplinary suspensions shall be for just and sufficient cause.
5.	In the event of a reduction-in-force, the Unit Chairperson shall be advised of the need for dismissals when such need is determined, and shall be advised of the job titles, number of employees, and reasons upon which the Publisher relies to establish the necessity for such dismissals.
The Publisher shall accept voluntary resignations from employees affected by a reduction in force. Such employees shall be paid the amount of severance pay provided by Article XXI. If an insufficient number of voluntary resignations is offered, the Publisher shall attempt to place affected employees in available jobs. Remaining dismissals shall be made in inverse order of seniority, where competence and ability are relatively equal. No employee shall be required to accept a
41
position offered by the Publisher under this section.
6.	Employees who have completed their probationary period and who are terminated pursuant to Section 5 above shall have the right to be placed on a rehiring list for a period not to exceed two years. The Publisher shall offer all vacancies to persons on the list who previously performed satisfactorily in the order of length of service with the Company. If the vacancy occurs in an area other than where the employee resides, any unused severance pay shall be applied to the actual and reasonable costs after applying the reimbursement under Article XIX, Sec. 3 of transporting the employee, his family, and his household goods.
7.	The Publisher shall provide adequate training on the use of any new or modified equipment that affects the correspondents’ jobs.
8.	Before an employee is contacted by management personnel regarding discussions that might result in suspension or discharge discipline, he shall be advised of his right to have a union representative available for such discussions. Should such discussions be
42
by telephone, a conference call shall be arranged.
9.	Upon request, BNA will provide to terminated employees information on options available under the pension plan, regular stock purchase plan, deferred stock purchase plan, and health and life insurance plans.
10.	Employees who are terminated pursuant to paragraph 5 above and who exercise their rights under COBRA to continue their coverage under the BNA group health program following termination may choose to have their monthly premiums waived, at the rate of one month for each year of continuous employment or part thereof, up to a maximum of 6 months or until they are no longer eligible to continue coverage under COBRA, whichever comes first.
ARTICLE XIX—Transfers
1. a) When a need is determined for the transfer of an employee to work in another city, whether in the same enterprise or in other enterprise conducted by the Publisher, the Publisher shall provide written notice to the unit chair and the employee stating
43
the business reason(s) for such a move. Upon request, the Publisher shall meet with the unit chair on the proposed transfer. The employee shall have 30 days to accept the transfer. An employee accepting transfer shall be provided an additional 120 days before the transfer goes into effect. Employees who transfer at the direction of the Publisher shall be reimbursed for the reasonable costs of transporting the employee, his family, and his household goods. There shall be no reduction in salary or impairment of other benefits as a result of such transfer.
1.	b) An employee who declines a proposed transfer shall receive severance pay at the rate of one week’s pay for each three months of continuous employment, or part thereof, up to a maximum of 56 weeks. Such an employee shall be subject to the terms of Article XVIII, section 6, 9, and 10.
2.	No employee shall be required to accept a transfer or promotion that would remove him from the Guild bargaining unit or make him ineligible to hold Guild membership. No employee shall in any
44
way be penalized for refusing to accept a promotion or transfer.
3.	Employees who voluntarily transfer to other bargaining unit positions, or to positions in the home office bargaining unit, shall have their moving expenses of up to $5,000 reimbursed, upon presentation of appropriate receipts.
ARTICLE XX—Determination of Service
1.	An individual whose employment with the Publisher is terminated after successful completion of the initial probationary period and who is subsequently re-employed by the Publisher shall, one year after re-employment, be credited with his total service with the Publisher for purposes of annual leave, promotion, job tenure, and severance pay (provided that severance was not granted at the prior termination). The crediting of past service following re-employment will be granted only once, and will not be granted in cases of re-employment following disciplinary discharge.
2.	Notwithstanding Section 1 above, an employee terminated under Article XVIII, placed on a rehire list, and subsequently rehired from that list, shall immediately
45
upon re-employment be credited with his total service with the Publisher for purposes of annual leave, promotion, job tenure, salary, and severance pay (However, if severance pay is subsequently due, the prior service which has already been compensated with severance shall be deducted for purposes of the subsequent severance calculation). Such employee shall also immediately be recredited with any accumulated sick leave remaining in his leave account upon his initial termination.
ARTICLE XXI—Severance Pay
1.	Upon dismissal from employment due to a reduction-in-force, as described in Article XVIII, Section 5, an employee of the Publisher shall receive severance pay at the rate of one week’s pay for each three months of continuous employment, or part thereof, up to a maximum of 56 weeks. Severance pay shall be based on the highest rate of pay received for his regular workweek by the employee preceding his termination of employment.
2.	Upon dismissal from employment for any reason, subject to the provisions of
46
Section 3 of this Article, an employee of the Publisher shall receive severance pay at the rate of one week’s pay for each six months of continuous employment or part thereof, with a minimum of 6 weeks and up to a maximum of 56 weeks. Severance pay shall be based on the highest rate of pay received for his regular workweek by the employee preceding his termination of employment.
3.	Employees discharged for gross misconduct shall not be entitled to receive severance pay.
4.	When an employee resigns with prior approval of the Publisher to avoid dismissal, for reasons other than gross misconduct, he shall receive severance pay in accordance with Section 2 above.
ARTICLE XXII—Grievance and Arbitration Procedures
1.	Any dispute arising from the interpretation or application of this Agreement shall be taken up through the following grievance procedure:
Step I: The matter shall be discussed by the supervisor and the shop steward and/or the Unit Chairperson at a mutually convenient time, within 15 working
47
days of the discovery by the grievant of the alleged grievance.
Step II: If not adjusted to the satisfaction of the parties, the shop steward or Unit Chairperson shall reduce the grievance to writing, within 10 working days of the completion of Step I above, and submit the grievance, along with a request for a grievance meeting, to the Publisher or his authorized agent. The Publisher shall answer the grievance, in writing, within 10 working days of the Step II meeting with the Guild.
Step III: If still not adjusted to the satisfaction of the parties, the shop steward or Unit Chairperson shall, within 10 working days of the Publisher’s response in Step II above, inform the Publisher or his authorized agent that a meeting is requested. The Publisher will furnish the shop steward or Unit Chairperson with a written response to the grievance within 10 working days of the Step III meeting.
2.	At the Unit’s option, the Guild may forgo use of either or both Step I and Step II and proceed with Step III. In such event, the Guild shall give the Publisher written notice of its desire to proceed with
48
Step III within 21 working days of the discovery of the alleged grievance (if the Guild forgoes both Step I and Step II) or within 15 working days of the completion of Step I (if the Guild forgoes Step II only).
3.	The Publisher or his authorized agent agrees to meet with the Unit Chairperson or shop steward within 10 working days after receipt of notice of such meeting. All efforts shall be made for prompt adjustment of any matter brought up under the grievance procedure.
4.	By mutual agreement, time limits in each step of the above procedure may be extended.
5.	Except in a grievance over an oral warning, which will not be subject to arbitration, if the above steps do not result in resolution and the Guild decides to pursue arbitration, the Guild shall, within 20 working days of receipt of the Publisher’s written statement of its final position on the Grievance (Step III), notify the Labor Relations office of the Publisher of its intent to invoke arbitration to be conducted by an arbitrator selected by agreement of the parties. If no agreement is reached on the selection
49
of an arbitrator either party may request the American Arbitration Association to initiate its procedures for assisting the parties in the prompt selection of an arbitrator.
Upon submission of any matter to arbitration under this Article, the Publisher and the Guild shall endeavor to utilize all possible means to expedite the hearing and the rendering of the arbitrator’s opinion and award, including, upon mutual agreement of the Publisher and the Guild at the close of the hearing, the waiver of briefs and a joint request that the arbitrator render an oral opinion and award not later than the close of the next business day. Absent mutual agreement for an expedited arbitral decision, the arbitrator shall, within 30 days following the submission of briefs, issue a written opinion and award. In either case, the arbitrator’s decision shall be final and binding on both parties; and the arbitrator’s fee shall be shared equally by the parties.
6.	The Publisher agrees to consult at appropriate times as outlined above with the Guild regarding differences arising out of working conditions or out of matters
50
not covered by company policy and not covered by the terms of this Agreement.
7.	The intent and purpose of this paragraph is to preserve and promote harmonious relationships and cooperation among the Publisher, the Guild, and the employees.
In order to further the cooperative efforts of the Publisher and the Guild, at least one meeting, and telephone conferences as needed, will be held, at mutually agreed-upon dates, in each year. Said meetings shall be set aside for the purpose of members of Management and the Guild to have the opportunity to discuss and review areas of general concern (excluding specific grievances) as might be beneficial to both parties.
Representatives of the parties will be as follows:
Publisher’s representatives: The Chief of Correspondents, a representative from Human Resources, and any other representatives the Publisher deems necessary.
Guild Representatives: Two members appointed by the Unit Chairperson and any others that the Guild deems necessary. In each case, the number of Publisher and Guild representatives shall be equal.
In order to properly prepare for such meeting and to achieve the most success, one
51
week prior to each meeting, the respective Publisher and Guild representatives will exchange an agenda indicating items they wish to discuss and the names of the representatives who will be present (if other than those in the positions or offices specified above).
ARTICLE XXIII—Freedom of Employment
The Publisher agrees not to have or enter into any agreement with any other employer binding such other employer not to offer or give employment to employees of the Publisher.
ARTICLE XXIV—Outside Activities
Employees have the right to engage in writing for other publications or to engage in other outside activities, provided that (a) such employment does not interfere with performance of the employee’s work for the Publisher or jeopardize the Publisher’s position, (b) such other publications do not directly compete with the Publisher, and (c) no employee shall exploit his employment status with the Publisher in connection with such outside writing or activities.
52
Employees should notify the Chief of Correspondents if they have any reason to believe their activities may violate this Article.
ARTICLE XXV - Military Service
1.	Any employee, other than a temporary employee, within the meaning of the laws of the United States providing for selective or universal military training and service in the Armed Forces of the U.S. who is required to enter upon extended active duty in the military service of the United States, or who volunteers for such service, shall be considered an employee on leave of absence and, on application following discharge from or relief from active duty in such military service, shall be returned to his former position with the Publisher, or to a comparable position, in accordance with the terms of prevailing law.
2.	Time spent in military service shall be considered to be time worked with the Publisher in computing severance pay, length of service compensation, length of annual leave, and other benefits which depend upon continuous service with the Publisher.
53
3.	Any employee who has completed his probationary period upon entering extended active duty in military service shall receive two weeks’ pay plus all accrued annual leave pay in cash.
4.	Life insurance now provided for an employee by the Publisher will be continued during the employee’s period of military service, so long as this is permitted by the insurance carrier under existing contracts and the cost of such insurance is not excessive. The Publisher will notify the Unit Chairperson not less than 60 days in advance of any change.
5.	If an employee, on his return from military service, is found to be physically incapacitated to the extent that he is unable to resume his former employment, the Publisher will attempt to place him in other employment and will consult with the Unit thereon.
6.	The salary of an employee at the time the employee goes on military leave will be increased by the amount of any general increase negotiated by the Publisher and the Guild during the employee’s absence.
7.	The foregoing provisions of this Article shall govern, to the extent applicable, in
54
the case of an employee who has completed his probationary period who volunteers for service in any organization in which service is accepted by selective service as in lieu of military service.
8.	Leaves of absence, with payment of the difference between regular wages or salary in the Publisher’s employ and pay and allowances paid by the U.S., shall be granted to employees who have completed their probationary period for service with the Reserve components of the Armed Forces, including the National Guard, for customary training periods not in excess of 30 days in any calendar year. Reservists called to active duty during a civil emergency shall be compensated in like manner. Such compensation for differential earnings shall not apply (a) to active military duty of indefinite duration for reservists called up as units or as individuals by the military authorities, or (b) to an individual called to active duty or active duty for training for 30 or more days by reason of his failure to fulfill inactive duty reserve training required by law.
55
ARTICLE XXVI—Court Duty
A full-time employee who is required to serve on jury duty or who is required by subpoena to serve as a witness in a court of law shall be paid his regular BNA salary while so serving. An employee absent under this Article shall be expected to spend as much time within regular working hours for the Publisher as is not required for jury or witness duty.
Absence under this Article shall not be charged against annual leave.
The provisions of this Article shall apply to regular part-time employees where the period of court service conflicts with scheduled working time.
This Article shall not apply to court proceedings in which the employee is an interested party.
ARTICLE XXVII—Expenses
1.	The Publisher shall provide or reimburse for the following: office supplies; phone calls necessary for the performance of the job; a computer (including repair and maintenance) and a printer; photocopying; a facsimile machine; postage; telephone answering device; automobile mileage under the prevailing IRS rate, parking fees or public transportation
56
fares while on assignment; transportation, lodging, meals, and sundries while on assignment in a city other than the home city; other expenses as authorized in advance by the Chief of Correspondents.
The Publisher will reimburse correspondents who are not provided offices by the Publisher with $320 per month, effective August 1, 2013. This amount will be increased to $330 per month on August 1, 2014 and increased to $340 per month on August 1, 2015.
2.	The Publisher shall pay or reimburse, upon request, the actual cost of renting or purchasing any of the following items of office furniture: one desk, one chair, one filing cabinet, one bookcase. The Publisher shall also pay for or reimburse upon request the actual cost of renting or purchasing other items of appropriate office furniture such as an ergonomic chair, computer table, printer table and a desk lamp, as authorized in advance by the Chief of Correspondents. The total payment or reimbursement shall not exceed $200 per month during the first 12 months for newly hired correspondents and $100 per month thereafter.
57
3.	The Publisher shall pay the employment agency fee of a new hire when the Publisher has requested the agency to fill the job opening.
4.	A meal allowance of $10.00 will be paid to an employee required to work (a) at least two hours overtime on a regularly scheduled work day, or (b) at least four hours overtime on a regularly scheduled day off.
5.	The Publisher will reimburse correspondents for subscriptions to one of their home city newspapers and any other news publications that are necessary to provide news coverage and are approved by the Chief of Correspondents.
6.	Full-time employees who have an office outside their homes are eligible for a biweekly transportation subsidy of $75.
ARTICLE XXVIII—Tuition Aid
The Publisher agrees to continue in effect the present tuition aid plan, which was established for the purpose of giving financial assistance to eligible BNA employees who wish to pursue types of study that will enable them to do their jobs better or assist them in preparation for advancement at BNA.
58
Permanent full-time employees with six months service and permanent part-time employees with the equivalent of six months full time service are eligible for approved courses of study.
Compensation for as many as three semesters or four quarters a year is permitted under the plan. One half of the amount allowed is to be paid at the time of registration, the remainder upon the successful completion of the course. The Publisher will pay for the full cost of tuition, related fees (including lab fees), and required books up to a maximum of $2,400 per semester or quarter for the duration of this contract. Approved courses of study are those that are successfully completed at a college, university, or community college, or at another institution as recognized by management, that are related to the work of BNA and taken during non-working hours.
Applications should be submitted to the Human Resources in writing. Supervisors and department heads shall be consulted with regard to eligibility of employees and subjects of study. Normally, the supervisor or department head should be consulted by those employees intending to pursue study.
59
ARTICLE XXIX—Work and Family
1.	The Publisher agrees to continue its salary reduction plan for purposes of Dependent Care Assistance in accordance with Section 129 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 as amended by the Economic Recovery Act of 1981 for the benefit of eligible employees.
2.	The Publisher will reimburse up to $4,000 of public or private agency fees, court costs, or legal fees associated with the adoption of a minor child.
ARTICLE XXX—FMLA
1.	Unless modified by the terms of this Agreement, the provisions of FMLA and state and local provisions, if applicable, shall govern.
2.	The “12-month period” provided in FMLA and time periods provided in state and local provisions are based on normal calendar years.
3.	Any paid leave provided by the Company that the employee elects to use for family or medical leave shall count against the time allowable under FMLA.
4.	FMLA leave will run concurrently with any BNA Leave of Absence.
For purposes of this provision:
60
4. a) In addition to “family members” as defined by FMLA, the Publisher will extend FMLA rights to a person with whom the employee has shared mutual residence in the last year and with whom the employee maintains a committed relationship.
4. b) Covered leave for a new child shall extend to foster care placement, in addition to the parenting coverage of the FMLA.
All paid leave that is applicable to the reasons of the family and medical leave must be used before any unpaid portion of FMLA leave will begin. All such paid leave counts against the time allowable under FMLA.
ARTICLE XXXI—Struck Work
Employees shall not be required to handle struck work in the sense of performing work for another publisher against whom the Guild is on strike. “Struck work” shall not be deemed to cover (a) informational material supplied for publication by the Publisher by an employer against whom the Guild or any other union is on strike, or (b) publications or services sold to an employer, as a client of the Publisher, whether or not the Guild or any
61
other union is on strike against such employer.
ARTICLE XXXII—Maintenance of Present Benefits
No employee shall lose any rights or privileges enjoyed pursuant to company policy or general company practice prior to the signing of this Agreement. Such rights and privileges shall remain in full force and effect for the duration of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXXIII—Duration and Renewal
1.	This Agreement shall commence on July 20, 2013 and expire on July 22, 2016.
2.	This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Publisher and the Guild. The Publisher agrees to make acceptance of this Agreement by its successor a condition of any sale, assignment, or other transfer of the Publisher’s business.
3.	At any time within sixty days immediately prior to the termination of this Agreement, the Publisher or the Guild may initiate negotiations for a new Agreement to take effect at the expiration of the present Agreement. The terms and conditions of this Agreement
62
shall remain in effect during such negotiations. If such negotiations do not result in a new Agreement prior to the expiration of this Agreement, the new Agreement shall be made retroactive to the expiration date of this Agreement, but in no event shall the new Agreement be retroactive for a period of more than sixty days.
63
AFFIDAVIT OF EXECUTION OF AGREEMENT FOR THE BUREAU OF NATIONAL AFFAIRS, INC.
Darren P. McKewen
Kevin J. Wagner
Management Bargaining Team
Paul Connolly
Kevin Wagner
Rita McWilliams
64
FOR THE WASHINGTON-BALTIMORE
NEWSPAPER GUILD
Paul A. Reilly
Andrew Ballard

Michael Bologna
65
Appendix A. Salary Scale Effective Second Pay Period of July 2013									
	Band A		Band B		Band C		Band D		Min-Max Spread
	From	To	From	To	From	To	From	To	
C1 Annual	65,047	76,972	76,972	88,897	88,897	100,823	100,823		55%
Weekly	1,250.90	1,480.23	1,480.23	1,709.56	1,70956	1,9348.90	1,938.90		
C2 Annual	69,601	82,362	82,362	95,123	95,123	107,882	107,882		55%
Weekly	1,338.49	1,583.88	1,583.88	1,829.28	1,829.28	2,074.66	2,074.66		
Increase %of Salary	3.75%		3.50%		3.15%		3.00%		
C1: Albany, Atlanta, Austin, Cincinnati, Denver, Houston, Lansing, Minneapolis, Phoenix, Raleigh, Sacramento, St. Louis C2: Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, New York, Norwalk, Philadelphia, San Francisco, Seattle									
Appendix A. Salary Scale Effective Second Pay Period of July 2014									
	Band A		Band B		Band C		Band D		Min-Max Spread
	From	To	From	To	From	To	From	To	
C1 Annual	66,998	79,281	79,281	91,564	91,564	'103,847	103,847		55%
Weekly	1,288.43	1,524.64	1,524.64	1,760.85	1,760.85	1,997.06	1,997.06		
C2 Annual	71,689	84,833	84,833	97,976	97,976	111,119	111,119		55%
Weekly	1,378.64	1,631.40	1,631.40	1,884.16	1,884.16	2,136.90	2,136.90		
Increase %of Salary	4.25%		3.70%		3.35%		3.15%		
C1: Albany, Atlanta, Austin, Cincinnati, Denver, Houston, Lansing, Minneapolis, Phoenix, Raleigh, Sacramento, St. Louis C2: Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, New York, Norwalk, Philadelphia, San Francisco, Seattle									
o oo
Appendix A. Salary Scale Effective Second Pay Period of July 2015									
	Band A		Band B		Band C		Band D		Min-Max Spread
	From	To	From	To	From	To	From	To	
C1 Annual	69,008	81,659	81,659	94,311	94,311	106,963	106,963		55%
Weekly	1,327.08	1,570.37	1,570.37	1,813.67	1,813.67	2,056.97	2,056.97		
C2 Annual	73,840	87,378	87,378	100,916	100,916	114,452	114,452		55%
Weekly	1,420.00	1,680.34	1,680.34	1,940.68	1,940.68	2,201.00	2,201.00		
Increase %of Salary	4.25%		3.70%		3.50%		3.35%		
C1: Albany, Atlanta, Austin, Cincinnati, Denver, Houston, Lansing, Minneapolis, Phoenix, Raleigh, Sacramento, St. Louis C2: Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, New York, Norwalk, Philadelphia, San Francisco, Seattle									
APPENDIX B—The Bureau of National Affairs Inc., Employees’ Retirement Plan
The normal retirement benefit at age 65 or beyond is 1.22 percent of the employee’s average annual earnings for the best five of the last ten years of employment prior to retirement, multiplied by the number of years of employment. Considered compensation and average annual earnings shall not include severance payments. If an employee’s retirement is delayed beyond the year in which he reaches 65, subsequent years of employment are counted in figuring retirement benefits. Contributions under the BNA stock bonus and deferred profit-sharing plan, which was discontinued at the end of 1970, are fully vested in employees. “Money Purchase” contributions in the amount of 3 percent of covered payroll, which began in 1971, are vested in employees according to the vesting schedule below.
These Money Purchase contributions are no longer made and allocated to separate accounts, after the 1975 contribution. Instead, all contributions are allocated to the above 1.22 percent per year benefit formula, which remains the controlling benefit formula under the plan.
69
SUMMARY OF BENEFITS
All employees with at least one year of fulltime service or 1,000 hours of part-time service within 12 consecutive months are eligible to participate in the plan. No employee hired after September 1, 2010, may participate in the plan.
The plan is financed entirely by BNA. The Publisher contributes from time to time at least the amount needed to maintain the qualified status of the plan under Internal Revenue Service regulations.
The normal retirement benefit at age 65 or beyond is 1.22 percent of the employee’s average annual earnings for the best five of the last ten years of employment prior to retirement, multiplied by the number of years of employment. Considered compensation and average annual earnings shall not include severance payments. If an employee’s retirement is delayed beyond the year in which he reaches 65, subsequent years of employment are counted in figuring retirement benefits.
The normal retirement date is, in effect, the end of the month or the end of the calendar year in which an employee reaches 65. Alternatively, an employee may retire with normal benefits when his age plus his years of employment add up to 85 or more. Early
70
retirement with reduced benefits is permitted at age 50 with 20 years of service, and age 55 with 15 years of service. Retirement for disability, with normal benefits, is provided if the disabled employee has reached age 55 or has 20 years of service regardless of age.
In calculating years of employment for purposes of determining retirement benefits, six months will be added to an employee’s actual years of employment for every 500 hours of unused sick leave accumulated at the time of retirement. This will apply to all five forms of retirement provided for by the plan: normal retirement, early retirement, special early retirement, disability retirement, and delayed retirement.
In the event a vested employee dies before retirement, a preretirement spouse’s benefit is provided. The spouse’s benefit is 50 percent of the employee’s accrued retirement benefit.
Contributions under the BNA stock bonus and deferred profit-sharing plan, which was discontinued at the end of 1970, are fully vested in employees. “Money Purchase” contributions in the amount of 3 percent of covered payroll, which began in 1971, are vested in employees according to the vesting schedule below. These Money Purchase contributions are no longer made and allocated
71
to separate accounts, after the 1975 contribution. Instead, all contributions are allocated to the above 1.20 percent per year benefit formula, which remains the controlling benefit formula under the plan.
Rights to benefits are vested in full after five years of service. No benefits are payable to anyone with less than five years of service, unless they are eligible to retire under the normal retirement, delayed retirement, or disability retirement provisions. The actuarial value of the vested benefit will be paid in a lump sum in the calendar quarter following termination of employment for reason other than retirement or death. If the actuarial value exceeds $3,500, the terminated employee shall have the option of receiving a future or present pension in lieu of the actuarial value.
A booklet containing the text of BNA’s retirement plan, together with questions and answers on its operation, is available from the Personnel Office. The text of the plan, rather than this summary, controls all rights under the plan.
APPENDIX C—Side Letter on Pilot Sabbatical Leave Program
Correspondents will continue to participate in the same Sabbatical Leave
72
Program as home office employees, under the rules of that program. Beginning in 2006, the Correspondents Unit of the Guild and the Publisher will appoint one member each to serve on that sabbatical committee.
Sabbatical terms shall run for a period of up to six months at full pay. Candidates for the program shall have a minimum of ten (10) years of service with the Publisher. Candidates awarded sabbaticals will agree that they shall not voluntarily quit their employment with the Publisher for a period of two years following completion of their sabbatical leave.
The collective bargaining agreements covering the correspondents unit and the home office unit allow for up to two home office sabbaticals and up to one correspondents’ sabbatical to be awarded in a given year. The Committee shall award sabbaticals to applicants whose proposals the committee determines meet the criteria for awards, up to the maximum allowed in the two collective bargaining agreements. Any sabbatical awarded to a correspondent shall not reduce the number available to employees of the home office of the Publisher.
73
APPENDIX D—Sick Leave Bank
Members of the Correspondents’ unit shall participate in the home office Sick Leave Bank as administered by the Guild.
APPENDIX E—Life Insurance Addendum
A living benefit option shall continue to be available under the group life insurance policy allowing covered employees who furnish medical documentation establishing life expectancies of six months or less to receive advance payment of 50% of the life insurance benefit, to a maximum of $50,000.
APPENDIX F—Health Care Coverage for Domestic Partners
As of May 2, 1994, employees may register domestic partnerships with the Benefits Office and enroll their domestic partners for coverage as their dependents under BNA’s group health program.
Appendix G Performance Bonus Pilot Program
The Guild and BBNA agree that from time to time meritorious work deserves special financial recognition above and beyond guaranteed annual raises and in addition to any
74
overtime pay that might be due. To that end, the parties agree to establish the following procedures for implementing a Performance Bonus Pilot Program, which is intended to provide a fair opportunity for all bargaining unit employees to participate and benefit.
1.	There shall be two categories of performance bonuses: unit wide bonuses, i.e. the Bethesda Customer Retention Program, Index conversion program; and individual “commendation” bonuses.
2.	Terms of the unit bonuses shall be negotiated between the Guild and BBNA prior to implementation
3.	Individual commendation bonuses shall be awarded at the discretion of management for one-time meritorious work by an individual or individuals. Except for claims of discrimination under Article IX, individual bonuses shall not be subject to grievance or arbitration.
4.	An employee may be nominated for a bonus by a supervisor or manager or employees may self nominate.
5.	All bonuses shall be reported monthly to the Guild.
75
	Commendation Bonuses	Unit Bonuses
Amount of awards	$100 to $1000	$250 to $2500
Annual cap on spending	$50,000	$50,000
Annual cap per employee	3 per year	No limit
Appendix H—Annual PerformanceBased Bonus Plan
Administration Process
Management shall award a Guild employee a performance bonus at the levels contained in Article pursuant to the below process.
Nothing in this provision shall be construed so as to reduce the funding level or availability of annual salary increases, merit awards or other forms of compensation, as provided under this agreement.
Transition to New Plan
•	Corporate Performance Bonus shall be distributed in December 2013.
•	Funds shall be distributed in December 2013 and shall be equal to 5% of each employee’s base 2013 wages.
76
•	The Corporate Performance Bonus shall contain a guaranteed floor for the first three years only (current contract term).
Corporate Performance Plan
•	Beginning Jan. 1, 2014, the corporate performance bonus shall be implemented.
•	The corporate performance bonus shall be based on Subscription File Value (SFV) and Non-Subscription Revenues (NSR). SFV is the total annual value of active customer orders at a specified point in time. This financial metric forecasts revenues for the next twelve months. SFV will account for 90 percent of the Corporate goals. NSR are revenues from the sales of books/sur-veys/reports, royalties (including on-line and Copyright Clearance Center), conferences, license fees, and consulting/training fees. NSR will account for 10 percent of the Corporate goals. The Corporate goals will be communicated to employees and the Guild at least quarterly.
•	If annual Corporate Performance doesn’t meet its target, only the guaranteed minimum payment will be paid.
•	The minimum annual bonus in 2014 shall be equal to 2.5% of each employee’s base 2014 wages.
77
•	The minimum annual bonus in 2015 shall be equal to 2% of each employee’s base 2015 wages.
•	If the corporate goal is reached in either year, the corporate performance bonus will be increased to 3% of each employee’s base wage.
•	The Corporate Performance bonus may increase based on BBNA exceeding the projected SFV/NSR. (Details to be determined).
•	If the Corporate performance target is met in 2014, the expected average bonus payout (corporate and individual) is 5%. Some individuals will receive less, and some will receive more, depending on individual performance.
•	If the Corporate performance target is met in 2015, the expected average bonus payout (corporate and individual) is 5.5%. Some individuals will receive less, and some will receive more, depending on individual performance.
Corporate Performance Plan (Eligibility)
•	Employee shall be eligible for a performance bonus if they are on the payroll from the first working day of the year. Employees who start their employment from the second
78
working day of the year through June 30th shall receive half of the payment.
•	New hire probationary employees are not eligible for the Corporate Performance Bonus.
Individual Performance Plan
•	Beginning January 1, 2014, an employee incentive plan shall be implemented that is based on each employee’s individual performance.
•	Under this component of the PerformanceBased Employee Incentive Plan, eligible employees shall be appraised pursuant to the performance review process, and based on a final appraisal shall receive their annual performance awards, if any, each January.
Individual Performance Cycle:
•	In 2013, the Guild employees’ annual performance cycle runs 12 months from the date of the employee’s last scheduled written annual performance review (typically the annual anniversary of the employee’s hire date, or date of last promotion).
•	Beginning in 2014, the employees’ annual performance cycle runs from January 2014 through December 2014.
79
Individual Performance Plan (Eligibility):
•	Employee shall be eligible for a performance bonus if they are on the payroll from the first working day of the year. Employees who start their employment from the second working day of the year through June 30th shall receive half of the payment.
•	New hire probationary employees are not eligible for the Individual Performance Bonus.
•	Employee performance must have been rated Satisfactory.
Performance Review and Approval Process: To ensure plan effectiveness, supervisors shall meet with eligible employees at least three times each year to review the employee’s progress toward meeting the performance-based award under this component. The following are recommended guidelines:
•	No later than March 1, a supervisor should meet with employee to discuss appropriate performance objectives for the employee;
•	No later than August 1, a supervisor should meet with employee to discuss progress toward the objectives for the employee;
•	At least 45 days prior to the employee’s annual performance review, the manager and employee will receive copies of the appraisal form to be completed by each and
80
submitted to the HR Representative before the date of the annual performance review and formal performance discussion. The HR Representative will meet with the manager to discuss the evaluation.
•	No later than Dec. 1, the supervisor should meet with the employee to discuss the employee’s final appraisal.
•	The final appraisal should be provided to the employee prior to the Dec. 1 meeting. This appraisal should be in writing and include, at minimum, a detailed explanation of the extent of progress an employee made toward achieving their performance objectives and a narrative that describes areas in need of improvement.
•	Employees that do not receive an annual performance rating shall receive the bonus that relates to a rating of Exceeds Expectations.
Performance Bonus Criteria:
•	The 2014 individual performance bonus maximum shall be 4% of an employee’s base salary. In 2015 the individual performance bonus maximum shall be 5% of an employee’s base salary.
•	No performance bonus recommendation will be considered or approved for employees
81
receiving an overall performance rating score of below Satisfactory.
Grievance Process:
•	Decisions regarding performance evaluation will be made at the sole discretion of the Publisher and shall not be subject to the provisions of Article XXII - “Grievance and Arbitration Procedures” of this Agreement.
•	In the month of January, Human Resources and the grievance committee for the Guild will meet for the exclusive purpose of discussing issues related to individual performance evaluations for the prior year.
82
This page intentionally left blank.
83
Appendix I-Health and Welfare Costs			
HEALTHCARE COSTS			
	2013	2014	2015
Medical Premiums - Aetna			
Employee Only (Start 10/1/13)	$ 20.00	$ 35.00	$ 50.00
Employee + 1	$ 40.00	$ 70.00	$ 90.00
Family	$ 60.00	$ 90.00	$ 110.00
In Network Annual Deductibles			
Employee Only			$ 100.00
Employee + 1			$ 200.00
Family			$ 300.00
Office Visit Co-pay	*No change from previous contract		
Aetna	$ 15.00	$ 15.00	$ 15.00
Aetna Specialist	$ 15.00	$ 15.00	$ 15.00
	*No change from previous contract		
In Network Co-Insurance	10%	10%	10%
	*No change from previous contract		
RX Retail Pharmacy			
Generic	$ 10.00	$ 10.00	$ 10.00
Brand no Equivalent	$ 25.00	$ 25.00	$ 25.00
Brand if Equivalent	$ 40.00	$ 40.00	$ 40.00
	2013	2014	2015
	*No change from previous contract		
Rx Mail Order			
Generic	$ 25.00	$ 25.00	$ 25.00
Brand no Equivalent	$ 65.00	$ 65.00	$ 65.00
Brand if Equivalent	$85.00	$ 85.00	$ 85.00
	*No change from previous contract		
In Network OOP co-insurance maximums maximums — percent of base salary			
Employee Only	2%	2%	2%
Employee + 1	3%	3%	3%
Family	4%	4%	4%
	*No change from previous contract		
Out of Network OOP co-insurance maximum — percent of base salary			
Employee Only	3%	30/0	30/0
Employee + 1	4%	40/0	40/0
Family	6%	6%	6%
Out of Network Annual Deductibles	*NEW		
Employee Only	$ 600.00	$ 600.00	$ 600.00
Employee + 1	$ 1,100.00	$ 1,100.00	$ 1,100.00
Family	$ 1,600.00	$ 1,600.00	$ 1,600.00
			
			
			
	2013	2014	2015
*Kaiser medical Premiums. Kaiser will be eliminated 12/31/14. Premiums/Co-Pays Remain the Same			
Employee Only	10%	10%	
Employee + 1	10%	10%	
Family	10%	10%	
Office Visit co-pay Kaiser			
Kaiser	$10.00	$10.00	
Kaiser Specialist	$20.00	$20.00	
Spousal Surcharge	$125.00	$125.00	$125.00
Retirees*			
Formula based to set initial premium, then amount increased annually by			
*No change from previous contract
OO
CD
Medicare Retirees*			
Retiree Stipend	$250.00	$250.00	$250.00
Dependent Stipend	$200.00	$200.00	$200.00
			
*No change from previous contract
Index
Access to personnel files, 9-10
Accidental death and
dismemberment
insurance, 30; 31
Accrual of annual leave,
19-21
Accrual of sick leave,
23-24
Addresses of employees, 8
Adoption
paid leave for, 25
reimbursement of fees and
costs, 50
Age discrimination, 13
Anniversary dates, wage
increases, 14
Annual increases, 14
July 2013 salary scale, 66
July 2014 salary scale, 67
July 2015 salary scale, 68
Annual leave
in general, 19-23
carryover, 20-21
credit restored upon re-
employment, 45-46
holiday during, 22
resignation, discharge, or death, pay-out of accrued leave, 23
seniority and scheduling of leave, 21-22
Annual meeting between Guild and Publisher, 51-52
Annual PerformanceBased Bonus Plan in general, 76-82 administration, 76 annual Guild/management discussion of evaluation issues, 82 calculation, 77-78;
81-82
corporate performance component, 77-79
eligibility, 78-79; 80 individual performance component, 79-82
maximum individual bonus, 81
minimum corporate bonus, 77-78
performance review process, 80-81
transition to new plan, 76-77
Appraisal forms, 15 Arbitration, 49-50 Armed Forces Reservists, 55
Authorization of checkoff, 6-7
Automobile mileage, reimbursement for, 56
Band D employees, merit increases, 15
Bands, salary, 14-15
July 2013 salary scale, 66
July 2014 salary scale, 67
91
July 2015 salary scale, 68
Bank for sick leave, 74
Bargaining
policy introduction or changes, 12
rights of individuals, 15-16
Benefits See also specific type
maintenance of, 62 part-time employees,
2-4
Bereavement leave, 25-26
Bonuses
annual performance bonus. See Annual
Performance-Based Bonus Plan
spot bonuses. See Performance Bonus Pilot Program
Break in service See also
Service credit
annual leave, not construed as, 23
paid leave, not construed as, 27
unpaid leave, not construed as, 29
Bulletin boards, copies of legally-required notices, 11
Candidacy for public office, leave for, 28
Carryover of annual leave, 20-21
Change of name of employee, 9
Checkoff, 6-7
Childbirth leave, 24; 25
Child care
dependent care assistance, salary reduction plan, 60
sick leave to care for sick child, 24
Classification of employees, 8
COBRA rights, 43
Co-insurance amounts, 31; 85; 86; 87
Color discrimination, 13
Commendation bonuses See Performance Bonus Pilot Program
Compensatory time, 16-17
Computer equipment, reimbursement for, 56; 57
Confidential information, unauthorized disclosure, 41
Confidentiality, employee records, 10
Conflicts of interest, 52-53
Co-pay amounts, health insurance, 31; 32; 35; 85; 88
Corporate performance bonus See Annual Performance-Based Bonus Plan
Court duty, 56
Day care See Child care
Death of employee, 9 living benefit option from life insurance, 74 payment for accrued
leave, 23
92
retirement benefit paid to surviving spouse, 71
Deductibles, health insurance, 35; 84; 87
Deductions of union dues, 6-7
Dental appointments, 24
Dental insurance, 30
Department covered by contract, 1-2
Dependent care assistance, salary reduction plan, 60
Disability discrimination, 13 family member care, sick leave use, 24; 25
FMLA provisions applicable, 60 long term insurance, 30; 31
military service, return from, 54
pregnancy or childbirth, sick leave use, 24; 25
Discharge
during leave of absence, 29-30
gross misconduct as reason for, 41; 47
grounds for, 39 payment for accrued
leave, 23 probationary employees, 2
right of management, 12
severance pay. See Severance pay
Discipline of employees, 39-41; 42-43
management rights, 12 representation
at disciplinary
interviews, 42-43 Disclosure of information
from personnel files, 9-10
Discrimination, 13
Doctor’s note, 24
Documentation, doctor’s note, 24
Domestic partners
FMLA rights, 61
health care coverage, 74
health insurance
surcharge, 88
sick leave, for care of
disabled partner, 25
Drugs, illegal, 41
Drugs, prescription insurance See
Prescription drug insurance
Dues, union, 6-7
Duration of Agreement, 62-63
EAP (Employee Assistance Program), 37
Early retirement, 70-71
Economic cutbacks See
Reduction in force (RIF) Educational aid, 58-59 EEO (equal employment
opportunity), 13
Eldercare, use of sick leave for, 25
Elections
public candidacy, leave for, 28
voting time, 26-27
93
Employee Assistance Program (EAP), 37
Employee records See Personnel files
Employee statements for inclusion in personnel files, 9-10
Employment agency fees, 58
Equal employment opportunity, 13
Equipment expenses, reimbursement of, 56-57
Evaluation
forms, 15
function of management, 11
Excluded positions, information provided to
Guild, 9
Expenses, reimbursement of, 56-58
relocation, 44; 45
Family See Relatives and family
Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), 60-61
Female employees disability caused by pregnancy or childbirth, 24
sex discrimination, 13
Firing See Discharge
FMLA (Family and Medical
Leave Act), 60-61
Foster care placement, FMLA coverage, 61 401(k) plan, company match, 39
Freedom of employment, 52
Freelance writers, 16
Functions of management, 11-13
Funeral leave, 25-26
Furniture expenses, reimbursement of, 57
Gender of employees
contract language, 13
information to be
supplied to Guild, 8
sex discrimination, 13 Grievances
in general, 47-52
answer to written grievance, 48
arbitration, 49-50
bonuses ineligible for
grievance, 75; 82 extension of time limits,
49
steps, 47-49
stewards, role of, 7-8;
47-48
waiver of Steps I and II, 48-49
written grievance, 48 Gross misconduct,
dismissal for, 41 severance pay denied, 47
Guild See also specific headings starting with “Union”
agreement, presenting to new hires, 7
annual meeting with Publisher, 51-52
94
consultation with, 50-51
grievance procedure, 47-52
joint health care committee, 36
leave for union business, 28
policies, bargaining over, 12
recognition of, 1-2 struck work, 61-62
Gun possession, 41
Handicap See Disability
Health insurance
in general, 30-37
COBRA rights, 43 co-insurance amounts, 31; 85; 86; 87
co-pay amounts, 31; 32;
35; 85; 88
cost charts, 84-89 deductibles, 35; 84; 87 dependents, premium
payment for, 84
domestic partners, 74 government reform, effect, 37
HMO, enrollment in, 30; 32 information to
terminated employees, 43
joint Guild/BBNA committee, 36
Kaiser plan, termination, 32
part-time employees, 30; 31
retirees, 32-36; 89
spouse or domestic partner, surcharge, 88
Health maintenance organizations (HMOs) enrollment in, 30; 32; 36 termination of Kaiser plan, 32
Hiring
date, retroactivity after temporary work, 5
employment agency fees, 58
function of management, 12
new hires, information provided to Guild, 8-9
HMOs (health maintenance organizations) See Health maintenance organizations (HMOs)
Holidays
in general, 17-19 during annual leave, 22 during unpaid leave, 29 part-time employees, 18 pay rate for working
on, 18
weekend holidays, 19 Home care of disabled
family member, 25
Hospitalization See generally Health insurance
Hours of work See also Overtime work and pay in general, 16-17 reduction in hours, 4 scheduling as function of management, 12
95
Illegal drugs, possession, 41
Increases in pay See Wages and salaries
Individual bargaining, 15-16
Information to be supplied to Guild employees, 8-9
Insurance See also specific type (e.g. Health insurance) eligibility for benefits, 30-31 information to
terminated employees, 43
premiums during unpaid leave, 29
Interviews, disciplinary, 42-43
Job descriptions, 9
Job openings, posting, 11
Job security, 39-43
Jury duty, 56
Just cause for discharge, 39
Kaiser health plan, termination, 32
Layoffs See Reduction in force (RIF)
Leave
adoption, 25
annual leave, 19-23 bereavement leave,
25-26
Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), 60-61
Guild business, 28
holidays during, 22 jury duty leave, 56 maternity leave, 25 military service, 53-54;
55
parenting leave, 25 personal leave, 26 public office, candidacy
or service, 28 sabbatical leave
program, 72-73 sick leave, 23-25 temporaries, use of,
during leave, 4-5 voting time, 26-27 without pay, 27-30 Legal holidays, 19 Life insurance in general, 30-31 information to
terminated employees, 43
living benefit option, 74 military service, 54
Life-partners See Domestic partners
Living benefit option, 74
Lodging expenses, 57 Long term disability insurance, 30; 31
Maintenance of benefits, 62
Maintenance of union membership, 5
Management rights, 11-13 Marital status
discrimination, 13 Maternity leave, 25 Meal allowance, 58 Medical appointments, 24
96
Medical leave See Sick leave
Medicare eligible retirees, health benefits, 32-33
Meetings between Guild and Publisher, 12; 51-52
Membership in union, 5-6
Merit increases, 14-15
“M” files, 9-10
Mileage, reimbursement
for, 56
Military service, 53-55
Minority employees, information to be supplied to Guild, 8
Moonlighting, 52-53
Moving expenses, 44; 45
Names of employees, provided to Guild, 8-9
National Guard service, 55
National origin discrimination, 13
Negotiations for new
Agreement, 62-63
Newspaper Guild (TNG)
See Guild
Newspaper subscriptions, reimbursement for, 58
Notification
agenda for annual meeting between Guild and Publisher, 51-52
arbitration, 49 bulletin boards, copies
of legally-required
notices, 11 dismissal for cause,
39; 40
grievance Steps I and II, waiver of, 48-49
Guild business, leave for, 28
holiday work, 19
job openings, 11 medical or dental
appointments, 24 outside activities, 53 policies, new or material
change, 12
probationary status, 2 reduction in force (RIF), 41
retirement date and part-time work prior to retirement, 38-39
revocation of checkoff, 6-7
spot bonuses, monthly reporting to Guild, 75
transfers, 43-44 union membership, termination of, 5-6
written warnings, 39-40
Office space, reimbursement for, 57
Office supplies, reimbursement for, 56-57
Oral opinion of arbitrator, 50
Outside writing activities of employees, 52-53
Overtime work and pay in general, 16-17 compensatory time, 16-17
holiday computation, 18
97
meal allowance, 58 paid leave and, 17 part-time employees, 17 rate of pay, 16; 17 travel time, 17
Paid leave See also Leave overtime and, 17
Parental care, use of sick leave for, 25
Parental status discrimination, 13
Parenting leave
FMLA provisions, 61 for childbirth or
adoption, 25
Parking fees, reimbursement of, 56-57
Part-time employees in general, 2-4 benefits, 2-4 court duty, 56 holiday pay, 18 overtime pay, 17 phase-in of retirement, 38-39
reduced hours to avoid discharge, 4
severance, 3
sick leave accrual, 23
Past practices, 13
Past service credit restored upon rehire, 45-46
Pay See Wages and salaries
Paychecks, 14
PCs, reimbursement for, 56
Pension plan See also Retirement plan
in general, 37-39;
69-72
information to terminated employees, 43
Performance Bonus Pilot
Program
in general, 74-76
maximums and caps, 76
nomination process, 75
types of bonuses, 75
Performance evaluation
appraisal forms, 15
function of management, 12
Personal leave, 26
Personnel files
in general, 9-10
disciplinary letters/
warnings in, 39-40 employee statements in,
9-10
Plagiarism, 41
Policies, notice of new or
material change, 12
Political belief discrimination, 13
Political office, candidacy or service, leave for, 28
Posting
job openings, 11
legally-required notices, copies of, 11
Preamble, 1
Preferred provider
organization (PPO) medical plan, 30-31;
84-87
Premium pay See Overtime work and pay
98
Prescription drug insurance co-payments, 32; 86 eligibility, 30; 32
Privacy, employee records, 10
Probationary employees discharge, 2 notification of status, 2
Pro rata benefits for parttime employees, 2-3
Public office, candidacy or
service, leave for, 28
Quitting job See
Resignations
Race discrimination, 13
Raises See Wages and salaries
Recognition of Guild, 1-2
Records, employee See Personnel files
Reduction in force (RIF) in general, 41-42 notice, 41
rehire rights. See Rehire rights
severance pay. See
Severance pay voluntary resignations, 41
Reduction in hours, 4
Re-employment See Rehire rights
Rehire rights military service, 53
RIF procedures, 42 service credit, 45-46
Reimbursement of expenses, 56-58
relocation expenses, 44;
45
Relatives and family See also Child care; Spouses funerals of, leave for, 25-26
sick leave, use for home care of, 24
Religious discrimination, 13
Relocation expenses, 44;
45
Renewal of Agreement, 62-63
Reservists, 55
Resignations annual leave pay-out, 23 information provided to
Guild, 8-9 severance pay, 47 voluntary when RIF announced, 41
Retirement plan
401(k) plan and company match, 39 insurance benefits, 32-36; 89
pensions, 37-38; 69-72 phase-in, 38-39
plan summary, 70-72 vesting, 70-72
Retroactive application of new Agreement, 63
Return to job See also
Rehire rights from leave of absence, 29
RIF See Reduction in force (RIF)
99
Sabbatical leave program, 72-73
Salaries See Wages and salaries
Saturday holidays, 19
Scheduling annual leave, 21-22
Security, job, 39-43
Selection of arbitrator, 50
Seniority
annual leave scheduling based on, 21-22
re-employment, credit restored upon, 45-46
RIF procedures, 41
Service credit See also
Break in service military service, 53 part-time and full-time employment, 3
re-employment, restoration of, 45-46
temporary employee becoming regular employee, 5
Severance pay in general, 46-47 credit restored upon reemployment, 45; 46 leave of absence, discharge occurring during, 29-30
part-time employees, 3 reduction in force, 41; 42 transfer, refusal to
accept, 44-45 voluntary resignations, 41
Sex discrimination, 13
Sexual orientation discrimination, 13
Sick leave
in general, 23-25 advanced leave, 25 care for sick child, 24 credit restored upon re-employment from rehire list, 46
FMLA provisions applicable, 60 pregnancy or childbirth, use for, 24; 25
Sick Leave Bank, 74
Special correspondents, 5
Spot bonuses See
Performance Bonus Pilot
Program
Spouses
health insurance surcharge, 88
pension, payment to surviving spouse, 71
retirement health benefits, 32-33;
34-35; 89
sick leave, for care of disabled spouse, 25 Stewards, 7-8; 47-48 Struck work, 61-62 Successors to be bound by
Agreement, 62
Summers, scheduling of annual leave, 22
Sunday holidays, 19
Supper money, 58
Supplies, office, reimbursement for, 56-57
Suspension
100
disciplinary, 41
right of management, 12
Telephone calls, reimbursement for, 56
Temporary employees in general, 4-5 hire date on becoming regular employee, 5 information provided to
Guild, 9
Temporary transfers, 15
Termination of
employment See
Discharge; Resignations
Termination of union membership, 5-6
Trade secrets, unauthorized disclosure, 41
Training, new or modified equipment, 42
Transfers
information provided to Guild, 8-9
notification, 43-44 other positions,
voluntary transfer, 45 refusal to accept, 44-45 removal from Guild
bargaining unit, 44-45
right of management, 12
temporary transfers, 15
Transportation subsidy, 58
Travel expenses, 56-57
Travel time, 17
funeral outside of U.S., 26
Tuition aid, 58-59
Union dues, 6-7
Union membership, 5-6
Union rights, 7-8
Union security, 5-6
Union stewards, 7-8;
47-48
Unit-wide bonuses See Performance Bonus Pilot
Program
Unpaid leave, 27-30
Vacation time See Annual leave
Vesting of retirement
benefits, 70-72
Violence in workplace, 41
Vision care insurance, 30 Voluntary RIF resignations,
41
Voting time, 26-27
Wages and salaries See
also Overtime work and
pay
in general, 13-15
annual increases, 14
bi-weekly payment, 14
decreases, 14
holiday work, 18 information to be
supplied to the Guild, 8-9
July 2013 salary scale, 66
July 2014 salary scale, 67
July 2015 salary scale, 68
jury duty pay, 56
merit increases, 14-15
military service, 54 moving into higher
band, 15
101
severance. See
Severance pay spot bonuses. See
Performance Bonus
Pilot Program union dues, deduction
of, 6-7
Waivers
COBRA premiums, 43 grievance procedure,
Steps I and II, 48-49 gross discharge, advance notice, 40-41
Warnings, disciplinary, 39-40
Weapon possession, 41
Weekend holidays, 19
Weingarten rights, 42-43
Witness in court, 56
Working conditions, consultation with Guild, 50-51
Workplace violence, 41
Workweek, 16
Writing activities of employees, 52-53
Written warnings, 39-40
102