AGREEMENT BETWEEN
CHANGE TO WIN
and
WASHINGTON-BALTIMORE NEWSPAPER GUILD (CWA LOCAL 32035)
Jan. 1, 2015 to Dec. 31, 2017
1
PREAMBLE
Change to Win (“CtW’ or “Employer”) and Washington-Baltimore Newspaper Guild, CWA Local 32035 (“Guild”) enter into this Agreement acknowledging that they share a common mission to organize workers to win industrial power in to order to achieve higher living standards for working people and acknowledging the unique character and structure of Change to Win.
Change to Win is an organization formed in 2005 as a campaign organization committed to an operating structure that:
•	Allows for change and evolution in its development
•	Is not “bureaucratic”
•	Is nimble and able to respond to opportunity and changes in the economy and work force
•	Is staffed by teams of the best talent available from “core” CtW staff, staff of our affiliates (either on loan to CtW or still working at the affiliate), project staff, consultants, experts, and strategists to develop and execute national campaigns in targeted industries
The purpose of this Agreement is to identify the shared objectives of CtW and its staff through their exclusive bargaining agent the Washington-Baltimore Newspaper Guild (TNG-CWA 32035) related to wages, hours and working conditions for full time, part-time and temporary staff included in the bargaining unit.
Those shared objectives include:
•	A Labor-Management relationship based on good faith and good communication between staff and Change to Win leadership;
•	Development and retention of experienced and skilled staff to build a movement of workers united in their industries;
•	Establishing fair and enforceable employment standards;
•	Ensuring staff job security is a factor in the evolution of the organization;
•	Protecting Union/Guild Rights; and
•	Protecting Management Rights.
ARTICLE 1	COVERAGE
The agreement covers all full time, part-time and temporary employees, excluding confidential employees with regular access to confidential labor relations information, supervisors, and managers who regularly have the bona fide authority to hire, discipline, and layoff employees, or effectively recommend such action using their independent judgment. Disputes involving the bargaining unit shall be submitted to the Labor Management Committee and absent agreement there shall be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
2
ARTICLE 2	LABOR MANAGEMENT
1.	LABOR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
The Employer and the Guild agree to maintain a standing Labor-Management Committee at the Employer’s expense. The Committee shall be composed of three (3) representatives of the Guild and three (3) representatives of the Employer. .
The purpose of the Labor Management Committee is:
•	To establish and maintain a good labor-management relationship;
•	To meet and confer on any structural change and the impact of that change on the wages, hours and working conditions of staff;
•	To serve as an ongoing forum for the Employer and the Guild to raise issues and concerns, make recommendations and resolve problems;
•	To consider proposals from the Guild to improve operations and communications between the Guild and the Employer;
•	To determine how to handle the implementation of any provision of this agreement that is determined to be illegal or void by any government or agency; and
•	To resolve differences over rates of pay for newly created bargaining unit positions; and
•	To meet and confer on other subjects of mutual interest.
Project sub-committees may be appointed to address issues such as Education and Training, Health and Safety or other topics.
The Committee shall ordinarily meet quarterly. By mutual agreement of the parties, the committee may meet more or less frequently. A summary of any agreements made by the Labor Management Committee shall be prepared after each meeting and signed off on by both the Employer and the Guild. All agreements made by the Labor Management Committee and, unless specifically excluded in writing, will be final and binding and fully grieveable and arbitrable by either party.
Nothing in this section or in this Agreement shall be construed as an agreement by either party to reopen any section, including wages, for renegotiation during the term of this agreement.
2.	REGULAR COMMUNICATIONS AND STAFF MEETINGS
a.	All newly hired employees shall receive a New Employee packet that includes CtW employment forms, a job description, benefit descriptions, CtW policies and HQ office procedures and any current institutional printed material that may exist describing
3
Change to Win. The new employee’s supervisor or the Director of Finance and Administration shall review the contents of the packet with the new employee within ten (10) working days of the employee's hire date. Current employees who have not received any of the material in the New Employee packet will receive it immediately upon request after the execution of this Agreement.
b.	The Employer will convene a voluntary meeting of staff on the Friday afternoon following meetings of the Change to Win Leadership Council to update staff on decisions, developing plans and direction from the Leadership Council. Staff in the field will participate in the meeting via telephone.
c.	No less than once annually, the Employer will host a meeting of all Change to Win staff to discuss the direction of the organization and campaigns. The agenda for the meeting will be reviewed by the Labor Management Committee before circulating to all staff.
ARTICLE 3	GRIEVANCE-ARBITRATION
1.	Disputes concerning the application, interpretation or implementation of this agreement or interim agreements reached through the Labor Management Committee will be resolved using the grievance procedure described below .
2.	All grievances must be reduced to writing and must identify the nature of the grievance, the section of this agreement (where applicable) that is in dispute and the specific remedy requested.
3.	Grievances shall be filed in writing within ten (10) work days of the date of the event giving rise to the grievance or ten (10) work days from the date on which such event should reasonably should have become known.
4.	Within ten (10) working days of receipt of the written grievance, the appropriate representatives of the Employer and of the Guild shall meet on work time for the purpose of attempting to resolve the grievance. Within ten (10) working days of the meeting, the grievance will be responded to in writing.
5.	If the required response is not provided, the grieving party may proceed to arbitration as follows:
Within thirty (30) days of the response (or thirty days from when the response was required), the grieving party may submit the grievance to final and binding arbitration. The parties will attempt to agree on an impartial arbitrator. If they are unable to agree, then the parties will submit a joint request to the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service for a panel of arbitrators. The parties will select from the panel by alternately striking names from the list until one name remains and that person shall be appointed. The grieving party shall strike the first name.
4
The Employer will pay the salary and expenses for an individual grievant from the Guild and the Employer will pay the salary for the Unit Chair to attend the arbitration hearing. The Guild will pay any travel expenses for the Unit Chair to attend an arbitration hearing.
All other costs will be shared equally by the parties. The cost of any transcription at the hearing will only be shared if the parties agree in advance.
6.	Time limits in this procedure may be extended by the parties by mutual written agreement.
7.. Stewards from the Guild who are employees of the Employer may use a reasonable amount of work time without loss of pay to confer at the employer’s headquarters office with an employee or employees affected by a grievance with respect to any matter for which remedial relief may be requested or to interview witnesses, review documents or prepare materials necessary to process a grievance, provided such activity is fully and accurately reported to their supervisor. Time spent conducting these activities off the site of the Employers headquarters office shall not be considered work time.
ARTICLE 4 CONFIDENTIALITY OF WORK
1. In the course of their employment at CtW, or in the course of their acting as an officer or steward of the Guild, employees may acquire confidential and/or sensitive information related to campaigns, workers or affiliates. This could include proprietary and confidential material such as research, reports, presentations, strategies, legal defenses, decision-making processes or partnerships. Employees in the course of their employment, or when acting as officers or stewards of the Guild, are expressly prohibited from disclosing information about campaigns, CtW, or its affiliates to the public, competitors, external employers or prospective employers without specific approval from the Executive Director or his/her designee, provided that this paragraph shall not apply to internal union discussions related to representation of CtW bargaining unit staff.
2..	Prohibited disclosure of such information may result in discipline, up to and including an employee’s immediate termination.
3.	All research, documents, presentations, supporting work papers and other materials created by an employee in the course of their employment with CtW shall be the exclusive property of CtW.
4.	Nothing in this contract, unless otherwise indicated, shall be construed as limiting employees’ rights under the National Labor Relations Act, including the right to engage in protected activity concerning hours, wages, and other terms and conditions of employment.
5
ARTICLE 5	OUTSIDE ACIVITIES
Employees are free to engage in activities outside of normal working
hours provided that such outside activity does not present a conflict of interest for the employee or the Employer and does not interfere with the employee’s work for CtW.
It is understood, that the success of CtW requires that all employees
participate in building and maintaining positive relationships with affiliated unions. CtW staff must refrain from activity which can in any way interfere with the internal affairs of any affiliate.
ARTICLE 6	NO DISCRIMINATION
Neither party to this agreement will discriminate against any employee, member or leader of Change to Win based on union membership or activity, age, sex, race, creed, color, sexual orientation, sexual identity, national origin, religion, disability, political belief, family status or activity.
ARTICLE 7	HIRING
l	.a.ProbationPeriods. The probation period for new employees shall be twelve (12) months, except in the case of Administrative Support staff for which the probation period shall be six (6) months. During an employee’s probation period, the employer has the right to release an employee from employment, subject only to federal and/or state employment laws prohibiting discrimination in employment.
b.	At approximately the mid-point of an employee’s probation period, the
Employer shall evaluate the employee’s work performance, review that evaluation with the employee and discuss specific areas of work performance that may need to be developed or improved. The employee will be provided with a copy of the evaluation and a copy will be placed in the employee’s personnel file; provided however, that the contents of the evaluation shall not be the subject of any grievance
ARTICLE 8 TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
1.	Temporary Employees. Employees hired for project or temporary employment not to exceed 9 months will have all time worked as a temporary or project employee credited to their probation period if they are converted to permanent employees of Change to Win.
2.	Temporary and Part-time employees are eligible for benefits pro-rated based on the number of hours worked per week. However, temporary employees are not eligible for employer 401K contributions.
6
ARICLE 9 TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
1a). Training and Development plans for staff A challenge for Change to Win and for its affiliates is the need to expand our capacity to develop and run large and complex industry campaigns on a scale greater than ever. Our ability is limited when we cannot meet the demand for an increased number of highly skilled staff who can contribute at the highest level in developing research, communications or organizing strategies on major campaigns.
b) The parties to this agreement are committed to working through the Labor Management committee to develop a staff development program that:
o	Codifies CtW’s expectations and required core skills required for success at the entry level and at the senior level of any classification;
o	Develops a system for employees to advance from entry level to the highest level of their classification based on experience and performance;
o	Creates a template for staff and supervisors to use to create individual development plans for staff with specific goals for developing and demonstrating competency in the required core skills;
o Includes an evaluation system to appraise an employee’s performance against the goals set in the development plan, evaluates the employee’s ability to operate independently, assesses the employee’s readiness to advance to the next level and identifies what support from the supervisor may assist in achieving the employee’s development goals.
2.	Education Benefit Employees who successfully complete language classes shall be reimbursed up to $250 annually for costs related to the classes.
3.	Performance appraisals In addition to the mid-probation performance appraisal, employees shall receive a formal written evaluation from their supervisor each year. The main purpose of formal evaluations will be to identify employee strengths and weaknesses in order to help employees improve their job skills, performance and to encourage career development. In every case, employees will have opportunities to review formal evaluations and respond in writing. Those responses will be attached to the evaluations in the employee's personnel file.
ARTICLE 10	HOURS AND OVERTIME
1.	Hours. The standard work week is five 5 days, Monday through Friday. The standard work day is seven (7) hours, exclusive of a lunch hour.
7
Any work performed by a non-exempt employee in excess of seven hours in a day or 35 in a work week or any time worked on Saturday or Sunday will be paid at the rate of time and one half.
ARTICLE 11	WAGES
1.	Wages. Appendix A attached sets the salaries for bargaining unit staff during the period of, January 1, 2015, through December 31, 2017. Employees will advance on the scale annually based on their anniversary date in their pay grade, except that Administrative employees in 2015 and 2016 shall receive just two ‘step’ increases -- at six (6) months and twelve (12) months after hiring. Starting January 1, 2017, Administrative employees shall have a third step increase after twenty-four (24) months.
Employees who are at the top or above the scale in Appendix A shall have their salaries increased by three percent (3%) retroactive to January 1, 2015; one and a-half percent (1.5%) on January 1, 2016; and one and a-half percent (1.5%) on January 1, 2017 or move to Step G, whichever is higher.
Employees will be placed on the scale at their current step retroactive to January 1, 2015, and will advance on the scale based on their anniversary date of hire in their pay grade, except that Administrative employees shall receive ‘step’ increases -- at six (6) months and twelve (12) months after hiring, and in 2017, twenty-four (24) months after hiring.
Employees promoted to a higher pay grade during the term of this agreement will be placed at the nearest step in the new pay grade that provides a minimum of 2% (two percent) salary increase. Promoted employees will advance on the scale based on the anniversary date of their promotion.
ARTICLE 12	HEALTH AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS
1.	Health Insurance. Beginning no later than 30 days after employment, the Employer will provide at its sole expense, comprehensive health benefits for employees and their family, including dependents and qualified domestic partners. The benefit plan will provided through the SEIU Health and Welfare Fund, described as Plan L in the January 1, 2005, Summary Plan Description. The prescription drug benefit will be provided at the level of the $3.00 deductible.
2.	Retirement. After six months of employment, the Employer will contribute 12% of an employee’s regular salary, excluding overtime or other premium pay, to a 401K plan administered through the SEIU Benefits Fund. An employee may elect to make pre-tax contributions through payroll deduction up to the maximum permitted under the plan. All employer contributions will be immediately vested to the employee from their date of eligibility to participate in the plan.
8
3.	Life Insurance. The Employer will purchase Life and AD&D coverage for all employees while employed at Change to Win. The policy will provide a benefit equal to one times the employee’s base annual salary.
4.	Disability. The Employer will provide short term disability coverage that provides 60% of an employee’s weekly salary, up to a maximum of $1500 a week, after having been off from work for sickness or accident for thirty (30) days. Under the policy an employee will be eligible for benefits for up to twenty six (26) weeks.
ARTICLE 13	PAID TIME OFF
1.	Paid Sick Leave. Employees shall earn paid sick leave at the rate of one half (1/2) day each pay period for a total of thirteen (13) paid sick leave days per year to be used for employee illness or medical appointment or for the illness or medical appointment of a dependent child or parent, spouse or domestic partner. An employee may accumulate a maximum of forty five (45) unused sick leave days. Unused sick leave days will not be “cashed in” at separation from employment with Change to Win.
2.	a) Vacation Paid. Vacation leave is earned based on an employee’s last anniversary date of hire consistent with the following schedule:
10 paid days at the six month anniversary of hire;
10 days on the first anniversary of hire;
15 days on the second anniversary date of hire and each year thereafter through the seventh year of employment;
20 days on the seventh anniversary and each year thereafter through the fifteenth year of employment;
25 days on the fifteenth anniversary and each year thereafter
b)Vacation leave may be scheduled at the employee’s convenience, subject to the approval of their supervisor.
c) Up to fifteen (15) days of unused vacation time may be accumulated and carried over from year to year. If an employee has more than ten days leave remaining at the beginning of a year, the amount of leave the employee is entitled to accrue during the year shall be reduced by the amount in excess of ten days and his or her accrual rate for that year will be reduced accordingly. An employee who is unable to schedule their annual vacation earnings because of work assignments, may submit a written request to their supervisor to carry over all their unused vacation (in addition to the fifteen (15) days) earnings from that year. Approval will be granted with the proviso that the employee take any of the additional time within six months of his/her anniversary date and that it is understood that the additional time will not be cashed out if the employee terminates their employment before taking the additional time.
Unused accumulated vacation leave plus prorated unused earnings from the current anniversary year will be cashed out at termination of employment
3.	Holidays. Employees are eligible for fourteen paid holidays each year, including:
9
New Year’s Day
Martin Luther King Birthday
Presidents Day
Friday before Easter
Memorial Day
Independence Day
Labor Day
Columbus Day
Veterans’ Day
Thanksgiving Day
Day after Thanksgiving
Last Working day before Christmas
Christmas Day
Employee Birthday or alternative personal day of the employee’s choice
In addition, CtW will recognize any other day named as a federal holiday by executive order of the President as a paid holiday for staff.
Holidays that fall on a Sunday will be observed on the following Monday; holidays that fall on a Saturday will be observed on the preceding Friday.
Any hourly employee working on a holiday will be paid time and one half for all hours worked on the holiday in addition to holiday pay, or at their option may elect to be paid time and one half for hours worked and take an alternative day off within thirty (30) days of the holiday worked, subject to supervisor approval of scheduling the day off.
4.	a)Compensatory Time. The nature of the work of Change to Win often requires exempt employees to work long and irregular hours; to work on weekends and holidays and to work away from home for extended periods of time. In recognition of the potential for unusual required work schedules, exempt employees will be entitled to three paid compensatory days leave each contract year.
b ) Employees required to work fourteen (14) consecutive days shall be allowed three (3) consecutive days off following the fourteen (14) days, unless campaign necessity requires otherwise. This time off shall be in addition to the compensatory time contained in Section 4 a.
c)	Bereavement Leave. Employees who experience the death of a member of their immediate family, including parent, parent-in-law, child, spouse or domestic partner, sibling or grandparent are entitled to up to five days with pay to attend to their family’s needs. Employees may take one day paid leave to attend the funeral upon the death of an aunt or uncle.
d)	Family and Medical Leave. In compliance with the Family Medical Leave Act, employees are eligible to take leave to care for qualified family members (including domestic partners) and medical reasons. The leave will be without pay unless the employee elects to use any of their accumulated leave. All leave used, paid or unpaid, will be applied to the limits of
10
entitlement under the FMLA. Change to Win will continue family healthcare coverage for up to four months while an employee is on an FMLA leave.
e)	Parental Leave. Upon the birth or adoption of a child, all Change to Win employees are eligible for thirty (30) paid days of parental leave. An employee may use additional leave combining accumulated vacation, compensatory time, sick leave and unpaid time for up to six months after the birth or adoption. The Employer will continue paid health benefits for up to six months while an employee is on leave after the birth or adoption of a child.
f)	Pregnancy Physical inability to work due to pregnancy will be considered the same as inability to work due to any other physical disability under the FMLA. In applying the FMLA benefits, an employee giving birth will automatically be entitled to the period of her hospital confinement plus up to ten (10) weeks of leave immediately following the birth, in addition to paid parental leave. An employee will have the option to take any combination of FMLA leave, accrued sick leave, vacation or leave without pay for a total of up to six months after the birth of a child. All leave taken under this section will be applied to the limits of FMLA entitlement.
g)	Inclement Weather. Change to Win will follow the leave policy of the Federal Government in the event of inclement weather. Employees with dependent children may take unscheduled vacation leave when their child’s school closes, opens late or closes early due to inclement weather.
h)	Military Leave. Change to Win will comply with the requirements of law with respect to required leaves of absence for service in the US Armed Services.
i)	Union Leave. A Change to Win employee who is elected or appointed to any full time office or position in the their union will be entitled an unpaid leave of absence for up to one year or for the period of his/her first term of office, whichever is greater.
ARTICLE 14 EMPLOYEE EXPENSES/OTHER BENEFITS
1.	The Employer will reimburse all work related expenses incurred by an employee subject to the limitations of the Change to Win Expense Reimbursement Policy.
To the extent possible, CtW will arrange for direct billing of all hotel room and tax charges, air and rail transportation and any approved rental car.
Subject to the approval of AMEX, CtW will pay the annual fee for an AMEX card that is home billed to the employee for employees who travel frequently.
Beginning January 1, 2009, the per diem for meals and incidental expenses will be $50 per day.
11
2 Other Benefits
a)Dependent Care Assistance Program. The Employer shall continue its Dependent Care Assistance Program (DCAP) allowing for employees to elect for pre-tax payroll deduction for qualified dependent care costs.
b)Health Care Flexible Spending Account. The Employer shall continue to provide a qualified Health Care Flexible Spending account that allows for pre-tax payroll deductions for qualified medical expenses.
c) Auto Allowance. Employees who are required to own and use their personal vehicle as a condition of their employment, will receive a monthly taxable allowance of $530 per month, paid bi-weekly concurrent with regular payroll.
An employee receiving an auto allowance must provide the employer with proof of ownership (or lease) and insurance of their vehicle.
Gasoline expenses incurred while on CtW business will be reimbursed provided business miles are documented and justify the gasoline expense.
ARTICLE 15 JOB SECURITY
1.	Just Cause. No employee who has completed their probationary period
will be disciplined or discharged without just cause. The Employer will inform an employee that they have the right to request representation by a union steward before beginning any meeting with the Employer which is investigative in nature and could lead to disciplinary action. The Employer will notify the Guild steward of such a meeting before it is conducted.
2.	Personnel Files. Change to Win will remove any warning notices, disciplinary entries or incidents of unsatisfactory performance from an employee’s personnel file for which there is no recurrence for one (1) year. Once removed, the material will not be used as the basis for any future discipline. Upon request an employee may examine their personnel file or provide written authorization for the Guild to review their file. Upon written request of staff in the field, the contents of an employee’s personnel file will be copied and mailed to the employee.
3.	Mobility with Affiliates.
a) As campaigns activities may expand and contract, Change to Win is committed to expanding the capacity of our affiliates by recommending interested and qualified Change to Win staff for positions with our affiliate unions.
b)Seniority and Layoffs. Change to Win may lay-off employees for legitimate reasons. In the event of a layoff within the Strategic Organizing Center, employees will be laid-off according to inverse order of seniority within a classification on the particular campaign or department impacted by the reduction in force, provided the remaining employees are able and qualified to perform necessary campaign or department duties. The Retail/Fast Food operations are a single campaign for the purpose of this Article.
12
c)	In the event of a layoff within the Executive Office, employees will be laid-off according to inverse order of seniority within a classification on the particular campaign or department impacted by the reduction in force, provided the remaining employees are able and qualified to perform necessary campaign or department duties.
d)	Administrative employees at Change to Win headquarters shall be laid off by job classification in inverse order of seniority.
e)	Change to Win will make every effort to minimize the adverse effects on employees prior to taking any lay-off measures, including recommending employees for corresponding vacant positions within Change to Win and with CtW affiliates.
f)	Change to Win agrees to notify the union and affected employee(s) in writing about any reduction in force as far in advance of the proposed action as is possible but no less than two weeks prior to the effective layoff date. Change to Win will provide the union with relevant information, including the campaign and positions involved, the effective date, and the reasons for the action. f) An employee who has been laid off shall have his/her name placed on a reemployment list for one (1) year, or for the length of their employment, whichever is less. The employer will send notice of an available position to the last known address provided by the laid off employee in order of seniority. An employee who receives notice must respond to the notice within ten (10) days of the date of the notice. An offer of recall will be revoked after ten (10) days and an employee who fails to respond or who refuses a recall offer will be removed from the recall list.
g)	For purposes of this Article, Seniority shall be based on an employee’s continuous service with Change to Win in a bargaining unit position. An employee promoted or transferred within CtW but outside the bargaining unit and who remains continuously employed by CtW and later returns to the bargaining unit shall retain his/her seniority date as of the time of promotion or transfer.
h)	Severance. Laid-off employees who do not accept reassignment to another campaign or an offered position with a Change to Win affiliate will be eligible for two weeks severance pay or a week’s pay for each year of employment, whichever is greater, up to five weeks’ pay.
ARTICLE 16	GUILD RIGHTS
1.	a Union Security. It will be a condition of employment that all employees included in this agreement who are members of the Guild in good standing on the effective date of this agreement shall remain members in good standing and those who are not members on the effective date of this agreement shall become and remain members in good standing in the Guild. The foregoing provision will be effective in accordance and consistent with applicable provisions of federal and state law. It will also be a condition of employment that all employees covered by this agreement and hired on or after its effective date shall, on or before the thirtieth (30th) day following the beginning of employment, become and remain members in good standing in the Guild.
13
b. Upon submission of an authorization form completed by the employee, Change to Win will withhold dues and fees at the rate instructed by the Guild.
2.	CWA-COPE. Upon submission of an authorization form completed by the employee, Change to Win will withhold CWA-COPE deductions.
3	. Membership Lists. Once a year, and upon request from the Guild, CtW will supply the Guild with a list of all employees in the Guild bargaining unit showing the employee name, salary, salary step, address, sex, race, date of birth, date of hire, and job title. Monthly all of the above information will be provided to the Guild for new employees, employees promoted within the bargaining unit, promoted out of the bargaining unit, employees receiving step increases, and for employees who resign or otherwise leave the bargaining unit.
4.	Guild Meetings. Subject to the availability of space, Guild meeting may be held in the Change to Win office during non-work hours.
5.	Bulletin Boards. Change to Win will provide a bulletin board posted in
an accessible area for Guild business. The Guild will refrain from posting material that defames Change to Win or any individual.
6.	No strike During the term of this agreement, the Guild agrees that it will not engage or encourage any Change to Win employee to engage in a restriction of the Change to Win operation, work stoppage or strike.
ARTICLE 17	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
1.	Organization and operating procedures. Change to Win reserves the right to set its operating structure and procedures, subject to appropriate notification to the Guild of any changes and to discussion with the Labor Management Committee on the impact of those changes on the wages, hours and working conditions of employees.
2.	Staffing and Work Assignments. Change to Win reserves its right to determine staffing configurations and staffing levels, to identify campaign targets, structure, resources and staffing and to make work assignments.
3.	No lockout. Change to Win agrees that there will be no lockout of employees during the term of this agreement.
14
ARTICLE 18	DURATION OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall be effective as of January 1, 2015, and shall continue in full force and effect until December 31, 2017, and shall be automatically renewed from year to year unless either party serves notice, in writing, at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration date of their desire to change, modify or terminate this Agreement. Upon such notice, the parties will begin negotiations promptly for a successor agreement.
For Change to Win
For Washington-Baltimore Newspaper Guild
15
APENDIX A
ADMINISTRATIVE		Start	6 mos.	12 mos.	24 mos.			
Receptionist	2015	38,643	41,403	44,163				
	2016	38,643	41,403	44,163				
	2017	38,643	41,403	44,163	46,923			
Program Assistant	2015	44,163	46,923	49,683				
	2016	44,163	46,923	49,683				
	2017	44,163	46,923	49,683	52,443			
		A	B	C	D	E	F	G
GRADE 1	2015	44,217	45,809	47,401	48,992	50,548	52,176	
Communications Associate I	2016	44,217	45,809	47,401	48,992	50,548	52,176	
Strategic Investment Researcher I	2017	44,217	45,809	47,401	48,992	50,548	52,176	53,804
Strategic Research Analyst I								
Organizer I								
GRADE 2	2015	49,939	52,436	54,933	57,430	59,927	62,424	
Bi-Lingual Communications								
Associate I	2016	49,939	52,436	54,933	57,430	59,927	62,424	
Bi-lingual Organizer I	2017	49,939	52,436	54,933	57,430	59,927	62,424	64,921
Communications Associate II								
Strategic Investment Researcher II								
Strategic Research Analyst II								
Organizer II								
GRADE 3	2015	57,222	59,282	61,342	63,402	65,462	67,522	
Bi-lingual Communications								
Associate III	2016	57,222	59,282	61,342	63,402	65,462	67,522	
Bi-lingual Organizer II	2017	57,222	59,282	61,342	63,402	65,462	67,522	69,582
Sr. Communications Associate								
Sr. Strategic Investment Researcher								
Sr. Strategic Researcher								
Sr. Organizer								
GRADE 4	2015	64,505	66,827	69,149	71,471	73,793	76,116	
Sr. Bi-lingual Communications								
Associate	2016	64,505	66,827	69,149	71,471	73,793	76,116	
Sr. Bi-lingual Organizer	2017	64,505	66,827	69,149	71,471	73,793	76,116	78,439
Attorney/Researcher								
16
GRADE 5	2015	67,917	70,362	72,807	75,252	77,697	80,142
Attorney/Researcher	2016	67,917	70,362	72,807	75,252	77,697	80,142
Online Campaigner	2017	67,917	70,362	72,807	75,252	77,697	80,142 82,587
Political Campaigns Data Manager
Sr. Bi-lingual Communications Associate
Sr. Bi-lingual Organizer
Sr. Policy Analyst
17
APPRENTICE ORGANIZER PROGRAM
Purpose: The Apprentice Organizer Program is a training program designed to create opportunities for inexperienced but otherwise qualified staff to join the labor movement in fulltime positions by teaching basic union organizing skills required for the Organizer I position. The program will not be used as a substitution for hiring skilled, experienced organizers nor as a tool to undermine the bargaining unit.
The program will provide a campaign-specific, intensive training experience to individuals with less than two years full-time worker, political, and community organizing experience.
Apprentice organizers will receive written and oral feedback every six months, and can only be discharged on grounds consistent with this agreement. Upon successful completion of the program, organizers will be promoted to the Organizer I slot with Change to Win.
Job Responsibilities:
In year 1
Assist in the identification and development of workplace and community-based leaders
Manage information and maintain accurate records
Motivate workers, union members, members of the general public to take action Gather information, conduct field research on working conditions, compliance with laws
Work with a team
In year 2
Build one on one relationships with workers, other individuals and constituency groups
Run small meetings
Assess support of workers, other individuals of campaign goals
Without assistance, identify and develop workplace and community-based leaders Design and execute field research
Job Requirements:
High motivation to learn basic organizing technique
Willingness to travel and work long hours and weekends
Drivers License and willingness to drive
Basic writing skills
Pay and Benefits:
Starting Pay $ 34,333
First Anniversary $ 39,275
Completion of the Apprentice Program: Step A of the Wage Appendix
Apprenticeship cannot last longer than two years from date of hire.
18