Contract Between Metropolitan Washington Council, AFL-CIO And Washington Baltimore Newspaper Guild
(January 7, 2016 through December 31,2017)
AGREEMENT
This agreement is effective on the 1st day of January, 2015 between the Metropolitan Washington Council, AFL-CIO and the Washington-Baltimore Newspaper Guild Local 32035 of The Newspaper Guild- Communications Workers of America. The parties are hereinafter referred to as the MWC and the Guild.
In entering into this agreement, the parties express a shared belief in and commitment to the labor movement and the intent to advance the cause of workers represented by the MWC and the Guild.
The MWC and the Guild agree to promote a harmonious relationship in the workplace, and they agree that it is their mutual aim to act at all times in such a manner as to treat all employees of the MWC with respect and dignity.
1.	RECOGNITION/UNION SECURITY
The MWC recognizes the Guild as the exclusive bargaining agent for all employees employed at the office of the Employer, excluding supervisors, managerial and confidential employees, as defined by the National Labor Relations Act.
In addition all employees coming under this Agreement shall become members in good standing of the Guild within thirty (30) days of initial employment and shall remain members in good standing for the term of this Agreement.
Employees’ Guild dues shall be checked off bi-monthly and sent to the place designated by the Guild. However, an employee who chooses not to sign a dues check-off authorization is required to pay his or her dues directly to the Guild on a monthly basis.
The Employer shall recognize the importance of seniority pertaining to all aspects of this Agreement.
1
2.	JOB SECURITY, EMPLOYMENT, DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE
1.	The Employer maintains all traditional rights not limited by this Agreement.
2.	The Employer reserves the right to employ as the conduct of its business requires, and further reserves the right to make final determination of the qualifications of any applicant for employment prior to such employment or during the probationary period for new employees. The Employer shall have unlimited right to discharge a new employee who has not completed the probationary period.
3.	Employees with more than six (6) months of service shall not be subject to discipline or discharge except for just cause.
4.	Two (2) weeks notice or two (2) weeks’ pay in lieu of notice shall be given by the Employer in terminating the employment of a permanent employee who has completed his/her probationary period. An employee guilty of gross misconduct may be terminated without notice and without pay in lieu of notice.
3.	HOURS AND COMPENSATION TIME
1.	The regular workweek shall consist of forty hours worked during five (5) days of eight (8) hours inclusive of one (1) hour of lunchtime for all employees. The regular working day shall be from 9am-5pm. Flexible work schedules may be approved by the President.
2.	The office closure between Christmas and New Year’s is considered compensatory time in recognition of the irregular and lengthy hours that may be required from time to time. In the event of extraordinary circumstances, the President may grant additional compensatory time when it is appropriate and circumstances permit.
3.	The MWC will provide each employee with a monthly report of all leave accruals.
2
4. COMPENSATION
Employees will be paid an annual salary on a bi-monthly basis as prescribed below.
All current employees shall be paid in accordance with Appendix A.
All employees hired on or after January 1, 2015 shall be paid no less than the following minimum salaries:
Position	Starting Salary
Mobilization Coordinator/UC	60,000
Asst Mobilization Coordinator/ UC	50,000
Legislative/ Political Coordinator	60,000
Asst Legislative/ Political Coordinator	50,000
Receptionist/ Secretary	32,000
Starting salaries for any other newly created unit position shall be the subject of negotiation between the MWC and the Guild.
In the event that a unit employee is hired during the term of this Agreement, he/she shall receive a 3% increase on the anniversary date of his or her employment.
3
5.	SICK LEAVE
Sick leave shall be credited on the basis of eight (8) hours (one (1) day per month) of employment. Sick leave may be carried over year to year with a cap of 960 hours (120 days). Sick leave may be used for the care of immediate family including spouse, domestic partner as defined elsewhere in this agreement, and children living with the employee. The Employer may require presentation of a licensed medical care provider certificate of illness for sickness lasting more than three (3) days.
6.	VACATION
1.	Vacation leave is earned at the rate often (10) days per year during the first twelve (12) months of employment accrued monthly (6.66 hours per month); fifteen (15) days per year during the 13th through the 36th months of employment accrued monthly (10 hours per month); twenty (20) days per year during the 37th through the 119th months accrued monthly (13.34 hours per month); twenty-five (25) days per year during the 120th through the 179th month of employment accrued monthly (16.64 hours per month) and thirty (30) days per year after the 180th month of employment.
• 2. Vacation leave shall be used in the year accrued with the exception that eighty hours may be carried over to the next year. With the approval of the President, more than eighty hours may be carried over, but may only be approved if it is to be used by a time certain agreeable to the President.
3.	Earned vacation not taken at the end of employment shall be paid in cash.
4.	If an employee dies with accrued vacation hours owed, the amount owed will be paid to the employee’s estate, unless the employee has filed a written request for such funds to be paid elsewhere.
7.	HOLIDAYS
Employees shall receive the following paid holidays:
New Year’s Day, Martin Luther King’s Birthday, Presidents’ Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veteran’s Day, Thanksgiving Day, the Friday after Thanksgiving, Christmas Day and one (1) floating holiday to be taken at any time each year, not to be accrued or rolled over year to year. When Christmas Eve and New Year’s Eve fall on a normal work day, the office will be closed at noon.
4
8.	MEDICAL INSURANCE
1.	The MWC will continue to purchase and maintain the present level of hospitalization, surgical, medical care, dental care, and prescription insurance coverage during the life of this Agreement. Any eligible employee may enroll in the health insurance plan during the open season.
2.	The MWC will provide coverage for a domestic partner as defined elsewhere in this Agreement.
3.	An employee may opt out of MWC-provided health insurance if she/he presents proof of coverage under another health plan. If such coverage is lost due to a COBRA-qualifying event during the term of this Agreement, the employee will be enrolled under the MWC-provided coverage within thirty (30) days of notification of loss of coverage.
9.	SEVERANCE PAY
Severance will be paid only for layoffs. Employees shall receive one (1) week’s salary for every one (1) year of employment, or major fraction thereof, which major fraction shall be prorated. In cases of lay-off, affected employees shall receive a minimum of two (2) weeks severance. The MWC shall notify the Guild and the affected employee at least thirty (30) days in advance of any layoff. The MWC and the Guild will meet to discuss possible alternatives to layoff. Should the layoff continue, it shall be conducted in inverse order of seniority by job classification. A laid off employee shall have recall rights to a job for which she or he is qualified for up to one year from date of layoff.
The MWC will pay COBRA premiums for up to two (2) months for laid off employees.
10.	EXPENSES
Employees must obtain the advance consent of the President before incurring expenses for which they will seek reimbursement. Approved expenses must be documented, with receipts attached, and submitted within thirty (30) days of the date on which they were incurred.
11.	PENSION
The MWC shall provide pension coverage to each employee through the Maryland State and DC AFL-CIO Pension Plan or the successor AFL-CIO Pension Plan in accordance with the Plans’ terms.
5
12. LEAVES
1.	Employees shall receive necessary time off, up to a maximum of forty (40) hours (5 days), except in cases of distance travel, which shall be determined by the President, when at least fifty-six hours (7 days) shall be provided, with pay in the event of death in the immediate family. Immediate family includes husband, wife, domestic partner, mother, father, brother, sister, son, daughter, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparent, and grandchild. Domestic partner is defined as two individuals who, together, each meet all of the following criteria:
1.	Both are 18 years of age or older.
2.	Both are competent to enter into a contract.
3.	The individuals share a mutual residence.
4.	Neither is married to, nor the domestic partner of, any other person.
5.	Neither has a pending termination of domestic partnership.
6.	In order to receive benefits for a domestic partner, the employee must demonstrate that the relationship is registered with the District of Columbia or their State of Residence. The MWC must be made aware within thirty-one (31) days of any change or termination of an individual’s status as a domestic partner.
2.	Employees shall be provided leave with pay during periods of required jury duty. Employees will reimburse the Employer to the extent of any pay received from a government entity for such jury duty.
3.	All permanent employees shall be granted a parental leave of absence for the birth or adoption of a child, without loss of seniority, for a period of up to sixteen (16) weeks.
All permanent employees shall be granted four (4) weeks leave with pay and without loss of seniority for the birth or adoption of a child. Employees may supplement this leave with any accrued vacation and sick leave up to 16 weeks. Employees may opt for an unpaid leave of up to 16 weeks, per the DC Family and Medical Leave Act. Total leave, paid or unpaid, cannot exceed 16 weeks. Employees will determine the order on which their leaves will be charged and used.
4.	Employees who are eligible voters shall receive time off to vote on election days, not to exceed two (2) hours.
5.	Employees shall be granted paid leave anytime the federal government closes for weather or other emergencies.
6
13.	LIFE INSURANCE
The MWC shall provide, at no cost to Employees, a life insurance policy that provides coverage of at least one (1) times base annual earnings.
14.	CELLPHONES
The Employer maintains the right to determine which, if any, employees will be provided cell phones for their work. Employees will reimburse the MWC for any costs incurred by the employee above and beyond the covered minutes provided for in the plan.
15.	GRIEVANCES
Employees may present to the President, through the Guild, grievances that may arise under this Agreement which shall be any dispute, or controversy arising between the parties hereto relating to working conditions, or any dispute involving interpretation, or application, of any provision of this Agreement. Grievances shall be filed within thirty (30) days after the occurrence, or within thirty (30) days after the grievant becomes aware of the occurrence or should have become aware of the occurrence. If such grievances are not disposed of within thirty (30) days, then the procedure set forth below shall be followed:
Any grievance which the Guild and the President have not been able to settle after thirty (30) days shall be submitted to a three (3) member panel drawn from the MWC Executive Committee (excluding the President), and selected by alternative strikes by the parties. This panel will make a determination within thirty (30) days. If the grievance is not resolved at this step, the grievance shall be submitted to arbitration. The Guild and the MWC will, within five (5) days of the submission, select a mutually agreeable arbitrator. If no agreement can be reached, an arbitrator shall be selected and the case heard under the rules of the American Arbitration Association (AAA). Both parties to this Agreement jointly request AAA to provide arbitrator panels consisting of arbitrators with addresses in the metropolitan Washington, DC area. The decision of the arbitrator will be final and binding, and arbitrator’s fees only will be borne equally by the parties.
16.	NO DISCRIMINATION
There shall be no discrimination against any person based on union membership or activity, race, sex, sexual orientation, gender identification, creed, religion, color, national origin, age, marital or parental status, political belief, or physical or mental handicap.
7
17.	NO REDUCTION
No employee shall suffer a loss or reduction in any benefit or condition of employment that was in effect immediately prior to the effective date of this Agreement.
18.	TERM
This Agreement shall become effective as of January 1, 2016 and shall remain in effect through December 31,2017. Either party may notify the other, in writing, sixty (60) days prior to the expiration date, giving notice of intention to modify said Agreement. Terms and conditions of the Agreement shall remain in effect during any negotiations or any modifications.
HQ WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have signed this Agreement on this 31 day of ^Ec£rwg>t?ig 2015
Metropolitan Washington Council, AFL-CIO
Josfyn N. Williams, President
Washington- Baltimore Newspaper Guild
Rick Ehrmann, Staff Representative
8
APPENDIX A
Salary increases for all current Guild bargaining unit staff shall be applied as follows:
Mobilization Coordinator/UC
3% increase effective 5/3/16
3% increase effective 5/3/17
Asst Mobilization Coord/UC
Legislative/Political Coordinator
Asst Legislative/Political Coordinator
3% increase effective 4/16/16
3% increase effective 4/16/17
Receptionist/S ecretary
9