COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
between
RAINN
(Rape, Abuse and Incest National Network)
and
Washington-Baltimore Newspaper Guild, Local 32035
Effective June 1,2015
Expires May 31,2017
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREAMBLE....................................................3
ARTICLE I	- RECOGNITION....................................3
ARTICLE II	- PROBATIONARY PERIOD............................3
ARTICLE III	- DUES CHECKOFF.................................3
ARTICLE IV	- MANAGEMENT’S RIGHTS............................4
ARTICLE V	- FILLING OF VACANCIES...........................4
ARTICLE VI	- SENIORITY......................................4
ARTICLE VII	- FAIR SHARE....................................6
ARTICLE VIII	- JOINT LABOR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE.............6
ARTICLE IX	- RESPECT AND DIGNITY............................6
ARTICLE X	- HOURS, SCHEDULING, OVERTIME....................7
ARTICLE XI-WAGES............................................8
ARTICLE XII	- VACATION......................................9
ARTICLE XIII	- LEAVES......................................10
ARTICLE XIV	- SICK LEAVE...................................10
ARTICLE XV	- HOLIDAYS......................................11
ARTICLE XVI	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATION..........11
ARTICLE XVII	- DISCIPLINE...................................13
ARTICLE XVIII	- NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT......................13
ARTICLE XIX	- HEALTH INSURANCE..............................14
ARTICLE XX	- NO DISCRIMINATION..............................14
ARTICLE XXI	- POLITICAL ACTIVITY AND OTHER COMMUNICATIONS...14
ARTICLE XXII	- MISCELLANEOUS...............................14
ARTICLE XXIII	- SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS......................15
ARTICLE XXIV	- SEPARABILITY & SAVINGS CLAUSE...............15
ARTICLE XV	- MODIFICATION..................................15
ARTICLE XVI	- DURATION.....................................15
APPENDIX “A”.............................................  17
2
PREAMBLE
This agreement is made effective this May_, 2015, between Rape, Abuse and Incest National
Network (“RAINN” or the “Employer”) and the Washington-Baltimore Newspaper Guild (the “Guild”) chartered by The Newspaper Guild-Communications Workers of America as Local #32035, for itself and then on behalf of all the employees described in Article I - Recognition.
ARTICLE I	- RECOGNITION
The Employer hereby recognizes the Guild as the exclusive bargaining representative for wages, hours, and terms and conditions of employment for all Safe Helpline Staffers and Safe Helpline Assistant Shift Managers employed by the Employer to perform call center services, but excluding all Safe Helpline Managers, Safe Helpline Shift Managers, Senior Safe Helpline Managers, and office clerical employees, managerial employees, confidential employees, guards, and supervisors as defined by the National Labor Relations Act (the “Act”).
ARTICLE II	- PROBATIONARY PERIOD
Section 1.	Each applicant hired as an Employee will serve a probationary period of 90 days following the successful completion of training. The Parties may extend the probationary period by written agreement for any particular Employee for up to an additional 60 days.
Section 2.	During the probationary period and any agreed upon extension, the Employer shall have the right to discharge or discipline an Employee in its discretion with or without just cause. This action will not be subject to the grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE III - DUES CHECKOFF
Section 1.	RAINN shall, in compliance with all applicable law and on the basis of individually-signed voluntary check-off authorization cards, deduct from the paycheck of each employee and pay to the Guild not later than the thirty first (31st) day of the following month membership dues. Such amount shall be deducted from the employee’s earnings in accordance with the Guild’s schedule of rates furnished in writing to RAINN by the Guild. Such schedule may be amended in writing by the Guild not more than once per year. The Guild must give RAINN thirty (30) days’ notice of any change in rates for the appropriate payroll deductions to be effectuated. An employee’s voluntary written check-off authorization shall remain effective in accordance with the terms of such authorization.
Section 2.	The Union agrees to refund any amounts remitted in error, upon presentation of evidence of error. The Employer agrees to rectify errors in deducting dues or remittance of aggregate dues upon presentation of evidence of error.
Section 3.	The Employer shall not be liable to the Union or to any Employee by reason of the requirements of this Article, and the Union shall indemnify the Employer and hold it
3
harmless against any and all suits, demands and liabilities that shall arise out of, or by reason of, any action that the Employer takes to comply with this Article.
Section 4.	Check-off Authorization Form: The parties agree that the check-off authorization
shall be in the form attached as Appendix A.
ARTICLE IV - MANAGEMENT’S RIGHTS
Section 1.	Except as modified or restricted by this Agreement, all statutory and inherent managerial rights, and functions are retained and vested exclusively in the Employer, including, but not limited to, the rights:
a.	to reprimand, suspend, discharge, or otherwise discipline Employees for cause;
b.	to determine the number of Employees to be employed and to hire Employees, determine their qualifications, and assign and direct their work;
c.	to promote, demote for just cause, layoff, recall to work;
d.	to set standards of productivity and/or the services to be rendered;
e.	to maintain the efficiency of the organization including to determine the methods, means, personnel, and facilities by which operations are conducted;
f.	to set the starting and quitting time and the number of hours and shifts to be worked;
g.	to close down, or relocate the Employer’s operations or any part thereof or to expand, reduce, alter, combine, assign, or cease any job, department, operation, or service;
h.	to control and regulate the use of facilities, equipment, and other property of the Employer;
i.	to introduce new or improved research, service, materials, and equipment;
j.	to introduce new or improved methods of evaluations of products, services, and Employees;
k.	to determine the number, location and operation of departments, divisions, and all other units of the Employer;
Section 2.	The Employer’s failure to exercise any right hereby reserved to it, or the Employer’s exercise of any such right in a particular way, shall not be considered a waiver of the Employer’s right to exercise such right or preclude it from exercising the same in some other way not in conflict with the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V - FILLING OF VACANCIES
Section 1.	When the Employer decides to fill a vacancy for ASM, the Employer shall post the opening internally and externally simultaneously.
Section 2.	Postings for ASM’s vacancies shall be written by the Employer and shall specific the minimum qualifications (e.g., experience, education, and skills).
Section3.	The Employer recognizes the importance of seniority and desirability of filling vacancies by promotion. Current Employees within the unit who apply for and meet the
4
qualifications of the ASM vacancy shall be given consideration and preference unless an outside candidate is more qualified as determined in management’s discretion.
ARTICLE VI - SENIORITY
Section 1.	Definition. Seniority for the purpose of this Agreement shall be defined as the employee’s continuous length of service with the Company from the last date of employment or re-employment (Except as otherwise provided in this Article). Seniority shall be a factor for consideration within job classification in the following instances.
Section 2.	Promotion, Demotion, Layoff, Permanent transfers. Seniority shall be a factor for purposes of promotion, demotion, layoff, recall after layoff, or permanent transfers, subject to an employee’s skills, qualifications, training, ability to perform the work in a satisfactory manner, and record of performance at the Company.
Section 3.	(a) Layoff. The Employer shall notify the Guild in writing as soon as it becomes aware of a need for a reduction in force, but whenever possible, will provide at least forty-five (45) days’ notice prior to any proposed reduction in force. The Employer will specify the job title and number of employees affected. During the first two-weeks of that notice period the Employer and Guild will discuss possible alternatives to a reduction in force. If alternative options to the reductions cannot be reached, employees will be given as much remaining notice as possible of the layoff.
(b)	Except as provided below (Section 3(c)), employees shall be laid off in reverse order of seniority within job classification, so long as the more senior employee(s) has the skills, qualifications, training, and ability to perform the remaining work in a satisfactory manner.
(c)	Employees whose user feedback scores are below 4.0 for length of their service will be laid off first in reverse order of seniority.
(d)	Laid-off Employees shall be placed upon a rehiring list for one year. Employees shall be recalled from layoff in order of seniority within job classification taking into consideration the employee’s skills, qualifications, training, ability to perform work in a satisfactory manner, and record of performance at the Company. If the employee’s skills, qualifications, training, ability to perform work in a satisfactory manner and record of performance are not equal, seniority shall be a factor of consideration. Employees laid off and subsequently recalled and who return to work as directed will retain their former seniority.
(e)	To satisfy the recall requirements under this Article, the Employer shall contact the employee about the recall opportunity by sending one email to the last known email address of the individual and by placing one call to the last known phone number. The Employer need only hold the position open for forty-eight (48) hours before filling the position pursuant to this Article or if no other eligible employees are available, by hiring externally.
Section 4.	Termination of Seniority. An employee’s seniority shall be terminated upon (1) discharge for cause or voluntary quit, (2) failure to return to work or notify the Company of an acceptable cause within forty-eight (48) hours after notification by certified mail notification (to
5
last address, or electronic address on file with the Company) of recall after layoff, provided that an employee who is notified by telephone or electronic mail and who reports to work as scheduled need not be notified by certified mail. An employee promoted or transferred outside of the Guild’s jurisdiction and who remains continuously employed by the Employer and later returns to the Guild bargaining unit shall retain the employee’s seniority at the time of promotion or transfer.
ARTICLE VII - FAIR SHARE
Section 1.	It shall be a condition of employment that all employees covered by this Agreement who are members of the Guild in good standing on the effective date of this Agreement shall remain in good standing and those who are not members on the effective date of this Agreement shall become and remain members in good standing in the Guild. The foregoing provisions shall be effective in accordance and consistent with applicable provisions of federal and state laws. It shall also be a condition of employment that all employees covered by this Agreement and hired on or after its effective date shall, on or before the thirty first (31st) day following the beginning of such employment, become and remain members in good standing in the Guild.
Section 2.	The Guild agrees that it will admit to and retain in membership any such employee subject to the provisions of the Constitution of The Newspaper Guild-CWA and the by-laws of the Washington-Baltimore Newspaper Guild.
Section 3.	The Employer agrees to supply the Guild once each year with a list of all employees in the Guild bargaining unit, showing name, address, date of birth, date of hiring, job title and wage. To the extent that gender identity and race are in the possession of the Employer, it will be provided The Employer further agrees to supply to the Guild once each month a list of the employees in the unit who are added to and deleted from the payroll and any changes in the job classifications or wages.
Section 4.	There shall be no interference or attempt to interfere with the operation of the Guild in the performance of its duties as the bargaining agent for the employees covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE VIII	- JOINT LABOR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
A joint labor-management committee is established. The committee shall have two representatives chosen by RAINN and two representatives selected by the Guild. RAINN and the Guild may mutually agree to allow additional representatives to serve on the committee. The committee will meet for 60 minutes, three times per year or by a mutual agreement at a different frequency. The labor-management committee will seek to identify and resolve issues of mutual concern. Time spent in such meetings by employees serving on the labor-management committee will be unpaid.
ARTICLE IX	- RESPECT AND DIGNITY
6
The parties acknowledge the following fundamental understandings:
a.	RAINN and the Guild agree to cooperate with one another in efforts to assure efficient operations, to serve the needs of RAINN, and to meet the highest standards in such service.
b.	RAINN and the Guild agree that it is their mutual aim to act at all times in such a manner as to treat all employees of RAINN with respect and dignity.
c.	The Employer agrees to work with the Labor Management Committee to improve positive employee-management relations.
ARTICLE X - HOURS, SCHEDULING, OVERTIME
Section 1.	Overtime is any time worked by an Employee in a work week in excess of 40 hours. RAINN’s work week is defined as Monday through Sunday.
Section 2.	All Employees shall be granted an uninterrupted paid maximum fifteen minute break for every four hours worked during a work shift. Two fifteen minute breaks may be combined into one uninterrupted paid maximum 30 minute break at the request of the Employee and with the approval of management. Breaks will be scheduled by management based on operational needs. Breaks may not be taken during the last hour of an Employee's work shift. Breaks may not be rolled over from shift to shift.
Section 3. (a) The monthly schedule shall be posted no later than the 21st of the preceding month. Employees shall submit their availability for shifts when hired. If there are changes in availability, Employees must submit change requests to the SHL Manager by the 5th of the preceding month prior to the scheduling period, at which time the Manager may approve or deny the request. The scheduling period is defined as a calendar month. Employees may request time off one month in advance by the 5th of the preceding month , which the Employer may grant or deny based on staffing needs. Shifts shall be scheduled on the basis of availability and merit. Employees may not work double shifts without management's prior approval. There shall be a minimum of twelve hours between scheduled shifts, except at the request of the employee and with the approval of management. An employee may not sign up for or work shifts totaling more than 29.5 hours in a week without the explicit approval of management. At management’s discretion, ASMs may be scheduled for either ASM or staffer shifts, but shall be paid at the Staffer rate when filling a Staffer shift.
(b) Employees hired after the effective date of this contract shall work/be scheduled a minimum of 16 hours a month. Vacation and other authorized leave shall count toward the minimums. The minimums shall apply to all other employees 4 months after the effective date of this contract.
Section 4, All Employees are required to be present and prepared to log-in to a computer and begin work at the start of their scheduled shift.
7
Section 5.	The Employer's Safe Helpline must remain in operation at all times, regardless of the weather. At all times, regardless of the weather, Employees are expected to arrive at RAINN's office on time for their work shifts and complete their work shifts at RAINN's office, , unless instructed otherwise by management. In the event the office is closed, employees may be required to telework.
Section 6.	(a) Employees may drop a shift in a non-emergency situation a maximum of one time per year. This rule is waived in extenuating circumstances including change in school schedule and change in non-RAINN employment. In such cases, the Employee shall consult with management as soon as practicable to facilitate coverage but must do so at least 24 hours in advance of the shift.
(b)	When an employee is sick or using other authorized leave, or in emergency situations outlined in (c) below, he/she shall not be required to find coverage for his/her shift. The shift manager shall be responsible for finding a replacement.
(c)	In other emergency situations including car accidents, death in the family), Employees must provide proof of the emergency situation to the extent allowed by law. Employees who fail to work a shift as a result of an emergency situation and fail to provide proof (discharge papers, police report, obituary, etc.) will be considered a no show.
(d)	RAINN shall continue the policy of allowing employees to swap shifts. Swaps should be within the period of posted schedules.
Section 7.	RAINN shall continue the policy of filling shifts vacated due to illness or other reasons with the first qualified employee who responds. ASMs shall be allowed to fill vacant Staffer shifts, but shall be paid at the Staffer salary when filling a Staffer shift.
ARTICLE XI - WAGES
Effective on the execution date of this Agreement, all employees will be employed at a minimum of the following hourly wages. No employee shall receive less that the following minimums after completion of the trial period or the applicable Federal and State minimum wage statute, whichever is greater, in addition to across the board increases defined herein. If the Employer, during the term of this Agreement, increases the minimum in a category, all current non-probationary employees in that category will have his/her rate increased to the new minimum if s/he is below the new minimum.
Classification	Wage
Staffer	$12.00
ASMs	$13.00
a)	Effective June 1, 2015 or ratification date of the agreement, whichever is later, all covered employees, who have completed the probationary period, shall receive an increase in their hourly wage of 3%.
8
b)	Effective June 1, 2016 all covered employees, who have completed the probationary period, shall receive an increase in their hourly wage of 3%
c)	Effective June 1, 2015, or ratification date of the agreement, whichever is later, all covered employees, who have completed the probationary period, shall receive a benefit allotment of $4.08 per hour
d)	Employees working the overnight shift from 11 pm to 7 am shall be paid a shift differential of $2.00 per hour.
e)	All covered employees, who have completed the probationary period, will receive a bonus of extra vacation time submitted into his/her vacation bank as long as the covered employee is still employed at RAINN on January 1 of the following year. The vacation bonus will be calculated as equal to .0192 hours for each hour worked in the previous calendar year (after successful completion of your probationary period).
f)	There shall be no reduction in wages as a result of this Article.
The Union has filed a UC petition with the NLRB to include NSAHL Support Specialists and NSAHL leads. While the Employer denies that these employees should be included in the unit, if the NLRB decides that these positions should be added to the unit, the effective date for the applicable increase for these positions would be a 3% increase on March 1, 2016 and March 1, 2017.
SHL employees will not receive any retroactive pay or benefits for work performed prior to ratification. If NS AH employees are made part of the unit, RAINN will honor vacation time accrued prior to the date of ratification.
ARTICLE XII - VACATION
Section 1.	Beginning with the first month of employment, or from the date of the execution of this Collective Bargaining Agreement, whichever is later, employees accrue paid-vacation time at the rates specified below:
	
Probationary Period	No time accrued
Balance of Year 1, Year 2	.0461 hours for every hour worked
Years 3 and 4	.0577 hours for every hour worked
Years 5 through 10	.0692 hours for every hour worked
Years 10+	.0846 hours for every hour worked
Vacation entitlements will accrue at the appropriate month-by-month rate based on the employee’s length of service. An employee may take accrued vacation time at any time upon completion of six months of employment, or sooner with the approval of their direct supervisor.
Section 2.	No more than 200 hours of paid-vacation time may be accrued and available for use by any employee at any point in time. Vacation accrual will cease when an employee has reached a maximum of 200 hours. The suspension of paid-vacation time accrual will remain in place until leave usage causes the employee’s balance of accrued leave to again fall below the 200 hour ceiling.
9
All use of vacation leave must be planned and approved in advance by the employee’s direct supervisor. The employee shall submit their vacation request prior to the scheduling period by the 5th of the preceding month to the SHL Manager. Vacation leave may be taken in full-day or partial-day increments.
Section 3.	Upon termination of employment, employees will be paid for all accrued but unused vacation time, unless employment is terminated for cause.
ARTICLE XIII - LEAVES
Section 1.	Bereavement Leave: Employees will be entitled to up to five shifts of unpaid leave due to a serious illness or death of the Employee’s spouse, domestic partner, child, stepchild, sibling, parent, grandparent, grandchild, father- or mother-in-law, son- or daughter-in-law, or brother- or sister-in-law. To receive unpaid bereavement leave, the Employee must previously be scheduled to work the hours for which the Employee seeks the unpaid bereavement leave. This leave must be taken within seven calendar days of the event triggering the leave for which the Employee seeks the unpaid bereavement leave.
Section 2.	Military Leave: The Employer shall comply with the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (“US ERR A”).
Section 3, The DC and Federal Family and Medical Leave Act shall apply to the employees of RAINN who have at least one year of service, regardless of the number hours worked in the previous year. For the purposes of this section, a domestic partner shall be treated the same as a spouse.
Section 4.: Jury/Court Duty: An employee called for jury duty will be allowed the necessary time off to render such civic service. The Employee will be paid the difference between jury duty pay and his/her regular wages for the periods of jury duty coinciding with the employee’s scheduled work hours. Employees must submit proof of their service of jury duty before leave for such jury duty will be paid.
Section 5.	Guild Leave: Employees who are members of the Guild bargaining team shall be excused from work, without pay, for time spent bargaining, including caucus time, provided they notify RAINN of their need for such an excusal in a timely manner as soon as practicable so that RAINN can remove those employees from the schedule and find coverage for their excused work time.
Section 6.	Authorized leave under this Article shall not constitute a break in continuity of service. RAINN shall be responsible for filling any vacated shifts due to authorized leaves-taken under this Article.
ARTICLE XIV - SICK LEAVE
Section 1. Employees will earn one hour of sick leave per every 40 hours worked. Employees will retain any unused, accrued sick leave as of the date of this agreement.
10
Section 2, Sick leave may be accumulated from year to year. No more than 160 hours of sick leave may be accrued and available for use by any employee at any point in time. Sick leave accrual will cease when an employee has reached a maximum of 160 hours. The suspension of sick leave accrual will remain in place until sick leave usage causes the employee’s balance of accrued sick leave to again fall below the 160 hour ceiling.
Section 3.	Sick leave may be used for an employee’s or family member’s (including domestic partner) illness, injury or medical appointments, and seeking or obtaining medical, social, or legal services for an employee or family member who is the victim of stalking domestic violence or sexual abuse.
Section 4.	Management may require employees to produce documentation (in the form of a doctor’s note or other written documentation) for any absence of 3 or more consecutive scheduled shifts or hospitalization.
Section 5.	Sick leave will not be paid out at termination of employment.
ARTICLE XV	- HOLIDAYS
Section 1.	Employees required to work on any hours on the holidays listed below, excluding District of Columbia Emancipation Day, shall receive one and one half hour’s pay for every hour worked on the holiday. Holiday hours begin at 11:00 P.M. of the night before the holiday and end at 10:59 P.M. of the holiday. These holidays are:
a.	New Year’s Day
b.	Martin Luther King Day
c.	Presidents’ Day
d.	Memorial Day
e.	Independence Day
f.	Labor Day
g.	Columbus Day
h.	Veterans’ Day
i.	Thanksgiving Day
j.	Christmas Day
k.	New Year’s Day
Section 2.	District of Columbia Emancipation Day may be requested off as an unpaid
holiday.
ARTICLE XVI	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATION
Section 1.	For the purpose of this Agreement, the term “grievance” means any dispute between the employer and the Guild, or between the employer and any employee concerning the
11
effect, interpretation, application, claim or breach or violation of this Agreement, or any dispute that may arise between the Parties. Grievances shall be filed in writing with the Self Helpline Manager, noting the invocation of this Article, within fifteen calendar days after the occurrence or within fifteen calendar days after the grievant becomes aware of the occurrence or should have reasonably become aware of the occurrence. In the event a grievance is not filed within the time limit, the grievance shall be considered resolved and no further action, including pursuit of the grievance in arbitration, shall be allowed. Failure to file a grievance in a timely fashion in one instance shall not preclude filing on a similar issue which occurs subsequently.
Section 2.	Step One: There shall be a meeting between the grievant, a shop steward, and the immediate supervisor within fifteen calendar days of the receipt of the written grievance. The employer shall respond in writing within fifteen calendar days of the Step One meeting. If the employer does not respond, the Guild may move the matter to Step Two of the grievance process.
Section 3.	Step Two: If the matter is not resolved at Step One, the Guild may move the matter to Step Two of the grievance process by notifying RAINN’s HR Manager in writing within fifteen calendar days of employer’s response to Step One. There shall be a meeting between a Guild representative, a shop steward, the grievant, and up to two (2) RAINN managers within fifteen calendar days of receipt of the written grievance. The employer shall respond in writing within fifteen working days of the Step Two meeting. If the employer does not respond, the Guild may move the matter to arbitration.
Section 4.	Any dispute not settled under the grievance procedure provided above, shall be submitted for arbitration by either the Guild or the Employer in the following manner:
a.	Notice of intent to arbitrate must be given in writing to the other and explain the issue. Any request for arbitration must be submitted in writing no later than 30 calendar days after the issuance of the Employer’s Step 2 response.
b.	Arbitration shall be taken before an arbitrator mutually agreed upon between the parties. Should the Parties fail to agree on an arbitrator the matter shall be heard before the American Arbitration Association (AAA). The Parties will strike and rank arbitrators from the AAA panels until mutual agreement is reached.
Section 5.	The decision or award of the arbitrator shall be final and conclusive and binding on all Parties to this Agreement. The arbitrator shall have no power to add to, subtract from, alter, or in any way modify the terms of this Agreement. Costs of arbitration shall be shared equally between the Guild and the Employer, but each Party shall pay the fee of its own attorney.
Section 6.	The term “grievant” shall be construed to include: any individual Guild member, a group of Guild members, or, RAINN management.
Section 7.	The time limits set forth in this Article may be extended upon mutual agreement of the Parties.
12
ARTICLE XVII	- DISCIPLINE
Section 1.	Employees who have completed the new-hire probation shall not be subject to discipline or discharge except for just cause.
Section 2.	Any employee and the Guild shall have the right to review the employee’s own personnel file at a mutually convenient time and, upon request, shall be provided copies of all material in the employee’s file.
Section 3.	If no other discipline has been received, notices of discipline shall be removed 18 months after issuance.
ARTICLE XVIII	- NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
Section 1.	For the duration of this Agreement, the procedures described herein for settlement of grievances shall serve as the means for peaceful settlement of all disputes that may arise between the Parties regarding this Agreement. During the term of the Agreement or extension thereof, the Union will not collectively, concertedly, call, engage in, participate, directly or indirectly in, work stoppages, slowdowns, strikes, “sick outs,” sympathy strikes, or any other interference with or interruption of work (hereinafter referred to as “Prohibited Activity”). The Company agrees that it shall not lock out its employees during the term of this Agreement.
Section 2.	In the event that an employee or employees engage in any of the actions set forth in Section 1 of this Article, which the Union has agreed not to call, authorize, condone or support, such employee and those participating with him/her shall be immediately discharged. The term "slowdown" shall mean an intentional or willful act on the part of the employee to restrict the operations of the Company by the use of any means within the employee’s reasonable control.
Section 3.	In the event that the employee or employees engage in any of the Prohibited Activity set forth in Section 1 of this Article, the Union, immediately, upon receipt of written or electronic notice from the Company, shall be obligated to do the following things:
a)	Advise the Company, in writing or electronically, that the Prohibited Activity has not been called or sanctioned by the Union.
b)	Advise the worker(s) involved that such actions are unauthorized, and further order the worker(s) to return to work immediately.
Section 4.	The obligation of the Union shall be limited to the performance of the acts required by Section 3, and upon compliance by the Union with the provisions of Section 3 of this Agreement, the Union and its officers, agents, and members shall have no further liability during the term of this contract and thereafter, for any damage suffered by the Company arising from or out of any stoppage or strike.
Section 5.	In the event the Union fails to take the actions described in Section 3, the Union will be held liable and responsible for the actions of its members. If the Union, either directly or
13
indirectly, authorizes supports, promotes, or condones any violation of this Article, the Company will have all rights the law provides, including, but not limited to, entitlement to injunctive relief, court costs and attorney's fees.
Section 6.	Neither the violation of any provisions of this Agreement nor the commission of any act constituting an unfair labor practice or otherwise made unlawful by any federal, state or local laws will excuse employees or the Parties from their obligations under this Article's provisions.
ARTICLE XIX	- HEALTH INSURANCE
RAINN shall provide full-time unit employees with same health insurance provided to nonbargaining unit employees at the same rates.
ARTICLE XX	- NO DISCRIMINATION
It is agreed that the parties to this Agreement will not discriminate against any employee because of union membership or activity, age, sex, race, creed, color, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, religious beliefs, disability or political belief, or outside political activity - except as limited in Article XXI - Political Activity and Other Communications. The parties shall abide by all applicable federal and local laws and/or ordinances prohibiting discrimination in employment.
ARTICLE XXI	- POLITICAL ACTIVITY AND OTHER COMMUNICATIONS
Section 1. Employees may engage in political activity, including volunteering for a campaign, endorsing a candidate, or making a financial contribution, on their own time. Employees may not use their affiliation with RAINN in such political activities and Employees must make clear that their political involvement is personal and in no way related to their employment at RAINN. Any public disclosure of an Employee’s involvement with a campaign or other election activity may not note the Employee’s affiliation with RAINN, except as otherwise required by law. Employees may not use RAINN’s office space, telephones, or other property, or RAJNN’s resources, for any political activity. Because RAINN is a 501(c)(3) charitable organization, RAINN is expressly prohibited from any involvement with a campaign or other election activity. Thus, any violation of these rules may subject Employees to discipline, up to and including termination.
Section 2. Employees who mention RAINN in a communication on any social networking site or who express either a political opinion or an opinion regarding RAINN’s actions must include in the communication a disclaimer that the views expressed are those of the Employee and do not reflect the views of RAINN. Nothing in this article shall be construed as limiting an employee’s rights under the National Labor Relations Act, including but not limited to, the right to engage in protected and concerted communications about hours, wages, and other terms and conditions of employment or employees’ rights under the collective bargaining agreement.
ARTICLE XXII	- MISCELLANEOUS
14
The Employer agrees to provide access to a bulletin board in SHL kitchen for the use of the employees represented by the Guild for Guild-related business.
ARTICLE XXIII	- SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS
This Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto, and shall be binding upon any successors or assigns by merger, consolidation, or otherwise of either party.
ARTICLE XXIV	- SEPARABILITY & SAVINGS CLAUSE
To the best knowledge and belief of the parties, this contract contains no provision, which is contrary to Federal or State Law or regulation. Should however, any provision of this Agreement at any time during the period provided for in this Agreement be in conflict with Federal or State Law or regulations, the Parties agree to negotiate with respect to such provisions, and said provisions shall continue in effect for the time being only to the extent permitted under said Federal or State Law or regulations. In the event that any provision of this Agreement is thus held inoperative, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect, and if the Parties cannot reach an Agreement in the aforementioned negotiations, then either Party to this Agreement may submit the matter in dispute to arbitration as provided for in this Agreement.
ARTICLE XV	- MODIFICATION
Any changes in this Agreement, whether by addition, waiver, deletion, amendment, or modification, must be reduced to writing and executed by both the Employer and the Guild.
ARTICLE XVI	- DURATION
Section 1.	This Agreement shall take effect on June 1, 2015, or the date on which this Agreement is ratified, whichever is later, and it shall remain in full force and effect for two years, until midnight, May 31, 2017, and for successive terms thereafter until notice of termination or modification is provided as required herein.
Section 2.	In the event either Party wishes to terminate or modify this Agreement, written notice by certified mail of such intent shall be sent to the other party not less than 60 days or more than 90 days prior to the expiration date of the Agreement. Thereafter, the Parties shall meet to engage in good-faith negotiations for a new agreement at mutually agreed upon times and places. Upon giving such notice as provided above, the Agreement shall expire at its termination date, unless the Parties agree in writing to extend the term of the Agreement.
15
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused their names to be subscribed hereto by their duly authorized officers and representatives this I day of June, 2015.
FOR RAINN:
16
APPENDIX “A”
ASSIGNMENT AND AUTHORIZATION
TO DEDUCT GUILD MEMBERSHIP DUES
TO: RAINN
I hereby assign to the Washington-Baltimore Newspaper Guild, Local 32035 The Newspaper Guild-CWA, and authorize RAINN to deduct from each paycheck from any wages earned or to be earned by me as an employee, an amount equal to the dues and assessments as certified by the Treasurer of the Guild starting in the first week in the month following the date of this assignment. I further authorize and request RAINN to remit the amount deducted to the Guild not later than the 31 st day of the following month.
This assignment and authorization shall remain in effect until revoked by me, but shall be irrevocable for a period of one year from the date appearing below or until the termination of the contract between RAINN and the Guild, whichever occurs sooner. I further agree and direct that this assignment and authorization shall be continued automatically and shall be irrevocable for successive period of one year each of the period of each succeeding applicable contract between RAINN and the Guild, whichever period shall be shorter, unless written notice of its revocation is given by me to RAINN and to the Guild by registered mail not more than thirty (30) days and not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the expiration of each period of one year, or of each applicable contract between RAINN and the Guild, whichever occurs sooner. Such notice of revocation shall become effective for the calendar month following the calendar month in which RAINN receives it.
This assignment and authorization is voluntarily made in order to pay my equal share of the Guild’s costs of operation and is not conditioned on my present or future membership in the Guild.
Print Name
Employee’s Signature
Date__________________________________
17