CONTRACT
IUE/CWA LOCAL 83188, AFL-CIO
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT Between Student Action with Farmworkers And IUE Division of the Communication Workers of America, AFL-CIO Local 83188
Dates: July 31, 2013 through July 31, 2016
Contents of Contract:
The Agreement
Article 1	- Recognition
Article 2	- Check-Off and COPE
Article 3	- Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity
Article 4	- Hiring [includes Job Description, Introductory Period, Promotion]
Article 5	- Job Classification and Pay
Article 6	- Union Representation
Article 7	- Personnel Issues [includes Work plan, Evaluations, Personnel Reports, Staff Development]
Article 8	- Seniority
Article 9	- Employee Benefits [Pension, Health Insurance]
Article 10	- Employer Coverage [Workers’ Compensation, Unemployment Insurance]
Article 11	- Working Conditions [Breaks, Travel Allowances, Health and Safety]
Article 12	- Paid Leave [Normal workweek, Reporting of Work, Compensatory Time, Vacation, Personal Days, Disability Leave, Inclement Weather, Emergency/Bereavement, Jury or Witness Duty, Quarantine, Parental Leave, Military Leave, Sabbatical]
Article 13	- Unpaid Leave [includes Union Leave]
Article 14	- Termination Policy [includes Firing or Discipline, Exit Interview, Exit Work]
Article 15	- Grievance and Arbitration
Article 16	- Harassment
Article 17	- Miscellaneous [Language of Communications, New Technology, Fiscal Transparency]
Article 18	- No Strike/ No Lockout
Article 19	- Separability
Article 20	- Employer Rights Clause
Article 21	- Merger Clause
APPENDIX A - Salary Level Criteria
APPENDIX B - 360° Evaluation Forms
Duration of Agreement
This Agreement entered into this 20th day of May 2010 between the IUE Division of the Communication Workers of America, Local 188 (hereinafter referred to as the Union) and Student Action with Farmworkers (hereafter referred to as the Employer) shall be binding on both parties.
1
Article 1	- Recognition
The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all staff except the Executive Director and Assistant Director.
Article 2	- Dues Check-Off and COPE
Note:	The check-off authorization for membership and COPE that
follows will be honored with the terms printed therein.
SS# (Employee Number) ___________________________________________
Date of Application ____________________________________________
Signature
Address __________
Phone Number ___________________________________________________
1.	Authorization and Assignment
You are hereby authorized and directed to deduct from my wages a sum equal to the membership dues and initiation fee which shall be remitted by you to the IUE Division of the Communication Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 188 in accordance with the applicable collective bargaining agreement.
This authorization shall be irrevocable until a date one (1) year from the effective date hereof or until the date on which the current collective bargaining agreement between my Employer and the IUE-CWA, AFL-CIO and/or its Local 188 is terminated, whichever is earlier. I agree and direct that this Authorization and Assignment shall be automatically renewed and shall be irrevocable for successive periods of one (1) year from the effective date hereof or for the period of each succeeding applicable collective bargaining agreement between my Employer and IUE-CWA, AFL-CIO and/or its Local 188, whichever period is shorter, unless written notice of revocation by individual registered mail is given by me to my Employer and IUE-CWA, AFL-CIO and/or its Local 188, whichever date is earlier. This Authorization and Assignment supersedes all previous Authorizations and Assignments.
During the life of this Agreement, the Employer agrees to deduct authorized dues levied by the International Union or Local Union, in accordance with the Union Constitution and By-Laws, from the pay of each employee who, individually and voluntarily, certifies in writing, in a form meeting the requirements of the law, that he authorizes such deductions. The form for Authorization and Assignment is attached
2
hereto and made a part of this Agreement. Authorized dues deducted by the Employer under this provision shall be remitted to the Financial Secretary Treasurer of the Local Union within thirty (30) days from the date of deductions, together with a list of employees from whom deductions were made and the amount deducted from each.
2.	IUE-CWA, AFL-CIO Voluntary COPE Check-Off Authorization
Local Union Number 83188
Location _________________________________________________
Date______________________________________________________
I hereby authorize the Employer to deduct from my pay the sum of (weekly, monthly or yearly) and to forward that amount to the IUE-CWA COPE Committee.
This authorization is voluntarily made. The signing of this Authorization and the making of payments to the Committee are not conditions of membership in the Union or of employment with this organization. I may refuse to contribute without reprisal.
The IUE-CWA COPE Committee is connected with the IUE-CWA, AFL-CIO and AFL-CIO COPE in a joint fund-raising effort, and they use the money they receive for political expenditures in connection with elections, (including, but not limited to, making contributions for federal, state and local officers and addressing political issues of public importance).
Contributions or gifts to COPE and the AFL-CIO are not deductible as charitable contributions for federal income tax purposes.
Signature
Home Address
Telephone #
Article 3	- Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity
The Employer declares and affirms a practice of equal opportunity. Employer will foster, maintain and promote equal opportunity in the employment of all persons with the organization, and will prohibit discrimination in employment by the organization because of age, sex, race, religion, color, national origin, union affiliation, citizenship status, military status, culture, class, gender expression, marital or
3
parental status, family relationship, sexual or affectional preference, political activities or beliefs or disability. The organization shall give preference to and actively recruit current and former farmworkers and people from farmworking families for all positions to reflect the constituency of the organization. Members of under represented groups are particularly encouraged to apply.
It is further agreed that the concept of pay equity and equal pay for work of comparable value shall be a fundamental factor of the Employer's pay policy.
Article 4	- Hiring
a)	When hiring a new employee or promoting a current employee, the Executive Director will convene a committee of a mutually agreeable number of board and staff members to implement the affirmative action policy, review new job descriptions and titles, and participate in the recruitment and interviewing of applicants, and participate in the promotion of current employees, except when hiring an interim employee.	Final decisions in hiring are at the discretion of
management.
b)	All new employees will be given a description of the duties and functions for which they have been hired on the first day of work. The Employer may change the job description due to needs determined by strategic plans or grant requirements, which they will discuss with the affected employee and present to affected staff. The employee will have the opportunity to give input regarding changes to her/his job description. If an employee wishes to change their job description or title in accordance with SAF's programs and mission they must present the changes to the Employer. Job descriptions will be reviewed annually as a part of evaluations.
c)	Introductory Period: All newly hired employees and employees who begin work in a new position will go through an introductory period of three (3) months. During this period employees will receive all benefits and may use leave as they accrue it. Except where otherwise noted this contract applies to introductory employees the same as it applies to other employees. Introductory employees do not have the right to arbitration. At the end of this period, the employee's supervisor will complete a written evaluation and the employee will complete a self-evaluation that will determine continued employment with the organization.
Each introductory employee will receive an orientation that includes a sit-down meeting with the Employer and coworkers including a discussion of their job description. Each new employee will have an evaluation [see Article 7] at the end of their introductory period.
4
The Union's designated representative can meet with all introductory employees within one week of hire date during work hours without loss of pay.
d)	Promotion: The Employer shall circulate a job description for any job opening within the organization. For any promotions or transfers within the organization, the employer will circulate a job description among current employees. Employees interested in being considered for this job will submit a cover letter and resume to the Executive Director. An employee denied promotion or transfer will be given written reasons for such denial by the Employer. Should the hiring committee agree, long-term interns working in the SAE office for at least 10 weeks could be considered for job openings through the promotion process.
Article 5	- Job Classification and Pay
The established bargaining unit does not include the Executive Director, the Assistant Director, or any individual with the authority to hire or fire other staff.
Employees will be classified full-time or part-time at the beginning of the employment relationship. An employee's classification can be changed if the circumstances of employment change. An employee who objects to a change in their classification may ask a Steward to help them negotiate with the Employer and/or file a grievance.
1.	Salaries - See Appendix A
2.	There shall be no contracting out of work that affects the growth of the bargaining unit.
3.	The Employer may hire temporary employees to fill in for employees on leave for more than four months. Temporary employees will be covered by this contract. The Employer may contract with individuals to fill in for employees on leave for less than four months. Any exceptions will be agreed upon by both parties.
Article 6	- Union Representation
The Union shall choose a Steward or other representative to conduct routine union business. Such persons will be allowed up to one hour per week during working hours to conduct their duties without loss of
5
pay. This includes up to one hour per week during working hours for up to 2 staff members to meet with the organization for contract negotiations. Any additional time shall be negotiated with the Employer. The Union will notify the Employer of the name of the steward.
Union members will be designated by the Union to attend grievance meetings or participate in other Employer/union communications set forth in this contract, and shall be released for that purpose without loss of pay.
A duly authorized representative of the Local or International Union shall be permitted access to the employment premises with prior notification to the Employer except for emergency situations during working hours, for the purposes of ascertaining compliance with this Agreement, investigating grievances or conducting other Union business. The Union's representatives will conduct business in a manner that respects the normal flow of the organization's work. The Union shall provide the Employer with the names of the International Representative and Local staff, and shall communicate updated information as necessary.
Upon signing this agreement, the Employer shall supply the Union with a staff list of all employees showing date of hire, job classification and rate of pay. An updated list will be provided to the Union each time there are changes in this information.
Article 7	- Personnel Issues
Workplan
(a)	During the introductory period, the supervisor will work with the employee to develop their workplan in accordance with their job description. Employees may request a Steward to assist during this process.
(b)	Each employee's job description will be reviewed and his or her workplan will be updated as a part of the evaluation. Employees may request a Steward to assist during this process.
(c)	Each employee will complete monthly written progress reports indicating the major activities undertaken and accomplishments achieved during the month.
Evaluations
When
•	Evaluations will be done at the end of an employee's Introductory Period.
6
•	Formal evaluations of all employees will occur annually. Informal evaluations will occur at mutually agreed upon intervals as needed.
How
•	The employee will complete a written self-evaluation.
—	Written evaluations will also be completed by the employee's supervisor. The evaluator will solicit input from the employee's coworkers, and may solicit input from SAF interns or community partners. The employee may make recommendations for individuals to contact.
•	Co-workers will only evaluate the employee's performance in applicable areas.
•	The supervisor will meet with the employee to discuss the evaluations after the employee has had at least 1 week to review them.
•	The employee being evaluated may also request a meeting with their coworkers.
•	The employee may write a response to their supervisor's or coworkers' evaluations of them.
•	All employees can complete an evaluation of their supervisor and/or director.
Content of the Meeting
•	Evaluations will be a learning tool to assess training needs and opportunities for staff development, including recommendations for career development.
•	Evaluations will critique employee performance and focus on achievement and plans for improvement as well as possible new areas of work.
•	Evaluations will review and may update the employee's workload, job description and workplan.
•	Employees may include concrete evidence of the quality of their work.
•	See Appendix B for a copy of the Evaluation Form
Documentation
•	The compiled evaluations will be put in the employee's personnel file.
Check-ins
•	Regular informal supervisor/employee check-ins will be done at a mutually agreeable interval.
Personnel Records
The Executive Director shall maintain employees' personnel records which includes an employee's application, cover letter, resume, preemployment material and all pertinent documents concerning the
7
employee's employment record, job description, workplan, compiled evaluations and documentation of disciplinary action or changes in employment status.
Information regarding salary information and absences are readily available.
Access to personnel records is restricted to those authorized by the employee and those needing information for tax, insurance or benefits purposes.
Employees may review and copy their own personnel file at any time, without previous notice.
Staff Development
The Employer encourages employees to attend continuing education workshops or courses that will assist and/or improve their work at SAE. As well, the Employer encourages employees to engage in activities outside of work that will assist them to handle stress and live a balanced life. Each year, each employee may take up to five paid days, for the purposes of personal or professional development such as studies, trainings, seminars, conferences or time spent with a mentor/mentoring organization. The Employer will offer $200 - $400 per employee per year to fund said development, upon approval of the Executive Director. The Employer will develop a training plan with each employee during their annual evaluation. This benefit does not roll over from one year to the next.
Article 8
Seniority
Seniority will be determined by the original date of hire and/or first work performed for the Employer. Part-time employees will accrue prorated seniority. (An employee who works 20 hours a week for a year will accrue six months of seniority.)
Benefits of Seniority
1.	If due to budget shortfalls, layoffs of staff are necessary, staff within a given program i.e. Into the Fields, Project Levante, Sowing Seeds for Change, & From the Ground Up, will be laid off first by least seniority.
2.	Senior staff has priority on a leave of absence request, if there are two or more requests covering the same period of time.
3.	When employees have a mutually agreeable break in service they will maintain their seniority for two years, after which time an employee will be considered a new hire and go through an introductory period.
8
Article 9	- Employee Benefits
Health Insurance The Employer will provide insurance coverage that is of comparable cost, meaning the employer will cover 100% of the premium, and of comparable coverage, meaning there will not be a reduction in the package of benefits provided at the time of this agreement. Any active employee who works a minimum of 30 hours/week on a year-round basis will be considered full-time for purposes of health insurance . Employees may submit input to be used in the Employer's decision of which plan to use.
(a)	Full-time employees will be entitled to individual coverage under the group health insurance plan offered by the Employer OR be reimbursed for coverage provided elsewhere [up to the cost of coverage under the Employer's group plan] as long as this does not jeopardize the Employer's ability to maintain its small group policy.
(b)	Part-time employees (those employees who work fewer than 30 hours per week) who have their own health care coverage will receive prorated reimbursement for their monthly premium, based on a 40-hour workweek. If their monthly premium is more than 5% higher than it would be under SAE's group plan, then the pro-rata reimbursement will be based on the premium that would apply under SAE's group plan.
Part-time employees who do not have their own health care coverage will receive a health care stipend equal to the pro-rated amount of the monthly premium that would apply under SAP's group plan.
(C)	Employees can choose to pay out of pocket for coverage of eligible partners/ family members.
In May 2015, if the employees conclude that they are not receiving adequate coverage under the new plan, they can open up only "Article 9 - Health Insurance" of the contract.
Article 10	- Employer Coverage
Workers' Compensation The Employer will provide workers' compensation insurance in the amounts prescribed by the state of North Carolina. No employee will be retaliated against for filing a workers' compensation claim. If the organization's insurance carrier denies the workers' compensation claim, then the FMLA leave would apply.
Unemployment Insurance The Employer will maintain current unemployment insurance coverage for employees.
Article 11	- Working Conditions
9
Breaks
The working day shall consist of seven working hours within 8 consecutive hours and shall include one hour of break time (pro-rated for part-time.)
Travel Allowance
a)	Meal costs and gratuities will be reimbursed up to the daily maximum allowance of $30 (unless an exception is granted by the Executive Director) when traveling a minimum of eight hours for work. Employees who travel less than eight hours may receive meal reimbursement upon the approval of the Employer. Receipts must be submitted for reimbursement.
b)	Hotel bills, transportation (including	rental insurance and
parking) , supplies and other work-related expenses shall be paid directly by the Employer.
c)	Employees will preference the use of SAE cars for work related travel. When employees use their own vehicle for SAF business they will be reimbursed for mileage at a rate of 48 cents per mile; this change will take effect September 1, 2013.
d)	In the event of a mechanical problem with a vehicle needed for ground/air transportation to an Employer assignment, alternative measures to deal with the problem will be explored with the Employer.	When no suitable alternative can be arranged, the
Employer, in consultation with the employee, will determine what action to take, including rescheduling the work or providing emergency funds for transportation.
e)	SAF Employees may be issued advances so that personal funds will not be required. The advances shall not exceed the estimated cost of the trip and may not be issued more than five working days prior to the date of departure. Advances must be deducted from the amount requested on the reimbursement request form. If the employee does not provide receipts, they will be required to reimburse the Employer for the costs.
Health and Safety
The Employer recognizes its responsibility to provide a safe and healthy workplace. It further recognizes the right of an employee to refuse to accept an assignment or job which the employee has a good reason to believe is hazardous or is performed under hazardous conditions. At the Union's request, the Employer and the Union shall establish a Health and Safety Committee with the Employer providing necessary lost time for employees to attend meetings. The Health and Safety Committee shall meet to resolve immediate health and safety concerns. The Committee may report at board meetings and make recommendations for resolution. The Employer will implement the
10
recommendations of the committee as is financially feasible and prudent.
Article 12	- Paid Leave
Normal Workweek: The normal workweek shall be five consecutive working days a week for a total of 40 hours for full-time employees.
Reporting of work: Each employee will complete an electronic time sheet at the conclusion of every pay period. On the form, the employee will report absences, record overtime/compensation time and certify the hours and days worked. Each employee will record their vacation and other paid leave in the annual leave document. Employees may view and/or photocopy this information at any point in time without prior notice. The Assistant Director will approve employees' monthly records and discuss changes with the employee.
Compensatory Time - Employees shall work their agreed-upon work week and plan days off within a week accordingly. An exempt employee who works beyond their agreed-upon workweek shall receive compensatory time for all excess time worked. Employees will use their compensatory time within 1 month of earning it. Employees must notify the Executive Director when taking more than two consecutive days of compensatory time. Use of compensatory time should not unreasonably prevent regularly scheduled program activities from occurring. In exceptional circumstances the Employer may allow an employee to use their compensatory time at a mutually agreed-upon date. Employees who travel out of town and stay overnight two or more nights and exceed their agreed-upon workweek to complete an assignment shall receive three hours credit to be recorded under compensatory time for each night.
Covered employees must receive approval from the Executive Director before working more than 40 hours in a workweek. Covered employees who work more than 40 hours are entitled to overtime compensation at the rate equivalent to one and one-half times their normal hourly rate of pay.
Vacation - Employees may take vacation days only as they are accrued unless an exception is granted by the Employer. Employees are eligible for vacation pro-rated on the basis of 40 hours/week.
Employees will be entitled to take vacation according to their length of employment or seniority as indicated below:
Up to 2 years---15 days per year
2-4 years---17 days per year
More than 4 years—20 days per year
Staff may carry over a maximum of 20 vacation days to the next calendar year. Years will be computed from September 1 - August 31, in accordance with the Employer's fiscal year.
11
Scheduling: The dates during which the paid vacation is taken must be mutually agreed upon by the staff member and the Executive Director. The Employer shall endeavor to comply with the staff member's request for vacation time consistent with the operational demands of the organization. Approval will not be unreasonably withheld. Employees should request leave from the Executive Director at least two weeks in advance if they take more than two days of vacation leave at a time.
Holidays - Employees are eligible for thirteen holidays per year prorated on the basis of 40 hours/week. Holidays are not to be used as vacation or personal leave, but must be taken on nationally or internationally recognized holidays, such as religious celebrations, or for personal birthdays. Employees must request holiday leave from the Executive Director at least one week in advance, and cannot take more than 2 consecutive days off for holiday at one time. If an employee has to work on a holiday that they honor, they may take the holiday within one week of the designated holiday. Holidays are not carried over to the next year. Unused holidays shall not be paid to an employee upon separation from SAF.
Personal Days - To respect the privacy of employees and discourage discrimination, the Employer offers personal days in lieu of sick days. Employees are eligible for 12 personal days per year prorated on the basis of 40 hours/week. Personal days that are not used can be carried over from one year to the next up to a maximum of 30 days. Unused personal days shall not be paid to an employee upon separation from SAF. Employees may donate up to one-half of their personal days to one or more other employees at their discretion. Employees must notify the Executive Director in advance of donating the days.
Parental & Disability Leave
Full-time employees who become parents either through birth or adoption shall receive 20 days of paid parental leave. Employees may use up to 40 days of their personal, vacation, or compensatory time for additional parental leave for a total of 12 weeks paid leave time in one year.
Full-time employees who are disabled by sickness or injury, or who need to care for a sick family member, shall receive 20 days of paid medical leave. Employees may use up to 40 days of their personal leave for additional disability leave for a total of 12 weeks paid leave time in one year. Employees must provide a doctor's note within a reasonable amount of time, preferably within one week of time they are out.
If an employee uses both their 20 days paid parental and 20 days paid disability leave in one year, then they can take an additional 40 days of personal, vacation, or compensatory time for a total of 16 weeks paid leave time.
12
If a longer absence is needed, employees may, with the approval of the organization, take up to three months unpaid leave to extend the period (unless they are extending parental leave and all unpaid disability leave has been taken or unless they are extending disability leave and all unpaid parental leave has been taken in a twelve-month period). When possible, the employee shall give thirty days notice prior to taking family and medical leave.
During parental and disability leave, the employee shall not accrue additional leave credits. Medical benefits will continue to be paid by the organization.
Part-time employees are eligible for paid and unpaid parental and disability leave pro-rated on the basis of 40 hours/week.
Inclement Weather - Employees should use Duke University's severe weather policy for "non-essential" staff and should not report to work or remain at work while the severe weather policy is in effect, regardless of her/his ability to report to work. The Executive Director may grant exceptions.
Emergency/Bereavement - Full-time employees shall be entitled to five (5) days paid emergency leave, such as a death in the immediate family or family of choice, fire, or other unavoidable circumstances with consent of the Employer. Part time employees are eligible on a prorated basis. Employees may use all available leave including personal/vacation/comp/etc. during the emergency/bereavement period with consent of the Employer. Reasonable requests will be granted.
Jury or Witness Duty - An employee who is not party to the action and who is absent in compliance with a summons for jury duty or a subpoena requiring the employee to appear in court as a witness shall be excused with pay, minus any amount of compensation received by the employee for jury or witness duty, during which the employee is absent on scheduled days because of such jury service or court appearance. When an employee is excused from jury or witness duty for part of the day or for an entire day, the employee shall report to the Employer in person or by telephone for an assignment.
Quarantine - In the case of unavoidable absence due to contagious disease and quarantine by any public health authority in an employee's immediate household or unavoidable quarantine elsewhere, the employee shall be paid up to 30 days on the same basis as if the absence were caused by illness of the employee.
Military Leave - A maximum of ten (10) days per year with pay will be granted for military leave such as Summer Camp, Special Duty, Emergency Call-Up, etc. Any amount over 10 days will be granted without pay. If military pay is received during this leave period,
13
the employee will be paid the difference between the amount paid them by the military and their normal rate of pay.
Sabbatical - After each five years of employment, full-time employees are eligible to receive a two month sabbatical leave with the understanding that the person will commit to work for SAF for one year after the sabbatical and will take the sabbatical at a time that is appropriate for the work of the organization. Request for sabbatical leave should be made at least two months prior to the starting date of the leave to the Executive Director. Employees that do not take a sabbatical at the five year interval may take the leave in another year if approved by the Executive Director in advance. Employees cannot take a sabbatical two years in a row.
One month (4 weeks) sabbatical will be fully paid. Employees are encouraged to seek funding to support their sabbatical. An employee can take an unpaid leave of absence for the second month or has the option to use their accrued personal leave or compensatory time. The employee will communicate what type of leave they will use for the second month to the Executive Director at least two weeks in advance of the leave. Sabbatical leave does not accrue and other leave does not accrue during sabbatical leave. SAF will continue to pay medical benefits during the leave.
Article 13	- Unpaid Leave
Unpaid Leave - The Employer may grant an unpaid leave of absence of up to two (2) months to employees who have worked one (1) or less years, up to six (6) months to employees who have worked two (2) or more years, and up to twelve (12) months to employees who have worked three (3) or more years. The request for leave shall be in writing and shall state the reason leave is being requested and shall be submitted at least thirty (30) days prior to commencement, if possible. Permission to leave will not be unreasonably denied. Employees returning to work from an unpaid leave of absence shall be placed in their same or comparable job. An employee on personal leave has the option to continue benefits by reimbursing Employer for the cost of benefits. Seniority will not be gained nor lost during unpaid leave.
Union Leave -Employees who are elected or appointed to a position in IUE-CWA and who have worked with SAF at least 12 months may be granted Union leave without pay for a period of up to six (6) months with the understanding that the person will commit to work for SAF for one year afterward and shall be reinstated in the same or comparable position upon the expiration of such leave. This leave may be extended by mutual agreement of the Employer and the Union. The employee must request union leave at least two months in advance of the leave period beginning, so that the Employer can plan adequately for the
14
transition. The cost of maintaining health insurance and other benefits shall be covered by IUE-CWA. Seniority shall continue to accrue while on Union leave.
Article 14	- Termination Policy
The end of an employment relationship with the Employer will fall within the following categories:
1.	Resignation is a voluntary termination freely made by the employee for any reason she/he chooses. An employee is expected to give one month's notice prior to the termination, more is desirable, at which time the last date of employment will be determined. Employees will be paid all earned unpaid salary and their accrued vacation time up to 20 days.
2.	Mutual Agreement will occur when both the individual and the Employer feel that it would be mutually beneficial to end the employment. Under these circumstances the termination date will be agreed upon. Employees will be paid all earned unpaid salary and their accrued vacation time up to 20 days.
3.	Layoffs due to funding limitations may be necessary. The Union may develop written recommendations to the Employer for dealing with staff cutbacks caused by financial exigencies such as nonrenewal of grants and/or contracts or a decline in revenue from fund raising activities. Maintaining all staff shall be top priority. The Employer shall take into consideration the possibility of job sharing, reduction of the workweek, and redistribution of salaries, and continuance of benefits so as to maintain as many staff members as possible. The Employer will make the final decision.
Staff	will	be	notified	at least 30 days in advance of	the
effective date of layoff, when possible. In the event of layoffs, staff	will	be	eligible	for unemployment compensation.	The
Employer will continue to pay health insurance costs for a maximum of 3 months following the layoff as long as the staff member is not covered by another health insurance plan. On the effective day of layoff employees will be paid their accrued vacation time up to 20 days. Employees who have worked a minimum of one year will receive severance in the amount of two week's pay. Employees who have worked less than one year will receive pro-rated severance based on one week's pay per year of service. Laid off employees will have preference to be rehired for future work.
4.	Firing or discipline must be for just cause. Just cause may be but is not limited to one of the following:
•	Repeated failure to perform assigned duties satisfactorily
15
•	Repeated failure to comply with written policies of the Employer
•	Use, manufacture, conveyance, possession or distribution of illicit substances on SAF's premises
•	Violation of a criminal law
•	Willfully misrepresenting work-related information to the Board and/or community
*	Falsifying records
•	Stealing or embezzling funds
•	Harassment (see description below)
" Divulging confidential information
•	Willful destruction of SAF property or the property of a coworker
•	Illegally possessing firearms or other lethal weapons at work
•	Engagement in partisan political activity under the name of SAF or during paid staff time
When one or more of the above conditions is/are met, the Disciplinary Process may be initiated by the Employer. The Employer shall adhere to the principles of progressive discipline. The employee may use the grievance process and/or request that the Steward assist at any time during the following Disciplinary Process:
1	) The Employer gives the employee a verbal warning that is documented in their personnel file and signed by both parties. In the event of gross employee misconduct, the Employer may skip to step (3).
2	) If the problem(s) continue(s) the Employer gives the employee and the Steward written notification explaining the problem and warning that employment is in jeopardy. Within 5 working days of this notification the Employer and employee will meet to create a detailed plan to remedy the situation within a mutually agreed-upon period of time not to exceed two weeks, with exceptions granted by the Employer.
3	) At the end of this period of time the Employer will meet with the employee and Steward to assess whether the problem(s) is/are resolved. If the Employer is not satisfied with the employee's progress, they will inform the employee and the Steward of the intent to fire.
If an employee is terminated they will be paid their accrued vacation time up to 20 days.
5.	Retirement - There is no mandatory retirement age.
16
6.	Exit Meeting-Employees must participate in an exit meeting with the Executive Director or may request an interview with a board member of their choosing. The Executive Director will be told the name of this board member as soon as practicable. The Executive Director and/or board member who participate in the exit meeting will prepare a summary of feedback for inclusion in the employee's personnel file. The employee will turn in any final work, passwords, and keys and may also give feedback to the organization. The departing employee has the right to request that a Steward or other Union representative be present for the exit meeting.
7.	Exit Work Departing employees shall clean their work area; arrange and properly label their files [including a directory of computer files with appropriate passwords]; compile a list of frequent contacts [including name, title, contact information and a description of the relationship]; and create informal notes for the next employee [including upcoming deadlines/events for which the next employee will be responsible]. Completion of exit work will be determined and scheduled by the Executive Director and the departing staff member.
Article 15 - Grievance and Arbitration
Grievances
It is encouraged that efforts be made to resolve problems between the Employer and employees in an informal manner. The grievance procedure should be used after direct informal negotiations do not resolve a problem. Grievances may be filed by staff or the Union Steward. Once a formal written grievance is filed all steps of the grievance process will be documented.
1)	An oral grievance must be made to the immediate supervisor, indicating that the grievant is invoking the grievance procedure, preferably within one week of the incident. The supervisor has three days to respond.
2)	Should the grievant be dissatisfied with the response, he or she has ten days to file a written grievance with the Executive Director or Personnel Committee of the Board. In this appeal, the grievant can be represented by a non-staff union representative if desired. The meeting must take place within three working days unless extended by mutual agreement. The Employer must respond within three working days of the meeting unless extended by mutual agreement.
3)	Should the grievant be dissatisfied with the response, he or she has three days to appeal to the Board of Directors. The board can establish a committee to hear the grievance. The grievant can have a non-staff union representative if desired. The Executive Director or his/her designee will represent the organization. The committee has 5 working days to issue a decision.
4)	Should the grievant be dissatisfied with the response, he or she has three days to appeal to a committee of Board members and SAE union members in equal numbers. (The grievant may
17
waive this union involvement if they choose.) The grievant can have a non-staff union representative if desired. The Executive Director or his/her designee will represent the organization. The committee has 5 working days to issue a decision. A mutually agreed-upon Board member may be called upon to break a "tie".
5)	The grievant or Employer has 20 days to take an unsatisfactory decision to arbitration.
Arbitration
1.	The Union does not waive its right to submit to arbitration, if the grievance is not satisfactorily resolved at the appeals level (step 4) .
2.	If the Union or Employer selects arbitration, the grievance shall be submitted to the American Arbitration Association for a panel.
3.	Appeal to arbitration of an unsatisfactory decision in Step 4 must be made within twenty (20) days after the receipt of the decision.
4.	Such a request for arbitration shall be initiated by giving written notification of such intent to the other party.
5.	The arbitrator shall have no power to add or subtract from this Agreement, but shall rule only on interpretation of the existing Agreement. The decision made by the arbitrator is to be final and binding upon both parties.
6.	All joint fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be equally divided between Employer and the Union. Otherwise each side will bear its own costs at arbitration.
7.	For each arbitration, the American Arbitration Association shall provide a list of not less than seven (7) names. If agreement on an arbitrator is not reached after exhausting the list, the parties shall request another list of seven (7) names. If agreement on the second list is not reached, the American Arbitration Association will appoint an arbitrator.
5. The arbitrator shall hear the appeal as quickly as possible following notification of his/her appointment and shall render his/her decision no later than thirty (30) days from the closing of the hearing.
9.	In the event that the grievance pertains to a termination, the Union may choose to bypass Steps 1 and 2. Such arbitration shall be processed according the Expedited Rules of the AAA.
Article 16	- Harassment
18
The Employer will follow federal law and SAF personnel policies to address reports of sexual harassment.
Article 17-	Miscellaneous
Language of Communications
For all communications, the Employer will provide interpretation services (written and verbal) in the employees' chosen language as reasonable and necessary.
New Technology
a)	Training on any new equipment shall be offered to employees as appropriate.
b)	The introduction of new technology or equipment shall not be grounds for a layoff of bargaining unit personnel.
Fiscal Transparency
(a) Employees will be provided financial information at Board of Directors' meetings including:
1.	profit and loss [or income and expense]
2.	confirmed and potential grant funding, including awarded and pending proposals
3.	board approved budget(s), including midyear changes
4.	potential for future cutbacks [see Article 11- Termination Policy, Section 3, Layoffs]
The Executive Director will submit grant proposals in agreement with the organization's strategic plan, as well as individual employee's job descriptions. The Executive Director shall receive input from employees about grants that cover their program responsibilities.
Article 18	- No Strike/No Lockout
The Employer agrees that so long as this agreement is in effect there shall be no lockouts. The Union, its officers, agents, employees, members and bargaining unit employees covered by this agreement, agree that so long as this agreement is in effect, there shall be no strikes, picket lines, sit-ins, slow-downs, stoppages of work, boycotts, concerted mass sickness, or any other acts or denial of services which would interfere with the organization's operations.
Article 19	- Separability
Should any provisions of this agreement be determined to be in violation of any federal, state, or local law or regulation, such determination shall not in any way affect the remaining provisions of the agreement and they shall remain in full force and effect. The
19
parties shall negotiate such modifications as are necessary for compliance with law.
Article 20	- Employer rights clause
Except as expressly limited by this agreement, the Employer has sole right to manage its organization.
Article 21	- Merger clause
This writing contains the entirety of the agreement between the parties.
APPENDIX A - Salary Level Criteria
Salary Level Requirements
20
Salary levels will be based on a combination of factors including education, related work experience, and experience on staff. Below are the minimum requirements to be placed at a given level.
Process for Determining Employee Credits:
New employee credits will be calculated by the Executive Director and union steward, and communicated to the hiring committee and prospective employee at the time a job offer is made. Salary credit determination will be documented and filed in the new employee's personnel file in a standard format that clearly reflects contract salary criteria. If a new employee's credits fall between two categories (e.g., 2.5) they will be hired at a rate calculated by averaging the salary amounts of the categories they fall between.
If a current employee's job description is altered, or they change positions, and they have experience related to the new job duties that was not included in their original salary credits, the employee may submit a letter to the Executive Director requesting that their credits be adjusted. The letter should indicate how their existing experience, skills or education is relevant to the work they now do. The Executive Director and Steward will review the request and reply to the employee in two weeks. If the request is denied, written reasons for denial should be give to the employee. The outcome of this request shall not result in a reduction in credits. If the request is granted, salary adjustments will take effect in September following the request.
If a current employee wishes to earn a degree or unpaid experience which could impact their salary, the employee should communicate their plans to the Executive Director during their annual performance review. The employee will request a salary increase in writing in the month of May prior to the fiscal year in which the salary increase will take effect.
Credit Categories:
1/2 credit for each year of full-time relevant work experience
1/2 credit for Associate's degree OR one year of full-time unpaid experience in relevant activism (ex. Labor solidarity, student and/or community organizing) and/or advocacy
1/2 credit for college degree (or final years of undergraduate degree program)
1/2 credit for relevant advanced degree
1	credit for each year of work at SAF for employees that work more than 20 hours/week
1/2 credit for each year of work at SAF for employees that work 20 hours of week or less
Note: 1 credit will be given for a Bachelor's degree (1/2 credit for Associate degree category andl/2 credit for college degree category).
21
0-1 = 31,000
2 = 32,400
3 = 33,800
4 = 35,200
5 = 36,500
6 = 37,800
7 = 39,100
8 = 40,300
9 = 41,500
10 = 42,700
11 = 43,900
12 = 45,100
13 = 46,300
14 = $47,400
15 = $48,500
During the year preceding contract expiration, 31, 2016, the parties are allowed to open only Level Criteria" of the contract at the request the sole purpose of negotiating salary levels.
July 31, 2015 - July "Appendix A - Salary of either party, for
22
APPENDIX B - 360°Evaluation Form
SAF Employee Performance Review by Supervisor/Director and SAF Employee to Employee Peer Performance Review and SAF Directors Performance Review
Employee Name & Title:	Period Covered:
Date of Hire:
Evaluator Name & Title:	Date:
Instructions- all questions are optional depending on the knowledge of the employees performance in specific areas of their work. In the comment sections, please write what the employee's strengths are and how the employee can improve in that area.
PROGRAM MANAGEMENT & ACCOMPLISHMENTS	Exceeds expectations	Meets Expectations	Needs improvement	z
The employee is committed to doing their best job possible, including establishing appropriate priorities, following through on commitments, resolving problems in a timely manner, and meeting work deadlines. Comments:				
The employee sets high standards for programs ensuring there are appropriate systems to plan, implement, and evaluate work. Comments:				
The employee includes appropriate people in decision-making and asks for help when needed. Comments:				
RELATIONSHIPS/COMMUNICATION	Exceeds expectations	Meets Expectations	Needs improvement	< z
The employee works well with co-workers, board members, volunteers, and partners—maintaining professional and positive relations, working collaboratively, and offering support to others. Comments:				
The employee communicates effectively with staff and board, fully participates in meetings, and keeps them adequately informed of his/her work. Comments:				
The employee exhibits confidence, trust and respect in self and others and				
23
understands his or her own leadership role in the organization. Comments:				
ORGANIZATIONAL & ADMINISTRATIVE	Exceeds expectations	Meets Expectations	Needs improvement	< z
The employee understands the organization's mission, vision, & values and translate them into realistic program goals & objectives Comments:				
The employee adheres to organizational policies & procedures, his/her work schedule and workplan. Comments:				
The employee understands the finances and fundraising for his/her program and actively participates in ensuring and utilizing resources efficiently. Comments:				
Summary of Accomplishments-Only answer if applicable.
What were the employee's programmatic goals, personal objectives, and special projects for the past year?
What progress did the employee make toward accomplishing these programmatic goals, personal objectives, and special projects? What new job skills did the employee learn?
Are there major changes to the employee’s job description, programmatic goals, personal objectives, and special projects for the upcoming year? Are there other job skills or SAF projects the employee would like to be involved with in the coming year? If so, what are they?
What additional training, skills, resources, and supervision does the employee need to be more effective?
Does the employee have plans to complete a degree or other relevant experience that could impact their salary credits? If so, what are those plans and what is the timeline for completion?
What are the employee’s plans for taking vacation and/or a sabbatical? Is the employee eligible for additional vacation benefits based on seniority?
Employee
Title
Date
Evaluator
Title
Date
24
DURATION OF AGREEMENT 3 YEARS
This Agreement shall be effective as of July 31, 2013 - July 31, 2016.
At such time, the Union or the Employers shall notify the other by e-mail, or letter of an intention to modify the Agreement. If negotiations are not completed for a renewal of this Agreement by the termination date, the Agreement may be extended by written agreement of the parties.
Union	2
Employer

25