
TENTATIVE AGREEMENT FOR A COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT BETWEEN
UFCW LOCAL 5 & 64« AND RENWOOD ANDRONICO LENDING 1, LLC (dba, Andronico’s Community Market)
The following shall set forth the parties’ Tentative Agreement for a Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) between Local’s 5 and 648 and Rcnwood Andronlco Lending 1, LLC (dba, Andronico’s Community Market) ("Kenwood"),
The parties agree to adopt the Food and Meat Agreement (CBA) between UPCW Local’s S and 648 and Andronlco’s Market dated December 2, 2007 tiirough October 11, 2011 (attached as Exhibit A), except as specifically modified by the provisions listed below. In tlie event there is any conflict between the provisions listed below and any provision of the aforementioned December 2, 2007 through October 11, 2011 CBA, the terms of this Tentative Agreement for a CBA shall prevail,
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the parties agree that Renwood is not assuming any liabilities of Andronico’s Markets, Inc., or any of its predecessors, under the December 2, 2007 through October 11, 2011 CBA and that the CBA is not being assumed by Ren wood. The parties agree that neither Local 5 nor Local 648 shall have or may assert any claims against Kenwood arising under the CBA or actions taken by Andronlco’s Markets, Inc., or any of Its predecessors, and that all such claims and causes of action arc hereby deemed fully released and waived,
• Eliminate the words "and Meat Clerks" as described in Section (9.2.4).
Section 1* *2.4 Food Clerk > Work (Clarification of the term "reset crew")
♦ It is recognized between Ihc parties that the words "reset crew" in the first paragraph includes work that may be performed by non-bargaining unit individuals In atty area of the employer’s retail store pertaining to the resetting of store merchandise. Tire term "reset crew’’ can be one or more individuals performing merchandise reset work,
Section 1.3,1 and 9.2,4
• Add as last paragraph to above iwo sections: Meat Clerks may perform Salesperson work anti Salespersons may perform Meat Clerk work. Mi Meat or
l
Salesperson on the payroll as of (he merging of these two classifications shall be laid off or have their hours reduced. (Note; Meat Clerks on the payroll as of the date Renwoad acquires Andronico’s will not have wages reduced (Grandfathered) as reflected in the Meat Appendix
Section M3 Meat CtHter’sWnrk
« Replace 6 p.m. with 5 p.m, in the first and last sentence.
Section LdStore Managers and Assistant Store Managers
*	Change subtitle to the following; STORE MANAGERS. ASSISTANT STORE MANAGERS AND NUTRITION SPECIALIST?
•	Eliminate the words “and in stores of 35,000 square feet or more* ** in the first sentence of the first paragraph.
•	Add “Nutrition Specialist” after “a second assistant store manager” in the first sentence of the first paragraph.
•	Under subtitle PROBATION (Food and Meat); Add the following as the first two sentences: For employees on (Renwood) payroll as of October 26, 20U (date Renwoad acquires Androttlcos Markets), there shall be a probationary period of 30 days, Renwoad employees formerly employed by Andronlco 's Market Inc. will retain their original hire date once they successfully complete their 30 day probationary period.
•	Under subtitle PROBATION (Food and Meat); Add the word "Meal” to subtitle and change (he first sentence to the third sentence and change sixty (60) days to ninety (90) days.
•	Eliminate third paragraph that commences with the word (MEAT).
ge^tion 4.3
•	Eliminate all verbiage commencing with the word "provided” on the third line. (Note: Eliminates employee loss of seniority for six months during transfers out of geographical seniority area),
* Eliminate all verbiage commencing with the word “provided" on the third line. (Note: Eliminates employee loss of seniority for six months during transfers out
of geographical seniority area),
2
4-10.1 Request far full-Ume work. (Mil
•	Eliminate the first and third paragraph in its entirety.
•	Replace the second paragraph with the following; No less than thirty five percent {33%) of the employees covered by this Agreement in all classifications except Courtesy Clerks shall be employed on a fuMne forty (40) hour basis in each store of the Employer. The Employer may reduce the thirty five percent (35%) to thirty percent (30%) through the process of full-tints employee attrition.
At the time the percentage of the aforementioned full-time positions drop below the required ratio in any of the Job classifications, as defined in the Agreement's Appendices, employees in the appropriate job classification wilt be offered fulltime positions by seniority.
Section 6.2 Time and One-Third (Food& Meal) and Section 7.P Premium Dav (Food)
* Section 6.2 and 7.9 are to be suspended (no Sunday pay for all employees) until (he expiration of the October 26, 2011 through October 25, 2014 Agreement between (he parties, or successor agreement.
Section 7,8 Night Premium (Food & Meat) and Section 7,84 (Meat)
« Section 7,8 and 7.8.1 arc to be suspended (no shift differential premium pay) until the expiration of the October 26, 20 H titrough October 25, 2014 Agreement between the panics, or successor agreement.
Section 64 (Food) and 7.54 (Meat) -Meal Period
•	Replace the words "one-half (1/2) uninterrupted hour" with “thirty five (35) uninterrupted minutes " In first sentence of first paragraph (Section 7.5.1 - Meat); and replace the words "one-half (1/2) hour” with "thirty five (35) uninterrupted minutes" in last sentence of first paragraph (Section 6.1 - Food),
gegtipn ?4,6 Additional J3»ties
•	Add tire following us the last paragraph in section: Notwithstanding the above, employees classified as Department Heads and Head Clerks may assist customers In any area of the store if a department is unattended due to another employee's break or meal period,
Sgctkm94CotirfesY Clerks
3
•	Add the following as number 10 to section 9.3: Stock candy and also display magazines and seasonal promotional items in the immediate area of the front lobby check out counters.
•	Add the following as number 11 to Section 9.3: Face merchandise within the store.
•	Add the following as number 12 to Section 9.3: Hang or remove she^f tags under the supervision of the Price Change Coordinator, It is understood that this provision will not reduce hours of any other classification that may he assigned to price changing duties,
Scc4ion lLL3Indugtry Vacation
•	It is understood between the parties that employees hired by Renwood (dba Andronico's Community Market) will be subject to the industry vacation time as outlined in Section 11.1.3 which reads as follows: Employees hired after January 25, 2008 with over ten (10) years of Industrial time will receive three (3) weeks of vacation after twelve (12) months of employment, four (4) weeks after five (5) years of employment with the Employer and five (5) weeks after ten (10) years with the Employer,
Section 11.9 Vacation Period
• Change the vacation selection period from March !** and November 1M to February P* and October 31*'.
* Add as last sentence In first paragraph: Notwithstanding the above, the Employer may restrict employees from taking vacation during Memorial Day, duly i,k and Labor Day.
Section 95 Demonstrators (Food)
« Replace section with the following: Afi work connected with the demonstration of merchandise offered for sale in the Employer's retail store shall not be covered by this Agreement.
Section 12.2 Health and Welfare Contributions
The signatory to this MOA, Renwood Andronicos Lending I LLC (Employer), will be bound by the major food Industry negotiations regarding health and welfare design plan changes and premium increases. The Employer will pay the current rate of $6.20 but any increases to be paid by the Employer will be limited to not more than five percent (5%) of the $6,20, or $.31 the first year of the Agreement, three percent (3%)
4
dI*$6.5I, or $.20 ihe second year al' the Agreement mid two percent (2SL) al'$6.71, ni	i
$.13 the; Iasi year of the Agreement. limployccs will lx: responsible far any increases	!
above those purccitiage.s ami the ililTcrence, if necessary. will be deducted fiom their hourly wage rule.
•	Side Letter uf Undeistanding, attached hereto, regarding Renwoud Andromcn Lentlifig I LLCs ruspmisibility lor Ihu healtli find welfare mid pension coniribuiimts oji behalf of UECW Local 5 bargain mg nnit employees far dm months of September. 2011 (due October 20, 2011) and October, 2011 (dim November20, 2011),
» jUtachcd hereto
l|,av<n‘L*d Nations Clause
•	Il is understood between the purttcK that if motv Itivrirfiblc provisions nr conditions arc agreed to in the major food industry imgotiatiims (Safeway. Lucky/Save Marl. Raley’s) than those bargained In this Tcnimivc Agreement, which iijcmpurates dw December 2, 2IJII7 tltmngh October 11.2011 UI-’CW Local 5 and Local 648/Andriiiiico's .Markel OBA, the more ftivoriible provisions or comlttiuiis will prevail upon request of UPC W L.ncitl 5 and 648.
Term of Auremtwnl
October 26, 2011 th rough October 25, 20 bl.
This Tcntmivu Agreement, made and entered into this day of October 2Q| I, by and between UFCW Locals 5 ami 648 and Kenwood shall be submitted and fully recommended for raii Ikai Ion and will be elTccdvc upon its ratification date.
I*<ir the Employer,
Dale
l-’or ilk: Unions,
.5
Latter of Unclei'HUuidlug
Between
OFCW Local 5 and 648
And
Renwtmd Andronlco Lending I, LLC
ll is the undemanding between the bargaining parties tlitu those employees on im Employer authorized leave of absence (LOA) nt the time Renwood Andronico Lending I, LUC (Rctiwood) acquires Andronico’s Markets Inc., will have (heir employment sc para led,
ll is Birther agreed between the parties font the aforementioned LOA individtiiih will Ixi afforded the opportunity io inter view for employ mem with Ren wood upon a medical duaniitco to return io work. Upon employment by Kenwood, any LOA individual will be placed on it thirty (30) day probationary period,
A list has been provided of those LOA employees by Andronico's Markel Inc., and is nlliiched hereto as Exhibit A.
for i he Employer
for the Union
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Regarding Payment of Certain Health & Welfare Premium Payments
October 24,2011
Mr. Ron Lind
UKCW Local 5
240 S. Market Street
San Jose CA 95113
Dear Mr, Lind:
'Oils will confirm our agreement during the negotiations that in the event Andronico’s Markets does not make the premium payments for its employees’ Health & Welfare Plan coverage for the month of November, 20)1, Renwood Andronicos Lending I, LLC ("Renwood") agrees to make the payment required by October 20, 2011. Said payment will be based upon the formula for September hours as required by die Trust Fund. In addition, Renwood agrees to make the payment due on November 20, 2011 for December benefits based upon (he October hours formula.
Very truly yours,
Renwood Andronicos landing 1, LLC
7<l N 7.0W24,15aAI.2!955277J