Collective Bargaining Agreement
BETWEEN
MCLAREN FLINT, MCLAREN LAPEER REGION, MCLAREN MEDICAL GROUP, MCLAREN HOMECARE GROUP
AND
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE, COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES AFL-CIO Council 25 and its Local 2650 Non-Technical Unit
February 3, 2017 through September 30, 2021
ARTICLE
PAGE
Preamble..............................................1
Article 1	-	Definitions.........................................2
Article 2	-	Recognition.........................................5
Article 3	-	Management Rights..................................12
Article 4	-	Subcontracting.....................................14
Articles	-	Union Security...................................14
Articled	-	Representation......................................16
Article 7	-	Union Officers......................................18
Article 8	-	Union Offices.......................................19
Article 9	-	Definition of Employee.............................20
Article 10	-	Definition of Seniority............................21
Article 11	-	Probationary Period................................22
Article 12	-	Loss of Seniority..................................22
Article 13	-	Grievance Procedure................................23
Article 14	-	Corrective Action..................................29
Article 15	-	Evaluations........................................31
Article 16	-	Personnel File.....................................31
Article 17	-	Non-Discrimination.................................32
Article 18	-	Hours of Work......................................33
Article 19	-	Shift and Regular Schedules........................34
Article 20	-	Time Off Scheduling................................34
Article 21	-	Daily Staff Adjustment.............................36
Article 22	-	Pulling............................................38
Article 23	-	Extra Hours........................................39
TABLE OF CONTENTS ARTICLE ____________________________________________________________PAGE
Article 24	-	On Call I Stand By................................41
Article 25	-	Layoff / Reduction in Hours / Recall...............42
Article 26	-	Posting............................................46
Article 27	-	New or Changed Jobs................................49
Article 28	-	Job Descriptions...................................50
Article 29	-	Bulletin Boards....................................50
Article 30	-	Special Conference.................................51
Article 31	-	Military Service...................................52
Article 32	-	Drug and Alcohol Testing...........................52
Article 33	-	Leave of Absence...................................57
Article 34	-	Miscellaneous Fringe Benefits......................64
Article 35	-	Retirement Plans..................................64
Article 36	-	Health Insurance...................................67
Article 37	-	Dental Insurance...................................69
Article 38	-	Vision Insurance...........................    ...70
Article 39	-	Life Insurance....................................70
Article 40	-	Paid Time Off.....................................71
Article 41	-	Short Term Disability..............................75
Article 42	-	Holidays..........................................77
Article 43	-	Bereavement.......................................78
Article 44	-	Call-In Pay.......................................78
Article 45	-	Out of Classification Grouping Pay................79
Article 46	-	Shift Differential................................79
Article 47	-	Overtime..........................................80
ii
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE_________________________________________________________PAGE
Article 48	-	Wages.............................................81
Article 49	-	Wage Inequity.....................................83
Article 50	-	Pay Practices.....................................84
Article 51	- Strikes and Lockouts...............................84
Article 52	-	Separability and Savings Clause...................85
Article 53	-	Supplementary Agreement..........................85
Article 54	-	Successor.........................................85
Article 55	-	Scope of Agreement...............................86
Article 56	-	MHG Cellular Telephones..........................86
Article 57	-	Duration of Agreement............................86
Letter of Agreement - Part-Time Status.............88
Letter of Understanding-Part-Time Definition.......89
Appendix A	- Wage Scales......................... 91
Appendix B	- Pay Ranges...........................99
Index..............................................103
iii
t PREAMBLE
THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into by and between McLaren Regional Medical Center (d/b/a McLaren Flint), Lapeer Regional Medical Center (d/b/a McLaren Lapeer Region), McLaren Medical Management, Inc. (d/b/a McLaren Medical Group) and Visiting Nurse Services of Michigan (d/b/a McLaren Homecare Group) (herein referred to as “the Employer" and/or the specific subsidiary d/b/a name) and AFSCME Council 25 and its Non-Technical Union (hereinafter AFSCME Local 2650 referred to as the “Union").
The parties recognize that the success of the Employer and the job security of its employees depends upon the parties' success in providing and improving quality patient service to the general public, to promote harmonious relations between the management and employees of the Employer, to encourage mutual confidence through collective bargaining; to improve and promote customer relations with patients, visitors, physicians, and all other Employer personnel; to improve and promote the most efficient and productive operation of the Employer facilities covered by this contract, establish rates of pay, hours of work and employment conditions; and to set up procedures for prompt, equitable adjustment of grievances. To these ends, the Employer and the Union encourage, to the fullest degree friendly and cooperative relations between respective representatives at all levels.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto mutually agree to substantive Articles and Sections as follows:
1
ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS
Authorized Hours:	The number of hours a non-technical employee is authorized and routinely scheduled to work in a pay period.
Bargaining Unit Seniority:	See Article 10 - Definition of Seniority.
Bumping:	The ability to displace the lowest seniority employee in the same classification within the subsidiary.
Called In:	When an eligible non-technical employee is called into work outside of normally scheduled hours.
Casual/Relief/Contingent Employees:	These are three terms that will be called casual throughout the language of this contract. These non-technical employees will have no guarantee of authorized or regularly scheduled hours. Casual employees shall not accrue corporate and/or bargaining unit seniority. A casual employee must be willing to work all shifts, weekends and holidays. Casual employees who do not work at least one (1) day in thirty (30) will be considered as a voluntary resignation and removed from the Employer’s system as an active employee.
Comparable Position:	A position that pays 90% of the affected employees base hourly rate of pay at time of layoff, is of a comparable status (full or part-time), and is within 20 miles of the employee's home address of record or current driving distance, whichever is greater.
Corporate Seniority:	Continuous length of service from the last date of hire with the Employer, subject to re-instatement per Article 12 Loss of Seniority.
Daily Staff Adjustment:	A temporary reduction of the work force on a particular workday with less than twenty-four (24) hours notice.
2
Economic Layoff:	Financial layoff will be considered indefinite, bumping rights allowed.
Extra Hours Mandatory:	Hours that an employee is required to work - beyond those necessary to complete .... assignments, on-call, work performed during public health disasters, and intemal/extemal emergencies.
Flex Hours/Time:	Employee initiated changes of start and end times with management consent.
FLSA Overtime:	Federally defined status related to overtime calculation. Employees will be designated as 40 hours in a workweek.
Mutual Benefit Time:	Approved time off without pay, without loss of accrual of appropriate benefits or length of service. For all subsidiaries except MMG, MBT should not be pre-scheduled.
On Call:	When a non-technical employee is pre-scheduled to be available to come to work outside of the employee’s normal work schedule.
Opt Out:	The ability for a non-technical employee to declare his/her inability to work mandatory extra hours.
Overstaffed:	The situation when a unit has more non-technical employees on the unit than are needed by the unit.
Position:	Job classification/title, status (full time/part time/casual/relief), unit, pay level, and/or schedule.
Posted Schedule:	Advance formal notice of a non-technical . employee’s schedule for a given period of time, with hours and days of work defined.
Probation Period:	For newly hired employees with the Employer, within the bargaining unit, shall be six (6) months from date of hire.
3
PTO:	Paid Time Off which is accrued each pay period based on subsidiary and employment status designed to provide pay for time off work.
Pulling/Reassignment:	Temporary re-assignment to another unit for all or part of a workday.
Qualifying Hours:	All regular and overtime worked, PTO time and jury hours paid, paid bereavement leave hours, meeting, orientation, and Union business hours paid, also mutual benefit time. It shall not include hours sold back under the cash-out option.
Seniority Employee:	A regular full-time or regular part-time employee in a non-technical bargaining unit position who has completed the new hire probationary period.
Shift Differential:	Additional compensation to employees who work on the second or third shift or who work at least four (4) continuous hours during the times designated as the second or third shift.
Temporary Layoff:	Layoff less than thirty (30) days, no bumping rights allowed.
Unit:	\	Distinct cost center.
4
I	ARTICLE 2
RECOGNITION
Section A.
The Employer recognizes the Union as the exclusive ba. gaining representative for a unit of Non- Technical employees as set forth in Section C employed by the Employer at the facilities set forth in Section D for the purpose of collective bargaining with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours .of employment, and other conditions of employment; said bargaining unit is to be comprised of: All full-time, regular part-time, and casual ■	nontechnical employees in classifications set forth below.
I	Section B.
।	Excluded from the bargaining unit are all technical employees, skilled maintenance
I	employees, professional employees, business office clerical employees, physicians,
J nurses, confidential employees, temporary employees, guards and supervisors as I	defined in the Act.
v	Section C.
The following job classifications are covered at the following subsidiaries and at any g	other contract location upon introduction. /
ACTIVE JOB TITLES:
r	Accts Receivable Clerk (Patient Acct)	Commercial Clerk
t to	AM Host Appointment Scheduler (Clinic)	Communication Clerk (Lapeer) Cook
	Area Lead Worker Billing Clerk Cafeteria Cashier	Coordinator-Patient Acct. Credit Clerk CS Team Leader (Lapeer)
V	Cardio Pulmonary Clerk (Lapeer) Case Mgmt Assist Cashier	Customer Service Clerk Dialysis Assist Dietary Cashier/Aide (Lapeer)
I	Central Proc Aide Central Supply Tech (Lapeer) Certified Central Proc Aide	Distribution Clk Driver I (MHG) Driver U (MHG)
	Certified CS Tech (Lapeer) Clerk 1 Clerk U	EEG Tech EKG Tech Endo Tech
—	Clerk 11 (Clinic) Client Service Rep 1 (Lapeer) Client Service Rep U (Lapeer) Clin Nutri Tech Clin Pt Scheduler	Endo Tech (Lapeer)
Collections Clerk
5
ER Patient Access Cleric (Lapeer) Financial Counselor Home Health Aide Housekeeper I Housekeeper H Housekeeping Aide (Lapeer) Housekeeping Attendant (Lapeer) Insurance Referral Specialist (Clinic) Inv I Physician Billing Coord Inv Control Spec Lab Assistant
Laundry Aide (Lapeer) Laundry Attendant (Lapeer) Laundry Lead (Lapeer) Lead Worker Housekeeper Library Tech Material Dist Clk
Materials Distribution Clerk (Lapeer) Medical Assistant
Medical Assistant (Clinic)
Medical Assistant/Receptionist/Insurance Specialist (Clinic) Medical Assistant Receptionist (Clinic) Medical Asst (Lapeer) Medical Records File Cleric Medication Reconciliation Tech Monitor Tech
Nuclear Medicine Clerk (Lapeer) Nurse Aide (Lapeer) Nurse Asst 11
Nutritional Service Worker
Nutritional Services Worker 1 (Lapeer) Nutritional Services Worker 11 (Lapeer) Nutritional Services Worker 111 (Lapeer) OB Tech/Unit Clerk (Lapeer) Patient Access Clerk (Lapeer) Patient Inquiry Rep Patient Mobility Aide Patient Scheduling Clerk (Lapeer) Patient Sitter Pharmacy Assistant Pharmacy Automated Sy£ems Tech Pharmacy Tech Pharmacy Technician (Lapeer) Pharmacy Technician (MHG) Pharmacy Technician II (Lapeer)
Phlebotomist
Phlebotomist(Lapeer) Phy Ther Aide
Physical Therapy Aide (Lapeer) Physical Therapy Clerk (Lapeer) Polysomnograph Tech
Psych Attendant Psychiatric Tech Pt Care Tech
Pt Reg Clk PtServRep Radiology Aide (Lapeer) Radiology Clerk (Lapeer) Receptionist Receptionist (Clinic) Receptionist (Lapeer) Receptionist (MHG) Receptionist / Insurance Specialist (Clinic) Receptionist / MA Registered Polysomnograph Tech Senior Lab Asst Senior Patient Scheduler (Lapeer) Service Representative SrRegClk
Sr Verification Clerk Staffing I Sched Clk Staffing Cleric (Lapeer) Storekeeper Storeroom Clerk (Lapeer) Surgery Clerk (Lapeer) Switchboard Operator (Lapeer) Team Leader
Team Leader (Clinical) Team Leader Transporter Tele Op I Recept Therapy Aide previously Transporter Transporter (Lapeer) Transporter / Nurse Aide (Lapeer) Truck Driver
Tumor Reg Asst
UC/Nurse Aide (Lapeer)
Ultrasound Receptionist (Clinic) Unit Clerk (Lapeer) Unit Clk
Verification Clerk
6
*IN-ACTIVE JOB TITLES:
Anesthesia Secretary (MHG)
Boarding Clerk (MHG) Case Management Asst. (Lapeer) Catering Associate (Lapeer) Central Supply Clerk (Lapeer) Certified Nurse Aide (MHG) Chemical Dependency Clerk (MHG) Clerk I (Clinic)
Clerk I (MHG) Clerk II (MHG) CommunityEducation (MHG) Companion (MHG) Contract Cleaner (MHG) Cook (MHG) Corporate Planning Assistant (MHG) Courier Rehabilitation (MHG) CP Assistant (Lapeer) Customer Service Representative I (MHG) Customer Service Representative U (MHG) Customer Service Representative III (MHG) Customer Services Coordinator (MHG) Dietary Clerk MRI Asst (Lapeer) Dispatcher Dispatcher (MHG) Document Clerk
(MHG)
Document Imaging Coordinator (MHG) Electronic File Film Clerk (Lapeer) Endo Aide
Endoscopy Technician (Lapeer) ER Patient Representative (MHG) File Clerk (MHG) File Film Clerk (Lapeer) GAP Clerk (Lapeer)
Gastro / Pulmonary Assistant (MHG) Graphic Services Technician (MHG) Graphics Svcs
Hospitality Aide
Housekeeper (Clinic) Housekeeper (MHG) Human Resources Clerk (MHG) Intake Worker (MHG) Inventory Control (Lapeer) Laboratory Clerk (MHG) Laundry Worker I Lead Housekeeper (Clinic) Lead Pharmacy Tech Lead Worker Laundry Lead Worker Storeroom (MHG) Library Technical Assistant (MHG)
Lifeline Clerk/Installer (Lapeer) Lifeline Coordinator (Lapeer) Linen Aide
Linen Inv Clk Mail Clk Maintenance Clerk (Lapeer) Maintenance Clerk II (MHG) Medical Staff Secretary Mental Health Unit Sec (Lapeer) Messenger (MHG) Mold Rm Tech NA/Monitor Tech (Lapeer) NSW Lead (Lapeer) Nurse Asst I Nutr Svs Wkr I Nutr SvsWkrll Operator (Clinic) Order Entry Clerk (MHG) Pharmaceutical Inventory Coordinator (MHG) Phlebotomist (MHG)
Receiving/ Dispatch Clerk (MHG) Receptionist/Clerk (Lapeer) . Respiratory Assistant (MHG) Restorative Tech (MHG) Seamstress (Lapeer) Secretary Secretary (MHG) Secretary Messenger (MHG) Senior Operator (Lapeer) Service Care Assistant (MHG) Shipping I Receiving Clerk (MHG) Sleep Center Clerk (MHG) Social Work Aide (MHG) Sr Boarding Clerk (MHG) Supply Room Clerk (MHG) Telemarketer (MHG) Trauma Registrar Truck Driver UC/Monitor Tech (Lapeer) (Lapeer) Unit Clk/OB Tech Unit Svs Clk
Vol/Comm Dev Clerk (MHG) Warehouse Clerk I (MHG) Warehouse Clerk II (MHG) Warehouse Coordinator (MHG) Wellness Clk
7
* The Union President will be advised of activation of any of the above listed inactive job classifications. Thereafter, the procedure set forth in Article 27 New or Changed Jobs will be followed.
Section D.
The facilities covered by this Agreement are as follows:
ACTIVE WORKSITES
McLaren Lapeer Region
1375 N. Main
Lapeer, Ml 48446
Phone Number (810) 667-5500
McLaren Lapeer Region Physical Therapy
Center
1057 Suncrest Drive
Lapeer, Ml 48446
Phone Number: 810-667-5514
McLaren Flint - Davison Comm. Medical Center
10090 E. Lippincott Blvd. Davison, Ml 48423
Phone Number (810) 653-1130
McLaren Flint - Fenton Comm. Medical Center
2420 Owen Rd., Suite A Fenton, Ml 48430 Phone Number. (810) 496-2500
McLaren Flint - Flint Twp. Comm. Medical Center
1314 S. Linden
Rd. Flint, Ml
48532
Phone Number (810) 342-1700
McLaren Flint - Flushing Comm. Medical Center
2487 N. Elms Rd.
^...jshing, Ml
48433
Phone Number (810) 487-3500
McLaren Flint - Flushing Women's Health
2487 N. Elms Rd.
Flushing, Ml 48433
Phone Number (810) 487-3500
McLaren Flint - Grand Blanc Comm. Medical
Center
2313 E. Hill Rd.
Grand Blanc, Ml 48439
Phone Number (810) 953-6400
8
McLaren Lapeer Region Comm. Medical Center 1254 N. Main Street
Lapeer, Ml 48446
Phone Number (810) 664-4531
McLaren Lapeer Region - Metamora Comm.
Medical Center
809 W. Dryden Rd.
Metamora, Ml
48455
Phone Number (810) 678-4000
McLaren Lapeer Region - North Branch Family Care Center
4482 Huron Street
North Branch, Ml 48461
Phone Number (810) 688-3093
McLaren Flint - Women's Health South
1314 S. Linden Road
Flint Ml 48532
Phone Number (810) 342-1700
McLaren Flint - Grand Blanc Occupational & Convenient Care Center
2313 E. Hill Rd.
Grand Blanc, Ml 48439
Phone Number (810) 953-6400
McLaren Flint - Fenton Occupational & Convenient Care Center
2420 Owen Rd., Suite G
Fenton. Ml 48430
Phone Number (810) 496-2400
McLaren Lapeer Region Occupational & Convenient Care Center
1254 N. Main
Lapeer, Ml 48446
Phone Number (810) 667-7040
McLaren Flint
401 South Ballenger Hwy.
Flint Ml 48532
Phone Number 810-342-2000
McLaren Sleep Diagnostic Center
G-3200 Beecher Road, Suite 799 Flint Ml 48532
McLaren Flint Specialty Center
G-3200 Beecher Road, Suite 02
Flint, Ml 48532
McLaren Flint Family Practice Residency Center
G-3230 Beecher Road, Suite 01
Flint Ml 48532
Phone Number 810-342-5656
McLaren Flint Internal Med. Residency Group Practice
G-3230 Beecher Road, Suite 02
Flint Ml 48532
Phone Number 810-342-5800
McLaren Neurologic Rehabilitation Institute G-4466 West Bristol Road
Flint, Ml 48537
Phone Number 810-732-1980
Behavioral Health-Outpatient Services 4448 Oak Bridge Drive Flint Ml 48532
Phone Number 810-342-5382
Fenton Physical Therapy & Sports Medicine Silver Chase Plaza
G-4045 Owen Road '.
Fenton, Ml 48430
Phone Number 810-750-2222
Flushing (Therapy Services) 3280 N. Elms Road
Flushing, Ml 48433
Phone Number 810-487-3510
McLaren Homecare Group 1515 Cal Drive
Davison, Ml 48423
Phone Number 1/800-451-1750
McLaren Flint Cancer Center 4100 Beecher Road Flint, Ml 48532
Phone Number 810-342-3800
McLaren Flint Bariatric & Metabolic Institute
G-3200 Beecher Road, Suite MSI Flint, Ml 48532
9
IN-ACTIVE FACILITIES:
McLaren Medical Supplies
Main Warehouse & Distribution Center 1443 Granger
Davison, Ml 48423
Phone Number(810) 496-8580
McLaren Medical Supplies Main Distribution Center 2284-1 S. Ballenger Highway Flint, Ml 48503
Phone Number 1-800-451-1750
Fax Number (810) 233-7307
Flint Showroom (Inside McLaren Flint) 401 S. Ballenger Hwy.
Flint, Ml 48532
Phone Number (810) 342-2880
Fax Number (810) 342-2882
Kettering University Family Practice 1700 W. Third Avenue
Flint Ml 48509
Phone Number 810-341-7020
Lapeer Medical Supplies 1254 N. Main Street
Lapeer, Ml 48446
Phone Number (810) 664-7242
McLaren Visiting Nurse & Hospice 2335 S. Linden Road
Flint, Ml 48532
Phone Number (810) 732-3131 or 1-800-862-3132
Fax Number (810) 732-6377
Burton Showroom 4015 Davison Road
Burton, Ml 48509
Phone Number (810) 742-7579 Fax Number (810) 742-6462
Lapeer Visiting Nurse & Hospice 237 Davis Lake Road
Lapeer, Ml 48446
Phone Number (810) 667-0042 or 1-800-206-4806
Fax Number (810) 667-0060
McLaren Regional Kidney Center 4200 Beecher Road
Flint Ml 48532 Phone Number 810-342-4964
McLaren Extended Care, Inc.
G-1069 North Ballenger Flint Ml 48532
McLaren Weight Management Center 1254 North Main Street
Lapeer, Ml 48446
Phone Number 810-664-7070
McLaren Head Injury Program 4448 Oak Bridge Drive
Flint Ml 48532
Phone Number 810-733-7488
McLaren Weight Management Center 4446 Oak Bridge Drive
Flint, Ml 48532
Phone Number 810-733-3278
McLaren Wellness Center
1090 Ballenger Highway Flint Ml 48532
Phone Number 810-342-1000
Patient Accounts
Department
Corporate Sendees
Building
G-3235 Beecher Road
Flint, Ml 48532
Phone Number 810-342-2219
St John Catholic Church Activity Center PT & Wellness
505 N. Dayton
Davison, Ml 48423
Phone Number 810-658-5631
Surgical Institute 3500 Calkins, Suite A &
B Flint Ml 48532
Phone Number 810-732-9760
Ballenger Village 1096 Ballenger Hwy Flint, Ml 48532
McLaren Family Care Center
1198 N. BelsayRd Burton, Ml 48509
10
McLaren Family Care Center - Imlay City 395 E. Third Street
Imlay City, Ml 48444
Phone Number (810) 724-1095 McLaren Family Care Center Linden 319 Bridge Street
Linden, Ml 48451
McLaren Family Care Center-Swartz Creek
4437 S. Morris Rd.
Swartz Creek, Ml 48473
Timur Sumer, M.D.-Flint 420 S. Ballenger Hwy Flint, Ml 48532
Max Kukler, DO.
G-3286 Beecher Rd.
Flint, Ml 48532
McLaren Family Care Center-Flushing 2521 N. Elms Rd.
Flushing, Ml 48433 Phone Number: (810) 659-7480
McLaren Family Care Center - Clio 4215 W. Vienna Rd.
Clio, Ml 48420
Phone Number (810) 687-6110
Dennis Lloyd, D.O. 103 E. Main St Flushing, Ml 48433 Phone Number (810) 659-7198
McLaren Family Care Center - Montrose 225 State Street
Montrose, Ml 48457 Phone Number (810) 639-4319
Loulnda Zahdeh, M.D. 3280 N. Elms Rd Flushing, Ml 48433 Phone Number (810) 487-3550
McLaren Family Care Center - Columbiaville 4620 Water Street -
Columbiaville, Ml 48421
Orestes lung, M.D. 1104S. Linden Road Flint Ml 48532 Phone Number: (810) 732-1770
McLaren OB/GYN Associates-East Flint 1198 N. Belsay Road, Bldg. 3
Burton, Ml 48509
Phone Number (810) 743-5100
McLaren OB/GYN Associates - Flint Twp. North 1010 N. Linden
Rd. Flint, Ml 48532 Phone Number (810) 732-3660
Burton Occupational & Convenient Care Center 1459 S. Center
Rd. Burton, Ml 48509	~ 3
Phone Number (810) 496-0900
Davison Convenient Care Center 10090 Lippincott
Blvd. Davison, Ml
48423
Phone Number (810) 658-6528
McLaren Family Care Center - Owosso 216 E. Comstock
Owosso, Ml 48867 Phone Number (989) 725-6558
Abeer Fayyad, M.D.
3280 N. Elms Rd.
Flushing, Ml 48433
Phone Number (810) 487-0881
11
.1
Section E.
Non-technical employees at all health care provider sites either purchased or constructed solely by ’ the Employer, in Genesee, Shiawassee, Lapeer or Oakland counties are included. Employees of future physician practices in said counties but employed prior to the acquisition of the practice are . excluded. Ambulatory care sites transferred to MMG as part of or as a consequence of acquisition as described above are excluded. Excluded are all other future facilities including affiliations.
Section F.
Bargaining unit work transferred from an existing facility covered under this contract to another facility covered under this contract will remain bargaining unit work.
Section G.
The provisions of the Letter of Understanding regarding reorganization of McLaren Medical v Management, Inc., dated June 2012 are incorporated herein by reference.
ARTICLE 3	1
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Section A.
The Employer retains all the rights, powers, functions, and authority which it had prior to the signing
of this Agreement, including those with respect to wages, hours, and working conditions, except as those rights, powers, functions or authority are expressly and specifically abridged, modified, or limited by this Agreement, and then only to the extent so specifically and expressly abridged, modified, or limited.	1
Section B.	J
Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement, nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to limit in any way the Employer’s sole right to manage its business of patient care 1 efficiently, economically and compassionately, including the right to:
1.	Decide the nature of services, and the quantity of services; the methods of providing services; the scheduling and routing to deliver services, the control and cost of servicer provided to patients, employees and Employers; the materials and equipment to be used; and the discontinuance or revision of any method of providing patient care services.
2.	Introduce new equipment or processes; change or eliminate existing equipment and processes, and institute technological changes; decide on the nature of materials, supplies. . or equipment to be bought or used, vendor selection, and price to be paid.
12
3.	Subcontract or purchase any or all work or processes, maintenance and repair work, office services, or the construction of new facilities and the improvement and/or renovation of existing facilities.	t
. 4. Determine the number, location, and types of facilities; discontinue temporarily or . permanently, in whole or in part, any of the Employer's operations; sell or close facilities in whole or in part; move facilities operated by the Employer from one location to another; transfer work or any of the Employer's operations in whole or in part from one facility to another; merge, affiliate or enter into joint ventures with other entities.
5. Determine the size of the work force and increase or decrease its size; to hire, assign, and lay off employees; reduce the work week or the work day or to effect reductions in hours worked by combining layoffs and reductions in the work week or the work day; contract for the services of temporary employees to perform temporary job assignments.
. 6. Permit persons in the employ of non Employer entities to perform services within the facility including persons employed by the manufacturer of equipment used in the Employer's facility to set up, construct, and service equipment on the floor and to perform work in connection with the installation or service of such equipment including education and training.
7.	Direct the work force; assign work including destinations within the Employer subsidiaries; select team leaders and designate their duties; determine the number and composition of employees assigned to any operation and the number of operations assigned to any employee; establish new job classifications including duties; qualifications and wage rates therefore: modify duties, qualifications and wage rates of existing job classifications, designate as inactive job classifications no longer utilized.
8.	Determine lunch, rest periods, clean-up and/or dress periods, times, determine the starting and quitting time and the number of hours to be worked; establish and revise work schedules, as business conditions and available work requires; and assign employees to work overtime.
9.	Discipline and discharge; adopt, revise and enforce reasonable working rules; maintain order and efficiency in the facility; evaluate and determine the standards of performance both as to cost, quality and quantity; institute, revise and/or eliminate personnel policies; (Union President will be notified at least seven (7) calendar days prior to effective date) create, revise or maintain Employee Committees or TQM/CQI Committees; test, investigate, and improve individual and unit productivity, and initiate and carry out cost and general improvement programs.
10.	Transfer and promote employees on a temporary or permanent basis; select employees for promotion or transfer to supervisory or other positions outside the bargaining unit; give special training to selected employees.
11.	Non bargaining unit employees shall continue to perform bargaining unit work as in the past; during erhergencies; when unit employees are not immediately available due to absence, tardiness, leaves of absence, vacations, etc.; in the instruction and training of work methods or procedures; in the performance of job duties designated within their job
13
classifications and/or job descriptions; to determine the extent of operational difficulties; to ( determine steps necessary to maintain patient care, in the performance of developmental work; and in the performance of instruction and/or orientation functions. Such work\ performed shall not result in the layoff or termination of employment of a seniority' bargaining unit employee.
ARTICLE 4 SUBCONTRACTING
If the Employer decides to subcontract, in whole or in part, any work performed by bargaining unit members, the Employer will meet with the Union. If subcontracting results in a layoff or reduction of hours, the Employer will meet with the Union to discuss the effects of such subcontracting relative to affected employees.
ARTICLE 5 UNION SECURITY
Section A. All regular full-time, regular part-time, and casual non-technical employees in the^f^ bargaining unit as defined in Article 2, Recognition, may join the Union by paying dues to the Union as requested to be paid by all members of the Union upon hire.	VH
Section B. In the event a bargaining unit employee does not join or opts to not pay dues as| required to be a bargaining unit member in good standing, he/she will deemed by the Union not in good standing. Members in good standing are afforded all rights available to them under the Local,! Council, and International AFSCME Constitutions. Only members in good standing may attend and vote at Union meetings. A member in good standing is a person who:	’
1.	Has signed and submitted an official AFSCME Payroll Authorization/Dues Deduction^^l Form to the Union.
2.	Is not in arrears on payment of dues;	‘
3.	Is eligible to attend any Union meeting; and	।
4.	Is eligible to vote on motions/issues and contracts.
The rights and representation of an employee who is not a member in good standing will b/ determined by the Local, Council, and International AFSCME Constitutions, and state and federal laws, if applicable. Bargaining unit members who choose to cease payroll dues deduction will notify
14
he Employer and the Union in writing; An employee shall cease to be subject to the payroll dues deduction beginning with the month following such written notice.
Section C. Payroll Deduction of Union Dues. Every employee in the bargaining unit and each A ion-technical employee newly hired into the bargaining unit will be informed of the dues paying option defined above and the Employer will further provide ail current and future employees appropriate rorms setting forth the employee's authorization of payroll deduction of dues. Copies of such forms will be forwarded to the Union. Upon said authorization, the Employer will deduct from the employee's earnings the dues and forward same to the Union on a monthly basis. The total amount f dues deducted from an employee's earnings during a calendar year will be reported to the
employee and the tax authorities on a W-2 Form at year end.
Section D. At the beginning of each fiscal year, the Employer will provide the Union with a listing of all bargaining unit employees’ addresses and phone numbers currently on file with the Employer's Human Resources Department.
Section E. To the extent permitted by law, an employee not in good standing who requests the Union to use the grievance/arbitration procedure on his/her behalf, will be required by the Union to pay to the Union the reasonable costs of the arbitration proceedings in advance. The Union, prior to J^the inception of the grievance procedure, and also prior to the beginning of the arbitration procedure, will advise the grievant in writing of the reasonable costs of using such procedure and will have no obligation to proceed on behalf of the employee prior to receiving the full payment of such costs. Moreover, should the costs of the grievance or arbitration procedure exceed the Union's estimate of the reasonable costs, the employee will thereafter be liable for any such difference.
Section F. Indemnification... The Union will indemnify and defend the Employer and hold it harmless against any loss or claims for damages, including all legal fees that may arise out of this 'Article, including, but not limited to, the payment to the Union of any sums deducted under this Article.
^Section G. Savings Clause. In the event that any provision of this Article is found to be unlawful, it will not void any other provision of the Agreement, all of whose provisions will remain in full force and sffect. The parties will agree on substitute language that will effectuate the purpose of the section to the fullest extent permitted by law.
15
K
ARTICLES REPRESENTATION
Section A,
Th' Employer recognizes the right of the Union to designate one (1) Chief Steward, stewards and alternates as follows for the purpose of handling contract grievances, who shall be regular unit employees of the Employer with at least one (1) calendar year of service. The alternate may exercise the rights of a steward, set forth in this Article, only in the event the steward is absent from work.
Chief Steward - The Chief Steward shall be designated by the Union. The Employer shall release the Chief Steward, to perform official Union activities, eight (8) hours per week. The Chief Steward may be released one (1) additional day per pay period not to exceed eight (8) hours per day to perform official Union activities. The release time shall be paid by AFSCME Local 2650 to the Employer on a quarterly basis, with no loss of benefits or seniority. There shall be a review six months from the date of ratification to determine if additional release time is needed. The Chief Steward shall coordinate release time needed for official activities with his/her immediate supervisor, and such time shall not be unreasonably denied. Said hours are separate and distinct from, and shall not be included in computing, the hours limitation described in Section B of this Article.
McLaren Flint
Up to six (6) stewards and up to six (6) alternates on the day shift.
Up to three (3) stewards and up to three (3) alternates on the aftemoon/night shift.
McLaren Lapeer Region
Up to two (2) stewards and up to two (2) alternates on the day shift.
One (1) steward and one (1) alternate on the afternoon shift.
One (1) steward and one (1) alternate on the night shift.
MHG Up to two (2) stewards and up to two (2) alternates.	1
MMG Up to two (2) stewards and up to three (3) alternates.	I
Section B.	.
The steward (alternate) shall conduct grievance activities on the premises only during his/her regular working hours, unless otherwise agreed to by the parties. If grievance representation is to occi during the steward’s regular working hours, the steward must obtain permission from his/her immediate supervisor to leave his/her work assignment. Permission will not be unreasonably denied! and without undue delay. Upon return, the steward must notify the supervisor. No further processing
16
A
Rjf a grievance as defined in this Agreement, or of a matter, which an employee is entitled to .representation and the employee, has requested representation shall occur until the steward is Released. Exclusive of suspension or termination, the employee will continue to perform his/her assignee! work until released to meet with the steward.
^Stewards will be paid for time spent in Step One of the Grievance Procedure and/or for participation during the conduct of a Weingarten investigative meeting, if requested, or pursuant to Section C, if ^performed during the stewards regular scheduled work hours. The maximum allotted hours in any one (1) contract year is five hundred (500). Pay will be at the steward's straight time rate, and will not )count toward overtime calculation.
kNo other Union related activity shall be earned out on the Employer premises during scheduled work time. All contacts with bargaining unit members by any steward must occur during the non-work time >f the bargaining unit employee(s). In the investigation and processing of a grievance, the steward or the Union shall not disrupt the operation of the Employer.
Section C.
The Employer will not recognize any steward or. alternate until his/her name and position have been certified, in writing, by the Union to the Employer.
Section D.
Neither the Union nor any of its officers or any steward shall assume supervisory authority or advise or direct employees to disregard the instructions of supervision.
'it is agreed that Council 25 officials, in the administration of this contract, shall have access to nonpatient care areas with permission and prior notice to the Employer. The Employer may limit Council 25 official's access in patient care areas except where access is required due to the investigation of a .grievance or a site visit in the presentation of Arbitration. Access shall not be unreasonably denied and all requests shall be answered promptly.
Section F.
|An employee shall be entitled to the presence of a designated steward at any investigatory interview of the employee related to one or more specific charges of misconduct by the employee, if he/she
requests.
17
T
Section G.
Six (6) members selected by the Union, and employed by the Employer, shall be granted up to seven (7) consecutive calendar days in a contract year to attend State and International Conventions, for the purpose of representing the membership. No more than one (1) member shall be from the same Unit/Cost Center. The Local will reimburse the Employer for employees' wages while attending these Union functions. Actual lost hours spent attending conventions, which would otherwise be the employees' work time, shall be considered hours worked for the purpose of computing any seniority and benefits under this Agreement. The name(s), together with the time and date of such meetings, shall be submitted to the appropriate Human Resources department by the Union at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to the requested day(s) off.
ARTICLE?
UNION OFFICERS
Section A.
The Employer shall recognize the following as officers of Local 2650 for the purposes of release time and reimbursement, (President or Designee, and Secretary/Treasurer).
The President of AFSCME Local 2650 shall be released for two (2) eight, ten or twelve hour days per week from regularly assigned work as a fully excused absence from said work to handle Union business at no loss of regular straight time pay, benefits, or seniority for up to eighty (80) hours over the bi-weekly pay period as determined by mutual agreement per pay period. The schedule can be altered in the event of emergency.
The Secretary/Treasurer shall be released up to eight (8) hours per month to cany out duties normally associated with this position. Said hours will be billed to the Union on a quarterly basis and reimbursed fully to the Employer.
The Local President shall appoint the Designee, or Local 2650 Executive Board in the event thel President is incapacitated.
Section B.
It is agreed that the Employer will pay the cost of the President or designee's wages and benefits. II! is understood that such time paid is for time spent in investigating grievances and grievance hearings,
18
disciplinary hearings, conferences and the preparation for hearings, conferences and arbitrations, transmitting communications authorized as the President of the bargaining unit to the Employer or his 'representatives, consulting with the Employer or his representative during the enforcement of any irovisions of this Agreement and addressing responsibilities in accordance with this Agreement even though hours spent In the foregoing areas are more or less than the hours for which paid while 'unctioning in the Presidency capacity.
Section C.
The President or Designee shall maintain his/her classification, title and pay grade during his/her erm(s) of office. The pay scale raises for the President’s classification shall continue in effect during
the term of this Agreement. At the conclusion of his/her term as President of the Union he/she shall etum to his/her former position and shift. In the event the President is not available due to short term paid absences (sickness, vacation-1 week or longer or other short-term absences) he/she will appoint a designee to fill the vacancy, and provide at least two (2) weeks’ notice to the Employer. The Employer will pay eighty percent of the salary and benefits of the President's designee in cases of disability or workers' compensation. L
ARTICLE 8 UNION OFFICES
Section A.
Office space, as designated by the Employer, will be made available for the purpose of conducting Union business at McLaren Flint and Lapeer Region campuses. Desks, chairs, telephone and filing cabinets shall be provided by the Employer. Supplies and office expenses, such as but not limited to,
faxes, copy paper, file folders and computer equipment will be borne by the Union. The office space "wifi be shared only between any AFSCME Locals which are already certified at the date of ratification of this Agreement at each location. The Union has the right to install, separate from the Employer, 'telephones, internet and other communication devices/services. The Union accepts all liability for any kdevices/services it installs, and will pay the costs of maintenance, service and/or replacement.
It is understood and agreed that the Employer has the right to relocate provided office space as future ^^business and/or operational needs dictate. Unless an emergency occurs that prevents notice, it is agreed that the Union shall be given at least ninety (90) calendar days' written notice of the Employer's decision to relocate the Union office(s).
19
ARTICLE 9 DEFINITION OF EMPLOYEE
Table 1 - Effective through December 31, 2016
	FULL-TIME	PART-TIME
McLaren Flint / McLaren Lapeer Region / McLaren Homecare Group	72-80 ppp 3/12 per week 4/10 per week	16-71 ppp
McLaren Medical Group	64-80 ppp	16 to 63 ppp
Table 2 - Effective January 1, 2017
FULL-TIME	PART-TIME (Benefit Eligible)	PART-TIME (Non-Benefit Eligible)
70 - 80 hrs ppp	40 - 69 hrs ppp	Less than 40 hrs ppp
A. DEFINITIONS
1. FULL-TIME-	An employee regularly scheduled to work in accordance with work schedules established by the Employer and approved as a full-time position, pursuant to Tables 1 or 2 above.
2. PART-TIME -	An employee regularly scheduled to work in accordance with work schedules established by the Employer and approved as a part-time position, pursuant to Table 1 above.
3. PART-TIME (Benefit and Non-Benefit Eligible) -	(
Effective January 1, 2017 - Are regularly scheduled to work in accordance with work schedules established by the Employer and approved as a part-time position, pursuant to Table 2 above.
4.	CASUAL/RELIEF -CONTINGENT
5.	TEMPORARY-
Any employee not falling within the full-time or part-time defi-nitions in 1, 2 or 3, above, or who is not scheduled to work on a regular basis but is assigned or called to work as needed will be classified as casual employee. Casual employees shall not accrue seniority or Employer Service Time, nor retain seniority. A casual employee must be_ willing to work all shifts, weekends and holidays. Provided work is(^| available, Casual employees who do not work at least one (1) day in thirty (30) will be considered as a voluntary resignation and removed from the^^ Employer’s system as an active employee.	W
An employee who has been hired for a specified period of time (normalluAa less than 3 months but not to exceed 6 months.)
Authorized Hours- The number of hours a non-technical employee i^^J authorized and routinely scheduled to work in a pay period.
20
ARTICLE 10 DEFINITION OF SENIORITY
Corporate seniority is continuous length of service from last date of hire with the Employer, subject to reinstatement as defined in Article 12 - Loss of Seniority.
Section B.
Bargaining Unit seniority is an employee's length of service in any job classification represented by this bargaining unit, measured by the number of ,._<urs paid pursuant to Section C of this Article.
Section C.
Seniority as set forth in Sections A-B does not include hours paid in excess of eighty hours (80) in a pay period. Seniority as set forth in Sections A-B above does include mutual benefit time up to eighty hours (80) in a pay period.
Section D.
Seniority as used in this contract is defined by Section B of this Article.
Section E.
Upon signing of this Agreement, the Employer and the Union will initial an up-to-date seniority list and post a copy of the seniority list in a mutually agreed location and every three (3) months thereafter. Any corrections therein must be requested, in writing, within thirty (30) calendar days after posting; and, if not so requested, the list shall become final at the end of such period. In no event shall the Employer be required to pay back-pay by reason of the .correction of an error on such a list. In addition to the seniority list, the Employer will provide a list of employee terminations and a list of employee new hires during the prior three (3) months. The Employer will also provide a list of employees on leave of absence during said prior three (3) months.
Section F.
Temporary and casual employees shall have no bargaining unit seniority. If hired on a full or part-time basis, said employee shall have her/his bargaining unit seniority begin once they are awarded a full or part-time bargaining unit position.
21
Section G.
In the instances of future acquisitions by the Employer, which are covered by this contract, seniority shall commence at date of acquisition, unless mutually agreed to otherwise by the Employer and Union.
ARTICLE 11
PROBATIONARY PERIOD
Section A.
The probationary period for newly hired employees with the Employer, assigned within the bargaining unit, shall be six (6) months from their date of hire. During the probationary period, the Employer shall have the sole right to discharge, discipline, transfer, or layoff said employees for any reason without regard to any provision of this Agreement and no grievance is to be filed with respect to any of these actions. There shall be no bargaining unit seniority among probationary employees.
To offer feedback to newly hired employees, the Employer reserves the right to periodically evaluate said employees during a probation period, and will perform one (1) evaluation on said employees prior to their reaching six (6) months from their date of hire. The Employer shall not be prevented from taking personnel action against a probationary employee regardless of whether or not a written evaluation issues. Employees who are re-hired shall begin a new probationary period.
Section B.
A probationary employee shall have no seniority until she/he has completed her/his probationary period. Upon completion of the probationary period, she/he will be credited with seniority from the first date of hire and will be so entered on the seniority list.
ARTICLE 12
LOSS OF SENIORITY
A non-probationary bargaining unit member shall lose seniority and be considered to have resigned as an employee if she/he:
. 1. Resigns, takes a non-bargaining unit position, or quits unless he/she is rehired within twelve (12) months. (Applies only to first resignation, transfer to non-bargaining unit position, or quit thereafter, automatic loss of all seniority and loss of employee status).
22
2.	Is discharged for proper cause.
3.	Absent without notification (no-call, no-show) for three (3) consecutive scheduled work days , and does not notify her/his supervisor with an excuse acceptable to the Employer within said 'three (3) day period.
4.	Loses or otherwise does not maintain a required State of Michigan License or appropriate certification as defined in the job description for a period of greater than thirty (30) working days. The employee will be suspended without pay for a maximum period of 30 work days or until receipt of appropriate licensure/certification, whichever is less.
5.	Retires.
6.	Does not return from a layoff on the date scheduled by the Employer. The Employer will give the employee not less than three (3) calendar days notice to return to work. This notice will be by telephone or return-receipt certified mail to the last address and/or telephone number listed in the Employer’s records, provided the Employer can prove receipt of notice.
7.	Is on layoff for a period of. two (2) years or length of seniority at time of layoff, whichever is less.
8.	Does not return to work at the expiration of a leave of absence or fails to secure an extension from the Employer prior to the expiration of the leave.
9.	Works at any job dr employment during a granted period of leave of absence. This shall not include any job or employment already held at the time the leave begins except that the employee cannot increase the terms of such employment during the leave period.
10.	Is off due to illness or accident of any kind for a period of two (2) years or length of seniority at time of illness or accident, whichever is less.
ARTICLE 13
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section A.	'
A grievance is a claim by an employee in the bargaining unit or by a group of such employees, that there has been a violation of a provision of this Agreement. If any such grievance arises during the term of this Agreement, such grievance shall be submitted to the following Grievance Procedure.
Section B.
It is the intent of the parties hereto that the procedure set forth herein shall serve as the means for the peaceful settlement of all disputes that may arise between them concerning the interpretation or application of the Agreement, (without any interference with normal operations of the Employer).
23
Employees, the Union and the Employer are required to follow and use this procedure in case they have any grievance concerning the interpretation or application of this Agreement if any, including any written amendments hereof or supplements hereto.
Section C.
Any individual employee or group shall have the right to file and present a grievance in accordance with this Agreement. A designated employee representative of Local Union 2650 has the right to be in attendance at any meeting regarding such a grievance. However, the employee may specifically request, in writing, that said representative not participate in Step 1 of the Grievance Procedure. Further, an employee shall have the right to settle or withdraw his/her grievance but without prejudice through Step 2 of the grievance procedure without Union approval.
Section D.
No settlement of a grievance shall be made which is inconsistent with any of the provisions of this Agreement. The Union and the Employer shall not be bound by any precedent in the settlement of any individual grievance unless the Union and the Employer have expressly agreed to such settlement.
Section E.
Pre-Grievance Step
In situations where disputes arise concerning the interpretation or application of this Agreement, individual non-technical employees are encouraged to discuss their concerns with their manager to \ attempt a resolution of the dispute. A representative of the Union shall be permitted to be in attendance at such discussion, if requested by the employee. No resolution of such individual dispute shall be made which is inconsistent with any of the provisions of this Agreement, and such resolution shall not be precedent setting. If the employee chooses to utilize the Pre-Grievance Step, the employee will meet with their manager within three (3) working days from the time the employee knew or should reasonably have known of the alleged contract violation. In the event the Pre-Grievance Step does not satisfactorily resolve the dispute, a Step One written grievance may be'filec within five (5) working. days of the pre-grievance meeting and pursuant to the provisions of the Grievance Procedure. In the event the Pre-Grievance Step does not take place a written grievance may be filed pursuant to the provisions of the Grievance Procedure at Step One.
24
Step One: An employee or group of employees must present his/her/their grievance to his/her/their r designated supervisor/manager within five (5) working days of the time an employee knew or should reasonably have known of the alleged contract violations. If the employee or group of employees r utilized the Pre-Grievance Step in a timely manner, they must present his/her/their grievance to his/her/their designated supervisor/manager within five (5) working days from the Pre-Grievance Step r neeting. The grievance must be submitted on a grievance forth provided by the Union. It shall name the employee(s) involved, shall state the facts giving rise to the grievance, shall identify the provisions □f this Agreement alleged to be violated by appropriate reference, shall indicate the relief requested, r and shall be signed by the employee or the designated employee representative of Local Union 2650. 1 The department Director or facility head or their designee, whichever is applicable, shall provide the employee, and the designated employee representative of Local Union 2650 an answer, in writing, no later than ten (10) working days after receipt of the written grievance. Grievances for FMLA, terminations, and new or revised Human Resource policies may be submitted at the Step Two level. Settlements reached at Step One are non-precedent setting.
Step Two: If the grievance is not resolved in Step One.the employee and/or Union shall, within ten '10) working days after receipt of the answer in SteyOne, appeal the grievance to the Human Resources department. The appeal shall be in writing and signed by the Grievant and the Union Steward or Local Union President, and it shall specify the basis of the appeal. Within ten (10) working days after receipt of the appeal, a Human Resources representative will schedule a meeting ^'with the Grievant, the Local Union President or his/her designee, and a Council 25 representative " providing said representative elects to attend. A Human Resources representative shall tender his/her decision to the employee and designated employee representative of Local Union 2650 in writing within ten (10) working days thereafter. Multiple grievances involving an identical issue may be considered together at Step Two by mutual agreement of the parties.
Step Three: If the grievance is not resolved at Step Two, the Union shall, within ten (10) working days after receipt of the Step Two answer, file an appeal with the Human Resources department to submit the matter to arbitration. The Arbitrator will be selected from the following panel during the term of this Agreement: Kathleen Opperwall, Kathryn VanDagens, Mark Glazer and Earlene Baggett-Hayes. The initial rotation order of the panel will be determined by lot. Thereafter, arbitrators will be selected according to that rotation order. The written grievance shall then be arbitrated by the arbitrator in accordance with the Voluntary Labor Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration
25
Association. If an Arbitrator is no longer available the parties will select a new Arbitrator by mutual agreement.
Within forty-five (45) calendar days of the date the written appeal to arbitration is filed with the
Resources department, Council 25 will provide written notice to the appropriate Arbitrator of his/her
assignment, providing notice to the Corporate Director of Labor Relations, and the grievance will proceed to arbitration. If such notice is not timely provided to the Arbitrator and the Employer by Council 25, then the grievance will be considered settled on the basis of the Employer's last written
response to the grievance.
Section F.
Either party can request to meet in a pre-arbitration meeting in an attempt to resolve the matter prior to the date of hearing. The meeting would be scheduled within forty (40) days of the Arbitration hearing and would be conducted solely between a Council 25 Representative, the Corporate Director of Labor Relations or his/her designee, the Local Union President or his/her designee, and a Human Resources representative.
Section G.	'
Powers of the Arbitrator. The Arbitrator shall be empowered, except as his/her powers are limited below to make a decision in cases of alleged violation of the specific Articles and Sections of this Agreement.
1.	He/she shall have no power to add to, subtract from, disregard, alter, or modify any of the terms of this Agreement.
2.	He/she shall have no power to establish wage scales or change any base wage rate, or rule or decide questions of health and safety or relative to any Retirement Plan, or supplements hereto/or to specify the terms of a new agreement. The arbitrator shall not have jurisdiction to modify any written amendments hereof or supplements hereto, or to specify the terms of a new agreement, or to substitute his/her discretion for that of any of the parties hereto or to exercise any of their functions or responsibilities. If the grievance concerns matters not so within the jurisdiction of arbitration, it shall be returned to the parties without decision.
3.	The Arbitrator is to issue his/her Award within thirty (30) days of the close of the hearing, unless mutually extended by the parties. It is agreed an Award will not be invalid due to late issuance.
26
^Section H. ■
Inhere shall be no appeal from an Arbitrator’s decision. It shall be final and binding on the Union, its merObers, the employee or employees involved, and the Employer, unless rendered outside the scope of his authority.
Section I.
Multiple grievances involving an identical issue may be presented at an arbitration hearing by mutual -agreement of the parties.
Section J.
The expenses of the arbitrator will be shared equally between the parties. Each party will pay the expenses of their representatives, witnesses and attendees, and such other expenses as that party may incur. Actual lost hours spent at that arbitration hearing which would otherwise be the employees work time shall be considered hours worked for the purpose of computing any seniority arid benefits under the Agreement.
Section K.
All grievances must be filed in writing within five (5) working days from the date the alleged violation occurred, or will be deemed waived. The Employer shall have the right to file a grievance at the Step Two level by filing same with the AFSCME Council 25 Representative and to thereafter process the grievance to Step Three arbitration if necessary. Any grievance not filed within the prescribed time limit or not advanced to the next Step by the moving party within the time limit in that Step shall be deemed abandoned. If the non-moving party does not answer a grievance within the time limits prescribed in this Article, the grievance will be considered automatically referred to the next Step of the Grievance Procedure. Time limits may be mutually extended by the Employer and the Union in writing; then the new date shall prevail.
Section L.
No financial claim made by or on behalf of any employee shall be valid for any period of time more than two (2) pay periods prior to its presentation at Step One of the written grievance procedure, except that in the case of a grievance concerning an employee’s discharge or disciplinary layoff no financial claim shall be valid for more than two (2) pay periods prior to its filing with the Human Resources department as specified in Section E Step Two of this Article. This section shall not apply to recalls from layoff not in compliance with this Agreement.
27
1.	All claims for back wages shall be limited to the amount of wages that the employee wouldi otherwise have earned at his/her regular rate, less any unemployment or other compensation that she may have received from any source during the period of back, pay except earnings that would have otherwise been earned. (E.g. second job already held by Grievant at time of discipline and then credited to the hours and rate of pay held at time of discipline).
2.	No decision in any one case shall require a retroactive wage adjustment in any other case, unless such case has been designated as a representative case by mutual written agreement by the parties.
Section M.
Any grievance which arose prior to the effective date of this Agreement shall be processed under the former Collective Bargaining Agreement.
Section N.
Any agreement reached between the Employer and Union representative(s) is binding on all employees affected, and cannot be changed by any individual employee.
Section O.
For purpose of this Article, working days shall be Monday through Friday, exclusive of contract holidays.
Section P.
An employee whose grievance shall have been processed in a timely fashion and who shall have taken a timely appeal, under the Internal Appeal provisions of the Constitution of Council 25 of the Union, from a decision of the Union not to process the grievance further and who shall have simultaneously notified the Employer, in writing of such appeal, may have his/her grievance reinstated if such appeal shall result in a decision in the employee's favor; provided, however, the Employer shall have no liability for any back pay or benefits for the period of time between the Union’s decision not to process the grievance further through the completion of the appeal. The Unior. shall notify the Employer promptly if a grievance appeal is granted by the Union, and arbitration of the grievance will be pursued.
Section Q.
Neither the Employer nor the Union will discriminate against, intimidate, restrain or coerce any employee because of or with respect to his/her participation in the grievance procedure.
28
^Section R.
^ie Employer will provide an area where the Grievant, and his/her representative and/or the Council 25'Representative per Step Two can discuss grievances in private.
ARTICLE 14
CORRECTIVE ACTION
Section A.
Che parties recognize the unique characteristics of the Employer and the importance of maintaining a ligh standard of conduct among all employees. If the Employer has reason to formally discipline a seniority employee, it shall be done in an area away from other employees, patients, or the public.
Section B.
Corrective action has been established to provide progressive disciplinary guidelines, when employees fail to meet the Employer's standards, policies, or procedures. Progressive discipline will ie used with the intent of correcting inappropriate conduct which occurs while on the job, or on the Employer’s property or at the Employer's sponsored employee events. Progressive discipline may also be used to correct job performance deficiencies.
.Section C. Procedure.
The Employer will discipline employees for just cause and within a reasonable timeframe. Progressive discipline may be issued at an appropriate level based on the circumstances surrounding the infraction, the nature and severity of the offense, the employee’s past records and previous history of discipline. Generally, depending on these factors, each infraction builds upon the last one committed and the employee progresses to the next step of corrective action with each succeeding offense. Discipline generally becomes more severe as violations continue to occur.
Progressive Discipline Steps
The following steps represent the sequence of disciplinary action for most types of violations. When the nature of the violation warrants it, the sequence may be initiated at an advanced step up to and including termination.
. . Step 1	Written Record of a Verbal Warning
Step 2	Written Warning
Step 3	Suspension
Step 4	Termination
29
Although the nature of the program is progressive, major infractions may warrant immediate suspension or discharge. The Employer reserves the right in each, particular case to determine whether progressive discipline will be used, at what level, or whether the infraction committed warrants immediate suspension or discharge.
Active Discipline Process
If corrective action has been initiated, the employee’s record of active progressive discipline is considered to be a rolling twelve (12) month period. Additional infractions within the rolling twelve (12) month period may result in the next step of progressive discipline.
Section D.
It is recognized that the Employer has the authority to adopt and revise work rules, both minor anc' major, including policies related thereto and to enforce same.
Section E.
The Employer will serve a copy of adopted or revised work rules and/or policies related thereto upor the Union and its Local President at least seven (7) calendar days prior to its effective date. The reasonableness/application of said work rule(s) may be grieved per the contract grievance procedure.
Section F.
1.	The Employer will notify the Union President either in writing, via fax, e-mail or voice mail of a written warning, suspension, and/or or termination by the end of that shift, if possible, otherwise within forty-eight (48) hours of the written warning, suspension or termination. Failure to timely notify will in no manner adversely affect or impact the merit of the written warning, suspension, or termination.
2.	The seniority employee will be given a copy of the discipline.
Section G.
An investigation prior to disciplinary action is expected. During the investigation, an employee shal. have the right to request to have his/her steward present. If such request is made, then before an employee is required to make any statements pertaining to his/her possible misconduct, the employee shall have the opportunity to discuss the matter first with his/her steward..
Section H.
In taking disciplinary action, the Employer shall not take into account any incidents which occurred more than one (1) year previously from the date of the current incident but can review an employee^
30
entire work history to assist in assessing the potential mitigation of penalty at the termination step. \ny period in which the employee is on an approved leave of absence or other similar break in service does not count as service time for purposes of defining the time period during which '.Directive actions remain active.
Section I.
All disciplinary action shall be subject to the grievance procedure, however, oral or written reprimands -.hall not be subject to arbitration.
ARTICLE 15
EVALUATIONS
Employees will normally receive a performance appraisal during their probationary and orientation >eriod, and annually thereafter. All performance appraisals will be presented to and discussed with the employees directly by their Manager or designees of their respective units.
Employees shall acknowledge such evaluations by signature; however, such signatures will imply reither agreement nor disagreement with the evaluation. Upon request, a copy of such evaluations shall be given to the employee at the time the evaluations are made. The employee may include up .o a five (5)-page response, which response does not constitute a grievance to be processed per the contract Grievance Procedure.
ARTICLE 16 PERSONNEL FILE
The Employer will maintain a personnel file for each employee. The personnel file will be located in the Human Resources Office. There will be only one personnel file for each employee.
Section A.
Employee Right to File. The employee will have the right, upon request, to examine his/her own personnel file. A member of the Human Resources Office staff may be present when the employee inspects said file and the employee may be accompanied by a member of the Union if he/she desires.
At the employee's request, the Employer will reproduce any materials in his/her personnel file for the exclusive use of the employee at the prevailing cost of duplication.
31
The employee will have the right to add to his/her personnel file materials which attest to his/her proficiency and experience. Such materials shall testify to the successful completion of any course, / seminar, or other program that increases or broadens the employee’s qualifications for any
Corporation position.
In no event shall an employee’s medical files or grievance forms and/or decisions regarding such grievance forms be contained in their personnel file.
The employee has a right, upon request, to examine his/her department file. Said request should be in writing and submitted to the Human Resources department.
Section B.
Employee Notification. If an employee disagrees with information contained in the personnel file, the employee may submit a written statement explaining his/her position which will become a part or the file for the same period of time as the disputed material.
Section C.
Non-Job Related information. Information not related to the employment relationship shall not be placed in an employee's personnel file without the employee's consent.
ARTICLE 17
NON-DISCRIMINATION
The Employer agrees that there shall be no discrimination in the application of. this Agreement because of race, color, national origin, age, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, height, weight, religion, disability, genetic information, veteran status or any other protected status not related to ability to perform essential functions of the job.
Q-
The provisions of this Agreement will be applied by the Union in a manner that does not violate hi civil and protected rights of employees under state and federal law.
All references to “she" or “he” in the Agreement shall refer to both males and females. .
32
ARTICLE 18 HOURS OF WORK
Section A.
1.	Work Dav and Work Week Definition.
The work week will consist of seven (7) calendar days starting on Sunday of each week. Work week hours for full-time employees shall generally be either eight (S) hours a day to a total of a forty (40) hour work week (5-8's). Or, ten (10) hours a day for a total of a forty (40) hour work (4-10’s). Or, twelve (12) hours a day for a total of a thirty-six (36) hour work week (3-12's). Or, flextime with daily variable start and stop times meeting department staffing requirements for a total of a forty (40) hour work week. It is recognized that the normal work week(s) noted above does not apply to all full-time employees in the bargaining unit. Further, the definitions do not impact scheduling on an eight (8) and eighty (80) basis.
2.	Shift Definition:
A number of the Employers' operations are conducted on a twenty-four (24) hour per day, seven (7) day per week basis. As a result, a wide range of shifts are used to meet the Employees operational needs. Shifts will be defined for the purposes of scheduling, job posting, and pay administration.
Section B.
There are no normal workdays or work hours for contingent/casual/temporary employees. Hours to be worked by such employees shall be determined at the sole discretion of the Employer.
. Section C.
1.	Rest Periods:
A paid fifteen-minute rest period will be scheduled for employees working in excess of a four (4) hour shift. Normally, employees will be allowed one (1) fifteen minute rest period during the first half of his/her shift and one (1) fifteen minute rest period during the second half of his/her shift. Rest periods cannot be combined together in conjunction with a lunch period or used at the beginning or the end of a shift unless agreed between the employee and the immediate supervisor.
2.	Meal Period:
Employees shall be scheduled for an unpaid thirty (30) minute meal period, normally in the ) middle of their shift for all employees scheduled for seven (7) hours or more a workday.
However, if an employee is required to work and cannot take thirty (30) minutes of duty free \ lunch, the meal period will be considered as hours worked unless commensurate time-off is granted by the end of that shift.
)	3. Rest Periods and Meal Periods should be taken away from the work station.
33
)
)
J
)
)
6.	Employees who are in orientation, or currently in extra hours are excluded from being mandated.
7.	Mandatory Extra Hours.
Management will continue to seek replacement staff for the mandated employee. Mandatory . extra hours will occur only after all other means of obtaining staff have been exhausted. First-shift will be mandated to second, second to third, and third to first. All mandated hours will be paid at one and one-half (1.5) times the employee's regular pay rate.
8.	Opt Out of Mandatory Extra Hours.
Each unit/cost center will establish a logbook that includes a listing of its employees in order of bargaining unit seniority (low to high) for purposes of determining mandated ‘‘turns" Mandatory extra hours will be rotated utilizing the logbook and classification required? Recording of mandatory extra hour turns in the logbook will be the responsibility of the employee mandated and/or manager. Refusal to comply with mandatory extra hours may be subject to progressive corrective action.
Employees may opt out of mandatory extra hours 1 time every six (6) months (January 1-June 30 and July 1- December 31) without being subject to disciplinary action. In order to exercise the option to opt out, the employee must declare his/her inability to work mandatory extra hours. Mandatory extra hours opted out by the employee shall be treated as a “turn” for the mandation rotation purposes.
If an employee exercises their opt-out of mandatory extra hours option, the extra hours will be offered to the next employee on duty in the logbook. Once an employee has agreed tc work the mandated extra hours, the next incident of extra hours shall be offered to the next employee in the logbook following the employee who chose to work the mandatory extir hours.
At facilities with one (1) employee on duty in the needed job classification, no opt out optior is allowed. If all employees have chosen to opt out of mandatory extra hours, the least senior employee shall be mandated to work. If it is necessary to mandate more than one (1 employee per occurrence or shift, and all available employees have opted out, the least senior eligible employees will be required to work.
Section E. Department - Extra Hours - Posted Schedule.
1.	Employees can volunteer for additional hours to cover open periods on the posted schedule. Additional hours will be assigned in advance, if possible.
2.	A volunteer sign-up roster will be maintained to correlate to the department scheduling period. Employees can indicate preference by date and shift. No call-in pay, reporting pay or short notice pay obligation can result.
40
, ' 3.	Selection will be made from among volunteer part-time and/or full-time employees in the
\	needed job classification within the department able to perform the needed work whose
added hours will not result in overtime costs. If there are insufficient full-time and/or part-time ■ volunteers the extra hours will be offered to casual employees.
.	4. If there is an excess number of qualified volunteers, then selection would be by bargaining unit seniority (high to low) of volunteers whose working extra hours will not result in overtime cost.
5.	If there is an insufficient number of volunteers for whom the extra hours would not result in overtime, then selection would be made from among those full-time and part-time volunteers for whom the extra hours would result in overtime by bargaining unit seniority (high to low) and then by casual volunteers.
6.	If there are no volunteers or an insufficient number of volunteers, assignment will be by job classification within the department among full-time and part-time employees, by inverse order of bargaining unit seniority (low to high) or a casual employee.
ARTICLE 24
ON CALL/STAND-BY
Section A. To provide a method for compensating Non-Technical employees who are required to be available to work hours other than those regularly scheduled, the Employer recognizes stand by duty pay (on call). This is to compensate for the inconvenience associated with being scheduled for stand-by. The time worked once the employee is called in does not count as on call time.
Section B.	Stand-By Duty Pay (On Call).
On call shall be by the needed classification within the unit. Utilization of such on call employees shall first be by volunteers, highest to lowest seniority. If there is an insufficient number of volunteers to cover the required call, then on call will be mandatory by bargaining unit seniority in the needed job classification, lowest to highest bargaining unit seniority, or on rotation basis. If the department director, manager or supervisor assigns the employee to be on call for a predetermined length of time, the stand-by duty pay rate will be $4.00 per hour.
Section C.	On call is not considered pay for time worked and will not be included in calculations used to establish overtime compensation; nor shall such hours count as service hours.
41
Section D.	Response Time.
When on stand-by/on call, the employee must be available by phone or pager, to report to the unit ready to assume an assignment as soon as possible but not to exceed forty-five (45) minutes from notification, unless other arrangements are made. An employee failing to remain on contact sta'tus or who does not report when contacted, forfeits the on call pay.
ARTICLE 25
LAY OFF/REDUCTION IN HOURS/RECALL
Section A. Purpose. To provide a consistent process for implementing layoffs in excess of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days and scheduled hours reductions in excess of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days.
Section B. Provisions. Layoffs, including those resulting from subcontracting, will be implemented according to the procedures described below. The provisions of this Article apply to all AFSCME Local 2650 Non-Technical employees. Those employees who have riot completed the new hire probationary period are not eligible to have their service time reinstated with the Employer.
Section C. Procedure. Whenever the Employer determines a layoff or scheduled hours reduction is necessary for a specific department/unit, the number of hours and/or positions, and the specific classifications to be eliminated or affected in a department/unit, and whether to implement a layoff, hours reduction, or combination of both will be determined by the Employer.
The Employer will maintain separate lists for seniority regular full-time and seniority regular part-time employees based upon the individual’s bargaining unit hours which will be applied between employees at the affected department/unit and subsidiary as noted hereafter.
The determination of which employees will be affected will be made by the Employer in accordance with the provisions of this article. Affected employees will be identified from the employees in the affected positions and classifications in that department/unit.
1.	The Employer will seek volunteers for layoff or reduction in hours, whichever is applicable within the affected department/unit and job classification. A seniority volunteer accepts the layoff or reduction of hours until recalled per the provisions of this Article. If there is an excess of volunteers then selection will be by seniority (high to low). An employee who volunteers fo layoff or reduction in hours does so for the balance of the layoff or reduction in hours.
42
7
?k
i
I'
I
■
t w
K
k
2.	If there is still a need to reduce staffing levels, the Employer will then reduce the scheduled hours of and/or terminate the employment of temporary employees in the identified classification(s) in that department/unit.
3.	If there is further need to reduce staffing levels, the Employer will then reduce the hours of or terminate the employment, as the Employer deems appropriate, of those full-time and part-time employees in the identified classification(s) in that department/unit who have not completed the new hire probationary period.
4.	If there is further need to reduce staffing levels, the Employer will then reduce the hours of or layoff those full-time and part-time employees in the identified classification(s) in that department/unit who have completed their new hire probationary period and who are unable to perform the available work with minimal training. Selection will be made in inverse (lowest to highest) order of bargaining unit seniority. Part-time will be laid off or have hours reduced before full-time employees are so impacted. Affected seniority employees (non-volunteers) will be assigned to a comparable position, if any, if the employee possesses the qualifications required by the job and can perform the full scope of the new position with minimal orientation as defined by the Employer. Reassignment may be to any bargaining unit site within the definition of a comparable position. In the event no comparable position of the same status exists at the time of notice of layoff, the affected employee may have the option of moving into a comparable position of a different status, if the employee possesses the qualifications required by the job and can perform the full scope of the new position with minimal orientation as defined by the Employer. The affected employee must notify Human Resources of their selection within seventy-two (72) hours. Should the affected employee be selected to fill any vacant position, all recall rights will be forfeited.
5.	The Employer can continue to schedule casual employees as needed subsequent to any layoff , or reduction of scheduled hours to cover absenteeism including daily absenteeism, vacations, leaves of absence, bereavement, jury duty, etc. Seniority full-time and part-time employees scheduled for layoff may replace a casual employee on schedule for one (1) month or more of leave of absence coverage within job classification, but are not guaranteed any minimum schedule of hours.
Section D, Bumping Procedure, Prior to bumping employees must fill comparable vacant positions. If no such assignment is available, the following procedure will be used:
1.	Affected non-volunteer seniority employees can displace the lowest seniority employee in the same job classification, or the lowest seniority employee in the last job classification held by the affected non-volunteer seniority employee within the most recent twenty four (24) month period if the employee possesses the qualifications required by the job and can perform the full scope of the position with minimal orientation as defined by the Employer. All displacements will occur within the same subsidiary in which the affected employee is employed.
2.	If the affected non-volunteer seniority employee displaces another employee, as outlined above, she/he will assume the shift, schedule of the displaced employee.
3.	A part-time employee cannot displace a full-time employee.
43
Section E. Super Seniority. During the term of this Agreement, the Union President, Chief Steward, and duly recognized stewards (not alternates) are granted super seniority status in their, positions including shift within their subsidiary, during their term in office only.in the event of a layoff.. If the elected official must be designated for layoff, the official can replace the least senior employee (lifetime hours) in the Affiliate in an equal or lower job grouping on that shift provided he/she is qualified and capable of performing the work with minimal orientation. The official must assume the hours of the employee replaced.
Section F. Notification of Layoff or Scheduled Hours Reduction. Each affected employee will be informed by the Employer of her/his scheduled hours reduction or layoff. It is understood and agreed that remaining bargaining unit seniority full-time and regular part-time employees can have their work hours/schedules adjusted by the Employer to fulfill its patient care and business obligations. Whenever possible, the Employer will provide a minimum notice of five (5) calendar days of layoff or of required regular schedule, shift or hours changes when applying this contract Article. A copy of the notice will be transmitted to the Local 2650 President. Employees who cannot accommodate required shift or schedule changes will be laid off.
All affected employees are eligible to apply for other available positions across subsidiaries (without limit on mileage) for which they qualify in accordance with the provision of the Job Posting article.
Laid off employees who are unable to obtain other employment with the Employer will receive information regarding unemployment compensation and continuation of insurance coverage’s through COBRA (if applicable).
Section G. Pay at Termination. Affected employees will be paid through the last day . of work Lr^ off employees will be paid for all hours scheduled on the day of notification, regardless of whetht all scheduled hours are actually worked.
In the event the Employer provides prior notice of layoff, and allows an affected employee to work through that notice period, any time off taken by an employee after notice has been given that is no. approved in advance in writing by the Employer will be without pay. Any paid time off shall not extend the effective date of layoff beyond the last day worked.
At the discretion of the Employer, pay in lieu of notice may be given to an employee being laid off.
44
'	.Employees who are laid off will not be eligible to use any paid time off after the last day worked. Paid
7	’irrieoff may not be used as pay in lieu of notice. Accrued, unused paid time off will be paid upon
termination in accordance with the applicable Employer's policy.
Any eligible, affected employee whose Tuition Reimbursement application was approved prior to notification of layoff will be eligible for reimbursement for the approved class(es), in accordance with
■* the applicable Employer’s policy, at the benefit level to which she/he was entitled prior to layoff or - -scheduled hour reduction.
Laid off employees are not eligible for wage adjustments, benefit payouts, or benefit accruals after the date of notification of layoff except as stated above.
K
Section H, Employees Not Affected By Scheduled Hours Reduction or Layoff.
j Whenever the Employer determines it is necessary to implement a scheduled hours reduction or layoff in a department/unit, at the Employer's discretion, it may be necessary to modify the regular schedule or shift of any employee whose scheduled hours are not reduced, or who is not laid off, to allow the Employer to fulfill patient care and business obligations. Whenever possible, the Employer
B will provide a minimum notice of five (5) calendar days of required regular schedule or shift changes. Employees who cannot accommodate required shift or schedule changes will be laid off.
Section I. . Recall from Layoff or Reduction in Hours.
When the Employer determines to recall and/or to reinstate reduced hours, employees may then be recalled across subsidiaries to a comparable position from which he/she was laid off or reduced in hours based upon highest to lowest bargaining unit hours provided he/she has the skills necessary to perform the required work with minimal training.
Notice of recall can be by telephone in the presence of a Union representative and/or by registered mail (2 attempts maximum) to the employee's last known address on file with the Employer's Human Resources department. It is the full responsibility of the employee to keep his/her telephone number and current address with the employee's Human Resources department. Upon notification of recall, employees will have seventy-two (72) hours to return to work, unless another reporting date and time is mutually agreed to by the Employer and the employee. Failure to return to work as scheduled will be considered a voluntary quit and will result in termination of employment.
45
Recall rights will remain in effect for two (2) years or length of. bargaining unit seniority at time of layoff, whichever is less.
ARTICLE 26 POSTING
All regular full-time and regular part-time job vacancies within the bargaining unit will be filled in accordance with the following provisions of the Agreement. A job vacancy is defined as a regular full-time or regular part-time Non-Technical Bargaining Unit position approved by the Employer to fill. A job vacancy may result from the resignation of an employee, the termination of an employee, the promotion of an employee, the demotion of an employee, the transfer of an employee to another bargaining unit position, the transfer of an employee out of the bargaining unit, the retirement of an employee, or the creation of a new job classification.
Section A.	Recruitment Process.
The Employer will use the following recruitment process to fill a vacant regular full-time or part-time position:
1.	All job openings covered under this contract will be posted for seven (7) calendar days. Each respective subsidiary will use its designated subsidiary-wide job posting process.
2.	All postings will include the following information which will be determined by the Employer:
•	Posting beginning and ending dates
•	Job title
•	General job summary
•	Affiliate location
•	Job status (full time or part time)
•	Base hourly rate
•	Minimum qualifications, which will include, but are not limited to experience, training/education, licensure, certification/registration
•	Shift hours...variable hours and/or shifts will be reasonably defined.
Section B.	Application Process.
Qualified employees interested in a vacancy are required to apply prior to expiration of the job posting. The request must be received in the appropriate Human Resource department no later thai. the expiration of the posting period.
46
1
/o be deemed qualified for a vacancy, an eligible bargaining unit member must meet the minimum 7 qualifications.
Section C, Selection Process.
. fhe best qualified applicants overall work record, including performance evaluations and corrective 'ction status, will be considered. Bargaining unit seniority will be the determining factor only when ' qualifications are equal. Bargaining unit seniority employees deemed qualified, who are denied a losition, shall have recourse via the grievance procedure.
। Temporary, casual, and probationary employees in job classifications within the Bargaining Unit who have not completed ninety (90) days of employment will be selected for a posted position only if there ! ire no other qualified Bargaining Unit applicants.
r Section D, Transition Period to New Job.
Employees entering into the Bargaining Unit shall complete a. probationary period as outlined in Vticle 11, Probationary Period. Employees within the Bargaining Unit assuming a new job classification shall complete an orientation period of four hundred eighty (480) hours actually worked.
A bargaining unit applicant selected for a vacant position will generally be moved to the new position [ at least fourteen (14) days but no more than thirty (30) calendar days after acceptance of the new position. In the event the employee's current manager needs to retain the employee in her/his present position beyond thirty (30) calendar days, AFSCME and the employee shall be notified.
intra-department employees transferring shall maintain their original Bargaining Unit seniority. If the employee is deemed unsuccessful at any time during the orientation period as determined by the Employer, the employee will return to his/her former position, if not filled. If filled, the employee will be assigned by the Employer to another open position for which he/she is qualified. If the employee voluntarily seeks to vacate within seven (7) calendar days, he/she will return to his/her former position, provided the request does not follow an issued discipline. Refusing such assignment will constitute a voluntary resignation.
Section E.	Eligibility for Transfer and New Job Probation Period.
1.	An employee who has not completed her/his new hire probation cannot bid on a posted position unless her/his department manager provides written approval. If approval is given, and the probationary employee is selected, the employee must complete a new job orientation period (480
47
hours worked) for the new position in addition to the new hire probation. Both the probationary and i orientation periods will run concurrently.	- '
2.	An employee who has not completed her/his new job orientation (480 hours worked) cannot bid on a posted position unless her/his department manager provides written approval. If approval is given, and the employee is selected, the orientation period for the old job will be , terminated on the date the employee begins the new job. On the date the employee begins the new job, she/he will begin a new job orientation period (480 hours worked) for that job.
Section F.	Notification of Status of Application.
All bidders will be notified in writing by the respective Human Resource department within two (2) weeks after a decision has been made.
Section G.	Base Pay Adjustment Promotions, Transfers and Demotions.
1.	Base Pay Adjustment An adjustment as outlined below will be made to the selected « employee's base pay effective on the date she/he starts in the new position. In the event the employee's current manager needs to retain the employee in her/his present position beyond twenty one (21) calendar days, and the new position has a higher rate of pay, the employee will receive the higher rate of pay beginning with the payroll period immediately after the twenty-first (21st) calendar 1 day after acceptance of the new position.
2.	Promotions.
a.	If an employee moves to a job in a higher pay grade (promotion), they will go to at least the minimum pay rate of the new pay grade.
b.	If an employee moves to a job in a higher pay grade and their pay rate is higher than the minimum of the new pay grade, they will receive a promotional increase (percentage) equal to one-half the percentage difference of the midpoints rounded tc the next step.
c.	The higher of A or B will be granted.
d.	If an employee is deemed unsuccessful at any time during the orientation period or if the employee voluntarily seeks to vacate the position within seven (7) calendar days, the employee’s pay rate will return to the pay rate previously held with the original position.
3.	Lateral Transfers.
a. If an employee moves to a job in the same pay grade, In the same business unit, there will be no decrease in pay. If the employee is not at the appropriate step
48
■ ’	based on service hours, they will be moved to the appropriate step. There will be a
two-step per year limit to increases based on lateral transfers.
4.	Demotions.
a. If an employee moves to a job in a lower pay grade, they willgo to a pay rate no higher than the maximum rate of the new pay grade.
If an employee moves to a job in a lower pay grade and their pay rate is below the maximum of the new pay grade, they will be placed at the step in the new pay grade closest to, but not exceeding, their current rate of pay.
5.	Moves Between Business Units.
a. If an employee moves between business units where the transfer is considered a demotion, the employee will be placed at the step in the new pay grade closest to, but not less than, their cun-ent rate of pay.
6.	Hire In Pay Rates.
a.	Anyone hiring in will receive at least the minimum rate of the pay grade assigned to the job.
b.	No one hired will receive the maximum rate of the assigned pay grade.
c.	At the time of hire, the relevant experience of the candidate will be calculated into a full time equivalent of year(s) of experience. The number of FTE years will be converted to a step in the job's assigned pay grade. The hire in pay rate will normally be at the calculated step.
d.	Item c (above) will be limited in the following manner:
1)	Pay grades 1 to 3 will be limited to a hire-in rate up to the 3rt active step.
- 2) Pay grades 4 and 5 will be limited to a hire-in rate up to the midpoint.
3)	Pay grades 6 to 10 will be limited to a hire-in rate up to the midpoint.
ARTICLE 27
NEW OR CHANGED JOBS
In the event the Employer establishes a new job classification that would be within the bargaining unit, combines existing bargaining unit classifications or adds to current job descriptions to the extent that significantly new skills, responsibilities and qualifications are required, the Employer will create the job description and determine a reasonable pay range for the classification. The Union President will be provided with a copy of the job description and the pay range. The Union may request a special conference to solely discuss the new job classification and/or its pay range. Said conference
49
to be held within ten (10) calendar days after receipt of notice or mutually accepted extension. The job classification and pay range shall become effective at the conclusion of the special conference but no later than the expiration of the ten (10) calendar day period or any mutually agreed to extension date. The Employer will then post the position(s) created by the new classification.
ARTICLE 28
JOB DESCRIPTIONS
The Employer will furnish the current job descriptions for all job classifications to the Union President in a reasonable time period.
For purposes of notification only, the Employer will provide a copy of job descriptions revised by the Employer during the life of the contract to the Union President no later than seven (7) calendar days prior to the effective date of the job description.
ARTICLE 29
BULLETIN BOARDS
Section A.
The Employer agrees to furnish one (1) locked bulletin board (key to Union) outside the employee Cafeteria and on the ground floor of F Tower at McLaren Flint, and in the Patient Accounts department located in the McLaren Corporate Building, Beecher Road; and one (1) locked bulletin board (key to Union) outside the cafeteria at McLaren Lapeer; a loose leaf binder at each MMG facility covered by this Agreement. A loose-leaf binder containing the appropriate seniority list will be provided by the Union bulletin board at McLaren Flint and in the Union Office at McLaren Lapeer. The Union President or his/her designee may send messages via designated fax number to the members of the bargaining unit twice per month situated at sites that do not have an exclusive Bulletin Board. The President or his/her designee will fax one (1) document to each designated number with a routing slip listing unit employees who will have access to the message.
Section B.
All materials which are posted or faxed shall be signed and dated by the President of the Local Union or his/her designee and concurrently provided to the respective Human Resources department.
50
Section C.
Notices on the bulletin boards, in loose leaf binders and/or fax shall be restricted to the following types:
1.	Notices of Union recreational and social affairs.
2.	Notices of Union elections, appointments and results of Union elections pertaining to employees within this unit
3.	. Notices of Union Meetings and educational classes.
4.	AFSCME Advantage documents.
5.	. Government documents that Employer is required by law to post.
6.	Any other documents solely by mutual agreement.
7.	Pending grievances by subject matter, grievance settlements or arbitration results.
8.	AFSCME Council 25 or AFSCME Local 2650 newsletters.
Section D.
Bulletin boards or binders shall not be used by the Union or its members for disseminating propaganda of any kind whatsoever and among other things shall not be used by the Union for posting or distributing pamphlets.or political matter of any kind whatsoever.
ARTICLE 30
SPECIAL CONFERENCE
Section A.
Special Conferences may be scheduled by mutual agreement of both parties. The time, date and place will be mutually set, the request will be in writing directed to either the Local Union President, or the Employer’s Vice President/Director of Human Resources, or Designee.
Section B.
The written request will set forth an agenda regarding matters of mutual interest. Neither party is required to agree to any proposal of the other. Grievances will not be a proper subject to such conferences.
51
Section C,
The conference will last no. longer than two (2) hours, unless mutually extended. Participants as follows:
•	Outside official plus up to three (3) Non Technical Employees.
•	An equal number of the Employer representatives will be in attendance.
ARTICLE 31
MILITARY SERVICE
An employee on military leave for service in the Armed Forces of the United States shall be reinstated upon completion of such service in accordance with the requirements of the applicable laws of the United States.
ARTICLE 32
DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING PROCEDURE
Section A.
The Employer and the Union agree that the workplace should be free from the risks posed by the use of alcohol and controlled substances in order to protect the safety of employees, patients, and the public. Therefore, it is essential that a healthy, drug free environment be maintained at all times and that employees are required to work free from the effects of alcohol and other drugs in order to fulfill their responsibilities. The unlawful manufacture, distribution (sale or transfer), diversion (theft) of drugs from the Employer, possession or use of a controlled substance is prohibited in the workplace.
Section B.
In order to maintain a drug and alcohol free workplace, the drug and alcohol testing program will be implemented.
1.	The Employer may test non-technical employees for drugs and alcohol in the following instances:
a.	When reasonable suspicion exists, or
b.	Per a return to work agreement executed in accord with the recommendation of a qualified substance abuse treatment program, or
52
c.	When a second event of diversion of a controlled substance has occurred within a thirty (30) day period on the unit by the same non-technical employee. Only the last employee who accessed the drug prior to the diversion and the first employee who accessed the drug after the diversion may be tested provided it is the second event for the employee. This testing process will be done by an independent laboratory. The Employer will provide the Union documentation of the first event before drug testing, or
d.	When an employee is involved in a work-related accident and demonstrates reasonable suspicion as outlined in item two (2) below.
2.	Reasonable suspicion exists when a supervisor or other person in authority has reasonable good faith objective suspicions of an employee's drug or alcohol use, based on specific, contemporaneous, articulable observations concerning the appearance, behavior, speech or pnrty odors of the employee as personally observed by the supervisor. The supervisor must document such observation.
■ >
3.	No employee will be tested without prior written consent. However, an employee's refusal to provide written consent and to submit to testing may be subject to immediate discharge.
4.	Possession of illegal drugs, diversion (theft) of drugs from the Employer, and/or distribution (sale or transfer) of drugs shall result in discharge.
5.	On the first occurrence of an established positive test result for reasonable suspicion the employee may be disciplined, and shall be required to participate in a qualified substance ''buse treatment program of his/her choice. Failure to comply with the terms of the program Jhall result in termination.
When testing is for reasonable suspicion, the Employer shall transport or arrange for transportation of the employee to and from the testing .site, where applicable. The Employer shall pay for all testing and the employee shall continue to receive regular pay and benefits during the administration of tests. During the waiting period for test results, the employee shall be off duty without pay.
If the test results are negative, the employee shall be compensated at their regular rate of pay for the time off duty.
While off duty to participate in qualified treatment program or awaiting testing results, the employee may use available accrued bank time.
If an employee tests positive after completion of a substance abuse treatment program, this episode will be treated as a separate event, and the employee will be given the opportunity to participate in the substance abuse treatment program again. Failure to comply with the terms of the program shall result in termination.
The employee shall be terminated, upon any positive test result after completion of two (2) episodes of rehabilitation in a substance abuse treatment program.
6.	The alcohol and controlled substance abuse testing process is designed to protect the integrity, identity and security of the specimen and the employee. The drug and alcohol
53
testing process shall be administered through the Employee Health department or its designee. During the collection process, Union representation rights will be granted upon request by the employee.
7.	An employee who voluntarily seeks assistance for drug or alcohol dependency and has had no incidence of affected job performance, shall be referred to a qualified substance abuse treatment program and no discipline shall result.
8.	The employee will test negative before actively resuming work followed by random test in accordance with Section 1b above. Failure to adhere per Section 1b above shall result in termination.
9.	When the Employer determines that reasonable suspicion exists and an employee will be tested, a Union representative shall be notified upon request of the employee. During the delineation of the recommendation prior to execution of a return to work agreement, a Union representative may be present, upon request of the employee. The Union President or designee will notify the Employer who the representatives will be.
10.	The collection process and chain of custody will be adhered to as set forth in this contract.
CHAIN OF CUSTODY
It is recognized that chain of custody procedure will be adhered to at each step of the process tc ensure accuracy and confidentiality. A chain of custody form is used to document all handling and storage of a specimen. The transfer of specimens from one authorized individual or place to anothei must use the chain of custody procedure indicated on the form. Each person in the chain of custody is required to sign for the specimen.
1.	COLLECTION
a.	Urine specimens will be obtained without unreasonable intrusion in to thr employee's privacy. Employee privacy will be respected to the greatest extent possible by all personnel involved in the testing process and procedure. However, reasonable suspicion of sample tampering may result in closer scrutiny including direct observation during sample gathering. As appropriate, an employee will be sent to Employee Health, the Emergency Room or a designated outside lab for thr collection of specimen. If these locations change the Union will be given an updatec. copy of the locations.
b.	Collector ensures that the Specimen ID number on the top of the Custody ano Control Form (CCF) matches the specimen ID number on the label/seals.
c.	Collector provides the required information on the CCF. The collector provides the remark if the donor refuses to provide his/her SSN or Employee ID number.
d.	Collector gives a collection container to the donor for providing a specimen.
54
e.	After the donor gives the specimen to the collector, the collector checks the temperature of specimen within four (4) minutes and marks the appropriate temperature box on the CCF. The collector provides a remark if the temperature is outside the acceptable range.
f.	Collector checks the split or single specimen collection box. If no specimen is collected, that box is checked anda remark is provided. If no specimen is collected, COPY 1 is discarded and the remaining copies are distributed as required.
g.	Donor watches the collector pouring the specimen from the collection container into the specimen bottle(s), placing the cap (s) on the specimen bottle(s) and affixing the label(s)/seal(s) on the specimen bottle(s).
h.	Collector dates the specimen bottle label(s) after they are placed on the specimen bottle(s).
i.	Donor initials the specimen bottle label(s) after the label(s) have been placed on the specimen bottle(s).
j.	Collector in.‘ ‘njcts the donor to read the certification statement and to sign, print name, date,/provide phone numbers and date of birth after reading the certification statement. If the donor refuses to sign the certification statement, the collector provides a remark on Copy 1.
k.	Collector completes the CCF (i.e., provides signature, printed name, date, time of collection and name of delivery service), immediately places the sealed specimen bottle(s) and Copy 1 of the CCF in a leak - proof plastic bag, places the track label from the CCF on the specimen package, releases specimen package to the delivery service and distributes the other copies as outlined in the standard operating procedure manual as required.
2.	INITIAL LABORATORY SCREENING
a.	Initial drug and alcohol testing will be conducted utilizing the Employer designated laboratory. If the Employer changes laboratories, the Union will be notified within ten (10) working days of the change. There will be an intent to bargain if the change in laboratories results in a change to one that is not federally approved.
b.	Initial cut-off levels utilized for determination whether urine specimens are negative or positive shall be as follows:
Cannabinoids Cocaine metabolites Phencyclidine Opiates Amphetamines Barbiturates Benzodiazepines Propoxphene
50ng/mL
300ng/mL
25ng/mL
2000ng/mL
1000ng/mL
300ng/mL
300ng/mL
300ng/mL
55
Methadone Methaqualone ■ Alcohol Oxycodones
300ng/mL . 300ng/mL
20 MG% 100ng/mL
Subject to revision in accordance with subsequent amendments to Department of Health and Human Services guidelines.
c.	The laboratory shall report test results in writing to Employee Health Services 01 Human Resources. Employee Health Services or Human Resources will notify the employee's manager and if it is Employee Health Services, they will notify Human Resources. The manager will notify the employee of the test results, direct the employee to sign appropriate documentation, and indicate when the employee may return to work.
d.	If the urine test is positive, it will be sent for confirmatory testing.
3.	CONFIRMATION TESTING
a.	If the urine test is positive, the chain of custody will be maintained and the “B1 specimen will undergo confirmation testing using gas chromatography procedure (GC/MS) or other gas/liquid chromate-graphy is GC/MS is not available. The confirmation cut-off levels shall be:
Cannabinoids	15ng/mL
Cocaine metabolites	150ng/mL
Phencyclidine	25ng/mL
Opiates	2000ng/mL
Amphetamines	500ng/mL
Barbiturates	200ng/mL
Benzodiazepines	200ng/mL
Propoxphene	200ng/mL
Methadone	200ng/mL
Methaqualone	200ng/mL
Alcohol	20 MG%
Oxycodones	100ng/mL
Subject to revision in accordance with subsequent amendments to Department o' Health and Human Services guidelines.
b.	The laboratory shall report test results in writing to Employee Health Services o Human Resources within an average of five (5) working days after receipt of the specimen. The report shall identify the drugs and metabolites tested for, whether positive or negative, the specimen number assigned by the collection site person (IC number), and the drug testing laboratory specimen identification number.
c.	If the confirmatory test is negative, then the test will be reported as NEGATIVE Employee Health Services or Human Resources will notify the employee’s manager and Human Resources. The manager will notify the employee of the test results
56
direct the employee to go to Employee Health to sign appropriate documentation, and indicate when the employee may return to work. .
d.	Specimens which test positive on the initial and confirmation testing shall be reported as POSITIVE.
4.	POSITIVE TEST RESULTS
a.	A positive test result does not automatically confirm a substance abuse problem. Positive test result shall be reviewed by the Medical Review Officer (MRO), a designated physician experienced in the interpretation of drug test results and knowledge of possible alternate medical explanations. Employee Health Nurse or . Human Resources will facilitate communication between the MRO and the employee. Transmission of all results from the laboratory to the MRO and communication with the employee will be done in a manner to ensure confidentiality.
b.	If unable to satisfactorily explain the results, Human Resources and the manager will meet with the employee to determine a plan of action.
ARTICLE 33
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Section A	- Purpose.
To enable an employee to receive time off from work when it is necessary due to medical, family, personal, military, or educational reasons.
Section B	- Eligibility.
FMLA: Must have at least twelve (12) consecutive months of service, and also must have worked at least one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) hours during the twelve (12) months prior to the start of the leave.
Military: In accordance with applicable law.
Health (non-FMLA): Full-time regular and part-time regular employees with at least one thousand Forty (1,040) service hours during the twelve (12) months prior to the start of the leave who experience a work-related illness or injury.
Personal and Educational: Full-time regular and part-time regular employees with at least two thousand eighty (2,080) service hours.
57
Section C	- Types of Leaves of Absence. ■	.
1.	FMLA
Employees who have twelve (12) months of consecutive employment and have worked at least one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) hours during the twelve (12) months prior to commencement of leave are eligible for FMLA, in accordance with Federal regulations. , FMLA leaves may be requested for one of the following reasons:
•	For the birth and care of the newborn child of the employee**
•	For placement with the employee of a son or daughter for adoption or foster care**
■	To care for an immediate family member (spouse, child, or parent) with a serious health condition
■	To take medical leave when the employee is unable to work because of a serious health condition
■	Because of any qualifying exigency arising out of the fact that the employee's spouse, son, daughter, or parent is a covered military member on active duty (or has been notified of an impending call or order to active duty) in support of a contingency operation; and
•	To care for a covered service member with a serious injury or illness if the employee is the spouse, son, daughter, parent, or next of kin of the service member.
Under some circumstances, employees may take FMLA leave intermittently - which means taking leave in blocks of time, or by reducing their normal weekly or daily work schedule.
** An approved leave for birth and care, or placement for adoption or foster child must conclude within twelve (12) months of the birth or placement.
If an eligible employee requests a leave of absence for any of the above reasons, the approved leave of absence will be applied toward FMLA entitlements.
Available Leave Time
Eligible employees are entitled to leaves under FMLA as provided by law. Generally, FMLA leaves are as follows:
1.	Eligible employees are entitled to a total of twelve (12) work weeks of unpaid leave during any twelve (12) month period for one or more of the reasons noted above.
58
2.	Spouses employed by the same Employer are jointly entitled to a combined total, of *welve (12) work weeks of family leave for the birth and care of the newborn child, for placement of a child for adoption or foster care, and to care for a parent who has a serious health condition. -
fhe Employer uses a rolling twelve (12) month period. A rolling twelve (12) month period means that velve-month period is measured back from the date the employee uses any FMLA time.
FMLA Return to Work
if the employee returns to work within twelve (12) weeks from the commencement of the FMLA leave, ‘he Employer will return the employee to an.equivalent job classification.
If the employee does not return within twelve (12) weeks from the commencement of the FMLA l?'\ve the employee's shift and job classification will not be guaranteed.
intermittent Leave
If FMLA leave is for birth and care or placement for adoption or foster care, use of intermittent leave is subject to approval.
'f FMLA time is required on an intermittent basis, the Employer may require the employee to transfer temporarily to an alternate position with the equivalent pay and benefits that better accommodates ecurring periods of absence, or a reduced work schedule.
Exhausting Maximum FMLA Leave Time
Once an employee exhausts their FMLA entitlement, they may extend their leave by requesting a personal leave. Please review "Requesting a Leave of Absence" in Section D of this Article.
2.	MILITARY LEAVE
Military leaves of absence are provided in accordance with applicable law. A copy of the military orders must be submitted with the request for military leave of absence.
3.	HEALTH LEAVE (non-FMLA)
Part-time regular and full-time regular employees who have at least one thousand forty (1,040) service hours during the twelve (12) months prior to the start of the leave, and who experience a work-related illness and injury, are eligible to request a Health Leave for absences due to the employee’s serious illness.
Available Leave Time
The first twelve (12) weeks of a leave due to work-related illness or injury will be considered a non-FMLA Health Leave and will not count toward the exhaustion of FMLA time. After twelve (12) weeks of non-FMLA Health Leave due to work-related illness or injury, FMLA will begin.
4.	PERSONAL LEAVE
Part-time regular and full-time regular employees who have at least two thousand eighty (2,080) service hours are eligible to request an unpaid Personal Leave for unforeseer personal situations at^.ie sole discretion of the supervisor when business conditir's will allow. A personal leave will not be granted for purposes of seeking or trying out employment elsewhere.
Available Leave Time
There is a twelve (12) week maximum per rolling twelve (12) month period.
5.	EDUCATIONAL LEAVE
Part-time regular and full-time regular employees who have at least two thousand eighty (2,080) service hours are eligible to request an unpaid Education Leave for educational purposes providing the continued education relates to the employee's current position, or a position within McLaren Health Care. Requests must be submitted no less than thirty (30) days prior to the commencement of the leave.	. .
Available Leave Time
There is a two (2) year maximum.
Section D - Requesting A Leave Of Absence.
At times it may be necessary for an eligible employee to be absent from work for an extended period. The Employer recognizes this and makes provision for leave of absence.
If an eligible employee will be absent from work more than three (3) consecutive calendar days for reasons covered under FMLA, an FMLA leave of absence must be requested. If an eligible employee, will be absent from work for more than seven (7) consecutive calendar days for reasons not covered by FMLA, a leave of absence must be requested. Employees who are absent from work for more than seven (7) consecutive calendar days and either are not eligible for any type of leave of absence
60
,iave exhausted all available leave time for which they are eligible, or whose leave of absence 'equest is denied will be terminated.
It is required that the employee provide notice to the Employer for any leave unless emergency circumstances dictate otherwise. Employees are required to keep the Employer aware of the expected duration of the leave and provide the necessary documentation to support their need for a leave of absence.
.Eligible employees must complete the Request for Leave form no less than thirty (30) days prior to the expected commencement of the leave of absence, if foreseeable (e.g. scheduled surgery). If the .eave is not foreseeable, the employee must make a request for leave the same day they notify the employer of the absence. When requesting a FMLA leave, employees are required to have their physician complete and return a Health Certification.
When a leave due to a serious health condition (either the employees or a family member's) is foreseeable based on planned medical treatment, the employee must make a reasonable effort to schedule the treatment so as not to unduly disrupt the Employer's operations. This schedule is 'subject to the approval of the health care provider.
Completed FMLA leave requests and Health Certification forms must be returned directly to the leave administrator - not the employee's supervisor or department. Completed requests for Personal, Educational or Military leave must be submitted directly to the leave administrator. The request will be reviewed and the employee and department will be notified of the approval status.
The Employer may require employees to submit to examinations by an Employer appointed physician ar health care professional when such tests and examinations are considered to be of value to the Employer in maintaining a capable workforce, or for employee health and safety. If the employee disagrees with the opinion of the appointed physician/health care professional, they may seek a 3rd opinion. The physician or health care provider for the 3rd opinion will be mutually agreed between Employer and employee. The Employer will pay the costs for any tests or examinations it requires and mileage from the employee's record of address for both the 2nd and 3rd opinions.
Section E - Returning to Work From An Approved Leave of Absence.	■ -
1	. Employee’s Health Condition
When an employee is returning to work from a Health or FMLA (employee's own medical" condition) leave the employee must make an appointment with and be seen by Employee Health prior to their expected return to work date. The return to work may be delayed until such fitness for duty is provided and has been cleared by Employee Health.
When an employee arrives for their Employee Health appointment they must provide a physician's certification confirming the employee's fitness to return to work. Upon review and approval the Employee Health department will provide the employee with return to work documentation. The employee is responsible for submitting the return to work paperwork to her/his supervisor and Human Resources.
2	.' Returning To Work With Restrictions
All employees returning to work with restrictions may be required to be evaluated by Employee Health or Occupational Health. Providing the Employer can accommodate the restrictions, an employee may return to work with restrictions if medically necessary. The . Employer must be provided with and approve medical documentation from the employee's physician.
An employee may return to work with restrictions if approved by Employee Health Services or Occupational Health and the employee's department. If granted, a return to work with restrictions will be for a maximum duration of sixty (60) calendar days dr the timeframe indicated by the employee's physician, whichever is less.
If the Employer cannot accommodate the employee's restrictions, or if the employee is not able to perform the essential functions of their position with or without accommodation, the employee will be returned to leave status, if eligible, or placed on temporary layoff status (if ineligible for additional leave time) until such time that the employee can return to work without restrictions.
62
I
■lection F - Employment Status Upon Return from LOA.
'f an employee returns to work within twelve (12) weeks of the start of an approved FMLA leave, the employer will return the employee to an equivalent classification. If the employee's leave of absence s longer than twelve (12) weeks the employee will be eligible to apply for other vacant positions.
'Employees on a personal, educational or non-FMLA leave are not guaranteed return to the same or equivalent position. If an employee returning to work is unable to obtain a position within fourteen (14) "alendar days from the end of the leave the employee will be placed in layoff status. Once an ^employee has been placed in a lay-off status, they may be reassigned to a comparable position. If no ,uch position exists then the employee will be placed on a recall list.
f, after returning from a leave of absence, an employee must request another leave of absence within thirty (30) days for the same reason, all time will be considered one leave.
^Section G - Reporting In While On Leave.
f an employee takes a leave because of their own serious health condition or to care for a covered family member, the Human Resources department and supervisor must be kept informed by written ximmunication of the status, of the leave and intention to return to work whenever there is a change from what has been approved. If the leave is extended the employee is required to complete an additional Request for Leave form and submit an up-to-date Health Certification.
Section H - Miscellaneous Information.
♦	An employee may not seek or obtain employment while on any approved leave of absence, or increase hours of an existing job. Violations may result in termination of employment.
♦	Other than Military Leaves, an employee may not take a leave that is beyond the employee's total length of service.
♦	Pay increases will not be processed for an employee who is on an approved leave of absence. If an employee becomes eligible for an increase while on leave of absence, the increase will be deferred and implemented when the employee returns to work.
*	If an employee is not eligible for any type of leave, and is absent from work for seven (7) calendar days or more, employment may be terminated.
♦	Unless otherwise required by law, health, dental, vision, and life insurance continue for the duration of the approved leave of absence or twelve (12) weeks, whichever is less. All other benefits terminate at the end of the month in which the leave begins. Benefits for which the employee is otherwise eligible will resume on the date the employee returns to work.
63
A request to extend or change an approved leave to another type of leave must be submitted to ther leave administrator in writing no later than fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the expiration date of 1 the approved leave and is subject to approval. Medical certification must be submitted at the time of the request to extend or change an FMLA or any other medical leave.
ARTICLE 34	J
MISCELLANEOUS FRINGE BENEFITS
Section A.
The following fringe benefits and the procedures related thereto in effect as of date of ratification provided to bargaining unit employees within their particular subsidiary will be continued for the duration of the Agreement.
1.	Employee Assistance Program	*
2.	Liability and Professional
3.	Educational Assistance
4.	Jury Duty
5.	Payroll Deductions such as gift shop, pharmacy, and cafeteria, where available	j
6.	Free Parking	■
7.	Employee Entertainment Discounts
8.	Employee Recognition.	f
ARTICLE 35 RETIREMENT PLANS
The Employer's current pension plans and 403(b) retirement plans will remain effective under the same terms as currently offered except as modified by this Agreement. Any proposed substantive v changes to the current plans will be negotiated with the Union, and subject to approval by the membership. The Employer shall have the right in its sole judgment and discretion to amend, alter and revise pension plans and 403(b) plans, provided the present benefits under said plans are. not reduced for vested employees as of date of ratification of this Agreement. Provided, further, that anj ] changes in the plans will apply to the employees in the bargaining unit in the same manner as to other hourly employees covered by the plan.
64
Jection A. 403(b) Plan. The Employer agrees to offer the McLaren Employee's 403(b) Retirement Plan ("McLaren 403(b) Plan") to eligible bargaining unit employees pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Section.
, i. Eligible bargaining unit employees hired, rehired or transferred into the bargaining unit by the Employer on or after January 3, 2007 shall be eligible to participate in the McLaren Employee's 403(b) Retirement Plan, and will be eligible for the employer contributions portion of the McLaren ’03(b) Plan when they satisfy the eligibility requirements under the Plan to receive the Employer contributions. A detailed description of the McLaren 403(b) is contained in the benefit summary irovided to each employee. The employees are immediately eligible to participate in the voluntary employee contributions portion of the McLaren 403(b) Plan. Such employees will not be eligible to jarticipate in the defined benefit pension plans or receive a special basic contribution.
faction B. Defined Benefit Pension Plans. The Employer agrees to offer pension benefits to eligible bargaining unit employees pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Section.
McLaren Flint
i.	Effective September 30, 2013, no employee may participate in Pension Plan A. Employees will retain all the benefits previously accrued under the Pension Plan A in accordance with the Sixth .Amended and Restated McLaren Employee's Retirement Plan A effective October 1, 2012.
L. Effective October 1, 2013, employees who ceased participation in Pension Plan A under paragraph 1 above (the "Affected Employees") are eligible to participate in the employer contributions portion of the McLaren Employee's 403(b) Retirement Plan (referred to as the “McLaren 403(b) Plan") when they satisfy the eligibility requirements under the McLaren 403(b) Plan to receive employer contributions. A detailed description of the McLaren 403(b) Plan is contained in the benefit summary provided to each employee. The Affected Employees are immediately eligible to participate in the voluntary employee contributions portion of the McLaren 403(b) Plan.
3. Effective October 1, 2013, the Affected Employees will receive an additional three percent (3%) special basic contribution to the McLaren 403(b) Plan provided they otherwise satisfy the eligibility requirements to receive employer contributions under the McLaren 403(b) Plan.
65
McLaren Lapeer
1.	Effective December 31, 2013, no employee may participate in the McLaren Lapeer Region Retirement Plan (referred to as "Lapeer Pension Plan"). Employees will retain all the benefits previously accrued under the Lapeer Pension Plan.
2.	Effective January 1, 2014, employees who ceased participation in the Lapeer Pension Plan under paragraph 1 above (the ‘Affected Employees") are eligible to participate in the employer contributions portion of the McLaren 403(b) Plan when they satisfy the eligibility requirements under the McLaren 403(b) Plan to receive employer contributions. A detailed description of the McLaren 403(b) Plan is contained in the benefit summary provided to each employee. The Affected^ Employees are immediately eligible to participate in the voluntary employee contributions portion of the McLaren 403(b) Plan.
3.	Effective January 1, 2014, the Affected Employees will receive an additional three percent (3%) special basic contribution to the McLaren 403(b) Plan provided they, otherwise satisfy the eligibility requirements to receive employer contributions under the McLaren 403(b) Plan.
McLaren Homecare Group
1.	Effective September 30, 2013, no employee may participate in Pension Plan A. Employees will retain all the benefits previously accrued under the Pension Plan A in accordance with the Sixth Amended and Restated McLaren Employee's Retirement Plan A effective October 1, 2012.
2.	Effective October 1, 2013, employees who ceased participation in Pension Plan A under paragraph 1 above (the “Affected Employees") are eligible to participate in the employer contributions portion of the McLaren 403(b) Plan when they satisfy the eligibility requirements under the McLaren 403(b) Plan to receive employer contributions. A detailed description of the McLaren 403(b) Plan is contained in the benefit summary provided to each employee. The Affected Employees are immediately eligible to participate in the voluntary employee contributions portion of the McLaren 403(b) Plan.
3.	Effective October 1, 2013, the Affected Employees will receive an additional three percen* (3%) special basic contribution to the McLaren 403(b) Plan provided they otherwise satisfy the eligibility requirements to receive employer contributions under the McLaren 403(b) Plan.
66
'^cLaren Medical Group
.-s^Effective October 1, 2013, employees who transferred from McLaren: Medical Management, me., to McLaren Flint with a vested benefit in Pension Plan A as of March 25, 2012, will receive an dditional three percent (3%) special basic contribution to the McLaren 403(b) Plan provided they otherwise satisfy the eligibility requirements to receive employer contributions under the McLaren 03(b) Plan.
ARTICLE 36
HEALTH INSURANCE
Section A. Health Insurance. For employees hired, rehired, or transferred into the bargaining unit irior to date of ratification, the Employer will offer two (2) health insurance options, one (1) to be chosen at the eligible employee's discretion. The two (2) health insurance options are McLaren fealth Advantage Green and McLaren Health Advantage MyChoice. The Employer shall maintain the Tier Green plan design at the benefit level in effect January 1, 2017 through December 31, 2020. Employees who selected Tier One (1) of McLaren Health Advantage Insurance Plan or the Blue Cross/Blue Shield Traditional Plan for the 2017 plan year will be mapped to the Tier Green Plan, pased on enrollment elections, after date of ratification (example: employee enrolled in Tier One 'amily coverage will be mapped to Tier Green family coverage). For employees hired, rehired, or transferred into the bargaining unit on/after date of ratification, the Employer will offer McLaren Health Advantage MyChoice only, for insurance coverage beginning on/after date of ratification. The Employer reserves the right to select insurance, carriers or funding vehicles, provided that similar coverage is maintained. The Employer may change, drop or add carriers during the life of this contract. The Union would be given thirty (30) day advance notice in the event of such change.
Section B. Introduction to MyChoice Insurance Plan.
1.	The Employer will offer benefits through a flexible benefit program, MyChoice, to eligible bargaining unit employees on the same basis as offered during Open Enrollment. The phrase "on the same basis" includes, but is not limited to, the same plan design, including co-pays, deductibles and co-insurance, the same percentage contribution toward premiums, the same carrier, the same administrative policies including eligibility, the medication (pharmacy) network, and the same policies governing commencement and termination of insurance. The MyChoice program presently includes health, dental and vision insurance, life insurance, short term disability insurance, long term disability .insurance on a self-payment basis, and any voluntary products available via the plan.
67
2.	The parties agree that Tier Green will no longer be available after December 31,2020.
Section C.	Eligibility. Full-time and benefit eligible part-time employees shall be eligible forMBalth insurance the first day of the month following employment.	\
Section D.	Health Coverage. Details of the coverage provided by the Employer can be found in the official Summary Plan Descriptions.
Section E. Employee Contribution to Premiums, The Employer and Union recognize the need to manage the cost of health insurance and, therefore, have established an employee contribution to monthly premium costs. The employee contribution for eligible full-time employees is listed below.
Health Advantage - Tier Green Rx $10/$30/$50	2017 Hired Pre-1/30/11	2017 Hired Post-1/30/11	2018	2019	2020	2021
Single	7% ($60)	12% ($70)	12% ($70)	14% ($80)	16% ($90)	n/a
Two-Person	7% ($120)	12% ($130)	12% ($130)	14% ($180)	16% ($200)	n/a
Family	7% ($150)	12% ($170)	12% ($170)	14% ($210)	16% ($240)	n/a
Health Advantage - MvChoice Ri $10/$30/$50						
Premier	10%	10%	10%	•	•	*
Premier Plus	19%	19%	19%	•		*
"Monthly employee contributions will not Increase more than two percent (2%) annually for Premier and three percent (3%) annually for Premier Plus for the duration of the Agreement.
The employee contribution for eligible part-time employees is listed below.
Health Advantage -Tier Green Rx $10/$30/$50	2017	2018	2019	2020	2021
Single	25% ($160)	25% ($160)	25% ($160)	25% ($160)	n/a
Two-Person	25% ($355)	25% ($355)	25% ($355)	25% ($355)	n/a
Family	25% ($440)	25% ($440)	25% ($440)	25% ($440)	n/a
Health Advantage -MvChoice Rx $10/$30/$50					
Premier	25%	25%	•	«	*
Premier Plus	39%	39%	•	♦	«
"Determined by Plan Design
68
Employee contribution shall be paid through payroll deduction. If an employee is on disability or any 'orrhof unpaid leave, they shall make direct payment for premium contribution to the Employer by the first of eacb-month.
■section F. If the Employer implements a "cafeteria style" benefits program and/or pharmacy discount program for its hourly non-union employees, the Ernployer will notify the Union and will offer the same program on the same basis and terms to bargaining unit employees. The Union will have he right to accept or reject the benefits program.
ARTICLE 37
DENTAL INSURANCE
.section A. Dental Benefits. The Employer will offer dental benefits to all benefit-eligible employees of the bargaining unit.
Section B. Eligibility, Dental benefits to all eligible employees shall become effective on the first Jay of the month after ninety (90) days of employment.
SECTION C, Effective Date. The dental plan carrier will be Delta Dental. The Employer shall maintain the plan design in effect January 1, 2016 through the expiration of this Agreement. The Employer reserves the right to select insurance carriers or funding vehicles, provided that similar coverage is maintained. The Employer may change, drop or add carriers during the life of this contract. The Union would be given thirty (30) day advance notice in the event of such change.
SECTION D. Employee Contribution to Premiums. The Delta Dental Plan composite rate will be used to calculate the employee premium contribution for eligible employees. The employee contribution shall be calculated as defined below.
1.	Employees electing Tier Green coverage in 2017 will pay 0% toward the Employer monthly premium for the Dental Plan associated with Tier Green.
2.	Employees enrolled in MyChoice - The Employer agrees to pay a portion of the premiums for the dental coverage options offered, based on elected coverage level (see annual rate sheets for designated employee premiums).
3.	Effective January 2018, the Dental Plan associated with Tier Green will no longer be offered. Eligible employees will have access to the Dental Plans associated with MyChoice. The Employer agrees to pay a portion of the premiums for the dental coverage options offered, based on elected coverage level (see annual rate sheets for designated employee premiums).
69
ARTICLE 38
VISION INSURANCE	1
Section A. Vision Benefits. The Employer will offer vision benefits to all benefit-eligible employees of the bargaining unit.
Section B. Eligibility. Vision benefits to all eligible employees shall become effective on the firs, day of the month after ninety (90) days of employment.
SECTION C. Effective Date. The vision plan carrier will be EyeMed. The Employer shall maintain the plan designs at the benefit level in effect January 1, 2016 through the expiration of this* Agreement. The Employer reserves the right to select insurance carriers or funding vehicles provided that similar coverage is maintained. The Employer may change, drop or add earners during the life of this contract. The Union would be given thirty (30) day advance notice in the event of suck change.
SECTION D. Employee Contribution to Premiums. The EyeMed Vision Plan composite rate will be used to calculate the employee premium contribution for eligible employees.
1.	Employees electing Tier Green coverage in 2017 will pay 0% toward the Employer month!' premium for the Vision Plan associated with Tier Green.
2.	Employees enrolled in MyChoice - The Employer agrees to pay a portion of the premiums fc the vision coverage options offered, based on elected coverage level (see annual rate sheets for designated employee premiums).
3.	Effective January 2018, the Vision Plan associated with Tier Green will no longer be offered. Eligible employees will have access to the Vision Plans associated with MyChoice. Thr Employer agrees to pay a portion of the premiums for the vision coverage options offeree, based on elected coverage level (see annual rate sheets for designated employee premiums).
ARTICLE 39
LIFE INSURANCE
Section A. Benefits. Benefit-eligible employees will be provided life insurance in the event c' death or accidental dismemberment. Full time employees electing Tier Green are insured for one (1) times their annual salary (minimum amount of $15,000). Part time employees electing Tief Green ar insured for one (1) times their annual salary based on authorized hours.
70
Benefit-eligible employees enrolled in MyChoice will be provided basic life insurance coverage pursuant to the plan.
Section B. Eligibility. All regular full and part time employees the first of the month after hire.
Section C. Employee Contribution to Premiums. McLaren Flint, MHG, MMG and full-time employees at McLaren Lapeer will not pay a contribution on life insurance. Part-time employees at .McLaren Lapeer will pay based on the following:
60-69 hours $1.39 per pay period 40-59 hours $0.47 per pay period.
Effective January 1, 2007, part-time McLaren Lapeer employees paying a contribution towards their ,ife insurance premium on December 31, 2006, will no longer be required to make such premium contribution. Part-time McLaren Lapeer employees who enroll in the life insurance program on or after January 1, 2007, will be required to contribute towards their life insurance premiums as outlined above.
ARTICLE 40 ' PAID TIME OFF
^Section A. Paid Time Off ("PTO”) will be accrued based on the number of qualifying hours a full-time or benefit eligible part-time employee has each pay period. Qualifying hours are defined in Section B of this Article. A maximum of eighty (80) hours paid per pay period will determine the number of PTO hours that can be accrued each pay period and are based on the ernplbyee's anniversary year as shown in the tables in Section C of this Article. The maximum number of days that can be earned in a payroll year is shown in the tables in Section C. At no time may an employee's PTO bank exceed the maximum-banked hours defined in the annual maximum PTO accrual (see tables). In applying this requirement, any PTO taken during a pay period will be subtracted from the employee's PTO bank before any new PTO accrual is added for that period. PTO is not available for use until the pay period immediately following the pay period in which it is accrued.
^Section B. For purposes of this Article, the term "Qualifying Hours" shall be defined as follows: Ail regular and overtime hours worked; PTO hours paid; court time and jury hours paid; . paid bereavement leave hours; meeting, orientation, and Union business hours paid; and mutual benefit time. It shall not include hours sold back under the cash-out policy stated in Section F of this Article.
71
Section C. Effective the first full pay period following ratification, PTO will be earned in accordance with the following tables:
Table 1 - McLaren Flint Paid Time Off Accruals
(Full-time employees hired on or before the date of ratification)
Equivalent Years of Service	Annual Accrual (Days)	Annual Accrual (Hours)	Accrual Rate per 80 Hours Paid	Maximum Annual Hours Accrual	Maximum Banked Hours
Up to 4	28	224	8.615384	224	448
5-9	33	264	10.153846	264	528
10	36	288	11.076923	266	576
10+“	38	304	11.692307	304	608
“This represents the PTO accrual for full-time McLaren Flint employees who have achieved ten (10) years of service on or before 9/19/04.
Table 2 - McLaren Flint Paid Time Off Accruals
(Part-time employees hired on or before the date of ratification)
Equivalent Years of Service	Service Hours Range	Annual Accrual (Days)	Annual Accrual (Hours)	Accrual Rate per 80 Hours Paid	Maximum Annual Hours Accrual	Maximum Banked Hours
Up to 4	<8,319	17	136	5.230769	136	272
5-9	8,320-18,719	22	176	6.769231	176	352
10+	18,720+	25	200	7.692307	200	400
10+“	18,720+	27	216	8.307693	216	432
“This represents the PTO accrual for part-time McLaren Flint employees who have achieved ten (10) years of service on or before 9/19/04.
Table 3 - MHG Paid Time Off Accruals ______________(Full-time and Part-time employees hired on or before the date of ratification)
Equivalent Years of Service	Annual Accrual (Days)	Annual Accrual (Hours)	Accrual Rate per 80 Hours Paid	Maximum Annual Hours Accrual	Maximum Banked Hours
Up to 4	22	176	6.7692	176	352
5-9	27	216	8.3077	216	432
10-14	32	256	9.8461	256	512
15+	36	288	11.0769	288	560
72
fable 4 - McLaren Lapeer Region Paid Time Off Accruals (Full-time and Part-time employees hired on or before the date of ratification)							
	Equivalent Years of Service	Annual Accrual (Days)	Annual Accrual (Hours)	Accrual Rate per 80 Hours Fold	Maximum Annual Hours Accrual	Maximum Banked Hours	
	Up to 5	25	200	9.62%	200 ,	400	
	5-9	26	208	10%	208	. 400	
	10+	31	248	11.92%	248	480	
	10+***	31	248	11.92%	248	800	
	•" This represents the accrual maximum for employees hired prior to 5/1/1987.						
Table 5 - McLaren Lapeer Region' Paid Time Off Accruals
(Full-time and Part-time employees hired or rehired after the date of ratification)
Equivalent Years of Service	Annual Accrual (Daye)	Annual Accrual (Hours)	Accrual Rate per 80 Hours Paid	Maximum Annual Hours Accrual	Maximum Banked Hours
Up to 5	21	168	6.46	168	400
5-9	26	208	8.0	208	400
10 +	31	248	9.53	248	400
Table 6 - McLaren Flint and MHG Paid Time Off Accruals (Full-time and Part-time employees hired or rehired after the date of ratification						
	Equivalent Years of Service	Annual Accrual (Days)	Annual Accrual (Hours)	Accrual Rate per 80 Hours Paid	Maximum Annual Hours Accrual	Maximum Banked Hours
	Upto 5	21	168	6.46	168	400
	5-9	26	208	8.0	208	400
	10-14	31	248	9.53	248	400
	15+	36	288	" ■ 11.08	288 .	400
Table 7 - MMG Paid Time Off Accruals
(Full-time and Part-time employees hired on or before the date of ratification)
Equivalent Years of Service	Service Hours Range	Annual Accrual (Days)	Annual Accrual (Hours)	Accrual Rate per 80 Hours Paid	Maximum Annual Hours Accrual	Maximum Banked Hours
Up to 4	<8,319	21	168	6.4615	168	336
4-10	8,320 - 20,799	26	208	8	208	416
10+	20,800+	27	216	8.3077	216	432
73
Table 8 - MMG Paid Time Off Accruals
(Full-time and Part-time employees hired after date of ratification)
Equivalent Years of Service	Annual Accrual (Days)	Annual Accrual (Hours)	Accrual Rate per 80 Hours Paid	Maximum Annual Hours Accrual	Maximum Banked Hours
0-4	16	128	4.92	128	400
5+	21	168	6.46	168	400
PTO may be used in increments of one-tenth (1/10) hour.
Section D. All newly hired full-time and part-time employees shall begin to accrue PTO immediately upon hire. Employees are eligible to utilize their PTO hours after ninety (90) days of continuous employment, with the exception of recognized holiday, which may be utilized immediately upon hire.
Section E. Employees will move to the next higher PTO accrual rate automatically after the completion of the years of service as shown in the PTO accrual tables in Section C of this Article. The higher PTO accrual rate will become effective at the beginning of the next following pay period which the additional year of service occurs. PTO will be paid at the employee’s straight time hourly base rate of pay (excluding any premiums) in effect at the time it is used. PTO balances shall be printed on the employee's paycheck.
Section F. Employees who prefer to sell back (“cash-out”) PTO earned without taking time oft from work may do so as follows:
1.	At the end of June and December, a non-technical employee may elect to take cash out at one hundred (100) percent of the hourly rate earned at the time of pay-out. PTO balance remaining after the cash-out may not be less than forty (40) hours. The total payout for a calendar year shall not be more than the maximum annual accrual amount based on the non-technical employee’s seniority.
2.	General Provisions
a.	Employees must initiate a request to cash-out PTO by submitting the request to their supervisor during the second from last pay period each June and December to permit management sufficient time to verify the requested hours have been earned and tc. permit payroll sufficient time to ensure payments are distributed in the final paycheck of each fiscal quarter.
b.	If an employee does not submit a cash-out request, PTO time will continue to accrue, but under no circumstances shall PTO balances exceed the annual maximum accrual ar indicated in the tables shown in Section C of this Article, unless otherwise permitted.
74
c.	PTO hours cashed-out will not accrue additional PTO hours.
d.	The total value of an employee-initiated cash out in one fiscal year cannot exceed the annual accrual maximum, regardless of the number of cash outs available.
iectfon G. An employee must take actual time off from work to receive compensation for PTO, except for:
1.	Employees terminating who have completed the probationary period with the Employer.
2.	Death; the Employee's accrued PTO will be paid upon notice to the Employer of the employee's death, to next of kin (i.e., beneficiary on life insurance) in full, not to exceed the maximum accrual rates shown in the tables in Section C of this Article.
3.	Retirement; the Employee's accrued PTO will be paid in full, not to exceed the maximum accrual rates shown in the tables in Section C of this Article.
. 4. Lay-off; if the employee has completed the probationary period.
5.	Transfers’ from full-time to part-time status where PTO is paid in accordance with Section H of this Article.
6.	Full-time or part-time employees, who have completed the probationary period with the Employer, who transfer to casual status and receive a cash-out of accrued PTO hours.
7.	In accordance with the cash-out provisos of this Article (see Section F).
Jection H. At the time an employee transfers from full-time to part-time status they will begin to accrue PTO in accordance with the part-time rates shown in the tables in Section C of this Article, if applicable. The employee will be paid for all PTO in his/her bank in excess of the maximum accrual tor part-time employees. At the time an employee transfers from part-time to full-time status, the employee will begin to accrue PTO in accordance with the rates applicable to full-time employees in 'he tables in Section C, if applicable.
ARTICLE 41
SHORT-TERM DISABILITY
Through February 28, 2017, the Employer will continue to offer Short-Term Disability Insurance benefits on the same basis as currently established.
Effective March 1, 2017, eligible employees enrolled in either McLaren Health Advantage Tier Green or MyChoice will receive Short-Term Disability Insurance benefits in accordance with the following:
75
Section A.	Benefits.
1.	Eligible employees shall receive twenty-six (26) weeks of benefits equal to sixty (60%) percent of their base gross weekly earnings. Benefits will start as of the twenty-second (22nd) calendar day of disability and continue as long as the disability is medically verified. The maximum benefit is $1,731 per week.
2.	Available PTO hours may be used during the waiting period in order to minimize any loss of income.
3.	After the Employee starts to receive Short-Term Disability benefit payments, the Employee may elect to use PTO hours during a disability leave to supplement STD benefits and to ensure that the Employee receives up to one hundred percent (100%) of their regular pay. PTO hours used for this purpose will not be considered hours worked and will not count towards the accrual of paid time off.
Section B.	Eligibility.
All benefit-eligible employees who have completed six (6) months of service are eligible for Short-Term Disability Insurance.
Section C.	Employee Responsibility.
It is the employee's responsibility to provide the medical documentation necessary to satisfy the Short-Term Disability Insurance Program provisions. Forms’ will be provided by the Employer’s Human Resources Department, or designee, with appropriate instruction, but the employee has the responsibility to complete them, have the physician complete their section, and return the forms to the Human Resources Department, or designee.
Section D. McLaren Lapeer Employee Contributions to Premiums. Beginning January 1, 2008, all current full-time employees will be “grandfathered” and pay no contribution once they have met the eligibility requirements (1,040 service hours). Full-time employees hired, rehired or transferred on or after January 1, 2008, are eligible for Short-Term Disability Insurance once they have completed 1,040 service hours. The contribution for employees hired on or after January 1, 2008 who elect this insurance will be $2.65 per pay period.
Section E,
The Employer shall have the right to substitute the current short-tern) disability coverage with a shortterm disability plan provided that such substitute short term disability coverage is comparable to that currently provided under the Employer’s existing group short-term disability plan.
76
ARTICLE 42 HOLIDAYS
Section A. Recognized Holidays. The Employer shall recognize the following holidays:
New Years Day	Labor Day
Memorial Day	Thanksgiving Day
Independence Day (July 4th) Christmas Day
For Monday through Friday departments at McLaren Flint and McLaren Lapeer, if a holiday occurs n a Saturday, the Employer will celebrate the compensatory time off provided for in this Article on the preceding Friday. If a holiday occurs on a Sunday, the Employer will celebrate the compensatory .me off provided for in this Article on the following Monday.
lection B. Holiday Compensation. The following provisions shall apply to the recognized holidays covered under the Article:
a.	Full-time and part-time employees will be entitled to use PTO (if it is available in their bank), in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, if they do not work on a holiday.
b.	McLaren Lapeer Region, McLaren Homecare Group and McLaren Medical Group employees who work on a holiday will be paid a premium pay of one and one-half (1%) times the employee’s base rate for all hours worked on the holiday.
c.	McLaren Flint employees who work oh a holiday will be paid a premium pay of two* (2) times the employee's base rate for all hours worked on the holiday.
At MMG, employees have the option of using either PTO or MBT when scheduled off work on recognized holidays.
Section C. Future Compensation. If at any time during the term of this Agreement, current nonexempt employees who are not already receiving two (2) times their base rate for hours worked on a holiday and who are or are not represented by a labor organization at each of the Employer subsidiaries, become compensated at two (2) times their base rate for hours worked on a holiday, such premium pay will also be provided to eligible members of this bargaining unit at the respective Employer subsidiary.
77
ARTICLE 43 BEREAVEMENT
Section A. Time Off. The Employer shall offer a bereavement period for employees in accordance
with the following:
Period Relationship
7	calendar days spouse, parent, domestic partner, loco parentis, child (including pregnancies greater than twelve (12) weeks gestation), current step-parent, current step-child
3	calendar days grand parent, grand child, sibling, current half sibling, current parent in-law, current brother or sister in-law, current son or daughter inlaw, current step-sibling
1 calendar day aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, first cousin
Section B. Compensation. The Employer shall compensate full-time and part-time employees for absences that occur during an authorized bereavement period, provided a funeral/memorial service is scheduled during the bereavement period. Bereavement leave is limited to the number of hours the employee is regularly authorized to work and is only paid for scheduled workdays.
Section C. Documentation. The Employer may request the employee to provide documentation supporting the request for a bereavement leave. Examples of such documentation including an obituary with the name of the employee included, statement from the funeral director acknowledging attendance at funeral, or memorial service program or card.
Section D. Extension of Time Off. Employees may request an extension of the bereavement period using procedures set forth in Article 33, Leave of Absence.
ARTICLE 44
CALL-IN PAY
Section A.
Regular full-time and regular part-time employees called into work outside of his/her normally scheduled hours with less than two (2) hours notice will be paid one and one-half (1%) times.their base hourly rate for all hours worked, if called in on a scheduled day off. If the employee is called in early to work on a scheduled day to work, the employee will be paid one and one-half (1%) times thei' base hourly rate for hours worked prior to their scheduled start time.
78
Section B.
he employee must report as soon as possible but not to exceed forty-five (45) minutes from notification, unless other arrangements are made. An employee failing to timely report forfeits the jall-in pay.
section C.
An employee shall not receive premium pay under this Article for any hours worked for which the employee receives overtime compensation, pursuant to Article 47, Overtime.
ARTICLE 45
OUT OF CLASSIFICATION GROUPING PAY
Temporary assignment of an employee to a job classification in a lower paying job grouping will be without reduction in pay to the transferred employee. Temporary assignment of an employee by a •supervisor to a job classification in a higher paying job grouping will result in a premium of $ .50 cents per hour for all hours worked in the higher grouping. Working in a higher grouping is based upon performance of the day-to-day duties required by the higher job classification and not merely a "I
-component or components of the job performed in the higher classification.
ARTICLE 46
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
Section A.	- Eligibility.
All hourly employees are eligible for shift differential pay.
Section B.	- Policy Statement
The Employer provides additional compensation to employees who work on the second or third shift or who work at least four (4) continuous hours during the times designated as the second or third shift.
Section C.	- Guidelines.
1.	Shift hours are defined as:
•	First shift:	07:00 to 15:30	7:00 a.m.-3:30 p.m.
•	Second shift:	15:00 to 23:30	-	3:00 p.m.-11:30 p.m.
•	Third shift:	23:00 to 07:30	11:00 p.m.-7:30 a.m.
79
2.	Shift differential is paid for hours worked between 15:00 (3:00 p.m.) and 07:30 (7:30 a.m.).
3.	In order to receive second shift differential, the eligible employee must work at least four (4) continuous hours between the hours of 15:00 (3:00 p.m.) to 23:30 (11:30 p.m.).
4.	In order to receive third shift differential, the eligible employee must work at least four (4) continuous hours between the hours of 23:00 (11:00 p.m.) to 07:30 (7:30 a.m.).
5.	Eligible employees who work non-traditional shifts (e.g., 07:00 to 19:30 or 19:00 to 07:30) will receive shift differential based on their actual hours worked as defined above.
Section D.
Each subsidiary will continue its current shift differential payment procedure for the life of the contract as follows:
a.	McLaren Flint - Second shift - 7.25% of employee's base hourly rate per hour Third shift - 8.25% of employee’s base hourly rate per hour
b.	McLaren Lapeer Region - Second shift - $ .75 cents per hour Third shift - $1.25 dollars per hour
c.	McLaren Medical Group - $ .50 cents per hour
d.	McLaren Homecare - Second shift - $ .50 per hour
Third shift - $ .75 per hour.
ARTICLE 47 OVERTIME
Section A. Overtime to be worked will be determined by the Employer and will then be assigned by job classification. Said hours will be distributed within a Cost Center. For purposes of this contract department/Unit is defined as the Cost Center.
Section B.	Overtime is calculated at one and one-half (1%) times the hourly rate for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours in a work week.
Section C.	Supervisors will try to give at least two (2) hours notice of overtime. However, seriou' conditions may dictate that less notice will be given.
80
f
ARTICLE 48
WAGES
SECTION A.	PAY GRADES AND STEPS. Each pay grade will have steps calculated as three (3%) jercent of the minimum of each pay grade, with the exception of those job classifications at MHG having a starting rate of $10.10.
SECTION B.	INCREASES TO WAGE SCALE. Changes to the wage scale will follow the schedule n the table below.
| SUBSIDIARY 1	Effective first full pay following ratification	Effective first full pay following ratification	Effective First Full Pay in October 2017	Effective First Full Pay in October 2018	Effective First Full Pay in October 2019	Effective First Full Pay in October 2020
1 McLaren Flint	$1000 bonus (FTE) $500 bonus (PTE) $200 bonus (Casual)	Placed on new scale + Step for those not at top. 2% lump sum for those at top of scale.	1% + Step for those not at top. 1% lump sum for those at top of scale.	1% + Step for those not at top, 1% lump sum for those at top of scale.	1% + Step for those not at top. 1% lump sum for those at top of scale.	1% + Step for those not at top. 1% lump sum for those at top of scale.
McLaren Lapeer Region	$1000 bonus (FTE) $500 bonus (PTE) $200 bonus (Casual)	Placed on new scale + Step for those not at top. 2% lump sum for those at top of scale.	1% ♦ Step for those not at top. 1% lump sum for those at top of scale.	1% + Step for those not at top. 1% lump sum for those at top of scale.	1% + Step for those not at top. 1 % lump sum for those at top of scale.	1% + Step for those not at top. 1% lump sum for those at top of scale.
McLaren Medical Group	$1000 bonus (FTE) $500 bonus (PTE) $200 bonus (Casual)	Placed on new scale + Step for those not at top. 2% lump sum for those at top of scale.	1% + Step for those not at top. 1 % lump sum for those at top of scale.	1% + Step for those not at top. 1% lump sum for those at top of scale.	1% + Step for those not at top. 1% lump sum for those at top of scale.	1% + Step for those not at top. 1% lump sum for those at top of scale.
McLaren Homecare Group	$1000 bonus (FTE) $500 bonus (PTE) $200 bonus (Casual)	Placed on new scale + Step for those not at top. 2% lump sum for those at top of scale.	1% + Step for those not at top. 1% lump sum for those at top of scale.	1% + Step for those not at top. 1% lump sum for those at top of scale.	1% + Step for those not at ■ top. 1% lump sum for those at top of scale.	1% + Step for those not at top. 1% lump sum for. those at top of scale.
SECTION C.	MINIMUM PAY RATE. Every employee in the Non Tech bargaining unit will be paid at least the minimum rate of pay for their job title (pay grade).
SECTION D. MAXIMUM PAY RATE. At the time of implementation of this Agreement and for the life of this contract, no employee in the Non Tech bargaining unit will be paid above the maximum pay rate (top of scale) for their job title (pay grade).
81
SECTION E.	PAY UPON RATIFICATION.
1.	Effective the first full pay period after ratification of this Agreement, all employees will be paid pursuant to the revised Wage Scale (Appendix A), reflecting a 1 % increase to the current Wage Scale for McLaren Flint, MHG and MMG, and the changes noted in the Pay Grade Change Administration section below.
2.	Effective the first full pay period after ratification of this Agreement, full-time employees will receive a one-time lump sum bonus of $1,000, part-time employees will receive a one-time lump sum bonus of $500, and casual employees will receive a one-time lump sum bonus of $200.
SECTION F.	PAY GRADE CHANGE ADMINISTRATION. The following job classifications experience pay grade assignment changes:
McLaren Flint
1.	Effective the first full pay period following ratification of this Agreement:
•	Housekeeper I - NT01 to NT02	:
•	Polysomnographer Tech - NT08 to NT09
•	Registered Polysomnographer Tech - NT10 to NT11
.	Monitor Tech - NT05 to NT06
•	Pharmacy Automated Systems Tech - NT08 to NT09.
Employees will receive an increase subject to promotional increase guidelines, but will not be eligible to receive step movement as noted in Section G, below.
McLaren Lapeer Region
1.	Effective the first full pay period following ratification of this Agreement:
•	Housekeeping Aide - NT01 to NT02
•	Patient Scheduling Clerk and Patient Access Clerk - NT05 to NT06
•	Patient Scheduling Clerk Sr. - NT06 to NT07.
Employees will receive an increase subject to promotional increase guidelines, but will not be eligible to receive step movement as noted in Section G, below.
SECTION G. PAY EFFECTIVE THE FIRST FULL PAY PERIOD FOLLOWING DATE OF RATIFICATION. Effective the first full pay period following date of ratification, seniority employees will progress to the next step in their respective pay grade. Employees at the top of their respectivr
82
J
pay grade prior to said step adjustment will receive a one-time lump sum payment equal to 2% of .their annual base rate.
SECTION H. PAY EFFECTIVE THE FIRST FULL PAY PERIOD, OCTOBER 2017. Effective the nirst full pay period of October 2017, seniority employees will progress to the next step in their respective pay grade. Employees at the top of their respective pay grade prior to said step adjustment will receive a one-time lump sum payment equal to 1 % of their annual base rate.
SECTION I. PAY EFFECTIVE THE FIRST FULL PAY PERIOD. OCTOBER 2018. Effective the first •’till pay period of October 2018, seniority employees will progress to the next step in their respective pay grade. Employees at the top of their respective pay grade prior to said step adjustment will eceive a one-time lump sum payment equal to 1% of their annual base rate.
SECTION J. PAY EFFECTIVE THE FIRST FULL PAY PERIOD, OCTOBER 2019. Effective the first full pay period of October 2019, seniority employees will progress to the next step in their respective )ay grade. Employees at the top of their respective pay grade prior to said step adjustment will receive a one-time lump sum payment equal to 1% of their annual base rate.
SECTION K. PAY EFFECTIVE THE FIRST FULL PAY PERIOD, OCTOBER 2020. Effective the first full pay period of October 2020, seniority employees will progress to the next step in their respective pay grade. Employees at the top of their respective pay grade' prior. to said step adjustment will receive a one-time lump sum payment equal to 1 % of their annual base rate.
ARTICLE 49 WAGE INEQUITY
The Employer and Union recognize the importance of ensuring competitive compensation for employees. Both the Employer and the Union have the ability to request a meeting to review job classifications that shows a need for wage and/or classification adjustments. The requesting party shall provide market data substantiating the claim. If mutual agreement can be reached it will be done through a formal letter of understanding.
83
ARTICLE 50
. PAY PRACTICES
At the time that any the Employer subsidiary implements the new payroll (time keeping) system, the Employer reserves the right to standardize time and pay practices, and to implement the standardized practices at the subsidiary. The Union will be provided with thirty (30) calendar day notice prior to the. date of scheduled implementation, during which period the Union has the right to provide timely suggestions which may be considered by the Employer prior to its implementation which would occur no later than thirty (30) calendar days thereafter. The Union reserves the right to timely grieve to contend the Employer acted unreasonably.
ARTICLE 51
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
Section A.
During the life of this Agreement the Union and/or any bargaining unit employee represented by AFSCME Council 25 and/or Local 2650 under this contract, shall not cause, authorize; sanction, condone, or take part in any strike, sympathy strike, sit-down, stay-in, slow-down, work stoppage, improper use of paid leave time associated with work stoppage, curtailment of work, improper unscheduled absences associated with work stoppage, restriction of work, or interference with the operations of the Employer of any kind for any reason, , including picketing of any McLaren Health Care buildings, offices or premises because of a labor dispute with the Employer.
Section B.
The Union agrees that they and their officers will take prompt affirmative action to prevent or stop unauthorized strikes, sympathy strikes, sit-downs, stay-ins, slow-downs, work stoppages, curtailment of work, improper use of leave time associated with a work stoppage, improper unscheduled absences associated with work stoppage, restriction of work, or interference with the operations o the Employer of any kind for any reason by notifying the employees covered under this contract, in writing, that it disavows these acts. The Employer shall have the right to discharge any or al employees who violate Section A or B of this Article. The Grievance Procedure of this Agreement, shall be available to any such employees only to contend that they had not participated or engaged ir. such prohibited conduct.
84
/
Section C.
The Employer will not lock out any employee during the term of this Agreement.
Section D.
The Employer reserves the right to seek injunctive relief and/or money damages in the event of violation of Section A or B above. The Union reserves the right to seek injunctive relief and/or monetary damages in the event of violation of Section C above.
ARTICLE 52
SEPARABILITY AND SAVINGS CLAUSE
If any Article or Section of this Agreement, or any Appendix thereto, shall be held invalid by operation of law or by any tribunal of competent jurisdiction, or if compliance with or enforcement of any Article or Section shall be restrained by such tribunal pending a final determination as to its validity, the remainder of this Agreement,.any Appendix thereto, or the application of such Article or Section to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it has been held invalid or as to which compliance with or enforcement of has been restrained, shall not be affected thereby.
The parties agree to immediately enter into negotiations to reach a mutual acceptable Article(s) or Section(s) to replace the invalid Article(s) or Sectionfs).
ARTICLE 53
SUPPLEMENTARY AGREEMENT
Any supplementary agreement reached during the term of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by the parties and shall be made a part of the contract, subject to ratification of the parties.
ARTICLE 54 SUCCESSOR
This Agreement shall be binding on a successor in accordance with law.
85
ARTICLE 55
SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
Section A.
The parties acknowledge that during the negotiation which resulted in this Agreement each had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or matter not removed by the law from the area of collective bargaining and that the understandings and agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement. Therefore, the Employer and the Union, for the life of this Agreement, each voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter referred to or covered by this Agreement, and with respect to any subject or matter not specifically referred to or covered in this Agreement, even though such subject or matter may not have been within the knowledge and contemplation of either or both of the parties at the time that they negotiated or signed this Agreement.
Section B.
This Agreement supersedes all previous agreements, verbal or written, employee handbooks, policies, etc., alleged practices exclusive of local operational practices, and constitutes the entire Agreement between the parties. Any amendment or Agreement supplemental hereto shall not be binding upon either party, unless executed in writing by the parties hereto.
ARTICLE 56
MHG CELLULAR TELEPHONES
The Employer will provide each Certified/Hospice/Home Infusion regular full-time and regular part-time field staff member with a cellular telephone to utilize in the performance of McLaren Homecare Group business.
ARTICLE 57
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
Section A.
The provisions of this Agreement shall be effective upon ratification, and shall continue and remain in full force and effect through September 30, 2021 and thereafter for successive periods of one (1) year, unless either party shall, at least ninety (90) days prior to September 30, 2021, serve written
86
notice on the other party of a desire to terminate, modify, alter, renegotiate, change, or amend this Agreement. To terminate the Agreement, a certified written notice must be sent to the other party ten (10) working days in advance of the date of termination.
Section B.
IN WITNESS THEREOF, the Union and the Employer have caused this Agreement to be executed in their names by their duly authorized representatives the day and year first above written. .
For AFSCME Council 25 and
Its Local Non-Tech Union 2650
For the Employer
fyduUc 3/zs//7
Rachelle/Hilett, Vice President of HR McLareoT Hint, McLaren Lapeer, MHG, MMG
t^srei/Perers, Director of HR
McLaren Lapeer, MHG, MMG
Rickie Wilson, Local 26S0
87
VA	‘ I LETTER OF AGREEMENT
MCLAREN FLINT, MCLAREN LAPEER REGION, MCLAREN HOMECARE GROUP, / MCLAREN MEDICAL GROUP	///
AND	X777 f*
AFSCME COUNCIL 25 AND ITS NON-TECHNICAL EMPLOYEES UNION, LOCAL '
2650	IO/IO//G	J
REGARDING PART TIME EMPLOYEE STATUS DEFINITION
This Letter of Agreement is entered into this 10“ day of October, 2016, by and between McLaren Flint, McLaren Lapeer Region, McLaren HomeCare Group, McLaren Medical Group, (hereinafter the “Employer”) and AFSCME Council 25 and Its Non-Technlcal Employees Union, Local 2650 (hereinafter the “Union”).
WHEREAS the parties are collectively bargaining a successor collective bargaining agreement, and acknowledge that this Letter of Agreement is necessary to address the issue of part time employee status definition. The parties agree to resolve any issues pursuant to this Letter of Agreement to ensure part time employee status definition is clarified for those employees hired prior to ratification of the successor agreement.
The parties agree and acknowledge as follows:
1.	Effective upon ratification of the contract, part time employees are those who are budgeted to work a minimum of forty (40) hours a pay period, but not more than sixty-nine (69) hours per pay period.
2.	Any employee within a recognized classification within this Bargaining Unit hired prior to ratification, shall also be considered a part time employee for purposes of Paid Time Off accruals if they work at least a minimum of thirty-two (32) hours, but not more than thirty-nine (39) hours per pay period.
3.	Any employee hired or transferred into the bargaining unit after the date of ratification must meet the definition of part-time as referenced in paragraph one to be eligible for Paid Time Off accrual.
TA	S’?
K771 ioic-iU
Dated this day of, 2016.
AFSCME COUNCIL 25 and NON-TECHNICAL EMPLOYEES UNION, LOCAL 2650
MCLAREN FLINT, MCLAREN LAPEER REGION, MCLAREN HOMECARE GROUP, MCLAREN MEDICAL GROUP
81
THIS LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING is entered into on, 2016 by and between McLaren Flint, McLaren Lapeer Region, McLaren Medical Group, McLaren Homecare Group (“Employer'’) and AFSCME Councfl 25 Local 2650 (“Local 2650”).
RECITALS
1.	The Employer and Local 2650 entered into a Collective Bargaining Agreement ("CBA”) which was effective on October 1, 2010, and expired on September 30,2014.
2.	The parties are currently engaged in negotiations for a successor CBA.
3.	During negotiations, the parties tentatively agreed to a proposed Article 10, Definition of Employee.
4.	The proposed Article 10, Definition of Employee, provides that effective January 1,2017, employees regularly scheduled to work 70-80 hours in a pay period are full-time employees.
5.	The proposed Article 10, Definition of Employee, provides that effective January 1, 2017, employees regularly scheduled to work 40-69 hours in a pay period are part-time and benefit eligible.
6.	The proposed Article 10, Definition of Employee, provides that effective January 1, 2017, employees regularly scheduled to work fewer than 40 hours in a pay period are part-time and not benefit eligible.
7.	Because of the revised definitions for full-time and part-time employment, the parties have agreed that certain McLaren Medical Group mariaged employees who are regularly scheduled to work 64-69 hours per pay period will be offered an opportunity to elect to be regularly scheduled to work 70 hours in a pay period.
NQjV, THEREFORE, it is agreed as follows:
1.	The parties agree that upon ratification of the new CBA, the attached tentatively
agreed to Article 10, Definition of Employee, will govern. Pursuant to Article 10, Definition of
Employee, revised definitions of full-time and part-time employment will be effective January 1,
2017.
7ft
KrP ICHO-Ifo
*to

2.	Effective January 1, 2017, pursuant to the tentatively agreed to Article 10, Definition of Employee, employees who remain to be regularly scheduled to work between 64 and 69 hours in a pay period, will be part-time employees and eligible for part-time benefits as provided for in the CBA.
3.	Employees covered by the CBA between the parties, who are McLaren Medical Group managed employees, and who at the time of ratification of the successor CBA are regularly scheduled to work 64-69 hours per pay period (“eligible employees”) will have the opportunity to elect to increase their hours to 70 in a pay period in order to meet the definition of full-time as defined in Article 10- Definition of Employee.
4.	The Employer will provide the Union with a list of current employees whose authorized hours fell between 64 and 69 per pay period. Within 45 days of the ratification of the successor CBA, eligible employees who wish to move to 70 hours per pay must submit their request to the Human Resources Department The change in scheduled hours for such employees will become effective the first full pay period in January 2017.
5.	Any eligible employee whose name is not contained in the list provided pursuant to Paragraph 4, above, will not have their scheduled hours increased, will be classified as part-time employees, and be eligible for those benefits offered to part-time employees pursuant to the CBA.
6.	This Letter of Understanding is effective upon ratification of the CBA by the parties.
/
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement was executive as of the day and year first written above.
AFSCME COUNCIL 25, LOCAL 2650 MCLAREN FLINT, MCLAREN
LAPEER REGION, MCLAREN MEDICAL GROUP, MCLAREN HOMECARE GROUP
Dated:; Dated:
?<?•
McLaren Flint______________________1 %	2017 First full pay after ratification
Range#.	Minimum			„ •	, J			Not a step	I	I						Maximum
	2 ?	’3	4	6 7	, • 6 ; ■	• ■ 7 ri?	■■ 8 ■ '	Midpoint	•1.9: ‘	< 10 v	. -11	.12	•■•13	14	• “«• ■■■
2	$ 10.83	$ 11.15	$ 11.48	$ 11.80	$ 12.13	$ 12.45	$ 12.78	$ 12.94	$ 13.10	$ 1343	$ 13.75	$ 14.08	6 14.40	$ 14.72	$ 15.05
3	$ 1142	$ 11.77	$ 12.11	$ 12.45	$ 12.79	$ 13.14	$ 13.48	$ 13.65	$ 13.82	$ 14.16	$ 14.51	$ 14.85	$ 15.19	$ 15.54	$ 15.88
4	$ 12.14	$ 12.50	$ 12.87	$ 13.23	$ 13.60	$ 13.96	$ 14.33	$ 14.51	$ 14.69	$ 16.05	$ 1642	$ 15.78	$ 16.15	$ 16.51	8 16.87
5	$ 12.98	$ 13.37	$ 13.76	$ 14.15	$ 14.54	$ 14.93	$ 15.31	$ 15.51	$ 15.70	$ 16.09	$ 16.48	$ 16.87	$ 17.26	$ 17.65	8 18.04
6	$ 13.88	$ 14.29	$ 14.71	$ 15.13	$ 15.54	$ 15.96	$ 16.38	$ 16.58	$ 16.79	$ 17.21	$ 17.62	$ 18.04	$ 18.46	$ 18.87	8 19.29
7	$ 14.89	$ 15.33	$ 15.78	$ 16.23	$ 16.67	$ 17.12	$ 17.57	$ 17.79	$ 18.01	$ 18.46	$ 18.91	$ 19.35	$ 19.80	$ 20.26	$ 20.69
8	$ 15.94	$ 16.42	* 16.89	$ 17.37	$ 17.85	$ 18.33	$ 18.81	$ 19.05	$ 19.28	$ 19.76	$ 20.24	$ 20.72	$ 21.20	$ 21.68	8 22.15
9	$ 17.05	$ 17.56	$ 18.07	5 18.58	$ 19.09	$ 19.61	$ 20.12	$ 20.37	8 20.63	$ 21.14	$ 21.65	$ 22.16	$ 22.67	$ 23.19	8 23.70
10	$ 18.24	$ 18.79	$ 19.34	$ 19.88	$ 20.43	$ 20.98	6 21.62	$ 21.80	$ 22.07	$ 22.62	$ 23.17	$ 23.71	$ 24.26	$ 24.81	$ 26.35
11	$ 19.35	$ 19.93	$ 20.51	$ 21.09	$ 21.67	$ 22.26	$ 22.83	$ 23.12	$ 23.41	$ 23.99	* 24.57	$ 25.16	* 25.74	$ 26.32	£ 26.90 |
McLaren Flint__________1%	2017 First full pay in October
Range #.	Minimum							Not'astep		'' P •*! It’ L ’.		.	s’.-		'• '• -• !*;	Maximum
- • I-rT'-u	<2	;	. ■ 3 ■' ’		;• * 5 '	..■'.6- .■	: -7		Midpoint		,-r 10-	•a; -tri--- ■	ewv.	frW.'V.	• 14'.	'-ISA*
2	8 10.94	$ 11.26	8 11.59	$ 11.92	$ 12.25	8 12.58	$ 12.90	8 13.07	$ 13.23	$ 13.56	$ 13.89	$ 14.22	8 14.54	$ 14.87	8 15.20
3	8 11.54	$ 11.88	5 12.23	$ 12.58	$ 12.92	8 13.27	$ 13.61	8 13.79	8 13.96	$ 14.31	8 14.65	$ 15.00	8 15.34	$ 15.69	8 16.04
4	$ 12.26	$ 12.63	$ 13.00	$ 13.37	$ 13.73	8 14.10	$ 1447	$ 14.65	$ 14.84	$ 16.20	8 15.57	$ 16.94	6 16.31	$ 16.68	$ 17.04
5	$ 13.11	$ 13.50	$ 13.89	8 14.29	$ 14.68	$ 15.07	8 1547	8 15.66	8 15.86	$ 16.25	$ 16.65	8 17.04	8 1743	8 17.83	8 18.22
6	8 14.02	$ 1444	8 14.86	8 15.28	$ 15.70	8 16.12	8 16.64	$ 16.75	8 16.96	8 17.38	8 17.80	8 18.22	8 18.64	8 19.06	8 1948
7	8 15.04	$ 1549	8 15.94	$ 16.39	8 16.84	8 17.29	$ 17.74	8 17.97	8 18.19	5 18.64	8 19.10	8 19.55	8 20.00	8 2045	$ 20.90
8	8 16.10	$ 16.58	8 17.06	8 17.55	8 18.03	8 18.51	8 18.99	8 19.24	8 1948	$ 19.96	$ 2044	6 20.93	8 2141	8 21.89	8 22.38
9	8 17.22	8 17.74	8 18.25	8 18.77	$ 19.29	8 19.80	8 20.32	8 20.58	8 20.84	$ 21.35	8 21.87	$ 22.39	8 22.90	8 23.42	$ 23.93
10	8 18.42	$ 18.98	8 19.53	$ 20.08	$ 20.63	8 21.19	$ 21.74	$ 22.02	8 22.29	$ 22.84	8 23.40	$ 23.95	$ 24.50	$ 25.06	5 26.61
11	8 19.64	$ 20.13	8 20.72	$ 21.30	8 21.89	8 22.48	9 23.06	8 23.35	$ 23.65	$ 24.23	8 24.82	8 25.41	8 25.99	$ 26.68	8 27.17
McLaren Flint__________1%	2018 First full pay in October
Range#*	Minimum		fee*:					Notastep				■i l". .i'-VA			Maximum
'■ < ‘ • '--iV*	*2	• 3‘ a	■X 4A.*.			V7A-		MldpolnV			h-ffir.?: ?		!-A313^	SiW*?	W&
2	8 11.04	8 11.38	8 11.71	8 12.04	5 12.37	$ 12.70	8 13.03	8 13.20	6 13.36	$ 13.70	$ 14.03	8 14.36	8 14.69	5 15.02	8 15.35
3	8 11.65	8 12.00	8 12.35	8 12.70	6 13.05	8 13.40	8 13.75	8 13.92	6 14.10	8 1445	8 14.80	8 15.15	8 15.50	8 15.85	8 16.20
4	8 12.38	$ 12.76	8 13.13	8 13.50	8 13.87	8 14.24	8 14.61	8 14.80	8 14.98	$ 15.36	$ 16.73	8 16.10	8 1647	8 16.84	8 17.21
5	8 13.24	8 13.64	$ 14.03	8 1443	6 14.83	8 15.23	8 16.62	$ 15.82	8 16.02	$ 1642	8 16.81	8 17.21	8 17.61	8 18.01	8 1840
6	8 14.16	8 14.58	8 15.01	8 1543	8 15.86	8 16.28	8 16.70	8 16.92	8 17.13	$ 17.65	8 17.88	8 1840	8 18.83	8 19.25	8 19.68
7	6 15.19	8 15.64	8 16.10	5 16.55	8 17.01	8 17.46	8 17.92	8 18.15	8 18.38	$ 18.83	8 19.29	8 19.74	8 20.20	8 20.65	8 21.11
8	$ 16.26	$ 16.75	8 17.23	$ 17.72	$ 18.21	8 18.70	$ 19.18	5 19.43	8 19.67	$ 20.16	8 20.65	8 21.14	8 21.62	8 22.11	$ 22.60
9	8 17.39	8 17.91	8 1843	8 18.96	8 1948	8 20.00	8 20.52	8 20.78	8 21.04	8 21.57	8 22.09	8 22.61	8 23.13	8 23.65	8 24.17
10	8 18.61	8 19.17	8 19.72	8 20.28	8 20.84	8 21.40	8 21.96	8 22.24	8 22.51	$ 23.07	8 23.63	8 24.19	8 24.75	8 25.31	8 25.86
11	8 19.74	8 20.33	8 20.92	8 21.52	8 22.11	8 22.70	8 23.29	6 23.59	8 23.88	$ 24.48	8 25.07	8 25.66	8 26.25	8 26.84	8 27.44
McLaren Flint	1.0%	2019 First full pay in October
Ranflo#	Minimum								Notastep			' /'• 7				Maximum
		sy-		"4.	5 .		7		.Midpoint:			11	^512^	13-?		•■.151^:
2	$ 11.16	$ 11.49	$ 11.82		$ 12.16	9 12.49	9 12.83	9 13.16	9 13.33	9 13.50	9 13.83	$ 14.17	$ 14.60	$ 14.84	$ 15.17	9 15.51
3	$ 11.77	$ 12.12	$ 12.48		$ 12.83	$ 13.18	$ 13.53	$ 13.89	9 14.06	9 14.24	$ 14.59	9 14.95	9 15.30	9 15.65	9 16.01	9 16.36
4	$ 12.51	$ 12.88	$ 13.26		$ 13.63	$ 14.01	$ 14.38	$ 14.76	$ 14.95	$ 15.13	$ 15.51	$ 15.89	$ 16.26	$ 16.64	$ 17.01	$ 17.39
5	$ 13.37	$ 13.77	$ 14.17		$ 14.58	9 14.98	9 15.38	9 15.78	9 15.98	9 16.18	9 16.58	9 16.98	9 17.38	$ 17.78	9 18.19	9 18.59
6	$ 14.30	$ 14.73	$ 15.16		$ 16.58	9 16.01	$ 16.44	$ 16.87	9 17.09	9 17.30	6 17.73	9 18.16	9 18.59	9 19.02	9 1945	9 19.87
7	$ 15.34	$ 15.80	$ 16.26		$ 16.72	9 17.18	9 17.64	9 18.10	$ 18.33	$ 18.56	9 19.02	9 19.48	9 19.94	9 2040	$ 20.86	$ 21.32
8	$ 16.42	$ 16.91	9 17.41		$ 17.90	9 18.39	9 18.88	$ 19.38	9 19.62	9 19.87	9 20.36	9 20.85	$ 21.35	9 21.84	9 22.33	$ 22.82
9	$ 17.57	$ 18.09	$ 18.62		$ 19.15	$ 19.67	$ 20.20	$ 20.73	9 20.99	9 21.25	$ 21.78	$ 22.31	6 22.84	9 23.36	9 23.89	9 2442
10	$ 18.79	$ 19.36	$ 19.92		$ 20.48	9 21.05	9 21.61	$ 22.18	$ 22.46	$ 22.74	9 23.30	$ 23.87	$ 24.43	$ 25.00	$ 25.56	6 26.12
11	$ 19.94	* 20.53	$ 21.13		9 21.73	9 22.33	9 22.93	9 23.52	$ 23.82	9 24.12	$ 24.72	9 25.32	9 25.92	9 26.52	$ 27.11	$ 27.71
McLaren Flint_________1.0%	2020 First full pay in October
KaHflS*';	•Minimum							Notastap	>'1 VUr	•						.MSdrtiufrt
	. --th	i						■ Mldpairtt					fcWEK		
2	$ 11.27	9 11.60	9 11.94	$ 12.28	$ 12.62	9 12.96	9 13.29	9 13.46	$ 13.63	9 13.97	6 14.31	6 14.65	$ 14.98	$ 15.32	9 15.66
3	$ 11.89	$ 12.24	$ 12.60	9 12.96	$ 13.31	$ 13.67	$ 14.03	S 14.20	$ 14.38	$ 14.74	$ 15.10	$ 1545	9 15.81	$ 16.17	$ 16.52
4	$ 12.63	$ 13.01	9 13.39	9 13.77	9 14.15	9 14.53	$ 14.91	$ 15.10	$ 15.29	$ 15.67	S 16.04	$ 1642	6 16.80	$ 17.18	$ 17.56
5	$ 13.51	$ 13.91	9 14.32	$ 14.72	9 15.13	9 16.53	$ 15.94	$ 16.14	$ 16.34	$ 16.75	$ 17.15	$ 17.56	$ 17.96	$ 18.37	$ 18.77
6	$ 14.44	$ 14.87	$ 16.31	$ 15.74	9 16.17	$ 16.61	$ 17.04	$ 17.26	$ 1747	$ 17.91	$ 18.34	$ 18.77	$ 19.21	$ 19.64	$ 20.07
7	$ 1549	$ 15.96	$ 16.42	$ 16.89	9 17.35	$ 17.82	$ 18.28	$ 18.51	$ 18.75	$ 19.21	9 19.67	9 20.14	9 20.60	6 21.07	$ 21.53
8	$ 16.58	$ 17.08	$ 17.58	$ 18.08	9 18.68	$ 19.07	$ 19.57	9 19.82	$ 20.07	9 20.57	$ 21.06	$ 21.56	9 22.06	$ 22.56	$ 23.05
9	$ 17.74	$ 18.27	$ 18.81	$ 19.34	$ 19.87	$ 20.40	$ 20.93	$ 21.20	$ 2147	9 22.00	$ 22.53	$ 23.06	9 23.60	6 24.13	$ 24.66
10	$ 18.98	$ 19.55	6 20.12	$ 20.69	$ 21.26	$ 21.83	$ 22.40	9 22.68	$ 22.97	9 23.54	9 24.11	9 24.68	9 25.25	$ 2541	$ 26.38
11	$ 20.14	$ 20.74	$ 21.34	$ 21.95	$ 22.55	$ 23.16	$ 23.76	9 24.06	9 24.36	$ 24.97	$ 25.57	6 26.18	9 26.78	9 27.38	9 27.99
McLaren Lapeer_________________________________2017 First full pay after ratification
Range. #.t	Minimum			»WS			Midpoint			iSWftMW	sJtJBSSSiu		Maximum
		issaw®											stasm?
2	$ 10.10	$ 10.40	$ 10.71	$ 11.01	$ 11.31	$ 11.62	$ 11.92	$ 12.22	$ 12.52	$ 12.83	$ 13.13	$ 13.43	$ 13.74
3	$ 10.33	$ 10.64	$ 10.95	$ 11.26	$ 11.57	$ 11.88	$ 12.19	$ 12.50	$ 12.81	$ 13.12	$ 13.43	$ 13.74	$ 14.05
4	$ 10.98	$ 11.31	$ 11.64	$ 11.97	$ 12.30	$ 12.63	$ 12.96	$ 13.29	$ 13.62	$ 13.94	$ 14.27	$ 14.60	$ 14.93
5	$ 11.72	$ 12.07	$ 12.42	$ 12.77	$ 13.13	$ 13.48	$ 13.83	$ 14.18	$ 14.53	$ 14.88	$ 15.24	$ 15.59	$ 15.94
6	$ 12.57	$ 12.95	$ 13.32	$ 13.70	$ 14.08	$ 14.46	$ 14.83	$ 15.21	$ 15.59	$ 15.96	$ 16.34	$ 16.72	$ 17.10
7	$ 13.44	$ 13.84	$ 14.25	$ 14.65	$ 15.05	$ 15.46	$ 15.86	$ 16.26	$ 16.67	$ 17.07	$ 17.47	$ 17.88	$ 18.28
8	$ 14.39	$ 14.82	$ 15.25	$ 15.69	$ 16.12	$ 16.55	$ 16.98	$ 17.41	$ 17.84	$ 18.28	$ 18.71	$ 19.14	$ 19.57
9	$ 15.40	$ 15.86	$ 16.32	$ 16.79	$ 17.25	$ 17.71	$ 18.17	$ 18.63	$ 19.10	$ 19.56	$ 20.02	$ 20.48	$ 20.94
10	$ 16.48	$ 16.97	$ 17.47	$ 17.96	$ 18.46	$ 18.95	$ 19.45	$ 19.94	$ 20.44	$ 20.93	$ 21.42	$ 21.92	$ 22.41
McLaren Lapeer		1%	2017 First full pay in October											
iRange!#!	IMiWffiCi®	fswsi®					!M|dnW«				iwtoa	ISMJ«		Maximum
				ilWSfEi	S3									
2	$ 10.20	$ 10.51	$ 10.81	$ 11.12	$ 11.43	$ 11.73	$ 12.04	$ 12.34		$ 12.65	$ 12.96	$ 1326	$ 13.57	$ 13.87
3	$ 10.43	$ 10.75	$ 11.06	5 11.37	$ 11.69	$ 12.00	$ 12.31	$ 12.62		$ 12.94	$ 13.25	$ 13.56	$ 13.88	$ 14.19
4	$ 11.09	$ 11.42	$ 11.76	$ 12.09	$ 12.42	$ 12.75	$ 13.09	$ 13.42		$ 13.75	$ 14.08	$ 14.42	$ 14.75	$ 15.08
5	$ 11.84	$ 12.19	$ 12.55	$ 12.90	$ 13.26	$ 13.61	$ 13.97	$ 14.32		$ 14.68	$ 15.03	$ 15.39	$ 15.74	$ 16.10
6	$ 12.70	$ 13.08	$ 13.46	$ 13.84	$ 14.22	$ 14.60	$ 14.98	$ 15.36		$ 15.74	$ 16.12	$ 16.50	$ 16.89	$ 1727
7	$ 13.57	$ 13.98	$ 14.39	$ 14.80	$ 15.20	$ 15.61	$ 16.02	$ 16.43		$ 16.83	$ 17.24	$ 17.65	$ 18.05	$ 18.46
8	$ 14.53	$ 14.97	$ 15.41	$ 15.84	$ 16.28	$ 16.71	$ 17.15	$ 17.59		$ 18.02	$ 18.46	$ 18.89	$ 19.33	$ 19.77
9	$ 15.55	$ 16.02	$ 16.49	$ 16.95	$ 17.42	$ 17.89	$ 18.35	$ 18.82		$ 19.29	$ 19.75	$ 2022	$ 20.69	$ 21.15
10	$ 16.64	$ 17.14	$ 17.64	$ 18.14	$ 18.64	$ 19.14	$ 19.64	$ 20.14		$ 20.64	$ 21.14	$ 21.64	$ 22.14	$ 22.64
McLaren
1%
2018 First full pay in October
iRiinW^	jMinlmilnii			saw itawws	5®!3aijS$		ilMIUpaint!	awflasi			iiStawgi		MSHiiriUm
	»3£H®	wsim				miw®	■msi:	aim				bob	
2	$ 10.30	$ 10.61	$ 10.92	$ 11.23 $ 11.54		$ 11.85	$ 12.16	$ 12.47	$ 12.78	$ 13.08	$ 13.39	$ 13.70	$ 14.01
3	$ 10.54	$ 10.85	$ 11.17	$ 11.49 $ 11.80		$ 12.12	$ 12.43	$ 12.75	$ 13.07	$ 13.38	$ 13.70	$ 14.02	$ 14.33
4	$ 11.20	$ 11.54	$ 11.87	$ 12.21 $ 12.54		$ 12.88	$ 13.22	$ 13.55	$ 13.89	$ 14.22	$ 14.56	$ 14.90	$ 15.23
5	$ 11.96	$ 12.31	$ 12.67	$ 13.03 $ 13.39		$ 13.75	$ 14.11	$ 14.47	$ 14.82	$ 15.18	$ 15.54	$ 15.90	$ 16.26
6	$ 12.82	$ 13.21	$ 13.59	$ 13.98 $ 14.36		$ 14.75	$ 15.13	$ 15.52	$ 15.90	$ 16.28	$ 16.67	$ 17.05	$ 17.44
7	$ 13.71	$ 14.12	$ 14.53	$ 14.94 $ 15.36		$ 15.77	$ 16.18	$ 16.59	$ 17.00	$ 17.41	$ 17.82	$ 18.23	$ 18.65
8	$ 14.68	$ 15.12	$ 15.56	$ 16.00 $ 16.44		$ 16.88	$ 17.32	$ 17.76	$ 18.20	$ 18.64	$ 19.08	$ 19.52	$ 19.96
9	$ 15.71	$ 16.18	$ 16.65	$ 17.12 $ 17.59		$ 18.07	$ 18.54	$ 19.01	$ 19.48	$ 19.95	$ 20.42	$ 20.89	$ 21.36
10	$ 16.81	$ 17.32	$ 17.82	$ 18.32 $ 18.83		$ 19.33	$ 19.84	$ 20.34	$ 20.85	$ 21.35	$ 21.85	$ 22.36	$ 22.86
1.0%
iRhWWR	Mlnlttiunv		SgtffS®?		gstiWP.		(Midpoint						M&lrtiftm
Kmh	®«3S®k	sgsuKisa		smiasBitfe	ismssa	Mg						ssewgai	
2	$ 10.41	$ 10.72	$ 11.03	$ 11.34	$ 11.65	$ 11.97	$ 12.28	$ 12.59	$ 12.90	$ 13.22	$ 13.53	$ 13.84	$ 14.15
3	$ 10.64	$ 10.96	$ 11.28	$ 11.60	$ 11.92	$ 12.24	$ 12.56	$ 12.88	$ 13.20	$ 13.52	$ 13.84	$ 14.16	$ 14.47
4	$ 11.31	$ 11.65	$ 11.99	$ 12.33	$ 12.67	$ 13.01	$ 13.35	$ 13.69	$ 14.03	$ 14.37	$ 14.71	$ 15.05	$ 15.39
5	$ 12.08	$ 12.44	$ 12.80	$ 13.16	$ 13.52	$ 13.89	$ 14.25	$ 14.61	$ 14.97	$ 15.34	$ 15.70	$ 16.06	$ 16.42
6	$ 12.95	$ 13.34	$ 13.73	$ 14.12	$ 14.50	$ 14.89	$ 15.28	$ 15.67	$ 16.06	$ 16.45	$ 16.84	$ 17.22	$ 17.61
7	$ 13.85	$ 14.26	$ 14.68	$ 15.09	$ 15.51	$ 15.92	$ 16.34	$ 16.76	$ 17.17	$ 17.59	$ 18.00	$ 18.42	$ 18.83
8	$ 14.83	$ 15.27	$ 15.72	$ 16.16	$ 16.61	$ 17.05	$ 17.49	$ 17.94	$ 18.38	$ 18.83	$ 19.27	$ 19.72	$ 20.16
9	$ 15.87	$ 16.34	$ 16.82	$ 17.29	$ 17.77	$ 18.25	$ 18.72	$ 19.20	$ 19.67	$ 20.15	$ 20.63	$ 21.10	$ 21.58
10	$ 16.98	$ 17.49	$ 18.00	$ 18.51	$ 19.02	$ 19.53	$ 20.04	$ 20.55	$ 21.05	$ 21.56	$ 22.07	$ 22.58	$ 23.09
McLaren Lapeer	1.0%			2020 First full pay in October										
^nge:#}	■Mihimum				ww		JMWWffie					swo	
			•igfiSiBKiisi	rftTefef	mA	smssHffig	wrnis		rhsfass	wraw		waiies	
2	$ 10.51	$ 10.83	$ 11.14	$ 11.46.	$ 11.77	$ 12.09	$ 12.40	$ 12.72	$ 13.03	$ 13.35	$ 13.66	$ 13.98	$ 14.29
3	$ 10.75	$ 11.07	$ 11.39	$ 11.72	$ 12.04	$ 12.36	$ 12.68	$ 13.01	$ 13.33	$ 13.65	$ 13.97	$ 14.30	$ 14.62
4	$ 11.43	$ 11.77	$ 12.11	$ 12.45	$ 12.80	$ 13.14	$ 13.48	$ 13.83	$ 14.17	$ 14.51	$ 14.85	$ 15.20	$ 15.54
5	$ 12.20	$ 12.56	$ 12.93	$ 13.29	$ 13.66	$ 14.03	$ 14.39	$ 14.76	$ 15.12	$ 15.49	$ 15.85	$ 16.22	$ 16.59
6	$ 13.08	$ 13.47	$ 13.87	$ 14.26	$ 14.65	$ 15.04	$ 15.43	$ 15.83	$ 16.22	$ 16.61	$ 17.00	$ 17.40	$ 17.79
7	$ 13.99	$ 14.41	$ 14.82	$ 15.24	$ 15.66	$ 16.08	$ 16.50	$ 16.92	$ 17.34	$ 17.76	$ 18.18	$ 18.60	$ 19.02
8	$ 14.97	$ 15.42	$ 15.87	$ 16.32	$ 16.77	$ 17.22	$ 17.67	$ 18.12	$ 18.57	5 19.02	$ 19.47	$ 19.92	$ 20.37
9	$ 16.03	$ 16.51	$ 16.99	$ 17.47	$ 17.95	$ 18.43	$ 18.91	$ 19.39	$ 19.87	$ 20.35	$ 20.83	$ 21.31	$ 21.79
10	$ 17.15	$ 17.66	$ 18.18	$ 18.69	$ 19.21	$ 19.72	$ 20.24	$ 20.75	$ 21.26	$ 21.78	$ 22.29	$ 22.81	$ 23.32
MHG			2017 First full pay after ratification										
SRanaeW	{Minimum’			WSi®	Sthiafgi®	WW	.Midpoint						Maximum
	?W2iSSii		swisas			iWZIsgg!			SS-SIOr^	tjssaiw	5&S12S8®		
1	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.26	$ 10.51	$ 10.75	$ 11.00	$ 11.25
2	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.33	$ 10.60	$ 10.86	$ 11.12	$ 11.38	$ 11.65	$ 11.91
3	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.14	$ 10.42	$ 10.70	$ 10.98	$ 11.26	$ 11.53	$ 11.81	$ 12.09	$ 12.37	$ 12.65
4	$ 10.10	$ 10.13	$ 10.43	$ 10.72	$ 11.02	$ 11.31	$ 11.61	$ 11.90	$ 12.20	$ 12.49	$ 12.79	$ 13.08	$ 13.38
5	$ 10.53	$ 10.85	$ 11.17	$ 11.48	$ 11.80	$ 12.11	$ 12.43	$ 12.75	$ 13.06	$ 13.38	$ 13.69	$ 14.01	$ 14.33
6	$ 11.31	$ 11.65	$ 11.99	$ 12.33	$ 12.67	$ 13.01	$ 13.35	$ 13.69	$ 14.03	$ 14.37	$ 14.71	$ 15.04	$ 15.38
7	$ 12.07	$ 12.43	$ 12.79	$ 13.16	$ 13.52	$ 13.88	$ 14.24	$ 14.60	$ 14.97	$ 15.33	$ 15.69	$ 16.05	$ 16.41
8	$ 12.93	$ 13.32	$ 13.70	$ 14.09	$ 14.48	$ 14.87	$ 15.26	$ 15.64	$ 16.03	$ 16.42	$ 16.81	$ 17.19	$ 17.58
9	$ 13.83	$ 14.24	$ 14.66	$ 15.07	$ 15.49	$ 15.90	$ 16.32	$ 16.73	$ 17.15	$ 17.56	$ 17.97	$ 18.39	$ 18.80
10	$ 14.81	$ 15.25	$ 15.69	$ -16.14	$ 16.58	$ 17.03	$ 17.47	$ 17.92	$ 18.36	$ 18.80	$ 19.25	$ 19.69	$ 20.14
MHG	1%	2017 First full pay in October													
	’MlhlrWft	iwaaag					SMWbW		MM				Makirnlith
	MO				GSS6Wi		ISM		IWfflKK	IWOHI			
1	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.11	$ 10.36	$ 10.61	$ 10.86	$ 11.11	$ 11.36
2	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.17	$ 10.44	$ 10.70	$ 10.97	$ 11.23	$ 11.50	$ 11.76	$ 12.03
3	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.24.	$ 10.52	$ 10.80	$ 11.09	$ 11.37	$ 11.65	$ 11.93	$ 12.21	$ 12.50	$ 12.78
4	$ 10.10	$ 10.23	$ 10.53	$ 10.83	$ 11.13	$ 11.43	$ 11.72	$ 12.02	$ 12.32	$ 12.62	$ 12.92	$ 1321	$ 13.51
5	$ 10.64	$ 10.96	$ 11.28	$ 11.60	$ 11.92	$ 12.24	$ 12.55	$ 12.87	$ 13.19	$ 13.51	$ 13.83	$ 14.15	$ 14.47
6	$ 11.43	$ 11.77	$ 12.11	$ 12.45	$ 12.80	$ 13.14	$ 13.48	$ 13.82	$ 14.17	$ 14.51	$ 14.85	$ 15.20	$ 15.54
7	$ 12.19	$ 12.56	$ 12.92	$ 13.29	$ 13.65	$ 14.02	$ 14.38	$ 14.75	$ 15.12	$ 15.48	$ 15.85	$ 16.21	$ 16.58
8	$ 13.06	$ 13.45	$ 13.84	$ 14.23	$ 14.62	$ 15.02	$ 15.41	$ 15.80	$ 16.19	$ 16.58	$ 16.97	$ 17.37	$ 17.76
9	$ 13.97	$ 14.38	$ 14.80	$ 15.22	$ 15.64	$ 16.06	$ 16.48	$ 16.90	$ 17.32	$ 17.74	$ 18.15	$ 18.57	t 18.99
10	$ 14.95	$ 15.40	$ 15.85	$ 16.30	$ 16.75	$ 17.20	$ 17.65	$ 18.10	$ 18.54	$ 18.99	$ 19.44	$ 19.89	$ 20.34
MHG	. 1%	2018 First full pay in October													
						»»					WWI		Maximum
		tew	8S		times®?'				fSnswl®.		imam	SWSS	
1	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.21	$ 10.46	$ 10.72	$ 10.97	$ 1122	$ 11.48
2	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.27	$ 10.54	$ 10.81	$ 11.08	$ 11.34	$ 11.61	$ 11.88	$ 12.15
3	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.34	$ 10.63	$ 10.91	$ 11.20	$ 11.48	$ 11.77	$ 12.05	$ 12.34	$ 12.62	$ 12.91
4	$ 10.10	$ 10.34	$ 10.64	$ 10.94	$ 11.24	$ 11.54	$ 11.84	$ 12.14	$ 12.44	$ 12.74	$ 13.05	$ 13.35	$ 13.65
5	$ 10.75	$ 11.07	$ 11.39	$ 11.71	$ 12.04	$ 12.36	$ 12.68	$ 13.00	$ 13.33	$ 13.65	$ 13.97	$ 14.29	$ 14.61
6	$ 11.54	$ 11.89	$ 12.23	$ 12.58	$ 12.92	$ 13.27	$ 13.62	$ 13.96	$ 14.31	$ 14.66	$ 15.00	$ 15.35	$ 15.69
7	$ 12.31	$ 12.68	$ 13.05	$ 13.42	$ 13.79	$ 14.16	$ 14.53	$ 14.90	$ 15.27	$ 15.64	$ 16.01	$ 16.38	$ 16.74
8	$ 13.19	$ 13.58	$ 13.98	$ 14.37	$ 14.77	$ 15.17	$ 15.56	$ 15.96	$ 16.35	$ 16.75	$ 17.14	$ 17.54	$ 17.94
9	$ 14.10	$ 14.53	$ 14.95	$ 15.37	$ 15.80	$ 16.22	$ 16.64	$ 17.07	$ 17.49	$ 17.91	$ 18.34	$ 18.76	$ 19.18
10	$ 15.10	$ 15.56	$ 16.01	$ 16.46	$ 16.92	$ 17.37	$ 17.82	$ 18.28	$ 18.73	$ 19.18	$ 19.64	$ 20.09	$ 20.54
MHG	1,0%______2019 First full pay in October
	iMIhlrniini						IMIdpolnti						MtixTriium
									-SiSftlOSa#			*>W3|5iS	&te-14Sfs
1	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.31	$ 10.57	$ 10.82	$ 11.08	$ 11.33	$ 11.59
2	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.38	$ 10.65	$ 10.92	$ 11.19	$ 11.46	$ 11.73	$ 12.00	$ 12.27
3	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.16	$ 10.45	$ 10.73	$ 11.02	$ 11.31	$ 11.60	$ 11.88	$ 12.17	$ 12.46	$ 12.75	$ 13.03
4	$ 10.14	$ 10.44	$ 10.74	$ 11.05	$ 11.35	$ 11.66	$ 11.96	$ 12.26	$ 12.57	$ 12.87	$ 13.18	$ 13.48	$ 13.78
5	$ 10.85	$ 11.18	$ 11.50	$ 11.83	$ 12.16	$ 12.48	$ 12.81	$ 13.13	$ 13.46	$ 13.78	$ 14.11	$ 14.44	$ 14.76
6	$ 11.65	$ 12.00	$ 12.35	$ 12.70	$ 13.05	$ 13.40	$ 13.75	$ 14.10	$ 14.45	$ 14.80	$ 15.15	$ 15.50	$ 15.85
7	$ 12.44	$ 12.81	$ 13.18	$ 13.55	$ 13.93	$ 14.30	$ 14.67	$ 15.05	$ 15.42	$ 15.79	$ 16.17	$ 16.54	$ 16.91
8	$ 13.32	$ 13.72	$ 14.12	$ 14.52	$ 14.92	$ 15.32	$ 15.72	$ 16.12	$ 16.52	$ 16.92	$ 17.32	$ 17.72	$ 18.11
9	$ 14.25	$ 14.67	$ 15.10	$ 15.53	$ 15.96	$ 16.38	$ 16.81	$ 17.24	$ 17.66	$ 18.09	$ 18.52	$ 18.95	$ 19.37
10	$ 15.26	$ 15.71	$ 16.17	$ 16.63	$ 17.09	$ 17.54	$ 18.00	$ 18.46	$ 18.92	$ 19.37	$ 19.83	$ 20.29	$ 20.75
MHG
1.0%
2020 First full
							I*						Maxlfriufn
km							WKllO;-	fem	ISfiKil®.	Mita	58021’!!!!		
1	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.16	$ 10.42	$ 10.67	$ 10.93	$ 11.19	$ 11.45	$ 11.71
2	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.21	$ 10.48	$ 10.75	$ 11.03	$ 11.30	$ 11.57	$ 11.85	$ 12.12	$ 12.39
3	$ 10.10	$ 10.10	$ 10.26	$ 10.55	$ 10.84	$ 11.13	$ 11.42	$ 11.71	$ 12.00	$ 12.29	$ 12.58	$ 12.87	$ 13.16
4	$ 10.24	$ 10.54	$ 10.85	$ 11.16	$ 1147	$ 11.77	$ 12.08	$ 12.39	$ 12.69	$ 13.00	$ 13.31	$ 13.61	$ 13.92
5	$ 10.96	$ 11.29	$ 11.62	$ 11.95	$ 12.28	$ 12.61	$ 12.94	$ 13.26	$ 13.59	$ 13.92	$ 14.25	$ 14.58	$ 14.91
6	$ 11.77	$ 12.12	$ 12.48	$ 12.83	$ 13.18	$ 13.54	$ 13.89	$ 14.24	$ 14.60	$ 14.95	$ 15.30	$ 15.66	$ 16.01
7	$ 12.56	$ 12.94	$ 13.31	$ 13.69	$ 14.07	$ 14.44	$ 14.82	$ 15.20	$ 15.57	$ 15.95	$ 16.33	$ 16.70	$ 17.08
8	$ 13.45	$ 13.86	$ 14.26	$ 14.66	$ 15.07	$ 15.47	$ 15.87	$ 16.28	$ 16.68	$ 17.09	$ 17.49	$ 17.89	$ 18.30
9	$ 14.39	6 14.82	$ 15.25	$ 15.68	$ 16.11	$ 16.55	$ 16.98	$ 17.41	$ 17.84	$ 18.27	$ 18.70	$ 19.14	$ 19.57
10	$ 15.41	$ 15.87	$ 16.33	$ 16.79	$ 17.26	$ 17.72	$ 18.18	$ 18.64	$ 19.11	$ 19.57	$ 20.03	$ 20.49	$ 20.95
MMG	1%_________2017 First full pay after ratification
iRah$ei#g	IMInifftuin			EitiySSiSj®		! ‘ b®	KEESES			MH			Maxiriium
MO					grrSOegtfc*			WiW-Kii	fS®10K-5S	figntis-s;	ffiliHl2W		s®K14S?Bi
5	$ 10.64	$ 10.95	$ 11.27	$ 11.59	$ 11.91	$ 12.23	$ 12.55	$ 12.87	$ 13.19	$ 13.51	$ 13.83	$ 14.14	$ 14.46
6	$ 11.40	$ 11.74	$ 12.09	$ 12.43	$ 12.77	$ 13.11	$ 13.46	$ 13.80	$ 14.14	$ 14.48	$ 14.82	$ 15.17	$ 15.51
7	$ 12.18	$ 12.55	$ 12.91	$ 13.28	$ 13.64	$ 14.01	$ 14.37	$ 14.74	$ 15.10	$ 15.47	$ 15.83	$ 16.20	$ 16.57
8	$ 13.05	$ 13.44	$ 13.83	$ 14.22	$ 14.62	$ 15.01	$ 15.40	$ 15.79	$ 16.18	$ 16.57	$ 16.96	$ 17.36	$ 17.75
9	$ 13.98	$ 14.40	$ 14.82	$ 15.24	$ 15.66	$ 16.08	$ 16.49	$ 16.91	$ 17.33	$ 17.75	$ 18.17	$ 18.59	$ 19.01
10	$ 14.97	$ 15.42	$ 15.87	$ 16.32	$ 16.76	$ 17.21	$ 17.66	$ 18.11	$ 18.56	$ 19.01	$ 19.46	$ 19.91	$ 20.36
MMG	1%	2017 First full pay in October
	•MlnlHOrn			ssmb			‘Midpoint						Maximum
					mwaii						£®12iLig£		
5	$ 10.74	$ 11.06	$ 11.39	$ 11.71	$ 12.03	$ 12.35	$ 12.68	$ 13.00	$ 13.32	$ 13.64	$ 13.96	$ 14.29	$ 14.61
6	$ 11.52	$ 11.86	$ 12.21	$ 12.55	$ 12.90	$ 13.24	$ 13.59	$ 13.94	$ 14.28	$ 14.63	$ 14.97	$ 15.32	$ 15.66
7	$ 12.30	$ 12.67	$ 13.04	$ 13.41	$ 13.78	$ 14.15	$ 14.52	$ 14.89	$ 15.25	$ 15.62	$ 15.99	$ 16.36	$ 16.73
8	$ 13.18	$ 13.58	$ 13.97	$ 14.37	$ 14.76	$ 15.16	$ 15.55	$ 15.95	$ 16.34	$ 16.74	$ 17.13	$ 17.53	$ 17.92
9	$ 14.12	$ 14.54	$ 14.97	$ 15.39	$ 15.81	$ 16.24	$ 16.66	$ 17.08	$ 17.51	$ 17.93	$ 18.35	$ 18.78	$ 19.20
10	$ 15.12	$ 15.57	$ 16.02	$ 16.48	$ 16.93	$ 17.39	$ 17.84	$ 18.29	$ 18.75	$ 19.20	$ 19.65	$ 20.11	$ 20.56
MMG_______________________1%'	2018 First full pay in October
iRFn’&W			llisSWi	fWSW	iW^SXShWriSS'SffilsMiapBIhtl			mw	issmw			rasaw Msaffiutn	
				iW&S®						iOtWS			
5	$ 10.85	$ 11.17	$ 11.50	$ 11.83	$ 12.15	$ 12.48	$ 12.80	$ 13.13	$ 13.45	$ 13.78	$ 14.10	$ 14.43	$ 14.75
6	$ 11.63	$ 11.98	$ 12.33	$ 12.68	$ 13.03	$ 13.38	$ 13.73	$ 14.07	$ 14.42	$ 14.77	$ 15.12	$ 15.47	$ 15.82
7	$ 12.43	$ 12.80	$ 13.17	$ 13.54	$ 13.92	$ 14.29	$ 14.66	$ 15.03	$ 15.41	$ 15.78	$ 16.15	$ 16.53	$ 16.90
8	$ 13.31	$ 13.71	$ 14.11	$ 14.51	$ 14.91	$ 15.31	$ 15.71	$ 16.11	$ 16.51	$ 16.91	$ 17.30	$ 17.70	$ 18.10
9	$ 14.26	$ 14.69	$ 15.11	$ 15.54	$ 15.97	$ 16.40	$ 16.83	$ 17.25	$ 17.68	$ 18.11	$ 18.54	$ 18.96	$ 19.39
10	$ 15.27	$ 15.73	$ 16.19	$ 16.64	$ 17.10	$ 17.56	$ 18.02	$ 18.48	$ 18.93	$ 19.39	$ 19.85	$ 20.31	$ 20.77
MMG _____________ 1.0%	2019 First full pay InOctober
‘Rarigei#r	Minimum’			msg®		WtSfW	iMWpblht;				HWSSfei	■iWM!	Maxlrhurrt
OW	WO	&®!3ig®				iiWiffilii		moisKi			MW	wi3®a	
5	$ 10.96	$ 11.29	$ 11.62	$ 11.94	$ 12.27	$ 12.60	$ 12.93	$ 13.26	$ 13.59	$ 13.92	$ 14.24	$ 14.57	$ 14.90
6	$ 11.75	$ 12.10	$ 12.45	$ 12.81	$ 13.16	$ 13.51	$ 13.86	$ 14.22	$ 14.57	$ 14.92	$ 15.27	$ 15.63	$ 15.98
7	$ 12.55	$ 12.93	$ 13.30	$ 13.68	$ 14.06	$ 14.43	$ 14.81	$ 15.19	$ 15.56	$ 15.94	$ 16.31	$ 16.69	$ 17.07
8	$ 13.44	$ 13.85	$ 14.25	$ 14.65	$ 15.06	$ 15.46	$ 15.86	$ 16.27	$ 16.67	$ 17.07	$ 17.48	$ 17.88	$ 18.28
9	$ 14.40	$ 14.83	$ 15.27	$ 15.70	$ 16.13	$ 16.56	$ 16.99	$ 17.43	$ 17.86	$ 18.29	$ 18.72	$ 19.15	$ 19.59
10	$ 15.42	$ 15.88	$ 16.35	$ 16.81	$ 17.27	$ 17.74	$ 18.20	$ 18.66	$ 19.12	$ 19.59	$ 20.05	$ 20.51	$ 20.97
MMG	,	1.0%	2020 Firet full pay in October
iRWeiffi	iMliiljriii’rii'			MiKJiKSS			hffldpolnti		ggKiiW		raw		MaklrfiUm*
	=Bg25W			MME							•Si»42.fe!Jf	ssmsm	®®T4!«S!
5	$ 11.07	$ 11.40	$ 11.73	$ 12.06	$ 12.40	$ 12.73	$ 13.06	$ 13.39	$ 13.72	$ 14.06	$ 14.39	$ 14.72	$ 15.05
6	$ 11.87	$ 12.22	$ 12.58	$ 12.93	$ 13.29	$ 13.65	$ 14.00	$ 14.36	$ 14.71	$ 15.07	$ 15.43	$ 15.78	$ 16.14
7	$ 12.68	$ 13.06	$ 13.44	$ 13.82	$ 14.20	$ 14.58	$ 14.96	$ 15.34	$ 15.72	$ 16.10	$ 16.48	$ 16.86	$ 17.24
8	$ 13.58	$ 13.99	$ 14.39	$ 14.80	$ 15.21	$ 15.62	$ 16.02	$ 16.43	$ 16.84	$ 17.25	$ 17.65	$ 18.06	$ 18.47
9	$ 14.55	$ 14.98	$ 15.42	$ 15.86	$ 16.29	$ 16.73	$ 17.16	$ 17.60	$ 18.04	$ 18.47	$ 18.91	$ 19.35	$ 19.78
10	$ 15.58	$ 16.04	$ 16.51	$ 16.98	$ 17.45	$ 17.91	$ 18.38	$ 18.85	$ 19.31	$ 19.78	$ 20.25	$ 20.72	$ 21.18
APPENDIX B - PAY RANGES - McLaren Flint
	Classification	I			Classification
NT02		NT06	
Job Code		Job Code	
G7A00025	Housekeeper I	G7A00015	Clinical Nutrition Tech .
G7A00026	Housekeeper II	G7A00016	Clinical Patient Scheduler
		G7A00005	Commercial Clerk (NT)
NT03		G7A00023	EKG Tech
Job Code		G2A00004	Endoscopy Tech
G8A00003	Clerk I	G7A00027	Inventory Control Specialist
G7A00008	Distribution Clerk	G7A00018	Inventory/Physlclan Billing Coord.
G7A00059	Lead Worker - Housekeeping	G7A00061	Laboratory Assistant
G7A00013	Medical Records File Clerk (NT)	G7A00031	Library Tech
G8A00002	Receptionist	G7A00034	Monitor Tech
G7A00056	Transporter	G7A00040	Patient Service Rep
G7A00057	Truck Driver	G2A00042	Pharmacy Tech
		G7A00058	Unit Clerk
NT04		G7A00039	Patient Registration Clerk
Job Code		G7A00052	Certified Central Processing Aide
G7A00063	Area Lead Worker		
G7A00002	Case Management Assistant	NT07	
G7AQ0053	Central Processing Aide	Job Code	
G8A00004	Clerk II (NT)	G7A00004	Billing Clerk (NT)
G7A00006	Credit Clerk (NT)	G8N00023	Financial Counselor (NT)
G7A00007	Customer Service Clerk	G2A00043	Lead Pharmacy Tech
G7A00020	Dialysis Assistant	G7A00038	Patient Inquiry Rep (NT)
G7A00012	Material Distribution Clerk	G7A00048	Psychiatric Tech
G7A00033	Medical Assistant	G7A00028	Senior Laboratory Assistant
G7A00050	Receptionist/Medical Assistant		
G7A00054	Storekeeper	NT08	
G7A00055	Telephone Operator / Reception	Job Code	
		G7A00019	Coordinator Patient Accounting (NT)
NTO5		G7A00022	EEG Tech
Job Code			
G8A00005	Cashier	NT09	
G7A00021	Dispatcher	Job Code	
G7A00035	Nurse Assistant II	G7A00070	Pharmacy Automated Sys Tech
G7A00037	Patient Care Tech	G2A00003	Polvsomnographer Tech
G7A00044	Phlebotomist		
G7A005	Team Leader	NT10	
G7A00045	Therapy Aide	Job Code	
		G7A00064	Registered EEG Tech
			
		NT11	
		Job Code	
		G7A00047	Registered Polvsomnographer Tech
	s	1 		
99
McLaren Lapeer Region
	Classification	I		Classification
NT01	None	NT06	
		Job Code	
NT02		L7A00004	Client Svc Rep
Job Code		L7A00008	ER Patient Access Clerk
L7A00009	Housekeeping Aide	L7A00032	Medical Asst
L7A00010	Housekeeping Attendant	L7A00025	Ob Tech Unit Clerk
		L7A00026	Patient Access Clerk
NT03		L7A00028	Patient Scheduling Clerk
Job Coda		L7A00049	Pharmacy Tech I
L7A00005	Communication Clerk	L7A00051	Phlebotomist
L7A00006	Dietary Cashier Aide	L7A00037	Staffing Clerk
L7A00035	Receptionist	L7A00040	Sterile Processing Tech Cert
L7A00043	Transporter	L7A00042	Surgery Clerk
		L7A00045	UC Monitor Tech
NT04		L7A00046	Unit Clerk
Job Code		L7A00047	Unit Clerk Nurse Aide
L7A00038	Electronic File Film Clerk		
L7A00014	Maintenance Clerk	NT07	
L7A00015	Material Dist Clerk	Job Code	
L7A00023	Nurse Aide	L7A00027	Patient Scheduler Sr
L7A00030	Physical Therapy Aide	L7A00039	Sterile Processing Tm Lead
L7A00033	Radiology Aide		
L7A00041	Storeroom Clerk	NT08	
L7A00048	Switchboard Operator	Job Code	
L7A00044	Transporter Nurse Aide	L7A00050	Pharmacy Tech II
			
NTO5		NT09	None
Job Code			
L7A00001	Cardio Pulmonary Clerk	NT10	None
L7A00003	Clerk Radiology		
L7A00022	Nuclear Medicine Clerk		
	Nurse Aide II		
L7A00024	Nurse Aide Monitor Tech		
L7A00031	Physical Therapy Clerk		
L7A00036	Seamstress		
L7A00007	Sterile Processing Tech NonCert		
100
McLaren Medical Group
	Classification
5	
Job Code	
F8A00001	Clerk I
	
6	
Job Code	
F8A00004	Receptionist
	
7	
Job Code	
F8A00001	Clerk II
	
8	
Job Code	
F7A00002	Medical Assistant
F7A00001	Receptionist/MA
F7A00004	MA/Receptionistflnsur Ref Spec
	
9	
Job Code	
None	None
	
10	
Job Code	
None	None
101
McLaren Home Care Group
1	Classification
Job Code	
None	None
	
2	
Job Code	
D7A00011	File Clerk
	
3	
Job Code	
D7A00016	Receptionist
D7A00002	Warehouse Clerk
D7A00016	Clerk I
D7A00013	Housekeeper
	
4	
Job Code	
D7A00003	Clerk II
	
5	
Job Code	
D7A00017	Customer Service Rep I
D7A00008	Driver I
	
6	
Job Code	
D7A00006	Customer Service Rep If
D7A00003	Warehouse Clerk II
D7A00012	Home Health Aide
	
7	
Job Code	
D7A00007	Customer Svc Rep III
D7A00DD9	Driver I)
D7A00005	MHG Cook
	
B	
Job Code	
D2A00001	Respiratory Asst
D7A00014	Pharmacy Tech
D7A00019	Respiratory Customer Svc Rep
	
9	
Job Code	
None	None
	
10	
Job Code '	
None	None
102
INDEX	PAGE
Bereavement................................................78
Bulletin Boards......................—50
Call In Pay................................................78
Corrective Action....................................  ....29
Daily Staff Adjustment.....................................36
Definitions................................................02
Definition of Employee................—....................20
Definition of Seniority ...................................21
Dental Insurance...........................................69
Drug and Alcohol Testing...................................52
Duration of Agreement....................................  86
Evaluations................................................31
Extra Hours..............................................  39
Grievance Procedure---------------.......................  23
Health Insurance...........................................67
Holidays...................................................77
Hours of Work............................................  33
Job Descriptions.........................................  50
Layoff I Reduction / Recall..............................  42
Leaves of Absence..........................................57
Life Insurance.............................................70
Loss of Seniority..........................................22
MHG Cellular Telephones....................................86
Management Rights........................................  12
Military Service.........................................  52
Miscellaneous Fringe Benefits............................  64
New or Changed Jobs........................................49
103
INDEX	PAGE
Non-Discrimination................................................32
Out of Classification Grouping Pay................................79
Overtime..........................................................80
Paid Time Off.............;.......................................71
Pay Practices.....................................................84
Personnel File....................................................31
Posting...........................................................46
Preamble..........................................................01
Probationary Period...............................................22
Pulling...........................................................38
Recognition.......................................................05
Representation ...................................................16
Retirement Plans..................................................64
Scope of Agreement................................................86
Separability and Savings Clause...................................85
Shift Differential................................................79
Short Term Disability.............................................75
Special Conference ...............................................51
On CaU............................................................41
Shift and Regular Schedules.......................................34
Strikes and Lock Outs.............................................84
Subcontracting—..............................................................................14
Successor.........................................................85
Supplementary Agreement...........................................85
Time Off Scheduling...............................................34
Union Security....................................................14
Union Officers....................................................18
104
INDEX	PAGE
Union Offices.........................................19
Vision Insurance......................................70
Wage Inequity............................................83
Wages ................................................81
105
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
MCLAREN FLINT, MCLAREN LAPEER REGION, MCLAREN HOMECARE GROUP, MCLAREN MEDICAL GROUP
AND
AFSCME COUNCIL 25 AND ITS NONTECHNICAL UNIT, LOCAL 2650
REGARDING PART TIME EMPLOYEE STATUS and BENEFITS
TM> Letter of Agreement b altered fate this 10th day of February, 2017, by and between McLaren Flint, McLaren Lapeer Region, McLaren HomeCare Group, McLaren Medical Group, (hereinafter the “Employer”) and AFSCME Council 25 and Its NouTecbnical Union, Local 2650 (hereinafter the^UsM”).
WHEREAS the parties have bargained a successor collective bargaining agreement, and acknowledge that this Letter of Agreement is necessary to address the issue of part time employee status definition, access to benefits, and employee premiums. The parties agree to resolve easy issues pursuant to this Letter of Agreement to ensure part time employee status definition, access to benefits, and employee premiums are clarified for those McLaren Flint employees hired prior to ntificstion of toe successor agreement and previously classified as part-time under the prior collective bargaining agreement.
The parties agree and acknowledge as follows:
1.	Effective upon ratification of the contract, part time (benefit-eligible) employees are those who are budgeted to work a mmimum of forty (40) hours a pay period, but not mare than sixty-nine (69) hours per pay period.
2.	A part time (benefit-eligible) employee at McLaren Flint with authorized hours of 40-69 per pay hired prior to ratification and who was paying full-time premiums at time of contract ratification (either based on die average hours worked calculation or whose authorized hours were 64-69^>ay period from the prior contract) will continue to pay fulltime premium until he/she moves to an ineligible status or through the end of 2017, whichever comes first
3.	All other part time (benefit-eligible) employees at McLaren Flint with authorized hours of 40-69 per pay hired prior to ratification and who were paying the 25% part-time piemium at time of contract ratification (based on average hours worked calculation from the prior contract) will continue to pay the part-time premium until experiences a status change.
4.	A part-time (non-benefit eligible) employee, as of date of ratification, will have their benefits terminated as of February 28,2017. Said employees shall be eligible for benefits in the future in the event they transition to a benefit-eligible status.
Dated this 7 th day of	, 2017.
AFSCME COUNCIL 25 and NONTECHNICAL UNION, LOCAL 2«0
MCLAREN FLINT, MCLAREN HOMECARE GROUP, MCLAREN MEDICAL GROUP, MCLAREN LAPEER REGION
ttl>•4 t