* Mai'led
59^ - ^42-
Q657
Independent Contract Mail Driver's Association
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
AGREEMENT
with
Hartwig Transit,Inc.
206 North York Road, Suite C
Elmhurst, Illinois 60126
Email: icmda@att.net
www.icmda.com
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING-AGREEMENT
AEU&LEJ
PARTIES
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered nto this ■ V " day of A/ 2017 by and between HARTWIG TRANSIT, INC., or any subsidiaries or affiliations thereof (hereinafter referred to as the "Company" and the INDEPENDENT CONTRACT MAIL DRIVERS' ASSOCIATION (hereinafter referred to as the "Union" or "Association”)
WITNESSETH
ARTICL II
PREAMBLE, PURPOSE, AND DEFINITION
1.	Mindful of the dependence of the public on the efficient and uninterrupted performance of services by the Company and membershp of the Association, it is the purpose of the parties hereto, by this Agreement, to secure and promote Harmonious Industrial relationships by establishing the following wages, hours, and conditions of employment to be observed by the parties
2.	The Company and the Association jointly agree to faithfully perform the obligations imposed by this Agreement
2
ARTIQLEJ.il
RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes the Association as the sole and exclusive bargaining representative with respect to the wages, hours and conditions of employment of all full-time and part-time drivers, mechanics and other garage personnel employed at all present and future acquired company locations for its mail hauling operations All clerical employees guards, and supervisors as defined in the National Labor Relations Act are excluded.
ARTICLE IV
UNION .SECURITY
1.	All employees covered by this Agreement sha I, as a condition of employment, within thirty (30) days following execution of this Agreement or within thirty (30) days following their commencement of employment with the Company, whichever occurs later, became members of the Associat'on and such employees shall, as further condition of employment, maintain their membership in the Association Prevdusly existing Owner/Operators and Brokers are not considered employees of the Company and are exempt from belonging to the Association. Owners of the Company are also exempt from belong ng to the Union
2.	In the event that the Association establ shes dues, or initiative fee structure, "membership", as defined in Paragraph one of this Article, shall be satisfied by tender of payment to the Association, within thirty (30) days of demand therefore, of such dues and fees
3	Until they have worked continuously for nmety (90) days, employees shall be considered on probation, at the sole discretion of the Company upon a showing of good cause During th s probationary period such employees may be discharged, laid off or transferred at the sole discretion of the company and wif not receive any wage increases or be covered by any insurance benefts of the parties

DURATION OF-Q.QHT.RAgJ
This agreement shall be in full force and effect, commencing th^tLday of^M 2017to and including June 30, 2019, and shall be automatically renewed from year to year thereafter unless terminated or changed In the manner provided hereinafter. The wage agreement has become a multi-trer/rnulti-effective date system due to changes in the postal contracting renewal system and new route bidding. The Union may upon written notice to the Company ninety (90) days prior to the two (2) year anniversary date of award or renewal of a specific postal contract' renegotiate Artic e VII, any wage increases will have effect until June 30, 2019. Should the Company or Union desire to change, renegotiate, or terminate this Agreement, written notice thereof shall be served by mail upon the other not more than ninety (90) days or less than sixty (60) days prior to June 30,2019
article v<
HOURS OF WORK AND LUNCH TIME
1	Hours: The Company shall, in its discretion, select the reporting time and reporting location and advise employees of same. The Company, in its discretion shall schedule the maximum hours allotted for a driver to complete his run, and a driver's paid hours shall not exceed the number of hours scheduled by the Company for completion of a trip, except in an emergency situation, in which the Company will authorize pay for extra hours (or portions thereof), if the driver telephones The Company as soon as it is pract'cal to advice of an anticipated delay, and the Company, upon consideration of the matter, authorizes such, provided that the driver substantiates an emergency situation orbreakdown.
2	Nothing contained in this Agreement is intended to be construed as providing any guarantee of work for any employee for any specific number of hours per day or per week for any specific period of t me
3	Lunch Timo: The Company may schedule an unpaid lunch period of no less than twenty (20) minutes and not more than two (2) lunches per trip The Company may schedu'e longer lunch periods but :f it does, the employees will receive his/her hourly pay rate for that portion of the lunch period that exceeds two (2) hours pertrip.
4	The Company may schedule sleeper berth off-duty t mes on trips w th layovers greater than two (2) hours but not less than 10 hours
4
ARTICLE VII
WAGES AND MONETARY BENEFITS
1 AI unit locations f necessary, have the right to renegotiate all wages and monetary benefits with respect to their contract numbers
2.	The Company currently operates three (3) regions to wit: Chicago Region, Central Region, and Cincinnati Region.
The pay rates tor all Union personnel shall be in accordance with the reg on of employment as more specifically hereinafter set forth,
Benefits — H W & P + Holiday. Employees hereby agree that they sha’I be paid or a once a month basis.
CURRENTLY
Akron-Indy Cinn-DesMoines Cinn-Detroit Cinn-Rochester Indy-Crothersvilfe Indy-Danville
Cinn-Kokomo Blm-Columbus-Cinn Kokomo-Athens Nladison-StPaul
5 Chicago-Madison GrnBay-StPaul Oshkosh-StPaul
Palatine-Rockford
5 Busse-StLouis
5 Busse-Springfield Springfield-StLouis Springfield-StLouis St Louis-Anywhere
I Ohare-Evanston 2 Ohare-SugarGrove
442L0 $20.70+5.06+.99 45213 $20.70+5.06+.99 45018 $20.70+5.06+.99 45215 $20.70+5.06+.99 460M0 $17.80+5.11+.88 II 460M8 $19.65+5.11+.95 li 46990 $20.70+5.06+,99 47490 $19.65+5.11+.95
469L2 $19.65 +5.11+.95 53515 $19.65 +5.11+.95 53590 $22.23 +5.11+1.05 540L1 $19.65 +5.11+.95 54990 $19.65+5.11+.95 600M3 $22.23 +5.11+1.05
607M2 $22.23+5.11+1.05 60715 $22.23+5.11+1.05 62590 $19.65 +5.11+.95 625U0 $19.65 +5.11+.95
630M5 $19.65 +5.11+.95
606LG $21.45 + 5.11+1.02 606CG $21,45 + 5.11+1.02
5
3	Benefit monies are only paid up to forty (40) hours per week
4,	Drivers hired on and after July 6, 1999 are required to complete eighteen (18) hours of "hands on" driver traming/orientation before being scheduled to work. Such trainingfonentation will be paid at federally mandated min'mum wage.
5.	Driver/Trainers will be paid S20 00 per day n addition to their normal rate ofpay
5. Newly awarded mail contracts are subject to Collective Bargaining Agreement for that region, upon award of contract by U S Post office.
7. Mechanic Ti nees or Apprentices. Mechanic Trainees or Apprentices shall start at an hourly rate of sixty-five (65) percent of the hourly rate paid to Journeymen Mechanics and Tractor-Trailer Drivers. Apprentices shall receive a seven (7) percent increase in hourly pay each six (6) months following their employment until they reach the same rate of pay received by Journeyman Mechanics and Tractor-Trailer Drivers in the particular region in which they are employed
3 Garage Helpers. Parts Runners Etc Garage help, i.e . parts runners, greasers, sweepers wilt be started at $13 00 per hour and any increases will be based on merit at the company's discretion
9	. Dues; The Company sha I deduct from the employees’ wages, all dues payable to the Association and pay them directly to the Association It shall be the responsibility of the Company to collect al dues and the Company shall be responsible for the employees' dues payment even if they fai to withhold from employees' wages. Previously existing Owner/Operators and Brokers, Company owners and CDL carrying supervisors are exempt from pay dues per Article IV. Section 1.
10	Laws of Absence, Resignation, or Termination: If an employee takes a leave of absence, resigns, oris terminated for any reason, at any terminal, the Association shall be notified in writing Immediately by the Company.
Diesel Mechanics
The base hourly rate of pay for a diesel mechanic in the Chicago (Region) shall be $24.23 per hour, plus $1.13 per hour holiday pay up to forty (40) hours per week plus .96 per hour pension cash benefit up to forty (40) hours per week: plus $4.15 per hour cash benefit or company health insurance coverage at company discretion Holiday, Pension and Health benefits will be paid on all hours worked up to forty (40) hours per week. If an employee failed to work forty (40) hours in any particular week, but at the end of the year has accumulated 2080 hours for which pay is received, the employee will be entitled to receive full Holiday, Pension and Health benefits for that year to be issued by February 14', of the following year.
Qualifying factors for Diesel Mechanics will be determined in annual reviews. The review may include both work perionmance and the following mechanical abilities. A mechanic must be able to so ely complete the following job functions to qualify for review
•	Complete Diesel engine overhaul both "In Chassis" and "Out of Chassis"
-	Electronic Diagnostics
■	Diesel Transmiss on Overhaul
Differential Overhaul
ABILg.UE..VI.U
REQUESTS FOR TIME OFF
All employee requests for time off are to be submitted to the Company in writing, on a preprinted form supplied by the company Forms must be made available to employees at all regional terminals With the exception of the summer vacation bidding periods and Christmas season (November 14th to January 2"d) a I requests for time off must be returned either approved or denied to the requesting employee within three (3) working) working days from the date of request, excluding weekends and holidays. Requests for time off cannot be denied by the Company provided there are less than 10% of the unit board plus 1 personal day. Example: a unit board with 40 employees may have a maximum of 4 people on vacation p us 1 on personal time for a total ot 5 people off
ARTICLEJX
HOLIDAYS
1. For the duration of this contract, each employee shall be entitled Io the following holidays
1)	New Year's Day
2)	Martin Luther King's Birthday
3)	President's Day
4}	Memorial Day
5)	Independence Day
6)	Labor Day
7)	Veteran's Day
3)	Thanksg ving Day
B;	Christmas Day
10)	Columbus Day
2.	Commencing on February 22. 2008, holiday pay will be prorated and paid monthly using the following formula
Eighty (80) hours (10 holidays x 8 hours pay) multiplied by the employee's hourly base rate and then divided by 2080 (52 x 40 hours) will determine the compensation to be paid each employee. If an employee fails to work forty (40) hours In any particular week, but al the end of the year has accumulated 2080 hours of employment, he will be entitled to receive full holiday pay for that year to be paid by February 14 of the following year
3	If an employee is required to work on a holiday as defined hereinbefore, said employee shall be paid at the regular rate of pay
7
Actide-X
HEALTH AND WELFARE
i Employees are required to participate n the Company Sponsored Health Insurance Plan, fulfilling the obligation of the Department of Labor Wage determination (cash equivalent fringe benefit) Exemptions Include Medicare VA Insurance and Government Retiree Health Plan
2.	The pension benefit is voluntary, If an emp oyee chooses not to participate in the pension plan, the employee shall receive the pension benefit as wages.
ARTICLE XI
SENLQ.RITY
The Company agrees that route bidding rights, layoff, and vacation bidding rights, as each described elsewhere in this Agreement, shall be governed by the principle of Seniority. The composition of all unit locations shall be negotiated between the Union and Hartwig Ail seniority shall be calculated within the following unit locations; (St Paul,MN), (Madison,Wl), (Oshkosh,Wl,Green Bay.Wi), (Rolling Meadows ,IL, Palatine,IL CarolStream,IL,ForestPark.IL) (Springfield IL. B'oomlngtonJL) (Casey.IL) (Galesburg,IL), (DesMoines.lA), (Indianapolis,IN. Bloomington IN, Kokomo,IN.Columbus.lN), (Cincinnati.OH,) (Columbus OH), (Akron,OH). (St.Louis.MO.Cahokra.MO)
1	Seniority Ust: The Association shall comp.Ie a master seniority list, which the Company shall post and maintain in current status at all locations. The Company shall transmit such information to the Association as is necessary to keep the list current. This list will contain the names of all unit employees and their respective unit locations Stra ght Truck Drivers shall have an asterisk (*) placed next to their names. Garage employees shall have two asterisks (”) placed next to their names The employee without asterisks will be local and over-the-road tractor-lrailer o’ double bottom tractor-trailer driver
2	. Calculation of Seniority: Employees will be placed on the seniority list in decreasing order of seniority with the Company calculated from the first day of continuous employment with the Company in the following manner
rscc«vc sr* nmcurit of sonjority	to ooioncfsr of	♦He*
Company.
b. Employees who work, or who have at one time worked less than thirty (30) hour per week on a regular basis shall receive an amount of seniority equivalent to one-half the amount of calendar t me they have worked with the Company on such Employees who have worked continuously in the status described In (b) above, but who thereafter transferred to full-time status describedin (a) above, prior to Augcst 28,1999 shall receive an amount of seniority equivalent to one-half of the
8
calendar time they have regularly worked less than thirty (30) hours per week plus the time they have worked full-time, as described In (ai above Those who transferred after August 29.1999 shall!! Forfeit the seniority earned under (b) above
d Seniority accrues only from the mitial date ofpresenl continuous employment with the Company, and therefore, empoyees who have at one time worked for the Company and have terminated, but thereafter returned to work at the Company, shall receive no seniority credit far their prior periodls) of employment For example, an employee who quits or is discharged for cause and thereafter returns to the Company, has his sen ority calculated only from Ihe date of his return to employment with the Company.
e Leaves of absence, as defined elsewhere in this Agreement, will not result in any loss of seniority.
f. Sickness of an extended duration will not adversely affect seniority of an employee. However, the Company reserves the right to demand that the employee arrange satisfactory evidence from a licensed medical doctor establishing work disability due to sickness.
g The Company may transfer an employee Io a different unt ocatlon only with Ihe consent of that employee That transfer shall be without loss of sen ority for any purpose if the Company initiates the transfer An employee transfer or temporary transfer (over 60 days) nitiated by the Company MUST BE DONE IN WRITING. THE EMPLOYEE MUST FILE A COPY OF THE TRANSFER TO THE UNION WITHIN 30 DAYS OF THE TRANSFER. THE UNION WILL ACKNOWLEDGE RECEIPT OF TRANSFER WITH THE COMPANY, FAILURE TO FOLLOW THIS PROCEDURE MAY VOID THE TRANSFER However, if the employee voluntarily inTates the transfer request, the employee shall lose all accumulated senionty for all purposes at the new location, except that the employee shall continue to receive the amount of vacation entitlement from the most recent date of hire. All requests from both parties must be in writing. Any transfer necessitated by an employee's health problem, for instance, the need to transfer off tractor-trailer for hea th reasons will be deemed an involuntary transfer and hence no loss of seniority will occur
h Effective October 1, 2001, if an employee voluntarily transfers from tractor-trailer to straight truck or straight truck to tractor* Trailer, he or she will not lose any vacation senior ty, jusl bidding seniority
i If a CDL holding mechanic transfers nlo driver status, h s/her seniority will be calcu ated from his/her first continuous day of employment.
j.	Seniority bidding right shall prevail if'uns arc changed temporarily The Company shall notify the Union of any changes in the schedule
k.	In the event that an employee transfers to pos tion outside the bargaining unit, the employee shall continue to accumulate seniority In his or her previous c'assifical on provided that the employee continues to pay monthly dues to the Association during the period that Ihe employee remains outside the bargaining unit
1 Part-time drivers may convert to full-time positbns. but will be placed a! the bottom of the seniority list
9
ARTICLE XII
VACATIONS
i.	Pursuant to app'icable wage determinat on
2.	Employee is entitled to receive their vacation pay each year following their seniority date. Vacation pay will not be issued prior to seniority date If vacation time is requested by employee and granted by the Company, it does not entitle employee to vacation pay if seniority date is not passed Employee should verify with the Company if they are yet eligible for vacation pay.
3	Employees shall submit bids or requests for desired vacation times.
a. The vacation per od shall fall between January 2nd and November 14th. For summer vacations, May through August, the vacation periods shall be posted for bid on March I st until March 21 st. The vacation periods will be awarded by basis of seniority. Request for vacations during May through August made alter the March bidding period will be granted by availability.
b In the event that more than four (4) tractor-trailer/double bottom truck drivers or more than two (2) straight truck drivers, respectively, desire to take their vacations at the same time, the vacation will be awarded to the respective employee who has the greater unit-wide seniority, according the seniority list maintained by the Company, providing that requests are made timely. The maximum amount of employee vacation given at the same time shall not exceed 10% of the unit board plus one (1) personal day Example: a unit with forty (40) employees may have a maximum amount of (four) 4 people on vacation plus (one) 1 on personal time for a total of (five) 5 people off. This subsect on will not apply to units containing less than twenty-five (25) employees
c.	No more than une (1) garage employee in unit may take vacation leave at the same time In the case of conflict in bids, the employee hav.ng the greater amount of seniority will be given that period of vacation
d.	An employee who takes a voluntary leave of absence of more than thirty (30) days wilt be deemed to have broken the continuity of work contemplated by Paragraph 1 of this Artice, and the Company will not be liab e for vacation pay until the requirements of this Article are fulfilled by a subsequent recommencement of work An employee shall be entitled to pro-rata payment of vacation pay if involuntarily terminated for lack of work prior to expiration of the twelve (I2) month perod necessary to vacation pay entitlement, provided that said employee has been cont nuous y emp oyed the Company for more than eighteen (18) months immediately preceding the termination.
4 If an employee with a minimum of one (1) year of employment term nates employment, either voluntarily or involuntarily, he shall be
entitled to receive his pro-rata vacation pay.
10
ARTICLE XIII
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
1	. Upon written application to the Company two (2) weeks pror to the desired commencement of leave, the Company shall grant employees a leave of absence not to exceed sixty (60; days.
2	The Company shall not be required to grant any leave of absence which would entail absence during the months of June, July or August, or between the period of November 15 through December 31, unless in case of extreme emergency
3	Employees may by mutual agreement of the Union and the Company be granted an unpaid leave of absence of thirty (30) days or more without loss of seniority. However, an employee shall on.y accrue seniority during the first thirty (30) days of any such leave
4	, Tlie Company agrees to comply with the provis'ons of the Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA). An employee may be required to exhaust unused vacation, sick and personal days prior to receiving unpa'd FMLA .eave.
5	Drivers returning to work after an extended medical leave (60 days or more) may "bump" back into a work schedule as defined in Article XVII, 2 and 3.
ARTICLE XIV
LAYOFFS
1. The Company shall strive to maintain continuous work for all employees, but may, in its discretion, lay off employees for economic Reasons determined necessary by the Company at its sole discretion.
Should a layoff be necessary, the employee(s) w'th the least seniority within the affected equipment classification, and at the affected unit location only, shall be laid off first. For instance, should the Company decide to lay off tractor-trailer drivers at one location, the tractor-trailer drive with the least seniority at that location will be laid off first while a straight truck driver with less seniority will be unaffected. Employees within one equipment classification which are subject to layoff shall have no right to bump and claim the job of another employee in a different classification who may have less overall seniority.
3 Employees in layoff status will not lose accumulated seniority if they return to the Company, to the onginal unit location within one week of being invited to return to the Company and keep Union dues current, or shall thereafter be considered as a "quit"
H
ARTICLELXY
EA.Y.QVER, AHP-Q.fikAYS.
1	. For any scheduled layover of ten (10) hours or more, the Company shall provide the employee with lodging of acceptable cleanliness and comfort and after the twenty-four (24) hours the Company shall reimburse the employee for meals in the amount of S15 00. If the layover extends over twenty-four (24) hours or more, the employee shall be provided with lodging and in addition, reimbursement for meats in the amount of $ 15.00 for each eight (0) hours of layover after the initial twenty-four (24) hour period.
2	- Under Room Policy, Hartwig Transit, Inc. provides its employees with hotel or motel accommodations when the circumstances of their employment duties require the employees to be away from home overnight or during a required extended rest period For example, over-the-road drivers are required by U S. Department of Transportation regulations to complete an extended rest period of not less than ten (10) hours after driving eleven (11) hours or after completing fourteen (14) hours on duty. Some Hartwig Transit, Inc routes anticipate that such an extended rest period will be scheduled at the destination of the first leg of a round-trip route Hartwig Trans I. Inc intends that this hotel/motel accommodation Room Policy is for the purpose of providing for its employees' work needs. Safely is paramount, and the rest period requirement is designed to allow drivers to stay alert while driving. Hartwig Transit, Inc believes that rest in hotel/motel accommodations better serves the safety concern underlying the rest period requirements than does rest taken in a truck's cabin, in a truck stop facility, or in a highway rest area. The hotel/motel accommodation Room Policy is not intended to benefit non-employees. This Room Policy is not intended to provide its employees with hotel/motel accommodations, in order to entertain the employee's family members, friend (s), guests or visitors. Neither is the policy intended to provide temporary housing for employee's family members, friends, guests or visitors. In the interest of safety, particularly in assuring that its employees are alert white driving. Hartwig Transit Inc discourages its employees from inviting or allowing family members, friends, guests or visitors to use the hotel/motel accommodations during the employees' required overnight or extended rest period stays. Therefore, Hartwig Transit, Inc. will not provide hotet/mote accommodations for the beneft of non-employees, unless wntten pre-approval is granted in specific circumstances at the Company’s sole discretion. Absence of such written pre-approval, Hartwig Transit, Inc. will not reimburse or otherwise pay for any part of a hote-’s or motel's bill that is not related directly to the in order to conduct business overnight or Extended rest period stay of the Hartwig Transit, Inc. employee Nor will Hartwig Transit, Inc reimburse or otherwise pay for any part of the bill of any other travel service provider, such as a restaurant, that is not related directly to the overnight or extended rest period stay of the Hartwig Transit, Inc employee, unless written pre-approval Is granted in specific circumstances at the Company's sole discretion
3	In determining the compensation of the employees, the employee shall be paid the usual and customary rate of pay for all hours worked. If an employee is required to bob-tail to the post office and back to the garage, or is delayed because of mechanical failure or weather, (he/she) shall be compensated for any hours resulting there from. Driver is not compensated for layover; this is considered Off-duty time	. I /
12	Mr/
d.	In order to conduct bus hess effic'ently, and to ensure drivers are compensated correctly, the following late slip policy will be in effect:
a Drivers’ timesheets must reflect accurate delay times as written on PS form 5466 (lateslip).
b.	At no time will you ask, or allow Post Office Expediters, or dock personnel to write trips in on time.
c.	If delay time is made up, and trip arrives on time, driver will write across the late slip "made up time", and turn in with their paperwork.
d	Each driver is to rev'ew late slips to ensure all .nformation is accurate and complete
e	Relay drivers will turn over late slips to his/her driver Driver will then write explanation, and the return arrival time in the remarks
column of the timesheet for correct compensation Driver with late s ip will handle late slip in accordance with all sections of this policy.
f Please refer to page 39. paragraph b, and section Vil of the Collective Barganing Agreement for additional rules and regulations concerning this policy
ARTICLE XVI
ROUTE BIDDING
1	For the purposes of the Article, the following definitions apply ’’Route' refers to the highway contract between the Company and the United States Postal Service. "Run" refers to a driver’s daily schedule "Employee" refers only to full- time employees
2	All regular runs in which openings presently exist or hereafter become available, shall be filled on the basis of seniority within the equipment classification affected and the unit location in which the opening occurs. The bidding procedure shall be as set forth in paragraph 5, below. Additionally, all regular runs shall be posted for bid on August 1.5'’of each year The employees shall submit bids for such runs in order of seniority and the runs shall then be assigned as defined in thissubsection
3	. In the event of a newly awarded contract requiring a new head-out facility, the Union wilt meet the Company within thirty (30) days to determine whether to add to a current unit location area or create a new unit location
4	In the event that a route is either cancelled or rescheduled, the new run/runs result in a change of pay hours and/or a change in scheduled days off. the run shall be posted for general bid, and the affected employee shall exercise seniority, as defined in paragraph 2, to bump a junior employee, who in turn, may bump a junior employee and so on, until the least senior employee is either placed on the extra board or is laid off The bumping shall occur on the next monthly bidding period after the route cancellation or rescheduling occurs, in accordance with the procedure in paragraph 5 below
13
5	Dr vers returning to work after an extended medical leave (60 days or more) may "bump" back into a work schedule as defined in Article XVII 2 and 3
6	By the 15th of every month except December, the Company shall post all runs in which openings exist for bidding, and sha I permit bumping f schedule changes have occurred since the 15* of the previous month To bid on a run, employees who work at the unit
iocation in which the run originates, shall submit a written b d in a sealed envelope within five (5) days of positing and the Company shall award the run within seven (7) days of posting, to the bidder who has the most seniority in the equipment classification in the unit location. The Company may ass gn the run without reference to seniority, until expiration of the seven (7) days period referred to in paragraph 4, above If no employee bids on the opening at the location The Company may assign the run without reference to seniority, until expiration of the seven (7) days period referred to in paragraph 4 above. If no employee blds on the opening at the location, the Company may assign the run. at its discretion, to the new employee, or to the driver at the unit location who has the least seniority within the equipment classification Northing herein shall be construed to limit Ihe Company's right to cancel the route contracts Bidding on routes acquired by the Company at a lower wage determination shall be bid on the basis of such wage determination, without regard to the driver's previous wage rate Any route acquired at a lower wage determination shall have such determ nation specifically indicated on the bid sheet This shall include head outs from the Chicago area
7	The Company may assign irregular runs to employees without regard to seniority when business necessity dictates
artici = XVII
EXTRA BOARD
1	The Company may assign irregular runs or temporary extra work to Extra Board drivers Extra Board drivers may include fulbtime Extra Board drivers, regular drivers who opt for Extra Board status on a transient basis and “casual" Extra Board drivers, who are neither of the above and who serve on (he Extra Board irregularly
2	. Irregular runs shall be assigned to Extra Board drivers. If a regular full-time driver is at the location where the irregular need for a driver arises, the Company may assign the run to him or her rather than to the extra Board driver, if he or she has available hours of service in accordance with DOT regulations.
14
ABJIQ^E^VJU LIGHT DUTY
The Company may offer tight duty work for employees who have been unable to work due to work related injury and on workman’s compensation. Upon doctor's release for light duty, the Company may place employee on light duty until released for full duty work The rate of pay for fight duty work shall be fourteen ($14,00) per hour.
ABI&LE^IX COMPANY’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR SAFETY
1	. Il is the Company's responsibility to see that each vehicle is equipped with all requred safety equipment and all necessary permits. It is the driver's responsibility to be sure that these items are .n place before beginning a run
2	If an employee is ssued a citation by any authority for defective or unsafe equipment, the Company shall provide the employee with an attorney or pay a 'easonable attorney’s fee in his defense of same Any fine assessed against the employee by reason of defective or unsafe equipment shall be paid by the Company, if not caused by the driver
3	. A driver may refuse to accept a vehicle which the employee reasonably believes to be unsafe. The driver must file a written report setting forth in full, the reasons for rejecting the vehicle The Safety Board shall convene as soon as possible upon receipt of said notice to determine the validity of the driver's refusal to accept the vehicle If the Safety Board fails to meet within One hundred and twenty (120) hours the driver shall be paid for the hours the employee was scheduled to run The vehicle alleged to be defective shall not be operated until repaired or reviewed by the Safety Board. In the event it is determined that the vehicle was in safe condition, the driver sha l be suspended for one (1) day without pay. All check in and check out procedures of vehicles must be done in accordance with company pol cy Failure to do so will resu t n disciplinary acton
4	If there is a demonstrable good faith belief based upon an objective and reasonable basis that an employee is impaired In the performance of the employee's duties, the Company may require the employee to submit to recognized medical test ng for the purpose of determining whether the employee is performing work under the influence of alcohol or illegal substances All test results for i legal substances will be confirmed by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GCMS) If an employee shall refuse such a request for testing without reasonable cause, the employee shall be subject to discharge If an employee tests negative, the employee shall be paid in full for the day
5	Any employee who operates the Company’s equipment on the public nght of way must notify the Company within twenty-four (24) Hours of any suspension or revocation of the employee's motor vehicteoperator's license.
6	The Company is required to test 50% of its employees each year for drugs and 25% for alcohol. Selections are made by computer by an outside source All emp oyees with COL's are eligible for this test The employee shall immediately proceed to a testing facility upon notification and failure to do so will be treated as a positive test resu t A person who tests positive for the	use of a	controlled
Substance as defined in 49 CFR Part 40, is medical y unqualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle
7	DOT required drug and alcohol seminars are required and will be paid for by the Company
8	.	Employees that are required by the Company to submit to a drug/alcohol test shall receive one (1) hour pay at their respective rate ofll
pay-	/I
15
ARTICLE.**
BJS&IEL1NE
Subject to Artcle XXffl of this Agreement dealing with the Safety Committee, the Company may discipline employees for breach of the Rules and Regulations dealt with in Article XIX of this Agreement, as welt as for improper care of equipment such as failure to fuel trucks, make required safety inspections, failure to check eng ne oil, faiure to turn off I ghls, and causing tire damage. In such cases, for the first offense warranting d sc p'ine, the Company shall issue a warning notice to the emp'oyee. This notice will be in effect for nine (9) months only, during which penod. any other cause warranting discipline will serve as just cause for suspension of the employee for a reasonable time. Repeated instances of disciplinary conduct will be just cause for discharge as will any conduct of an aggravated nature, including, but not limited to operatng equipment under the influence of alcohol, illegal drugs, or (responsible operation of equipment in any unprofessional way whatsoever that endangers life or property
ARTICLE XXI
GRIEVANCES AND ARBITRATION
Any dispute arising out of Ihe meaning of applcation of any provision of this Agreement shall be resolved by the following procedure, which may be invoked by either party
Step #1 The affected employee must submit his grievance to the Un'on within ninety-six (96) hours of occurrence and the Affected employee and head dispatcher at his unit location shall confer directly and attempt to amicably resolve the grievance, Union shali notify Hartwig with in Five (5) business days of said grievance that must include the parties and nature of said grievance, or grievance shall be null and void
Stcp#2 If, within ten (10) days of fulfillment of Step #1, above either party ;snot satisfied with the resolution of the grievance the Union, by three (3) of its elected officers acting on behalf of. but without the presence of the grievant, shall meet with an equal number of management representatives in executive conference and attempt to amicably resolve the dispute
16
Resolution of the grievance, if achieved at this step, shall be final and binding on the Company, the Union, and the employee
Step #3 ARBITRATION
■ if resolution of the grievance is not achieved in Step #2 of this Article, then either the Company or the Union may demand that the dispute be submitted to an arbitrator forb'nding resolution To invoke arbitration, the party seeking to do so must submit the grievance in writing ten (10) days after the meeting contemplated In Step #2 and (a) demand arbitration, (b) state the exact nature of the grievances, (c)the identity of the person(s) involved, (d) the provsions of the Agreement claimed to be involved, and (e) the remedy sought.
• The party demanding arb Iration shall request the American Arb tration Association to submit a list of five (5) qualified arbitrators to hear grievance. The Union and the Company shall then alternate crossing arbitrator's names of the list until both sides have each crossed two names of the list. The remaining name will be the arbitrator.
• The cost of any arbitration shall be borne equally by the Union and the Company irrespective of which party demanded the arbitration.
Unless otherwise mutually agreed, the submission to the arbitrator shall be based on the original written grievances submitted in the grievance procedure The power and authority of the arbitrator shall be strictly limited to determining the meaning and interpretat on of the explicit terms of the Agreement as heren expressly set forth, as well as the meaning of statues or rules of government agencies which affect conditions of empoyment, unless expressly reserved in this Agreement. He/she sha'l not have any authority to add to or subtract from or modify any of said terms or to limit or impair ay right that Article XXV reserves to Management or to establish or change any wage or rate of pay, except that he/she may determine the correctness of the classification of employees accord.ng to the work to which they are assigned. The arbitrator's award shall be final and binding on matters proper y before him/her. Should the Company deny the existence of an agreement to arbitrate or to arb trate a particular issue, or the existence of a bona fide dispute involving the ssue as to which the other party demands arbitration, or the arbitrability of such issue, the arbitrator may not decide whether he/she has power or authority to hear and determine the issue which matter may be determ ned only by a court of competent jurisdiction in proceedings and all proceedings by and before the arbitrator shall be stayed pending such judicial determination; provided, however the parties may, by mutual agreement in writing, submit to arbitral on any questions concerning the arbitrator’s power and auiho'ity in which event the Company shall have the right to consent the arbitrator’s power and authority in proceedings to set aside the award o' in other appropriate proceedings in any court having jurisdiction of the parties The parties agree that this contract incorporates their full and complete understanding and that any prior oral agreements or practices are superseded by the terms of the Agreement. The parties further agree that no such oral understanding or pract ces will be recognized in the future •
I /'
17
4
unless committed to writing and sgned by the part es as a supplement to this Agreement The parties agree that the power and jurisd ction of any arbitrator chosen under the terms of this Agreement shall be limited to deciding whether there has been a vio ation of a provis on of ths Agreement The Arbitrator shall not be empowered, and shall have not jurisdiction to base hrs award on any a leged practice or oral understand ngs which are not incorporated in writing in the manner indicated above
ARTJCLEXXII
NO STRIKE; NO LOCKOUT CLAUSE
For the duration of the Agreement, the Union, its officers representatives, and members shall not authorize, instigate, cause aid. encourage, ratify, or condone, nor shall any employee take part in any strike slow down or stoppage of work, boycott picketing, or other interruption of work at the Company The officers of the Union agree to affirmatively use their best efforts to halt any such conduct. Failure or refusal on the part of any employee to comply with any provision of this Article shall be cause for whatever disciplinary action, including suspension or discharge, deemed necessary by the Company.
in consideration of this no-strike pledge by the Unon and employees the Company shall not lockout employees for the duration of this Agreement
In considerat on of the Company's agreement to arbtrate any dispute arising under the terms of this Agreement it is agreed that no violation of any prov sion of th s Agreement or the commission of any act alleged to constitute an unfair labor practice or otherwise made unlawfu by a federal, state or local law, shall excuse employees the Union or the Company from their obligations under the provision of this Article
Enforcement of this Artic e may be secured in conformance with federal or state law
ART.Lg.LE.XXH!
SAFETY COMMITTEE
When required, there shall be a Safety Committee appointed to review all accidents resulting in over S500.00 property damage or any
personal injury The Safety Committee shall determine the preventability of accidents and assess the propriety of discipline involved. The
decision of a majority of the Safety Committee shall be ihe final and binding on the Company the Association and the employees involved
and sha’I not be subject to the grievance/arbitration provisions of this Agreement The Safety Committee shall not consider
^1/
18
the employee's prior driving record in determining responsibility for any accident. However, the Safety Committee may use the employee’s prior record as evidence in aggravation of mitigation In assessing any penalty.
2	The Safety Committee shall consist of one (1) member of the Executive Board of Association as an Observer, three (3) drivers se'ected by (he Association, and two (2) management representatives. The Safety Committee shall each serve for a two (2) year term, and new members shall be selected by the executive board in January of each newterm.
3	. Any person suspended by the Company as a direct result of an accident shall in no case be suspended for a period of more than seven (7) calendar days after receiving a state/county/municipal accident report without review of said case by the Safety Committee f found not at fault, the driver sh all be paid for days suspended
4	Ali members of the Safety Committee shall be reimbursed by the Company for the time spent or the amount of tost wages in the Safety Committee meeting at their normal hourly rate of pay
5	The failure of the Safety Committee to meet within thirty-one (31) days (monthly). shall constitute a waiver by the Company of any right to discipline the emp oyee and sa d employee shal be reinstated in good standing and shall be paid for any days suspended
6	In the event that the employee is injured as a result of the accident and is unable to attend a Safety Committee meeting, Section #5 will be void and the meeting will then be conducted within thirty-one (31) days (monthly) after full medical release The employee cannot work until a post-accident drug test and full D O.T physical is provided to the Company Failure to meet within said thirty-one (31) days (monthly) shall const tute a waiver by the Company of any right to discipline the emp oyee and said employee shall be reinstate in good standing
7	. The Company reserves the right to conduct a Safety Committee meeting for any reason to discuss driving habits and the prevention of accidents and on-the-job injuries
ARTICLE XXIV
RIGHTS OF THE COMPANY
In order to conduct business efficiently management shall have the following rights to exercise in its sole discretion
Tw h'TTS CrTZp'wjr'CCS.
To dscharge employees for just cause.
To d scipline emp oyees for just cause
To promote employees
To demote employees for good cause shown
To add routes
19
To delete roules or contracts for routes.
To broker work only for hoi days, emergencies and mechanic's work. Grandfather clause applies to thisArticle.
To broker/ owner operator work for routes using team drivers and /or more than one relay point.
To add or delete or change equipment.
To sell or shut down all or part of its business.
To sell or de ete locat ons at which it carries on business
To add or delete the number of employees assigned to a job.
ARTICLE XXV
MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS
The company agrees to pay a company designated medical facility the subsequent costs of any medical examination which the United States Department of Transportation may require an employee to have performed in order to perform his/her assigned duties The company will only pay for a maximum of one physical exam per year.
ABIICLEJQW1
NQ RETALIATION
1	The Company agrees not to harass the elected Association Representative.
2.	Duly elected representatives of the Association shall receive their regular wages for time spent in meetings with
management officials in the course of administering this Agreement
3.	All officers shall be given time off to conduct union bus.ness and to attend monthly meetings
ARTICLE.XXYII
RULE9.ANP..REQULATIQNS
The Rules and Regulations governing work performance wh ch are stated :n Work Rues governing conduct of employees, attached Hereto, are applicable to all employees and are incorporated into the Agreement with full force and effect just as if they were printed here In the event of any conflict between said rules and the provisions of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall govern
ARTICLE XX.VII!
MASCULINE INCLUDES FEMININE
Whenever >n th:s Agreement the masculine gender is used It shall be deemed to include the feminine gender
20


Any part, or parts of Mis Agreement which shall fas found to ba in violation of any Slate or Federal Statute, shall ba considered null and void forthwith. Such voiding shat! only affect the particular part of parts and shall not affect the remainder of this Agreement.


This Agieemenl may be amended by mutual consent of ths Company and ths Union provided such amendments or revisions are In
writing and are executed in th^ same manner as this Agreement. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as cfthe___tT_______day of M ^(4___________2017.

EQ&'g;.E-QQ^^Y
James-Mathews, President
Steven Nelson, i reasurer
Ci
Effendy Ma jgjnf, President
Gerald R, Hartwig Vice-President
V
SL j
Steven J. Hartwig, Vise-President
Kevin Costello, Secretary
21
WORK RULES GOVERNING CONDUCT OF EMPLOYEES OF THIS COMPANY
SECT1ON1 -CONDUCT
1.	Equal Employment Opportun ty: Hartwig Transit, Inc. maintains a strong pol cy of equal em ploym ent opportunity The Company believes in equal employment opportun ty for all. individuals without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, national origin, age, physical or mental disability, marital status, or status as a Vietnam Era veteran This policy extends to all terms, conditions and privileges of employment as well as the use of a I company facilities and partic pation in all company sponsored activities including the following
- Recruiting, advertising and job appl cation procedures
-	Hiring, promotion, demotion, transfer, layoff, termination, right to return from layoff, and rehiring
*	Rates of pay or any other form of compensation and changes incompensation
*	Job assignments, job classifications, organizational structures, posit on descriptions, and seniority
-	Leaves of absence, sick leave, or any otherleave
•	Fringe benefits ava table to virtue of employment whether or not administered by Hartwig Transit, Inc
•	Se ection and financial support for training. includ ng meetings conferences, seminars and other related activ ties, and selection for leaves of absence to pursue training
•	Social and recreational activities; and
-	Any other term condition or pnvilege of employment
ANTI-HARASSMENT
An environment out of mutual respect for the rights of others must prevail if Hartwig Transit, Inc. is to fulfill its objectives as a business. Although individuals are free to hold their own beliefs and opinions, the ind.vldual rights of every employee must be respected and all employees must be able to work in an environment, which Is free from any form of harassment. Conduct prohibited under this policy shall be defined as verbal, written and/or physical behavior, which is either expressed or implied cause the following:
• Harassment, retaliation, coercion, interference, or Intimidation of any employee due to that employee’s or a group's race, color ethnic background, religion, gender sex, sexual orientation, age, national origin, or mental or physical disability
- Involves a threat to personal safety;or
• Interference with an individual's work performance or ability to report to and remain at work during scheduled work hours
Hartwig Transit, Inc will not tolerate any form of harassment in the workplace. All forms of harassment, retaliation, coercion, interference, intimidation and threats are strictly proh bited by Hartwig Transit. Inc. as well as by state and federal law. In addition to
22
incurring any liability under state of federal law. any person making unwelcome comments or actions, or other such verbal or physical conduct, which creates an Intimidating, hostile, or offensive work ng environment may be terminated immediately.
Report Harassment Immediately. Any emp'oyee who feels that he or she is being subjected to harassment or any other form of conduct prohibited by this po icy should notify his or her supervisor immediately, and in no event more than ninety-six (96) hours after the occurrence of the harassing conduct. In the event that the supervisor is unava lable, or if the supervisor is the ndividual engaged in such conduct, the employee should report such conduct to the President or Vice President Immediately. Upon race pt of such information, the company shall conduct an Investigation and, if warranted, at the company's discretion, take immediate disciplinary action. Including discharge, against the offending employee. Any employee filing or reporting conduct prohibited by this policy shall not suffer any form of reta'iation and his or her name and report shall remain confidentia' to the extent permissible during Ihe investigation. After completing the investigation and taking any corrective actions as a result thereof, the company shall keep all records of each incident in a confidential investigative file.
SEXUAL HARASSMENT
Sexual Harassment Is strictly prohibited and should be Reported Immediately. Hartwig Transit. Inc. will not tolerate the sexual harassment of its employees n the workplace. Under this policy, sexual harassment Is defined to include unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature. Sexual harassment may include such actions as; sex-oriented verbal kidding or jokes, subtle pressure to engage in sexual activity; physical contact such as patting, pinching and brushing against another person's body; or requests, suggestions or demands for sexual favors. Conduct of this type is improper when:
-	Submiss on to the conduct is either an explicit or implicit condit on ofemployment
•	Submission or rejection of the conduct is used as a basis for imp oyment decis'ons affecting the person(s) involved; or
•	The conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering with a person's work performance or the work environment
if an employee feels that he or she has been subjected to sexual harassment notify a supervisor immediately and in no event more than four business days after the occurrence of the harassment, who in turn sha I notify the President or Vice President. If the supervisor is the person doing the harassng, notify the President or Vice President directly, A complaint will be immediately investigated to determine whether it is justified If the complaint is found to be inva'id, all involved parties will be notified of this finding. If the complaint Is found to have merit, corrective action will be implemented, ncluding d.sciplinary action and/or termination of the employee initiating or participating in the harassing actions. All disciplinary action taken against employees, who are represented by the members of the Association, shall be subject to the collective barga ning agreement between the Company and the Association. AH inquiries will be held in confidence to :he extent permitted by the investigation
2. Use of alcohol or drugs or sale of drugs while on duty:
First Offense DISCHARGE
23
3.	Use of alcohol or drugs prior to reporting for duty whereby employee's condition is such as to impair his/her proper performance of his/her duties, according to DOT regulations: First Offense:	DISCHARGE
4.	Discourtesy or disobeying qualified personnel of the Post Office' First offense.	Reprimand Second Offense	One (1)day suspension Thrd Offense:	Subject to DISCHARGE at the Company's discretion
5	Theft or dishonesty of any kind. First Offense	DISCHARGE
S.	Conviction of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs or reckless drivng whle onduty: First Offense:	DISCHARGE
7.	Excessive speed ng or violation of safety rules as applied to driving when checked by the Company orpublic officials while on duty: First Offense	Three {3) day suspension Second Offence: One (1) week suspension or subject to discharge Third Offence;	DISCHARGE at the Company's discretion
8.	Failure to correctly determine load-alowable clearance providing high 51," wheel tractor to be so marked: First Offense:	DISCHARGE at the Company's discret on
9.	Fai ure to check equipment including safety equipment prior to scheduled trip or runs, dispatch orders, trip sheets or area bulletins. First Offense:	One (1)day suspension Second Offense: Three (3) days suspens.on Third Offense:	Subject to DISCHARGE at the Company's discretion
10.	Failure to report for work at designated time- First Offense	Reprimand (IF satisfactory reason given) Second Offense: One (1) day suspension Third Offense.	DISCHARGE Company s discretion
11.	Employees will not keep company with known criminals, associate with person(s) of questionable character without violating Federal Laws {See final section.) Fling of false or incomplete employmentapplication- First Offense.	Subject to DISCHARGE at the Company'sdiscretion
12.	Leaving equipment or load unattended (without satisfactory explanation): First Offense:	One (1) week suspension Second Offense: Subject to DISCHARGE at the Company's discretion
13;	Any employee presenting himself/herself) to Postal Officials in connection with Company business, scheduling, route changes, without invitation from the Officers-ln-Charge and consent of the Company will be subject to discharge on first offense and discharged permanently on second offense. Do not present, indicate, or mpress anyone as being a Government employee. This is a violation of federal law- First Offense	Subject to DISCHARGE at the Company’sdiscretion
14	Do not receive or make personal phone calls or conduct personal business while on duty on Company phones (except emergency phone calls): First Offense	Reprimand Second Offense: Subject to DISCHARGE in extreme cases at the Company's discretion
24
15.	No persona purchases are to be made in the Company name without permission from authorized personnel. Authorized personnel will issue Purchase Orders if permission is granted. There wrll be no vanation from thepolicy:
First Offense:	Subject to DISCHARGE al the Company's discretion
16	Do not discuss Company business with anyone not employed by the Company at Postal Installations, truck stops, or any place outside the residence of employees-
NOTE. This includes the various outs.de interests that many of the employees frequent
First Offense:	DISCHARGE in extreme cases al the
Company's discretion
17,	Failure to take physical examination when required or failure to pass thisphysical:
First Offense:	Subject to D SCHARGE and/or voluntary
Quit at the Company's discretion
iB.	Permanent employment depends on pass ng of screening test for Ute Postal Service. Failure to complete forms and turn them in.
First Offense:	Subject to DISCHARGE
at Company’s discretion
19.	Driver put out of service or issued a citation for expired medical card, expired driver's license:
First Offense:	Subject to Termination
20.	Driver put out of service, log book not current:
First Offense.	One (1) Week Suspension
Second Offense: Termination
21.	CELL PHONE POLICY. No cellu ar or texting communication device shall be used while the vehicle Is inmoton.
First Offense	Termination
22,	Seat belt violation while on duty.
First Offense	5 day suspension
Second Offense Term nal on
SECTION ll-REPORTS
1. Failure to make out reports, trip sheets, time records, and other paperwork that may be'equ red
First Offense. Second Offense-	Reprimand Subject to three (3) day suspension
Third offense:	Five (5) day suspension
Fourth Offense	Subject to DISCHARGE at the Company's discretion
Failure to register in and out of Terminals and established checkpoints, log In and out of GPS Units, and punches time clocks where necessary by Company rule-
First Offense:	Reprimand
Second Offense. Third Offense.	Three (3) day suspension Subject to DISCHARGE at the Company's discretion
3. Failure to make out accident reports promptly as prescribed by law and damage reports to equipment:
F.rst Offense:	One (1) week suspension, un ess personal injury involved, then subject to DISCHARGE
Second Offense-	DISCHARGE
25
SECTION 111 - EQUIPMENT
1.	Dropping semi’s on NOSE through driver's neglect
First Offense:	Three (3) day suspension
Second Offense: One (1) week suspension or subject to DISCHARGE at the Company's discretion
2.	Failure to report mechanical defects:
First Offense	Reprimand
Second Offense: Three (3) day suspension
Third Offense:	Subject to DISCHARGE at the
Company's discretion
3.	Unauthorized use of Company's equipment (including cellular phones in trucks):
First Offense Subject to DISCHARGE
4.	Fai ure to protect load and equipment at all limes
First Offense:	One (1) day suspension
Second Offense: Subject to DISCHARGE at the Company's discretion
5.	Tampering with governors, pump settings, fuel flow, or any other tampering that may cause increase engine RPM’s or delay the vehicle:
First Offense. Subject to DISCHARGE at the Company's discretion
6	Failure to keep windshie.d, side windows, and mirrors clean:
First Offense:	Reprimand
Second Offense: Three (3) day suspension
Third Offense:	Subject to DISCHARGE at the
Company's discretion
7,	Willful damage to units, both Company or leased:
First Offense:	DISCHARGE
8.	Failure to complete a full DOT inspection of units before and after trips:
First Offense:	One (1) day suspension
Second Offense: Five (5) day suspension
Third Offense:	Subject to DISCHARGE at the
Company’s discretion
9.	Failure to park units properly, to shut engine off, to place transmission in gear, to pull fuel stop button, and take all precautionary steps to avoid unit from moving away:
First Offense:	Chargeable accident for any damaged part
Or other property damage
Second Offense: Chargeable accident and subject to DISCHARGE At the Company's discretion
Third Offense:	DISCHARGE
26
10 Allowing engines to run hot, run out of oi or anti freeze, or run out of fuel (not watching gauges, provided that the gauges are in proper working order)'
First Offense	Three (3) day suspension - If engine damage To extent of major repairs, subject to DISCHARGE At the Company’s discretion
11. At the end of each trip, it is requ red of each driver to remove all dirt and refuse from vehicles. (Brooms are furnished for this by the Company.) Failure to comply with this:
First Offense Second Offense Third Offense Fourth Offense;	Reprimand Three (3) day suspension One (1) week suspension Subject to DISCHARGE at the Company's discretion
SECTION IV-DRIVING, WORKING & POSTAL SCHEDULES
1.	Failure to complete run in scheduled time (without satisfactory explanation)
First Offense Second Offense Third Offense'	Reprimand Three (3) days suspension Subject to DISCHARGE at the Company's discretion
2. Failure lo keep schedules wh.ch result in Briefs (55OO;s) because of dnver failure and/or negligence
First Offense:	Reprimand
Second Offense Third Offense.	Three (3) day suspension Subject to DISCHARGE at the Company's d screlon
3. Failure to follow routine ROUTING as designated by instructions verbally or written:
First Offense: Second Offense	Reprimand DISCHARGE
4 Improper handling of equipment, racing engines, snatching of units showing off while around terminals or on the road by rapid gear changing, following too closely. (Observe state laws) Unnecessary use of a>r horns at side of vehicle being passed;
First Offense:	Reprimand (both written Instructions as Well as a verbal conference will begiven)
Second Offense:	DISCHARGE
27
SECTION V., ACCIDENTS
1.	Immediately stop and investigate all phases and cond’tions
2.	Immediately call police, regardless of whether you think you are at fault or not.
3.	If anyone is injured, request ambu ance to be dispatched immediately while speaking the police.
4.	Call dispatch to let them know you have been involved in an accident They will ask you for Information related to the accident,	give
them all information needed.
5.	Secure the names of all witnesses, the injured if possible, and make sure the addresses and telephone numbers are listed.
6	Get license numbers of ail vehicles involved, and if one is noted to be at the scene and later drives off. try to get that number also.
This may be the one which could be of most value n case of court trial.
7.	Do not leave the equipment unattended if at all possible
8	Make NO STATEMENTS or DISCUSS the accident with anyone but the po ice officer in charge.
9	Do not sign anything for anyone admitting that you may be at fault
10.	DO NOT ARGUE. Show your driver’s license to the police and the other persons involved in the accident, BUT NO ONE ELSE
11.	DO NOT ATTEMPT TO SETTLE ANYTING AT THE SUGGESTION OF ANYONE.
12.	Upon return from the trip and before leaving terminal, make out a complete report and file it with the Company immediately.
13.	Every accident, major or minor, must be reported, including minor damages to equipment whether or not involved in contact with other
vehicles. Any employee causing malicious damage to Company equipment shall be DISCHARGED.
14.	Do not ass st any motorist foilowing you to pass by either hand signal or lights. You would be respons ble if he has anacddent
15	Cha rgeable accidents (Major)
First Offense:	Subject to Safety Committee rul'ng
16.	Chargeable accidents. (Minor)
First Offense:	Subject to Safety Committee ruling
SECTION VI -ATTENDANCE
1.	Absent for Iwo (2) days (successive days) without notification:
First Offense:	Voluntary resignation or subject to
DISCHARGE at the Company’s discretion
2.	Call in by other than employee personally: person making the call must Identify himself satisfactori y to the management.
First Offense:	After investigation it is found that report given by person
making the call for anyone is erroneous, employee is Subject to DISCHARGE at Company's discretion.
3.	Employees shall report for work shall be clean and neat, and those using Company equipment for the’r personal use will be requ red to keep it In a clean condition. Fa lure to comply with th s rule:
Fsrst Offense:	Reprimand
Second Offense: Five (5) day suspens on
Third Offense:	Subject lo DISCHARGE at the
Company's discretion
28

1.	Unauthorized carrying of passengers
First Offense:	DISCHARGE
2.	Falsification of time records, terminal records, Postal Records, Company charge account or personal charges to the Company
First Offense:	DISCHARGE
3.	Refusal of run when called without satisfactory excuse (Extra Board Drivers only):
First Offense:	Reprimand
Second Offense: Subject to DISCHARGE at the Company's discret on
4,	Loss of Driver's license: Drunk or Careless & Reckless Driving:
First Offense DISCHARGE
5.	Any suspension must be reported to the Assoc'ation and to the Company promptly:
First Offense Loss of employment for the period covered, loss of holiday and vacation credits. Employee will be placed on Extra Board upon return
ti.	License suspension:
Vo untary resignations, or subject to DISCHARGE at the Company's discretion
7,	Uninsurable by Insurance Company:
Voluntary resignation or DISCHARGE
8. No breaking of any postal seals unless authorized by the President or Vice President of the Company, Postal Personnel, or proper State or Federal Authorities, except scheduled key stops.
29
INDEPENDENT CONTRACT MAIL DRIVERS ASSOCIATION
1.	All drivers must realize the importance of the need for expediting the mails in the fastest possible manner and what the delays of any pouch of first class matter will entail in the operation of the PostaiSystem.
2.	Any delay that will be more than fifteen (15) minutes on a close connecting schedule must be reported by phone as soon as possible and when a phone is available. Such phone calls should be placed to your dispatch office.
3.	Do not tell anyone what you are carrying or discuss the postal business with anyone unless he/she identifies himself/herself as a Postal Inspector or personnel of the Postal Transportation Service with proper identification.
4.	KNOW YOUR POUCH SETUP. Leaving of pouches and carrying pouches past their destination WILL NOT BE ALLOWED Driver is solely responsible for (he loading. This will cause fines.
5.	Leaving of PARCEL POST at outer terminals or other points when there is time to load WILL NOT BE ALLOWED if route requires handling of parcel post, unless instructed otherwise by postal personnel.
6.	In the busy season, there are several trucks going in the same direction that could easily take the FIRST CLASS to its best connection and thus avoid a delay in case of distress. Caution should be exercised in order that delay will be averted and not further aggravated by the poor judgment of both parties in the transferring of such mail. Trucks of other companies carrying mail that are in distress are also included in this order, provided that the driver of such truck will agree and assist in the transfer of FIRST CLASS MAIL.
7,	All drivers will conduct themselves in a manner that will be of the highest standards befitting the Mail Service. Any driver who CANNOT GET ALONG WITH THE POSTAL PERSONNEL AND GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS AT BOTH TERMINALS AND OFFICES ALONG THE ROUTE WILL BE DISCHARGED.
a. All complaints submitted must be in writing and all answers to complaints submitted against drivers must be answered in writing b. Failure to observe the above will cause suspension until all matters are cleared up.
0 Any driver who fails to notify the Company of SICKNESS OR OTHER INTENDED ABSENCE FROM WORK AT LEAST SIX (6) HOURS BEFORE HIS SCHEDULED RUN WILL BE SUSPENDED unless sufficient cause is shown. If you have ANY DOUBTS Whatsoever, that you may not be able to make the run, you are to notify the Company immediately so that they may have another driver standing by. In the event the trip is cancelled due to such failure to notify, the driver will
be suspended indefinitely:
First Offense:	Reprimand
Second Offense: Three (3) day suspension
Third Offense:	Subject to DISCHARGE at the
Company’s discretion
30
9	. Failure to make out a report of damages to your veHce: both tractor and trailer or straight truck, or to PROPERTY OTHER THAN OURS, within the day that the damages occurred will be grounds for punitiveaction.
10	Each driver is required to examine the condition of his/her TRACTOR AND TRAILER OR STRAIGHT TRUCK EERFEANDAFTER /her) run, and to report in writing ANY damages not previously reported by him/her). Failure to make out a report on the truck or trailer condition and to see that this report is turned into the office will be grounds for punitive action.
11,	All drivers should carry a timepiece of reasonable accuracy.
12	All drivers are required to have a telephone (home or cellular).
13.	No drivers will be allowed to carry persons on the truck except POSTAL OFFICIALS identifying themselves as such, and those
persons approved the by Company management All persons will be carefully investigated before receiving authorization to be on the vehicle
14.	You are responsib e for keeping your truck neat and free of overflowing ashtrays, candy wrappers, paper cups, etc., at all times NO
BOTTLES OF ANY KIND ARE ALLOWED IN TRUCKS. If you should be scheduled to operate a truck regularly used by another driver, you are expected to leave all lock cab cards, trip cards, etc, just as you found them.
15,	ROUGH TREATMENT OF TRUCK AND TRAILER, RACING OF COLD ENGINE, OR LONG PERIODS OF IDLING WILL BE GROUNDS FOR DISMISSAL. SUBJECT TO MECHANICAL CONDITIONS OF THE VEHICLE. Unnecessary burning of lights on both units while parking in Post Offices and Terminals will NOT BE TOLERATED This practice will call for unnecessary road trips to replace batteries as well as bulbs. Make it a habit to cut tights as well as engine switches while at all facilities.
16.	All trucks and trailers must be equipped with locks, DOORS MUST BE LOCKED AT ALL TIMES. Be sure upon reporting for work that you have all KEYS AND LOCKS for the trip. Your first lock will be Issued by the Company.
17.	All drivers must have current COL before operating equipment.
18.	NO FINES WILL BE PAID BY THE COMPANY FOR TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BROUGHT ON BY THE DRIVER. WATCH YOUR DRIVING HABITS AND SEE THAT THEY ARE ALWAYS SUPERIOR.
19.	All drivers must be able to pass U.S. Government security check to haul mails.
20.	Drivers must be screened and approved by the Postal Service Security Office before he/she can legally haul mails.
21.	All keys to outer Post Offices carried by drivers must be returned to the office upon completion of run. DO NOT CARRY KEYS HOME
WITH YOU. THERE ARE OTHER TRIPS THAT GO TO THOSE POST OFFICES AND NEED THOSE KEYSALSO.
22.	Upon discharge or voluntary leave of absence, ALL PAPERS. FUEL CARDS. POSTAL IDENTIFICATION CARDS. KEYS, TOOLS, SPECIAL EQUIPMENT, FLASHLIGHTS. EMBLEMS, UNIFORMS, OR ANY PROPERTY THE COMPANY IS RESPONSIBLE FOR MUST BE TURNED IN BEFORE FINAL SETTLEMENT OF SALARY.
31