

Agreement
Between
HORIZON AIR INDUSTRIES INC.
And
Airline Technicians and Related Employees
In the Service of
Horizon Air Industries Inc.
As Represented By
The International Brotherhood of Teamsters
December 16,2014' - December 15,20 20
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article
Page
1	Purpose of Agreement	2
2	Recognition and Scope	3
3	Status of Agreement	5
4	Seniority	7
5	Covered Classification and Qualifications	11
6	Workweek and hours of Work	16
7	Overtime	18
8	Field Trips and Training	21
9	Vacancies	28
10	Shift Realignment	33
11	Furlough and Recall	37
12	Holidays	41
13	Personal Time Off	43
14	Extended Leave	50
15	Leave of Absence	53
16	Management Rights	57
17	Union Business	58
18	Union Security and Representation	61
19	No Strikes or Lockouts	64
20	Grievance Procedure & System Board	65
21	Health, Safety and Standards	72
22	General and Miscellaneous	76
23	Employee Benefits	80
24	Definitions	82
25	Wages, Premiums and Shift Differentials	86
26	Effective Date, Duration and Savings Clause	90
LOA#1	No Lay-Off	92
LOA #2	No MRO outside USA or Canada	94
LOA #3	Heavy Check Settlement Agreement	95
LOA #4	Medical Benefits and 401K	98
LOA #5	No Struck Work	99
LOA #6	Incentive Pay Programs	100
LOA #7	LAX-SJC Differential Pay	102
LOA #8	SEA Differential Pay	103
LOA #9	Aviation Safety Action Program (ASAP)	104
LOA #10	Drug and Alcohol Policy	111
LOA #11	PTO Me Too Agreement	112
LOA #12	Protocol Agreement	113
LOA #13	Scope Agreement	117
	2014 Ratification Agreement	118
	Index to Horizon Technicians Agreement	
Page 1 of 128
ARTICLE 17
UNION BUSINESS
A. Union Bmrlnoax Umra fUBL)
1,	The Unions duly authorized representatives who are absent from work, to y' \perform Union business duties shall have their regular straight time pay, premiums, ^/differential, and benallla, Including seniority and travel banaflts, continued as if they had remained on active payroll. The Union will reimburse the Company for ths full amount of such pay continuance (Including base wages, premiums, and differentials) plus a forty five (45%) percent override for benefit related expenses. Such expenses would Include, for example, the cost of PTO, Extended laave, F1CA (social security, and Medicare), FUTA (federal unemployment Insurance), SUI (state unemployment Insurance), Company paid Insurance, LTD benefits, 401(h) matching contribution, etc.
2.	Employees covered under this agreement will submit their requests for Union Business time off on a UBL form supplied by the Union, approved by the Company in accordance with the following.
•	a. The Business Agent, Chief Steward or daslgneefs) shall ba designated as the
Union Raprasentativefs) authorized Io request time off for Union Business.
b.	Time off requests must Indicate ths number of days or hours requested and the general nature of the union business to be attended to.

c.	All Ume'Ofl requests made In a timely manner shall, subject to the operational needs of the Company, bs approved by the Director of Maintenance Operations, or the person he designates for such purpose.
3.	The Company wU process the submitted time records of the employees covers by UBL ao as to treat them es if they had been on active payroll on the scheduled work days they ware actuatiy absent for the purpose of performing approved Union business. Regularly scheduled and authorized payroll deductions will continue to be taken from each paycheck.
4.	The Company will send a monthly, Itemized stalement to the Union (address provided by the Union) setting forth the compulation end amount of the reimbursement due the Company from (ho Union for each employee covered by UBL The Union will make reimbursement In full and return Its payment to the Company not laterthan thirty days after receipt of ths Company's billing.
Q. The above-described reimbursement procedure Is for ahort-tarm (lass than thirty (30) days) Union business time off requirements only, not for long tarni union business leaves of absence.
PaflO SB or 11S
EL Paid Time Qtf for Contract Negotiations
1.	Employees covered under this artfcla who ere mambcra of the Union Negotiating Committee with respect to an amendable contract under the Reflway Labor Act shall be considered to be on day shift during periods of contract language preparation, actual negotiations or voting In oonjundlon with negotiations. If a negotiation meeting Is held on such an employee's scheduled dayfs) oft ha will ba provided compensating deyfs) off, If requested. Compensating dayfs) off arrangements must be made by the employee with his supervisor In advance of the negotiation meetings with the conflict. Negotiating Committee members will be paid, and the company shall ba reimbursed, In accordance wHh tho USL provisions of thia Arilde.
C. Union Buslnm Leaves cf Absence
1.	Upon request of the Union, an employee covered by this agreement shall be granted an unpaid Union Business Leave of Absence to hold a fulMIme Union position. An employee on a Union Business Leave for this purpose shall retain Company and continue to accrue Classification seniority In the ClaasHIcalton they vacated. The Union shall pay the wages or salary, Inclusive of fringe benefits, of an employee on extended Union Leave.
2.	An employee must advise tho Company al least twenty ona (21) days In advance of his Intention to return from a Union Leave of Absence. Upon his return he shall ba reinstated to the position ha held when the leave was granted. If the position Is no longer available he may choose to 191 any other open position in hta work area. If there are no open postiiona within the employee's work area he may exorcise his seniority In accordance with Article 11 of this agreement
Q Meetings with the Company
1.	Union members will be permitted reasonable time to attend meetings conducted by mutual agreement or requested by the Company during the memboni regular working hours without loss of pay. The member will notify his supervisor before leaving his wont area to attend tho meeting.
2.	A Union member win not be required to attend a meeting outside hfs regular working hours without mutual agreement
E. Union Business Travel
1.	The Chief Steward, Business Agent and 1ST Officers may request free positive space, humpable If over sold, service charge waived travel over Alaska Air Group's (AAG) system for employees covered by this agreement for purposes of Union Business with the Company. Such travel shall require approval of the Director of Maintenance Operations based on his assessment of the reasons for the travel.
Page 69 ct 12S
. Z Employees officially representing Iha Union, as a member of ths Conlract Negollaling Committee, wHI ba provided free | sllive space, bumpabfa If over sold, senrica charge waived passes over Alaska Air Group's (AAG) system upon request, for the purpose of traveling to and from negotiating sessions conducted In the vicinity of the Company's main maintenance facSty (POX), or to tea vicinity of anoIhor station If tee location Is by mutual agrasmanl
0	3. If an employee covered by this Agraemsnl Is designated by Iha National
Transportation Safely Board (NTSB) as a party to an NTSB hvarrtfaallan involving a Company alrcrall accident orlnddeni and excused from work to participate pursuant to tea Health, Safety and Standards Article 21 of tea Agraomont, Section J, he will be provided positive space, service charge waived passes, upon request and subject to pratered fil it load, for travel from his station to and from the airport served by AAG that provides the most convenient access to tee site.
4.	Pleasure passes ("XI’) priority may bo used for other Union business trips __ by employees covered by tele agreement
fiEESBl
On Individually purchased, non-uniform Hama of apparel approved by tea company for wear with, or In Bau of, Company prescribed Uniterm items, employees covered by thia Agreement may attach a Union logo patch that has bean approved by Iha Company • with reaped to Its size and color and fa placement on tee Item of apparel
G. Union Activity
No employee covered by this Agreement will bo discriminated against by tee Company, its officers or agents because of membership In, or lawful activity on behalf of, tea Union teal la expressly permitted by tela Agreement
Bwlhtln Boards
1.	Glass endoaed lockable bulletin boards (approximate dlmonakma 3* x 4’) will ba provided by tea Company al each sial i where at least 25 Union members are employed. In addition, tea company shall designate a suitable wall space and provide a bulletin board al each other station where Union personnel are employed. AH bulletin boards shall ba Ida Ha as Teamsters Bulletin Boards. The Untan and Company shall determine the location of the bulletin boards by mutual agreement Keys shall be Issued
■ ’ to Iha Chief Steward at PCX and tee Steward at alt other stations.
2.	Union notices of Interest to tee emplcyi s may be posted on tee bulletin boards Including meetings, eieefton results, minutes of meetings, Airline Orviston updates, eta. No political messages, material with controversial, vulgar, profane or obscene language and messages that disparage tee Company or any of its employees are prohibited.
Pngs an oitis
ARTICLE 18
UNION SECURITY ANO REPRESENTATION
A.	The International Brotherhood of Teamsters Introduction Io naw employees: The Company wfll make avaHabta a sixty (60) minute period during the Company's Initial orientation training for naw hire Technicians or related for the Business Representative, Chief Steward or designee to communicate Information and answer questions concerning the Union.
B,	It shal be a condition of employment that ati current employees of the Company covered by this Agreement, shall on the effective data of this Agreement, become and remain members tn good standing of the Union or, In Iha attemative, render the Union a monthly‘Service Fee" as determined by the Union.
C.	It shall be a condition of employment that all employees of the Company covered by this Agreement hired on or after tte effective date shall on or before the sixtieth (60’’) day foltowing the begtontog of Iha Initial seniority date, bocoma and remain mambas In good standing In the Union, or, In the alternative, render the Union a monthly "Service Fee* as datannlned by the Union.
D.	The Company will deduct from the wages of any employee who chooses to become a member of the Union any Initiation fees and dues as a member of tha Union upon receiving the emptoyee's voluntary and individual written authorization for the Company to make such deductions. The written authorization must be signed by tha employee and the authorization form win be provided by the Union. The Company w® pay over to the proper officers ol the Union tha wages withheld for such Initiation foes and/or duos. Tha amount withhold shall be deducted from (he test two paychecks of the month, reported and paid to the Union monthly. The employee's employee number, futi name, dues rata, rate of pay and status of employment wil be transmitted with the monthly fees/dues. Tha Company Bhafl transfer aU dues to the Union prior to the tenth (IO®1) day of the monlh fafowing the month In which the deductions were made.
E.	Employees not retained during their probationary period shall have their Initiation foes returned upon request
F.	The Union agrees that II shall indemnity the Company and hold the Company harmless from any and bK dabns, which may bo made by the employee or employees against the Company by virtue of the wrongful application or mlsapptication of the terms of this Article.
G.	In the event of termination of employment, there shall bo no obfgetlon upon the Company to collect dues unffl aU other deductions have been made.
Paae SI of 121
@H. The Company wfl advise Iha Union of the namefs), soda! aecurtty numbers, hire dates, and addresses of any new hires and the namefs), employee numbers and dates of afl other employees covered by the Agreement who have been terminated, laid off, retired, transferred, changed status, or recalled at Iha tone Iha Company turns over the monies io ths Union In accoidanca with Section D of this Articta.
I.	II shall be the responsibWty of any employee who is a member of the Union end noton a dues deduction program to keep the employees membership current by direct payments of monthly dues to the Union.
J.	The Union ahaB give the Company at least thirty (30) days written notice before requesting the removal of employees from employment for failure to matnlah membership In good standing In tha Union In accordance with Section B or C of this Article. Tha company shall then lake proper steps within fifteen (15) days of said notification to discharge such employee from the services of Iha company. Such discharge shall be for $ Just cause.
K.	Ths Company agrees to admit to fts bases the offldaly designated representatives of the Union to transact business as Is necessary far the administration of the Contract Such business shall be transacted In bs short a time ae possible and shall not Irfcrfaro with the operations of the Company. The Union wilt gfvs foe Company twenty4our(2d) hours notice when practical If they plan to conduct a sizeable group meeting wHh employees covered by this Agreement The Company shaH sponsor a reasonable number of union officiate for any necessary airport security badges to access the hangar and Hne work areas, et no cost to foe Unton.
®L The Unfan shall select Business Representatives and shall notify tha Vice President of Maintenance or the Company’s designee at Iha time of thetr appointment or removal The Vice President of Maintenance or the Company's designee shall notify foe Union of the appropriate Company representative.
M.	The Union shall elect or appoint a primary shop steweni(s) and ahematefs) as required to conduct Union business end shall notify the Company in writing of their election, appointment or removal
1.	Time spent In handling grievances during the steward's regular working hours shall be considered hours worked for all purposes. It b understood that ff a steward vokmlarfly chooses to handle a grievance on other than Company time, the employee may not claim overtime pay for Ihe non-Company time spent hand Ing such grievance. This provision, however, shaB not be construed as affecting an employee's overtime pay for time spent handling grievances white et work on authorized overtime. A Union Steward may not conduct Union business while working overtime unless H is requested by management If Management calls a Union Steward during their off duty hours, Ihe Company w8l pay a minimum of one (1) hour straight-time pay at Ihe employs aa current rate of pay.
Fags S3 of 128
N.	Ths Union will pravido the Company with the names addresses and phono num bars of Its offidal Busina Representatives at each base
□> Any employes covered by INs Agruemonl who b required Io be present at a Company ht or Investigation Involving Iha employee wtil ba entitled to Union representation et such hearing or Investigation.
P.	Effective upon Ignlng of this Agreement, the Company shall supply pomaneni suitable office space for the Union's use, on the property at the Portland Maintenance Base (POX) where Iha employees era located, and easily ecceas&Ia by the employees.
Q.	The union shati elect or appoint a ward for the Portland Base who wW fill the Chief Steward position In order to Increose efficiency end communication between the 1ST end Management The Chief Steward shal have a schedule with day off p am and hours Io be determined between tho parties and will be placed on a separate bid list At times Iha Chief Steward may be utHtzed where needed at Portland Base Operations. This agreement wm commence on date of ratification and may be reviewed by the parties every two yeora.
Pag* 03 of 128