A 76)6
Administrative Services Agreement Amendment
In accordance with the terms of the Administrative Services Agreement between the MEA Benefits Trust and the MEA, the Association agrees to provide the following services:
1.	Administrative support in all MEA offices;
2.	Professional and administrative staff to negotiate with, and advise individual school districts regarding the MEABT health insurance plans and any other benefits provided by the Trust to Plan participants as referenced in Exhibit A, 9/1/2017;
3.	Professional and administrative staff to assist plan participants with questions regarding coverage and claims questions, and to advise school districts and departments regarding the same;
4.	Educational seminars for plan participants on a regular basis;
5.	Computer and information technology systems and support, including, but not limited to telephone systems and support including electronic mail, desktop and/or laptop computers, printers, and any other such systems as requested by the Executive Director of the Trust for MEABT employees;
6.	Display space and promotional opportunities at all MEA conferences and training venues and at the MEA Representative Assembly including the costs of attending such events for the MEABT employees;
7.	Access to MEA publications, including, but not limited to, the Association's statewide newspaper for distribution of educational and promotional materials and information to plan participants;
8.	Access and reasonable use of all MEA office equipment including, but not limited to, postage and postage equipment, copying equipment, fax machines, telephones, including cellular and other personal communication devices, office supplies, and hospitality supplies;
9.	Access to MEA membership lists including names, addresses, telephone numbers, and email addresses of such members including plan participants;
10.	Access to the MEA/NEA technology platform for sending electronic communications to plan participants;
11.	Office space and furniture in all MEA offices; and,
12.	Access to employee group benefit programs including the MEA Savings and Retirement Plan, group life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment insurance, dental insurance, and long-term disability insurance.
In accordance with Section 5.02 of the Trust document, and in recognition of the services provided by the MEA to the MEA Benefits Trust, the Trust hereby agrees to reimburse the MEA $990,000 for such services beginning September 1, 2017 and concluding August 31, 2018.
The MEA shall continue to provide the MEA Benefits Trust with the services outlined in this Exhibit each year and said reimbursement shall increase in an amount equal to the change in the CPI-W annually as of January lEt each year unless either party provides written notice to the other party requesting a change in such Agreement.
Rob Walker
Executive Director, MEA
Date
Date