i
/
I \
Cornell University ILR School
BLS Contract Collection - Metadata Header
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see http://diqitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/)
Title: Vought Aircraft Industries, Inc. and International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of American (UAW) Local 848 (2000)
K#: 22
Employer Name Vought Aircraft Industries, Inc.
Location: TX
Union International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of American (UAW)
Local: 848
SIC: 3721
Sector: P
NAICS: 336411
Number of Workers: 2700
Effective Date: 10/01/2000
Expiration Date: 09/26/2004
Number of Pages: 206
Other Years Available: Y
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School, http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/




c d 2000
Colledtiy&Bargaining Agreement
between _
UAW

INTERNATIONAL UNION, UNITED AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE AND AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA, UAW and Ite
mA Vouaht
Aircraft Industries, Inc.
VOUGHT AIRCRAFT INDUSTRIES, Inc.
Entered into October 1,2000
' -z p>- ** .,	4*
■• .< :’\V



A,:;..v	'.. X

CONTENTS
Article
Title
Page
AGREEMENT
1
PREAMBLE .....
1
MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBIUTES AND FUNCTIONS ....
1
RECOGNITION
2
IV
v
VI
Certifications............................
Employees Covered by the Agreement________
Successor Clause.,.,.....................
REPRESENTATION. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITY
Type and Number of Representatives,.......
Bigibiity Requirements........................
Restrictions On Transfer or Loan..............
Scheduling of Overtime. Including Holidays....
List of Union Representatives and Notice of Change Stewards ............— .......-........———
Shop Commineemen —............................
Chairman of the Ptant Grievance Committee.....
GRIEVANCE, ARBITRATION AND DISCHARGE PROCEDURES...-...
Union Grievance...............................
Employee Grievance......._..................—
First Step....................................
Second Step...................................
Third Step '..................................
General Provisions 01 the Grievance Procedure
J Prearbitratoo Review Step...................—
Arbitration ...................    -........—
Written Warning Notice .......................
Discipfinary Action, Suspension or Discharge ....
WORK HOURS, OVERTIME AND PREMIUM PAYMENTS
2
2
2
3
3 ' 4
4
5 5
6 6
a
8
8
a
9
9
10
11
11
13
13
15

Warialayand WorkweeK Time and One-Half....
Double Tone .........
15 15
IB
CONTtNTS (continued)
CONTENTS (continued)
ArUcte
Trite
Special Shifts ..............
Work on a Holiday...........
No Pyramiding or Duplicating Distribution of Overtime.....
Flight Pay....-..............
SENIORITY
Layoff ......................~.
Recal and Return Rights.........
Loan Provisions .......---------
Information Famished Union .----
Promtriions......................
Inter-Una Transfer*.............
Shift Preference —.—.........—
Sixty-Day Clause.................
Excluded Emptoyee Entering Unit Probation Period........„........
Loss of Seniority--------.   
Period of Recall...............
Seniority of Union Representatives Same Seniority Date..............
WAGE RATES. PERFORMANCE AWARDS AND SHIFT DIFFERENTIALS
General Inouases ...................    -............   ....
Automatic Progression VMiin Labor Grade -----------.........
Rate Ranges .........................  ......................
Performance Awards  ..................  .....................
Shift DHferential.....................    -..................
QoM^rfLiring Allowance (COLA) ........................... ..
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS, FAMILIES AND LABOR GRADES
Changes m Job Farotiy Appendices.................
Work Outside Job Family —..........................
involuntary Transfer to Lower Classification  —....
Pag*
Article
Title
Page
17
17
17
17
20
21
21
24
24
25
27
27
28
30
30
31
31
32
32
34
34
35
37
37
39
39
39
X
XI
xn
)OII
HOURS NOT WORKED, INCOMPLETE DAYS WORKED
Bereavement Pay....-
Holidays........—
Jury DutyAVrtnes* Pay Miitary Pay.........
Rest Periods........
Personal/Sk* Pay . Vacations............
Voting Time.......
Incomplete Day’s Work Retool Pay ..........
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Personal „„...................
Section 900............. „.....
Military end Peace Corps....—
Union .........................
Leaves Other Than Section 900 FamSy and Medical Leave ...
HEALTH CARE ...
Agreement —.........................—...........................
. New PmiNons - Health Care Plan for Active Employees .......-....
New Provisions - Health Care Benefits for Future Retheos or Survivors New Provisions-Disabtty Plan ,—.....................—.........—
Naw Provisions - Lfe Insurance Plan ........-...„..............
Subject Next to Negotiations............... -....... —-----„----
New Provisions - Pmcrtftkxi Drugs.—..................  .........
DissiNfty Retirement..............„......................   ...
RETIREMENT PLANS
Agreement............... ~....
New Provisions - Retirement Plan Transition and Bridge Benefits.. . Subject Next to Negotiations__
40
40 41 42 43
43 43
45 47
48 48
40
40
40
50
50
50
50
51
51
51
53
56
57
59
59
59
60
60
60
60
60
CONTENTS (continued)
TrtJe
Article
Page
61
XN
62
CHECKOFF AGREEMENT
XV
XVI
OFF-SITE operations
68
XVII
69
71
XVII!
GENERAL PROVISIONS
72
KtX
71
71
No Strike ... No Lookout
69
69
61
61
62
63
65
72
72
75
75
Authorization tor Unton Due* Appfcatiort of Checkoff....— Copy of Authorization Can!....
Specific Pertormsnce
Waiver .............
Notice ......-...............
Use of Maintenance Employee*
STRIKES, SLOWDOWNS. STOPPAGES AND LOCKOUTS
Definition of Off-Site.........
Application of the Agreement...
Rules of Cognizant Aoency......
Lists Required.........._......
Grievance Procedure ...».......
Appticaiian of Checkoff........
Policies and Practices .........
Assignment to Off-Site Locations
66 66 67 5?
67 88 68 68
SUBCONTRACTING AND MAJOR MAINTENANCE OR FACILITIES
CONSTRUCTION WORK ............................
QUALIFICATIONS, ENFORCEMENT AND WAIVER
Non-Bargaining Unit Employees Working...........
ErrWortmantai, Safety and Health in the Workplace Union Bulletin Boente ..........................
Nondiscrtmination...............................
CONTENTS (continued}
Article	Title	Page
Physical Restrictions............................................. 75
Absence ten Union Business........................................ 76
Security Provisions............................................... 76
EsiucatnnReirntWTSementPtan...................................... 77
Security and Access................................................ 78
MasctAne-Femmine References........................................ 78
XX DURATION ............................................................... 79
LETTERS OF AGREEMENT (index)......................................... 82
INDEX ...............-...............................................148
CALENDARS 2000 through 2004.......................  .................15t

AGREEMENT
ARTICLE! PREAMBLE
ARTICLE I!
MANAGEMENT RESWNSt&LfnESAND FUNCTIONS '
This Agreement is made aid entered into this 1" day of October 2000. by and between VOUGHT AIRCRAFT INDUSTRIES, INC., Dates, Texas, heremaftar called the •Company,* and INTERNATIONAL UNION, UNITED AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE AND AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA, UAW, and its LOCAL UNION 848, hereinafter called the "Union *
It te the intent and purpose of the Parties hereto that this Agreement promote and impawe Iha industrial and economic status or the Parties, provide orderly collective bargaHng reiatsocs between the Company and the Union, and secure a prompt end Tar disposition of grievances to eliminate srtenuptions of work and Werlerehae with the efficient operation of the Company’s business.
It is recognized and agreed that, in addition to other functions and respcnsibffifes not specSically mentioned ki this paragraph, the Company has and wfl retain the sole tight and responsttfflity to direct the operations of the Company. This includes the determination of the number and location of Its plants, the product to be manufactured, the types of work to be performed, the schedules of production, the shift schedules and hours of work, and the methods, processes and means of manufacturing. Furthermore, the Company has lecpoosibiity far selecting, hiring and demoting employees as wel as making end applying rules and regulations for production, rflsdpfine, efficiency and safety.
ft afeo has the right and responsibffity to discharge or dfedpUne arty employee for just cause, to lay off any employee because of lack of work or cither cause, and to transfer and promote any employee. This applies except as hereinafter provided.
1
! Ill
I.
ARTICLE Hl RECOGNITION
Section 1.	Certifications
The Company recognizes the International Union, United Automobie, Aerospace aid Agricultural Implement Workers of America, UAW, and ite Local Union 848, as the sole oofiectrve bargaining agency for the employees as designated in the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) Certification No. 16R1744, dated July 19, 1946, the NLRB Certification of Representatives in Case No. 16RC2S96 (Bargatotog Unit Voting Group T), dated April 12, I960, those employees designated tn NLRB Certification No. 16RC3476,
I	dated August 29, 1963, and those employees designated kt the mutual Agreement
I .	between the Parties, dated December 8,1961.
Section 2.	Employees Covered by the Agreement
I	a. The term 'employee* as used hereto applies to and indudes all production,
[	maintenance and powerhouse eenployeee, experimental department employees,
|:	inspectors, timekeepers and teadmen. (Any laboratory or engineering department
[	job presently in the collective bargaining una wffl remain to the cofiecthre bargaining
unit for the duration at this Agreement) The term ’emptoyee" excludes maintenance electrical employees, main office clerical employees, confidential cterits assigned to general supervisors or above, employees to industrial rotations, mecfcaL industrial ;	security and engtoeertog departments, and supervision as defined in Section 2 of the
National Labor Relations Act, as amended.
b.	Excluded employees of the Engineering Department wB not be used to perform the work 01 employees covered by this Agreement for the purpose of avoiding coverage h	under this article.
c.	Ct is agreed that a part of the work done by excluded engineering and laboratory employees is slmflar in some respects to some of the work done by bargaining unit employees. It b further agreed that these ettduded employees tnay perform work in the development of hardware constating of articles for engheering quafifications and -tests, up to its release to employees in the bargaining uni.
Section 3.	Successor Clause
।	This Agreement, indudtog any tetters end memorandum (the ‘Agraemerrty wll be
btorting upon the Company, its successors and assigns. In the event that the Company
।	rfispoees of all or pert of Ite operations covered by thb Agreement, the Parties agree as a
condition of such deposition, the acquiring employer wil recognize the Union and accost the terms and conditions of thb Agreement Ths Agreement wUteewtae be binding upon the Union, its successors and assigns.
2
IV
ARTICLE IV REPRESENTATION, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITY
Section 1. Type and Number of Representatives
For the purpose of adjusting grievances under this Agreement
A steward will be permitted within the cottectrve bargaining unit area The number of stewards and their assignment in the plant wffl be mutually agreed upon by the Company and tw Union. ttisagreedtMtherewflbeone(1)stewunltbr everyone hundred and fifteen (115) employees within a zone. The gep^aphical worit area of the emplcyees represented by tte steward WH be known as a district The number of districts permitted wfihin a zone is that number that results when the total number of employees normally assigned to a zone is equally divided by one hundred and fifteen (115), plus one (1) additional district for any remaining employees.

(D
P>
increase in the Number cf Districts - The Union may notify the Company that mdMridlng is being requested to add dtetrictfs) where permitted under Article IV, Section 1-a. Where posstote, redtatrtcting wM be established by mutual agreement If both Patties Mio reach a mutual agreement within four (4) days Mowing receipt of the Union's request to redistrict. either Party may, upon written notice, divide the <tistrict(s) having the longest number of employees into two (2) equal districts.
Reduction In the Number of Districts - The Company may notify the Union that recfistriding is being rerycBSted for the purpose cf eliminating a district in the zone having the least number of employees, as permitted under the provisions cf Artide IV, Section 1 .a. Where possWe, this redistricting wfll be aocompfished by mutual atpeemsnL If the Parties M to reach an agreement, either Party upon wrriten notice may then efimtnata tha <fistrict(s) In the zone having the toast number of emplcyees. The boundaries of the districts) bordering the greater amount of the dstridfs) to be sfimhated wit be extended to enaon^ess those employees previously located tn tha eliminated districts).
d.
There wfl be eight (8) shop comtetteemen for the purpose of handling grievances as provided hereinafter. - The area of the shop that each of the eight (8) shop committeemen represents w9 be known as a zone and M be mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union. The Plant Grievance Commttee of the Union wiD not exceed ten (10), including the Chatman of the Ptartt Grievance Committee, the Presidenl of the Union end eight (8) shop committeemen. Members of the Plant Grievance CommittBe wfl meet with the Grievance Review Committee as hereinafter provided.
An international representative wil be psrrntted to attend the regular third-step meetings (see Article V) scheduled weeldy, or upon notice to the Company of not less than twentyfour (24) hours, to attend special meetings of the Plant Grievance Commtfiee that have been schedtoed by mutual consent
A duty appointed Union Representative may attend meetings at the Company United Way Committees.
3
IV
SectfonZ. Eligibiity Requirements
b.
Only an employee of the Company wM act as a shop committeeman or steward or Chasman of the Ptant Grievance Committee under this Agreement.
No employee will act as a shop committeemen or steward unless, al the time of his selection, he has been employed by the Company for a period of more than ninety
Sections. Restrictions on Transfer or Loan
e
The Company wii not transfer ar loan a steward or a shop committeeman outside his respective didrict or zone, provided there is avatable work within hfa job dassifcstioo.

Section 4.	Scheduling of Orerftne, induding Holidays
A steward wffl be offered work during periods of overtime, under on* of the Mowing provisions:
(D

b.
Provided that not less than fifteen (15) employees work in the steward's district ■nd that work in Ns classification is scheduled within his dtebict or
Under the provisions as set forth in Article VI, Section 7.a(1) Each elected steward wa be contacted and the method of offering overtime wi be estaMrshed, once an deuton is made, such election will be in effect far one (1) year. A steward may change the method for being offered overtime tn January of each year.
A shop anrrrnttteemsn w* be offered work during periods of ovsttims provided that not les* than twenty (20) employees wk in his zone and that work in his
The overtkna worked by rtewands and shop committeemen wO not be posted.
The Chterwan of the Ptent Grievance Committoe wu be scheduled to work during periods Of nvertfcne provided that seven hundred {700) emptoyees work in accordance with Article IV, Section (ha. or that one hundred fifty (150) anfitloyeee work and that work is scheduled in the Chaiman's das^fication.
Each representative must meet the requirements of Article VI, Section 7$. when offered wartime. During periods Of overtime, stewards and shop oomntitteemen will handte only those grievance* for which the condition giving rise to the grievance occurred during the irnmetHate period of overtime. Iftbe steward is not working in the district, the supervisor upon request of the employee, win cal the nearest steward working in the zone to ad as the steward of the district If no steward ri working in the zone and the commtttoeman is working, the supervisor wil cert the committeeman to act as (he steward of the district ri no Union representatives are working in the zone, the nearest avatiaNe steward will be called.
IV
Section 5. List of Union Representatives and Notice of Change
The Union will furnish the Company with a fet of its officers, piam Grievance Committee members, and stewards and wH notify the Company in writing of any changes therein. Such list and notice of changes wtf be given ft writing to the Vee President of Human ' Resources at beat one (1) working day before an officer, shop conmstteeman, or stswred performsanyactunderthetenmcfthteAgreement Exceptions to this period of notice may be made by mutual agreement No officer, steward, or shop comntitteeman wffi be recognteed by the Company until written notification of his appointment has been reoeteed by the Company front the President of the Union or his designee.
Section 6. Stewards ..
a. After notifying the supervisor in charge of hfe unit of hte purpose and destination, a steward wit be given a shop grievance pass and afkwed to leave his job or urtt to handte grievances, or to discuss with the shop cotmritteeman the advtsabaty of appeatog a grievance to the second step in the manner provided under Article V, Section 3, or to perform the fotimving functions:
(1)
(2)
0)
(4)
b.
Investigate and, tf necessary, present to a supervisor in his district a grievance of violatfon of an employees reed rights, or a written grievance signed by en aggrieved employee that the steward has received outside of working hours. Meet wdh an aggrieved employees supervisor who is not located in the district where the grievance originated. When necessary arrangements have been made for such a meeting, the supervisor of the stawwd involved wB) call the supervisor of the aggrieved employee or wtt gfre permission to the steward to contact the aggrieved employee's supervisor at his headquarters.
Request of his (the stowanfs) supervisor the presence of the shop committeeman for the zone in order to make a joint investigation before a grievance is appealed to the second step of the grievance procedure.
Attend meetings scheduled with the shop committeeman of his zone, the superintendent orhs designee, andfor a Labor Relations representative when a grievance has been appealed to the second step of the grievance procedure.
d.
When K is necassary io enter a unit or section Of a unit Supervised by a supervisor cfter than Ns own, the stewart wffl immediateiy report to tin supervisor of that unit or section and advise him <rf fib presence. IntheeventoffhesuperviaoftabsetKe, a designated representative wM act h his place.
A steward is to handle orty pjevanoes arismg in his district However, he will be ghren permission to make investigation outside of his rfetrta when ft is necessary to obtefo pertinent fecte in a case being Investigated. This does not give roving privleges to a stewaid.
in the absence of a shop committeeman, a steward from the zona may be appointed to act in his place. The Union must notify the Company twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the appointment The twwtyfour (24) hour requirement is waived when the absence of the shop committeeman is due to ftness
5
IV
e.	A supervisor will make every effort to call a stewart immediately, but in no went wii mere than two (2) working hours elapse before a steward is called.
f.	If a steward is not avafeble in the district, the supervisor upon request of the ■ . ernptoyeewftcalupontheneareststerwardinthezonetohandlethegrfevanoe.
g.	A steward wft be paid for the time necessary during his regular straight-time working houre to investigate, present and adjust grievances as provided in this and Article V.
h.	Durtog periods of overtime, the Union wit notify Guard Headquarters in wring on a form provided by the Company the narnefs) of steward!*) and/or committeemanfs) working the respective overtime.
Section 7. Shop Committeemen
a.	After notifying the supervisor in charge of his unit of his purpose and destination, a shop comnstteeman wft be given a shop grievance pass and alowed to leave his job or unit to handle grievances a* catted cut in the grievance procedure. The time spare during Ms sttoeduted working hours will be recorded on a job cart by his supervisor r	and ha wffl be paid for this time. If the shop committeeman has Union business to
transact with the Chairman of the plant Grievance CornmHtee, the shop
'	oomrritteeman wtt request his supervisor to call the Chairman of toe Plant Grievance
Committee to his pteoe tri wort.
b.	After notifying his supervisor, a shop committeeman will be allowed to leave his job to attend the Mowing meetings when necessary. The lime spent tn attendance at such J»	meetings during his scheduled working hours wft be recanted by his supervisor, and
be writ receive pay for the time spent during his normal working hours.
(1)	Attend regularly scheduled meetings with the Grievance Review Committee to be held not more than once each week and not exceeding three (3) hours. No tater than the fifth reguiarfy scheduled workday before the meeting, the
i:	Chairman tri the Plant Grievance Committee must present to the Vice
President of Human Resources a written agenda stating fifty the specific r	grievances to be discussed.
*■’	(2) Attend any special meeting not exceeding three (3) hours relating to discharge
or other, matters that cannot reasonably be delayed until the next regular meeting of the Plant Grievance Committee and the Grievance Review
■	Committee.
t	(3) Attend any meeting requested by a supervisor, superintendent or Labor
. Retationsrepresentativetodfecussshopproblemsorpendinggfievancea.
(4)	Attend special meetings between Corrpany representatives and the Plant Grievance Committee that have been scheduled by mutual agreement
(5)	Present grievances In the absence of a steward, as prodded under Article IV, :	Section 4. e.
Section B. Chairman tri the Piart Grievance Committee
a.	The Chairman tri the Plant Grievance Committee wft be allowed time, up to a !	maximum of forty (40) hours per week at the maximum rate for a labor grade 1 to
perform <he duties listed and in accordance with toe procedure set forth below.
6
IV
When seven hundred (700) enreloyee* or more are scheduled for overtime. the forty (40) hour maxinum w* be mcreased to correspond with the extended workweek.
b.	After notice to the Vice President of Human Resources or he designated representative, the Chairman of the Plant Grievance Committee win be given a shop pas* to perform the falowtng fancUons:
(D
(2)
(3)
W)
(5)
(6)
<n
(9)
(10)
(11)
(12)
(13)
W
Irweetigate a Union grievance as defined under Article V, Section 1.
introduce a Union grievance In accordance with Article V, Secton 1.b.
Transact busmess with a shop comnfttoeman a* outlined under Article IV, Section 7,a.
investigate a grievance, subsequent to the recequ by the shop committeeman of the Corwanyte second-step decsion, to totemsne the advtoabffity ot appealing the grievance to the third slap.
prepare the agenda as required under Artide tv. Section 7-t>(1).
Attend mealing* with the Grievance Review Committee.
Receive on behalf of the Union the Corrpanys answers to grievances fotiovring the thlsd-etep meeting.
Participate in the investigation of a grievance subsequent to having received the Company* third-stop decision for the purpose. of determining the advisability of appeaSngthe grievance to arbitration.
Recewe the listings furnished the Union by the Company under the terms of this Agreement
Attend any special meetings not exceeding three (3) hours relating to discharge or other matters that cermet reasonably be deteysd until the next meetog at the Grievance Review Committee and the Plant Grievance Committee.
Attend any meeting requested by a supervisor, superintendent or Labor Relations representative to dismss shop problems or pcrssfole grievances.
Post Urtion bulletin boards. Information posted must be first approved by the Vice Presafertt of Human Resources or his designated representative Key* must be secured fiom the Labor Relations Department
Perform, wtth the approval of the Vice President of Human Resources, other special functions not spedfcaly enumerated above.
V
ARTICLE V GRIEVANCE, ARBITRATION AND DISCHARGE PROCEDURES
Section 1. Union Grievance
a.	A Union grievance is a difference between the Company and the Union concerning; (1) working conditions, and (2) the interpretation or apptication of any provision of this Agreement that cannot be settled at the first and second steps of the grievance procedure set forth below.
<	b. A Union grievance may be introduced by the Chairman of the Rant Grievance
Committee to the Vice Prestderff of Human Resources and the grievance wffl be discussed at the next regular Mni-stop meeting. The Conpany^ disposition wN be j	given as soon as possible, but in no event later than ten (10) working days (unless
■f	extended by mutual consent) fcfcwing the meeting in which the grievance was
discussed. Special meetings between representatives of the Company and the Plant
I ■	Grievance Committee wtl be by mutual consent
L	Section 2. Employee Grievance
I	a. An employee grievance is a difference between the Company and any employee
concerning the toterpretation or application of any provision of the Agreement
b.	When any such grievance arises, an earnest effort must be made to settle It according to the foffowtog sequence and procedure.
3	Section 3. First Step
•i
i,	a. Any employee haring such a grievance wit present it oraSy to his supervisor either
y	persontfy or through he steward, where an earnest attempt wffl be made to restore
i:	the grievance. Should the grievance not be settled oraffy, the Union may, wttiln two
p	(2) workdays, reduce the grievance to writing on the forms provided by the Company
and signed by the employee, setting forth, on the grievance form, aU of the arvaiabta foots of the aleged rotation. The grievance form must Indicate:
?	(1) A statement of the grievance and the facts upon which it is based,
(2) Tte section or sections oflhe Agreement claimed to have been violated and
/	(3) The remedy or correction requested. The disposition at the first and second
stops of this procedure, together vrith the dates thereof, must be noted thereon and signed by the respective representatives of foe Company and the Union, b. The Union wffl have the right to investigate and present a grievance of violation of an employee's recal rights by following the procedure as outiined in Article V,
<jr	Section la.
r,.	c. When the grievance b presented in writing, the answer of the supervisor wtil be given
in writirg on the form provided, as soon as possible, but not later than two (2) i’	regularly scheduled working days after its presentation. After a grievance has been
!'	reduced to writing and presented to the supervisor, no representative of the
8
Company will discuss that particular grievance with the grievant without the presence of a Union representative until it is settled h the grievance procedure.
d. If an appeal for the disposition of a yievance at the first step of the grievance procedure is not taken within five (5) working days from the date of such decision, the grievance will be coosxJerod withdrawn without prejudice to either Party.
a If foe Union accepts a grievance disposition given at the first step of the grievance procedure, it will net be conskfered precedent settrig for or by either Party to this Agreement
Section 4. Second Step
a If the grievance is not settled by the unit supervisor and the steward, then the shop committeeman and the steward within whose area the grievance arose wfll &ta up the grievance wfih the supertatendent or his desipiee at a regularly scheduled weekly meeting. Uponrequeetoftheshopoommfiteemanandfoirfoesupemtondent, a Labor Relations representative wS attend such meeting. If the grievance is appealed to foie step of the grievance procedure, and the shop comnutteeman assigned to the area of the plant In which the grievance arose is unable to hanefie k because he Is absent tram the plant, then upon request by the steward to the Vice President of Human Resources or his designated representative, the grievance may be investigated and presented by the acting shop committeeman for that zone. For the purpose of adjusting grievances al this stage of the procedure, a shep committeeman or the acting shop committeeman wfll represent only employees assigned to the zone in which he is employed, eroept as provided in Article V, Section 3-t>.
b.	The meuthg of the superintendent (or desolated representative) andfor a Labor Relations representative with the shop committeeman and the steward In his zone wil be beta once e weak. If the grievances presented at this meeting cannot be disposed of m the time set for the meeting, foe meeting may be continued the faSowtng day. The superintendent or despise, and/or a Labor Relations representative wte render a decrecn on a grievance so presented no later than three (3) worfdng days alter such meeting.
c.	If no appeal from foe deposition of a grievance given at the second step of the grievance procedure is taken within three (3) workfcig days from the date of the decision, than the decision wfll be final, conclusive and binding upon aD employees, the Company and the Union. Any disposition of a grievance at the norond step of the grievance procedure accepted by the Union wfl also be final, conclusive and binding upon all employees, the Company and foe Union.
Sections. Third Step
a If the grievance is not satfefsetorfly settled by the superintendent (or designated representative) and/or a Labor Relations representative, an appeal may be taken by the Plant Grievance Committoe to the Grievance Review Committee. The Grievance Review Committee wfll render a decision on a grievance so presented es soon as
9
V
possfcite, but no baterr than fire (5) watting days after the regular thini-etep meeting st which the grievance was discussed.
b.	If no appeal from the disposition of a grievance given at the Md step <rf the grievance procedure is taken within five (51 wotting days from the date of the decision, then the ttocteioo wfl M final, conclusive and bindirtg upon al employees, the Company and the Union. Any dtsposition of a grievance at the third step of the grievance procedure accepted by the Union wki also be final, conclusive and binding upon si wnpfoyaee, the Gamparty and the Union.
c.	If the grievances presented at the regular thinHtep meetings provided for in this article cannot be disposed of within the time atowed. (he meetfog may be oontitwed at a time mutually agreedtobythe Company end the Union, but no later than five (5} wortingdays. Hthe Union does not receive a rfisposttioo to a grievance wahintiese tana tirrtts. the grievance may be appealed to the next step.
Section 6.	General Provisions of the Grievance Procedure
a.	to cases ddtedpfcwy suspensions or discharge of employees fix infection shop rotes or other misconduct, the Union reserves the right to seek modification or etintinetfon of such penalties regarding sentority and atrnpenaation, in whole or tn pen, on the ground that the ereptoyea was utyustty dtscipfined. Such protests wSI be handled according to toe grievance procedure, indudtog the right to appeal to arbitratioA	'
b.	K toe Union witodrews a grievance at the first, second or third step of the grievance procedure, it wfl be considered as having been withdrawn without prejudice to either Party. A grievance withdrawn subsequent to the third step must be withdrawn by mutual agreement and WK be considered as having been wtttidrewn without prejudice to either Party.
c.	Any employee grievance no* presented for disposition through the grievance procedure desofoed herein within five (5} working days of the occurrence of the condition giving rise to toe grievance, or within five (5) nutting days of the date I is reasonable to assume that the employee became aware of the condition givrog rise to the grievance, wil not thereafter be considered a grievance under this Agreement Any Urion grievance not presented within five (5) working days from the date on which il is reasonable to assume that ths Chairman of the Plan* Grievance Committee became aware of the condition giving rise to the grievance wil be deemed untimely.
d.	No dispostfcn or award upon any grievance under this Agreement wti be made retroactive for any period prior to the date the grievance was last fled in writing, ■ except
(1)	There may be seven (7) wotting days of retroactivity co overtime grievances. t2) There may be sixty (60) working days retroactivity on dassificatian grievances.
(3)	There may be up to toirty (30) wotting days iwsroacttvtty on teyoft and retaK grievances. However, in no event wil the Company's liability exceed thirty (30) days.
e.	It the Urton does net receive a disposition to a grievance within the time Breits ad forth herein, the grievance may t» appealed to (he next step.
10
V
t The time during which a grievance must he disposittaned or appealed may be extended by mutual agreement
Section 7.	Preafottoatfon Review Step
a if a grievance within the scope of Articte V, Section Sa is not settled satisfactorily at the ihH step of the grtorance procedure and the Ptart Grievance Committee believes it has grounds tor appeal, the Chairman of the Plant Grtevanoe Committee or designated representatire wfl give the Vice President of taimen Resources or his designee a written 'notice of appear to arbitration. Such notice of appeal must be approved try the international representative or designated representative.
b. Vrttiri fifteen (15) days after a grievance has been appealed to arbitration, there wtl be e meeting of the Vice President at Human Resources or rite de^gnated repreaenteOra, the Chairman of the Rant Grievance Comntittea. the local Union President, and a representative of the international Union to attempt to settle the grievance, ft being understood that the Parties are amoowrered » settie such grievance. In the evert the Parties are unable to resolve a grievance, it wB be sdbrrttted to arbitration as provided under Btis article.
o A representative of the Hemationaf Union wit, upon advance request, tie permitted to wrier ths plant accompanied by the Chairman of the Plant Grievance Committee andfor the local Union President to investigate a grievance prior to the prearbiintion review step. Such visitation wN be permitted only under the nites governing ptanA visitors that have been issued by the Company or any appropriate goremment agency
d. Vfflhto ten (10) days foKcwtog the corr^tetion of the prenWration review, either party may request that the grievance be submttted to mediation, if such mediation ta mutually agreed to by th* parties, the mediation shad be conducted to acccntanM with tire provisions al Letter of Agreement number three (*3)l in the event the Parties are unable to reertve the grievance through mediation, it wtil be submitted to arbitration as provided under this articls.
Sections. Arbitration
a.	Only grievances involving alleged violations with respect to the interpretation or appicatton of the terms of thia Agreement may tn appealed to an impartial arbitrator for setttement When such a grievance is appealed to arbitration by the Union and is not Battled under Article V. Section 7-b., the Company and the Union wit hold a meetmg to setoct an arbitrator. This meetfog will be held within ten (10) wotting days of the meeting held under Articte V, Section 7Jx When an arbitrator « agreed upon, ' both Patties may forward their statements of issues to him at least three (3) days prior to the date of the hearing.
b.	The arbitrator is prohibited frwn changing, adding to or subtracting from the wording or terms of this Agreement or any supplementary written, approved agreements entered into mutuality by the Parties. Any case appealed to the arbitrator on which he has no powerto rote wif be retorted back to the Parties Wtthoti decistarr.
S	11
I i
V
d
e.
9-
h.
I.
o.
P-
k
m.
<n cases of discfotinary action. Including discharge, the arbitrator has the right to rescind or modify the penalty and to compensate the employee tor lost wages in whole or in part less those earnings, indudhg unemployment compensation, reoehzed by the disciplined employee whie off the active payrol. However, any compensation the employee was receiving fiom any other employment he had at the time he had last wotted tor the Company, and which he wodd have continued to receive had he continued to work for the Company, wil not be counted as earnings. After the arbitrator has been notified of Ns selection, he will estabfisb a hearing date and start said hearing as soon as possible.
The arbitrator WK mate such investigation as he deems proper and may examine the witnesses of each Party. Each Party has the right to cross-examine witnesses. When any investigation is conducted by the arbitrator to the plant or at the Union hall, he wil be accompanied by st toast one representative of the Company and the Union.
Either Party may, at Hs option, employ the services of a stenographer and/or court reporter at b2 such hearings to make a record of the proceedings.
Exhibits introduced fry one Party may be examined by the other Party during the course of the hearing.
The arbitrator or the Union may call any employee as a witness at any proceeding before the arbitrator. The Company apaes to release said witness from work J he is on duty. INberwrer possible, the Union wil give management twenty-tour (24) hours1 advance notice of the emptoyees it intends to we as winessee.
Either Party may submt poathearmg briefe.
Esch Party wM be responsible for the expenses of any witnesses it calls.
The arbitrator wffl render his decision In writing rto later than ten (10) days after he ■ has completed his hearing on any grievance unless mutuaBy agreed otherwise, tut to any overt within flirty (30) days.
The decaton of the arbitrator wni be final and binding upon ail employees, the Company and the Union.
The compensations and expenses of the arbitrator wB be bome equally by the Union and the Company.
tf the Company and the Union representatives are unable to agree on a person to act as the arbitrator within time (3) working days of the time of the first meeting as provided for in Article V, Section 8.a. they wffl request the director of the Federal Mediation and Condfeticn Service to submit a tot of five (5) persons, one of whom wffl be selected to act as arbitrator. After receipt of said fist, the Union and the Company wil each have the right to strike two (2) names from it in the fotiowlng ; manner
The representatives of the Company and of the Union wil determine by tot the order of elimination and, thereafter, each wil in that order alternately eliminate one (1) name until only one (1) remans. The filth or remaining person wil thereupon be accepted by both the Union and the Company as the arbitrator.
No grievance win be heard by an arbitrator urti the Union has avafted itself of the fui procedure set forth in tills article.
Medical arbitrators will be selected in the fotiowtog maimer:
12	’
V
In the event a dfopute is not resolved per the provisions of article XIX, section 6, the Company and the Union agree to ask the Dallas County Medical Sooety to stopiy a list of five (5) doctors. The winner of the toss at a com wfll have the choice of either striking a name from the tist first or striking a name second. Thereafter each wd alternately strike the ramafotog names until only one (1) remans. The medical doctor so chosen w* hear the dispute and make whatever physical examination he deems necessary. His decision wfl be final and binding upon the emptoyeea, the Union and ths Company. The metrical arbitrator wd have no power to add to, or subtract from, or modify to anyway any of the terms of this Agreement The foes and expenses of the medical arbitrator wifl be divided equaty between the Union and the Company.
Section 9.	Written Warning Node*
a. A written warning notice wM remain in effect untt the emfXoyee has served one (1) year of active employment from M» date of issue. An employee who is issued a written warning notice and acknowledges its receipl by his signature thereon wiB receive a copy of the notice If it Is mutually agreed that an issued written warning notice wfi be cancelled sooner on the performance of certain conditions by the employee, those conditions wtB be reduced to writing jf no written grievance was fifed. If a wrBten warning notice te Issued and no written grievance pretesting it is filed, the employee wiB receive written notice of Its Cancelation. Once cancelled. a warning notice wi be expunged from the personnel fife maintained by the urritfs) in which the individual is assigned. No reference wiB be made of such notice in the grievance procedure except as rebuttal.
Section 10.	Dtec^tinaiy Action, Suspension or Diechargo
b.
C.
H.
e.
When the Company plans disciplinary action involving suspension or discharge, the fatiowtog procedure wfll apply except In cases involving disenterty or threatening conduct
Labor Relations will review the tacts of the pending disciplinary action with the affected committeeman or Chairman of the ptarrt Grievance Committee prior to the disdpfinary interview.
The employee wfll be escorted to labor Relations, given the reasons in writing for the action and advised of his right to representation by hb comntateeman.
in the event the employee dectines Union representation, he wd so indicate in writing with a copy to be provided to the Union.
. In those cases where the employee elects to be represented, his committeeman or, in the □ommriteeman's absence, the Chainman of the Plant Grievance Committee, wil be notified so that he can attend the interview. No action wti be taken without the presence of the employee’s committeeman or Chairman of the Plant Grievance Committee; Hmvever, In no event wB the Company be required to delay or postpone disciplinary action more than two (2) hours following notification to the Union, In attendance at the interview wfll bo the employee, the Union representative if requested, the employee's supervisor and a Labor Rotations representative. The
13
V
purpose of the interview win be to exchange all known information concerning the reason for the planned action.
f.	Grievances resulting from the above stated actions must be Red within three (1) working days from the suspension or discharge and will be processed at the second step of the grievance procedure.
g.	if the Company elects to terminate an employee by msi. the Chairman of the Plant Grievance Committee wil receive, on the day it is mated, a copy of the fetter.
14
VI
ARTTCLEW MORK HOURS, OVERTIME AND PREMIUM PAYMENTS
This article and ite sections provide the basis tor the calculation and payment of overtime and premium pay, and will not be construed by Union or any employee as a guarantee upon the part of the Company of hours of work per day or per week, or days of work per week. Further, nothing herein will prohibit the Company from establishing, scheduling, and paying far special shifts as ft has h ths past and as provided elsewhere in this Agreement
Section 1.	Workday and Workweek
a.	The Company's regular or normal workday for the emptoyees in the collective bargaining unit win be eight (8) hours, excluding lunch periods, and except as provided herein.
b.	The Company's regular or normal workweek for the employees in the ooftecthre bargaining unit wil be forty (40} hours. The workweek wft begin with the hour that the respective shifts start on Monday, except as herein provided, and wil end one hundred sixty-eight (108) consecutive hours later.
c.	The Con^rany may change the regular or normal workday or workweek one (1) hour eartier or one (1) hour later- However, if foe Company finds it necessary to change the regular or normal workday or workweek in excess of either one (1) hour earier or one (1} hour later, excepting special shifts. the Company wfll discuss the reasons for doing so with the Union and attempt to reach an agreement with foe Union on the matter.
d.	if an employee Is assigned by the Company to work a workday or workweek hours that do not corndde with the Company's regular or normal workday or workweek hours or with the hours of a special shift (as defined in Article VI, Section 4), he win be considered a night shift employee when fifty petcent (50%) or more of the straight-time hours of his assigned work shift fan within the hours of the regular or normal second or third shift.
a. The Company's current payroll week for accounting and hourly payroR check distribution purposes is Monday through Sunday. Nothing herein wto prohfoit the Company from continuing this payroll week arrangement or changing to any other payroll week arrangement that serves its accounting and hourly payroll check distribution purposes.
f.	The Company agree* to notify the Union if and when a major change in the regularly scheduled plant workweek or plant shit hours to oortempiated.
Section 2.	Time and One-Half
Tane-andone-haft will be paid for
a. AS time worked tn excess of eight (8) hours in a twenty-four (24) hour period which begins with the start of the employee's regular or normal scheduled shift. This
15
VI
b.
f.
d
pruvista wH not apply when the employee is transferred during the twenty-four (24} hour period from one shift to another as the restft of a layoff or when the employee exercises shift preference; however, it wl aw*y in such a case if the employee reoeees les* than twentyfour (24) hours' notice that he is to be transferred permanently to another shift
AI time worked in excess of forty (40) hours in one (1) workweek for which overtime has not already been earned.
AD work performed by employees, except those assigned to seven (7) day operations such as powerhouse operations, during the period far which they have been scheduled and which begins on a calendar Saturday provided such employee has been paid for forty (40) hours that comprised the employee's regular stralght-time hour* of work previous to that Saturday. The employ**'* straight time rate win apply untB th* rerpfeement for forty (40) hour* of straight time worked I* satfafirtL Unpaid dm* not worked becair** of a temporary layoff wM be considered a* tfrn* worked.
M work performed outside of regularly scheduled shift hours, except the case of employee* on special shifts.
All work performed try employee* assigned to seven (7) day operations during the period for which they hav* been scheduled and which begins on the sixth consecutive calendsr day of their regularty scheduled workweek provided such employee has bean paid for forty (40) hom that comprised the employ**’* regular stralghMIni* hour* of work previous to th* sixth conwcuthr* calendar day of thefr regular scheduled workweek. The emptoyee’* straight dm* rate uriU apply until th* requirement for forty (40) hour* of straight Um* worked Is satisfied. Unpaid Um* Mt worked because of a temporary layoff wli be considered as time worked.
Al work peribrmed by employees assigned to seven (7) day operations on a calendar Sunday where Sunday is considered a regular workday.
Sectian 3. Doubt* Time
J
Double time wffl be paid for
a.	AD work performed by employees, except those assigned to seven (7) day operettas, during a period far which they have been scheduled and which begins on a calendar Sunday provided such employee hat been paid for forty (40) hour* that comprised the emptayeefe reguler stmlghHIme hour* of wortc previous to that Sunday. The employ**’* straight Um* rat* will apply until the forty (40) hours of time worked h completed. Upon comptation rff th* forty (40) hour straight time requirement, the employ*** doubt* tim* rat* wftl apply. Unpaid time not worked because of a temporary layoff will be considered as time worked.
b.	tn the case of emptoyee* assigned to seven (7) day operations, a* work performed during the' period for which they have been scheduled and which begins on the seventh consecutive calendar day of their regularty scheduled workweek provided such employee has been paid for forty (40) hours that comprised the empfoye*'* regular straight-time hours of work previous to the seventh
IS
-J
VI
consecutive calendar day of their regularly scheduled workweek. The employee's straight time nte wU apply until the forty (4®) hours of time worked Is completed. Upon eomptotfon of the forty (40) hour straight time requirement, the employees double time rate wifi apply. Unpaid time not worked because of a temporary layoff will be conskterod a* time worked.
Section 4.	Special Shifts
A special shift, as mentioned in Article VI, Sections l.d, and 2.d. is defined as a shift assigned outside of the regularly schechded shift for four (4) weeks or more.
Section 5.	Work on a Holiday
Al work performed by employees during the period for which they have been scheduled amt which begins on the calender day being observed by (he Company as a holiday wffl be compensated at three (3) tines the regular straighHime hourly base rate inducing shift differential. but ewdudtng ad premiums and bonuses This includes all hours worked by emplcyees subsequent to the starting time of their regutarty scheduled shift on a boSday where sucfi hours are a continuation of a period for which they have been scheduled and which begnts on foe preceding day.
Sections No Pyramiding or Duplicating
When two or more types of overtime or premium compensation are applicable to the same hours of work only the higher rate of compensation wffl be paid. In no case win overtime or premium compensation be duplicated or pyramided.
Section 7. Distribution of Overtime
(D
(2)
The Company, coosrstent with its several normal and standard overtime practices relating to areas wtthin the collective bargaining unit, wffl make an equal tSstrimton of overtime among the available qualified employees in any unit who are ragutarty employed on such work. Such dktritxrtfon wffl be made on tha respective shifts on which the overtime work occurs. An employee wffl be offered, on a voluntary basis, overtime as necessary to maintain production schedules. If the required personnel are not avalabie folkwring the initial request for volunteers, tha emptayeefs) with the feast amount of recorded overtime wM be required to work the overtime in question.
In unfts wtthin a designated overtfane area, when the number of employees needed to perform the overtime work within a unit is not evaltable fotiowtng the britfai request for votunteere, the Company wW complete the overtime requirement by offering the overtime to the low, arvaitaMe, quatifted emptoyee(s) Wtthin the designated overtime area. If the required personnel are not available following the request for
17
VI
0)
w
(5)
b.
d.
£
(2)
I
I
vofuntoers, the empkryeefs) within the unit with the least amount of recorded overtime wiR be required to work the overtime in question.
Whenever it is necessary for employee* to work weekend overtime, the Company wiH endeavor to otter the overtime per Article VI, section 7. a. (1) or (2) by th* close of their regular shift hours on Thursday before the upcoming weekend. An employee absent on Thursday wilt be considered unavailable and charged for the weekend overtime. However, an employe* required to work weekend overtime due to a lack of a euffldent number of enqdoyeds being svailatoe upon request, may exercise an option of working or being replaced by a tow overtime employee who we* absent on Thursday.
Should it be determined through the gtiai&nce pmcMurv that an employee it unequal in overtime as required in Article M, Section 7-afl), such employee will be offered the next overtime assignment to which he is entitled under this section (new Job, not continuing assignment) until the employee has worked overtime hours equal to the hours that he was out of line st the time the grievance was Bed. If, from the date of the grievance, there has been overtime worked to which the grievant should have been offered end he was not asked to work, starting with the sixth workday fafowng the date of the grievance, a displacement w® have occurred and the employee wS be paid for the hours that he should hare been offered far the purpose of equalization.
A copy of the distribution of overtime work wi be posted by each supervisor convenient to where the employees work (not si the supervisor's desk) on the workday after the overtime has been worked.
Al the start of a new calendar year, the employee or errptoyees who have the lowest amount of overtime wi be changed with zero (0) hours on the overtime distribution sheet Otherenqrlayeeswathen.bechargedwiththedifferenoebMweentheifhouts and the lowest amount of overtime.
When st employee enters a new unit or changes classification within a unit he will be charged with the average overtime of the unit emptayees in the same ctassfficslion.
An employe* scheduled for vacation wtil not be required to work overtime on Saturday or Sunday immediately prior to the vacation. An ampfoyee low on overtime wfll be offered the opportunity to work overtime preceding his vacation. However, should the employee dectine to work the overtime hours, the employee w8l not be charged with the overtime hours, nor wB the overtime hours be recorded as an absence. This wffl also apply in the case of a holiday(s) prior to the scheduled vacation. It is further agreed that this wB be applicable to a one (1), two (2), three <3). and four (4) day vacation, provided such vacation begins on a Monday and is scheduled two (2) weeks in advance.
Overtime will be recorded as overtime worked, even though not worked, under the following conditions:
(1) Employee is in and would have been offered overtime.
Employee is on vacation and all employees in Ns classification within the unit would have been oMsrarl overtime and the employee would have been offered overtime had he not been on vacation.
18
1
!
VI !
(3) Employee is due to work overtime but is absent and not avaiabte to accept overtime.
(4} Employee does not work overtime and has been required to work overtime.
(5) Employee agrees to work overtime and Ms to report. Any employee who accepts overtime and Ms to report for such awrtme will be charged double the number of hours he would have been charged.
(8)	Employee is ottered overtime and refuses.
(7)	Employee is on bereavement and all employees to his classification within the	3
unit would have been offered overtime and the employee void have been offered overtime had he not been on bereavement
(8)	Employee is on jury duty end SU employee* in his dassification within the unit would have been offered overtime and the emptayee would have been offered overtime had he not been on jury duty.
(>) Employee I* compensated In first or second step of grievance procedure for » vfofaflon of Article W. Section 7^2).
f.	The fotowfog rules wil) apply to overtime distribution:
(1)	A probationary employee wU) not be offered overtime unless everyone in the same classification within the unit is offered overtime flrat
(2)	An employee on loan into a unit that is tai the job family of the work being performed, wffl not work overtime in that uni unless all the employees within the unit have been asked to work overtime.	I
(3j	An employee, on loan into « unh. that to not In the job family of the work	I
■	being performed, win not work overtime in that	unit untess art th*	I
emptoyee* wttMn the job family, within the fadfity,	have been asked to	|
work overtime.	I
(4)	Any overtime worked by an employee on ban is to be	recorded on overtime	I
records to his home unh.	j
W
(6)
When an employee on ban returns to his home unit and is ahead on overtime because of overtime worked whie on ban, he wS not work overtime in his borne unit until overtime has bean distributed in accordance with Article VI, Section 7^(1).
Prior to overtime being offered to employee* outside the required job family on that shift, employees on the foflow on shtit will be offered the opportunity to work the overtime In question.
g.	An employee wd not be offered overtime if he cannot perform the overtime work
h
L
withouta break-ln or famWmi.iilion period. Employees replacing other employees for overtime work must be able to parform such work immediately.
No employee wi be disciplined for failure to work overtime. Including holidays, when other employees in his dassMcation and unit within the same facffity, who normaly perform such work have not been required to work the overtime and are willing to work the overtime In his stead.
No employee wU be transferred for the purpose of equatiang overtime.
Overtime records win show the overtime hours worked converted to the number of straight-time hours for the current month and year io date.
49
VI
k.
An employee working in ewares of three (3) bouts into another shift on Saturdays, Sundays, and ttoSdays will, beginning alter three (3) hours, constitute a eftspiaoement provided there is a faOow-on shift and there are emptoyees on the succeeding shift In thedaaBificationofthewortperfarmadwhonorTnallyperfomntireworkinquestion. ft such displacement occurs, the displaced employee wM be paid for the totd time worked into the foflowon shift.
Requests for weekend overtime, overtime worked on Saturday and Sunday, and sbdh and seventh day* in the case of emptoyees assigned to seven (7) day operators, wi be on a voluntary basis provided the required personnel necessary to maintain production schedides can be secured, if the required number of emptoyees do not volunteer for the overtime in question, the necessary emptoyees wil be required to work but in no event wil employee* be required to work more than three (3) weekend assignments in a month.
Section 8. Flight Pay
a.
b.
d.
AD hourly paid employee* required on a ®ght wffl be compensated for afl Ifyfog ItM required in the performance of the duties of adjusting, recording or operating equipment during flights. The following rates wi apply: three dollars ($3) per hour for prapeHer-driven aircraft; four dollars ($4) per hour for turboprop-driven aircraft; and flve doOara ($5) per hour for jetpowered aircraft. This amoiait wi be in add-on to eantings breed on the employee's base hourly wage rate. A minimum of one (1) hour's tight pay wit be paid for the first ascension on any calendar day. For additional ascensions Ch the same calendar day, flight pay will be at the rate specified above, computed to the nearest tenth of an hour.
in addition, the Company wi provide blanket life tosutance coverage to the amount of one hurried thousand doters (ftOC.OOff) per employee ctortog flights required in the performance of the emptoyee's job duties.
Fflght pay wil be equafly distfouted among those emptoyees within a classification and writ who have flight cards and who are quaMed to perform the work.
In sulucling personnel for flight cards when quafifleatfans and experience are equal among those emptoyees within a classification end unit, emptoyees with the highest seniority will be selected;
When it is necessary to reduce flight cards among emptoyees within a ctassftretion and unit it wil be done on the basis of seniority among those emptoyees having ft» same flight cards.
■
if
20
VII
ARTICLE Vlt SENIORITY
Section 1. Layoff
a.	in case of an MefHta layoff for lack of work, an employee vriO be laid off and recaled by ncninterchangeabte Job families in accordance with his serwmty as provided heretic
b.	The ncnintMchengeabte job femsies as listed in the Job Farrriy Appendices have been mutually agreed upon and incorporated and made a part of this Agreement as attached. New or revised ctesstiications and/or job femXes wM be effected in accordance with Article IX.
c.	In case of an Indefinite layoff, a senior employee In a classification in which there Is a lack of awk wil be permitted, tit order at hit seniority, to bump an employee within Ns own job famly who has less seniority m the same or lower labor grade, or to bump a less senior employee si another job famiy as follow®:
(1)	if quaUled under Article VII, Section 1.c(tXa), an employee may bump to a higher fator grads (dassScatiott) than ha can gat by axatasing hfo bump rights in his own job famriy; If faced with an out-of-piant layoff, he may bump into any classification of equal or lower grade.
(a)	If an employee has been si a classification listed in the Job Farrty Appendices and was ao classified for a period not less than sixty (60) Consecutive calendar days subsequent to his seniority date, he may bump to the highest dassKicatian beid. If an employee's work record reflects that he tad a dassiftartion subsequent to hte seniority date that is not fisted kt the Job Fandy Appendices, it w0 bo considered as the Uassificatiori fisted tin the Job Partly Appendices to whidi employees Mrtorming the same wxfc were transferred.
(b)	An employee stealing to bump across job families site another Oateffication wil personally examine the fob and be ghren an explanation by the supervisor of the work to be performed. If the employee so dashes, the shop committeeman tii the zone where the wok is to be performed wil be present at the Interview. An emptayee may elect to bump Into a dassMcatioo that is less than the highest to which be is enfified to bump under Article Vil. Section 1.c(i). if it meets the requirements of this paragraph. The employee wfl be advised that he must be ebte to perform the job within a reasonable period of time without impeding producdcn. Faiure to do so wffl result rii a thirty (30) day Suspension and forfeiture of alt rights to the job family to which he AxercSed Ns rfotrts. Foilowing the thirty (30) day dfecfoimary suspension, the emptayee wff be permitted to exercise his rights to the classification to Which his seniority entities him in his original job family. An emptayee given recal under the provisions of Article Vil. Section t«(lXd) wff be subject to the oondUons of this paragraph Immediately upon recall.
21
VII
(C>
(d)
(e)
(g)
(h)
p
rj

An emptoyee may not bump site a classification that ha left either votuntaify because of his inabWty to perform the work or involuntarily where such inabflity was otherwise established or acknowledged. If an employee quafiftes to bump under the provisions of this section but does not have enough seniority to do so, he wff be given recall rights to the job famtiy from which he was laid eft as well as to the job famOiee into which he could have bumped had be held sufficient seniority. Such recafi rights wd be based upon the dasaficatioas he would have received under the provisions of this section.
The Company w# have up to five (5) worttmg days fallowing the effective date cf the layoff in which to implement the bumpfog between job femBes. Any inequities brought about as a result of such bumping wH be corrected within forty-eight (48) hours, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, or bofidays, after they are brought to the Company's attention. AnyliatStyonthepart. of the Company will commence at the end of the fortyej^it (48) hour period.
An employee who b pieced in an out-cfptent layoff status as a result of being bumped by an employee under Article VII, Section 1.c(1)(a), wfilbe laid off vnmediartety and the Conpeny win not be required, as set forth under Article VII, Section 1x1, to give notice to the Union prior to such layoff.
No more than fifteen percent (15%) of any one job family may be affected by the bumping provided in Article VII, Section 1X(1Xa) in any one (1) month.

(2)	A senior employee bumping under the provisions here defined may be required
to replace the employee he bumps on the shift on which the replaced ' employee was working.
(3)	A senior emptayee wifi automaiicaBy be given the bump m his own job family. ThosewhodonothaverightsunderArtideVIJ,Section1x(1)w>belaidoff. A senior employee who is absent due to a bore fide flness. in Section 900, on vacation, on an approved leave of absence, or other bona tide reasons write the layoff is being processed, and who, if present would have an option to bump an employee under Article VII. Section 1.0(1), vrii be. famished by certffled mail wffh a fist of the titles of those classifications for which be qualifies. Upon receqrtbytha Companyofthedassffication designated by tbs emptoyee(nctlater1hantBn(lO)daysfaflowingrecelptbytheemplcyeeofthe . aforementioned list), the Company wffl process the paperwork necessary to effect the change or to extend layoff rights as provided under Article VII, Section 1c(1Kd)
d.	When there ere layoffs for an indefinite period or for more than fifteen (15) workdays, notice in writing indicating the. classification and number of employees to be surplused In each classification will be given to the Chairman of the Plant Grievance Commutes five (5) work days, if possible, and in no event Ester than three (3) days before such layoff. As soon es possfole, but in no event later than the effective date of the layoff, a list wfil be made avafiabte indicating the names of the employees to be laid off and their positions on the seniority lisL After the cooptation of the layoff, a tist
22

VII
e.
f.
wifi be given to the Chairman of the Plant Grievance Committee indicating the status of the employees affected by tha layoff. When there are layoffs caused by sudden cancelation of major contracts, major subcontracts or acts of God that cause intemiptions of produdton or plant shutdowns, the Company may use the procedure provided by Artfoie Vtl, Section t.e. Within the ten (10) day period provided by Arbde Vil. Section 1.e. the Company wil process the todafWte layoff, providing such layoff is necessary, and give the requisite indefinite-layoff notice to the Chskman of the Plant Grievance Committoe. An employee who is at work and is processed through the termination procedure far indefinite layoff wfl be paid throu^i the end erf the normal shift unless the emptayee requests and is granted permission to process earlier. An employee who is on short-term mattery leave, on vacation, fefftporary layoff or on bereavement, who comes feta the plant and processes through the termination procedure for IndefinSe layoff wti receive four (4) hours’ straighMime pay. When employees are recalled to work, a sfoSar list win be avadabte to the Chairman
■ oftheRantGttevanceCormrelteesfrtftaneauslywilhthenoticetoreturntoworfc-. Temporary layoffs doe to breakdowns, shortages erf materials, manufacturing
^regularities or causes of a tUre nature not to exceed fifteen (15) workdays within a rolling twelve (13) month period may be made by the Company irrespedtre of any provisions of this Agreement Temporary teyoffo wfi be processed fhrour^t Wage Artininistralkwi seniority and classification of those employees within the respective unit and shift affected, provided those retained can perform the .work without a breafc-fo or famUartestioin period. However, a more eenior employee within the respective unit and shift affected may volunteer prior to processing less senior employees for fayerff. Ths restriction on fifteen (15) days wfl not apply in case of any stoppage of work strice or slowdown, or any other case or condition beyond the control of the Conpany. The Chairman of the Plant Grievance Committee wfi be provided a copy of the layoff notice in advance of the temporary layoff. Temporary laytrffe wfil be recorded on the employee’s unit attendance card as a temporary layoff.
The Company and the Union a^ee that the employment of certain emplcyees as defined hereto wM not be governed by seniority ntes. Emptoyeesretatoedoutoflirte of seniority wfil be those needed in starting the development of tooling or manufacturing work on a new project, or whose services are required when the work force is reduced. Such employees wfi be retained up to one hundred twenty <120) calendar days only because no other employee possesses the required skill, license, or experience to perform fire necessary writ. A fist of such persons wilt be made, and a copy w# be famished to the Chroman of the Plant Grievance Committee. Any employee who b removed from the fist wH be subject to tbs rules governing seniority. Any compfaint by the Union regarding an employee on this list will bo handed in accordance with the grievance procedure.
Sections. Recall and Return Rights
a.	Whenever there is en increase in the work force after an indefinite layoff, and before a new employee is hired in a given job famtfy. an employee who has recai rights to that classification within the job family wfi first be offered employment h that classification in accordance with his seniority at the current rate of pay for the job to
23

VII
which he is recalled. An employee wi not be hired h labor grade 5 and below in a ghren job farriy without first considering toose employees who era still on layoff in labor grade 6 end below in that job tamfly. if employees h labor grade 6 and below are quafified to perform the work in question, they wi be offered employment before a new emptoyae is hired.
b.	An employee who subsequent to October 15, 1962, was, or who Mowing the effective date of the Agreement, is transferred or recafod to a lower-rated job other than that to which here entitled under the provisions of this section and Section 1 of this article, will be offered a transfer or read! in tine af seniority to the specific higher-rated job that he was woftong at the time of his transfer or tayofl This provision does not apply to an employee who was transferred from a job far reason of InabSty to perform the job that be was assigned *
c,	tf an employee refuses to accept such offer of transfer, he wtl forfeit any farther daim to any job aquai or krew tn the job famiy from which he was transferred or laid off
d.	An enqfayse wil be reassigned under this section no isfer than the date his replacement reports far work.
e.	No emptoyee wfl ba eligfato by reason of his seniority to be recalled or trmsfened to a figbar-rated job, eroept as provided under Article VIL Section l.cflXa). « as provided under Article Vil. Section Xa.
Section 3.	Loan Prcwstons
-fir'll
■i.
xi
&
To avoid the undesitabie features of sborMime faytiffs and shorHtme meats, and in the interest of productai efficiency that alfects both empbyees and tfte Company, an employee may. upon written notification, hduding justification to the shop i rjsisiaTireoniinf'n) with a copy to the Chatman of the Rant Grievance Committoe. be loaned up to ten {10} working days into amber job famiy horn whit* there are employees on layoff. Written notKcation toduden eleeironfc mesaages sent to a designated Local MS remaff address. Loans in excess often working days are subject to rnitaal agreement in writing with the a^Mopriate shop oomrtettoemanfs). Supervtoon wil provide notiltortion to the union that tottodes emptoyeefs) name, employee nuntoer, unit (byfromX job tantiy (toArarn), job dasstiication (inltiom) and datefs) of loan. Fatiure to naBfy th* Unfan of such loan wffi be cause far compensation to the affected employee on layoff. Rather, should the Company tai to secure mutual agreement beyond the said fan (10) days and continue working the tened employee out cf his job tardy, there wil also be cause tot compensation to the affected employee on layoff. The Company's Satay wff not atoned thirty (30) days. It is not the intent of the Pubes that tins provision wfl constitute a continuous or repetitive taen situation into the same job family or

Section 4.	fafamation Furnished Union
a.	The Company wm furnish the Chtennan of the Plant Grievance Committee the Mowing:	.
(1)	A 6sthg reflecting the seniority, pay rates ant) fast date of hire rtf employees covered by this Agreement
24	■)
J
(2)	A unit personnel fel
b.	Each month, the Company wN ftimtsh the Chairman of the Rent Grievance Committee the fcikjwrng:
(1} A tittfog of promotions and demotions. other then those that are a result of the layoff-recall procedure, among the employees covered by this Agreement; and
<2) A listing of those employees placed in or removed fam Section 000.
c.	At intervals of nppraxenately twee (3) months, the Company wfll furnish the Chairman of the Plant Grievance Committee with the Ufcwing current information pertaining to the average employee covered try this Agreement
(1)	Average straight-time hourly earnings
(2)	Average hourly earnings
(3)	Average atraighMime weekly earnings Average weekly earnings
(5)	Average waeidy hours vrortced.
d.	A copy cd the recall tetter, for those empfoyeee on layoff and befog offered recatt,wfll be given to the Chairman of the Ptant Grievance ConanWee or his designee as soon as possible after the letter is mated.
e.	A copy of the emgtoyeffs acceptance or refaea) of the necai offer, for those employees who are working in the plant, wfll be given to the Chairman of the Plant Grievance Committee or his desqpee as soon as possfoie after the offer is made.
Section 5.	Promotions	I
a.	Whenever promotions are made to higherrated jobs other than supervisory Jobs, the	।
job code, fob title and the labor grade to which the promotion is to be made wa be posted plant wide.
b.	Whenever the Company determines it s necessary to promote or increase the workforce or replace employees who have quit or otherwise tea their emptoymert, the Mowing system wfll be employed'
(1} The supervisor having the vacancy wi initiate a hire request a Request for Personnel toon, and obtain all necessary appnwte sgnatures.
(2)	The completed and property approved Request for Personnel form wfll be forwarded to the designated unit of the Company’s Human Resources department for processing.
(3)	Human Resources wH log and otherwise document receipt of the completed and approved Request for Personnel form.
(4)	Human Resources wfli complete a Promotion Notice form for pooling in the designated areefsK The Promotion Notice wfll be poued in designated central areas by the agreed to Comndttoeman or their designee at each tecWty.
(5)	The Request tr Promotion form wfll be available at an designated Promotion Notice areas. The Request lor Promotion form w* be fotriphcarte.
(6)	An sUpHe employee, within the posted fob ftrnffy, may bid within the allotted throe <3) working days for a posted vacancy by completion of the tripticate Request for Promotion form. The Request for Promotion form 1$ to be completed to detai, with any appropriate attachment, Such as personal resume. and submitted to the bidder's immediate supervisor for acknowledgment
J!
VfJ
m
. (8)
P)
(10)
signature. The employee wH then give one copy to the immediate supervisor, retain one copy, and forward the original via internal plant mall to the designated Human Resources unit
Upon receipt of an employee's Request far Promotion form, the designated Human Resources unit wi) note date and tine of receipt and wte return, via internal plant mat, to the bidding employee b signed acknowledgment drat the completed Request for Promotion form has been received in the designated Human Resources unit
Timety submitted and received bids submitted by eligfote bidders wtthin the posted job family wtil be considered and evaluated by the Company in the filling of a job vacancy.
(a)
(b>
Human Resources wffl review the completed Request far Promotion form, incfividual personnel fites and other data which identifies an employee's work experience, history, education, training, etc. for the purpose of verifying and listing the qualifications of the individual bidders.
Human Resources wi) then conpitte an independent review and evaluation of those bidding.
D
2)
3}
If il is determined there are no bidders who possess qualifications to fifl the vacancy. Human Resources wM Inform the requesters supervisor, the appropriate committeemanfs}, and wflt, through written communications, indfriduaty notify each unsuccessful Udder of the general reasons) the bidder will not be promoted.
Simultaneously, the Company's Employment unit wil be notified to ta the Request for Personnel.
Upon rtfantification of one or more bidders who appear to possess basic qualifications for fifcig the vacancy, Human Resources wi make a recommendation and transmit the appfcations for selection, Oncethecandidatefojlsseiected.theemployeewillbenatifled. The Company *■ make every attempt to initiate promotion(s) within forty-five (45) days of the posting.
In cases of cancellptionjs) of the Request for Promotion, the brdderfs) and the respective committeeman wN be notified of the reason far cancellation and the cancellation wti be posted in the designated area(s) per Article VIL Section 5.b.(4).	'
Whenever a less senior ernpfayee(s) is promoted to till a job vacancy instead of j a more senior bidder. Human Resources wS discuss the promotion wfih the
(It) Whenever it is practical and feasible to do so and wfl not delay production or otherwise adversely impact Company business, the Companjte Employment function wi not be notified of new or replacement manpower requirements untf such time as the Company has considered the etigfole internal candidates who request consideratkm far promotion.
c. When eUgfbte employees within the job family do not submit a request within the three (3) woridng days* limitation because they are on vacation, fury duty, rrtOtsry duty (not exceeding two (2) weeks), tenporary layoff or bereavement, or are absent not

25
VII
more than five (5) days dire to a bona fide illness, they may protest such promotions under the procedure set forth under Article v.
d.	In promotion to labor grades 4 and higher, seniority will govern where ski, qualifications and abUty are equal; in promotions to tabor grades 5 and tower, the most senior qualified employee wff be promoted.
e,	WMe It is the intern of the Company to promote from within, nothing herein will be construed to prevent the Company from HI ing avaiabfe openings through hiring after following the procedure set forth in Artde VI, Section 6J>. An employee in the affected promotional area who feats he should have been promoted to an opening Kited through hiring or transfer across job tandies may fallow the procedure as set forth under Article V.
f.	Promotions may ba processed si Job Fambes 5040,5080.5080, 7000,7070,7140, 7380,7441.7442,7481, 7501 and 7700 without regards to emptoyees having reca* rights in the referenced job fancies.
Section 6.	trrter-Unit Transfers
When the Company transfers todvktoal employees or groups of emptoyees from one unfi to another, oonsideratton wfl be given to seniority. Should an employee believe proper consideration has not been given, the supervisor wb meet with ths committeeman and the employee to explain the reason(s) for the transfer. Nothing herein, however, wW prevent the Company from transferring emptoyees to another uni for production reasons when such transfers do not entail a change of dassiflcatlon, job family or rate of pay.
Section 7.	Shift Preference
a.	When an employee has been continuously and actively on a shift tor three (3) months, he may requests transfer to another shift to a job within hia director’s area, except as noted per Letter of Agreement #24 ff such job is held by a less senior employee in the same dassfficatton for at feast three (3) months, the transfer wilt be made no later than ths second Monday Mowing the request date.
b.	upon the completion at a shift preference request farm (#2-83145), the supervisor wffl pscvtde a copy to the employee and to the applicable union representative,
c.	Any employee who is recalled with Article VII, Section 1.c.(1)(a) rights, may bump, or be bumped to another shfit proofed he has spent a total of thirty (30) dajre in the saros or higher classification from recall start to work date. Such transfer w«l be made no later than the second Monday blowing the request date.
■L Any Emptoyse with acttvs recall rights that te re-hired into a job classification outside the provisions of Article VU, Section l.c^lMa) rights, may bump, or be bumped to another ohm provided be haa spent a total of throe month* to the same or higher ctasstflcatton from re-hire start to work date. Such transfer wffl be made no later than the second Monday Mowing the request date.
«• An employee who accepts a promotion on a shift other than his present one may request a transfer to another shift in one (1) month rather than three (3) months.
27
VII
g>
h.
Such transfer wil be made no later than the second Monday following the request date.
Employees who voluntariy accept a shift transfer wi sign a voluntary shift preference form provided by the Labor Relations Department reflecting that such transfer was vduntsry.
, It Is not mandatory for the Company to transfer more than twenty (2fr%) percent of tire personnel in each unit in any calendar month.
The Company can transfer an employee to another shift for explained production reasons for up to sixty (60) calendar days per transfer. At the end of the sixty (60) day period, the employee wfll, upon request, be raksned to Ms former shift no later than the Monday following, provided there is an employee with less seniority on thto shift. No employee Shaft be subject to transfers under this section for a total of more than ninety (W) calendar days in any (12) month period.
An employee may exercise his shift preference immediately if he was transferred to another shift involuntarily and V there is a fess senior employee in tris dassfficafon who has been in the same classification for at least three (3) months - ths net withstanding Article VII, Section 7,g,
i.
Sectai fl. Sixty-Oey Gause
Sections. Excluded Employee Entering Unit
28
An employee transferred from one job fentoy to another wB. for the purpose of layette, retain serriortty in the job fondly from wtrich he was transferred for a period of sixty (60) days. Effective June 19,1988, emptoyees transferred into a dasstocatai after tody (60) days wfll have seniority in that dassificatior and job fentoy retroactive to their date of transfer, and such date will be their serriortty date in that job family, inequities up to five (5) days affecting an employee's layoff status wffl be discussed with the Chairman of the Plant Grievance Commtttoe to determine the employee's correct job family. This section wa not apply when: a. An employee is transferred in accordance with Artide VII, Section 9.b. and d. b. An employee is transferred or recalled to a job farrtty in accordance with Artide Vil, Section 1,c(1).
c. An errqrlayee b in a dassificstkm tn Job Fanrifies 5040, 5060, 5080, 7000, 7070, 7140, 7380, 7441, 7442, 7491, 7501 and 7700 unless not previously dasstfted in these referenced job families.
a AH employees transferring from the bargaining unit to salary prior to October 1. 2000 wil continue to accrue serrtority. All emptayees transferring from the bargaining unit to salary after October 1,2000 win corrtinuo to accrue eentortty from hte date of transfer tor tip to the racaK period of tone proeMed in Mich VU, section 11, d.
b.	(fan employee transfers from the bargaining unit to a nonsupervisory salary position, end a layoff occurs to the job fantoy and Job classification he held at the tans of tris transfer, then fits seniority wil be affected in the same manner as if he were stfl) In the bargaining unit
VII
c.	A supervisory employee's seniority « not affected by a layoff as long as he supervises bargaining unit employees; however, if a supervisor is affected by Article VII, Section 9.b, to the extent that he is no longer accruing seniority, he must have supervised bargaining uni employees twehe (12) months immediately prior to returning to the bargaining unit with seraority.
<J. A salaried employee may return to the bargainfog unit at the highest dassiflcabon beW within the job family that seniority entitled hbn in accordance with the layoff procedure and the stay (60) day rule does not apply. If the job classification he was previously in has been changed or Incorporated into a new job family, the employee's former job famiy wff be considered the job farrty that new encompasses the work he formerly performed. The employee retumingto the bargainingunitwai be returned at the rate of pay he would have received had he remained in the bargaining unit
e.	If a salaried employee does not hold seniorty in his former job famiy and is transferred Into the bargaining unit, the sixty (60) day rule does apply.
f.	If an hourly supervisor'* job family in which he had acqraed bargaining un> seniority no longer exists, such hourly supervisor may be transferred back into the bargaining unit teto the job famiy he last supervised, provided;
(1)	He was supervisor over the job famiy for twelve (12) months or more; and
(2)	It is the largest job famiy to terms of number of workers as reflected by the seniority listing. The sbdy (60) day rule will not apply and he wri be slotted-in according to his seniority position in line wth the layoff procedure.
g.	If a salaried empfoyee who was not fomatty in the bargaining unit is transferred into It, seniority wriU commence on the date at entry into the bargaining unit
Section 10. Probation Period
a.	An empfoyee wffl be consktered a probationary ampkryae from hire date through « period of ninety (90) calendar day* following the employee's transfer into e production unit, not Io exceed one hundred twenty (120) l ulend sr days from th* employee’s first day of work.
b.	After completing his probationary period, an employee's seniority wil be accurradeted from his date at hire. The provisfans of trite Agreement wffl apply during his probationary period; however, there wil be no responsibility on the part of the Company for continuous emptoynwU or for reemployment if said employee is laid off before the oompfatfon of ha* continuous probation period. During sodi probationary period, layoff or cfcchaige wffl be left tothe discretion of the Company.
c.	An emptayea tansfoned from one job family to another and acquiring -entry-date seniority* per Article VII, Section 6 wil be considered a probationary employee for sixty (60) calendar day* feiowing entry date into the job famiy not previously held. This probationary period wa be far the purpose of determining whether the employee can successfoly accompfeh the major functions of the job classification entered. Before the Company removes the employee from the classification, supervwfan wff fully discuss with the employee, the respective committeeman and steward the reraonfs) the employee is unable to perform the duties required to retain the position. The employee wi have bump rights as provided for In Artide VII, Section t .0(1).
29
VII
[a
Section 11. Lose of Seniority
a.
b.
d.
e.
An employee will lose seniority under any one of the folowing circumstances:'
He resigns
He retires
He is discharged for just cause
He is laid off for lack of work far a period of more than forty«gfrt (48) months, provided he has recal rights on or subsequent to the effective date of this Agreement
He fats to report for work within five (5) working days (or fols within said five (5) working day period to ghre satisfactory reasons for not returning to work), alter due notice of recall to return to work has been deivered by certified letter from the Company to the employee's last known address.
(i)
(2)
O>
(4)
f.
He
The employee is requested to notify the Company within twentyfour (24) hours of receipt of this natioe as to whether he accepts or refuses the recall.
An emptoyee’s last knorn address win be the address shown on the employee's last termination notice; however, if the employee has sidrsequentty furnished the Employment Office written and dated notroe of address changes, then the most recent change wBI be used as the employee's last known address.
If an employee is sent a recall letter in fine with his seniority and within five (5) working days submits to the Company satisfactory medical evidence showing he is unable to return to work because of illness or injury, he wH be bypassed for a period not to exceed forty-eight (48) months provided he continues to submit satisfactory medical evidence once eech month that he is unable to return to work. Upon receiving a release font his doctor that he is able to return to work, he w» report to the Company Employment Office within five (5) working days for the purpose of going to work.
If an employee provides satisfoctory medical evidence end is determined to be a at recal wttiin ninety (90) days of his recall expiration date, the employee will be granted up to a six (6) month extension from the date be Is determined ill at recall for the purposes of returning to work.
is absent for five (5) consecutive workdays without property notifying the
Company. Such absence wffi be considered a voluntary quit unless the employee can present satisfactory proof to justify Ms fafore to notify the Company. Each employee wil be pven a Gating of the phone numbers) he Is to use for repotting absences.
Section 12. Period of Recall
An employee's seniority record will not be interrupted by layoff for lack of work provided he has recall rights as of the effective date of this Agreement end is recalled within a period of forty-eight (48) months from date of layoff.
30

It is agreed that in those instances where emptoyeee hwe the same seniority date as esttiished by Arttcte VII. Section 8, Strty-Dsy Clause, the emptayees w» have for the purpose of indeflnito layoff seniority (service time exduded) from the date of emptoymerrt with the Company. In the event thd troth entry date seniority and Company seniority (not service time) are equal, the employee having the lowest employee number wW be the most senior employee In the event of indefinite layoff.
31

Effective October 1,2000 the base rate of emptoyees continuously employed in a particular job classification will be advanced twenty canto ($20) per hour every Quarter. Such tocraaeer wUf bo effective on the first Monday In March, June. September, and December of each year of this agreement uraa the matornum nite of the grade for such classification is reached. If an automatic increase wDl bring an employee's base rate within tour cents ($.04) of the mawnum of the assigned rate range, the amount wN be added to his last automatic increase.
Effective October 9,2000, all emptoyees In Automatic Progression wifi receive an increase, not to exceed maxtoiun rata, of twenty cents (120) per hour to his base rale. This adjustment w® bring all employees in Automatic Progressnci to an equal status to begin application of the schedule fisted in Article VHI,
b.
c.
(1)
(2)
0)
H)
i
32
The rata of an employee who is promoted or transferred to a hitter labor grade job wM immedtatBly ba advanced to either
The rata of an employee transferred to a lower labor grade job within the same job family or wither a job tamiy in accordance with Article VII, Section 1.c.(1) wffl be decreased to either
A rate fifteen cents (115) per hour above his present rate If the promotion involves a one (1) or two (2) labor grade increase nd to exceed the labor grade maximum
A rate thirty cents (S.30) per hour above his present rate if the promotion invohres a three (3) or more labor grade increase, not to exceed the labor grade maximum
If he has been previousty classified kt the particular labor grade and job family subsequent to his date Of seruocity, his previous rate held while classified In the particuisr labor grade and job famiy if It is higher than he woted receive under either Artxte VIII. Section 2.c.(1) or (2).
A rate equal to the minimum of the rate range if it is greater than fifteen cents (115) or thirty certs ($.30).

Vlll
(1)
ta>
(3)
• Sections. Rate Ranges
a. Hourly Rate Structure Schedule
33
A rate fifteen cents ($.15) per hour below his present rate, or to the maximum of the lower labor grade if the maximum is in excess of fifteen cents ($.15) per hour
Emptoyees taid oft and retumtog to job famttes with rights acquired through the sixty (60) day clause provision wfl be paid the rate they would have been paid had they remained in the classification.
tf the ernptoyee was previously classified in the particular tabor grade and job fernty, ids previous rate on that Job ff it is higher.
e.	An employee who is Isteraly transferred within the same job famfly in accordance wflh Artxte VII. Section l.c(1) wBI have no toss of rate due to such transfer and his advancement in rate in his new dassifcatfon wi be as If he had remained in his prior ci&9sffic3tton»
f.	An employee who is transferred to a Job to the same or lower labor grade to a dBferent job femify wM be paid an appropriate rate according to his quaHicationa and wit, thereafter, advance as provided above.
g.	An employee whose base rate is above the maximum rate of hm labor grade as a result of . the transfer from the tanner Temoo rate structure to the Vought Aircraft Company rate structure wff retain this "red drcte' rate so tong as he is continuously employed on that particular job cfesstflcetion. and wil be subject to subsequent general increases based on hfe red drcte rate. If the employee Is not paid a red cade rate due to being laid off or transferred to another job dassiticatton.tar a period of eighteen (18) mordhs or more, hewff not reoerre the benefit of his former red circle rate should he return to the pwticutar job classification tn which he held that rate.
Effective: October 1.2000
■ UAW Rate Schedule			
LG	Min	Mid	Max
L	14AS	19.81	24.67
1	1449	19 55	24.42
2	13.8?	1842	23.78
3	ixoe	18.13	2120
4	12-2€	17J1	22.16
5	1142	16.56	21.70
6 .	10.60	15.95	2140
7	940	1543	21.06
8	848	14.90	2041
.9	8.15	1448	20.62
10	8.15	11.64	15.14
VIII
in ttddbon, effective March 9, 19S2, any lead aver labor grade 1 empfoyees will progress to a rate fifty-one cents (5.51) above the maxinum of labor grade L
b. Each labor grade maxinum wW be increased by the general increase percentage reflected in Article VIII, Section 1 effective on the date of such general increase.
I	c. Beginning July 15,1995, anti on each subsequent COLA effective date during the life
I	of this Agreement, a revised Hourly Rate Structure Schedule wi> be published by
I	Wage Administration. Copies w3l be dwtrftiuted to toe UAW Local 848 Presrderrt.	.
Chairman of tire Rant Grievance Commsttae and each committeeman.	’
Section 4,	Performance Awards	'j
a.	Each employee on the active payroS or In section 900 on October 1,2000 wtB receive a ratification bonus to the amount of fifteen hundred dollars ($1,500) poyabte October 13,2000.
b.	On March 15, 2002, a performance award wUI be paid to each employee who is either on the active payrd. in Section 900, or on layoff with recafl rights on December 31.2001, or who retired during 2901, This performance award w® be a lump sum amount equal to fore percent (5%) of the empfoyee’s 2001 Total sources* earnings whfle employed in this affective bargainbig unit
c.	On March 21, 2003. a performance award wUi be paid to each employee who is either on fire active peyroff, to Section 900, or on layoff with recall rights on December 31, 2002, or who retired during 2002. This performance award w# be a tamp sum amount equal to three percent (3%) of the emptoyae's 2002 Total sources* earnings whfle empioyed in this collective bargaining unit
d.	On March 19. 20M, a performance award win be paid to each employee who is eftheren the active payroll, in Section 900, or on layoff with recall rights on December 31, 2003, or who retired during 2003. This performance award wU be a lump sum I amount equal to two percent (2%) of the employee's 2093 total sources* eannngs write emptoyed in this cdtective bargaining unit.
e.	Beneficiaries of deceased employees wfi) receive the performance award the employee would have been emitted to based on their earnings fo the year of their death.
Section S.	Shift Differential
a.- The Company wU pay to all houriy-rated employees on the second shift tries base hourly rate plus toe percent (5%),	'
b. The Company wU pay to an bourty-rated employees on the third shift their base hourly rate plus five percent (5%) Hourly-rated employees on the third shift whose regular shift comprises not more than six and one-hatf (614) working hours, and who a	work a tail str and one-hatf (654) hours on that shift wM receive eight (8) hours' pay.	!
B	AU work performed cn sucto thinl shift over six and one-half (654) hours wW be	j
11	,considered overtime and wB be paid for at time and one-hatf. An employee who is
late more than thirty (30) minutes at the Start of the shift or who leaves more than i
I ’	thirty (30) mfoutes before the end of the shift will not receive the additional one and
11	one-half (154) hours' pay.
Ml	34
Sail
VIII
c. The base hourly rate plus five percent (5%) or seventy-five cents ($.75), whichever is higher. wffl be paid by the Company to an bourty- rated employees on the thrt shift, who are assigned to seven (7) day operations and who have a regular or normal work day of eight (8) hours.
Section 6. Cost-of-LMng Allowance (COLA)
10 addition to the base rate of pay nt each employee end subject to the conditions and provisions set forth in this section, a cost-oHMng allowance (COLA) wfll be paid to each employee based upon changes in the eost-oNMng as follows:
a.	The cosWf-tiiring aftwanca, if any, wfl be determined in accordance with changes in the Consumers' Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (CPLW), Revised Series (U.S. city average, all Items, 1982 equals 100). based on the rental equivalency now published montHy by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor (hereafter referred to as BLS Consumers' Price Index).
b.	The cosf-of-lrving alcwance wM be computed on the bass of one cent ($.01) for each two-tenths (1L2) point increase or decrease in the BLS Consumers' Price Index and wM be calculated and made effective quarterly, as shown In the following table.
	^Jr^Opn^uhtorVRectod’.^	, ■ ’B^^fdnJAveragi^'TTwe-month BIS ■' i^immnanf-JlHcaitecNcesTM: ■.
October 16,2000	June. July. August 2000
January 15,2001	September, October, November 2000
April 16,2001	December2000, January & February 2001
July 16.2001	March, April, May 2001
October 15,2001	June, July. August 2001
January 14.2002	September, October. November 2001
April 15.2002	December2001, January & February 2002
July 15,2002	March, April, Mey 2002
October 14,200(2	June, July, August 2002
January 13,2003	September, October, November2002
April 14,2003	December 2002. January A February 2003
July 14.2003	March. Apri, May 2003
October 13.2003	June, July. August 2003
January 12,2004	Septenfoer, October, November 2003
April 12,200+	December2003, January & February 2004
July 12.2004	March, April, May 2004
35
d.
f.
g-
hi
36
VIII
For example. the amount of the cost-of-lMng aflcwance that is effective on Octobar 16, 2000. wN be calculated using he BLS Consumers' Price Index for June, July, and August, 2000 and any subsequent adjustments in the BLS Consumors' Price Index w® be computed as stated in Article VUt, Section 6.b.
; Effective with the October 16,2000, adjustment and thereafter, to receive the COLA adjustment each employee must have been an active employee, or in Section 900 for the fol period in which the adjustment Is made. For example in the case of a cm hire, to receive the October 16, 2000, adjustment, an employee must be on the payroll on or before June 1, 2000. For the January IS, 2001 adjustment the ecrpJoyee must be on the payroll on ar before September 1,2000, and so forth. An employee on layoff urith recsl rights vril receives COLA adjustment for any quarter in wfoch he was an active employee for at least one (1) day during the COLA computation period.
. COLA adfostments wffl be folded into each employee's base rate and each tabor grade maximum wil be increased by the amount of foe COLA adjustment on each COLA effective date.
. An enpioyeeta cosKiMrving atowance wff be included in computing pay for overtime premium, vacation, holiday, cal-in, jury duty, bereavement and military duty.
In the event the Bureau of Labor Statistics does not issue the Consumers' Price Index on or before the effective dates refoncd to in Article VIII, Section 6.b, any adjustments required w® be made at foe beginning of the first pay period after recefot of the index.
. No adjustments, retroactive or otherwise, will be made due to any revision which may later be made in the published figuree for the BLS Consumers' index for any base month.
. The Parties agree that this provision for a cost-oMMng dowance is dependent upon the svaltaMily of foe official monthly BLS Consumers' Price index in its same form and ralcutated on the same basis as the indices for June, July, and August 2000

IX
ARTICLE DC-JOB CLASSMCA7JQM& FAMILIES AND LABOR GRADES
Section 1.	Changes in Job Famiy Appendices
a.
b
The job classifications and labor grades, as fated In the Job Famfly Appendices, and any new ones that may be established to accotdance with this artlde, become a part of and are subject to at toe applicable provisions of this Agreement The agreadto job descriptions and specifications oirranfly m existence and any new or revised ones that may be estatfished in accordance with this article becomes part erf and are subject to an the appficable provisions of this Agreement
The Company wM have the right to establish new jobs, to revise exfcttog jobs, to evaluate and to obsolete jobs, providing such ectioowil not be directed toward reducing the labor grade of a job In which no substotial change tn the job itself has occurred.
(D
(2)
When e new or revised operation involves duties that are not adequately or specifically described or property evaluated to an existing job desorption, spedfleafion and classification, the Company has the right to develop and estabftsh such new or revised job descriptions, epedfleaifons and classifications, rates of pay. and job famiy placements, and to place them into effect An existing job description. spedfcaUon and classification wN not be considered to cover a new or revised job classification Ifi (a) The new or revised job cover* major specific functions not cafied out in the existing job; or
(b	) The existing job cover* major spedfic functions not catted out in the new or revised Job.
Notwithstanding other provisions of ths Coflaclhw Bargaining Agreement, the Company wffl advise the Union of fls intent to place a new or revised job into «ffectthirty(30)calandardayspriortoactueflyworWngtoejob. Mewing such notification, the Parties will meet and discuss the proposed new or revised job in an effort to ranch agreement on the job classification and job famiy placement Upon the Parties reaching an agreement the new or revised job wffi be placed Into rrffect Should the Parties not reach agreement within the thirty (30) calendar day period, the Company my place the new or revised job Into effect In accordance with the provisions of toe CoOedire Bargaining
Agreement
c.	The Company writ send by certified mai ten (10) copies of such job descriptions, spedfeabons and dastiflcattons, rates of pay and job famfly placements to the President of the local Union withto fifteen (15) days after placfog them into effect The job specification sheets win include the factors, point scoring and other itfonwfon,
d.	The Union wfll have the right within thirty (30) days erf receipt from the Company of a new ar revised Job, to fie a Union gnevanca sieging:
(1)	Improper evaluation and labor grade
(2)	Improper job famiy placement; and/or
37
I
IX
9
(■) (b) W (d)
The proper evaluation
The proper labor grade
The proper job famiy and
Whether the new or revised job may property be placed or retained in an existing classification.
(3)	That such new or revised operations Should be pieced or retained in an exrstrig job description, specification and classification.
Such grievance wil state the Union's position, the facts upon which it is based and the remedy or correction requested. In the event of a job rating grievance, the specific factors with which the Union disagrees, together with the reasons why it believes the factors are not evaluated properly, must be listed by the Union on the grievance form. In the event that the Company and the Union are unable to resolve the grievance, ft may be appealed to arbitration n accordance with Article V, Section S.a. The artrilrafion wN be limited fo a determination (based on the work as described by the Company) of
h.
L

Thirty (30) days after receipt of such notification if the Union has not fled a Union grievance, the job classification wil be added to the Job Famiy Appendices. The job description and spedtafion. rate of pay, and job famBy placement will become a part of and be subject to si of tha appfcabte praMstens of this Agreement
The Company's right to mate work assignments and to determine methods of operations Ism no way restricted by this rabde and wl not be subject to arbitration. When arbitrating the rate of pay fix a job, the authority <rt the arbitrator wil be limited to determining which of the existing labor grades the new or revised job wil be placed in. The arbitrator wil base his award on evidence either Party presents under the Company’s Hourly Job Rating Plan, fndudng iniraplantjob comparison material.
The effective date of the rate of pay of any new or revised job wH be the date the new or revised job was placed into effect by the Company. In the event this rate is revised through the grievance procedure, such revision aril be retroactive to the date the job was placed into effect
In the event that the job is placed in a different job famiy or classification than the group or classification in which the Company originafly placed it, either by agreement between the Parties or by decision of the arbitrator, the effective date of displacement pay. if any, wU be three (3) wrakmg days from the date of settlement by the Parties, or three (3) working days from the date of receipt of the arbitrators decision by the Company. IMwn the Union gives notice to the Company of intent to arbitrate such a matter, t wil list in writing to the Company the reasons for disagreement and the relief sought
(1)	Any duty presently appeamg as part of th# Job specifications
(2)	Experience; and
(3)	Education
The Company agrees with tha principle that, lower classified employees should not perform higher dassrfied work on a regular and consistent basis without being paid the higher rate. The Company wil continue to use ”C* dasstficatfons when the need for such classifications exists. Whie the Company agrees that ah job descriptions should
38
JX
be written to show a dear line of demarcation between dassifications. it cannot agree that all unrelated duties appearing in present job descriptions wtg be removed.
Section 2.	Work Outside Job Family
a.	The Company will make every effort possfoie to keep employees writing in their respective ctessifcstions and job families. tn the event an employee is required to work outside of Ns job .family in excess of ten (10) days, such period of time in excess often (10) day* W® be mutually agreed to to writing by the Company and the respective committeeman(s). Job desofotions and specifications wto be used for the purpose of distinguishing one job dasslfcstton from another as dearly and definitively as possfoie. tn muttitevel or series-type jobs, job descriptions and specifications must dlsttoguish the level of pay of each job.
b.	It is understood IhMompicyoae may be required to perform work wtthin other job families, de mfntoifs in length, and only in conjunction with the compietfoo of their normal job.
Section 3.	fnvoiuntaryTransferto Lower Cteetoficstion
Under the terms of prior Agreements, an employee could not be tovdunteriy transferred to a tower dassiScation within his job famiy, remitting in a condition where an employee could be assigned to the *A* classification with the commensurate rate wide performing the duties of the "B* classification. The Parties a^in agreed during the 1965 negotiations that where the above condition exists, an employee wffl not be transferred to a tower tabor grade within Ms job faniy for the duration of this Agreement, except under the Mowing conditions:
When there has been a significant change in the job content of the classification to which an employee was assigned or a significant change in Ms work assignment When there is a bona fide reduction in force that affects the employee in his job fentify.
was further agreed between the Parties that an employee cannot use
b.
ft
mndassificaticm es cited above as ground* for requesting an upgrade.
Section 4	Proper Classification
For the purpose of determining if an employee is property dasstesd. it is understood and agreed that an emptoyee wW not be required to perform eft of the toddental duties included In a job description, but he must perform the major functions of the job on a regular basis. Major functions are those duties cated out in a fob that are not coveredin a tower-rated job and require the performance of a skfil or other •factor that to not required in the tower-rated job. An emptoyee wffl not be considered to ba improperly dassitied by reason of occasionally performing mteor functions or isolated or minor duties in a higher job. tn case of dispute, the normal function of the job wa govern based on the normal past practice of the shop. When it is determined that an employee is improperly classified, these findings wi not be used as grounds for requesting an upgrade of the entotoyee. Promotion reassignment and/or replacement of the employee will be effected under the terms provided hereto.
39

X
ARTICLE X HOURS NOT WORKED, INCOMPLETE DAYS WORKED
Section 1. Bereavement Ray
a.	Three (3) days bereavement pay vrit be granted to an employee who takes time off from a regular workweek because of a death In the immediate tamiy (as defined below). Upon saOsfectory proof, bereavement pay wfii be provided for a death of thefofcwring:
EMPLOYEE'S FAMILY
Spouse Father Brother Haff brother Stepfather Stepbrother StejxdiDdren Grandfather Great-grandfather GrsAgrandcMdren
Chikfren Mother Oster Half sister Stepmother Stepsister Grandchidren Grandmother Greatgrandmother
PRESENT SPOUSFS FAMILY
Father Mother
b.	Bereavement pay w9 be authorized where the request is for time off from work during any one or more of the fakwing days (note that weekends, holidays or other norwoguiarty scheduled work days are excluded in determining an emptoyees nsrimum three (3) days bereavement pay settlement):
0) The date of death; the first, second or third regularly scheduled work day immedtateiy preceding the date of death; the first second or third consecutive regularly scheduled worked days imrnetfiateiy following the date of death; the date of interment; the first second or ffiird regularly schedteed workday immediately preceding the date of interment andfor the first second or third consecutive regularly scheduled work day Immediately fallawing the dtea of . interment
(2)	The days taken by the employee for those designated above need not be consecutive.
c.	Authorized bereavement pay wB count as lime worked for the purpose of determining vacation efigfofiity and for pensions.
d.	Bereavement pay wM be authorized on a pro-rata basis when only a portion of a regularly scheduled work day is taken off.
e.	Authorized bereavement pay wti count as time worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
40
X
f.
fl-
it
Sectan 2. HoUdays
41
(a) M W W
«
The employee's bona fide Knees Death si the employee's Immediate famiy The performance of Jury duty Occupational injury of the err&oyee Excused Lfoton business
Authorised time off under the bereavement pay policy will count as time worked for the purpose of determinmg holiday pay eiigibjity.
Time off under the bereavement pay policy may be approved for days falling within an emptoyee’s scheduled vacation. Days far whkfo bereavement pay Is so proved wit not be counted as vacation days.
Bereavement pay wffl not be granted to an etrployee who is on leave of absence or extended sick leave (Section 900).
Hourly rated emptoyees who meet aft of the etigfoWty rules and conditions wSI be paid for the Mowing holidays;
		crzooi:-:.-.":	.®2W2:-	2003	-2X)4.
New Yew's Day		Jen 1	Jani	Jan 1	Jani
Martin Luther Ksig Jr. Day		Jan 15	Jan 21	Jan 20	Jan 19
Good Friday		Apr 13	Mar 29	Apr 18	Aprs
Memorial Day		May 28	May 27	May 26	May 31
Independence Day		July 4	July 4	Jufy4	July 5
Labor Day		Sep 3	Sep 2	Sep 1	Sep 6
Thanksfjvmg Day	Nov 23	Nov 22	Nov 28	Nov 27	
Day after Thanksgiving	Nov 24	Nov 23	Nov 20	Nov 28	
Year End Holiday	Dec 25	Dec 24	Dec 23	Dec 24	
	Dec 26	Dec 25	Dec 24	Dec 25	
	Dec 27	Dec 26	Dec 25	Dec 26	
	Dec 28	Dec 27	Dec 26	Dec 29	
	Dec 29	Dec 28	Dec 27	Dec 30	
		Dec 31	Dec 30	Dec 31	
			Dec 31		


a.	An amptoyee wD receive eight (8) hours pay at Hs regular base rate, indudmg shift Merental, but excluding d premiums, bonuses or overtime dowances for such holiday not worked, provided be meets al of the fodowtng provisions:
(1)	The emptoyee wodd otherwise tave been scheduled to work on such day if it bad not been observed as a holiday
(2)	The employee must have worked the last scheduled workday prior to, or the next scheduled workday after such holiday. However, this subsection (2) wK rut apply In the evertl that absence on the workday prior to or on the workday after such holiday has been excused because of
X
ffi to)
(h)
The employee is laid off during the week in which the holiday fols The enqrtyee is placed in Section 900 due to Onose or occupational injury, during the week m which the holiday fads
The employee returns to work from Section 900 on Tuesday faDowmg a Monday holiday and would have otherwise returned to work on Monday had it not been observed as a holiday.
(3)	If an employee h Section 900 is released by bis doctor to return to work on a date that falls between the last scheduled workday prior to the Christmas through New Year holiday period, and that employee works the tins* scheduled workday fbOowmg New Year's Day, he wB receive hoflday pay far those holidays observed by 1he Contoany, beginning with the date on which he would have returned to work had ft not been observed as a hoftday.
b,	When a hofday falls on Saturday, the preceding Riday wfll be observed as the
c.
d.
hokday and wti be paid as such hoiday. When a holiday fefc on Sunday, the . foVowing Monday wil be observed as the holiday and wV be paid as such holiday.
When one of the above hoddays tails within an eligible employee's scheduled vacation period and the employee is absent tram wort; on the hobday because of 1 vacation, be wil be granted an additional day of paid vacation.
The Company may. at its option, observe the holidays listed in Article X, Section 2 by not operating its plants, departments or sections thereof, or it may schedule such hobdaya as regular workdays. An employee who is scheduled far work on any holiday and who tails to report (brand perform such work wO not receive pay for the holiday except where there are ether employees wflflng to work as sat forth under Article Vl, Section 7.h. If work wfll be required during the Christmas shutdown, a list of affected employees wti be posted by December 15. tf the contemplated work load requires changes to the bst, overtime far the additional employees wi be on a voluntary basis. An employee eligfote for holiday pay under these provisions who is scheduled to wort and performs work on a holiday wtf receive pay for such work only in accordance With the applicable provisions of Arbtfe Vt, Section 5.
Section 3. Jury Duty/Wftness Pay

a.	When an employee is required to and adualy does serve on jury duty on a regularly scheduled working day, reganSess of shift, he wl receive eight (8) hours' pay at his base rate less any jury fees he receives, provided he notifies the Company prior to the day on which his jury duty is scheduled to begin. In Instances of standby jury . duty, an employee will receive pay only for hours subsequent to being called to jury duty not to exceed the remainder of the shift. Satisfactory proof of such services must be given to the Company before this section wil apply.
b.	■ An employee who has been subpoenaed adversely to testtfy in a case other than one involving himself, the Company, or the Union, and does testify, wfll receive eight (8] hours pay at bis base rate less any witness pay he received, provided he notifes the Company prior to the day which he is scheduled to testify. Proof of such service satisfactory to the Company must be given before pay wW be authorised.
42
J

■ Section 4, MktaryPay
Any employee who is called to and performs short-term active duty of two (2) weeks at less as a member of the U.S. Armed Forces Reserve or National Guard wa be paid the difference between hi* mttaiy pay and his nomnd straight-time earnings tor this period, net exceeding two (2) weeks. This will be Smiled to ten (10) workdays per Military year, beginning October 1 of each year.
SecOort 5. Rest Periods
a.	Employees will ba allowed one (1) scheduled ten (10) minute rest period before and
one (1) scheduled ten (10) minute rest period after lunch in each scheduled eight (8)	I
hour work shift al time* designated by the Conqrany. Emptoyee* will work up to the	I
start of the rest period and be St work at the arid of the rest period.
b.	Employees wN beaftowed one (1) scheduled ten (10) minute rest period for each two	>
(2)	hows of scheduled wartime.	;
Sections. Personal/Slck Pay
a.	Employees wfll accumulate peisonalftick pay credit at the cate of one-twelfth (1112) of
forty (40) strait-time hours for each month of service during th# calendar year, and	]
wiH be credited with th# amount thus accumulated on the folawing January 1,	j
provided they were on th* active payroll prior to November 1 of ihe calendar year and
they are on the active payroll on such January 1.	!
b.	No emptoyee wfll be credited with personalfetok pay until the January i following the calendar year in which peraonalfoick pay credits are accumulated. No employee wfll be created for more than forty (40) hours' pereonal/sick pay at the end al any calendar year.
c.	Personal/sick leave credited on any January 1 for employment in the previous year and that credited under Article X, Section B.c(2) w® be paid th* following January 1, wfth the following exceptions:
(1)	An employee who I* absent al least on* (i) hour or who receives a pass to leave the plant at least one (1) hour before the end Of the shift wil. at tn	’
request, be paid personalfoick pay in one (1) hour increments up to eight (8) hours if he is eligible. Third shift empfoyoee not working th* required six and one htef (6 U2) bout* msy take Slck/Pereonal pay In one (1) hour Increments to complete eight (8) hour*. Example: 3“ shift employee leaving plant attar Ihre (5) hour* work must taka three (3) hour* SleUPereonal for credit of eight (8) hours.
(2)	An emptoyee who is etigbl* for payment of unused peraonaVsick pay on	।
January 1 may elect to defer such payment and add these unused days to	#1
those with which he wa* credited on that January 1, for a combined maximum	al
not to exceed fifteen (15) days.	jjl
(3)	An emptoyee who, for any reason, terminates prior to the following January 1,	II
will be paid all the unused pereonaUteck pay credited to him the previous	■]
«	m
| X
January 1 In addition lo the unused personalfeick pay deferred by him under Article X, Section 6.c(2).
d.	Personavrick pay credits accumulated prior to day of layoff, death or retirement wil be handled as Mows:
(1)	An employee who Is laid off, who
(a} at the time of layoff was accumulating personaVsick pay credits for time worked.
(b) had not been credited with peraonal/sick pay the January 1 preceding the date of his layoff, and
(0) is not recaled during the same calendar year, wff on date of recall be credited with eft personelfnck pay credits accumulated between the date of his layoff end the preceding January 1. He wil then be paid m accordance with Article X, Section 6.0.
(2)	An employee who Is laid off, retires or dies and w*» was audited an January 1 preceding the date of layoff, retirement or death with perwnallsfck pay hours accurmdated prior to this January 1, wi be paid all the pereonaVsick pay hours accumulated by him between the date of his layoff or retirement and the preceding January 1.
□	e. For the purpose of this section, a tu# calendar year wD mean from January 1 through
I .	December 31. during which an emptoyro is paid by the Company for performing work
I	for the Company, except as outfired in Article X, Section 6.f. A monfo of service, for
I	the purpose of this section, w3 be detmed es service for the Company of no lees than
I	the first (1st) day through the sixteenth (16th) day of any calendar month, or the
H	fifteenth (19th) day through the test day Of any cteendar month.
R	f. If an employee is on leave of absence and/or in Section 900 for a fotal exceeding
R j	sbdy (SO) criendar days tea given calendar year, his personalfsidc leave credit on the
I :	. Mowing January 1 vriU be reduced three and three-tenths (3-3) hours for each thirty
[p	(30)dsyswfractfonthereafof such excess, For example: if en employee has a totsi
|i j	of eightyebc (86) days Of leave and/or days in Section 800 in the calendar year 1978,
1	his personai/sick leave credit on January 1, 1979, wi be reduced three and
J	three-tenths (3.3) hours. The (blowing exceptions apply:
(1)	No atirwrance for leave of absence time sndfar Section 900 time will exceed the number of days an employee works and is paid for by the Company in any calendar year.
(2)	Any employee on leave of absence andfor Section 900 for a total of eleven (11) calendar months durfog the previous calendar year wil not be credited with any personaVsick pay hours on any January 1 under this plan.
g.	Payments made under this perecnalfeick pay plan wi be computed at the current
,	strfoghFttme hourly rate the employee is receiving at the time of such payment
Pereonelfeick pay wB be paid only for streighMime hours not worked by the employee and in no event for an absence of less than one (1) hour.
h.	Language under this section does not tn any way alter the requirements for holiday pay.
44
Section?. Vacations
(3>
w
Efigibiity
(1)	A vacation Of one (1)week, consisting of five (5) vrorkmg days, wtt be allowed an hourly rated employee who on hie eentanty data in any year during the life of this Agreement wffl have been continuously and actively in the employ of the Company fora period of al least one (1) year prior thereto.
(2)	A vacation Of two (2) weeks, consisting of ten (10) working days, wffl be allowed
(5)
b.
an hourty rated emptayee who on his seniority data in any year durng the life of this Agreement wffl have been corttouousfy end actively in the employ of the Company fora period of at least two (2) years prior thereto.
A vacation of three <3) weeks, constating of fifteen (15) working days, will be allowed an hourty rated employee who on his seniority date in any year during ths fife of this Agreement wffl have been continuously and actively in the employ of the Company for a period of st least ten (10) year* prior thereto.
A vacation of four (4) weeks, constetfog of twenty (20) working days, wffl be afiowed an hourty rated emptayee who on his sankrrity date in any year during the life of this Agreement wffl have been continuously and actively in the employ of the Company for at least fifteen (15) years prior thereto.
An hourty rated emptayee who does not meet the requirements of efiher Article X Section 7a(lX (2), (3) or (4). wfi receive no vacation, and every emptayee who does meet the requirements of one (1) or more of these subsections wffl receive only the vacation specified to that subsection that gives him the longest vacation.
Rate of Pay
The vacation pay allowances mentioned in this section wilt be computed at the employees regular base hourly rate of pay, Indudmg shift differential, but exclusive of all premiums or overtrne afcwanoes. Any vacation allowance paid on a pro rata basis wffl be deducted tram the regular afiowance.
Eighty Percent Rule
(1)	Ml employees covered by Article X. Section 7^(1), (2), (3) and (4) must, on the seniority date used for computing their vacation eligibility, have worked at least eighty percent (80%) of the regular scheduled working hours of the plant since their seniority date of the preceding year.
(2)	Absences up to sixty-five (65) workdays due to MeSrtte layoff for lack of work and temporary layoffs far causes specified in Article VIL Section t.e. or absences tor jury duty, or absences up to twenty (20) workdays for mffltay service, or days absent for which an employee receives persona^fck pay wffl not be charged against the employee in the computation of vacation etiglbfflty under the eighty percent (80%) nfo mentioned above. In addition, absences due to occupational injury and absences excused by the Company for Union business wffl not be charged against the employee in the computation of vacation efigMty under sad rate.
45
X
d.
f.
Schedules and Cancellations
(1)
(2)
(3)
I Vacation is to be scheduled by seniority between February 1 end February 15 of each year. An employee who refuses to schedule on any round may not subsequently bump a less senior employee's selection. Furthermore, once selections are made, they may not be changed If the selection affects another emptoyee's prior selection. An entgtoyee transferring to e unit where vacation schedules conflict with the transferring employee's prior vacation seiectionfs) wfll not be allowed to bump an employee because of Bertortty from a vacation schedule previously selected. However, every effort wffl be made to accommodate the employee if the transfer was initialed by the Company tor ■ production reasons.
I No vacation may be cancelled without the employee's consent during the two (2> week period immediately preceding the effeohre date, nor wil the Company force an entotoyee to go or* vacation without two (2) weeks’ prior notice, provided there is no major change in the production schedule.
i During the vacation year, up to three (3) weeks, fifteen (15) days, of an empfcyeefe cradled vacation may be taken one (1) or more days st a time. Vacations of less than a full week will not be scheduled on the departmental vacation raster. Vacations scheduled in a block of one (1) or more consecutive weeks wfll have precedence over a vacation of lees than a full week. An employee's request for a vacation of less titan a full week must be made al least two (2) weeks priorto the week in which the vacation would occur and the scheduling of such vacation wfll be granted on the basts of production schedule and the number of employees already scheduled for a fun week of vacation during such week. Up to ten (10) days of an employee’s single day allowance may be used for emergencies. An employee requesting emergency vacation must ncrirfy the Company within the first two (2) hours of his shift
Unused Vacation
(1)
(2)
43)
An employee who is in Section 900 or who has been gutted a Union leave of absence wfi, at his request, be paid for any unused vacation time for which he is eligible. This provision appfes only to fijll vacation time or five (5) day fractions thereof.
An employee who for any reason leaves the payrol of the Company without having taken the vacation for which he is efiglbie wi be pad in lieu of such . vacation for any portion forwhich he has not already been paid.
Effective February 15,1996. the Company will pemtit employees who have not used edi of their current year's vacation to cany ov»r the unused portion, up to a maxsnumoftwc(2)ye»sftotalaccruaL Unused vacation hours exceeding two (2) times an employee's annuel accrual wK be paid to employees semi-annuasy. at dates to be established by the Company.
Pro Rata Vacation
(1) An employee who is laid off. (ties or is drafted into ntititaiy service under the Seleohe Service Act as amended, or who retires under tiie Company's
46
C2)
0)
Section 8. Voting Time
47
Retirement Income Plan, will be paid prorated vacation pay under the following conditions:
(a) (b>
The employee ha* eceumuiatod one (1) or more years of seniority
The emptayee has worked at toast eighty percent (80%) of the reguiarty scheduled working hours of the plant, from his last vacation atigibirty date to his date of termtoatioo.
If the employee meets these conditions, he will be paid at the rate of one4wefflh (V12) of the vacation pay for each month for which he is eilgMe and the major fraction of the month in which ha is terminated for which he has not previously received vacation pay. An employee wffl be deemed to have worked a major fraction of the month in which he is terminated if he has worked a minimum of eighty-five (85) straight-time hows.
An employee recalled from layoff or retummg from military service under the Selective Service Act, as amended, or returning from Section 800 due to iness witt, if not eligible for fuft vacation, be eagttjle for pro rata vacation pay on he seniority date felfog after such recall or return, computed as in Article X, Section 7.f(1), tf he worked at least eighty percent (80%) of the regularly scfoeduted working hours of the plant for the period from such reed or return to such seniority date.
An employee wffl) at least six (8) months seniority but less than one(1) year seniority, who u bdd off wffl be paid pro rata vacation provided the employee has worked at least eighty percent (80%) of the regularly scheduled working hours prior to layoff.
g. The Parties recognize the right of the Company to shut down the ptarrt, or portions thereof, for purpose* of vacation. However, no employee wffl be forced to take his vacation during this shutdown, with the understanding that the employee wil be on vacation without pay if he elects natto take vacation during this shutdown and is not otherwise scheduled. In the event the Company require* a certain cassrficatioa of work to be performed during a scheduled shutdown, employees performing work in the particular classification wil be offered the opportunity to perform the work in seniority order.
The Company witt grant employees reasonable time off to vote in accordance with the existing Texas state tews. Reasonable time for stale and federal etecticns, when requested, wm be one (1) hour for those employees working first shift hours on the election day. Employees requiring reasonable time off to vote will request such tone off from ther supervfeor no later than noon of .the day precedtog the election date. The day after the election, the emptayee wffl subnet his stamped gate pass for voting and certification as evidence of having voted, and hie supervisor wffl approve the cant provided for voting time. When a state or federal ejection fads on a premium day, an emptayee who is scheduled to work a minimum of eight (8) hours beginning no eariier than hi* normal first *Mfl starting time, wffl be paid the one (1) hour voting time at the employee's base straighMtne rate, plus any applicable cost of living. No emptayee wffl

X
be scheduled tor less than eight (8) hourain order to predude hie beconring ellgbtefor voting time pay.
Sections. Incomplete Day's Wark a.
(1)	Any employee reporting for work who has been working on the previous workday and has not been notified that there wM be no work wffl receive four (4) hours'work at his regular base hourly rate of pay. The posting of a notice on the bulletin boards two (2) hours before the completion of the shift of the affected employee wffl be sufficient and proper notice This provision wffl not apply In case of any stoppage of work, strike, or slowdown, or in any other case or conditians beyond the control of the Company.
(2)	An employee who s scheduled to work on a premium payment day and reports as scheduled wffl be allowed to work a minimum of four (4) hours or receive four (4) hours' pay at the applicable rate for such hours,
b.	Any employee who, after completing wok assigned to trim during his reguterty schedteed shift or extension thereof, is caled back to work after he has Mi the premises and who reports for work after such call at a time that is more than four (4) hours prior to the beginning of his reguterty schedded shift, wffl receive not less than four (4) hours' work at the rate of pay applicable for such horn worked.
c.	Employees who are injured in the factory and who are sent home on the day of injury by the Medical Department wffl be paid for the balance at their scheduled work shill on that day at thefr regular base hoiirty rate induing shift dtffarentite.
d.	Any employee who is required to work less than eight (8) hours on one of the Observed hoSdays wffl be paid three (3) times tris regular base hourly wage rate inducting rrltftt shift differentiai if ft is applicable, phis strajghtfime pay for the cfflfereoce between eight (8) hours and those hours for which the premium rate is paid.
Section io. Rate of Pay
AH pay for time not worked wffl be paid at the straight-time hourly base rate, induing shift referential, but exctodtng overtime or premium compensation except as modified by Article X, Section 9j(2). In the settlement of grievances involving mwfime, improper recai or improper discharge, the employee wffl, for the hours for which he Is paid, receive the rate he would have received had he worked such hours.
48
1
XI
ARTICLE XI LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Section 1.	Personal
a.	A leave of absence not exceedteg ninety (SO) days may be granted Oy the Company io any employee for good and sufficient cause upon the written request erf the employee. Abo, the Company may grant a leave of absence to an employee who has been appointed or elected to a state or federal office. If a leave of absence b granted, the seniority of the employee wd accumulate during the period of the leave of absence. While on a personal leave of absence an employee wfO not be entitled to health care benefits unless, prior to the leave, the ernptoye* makes arrangements with the benefits office to continue benefits at hb own cost during the leave of absence.
b.	An employee who has been granted such leave of absence wd be considered as having qus without notice and wd be terminated burn enptayment by the Corrpany if, whfe on his lemra of absence, he engages in cs applies for other employment without tf*e consent of the Company. If an employee on such leaw fab to report for work on his first ragutar slrfft after the termination of Itis leave, he wil be subject to discharge.
Section 2.	Section 900
An employee absent due to Bhess for more than five {5) working days wrfl be placed in Secticn 900, an Inactive unit, on his sbrth normal working day. To remain in Section SOO, an employee may be required io submit to the Company satisfactory evidence of Ulness. Then«MmumtfcnetotteforSedlon900ellgibaityare»tollow*:
SERVICE	CONTINUOUS TIME IN SECTION 900
90 days to 3 year*	1 year
3 years to 5 years	154 years
5 year* or more	2 years
OR
State	CUMULATIVE TIME in SECTION 900
90 Day* to 5 Year*	18 Months
5 Year* or More	30 Month* in any Hve (5) Year Period
Th* cumulative time limn* sei forth above wk! appty an aggregate time in section 900 totaling more than thirty (30) day* for the dm* period from January 1, 2000 through contract ratification date.
When an ernptoye* reaches either one of the time limits as outlined above (cumulattw or condnuous) his employment wil be terminated.
49
XI
Section 3. Mffitary and Peace Corps
b.
Section 4. Union
Sections. Family and Hectical Leave
50
If the employee was in section 900 due to an occupational Injury at the time of termination, he wiU be provided up to twelve (12) months after his termination dale to submit satisfactory medical evidence showing he is able to return to work providing he succeecfaBy completes a company physical exam including substance abuse testing. Upon returning to work such employee shaD be reinstated with seniority.
So long as the Selective Service Act of 1948, as amended, is to offset, an employee who leaves or has left the employment of the Company to enter the armed forces of the United States wH be reemplpyed under the terms of that law, notwithstanding any provisions of this contract to the contrary. The seniority of such employee wil accumulate during the time spent in the armed forces of the linked States.
Upon written request by an employee who is accepted for service with the Peace Corps, foreign or domestic, the provisions of Article XI, Section 3a, wfll apply for a period of up to two (2) years with respect to seniority, vacation and reemployment
An employee elected or selected.to a futtkne position in the United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers at America, UAW, but SKducfing ail national and international Unions other than the UAW, that takes him from his employment with the Company, wfll, upon written request to the Company, receive a leave of absence tor one (1) year. The employee wit receive annual renewals upon written application to the Vice President of Human Resources.
Section 5 Leaves Other Than Section 900
a.	If an employee who has been given such leave of absence reports far work on his first regular workday after he terminates tils leave, he wl be reemployed in accordance with his seniority on the same general type of work that he did Immediately prior to his leave. His wage rate wffl be the rate existing m the plant at thetsneoflvsretumonthejobforwhichheisreemptoyed. Senioritywtflaccumulate during such leave of absence.
b.	tfan employee is physically unable to return to work, he will be placed in Section BOO, provided he presents proof of his dtsabflSy.
c.	Any employee on leave, as provided in this article, may, upon seven (7) days’ notice to the Company, terminate his leave.

Employees who are entitled to e leave of absence under the Famfty and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) of 1990 may take such leave in accordance with the provisions of Letter cri Agreement S20
XII
ARTICLE XfI	i
HEALTHCARE	}
Section 1. Agreement
A Heetth Care Plan, Flexible Spending Account Plan, Disabfity Plan, and Life	.i
Insurance Plan hove been agreed to by the Parties. The provisions of each plan wffl be applicable to employees represented by the Union far the term of each plan and in accordance with the provisions thereof.
Sections. NewPravtsions-HeallhCarePlanforActiveEmptoy'ees	‘
It being expressly understood that the Health Care Ran agreed to under Article XII, Section 1 wti govern, the following promtons of the Health Care Plan are agreed to:
a.	Represented emptoyees wffl be automatically covered by the health care benefit	i|
ptam negotiated between the Company and the Union, hereafter referred to a*	i|
"Health Care Plan", unless HMO coverage is elected. This program provides	1
Tn-neteork" or tout-oPnetrMXV benefits for those employees who Bve within the	4
network service area.	fl
(1}	Employees residing outside of the network service area have 'oat-of-area"	is
coverage. Employees choosing to use "in-network" coverage have	n
bosprtatrzatkxi covered at one hundred percent (100%), will pay a ten dollar	*
($10) ro-pay for office vtstts and a seven debar ($7} co-pay per prescription	i
when using network providers.	1
(2)	Employees choosing to um 'out-of-network* coverage will be subject to an	It
individual deductible of one percent (1 %) of annualized base pay (three percent (3%) family matomum). The Health Care Plan then pays eighty percent (80%) (incfadlng hospitatizalion) and the employee pays twenty percent (20%) of	l
cut-oFoebrork covered drerges unH three percent (3%) of annualtoed base	I
pay b reached (two thousand dollar (S2.000) mmimum). Out-of-natvwxk	j
benefits have a Kfetime maximum benefit of three hundred thousand dollars	i
($300,000) per covered person.
(3)	Employees Rvtng outside the network service area wfl have fout-of-area’ coverage, with hoeptafizsdon covered al one hundred percent (100%). and otter charges subject to an annual deductible of one percent (1%) of	i
annualized base pay per famiy. The Health Care Plan then pays eighty	I
percent (80%) of covered charges and the employee pays twenty percent	■
(20%) with a maximum of three percent (3%) out-of-pocket for toe family.	is
However, the employee may make an annual electton to participate to toe	'
Health Care Plan network.	:
(4)	Al active employees in the Health Care Plan or an HMO, regardless of where	I
they reside, wti be covered by the psychiatric and substance abuse provider	'
network in Value Options.	|
51
XII
i	(5) A map of (he service area and an explanation of the benefits have been agreed
|	to and wit be provided to represented employees wife other enrollment
I	information.
I	b. For the life of this Agreement represented ampfoyees win pay twenty dollars ($20)
I	per week io provide health care coverage fair enrolled dependents under the Heath
I	Care Ptan or an HMO. These contributions may be made on a pretax basis in
I	accordance with Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Service Code. To comply with
!■	Section 125, an employee may only add dependents within sbdy (60) days of their
Il	initial eUgfa^y or delete dependents within sixty (60) days of their ceasing to be
E	aigfate. or within sixty (60) days of a change in fantity status as defined in the heath
t	care summary plan description. Shotdd an eraptoyee not take action to delete
|	dependent coverage during Ms sixty (60) day period, dependent health care
I	deductions wib stop ss soon as admfntetrattraiy possible alter nutlBcalkm and
I	no refunds wilt be paid. Dependents may be added after sixty (60) days of the
I	event with evidence of insurabffty, Employee coverage wfl continue to be provided at
I	no cost to represented employees.
I	c. Spouses of employees that are employed at another company that provides^ heath
I	. care program tor their employees wN not be allowed to be a dependent under the
I	Health Cere Plan or any Company offered HMO unless they have elected health
I	care through their employer.
I	d. HMDs-HMO Blue Texas, and Aetna US Healthcare wfl continue to be offered as
I	health care aitematrves. Al HMO benefits wW remain in piece for 2000 (or longer as
|	modfied bekre) as tang as the HMO continues to offer those benefits. Effective
D	January 1, 1993. psixMatric and substance abuse benefits wd be eliminated from
|	HMO coverage. At such time as HMO Blue Texas premiums charged to the
I	Company are In excess of the Company cost under the Health Care Plan, all HMO
I	ptans offered to represented employees wftl be revised to be identical to the HMO
I	plans offered to other employee groups on March 1, 1992, as long as the HMO
I	continues to offer those berwfits. Should the premiums for any HMO plan, as
I	revised, cortanue to exceed the Conpanys cost under the Health Care Ptw,
I	enpioyees electing that HMO wB pay the additional cost on a weekly basis h
I	addition to the dependent contrfautfon. The additional factor of age and sex of HMO
I . ~ partidprerts wff be included In the cafculatfon tor Company contributions to HMO I	~ prerrtums. Should total eligiite employee partidpaifon In any HMO drop below the
I	percent (5%) that HMO will not be offered at future enrolments. The Company wO
I	advise the UAW Benefits Coordinator at such tone as it is apparent that this wOI take
[	effect during the next open enrollment period.
I	e. Dental Plan Changes Effective October 1,2000
|	(1) Dental prescripttans wff be covered per Section 7.
I	(2) Sealant wff be covered at one hundred percent (100%) of the reasonable
I	charge for dependents under age nineteen (19).
I	(3) $2,000 annuti maximum
|	f. Vision and Hearing Programs
h	(1) The Company will develop local preferred provider programs* separately for
h	both eyeglasses and hearing aide. The combined cost to the company will not
52
XII
exceed five Outers ($5) per employee per month beginning January 4,1993, for the fife of this Agreement
Section 3, New Provisions - Health Care Benefits for Future Retirees or Survivors Effective for Retirements cm or after January 1,1993.
a.	General Infcni ration
(1)	Retirees with less than ten (10) years of credited service wi not be efigMe tor retsee health care for themselves, dependents or survivors.
(2)	Should the retsee or dopendentfsurvlvor elect not to pay any cost in excess of the applicable Company contributions, the retiree end dependent/survivor of such retiree wfll no longer rptafify for Company health care or HMO coverage. In such instances, the heatih care may be reinstated one (1) time with satisfactory evidence of hsurabEty.
(3)	Retirees and dependents may continue HMO participation after retirement until they are age sbity-Ove (65) (eiigibie fix Medicare), but in the event the retiree changes to the Company health care plan, the reties may rot elect HMO coverage at a later date. The Company wfl contribute the portion of the HMO premium cost which is equal to but not greater then the applicable conpany contrtoution amount If the retiree had elected the Corrpany plan.
(4)	The health care coverage for a mino or suntvor and the eligible spouse wil be besed or> the age of the efigibte mdividuai. The benefits w9 be different if both are not under or over age 65, Those individuals under age sixty-five (65) ’ wffl have benefits as described in Article XII, Section 3.b. Those individuals over age sbtty-fire (65) wfl have benefits as described in Article XII, Section 3,c.
(5)	Dental benefits as we* as the new vision and bearing programs provided to active employees do not apply to retirees.
b.	Health Cars Benefits Before Age sixty-five (Si) (norvMetficare etigfole)
(1)	Retirees or dependentafsurvtvors who qualify for retires heatih care wil be entitled to Company health care contributions calculated on a percent of cost basis using the Mowing table:
Years of Credited Service B&Bfi	Dependent or Suwrvor
30	100%	75%	,
29	97%	75%
28	94%	75%
27	91%	75%
26	88%	75%
25	85%	75%
24	62%	75%
23	79%	75%
22	76%	75%
21	73%	73%
20	70%	70%

XU
19	67%	67%
18	64%	64%
17	61%	61%
16	58%	58%
15	55%	55%
14	52%	52%
13	49%	49%
12	46%	46%
11	43%	43%
10	40%	40%
For disability retirements, service will be projected from the retirement date to age sidy-five (65) to determine the percent at contrfaution under this schedule.
(2)	The annual Company contribution maximum s fifty-four hundred dollars ($5400).
(3)	the Company oortrtoutfon percent in Article XII, Section 3-t>(1J will be applied to the lesser of the actual cost or the Company contribution maximum tn Article Xll. Section 3.b(2) when calculating the actual Company contribution for the retiree or depend •rrt'survtvtr.
(4)	The Company health care plan for retirees, dependents or survivors under age sixty-five (65) (norsWedicare eligible) wil be the Health Care Plan m effect for active errptoyees except
(a)	The prescription copayment wiD be five dotars ($5) and may be increased armuady to equal ten percent (10%) of the actual prescription cost experienced far the Health Care Plan retires group in the prior year. (Automatic substitution of generic wffl be provided.)
(b)	There wlH be no psychiatric or substance abuse benefits.
(c)	The Health Care Han out-of-area physician copayment win be seventy percent (70%yth»ty percent (30%).
(5)	In addition, the Company wtil provide a mai order option for maifterrartOB drugs vritich allows a nhaty (90) day supply (automatic stibstiuifon of genetic wil be provided) with a ten dollar ($10) co-payment that may be Increased annually to equal tan percent (10%) of the actual cost of the mati order drugs paid by the total Health Care Plan retiree group in the prior year.
c.	Hetith Cere Benefits. After Age 65 QMicaie etigfole)
(t) A retiree, dependent of a retiree or dependentfeurvwor of a retiree efigiWe far the Company health care plan wti. upon Medicare eliglbilty, be eligible only for benefits described to this subsection c. and not the benefits outlined in Article Xlt, Section 3.b. or HMO plan in effect prior to Medfcare eligibility.
. (2) A Medicare Supplement Ptan has been agreed to. The highlights of the plan areasfcttows:
(a)	One hundred dofiar ($100) deductible per person
(b)	Comprehensive eighty percent (80%) of covered expenses not paid by Medfcare
(c)	Ten thousand dollar ($10,000) Hefime per person maximum with an annual restoration of one thousand dollars ($1,000)
54
XII
(d)
(e)
(s)
w
(c)
ft
After Medicare has paid, the Medicaro Supplement Plan has paid, and an individuars out-of-podort expenses (exdudteg drugs) exceed thirty-five hundred dofars ($3,500) In a calendar year (indexed to plan costs for post sixty-five (65) group), the Catastrophic Plan will pay one hundred percent (100%) of covered expenses for the remainder of the calendar
Prescription drug plan with five dollar ($5) co-payment indexed. (Automatic substitution of generic will be provided.)
Mai order drug plan with ten dolar ($10) co-payment indexed to plan costs for post sixty-five (65) group. (Automatic substitution of generic win be provided.)
Covered expenses equal Medicare approved services and charges, ipnorfog Medicare Inside firnits.
Dregs ere not covered.
(3) A Catastrophic Plan has teso bean agreed to. the hjghfighta of the plan are as fbfiows:
d. Certain Future Retirees
(1) Certain future retirees vM retain benefits in place of those previously outlined. Thfe group includes employees who on January 1. 1963, were age sixty-two (62) wtih ten (10) years audited sendee, age sixty (60) with twenty (20) years credited service, or age fltyfive (55) wtti eightyfiva (85) points.
Upon retirement and prior to age slxty-frve (65), this group wffl rotate the Health Care Plan coverage identical to active emptoyees as described h Article XII, Section 2a., with the ten dollar ($10) ma# enter drug plan outfitted in Article XII, Section 3.c(2), the service related Company contribution schedule described in Article XII, Section 3.N1) wU not apply, and there vri# be no maximum
(2)
(3)
Company contrfoutlon as described in Article XD. Section 3.b(2). After age rixtyfive (65), they wl return to the pre Itesflh Care Plan plan. This is the plan as in efluct and administered by Jahn Hancock Immediately prior to January 1.1993. This group of retirees wfll qualify fix the Medicare premium afewance outfitted in Article XII, Section 3.d(3).
Upon retirement and prior to age strty-five (65) future retirees who on January 1,1993, were active emptoyeee with age and credited service totaling seventy-five (75) points or more (age and credited service calculated to the nearest monto, added together and rounded up to the next whole number) wil have the same plan as described in Article XII, Section 3.b. However, the service-related contribution schedule described In Article XII, Section 3.b(l} wil not apply. After age strty^ve (65), they vril have the program described in Artide XII, Section 3. c. In addition, this group of retirees wil qualify for the Medicare premium allowance outfitted in Article XII, Section 3.<K3).
Employees WeotSted h Article XII, Section 3.d(1) and (2) wil receive a premium allowance toward Part B of Medicare in the amount of twenty-eight defers and eighty cents ($28.80) per month. To receive this afiowance, retirees and their dependents who are eligfcte for the Company's health care coverage must satisfactorily prove to the Company that they are enrolled in Pert B of Medicare.

It
55
I XII
Section 4. New Provisions - Disabiity Plan
It being expressly understood that the Disabffity Plan agreed to under Article XII, Section 1 wfll govern, the provisions thereof vriR continue except where modified as Mows:
a. For disabilities which occur on or after each of the Mowing effective dates, weekly shortterm disability benefits wM be payable in accordance with the Mowing schedule:	t
The weekly benefit eOgbOity is determined by the employee's labor grade on the last day worked immediately preceding the rfeaHlty. The benefits described above wfl be reduced by any primary benefit payable to the employee from workers' compensation and any initial primary amounts payable from Social Security.
b For work-related mjuries which occur on or alter October 2, 2000, the Mowing wil apply.
(1)	If the employee chooses to participate in the company Occupational Health j Care program and agrees to remain under the care of the,Company approved occupational disability physician network and the' claim to found compensable under worker*’ compensation.
(a} The emptoyoe w0 receive, up to a maximum of sixty six (66) work days witHn a rolling 12 month period, payment of an amount equto to one hundred percent (100%) of base pay less taxes starting from the j	reported date of injury. When the employee's claim has been given a
maximum medicsi improvement (MMf) rating the employee win be Jndlffible to recehre any additional funds under the OHC program. However, an employe a reaching MW may be eligible for benefits . under the Company provided disability plan.
(b)	The OHC payment wifi come from two (2) sources: Company suppiemenial pay and the workers’ compensation benefit paid by the carrier.
56
XII
(c)	Ths payment wtf be catadsted so the emptoyee will not experience a decrease In net take-home pay by taking into consideration that the wwtera’ compensation payment is not taxable.
(2)	If the employee does not choose to reman under the care of the Company-approved occupational disability physician network, the employee wil be ineligfole for the sixty six (66) work days rrf supplementary payments and any of these payments advanced to the emptoyee will result in an Overpayment that is immediately due to the company.
(3)	ShoUH the employee remain disabled and absent from work for a total of sixty six (66) work days within a ratling 12 month period, the supplemental payments shall cease and the weekly ctisaWfity benefit shall be limited to the workers' compensation payment applicable under state workers' compensation law.	'
(4} If an employee returns to work and hat not exhausted the Sixty six (66) work day Bmtt tn a rolling twelve (12) month period, a subsequent absence (even If related to the prior absence) ts treated as a naw absence and the employee again has the option of whether to be under the care of the Company-epproved occupaUomal disability physicfan network, provided the change of treating physicfan is approved by the Texas Workers' Compensfafon Commission In accordance with current TWCC	j
rules and regidattone or provisions under section 4b.(2) as outlined above.
(5) As long as the employee is complying with the treatment plan established	1
by the Company-approved occupational rfiaabiltty pbyskian network, the employee is etigiUe for supplemental pay for the relevant injury, in accordance with Section 4b (1). If the emptoyee Ooes not follow the	i
' treatment plan, the emptoyee is considered noncompifant and owes the	'
company any supplemental pay the employee has recefoedL
(8)	(Insertfrom Letter of agreement dated 70193)
in those cases where a second or thiid shift employee qualifies for one hundred percent (100%) pay and physical therapy is recommended by the approved occupational disability physician network, an attempt wi) be made to schedule the physical therapy at the beginning of the shift for second shift	•
employees and st the end of the shift for third shift employees. If such scheduling is not practical, the physical therapy wti be scheduled outside the shift and a corresponding amount of time off with pay wil be granted from the	»
employee's shift. In no case wil payments caused by physical therapy be at a premium rate.
Section 5. Naw Provisions - Life insurance Plan
It being expressly understood that the Life Insurance Plan agreed to under Article Xll, Section 1 will' govern, the provistons thereof wi continue except where modified as follows:
J
I
!	57	»
I
XII
a.	The current accidental death benefit while traveling on company business wi increase from twenty-five thousand defers ($25,000} to one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) for deaths on or after March 1,1992.
b.	Employees on an approved leave of absence or with life insurance continuation retain the amount of life insurance in effect on their last day at work. For al other employees, the assigned labor grade at the time of death will determine the amount of entitlement Fer deaths which occur on crafter the fotowing dates, life insurance payments wil be either a basic amount if death is by natural causes or two (2) times the basic amount if death is by accidental causes.
(1)	For deaths of employees who were actively at work on or after October 1, 2000 the foltowing schedule wit apply:
Labor Grade	Amount—gr---------Accidental Death Amount
L	$30500	$81,000
1	29500	59500
2	28500	57,000
3	27500	55,000
4	28500	53,000
5	25500	51,000
6	24500	49,000
7	23500	47500
8	22500	45500
9 & 10	21500	43500
i
i
i i l
I
c.	Dependent Life Insurance
Effective March 2,19S2, optional dependent Sfe insurance coverage will continue to be avaBabfe through payroll deductions of forty-eight cents ($.46) per week for the folkrwtng levels of coverage:
Spouse;	$7500
Ctdd(r»n)over6morrttoofage;	3,000
ChM(ren) fee birth under 6 months of age:	500
These group rates are subject to periodic review by the insurance company and may be adjusted during the Bfe of this Agreement based cm claim experience. Definitions - of dependents are the same as the health care deflrttfoos, provided that employees' spouses who are also employees of the Company may be covered by this Dependent Lite Insurance unti such time as the insurance company elects not to provide the dependent coverage due to a conflict of state insurance laws. Coverage will remain tn effect unti the confect is drsetosed to the employee in writing by the insurance company and premiums are discontinued.
d.	Optional.Employee Life Insurance
Effective June 1, 1992, the Company wl offer an optional employee term life insurance program whereby employees may purchase additional life insurance for ' themselves in five thousand dollar ($5,000) increments ran^ng from five thousand dollars ($5,000) to fifty thousand dollars ($50,000). The Company will secure bids
!
I ।
58
XII
Section 6. Subject Next to Negotiations
Section 8. Dlsabflity Retirement
59
from both John Hancock and Prudential for an insured program with a rate guaranteed for five (5) years. The bids received by the Company tom both carriers will be shared with the UAW and it is anticipated that the most attractive bid win be mutually agreed to; however, should a dfopute arise, the UAW wtil have the right to select the earner assuming both camera' administrative requirements are reasonable. Should our enrollment be low and not meet carrier-imposed mmbnum participation requirements, the viabWty of the program wffl be revisited. The cost for payroll deduction administration writ be borne by the Company.
The provisions of the'Health Care Plan, Flexible Spending Account, Oisahility Plan, and Life Insurance Plan will be subject next to negotiations upon expiration of thb Agreement
Section 7. New Provisions - Prescription Drugs
Effective October 1,2000, bargaining unit employees may purchase 90-day supplies of maintenance medication through the Caremark mati Order prescription drug program. The employee copayment is $5.
Employees may also obtain drug prescriptions at Caremark approved retail Pharmacies. The avafebte supply Is limited to 30 day* rather than 90 days. The employee copayment is 57. If an employee uses a pharmacy other than a participating pharmacy, out-ofmetwork (or out-of-araa. if appfcabte) deductibles and copayments wil apply and reimbursement writ be based on the cost of avattable generic substitutes.
Effective January 1, 1996, for employees with 75 or more points, the definition of disabffity shal be defined as a physical or mental condition which totally and presumably permanently prevents a participant from engaging in his/her own job for the Company.
To be eligible tor this provision, employees must be disabled for 52 weeks or longer and must not have been previously disposed by the Retirement Committee.
For employees with less than 75 points, the definition of ‘disabiity’ shall remain unchanged.
XIII
article xhi retirement plans
Section 1.	Agreement
A Retirement Ran and a Savings and Investment Plan have been agreed to by the Parties. Ttrep«Ntelonsaftheseptar»wabeappfcebletoemptoyeesrepre»ritedbythe Union for the term of such plans and in accordance with the provisions thereof.
Section 2.	New Provisions - Retirement Plan
' It being expressly understood that the Retirement Ran agreed to under Article XIII,	1
Section 1 win govern, the provisions thereof will continue except where modified as	j
fofows: a, Basic Pension Rates	?
(1) An employee retiring on or after October 1, 2000, wfi receive forty seven i-($47) per month far each year of credited service.	|
b.	Retiree Bonus	Jv
(1)	Retirees who retired directly from the bargaining unit or their eurvMng spouses who are in pay status, and who are receiving retirement benefits on any j September 1 of the years 2000,2001,2002,2003, and 2004 wfl receive five I hundred doftare ($500) every September for afi applicable years they remain | in pay status.	j
c.	Eady Retirement Supplement.	|
effective with retirements on or after October 1, 2000, the monthly Supplemental | Eady Retirement Benefits pad under the terms of the Retirement Plan wU tecraase to | five hundred fifty dofiars ($550) per month, continuing unto the participant Is !
eOgtbte for 80% Social Security benefit	{
Section 3.	Transition and Bridge Benefits
Effective for all deaths on or after October 1, 2000, the Transfoon Survivor I
, Income Benefit shall be increased from one hundred seventy five doUare ($175)
to three hundred fifty dofisre ($350) per month, and the Bridge Survivor income f: benefit shall be increased from three hundred dollars ($300) to four hundred , J seventy-five dollars ($475) per month.	$
Section 4.	Subject Next to Negotiations
The pnwteions of the Retirement Ran and the Savings and Investment Plan wil be subject'next to negotiations upon expiration of this Agreement
XIV j
ARTICLE XfV STRIKES. SLOWDOWNS, STOPPAGES AND LOCKOUTS Sectian 1. No Strike
a.	During the fife of ths Agreement, the Union wdl net authorize, cause, engage in, sanction, assist or permit its members to cause, nor wil any member of the Union take part kt any sfowdown. wk stoppage or strike, or any curtailment of work or restriction of production or interference with production of the Company. The Union triH not cause or permit its members to cause, nor wl any member of the Union take	J
part in any slowdown, work stoppage or strike of the Company's operations, or picket any of the Company's ptanrs or premises.	i
b.	In the event that any member or members of the local Union or the international Union should cell, engage in, sanction or assist in any unauthorized slowdown, wrk stoppage or strike against the Company, or should refuse to perform services duty assigned when directed to do so by the Company, the Company agrees that it wffi not	,
fite or prosecute any action for damages arishg out of said unauthorized slowdown,	|
work stoppage, strike or refusal to perform services, provided that the local Union, its officers and representatives comply with the faSowtng provisions:	I
(1)	That each of them jointly and severally wl tmmedtately, and in no event ireer than twenty-four (24) hours, disavow and retuse to recognize any picket tine or Unes estabSshed as a result Of said unauthorized lowdown, work stoppage or strike against the Company or refusal to perform services; that each of them wiB Instruct their members by posting written notices throughout the plant or by newspaper ads or other communication media not to respect or recognize any said picket Une or fines: and in addition, each wit do everything within his respective powers to secure the Ssestabfishment and ffisbandlng of any said picket line or Unes.
(2)	That each of them Jointly and severally w® hmediately take or cause to be taken al affirmative action to demand, cause end require each and every member to perform the terms and conditions of this Agreement
(3)	H any emptoyee foils to return to work immediately or refuses to perform sendees duly assigned when directed to do so by the Company after action is taken by the Union as set forth in Artide XN, Section 1Jj(1) and (2). the Union agrees that the Company may take whatever ffisdptlnary action it deems appropriate, indudhg dscharge, and that the degree of such dbciplinaiy action wl not be rawewabie throu^i the grievance and arbitration procedure provided for in this Agreement
(4)	Nothing in ths srtide wi predude any right to which the Company previously was entitled to seek legal or other redress Of any individual who has caused damage to, or injury to, or loss of Company property, nor does the Company cede any rights in this regard to which it may be entitled by future tegtsletfon.
Section 2. No Lockout
During the term of this Agreement fie Company will not cause, pern# or engage in any lockout of its employees.
61
XV
ARTICLE XV CHECKOFF AGREEMENT
■ Section 1, Authorization for Union Dues
a.
b.
The Company agrees to deduct Union dues in the amount of two (2) hours of the employee's hourly base rate, plus two (2) hours of COLA plus any other amount that may be established by the Union each month from the earnings of an employee who authorizes such deductions by signing the authorization form provided for this purpose. Such deductions wffl be made to accordance with the provisions of the authorization form.
The Company's obligation to make such deductions will terminate automatics^ upon the temwiatton of the employee or upon his transfer to a plant, union or job not covered by this Agreement Emptoyees who are transferred out of the affective bargaining unit into supervisory positions wM have, in addition to their normal withdrawal period, thirty (30) days following their transfer to revote or withdrew their checkoff authorization by so notifying the Company and the Union by fetter. However, in compliance with the 1985 NLRB rating, the Company wM not resume deduction of Unton dues on an employee rehired wifoout seniority until such time a new authorization card is signed try the employee.
Deductions Ml be resumed, however, under the fallowing conditions:
CO
(2>
0)
If an employee is recaled or tehired whh seniority, provided such employee's authorization has not been revoked by han during a revocation or withdrawal period; provided also, that the resumed deductions wi begin with the employee's earnings for the first payroll week of the next calendar month foilawing such recall orrehtre.
If a former collective bargantog unit employee is transferred back to a job covered by trite Agreement, provided that such employee’s authorization has not been revoked by him during a revocation or withdrawal period that occurred white he was not In the selective bargaining unit; provided afeo, that the resumed deductions wil begai with the employee's earnings for the first payrofl week of the next calendar month faiowing such transfer.
In the event of a month beginning with a spit week, the date of the check compensating for said work wV constitute the eligibKty for a Linton dues deduction in current month.
c.	On dues week, represented employees who have authorized a dues checkoff will have dues deducted, based on deductton priority, if their earrings during the week are sufficient to permit the deduction. N is not required that the check be for forty (40) or more hours if the earnings are sufficient to permit the deduction.
d.	The Union agrees that it wa indemnify and save the Company harm from any and all liability, daim, responstbiity. damage or suit that may arise oul of any action taken by the Company in accordance with the terms of this section or the terms of this article in reliance upon the authorization mentioned herein.
62
xv
Section 2. Application of Checkoff	1
a.	The authorization form for checkoff of dues to be used by employees tor the purpose	1
of authortzfog the Company to deduct monthly Union dues hum their earnings and to	I
assign such sums to the Union Is attached end made a part of this Agreement	I
b.	The Urtoo will assume fun responsibly for the distribution and coBectian of such	|
authorization cards and guarantees that such distrtoution and coOection win not trte	j
place during working hours on Company premises.	|
c.	EachsuthorizatfoncanlwBlbesigMdbytttestnployeevrtioauthortzedlhededtKffion	]
togethBrwithawitnesstohissigningandthedatBofsignmg.	1
d.	All authorization for cards wi be submated by the Union to the Vice President of	1
Human Resources or his designated representative on or before the Friday before	|
the week in which they are to become effective. Such cards wffl be transmitted to the	1
Vice President of Human Resources or his designated representative by a letter of	J
transmittal, signed by an authorized officer of the Union and listing thereon the name,	I
unto and employee number.	'I
e.	If an employee's earnings for the first payrol week of a calendar month are	I
insufficient to permit the fal deduction, then the deduction wfl be taken from the	1
employee's earnings in the first, second, third, or fourth payroll weeks in which his	1
eemings are suffldent The Union wto be provided with weeidy catch-up reports and	i|
a check representing said deductions.
f.	Monthly union dues wM be deducted from vacation checks.
g.	A check In the total amount of the sum deducted on account of dues wW be drawn each month to the order of Local 848, International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America. UAW, and wi! be hand-delivered to the finandsl secretary thereof.
h.	The Company wfflfamfah annually to each employee a statement of the total Union dues deducted
i.	The company wil forward to the Union each month in employee number order tte	;
fofiowing information:	'
(1)	The names and employee numbers of employees who authorized deduction of
Union dues and from whose wages such deductions have been made during the current month.
(2)	The names and employee numbers of employees who authored the deduction of Union dues and from whose wages no such deduction was made because of insufficient earnings durfog the pay period for which the deduction was authorized.
(3)	A list of all emptoyees, fodudfog base rate and COLA, if any- identifying those emptoyees who have not submitted to the Company an authorization for checkoff of dues.
(4)	The names and employee numbers of employees who authorized such deductions but whose authorization became ineffective pursuant to Article XV, Section t.b, by reason of the termination of their emptoyment or their transfer or layoff.
j.	The Company wM famish the Union monthly an alphabetical list of all employees and their employee numbers identifying Union members.
63
XV
k The monthly Union dues provided for herein wil be deducted from the authorizing employee's earnings for the first payroll week of the calendar month. However, if an employee's earnings for the first payrtf week of a calendar month are insufficient to permit the full deduction, then the deduction wHI be taken from the employee's earnings In the first of the second, third or fourth payroll weeks in which his earnings are sufficient Monthly Union dues deductions wi not exceed the dues amount as set by the Union. Further, the Company will not be required to make a double deduction from an employee's subsequent monthly earnings if hb weekly earnings in each of his preceding month's fest four (4) peryrtf weeks were insufficient to permit a deduction.
I.	The maximum monthly deduction provided for herein is the amount of the Union dues . for one (1) calendar month, except in the case of the resumption of deductions from the earnings of an emptoyeo recalled, rehired with seniority or transferred from a norvOoUactive bargaining unit job into the bargaining unit, as provided for in Article XIII, Section 8.b of the Agreement dated October 1,1962. The maximum monthly deductions from such an employee's earnings for the first calendar month subsequent to recall, rahlre or transfer are:
(1)	The monthly Union dues for the first calendar month; and
(2)	The monthly Union dues for the month preceding the first calendar month.
If the earnings of such recalled, rehired or transferred employees are subjected to monthly deductions as desofoed, the deductions will be made to the first four (4) payrtf weeks of the calendar month in the fotowtng manner one (1) deduction wiB be taken from the employee's earnings for the first payroll week in which his earnings are sufficient, and the other deductions will be taken from the next payrtf week in whidi his earnings are sufficient
m.	The interpretation and application of "date of detwary" es it appears in the authorization form referenced in Arteta XV, Section 1, and which is shown in Artkfe XV, Section 3, will be:
"Date of Detivery" - the date of detivery wSI be the date the Company actually receives the authortztfon for checkoff of Union dues, es evidenced by the date and time stamped on each card by a date and time-recaniing machine.
n. The Company win furnish the Union, during regular busmess hours Monday through Friday, access to union dues history data via on-line computer terminal located in the j Local B48 business office.
o.	The Company win furnish the Union, during regular business hours Monday through Friday, access to Union members' employment history data via on-line computer terminal located in the Local 348 business office.
p.	The Company wM provide the Union with e weekly computer file of any regular union dues or catchup dues it may have taken in that weeifs payrtf processing.
q.	The Company wB provide the Union monthly with a dock number listing of any employees that had regular union dues taken on dues night and did not subsequently work forty (40) hours during the dues period.
r.	The Company's agreement to furnish to the Union certain dues information contained above wffi not automaticafiy cease on any termination of this Agreement, but wil terminate ninety (90) days after notice to ths Union by ceffified mai from the date as set forth under Article XX, Section 1.b.
64
XV
S©ction3. Copy of Authorization Card
SPECIAL CflPlClAL. APPLICATION FOR U&MERSHIP
Printed k! UBA
OATt\
CLOCK MD,
.Xipficoe
BIRTWKTEl
toraatoritobate
GLOCK
CaTT:.__________ :
_____SOCIAL SECURITY MO*
MM*
OfftKUMKOta*
. taateruo at MMtotert m amo
APFUCAMFS
SIGNATURE -
WnNEBffS OTNKmRft.
cwnw_____

ED AOTOMOaOA A6ROGPACE a AOWCULTORM1MMJMW WORKER* OP AHMKA (UMV) CCTROTT, MICHIGAN 4«14
bC«* to:,
AUTHORIZATION FOR CHECKOFF OF OUES
MAMS:
65
XVI
ARTICLE XVI OFF-SITE OPERATIONS
Section V Definition of Ofl-Ste
■Ofl-Bte’ wiH mean the performance of worit by covered employees at places geographically located st such distances from the Company's Grand Prairie. Texas, facjties that the distance requires an employee to obtain lodging other than st his established residence. ftwtil ateocontemplatetheeventual return ofsuch emptoyees beck to the Company's Grand Prairie, Texas, operations. 'Off-site' wn not include a new estabflshmerrt set up by the Company or the relocated operations of a major segment of the Con<>any's present organization (such as one of its divisions) re^rdfess of where the new establishment or the relocated civision may be geographically situated.
I	Section 2. Application of the Agreement
I	a. The Company and the Union recognize that these and other coodrtioos on the
I	Company's off-site operations do not make it pcssibfe to apply afl parts and sections
I	of this Agreement to employees assigned to ott-site locations. Therefore, it« agreed
I	that the international Union, united AutomobBe, Aerospace and Agricultural
I	Inclement Workers of America, UAW, and its Local-848, will represent collective
I	baigasiing unit employees assigned to off-site operations on:
I	(1)	Wages (basic rate structure)
I	(2)	Cfcdpline and discharge
I	(3)	Working conditions
I	b. z However, the Company agrees to apply to covered employees assigned to to off-site
I	operations aH articles, sections, and other parts of toe Agreement between the
I	Parties except the blowing:
I	Article 01-	Recognition
I	Article IV-	Representation, Duties end Responsibilities
I	Article V-	Grievance, Arbitration and Discharge Procedures
Article VI -	Work Hours, Overtime and Premium Payment*
I	Section* 1-C, IT, and 7
I	Article Vli- Seniority
|	Sections 1,2,3, and 14
Artiste DC - Job Cta»slficatiort*. FamOTes and Labor Grades Articte X -	Hour* Not Worked, Incomplete Day* Worked
r	Section* 4 and ft
Articte XVII- Subcontracting and Major Maintenance or
I,	Facilities Construction Work Section* 1,3, S and 7
Il	Article XIX- General Provision*
66
XV!
c.	When covered employees are promoted at an off-site location. Section 5 of Article VII wto be applied in tight of offsite conditions and requirements, but only to employees assigned to the specific off-eite location where the promotion is made and at the tone It is made.
d.	No labor grade inequities win exist among covered employees who are performing equal work at an crff-sto location. Ml such employees wil be assigned to the labor grade commensurate wtih the work being performed.
Sectk>n3. Rules of Cognizant Agency
Offsite locations are normally under the cognizance of e notary or a government cMian agency charged with an interest in the development or modification of a Company product al its locations. Because of this, employees assigned to tutor offsite tocatiorra are subject to rules and regulations Of the agency having cognizance over the location and frequently must work at tones and places and under conditions the cognizant agency dictates or controls.
Section 4. Lists Required
List of those emptoyees goktg otfsite and those returning from off-site locations will be given to the Chairperson of the ptant grievance committee.
Sections. Grievance Procedure
a.	An employee at an offsite operation who feels that he has a complaint involving one (1) of the three (3) categories given in Artiste XVI, Section 2,a, with respect to an application or interpretation of the Agreement, excluding the articles end sections fisted in Article XVI, Section 2.b, or Ki respect to the provisions of this article, will write a letter of complaint to the Chairman of the Plant Grievance Committee. The Chairman of the plant Grievance Committee wtil investigate the complaint, and if he believes the complain has merit, he wffl introduce the complaint as a written grievance at the third step of the grievance procedure.
b.	Disputes concerning the Interpretation and application of the provisions of the articles and sections of the Agreement made appticabte to off-site locations by Article XVI, Section 2, and of the provisions of this article wtil be subject to impartial arbitration. Recognizing that the normal procedures cannot practitaiy be apptied to offsite facBtfes, investigation tin* on such -cases will be Smited to normal in-plant investigation. The Company agrees to retease witnesses caffed by the arbitrator or the Union only ti they are not assigned to Offsite operations, and investigations by the arbitrator wffl be frrited so as to exdude ofrslte tacBties,
XVI
1	c. Notwithstanding any of Article XVI, Section 5, the Chairman of the Plant Grievance
Committee may discuss any complaett received in writing Irani an offsite employee with the Vice President of Human Resources or his designated representative.
Section 6.	Application of Checkoff
Employees in the tafective bargtsning unit who are on the checkoff fist when transferred to an off-site operation, or who subsequently authorize deductions. wM have their deductions continued whle at an off-site operation of the Company.
>.	subject to the conditioas of the checkoff authorization signed by the employee.
Section 7.	Policies and Practices
j.	The Convany agrees to continue, if aOmved by the cognizant contractor, its past
v	potides and practices with respect to wage rates and other expense reimbursements
allowed employees assigned to an offsite operation.
J	Section 8. Assignment to Off-Site Locations
Vought Aircraft Industries, Inc. end tha International Union. United Automobile, 4	Aerospace and Agrfcultorai implement Workers of America, UAW and its Local Union
848 hereby agree that employees in the colective bargaining unit may be assigned to effete operations as required and in accordanoe with past practice Mowed by the Company end UAW Local 840, subject however, to the Mewing:
i
'	a. if a ewered employee is assigned to an eff-ste operation and a layoff is called within
'	thirty (30) days of the effective date of the off-site assignment, and the employee
would hove been affected if he had not been off-site, the employee is subject Io the layoff procedure. After exhausting all rights as set forth under Article VII, the employee wffl be ted off and placed co the recM list as of that date.
b.	If a covered employee is assigned to an off-site operation, and a layoff Is called after thirty (30) days of the effective date of the off-site assignment, and the employee i would have been affected if tie had not been off-site, the Company wffl rMsn the employee within sixty (60) day* for the purpose of layoff. After odtausting all rights as set forth under Article VII, the employee will be laid off and placed on the recall Est es of the date the asagnmenl is completed.
c.	If a covered employee assigned io an off-site operation Is subsequently assigned to another operation and a layoff is cited within thirty (30) days of the reassignmerit and the employee would have been affected if he had not been off-site, the employee is subject to the terms of Article XVI, Section 8.a.
d.	If a covered employee assignat to an off-site operation has the seniority to hold, he may be assigned to other offsite operations or relumed to the plate as necessary.
e.	This section wffl apply to all covered employees currently assigned to offsite operations and those who wfll be assigned in the future.
f.	Offette asskyimerds wffl be determined by the type of work to be performed. CBU personnel assigned off-ete per this article wffl be redassffied to job famtiy 1030.
60
I f
XVII
ARTICLE XVII SUBCONTRACTING AND MAJOR MAINTENANCE OR FACILITIES CONSTRUCTION WORK
Section 1. Notice
b.
The Company agrees. whenever reasonable and practicable, to use its maintenance employees to perform major maintenance work and fodBties construction work. Oue consideration wM be given to employees on the layoff 1st In performing these tasks. The company may tub contract Janitortai service* only if there are no Job Code 517349 (Custodians} or 5174410 (Janttorsj of Job Family 5140 employees on layoff Matu*.
Each month, the Director of FacmttesAMnMnance or tus designated representative wS advise the Chatonan of the Plant Grievance Committee and the shop committeeman representing maintenance employees of the.reasons and desirabffity for subcontracttog tacfibes construction and major matotenawe work. The Union representatives wfl ba advised by the Company of the time and place of such meeting. Both Parties agree that this arrangement does not give the Union or any arbitrator the power to veto or modify the Conpan/s right to subcontract major maintenance and fecfities construction work, nor wli ft prahWt the Union's right to fie and process a grievance, tn accordance vrith Article V of this Agreement
The Company agrees, alter It has subcontracted out major maintenance and fedMjes construction work, to advise the Union of such action on a weekly basis.
Section 2. Used Mataterance Employees
-i
it was agreed during the 1962 contract negotiations that under the pravrstona of Artkte XVtl, Section 1, it wfl ba deemed reasonable and practicable to use maintenance employees n Heu of subcontracting maintenance and facilities construction work when the fottowtng conditions exist:
(1)
(2)
0) W
The particular skBs involved for the complete operation are immediately erasable either on the active payruti or on the layoff list
The Company has the specialized equipment required or readily available to perform the operation
No economies can be restized. .
The votene, excludtog a reasonable amount of overtime or type of work does not preclude the completion within the time Ms required. Reasonable wfil be generally defined as sixteen (16) hour* overtime within a workweek. The overtime wttl be applicable in those Instances where a contract ooukl be Computed by bargaining unit employees without impacting the dally workload try utilising a fifty six (5®) hour workweek and also in those Instance* where contractors are working on a short run contract during hours which are defined as weekend overtime hours for a Maintenance employee. The application of hem 4 wil involve only those classifications of Maintenance employees Mratiflod in subsection (7) 59
J
XVH
(5)
(6)
(7)
below which could by application cover those jobs being perforated by employees of contractor*.
The work being subcontracted is not In accordance with past practices of the Company
The use of maintenance employees is net contrary to the COhtrd requirements of the cognizant mlltary or government crvffian agency
if there are emptoyees on layoff eteaeffied as utility operators, fodlWes construction crafteman, mHlwrigirts, laborer*, sheet metal mechanics, and/or machine repair mechanics, and the Company lets a contract caiing for more than forty-five (45} days of continuous work of the abov* crafts, ths Company agrees to racal the same number of emptoyees in each craft as used by the contractor and retain them until the job is completed. Etnptayeefs) refusing short term recall* per this article wtil be bypassed for said recall, however their contractual recall period as specified in Article VII Section 11. d. vrill remain In tact The more than forty-five (45) days of work is applied only to the singto contract
Sector 3. Attachment to Article XVII
Th* parties agree that our mission Is to operate a* a maintenance Self Directed Work Team, DuHcatod to high efficiency, cost efrectivenese, and quality, focusing on servicing and communicating with customer* and si^igtters with the goal of capturing all "destredr eonttruction Project*.
70
XVIII
Section 1. Specific Performance
a.
b.
Section 2. Waiver
71
ARTICLE XVIII QUALIFICATIONS ENFORCEMENT AND WAIVER
The wahrer of any breach of any of the provisions or terms of this Agreement by either Party does not constitute a precedent for any future waiver or enforcement of such breach.
Either Party will be entitted to require specific performance of the provisions of this Agreement
Each ofthe Parties warrants that it is under no disability of any kind that will prevent it from completely carrying out and performing each and all of the provisions of this Agreement, and further that Bwl not take any action of any kind that wa prevent or impede it in the complete performance of each and every provision hereof.
! XIX
if
ARTICLE XIX GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sactbn 1. Hon-Bwjatwig Unit Emptoyees Wortting
Non-bargaining unit employees wffl not perform coUecttM bargaining unit work except In emergencies or in the instruction of employees. If it is estattisbed through the grievance procedure that such employees performed oollectwe bargaining unit worit, the employees who would normaly perform the work In question wffl be paid the appropriate hours for the amount of time the non-bargaining unit employees worked, but in no event wM it be less than one (1) hour. In stoiatfoos where the (Usptacement occurred on a premium day, one (1) hour of premium pay wfll be pod In addition to premium pay for all actual time worked by the non-bargaining unit employee.
I
Section 2_ Environmental, Safety and Health in the Workplace
a.' The ration and the Company recognize the value of maintaining high standards of ewvhornnental, safety ami health compliance. Both parties am committed to working together to create an snvtronmerrt, which promotes procesaee, business actMUos and behaviors that wiB leed to an inddentlacddent free workplace. The parties agree that they will work together towards estaMshtng proactive, customer driven ESH&M compliance standards to support these mutual otrjoLlhre).
(D
W
(3)
w
The Company will abide by and maintain a workplace environment In accordance wtth federal, state, and local laws and regulations and will conduct all buslneea operations and activities In s manner that to protective of human health end the environment
Each Employee wfll abide by and comply with company environmental, safety and health rules, regulations, and orttors. which are appfcaUe to his/her own actions and conduct on the job.
The Union and the Company wU work in partnership to faster a culture that encourages open communication and mutual trust between the patties related to environmental, safety and health matters. In additirm, both parties agree to work together to continuously Improve environmental, safety and heath performance and compBance.
The company wffi furnish proper safety and sanitary devfcesfequlpment far all employees working kt potentially hazardous environments. Employees shall be required to use such devfcasfequipment when the company determines that they are necessary.
b. Joint Environmental Safety and Health Cosfltion
(1) The union and company are committed to a safe and healthful workplace and reccgntoe that both parties must jointly share responsibilities and accountabilities in encouraging the involvement of afl emptoyees In the ESH&M process. Therefore, an Environmental, Safely and Health
72
XIX
(2)
0)
w
to
w
73
Coalition will exist to address ESH&M issues to meet the parties' mutual objective*.
The committee shall be comprised of members of the ESH&M department, affected company management, union ESH&M Chairpersons, Commftteepersons and stewards. Tbs committee shall address hfjmyffltoees trends, compliance activities and target specific areas tor ESH&M performance improvements, A formal program and process wffl be devetapad and implemented that wffl ensure a coratetent approach to the ESH&Mfe programs, services and performance.
to theft opinion constitute a hazardous condition, an Issue of noncompllance andfor a employee report of either situation will address the Issue with appropriate and affected supecvtstonlmanagemenL If no afpeement or rasotutioo Is reached, the union representatives may request the involvement of the union Chaftpersonfs) and the ESH&M department
Union Chairpersons and/or committeepersons will be permitted to accompany ESH&M professional staff during inspections andfor scheduled audits.
No ESH&M union representative as defined under ESH&M CcaUttoo Committee, shall suffer any foes of employee rights or bonetits, Including opportunities for promotion, as a result of serving on the ESH&M Coalition Committee.
Chairpersons, Committeopereora and Stewards shall be afforded the opportunity to attend ESH&M professional dwretopment training (not toss than 40 hours per indMduai per calendar year), where the training has been mutually agreed upon In advance by both the union and ESH&M Department Manager.
Joint Environmental Safety and Health Coalition - ESH&M Chairperson and Co-Chakperson
(1)	The union may appoint and designate two (2) existing union shop commlttoepersons for the union ESH&M Chairperson and Co-Chairperson (Co-Chrirperaon for the MSFMSW Facility), that wffl represent the union on ESHSM matters, The Chakporeons wffl coordinate their activities end functions through the ESH&M Organization and consult with litis organization as needed to meet mutual ESH&M objectives. The Chairpersons shall work In a cooperative partnership with the ESH&M organization to identify and address ESH&M issues, employee concerns, and compliance program activities,
(2)	Chairpersons will be afforded ail appropriate rights and privileges that would normally be provided to any ESH&M stair professional to Include but not be necessarily limited to; free access of First Report of Incident investigations, MSDSs, ESH&M metrics, inspections reports, monitoring and sampling data, etc.


[ XIX
(3)	Chairperson* will be the central focal point In various Joint ESH&M meeting* and wW represent the union at ESH&M regulatory agency «ke reviews, Inspection* and/or visits that require union participation. Including any waik-a-round inspection*, employee intarvtews, and complaint type Investigations and foltaMMips by a regulatory agency.
d. Hazard and/or Non-Compliance Reporting
(1) Every employes has the right, responsibility and obtigMion to report soy hazard that they believe may cause a serious injury, Illness or fatality. In addition, every employee has the right and the rasponstbOlty to report any Environmental, Safety, Health and Medical niles infrecticns and/or condition* of non-compliance with regulatory standard*.
(2j The employee should report any ESH&M issue* through hisftrer area immediate supervision. If ths employee is not satisfied that the Issue i* receiving appropriate attention by area management to resolve, then th* employee ha* the right to elevate the concern to their respective union representatfvejsj.
*. Right of Rehrsal or "Stop Work”
(1)	No employe* will be Aseharged for refusing to perform work on the Job if their refusal is based on the claim that the job involve* a dangerous condition that would unduly endanger Ms health or cause » serious injury, and/or a wMful violation of an environmental, safety and health taw.
(2)	In esses where the employee believes that a dangerous condition exists and/or where a witifid intent to violate an environmental, safety and health taw is about to occur, the employee should Inform their immediate supervisor.
(3)	Work will not continue, until affected management, the union Chairper*on(*| and an Environmental, Safety and Health professional makes the find determination concerning the safety of the Individual and the work to be preformed, in areas where a final consensus I* not reached, EStf&M department under guidance from legal counsel will make the final determination.
(4)	If the employee is not satisfied with the final determination the employee may dispute the decision through the standard pisvance procedures set forth in this easement The employee wifi not be discharged for refusing to work on the particular Job involved during the time the grievance i* being processed. Time lost by the employee white such determination* are being made, wfll not be paid for by the company.
f. Employee Negligence and Unsafe Acta -
(1j The union and company agree that providing a safe and healthful workplace for all employees and maintaining high standard* of environmental, safety and health complianc* is a top busin*** priority. The objective of both parties (bail be to aggressively promote and enforce ESH&M rule*.
74
I
XIX
(2) The unkm and company agree that wltHul negligence and/or failure by an employee to obey company ESKUf rates and use of eefcty devices or equipment provided by the company for employee protection is just cause for dfecipfinary action. However, if tbs employee bettoves that disciplinary action is unjiBt, hefstto has the right <xf appeal as provided for tn the grievance procedure
Sections. Union Bulletin Boards
The Company wil fomrsh bulletin boards in conspicuous places to be used solely for the posting of Union notices, rules, regulations and such other notices as may be mutually agreed upon. Before posting, al notices must be approved by the Vice President of Human Resources. The Union wffl notify the Company in writing of the name of the Union representative who is authorized to sign such notices. Notices wil be posted by the Chairman of the Rant Grievance Committee as provided under Article (V, Section 8i(12X
■
Section 4. Nondlscrtminatfon
b.
There wit be no intimidation, coercion or discrimination in any way by the Company or Its agents or by the Union, its representatives or members against any emptayee because he Is or b not a member of the Union. There wffl be no soliatafon of employees for (Men membership or dues conducted upon the premises of the Company during working hours by the Union, its representatives or by employees. There wffl be no discrimhation, coercion or intimidation by the Company or its agents or try the Union, its representatives or members against any employee because of race, creed, color, religion, sex. age. national origin, handicapped condition, tnduding doubted veterans or Vietnam era veterans, or any other reason. Sexual harassment is an insidious form of sex discrimination and it is prahWted. Sexual harassment is defined as unsolicited and unwelcome sexual overtures or conduct, verbal or physical, that threaten the employment relationship, which includes conditions of employment and personnel decisions, or creates a hostfejrrfrnidating or offensive work environment

Sections. Physical Restrictions a. /
(1}
(2>.
An emplcyee rt Section 900 or returning from layoff who reports to the plan! Medical Department with the intent of returning to work and is unable to meet the physical requirements of the job assigned, wilt be directed to the Labor Relations Department and will be provided Union representation. Should the employee choose not to have Uniat representation, he wil sign a letter to that effect and the Union committeeman or Chairman wffl receive a copy of said refusal of representation.
An employee reluming from Section 900, who cannot perform his job because of physical restrictions, wffl displace a less senior employee on another job of equal or lower labor grade wtthin his job ferrffly that he can perform with his
75
XIX
physical restrictions. If the physicaSy restricted employee goes to a tower labor grade as a result of a permanent physical restriction, he wit not retain rights to the hfoher labor grade. The Company wN have ten (to) workdays to place the restricted employee. Those employees who are placed in an cut-cf-plarrt layoff status as result of being dlsptaced. as stated atxyve.vrill be laid OS immediately and the Company will not be required to ghre notice to the Union as set forth it Article VII.
b. If an eireriqyee who is physically rBsabted as a result of sustaining mjury either at work or outside of work cannat be placed under Articte XIX. Section 6.a, he wffl be given such other sutebia ampfaytnenf as may then ba available.
o. When a dispute arises as a resiffi at the Company's authorized physician’s diagnosis that an employee is not capable of returning to work, the Company and the Untan agree to refer the employee to Bayforwont tor a flmcttanel capacity evaluation. The Company and the Union wfl examine the particular fob to be performed to determme the physical requirements. These findings wffl be jointly furnished to Bayforwont to determine If the employee can perform the^physicsl raquhementa of the fob. Bsyforwocx w# make whatever physical examfoatfon necessary, and the decision wit be find and binding upon the employee, the Union end the Company. Bayforwont wffl have no power to add to, or subtract from, or rnocOtf In any way any of the terms of this Agreement'
d. The Parties racogniM that modifications to the CoBective Bargaining Agreement or existing practices may be required to fatfffl the obligations requked by the Americans with Drsabaties Act {ADA). If such morfificatons or changes in practices ere needed, the Parties wiB jointly tarptemer* such modifications or changes rrewssary to comply wBhtheADA
Section 7. Absence for Unton Business
Union members writ be given permissJon to be absent from or to leave ths plant on bona tide Union tusmess upon request of the President Of the focal Union, providing that a. Twentytour (24) hours' advance notice has been given to the Vice President Human Resources or ids designee
b. The total nunfoer for wfetdi permission is requested to be absent from the plant on any one' (1} day will not exceed twedtydlve (25) and not more than two (2) of these are tram any one (1) steward's district, except in those instances where an employee s etectod as an official delegate to an intematfona) UAW convention, Or to a (unction sponsored by or under the auspices of the UAW.
Such tbne spent by enfotayees out of the plant win not be paid far by the Company.
Section & Security Provisions
Nothing contained to this Agreement wffl to any way Jimit the right of the Company to discharge any employee in older to comply with its oMgattons to the government under any security agreement, under any security provisions Of its government contracts, or under any taw. regutatfon or dfrectton of the government The Company will notify the
76
XIX
J
Union prior to or immediately fofcwtng such a discharge and, if permitted, wffl disdosa to the Linton the reason or basis far Rs action
Section 9. Vougttt Aircraft Industrie, Inc. Education Reimbursement Ran ' The partes agree to adopt the Vooght Education RaWbureetneot Han for tire purpose of encouraging the devetopmerrt of Mi entpitjyees. The fallowing table oufHnes key
Tuition and Required Fees	100% accredited state schools 100% onsite programs 80% accredited private schools
Program Approval	includes al courses in approved program. Form submitted no earlier than BO days and no later than 15 days prior to start of dass.
Executive Development Programs	These programs are not part of the Education Reimbursement Han.
Job RetstedtReasonabto Opportunity	Companyrelated business. Must meet test of reasonable opportunity.
Certificate Programs	Yes
Courses Not a Fait of an Approved Pftxpam	Must be job specific
General Education Courses (Towanl a Degree)	Yes
Non-Aocraated Correspondence Schools	50% retmbursement
Grades	UKtergradutee -*C to each course Graduate - V average Grades of TJ* or'Faff'are nsj reimbursed
EnroRmwrt LJmitMfana	2 courses per term with noted vttspfcm
Textbooks	Up to $60 per course
Course Required Software	50% to $200 maximum per course
XIX
Section 10. Security and Access
a.	Since the Company has mandated security obligations in its contracts with certain other companies and/or government agencies pertaining to security access, nothing contained in this Agreement is intended to place the Company in violation of said security agreements. Therefore, the Company Is not required to employ, oonttoua to its employment, assign to or give access to any employee not approved for access by the aforementioned other Company or government agency.
b.	Where ft is practical and reasonable, the Company wW follow the principle of seniority in detennining employees to be submttod for access clearances by the appropriate other Company and/or government agency. It is recognized that other noosecured, nonaccassed programs must operate efficiently, and where possiite avoid disruption. Therefore, it may not be practical and reasonable to submft candidates by seniority. The Company's Intent wM be to follow the principle of seniority. However, should this not be practical and reasonable, the Conpany wU discus* the matter with the appropriate committeemanfs} and the Chairman of the Plant Grievance Committee. The Company wffl have no liabffity should t be determined that a more senior empfoyeefs) has to be laid off u*de ratairring a less serrior emptoyeefs) because of security requirements imposed by other compatriee and/or government agencies.
c.	Promotional opportunities wtttrin an access area wffl be filtod to accordance with the contract provisions of Article VII, Section 5, Promotions. Access clearance vriB not be a considered factor in identification of an individual for promotion. An employee's promotion and assignment to work a job requiring security access depends upon such employee chosen for the promotion subnritting access paperwork and obtaining foe necessary security access from the cognizant agency in a timely manner.
d.	In a job classification requiring the assignment of a small number of employees to work full time in a security access program, the Company vritl request bidding employees io submit themselves for the necessary clearance in seniority order, beginning with the most senior first and so on. An employee's promotion and - assignment to work e job requiring security access depends upon such enfoloyee submitting access paperwork and obtaining the necessary security access from the cognizant agency in a timely manner.
Section'll. Masculine-FeminineReferences
In construing and interpreting the language of this Agreement, reference to the masculine, such as “he”, ‘‘him”, and “tris”, shall Include reference to the feminine.
78
Section 1,
b.
c.
d.
Sections.
79
ARTICLE XX DURATION
This Agreement wOI be in force and effect through 11:59 p.m., September 26,2004 and far additional periods of one (1) year thereafter unless either Party gives written notice of its intent to terminate the Agreement or modify any portion of any of the terms thereof by registered mei to the other Party not [ess than sixty (60) nor more than seventy (70) days prior to September 26,2004 or prior to the end of any yearly period subsequent thereto.
In the event either Party gives notice to the other of its intent to terminate or modify this Agreement es provided for in Article XX, Section 1te, this Agreement wfil not forthwth terminate on its anniversary date, but wfll continue thereafter in force and effect unti either Party gives to the other finte written notice of termination, Which win be effective not earlier than one hundred twenty (120) hours from the receipt of said notice try the addressee.
tn the event notice Of intent to terminate or modify this Agreement has been given by either or both Parties as provided for to Article XX, Sectian 1 a, selective bargaining meetings wi! be held between the Plant Grievance Committee, representatives of the international Union and the Company, begriming promptly after receipt of a notice of intent to terminate or modify. The Parties will, after receipt of a notice of intent to terminate or modify, promptly exchange contract proposals, provided that neither Party wil be precluded tom submitting new or additional proposals at any time prior to the execution of a new, extended or modified coitedive bargaining agreement.
It is expressly understood that the notice of dispute to the Federal Mediation and Condtetion Service required by the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, as amended, wi be due to it thirty (30) days prior to September 26, 2004 or any subsequent September 26.
The Union and the Company, to consideration of the benefits, privileges and advantages provided in this Agreement, suspend meetings in collective bargaining negotiations with each other during the fife of this Agreement with respect to any further demands, including pensions or Snsurarrce for employees or with respect to any questions of wages, hours or worldng conditions, except as may be dealt with as a grievance under Article V.
XX
Sectian 3.
Notices wffl be in writing and wffi be sent by registered man addressed, if to the Union, to Local 846. International Union, United Autornobte. Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America, UAW, 2218 E. Main, Grand Prairie, TX, 75050, and to the Subregtonai Office of the International Union, 1341 West Mocktngblnd, Suite 301W, Dallas, TX. 75247; and if to the Company, to Vought Aircraft industries, Inc., Vice President, Human Resources and Administration, 9314 W. Jefferson Blvd., P. 0. Box 655907. Dallas. TX 75265-5907.
SO
I
Letters Of Agreement Table of Contents
Letter	SubiKt	Baas
1	Local 848 President.....................................       83
Z	Pro Rata Vacation-Termrnstars...............................   84
3	Mecfiatbn Process-------------.................................88
4	Mantech ..............................  —..-.................. 89
5	Disability Benefits - ImpatiaJ Physician ..................... 90
6	Cerveout Procedure for DisabtHy Benefits....................   92
7	Repax of Battery Powered Vehicles............................. 96
8	insurance Dependents Aflat Retirement—......................   97
9	Benefits Coordinator.........................................  98
10	Senior Production Control Proc. Analyst..-.....................100
11	Power House & Waste Treatment	..........................101
12	Concurrent Engineering Environment.................  „........103
13 Repeal of Section 14(b)......................-.....................104
14	Disciplinary Action  .......................................  105
15	Reduction of Districts........................................106
15	401k Options................................................. 107
17 Care 90s Retiree Cost..............................................108
18 Seniority Rights Job Families 5040,5060,5089.7000,7140, 7153, 7380,7441, 7442,7491. 7501 and 7700............................  110
19	Return to Work................................................ HI
20	Family and Merited Leave.....—..............................  118
21	Financial Secretary...........................................119
7	22	New Hire Orientatfon  ....................................    120
23	NewTechnotogy..............................................   121
24 Shift Preferenoes/Areas...........-............................... 123
25	Days Off - Powerhouse .—.......................-..............12*
26	tndement Weather Shutdown..................................   125
1'	27	Health Maintenance Organizations (HMOs).....................  126
28	Reemployed Retirees.........................................  127
29	Major Maintenance Subcontract Meeting ......................  128
30	Skflled Trades Recognition Program............................12S
31	Substance Abuse Testarg Program...............................130
32	Paycheck Notices..............................................135
33	Vacation fix UAW Transfers....................................136
34	Dependent Ute Insurance.......................................137
35 Dignity in the Workplace Coordinator.........-.................... 140
36	Workforce Diversity...........................................142
37 Smoking in the Workplace....................••...................  143
38	PosW?etirerr»rit Insurance Benefits...........................'.. 145
82
(faVouaht
Aiwffi ixMsMM, Ine,
Letter of Agreement 1 Local B43 President
The parties agree that, to tin evert that a Oargtinfritf unit employee is otecMftwskfant of Lreuti M of the UAW. such employee etui he onflUed to paid have far ths purpose of psrforming th* functions of Hint office. Sudi pay wil be the Presidents hourly base rate of pay far forty (40} hours per week and vdi exclude any tetet or protoum pay, No ovstalme or expenses wit» paid by (he company
R.K Wa^er
Plarrl Grievance Committee local Union 848-UAW
AlmWl SidwteR. VK. p«i Oftee Bra ess«IT
□.Mi nr nzes-ssor
Dale: X- i ~ 6L
the President will remain an employee of me Company and wil be elghte for all employee benefits provided to maptayees In the barpatotog unit Any perfarrnsnce award payments pakt to enpfayees of the baipartag unit wil also be pad to the President The PresMenl will make Ntnflwrseff available, irt rwonabte times and upon reasonable nodes, for tM meetings with appropriate company rtffietels far the purpose of nepotMton*. management interface, and tenrso arising under the term at dw apreement

OK Stanley - president UKnUhimBa-dAW
M-D.Hm
International Representative - UAW
83
2
of Artde IX. are as fctews
PC, Ta.
(1)
(2)
EraiMes;
<D
«»
3-1-63
40 hrs
P)
(4
*-1-63
(3)
w (0
Senterty: LsadOft
penOnoeBarSSSOOT fttee,TXr»»Mte
2-1-62 2-1-63
40 hrs 10-1-61 2-1-63
0) (b)
(e)
(a) (b) M
2-1-62 2-1-63
(a) (W
(e)
(st m
Letter rtf Agreement 2 Pro Rsta Vacafion - Terminations
rtcf^itiAutildXlnc.
Tha reaf/sms the letter doted t Juw 1963 that sttras:
An errptayee who is tei off a draltad frto notary serried under the Setetee Sarrica Art as amended, er who ratiras tnte tie Company's Ratterwnt Inoomo Pim, w# be paid pro rata vacate) (roridat
Ha has one (1) er mors years of servcnty on «>» (Me ot hit WrrrmaBon. oxi
He has wtrtad a least ester parvant (60%) of the reguta scheduM worWns hours ot ths (ten tern te bet »tay1.»tedte at his terrteetei
Pro-ratad vacate) wi be paid at the rate of r»4wiMli (1/12} or the vacedte pay for which tha omcteyoewaa Mstee tn tie May 1. temetetey proceeds the date of Na tsntestei. te each monti and the mate teeter of the month (ntenteh ct etexy-hre (85) staigM-fnie hans) in vttei ho was tentteod.
on 5-1-62 fiu-iuted vacation du* cn 2-1-63: Rucdudt Vacation utgNOy Oft 5-1-63:
Scrtorty Lrtl Off: Vacation ttipbttty on 5-1-62: Pro-raW vacation duaonZ-MB: tested: upon neat Sariorty LtedOff: Vacation
34
DC,Tb.
(0
(2)
(3)
«>
b.
w
on 54-62:		24 hm.
W	Prorated vecefcrr due on 2-1-63:	&/T2of24hra
(a)	Recafad:	3-1-63
(0	Vacation on 5-1-83	40 hrs- feM0d2 of 24 hrs.
(a)	Sertortty	2-1-6t
fr)	LtodOff:	2-1-63
	Vacation etgibiSty on 5-1-62:	BOhrs,
(d)	Pro-ratod vacation due on 2-1-63:	912 <*80 frs.
(e)	Recefed:	3-HB
(0	Vecafen on 5-1-63	120hr».fc»eri2 oftthn-
In each of toe above enmptee, toe aif/ntf peraent (SO%) requirement ha bewi met
Anemptoywowho on Moy 1 ri not eltofato lor o M vacation becaueo of Wyevoa (53) or more feya whtie In Section 900 (an Inactive rtetut), and wttoee otrarabttncei wMe on fte acbve peyrod do not eneed twenty percent (20%) of tea acfedutad waking ham of the ffent w* rectfs pm m vacation far each pwtodtM emptoyw w» on the psrod worktog. prodded:
Ha hat worked eighty percent (80%) of tie frit cf each period Mparataly to be edgbto tor pro roa for tret period.
He wU pe etigfate far one-tstitn (1112) pro rear far me rnoom the empkiyw antae Sectton 900 arty r the emptoyoe walw a minrmrm of a^nyriue (®5) noun end tea quaffed under the eighty pens* (90%) rule far the perttoent work period.
Hew* be eoptto far onMweWi (1(12) of Nt vacation far each month that be quatife*
Pro tela far that period prior to entering Saoton WO wB bo bated tn tie vacation far whiOi the enitduy wan edible on ma prMout Uty i, Pro rife far the 1st period fadnv-hg return to roaowng May 1 a* be bated on the vacatai far which
Example*			
(11	w	Seniority	2-i-at
	(b)	Vacation eiigMty on 5-1-62:	40hr»c
	tc)	into WO:	7-1-tt
	(d)	HtiienaSOS:	8>tM2
	W	Vacation o6qa*y on 5-1-63:	80 tn.
P)	w	Saniortty	2-1-61
	w	vacation SfpbUy on 5-1-62	40 hra.
	(C>	Wo 900:	74-62
	(<D	RntomtSOO:	3-1-63
	(•)	Vacation eilgMIty on 5-1-63:	212 erf 40 ta; 2tt2tf80ta.
S5

2
(3)
0)
(5)
(6)
(a) .	Sonority	2-1-46
(b)	Vacation ettdHity on St -62	120 hfS
<0	Into 900:	6-19^2
W	Return* 9CC:	3-13*63
(a)	Vacation eSpMByon 5-1-63.	3fl 2 tf 120 hrs
(•)	Seniority	2-1-61
(b)	Vacation ellgWty on 6-1-62	80 lira.
(c)	tatoSOO:	11-19-62
(d)	ReunaSOO:	3-2563
(«)	Vacation eigbaty on 5-1 -S3:	£12 of 80 to; Ul2of120h«.
(a)	Seniority	2-1-SB
<b)	Vacation ef^biity on 5-1-62	60 hra.
w	IntoSOO:	7-17-62
(d)	Return* 906:	3-1-62
(a)	Into 900:	12-10-62
tn	Returns 900:	2-18-B3
(9)	. Vacation ehoMty on 5-1-63:	8H2 of 80 tire;
(•)	Seniority	21-56
IP)	Vaeadon efljtbUty on 5-1 -68	80hra.
(e)	Layoff.	6-1-82
(0)	Rszd;	6-29-62
<•)	Into 900.	8*142
m	Returns 906	10-2242
ta>	Layoff:	12-342
	Rncul:	1-ZB-63
(•>	Vacation aUgHUy a> S-1-63:	3M2tf80hra
tn etohoT the rtocre six (6) examples the aehtyperuw*(B0%) requirement urai*l have been met and total rattier of etaenoee wNh «i *e acta* payroll had nt* «xrw*ded twenty percent (20%).
P)
(a)	Seniority	2-1-56
<b)	Vacation attg&Uy on >1-62	SOhra.
(c)	tatoOOO:	1M<62
W	Returns BOO:	19-15-83
<e)	Abeerrt(11-1-a2 to 2-4-63):	Exceed* 52 days
	VecEton ■st'strtoy on SI-63:	x>
In sxsrfM Pl ebore, employ** did not meet ths sigtity percant (80%) mqdrement
88
2
Letter of Agreement #2 - Pre Rate Vacation Terminations
DJ-Wiifrtoy.Dh WRAA Customer EEO, and Shies
C.KL Santo?-Presort Local Un ton 846-UAW
R,K.	M - Ctiahnan
Rant Grievance CcnrrwtlBe Local ttato 848-UAW
Data: 1 - ? ~ Ot

'1
M.D« Hdl
MernaSonal Repnentative - UAW
L
"■'I ,
87
3
ffaVouaht
Arcertl Mtsaes he.
neofi»S«M*cr tMn.TXTSMMWT
Letter of Agreement 3 Mediation Process
During the course of negotiations the parties agreed *o amend Article V, Section 7, b. so as to permit morHsbon, upon mutual agreement, Curing the presrtiltrstion step of the grievance procedure.
The primary purpose of Um mediator is to assist the parties k> settling grievances tn a mutually satisfactory fashion, tn attempting to achieve a sstBemertt, the mediator to free to use all of the techniques customarily riaauLlatorl with mediation, Including private conhsencos with only one pnty. If Mtttomont to not reached during the mediation, and the matter to artWtrated, the mediator shall not serve u the arbhrMDr and shall not bo called as a wttnen by either party. Hothing sold or atone by the parties nr the mediator dising the modtation may bo Introduced by either party during artritnrtton.
Iha parties shad rranuatty select the mediator. If the parties am unable to roach agreement on a mediator, the matter shall be submitted to artritrsaon. Each party shad bear omdialf Of the toes and expenses of the mediator.
DJ. Whkiey, ttenctor HRbA Customer Supp EEO, and Ethics
Plant Grievance ccmm*toe
Local Union 848-UAW
M.D.Mafl kitemattsnd RepfB&anbfra - UAW
ram:	J ~
88
i.f sr •
5
fjlVouaht
/teanft (nduEtbea, too.
Vcuteit atce® asattretoVa Inc. Mi Offic* a»r«59O7 Drf».TX?52M-S»7
Letter of Agreement 5 Disabffity Benefits - IrrjtartiaJ Physician
hi tnsa cases in which the insurance company amuses Its option to have ts gttysldan etenre an arrpioyee, the insurance company has the n^i for the atcantlnatlon to be conducted to Oates Texas, if the insuanee oompsty exandsea fre rtflfrt attaaquent to 52 weeks Cotaring the todWrfuart last day st work, te Partite a/*« tttat tic Company wB pay mSeage st the rate of $-32 pe mda (both «ys] as determined by Fteid Mrftstly from te ktdMduahe pteoe o< donnidM to Ma. Taxes. No mileage wh bopaid if bo domicie is teas train 100 nriesfooewey) from Drttes. Taras. If Ow place of domicie Is 200 mins or more (one way), ths todividusl wB be ptid in atkttttonal $50 lod^ig Awance.
Kasa result of such examination, the enployoe is not receiving short term dMIIty beneats or Extended Disatiiity Benettre (SIB) end a depute exerts its to the employee's enMtemant to short-term dtehBty benetb « EDB, it is agreed as Mows:
That a phyaidan w41 ba aeteded to accordanoo with the procedure far wtecfron of Uedlcte Arttaam in Artide Vr Sadfan &p_ of the Apearnent between the ftrtaa.
2.
3.
That tie edtocsrel employee who a under the regular care end attendance of a physician wil be referred to the phyriitai selected under paragraph 1. who wil dstremine whether, If tt» case swotas short-term dtsatriity benefits, the employee is whctty and cwitinuwsty disattM and prevented tom enfpptg ri his occupation or. If the caw Itnctw EDB. whether the ansticyw has a physical or mental condition which totatty prevents him from engaging In any galnM omployrnenL
i £
That in toe C3M of short-term testeairty benefit*, if the empbyte i* to be who#/ end continuously dsabted and pcwvnted from encaging to his mutation and i» and te» been eeherwise uidar the regtear cam and attendance of a phytiditfl, aiwt-teufi disebRy benefits wfl be payable to accordance with the prwwfor* d the disabaily inamnce pten under which the deirti wom, hctodtog thcrt-tenr disabdity benefits noi paid because of the adverse determtoafcn of toe tosurance ©orrtoanyS physician; tool to the case of EDft, If the employee is found to have a physical or mantel ooneMfan whteh tottefy prwvwite h>n from engaging to any gehfof emptoymerrt, EDB wfl be payable to accordance with the provisions of the dteabiity tosurence t*an under which the dafrn shbo, todudtog EDB not paid becsuee of toe sdww xMarrntoaHon
5.
6.
That the physician sdactad under paragraph 1. of ttiis Latter of ^yaement may request tram an sfletted emptoyaete ptysicta er ths tosuanoe corrpany^ physician such of the enployash medteri raoorde as he dearrA tmehd io he dntmnriation.
That the decfcton of toe phystcten rateclod under paragraph 1 * of tor* Letter of Agreement wfl be fate aid btodhg on the Partm.
That (he charge* tf the phyaician MfoOod under peregr^h 1. of (N» Letter of Agreement wfl be borne equaty by to* Partes.
Kjairaljiugu
90
6
^Vouaht
Mcron tnduslitea. too.
VeuGtt Aircraft Mw*1w« he, ftwOaewBarttSBO?
TX T526M8G7
Letter of Agreement 6 Carveout Procedure for Disability Benefits
Tte letter amende the erigtori letter dated 10 August 1970 and rtetnned 23 Jine 1968 to Corporate tie tffwt procedure for Impetmenl knome Banerts f foe employee has returned to worts.
The Partes hawo agreed to a procedure far ctfeateg dtorHenn dteatsty berate and Extended Dlsabffly
The texrbfriy Inoome pte poridro for cartain levels of tmte under the abort form ctsttotrty plan and EOG. This plan tec pnwidta for the ridusion tf benefits prates tram such sources as Serial Secriry. workers' Condensation, co enter govenarant berate, nl ratrement borate to maSttpki the cpfmprnta torsi of bmete
9£F55T PMQ6WBES
Short Tern OlsaiiBtv
the Uowvig sources of benete wB be 'Wfoef from abort term dtsaHtty beneta:
Stent Searite DisaWBv Imsurance Borate rSS-OBi
the waety etevafortt of the Social Scarify DreaCCty Irawunoe Barati furymertr. to which an employee may be entted for foe same period for which ha b reoatofog shertfomn cfisaNBty berate wB be deducted from shorvarm dtsabKy berate. For ths redurifan, the weakly eepriraient of a monthly S&OB banal* wB be consktared erpai to foe mcntrly SSOIB emote divided by 4333.
Tt» offset procedure wfl be apptteble drily to foe prtrary SSCHB to when foe employve h a nay be entted. No niduten kt shorHerm tetetoy bowtewB bo made because of S&OB whicli may be paid a pegotie to erttbed departeds of he wmgfoyea. However, * en employee's age Is too peat to slow Mm to apply far SS O® wry amount payable trwn CM Aga Social Security wtl be ractoctsd. The redutei wB erase when foe Corrpmy has received one SSOOtete.
1
Wcrkte Compensation
ShorWerm teabUy denote wB also be induced by periodic Worker's Compensation benete goto or payable »the arteoyue far any <r*sy far the ewra perfod for which foe employe Is receiving shorHerm dsattSbr banete. Fer trap nan setterrarfo, foe radurifon te be ealouleted usfog the method agreed to by the Pteea k> the radrensnt plan. However, if tie
sum. Uwe wB be no efut Iran shorHann dbawny Donate.
92
6
Brtentad DisaMfo Benefits (HJBI
The fotlowtag sources of banorits wil be 'rtW Atm EDB:
Soctal Security DisabMy tasuranra Benefits (SSOBI
The weekly oquiralenl of foe Sodd Security Disabaty hsuranoe Benefit payments, to which an emptayee may be entitled for the sane period for which he s iweMna EDB wO be deducted from FOB For fob rataction, the woetay equivalent of a rmrrthty SS-OfB benefit wd be
The nibet procetan w* be appttcatia only to the primary SSOB to whieh the employwa is or may be nntittod. No reduction in EDS wB be made because of SS-O® which may bo paid w
2.
akM htn to apply far SS-IX8. any amount payable bom Old Age Social Security wd bo deducted. No S&O1B effect >W bo taken if two dentals haw been reooiwcl by the Company.
Workera'ComtWBtaon
t
employee formtyhjwy for he same period far which the rmptoyeo b raceivhga®. Forkntp cum setUameita. the reduerisn wM bo caicutatod ustag he method agreed to by tha Parties In the ratnmont plai. However, f the employee haw taunted to worit and ratafees tapfannert Income Beneflte. eta* weekly or limp atari, Tere wS be no onset tarn EDB.
3.
DtaatawRettemertBOTfts
EDB wfe also be oriset by any benefits paid or paytata under too aerr^ao/a cfatatty nsttramenepian, ttassssudt benefits hew boon denied.

There wB be no HB^stion of tick pay and start bent dataity benofts under Ute effect pftcedure.
Tha pnwfstona, ccndtant and soptobon of the dfeebaty taome plan wd be unattarad by Ha Letter of
■ TM CompBiy w« Worn effected ontaoyeee of the pnstatorw oi tas Letter of Ajpeemem to a ttmafy manner as set forth fa this tetter.

Kb agreed that Ite Corrpeny may make dtangas n tha offset procedure (toduding toe changes m the ; mourned S&D® smtari) mads appttcabte by changes to tha law gowning Sottal Sacurtty nooMtty hannco Benefits.
Stea, wmsai
: infer SS-1 is sent to the wrpkfiee taring the eighth weak of dlsattay. Inducted srith the tatter is an i 'Adtartuttan to Soon Award* Denial Wormatarr.
ladar SS-1 atfefeea the amgfoyw kr
Fie a data for SS-DIB. and
93
6
I	Aeopfaf *M wrartf ardent stated barecefraf by the Confwv (per Atehorteetfan ftm) Dy th* sevanth
I	timth at rtieteitity. > notice of a dentil b received, no start-term dtateiWty reduction to made. - tt notice of ar
|*	ward b recelvad, raducuuri of shortterm rUsebiity a meta.* If no notice has been recehred, short-term
If.	taabBty barrens w> be radioed by the estimated SS-DIB amount**
li,
I' •	* where an 5>SDfR mvarti la recarwd, theradUttton n stHxsterm tataltiy paymenb b meta n the
l	otafoynab startterm tatatty check for tire drat fill week of the seventh full calendar month of
I '	dtarbttty.
I	F<x rrcarntea If the ettaksyea became rtaWed on January 15, the drat reduction would bo from th*
r	short-term dtsetaty chock for th* (rat week of August
‘ :	However, store shortterm taabBty reductions are effective with tee sixth M calendar month of
| '	rtisatrilty, err adtttorta amount h deducted inU tie SS-O® omaort tor the sbdh mcnti. or rerroectlve
I.	tothe*tfetar*<M*ofttenMini,hBtbe*nMdout
“ If the arrpkwee’h SS-DiB rtdm ties not yet been deterrrrted. er 1 appeare an enttrtert rmptoyoa has l.	net tted a ctatin or has not prodded th* reqteed medfcal wtdence, or tithe empleya* has been totety
III	or tmrttaly tartuatitta tor SS-DB because of dr^redtittrg, took of tieetmanf, or rafcsrt wttivul good
Il	causa to accept vocebonte rehabStntton tratirtog, vietUf shortterm taabtitty benefits am ncnothttwii
h|.	reduced, as In tire rcrarrxta atm Cnctutaig the atktittorta arrnnt tor the sixth month of dstautyk
J	need f» base aertfy reduction Is err a creartted SS-OB smart. aubfatd to chenges In toe tew
r	govemfeg Social Seorty Otssnllty Insurance Senates.
■ ■	The current amount of reduction tor dUeMIttos oonatiHictog on or after January t, 2OOO, t* 120* per
| -	week, The additional amount deducted to recover Iha sixtr month overpayment b $45.
i '	Steel Letter SSJ!
It
f	Latter SS 2 i» sent to t» employe rknrg the test fcti week of the seventh entendre merth of Usability.
if ‘
I	hb written one of two ways. ntete toe wnptayee tether
1.	The notice teen SS-LXBawarx, was recatved and short-term <fate>iiitywffl be reduced, or
|l	2. Tmi no noifoe was mreived anti Iha orasumndSSCIB amount wil ba deducted.
Sten3. (W«BStoo2Bnaaoacabte)UttBrSS-3
-	It it Speers to the Company tort Iha ertrttayee is not errttac to S&-OE betafite (but no deter r r b islion has
been received) letter SS-3 is sent to the emp*>ye* dutag the test week te th* seventh month cfdisaMty.
Latta SS-3 Homa Ih* srrx^oyav that no reduction to shortterm dissttety betafils wtt tn mata presently. However, toe smployae is advised to nntotatary Sa a datm tor SSOIB tf not already dene, becaus* If no tatarrunaten of claim is receiMd, short-term UtatHity benefits wit be reduced in aceottanc* W> the fctawmg pmaptah-
MierenWthsr award not denial (per Authorttatan form) tar "Certilicate te Soeta trtannc* Award or Denier (Snort Security document) is received by the ttine unreduced start-term dtsaMlty gsyrnents have Men meta for 3k weeks, the presumed roduetten begins with shortAerm dlsaMliy check for the 40th week of dtsabtity. However, store entr "3 week* cf shnrttenn tatalty benefits are now erasable to recoup preeuned SS-O® for 2t weeks (six mcnthsX the total presumed SS-LXB ts deducted during the last 13 wertts of rhcrMerm taabkty.
Steed. LeberEDB-1
94
J
6
Lo4terEDB.1baenttotheampta|(ra«inft9«ia39thw(ak<)<dlsaii«y. Iha tetter advtae* »» amUovaa to mote ^UtMlon hr EQB, aid, » appfcatfe, fat diebtey ratawrm twaaa and donfritZiSi^rife imumce.

SMjHbm ray artae where K^rtmenta ran ba made Iran an tmptayne's dhaMty benatea. Letter* ss-4 and SS-o ara sanftlaa ol latten tu war autfi liuatoru.
latter SS4: Tol»aaritelwratafS(fntiaitaamtesSi®arad<orwwyntanta-«i<(apa>rant),
LrtterSM: To t» .art aftm raie^ of notftatton a danW of S&OIB w rfler the matenum benefit . (Mttoti.
jy t^6ar & Aqaamatt irit rarnh it *dKt (tx fa dunattoc of toa Ortac&a Oa^Knp fiqmimnt
DJ.WMMy.Onctar HRMCtatomar&w EBO, aneEttecr
RXWa»»f IlCChaiman Ptant Grtwance Comrattoe twat Union «g-UAW
:i.
I
Data: 7 — i ~ C>J
M.D.HaB 'ntomabonte RepraMntatgva - UAW
M
y
A’’1
85
7
I' ■

■it
^Vouaht
AkcieftlrtJMilK.
pcntOBoaOMMSOCr MMhTXTSZMOOf
Letter of Agreement 7 Repair of Battery Powered Vehicles
ttto reWtons «w Mar Usd 20 AuquM 1970 that ata**:
TM Partan Mo* agree to sbitie by toe folnwtg gtddeltoes io prevent rrWuxMntendhg conamtog •* repaTs of Battary PwwuJ totomrt TtereMlalton Vehtotoe used on Carper*
<*)
(W
Al madiawsf (stationary art mcrwetue) oangenenb wiS ba the rwgauMty of *■ Venide Mechanics Occupatonef <3n»g 5100. Eserrtple. Fmm, Carnage. LWitftb. Hydnuic systems. Sleorkig, Aides, Brakes, Cookhg systems. Wheels. Stwtfts. Sow. Lights. Homs. BMMas. Starters, Ganentars and other Automcttm type systems exaudho systems set forth in subsection (t>>.
Al Bibeiy Powered BaoMcrt Systems which «• electronic in netcre on whsto dwnand IuumWMq of nlocMnic* or Waortm borrt^ntsid wK b* the reogonoMty of ttw
2. It ss Slither agreed that a* vetticMe wU be daWered to the Garage tor chedctog (Hor to
OJ. Vtwtnoy, ceuctor W9A Customer Swo EB), aid Ethics
CK starter-Pretodont	I
UxW Union W-UAW	|
Oato 7_- I- Of
—L-—n	----
R.K? Wgne m Ctatmai Hart Grievance Cam^iee Loaf Union B4D-UAW
MJJ.mo
Manattanfl Regrsentain-UAW
96
(frVought
VoMQht MtttfL	tas.
Pact (Mat ftkftSMOT &•■••> TX732M-5»r
8
Letter erf Agreement 8 Insurance Dependents After Retirement
Uto Letter of A^eententrepCecos the olgtiial tetter rioted ISDetantoerfSTZ andreattrmed 23 Juw 198ft
The Company and tie Mentotonsd Union. United AutamoMto, Aarwpooe M Agricultural tinplemart Vfar*m of America, UAW, and h Local Union 848. ogee a Mon:
1.	Ai the thio an employee recolires tie ielement odt Menriew. a daacripeon at tie cunant health on rides and prowrions regadmg corerage for twnsatres. es wet as their dependents. Ml be captained to detail Emplcyoos w« bo requtied to provide tie Contoany with Mlialectwy eaUenee that the dependent* fated to ba cowed nth health care toter retirement meet tie aigMfty rapmmonte on the date ef retirement
2.	to the went that The retiring ernptoyWs spouse is an employee cd the Ccnpwiy on the date cd tie retlrtog emptoyeate retirement end Is etigble tor health care to his or her own right, tie retiring emptoyee may IM fist spouse as a fatore elgtato dependant, Itowew, tie spouse wd retain aritee enplojma tiereti core oowage so tang as a owered emptoroo. tn tie ewtt mat spouse tones emrage to took own right at any time rutsequent to too retiring emptoyWe rottemeritdate, retiree heMti cm cowags wl be amteodod to tore spouse.
3.	Under no other ctwnsttonjes wt any dependants aoqMed autreeepent to tie rettement effective date bo etigtite tor heath cm coverage, retanlesa of tw retetionsttip to toe redroe.

9
Par
Ntrtber
2.
3,
Auudtitpent
5.
Authority
6.
Worft Location
SB
Vw^u Alndt meusbiu, Bte Rei OIBM Bar ffifiaor
Com. TX TS2SMM7
Letier of Agreement 9 Benefits Coordinator
f^VbuaM StorafttoduditaLtic.
Dutog 1671 negotiations the Parties agreed In principle be Ccmpenypaid Benrilts Coonttoatar.
THs StetptemenolApuemontwa define, in total, offeohie Merest S, 1S62, the rights and dukes of each Party with reepect to ssod Benefits Coerrinakx-
Subject to 3.. Mow, tt* Company wi pay toe Benafite Coordrator at the mextaum rate of tabor grade 1 each week during which he actively tondkns as Bwrefits CocrdsHtor ess sat forth IMfcyw up to but not exceeding forty (00) thies the base fcuty rate (hdUdlng COLA but exdudfog other bonuses and premiums) he would otherwfca recoin nxter the terra d the CoMcthre Baigainbg Affwnent between the Partes.
under no contMon wU more that one ndNidbal serve as Benefits Coordinator at any given trne.

The Company and the Union urffi trxitutty agree on the pernor-. to serve us Bmoffis Cbordtatcr. No person w« be recovdrad by the Company “ Benefis Coorrtnattr imn such muted

The Benefls Cocrthatw wfl serve empfoyerh and retirees to ipMton to codocttvdy bargained benem plans. The spodlc pries wB bo assigned by the Company.
Its Boneffis Coonftiatarte aitnrty wi be llmtted to the kwesfigetion of MMtiiti ernptayeefe apetrifc toqiMee raceM by the Bonettis Coordhator. Tha Benefits Ctudiialufe hvesSpsbon wfi nd exceed mat whkii Is necessary to adequate** xivustigateu spertfc mqtKy.
b.	The Benefits CoorJhetor wfl haw no other rrvesficetory or other aurtxrty.
The Bs»tb CoerdnekM wl work (warty-four (24) hours pes week in the Benefits Office and etiteen (16) bran por week to the Union Hat. The ttnn wB be mukiaty egeed to between too Ccnfoary and Urion.
The Benefit* Coordhator wB net ccntaci an employee at wort; dump the tine the employee b acbeduled to be wrldng union bo r&ected by the Compeny .
S-
Seniority
9
The Bonofta CoonMcr nd. as long as his ^potatment is in odoct bate tag seniority tabs occupational group far fayed ptspoaes.
9.
The Corrpany rwarvK the right to ducpine the Beofata Cootdfaator far vtotefan of this Agreement w*h penatoao Io be miimensurtee wtti pensile assessed far rxrranrteite
Any action taken by tw Company fa this regard may b» dufanged by Unni pxrrarxw. It chofcngod, tie Bandb Coordktatorwn ontfaue to sene at the Unni's distntini, Ufair»pa>d. If the ctatenge to the Crxrpstyfe action n iwoivod in tie Unfarfo fewer, tie Company wl continue to reajqytze and the Benetls Cootfnalcr and w# rtWntame tie Untan for the Benoits Coonfriatarfe pay, not to encaed forty (4OJ boors per wetot fa aomitaica with ptoagragti 1., abme. If the Cctii«i/s acOori u uphoto, a now Benete Coorlfaattr wit be appointed es presided fa tierapaph 3.. above.
10.
CaramcadH
Noardthstteatoig »„ above. me BeneW Coorttaetor wl be subject Io tn seme rutac and taguMfons [and ponM» for vUIUon thereof) a employee wwkng untortie terns ef the

11.
MHmumNisntierofBmotayeea
If, whan He Supple neiata Apeement B fa effect the mnfaer «t emcfayw cowed by the Coaeedv* Bargaining Affeemont drops Mtw 2,000, Hl Suppfamenal hqvemont wa be void, end there wa be no Banefts Coontnstor istan md isiB tie mrrtrer of sad employee* again exceed* 2.000.
12.
Duration
:4 k
This Latter of Agreement wfi not sixvfve the Cotacdw Bsjplnhg Ayoermm between the Probes and ray be termfaated sooner by mutato assent
EEO.nl Shea
CJC Staitay - Prestdeet Local Urtcn MB - UAW
1
Data:,
RK Walter Ilf- GTottbi Hirt Grimnct Oommltet Local Ura 548-UAW
tmemefcnal Regresentatlvo - UAW
99
10
^VgugU
VM«M «kt>* totoitata. Sk. ptoaaBieimr OM.TX7S»«ai7
Latter of Agreement 10 Sr. Production Control Process Analyst
Ths Cmoery and the International Unicn, Untad Autcmoble, Aerospace end Agricidtarto Implement Workers of America. UAW aid to Lota UM MS hereby epw to tie tatatoon c* dutes pertalnrig to the toncttoM cf the Sr. Prodacttai Control Process Anstyai am errrrioyees covered by the terms «this AoeemerrtesMaee:
1. Outer ewtoered toe teorit normaOy pertbrmed by employeea covered tenter the terms of toe A^eemertand nttto bepertonned by Sr. pmroii AnafrPt ere:
a	Asriatrig houny emptojoai in the toMtog end untaedtog of parts.
to GritoO ristnxttra to hourly wnptoyees trim regard to job assionrwTt unless in so acting mpuey eeetttod In psngraph 1 faatow.
c,	MRsntogtrwtortssdsleedmm during his absent*.
d.	ogtar dunes ncrmeAy wttoto toe scope and normaty performed by hourly smpvyyess
?	IheSr. Proew Aratyrtwi perform tatefcns ri s rtaS capaoty latataa toenaaytfng,
ptorwtoto. ooordtoating. snd asenrilng Proriuotton Control proeeeees es »> «denstan el toe Sugai lina or MBSegsr end mey aeauine duttoc al seme In an adtog capacity in their ahaeurr The Sr, proceea Analyst AncOcnr batog ctortlad henan w« be peribnnad tom toe houtyPTOducScri Control errotoyoesaid leatotw here pertained toair dufee ar s* forth in tta mpsr.n n> job desutotions. The Sr. Pi rir m Antoyet w* assist toe SupsHtoas or Mtaagar ri Uritas such es drfermritoo priorites, raccrrmemihg menagonsni acton, or sMmeto msnutatatog msthods, and other rirrSar action nacasaary to med eitwijae.
D J. Wrihey, DArcicr J HR&ACuatanor Support,
CK Stanley-Prwdent Local Union SIS-UAW
EEC, and Eases
Dato: 2-/--O/
IB-SutaniT
Ptort Grievance Conrrritoe Local Union 8*8* UAW
inteniattonel Regraaentodve - UAW
too
AkacdthdumeAlnc.
PtaCtor* tea essaor oeWttTSMMW?
Latter gfAsffitoment 11 Power House & Waste Treatment
Irie ContoW end ton WMnMonM IMon, United AuUmwbla. Aeraspece and Agrtotolwto knptomont IMartwa of America, UAW and Ha LOCto Unton 843 aa Mt forth baton <r> quesoon* pertiteterj to pmamthw martenano*. totentag, and evarten* assignment and dfetritaw, aa > ratotoa to foe Poww
11
■'ijl
to routed to pNMntMie maaaansnce. the Power Howe uusitoj*** wfl perform K, and other MttelnMaWertaotwttbeuaedtoaugpWmKittaPwerHwtonnMnswy. Pmooer*
$ £
pant Power Hou** Jbb daacrfodon.
nano* IncdudM Itema wMewad in t» fob cods S420
Training of Poma Hawa amptoyaw and dice* aailgned to IndurtM Watte Traatowit nW be ufclawi:
a. A ranfew of an enptayaete progress in fob pate M22towwd questing fr th* labor pads 2 job wi be mad* «nute>y I to* ernptoye* het not ban wjedad by tat time.
b. Those amptoy*** ata become quMftod to both proc***** nd be promoted to pada 2 and to ta can of toed angdoyM to grad* L
I
Wwnww an emptayaa is rtoswit on a repdar sctwMed ent Ind Ost, and I to nacaamy to
amptoyaef*). by tow onrtkne dtetrbutta. assigned to tot shdl Mm to atadtled off that toy Staid the Company be unable to aaaae rowne by eal to, to* amptorrto tnr on toenltn*
dtetobusoo on the foioweig waft m ba (toted In tots W howa anty
A toad wtaoyee w» perform toad duo** and. aa neoeeaary, may perform one other taction (atadon) whan wortag m a antghttona baste. Howenr. a teed anfofoyee w* perform only
to wwtag on an ctattim* taste.
S
101
J
I
S.	TtewgfkKhMMs wd ba pwW nin* (S) dsy* In •Pwn.
DJ. WNtMy.Dtactir URSA Cuuctncr Supp
Pane
RKWkjwB-PtaM GriMnca ComnftM UcNlMon MS-UAW
MO, Hal htemaknal HepHaMtMM > <MW
102
12
Alreintt kxturtfei tic.
5
$
:i«
. <
>
$
193
RK Warier III-Chatman Hani Gitevsice Corrnnm locrtlWcn *4$-UAW
Veugte Alntf tnirttH, sb. re* oa» bnaawT omslkraseMw?
Letter of Agreement 12 Concurrent Engnaartng Environment
Daw. 2 - }
Ths Partin effno la noorpcrato Hat pattern tasks Ha concumsrt er^neMhg at ouftwd tersh.
On progrsns iMara tha Company is dictated andtar decida to anplenunt concurrent engrwxstng nto r» design proreei. the we of automation mC be umad to the Meet potenM posrtbte Greet dewnkred cd
Where ■iteration CMrtape bagaftng util tarts, tea haigaMng irtt personnel wO t» gawtead eito the
Gargetiing irit pereomrt <■■ ba pnwicM tnrtrig and acceea io oqu*anant« nacanwy o MM bargartlng trttaaka te t» concurrent enpnaertng awwonrant TlaMg may IncMIa tencaonrthy outeda of twgiairig tasks ta bait utme penonnd affictantly in a oomnant engkiMctog enWonment
■EEQ, and Ethics
CKStantey- Preaidem local Union MB-UAW
M.D. Hrtl.
MernwloM RegreaantsWa • UAW

13
iMcjofT mdurttex
VdugMAfeMft MuMriw, Ins. Rest Ofe* tat 6SSMI7 mats, IX 7S2S5-MC7
Lstter of Agreement 13
Repeal of Section 14(b)
This reaffirms the letter dated 1 Maren 1978 that states:
5
The Ptftfei that h the evert ttet Section 14(b) of tte Labor Manegonert Retetkne Act of 1947 « reoerSed. those employees who are manbers at the Union st that time must retain their membership wtte they are covered by this Affument ml Stosa employees hted subsequent to ♦» repeal at the Section <*■ be requted, as a condidm of employment. Io become a msmber <4 the Unksi within thfrty (SO) days attar betog pieced on tee payrd
It was stated fiataerthte those amptayees who on the affetatae date of the repetf of Section 14(b) were not memoon at tee IMprt wO not be reqteed to become a merrtier as ieng as they have seniorfly under me terms of the Agreement
4
■ji"
EEO.wxJ Ettift
CKStsrthy-PrwArt Loc^UntafiMa-UAW
Data: 2- — ~~Cf/
RK. Wegner Bl - Chatman Ptant oriwance Comrrten# Local kitten S48-UAW
M.D.HsO krtsmstionai Representative- UAW
$
1M
(faVouaht
Alrouft InouartM, nc.
14
Akmn Mames. mt PwtoffceBtaessa® Catn.tXnztMgo?
Letter of Agreement 14 Dtsciptirary Action
™> rwOnsta letter eased 1 Mach 1978 tat aMee:
The tatiea agreed tat twee Paatas under the Eitfrty Ftanani RJe referred to h Awtou v .c-w^-r, rf .	°* P***- «« not be M as JusHICBtion for ibsaue h »»
md as fasttncatlM for absences m ecu. mrat^
BJ. Wifovy, DredDr HR&A Customs Seaport, BOeMdEthica
C.K 3tMy - PraskJait Local Union 646 > UAW
Bag 'X"
UK. Warier Ut'- Chairman Mart Srtevanea Conrndtoe
Inert Union Ms-uAW
Intamationrt Representative • UAW
15
This raettansihe letter dated 1 Mart 1)76,
fWXlrtrt of Dtorieh
a
c.
rtmMted,irtess crtarwso affeerl
D.
1W
Letter Of ^reemant 15 Reduction of Districts
C.K. Starfey - President Lota Linen 84B-UAW
RX Wagner Id - Ctakman Ptart Grievance Comrruaee Local tWoo MB-UAW
WUrtt MVM WiaMu, kK. AMOOoaenaaEMI
M.D.HM tnterrafcnai Repmentathv - UAW
rw- Q.-> - Of
Afcroft Muaei. tno
The Parties apee tatotbctive the das of this taler ot Agreement, the foarwSrgwjrtanoawO tie used to vetart *&» -mart* Of ttancts in (Mail redudtoh a warrarted infer Arildb IV, Secboo t j(2) of Ihe Aorooment:
The restrict wrt tieteast iwnber of enrtayeea beogxweasntad byo emplqyuewho « on the gayrrt In acoctdrtoe with AridsVtt, Sorter	bathe tat reduced.
2.	in the errant ttweae mm tan one dhrtrictB hart) an equfemurtorrferrrtW'ese and bekig repreeemod by arwptoyws on the payrrt m totadaoce wtti Artas VIL Sector 13b,, the dstfct Mrt the miuteutlva bahg tie farthest out of rte of Mnioriir wB be reduced.
3.	Owe ate no rlirtte tang rurtwented by ecrttyeea on tie peynd in accordance with
kiawse in districts edi be aaumrtahM in accordanrt wrt Artde W, Sector
Reassignment at employees Io a dtafct becausa at * mdurton mW ba eccorrrtrted by
EJrnrtocn <X a dtetrid wU rd be effectirt earlier than three 13) days IrtownQ notification to the Undo.
KO. and Ethts
J
17
MreTxraartfoor
J’' h
Latter of Agreement 17 Gare 90s Retiree Cost
Ttn Mar retefrma th* Mar dated 28 March 1998
Retro* medfoal ants uidor Cte* 90* camoT be cdctttatod bread on actual repeoenco shea Can 90a I* net curentty oflired to retbaaa. Th* rarttaa reoofeitte thia feci and mderairtd at vM thte 0 I* not a nnd tteusn pracdo* to tat Iha tMfeOi cars totttranc* prarntam rat* uttog mortowely Iha experience of a peup whh eubetadtaly tea* th*> IJOOO orvarad rttbafoda. TN* Letter ot Agreemert to written tn eetabtah tn begfonng port lor rafeaa inManca costa and ocfeno to* procedure to be uaad tor Mur* coat refcuHfcra. bi th* yaar Mtowkig he year In which the average Ika* covered by Cera 90s reachea 1,000 reCrees. bauanc* cotte Mi be bated on achat cost* tor the »oup and reaaonats* rend projection* bated on actual •rparwee.
For caieMu ftat 1991. tie coat tor a retreo Ml be attwntO to be 9300 per month nd th* coat tore famiyate be aftaddtttonal 9300 per mend).
-	The mcrtWy cost tor ctoencfe- year 1994 wil be *300 her a* nd by the percentage incraet* to tie heath cm component of th* CPLW plot two percentage podite.
-	ThannntteycoetforcalertdtryeartSSSortatarwSbethelnaercd
0) The prior yoert monttty art increased by tie percentage incraase In tie ItoeM car* cemponard of the CPIW ptte two percentage porta or
(2)	Actual oxperieno* for ha tetnst avakbto 12-mcnth ported, hoeaeod by the tend feeler cocrpoinded tan th* nMprrtt rd he sfotertence period to the midpoint of Sie ttowtog catendaryaar.
The percentage tocraaa* in to* hearih care component of th* CPI-Wpha 2 percentage prmte M bo used in piaoocif the trend tardorunU the covered (ptiupresch**! £00 Wet,
■	Th* rrtotortonsw* be prodded to toe UAW fwrwtew during to* month of Nrwanfeer *adi y*»
trtoMluttfeVietaM12monfee'tem«iqMnam«rtetatitewhenihectociMa>isniota. The headh care ocmponuit of th* CPFW dwige wN uWze th* earn* period of tens, hM*w, ahordi *w CPFW rtata not b* evrtrrte. tie Meet 12 month*' avtafebte date wd b* vaad.
-	tl it inderalood tost ttain* data for eD mtreee and dipandertte covered under the Car* SOr pnxywn w* be uaad another or not such ratkosa ata ispraaetited by the UAW.
■	The ourrwraor to bo u»od vriten cafcuttohg tie monthly cost Ml bo the cfeims for al Cera 9C* retreat ax) daperfortte. The dentrrinotor to bo used etoen ctotiMng too monthly coot w* indudosach ratroore one trit aid M depuxfontt oferettrae re □neuntt
-	The OKpartanca far mfaees and feeriiat wd be added together for art caiaritetori purpose* and the srnrxrt of wet chaped for tie retiree* wil be the rem* re the addfoonal amount charged for thetfrnty.
108
18
2.
3.
&
&
110
R.K. Vhgner IM - Ctaamto* Ftert Gnmence Cremate* LrxtoUrtre 843-UAW
Were* Atari tarkatow, Inc. Pw Ofic* lot aswor pstaixynesrior
AKaofflndistrtaa, toe.
Letter of Agreemert 18 Job Famffies 5040, 5060, 5080, 7000,7070,7140 7380, 7441, 7442, 7401,7501 and 7700
Acttra enqitoyees vri retain ri sartaity [bump] rights provided forb Addo VII, SecSon 1-c.flJ. Further, acfc* employee* with i xjl frights to the job farriss adtaeori may ftxoruse tois rigrtfef ri time tf ayod without regard Id he aeniedty of emptoyees currently re layoff.
hplarit wntonty Ityt wff be common - no Mata seniority.
In th* event of an hastate toyed n the jti> famies sddrwed. errptoyoe wfl t» Pefcl off in seniority order.
Al fXWtttm of ArtkM VII wi apply wfh theexcepticn of nM etacdty.
The cambhstton of die Job dberifcafcn^ob MMies n questions does not provtoe tor employees cunoraty on layoff to tie recriri ivon toltttlon of this Agrewnent beheoen the parties. Firtoer, Pfs
ki th* event efracri, active antotayeestirerniiloyeee out <f pint *11 be recaied to seniority order to the
U.D. Hal tatemstireal Repressntoth* - UAW
19
ffaVouaht
Atoroft hdustiM. (nc.
Vtwpktf AJrewfl totWriu, tac.
Pm cac» £tn fiMPO?
DtB**.nC75265-59CT
Latter of Agreement 19	I
Return to Work	I
An enrptoyw fBtuming from Sedkn 900 mutt report back to work thrcu^f die Companys Medical	I
Department. TT* Medical Dettorttnenl wS review the nteaae fram too empoywa attwritofl rm	I
*■ determine What resklrtcna, f any, re employeo has. It there fn restocdons placed on the om>oyee,	. I
Metical vd nOtst tie emgtoyeara Immediate supervisor w designated opurattona reenagemant ta	. I
theennlnelf toe emcfcyee can bo accepted with toe rwtricbcre.	,1
When an empl wee la unable to perform the essential functions el hie Job ciaeeMcatlon due to	> I
temporary metBeal ndtrWBm, the omptayoe may be assigned to other tasks oubdde Na Job	'I
family within tt» rastrictioM of the emptoyao’s functional capacity record for up to ninety (MJ	• I
calendar daye hl a calendar year. In job families affected by layoff, a gndtef ebay (SO) calendar	" I
deysper radendarysarwinapplyandttteomptorsoeplacod wtllnot exceed ttienumberor	I
employees on tn the Job family- In determining other avaiable Jobe the parties chan llrsl	' I
enamine work within the emptoywas Job famdy, then Jobs within Job Mantos for which ths	v|
oonployes baa PstaMtehed bump rights under Article VB, section 1 -c.(1)(a) and ttwi any other	I
assignments me employee is capWie of performing. The Company win make every effort to place	I
the employee <m Ms respective shift. Should ft ba necessary to move an employee between shifts,	i'
the morrow# be reviewed every tan (TO) days lor ehsmats placement or to place a less senior	;11
employee on restrictfons in that position. The functions aatlgnsd will not bo limited to duttos	,
covered by the CoUectivs Bargaining Agraomsnb Tangiarary nwdlcnl asaignniorrts win not establish Artide VU, section 1.cJ1J(a) rights. Employees performing such temporary medical	I i
aesigntnents afe net aUglNo for overtime.	i!
The Unfoo win he provided a weekly list (by Hamo, dock Number, Unit, Shift, and dudes assignor^	' J
of enaptoyoes assigned to such temporary medical assigmnenta. Any concerns of ptocament wk!	V1
be immediately adtSsaaed upon request of the Chainun of ths Plant Grievance Committee. H, hi	y
the optoion of i*M Chairman of the Plant Grievance Committee, a single Jeb family (affected by	>J
layoft) has been disproportionately affected by pleeementa, there ww be e 30 day morraralum on	i
additional ptocf"s>*s In that Job Family- During such moratorium, the parties wtl meal to attempt to reoolMo Issue in question.
In Die evert a jcb s locMsl tost meets toe emfMoyea's marBcsl rertnctioor and the itouming vnpioyew isfases to acrapl the job. toe ernptayee wi be toimedtoteiy rwnoved from Section 900 and wi be deemed as taring vutattarty ternntadad hbttr^loymenL
i;i
111	'j
L
20
faVouaht
Atafwfr M wii nt, »c. Ron Offcat 0tt SSM7 Data. TX 7B26MMF
LETTER OF AGREEMENT 20 FAMILY and MEDICAL LEAVE OF ABSENCE
The parties agree on the foSwirtg terms and conditions under Mich a UKW-represented emptojreemayrequestttT»oflfbrtarnflytewMthoutpay(brafcwtodperiod. This Agreement is intended to comply with the Fam»y and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLAJand related regulations. In the event of cortha or inconsistency betwewt any of the provisions of Ws Agreement or the coMcrive MrgaMng agreement made and entered into on March 2. 1992, FMLA shal govern. However, If ttds Agreement or the co«octrve bargaining agreement provide greater leave rights to UAW-represented employee* tan those rights provided by FMLA, tan this Agreement, or ta coDecta bargaining agreement, as the case may he, shad govern.
1.0 DEFINITIONS
1.1	EHolbaiN-Toba tagibis for family leave, an errptoyee must have been	>
emptoyed fora tad at at best 12 months, and must have worited at least 1250 hours during ta 12-rnorrth period ki mediately preceding the commencement of th* bare. For eadiregtear or normal workday that an employee is in Secdoo
900.	on vacation, or on peroonWsk* leave. mcherr^ioyaewiB ba credited wttt	-i
MOM hours solely for purposes of detarmtaig NigibBty far famiy leave.
However, an otherwise eagtae employee who Is employed at a worksite where	Ji
less than so employees of ta company are employed within 75 miles of tat	5
worksite ismeigfate lor farrely leave, but such leave may be approved upon the mutual agreement of ta convany and a committee comprised at p) the	V
president of UAW LocM 844.(8) ta Benefit* Coordinator, and (Withe	'J
committeeman ta ta appticabie zone (or ta commtteeman designated by ta	I.
union for such purpose).
1.2	FamfyLeave-A leave of absence which may be taken by eligible employees
lor up to 12 weeks during a 12-montti period unbar thefctoMng circumstances:
♦	Upootabkthofthe employee's chM andfortocare for such chad
•	Uponta placement of a cidd with ta employee tar adoption or fastet care
•	When ta empioyae is needed to care far employee'* child (iitauding step-	I
child), epouse, or parent flncfttang step-p*reri)wbo hes a serious riatlth
certation	i
*	Wtan the employee b unable to perform ta essential job functions because
of a serious health condNon
1.3	Intermittent Leave (Sporadic) - Medcriy necessary terrify leave which Is taken	i
in separata block* al time due io a single ttneta or kyury, rather tan for one	I
corttinuove period of Sme, and may irtaude have periods from an hour or more
to several weeks.	J
EX’ Employee takes 3 hours one week and 12 hours ta next week.	:
113	'j
I
20
r
Redrrrwi i »^va fSchodutadl - Medically necessary family leave that reduced an employee's usual number of working hours per workweek, or hours per work day.
EX: Employee leaves every Tuesday and Wednesday at 33)0 p.m.
1.5
i.e
Overtrne - Time away horn work without pay during intermittent or reduced leave wil be considered as time worked’ or "work performed* solely for purposes of calculating and paymg overtime under the collective bargaining agreement.
12-Month Period - The period wlthm which the 12 weeks of lew* entitlement occurs as determined by a 'rolling' 12-month period measured bockward from the date an employee uses any leave. Accordingly, each time an employee takes an approved family leave, the remaining leave entitlement will be any balance of the 12 weeks which has not been used during the immediately preceding 12 months.
&
Zfl QEHERAL
2.1
Leave taken for the Wrth of a chid andlor to care for such child, or for placement of a chM for adoption or foster care, expires at the end of the 12-roorth period beginning tn the date of the bath or placement of a child.

2.2
ft
The company wtl require medical certification to support a request for leave due to the serious health condition of the emptayee or the employee’s child, spouse or parent. In the case of fcreseeaNe leave, an employee who faits to provide certification within 15 days form the date leave is requested may be denied the taking of leave until the required certillcatton is provided. When the need for leave is not foreseeable, an emptayee must provide certification within 20 days after the date of the cortpahy's request or as soon as reasonably possible under the particular tacts and circumstances. If an employee tails to provide a medical certification, the company wil deny the omptoyee's continuation of leave.
2.3
At its duoefion. the company may require a second medtael opinion at its own expense. if the first and second opWons Sfter, the company, at its own expense. may require the binding opinion of a third health care provider, approved jointly by toe eorrpany and the union.
2.4
If medcally necessary due to a serious health condition of the employee or employee's spouse, chid or parent, leave may be taken Intermittently or on a reduced leave schedule. However, tha emptayee must attempt to schedule tha leave so as not to disrupt company operettorw. If intermittent leave or leave oi a reduced have schedule Is requested, the company wil require medical certification. Where an emptayee takes leave on an intermittent or reduced leave schedule, only the amount of leave actually taken is counted toward the 12 weeks of leave to which an employee is entitled.

t:
114
20
25
2.6
2.7
2.a
zb
2.10
Z11
Leave Is unpaid, except that an employee's earned or acaued paid vacation or paid personal/stok Leave may at the employee'* optfcm be substituted for all or part cf any otherwise unpaid leave imder this AgreemenL
Based on Information provided by the emptoyee, the company may designate leave, whether ptad or unpaid, as family leave for purposes of this Agreement The company^ designation wil be made before the leave starts, or before an extension of the leave is panted, unless the company doe* not have suffldam information a* to the emptoyee-* reason for taking the leave until after the have commenced. If either the company or the wrptoyee destpiate* leave as family leave wtthln the meaning of thfa Agreement after the leave has begun, the entire or some portion of tbs paid tewre pertorJ may be retroactively counted as family leave, to the extent that the leave period counted as family leave.
Whan the need far leave b foraseeapla, such as the birth or adoption of « child, or planned medical treatment, the emptoyee nwst provide at least 30 days poor noflosbefcvofamlyleevetstobegin. However, if 30 days notice is not practical, than notice must be given *s socn as practical. dan employee Cats to give 30 day*' nctica tor foreseeftte leave wtfa no reasonable excuse far the delay, the company may deny th* taking of famiiy leave until at leeet 30 days after the date the employee provides nodes to the company.
When the need for famtiy leave, or its apprardmate timing, is not foreseeable, an employee should £ve nodes Io the company of the need for family leave a* soon as practical under the foots Md circumstances.
The cornpany wit require an emptoyee on approved leave to report bimonthly to Labor Rotations on the employee's status and Went to return to work.
Any emptoyee who is granted an approved leave of absence under this procedure is entitled to ctntifefed coverage under the company's health care plan, life insurance plan, and the health care account of the Benefit Bank during the period of unpaid absence on the same betas as coverage would have been provided if the employee had been continuously employed during the period of leave.
With respect to aryy He insurance coverage which was continued dixing any period cd unpaid leave, the corrqiany may recover from the emptoyee any premium payments made on the employee's behalf to maintain coverage during suchperiod,wtietoerornoclhoemptoyeereitunwfromleirve. With respect to any health care coverage which wa* continued during any period of unpaid leave, I an emptoyee tel* to return to vkxK for a period d M least 30 calendar days after any approved leave ha* been exhausted or expires, the company may recover from the errptoyee the company's share of attowable ‘premium*' as would be calculated under COBRA, excluding th* 2% fee foradminfetratne costs. However, the company witi not recover such COBRA premium* U the ' employee's fatiure to rekm to work for such 3(>day period Is due to:
2.11,1 The continuation, recurrence, or onset of a serious health condition of the enfatoyee or the enqMoyee's immediate family member which would
1«
20
242
-lit
213

li

r r
entitle the employee to leave under Uto Agreement The company wS reqube medical certfficaUcm of the emptoyees <r the tamSy member's serious health condition. The emptayae is required to provide medical certification within the 3May period, then the company may recover the COBRA prerrturrts during the period of urpaid leave.
2112 other dnunstances bsyend the employeefs control (as approved by tee corrtoany).
Under the terms of the retirement plan, any period of approved leave wUl be heated as continuous service (i.e.. no break in service) for purposes of vesting. ebjjbiHy and benefit accrual
At ihe ooneftson of an approved leave, an omptoyaes right to return to nerk shal be governed by the applicable terms of the collective bargaining agreement
10 PROCEDURE
RasponsOty
Employee
Labor Relators
Employee
Labor Relatohs
Medical Service*
Ac&m
11
3.2
13
3.4
3.5
3.6
Discuss need for famllyfmedfcal leave with UAW Benen* CoorcSnalor, supervision and Labor Relations.
Detannna eligttoty for leave. Ifeligiite, give employee appropriate forms.
Compete appropriate appfcation and have Medical Cerfflcafon form completed and signed by physician, if appropriate.
SutxnH completed forms to Leber Relatons.
NOTE:	Forms should be submitted 30 days prior
to the effective date of the leave whenever possible. In an emergency skua&on, notify Immediate supervision as soon as prssibls.
Renew forms for completeness. Forward original Medical Certification. Jf any, to Medical Services.
Renew adequacy Cf Medical Certifitabon.
3.6.1
3.6-2
If Medical Certficatton substantiates employee's request far lesrve, inform Labor Relations.
If It is questionable, sat up independent
116
20
Responsibility
Action
medical exam.
3.7
Receive report from independent medical examiner. Report findfogs to labor HMations.
Labor Relations
3.8
Approve or deny leave
3.8.1
3J.2
If leave is denied, notify employee and the union.
If approved, prepreu Status Change Notice (SCN) per P.L A232.1.
3.9
Sign SCN and dtsbtiuu copies as appropriate.
3.10
Circulate SCN to appropriate management
Payrol
Employee Services
Supervision
Labor Rotations
Emptayee
Labor Relations ■
3,11
3.12
3.13
3.14
3.15
3.16
3.17
3.16
3.19
3.20
Forward copy of SCN to supervision.
Require employee to uanptete torn for benefit elections. Forward benefit election form to Payroll.
Receive benefit form and cotect benefit premtams as rfiracted.
Enter SCN mformatlon into Emptayee information System.
Verify time with DACOL representative.
Monitor status of leave and employee's intent to rattan to work. For leave wttich is taken Intermittently or on a reduced leave schedule, and where three months hawe elapsed since start of leave on such basis, request medical recertification Hl reasonable Irttorvals.
If continuation of leave « denied or expires, inform emptayee. union anti supervisor. Notify employee of Milan to work effective date.
FoOtm SCN process stated above to terminate leave status.
Retain to work on atfedive date spadffad by Labor Relatiooc
Return employee to work in accordance with the cotiedtve bargaining agreement

k
117
20
LETTER OF AGREEMENT 20
FAMILY and MEDICAL. LEAVE OF ABSENCE
DJ. Wwswy, Dinctcr HR&ACugtonw Swort,' ffiO. mdEMw
Qate 2^-1'Of
U>a*UraMfc-UAW
rk. wb^w tu - Ctekman Ptant GilMrm Committ** LotaJUnion M$-UAW
MD.MWI
Intemattonel REprMenttttv*- UAW
Aircraft indurates Inti
poet («»<• Bm 455SO7 Mo*,T!Ctsi*Mew
21
I I
Letter of Agreement 21 Financial Secretary
Tts* parte* agree that. In the event ttm a bargsiniiig unit employe* r* ateetad Financial Secretary *1 Local MP of the UAW, such ampieyee aha> lie errtMad to paid leave far the purpose of performing th* furtotfon* of that office. Such pay wil be toa Hranctal Secretary^ hourty MM rate of pay for forty (40) hour* par week and wit exdude any shift or premium pay. No overtime or espencM wP Mpakl by tha company.
the Financial Secretary Mil remain v> emptonw of the Company and wO be eiigibte for ail emptoye* benefits provUed to employe** h foe bargaining unit Any performance wad payments peM to employee* of the bargatoing unit wD ateo be paid to the FnandN Secretary. Th* HtisnoM SocrMory wW make hbnlheraetf svaiMdo, at raaaonaite tones and Mon raaaonaMa t»Bc*. forth* making* wttti Mprapetate oompeny oHlriMa to address any isauas rotating to the rwnManeo of dues or similar

D. J. Whitney. Dhncw HRAA Customer Supp E£O, artoShsa

OalBL l2 -
CK Sway - PraasMrt Local Union MS-UAW
RK Wagner HI - Ctetonen Plant Otmnce ConmitM Local Union MS-UAW
MD. Ha
Intemntim Ftepraeentadra - UAW
I
110
22
(^Vouaht
Atom WJtSMen Inc.
Pt* oo»to<«goor o*«.TitTs»s4ScT
Letter of Agreement 22 New Hire Orientation
toSarnaiaJJMartniWt ChatMtn:
Tt» Company agrees to note avaMtle a ft* (5) mmite tima tagiwnt al tie w>d cf ta etsrant nw rmptoyee oritrrtatioo protywo tor a aMRontainod UAW praaenMon. TH> prwartafai v« tM mutuaty >0«ad to by#» Corrpaoy and«w Union.
Cl J. Whfiwy. Msotor HR&A Cuttorrw Supp EEO.anrtETOci
Oate: 7- — / - Ot
C.K. Steitoy - PrasHem Local Urion 848-UAW
Warier m - Ctainiai Plart Qriwarce Comnttwa Loe*Union 848-UAW
International Ftepresenttos-IM IV
120
23
Atatrtirtuateiirc,
Vou0bt in&vtriM, he. pmiorae*B«e5S»7 tMMrTXTsaMC?
Letter of Agreement 23 Nw Tech notogy
The appfcaton of tedmctogicai advancements is recctfneed by Me Union and toe Conytany as tetog esaerttei to both the Company"! growth and abBRy to compete ato Io tha oontfriued tatpKMtnents d the standard nt I virp of nrrplcyeos covered by tha partes' Cttoadive Bwgaring Agreement
Ths term “new tedmolcgf w® be ddnad as the installation of utonelBd ntanufedunng medines. rjixks and computer-aded manutectwmg systems which causa ta drset eimtoadon of work which has boon porformBd manudly by wi houriy-represented emptoyee. As a ra«A reevguong that future tedtnctogicto changes Mffl occur and that sudt tuare changes cornet be defimttied at Ms time, toe Company utpeos:
Thal wtot ta rtnxtacton cf "naw technototfes" a l> totatant thaa advaicad planning ha made to anttaptte substanM tfrwtgre tat would atanate or coraotate jot*, reqtere naw skitr or
bargakttog udl employees are dadnad. dtecusatom with the union war ba haul The rnscusatons a« ba Mdh ta President. Chatonen, and Zona CoMMtosman far Acted arena. Upon dstemtkurlfon toad tha Impart of me change to toaw technology’ an defined in ta Affoemant, the Partee may aattta a jotot wd>commaBe(a). hereheffer retorred to as joint naw tertmotogy MrnmdtoafB). Thejotot new tnchnotogy taonfMafa) wliba etoaixwhed try mrrtuai agreement to atody epeedfc lacuea, make recomniendtenin, end comptow aakina an rutoatoy ofradad by the Pirta.
When K Is mukaty agreed by the Partee to ostaMsh s jotot new tedmdogy cernmttoefs). the Unton wl wpotoi up to three (3) members and tha Ccnpany wto tsxxwi up to ttraa (3) mantas. Iha Committoefe), "W request a matotodm of tare (2) addUcnsd temporary montan t deemed necessary. K to torthar agreed hat Arpantees to tie Joint naw technotow uutr s nMamfs) wto ba MMduafe from tie adtoao areafe) which bb tanwta<t)aabte Ht be opwabonts) where ma naw tertrntogv *• ba imglemented. Tha jotot mm tachndegy
h-
Labor Rdaicn*.
2.
Vtan new houlyretad jobs an instated by to Conipeny to accordance with Aifrcte IX, Section Id), nt tM Cdecttee Bargatoing Adeemed, as a resdt of such tochnotogeto changes the Caryany w» courted effected bergetotng unit emptoyeea In their etfarts to obtain addHtm or update existing skis oernmensurate with the setfirtotogM change so they cwt be eortsktonM for plaotfnenllntoKhnw )dn.
121
24
fa Vought
Akcran hdamennc.
VctoM Abvnft	fr»C-
P»Ofc«a«<H5aCT ftgftU 7520007
Letter of Agreement 24 Shift Preference Areas
Forth* puqraw <4shift prwfsrence, w dallned by th* CMtecthr* Bwgahlng Agncmtnt, superintendent manager groups wil tra per apeod to matte
to toow areas roquirtog apaciet access or ctoarances, the area in questen wH be toasted as a separate and Mepertoent area ter *Mt praftrance. Ftrthermore, ante prataronce wa not be recognized between tKdtm unto** mutoniy agreed to by the Partes.
Mien new pnqpann era Introduced, the Company and Union wil discuss the orpanlzatesial structure and how I may develop Si an attanpt to reset™ any poesttorB tavoMng sNIt pralorenoe areas. .
This A^eoment wM expire at tha exptretton or to* Gotectho Bargatolng AgreenienL
OJ, Whitney, Diractor -MUA Customer Supp EEO, nd Ethtos
ten:	--------
Loc^uman ma-uaw
totemSfonBl RapVMnMre’ UAW
123
26
f^Vouaht
tocran MusMes Inc,
Ainnft MOH toe. PovtOfateOSMir
DOOM, tx 7S99M90T
Letter of Agreement 26 Inclement Weather Shutdown
The Partee understand end agree to the necessity at starting down pteni opereltans due to ftidement waadter. The Partes, bf way <* tote Letter otrt^eement, twntry rese*re certain concoms nvohtog (tent shutdown due to betoment mother. Thteundarstmtootesetfcrtoheftwr
The Company dosdy morttora weatoer and rood oonMbns during winter storms to determine whetoer ptord* are to be dosed or wi remain open.
When a decision is made to dose the plant. ConsnunleattoM wi notify toe tollneing radio stations wtti anawxxstoement tor eertybraedewt «t taestonehwtiedrenoo of shK stoner oe soon aa posable:
ft^pw STATIONS t FREQUENCY AM	EM
wbap	azo
KRLD	toso
KVft.	103.7
KPUC	99,5
KKDA	10*3
TV STATIONS
KDFW-Channel 4
KXAS- Channels
WFAA-Channel 0
KXTX- Channel 11
ft to (he responeiteOfy of each employee to montor one of Prose stations io drtomTtos rw>ror+«TOai*ro.
y toe Company tecBUee are dosed, emptoyees may otoct to take vacation, sictoparsonte pay. or a nonpeld accused absence, if the fasllSoc reman open, wnttoyeos are expected to report to work.
0J. Wittooy, Dtwdor ,—y HRSA Customer SuppeaLZ EEO, mt Eton
CKSttatoy-Prerttenl local IWon MS-UAW
Otoe____2~/~ G/------------
Ctont Qrtttf »no» rantnhtnn Local Uiton Btt-UAW
inttfrtgtignd Repr»wni»tr**’UAW
125
27
^Vbuaht
AJrcran hdUEnie^ he.
tauoakeeHMrarr
Letter of Agreement 27 Health Maintenance Organizations (HMDs)
Tift tetter roptocae the letter dated 23 Juna 1988.
The Paroee are rancemed toft come HMDs haw had a Ifttory er attempting to dsenroil emptayaes w nftaa ivenrolltmnt at toe naft cpsn ernftnanl period By tote Letter of Agreement, the Cterpany fc Mtertzed torrewtete wththe HMOe aid nc* otter any HMO met does noteatisfactority nodfy toe Carper,■
Oj.Wtitney. Dieonr HR1A Customer Sftip EEO.endahc*
ttatee 2.- }~d!
CK Stanley - PraetoeM Locd Union MS' UAW
R.K. Wegner 111 - (Siftrron Ptant Grievance Cornrittae LtxftUnten 848-UAW
mid, Hat
IntemsUonai ReptwentaSwi - UAW

12C
f
28
fj^Vouaht
AtcnJt indufflieSe iic.
voutftt JUroatk MutMti. tact Poet OMot Boe 855907 D*ta*.TXrSa^5W7
Letter of Agreement 2B Reemployed Retiree*
Hits fetter repteees the letter datad livch 28,1998,
With reaped to the reetnptoyment t* trareafrwip ur* retireas, tie partlea nocopuze mat wider certain tiualne** wntStion, toe Company mey tewe the neceasty to rafiti* ratMea. It e toco understood that in no want wd more than thy (50} reempicyed rettiam te in me bargatribg wb at the same time.
The Parties apee that wfffc er active emptoyee, the reemployad retiree udl be covered by acthe ernplcyee bffMflts. Upon re-retirement the err^ojre wtl revet n tw reina iiurfh care plan provisions fri effect on the date of the employed^ original rrthrnst Ufe Insurance *xJ kimp sun death benstita eV be besed on the banefi* In effect at the (ire of toe now ratterrrent plan.
TTis iwnpioytd retires wiB to required to ra*ke a eateotton front the tw upfen fisted Mow is to
(1)	The reernpfoyed retiree may requeat ttret tMr monthly retirement payment be MieperrderK etMtw the tint the mantit Mtoartns their renrrptoymert. M euch time the reenxrtoyeed retkee daddM to retotir their rettnment celcidetton oM be the curntdettve total or thetr ymn of aantoe uaed in their M redrameni eatoiAtoon ectuartelty adjusted for the period or euepeneSerr. ■nd their ran of aarvtoe neditind dising their current employment period cateutatod at tM benefit cafe In tlftct ebon toe neamptoyrnarrt terra Settee nudietf oramoe oontoigant on condilned ape and yan of aervtoe at fiton nUramenL (aa* 62 end 11> rar* of aervlce}
(2)	The raempkryed retiree may elect to continue leceMng their morthty retirement payment*. At euch ten* toe reemptoyeed rate** decIdea to retire, their eervte* acqutoed dtatog their current
DJ, Whitney, Dkector HR&A Custom* Supp BO, and Emka
□toe: 2. ~ '! - Qi
RK/w^par Ilf
Plant Gtieraewo Ccrnntittee
LC«aiUnion 348-UAW
MD. Util totomMcnal Reptwentotw* * UAW
127
itework.
128
29
These bi-weetoy meetrps w*l bnure open conwiricMone between the Parlies, provide be Union the opoertmey to eiprm any concerns fer Company oonalderatkn, M tnsue each party under stands bo
At such bHweWy meetrig, Labor ROsbri «M the other Coopery rtpreimtouvea wk review the major meMerma or tactees omstucfcn work subconbacts, V any, hen n proves* and review any potaiM futea sutrccrerocts ot major motesnsioe « tacSras oorwtucttcn work of wtteh he Company het Imcesedpe. Urwn rapnserttabves may ask questions or mate oomrrents smcernbg such reviewed
DJ, Whrtoey, Otector HR4A Customer Gpp EEC. and Ebles
tevpre Ainte Mwnrs. tea Pre oa» ta wm
pahs tXTSMMSOr
Letter of Agreement 29 Major Maintenance Subcontract Meeting
nfcratt tndudfles, he.
Vcc^rt Anstot Conpeny end too totenabonei urncri, United AutonxXAo, Aerospace and Aprkxiurw teptement Workers at America, UAW and te Lotto (Mon 843 apes aS sot fcrth below on questions penairwig to the conduct of a refpitety scheduled meettig doing which the parties w® dscuss the subartracttogft» pcternai ettocartratslrifl at major maintenance or isdtoee amstnicfcn work. Maategs w> be Ited bogrrmg at 230 p-m on wadnesdey, July20.1983, aid thoradtor every <Ww Wednesday to 230 pun. untoss requested otherwise by eitoer party. The meeteg wd be held h a place designated by Compwiy latxr Rotations and attended by he Chairman to the Plant GrievaMe Ccmrrtttee, he Canaitteemen tetanenting r*iteu|uuj to toe Uakeenaoca urtto, a merrtxv to toe Company's tabor Rsuons Daparanent a repraasntaWe to the Company* Matntanance Department, ad a mpmontatve to be Ccmpwry* F»c*ty Department The moeteg »• be chared by Labor Rriutetto
C.K. Stanley -Prertoertt Lona UTraiBW-UAW
R.K. Warier III - Chairman Plant Grievance Contrffiee LoctoUhion 848-UAW /ZWru/ A/
M£>. Hal	(
Intomebcnsi RepreoeMatoe - UAW
The Parties to this Apeement, UAW Local 848 and Vought Aircraft Industries, Inc wish to cooperate in making ourworkpiace a safe emtearnerrt and our workforce a productive one for the benefit of al the Parties, our customers and cor community.
letter Of Agreement 31 Substance Abuse Tasting Program Effective 2 October 2000
VafetJWwss wwrw, mt RM(to»Be<estoor tares, TKtsteseoor
wlVouaht
feocri Inaumes, foe-

To that end the Company affirms that N will zealously administer and conduct its drug testing programs to enstae that
•	The rfgnriy and privacy of those tested wte be safeguarded to the maxkman exfort possible.
•	The pro-am may not be used tor any purpose except the achievement of a drug-free workplace and workforce.
•	It wit contoie to employ the rigorous controls, safety checks and qualty control measured that are employed in testing other segments of the workforce.
For Its pert, the Union (UAW Local 648) agrees to support the Substance Abuse Testfog Program described hereto At parties agree that their mutual interests will ba best served in adctotng this program to edrieve the goal of a drug-free workplaoe and workforce
SocSon 1. Purpose
To define sitetance abuse testing practices to provide a drug-free workptaoe/worWorce tor all employees.
Section 2	Poky
It is Ihe policy of the Company to hfreferryitay otey individuals who do not use Nagai drugs or other eontroOed steietances in any amount or frequency, tmless proparly prescribed for them by their physician. The term Hegal drugs" means controlled substances included n Schedules I through V es defeied try Sedfon 202 of the Controfed Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812). the possession of which are unlawful, and hdude amphetamines, barbiturates, benzodiazepines, caretabinaids, cocaine, methadone, meptequalons, opiates, phereycfclhs and propoxyphene. The Company wB not arbitrarily change the current list of rtugs being tested tn the event toe Company deems it appropriate to change the 1st of dregs being tested (Substance Abuse Panel-10), the Company wB consult with the Unim at leM thirty (30) days prior to any change. In the event the parties do not agree on the proposed change, such change «wl not take effect unH the issue cai be resolved ty a mteualy satisfactory third party. The term Illegal drugs* does not inctode controlled substances obtained and used pusuant to a vaid prescription or as otherwise authorized by taw. .Human Resources wti administer the foOowtog "Substance Abuse Testing Program." The Substance Abuse Testing Program wff apply to the following todlviduats:
.i i mi luiiMujcaiij w iw । l.j m mwwffij. I -I M11 u^hwlmiwublbui.wi^ui. iji^i

130
31
a)	All UAW represented new hires, recalb, rehties. and rejnstetements wil be tasted as part of the Companyt pre-emptoymerrt review requirement*, tf the emptayee has nut been absent tram tha payrol lor thirty (30) day* or more, this provision wffl not apfiy.	|
b)	A* UAW represented aojtityees Wffl be wbject to systematic random testing without nodoe and after a potHM* test, aorwlamted tertng under Section 4.0.
c)	An UAW represented empfoyotrs wffl be tested for cause based upon a reasonable	I
suspicion to beileue that such persons are under the influence of fflegai drugs, after involvement In ecadants or potentially dangerous near-miss accidents which could be attributed to substance abuse or whose performance is impaired and who erfubt behavior consistent with substance abuse.	I
Section 3.	General Procedures
s) Urinalysis drug screen test* consist of an inttial Enzyme MirttpOed Insnunoassey Techrfoue (EMIT) screen, confirmed by Ga* ChraratographylMa** Spectrometry (GC/MS). such testing will be conducted by • U.S. t>*p*rtmerrt of Health and Human Services, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services AdmMstrstloo (SAMHSA) (ftxrnerty NUM) certified laboratory. Th* screening parameter* and cutrod tevel* for both test categories are pubtished try SAMHSA.
b)	Individual* to be tested wil comptete and sign en Authorization and Release Form (Attachment t). fating prescribed and cveMheroointer merhcationr taken within the last thirty (30) day*. Fatture to sign en Authorization and Release Form or to provide e sample in accordance with the procedures sat forth herein win be crtntodered failure to eucceeefuSy complete the substance abuse test and will be reason far disciplinary action up to and Including discharge.
c)	The collection of individual urine samples and tha testing of same will be supervised by Company-designated medical personnel and coUectionftMting facilities in a manner consistent wifi the fallowing standards:
(1)	Urine *anptes win be collected from hdMduffls In such a manner as to ensure rhe integrity	'
of the testing process.
(2)	Special oontafaerateti be provided for spedmen cotteaion.
(3)	Sutebto, sanitary and private tactite* wffl be provided for tie ccfflecton of urir* tpedmere.
(4)	Sample colection wffl be supervised, but not witnessed. An endoeed stab wffl be provided to ensure privacy of tha rviMdual.
(5)	The Vought Medical Department dfofc manaQer or approved designee witt ImnredtaMy review att aituatfon* where there I* reasonable suspicion that « tncfividual ha* submitted a susplefou* or potsnttaffly adulterated sampi*. Whan tha MetOcai Dspartmant or Ite approved designee determine* an original sample to be susplcfoM, that sample shtel Immodlatety be set aside as unsuftobte for tasting and tw tndMitaal must submit another san*ii* before leaving the cottectfon site. Samples may be considered suspicious or pteenttally sabttrhrtod or adulterated If	i
the urine tevnperatore register* before 90* or above WO* within four minutes, andfor	i
th* sample bnparte a suspicious odor or abnormal appearance.	)
(6)	Cortrinsrwill b***aled with tamperv»viderittepe inthe presence of the IndMdual tested.	I
t31
Section*. PCSrthe Test Result*
a)
0)
132
(7)	Speomenswti be tatetad and charted to ensure that the name on iho total matdies the name on the Authorization & Release Form and the Chain of Custody Requisition Form.
(8)	The label wd be signed by the individual.
(9)	The Chain at Custody RaqUaitton Form and the Authorization and Release Form wM be topi on tie for cm (1) year from the date of testing for a positive specimen and on* (1)
1	month tram the data of testfog for a negative specimen.
(10)	The tab wfll relay teat results to the Medical Review Officer who wi> personally discuss tab tests reported positive Mh the fodMdusl tt the Mactal Rerriew. Officer determines the positive test is the result of legal usage, the test wH be reported as nagafoe. Only results certffied a* positive by the Medical Review Officer teti apply in Section 4. betow.
d)	Test results MS be handled as 'Company Private' information and are not to be communicated outside the Company, except as required by contract or law. Cunendy, these requirements are clearance reporting requirements and court orders.
e)	Indhrtrtuat* who test positive may request, within thirty (30) days of being notified of their results, a re-conftTnation test on tire same biological specimen, to be conducted by a SAMHSA certified testing facBtty at th* tndtviduafe expense. Such re-corrtomaUon testing only u*a* the GCffilS method, and only test* for the presence of • th* dnigfs) aadtor drug metabolite* in question. The presence of those dnrg(*) andfor drag metabolites et any detectable level by GCJMS, without regard to the previous screening and eonffimstion test cutoff level*, is considered a postthre result, m the untikeiy event the test respite are negative, th* Company win rehtteurso th* emptoyse for laboratory testing char gas,
f)	tf there is a reasonable suspicion of a faulty specimen or If the laboratory report shows evidence of an •abnormality* in the Specimen, Vought Medical may request a retest The Vought Medical Review Officer will provide the employee with an explanation for the retest
g)	The fallowing action* are considered major disciplinary often***, and are equivalent to a poeitive test result for purpose* of determining eubsequewt disciplinary notion* and processing in accordance with Section 4 below; (1) repeated refusal to cooperate with the testing procedures, (2) laboratory documentation of substitution or adulteration of a tost sample: {3) Mure to report for testing within a reasonable amount of time after being notified of a random drug test.

Potitive test resuXs are commatortad to the employee in person by the Uedfeai PjMw« Officer and hepatrw lesute we cnmmuracstad via personal and ooiffideflttai memo.
It the Mescal Review Officer it convinced the postire test results *e the tesuil ot e one (1 ) bm rsage cf a vefid presctfjrtai issued to a member or the emptoyae* Immatflate family, the tea metals Ml be pended and Iha emptayee w8 tie subject to accelerated (^announced testfog for th* nart ninety (80} day period
Emptoyoae wtio test poeive wS ba pieced on impaid suspension for 6va (5) working days end in addition. rUmog the the (5) day period, we be required to seek help tram » company-directed counseing and assistance program or a contpany-epprored drug treatment program prior to being attowed to return to work. The employee wti be required to read and sign e Retum-To-Wort Condition* Form (Attachment 2).
31
d) The employee wil be subjected to regular random drug tests as we* as an accetaratsd schedule or unscheduled and unannounced tests, tor two (2) years following nts or her return to work. For the purpose of calculating mo (2) calendar years, any period of tone spent on layoff or on vacation Ml count toward* the saartaaion of the two (2) year testing period. Notwithstanding the toragting, an emptoyee wil not be considered to be 'subject to testing' during any period of time on layoff or in Section 900 fo excess at thfay (30} consecutive days. Accordingly, the employee shall be subject to an additional period of accelerated unamourtotO testing equal to any such pertod(aj spent to Section 9OO.Tha two (2) year period does not cortstffute an emplcryrnent contract or other guarantee of employment during such period.
*) The employee who tests posrtre again under c., above, wi be discharged
Section 1 Recalled Employe**
a> A* laid off employee* with recall right* who taw* been absent front th* psyroff far at least thirty (30) d»yt Bid who are offered emptoywwnt tn accordance with Section 2 of Articte VD of th* Coliecthr* Bargaining Agreement, shall report to th* plant Medteai Department tar a drug test
b) A laid off employ** who teste pcsWve within a two (2) year period from the date of a prevfou* poatthw teat wtl be denied recall and toe* all seniority.
e) A trtt aftomphtryaa who tert* pewitfv* beyond the two (2) year period of a peevtous positive test or an employe* who teste posltfv* who was not on ere*tended drug screening of th* dm* at layoff will M rtanted recall and byp**»*d for a thirty (30) day period bsghrilng on th* date th* positive test reeutt* era communicated, during which ton* th* MMdual should sea* twta horn a drag counseling or treatment program. Upon theexptrattooof thethhty (30) day period, th* hdMdual shad again report to the ptoHt MetOoai Department for a drug test K th* tatovUutd agate taut* poetUM*. Mah* wW be denied recall and tone ad sentortty. tf the torOridual testa negative, hateh* will be returned to work but subjected to regular random drag testa as we* as an errateretod schedule of unacMdutad and waraimnced teste for two R] year* faitawing his/her return to work.
Section 6. Testing For Gous*
a)	When there is reasonable suspicion to before an hdMduar* beiiaufor has been Impaired by substance abuse or alter Irwqtremant h an accident which caused a bodiy injury of more then mfoor eutfsj. contu*iw<s). or atrasicrK*) or property damage of twenty-tore ihotMnd ttodars ($25,000) or more, the emptoyee wti be subject to the above testing procedure*.
b)	Prior to the eulhortzattan of a 'reasonable cause' drug teat, the Medicai Department's pofesstonai jud^nert mutt todlcste e need for such tert-The Director of Human Resource* Customer Support (CStf*) and th* Chairman of the Plant Grievance Ccmmttee w® dtecutt the tesue before a drug tort t* to b* adminittered on a "reasonable cause' bass, and * concurrence)* not otrianed. the envies* WB ^re asampto. but it Ml nctbesdterittedta the laboratory until the issue is resotted through the grievance procedia*.
c)	Nothing b Ito* policy wi preclude the Company from taking action agasst the employee warranted by other pckcte*. procedure*, rutee Ct contact, etc.
Section?. Testing Responsfotiy
133
•J
31
a)	Medical rtbmu supervision in a fimaiy manner of employees selected for substmce abuse < testing.
b)	The supervisor has the employee read the instruction tetter and fill out an Authorization and Roteatm Ferm. The employee is sort to Merficaf.
c} Medical has tW employee sign the Authorization and Release Form and colects a sample as specified st the General Procedures section.
d)	The Conlan/* Medical Renew officer receives test results, confinns test waits, notifies areptoyee(sX and oorrmricstos positive test results to the Director of. Customer Support or designated representative.
e)	Ba test resjt is a Medic si Review Officer oonftmed positive, Medical notifies the appropriate CSR ter acbon as ouffinod In Section 4.
f)	Customer Support notifies Security of positive resists when the employee ftas a security clearance.
g)	Customer Support notifies the EAR Coordfnator of appGcabte positive test results so that ooorttnaffien with Ura EAR provider can be estatfahed.
h)	The Company Medical Director b authorized to release todMduai employee test restate to Security when toe employee is being submitted far a security clearance.
DJ.Wttaney. Director
S _. HR4A Customer SuppteC
|	EEO, and Ethics
»	Date: X - / - <0/
a
$ i i
C.K. Stanley - President7 Local Union 848 - UAW I
R.K. Wagner III - Chairman Ptart Grievance Committee
Local union 848-UAW
M.D. Hall
International Representative - UAW

134

32
{faVQught
Mctfl manta,
Vhusht Airgwt x m fi i, Xi fw Mk> B* tern
Letter of Agreement 32 Paycheck Notices
The Partes a^ee tut on Ih* Podgy pracortng a HMs sndfcr fadeirt Median a notice wlB be tfietribirted by pagan* with each pgydw* m a reminder ei an i*cemng etectkn.
OJ.HMtoey,DXcMr HRMCUbnwSupp EEO.eodEMM
local Union MO* UAW
Qa* 2-/-O/
RK. Weyear til-ctarnBn Hirt onwmca ComrtMoe LoetfUhton MS-UMN
International RwwwW<»- UAW
IM
Vocation Payabte andfcr accrued on the drta nf Iha tonstor to the bargato Ing mt.
a
LidtfELL*
&rbtoyne*A*tBn5fere'toth« salaried pojntini My 1.
At tna anta ei transfer. emptayee 'A' had 2th- yaan of vacation rcofce.
Erretoyee 'A' takes 10 days of vacdfan In Iha Mowing September-
Amooci ata assoor Petoe/ra naSMsor
Vaeatton feat rwvdd have been matito <r acauad had the ernpkyee not transferred from the bargaining isto. Vacation taken Mbs med Si tie tMotiatlcn.
Bfetotyae *A'tad 20 days of vacation to bo Mun baton the woeoevert hmary 1, and had accrued 10 teyv of prtHata wtMi would have been evaMfe for use alter the subsequent Januwy 1.
Letter of Agreement 33 Vacation for UAW Transfers
It was atyaed durtig 19BS eontrect naqctisiOons thd transfers tow tn bargttohg urat w0 not tramfer vocation toto the bargaining unK in stcess of the leuar of.
Atnrnft MurWta, int
On October 10 mentis after transfer to salary), Enployue "A" rensfers back arte tha bargaining unit
34
LaBar of Agreement 34 Dependent Life Insurance
Ths Mer raplacec the nri^nal tetter dated IS February 1882 arid raaflrnwi 23 June 19B8.
H ms agreed by the Psrbes durfog th* 1961 negoCtatiors drat puvteisis would be node for offering dependert ttfb tosurtaice ta empty*** cowed by th* Cdective Batpinhg Afyaement (Rtetesnce Arteta XX, Stefan 2.dL
Fotavmg ft a tevi'ilifaii of th* Dapendant Group Ute tosuanoe Propwn to be offered to atigu* anyfoyees fanning Mareti f. 1862
1.	Engfoiuty oau
An employ** wt tenxre oughte for Dependent Group Life Insurance rm Mandi 1, 1962, prodded gist tie errpkyM he* at laaet aw e^pblerfopendent as dsftied to Section 3. b*tow. If the emgfoyee doe* not than hew sutto a dependent, th* terptoyee we become tegbta for Dependant Grotyi Lie tnswenae on the tnt day of lie calendar month fcfoiwtog the date a dqientfent to ecqterod
Iha date that the *npk>yee becomes ell^bte for Dependent Group Ute Insurance wfo b* hereintftor referred io as foe smpfcyee's etjgtouty date.
Z. Enrofonant and Efieclrre Dates	’
The anfotoyee’e Dependant Gratp Life tosurance wt bacnm* ehectfre as eat forb batoer
a.	t the enpfoyaa ersota on nr before the eligiiCty data, h&rranca becomes effective on
the dllgfbiity data.
b- It tie enptoyee enrols duarg tie 31 day period folowing the aligibiity date, tosurance become* effective on ta first day of tie calendar mcrthkfawfog tie date of enrotiment.
<k	If the orrpfoye* <rrc*» euNtguant to toe 3 let day fofoadng efopbity. toe omptoy** must
lumtah evidence saMtefory to toe Insurance rxmpany of each depandanfa good heath. In such c***. Inpyance w® become effadre tn tie Ast day of the eatonter month foforwtog tie dM* the towanrta company rpurnw* foe avtdenoe, wth respect to ttaee paroone afooee eddenc* has bean appronnd and who am sSI ehpble dependents, as <Mnad in Sacttsn 1, below.
to any event, for nBaance to become eaeotivei, tie employee mudt beadteeiy etworh on the data tosinhce would otherweo become effectfire. If th* employee la not actively at iKrtr on such <hrt*. Insurance becomes effective on the dae toe enptoyo* returns to acdvewcrh, provided tie wngfay** is then st*	« *m h-rib to Saclfon 1 ■, above.
3. Detintions of dependents are he sama as to* beenfi cam deMlnns. provided mat empioyew spouse* who am toso «rpbye*s of the Company may be covered by trts Dependent Ute tosurance uitl such tine as toe tosumnee txmpany steels not to provide tie dependent
137
	Amount of VwLrancs	Anwitof Insurants Effete 3I292
Spouse	$5,000	S7.KO
Chid (over 8 months at age)	2,000	3,000
Ofc {fra Mb ttwvjh 6 months of age)	500	500
5. Ctxrtributions
The emptoyve wB contribute the hi cost of Dependent Group Ute Instranoe end ouuUiMiWra wil be payable moottly in advance. CtwaagetbrthB insurance Is Uy pooled and not aligtte lor dhrfctante of any manner. The requrad monthly contrfoution. legatikBs of the number of dependent on whose account the employee is inured, Is as set forth hire folcwnq srtwWe. which is subject to change. An anctayee who electe to pattdpete wtl complete ■ payrot dettocdon cad kithonnng weeWy psyraO deductions. Wien a particpent is net necehtog weotiy p^mente, * k the empfoyekS responsbUy io rwisrnd the appropriate payment to PeyroO, tn the event toegertletpant tads to make the roquaed payment es outhrwd In Secton 7, the coverage wit terminate and the enployee may reapply tor coverage only by fumtsHng saffitectory evidence ef pood health as required in Section 2.
ScherSJe - Cost Pet Dependent Uni Per Week tmtJjacl to change armuaiy based on esperience)
Over 50%	Beto* W%
Enrollment	Enrofrnent
$48	No Plan
d. Payment of BaraSts
» a dependent dies from any cause whle the ernptoyee Is insured for Dependent Group Ute insurance, tie amowt of sudi insurane In force on account of the dependent wB be paid W a lump sum to the empfcryee (Iha wnptoyee a. the beneficiary for Dependent Group Ufa tBunaoce). The enwtyoete raurence ttrttfcste wd set forth tie procedure for payment of Wurenca in case a dependent des subsequent to the death of the errptoyee.
This nsuravtos termtosurmoe without tosh, loan or peitwip values.
7. Cessation of insurance
Depender* Group tote Inqurance win automatically cease on the eaMI of the ta&MInt):
e	Thedate the emplww cesses tohavaactependant as (Mined In Section 3., above.
P.	The date the arrptoyee ceases to be insured ft* Cwrpeny We insurance.
ll a
138
34
c.	if th* arpfayee fefc	■ twMrari atnHMIon far Depentanii Group Life fesnncs
Wm» Au*. 1>» teat ia? otto* ptaertaer morth tarartaaty pnoadtag to* ctoadder manto forwMcti auto uattobirtiwi me Afa.
d.	Tt>BtiftdeyafthecatarKtoatetetoln»**»>toeempi>y«atta*Bae»7O.
*.	Th* dfee of dBconUnuarea at to* Dependert Group Ufe toturarK*.
f.	The Me to* dependent bears actwedu^ in to* aimed fareee of ary state
®.	Th* dale th* dependent beownas Ineured a> an employee on a n^dar tontrrfa basis.
The Oepenlent Group Ute hsinnce on account of any dependent wn atecmstkaSf «we* on toe day taanedtaW pnoedhg tie ttafe Rfatt perron eaancs to b» a tfapandart a» dedned in Sadicn3M above.
0.	Converwxi pdvfegea	tf» sans as	empire fii'Qif) 0s pravEbca.
EHOi and EWca
rw*; 2-/-O/
Piert Grievance Commie*
Loert Union M8-UAW
M.D.Hai tnwmadonal ReprasoTtathe - UAW
139
35
QWbuaftt
xJcfon hdudtaa, he.
Akcrxll IrtwtriM, tot, Aart OfcsBen 055007 DBHTH2B.5W
i	Letter of Agreement 35
E	Dignity in the Workplace Coordinator
It was apeedii IMS coteafoe targairtng test there wU boa Sereai Abuse Coorrfcetor (nano changed to OiCtay h the Workplace Coorttotair to t99B negetoattom) for rxriorriv* bargtantog unit emptayee), the Untan *• itatdpiirin end secure Connery agrMrnarri with the person to serve h thia capacity. Choe rtesitpiMad. tha Dlgnty In be MtarkpWM Coonkteinr w« work wtth the Compare tn any Idartafied aernai tarassaiant rebind issues Mihh the targetting ata, wd have ths suPitohy to aquat tovesttasSons by Seoitiy JWmtoistrattan. end crtaectfoe bagMg in# amptoyees w* to atowed eocau to the Dignty to t* < Worfeptoce Corrirator at CcaryKny Sne. The Ditptoy to the VAskptaoe Coortatator wt be afcreed toiiontote tttte at Company expense to perform to this eepetey. however, the Ctartmator wB not perform Oeae actMtias to en overtime ettutaon.
I	The tatarttog piidefties stable Ute wcridng procedm tewsm the UAW Dignty to the Wortptoce
Coodhskr, Saorty, Labor Ratafons end Employee Rotations.
I	■ Sesrsi taraemwl taegafcrte mH tie eweebgated by Security. When Security is advfoeri cd an
I	rtarn) ita et invalwig a UAWrepresentad amptoyee. tie UAW Dignity to the Workplace Cocrrfhafor
I	w« be contacted prior to eny tnaatlgaiiu i.
I	■ Sacrafty aid tie Dignity to the Workplace Coordktapr wi nehange known rtormetton and wil
I	diasa the direction of tie pbvad tovestigaUon ndudtog who wta be ntarviewedl
I '	■ The UAW Digrtity to tie Wcrkptaca Coordciaur w* be hvofoed to e# tatarvieas tavoMng banpintog
[	mil amptayeoe and knerviowa of norUmgaitog unit amojoeu where ategsttone have been made
[	aptoat bargtantog urta emptoyeer.
-	n s not noceaaanr tar the Digtitr to tie Wortptace Coortbntnr to be preeant in toterviews nth ’	(darted enfotayees wtace no etegtatona here been made a^pinal bargarilng unit envtatreeK
however, t tiern are bergadntog in# wanessea to ta toforviewd, the Dignity to Iha Wortatace | '	Coontaitenr wS be present iftatig the witness Interview).
-	Onoe tie tovesUgrttan towotving represented emptayee) Is mq&t, the total Be wta be cfscuued । *	wth the UAW Wgrity to the Wkt*see Coordinator prior tote -Weese to Errptaryee RetaUona and
| '	labor Rotations for dtiposlliuii. Seccrtty wfl not prewide the O|0toMy h the Wortplace Coordtoatar
I	with oepiea tri statements.
।	The cxmpmte He wffi be ibscusHd wtei me Chairman ot fra Plant Qrtovence Cotrmkteo, and copies
wC be piMded to a ttowiy tnemer.
140
35
Letter of Agreement # 35 * Dignity in the Workplace Coordinator
tMa:	z_~ 7 —LV
CKSttrtey-Pretitert Local IWon 848-UAW
RK Wejrwr IB - Ct^r™ Plant Grievanca Cwmtea
Lad Union 848-UAW
UaHaa international Repraaorutoe - UAW
141
36
^Vouatrt
Airacfl hdiM& met
Vm«M Mtnft ItrtnWK, ho.
Letter of Augment 36 Workforce Diversity
The Parties agree that to remain uHitpeiUlve In today’* nwrkM place, K is critical to continue to ritoMUn a workpiece that values, understands, respect* and best utiUtea the diversity of Vbught amplnguee. As ora wortdorce continues to change, It to the desire of both parties to recruit, entotoy, trton. transfer, and advance people regardtan of their race, color, reDgton, gander, mental or
Dim to the priority both parties piece on amrkforc* dhreraity, a joint effort win be made to soMrhah and coorribwte a Wonfam Dtvarsity Teem. Thia team evlll meet abt (q times a year and will eccompdsh the toOoutng:
RMew poirUee and precipes. ns wad as rurammend changes as tnprcprtste wMiki the bargaining unit ewtonmerx, Mt may hinder M ertvmcement or development of.wonwk niiruMa, the daahted or people who dMiraMuridy; and
Provide recomnMiKMttons to the company on methods of doArering education regarding
■What is OtverWty' am) tww to best vahm and utiUu It
The Wm. to M ceetaM by the UAW kraal Praerdent and a member of Human Raaouraaa. The team war nnnefst of 10 membare; two oo-chaire, one member of human resource*, end seven UAW
th* team for a Won at appwfrvwMy 16 mantht.
C.K. Stanley ■ President Local UnionM8-UAW
£iU
Date ‘L-j-Ot
KK. Warier Ml - Dnairmsi Plant Grievance Committee Local Union W-UAW
tntomatkmai Repreeantatrre - UAW
ii
142
37
AK»fl Irtkatoes. he.
VMM Aktnft Mntlo, me. Fu>lO<fc»»0«SSWOT <MM.ixna&W7 •
Letter of Agreement 37 Smoking in "the Workplace (Effective 2 October 2000)
The Company and tha Union are eawnrttad «> enHalnhg a safe. hearttful and tmtfortabfe place to wk. Because of hcreaaad concern* about the ededs of wcondsry or stos-atream tobacco smoke on engtayoea' lindUi, the Parana agree to tha tottoWtg pravtetona that wil reduce employees' etpoaura to amoka »M» batonctrg tig rfefits of smokers and nomsmoker*.
Snaking w* to parmMsd in open factory and shop west where not specScaly praHbttsd by Ms Agreement
Snaking w« to prcMMad kt too ftttmlng arena
Ito Company and tha Union have atoned to an eqtototoo number of rectory restroom* rlujyiaMri as arnoitaglnorKnwkinB. Signe wM to metatoinod to each restroom accordingly.
All Cafeterias
Oesignatod areas wham amoklng present* a hazard to perwmel or property to toe area (lire a tri#/ hazard)
Open factory, shop arses, and Ortokrtnrm* (seat) ma iw« p*an deaignated noomokhg by to* majority rd srrpioyeei in thto sea. The effected ComMttaepnon and Stowsd wi* to svalWte to support the decMon making proce**.
Endoeed or tmiM factory and atop areas MtKtog, CM not linitod to prtvato odtoe, open dlto Beat, work atationt and cubicles. orWrenoe nren*. meattog moms, daaaroom*. madtol tocStto, etovaiors »d attowsys.
Saiatod areas desfanatod npamoklng by Compsiy dkectwe
Ths tuaess or tit* agreement depends upon are faoughtotoe*. mtodwation, and oooperatian d al employees. To sepport smoMra. eto may wish to atop sticking, aducaiion and eessason programs w* be offered on an ongoing basis.
143
37
latter of Agreement #37 ■ Smoking In the Workplace
DJ, Whtnay, Director HR&A Cuatrner $upp EEO. and Bhica
dmk 2,-/ -C/
R.K. Warier JI J -Chafnnan' PUrt GfMnce CommittM Local Union S48-UAW
International Rnpuwitfifive - LWW
38
^Vbualtt
Aboormatrtexrc,
VeoglX Mrwb InduMri**, Inc. PWOfc.eccKSO?
MnTxtraBeear
Lettar of Agreement 38 Post-Retirement Insurance Benefits
The pccHetement heaKh and He Murau terete provided to employe** (md e»st>le dependents and mrvMrg «pou») (1) who wen retired prior io the enectrve date of thio Atfeemeni under the terns of aiy prfar cttectet tecgaMng agreements wiMt* UAW HetnedoMlUMon end Uwel 648, or (2) who reteeter theelfecfae date of tte J^reement end beta* September XT, KM under the tame of thb A^eement, wa not temodted or temheted Owing the tanri oftNi Agreement, but w« conthue tote provided beyond the
pnMJe such bcn«flt» on a oontiM^v tett, Hut *e cannot predd tte futm and aooonfingty must preserve
DJ Wlitney, Director HRtA Customer Supp EEO, end Edib
Locat Union MS- UAW
Rare Grtavence Comrtttee
Local Union «a-UAW

Intsnationd Refraenttere-UAW
145
Letter of
Agreement
r
INDEX
Artica
Absence, Union Business..............
Agreement____________________________
Americans with Disabilities Act......
Arbitration.............„.....
Authorization tor Checkoff of Dues___
Automatic Progression................
Battery Powered Vehicles, Repair.....
Benefits Coordinator.. ..............
Bereavement Pay..........-....„......
Bulletin Boards......................
CertBteatioci........................
Chaiman Plant Grievance Committee.. Checkoff Agreement-..................
Committeemen's Meeting.....-.........
Committeemen's Responsiblities.......
Concurrent Engineering Environment... Cost-OKMng Allowance.................
Days Off-Powerhouse-.................
Dignity in the Workplace Coordinator— Dtsdpfcwry Action....................
Disability...........................
Carvecut Procedure.............—
Impartial Physician...............
Downgrade Placement.........-......—
Duration............_................
Employees Covered by the Agreement Employee Grievance. -................
XIX._
XIX.....
....v..-. • XV....
.Vtll...
....X • XIX ...III, ....IV. ..XV. ....IV, ....IV.
7
9
Vlll
12
...V. XII.
25
35
......VIII
......XX.
.......III.
........V.
6
5.
...76 ...1 ...76 ...11 ...62 ...32
...96 ...98 ...40
...75 ...2 ...6 .;. 62 ...6 ...6 ...103
...35 ... 124 ... 140 ...13 ...56 ...92
...90 ...32
...79
...2 ...8
Frat Step	 Genetai Provisions-			V				 	V					8 	10
Lirrttatjons on Fling.....		V					10
Off-Site					  XVI					67
Excluded Employees.-			  ..Ill					2
Rnanaal Secretary			  21			119
First Step 				V			8
Right Pay			.VI			20
Forty Hour Rule			VI			16
General Inceases			Vlll					32
148
J
]	Letter of
|	Arfcje Agreement Eaa
I	Management Responsibffiiss and Functions......IL"........„.................. 1
I	New Hire Orientation.....—.............-..............  -...22............120
I	New Technofogy.................................... ........23....„........121
|	Non-Bargaining Unit Employees Working.;.......XIX.........................72
I	Noxfacrimination-......................-......XI.........................."re
I	Occupational Injury.........................  X...........................56
I	Off-Site Operations.......—................ XVt...........................	66
I	Overtane..........._................-.........VI..........................17
|	Areas................................-......VI..........................17
I	Distribution........ ..................... VI...........................17
Double Time.............................  „VI...........................16
Pyramiding........................-......  Vi...........................17
Records.-....................................VI.........................18
k	Spedai Shift........-..................-...VI...........................17
Time and One-Haff....................-......VI..........................15
Tripte Time (Holiday Worked)  .............VI...........................17
Paycheck Inserts..........—........................_........32.............135
Perlbrmance Awards........................  VIII...........................34
Peraonal/Skk Pay.......,....................   X................   ........	43 r
Post-Retirement Insurance Benefits........................  .38............145
Power House 4 Waste Treatment...............................11.............101
Preamble.......................................-I..........................1
Promotions.....................................VIL..--.....................25
Promotions and Shift PreferanoesfAraas....................  .24............123
Pro Rata Vacation • Terminations........-...................  2............84
Prudential Point of Service Retiree Cost.................  17 _............108
QuaBflcations, Enforcement and Waiver..-...XVIII...........................71
Quarterly Earnings Information .........„......VII.........................25
Rate Schedule..-.........................   Vlll...........................33
Recal Procedure_____________.._________________Vil.........................23
Reclassification to a Lower Labor Grade._......IX................... 1.....39
Recognition................................   UI...........................2
Reduction of Districts..................... „..............  15............106
Reerrtpfoyed Retirees.........-.......  „.............  .....28............127
Representation.....-........._.................IV........„................... 3
Chairman Plant Grievance Committee-..........IV.........................6
}	Eligibility Requirements...... ..........  IV...........................4
List of Union Representatives............  IV...........................4
Loan Restrictions-.............   -.........IV-.....'...................4
Notice of Change of Representatives........IV...........................5
Number of Representatives..................IV...........................3
Overtime Scheduling for Representatives.......IV........................4
Shop Committeeman.......................  -IV	........................6
148
Letter of
Agreement Page
Arfcie
M*Mi
Stewards......................................IV...........................5
Transfer Restrictions......................_..JV...........................4
Type of Representatives..-...................IV............................3
Rest Periods.....................................X„........................    43
Retiroment..................................    XIII...........................60
Insurance Dependents.............-.....-............-....... 8.............- 97
Return to Work................................................  19.............: 111
Safety...........................................XIX........................   72
Section 14(b), Repeal of......................................  13............104
Section 900..................-.............—.....JO.....-......................49
Security Provisions-------------------------------XIX-.......................  70
Security end Access..........................  „X1X„.............„...........  70
Seniority....................-...................VII...........................21
Combined Job Famfly Rights..........................-......-18........    110
Loss of..........-.......-.............-.....VIL...........................30
Probation Period-............................VII-..,...................... 29
Promotions.......-.......-............. „....VIL...........................25
Shift Preference.............................vti_--------------------------27
Sixty-Day Clause.........-...................VIL.............„...........  28
Transfers (Internist)....„.............-.....VII.........................  27
Transfers into CBU...........................VII.........-.................28
Union Representatives........................VII -.........................30
Shift Different!.................................VIII........................  34
Shortage Analyst.......................... -.....  -............10........„ 100
Skfited Trades Recognition Program........„.................. -.30-------------129
Smoking in the Workplace........................................37-------------143
Strike...........................................XIV.........................  61
Subcontractteg of Maintenance Work........-......XVI!..........................69
Meeting..........—...........................-..............29............126
Notice.......................................XVII........................  69
Use of Maintenance Employees..............XVII..........-......_......... 71
Substance AbuseTesthg Program...................................31--------------- 130
ThH Step....-....................-........-....—V...._...........-...........  9
Vacations »........-.........-..................._.X.... „...;............-... 45
80% Rule.....................................—X.........................  —45
OigibBy......................................„.X........................  —45
MBary Option......................—..........X......,......................47
Pro Rata-.....................................X............................46
Rate of Pay...........................-...-...X............................46
149
L_L
]Rw
]
|5rt
3
5 6
9 10
27
20
151
UUUUHUfl
20 21
20
m’{ f|W 2 3 4
16
23
11
21 25
"if 24 31
5
12
10
26
B 13
19
M
2000
Jan						
		T	w	T	F	3
	.					1
2	3	4	5	C	7	e
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
ia	17	IB	19	20	21	22
23	2*	25	25	27	2S	25
30	31					

uuuu
■■DU UUUU (SEJEBSl_____
]E3FaPlfaElEHKl
SEJEJM------
Kr				
s		T W	T P	a
		1	■ 2 3	4
3	Q	7 0	9 10	11
12	id	14 15	IS 17	w
Til	El	21 22	23 2*	25
2&	ta	28 »	30 31	
				
ui UI ui eji ai
fgrpjjr LJ_Z
7
12 13 14
21
31 «
[5*e
U£1Q	w	T	uu
I. £			OH
HDQ	0	7	EH3
IQQ1E3	13	14	iSEl
lafOEE]	20	21	EJEU
			E3'
O			. 1
FCOMr
