
Agreement by and between Southwest Airlines Co. and
Transport Workers Union of America
AFL -CIO Local 555 representing
Ramp, Operations, Provisioning and Freight Agents
Southwest^
For the period February 19, 2016 through February 18, 2021
ARTICLE EIGHTEEN GENERAL AND MISCELLANEOUS
A.	Monthly meetings will be scheduled between the TWU Local 555 President or Designee and Vice Presidents of Ground Ops and Provisioning or their Designee to discuss and attempt to resolve ongoing issues. Agendas will be exchanged between the parties prior to the meetings in order to facilitate the discussions.
B.	Tobacco Use. Reasonable tobacco use and refreshments during hours of duty shall be permitted in designated areas where available. Designated smoking areas shall be determined in accordance with applicable regulations.
C.	Exit Letter. Employees leaving the service of the Company shall, upon request, be furnished with a letter setting forth the Company's record of their job classifications, stating their length of service and rate of pay at the time of leaving the Company.
D.	Bulletin Board. The Company agrees to provide the Union with a bulletin board at each station, and, where there are separate facilities, for each department, marked "Ramp Operations and Provisioning Union," where Union notices of interest to the Employees may be posted. No political, inflammatory, or derogatory material attacking the Company or its representatives shall be permitted thereon.
E.	Copy of Agreement. The Company shall provide each Employee covered by this Agreement with a copy of the Agreement, printed and bound in a booklet with reasonable print size, bearing the Union logo. The Company shall also supply the Union Office with fifty (50) extra copies.
F.	Airline Passes. Airline trip passes shall be issued to qualified Employees in accordance with Company policy.
G.	LTD Insurance. The Company shall make available long-term disability insurance to replace forty percent (40%) of an Employee's earnings, with the availability to purchase up to an additional twenty percent (20%) at the Employee's expense.
H.	Personal Business Request. Employees who request to leave work for personal business may do so only if they receive permission from the appropriate supervisor on duty. When an emergency situation occurs, the Employee shall notify any supervisor at work, or a senior agent if no supervisor is available.
I.	Change of Address. Each Employee is required to keep the Company advised of his current address and telephone number. Should an Employee change his address or telephone number, he must notify the Company via SWALife as soon as possible.
52
J.	Bereavement Benefits. Employees shall be granted four (4) days off with pay for death in the immediate family of the following: mother, father, brother, sister, spouse, Committed or Registered Partners or children (including stepchildren and children of a committed or registered partner) and step-parents. Employees shall be given three (3) days off with pay for the death of mother-in-law, father-in-law, parent of a committed or registered partner, grandchildren and grandparents. If additional days are required, the Employee may elect to use accrued vacation. If the Employee has no accrued vacation in his bank, in the event of death of the Employee's spouse, committed or registered partner, child, mother or father, the Employee may use up to four (4) accrued sick days as additional leave. The use of accrued sick leave must be in compliance with Article 13C (first sick day compensation shall not be paid unless the Employee has 12 days or more of accrued sick pay to his credit). If the accrued sick days are utilized for this purpose, it shall not constitute a chargeable occurrence under the Attendance Policy.
K.	Bomb Threat Insurance. The Company shall provide additional insurance coverage for those Employees involved in a bomb threat investigation. The recommended number of covered Employees shall be three (3) Employees searching at any one time. Bomb threat searches shall be conducted by volunteers only. The coverage which shall be provided shall be:
Max Per Employee	Max Per Incident
Death Loss of two limbs Total loss of sight Total loss of limb Total loss of sight-1 eye	$400,000	$1,200,000 $400,000 $400,000 $200,000 $200,000
Temporary disablement-Worker's Compensation
L.	Railway Labor Act Compliance. It is the intent of the parties to this Agreement that the procedures herein shall serve as a means of amicable settlement for all disputes that may arise between them. During the life of this Agreement, the Company shall not lock out any Employee, and the Union shall not cause, support or authorize its members to cause, nor shall any member of the Union take part in, any sit down, stay in, slow down, or strike in any station, until the bargaining procedures outlined in and provided for in the Railway Labor Act have been exhausted.
M.	LWOP Based on Seniority. "LWOP", as outlined in Article Four, Paragraph F, shall be awarded to the senior Employee on the basis of seniority; however, this provision is not subject to the grievance procedure (Article Twenty).
N.	Approval and Providing of Passes. The Company and the Union agree that, in order to administer the terms of this Agreement, the Company shall, upon request to the appropriate Department Head, supply the Union with a reasonable amount of positive space or must ride
53
passes, whichever is appropriate. .It is understood and agreed that must ride passes are at the sole discretion of the Company. , •	'
0.	the Company will provide office space for local 555 Representatives, at stations where available. If the Company has needs to'reclaim the office space, it will attempt to do so with 30 days notice.
54
Part B
Name of Reporting Employer: Southwest Airlines Co.	File Number 5123
Check Item Number (from Page 2) to which this Part B applies	ITEM 8.a |3	ITEM 8.b □	ITEM 8.c □	ITEM 8.d □	ITEM 8.e □	ITEM 8.f □
®a‘ |X| Agreement	| I Payment | | Both				9.c. Position In labor organization or with employer (if an independent labor consultant, so state).	 L. 		 1	
9.b. Name and address of person with whom or through whom a separate agreement was made or to whom payments were made. Name j	11	11	|				9.d. Name and address of firm or labor organization with whom employed or affiliated. Organization	
P.O. Box, Building and Room Number, if any				(Transport Workers Union Local 556 P.O. Box, Building and Room Number, if any	 ,8787 N. Stemmons Fwy #600	1	J
Street ■	|				Street j	1	
City j	|				City jpallas	|	
State !	| ZIP Code + 4*	|				State ‘Texas	| ZIP Code + 4.75247	j	
					
10.a. Date of the promise, agreement, or arrangement pursuant to which payments or expenditures were agreed to or made.				10.b. The promise, agreement, or arrangement was: □ Oral	|X] Written*	Q Both ("Written agreements entered into during the fiscal year must be attached.)	
11 a. Date of each payment or expenditure (mm/dd/yyyy ).		11.b. Amount of each payment or expenditure		11 c. Kind of each payment or expenditure (Specify whether payment or loan, and whether in cash or property)	
i		■I ' j			(Positive space travel passes	
i	z						
i					J	
i		j		i	
		i			
					
12. Explain fully the circumstances of all payments, including the terms of any oral agreement or understanding pursuant to which they were made.
Form LM-10- Part B (2003)
Page 8 of 8
Southwest Airlines Co.
Fiscal Year Ending: 12/31/2016
Page 1 of 1
ATTACHMENT TO PART B OF THE FORM LM-10 EMPLOYER REPORT Transport Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO Local 556
POSITIVE SPACE TRAVEL PASSES
All Southwest Airlines Employees receive non-revenue pass privileges for travel on Southwest Airlines. In 2016, Southwest provided positive space travel passes to various nonEmployee TWU 556 officials for travel in conjunction with official Southwest Airlines/TWU 556 business. The following non-Employee individuals received passes during 2016:
Name	Position
Beth Becker	TWU 556 - Digital Strategist
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO.
and
THE FLIGHT ATTENDANTS IN THE SERVICE OF SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO.
AS REPRESENTED BY THE TRANSPORT WORKERS UNION OF AMERICA, AFL-CIO
EFFECTIVE
June 1, 2013
to
October 31,2018
ARTICLE 27
GENERAL - UNION INFORMATION
1.	The Company shall make an electronic copy of this Agreement available within a reasonable amount of time after ratification of the Agreement. The Company shall provide a printed copy of this Agreement to a Flight Attendant upon request.
2.	Any deviation from this Agreement may be made by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union. Such mutual agreement must be in writing and signed by the parties thereto and will be printed and distributed by the Company to all Flight Attendants for addition to their Union contract.
3.	During the term of this Agreement, it is understood and agreed that the Company will not lock out any employee covered hereby, and the Union will not authorize or take part in any slowdown, sitdowns, work stoppage, striking or picketing of Company premises.
4.	At least five (5) Flight Attendants will be granted relief from flight status for purposes of official Union business. Relief will be requested by the President of Local 556, TWU, AFL-CIO. Such Flight Attendants shall be paid by the Company during such period, and the Union will reimburse the Company.
5.	A bulletin board, including a locked, glass enclosed bulletin board that measures a minimum of three (3) feet by four (4) feet, will be provided by the Company at all Flight Attendant domiciles created under this Agreement for use by the Transport Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO, Local 556, for posting notices of Local 556 recreation and social affairs, Local 556 elections, Local 556 membership meetings and official notices from the Union. The Union and the Company will confer upon the location of the bulletin board. Posted notices shall not contain anything of a defamatory or personal nature attacking the Company or its representatives.
6.	The Company will provide to the Union a monthly copy of current addresses and phone numbers of all Flight Attendants with the exception of unlisted numbers.
7.	The Union will be permitted by the Company to utilize the individual mail boxes in the Flight Attendant lounge for all official Union business.
8.	The In-Flight Services Department will recognize and utilize Union committees.
27-185
9.	The Union will have a locked deposit box in the Flight Attendant crew lounge to be used for official Union business.
10.	The Company will provide the Union upon hiring, the names and addresses of Flight Attendants who are eligible for Union membership.
11.	An updated copy of the permanent Flight Attendant Seniority List will be mailed to the President of Local 556, TWU, AFL-CIO, monthly during the term of this Agreement.
12.	The Company will provide positive space passes for Union business.
13.	Upon request, the Company will provide the Local President with a list of all
Flight Attendants on leaves of thirty (30) days or more and of Flight Attendants who have transferred to non-flying or supervisory duties. Current additions or deletions may be requested on a monthly basis. Such list shall be provided via electronic means and include names, employee numbers, dates leaves began and expected dates of return, if known.
14.	The Company will provide sixty (60) minutes for the purpose of Union orientation on a regularly scheduled training day, other than the day of the final exam, during the new hire class period.
15.	For purposes of conducting official Union business only, the President of the Union, or her/his designee, will be given, on a confidential basis, access to the following functions of the Crew Tracking System: open pairings not released to Open Time; Reserve reports; Flight Attendant and pairing transactions; restricted screens; MBL and No Show reports; and any other mutually agreed to functions/reports. The Union shall be responsible to maintain the confidentiality of any information so obtained.
16.	The Company will provide the Union an available meeting room upon request in each domicile.
17.	Management will inform Flight Attendants of their right to have a Union Representative present at any mandatory meeting.
18.	The Union will be granted input in current and new technologies pertaining to the Flight Attendant workgroup.
27-186