
AGREEMENT
between
MV TRANSPORTATION, INC. Holland, Michigan
and
GENERAL TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION NO 406 affiliated with the Internationa! Brotherhood of Teamsters
July 1,2008 ----June 30,2010
INDEX
ARTICLE DESCRIPTION____________________________ PAGE NO.
1	Recognition, Union Shop and Dues	1
2	Probation	2
3	Transfer of Company Title or Interest	2
4	Extra Contract Agreements	3
5	Separability and Savings Clause	3
6	Subcontracting	3
7	Pay Period	4
8	Layoff and Recall	4
9	Employee Cooperation	5
10	Work Week	5
11	Discharge and Discipline	6
12	Medical Examination	7
13	Non-Discrimination Clause	8
14	Shop Steward	8
15	Grievance Procedure	9
16	Seniority	10
17	Attendance	11
18	Safety and Health	13
19	General Access	16
20	No Strike/ No Lock-Out	16
21	Management Rights	17
22	Maintenance of Standards	17
23	Leaves of Absence	18
24	Vacations	19
25	Holidays	20
26	Equipment, Accidents and Reports	21
27	Miscellaneous	22
28	Shift Bidding	22
29	Uniforms	25
30	Job Classification And Wage Rates / 401 (k) Plan	26
31	Health & Welfare	27
32	Duration, Termination, and Renewal	28
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this day 1st of July, 2008 by and between MV TRANSPORTATION located in Holland, Michigan, party of the first part and hereinafter termed "Employer," and General Teamsters Union Local No. 406 affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, located at 3315 Eastern Avenue, S.E., Grand Rapids, Michigan, party of the second part, and hereinafter termed "Union."
PREAMBLE AND PURPOSE
The purpose of this Agreement is to provide orderly collective bargaining relations between the Company and the Union, to secure prompt and equitable disposition of grievances, and to eliminate interruption of work and interference with the efficient operation of the Company’s business.
It is the intent and purpose of the parties hereto to promote harmonious economic and professional relationships among the Company, the Union, the employees covered by this Agreement, and the general public, and to set forth herein the basic Agreement covering rates of pay, hours of work, and conditions of employment to be observed between the parties to this Agreement. The Employer and the Union jointly agree to perform faithfully the obligations imposed by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 1
RECOGNITION, UNION SHOP. AND DUES
Section 1.
The Company recognizes and acknowledges the Union as the exclusive representative for the purpose of collective bargaining in respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment, and other conditions of employment for the term of this Agreement of all employees of the Company included in the bargaining unit described below:
All full-time, part-time drivers, driver-dispatchers, telephone operators, and bus washers employed by MV TRANSPORTATION of Holland, Michigan, from its headquarters located at 433 E. 24th, Holland, Michigan; but excluding all guards, supervisors, full time dispatchers, and managerial staff as defined in the Act.
Section 2.
All present employees who are currently employed by the Company on the effective date of this Agreement, shall become members and remain members of the Union in good standing as a condition of continued employment, or at a minimum, become financial core members.
All employees who are hired hereafter shall, on and after the thirty first (31st) day following the beginning of the employment, or on and after the thirty first (31st) day following the effective date of this Section, whichever is the later, become and remain members in good standing of the Union as a condition of employment.
Section 2 (a).
It is agreed that all employees who come within the provisions of this Agreement will be required to sign a card or form as provided by the Union authorizing the deduction from the employee’s wages of all Union dues, or a service charge in lieu of Union dues, assessments,
1
and/or initiation fees as may be established by the Union and become due to it during the life of this Agreement. The Company agrees to comply with such written authority and to transmit such sums to the Union within two (2) weeks following the dues deductions.
Section 3.	Check-off System
The Company and Union covered by this Agreement will enter into a check-off system of dues collection in which the Company agrees that it will deduct from the earnings of an employee, for whom an individually signed form is on file with the Company, his/her Union dues including initiation and reinstatement fees, and remit them to the Union each month. The Company shall show dues deducted and remitted to the Union on the statement of withheld earnings presented to each employee. The Union shall publish its dues schedule in writing and post said schedule on the union bulletin board at the Company facility. In the event that the Union shall, in accordance with its by-laws, increase or decrease the dues and initiation fees, the Union shall notify the Company and the employee in writing to that effect and the Company will deduct dues and initiation fees accordingly.
Section 4.
The Union agrees to indemnify and save the Company harmless from any and all liabilities resulting from compliance with the above section.
ARTICLE 2 PROBATION
A new employee shall work under the provisions of this Agreement, but shall be employed only on a ninety (90) day probationary period. During which period he/she may be discharged without further recourse, provided, however, that the Company may not discharge or discipline for the purpose of evading this agreement or discriminating against union membership. During this period, the General Manager or Safety Operation Manager will oversee and evaluate the progress and performance of the employee. The employee should also utilize this time to become familiar with the responsibilities of the position, ask questions and learn about the Company and the Union. This is an important period for the Operations Manager to determine if the employee can successfully perform the duties of the position.
Eligibility for full-time benefits is dependent upon the successful completion of the ninety (90) day probationary period, and full-time benefits will occur on the ninety-first (91st) day of employment.
Employees who fail to demonstrate the ability to meet acceptable standards of performance and/or behavior during the probationary period may be terminated immediately, and shall not have recourse to the grievance procedure of this Agreement. Any employee terminated during his/her probationary period will be entitled to a complete refund of monies paid to the Union by the Union.
ARTICLE 3
TRANSFER OF COMPANY TITLE OR INTEREST
This Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto, their successors, administrators, executors, and assigns. In the event an entire operation or any part thereof is sold, leased, transferred, or taken over by sales, transfer, lease, assignment, receivership, or bankruptcy proceedings, such operation shall continue to be subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement for the life thereof. The Company shall give notice of the existence of this
2
Agreement to any purchaser, transferee, lessee, assignee, etc., of the operation covered by this Agreement or any part thereof. Such notice shall be in writing with a copy to the Union not later than the effective date of sale.
ARTICLE 4
EXTRA CONTRACT AGREEMENTS
The Company agrees not to enter into any agreement with another labor organization during the life of this Agreement with respect to the employees covered by this Agreement; or any agreement or contract with said employees, individually or collectively, which in any way conflicts with the terms or provisions of this Agreement, or which in any way affects wages, hours, or working conditions of said employees, or any individual employee, or which in any way may be considered a proper subject for collective bargaining. Any such agreement shall be null and void.
ARTICLE 5
SEPARABILITY AND SAVINGS CLAUSE
If any article or section of this Contract or of any riders thereto should be held invalid by operation of law or by any tribunal of competent jurisdiction, or if compliance with or enforcement of any article or section should be restrained pending a final determination as to its validity, the remainder of this Article or Section to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it has been held invalid or as to which compliance with or enforcement of has been restrained, shall not be affected thereby.
In the event that any Article or Section is held invalid or enforcement of or compliance with which has been restrained as above set forth, the parties affected thereby shall enter into immediate collective bargaining negotiations, upon the request of either party for the purpose of arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement for such article or section during the period of invalidity or restraint.
ARTICLE 6
SUBCONTRACTING
The provisions of this article shall apply to employees of MV Transportation. For the purpose of preserving work and job opportunities for die employees covered by this Agreement, MV Transportation, the Company, agrees that no work or services presently performed or hereafter assigned to the bargaining unit, will be sub-contracted, transferred, leased, assigned or conveyed, in whole or in part to any other plant, person or non-unit employees, unless otherwise provided in this Agreement.
The Company may not sub-contract work of any job classification covered by this Agreement, in an attempt to circumvent any provision of this Agreement. It is further agreed that additions to the work force, in classifications covered by this Agreement, that currently have bargaining unit employees performing this work, shall become bargaining unit members covered under this Agreement. The Company is authorized limited sub-contracting ability in the facility department. If the City of Holland modifies the scope of services resulting in changed conditions, such conditions shall prevail.
3
ARTICLE 7 PAY PERIOD
Section 1,
All employees covered by this Agreement shall be paid in full each two (2) weeks. Paychecks will be issued on Friday mornings at 12:00 Noon. In the event of a payday falling on a holiday, paychecks will be distributed on the day before the holiday at 5:00 pm.
Section 2.
Each employee shall be provided with an itemized statement of his earnings and all deductions made for any purpose. The Company will offer to all employees the opportunity for direct deposit into any financial institution of their choice, with the forms to be provided for by the Company.
ARTICLE 8
LAYOFF AND RECALL
Section 1.
When there is a reduction in force, the Company will first allow for volunteers for the layoff. If no employee volunteers or an insufficient number of employees volunteer, the Company will then reduce employees in inverse order of seniority. Employees shall be allowed a voluntary layoff of up to forty-five (45) calendar days. Employees on voluntary layoff may be forced back to work in inverse order of seniority amongst those employees on the voluntary layoff.
Section 2.
When it is necessary to implement a non-voluntary reduction in force such reduction shall be as follows:
A.	Part-time employees shall be laid off first by inverse order of seniority.
B.	The Company will then reduce the full-time employee ranks based on inverse Company wide seniority regardless of classification.
C.	Employees may “bump” into another classification provided they are able to perform the essential functions of the position and are qualified or can become qualified in a period of five days.
Section 3.
In the event of a layoff, an employee so laid off shall be given two (2) weeks notice of recall to work, mailed certified return receipt requested, to his/her last known address. In the event the employee fails to notify the Company in writing of his/her intent to return to duty within one (1) week of notification, he/she shall lose all seniority rights under this Agreement and the employee will be deemed to have voluntary terminated his/her employment.
Section 4.
Employees recalled shall return to their classification position at the time of layoff.
4
ARTICLE 9
EMPLOYEE COOPERATION
Section 1.
The employees shall work at all times in the best interest of the Company; they shall perform efficient service in their work; they shall operate and handle the Company’s vehicles carefully, safely and with the utmost regard for the safety of the passengers, the general public and the equipment entrusted to their care; and they shall at all times use their influence and best endeavors to preserve and protect the interest of the Company and cooperate in the promotion and advancement of the Company’s interest.
Section 2.
In the event an employee accepts employment by an employer or employers other than the Company that would affect the performance of his duties under the terms of this Agreement, his employment by the Company shall be subject to the work rules of this Agreement up to and including discharge.
ARTICLE 10
WORKWEEK
Section 1.
The standard workweek for all employees shall start on Saturday and end on Friday.
•	Full time: A standard work week will consist ofa minimum of 37.5
hours per week when averaged over a four (4) week period.
•	Part time: Employees work week to week by arrangement with a maximum hours per week. Employees must work a minimum of 24 hours per month to maintain part-time status.
Any extra Saturday work will follow the guidelines of Section 2 below. Part time employees will be sent home before any full time employee. Bus operators are required to perform pre-trip inspections and post trip inspections. Pay will be from the time of their “sign in” time on the driver assignment sheet (which allows 12 minutes for the preliminary pre-trip and 10 minutes for any subsequent pre-trips) until they park their vehicle.
Section 2.	Extra work / overtime scheduling
In the event of an injury or illness in an existing job, which will last one week or more, a notice shall be posted on die Union bulletin board for a period of 72 hours. The individual with the highest seniority will be awarded this bid and notified prior to the vacancy, if the Company has prior knowledge. When the individual bids on a run, which was vacated due to an injury or illness, they shall remain on said run until the absent employee returns; and then return to the run from which they came.
Every attempt will be made to follow the seniority list in filling extra work. A sign up list will be posted regarding “are you available or not” for the following week at 5pm Tuesday to 5pm Thursday. You will be called according to seniority without regard to full time / part time status provided the hours available to work falls within the DOT guidelines.
5
If an employee is available for the full shift then they take precedence. If the shift is “split” then follow seniority guidelines. Under no circumstances will straight time or time and one-half be paid for the same hours, unless there is a bonafide error regarding scheduling, under the terms of this Agreement
Section 3.	Work performed by supervisors
It is not the intent of the Company to deprive any employee of work by assigning work normally performed by a member of the bargaining unit to a supervisor.
However, it is understood and agreed that supervisors are specifically permitted to work in case of emergencies or when requested aid by an employee.
Supervisors shall also be permitted to perform such functions as testing equipment or methods of operation, and instructing employees. Supervisory personnel shall not perform work that would result in the denial of overtime or extra earning opportunities to bargaining unit personnel. Supervisors may temporarily perform duties until a bargaining unit personnel is available.
The Company maintains the right to schedule work. Utility/cleaner work shall be offered or assigned to available utility/cleaner personnel first.
ARTICLE 11
DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
Section L
All charges brought by the Company against its employees for violation of its rules or because of other offenses will be issued within ten (10) days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays after such alleged violation or offense has been made known to one of the supervisors of the Company or their designee, except in cases involving mishandling of funds during which the Company may have a period not to exceed thirty (30) days to verify such charge prior to notification under this section.
Section 2.
Discharge or suspension will be with proper written notice, stating reasons to employee, the Union and the Chief Steward, issued at such time of discharge or suspension. A period of suspension shall begin not later than ten (10) days after notification of assessment, and suspension days (2 or more) shall be observed consecutively within the employee’s normally scheduled work week(s).
Section 3,
Any employee who has been suspended or discharged for violation of any rule of the Company shall have the right to have his case taken up at step three of the grievance procedure within ten (10) days.
If it is found and mutually agreed by the Union and by the Company that such employee was not guilty of the charge for which he/she was suspended or discharged, employee shall be reinstated without loss of seniority and paid for his loss of wages and fringe benefits due to his suspension or discharge and such charge stricken from the record.
6
Section 4.
In determining an employee’s loss of earnings, any compensation received through the Unemployment Insurance during the period of suspension or discharge shall be deducted from the amount s/he would have earned had s/he not been suspended or discharged. No award shall ever exceed the loss of earnings as thus determined.
Section 5.
In all cases of discharge or suspension, a grievance if any, must be filed, in writing, within five (5) working days of receipt of the notice of discharge or suspension in Section 2 herein.
Section 6.
Should the need for discipline arise, the Company agrees that the intent of the discipline will be to correct the behavior of the employee.
Section 7.	Employee Handbook
The Company has issued all employees a current Employee Handbook outlining all rules, regulations, and policies. Prior to the implementation of any new or revised rule, regulation or policy, the Company will issue an addendum to the Employee Handbook, with a copy given to each employee and the Union, at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the implementation of said rule, regulation or addendum.
ARTICLE 12 MEDICAL EXAMINATION
Section 1.
The Company may at any time require a D.O.T. Medical Examination at Company expense by a doctor to determine the physical and emotional fitness of an employee for continued employment, with pay for lost hours.
Section 2.
In the event an employee fails to pass a D.O.T. Medical Examination as required by the Company, such employee will be advised of the reason for his failure to pass and will be provided with a copy of his examination by the Company and shall be removed from service until such time as he is physically and emotionally able to perform his duties. Such absence shall be governed in the Leave of Absence section of this agreement.
Section 3.
In the event an employee fails to pass a D.O.T. Medical Examination and after having been advised of his reason for failure, said employee may seek a medical examination from a doctor of his/her choice at the employee’s expense. Should this examination indicate the employee is able to return to work in conflict with the first opinion, a third opinion shall be sought. The third opinion shall be rendered by a doctor mutually agreeable to the Company and the employee. The third opinion shall be final and binding upon all parties.
A If there is a need for a third (3rd) opinion, the Company pays the cost associated with the exam.
7
ARTICLE 13
NON-DISCRIMINATION CLAUSE
The Employer and the Union agree not to discriminate against any individual with respect to hiring, compensation, terms or conditions of employment because of such individual’s race, color, sex, religion, national origin, or age, nor will they limit, segregate or classify employees in any way to deprive an individual employee of employment opportunities because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin or age, or any other criteria prohibited by law.
The Company and the Union agree that there will not be discrimination by the Company or the Union against any employee because of his/her membership in the Union or because of any employee’s lawful activity and/or support of the Union.
ARTICLE 14
SHOP STEWARD
The Company recognizes the right of the Union to designate job stewards, from the Company’s seniority list. The authority of the job stewards so designated by the Union shall be limited to, and shall not exceed the following duties and activities:
1.	The investigation and presentation of grievances to his/her employer of the
designated Company representatives in accordance with the provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
2.	The transmission of such messages and information which shall originate with,
and are authorized by the Local Union or its officers, provided such messages and information:
A.	Have been reduced to writing or;
B.	If not reduced to writing, are of a routine nature and do not involve work stoppage, slow downs, or refusal to work. Job stewards have no authority to take strike action, cause a slowdown, or any other action interrupting the Company’s business. The Company shall have the authority to impose proper discipline, in the event the shop steward has taken unauthorized strike action or work stoppage in violation of this Agreement. The Union reserves the right to remove the shop steward at any time, for the good of the Union. The job steward or the designated alternate shall be permitted reasonable time to investigate, present and process grievances on the Company’s property without interruption of the employer’s operation; and where mutually agreed to by the Local Union and the Employer, off the property or other than during their regular schedule without loss of time or pay.
Job stewards or the designated alternate’s regular working hours shall be considered working hours in computing daily and/or weekly overtime if within the regular schedule of the job steward or the designated alternate. The Employer recognizes the employee’s right to be given requested representation by a steward of the designated alternate at such time as the employer reasonably contemplates disciplinary action. The employer also recognizes the steward’s right to be given requested representation by another steward of the designated alternate at such times as die steward faces reasonably contemplated disciplinary action.
8
3 The steward is not an agent of the Union to the Company, and the Union will not be held liable or held responsible for any illegal acts or commitments of the steward.
ARTICLE 15
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES
Section 1.
It is mutually agreed that all grievances, disputes or complaints arising under and during the term of this Agreement shall be settled in accordance with the procedure herein provided. Every effort shall be made to resolve all controversies and disagreements between the Company and the Union or its members in an amicable manner. In the event that any dispute cannot be settled in this manner, the question may be submitted for settlement or arbitration as hereinafter provided.
All grievances shall be filed within ten (10) calendar days of the date when the employee had knowledge of the violation of the contract.
Section 2.
Should any grievance, dispute or complaint arise over the interpretation or application of the contents of this Agreement, there shall be an earnest effort on the part of the parties to settle such promptly through the following steps:
Step 1. An employee grievance shall first be taken up by conference between the aggrieved employee, the shop steward, or both and the Department Manager.
Step 2. It shall be the responsibility of the aggrieved employee to reduce any grievance to writing on the regular grievance form provided by the Union within five (5) working days from the response of the Company in Step 1. Once put into writing, a conference will be scheduled within five (5) working days with the aggrieved employee, the shop steward and the Representative of the Company delegated by the General Manager or both.
Step 3. In the event the Step 2 fails, to settle the complaint it shall be referred to the Business Agent of the Local Union and the General Manager or management designee. If the matter is not resolved at this level, the Union shall have the right to submit the grievance for arbitration. The Secretary-Treasurer and/or Executive Board of the Local Union shall have the right to determine whether or not the grievance is qualified to be submitted for arbitration by the Union.
Step 4. If the grievance is not resolved at Step 3, a request for mediation may come from either the Union or the Company before the matter is referred to final and binding arbitration. The request for arbitration must come within thirty (30) working days from the General Manager’s answer or the outcome of Federal Mediation, unless mutually agreed to in writing to be otherwise, the arbitrator used to resolve grievances will be selected from a list provided by the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service.
At all the preceding steps in the procedure, the conferences shall be scheduled at a time when there is not disruption of normal work assignment and duties.
9
Section 3.	Limits of arbitration -
The arbitrator shall not give any decision that effects, modifies, revises, detracts from or adds to any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement.
Section 4.	Test of arbitrability -
If either party shall claim before the arbitrator that a particular grievance fails to meet the test of arbitrability, as the same set forth in this Article, the arbitrator shall proceed to decide such issue before proceeding to hear the case on the merits. The arbitrator shall have the authority to determine whether they will hear the case on its merits at the same hearing, which the jurisdictional question is presented. In any case, where the arbitrator determines that such grievance fails to meet said test of arbitrability, they shall refer the case back to the parties without a recommendation on the merits.
ARTICLE 16
SENIORITY
Section 1.
“Seniority” as the term is used in this Agreement, shall mean length of continuous employment with the Company from the employee’s date of hire. The Company recognizes the principle of seniority as it relates to transfer, assignment of work, bidding, layoff and recall. For the purpose of this Agreement, seniority shall be applied on the basis of job classifications within the bargaining unit.
Section 2,	Termination of Seniority -
Seniority shall be broken by:
a)	Resignation I Quit
b)	Retirement
c)	Discharge for just cause
d)	Failure to return from leave granted in accordance with Article 23
(Leave of Absence)
e)	Layoff in excess of twelve (12) months
f)	Absence from work for a period of three (3) consecutive days,
without notifying the Company (no call, no show) unless inability to report is submitted, and;
g)	Acceptance of other employment during a leave of absence.
Section 3.
A seniority list shall be maintained within the bargaining unit and shall contain the employee’s name, hire date, job classification and full-time or part-time status. During the first week of each quarter, the Company shall post, in an accessible place, an up-to-date revised seniority roster. Employees protesting their seniority date must do so in writing to the Company and the Union within thirty (30) calendar days to protest their seniority date.
Any remedy arising out of said dispute shall be limited to the posting date giving rise to the grievance. The Company shall send the Union any revised seniority roster. Employees desiring to go from part-time to full-time and/or full-time to part-time may do so with the understanding that the date of the change will become their new seniority date for the purpose of bidding, extra work, and vacation accrual. Employees making the change from full-time to part-time or part-time to full-time may not change their full-time or part-time status again for one (1) year.
10
Section 4.
The Company shall conduct a bid for the runs at least two (2) times per year. Bid lines will be offered in accordance with full time seniority. Open work will be offered by seniority regardless of full time / part time for the following week and posted by 5pm Tuesday by the scheduler for employees to sign up for extra work assignments
Open work sign up must be completed no later than 5pm Thursday, after which time any employee may sign up for the open work.
Section 5.
When a bargaining unit employee leaves the Company (Section 2), that bid line will be posted forbid by seniority.
Section 6.
Positions arising outside of the bargaining unit, such as, but not limited to, administrative, confidential or supervisory, shall be posted, prior to filling from outside sources. (If the Company determines there are no qualified candidates, the Company has the right to go “outside” to fill the position without recourse from the Union.)
The person possessing the Company’s desired skills and qualifications shall be awarded the position. Any employee so promoted, shall continue to accrue, retain and maintain bargaining unit seniority and privileges for up to ninety (90) days, in the position he vacated, in the event he is returned to his former position either voluntarily or involuntarily. If returning to a bargaining unit position after ninety (90) days has elapsed, the employee shall have suffered loss of all seniority rights and shall be issued a new hire date effective on his date of transfer into a bargaining unit position.
ARTICLE 17
ATTENDANCE
Section 1.	Attendance Policy
All MV Transportation employees are required to report to work on time every day they are schedule to work Absenteeism and tardiness disrupt the services our clients depend upon, and put our business at risk. Because missing work can be such a serious problem, the following guidelines apply to all employees. This policy is based on a floating twelve (12) month time period. The objective of this Attendance/Tardiness Policy is;
To consider the needs of our employees, our duties to our clients, and the necessity of running a business which pays everyone’s wages.
•	To put each employee in charge of his/her own time off responsibility, so that MVT is not put into the position of deciding the legitimacy of one excuse over another.
•	To eliminate any chance of favoritism by using defined standards applicable to all.
•	To improve service to our clients and strengthen the competitiveness of our business.
Section 2.	Excused Absences
The only excused absences are pre-arranged requests for medical, personal, maternity, or family leave of absence, jury and/or witness duty, military leave, pre-arranged union leave, or prearranged vacations days.
11
Pre-arranged absences will be excused only if;
a)	An MVT “Request for time off’ form is completed.
b)	Approved by either the Operations Manager, Division Manager, or Regional Managers.
c)	The steps are competed per the divisions advance notice policy. A typical policy requires employees to submit their request by noon a week prior to the date sought for time off. (Example: A written request shall be submitted by noon Monday to be approved for time off the following Monday).
Without a completed “Request for time off’, the absence will be defined as unexcused.
Section3.	Absenteeism
Absenteeism is defined as; failing to show up for a scheduled workday or agreed upon workday.
Absenteeism is measured in “occurrences”, rather than individual days. For instance, when an employee misses work, it is one (1) occurrence regardless if it is for 1 day or 10 days, as long as they are consecutive and proper notice has been given. For occurrences greater than five (5) scheduled work days, the employee will be require to supply a doctor’s note for the absence. An absence is equal to one (1) occurrence. Reporting to work more then 15 minutes late and up to one (1) hour after schedule reporting time will be counted as an absence.
Section 4.	Tardiness
Tardiness is defined as arriving for work after your scheduled reporting time either for shift start or returning from rest or meal breaks. A tardy equals one-half (1/2) an occurrence. If an employee has five (5) tardies within a 90-day period an additional occurrence will be charged. If an employee is tardy for their shift, the shift may be re-assigned and the employee sent home for the day without pay. If any employee arrives more than 15 minutes late and up to one (1) hour after schedule for their assigned shift, they will be issued an Absence.
Section 5.	Failure to Complete Entire Shift
The continued operation of the service for our clients is important. Based on this need, a Failure to Complete the work shift assigned (unless mutually agreed to a reduced shift) will result in a one-half occurrence. It is not beneficial for the system to have an employee come to work sick and have to leave a couple hours later. It is much easier to cover a work shift at the start of the day then in the middle of a work shift. A Failure to Complete Entire Shift equals one-half (1/2) occurrence.
Section 6.	No Call/No Show
A No Call/No Show is when an employee does not notify their supervisor or dispatcher of their absence prior to their report time. No Call/No Shows are extremely detrimental to our operations and undermine the obligations we have made to our customers. Failure to notify your manager or division staff of an absence will result in a No Call/No Show. If an employee is more than sixty (60) minutes late for their shift without calling, they will be issued a No Call/No Show. A No Call/No Show equals four (4) occurrences.
Section 7.	Notification
All employees who will be absent are require to notify the dispatcher or direct supervisor one (1) hour prior to the start of their shift. A system will be established to communicate an absence if
12
there are no on-duty personnel available. This may include an answering machine, voice mail, a pager, etc. Failure to give proper notification will result in a No Call/No Show. All employees will be issued an Attendance Notification form documenting each occurrence which will need to be signed and a copy returned to your supervisor.
Employees are allowed a maximum of 7 “occurrences” within a floating 12-month period before a written warning is issued and disciplinary action begins. The 12-month period begins with the first “occurrence”. Each occurrence is removed from the employee’s record one year (12 months) after the occurrence. To understand a “floating “ 12-month period, you take today as your occurrence date and then look at all occurrences that occurred during the previous twelve months only.
Any employee who fails to report for duty without giving proper notification on three (3) or more consecutive scheduled working days will be considered to have voluntarily resigned his/her employment with the company. Tardies, absences, failure to complete shifts and No Call/No Shows will be used in reflecting an employee’s total attendance record.
Section 8.	Disciplinary Guideline For Attendance
Schedule of Points
Tardy
Failure to complete the entire shift
Absence
No Call / No Show
'/z occurrence '/z occurrence
1 occurrence
4 occurrences
Floating 12-month period	Ten (10) Occurrences .... Separation
Points will not be issued for any absence from work due to approved leave of absence, approved funeral leave, previously scheduled time off, or approved schedule changes.
Requests for schedule changes must be made in advance and in accordance with the advance notice requirements established by MV Transportation.
The Company will provide a copy of the employee’s attendance record upon request.
Section 9.	Clean Slate
If an employee goes “occurrence” free for a consecutive six (6) month period, their attendance record will be wiped clean and the employee will start fresh.
ARTICLE 18 SAFETY AND HEALTH
Section 1.
The prevention of accidents is a necessary incident to the operation of the Company’s transportation system and safety programs, meetings, and other activities intended to foster prevention of accidents are mutually beneficial to both the Company and to its employees, passengers and client. Therefore, it is required of employees to cooperate with the Company in such safety programs, meetings and other activities intended to foster prevention of accidents held or sponsored by or for the Company unless excused by management.
13
The Company shall continue to make responsible provision for safety and health of its employees and passengers during the hours of their employment. Safety and first aid equipment shall be provided by the Company and kept in an easily accessible area. Employees will make continuous use of safety equipment furnished for their protection and the protection of the passengers which is to be used by them under safety rules. The Company shall supply four (4) straps per bus for the securing of wheel chair passengers.
Employees shall observe all rules and regulations of the Company for the protection of life, limb and health and for the preservation of Company property and passenger safety. A copy of the safety rules of the Company shall be furnished to die employees.
No employee shall be required to perform unsafe work that endangers his/her safety and the health and safety of passengers.
Employees required to attend safety meetings will be paid for such meetings.
Section 2.	Safety Policy
Because our clients rely upon MV Transportation for qualified, well trained and safe drivers, a good safety record on the part of our drivers is essential for us to serve our clients in the safe professional manner that they expect.
Therefore all MV Transportation drivers are subject to a Safety Point Program rating which assesses cumulative points for safety infractions such as preventable accidents, moving violations or Safety Citations given by MV Transportation safety staff and management.
Please refer to the Employee Handbook for the Safety Policy. The associated Safety Points and discipline actions are listed below. If an employee is required to take a post accident Drug and Alcohol exam, they may be removed from service for the remainder of their shift. The following day(s) should be used for retraining in the performance areas of the accident.
The Division Manager will make the initial preventability determination. If an employee disagrees with the Managers determination, they may request in writing a review by the Accident Review Committee.
The maximum points in the Safety Point Program allowable on a driving record at any given time are as follows:
Employment Period	Maximum Points
0-2 years (including probation period)	4 points
2 years or more	5 points
Exceeding the maximum point limits above may subject the employee to termination.
Disciplinary Action
1.	Any probationary driver who has a chargeable accident may be subject to immediate re-training or termination.
14
2.	Any driver who is subject to the Safety Point Program who receives three Safety Point assessments within one (1) year will be terminated. Example: 2 moving violations plus one chargeable accident or 1 moving violation plus 1 chargeable accident plus 1 safety citation penalty.
3.	Any evaluation of Safety Points will follow the above rules on the date of the event that caused the points to be accrued, regardless of the tenure of the employee at the time the points were actually assessed to the employee.
All such chargeable accidents will be assigned points in the following manner:
MV Citation for an unsafe vehicle maneuvers) or act -	One (1) point
Accident with total damages of $500 or less for all property and/or vehicles involved -	One (1) point
Accident with total damages over $500 for all property and/or vehicles involved -	Two (2) points
Passenger related accident -	Two (2) points
Conviction of a minor traffic violation in a company vehicle -	Two (2) points
Conviction of a major traffic violation (*) -	Six (6) points
Backing Accident -	Three (3) points
Incident as a result of failure to properly secure a wheelchair -	Six (6) points
Preventable accident with serious injury, death and/or high property damage -	Six (6) points
Failure to immediately report a citation or accident in a company vehicle -	Six (6) points
(*) A major violation is any citation that involves: (1) Driving while intoxicated or under the influence of alcohol or drugs; (2) Failure to stop and immediately report an accident in which you are involved; (3) Homicide, manslaughter, or assault arising out of the operation of a motor vehicle; (4) Driving while your license is suspended or revoked; (5) Reckless driving; (6) Possession of open container or alcoholic beverages; and/or (7) Speed contests, drag racing, or attempts to flee from an officer of the law.
Section 3.	Elimination of Safety Points
Employees may eliminate safety points from their records in two ways:
1.	By contacting the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) it is often possible to have accidents which occurred outside the scope of work at MV Transportation, Inc. removed, proving to the DMV that the other party was at fault.
2.	The MV Transportation points system only measures safety infractions for the prior eighteen (18) months. Any infraction which occurred more than eighteen (18) months prior would no longer be included in the safety point count. The Company will supply to the employees, a copy of their safety point record upon request.
15
Section 4.	Safe Vehicles
No employee shall be disciplined for refusing to drive an unsafe vehicle nor shall any employee be required to drive a bus that has not been determined by the maintenance department to be safe, nor shall any employee be required to transport a passenger in a mobility assistance device unless the proper number of securement straps or devices, as determined by the Company, are provided in the vehicle.
ARTICLE 19 GENERAL ACCESS
For insurance reasons, and at the request of the City of Holland, the Business Agent of the Union shall notify the General Manager or the Operations Manager when he wishes to enter upon the Company’s premises.
Section 1.	Meeting with the Company: The Union’s Business Agent may enter upon the Company’s premises to attend meetings of the grievance procedure set forth in Article 15 of the Agreement and such other meetings as may be scheduled between the Business Agent and the General Manager. The Business Agent’s access under this Section shall be limited to the meeting space designated by the General Manager.
Section 2.	Other Access: The Union’s Business Agent, and such other Union representatives and/or agents as the Manager may approve in advance, will be granted access to such areas of the Company’s premises and for such purposes and at such times as the Manager may approve in advance of such visits. In order to meet with employees in the Bargaining Unit, such meetings shall not take place during working hours and shall not take place at any facility, location, or function of any customer of the Company except by invitation of such customer.
Section 3.	Limited Waiver of Access: Except as provided in this Section, non-employee representatives or agents of the Union may not enter upon the Company’s premises.
Section 4.	Review Records: The Union shall have the right to examine time sheets and any other records pertaining to the computation of compensation of said employee whose pay is in dispute or other records of said employee pertaining to a specific grievance. Management will be present during these inspections.
ARTICLE 20 NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
The Union and its members agree that there shall be no picketing, strikes, concerted failure to report for work, sit down, slowdowns, walkouts, stoppages or other concerted cessation of work by the Union or its members during the duration of this contract, or during any period of time while negotiations are in progress between the parties hereto for the amendment or renewal of this Agreement.
In the event of an unauthorized strike, work stoppage, picketing or other curtailment, the Union shall immediately instruct the involved employees that their conduct is in violation of the contract, and that they may be disciplined up to and including discharge and instruct all such persons to immediately cease the offending conduct.
The Company shall have the right to discipline, up to and including discharge, any employee
16
who participates in activity herein prohibited. The Company agrees on its part that during the duration of this contract, there shall be no lockouts of said Union or its members. It is the mutual desire of both parties hereto to provide uninterrupted public service.
ARTICLE 21 MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Section 1. The Union recognizes the complete authority of the Company in the conduct of its business, and hereby agrees that its members covered by this Agreement shall, to the best of their ability, faithfully comply with the Rules and Regulations now in force or hereinafter made effective by the Company that are not in conflict with the terms of this Agreement. New rules and regulations should be reported to the Union prior to posting.
Section 2, The Company will continue to exercise exclusively the right to set its policy/ to manage its business in the light of experience, good business judgments, and conditions; to determine the qualifications for and to select its managerial and supervisor forces, determine the number of employees it will retain in its governing the operation of the business and the conduct of its employees, the determination of the type, kind, make and size of the equipment used by it and the determination of where such equipment shall be used, and to exercise full control. In the event the Rules and this Agreement are in conflict, the Agreement will prevail.
Section 3.	Technology Rights. The Company may employ new technology, including video systems, GPS, mobile data terminals/computers and other present or future technologies for the transit industry, in order to help ensure the safety of the driver and passengers, and compliance with all federal, state and local driving rules and regulations by both the driver and the motoring or pedestrian public. The Company and the Union agree that any recording resulting from said technology may be used as evidence in the investigation of any incident involving our facility, another employee, or an employee while operating a Company vehicle. In the event any data or recording is used as evidence for purposes of disciplinary action, the Union shall be afforded an opportunity to view the evidence as soon as practicable after the action is taken. The Company shall meet with the Union before implementation of new technology on an advise and confer basis, in order to explain and clarify the use and effects of said technology.
Section 4.	The Union agrees that its member employees of the Company will individually and collectively perform efficient work and service, that they will use their influence and best efforts to protect the property of the Company and its interest, and that they will cooperate with the Company and the employees of their own and other groups or departments in promoting and advancing the welfare of the Company and the service to the public at all times.
Section 5,	The Union agrees to put forth every reasonable effort to eliminate unnecessary absence from work on the part of its members, covered in this Agreement
ARTICLE 22 MAINTENANCE OF STANDARDS
The Company agrees that all conditions of employment in his individual operation, as covered in this contract relating to wages, benefits and general working conditions shall be maintained at not less than the highest standards in effect at the time of the signing of this Agreement, and the conditions of employment shall be improved whenever specific provisions for improvement are made elsewhere in this Agreement.
17
ARTICLE 23
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
1.	Military Leave: Employees enlisting or entering the military or naval service of the United States, shall be granted all rights and privileges provided by applicable law. The Company shall pay the health and welfare and pension plan contributions in accordance with Article 29 on employees on leave of absence for training in the military reserves or National Guard, but not to exceed fourteen (14) days.
2.	Time “Off* for Union Activities: The Company agrees to grant the necessary and reasonable time off, without discrimination or loss of seniority rights and without pay, to any employee designated by the Union, to attend a labor convention or serve in any capacity, on other official Union business, provided forty-eight (48) hours written notice is given to the Company by the Union, specifying length of time.
The maximum leave available in any calendar year, shall not exceed five (5) working days. The Union agrees that in making its request for time off for Union activities, due consideration shall be given to the number of members affected in order that there shall be no disruption of the Company’s operations, due to the lack of available employees. This section shall not apply to employees excepting regular full-time employment with the Union.
3.	Funeral Leave: Full-time and part time employees shall be allowed three (3) paid days off for funeral attendance when there is a death in the employee’s immediate family. Immediate family is defined as father, mother, wife, husband, brother, sister, or children. Any days needed in excess of three (3) days shall be without pay. Additionally, all full-time employees shall be allowed one (1) paid day off for funeral attendance where there is a death involving the employees, current grandparents, grandchildren, current step-parents, step-children, and current mother-in-law and current father-in-law. For the purposes of the relations listed in the previous sentence, should the funeral be in excess of 100 miles from work, the full-time employee will be entitled to one (1) extra paid day for travel time.
Additionally, all part-time employees shall be granted unpaid time off, for funeral attendance when there is a death involving the employees current grand parents, grand children, current step-parents, step-children, and current mother-in-law and current father-in-law.
4.	Jury Duty;
a)	Eligibility; In order to be eligible to receive benefits under this Article, an employee must have completed his probationary period. The employee must immediately notify the Company of the receipt of a summons or notice to appear for jury duty.
b)	Earnings: When an employee is called for jury duty service, he shall be excused from his regular duties on the days he is required to appear in court. For any regularly scheduled work day, in which time off for jury duty is granted, the employee shall be paid in accordance with his shift, up to eight (8) hours pay, at his straight-time hourly rate. The employee shall be required, however, to turn over to the Company the jury duty compensation received, in order to receive Company pay. No pay shall be made for jury service on an employee’s regular day off, or during any other leave of absence.
18
c)	Time worked: Time spent on jury duty service will be considered time worked for purpose of Company contributions to health and welfare and pension plans, vacation eligibility and payment, holidays and seniority, in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Agreement.
Employees subpoenaed to court due to Company related work activities will be paid at their normal rate of pay.
5.	Sick Leave: Inability to work, because of proven sickness or off the job injury (doctor note specifically detailing time off and inability to perform job), for a period of up to twelve (12) months - (1 Year), shall not result in the loss of seniority rights.
6.	Personal Leave: The purpose of a personal leave of absence, is to provide unpaid time off work, for an extended period of time, for a legitimate reason. Such leave shall not be unreasonably withheld by the Company. Except otherwise provided in this article, the maximum leave of absence shall be for thirty (30) days, and may be extended for additional periods.
If the length of leave is to total more than five (5) working days, the Company requires at least two (2) weeks notice of this request. The first approved leave of absence, plus approved extended leaves of absence, shall not exceed a maximum time period of sixty (60) days. During an approved personal leave of absence, the employee shall not engage in gainful employment. Seniority shall continue to accrue during personal leave.
7.	FMLA Leave: The Company agrees to abide by all of the rules and guidelines as pertains to the Federal Medical Leave Act.
ARTICLE 24 VACATIONS
Section 1	- Eligibility
All full time drivers hired after July 1, 2005, shall receive, after six months of continuous full time employment a paid vacation as further detailed in this Article. Employees working the last day of service under the previous contractor and continuing employment with MV Transportation, Inc. will accrue vacation in accordance with Section 2 on July 1,2005.
Section 2	- Vacation Pay
All full time employees shall accrue hours per pay period for every pay period they work. Hours are accrued based on the following schedule:
Hire - 6 months 6 months - 2 years After 2 years After 5 years After 12 years
No Accrual this period of employment
Accrue 1.54 hours per pay period = 1 week per yr
Accrue 3.08 hours per pay period = 2 weeks per yr
Accrue 4.61 hours per pay period = 3 weeks per yr
Accrue 6.15 hours per pay period = 4 weeks per yr
Effective 1/1/2009; Employees with ten (10) years will begin to accrue 6.15 hours per pay period which will equal four (4) weeks per yr, which will be available to be taken after January 1,2010.
Employees stop accruing vacation after the total of 180 hours until balance drops below 180 hours.
19
If an employee is granted vacation time and the company requests them to work, then the employee will be paid their full vacation pay for those granted vacation days they were required to work.
Section 3.	Vacation Schedule
The Company shall prepare and post by December 1 of each year a vacation sign up schedule showing employees who will be eligible for vacation during the following calendar year and notify them of their current accrued vacation level. Employees will sign up for vacation prior to January 1 of the year in which vacation is to be taken. The Company shall develop a procedure allowing eligible employees to select their vacations, according to their seniority. At no time will more than 2 employees be allowed time off for vacation days on the same day. Any requests made after January 1 will be reviewed on a first come, first serve basis.
Section 4.	Single Dav Requests
For single day vacations, employees must request vacation time with the General Manager or Safety/Operations Manager at least forty eight (48) hours in advance.
Section 5.	Vacation Pay
Vacation must be taken in full day increments. The vacation may not be taken prior to being earned. The Company shall supply a print-out to the employees, upon their request, of all vacation hours they have accrued.
Section 6.	Vacation Balances
Vacation balances may be requested to the local management and will be made available upon request.
Section 7.	Should you leave the Company
Should your employment with MV Transportation, Inc. terminate for any reason, you will be compensated for unused vacation.
ARTICLE 25 HOLIDAYS
Section 1.
Full-time employees will be eligible for Holiday pay after completion of probation.
Section 2.
Company recognized Holidays are as follows: New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day & Christmas Day.
Section 3.
Such holidays will result in the payment for employees of 8 hours at straight time rate.
To be eligible for Holiday pay you must have worked the last scheduled workday before and the first scheduled workday after the Holiday regardless if the days fall in separate workweeks. A doctor’s note does not constitute an excuse.
Section 4.
Sometimes, a Holiday falling on Saturday will be observed the proceeding Friday and a Holiday falling on Sunday will be observed the following Monday, unless the nationally recognized observance is some other day.
20
Section S.
Employees required to work on a Holiday shall be paid for the Holiday in addition to their actual time worked. Employees absent from work on the Holiday when they are scheduled to work will not be eligible for Holiday pay. A doctor’s note does not constitute an excuse.
Section 6,	Holiday Pay
If a Holiday occurs during your vacation or bereavement leave, the Holiday will not be charged against your time off, and you may; a) be paid for the Holiday, b) apply the vacation day either to the Friday before or the Monday after your scheduled vacation or c) use the vacation day as a single day as provided for in Article 24.
Section 7.
You may, upon approval of the Operations Manager, be absent for a Holiday other than the days specified here (such as a particular religious holiday). However, you must make up for the day at another time mutually agreed upon by you and your supervisor.
Section 8.	Floating Holidays.
In addition to the holidays listed in Section 2, all full-time employees will be entitled to two (2) paid floating holidays each January 1st. For those employees hired throughout the year, if probation is completed prior to June 15th, they will be entitled to one (1) floating holiday for that year.
For those employees who complete probation June 16th and after, they are entitled to no floating holiday for that year. Additionally, each January 1st, part-time employees who have worked at least 288 hours in the previous 12 months, will be paid one (1) paid floating holiday equal to eight (8) hours pay.
No employee will be allowed to take a floating holiday during the week of Tulip Time, and all requests for time off must be scheduled with the Operations Manager at least forty-eight (48) hours in advance. Only two employees, by seniority, may be granted for any particular day.
Floating holidays may be used as sick days (unscheduled). Unscheduled floating holidays cannot be used the day before or after an official holiday. Floating holidays must be taken in the current calendar year. Floating holidays do not carry over from one year to the next. All holidays do not count toward overtime calculations.
ARTICLE 26
EQUIPMENT, ACCIDENTS AND REPORTS
Section 1.	The Company shall not require employees to take out on the streets or highways any vehicle that is not in safe operating condition or equipped with the safety compliance prescribed by law. It shall not be a violation of this Agreement where employees refuse to operate such equipment. The final determination as to whether any equipment is in safe operating condition will be made by the maintenance department.
Section 2.	Under no circumstances will an employee be required or assigned to engage in any activity involving dangerous conditions of work or damage to person or property or in violation of an applicable stature or court order, or governmental regulation relating or safety of person or equipment.
21
Section 3, Any employee involved in any vehicular accident shall immediately report said accident and any physical injury sustained. Each employee, before the end of their shift (unless physically unable to do so), shall make out an accident report in writing on forms furnished by the Company and shall turn in all names and addresses of witnesses to any accidents that were provided by the police department.
The driver is required to pass out and collect courtesy (witness) cards. Employees will be paid for time spent completing the form.
Section 4.	Employees shall immediately, or at the end of their shift, report all defects of equipment. Such reports shall be made on a suitable form furnished by the Company and shall be made in multiple copies, one copy to be retained in the vehicle.
The Company shall not ask or require any employee to take out equipment that has been reported by any other employee as being in an unsafe operating condition until same has been approved as safe by the mechanical department.
Section 5.	If an employee suffers a work-related injury, whether or not medical attention is necessary, the employee will immediately report the injury to the supervisor and will complete an injury report as soon as possible, however, not later than the end of his/her shift, unless physically unable to do so. Employees who are in need of medical treatment are required to seek medical treatment at a facility approved by the Company.
ARTICLE 27
MISCELLANEOUS
Section 1.
Documented and verifiable payroll shortages will be corrected within two (2) business days after verification and paid on a separate check, unless waived by the employee to be paid on the next payroll cycle.
Section 2.
All employees covered by this Agreement shall be paid for all time spent in the service of the Employer. If an employee reports to work and is sent home by the Company due to lack of work, he/she shall be paid a minimum of three (3) hours.
Section 3.	(D.R.I.V.E. Deductions)
The Company agrees that it will deduct D.R.I.V.E. contributions monthly from the wages, due on all members of the Union who have submitted written authorization to do so. Deductions on all members, shall be forwarded to the D.R.I.V.E. National Headquarters monthly.
ARTICLE 28
SHIFT BIDDING
Regular, full time and part-time employees who are currently working in the capacity of vehicle operator have the right to bid for work shifts. Work shifts shall be posted and bid at least two time per calendar year. Bids may occur, with proper notice, more frequently then twice a year.
22
Posted shifts shall show approximate hours, days of work and the location from where the shift will begin and end. Shifts shall be designated as either full or part-time and posted in a common area for no less than five (5) days prior to the bid date. In addition, bid packets with the shift bids and the block sheets will be available for each individual.
The bid process shall be by traditional line bid, with each employee selecting in bid list order. There shall be separate bids for current full-time and for current part-time employees. You may bid in person at the scheduled time.
1.	FULL TIME BID
We shall begin with the highest current full-time employee on the full-time Seniority List at the scheduled time. Immediately following this individual’s bid, we will move onto the next person in consecutive order on the full-time portion of the Seniority List. The procedure outline above will be repeated until all shifts have been assigned or until all full-time employees have bid.
Current full-time employees must bid on a full-time shift or they will have their status changed to part-time and be placed on the part-time seniority list. The driver will then bid on a part-time shift during the part-time bid. If at the conclusion of the full-time bid as outlined above, shifts remain available; these shifts will be made available to the Part-Time employees during the course of their bid.
2.	PART TIME BID (@ conclusion of FT bid)
Once all full-time employees have bid through the process outlined above, we shall begin with the first person on the Part-Time portion of the Seniority List. The process outlined for the full-time bid will be followed for the part-time employees who requests to do so. New schedules become effective on the posted date.
Employees on a personal leave or not working as a regular vehicle operator at the effective availability date of a bid shall not bid for a shift. Employees returning from medical leave or employees ineligible to bid due to a medial leave shall be used to fill open positions and extra work until such time that the next bids take place.
3.	FILLING VACANT SHIFTS
1.	A shift becomes vacant. A description of that shift is posted on the Union Bulletin Board.
2.	Drivers may, in writing, request to fill the shift by completing an Employee Request Form (available from dispatch) and return it to the Operations Manager. An employee must currently possess necessary certification and training to operate the routes encompassed by the shift.
3.	Requests are reviewed and the shift awarded to the employee highest on the bid list, pending #2.
23
4.	If #3 results in a full-time shift becoming vacant, that shift will be offered to the most senior part-time operator and down the seniority list as needed.
5.	The vacant part-time shift will be “held down” by a new hire.
6.	If two drivers desire to swap shifts, it will be allowed as long as no persons between them on the seniority list want the shift without posting the shifts. For example, if John (#5 on the Bid List) and Jane (#10 on the Bid List) want to change shifts, they can as long as the individuals who are #6 through #9 on the Bid List do not want the shift.
7.	While the process is conducted, the vacant shift(s) will be covered as necessary.
4.	SHIFT COVERING PROCEDURE
1.	A Request for Work is posted a week in advance. If you desire to work on your off day, sign on the appropriate day.
2.	Available work is assigned to those requesting additional work.
3.	If no operators, or not enough operators, have signed up to work, shifts are assigned as needed.
We will attempt to contact operators to verify assigned extra work. Please check with the Operations Manager or Dispatch for additional work or schedule changes. Covering shifts is difficult and requires teamwork by everyone to accomplish the goal.
5.	SHIFT CHANGE/DAY OFF REQUESTS
Please attempt to submit all shift change/day off requests by the Wednesday proceeding the week of the requested day off and make the request in writing to the Operations Manager. If written approval is not given, do not assume the request has been approved. If no written request is made and written approval not received, nor express permission attained from the Division Manager or Operations Manager, and you do not arrive for your shift, attendance occurrences will be recorded.
Timely submittal of a request does not guarantee approval, but increases the likelihood.
The Shift Change form is utilized to request one-time shift trades or days off. Your shifts are your responsibility and you should attempt to find your replacement if you desire a day off. These changes must be submitted to the Operations Manager on the Shift Change Request Form (available from dispatch) and signed by both parties involved at least two days prior to the effective date. In general, requests for days off that are made less than two days prior will not be approved.
24
ARTICLE 29 UNIFORMS
Section 1 - Uniform Provided
The Company shall issue a uniform to each Employee. A set of uniforms will include: 4 pants and 4 shirts. After 5 years of employment, an employee will be eligible for an additional pant and shirt bringing their total to 5 pants and 5 shirts.
Employees will be responsible for cleaning the items. Items to be replaced by the Company when worn out, but no more frequently than once per year. The Employee shall sign a receipt for all uniforms.
At the end of employment, the Employee must return all items or the Company may deduct from their wages the cost of the items not returned.
(Rest of page intentionally left blank)
25
ARTICLE 30
JOB CLASSIFICATION AND WAGE RATES / 401(k) PLAN
Section 1,	Set forth in the chart below are the job classification and wage rates for each position currently maintained within this agreement:
Holland - Division 106 (Drivers)
Seniority	7/1/2008	7/1/2009
Training Rate	$9.00	$9.00
Start	$10.87	$11.03
90 Days	$11.48	$11.66
6 Months	$11.66	$11.84
1 Year	$11.84	$12.02
2 Years	$12.02	$12.19
3 Years	$12.19	$12.38
4 Years	$12.38	$12.57
5 Years	$12.57	$12.75
6 Years	$12.75	$12.95
7 Years	$12.95	$13.15
8+ Years	3%	3%
	Holland - Divis	ion 106 (Utility)
Seniority	7/1/2008	7/1/2009
Part Time	$7.76	$7.88
Start	$10.08	$10.23
6 Months	$10.39	$10.55
1 Year	$10.55	$10.71
2 Years	$10.71	$10.87
3 Years	$10.87	$11.03
4 Years	$11.03	$11.20
Holland - Division 11		6 (Phone Operators)
Seniority	7/1/2008	7/1/2009
Training Rate	$7.50	$7.50
Start	$8.80	$8.93
6 Months	$8.93	$9.06
1 Year	$9.28	$9.42
2 Years	$9.56	$9.70
3 Years	$9.83	$9.98
4 Years	$9.98	$10.13
5 Years	$10.13	$10.28
6 Years	$10.28	$10.43
26
Section 2.	401(k) Plan. After 6 months of employment with Company, employees will be eligible to participate in the Teamsters National 401 (k) plan.
ARTICLE 31 HEALTH AND WELFARE
The Company has agreed to make available a health insurance plan to all full-time employees of MV Transportation. All employees who meet the eligibility requirements will be provided the Blue Cross/ Blue Shield POS Plan, which includes a Blue Choice Vision Plan.
The Company also agrees to provide the employees of MV Transportation with to their former Delta Dental Insurance (PPO Plan).
For all full-time employees covered under this agreement, the Company will pay the following contributions towards insurance coverage:
Full-time employee only:
•	For the first two (2) pay periods each month, the employees will be required to pay twenty ($20.00) dollars each payday. Forty ($40.00) dollars per month for single coverage).
•	If any employee chooses to take additional coverage for other family members, they will be required to pay the total cost for this coverage. If any employee does in fact take this coverage, the Company shall waive the additional twenty ($20.00) dollars per month that is required for single coverage.
In an effort to reduce the premium increase, it is understood the Company and the Union will review the current medical plan in effect to reduce the premium cost without reducing the benefit level. This effort will include securing quotes from other carriers, cooperation with other groups to reduce costs and alternate forms of providing coverage.
Any change in coverage will require agreement with the Union. The Union will not withhold agreement to a change of insurance providers if the benefit levels are not reduced, and the availability of providers is comparable.
Any full-time employee choosing employee plus 1 or family coverage shall have the right to purchase such insurance under a Section 125 plan provided by the Company.
The Company will provide each full-time employee with a $15,000.00 life insurance policy upon completion of a beneficiary document.
27
ARTICLE 32
DURATION - TERMINATION - RENEWAL
This agreement and the provisions herein shall continue in full force and effect from July 1,2008 through June 30, 2010, and shall continue in full force and effect until modified by mutual consent or until terminated by one party giving notice to the other not less than sixty days and not more than ninety days prior to the expiration of the said term or of any renewal thereafter.
It is understood and agreed that this agreement is the only agreement between the parties and that the failure of this agreement to make specific provision for, or reference to, any matter or proper subject of bargaining shall not require further negotiation during the life of the agreement unless agreed to by the Company.
FOR THE COMPANY
MV TRANSPORTATION of Holland, Michigan
FOR THE UNION
GENERAL TEAMSTERS UNION, LOCAL NO. 406, affiliated with the IntermtkJnaA Brotherhood of Teamsters
BY_/	-----------
l)(neoktL
(title)
28