K9820
LABOR AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT BY AND BETWEEN
SIMPSON TACOMA KRAFT COMPANY, LLC Tacoma, Washington
and the
PIERCE COUNTY, WASHINGTON BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION TRADES COUNCIL
Representing
Pacific N.W. District Council of Carpenters...............Local Union 129
International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers........................................Local Union 76
International Union of
Operating Engineers.......................................Local Union 286
International Union of
Operating Engineers.......................................Local Union 612
Machinists Locals 297 and 1152 Affiliated with and will be represented by
I.A.M.....................................................District Lodge 160
International Union of Painters, &
Allied Trades........................................District	Council No. 5
International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Ship Builders, Blacksmiths, Forgers and
Helpers...................................................Local Union 104
United Association of Journeymen and Apprentices
of the Plumbing & Pipefitting Industry of the United States and Canada..............................Local Union 26
September 1, 2013 through August 31, 2017
Page 1
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Section 1 Purpose	3
2	Recognition	3
3	Payroll Deduction of Union Dues	4
4	Jurisdiction	5
5	No Interruption of Work	6
6	Holidays	7
7	Wages	9
8	Hours of Work	9
9	Definitions	9
10	Scheduling Working Time & Days Off	10
11	Allowance For Failure To Provide Work	12
12	Call Time	12
13	Starting & Stopping Work/Tour Workers	14
14	Starting & Stopping Work/Day Workers	14
15	Hiring, Warnings, Suspensions & Discharges	14
16	Bulletin Boards	16
17	Safety	16
18	Seniority	16
19	Meals	18
20	Vacations	18
21	Adjustment of Complaints	23
22	Arbitration	26
23	Provisions Found To Be in Contravention Of Law	27
24	Effect of Agreement	27
25 Term of Agreement & Changes in Agreement	27
26 Welfare Plan	28
27 Severance Pay	31
28 Nondiscrimination	32
Signature Page	33
Exhibit A - Wage Rates	34
Exhibit A - Overtime	35
Exhibit A - Night Shift Differential	36
Exhibit A — Jury Duty Allowance	3 6
Exhibit A - Bereavement Leave	36
Exhibit A - Leave of Absence	37
Exhibit B - Power House	3 8
Exhibit C - Trades	40
Wage Schedule	42
Page 2
THIS AGREEMENT by and Between Simpson Tacoma Kraft Company, LLC Tacoma, Washington hereinafter referred to as the Signatory Company, party of the first part, and the PIERCE COUNTY, WASHINGTON BUILDING & CONSTRUCTION TRADES COUNCIL representing Boilermaker's Local Union No. 104, Carpenters Local Union No. 129, Electrical Workers Local Union No. 76, Engineers Local Union No. 286, Engineers Local Union No. 612, Painters District Council No. 5, Plumbers Local Union No. 26, Machinist Local Union No. 297 and No. 1152 affiliated with and will be represented by I.A.M. District Lodge No. 160, hereinafter called the Signatory Union, party of the second part.
WITNESSETH:
SECTION 1	- GENERAL PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT:
1.0	1 The general purpose of this Agreement is, in the mutual interest of the employer and employee, to provide for the operation of the plant (or plants) hereinafter mentioned under methods which will further, to the fullest extent possible, the safety, welfare and health of the employees, economy of operation, quality and quantity of output, cleanliness of plant and protection of property. It is recognized by this Agreement to be the duty of the Company and the employees to cooperate fully, individually and collectively, for the advancement of said conditions.
1.0	2 Management of the Signatory Company agrees to explain fully the terms of this Agreement to all officials, foremen and the others engaged in a supervisory capacity.
SECTION 2	- RECOGNITION:
2.01 The Simpson Tacoma Kraft Company recognizes the Pierce County, Washington Building & Construction Trades Council and Local Unions it represents as the sole collective bargaining agency representing all employees performing maintenance and Power House work listed in the wage schedule of this Agreement, but does not include employees engaged as clerical or professional employees, security or supervisory employees as defined by the N.L.R. A., sales, engineering, drafting, research or technical occupations requiring professional training. Such recognition is limited to employees of Simpson working at the facilities of the Simpson Tacoma Kraft Company LLC located at 801 Portland Avenue, Tacoma, Washington, and no others.
2.02 In the hiring of employees, the Signatory Company will give preference to former employees who are qualified to perform the work available.
2.03 All employees shall, as a condition of employment, become and remain a member of one of the Signatory Unions on or after the thirtieth day following the beginning of such employment, or the effective date of this Agreement, whichever is the later. The period of
Page 3
thirty days named above may be extended, as to any individual employee, by mutual agreement between the Local Union concerned and the local management of the Signatory Company. In the event that the Local Union and the local management do not agree as to the propriety of any such extension, the extension may be made by mutual agreement between the Signatory Union and the Signatory Company. Any such extension shall be for the purpose of avoiding hardship or inequity to the employee concerned, and for promoting the general purpose of this Agreement. The rights and obligations stated in this paragraph are qualified by and are to be in conformity with applicable laws so long as effective.
2.04 The Signatory Union, or its Local Union involved, may request the Signatory Company to discharge an employee on account of his or her failure to comply with the provisions of Paragraph 2.03 of this Section 2. Any such request shall be in writing and shall include written evidence offered in support thereof, and shall be delivered to the Company and the employee involved. Within ten days after receipt by both the Company and the employee of such request, and after the Company has held a hearing, if demanded by any affected party, the Company shall determine and, in writing, notify the Union and the employee of its finding. If such findings be adverse to the employee, he or she shall thereupon be discharged, effective as of the commencement of his or her next shift.
2.05 Should Simpson discharge any employee at the direction of the Union and findings later indicate that the discharge was incorrect; the Union will hold the Company harmless for any subsequent penalties or back pay liability that may result.
2.06 This recognition clause shall not be construed to alter any party's rights regarding the transfer of work or contracting out of work.
SECTION 3	- PAYROLL DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES:
3.01	Upon the filing with the Signatory Company, by the Financial Secretary of the Local
Union, of a written authorization, in form satisfactory to the Company, signed by any individual employee who is a member of said Local Union, the Company during the life of this Agreement will deduct from the wages due such employee the amounts specified in said authorization on account of Union initiation fees and dues. Each such authorization shall be irrevocable until the termination date of this Agreement or until one year from the date of the authorization, whichever occurs sooner. The authorization shall thereafter remain in force until revoked by the employee by written notice to the Company.
3.02 The Financial Secretary of the Local, or an authorized representative of the Local Union, whose authorization has been filed in writing with the Company shall certify to the Company (1) that he has witnessed the employee's signature of the authorization, and (2) that the Signatory employee is a member of the Local Union, and (3) the amount of regular dues to be deducted, which may be revised only by written notice from the
Page 4
Financial Secretary given in advance to the Company.
3.03 The Signatory Company shall pay over to the Financial Secretary of the Local Union the amount of deductions made in accordance with authorization filed and shall receive therefore the written receipt of the said Financial Secretary in the name of the Local Union. The details as to making of deductions and payments of same to the Local Union shall be arranged by the said Financial Secretary and the Signatory Company in such manner as most conveniently fits into the established payroll procedures of the Company and results in payments to the Local Union once a month or oftener.
3.04 Any deductions made by the Company under the provisions of this Section shall be deemed trust funds until remitted to the Local Union, but such funds need not be kept separate from the Company's general funds. The Signatory Union agrees the Company shall be saved harmless with respect to all deductions made and paid to its Local in accordance with the provision of this Section.
SECTION 4	-WORK ASSIGNMENT:
4.01 This section recognizes that there are many cooperative work practices existing under the current Labor Agreement. This Agreement is not meant to change those existing work practices, but to enhance current practices to ensure the efficient operation of the mill. It is not the intent of this provision to eliminate any Signatory Craft Union, but to maximize the utilization of the employees under this Agreement.
4.02(a)Although employees will be expected to work primarily within their respective trade, employees will assist each other and perform work outside of their trade to the extent their skills permit in order to maintain efficient operations. Prior to the implementation, the Company and the Union will form a committee made up of representatives of the Company and the Union to meet periodically and mutually discuss in good faith ways to enhance the use of this section and discuss concerns about the use of this section and prior to utilizing the formal grievance procedure. If there is an issue of dispute the committee will tiy and resolve the dispute in accordance with the intent of this Agreement. It is understood that the committee may involve others who may contribute to the resolution as they mutually decide. The Union committee will be made up of two permanent members designated by the Union and one member from each individual trade union involved in any particular issue and will meet no less than monthly.
4.02(b)	If the committee cannot resolve a dispute, the issue may be submitted to the
grievance procedure starting at Step IH. If the Company has not followed the process contained in paragraph 4.02(a) above prior to making a disputed work assignment and/or practice, the Union may submit the issue directly to arbitration and the Company agrees not to continue or implement the disputed practice and/or assignment during this period.
4.02(c) The Union and the Company will agree on a standing panel of five arbitrators.
Page 5
Disputed issues shall be submitted to the panel on a rotating basis provided the Arbitrator next-in-line agrees to hear the case within thirty days after it is submitted to him/her.
4.03 It is understood that employees, regardless of Union jurisdiction, may assist maintenance employees as required, to the extent their skill and availability allows, in the preparation and performance of maintenance repair.
4.04 Employees will not be asked to perform work that is unsafe or they do not have skills to perform. Employees will not be disciplined for improper work when assigned to work for which they have not received the necessary training.
4.05 The Company agrees that for the term of this Agreement, no employee (as of the date this Agreement is ratified) will be laid off or terminated solely as a result of the implementation of this section.
TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS
4.06 Power House employees temporarily assigned to a lesser rated job will be paid their regular job rate for the duration of the assignment, unless the assignment was made to avoid layoff in which event the employee will receive the rate of the assigned job.
SECTION 5	- NO INTERRUPTION OF WORK:
5.0	1 It is expressly agreed that during the term of this contract there shall be no work slowdowns, stoppages, strikes, or sympathy strikes nor picketing of any kind or form whatsoever; these no-strike provisions shall be broadly construed to prohibit all strikes by employees, no matter the reason for the strike. It is agreed there shall be no lockouts by the Signatory Company during the period of this Agreement.
5.0	2 In the event that in violation of the provisions of the preceding paragraph, a strike, walkout, or other interruption of work shall occur in the mill of the Signatory Company, neither the Signatory Union nor the Local Union shall be subject to financial liability for such violation provided that the Signatory Union and the Local Union involved immediately after the beginning of such violation shall have (1) publicly declared such action a violation of this Agreement, and (2) in utmost good faith used its best efforts to terminate such violation, it being further agreed that any employee participating in such violation shall in the discretion of the Signatory Company be subject to immediate discharge or other disciplinary action.
Page 6
SECTION 6	- HOLIDAYS:
6.01 There shall be fourteen (14) holidays during each year, namely:
Designation
Length (Hrs.)
Starting Time
Ending Time
Restricted
Memorial Day	24	7:3 0a.m.-Memorial Day	7:3 0a.m.-Day After	no
Independence Day	24	7:30a a.m.-July 4	7:3 0a.m.-July 5	no
July 5th	24	7:30a.m.-July 5	7:30a.m.-July 6	no
Labor Day	24	7:30a.m.-Monday	7:30a.m.-Tuesday	no
Thanksgiving Day	24	7:30a.m.-Thanksgiving	7:30a.m.-Friday	no
Day After Thanksgiving	24	7:300a.m.-Friday	7:30a.m.-Saturday	no
Day Before Christmas	24	7:30a.m.-December 24	7:30a.m.-December 25	no
Christmas Day	24	7:30a.m.-December 25	7:30a.m.-December 26	no
Day After Christmas	24	7:30a.m.-December 26	7:30a.m.-December 27	no
New Year's Day	24	7:30a.m.-January 1	7:30a.m.-January 2	no
Floating Holidays (4)	24	7:30a.m.-Day Selected	7:30a.m.-Day After	no
6.0	2 Employees who work four (4) or more consecutive hours during the Independence Day and July 5th holiday period shall be given one additional floating holiday. Employees who work four (4) or more consecutive hours during the December 24, 25 and 26 hoiiday period shall be given one additional floating holiday.
6.0	3 In each department, the time of ending of each holiday specified in Paragraph 6.01, above, shall be varied from the 7:30 a.m. above prescribed whenever necessary to coincide with the time nearest to 7:30 a.m. which is the regular starting time for the day shift in such department; and in the cases where such variation is so made, the starting time shall be correspondingly varied to comply with the prescribed length of the holiday. The time of starting and ending each holiday, in addition to any variation which occurs pursuant to the preceding sentence, may be further varied by mutual agreement of the management and the Union Standing Committee.
6.0	4 Subject to compliance with all the conditions set forth below, an employee who is on the payroll of the Signatory Company on any one of the holidays listed in Paragraph 6.01 of this Section will be granted eight (8) hours holiday pay at the straight time rate of the job, plus such additional compensation to which he is entitled under other sections of the Agreement.
6.0	5 The employee must have been on the payroll for not less than ninety (90) days just
Page 7
preceding the holiday, and must have worked at least 260 hours during such ninety days, provided, any employee whose failure to so work 260 hours caused by curtailment of operations, shall nevertheless be deemed to be in compliance herewith if he has been on the payroll of the Signatory Company for the one hundred and eighty (180) days just preceding the holiday and has worked at least 520 hours during such 180 days, and
6.0	6 The employee must have worked his scheduled work day before and his scheduled work day after such holiday, unless failure to work his scheduled workday before or after the holiday was due to any of the following events:
6.0	7	(a) When the employee is on his regularly authorized paid vacation;
6.0	8	(b) When the employee is unable to work by reason of an industrial accident as
recognized by the Workmen's Compensation Board provided such holiday occurs within twenty-four (24) months or until weekly Worker's Compensation benefits cease, whichever occurs first;
6.0	9 (c) When the operation in which the employee is engaged is curtailed or discontinued by the decision of management and which curtailment or discontinuance changes or eliminates the employee's scheduled workday before or his scheduled workday after such holiday;
6.10	(d) When a trade in shifts agreed upon between employees and approved in advance by management results in a temporary change of the scheduled workday before or the scheduled workday after a holiday, provided the employee works the shift agreed upon;
6.11	(e) When bona fide sickness or bona fide compelling reasons beyond the control of the employee prevents the employee from working all or part of his scheduled workday before or his scheduled workday after a holiday, provided the employee affected, or the Local Union in his behalf, brings the case to management's attention within a reasonable time and management approves such reasons as being bona fide and beyond the control of the employee;
6.12	(f) When the employee prior to a holiday has made a written request to be excused from working all or part of his scheduled workday before and/or after such holiday and has received the written approval of management. Failure to grant approval will not be subject to the adjustment procedure but the Union Standing Committee may discuss with the Company any action which appears to it to be discriminatory.
6.13	It is understood and agreed, however, that an employee shall not receive the holiday pay provided above in Paragraph 6.04 of this section if he is directed to work on his regular job (or relief job if he is then working on a relief job) on such holiday and fails or refuses to work, except in the case where a bona fide sickness or other bona fide reason approved
Page 8
by management prevents his working on such holiday.
6.14	In the event an employee has established his Floating Holiday with his supervisor, and then is required to work that day due to production requirements, he shall be allowed to reschedule the holiday or receive time and one-half plus holiday pay at the discretion of the employee.
6.15	Any floating holidays not scheduled or taken by the end of the contract year will be paid to the employee at the rate of eight (8) hours straight time rate. Employees will not be required to receive pay in lieu of scheduling a floating holiday, provided the employee requests a scheduled holiday in accordance with the paragraph below.
6.16	Once a floater is approved by management, it will not be changed by management unless for emergency reasons.
6.17	Requests for a floating holiday submitted between January 1 st to February 1 st will be given seniority preference. Requests after February 1st will be received 45 days or less prior to the date to be taken. Such request will be granted on a first-come, first-serve basis. Approval for a day off will be given at least 30 days in advance.
SECTION 7	- WAGES:
7.01 Wage rates is in accordance with Exhibit A, attached hereto and made a part hereof, shall be paid.
SECTION 8	- HOURS OF WORK:
8.01 Both parties to this Agreement are committed to maintain, but not guarantee, the principle of a basic work week of forty (40) hours in the Signatory Mill; but agree that additional time may be worked to permit the operation or protection of the mill when paid for as shown in Exhibit A.
SECTION 9	- DEFINITIONS:
9.01 Whenever used in this Agreement, including Exhibits, the male noun or pronoun is used to include the female noun or pronoun, where applicable, and
9.02 The words REGULAR EMPLOYEE mean an employee filling a position listed in the Wage Schedule on a regular scheduled basis or an employee regularly employed in a utility capacity, unless such employee has been personally notified in writing that his employment is extra, temporary or probationary.
9.03 The words TOUR WORKERS mean employees when engaged in operations scheduled in advance for at least twenty-four (24) hours continuous running, it being understood,
Page 9
however, that if a tour worker is temporarily assigned to work not connected with the continuous operations on which he is usually employed, his status as to tour or day worker during such temporary assignment is determined by the nature of such assignment. All other employees are considered day workers.
9.04 (Applicable to Power House employees only) EXTRA BOARD EMPLOYEES are those employees who are hired for no specific positions and may be assigned to any position as a temporary replacement or to supplement regular employees within the Company to perform temporary work either as a day worker or as a tour worker.
9.05 The word DAY means a period of twenty-four (24) hours beginning at 8:00 a.m., or at the regular hour of changing shifts nearest to 8:00 a.m. in the particular mill.
9.06 The word WEEK means a period of seven (7) consecutive calendar days beginning at 8:00 a.m. Monday, or at the regular hour of changing shifts nearest to 8:00 a.m. on Monday.
9.07 The words LOCAL UNION mean the Local of the Signatory Union concerned in which employees of the Signatory Company are members and which shall act as the representative of the Signatory Union in the performance of those provisions of this Agreement which provide for action by a Local Union.
9.08 The words UNION STANDING COMMITTEE mean a committee appointed by the Pierce County, Washington Building and Construction Trades Council which shall represent the Local Union concerned in the performance of those provisions of this Agreement which provide for action by a Union Standing Committee.
SECTION 10	- SCHEDULING EMPLOYEES' WORKING TIME AND DAYS OFF:
10.01 In scheduling employees' working time and days off, the Company will comply with the following obligations and restrictions:
10.02 The Company shall assign two (2) days off each week for each regular employee, except where this is inconsistent with the schedules involved, in which case, one (1) day off shall be assigned. The Company shall make reasonable and diligent effort to so arrange schedules that the designated day off of any employee and any scheduled day off for the same employee shall be consecutive. DESIGNATED DAY OFF means the second day off in a week when applied to an employee who has two assigned days off in that week and means the single assigned day off when applied to an employee who has one assigned day off in that week. SCHEDULED DAY OFF means only the first day off in a week when applied to an employee who has two (2) assigned days off in that week.
10.03 A regular employee transferred after the start of the week, from one job or shift or schedule to another, shall, solely for the application of the Call Time and Overtime
Page 10
provisions, retain his assigned day or days off but only for the remainder of that week.
10.04 The Company will not, solely for the purpose of avoiding the payment of overtime, change the day or days off of a regular employee in a week in which a holiday specified in Section 6 occurs.
10.05 An employee who has been required to work on his assigned day or days off shall not be laid off on one of his scheduled workdays in the same week solely for the purpose of limiting his hours of work to forty (40).
10.06 When an employee is off work due to a shutdown of his job, department, or plant extending for not less than forty-eight (48) hours in excess of that normally encountered in his projected work schedule, the assigned days or days off previously applicable to such employee shall not be in effect.
10.07 Maintenance workers who are required to work a period that does not provide an eight (8) hour break before the start of the employee’s next scheduled shift will be given the following options:
1.	Returning to work at their normal scheduled starting time.
2.	Changing their starting time to allow eight (8) hours between the stopping of work and the start of their next shift.
3.	Not working their next scheduled shift.
Employees will notify supervision of their chosen option prior to leaving the mill following the original overtime period.
Employees who elect to change their starting time will be allowed to work eight straight time hours after they return to work or work until their regularly scheduled stopping time. If an employee elects to work until his regular stopping time and is requested to stay longer for the convenience of the company he will be paid for the additional time according to the overtime provisions of the labor agreement, provided the election to work until the regular stopping time has been made prior to being notified of the available extra hours.
10.08 It is understood that the Company has the right to assign employees to the hours of work under the Labor Agreement to meet the needs of the operation. Existing employees may apply to change their hours of work as vacancies occur. The Company will consider requests giving preference to the senior employees who meet the qualifications established by the Company.
Senior employees or the Union may request a meeting with the Company to discuss the selection process and receive an explanation of the reasons a senior employee may not be selected.
Page 11
An employee will not have their hours of work changed until there is a qualified replacement available.
SECTION 11	- ALLOWANCE FOR FAILURE TO PROVIDE WORK:
11.01 In case any employee reports for work, whether it be one of his regular days, or on his days off, having been ordered to report for such work, and then no work is provided, he shall nevertheless receive three (3) hours pay for so reporting, provided, however, that if there has been insufficient time for notification of the employee by the employer or if the employer has been unable to notify the employee after making a reasonable effort, no allowance for so reporting shall be paid.
11.02 In any day where an employee has commenced work on his regular scheduled shift, he shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours pay, at straight-time rate, except in cases of breakdown, accident, or interruption of power. This exception shall not apply to employees commencing work on any shift beginning later than eight (8) hours after the discovery of the breakdown, accident or interruption of power.
11.03 Note: It is agreed that, in case of power or equipment failure, the Company is to provide work for employees or notify them as to the duration of interruption or the time for resumption of operation. In the latter case, Call Time will be paid to employees who are not provided with work or who are not held on the job and are recalled to work during the same day.
SECTION 12	- CALL TIME:
12.0	1 Regular hourly-paid employees will be paid three (3) hours Call Time at the straight-time day rate in addition to the actual hours worked, subject to the following conditions:
12.0	2 Call Time will be paid if, in accordance with instructions from management, an employee works on his designated day off as defined in Section 10 and Section 11, subject to the following exception marked (1), (2) and (3):
12.0	3 (1) When an employee works beyond his shift into his designated day off for a period not to exceed four (4) hours, no Call Time is payable.
12.0	4 (2) When an employee starts his following day's work within his designated day off, no Call Time is payable if the period of work within the day off does not exceed two (2) hours and if at least sixteen (16)hours notice thereof has been given prior to the start of such work.
12.0	5 (3) No Call Time will be payable if sixteen (16) hours advanced notice is given for the required work assignment.
Page 12
12.0	6 Call Time will be paid if, in accordance with instruction from management, an employee works on a scheduled day off as defined in Section 10 and Section 11, subject to the following exceptions marked (1) and (2):
12.0	7 (1) When an employee works beyond his shift into his scheduled day off for a period not to exceed four (4) hours, no Call Time is payable.
12.0	8 (2) No Call Time will be payable if sixteen (16) hours advance notice is given of the required work assignment.
12.0	9 Call Time will be paid if, in accordance with instruction from the management, an employee punches out, either during or at the end of his regular shift and reports for work again in the same day subject to the following exceptions marked (1), (2) and (3):
12.10	(1) When the additional period of work in the same day results from a reasonable meal period, no Call Time is payable.
12.11	(2) When the additional period of work in the same day results from a single recall during a shift after a suspension of work of one (1) hour or more due to a failure of equipment or interruption of power, no Call Time is payable.
12.12	(3) When the additional period of work in the same day extends into the starting time of the employee's established shift on the following day, no Call Time is payable if the period of work within the same day does not exceed four (4) hours and if at least sixteen (16) hours notice thereof has been given prior to the start of such work.
12.13	Call Time will be paid if, in accordance with instructions from management, the starting time of an employee's work is changed to a new starting time either earlier or later than the previously established starting time subject to the following exceptions marked (1) and (2):
12.14	(1) When notice of the change in starting time is given at least sixteen (16) hours prior to the newly established starting time, no Call Time is payable.
12.15	(2) When the change in starting time is for a temporary period only, no Call Time is payable for the second change in starting time when the employee changes back to his previously established starting time at the end of the temporaiy period.
12.16	It is agreed that the starting time of an employee's work may be changed at any time by the management.
12.17	It is further understood and agreed that in the payment of Call Time on the basis provided in this Section, not more than one basis shall be used to cover the same period of work, nor will Call Time be added to or paid in lieu of allowance payable under Section 12 or
Page 13
Section 13.
12.18 When an employee is called in to perform a critical repair of equipment, they will be released as soon as critical repairs are completed and will not be assigned to non-critical work during the call out without the employee’s approval
SECTION 13	- STARTING AND STOPPING WORK OF TOUR WORKERS:
13.0	1 When a tour begins, each tour worker is required to be in his place. At the end of a shift, no tour worker shall leave his place to wash up and dress until his mate has changed his clothes and reported to take on responsibility of the position. If a tour worker does not report for his regular shift, his mate shall notify the foreman. He shall then remain at his post until a substitute is secured and, if necessary, he shall work an extra shift.
13.0	2 It is the duty of a tour worker to report for his regular shift, unless he has already arranged with his foreman for a leave of absence. If unavoidably prevented from reporting, he must give notice to his foreman, or at the office at least four (4) hours before his tour goes on duty.
SECTION 14	- STARTING AND STOPPING WORK OF DAY WORKERS:
14.01 Day workers shall be at their respective posts ready to begin work at the time theft pay starts and shall not quit work in advance of the time their pay stops. For example, if a mechanic's pay time is from 8:00 a.m to 12 noon, and from 1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m., he shall be at his post ready to work at 8:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. and shall not quit work until 12 noon and 5:00 p.m..
14.02 Where employees have a scheduled lunch and rest breaks, such scheduled periods may be changed to meet operating conditions and rescheduled at a different time within one hour of the scheduled time without penalty.
14.03 Employees are normally not expected to leave plant premises after the start of their scheduled shift. Should it be necessary to leave the plant during lunch or rest periods, employees will inform their supervisor prior to leaving and punch out and back in on the time clock.
SECTION 15	- HIRING, WARNINGS, SUSPENSIONS AND DISCHARGE:
15.0	1 The Company has the sole right to hire, discipline, and/or discharge any employee. Simpson agrees to exercise its right to discharge and discipline when it has just cause. If any employee or the Union feels that a discharge is unjust, it may request to take the matter up with his supervisor within seven (7) calendar days following the discharge or the date Union notification is made whichever is later. If the issue has not been resolved within five (5) workdays, the employee or Union may proceed to utilize the grievance and
Page 14
arbitration sections commencing at Step II of the procedure.
15.0	2 Grievances regarding disciplinary action other than discharge will be handled within the time limits of the complaint procedure in Section 21.
15.0	3 The Company reserves the exclusive right to establish reasonable company working rules which shall be binding on all employees when they are reduced to writing and posted on specified bulletin boards. New rules, or changes in rules, may be subject to discussion between the Union Standing Committee and local management. In case of disagreement, the grievance procedure may be used.
15.0	4 The following are examples of causes for immediate discharge, but this listing is not meant to be all inclusive and is subject to change in accordance with the provisions of this agreement.
15.0	5 (1) Possession, sale, or use of dangerous drugs or narcotics, or drinking related to on-
the-job employment.
15.0	6 (2)	Disobedience.
15.0	7 (3)	Smoking in prohibited areas.
15.0	8 (4) Deliberate destruction or removal of Company's or another employee's property.
15.0	9 (5) Neglect of duty.
15.10	(6) Refusal to comply with posted Company rules.
15.11	(7) Falsification of Company records or information used to obtain benefits.
15.12	(8)	Giving or taking a bribe of any nature, as an inducement to obtaining work or
retaining a position.
15.13	(9)	Failure to report for duty without bona fide reasons.
15.14	(10) Sexual harassment or harassment calculated to inflict mental anguish or distress to
fellow employees or other persons having a business relationship with the Company that is employment related.
15.15	(11) Disorderly conduct.
15.16	Discharge or suspension of an employee (not including a temporary layoff) shall be based on just and sufficient cause with fidl explanation given to the employee in writing. The Standing Committee of the Local Union will be notified of the discharge or suspension as
Page 15
soon as possible following the action taken.
SECTION 16	- BULLETIN BOARDS:
16.01 The employer shall supply adequate enclosed official bulletin boards for the use of the Signatory Unions in posting of officially signed bulletins.
SECTION 17	- SAFETY:
17.01 Employees and Signatory Company are to comply with all safety rules as established by the Company from time to time.
17.02 Supervisors are to confine their instructions and procedures within the generally accepted standards of safe practices.
17.03 The Local Union and the Company shall cooperate in selecting one or more safety committees which will meet at least once a month to consider all safety problems and safety rules.
17.04 After one (1) year on the payroll, the Company will pay up to $125 toward the purchase of safety shoes per contract year. Such shoes may be purchased through the mill safety shoe program or through any vendor chosen by the employee provided that the shoes purchased meet the standards established by the Company. In order to be reimbursed, the employee will be required to provide proof of purchase.
17.05 It is understood that working more than sixteen (16) continuous hours is not desirable to maintain a safe working environment and will be avoided if possible. If it is necessary to work more than sixteen (16) continuous hours, an employee will be relieved upon the employee's request or when the supervisor believes the employee cannot perform the work in a safe manner.
17.06 An employee covered by this agreement must perform work assigned in accordance with the Labor Agreement unless the employee requests accommodation as prescribed under the Americans with Disabilities Act. If a request for accommodation is made, the Company will accommodate the employee in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act.
SECTION 18	- SENIORITY:
18.0	1 Layoffs and rehires will be made in accordance with seniority and qualifications considered. Temporary layoffs, up to seven (7) calendar days, shall apply to those employees working on classifications within the department where the layoff is necessary.
18.0	2 Should a layoff extend, or it is known it will extend beyond the seventh calendar day, it
Page 16
shall be classified as indefinite, and the employees shall be demoted in the department in the reverse order of promotion. Any employee who voluntarily declines a promotion forfeits seniority to that job to the employee who accepts it.
When an indefinite shutdown occurs, the affected craft will be notified and, if necessary, a conference to discuss procedure will be held.
18.0	3 Newly hired employees shall be considered as probationary employees for a period of forty-five (45) working days following the last date of hire. However, if the employee is retained in the employ of the Company after the expiration of the forty-five (45) day probationary period, his seniority shall revert to such last day of hire. The probationary period may be extended by mutual consent.
18.0	4 When laying off help, the youngest in point of classification service shall be first to be laid off.
18.0	5 When a temporary layoff occurs in the Power House, lasting more than seven (7) work days, or is anticipated to last more than seven (7) work days, the junior employees in the department will be the first to be laid off. Beginning on the 8th day or at the usual time for scheduling the week's work, employees, whose jobs are being curtailed will use their department seniority to bump junior employees provided they are qualified to perform the work.
18.0	6 Any employee who is laid off must keep the Company and the Union advised of his whereabouts. Any employee shall have a reasonable time to report for work after a layoff, having been notified to do so, failing to report, he shall lose all seniority privileges.
18.0	7 Probationary employees only have rights and benefits as specified in the Labor Agreement and may be terminated without recourse to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
18.0	8 When qualified employees are required to work during a shutdown, in the event enough qualified volunteers cannot be secured, the junior qualified employee in that classification will be required to work.
18.0	9 Seniority and employee rights to employment shall cease under any one of the following conditions:
18.10	(1)	When an employee	voluntarily leaves the employ of the Company;
18.11	(2)	When an employee	is discharged unless reversed through the grievance procedures;
18.12	(3)	When an employee	fails to return from leave of absence as scheduled;
18.13	(4)	When an employee	fails to return from lay-off upon recall as specified herein;
Page 17
18.14	(5)	When an employee has been onlay-off in excess of one (1) year;
18.15	(6)	When an employee has been disabled from work due to a compensable industrial
illness or injury for twenty-four (24) consecutive months;
18.16	(7) When an employee has been on non-industrial illness or injury leave for eighteen (18) months;
18.17	(8) When an employee is medically certified to being totally disabled from further employment.
SECTION 19	- MEALS:
19.01 If requested, one meal, which shall be hot if practical, shall be furnished at a usual meal time by and at the expense of the employer to any employee who:
19.02 (1) Is required to work eleven (11) consecutive hours
19.03 If requested, an additional meal, which shall be hot if practical, shall be furnished at a usual meal time by and at the expense of the employer to an employee qualifying above for each additional four (4) consecutive hours worked beyond eleven (11) hours, and to an employee qualifying if he is required to work for eight (8) consecutive hours; provided that no employee other than a regular employee shall not be entitled to the benefit above unless he then has an established work schedule.
19.04 Meal tickets issued in lieu of receiving a hot meal will be voided if not used within thirty (30) calendar days of their date of issue.
SECTION 20	- VACATIONS:
20.0	1 Employees as defined in this Agreement shall be granted one (1) week of vacation with pay subject to the following terms and conditions:
20.0	2 To be eligible for a week of vacation during the year subsequent to any June 1st, the employee must be on the payroll of the Signatory Company on said June 1st and either:
20.0	3 (1) Have been an employee for not less than one (1) year prior to said June 1 st, during which year the employee worked a minimum of 1,000 hours, or
20.0	4 (2) Have worked a minimum of 1,200 hours prior to said June 1st.
20.0	5 Provided that, with respect to either (I) or (2) above, if a termination of employment occurred in the eligibility period, credit for length of employment or for hours worked
Page 18
prior to the termination of employment shall not be included.
20.0	6 Employees as defined in this Agreement shall be granted two (2) weeks vacation with pay subject to the following terms and conditions:
20.0	7 To be eligible for two (2) weeks vacation during the year subsequent to any June 1st, the employee must be on the payroll of the Signatory Company on said June 1st and have worked a minimum of 1,000 hours during the year just preceding said June 1st, and in addition must:
20.0	8 (1) Have been an employee for not less than two (2) years prior to said June 1st, or
20.0	9 (2)	Have worked a minimum of 1,200 hours prior to June 1st in the first year of his
employment and have been an employee for not less than one (1) additional year.
20.10	Provided that, with respect to either (1) or (2) above, if a termination of employment	i
occurred in the eligibility period, credit for length of employment or for hours worked prior to the termination of employment shall not be included.
i
20.11	Employees as defined in this Agreement shall be granted (3) weeks vacation with pay	'
subject to the following terms and conditions:
20.12	To be eligible for three (3) weeks vacation during the year subsequent to any June 1st, the employee must be on the payroll of the Signatory Company on said June 1st and have worked a minimum of 1,000 hours during the year just preceding said June 1st, and in addition must:
20.13	(1)	Have been an employee for not less than five (5) years prior to June 1st, or
20.14	(2)	Have worked a minimum of 1,000 hours prior to June 1st in the first year of his
employment and have been an employee for not less than four (4) additional years.
20.15	Provided that, with respect to either (1) or (2) above, if a termination of employment occurred in the eligibility period, credit for length of employment or for hours worked prior to the termination of employment shall not be included.
20.16	Employees as defined in this Agreement shall be granted four (4) weeks vacation with pay subject to the following terms and conditions:
20.17	To be eligible for four (4) weeks vacation during the year subsequent to any June 1st, the employee must be on the payroll of the Signatory Company on said June 1st and have worked a minimum of 1,000 hours during the year just preceding said June 1st, and in addition must:
20.18	(1) Have been an employee for not less than ten (10) years prior to said June 1st, or
Page 19
20.19	(2) Have worked a minimum of 1,000 hours prior to June 1st in the first year of his employment and have been an employee for not less than nine (9) additional years.
20.20	Provided that, with respect to either (1) or (2) above, if a termination of employment occurred in the eligibility period, credit for length of employment or for hours worked prior to the termination of employment shall not be included.
20.21	Employees as defined in this Agreement shall be granted five (5) weeks vacation with pay subject to the following terms and conditions:
20.22	To be eligible for five (5) weeks vacation during the year subsequent to any June 1st, the employee must be on the payroll of the Signatory Company on said June 1st and have worked a minimum of 1,000 hours during the year just preceding said June 1st, and in addition must:
20.23	(1)	Have been an employee for not less than fifteen (15) years prior to said June 1st, or
20.24	(2)	Have worked a minimum of 1,000 hours prior to June 1st in the first year of his
employment and have been an employee for not less than fourteen (14) additional years.
20.25	Provided that, with respect to either (1) or (2) above, if a termination of employment occurred in the eligibility period, credit for length of employment or for hours worked prior to the termination of employment shall not be included.
20.26	Employees as defined in this Agreement shall be granted six (6) weeks vacation with pay subject to the following terms and conditions:
20.27	To be eligible for six (6) weeks vacation during the year subsequent to any June 1st, the employee must be on the payroll of the Signatory Company on said June 1st and have worked a minimum of 1,000 hours during the year just preceding said June 1st, and in addition must:
20.28	(1)	Have been an employee for not less than twenty (20) years prior to June 1 st, or
20.29	(2)	Have worked a minimum of 1,000 hours prior to June 1st in the first year of his
employment and have been an employee for not less than nineteen (19) additional years.
20.30	Provided that, with respect to either (1) or (2) above, if a termination of employment occurred in the eligibility period, credit for length of employment or for hours worked prior to the termination of employment shall not be included.
20.31	The Company agrees to pennit each eligible employee to take all weeks of his total yearly
Page 20
vacation entitlement on a shift-to-shift basis.
20.32	Time lost as a result of an accident, as recognized by the Workmen's Compensation Board, suffered during the course of employment, shall be construed as time worked in applying the above provisions for the first twenty-four (24) months from the date disability occurs.
20.33	For the purpose of determining the qualification for vacations of an employee with five (5) or more years of continuous service, time lost by him for which non-industrial sickness or accident benefits are paid to him under the Company's Welfare Plan shall be construed as time worked in applying the provisions of subparagraphs 20.11, 20.16, 20.21, and 20.26 of this Section 20. Provided,
20.34	(1) Time so lost shall be computed at eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week, and
20.35	(2) If the time lost so computed exceeds 520 hours in any contract year, only 520 hours shall be considered as worked under the provisions of this subparagraph.
20.36	It is agreed that any employee who has left the employ of the Signatory Company prior to June 1st for the purpose of serving in the armed forces, but who otherwise has fulfilled the qualifications for a vacation during the year just preceding that June 1st, will be granted vacation pay. The vacation pay will be mailed to the employee immediately following said June 1st, provided satisfactory proof has been furnished to the Company that the employee is serving in the armed forces.
20.37	Any returning serviceman who:
20.38	(1) Was on the payroll of the Signatory Company at the time of induction into the armed forces; and
20.39	(2) Made application to return to the employ of the Signatory Company within ninety (90) days after being relieved from duty in the armed forces; and
20.40	(3) Actually performed work for the Signatory Company on, or before, the June 1st immediately following his return from the armed forces; and
20.41	(4) Had qualified for one (1) week of vacation while in the employ of the Signatory Company in the eligibility period in which he was inducted, or in the next preceding eligibility period, or whose service with the Signatory Company immediately preceding his induction, plus his service since his return from the armed forces immediately preceding June 1st, is sufficient to qualify him for a vacation under the requirements existing at the time he returns, shall be granted one (1) week of vacation pay, whether or not he worked 1,000 hours in the eligibility period immediately prior to said June 1st.
Page 21
20.42	Any returning serviceman, when he as qualified for one (1) week of vacation on any of the basis made available to him and whose total length of service with the Signatory Company, including the time spent in the armed forces, is sufficient to qualify him for a longer vacation, shall be granted the longer vacation without applying the requirements of hours worked to that period spent in the armed forces.
20.43	It is understood that there shall be but one vacation for each eligibility period.
20.44	The allotment of vacation time is to be decided by management. No employee is to have the privilege of drawing the vacation pay and continuing to work in lieu of taking the vacation except as provided herein.
20.45	The vacation must be taken within the June 1 through May 31 vacation base year; that is, it may not be accumulated to be used the following year.
20.46	The vacation pay for an employee who qualifies is to be computed as fifty (50) hours per week at the higher of:
20.47	(1)	The job rate of his regular job as such rate exists on the day his vacation starts, or
20.48	(2)	The weighted average straight time hourly rate paid to the employee in the prior
contract year, adjusted for the change, if any, in his average rate effective on the first day of June next preceding the time at which his vacation is taken. Said average rate (a) for an employee who worked at the same job rate during the entire prior contract year is that job rate, and (b) for an employee who worked at more than one job rate in the prior contract year shall be determined by the following procedure: Multiply the number of hours he worked in said year at each job rate by that job rate; add the amounts so computed; and divide the sum by the total number hours he worked in said year.
20.49	Employees will schedule at least four (4) weeks of vacation (if applicable). The company agrees to issue proper forms by January 1 of each year for the purpose of vacation scheduling. Employees will have until Februaiy 1 of each year to submit preferred vacation time according to the guidelines established by the company. Employees who schedule vacation during this period will have their vacation scheduled on the basis of seniority so far as practicable. The Company will announce by March 1 the approval of vacations scheduled during this period. Employees who schedule vacation outside the period will be considered on a first submission basis. Prior to the January 1 posting, the Company will meet with the Union to review and discuss the vacation scheduling guidelines and limitations. Within the established guidelines, the Company will assure there will be adequate vacation time to cover scheduled vacation of all employees throughout the vacation year.
Page 22
20.50	It is further agreed to permit each eligible employee to take all weeks of his total yearly vacation entitlement on a shift-to-shift basis.
Maintenance day workers will not be scheduled to work the Saturday and Sunday prior to their vacations unless there are no other qualified employees available. Shift employees will not be scheduled to work over into the first day of their scheduled shift to shift vacation.
20.51	(Applicable to Power House employees only) If it is not possible to step up the shift on which the vacancy occurs, the Company will ask the employees in the next lower classification to change shifts and step up according to seniority. Should all employees in that classification refuse, the junior qualified employee will be required to change shifts and take the step up.
20.52	Employees may receive pay in lieu of vacation time off for weeks of vacation over four (4) weeks at any time by submitting their request in writing at least 15 days in advance of the requested payment. Vacation that is not scheduled and used by the end of the vacation year will be paid to the employee within 15 days following the completion of the vacation year.
20.53	Employees will not have their scheduled vacation cancelled within two (2) calendar weeks from the start of the scheduled vacation, without the approval of the employee, except in cases of emergency where the employee scheduled for vacation has the skill needed in the mill that is not available with other employees.
Maintenance Department employees who have their scheduled vacations cancelled under this section will be allowed to reschedule during the remaining vacation year on a seniority basis other than during the week when a holiday occurs. No more than one additional vacation will be scheduled using this provision in any given week.
20.54	Qualified employees who retire, become deceased, or separate employment during the vacation year will be paid vacation benefits that have been earned as of the prior June 1 but not yet taken and prorated vacation for the hours the employees accrued since the prior June 1 until the employee retired, became deceased, or separated employment.
20.55	For curtailment purposes only;
Eligible employees will be allowed to use their earned vacation on a single day basis during times of equipment or mill curtailment.
1.	Production employees electing to use vacation during curtailment will be remunerated at a rate of 12.50 hours per day(s) of vacation used.
2.	Day shift employees electing to use vacation during curtailment will be remunerated at a rate of 10 hours per day(s) used.
Any leftover vacation days of less than 1 full week cannot be used to extend other full
Page 23
week vacations or used as floating holidays, sick leave, or to cover absence incidents. Any vacations left will be paid out at the end of the vacation year.
SECTION 21	- ADJUSTMENT OF COMPLAINTS:
21.01 This section governs adjustments of all grievances except those arising from discharge or suspension.
21.02 Standing Committees:
21.03 (1) The Mill Manager shall appoint a Company Standing Committee of three (3) individuals which will represent the Company.
21.04 (2) The Signatory Union shall select from the membership a Union Standing Committee of three (3) which shall represent those Unions for the purposes stated in this Agreement. Shop Stewards of Craft(s) involved in a complaint may be added to the Union Standing Committee, but only for the duration of the complaint connected with the Craft.
21.05 (3) In order to be eligible for membership on any such committee, an employee must have been actually engaged in the plant for one (1) year preceding his selection.
21.06 (4) The Company Standing Committee and the Union Standing Committee have the authority to make the final decision, consistent with the current Labor Agreement, on matters coming before them. Either party may express reservation that it desires to refer the question under consideration to higher authority.
21.07 (5) Conclusions reached in Steps HI and IV shall be prepared and signed by the appropriate parties. Copies shall be supplied to each Local Union.
21.08 Should there be any dispute or complaint as to the interpretation of any provision of this Agreement, or any grievance arising out of the operation of this Agreement, herein collectedly referred to as grievances, the employee shall work as directed by Management, pending final adjustment of the grievance.
21.09 Step I Such grievance shall first be taken up by the employee with his supervisor within ten (10) working days after the occurrence of a grievance is known to the grievant. The employee may have a Shop Steward accompany him when he discusses the grievance with his supervisor. If no satisfactory settlement is made, the employee may
21.10 Step II	Within thirty (3 0) days of the date of occurrence, the grievance will be
submitted by the Union Standing Committee.
21.11	(a) Within five (5) days of date of written notification by the Union
Page 24
	Standing Committee to the Company Standing Committee of the existence of the grievance, the two committees shall meet. Subjects not listed on the written notification may be dealt with by mutual agreement.
21.12	(b) If the two committees are unable to arrive at a satisfactory settlement within five (5) days of their initial meeting, to be timely the Union Standing Committee must
21.13 Step in	Refer the grievance in writing to the Human Resources Manager within fifteen (15) days of the expiration of the five (5) day period in Step II (b).
21.14	(a) Within seven (7) days of date of such written notice, the Human Resources Manager or his representative and Union Standing Committee shall meet.
21.15	(b) If the Human Resources Manager or his representative and the Union Standing Committee are unable to arrive at a satisfactory settlement within seven (7) days of their initial meeting, to be timely the Local Union Standing Committee must
21.16 Step IV	Refer the grievance in writing within twenty-five days of the expiration of the seven (7) day period in Step IH (b) to the Director of the Pierce County, Washington Building and Construction Trades Council concerned, or his representative, and the Mill Manger or his representative, neither of whom has previously judged the grievance in accordance with this section. (Copy of referral shall be delivered to Mill Manger.)
21.17	(a) Within twenty-five (25) days of date of such written notice these two shall meet.
21.18	(b) If these two are unable to arrive at a satisfactory settlement within twenty-five (25) days of their initial meeting, to be timely the Pierce County, Washington Building and Construction Trades Council concerned must (1)	proceed to Step V or (2)	if the Local Union and the Mill Manager are unable to arrive at a satisfactory settlement at the fourth step, either party may elect to refer the grievance to a mediation process prior to proceeding to Step V of the grievance procedure provided such referral is made within 15 days following the Company answer in step IV. A mediator will be selected from FMCS and the mediator will have 30 days to meet and attempt to resolve the issue. Any mediated resolution of the issue must be
Page 25
accepted by the union and the company. In the event a resolution is not acceptable, the Mediator will make a bench opinion as to the possible outcome in future arbitration which will not be binding on the parties. Recommendations by the Mediator or settlement discussions by the parties during the mediation process will not be introduced in any subsequent arbitration of the issue. The parties will share equally in the cost of the mediation process in the same maimer as that used for arbitration.
The parties may refer the issue to Step V - Arbitration within the specified time limits following the conclusion of the mediation process or step IV whichever is appropriate.
21.1	9 Step V	Submit the grievance to arbitration as provided in Section 22 of this
Agreement within thirty (30) days of the expiration of the twenty-five (25) day period of Step IV (b).
21.2	0 The parties in Step II, in Step ZU and in Step IV may by mutual agreement in writing, extend the time limit specified in Step II (b), in Step JU (b), and in Step IV (b) for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days.
21.2	1 In cases of grievances affecting substantial groups within the mill or the Local Unions, an official or some other representative appointed by the Pierce County, Washington Building and Construction Trades Council shall be privileged to take the matter up directly with the Human Resources Manager in accordance with Step HI.
21.2	2 It is understood that in all discussions concerning grievances, any officer or representative of the Signatory Union involved may accompany local adjustment committees in their meetings and the officer, or representative, may call upon members of adjustment committees or any other employee to assist them in their meeting with Company officials.
21.2	3 Records of verbal or written warnings shall not be used as part of the employees' disciplinary record for longer than one year provided that no further disciplinary actions(s) are issued within that time, except for any program established or agreed to by Management that may have less time periods for maintaining and using disciplinary records.
SECTION 22	- ARBITRATION:
22.01 If a complaint is not resolved in the above procedure, the Pierce County, Washington Building and Construction Trades Council or the Company may submit the matter to arbitration, by written notice to the other party. Such notice of appeal to arbitration must be received within thirty (30) days after the Company's answer in Step IV of the procedure for adjustment of complaints.
Page 26
22.02 The party desiring arbitration may apply to the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to be furnished with a list of eleven qualified arbitrators. Within thirty (30) days from receipt of such list of arbitrators, the Union and the Employer shall select the arbitrator by alternately striking a name from the list until one name remains as the chosen arbitrator. A flip of the coin shall decide who strikes the first name.
22.03 The arbitrator shall be authorized and issue a decision and award in writing on any grievance as defined above presented for arbitration. The fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be shared equally by the Employer and the Union. All other expenses shall be borne by the party which incurs them. The decision of the arbitrator, rendered in accordance with this Agreement, shall be final and binding, however, the arbitrator shall have no authority to modify this Agreement, whether by adding to or subtracting from the terms of this Agreement. Provided, however, the arbitrator may not find that the Union or the Employer violated this Agreement if the action of the Union or Employer was required, by law, to be done, this proviso includes, but is not limited to, any settlement agreement made with any governmental agency, to resolve allegations of alleged employment discrimination. Proof of any issue of fact regarding discipline or discharge before the Arbitrator shall be decided on the basis of the preponderance of the evidence.
22.04 The rights and duties to request/demand arbitration under this Section shall apply only to matters occurring or arising prior to termination of this Agreement. A dispute which is based, in whole or in part, on events that occur after termination of this Agreement is not subject to the arbitration provisions of this Section 22.
SECTION 23	- PROVISIONS FOUND TO BE IN CONTRAVENTION OF LAWS:
23.01 If any provisions of this Agreement is in contravention of the laws or regulations of the United States or of the State in which the mill covered by this Agreement is located, such provision shall be superseded by the appropriate provisions of such law or regulation so long as same is in force and effect but all other provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect. If the parties are unable to agree as to whether or not any provisions, hereof is in contravention of any such laws or regulations, the provisions hereof involved shall remain in effect until the disputed matter is settled by the court or any other authority having jurisdiction in the matter.
SECTION 24	- EFFECT OF AGREEMENT:
24.0	1 It is the intent of the parties that the provisions of this Agreement will supersede all prior agreements and understandings, oral or written, expressed or implied, between such parties and shall govern their entire relationship and shall be the sole source of any and all rights or claims which may be asserted in arbitration hereunder or otherwise. Where previous contract language has been renewed, verbatim, in this Agreement, it is intended that such language shall continue to have its prior meaning and effect.
Page 27
24.0	2 Subject only to the specific provisions of the agreement, the management of the facilities and the direction of the working force shall be the exclusive right of the Employer.
SECTION 25	- TERM OF AGREEMENT AND CHANGES IN AGREEMENT:
25.01 This Agreement shall be in effect from September 1,2013, up to and including August 31, 2017, and shall be automatically renewed thereafter from year to year unless notice to terminate is given by either party as hereinafter provided.
25.02 All notices given under the provisions of this Section on behalf of the Signatory Union shall be given by the Pierce County, Washington Building and Construction Trades Council and shall be given to the Mill Manager; similarly, notices on behalf of the Signatory Company shall be given by said Mill Manager to the Pierce County, Washington Building and Construction Trades Council.
25.03 This Agreement may be modified as follows: Either party desiring any modification shall mail to the other party notice in writing by registered mail sixty (60) days prior to August 31, 2017, or prior to any subsequent August 31st on which this contract is in effect, that a modification is desired; and if no such sixty (60) day notice is given prior to any August 31 st, the earliest time at which such notice may later be so mailed is sixty (60) days prior to August 31st of the next year.
25.04 If notice of desire for modification has been given, the parties shall as soon as agreeable to the parties following such notice, meet for collective bargaining, the Signatory Company being represented in such negotiations by a bargaining committee appointed by the Mill Manger and the Signatory Union being represented by a bargaining committee selected by said Union. Any agreement or modification arrived at in such negotiations and approved by a majority of the membership of the Signatory Union, shall be binding upon the parties to this Agreement. If such negotiations cannot be completed prior to August 31st, following the day on which such notice was given, any changes in compensation to employees shall nevertheless be retroactive to said August 31st.
25.05 In case negotiations conducted in accordance with 25.04 break down, either party may terminate this Agreement upon the expiration of ten (10) days written notice mailed by registered mail, to the other party, at any time after the August 31st with reference to which the notice of modification has been mailed as provided in 25.03.
SECTION 26	- WELFARE PLAN:
26.0	1 The Company shall make available to such of its employees as elect to participate, a Welfare Plan as follows:
26.0	2 An insurance plan consisting of:
Page 28
26.0	3 Effective September 1,2010, the Life Insurance and AD & D benefits will be increased to $42,000 each.
26.0	4 Effective upon ratification, Accident & Sickness Weekly Benefits (non-occupational), with a maximum of 52 weeks benefits in the amount of $455 per week for illnesses or injuries beginning on or after ratification.
26.0	5 Employee and dependent hospitalization and surgical benefits as outlined in the Employee Benefits Booklet and the provider brochures.
26.0	6 The dental plan will be as outlined in the Employee Benefits Booklet and the provider brochures.
26.0	7 The parties agree in principle that clinics, which are staffed with licensed physicians, will be considered the same as accredited hospitals for purposes of providing emergency room treatments.
26.0	8 The Company will pay 80% of the cost of the employee medical plan premium. Employees through payroll deduction will pay 20% of the cost of the employee medical plan premium.
Medical Plan
Deductible (Single/Family) Premium (Company/Employee)
Year 1	350/1050 ($)	80/20 (%)
Year 2	350/1050 ($)	80/20 (%)
Year 3	350/1050 ($)	80/20 (%)
Year 4	350/1050 ($)	80/20 (%)
Co-payment - $30.00
Emergency Room Co-payment - $100.00
X-Ray, Diagnostic - 90/70
Hospital, Medical, Surgical — 90/70
Out of Pocket Maximum - $l,000/$3,000
Prescription Drug — $10/20/40 retail $ $20/40/80 mail order
Flexible Spending Account (FSA)
26.0	9	If requested, the Company and the Union will meet 180 days prior to the renewal of
each health care plan to explore the cost and benefits of the current health care plans. Any change in carrier or coverage will be made by mutual agreement.
26.10	The Company will pay the total cost of dental and other health and welfare benefits, excluding medical as described in 26.08 above, for the duration of the agreement.
Page 29
26.11	Early retirees between the ages of 62 and 65, and for disability retirees age 55 but less than 65 will be eligible for retiree medical coverage for the retiree and eligible dependents on the same cost basis as for active employees until the retiree reaches age 65, when all coverages shall cease.
26.12	During the above period the Company will contribute the same toward the cost of
retiree medical coverage as for active employees. The retiree or spouse will be required to pay the difference if any to maintain coverage.
26.13	Coverages for HMS will be the same as the options selected by the employee while an active employee, including any modifications made to the plan at a later date.
26.14	Effective September 1,2013, increase the Pension Plan benefit level for Simpson service, for active employees retiring on or after September 1, 2013 to $51.00 for each year of credited benefit service.
26.15	It is agreed that the Company may merge the Simpson Paper Company Hourly Pension Plan with one or more other pension plans sponsored by Simpson Investment Company or its subsidiaries, or restructure the plans provided any merger or restructure follows established regulatory and actuarial requirements pertaining to provisions, plan assets and accrued benefits.
26.16	As described in the Benefits Booklet, for service earned in a plan year (January 1 through December 31) beginning on or after January 1,2004, hours of service will be credited at the rate of 190 hours each month or partial months of employment with the Company during that plan year. One year of vesting service will be earned for each plan year during which an employee is credited with 870 or more hours of service.
Service On and After January 1, 2004:
Months of Employment in a Plan Year		Accumulated Hours of Service	Credited Service
More Than	Up to and Including		
0	1	190	.15
1	2	380	.30
2	3	570	.45
3	4	760	.60
4	5	950	.80
5	12	1,140	1.00
Page 30
26.17	The Company will allow a retiree who has selected a joint survivor option and whose spouse predeceases him/her to have remaining pension benefits recalculated to a single life annuity form of payment.
26.18	For vesting eligibility only, former Champion employees hired by Simpson at the time of purchase will be credited with their Champion/St. Regis credited service for purposes of vesting and eligibility in the Simpson pension plan but not for the purpose of accruing additional benefits.
26.19	The Company agrees to offer a 401(k) savings plan as outlined in the benefits booklet. In accordance with the 1992 agreement estabfishing the 401 (k) plan, that states changes to the Simpson Employees Savings plan will apply to the Tacoma Kraft Hourly Savings Plan, participants may contribute up to 50% of then eligible pay from each paycheck (the prior maximum was 15%) to their 401 (k) account up to the current annual limit imposed by the IRS. The Company will contribute fifty cents ($.50) for each dollar saved to a maximum of five percent (5%) of each employee’s contribution.
26.20	The Company and the Union agree to participate in the individual Trades Union MultiEmployer Pension Plan at the level designated by the Unions involved in accordance with the agreed to Memorandum of Agreement. The individual Unions who wish to participate must approve of the conditions and specify the uniform amount to be contributed and be reduced from the wages to be paid no later than the day following the date of ratification of the new Labor Agreement. As long as the Company is participating on behalf of the employees, wage rates will be reduced by 101% of the agreed-to contribution, provided that the reduction will not be greater than the amount deducted from the wages of Company employees who contribute to the PIUMPF Pension Trust (USW bargaining unit).
26.21	The Company will provide a line item on paychecks to show Trade Union MultiEmployer Pension Plan Contributions.
SECTION 27	- SEVERANCE PAY:
27.01 In instances of addition, elimination or modification of equipment, or discontinuance of an operation or location which results in employment of fewer employees, the following formula shall apply to those employees laid off.
27.02 An employee who has completed five (5) years but less than ten (10) years of continuous service shall receive an amount equal to 4% of his last twelve months basic earnings as severance pay.
27.03 An employee who has completed ten (10) years or more continuous service shall receive 6% of his last twelve months basic earnings as severance pay.
Page 31
27.04 Such severance pay shall only apply to employees permanently laid off for three (3) months following the date of layoff.
27.05 An employee's recall rights will not be affected in any manner because of the payment of severance pay. However, if recall occurs before the time when a severance payment is due, no such payment will be made. Or, if any employee is offered recall according to the applicable recall provision in his case, and it is refused, all recall and severance pay rights are automatically canceled.
27.06 If an employee is recalled after having received the severance pay due him, he will begin again, as of the date of return, accumulating a new period of time as outlined in paragraphs 27.02 and 27.03, which will be credited toward any future layoff.
SECTION 28	- NONDISCRIMINATION:
28.01 There shall be no discrimination against an employee as prescribed by any Federal, State Law, Executive Order and/or future anti-discrimination laws including but not limited to age, race, sex, religion, color, national origin, mental or physical disability, veterans of any U.S. Armed Services, Union membership or Union activity.
28.02 It is understood that where the pronoun "he" is used in this Labor Agreement, it is meant to mean both "he" and "she".
28.03 The parties to this Agreement agree to comply with their obligations under the Americans with Disabilities Act.
Page 32
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed.
SIMPSON TACOMA
T COMPANY, LLC
By:	John Conkle
John Brandt _ Mark Brighan Mark Filipin
PIERCE COUNTY, WASHINGTON BUILDING & CONSTRUCTION TRADES COUNCIL
By:	Mark P Martinez
INTERNATIONAL BROTHE OpD OF BOILERMAKERS, IRON SHIP BUILDERS, BLACKSMITHS, FORGERS aWhELPERS EpCAL UNION NO 104
By:	Steve Behling _
PACIFIC N.W. DISTRICT COUNCIL OF CARCARPENTERS
LOCAL UNION NO. 129
By:	Jeff Skillman
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
LOCAL UNION NO. 76	~
By:	Dennis Callies
TING ENGINEERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION OF OPE LOCAL UNIONTTO. 286A
By:	Richard Spencer_
INTERNATIONAL UNION OF OPERATING ENGINEERS LOCAL UNION NOr
By:	Ernie Evans
UNITED ASSOC
INTERNATIONAL
DISTRICTCOUNCIL
I.A.M. DISTRICT LODGE Ng^ 160 REPRESENTING MACHINIST LOCAL NO. 297 AND^^Z/152
By:	Brandon Hemming
By:	Dennis Sullivan
QN OF PAINT .5
S & ALLIED TRADES
IN OF JOURNEYMEN AND APPRENTICES OF THE PLUMBING
AND PIPEFITJIM/INDUSTRY OF THE UNITED STATES AND CANADA LOCAL UNIQN/NO. 26	„
By: Larry Duraahl

Page 33
EXHIBIT A
The Wage rates will be specifically listed in the Wage Schedule attached hereto and are effective as indicated on the Wage Schedule.
I.	WAGE RATES:
1.01 The rates described in the preceding paragraph shall remain in force until the termination of this Agreement, excepting as to any changes which may be made by (1) mutual agreement between the Signatory Parties, or (2) adjustments resulting from provisions of the wage increase portion of the agreement.
1.02 When major changes are made in the plant which create new jobs or substantially change duties of existing jobs, management will evaluate the job and inform the Union concerned of the new rate or rates, without delay. The Union, if not satisfied with the new rate, may negotiate the rate with management provided such request to negotiate is made within thirty (30) days from the date the new rate has been established. If no satisfactory rate can thus be established, the Union Standing Committee may implement the grievance procedure if they so desire.
1.03 Effective September 2, 2013, a 2.0% per hour general wage increase shall be applied.
1.04 Effective the first pay period coincident with or closest to September 1, 2014, a 2.0%
per horn general wage increase shall be applied.
1.05 Effective the first pay period coincident with or .closest to August 31, 2015, a 2.5% per
hour general wage increase shall be applied.
1.06 Effective the first pay period coincident with or closest to August 31, 2016, a 2.5% per
hour general wage increase shall be applied.
II.	OVERTIME
2.0	1 All employees are expected to respond to maintenance needs of the mill which may be outside the regular hours of work. It is expected that all maintenance employees will respond to call-in requirements so as to not place a burden on the Company because of lack of employees and to share with other employees the burden of responding to these needs.
2.0	2 Subject to the conditions set forth in Paragraph 2.09 of this Section, any employee paid on
Page 34
an hourly basis will, in addition to his straight time pay, receive overtime at one-half the straight time hourly rate of the job for:
2.0	3 (a) All work performed on Sunday.
2.0	4 (b) All work performed on any of the holidays listed in Section 6.
2.0	5 (c) All work performed in excess of eight (8) straight time hours in any one day.
2.0	6 (d) All work performed in excess of forty (40) straight time hours in any one week.
2.0	7 (e) All work performed in excess of eight (8) continuous hours worked.
2.0	8 (f) All work performed on scheduled or designated days off, as such days are defined in Section 10, provided, however, that this subparagraph (f) shall not apply if the work so performed results because a regular scheduled or designated day off has been traded for another day at the request and for the convenience of the employer, or employees, involved.
2.0	9 (g) All hours outside the employee's regular shift hours except when the employee works outside of his/her regular hours due to the employee requesting a change in work schedule.
2.10	(h) All work performed by an employee on a proj ect where the employee was brought in to start the project on an overtime basis.
2.11	Any employee paid on an hourly basis will, in addition to his straight time pay, receive overtime at the frill time hourly rate of the job for all work performed in excess of sixteen (16) consecutive hours.
2.12	In applying the provisions of Paragraph 2.01 of this section, the following conditions shall be in effect:
2.13	(a) No hour worked qualifies as an overtime hour on more than one of the above eight basis, except that work on a holiday may also qualify under 2.05(d). Time worked on a holiday will be credited toward the forty (40) hour qualification.
2.14	(b) Should an hourly paid day worker on a Monday through Friday work week be required to work sufficient hours after midnight to prevent a normal rest period before assuming the duties of his next scheduled shift, and should be required to work the next following Saturday, he will be credited with any normal shift hours so missed in the computation of overtime for work on such Saturday.
2.15	Employees who work in excess of eight (8) hours during a holiday will be compensated at double time for those hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours.
Page 35
2.16	Overtime will be worked in the position in which it occurs.
HI. NIGHT SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL:
3.01 A night shift differential of sixty cents ($.60) per hour shall be paid in addition to the hourly job rate on any shift wherein one-half or more of the scheduled shift hours fall after 6.00 p.m. and before 12 midnight.
3.02 A night shift differential of eighty-three cents ($.83) per hour shall be paid in addition to the hourly job rate on any shift wherein one-half or more of the scheduled shift hours fall between 12 midnight and 6:00 a.m.
3.03 Effective September 1,2005, increase the shift differential to $.90/hour.
IV.	JURY DUTY ALLOWANCE:
4.0	1 Any employee who has completed one or more years of continuous employment who is required to perform jury duty or is required to appear as a witness in a court trial by subpoena in which the employee is not a litigant, will be entitled to reimbursement at the straight time hourly rate of his regular job for the hours necessarily lost as a result of serving on the jury or reasonable time for appearing as a witness. Provided, however, that such reimbursement shall not exceed eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week, less pay received for jury duty or witness service. When subpoenaed as a witness in order to obtain the benefits of this section, notice to the Company and written proof of subpoena service must be given at least 36 hours in advance of appearance requirement. The employee will be required to furnish a signed statement from a responsible officer of the court as proof of jury service and jury duty pay received.
4.0	2 Hours paid for jury duty will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing vacation and holiday pay, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing any overtime.
V.	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE:
5.01 When death occurs to a member of a regular employee's immediate family, at the employee’s request and upon providing proof of death, the employee will be granted reasonable necessary time off for bereavement and/or funeral activities.. The employee will be compensated for such activities at his regular straight time hourly rate for hours lost from regularly scheduled work days, provided they occur between the day of death and the next following ten calendar- days with a maximum of three (3) days compensation.
5.02 The Company will provide a bereavement/funeral leave benefit of five (5) days with pay in
Page 36
event of the death of an employee's spouse and/or the employee's natural or adopted children.
5.03 Members of an employee's immediate family shall be limited to the employee's spouse, mother, father, brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparents, grandchildren, spouse's grandparents, step-children, sons-in-law, daughters-in-law, brothers-in-law, and sisters-in-law.
5.04 Compensable hours will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing vacation and holiday pay and will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing weekly overtime.
VI. LEAVE OF ABSENCE:
6.01 An employee, after having served the required probationary period, may be granted a leave of absence for medical reasons upon the presentation of a certificate from a reputable physician setting forth the reasons justifying the request. Such leave of absence shall begin at the time recommended by the physician retained by the employee, and shall continue until such time as the physician determines the employee is physically able to resume the normal duties for which the employee was employed. At no time shall such leave of absence exceed one (1) year, except for unusual circumstances and then only upon mutual agreement between the Company, the Union, and the employee, after consultation with the employee's physician. At no time shall an employee be retained when the employee's physician does not recommend continued employment and should the employee not consult a physician, then the Company, upon notice of an apparent physical condition which may impair the employee's well being and safety, may have that employee's physical condition verified by a company-designated doctor.
6.02 Employees returning to work from leave of absence will be returned to the job they occupied at the time their leave became effective, provided they are qualified (physically and job wise), and have the necessary retained seniority.
6.03 Implement Direct Deposit of paychecks as proposed in MOU effective after ratification of agreement.
Page 37
EXHIBIT B
POWER HOUSE ONLY)
1.01 Future employees in the Power House will be required to secure within eighteen (18) months of permanent assignment in the department, any required Power House license(s). Failure to secure such license(s) will result in removal from the department roster.
1.02 If there is a vacancy in a department, excluding vacations, for longer than 14 calendar days, based on seniority, the senior qualified employee (Power House Bid Relief and extra board) will have the opportunity to follow a shift on a senior move. An extra board employee on a senior move will receive overtime when working on their days off at a rate of the job they are assigned.
1.03 The Company will reimburse employees for any training necessary to obtain a required license in accordance with established practice.
1.04 Simpson will pay the negotiated Power House wage rate to extra board employees working in classified positions in the Union bargaining unit.
1.05 Simpson recognizes any employees who have worked in the Power House after thirty (30) working days as I.U.O.E. bargaining unit members and that bargaining unit employees will have preference to work in the Power House over any other Simpson employees. If an employee fails to qualify as a Power House Bid Relief per section 1.06, they will no longer be allowed to work in the Power House after 30 days. This understanding does not apply to Extra Board or contract employees performing extra Power House work required because of maintenance and shut down activities, non-routine operation work or to employees providing maintenance type work.
1.06 Simpson and the IUOE agree to the establishment of Power House Bid Relief employees who will be trained and qualified for relief work to cover for vacations, holidays, and illnesses. It will be a condition of employment in the Power House Bid Relief that the employees become certified as Power House Loader and Power House Assistant. Power House Bid Relief employees will move into regular Power House positions as such positions become open on the basis of seniority.
1.07 I.U.O.E. agrees that the bargaining unit employees must pass all required training and receive certification in order to at any particular job classification. The standard mill criteria for passing with an 80% correct test score will apply. Employees will be given two
Page 38
(2) opportunities to train and certify. The On Job training (O JT) for the senior employee will start within one month of completion of the classroom training. The OJT for all employees will start within three (3) months of completion of the classroom training. The OJT will normally be held on consecutive work days until the employee is certified, but the employee may be reassigned to other duties during this period based on the operational needs of the mill.
1.0	8 When additional employees are needed to work in the Power House Pool, with the intent of becoming Power House Bid Reliefs, Simpson may use their own criteria and selection process for adding employees to the Power House Bid Relief classification.
1.0	9 Simpson and the I.U.O.E. agree that Power House Bid Relief employees will become full members of the I.U.O.E. and will only be minimum dues paying members of the IUOE. Only regular employees assigned to a position in the Power House will pay full dues and will participate in the Central Pension Fund.
1.10	All employees who have been given ample opportunity and cannot obtain a higher certification in the line of progress as outlined in 1.07 above will be “frozen” at one classification lower than the employee is qualified. Current employees assigned to a classification will be grandfathered to their current position, but will be subject to the training requirements if said employee requests promotion to a higher classification.
1.11	Power House employees in the Loader Operator classification may have a Bid Relief position in another part of the mill. Power House employees that are Power House Assistants, Engineers, and Operators will not be allowed to work outside of the Power House. Current Power House employees who have other Bid Relief positions are grandfathered and may continue to work the other Bid Relief positions until they advance to the next higher classification.
1.12	When the weekly crew schedule is prepared, hourly employees will not be scheduled as relief supervisors, or on special projects, if in doing so overtime is assigned to fill vacancies in the fine of progression.
Page 39
EXHIBIT C
Memorandums of Agreement between Simpson Tacoma Kraft Company, LLC and Pierce County, Washington Building and Construction Trades Council
1.	The parties agree the work hours for Maintenance day workers will be 7:30 AM to 3:3 0 PM with a half (1/2) how paid lunch period, which will normally be at the end of four (4) hows of work. The practice of regular rest breaks is discontinued with this Agreement, except for the lunch period. If an employee is not allowed to take their lunch period until after one (1) how of the normal lunch time, they will be paid one and a half (1-1/2) times their rate for the lunch period. If employees are scheduled to work overtime, they will be given rest breaks in accordance with legal requirements.
2.	Employees who sign up for vacation during a designated restricted period of scheduled repair and maintenance will not have their vacation approved until two (2) calendar weeks prior to the restricted period.
It is understood that the Company will allow as many employees as possible to take scheduled vacation during these periods after ensuring that skilled employees are available to perform the necessary work during the restricted period. Approval of vacations during the restricted period will be made by the department superintendents.
The Company will indicate on the advanced vacation sign up sheets any known or potential maintenance restricted periods. Employees who sign up for vacation on the advanced listing will be given first consideration on the basis of seniority.
3.	For employees hired after August 31,1992 and for current employees not yet disabled, as
applies to their pension benefits accrued after August 31,1992, no disability retirement benefits shall be payable during the period(s) an individual is entitled to receive any Workers’ Compensation weekly benefits. Any lump sum benefits paid in lieu of weekly benefits shall be used in determining when disability retirement benefits become payable.
4.	The Company may have a need to occasionally hire Temporary Employees for special projects, short-term needs, and to fill in for employees who are on long-term leave. Temporary Employees will sign a statement at the time of hire that sets forth the conditions and length of their temporary assignment. The Union and the Pierce County Building Trades Council will be notified what a Temporary Employee is employed by the Company and when an extension of the temporary assignment beyond that stated in the signed statement occws.
No Temporary Employee will work more than 180 days without approval of the Pierce County Building Trades Council.
Page 40
Temporary Employees will have all benefits of the Labor Agreement the same as Regular employees, except that they will be terminated at the end of their temporary assignment. Temporary Employees will not accrue seniority. Temporary Employees will be paid the same rate of pay as Regular Employees under the labor agreement.
If a Temporary Employee is hired as a Regular Employee without a break in service, the employee will be given a seniority date commencing with the most recent date of hire as a Temporary Employee.
Employees terminated at the end of the temporary assignment will be paid for earned and unused vacation and prorated vacation in accordance with the Labor Agreement.
5.	The parties agree that all employees working in the Trades classifications outlined in this Agreement will follow the 12-hour Memorandums of Understanding mutually agreed to by those classifications and the Company.
This agreement and the terms and conditions of any 12-hour schedule will supersede the provisions and established practices of the existing labor agreement that are in conflict with the spirit and intent of the 12-hour schedules.
If at any time after implementation of the 12-hour work schedule the Company ceases the 12-hour schedule for the Mill, the 12-hour schedule will cease for all employees working in the Trades classifications at the same time unless there is a mutual agreement to continue the schedule.
6.	Arbitrators for Section 4 — Work Assignment
a.	Mike Cavanaugh
b.	Gary Axon
c.	Patrick Duffy
d.	Eric Lindauer
e.	Timothy Williams
7.	In order to provide wage and growth opportunities for those individuals with a desire to advance their knowledge and experience, the Company and Union agree to discuss further, after ratification and upon request by either party, a mutually agreeable 3-tier wage system for any craft.
Page 41
WAGE SCHEDULE
		9/2/2013	9/1/2014	8/31/2015	8/31/2016
	LS/GWI	2.0%	2.0%	2.50%	2.5%
Job Classification	occ#				
Electrical					
-Electrician I	951	$32.13	$32.77	$33.59	$34.43
-Electrician II	948	$34.67	$35.36	$36.25	$37.15
- Electrician III	949	$37.82	$38.58	$39.54	$40.53
Machine Shop					
-Automotive Machinist	990	$32.13	$32.77	$33.59	$34.43
-Boilermaker	981	$32.13	$32.77	$33.59	$34.43
-Carpenter	966	$32.13	$32.77	$33.59	$34.43
-Mobile Crane Operator	902	$32.13	$32.77	$33.59	$34.43
-Machinist	961	$32.13	$32.77	$33.59	$34.43
-Painter	971	$32.13	$32.77	$33.59	$34.43
-Pipefitter	964	$32.13	$32.77	$33.59	$34.43
-Vibration Data Collector	998	$24.61	$25.10	$25.73	$26.37
					
Power House					
-Power House Operator	755	$38.92	$39.70	$40.69	$41.71
-Power House Engineer	754	$34.05	$34.73	$35.60	$36.49
-Power House Assistant	757	$29.48	$30.07	$30.82	$31.59
-Loader Operator	758	$26.38	$26.91	$27.58	$28.27
- Day Shift Loader Operator	759	$26.38	$26.91	$27.58	$28.27
Page 42
Operator					
-Safety Advocate**	928	$26.66	$27.19	$27.87	$28.57
**The Safety Advocate is a non-bid position with the selection being made by the Company only after consultation with the Union. The individual selected for this position will be allowed to retain their existing Union affiliation.
Page 43
ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT
This Assumption Agreement ("Agreement") is made by and between RockTenn CP, LLC, on its own behalf and on behalf of any affiliated or related entity ("Buyer"), Simpson Tacoma Kraft Company, LLC ("Seller") and the Pierce County, Washington Building and Construction Trades Council, AFL-CIO and its constituent unions, the International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Ship Builders, Blacksmiths, Forgers and Helpers Local 104, the United Association of Journeyman and Apprentices of the Plumbing and Pipefitting Industry of the United States and Canada Local Union 26, the International Union of Operating Engineers Local Unions 286 and 612, Machinists Locals 297 and 1152 affiliated with and represented by International Association of Machinists District Lodge 160, the Pacific N.W. District Council of Carpenters Local Union 129, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local Union 76, and the International Union of Painters & Allied Trades District Council No. 5 (collectively, the "Union").
Whereas Buyer has agreed to purchase the assets of Seller, namely the Tacoma Kraft Mill in Tacoma, WA ("Transaction");
Whereas the Seller and the Union have negotiated a collective bargaining agreement between Seller and the Union, with an effective date of September 1, 2013 through August 31, 2017 ("CBA") that the Union will soon put to a ratification vote;
Whereas, Seller will be bound to the CBA if the Union ratifies the CBA;
Whereas, Buyer agrees that it will be a successor employer to Seller for labor law purposes at the closing of the Transaction ("Closing");
Now, therefore it is agreed:
1.	Buyer agrees that effective at Closing, Buyer shall offer employment to all active bargaining unit employees on the terms and conditions contained in the CBA.
2.	Buyer agrees that effective at Closing, Buyer has assumed, adopted and is bound by all of the terms of the CBA. The Union likewise agrees that effective at Closing, the Union is bound by all of the terms of the CBA with Buyer.
3.	Buyer acknowledges and agrees that one of its obligations under the CBA will be to continue its participation in the Washington State Plumbing and Pipefitting Industry Pension Plan, Central Pension Fund of the International Union of Operating Engineers and Participating Employers, Boilermaker-Blacksmith National Pension Trust, and Western Metal Industry Pension Fund on behalf of those bargaining unit employees who are eligible to participate in such plans.
1
Assumption Agreement
Page 2
4.	rhe Union agrees that, in obtaining Buyer's signature on this Agreement, Seiler has satisfied any obligation it may have had to bargain with the Union regarding the effects of the Transaction.
5.	Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement is only effective if the Union ratifies the CBA.
6.	This Agreement may be signed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original.
SIMPSON TACOMA KRAFT COMPANY, LLC
PIERCE COUNTY, WASHINGTON BUILDING AND
CONSTRUCTION TRADES COUNCIL, AFL-CIO
Executive Secretary
Date: March 13, 2014
March(3, 2014
ROCKTENN CP, LLC
Name:	X fat
Title: ^4^
Date: March /3, 2014