K9841
LABOR AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
ATI LADISH FORGING, LLC
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF BOILERMAKERS, IRON SHIP BUILDERS, BLACKSMITHS, FORGERS AND HELPERS, LODGE NO. 1509
October 1,2012 - September 30, 2018
INDEX
Section Page
Absenteeism...................................216..........10
Bereavement...................................1307.........59
Bidding.......................................409..........19
Bulletin Boards...............................1303.........58
Checkoff-Union Dues...........................105...........2
Discipline and Discharge......................213...........9
Forge Department Jurisdiction...................................1601....77
Seniority-Daily (Line-Up)..................1604........78
Overtime...................................1613........82
Flat Rate..................................1616........83
Wage Rates.................................1626........90
Grievance Procedure.............................201.........5
Health, Safety-Housekeeping....................1304........58
Heat Treat Department Jurisdiction...................................1401....63
Seniority-Daily (Line-Up)..................1406........65
Awarding of Bids...........................1405........65
Overtime...................................1408........66
Wage Rates.................................1418........69
Holidays........................................701........35
Hours of Work...................................301........11
Industrial Injury..............................1311........60
Job security....................................514........32
Jurisdiction of Union.......................108..........3
Jury Duty and Witnessing......................1308.......59
Layoff.........................................503.......27
Leaves of Absence...........................601..........33
Management’s Rights............................103........1
New Equipment.................................1313.......60
Operator Learnerships....................Exhibit V.......125
Overtime Distribution.......................309..........14
Overtime Pay................................306..........13
Pension Plan................................1101.........54
Posting of Vacancies........................412..........19
Probationary Period.........................402..........16
Profit Sharing..............................911..........49
Quality Department Jurisdiction................................1701......93
Classification..........................1703.........94
Shift Assignment........................1709.........96
Class/Group Openings....................1707.........96
Overtime................................1710.........96
Reduced Hours Scheduling................1724.........99
Reduced Forces..........................1727.........99
Recall..................................1728........100
Rate Progression Schedules..............1730.........100
Recall......................................510..........31
Recognition Clause..........................101...........1
Reduced Forces/ Hours.......................504..........28
Seniority-Transferred Employee..............426..........26
Severance Pay.................................1901........106
Shift Premium.................................1202.........56
Shop Rules.....................................215..........9
Steel Stores Department Jurisdiction..................................1501.....71
Seniority-Daily (Line-Up).................1507.........73
Reduced Operations........................1508.........73
Overtime..................................1509.........74
Wage Rates................................1510.........75
Strikes and Lockouts...........................212..........8
Supervisor’s Duties...........................1301.........57
Temporary Employees............................403.........16
Termination of Contract.......................2001........108
Transfer-Interdepartmental.....................416.........22
Transfer-Facilitate Production.................420.........23
Transfer-Layoff................................506.........30
Transfer-Outside Barg. Unit....................426.........26
Tuition Refund Program........................1801........104
Union Shop.....................................104..........2
Vacations......................................801.........42
Veterans Seniority.............................424.........24
Wage Dividend..................................901.........47
Wage Rates....................................1201.........56
Work Units..................................408	& 504.. 18 & 28
Exhibit I.................................................114
Appendix A................................................121
Exhibit II................................................122
Exhibit III......................................................124
Exhibit IV.......................................................124
Exhibit V......................................................  125
Exhibit VI.......................................................132
Exhibit VI1......................................................137
Exhibit VIII.....................................................139
ARTICLE I
RECOGNITION
101.	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining agency pursuant to and solely for the purpose of collective bargaining as provided in Section 1 (A) of the Labor-Management Relations Act, 1947, as amended, for all employees of ATI Ladish Forging, LLC., Cudahy Plant, employed in the Steel Stores Department, Forge Shop Department, Quality (Met) Department (as defined in NLRB 13-RC-8820) and Heat Treat Department excluding all clerical employees, all supervisory employees with authority to hire, promote, discharge, discipline or otherwise effect changes in the status of employees or effectively recommend such action.
It is specifically understood that personnel of the Repair and Maintenance Department will, on occasion, use equipment for nonproduction work in the departments coming under the jurisdiction of the Blacksmiths’ Union.
NO DISCRIMINATION
102.	It shall be the continuing policy of the Company and Union that there shall be no discrimination with regard to race, color, religious creed, national origin, age, sex, veterans or handicapped status, in accordance with Federal Law under Title 7 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Executive Orders 11246, 11141, 11701,11758 and amendments thereto. The term “his” or “he” as used in this Agreement shall apply to both male and female employees.
MANAGEMENT’S FUNCTIONS
103.	The right to hire, promote, discharge or discipline for cause and to maintain discipline and efficiency of employees is the sole responsibility and exclusive right of the Company, subject to provisions in Article II, Paragraph 213 hereof and other express terms of this Agreement. Any dispute as to whether or not Management’s exercise of its right to discharge or discipline
1
for just cause and to maintain discipline shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure contained in this Contract.
The Company shall, in exercise of Management’s functions, subcontract work if it decides such subcontracting necessary for economic reasons, for the benefit of our customer requirements and the overall betterment of our employees and the Company. Company will keep Committee informed of such subcontracting.
In addition to the managerial functions mentioned above, the Company shall have the sole responsibility and exclusive right to determine the products to be manufactured, the schedule of production, the assignment of work, the methods, processes and means of manufacturing, the control and regulations of the use of all equipment and other property of the Company and nothing in this Agreement contained shall be deemed to limit the Company in any way in the exercise of the above and such other regular and customary functions of Management not in conflict with the express terms of this Agreement.
UNION SHOP
104.	The Company agrees that all present employees who are members of the Union shall remain members of the Union as a condition of employment; and that all present employees who are not members of the Union shall become and remain members within thirty-one (31) days after the execution of this Agreement as a condition of employment; and that all new employees shall become and remain members of the Union within thirty-one (31) days after hiring, as a condition of employment.
CHECKOFF
105.	Upon the receipt of written authorization from any employee, the Company will deduct from his pay his initiation fee, if due, monthly dues and monies legally due and deductible to the Union. Such written authorization will continue automatically from year to year unless revoked during the ten (10) day period one (1) year after the date of signing the authorization or ten (10) days preceding each anniversary date of the contract, whichever
2
occurs sooner. Employees who desire to authorize and request the Company to make such deductions and payment shall use the “Checkoff Authorization and Assignment” form, which can be obtained in the Employment Record Room.
106.	The Company shall be required to discharge an employee for nonmembership in the Union only if the Union certifies that membership in the Union was denied or terminated solely by reason of the employee’s failure to tender the periodic dues and initiation fees uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership in the Union. Any request made by the Union for the discharge of an employee under this Article shall be made to the Company in writing and a copy of such request shall be submitted by the Union to such employee. The employee shall be allowed a grace period of fifteen (15) days after such copy of the Union’s request is given to him within which to become current in his periodic dues and initiation fees before the Company’s obligation to discharge under this paragraph becomes effective.
REPRESENTATION
107.	A Bargaining Committee of not more than six (6) members (five (5) Committee members and the President) and departmental stewards, selected by the Union from among the employees coming within this Agreement, shall be the agents of the Union with full authority to act for the employees on all matters coming within the provisions of this Agreement. A list of Officers, Bargaining Committee members and Stewards shall be presented to the Company by the Union, designating shift and area, and said list shall be corrected promptly should changes be made. Union may use the Company's electronic mail system to notify the Company of changes to the Bargaining Committee.
JURISDICTION
108.	This provision is to service the purpose of defining present work and operations which employees presently perform and is not intended to extend or to add to duties which they presently and normally perform. It is intended to differentiate
3
between the present, normal job assignments of employees of Blacksmiths Union and those other employees of the Company, but not intended to give any bargaining group exclusive claim to all jobs or operations in any department.
The Company will make every effort to advise the Bargaining Committee of potential jurisdictional issues that may arise within the Blacksmiths Bargaining Unit.
109.	Regardless of the department, if expeditors, stock chasers, or material routers are necessary, they shall be selected from the bargaining unit in which most of their time will be spent and in the event such selection is necessary in the Blacksmiths Unit, such selection shall be made in conformity with the terms of the Basic Labor Agreement.
110.	The work designated hereinafter shall come under the jurisdiction of the respective departments as specified, regardless of the location of storage areas, machines, tools, equipment or facilities necessary to perform the work and notwithstanding the fact that the work is performed either hot or cold.
111.	Should a material or replacement equipment be substituted, or should a new material or equipment be introduced, the jurisdiction over the work as defined shall be continued to be applicable and unchanged unless the parties are in agreement to a deviation from the agreement.
112.	The historic practice of general housecleaning in the employee’s immediate work area will be continued and each department shall consider the function departmentally. However, general sweeping shall be the jurisdiction of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers.
113.	In the event the Company should desire to establish a new department and the operations in the new department are similar to those described in this Agreement, the matter shall be
4
discussed between the Company and representatives of Local 1509.
114.	Should a question arise relative to determining jurisdiction of any classification, a discussion of the matter will be arranged by the Company between the interested bargaining agents and Management in an effort to arrive at a mutually satisfactory conclusion.
ARTICLE II
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
201.	A grievance is hereby defined as a difference arising between the Company and the Union as to the meaning, application or interpretation of this Agreement or as to the compliance of either party with any of its obligations under this Agreement.
202.	Grievances, except for the matter of piece rates, shall be submitted not later than ten (10) workdays after occurrence, or ten (10) workdays after employee could have known of the occurrence and shall be taken up in the following manner.
FIRST - An employee who claims to have a grievance shall first discuss it with his immediate Supervisor, with or without his Steward, in an effort to have the matter adjusted. If the matter is not satisfactorily adjusted, the grievance shall be reduced to writing on an approved grievance report form which is available from the Department Head. The grievance will be signed by the aggrieved employee(s) and will include the departmental Committeeperson or Steward’s signatures.
SECOND - Once the grievance has been reduced to writing it shall be submitted to the Department Head, who shall submit it to the Labor Relations Department for recording. The Department Head, within five (5) work days will schedule a meeting at a mutually satisfactory time. The meeting will include the aggrieved employee, the departmental Committeeperson, the Steward, the
5
Chairman of the Bargaining Committee, the Department Head, the Labor Relations Supervisor and other necessary Company representatives.
THIRD - If the grievance remains unresolved, it will be submitted to the Manager of Labor Relations who, within five (5) work days, will schedule a meeting at a mutually satisfactory time. Participants will include: the aggrieved employee, the Bargaining Committee, the Manager of Labor Relations or his designated representative and other necessary Company Representatives. The Bargaining Committee may have the International and/or Business Representative of the Union at the third step of the Grievance Procedure, if desired.
203.	In the event that the difference is not resolved pursuant to the procedure set forth in Section 202 above, then either party may request that the matter be submitted to arbitration for resolution. The request must be submitted in writing specifying the matter to be determined and must be delivered to the other party not more than thirty (30) work days following the final decision in Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure. The arbitrator shall be selected from a list of seven (7) names submitted by the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. Either party shall have the right to reject completely the first list if deemed unsatisfactory and request a second list of seven (7) names. The arbitrator shall be selected by having the party requesting arbitration strike one name from the list with the other party then striking one name and thereafter, each shall strike alternatively until one name is left, and this person shall be appointed arbitrator. The arbitrator shall have no power to add to, subtract from, change or modify any provisions of this agreement. He shall consider and decide only the particular issue(s) presented to him in writing by the Company and the Union. The decision and award shall be based upon a preponderance of the evidence and solely upon his interpretation of and application of the terms of this agreement. The arbitrator’s decision shall be final and binding. The cost of the proceedings shall be shared equally by
6
the parties with each party being responsible for payment and expenses of its own witnesses.
Upon mutual agreement the Company and Union may seek non binding mediation of grievances rather than using the above described arbitration process. The mediator will be selected from a reputable outside source, such as FMCS. Any and all costs related to the process will be shared equally and each party shall be responsible for payment and expenses of its own witnesses and participants.
204.	It is understood that the time limits set forth in the foregoing grievance steps may be extended by mutual agreement between the parties involved in each step of the grievance procedure.
Company's failure to comply with time limits in step 1, 2 or 3 will allow the Union to move a grievance to the next step in the procedure.
205.	No committeeman, steward or employee shall have the right to make any settlement in conflict with the express terms of this Contract.
206.	The written grievance should contain all pertinent data that the aggrieved is able to gather and remedies sought. Only one matter shall be covered on one grievance form. In the event any written reply to a grievance is not acceptable to the Union, the committeeman will provide written reasons for nonacceptance.
207.	The Manager of Labor Relations and/or his designated representative and the International and/or Business Representative shall have the right to participate in any discussion or negotiations in any stage of the grievance procedure.
208.	If there is more than one (1) aggrieved employee involved in a grievance, one (1) employee will represent the
7
interests of the other aggrieved employees in the steps of the Grievance Procedure in the common interest of expediting the processing of grievances with the minimum amount of work interruption.
209.	The Union acknowledges that bargaining committeepersons, stewards and Union officers have regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company. It is clearly understood that such employees will not absent themselves from their regular duties for an unreasonable length of time. When it is necessary for a properly designated Union representative to leave his assigned job duties or work area, it is understood he will make arrangements with his foreman or immediate supervisor.
210.	Committeemen, stewards and employees will be compensated with their average straight time hourly earnings rate for time spent in meetings with the Company.
211.	It is understood that problems may arise that are not necessarily grievances as defined in Section 201. In an effort to resolve such problems, the Committee will meet with the Labor Relations Supervisor and such other members of Management as deemed necessary, on the third (3rd) Monday of each month from 2:00 PM to 3:00 PM Any matter of mutual interest may be discussed at these meetings.
NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
212.	It is agreed on the part of the Union that during the term of this agreement, there shall be no concerted slowdown, concerted cessation of work, or strike, and on the part of the Company, no lockout.
It is further agreed that it shall not constitute a breach of this agreement for any employee or Union member covered hereby to refuse to cross a picket line, or to refuse to enter upon the premises of the employer if such refusal does not constitute a violation of the Federal Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, as amended.
8
DISCIPLINARY LAYOFFS AND DISCHARGES
213.	The right of the Company to enact and enforce by discharge or other reasonable disciplinary measure, all published Company regulations and rules not in conflict with the express terms of this Agreement is recognized. In the event disciplinary action in the form of layoff is to be invoked against any employee for violation of a Company rule, or for misconduct, the Chairman of the Bargaining Committee, if he is at work, (or another union representative, preferably a Bargaining Committeeman, if he is not) and the Department Committeeman will meet with the Company to discuss same before such disciplinary action is taken.
214.	In all cases where the Company intends to discharge an employee, the employee shall be treated as being on suspension for a period not to exceed five (5) working days. During such period the Company shall, at the request of the Union, meet to discuss the facts involved in the case and the discipline to be invoked. If no such meeting is requested during such five (5) day period, the contemplated discharge shall become final and no further claim or grievance may be presented concerning such discharge. If such meeting is requested and the Company and the Union cannot agree on the disposition of the case, the Union may file a grievance with respect to the discharge commencing with the third step of the grievance procedure. The Bargaining Committee Chairman and Secretary-Treasurer of Local Lodge 1509 shall receive written notice of such suspension.
SHOP RULES
215.	The right of the Company to enact and enforce by discharge or other reasonable or disciplinary measure, all violations of published safety standards, Company regulations and especially the shop rules now contained in “The Employee Handbook”, not in conflict with express terms of this agreement, is recognized for efficient plant operation and safety considerations.
9
ABSENTEEISM
216.	All absences should be reported before the beginning of the employee’s shift and a satisfactory reason for such absence must be given. Absences of three (3) or more consecutive days for illness or injury must be substantiated by a doctor’s statement and release. Recurring, avoidable and/or unreported absenteeism is understood to be chronic absenteeism and will be treated in the following manner:
A.	The employee’s record will be reviewed by the supervisor and the employee with the employee’s Steward. This will constitute a verbal warning.
B.	After verbal warning has been given, failure to take corrective action to eliminate chronic absenteeism will subject employee to a disciplinary meeting with his Committeeperson, and a written warning will be issued.
C.	After which, failure to correct shall result in disciplinary action not to exceed a layoff of one (1) week.
D.	After which, failure to correct shall result in disciplinary action not to exceed a layoff of two (2) weeks.
E.	After which failure to correct shall subject such employee to termination of employment.
In the event an employee maintains a satisfactory attendance record (receives no disciplinary actions) for one (1) year from his last disciplinary action, he will revert to a verbal warning in the event another disciplinary action is warranted.
217.	Each employee shall be required to keep the Company informed as to current address and telephone number. Any change shall be recorded in the Employment Record Room in writing. The Company shall not be liable in any way, for any occurrence which may arise because an employee did not keep the Company advised of address and telephone number as provided in this section.
10
ARTICLE III
HOURS OF WORK
301.	The workweek for payroll purposes shall consist of seven (7) twenty-four (24) hour periods, and shall begin at 7:00 A.M. (first shift) on Monday, except for certain third shift employees who will be required to start their workweek at 11:00 P.M. Sunday in order to facilitate production. It is agreed that the number of such employees will be held down to the lowest practical minimum. Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent a starting time other than herein prescribed, by agreement between the Company and the Union. In the event of such an agreement, overtime will be regulated accordingly.
The customary starting times for employees are as follows:
First Shift - 7:00 A.M. Second Shift - 3:00 P.M. Third Shift -11:00 P.M.
It is also understood that, at the department’s discretion, a regularly scheduled work week consisting of four (4) ten (10) hour days may be instituted. Employees may be scheduled off either at the beginning or end of their normal work week to effect five (5) day coverage.
Changing from a five (5) day normal work week to a four (4) day normal week, or vice versa, will be at department’s discretion. Notice of change in normal work week to be scheduled will be posted on departmental bulletin boards seven (7) calendar days in advance of effective date and Company and Bargaining Committee will meet to discuss mutual problems and concerns.
In the Forge Shop the Union has the right to discontinue the four (4) day, ten (10) hour schedule after 18 months of operation if less than 50 percent of the Forge Shop has been converted to a four (4) day, ten (10) hour schedule. An exception to this
11
requirement would exist if the parties mutually agree not to expand the schedule beyond 50 percent.
When initiating a four (4) day, ten (10) hour schedule the Company, if there is a limited off-shift operation scheduled, will post a bid for the primary assignment and when alternative equipment is to be run it will be manned via a line-up.
302.	The first Sunday following the transfer of an employee from a Monday through Friday work schedule to a Sunday through Thursday work schedule will be compensated at double time, provided there is no break in continuity for such circumstances as vacation, holidays, illness, layoff, leaves of absence, etc.
303.	In the event the Company finds it necessary to change the starting time for an entire Department or Division, Company representatives will meet with the Bargaining Committee to explain reasons for such action. A change in the starting time shall be preceded by a one week (seven calendar days) notice posted on departmental bulletin boards.
304.	Any employee reporting for work on a regularly scheduled workday or required to report for work outside of regular work hours, as distinguished from a mere request to work overtime, shall, if such employee shall perform such work as is available and as directed, be guaranteed at least four (4) hours of work in his regular department, or pay therefor, computed at his rate, unless notified before the end of his previous shift not to report for work. However, such notice shall not be required in the event of fires, floods and other acts or causes beyond the Company’s control.
305.	All employees shall receive a fifteen minute paid lunch period.
12
OVERTIME PAY
306.	Overtime rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) shall be paid for all work performed:
A.	In excess of eight (8) hours in any employee’s twenty-four (24) hour work period, except for employees working four (4) 10 hour days who will receive straight time for 10 hours.
B.	Any hours previous to an employee’s regular starting time and any hours after an employee’s regular quitting time will be paid at the applicable premium rate with no compounding of premiums.
C.	At the direction of Management either prior to or after regularly scheduled work hours except that should an employee be transferred during the week from his regularly scheduled shift to another at the request of the Company, such employee shall be paid at the applicable overtime premium for only the first shift of each such change. This constitutes the only overtime premium payment for a change in shift assignment.
D.	During the twenty-four (24) hours designated as Saturday according to each employee’s workweek.
307.	Overtime of double (2) time shall be paid for all work performed:
A.	In excess of ten (10) hours in a twenty-four (24) hour cycle as defined in Section 301 of this Article.
B.	Any hours previous to an employee’s regular starting time and any hours after an employee's regular quitting time will be paid at the applicable premium rate with no compounding of premiums.
C.	On the day designated as a holiday according to each employee’s workweek for the following paid holidays: New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day,
13
Thanksgiving Day, the day after Thanksgiving Day, December 24th, Christmas Day, December 31st, and floating holidays (If a holiday falls on Sunday and the following day Monday is observed as the holiday by the State or Federal Government, it shall be considered the holiday.).
D.	During the twenty-four (24) hours designated as Sunday according to each employee’s workweek. Employees not discharging the duties of their regular job on Sundays or holidays shall be paid in accordance with the rate and overtime wage provisions covering the job and classification to which assigned.
308.	Nothing contained in this Article shall be construed to require or permit the pyramiding of premium and/or overtime rates, and to the extent that hours are compensated for at overtime or premium rates under one provision, they shall not be counted as hours worked, in determining overtime or premium pay under the same or any other provision.
OVERTIME DISTRIBUTION - ALL DEPARTMENTS
309.	Weekend overtime notices will be posted by 7:00 P.M. Wednesday (11:00 A.M. Thursday in the Quality Department) and, consistent with operating efficiency, overtime will be distributed as equally as possible among qualified employees on the basis of the departmental overtime distribution practice.
310.	In order to equitably distribute overtime among shifts, the Company may schedule two or three continuous four (4) or more hour shifts. Such scheduling shall be construed as regularly scheduled work hours for those days.
311.	The Company’s rights to require overtime work will only be subject to applicable limitations under Article V, “Reduction of Work Force or Discontinuation of Operations”.
14
312.	Employees required to work overtime shall not be required to take time off during regular work hours to equalize the time.
313.	So long as regular bid employees are available for the next regular shift on any operation, there shall be no overtime work performed on such operation except in those instances in which jobs of a peculiar nature may require one (1) shift to work overtime hours for the purpose of assuring quality, slow cool or heat treat operations, etc., for deadline shipments. In these cases where overtime hours are required, each case will be discussed with the Bargaining Committeeman for a clear understanding of the purpose intended.
314.	Early starters shall be scheduled by Management consistent with operating efficiency. These employees will not be affected by vacations, holidays, or plant shutdown, except as provided in Section 1613. Early starters will consist of various classifications necessary to have units on line.
315.	Union Representatives shall not be charged for weekend overtime if they are required to be on Union business and, in fact perform the Union business.
ARTICLE IV SENIORITY
401.
A.	Application of seniority throughout this Agreement shall be consistent with the definitions in Section 408 below and as indicated on the departmental seniority rosters.
B.	The Company shall keep up-to-date seniority lists, at all times, for each department setting forth thereon each employee’s name, date of plantwide seniority, bargaining unit seniority and departmental seniority. Such lists shall be available for inspection and six (6) copies shall be furnished to the Union Committee and a copy to the Union's Secretary. A corrected
15
seniority list shall be posted each six (6) months for a period of ten (10) workdays, during which time any employee who feels his or her seniority to be improperly listed, may call attention of this fact to Management and Committee for correction or verification.
PROBATIONARY PERIOD
402.	New employees or employees transferring into the Bargaining Unit shall not be considered regular employees within the said unit until after they have successfully and satisfactorily completed a probationary period of sixty (60) calendar days in the service of the Company. During such period of time, the Company has the exclusive right to determine the retention or dismissal of said employee, who shall have the right of recourse to the grievance procedure provided in this contract for all grievances other than said employee’s retention or dismissal. In all cases, departmental seniority of employees satisfactorily completing such probationary period shall commence as of the date of entry into the department.
Probationary employees will only be afforded weekend overtime after all qualified employees on the shift are first afforded the opportunity to work overtime.
TEMPORARY HELP
403.	Employees hired to provide the necessary work force to cover for regular employees on vacation are temporary and therefore will not accumulate seniority. However, such employees are subject to the same probationary period as regular full time employees.
Should permanent vacancies occur within the Bargaining Unit, the Company will post those openings in all Blacksmiths departments. The Company will give first consideration to permanent Blacksmith employees before reviewing temporary employees who previously notified the Employment Department. If permanent vacancies remain, temporary employees may be considered and if qualified, will be transferred to permanent 16
status. In such event, fringe benefits not previously provided would become effective prospectively.
In event a temporary employee is assigned to fill a permanent opening in another department, he shall not be considered a permanent employee until he has completed the thirty (30) day trial period in such department.
404.	The Chairman of the Bargaining Committee and the Financial Secretary will be furnished with the names and identification numbers and departmental assignment of such temporary employees during the week in which the employee begins work.
405.	As a condition of employment, temporary employees will be required to secure membership in the Union and will pay the regular initiation fee (or reinstatement fee) and dues as required under Union constitution.
406.	Temporary employees may be assigned to vacancies that have been posted for bid and for which no bids have been received or may be assigned in the daily line-up after all regular employees (departmental and those assigned to a department in lieu of layoff) have been given job assignments.
407.	Temporary employees will be entitled to the following fringe benefits: shift premium, paid holidays (excluding floating holidays), and the cost of living tack-on, where appropriate, consistent with the specific terms of the labor agreement.
Temporary employees will only be afforded weekend overtime after all qualified employees on the shift are first afforded the opportunity to work overtime.
17
DEFINITIONS
408.
A.	Plantwide seniority is an employee’s continuous length of service with the Company from the date of his most recent hire.
B.	Bargaining Unit seniority is an employee’s continuous length of service with the Company from the date of his most recent entry into the Bargaining Unit.
C.	Departmental seniority is an employee’s length of service from the last date of entry into the department.
D.	In the event application of A, B and C above result in two or more employees having identical seniority, the employee with the lowest Company identification number shall be considered to have the highest seniority.
E.	Classification seniority is length of service with the Company from the last date of entry into the classification.
F.	Units - it is necessary to indicate the difference between “bid unit” and a “work unit”:
1.	A “bid unit” consists of one or more pieces of equipment which are posted for bids and are manned by successful bidders.
2.	A “work unit” consists of one or more “bid units” scheduled to work together on specific job.
3.	There are neither bid nor work units in the Quality Department (refer to Sections 1811 and 1813). Therefore, the following paragraphs 409 thru 414, including dealing with bidding, are not applicable in Quality Department.
18
APPLICATION OF SENIORITY IN BIDDING
409.	In all departments, except the Quality Department which is covered in Section 1708, a notice of all vacancies, defining the shift and unit or job, will be posted on departmental bulletin boards for a period of ten (10) regularly scheduled workdays. Bids are to be submitted to the respective departments in writing on forms supplied for that purpose.
410.	Eligibility - All departmental employees as covered by this Agreement who have not been successful bidders during the previous sixty (60) calendar days, which sixty (60) calendar days shall commence as of the date that selection of bidders is posted. (Employees in all departments except the Quality Department who are displaced from temporary bid jobs under Article IV, Paragraph 418, shall be considered eligible to bid upon return of employee who created temporary vacancy.)
411.	Selections - In all cases of filling new positions or permanent vacancies, ability being sufficient, successful bidders shall carry their seniority from one classification to another except for the operator classifications identified in the Learnership language (Exhibit V). Selections for vacancies shall be made by the departmental supervisor and departmental committeeman or his designee.
412.	Any operator in the Forge Shop, who leaves his classification by bidding shall relinquish his classification seniority.
413.	Rate Adjustments - If the successful bidder has worked in the classification previously, he shall be paid on the basis of his relative position he held when he previously worked in the classification. If the successful bidder has not worked in the classification previously, his rate shall not be less than the minimum of the rate range of the classification for which the vacancy occurred.
19
AWARDING AND WITHDRAWAL OF BIDS
414.	The following will be the criteria for the awarding and withdrawal of bids:
1.	An employee is considered a successful bidder when the notice of the bid award is posted. Prior to posting the bid award the employee will be given one last opportunity to reject the bid.
2.	Successful bidders will not be eligible to bid on another bid job for sixty (60) calendar days from the date when the selection of bidders was posted.
3.	In all departments the selected bidder will remain on his former bid job and retain his classification until he starts his new bid.
An employee who is awarded a bid will start the new bid at the beginning of the week following the award. In the Forge Shop an employee who is awarded a bid because a previous employee had rejected it will start the job on the next day the job is scheduled to run, providing there is no shift change involved.
4.	In all departments, other than the Forge Shop, the employee will go in the daily line up on any day during the five (5) work day period in which his new bid does not operate.
5.	If, in the opinion of supervision (subject to the grievance procedure), the successful bidder does not qualify for the position within five (5) work day period on the bid job, he shall be returned to the job the employee last held.
6.	No bid jobs will be awarded as they have been in the past except;
A.	Employee must meet eligibility requirements under 413.
20
B.	The requesting employee must fill out a bid form stating “No Bid Job”.
7.	"No Bid" jobs will become unavailable in No Bid Book when Company advises of their intent to hire to the position.
For Awarding and Withdrawal of Bids on operator Learnerships, see Section 1710-1713.
TEMPORARY BIDS
415.	Temporary bids are usually posted to fill a vacancy that is created by a known prolonged temporary absence of an individual employee when the absence is known to exist considerably longer than a ten (10) day period.
Successful bidders of a vacancy such as this must return to the particular job they previously held upon the return of the employee who created the temporary vacancy, except in the Heat Treat and Forge Department, where the employee will return to the classification. It is understood that a successful bidder of a temporary job cannot exercise seniority in bumping younger employees out of a classification. The successful bidder will be considered a floater and subject to being placed on a no-bid job until he becomes a successful bidder on another job. In the Forge Shop Department, if the employee who created the temporary vacancy shall not return, the job shall not be reposted for bid and the employee holding the temporary bid shall be considered the permanent bidder. In the Heat Treat Department, if the employee who created the temporary vacancy does not return, the job shall be reposted.
In the Steel Stores Department, successful bidders of a temporary vacancy must return to the particular job held prior to the temporary bid, when the employee who created the temporary vacancy returns, or does not return. If the employee who created the temporary vacancy does not return to his bid job, it will be reposted for permanent bid. A successful bidder of a temporary job (with a classification change) may not exercise
21
seniority in bumping younger employees out of the classification. A successful bidder of a temporary job will not acquire the new classification, for downgrading purposes. This section will not circumvent Article XVI, Section 1616 or 1617.
INTERDEPARTMENTAL TRANSFERS
416.	In the event there is no applicant for a vacancy within a department in lieu of the hiring procedure, the vacancy will be filled in the following manner by employees in the Bargaining Unit.
417.	An interdepartmental posting will be made briefly describing the vacancy. An employee desiring a permanent transfer from one department to another in the Bargaining Unit may register such desire on the Request for Transfer form available in the Employment department for such purpose; however, no inter- departmental transfers will be honored within the first sixty (60) days of employment. The employee must indicate on the transfer form the department and/or classification desired. If the Company is increasing the departmental work force by hiring, first consideration will be given to employees who have previously filed a Request for Transfer and Bargaining Unit seniority of applicants will be considered where such employees have the ability and qualifications to perform the work required in a satisfactory manner. If employee does not find position desirable, he may in the first 80 learnership hours (for operator learnerships) return to his former classification and shift. If the employee’s former job has been filled the Company may exercise its right to realign manpower via overman/underman provisions of labor agreement.
418.	The departmental seniority of an employee transferring under this provision commences the date such transfer is approved by the Employment Department and shall precede the seniority of any employee(s) who may enter the department after such date. The departmental seniority and NOT Bargaining Unit seniority of an employee transferring under provisions of this
22
Agreement shall be applied for purposes of job bidding or in the event of layoffs or recalls.
419.	The interdepartmental transfer shall be a permanent transfer and employee may be detained for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days, while a replacement is being secured and adequately trained for the position being vacated.
TRANSFER TO FACILITATE PRODUCTION
420.	Employees may be transferred temporarily to another department or job assignment within the Blacksmiths Bargaining Unit to facilitate production when required for a period not to exceed ten (10) workdays during which period of time, he shall be paid his rate or the rate and/or piece work rate, if any, of the job to which he is transferred, whichever is higher. The intent of this section is as follows:
421.	If an employee is transferred to facilitate production and the unit from which he is transferred continues to operate, he is then to be paid the difference in earnings, whichever is higher. In the event the unit from which an employee is temporarily transferred to facilitate production is shut down and does not operate, the employee is not to be paid the difference in piece work earnings. The intent of this section is not to circumvent the daily application of seniority, or Section 507. However, the parties recognize temporary transfers may be necessary when the nature or duration of the work to be performed is such that it is impractical to recall laid off members of the unit. In any event the duration of the temporary transfer will not exceed 10 days as set forth in Section 420.
422.	In the Quality Department, employees may be temporarily transferred from one bid or assignment within the department to another to meet operational requirements. Such employees will be compensated for time worked at the higher of the two rates.
23
LOSS OF SENIORITY
423.	An employee’s seniority and rights of employment shall be considered terminated in case of:
A.	Voluntary resignation.
B.	Justifiable discharge.
C.	Employee’s failure to return to work after layoff within five (5) calendar days after being notified by Certified Mail (return receipt requested) sent to his last known address appearing on the Company’s records, provided this time shall be extended for justifiable cause, if the employee is unable to report for work and so advises the Company within two (2) workdays after receipt of said notice.
D.	An employee who has forty-eight (48) consecutive months of unemployment with the Company, except for approved Company sick leave.
E.	An employee who, having been granted a leave of absence, engages in any gainful employment elsewhere during said leave of absence, or who shall be on leave of absence for more than ninety (90) consecutive days unless special provision shall have been made therefor by agreement between the Company and the Bargaining Committee.
SENIORITY OF VETERANS
424.	Any full time employee, other than a probationary employee, who enters into active service in the Armed Forces of the United States will be given a leave of absence for such period. Seniority shall accumulate during such period of service. Administration and tenure of such leave shall be consistent with applicable Federal Laws. Upon termination of such service, the employee shall be reinstated in accordance with applicable Federal Laws.
24
SENIORITY OF ELECTED OFFICIALS 425.
A.	Seniority of the President and Chairman of the Bargaining Committee - For the purpose of layoff and restoration to service the President and the Chairman of the Bargaining Committee shall maintain superseniority rights within the Bargaining Unit during their term in office as long as there is any work available which they are qualified to perform.
B.	Seniority of Committeeman - For the purpose of layoff and restoration to service the Bargaining Committee shall maintain superseniority rights within their department during their term in office as long as there is any work available which they are qualified to perform.
C.	Seniority of Stewards - For the purpose of layoff and restoration to service stewards shall maintain superseniority rights within their area of representation during their term in office as long as there is any work available which they are qualified to perform.
In the Forge Shop, effective 7/1/84, Stewards will be elected at large by and for their shift. The ratio of Stewards to employees on a shift will be as follows: One (1) Steward for every forty (40) employees. The number of Stewards will be based upon the total number of active employees on a shift. In the event of recall/ reductions, the number of Stewards will be reviewed and adjusted, if necessary, at time of recall/reduction, based upon the total number of employees on a shift after the recall/ reduction. The number of Steward(s) to employees on a shift will be as indicated in the following example:
1 - 40 employees
41 - 80 employees
81 -120 employees etc.
one (1) Steward two (2) Stewards three (3) Stewards
25
Officers, Committeemen and Stewards of the Union who by their office retain their job during layoff will lose their bidding rights until a recall based on their seniority date comes into effect.
TRANSFERS OUTSIDE BARGAINING UNIT
426.	An employee transferring from the Bargaining Unit to positions outside the Bargaining Unit shall continue to accumulate Bargaining Unit, Departmental and Classification seniority as follows:
Supervisory and managerial positions - six (6) months*
All other positions - three (3) months*
*from date of transfer
In the event such employee returns to the Bargaining Unit within the above-mentioned period, he may bid for a job, fill vacancies, or by mutual agreement between Company and Union, be assigned to a job.
In event such employee remains outside the Bargaining Unit beyond the above-mentioned period, all seniority rights in the Bargaining Unit shall terminate.
SENIORITY SAVINGS CLAUSE
427.	It is herewith stipulated and agreed that in the event any or all of this Seniority Article is found to be unlawful, nullified, or rendered inoperative by any Federal decision of any court or administrative Federal or State agency, the Company and Union will immediately thereafter commence negotiations with respect to the entire Seniority Article of this Agreement.
26
ARTICLE V
REDUCTION OF WORK FORCE OR DISCONTINUATION OF OPERATIONS - ALL DEPARTMENTS
501.	Reduction of Forces - This means that the number of people on the active payroll have been reduced as a result of layoffs instituted by the Company. Voluntary terminations which are not replaced will not be considered a reduction in forces.
502.	Reduced Hours - Hours shall be considered reduced if an employee is scheduled for less than eight (8) hours of work per day from Monday through Friday (when a paid holiday falls in a workweek, such holiday for the purpose of this paragraph, shall be construed as a day worked). This shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or days per week. A reduction in hours will be brought to the Union’s attention with at least twenty-four (24) hour notice, except as provided for in Paragraph 304.
503.	In the event of a slowdown in business to the extent that a reduction in hours or forces becomes necessary, the following procedure will be used:
All probationary and temporary employees in the affected department shall be laid off before there is a scheduled reduction in hours below 40 per week or a reduction in forces.
Regular employees scheduled for layoff in a department may displace the least senior probationary employee(s) in other departments covered by this Agreement provided they have the ability to perform the work. If necessary for further reduction, the Company may:
A.	reduce hours and/or
B.	engage in reduction of forces,
27
C.	provide for voluntary layoff with Company determining the number and classification on a departmental basis for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days at a time.
D.	provide for rotating layoff within respective departments.
SCHEDULING UNDER REDUCED FORCES/HOURS
504. With each department scheduled separately, bid and work units may be scheduled for either four (4) or five (5), eight (8) hour days. It is understood that in the event some employees are scheduled for four (4) days in a week, and additional employees are required to fill vacancies not covered by bid employees on the fifth (5th) day of that week, such work shall be rotated within the classification on the shift.
In the event Steel Stores Department invokes this section (Scheduling Under Reduced Forces/Hours) and partial operations are scheduled on the fifth (5th) day, the Steel Stores Department will schedule the fifth (5th) day manpower requirement by seniority within the classification by shift on a rotating basis.
In the event Company chooses to reduce hours, the hours may be reduced to thirty-two (32) hours per week and with each department scheduled separately, such reduction in hours shall not exceed eight (8) weeks in the aggregate in a twelve (12) month period.
In the event of a reduction of forces or hours in any department, overtime in the department shall be limited on a daily basis to:
A.	early starters who will perform the necessary work for prompt start-up of the department at the beginning of the shift, and/or
B.	Vacuum Presses, three (3) work units plus personnel required to provide services to such units.
In the Heat Treat Department, the following are defined as one work unit each:
28
Bldg. 2
Bldg. 66
Bay 5
Bay 8
Bay 15
Die Warming Furnaces
Two (2) Brinell units
All other individual furnaces where employees have bid (one work unit each)
In the Steel Stores Department, a work unit is a yard crew of a crane operator and a yardman; an operator running a saw or saws; or a crew operating a shear, etc.
Quality Department shall be scheduled consistent with Sections 1724, 1725 and 1726.
Additional units may be scheduled by mutual agreement. This provision does not apply to nonscheduled end of shift overtime which is expected for catching up time lost due to breakdown, etc. The aforementioned overtime will not be used to circumvent legitimate basis for recalls from layoff or discontinuing scheduling under reduced hours.
It is understood that any production shutdowns or other schedule reductions in addition to those permitted by this Agreement will be restricted to those that curtail operations in weekly increments.
PROCEDURE FOR LAYOFF, REDUCED HOURS, DISCONTINUATION OF OPERATIONS AND OVERMANNED SHIFTS
505. The Company will consider each department separately and will, after seventy-two (72) hours notice, reduce the department, among employees with the least departmental seniority who have entered the department after 12/9/64. If the Company determines that further reductions in the departmental work force are necessary, those employees with the least
29
bargaining unit seniority on or before 12/9/64 on the departmental seniority roster will be laid off in order of seniority.
A.	It is specifically agreed that in the event of layoffs and senior employees are not qualified to do the necessary jobs, junior employees may be retained to perform such work. The Company agrees to inform the Chairman of the Committee and Departmental Committeeman of such action. It is agreed employees retained out of seniority due to job qualifications as necessary for off shift set-up crew who bid to or are placed on Company’s off shift set-up crew will be permitted to perform all jobs for which they are qualified while working on the set-up crew. It is understood set-up crew will be used to set up and run units.
This same procedure may be used to recall junior employees for jobs that cannot be performed by senior employees. Employees retained or recalled out of seniority shall forfeit their bidding rights until a recall based on their seniority date comes into effect.
B.	An evaluation of the Steel Stores Department has determined that “A” above shall not have any application and the Steel Stores Department is the exception.
C.	In accordance with Article V, Section 503, employees who are absent due to illness or injury will be laid off when their seniority warrants.
TRANSFER TO SAVE BEING LAID OFF
506.	No employee shall be compelled to accept a permanent transfer within the bargaining unit to save being laid off because of lack of work or reduction in forces. In the event such transfer is contemplated, the Committee shall be notified at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance.
507.	Qualified employees laid off in any department shall have the right to fill vacancies in other departments not
30
experiencing layoffs on the basis of their bargaining unit seniority, but shall not accumulate departmental seniority in the department to which transferred in lieu of layoff, nor shall they displace any employee holding any seniority in such department. Employees filling vacancies in other departments under this provision shall be considered as temporarily transferred and paid the applicable rate, if any, of the job or new classification to which transferred. Such transfers may be of indefinite duration, but said employees must return to their regular department when work is again available. No new employee will be hired in any department while qualified laid off employees, able and willing to accept temporary transfers to other departments under this provision, are available.
In the event a laid off employee is recalled or assigned in lieu of lay off to a department other than his home department, the Company will have the option of retaining the employee in the department to which he was recalled or assigned for a period of up to 90 days beyond the date their seniority would otherwise allow them to be recalled to their home department. This understanding could result in less senior employees being recalled to a home department sooner than more senior employees on the same roster for a period of up to 90 days. An employee temporarily bypassed for recall to his home department is entitled to the top of the rate range of the classification to which they are assigned during this period.
508.	In the event of transfer to save layoff, the affected employee’s rate shall not be less than the minimum of the rate range of the classification to which transferred.
509.	Employees transferred to save being laid off will only be afforded overtime after all qualified employees on the shift are first afforded the opportunity to work overtime.
RECALL TO HOME DEPARTMENT
510.	The restoration to service of laid off employees will be made in reverse order of layoff on the basis of seniority within the department and each department shall stand on its own.
31
Employees being recalled from layoff shall be returned to their department to any available job but shall be returned to their last bid job (held prior to layoff) when it becomes available. However, an employee who is laid off more than six (6) months in any department except Steel Stores loses his right to his bid job and shall be returned to any available job in his department, regardless of shift.
511.	If an employee has been on leave of absence for six (6) months or more in any department, except Steel Stores, except for illness or injury, he, likewise shall lose his right to his bid job, and upon return to work shall be returned to any available job in his department, regardless of shift. There are no time limits in Steel Stores relative to loss of bid jobs under layoff or leaves of absence.
512.	Subject to the provisions of this section nothing shall prevent the Company from posting vacancies, resulting from layoffs, on a temporary basis. In the event there are no applicants for such temporary bids the Company may assign any employee who does not have a regular bid job to perform such work.
513.	An employee recalled to his home department, but to a different operator classification/learnership, may be offered a job in their previous operator/learnership when it becomes available. If their return to previous operator classification/learnership occurs within four years of recall, they will have their seniority in their previous classification restored.
514.	During the term of this agreement the Company will provide job security for 135 bargaining unit jobs for those individuals in the unit on 10/19/11. Employees that may subsequently be laid off will be recalled to maintain employment at 135. The 135 number may only be reduced when all employees in the unit on 10/19/11 are active, recalled or have lost their seniority rights. Seniority of active employees will be regulated per Article V.
32
The parties recognize that in order to remain competitive, continuous quality and productivity improvements must be made throughout the Company. It is only through a joint Union/Management commitment that these improvements can be made and job security maintained.
“Members of the Bargaining Unit” shall include employees actively at work plus employees on rotational layoff, short term absences due to vacations, floating holidays, bereavement, jury duty and those absent due to industrial injury or illness of less than one year.
ARTICLE VI
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
601.	An employee requesting a leave of absence shall make written application to the Manager of Employee Benefits Administration stating his reasons for such request. When, in the exercise of managerial functions, the Company determines that the requirements of production will permit, employees will be granted a leave of absence of thirty (30) days or less, subject to renewal. Such leave of absence may be extended by the Company for justifiable cause. All leaves of absence must be justified by the submission of any documentary information that may be requested by the Company.
602.	The Financial Secretary-Treasurer of the Union will receive written confirmation of Company’s approval, extension or termination of leaves of absence.
603.	It is understood that leaves of absence shall not be used for the purpose of obtaining employment elsewhere unless extenuating circumstances warrant granting such permission in writing. In cases of self-employment, such leaves of absence are not to exceed ninety (90) days.
604.	Any employee who fails to report for work at the expiration of such leave granted by the Company, shall be deemed to
33
have abandoned his employment and all rights of employment and seniority shall cease.
605.	In the event an employee is selected for a full time position with the International Union or elected to part time public office, he shall be given a leave of absence for the period of his tenure of office or job, or the period of this Agreement, whichever is lesser. During such leave, the employee will retain his classification and departmental seniority as of the date he goes on leave, but will continue to accumulate Bargaining Unit and Plantwide seniority while on leave of absence. Such leaves of absence will be renewed upon appropriate written request.
606.	Pregnant employees will be placed on Company approved leave of absence with commencement and duration of such leave subject to the following conditions: Pregnant employee shall notify her physician of the nature of her duties and her working environment. Employee shall furnish her supervisor with statement from her physician indicating expected date of delivery and recommended date leave of absence should commence. Supervisor will forward statement to First Aid and/or Personnel Department.
Company shall review each such instance with its Company Physician to determine whether above commencement of leave is compatible with employee’s duties, work environment and employee’s individual medical circumstances. If Company Physician concurs after considering the foregoing, leave will commence on date recommended by employee’s physician. If Company has reservations based on foregoing considerations, they shall be called to the attention of employee’s physician by Company Physician and a mutually acceptable leave commencement date be determined.
607.	An employee may return to work with a statement from her physician substantiating her physical ability to perform her regular duties. Pregnancy leaves of absence may be extended if employee submits a statement from her physician verifying the
34
need for such extension. All requests for leave extension will be reviewed by Company Physician. If Company has reservations based on the foregoing considerations, they shall be called to the attention of the employee’s physician by the Company Physician and a mutually acceptable leave extension be determined. If employee returns to work in accordance with the foregoing, she will be reinstated with uninterrupted and accumulated seniority. Failure to return to work in accordance with the foregoing shall be considered voluntary termination.
Employees on pregnancy leave shall receive Health and Accident Group Insurance benefits while on leave.
All Group Insurance coverage’s will remain in effect while employees are on pregnancy leave of absence up to a maximum of twelve (12) months.
608.	Effective 4/15/88, the Company’s policy on leaves of absence will be modified to conform to “1987 Wisconsin Act 287”.
ARTICLE VII
PAID HOLIDAYS
701. Employees will be paid eight (8) hours, or 10 hours if scheduled for four (4) 10 hour days and the holiday falls upon a scheduled workday, at their average straight time hourly earnings of the week in which the holiday occurs (Forge Shop employees will be paid at their ASTHE for previous quarter), for New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, July 4th, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, the day after Thanksgiving Day, December 24th, Christmas Day, December 31st and five (5) floating holidays (three (3) designated), providing they meet eligibility requirements set forth hereinafter.
A.	Employee has completed thirty (30) days probationary period with the Company.
35
B.	The employee must have worked the last scheduled working day prior to and the next scheduled working day after such holiday, except for extenuating circumstances, which are acceptable to the Company.
C.	The holiday does not fall in a workweek in which no work was scheduled due to strike, fire or disaster.
D.	Floating holidays are subject to the following additional requirements:
1.	The employee must give a minimum of one (1) week notice to his Supervisor, designating his floating holiday. Exceptions to this one (1) week notice can be made by mutual agreement between employee and Supervisor, consistent with operating efficiency. If the number of employees in a department requesting floating holiday for an identical day will interfere with efficiency of department or customer requirements, Department Head will so inform appropriate Union Representative, and the number of employees who will be permitted to take such day as a floating holiday will be resolved on the basis of seniority.
2.	Floating holidays must be observed by eligible employees between the period of January 1st to December 31st and cannot be taken on a Saturday, Sunday, contractual holiday or during a week designated as vacation.
3.	Eligible employees who have been laid off in a reduction in force shall receive payment for unused floating holidays, but will not be compelled to take days off prior to layoff. Such pay for unused floating holidays will be included on employee’s last paycheck. The aforementioned does not include Company designated holidays.
4.	It is understood that floating holidays are not legal holidays and if an employee prefers to pass up the holiday(s) and work, he will so advise his Supervisor and
36
he shall be paid holiday pay plus straight time for work performed on that holiday.
5.	If, after the floating holiday has been approved, supervision determines that the employee’s services will be required on that day, employees will be paid the applicable rate for all hours worked and may reschedule his floating holiday.
702.	In the Forge Shop:
A.	Memorial Day and Floating Holidays in the second pay quarter will be paid at the first quarter ASTHE.
B.	July 4th and floating holidays prior to contract anniversary date will be paid at the second quarter ASTHE.
C.	Labor Day and floating holidays in the third quarter will be paid at the second quarter ASTHE.
D.	Thanksgiving and Floating Holidays in the fourth pay quarter will be paid at the third quarter ASTHE plus applicable general increases associated with contract anniversary.
E.	Christmas, New Year’s Day and Floating Holidays in the first pay quarter will be paid at the fourth quarter ASTHE plus applicable general increases associated with contract anniversary.
F.	If employee has no hours worked or no earnings for previous pay quarter, and therefore calculated quarterly ASTHE does not exist, holiday pay will be calculated at the ASTHE of the week in which the holiday falls.
Holiday pay for employees in Quality, Heat Treat and Steel Stores will be based on ASTHE for the week the holiday falls.
37
Average Straight Time Hourly Earnings in this provision includes straight time hourly and incentive earnings, shift premium and cost of living, and excludes overtime premium, vacation pay, wage dividend, jury duty pay, bereavement pay, military leave pay, holiday pay and payments made for suggestion awards.
703.	Eligible employees who are laid off, return from layoff, go on or return from Company approved sick leave or Company leave of absence, two calendar weeks before, the week of or two calendar weeks following the holiday shall receive pay for such holiday. Employees on Company approved sick leave status (more than sixty (60) consecutive days) or on industrial injury and such sick leave or industrial injury extends beyond holiday pay eligibility, as defined in this section, will be eligible for one (1) additional designated holiday, if such holiday falls within said leave.
704.	When a holiday falls on Saturday, eligible employees shall receive holiday pay provided they meet the requirements of Section 701B.
705.	If a paid holiday(s) falls within the employee’s vacation period, additional time off for such holiday may be scheduled at another time during the vacation calendar year upon the mutual agreement of the supervisor and the employee concerned.
706.	Eligible employees who may be required to and do work on any of the above holidays shall be paid for time worked in accordance with Overtime Pay Regulations and in addition, shall receive holiday pay as provided in this section.
707.	Employees who agree to work on any such holiday and then fail to report for and perform such work, without reasonable cause acceptable to the Company shall not receive pay for that holiday.
708.	In applying this procedure, when any of the above enumerated holidays fall on a Sunday and the day following is
38
observed as a holiday by the Federal or State Government, it shall be paid as such holiday.
709.	In 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, and 2017 the three Company designated holidays shall be scheduled in conjunction with the existing paid holidays to accomplish a Christmas/New Year plant shutdown.
The following days shall be paid holidays during the Christmas holiday period in 2012:
2012
Monday	12/24/12	Christmas Eve
Tuesday	12/25/12	Christmas Day
Wednesday	12/26/12	Company Designated Holiday
Thursday	12/27/12	Company Designated Holiday
Friday	12/28/12	Company Designated Holiday
Monday	1/31/12	New Year's Eve
Tuesday	1/1/13	New Year’s Day
In conjunction with above shutdown, Company shall have the option to post notice that no work will be scheduled on any of the following days:
Wednesday 1/2/13
Thursday 1/3/13
Friday 1/4/13
The following shall be paid holidays during the Christmas holiday period in 2013:
2013
Tuesday	12/24/13	Christmas Eve
Wednesday	12/25/13	Christmas Day
Thursday	12/26/13	Company Designated	Holiday
Friday	12/27/13	Company Designated	Holiday
39
Monday	12/30/13
Tuesday	12/31/13
Wednesday 1/1/14
Company Designated Holiday New Year’s Eve New Year's Day
In conjunction with the above shutdown, the Company shall have the option to post notice that no work will be scheduled on any, or all of the following days:
Monday	12/23/13
Thursday	1/2/14
Friday	1/3/14
The following shall be paid holidays during the Christmas holiday period in 2014:
2014
Wednesday	12/24/14	Christmas Eve
Thursday	12/25/14	Christmas Day
Friday	12/26/14	Company Designated Holiday
Monday	12/29/14	Company Designated Holiday
Tuesday	12/30/14	Company Designated Holiday
Wednesday	12/31/14	New Year's Eve
Thursday	1/1/15	New Year's Day
In conjunction with the above shutdown, the Company shall have the option to post notice that no work will be scheduled on any, or all of the following days:
Monday	12/22/14
Tuesday	12/23/14
Friday	1/2/15
The following shall be paid holidays during the Christmas holiday period in 2015:
40
2015
Thursday	12/24/15	Christmas Eve
Friday	12/25/15	Christmas Day
Monday	12/28/15	Company Designated Holiday
Tuesday	12/29/15	Company Designated Holiday
Wednesday	12/30/15	Company Designated Holiday
Thursday	12/31/15	New Year's Eve
Friday	1/1/16	New Year's Day
In conjunction with the above shutdown, the Company shall have the option to post notice that no work will be scheduled on any, or all of the following days:
Monday	12/21/15
Tuesday	12/22/15
Wednesday 12/23/15
The following days shall be paid holidays during the Christmas holiday period in 2016:
2016
Monday	12/26/16	Christmas Eve Observed
Tuesday	12/27/16	Christmas Day Observed
Wednesday	12/28/16	Company Designated Holiday
Thursday	12/29/16	Company Designated Holiday
Friday	12/30/16	Company Designated Holiday
Saturday	12/31/16	New Year's Eve
Monday	1/2/17	New Year's Day Observed
The following days shall be paid holidays during the Christmas holiday period in 2017:
2017
Monday 12/25/17 Christmas Day
Tuesday	12/26/17 Christmas Eve Observed
41
Wednesday	12/27/17
Thursday	12/28/17
Friday	12/29/17
Monday	1/1/18
Tuesday	1/2/18
Company Designated Holiday Company Designated Holiday Company Designated Holiday New Year's Day New Year’s Eve Observed
In conjunction with the above shutdown, the Company shall have the option to post notice that no work will be scheduled on any, or all of the following days:
Wednesday 1 /3/2018
Thursday	1/4/2018
Friday	1/5/2018
ARTICLE VIII
VACATIONS
801.	Regular full time employees, hired prior to 8/29/88, who are in the employ of the Company on January 1st of the vacation year shall be granted vacations with pay based on their length of service as follows:
Continuous Service Attained During Vacation Year	Vacation Allowance	Vacation 	Pay
1 Year	1 Week	3-1/2%
2 Years	2 Weeks	6%
8 Years	3 Weeks	8-1/2%
15 Years	4 Weeks	11%
25 Years	5 Weeks	12-1/2%
The parties recognize that the employees hired prior to 8/29/88 are grandfathered under the terms of the above schedule. Once there are no longer any employees in the Bargaining Unit who were hired prior to that date this schedule will be invalid.
42
For new employees hired on or after 8/29/88, the following vacation schedule will apply.
Regular full time employees, hired on or after 8/29/88, who are in the employ of the Company on January 1 st of the vacation year shall be granted vacations with pay based on their length of service as follows:
Continuous Service Attained During Vacation Year	Vacation Allowance	Vacation 	Pay
1 Year	1 Week	45 Hours
2 Years	2 Weeks	90 Hours
8 Years	3 Weeks	135 Hours
15 Years 4 Weeks	180 Hours	
25 Years or more	5 Weeks	225 Hours
Employees hired on or after 8/29/88 will be paid at their hourly rate or if in an incentive classification, will be paid the previous quarter’s average straight time hourly earnings. For those employees hired on or after 8/29/88 all time lost for vacation purposes will be paid as time worked, in accordance with the above schedule.
802.	Employees hired prior to 8/29/88 who complete first year of continuous service during vacation year will be eligible for vacation pay upon completing first anniversary date of continuous employment.
Employees whose continuous service with the Company terminates prior to completing first anniversary date of such employment with Company shall not be entitled to vacation pay.
803.	For employees hired prior to 8/29/88 vacation eligibility cutoff date shall be January 1st of the vacation year and the vacation pay shall be based on the percentage of an employee’s total straight time earnings, which includes straight time hourly and incentive earnings, shift premium, jury duty pay, court
43
witnessing pay, bereavement pay, military leave pay, civil disturbance pay and the previous year’s vacation pay, but excludes overtime premium, and payments made for suggestion awards, for the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding April 1 st of the vacation year.
804.	For employees hired prior to 8/29/88, all vacation pay will be distributed in three equal payments. Vacation checks will be provided the first week of May, August and October. Those employees hired prior to 8/29/88 with two weeks of vacation eligibility shall receive their entire vacation check the first week of May.
805.	Eligible employees hired prior to 8/29/88 on Company approved leave of absence, absent due to prolonged illness or in the military, naval, or maritime service of the United States, or on layoff on the eligibility cutoff date or retiring or who voluntarily terminates or is discharged during the vacation year shall be eligible for vacation pay based on the applicable percentage of actual earnings during the vacation pay base period. Those employees hired on or after 8/29/88 shall be eligible for appropriate number of hours of vacation pay as indicated in above schedule.
806.	For those employees hired prior to 8/29/88, time lost due to an industrial injury will be treated as time worked and vacation pay will be computed on the basis of the employee’s actual straight time earnings for the vacation pay base period. Those employees hired on or after 8/29/88 shall be eligible for appropriate number of hours of vacation pay as indicated in Section 901.
807.	In the event of death of any employee, hired prior to
8/29/88, who is entitled to a vacation under the provisions of Section 901, vacation pay due the employee will be paid to his lawful heirs based on applicable percentage of actual earnings during vacation pay period. Payment for those employees hired
44
on or after 8/29/88 will be the appropriate number of hours as indicated in Section 901.
808.	Any employee who voluntarily terminates his employment or is discharged shall receive accrued vacation pay.
809.	For vacation purposes, the Company may close down the entire plant or any department thereof for a period to last no longer than two (2) weeks or may prepare a staggered vacation schedule applicable during the vacation period.
During any national emergency, the Company may require continued production instead of time off for vacation, in which event the employees shall receive their vacation pay in lieu of vacation.
810.	In the event of a partial plant shutdown, seniority and classification shall apply in selecting employees required to work.
811.	In the event of a staggered vacation arrangement, employees will be permitted to exercise seniority in selecting their vacation period, consistent with operating efficiency.
A. Any employee desiring additional vacation should make such request to his department head. Sufficient advance notice should be made and conditions of production permitting, favorable consideration will be given such requests.
812.	The Company will distribute vacation request slips to all employees by February 15 of the vacation year. These slips will he returned to the Company by March 15 of the vacation year. The Company will post the vacation schedule of employees by April 15 of the vacation year.
All vacations will commence with the end of the workweek and must be taken in full one week increments, but deviations may be made by mutual agreement. Employees entitled to two or more weeks of vacation may take one (1) week of their vacation in daily
45
increments and those employees entitled to four (4) or more weeks of vacation may take two (2) weeks of their vacation entitlement in daily increments, provided this vacation does not interfere with efficiency of department and customer production requirements. These daily increments of vacation are subject to all applicable conditions reflected in Section 801 “D”, except employees are not permitted to work on those days designated as daily vacation, and, in addition, must be taken within the vacation calendar year.
The above language as pertains to daily increments of vacation for employees having two weeks of vacation shall not apply during vacation periods when the Company chooses to institute a vacation plant shutdown.
813.	It is understood that no vacation time can be accrued and carried forward to any succeeding calendar year.
814.	Taking a vacation shall be mandatory and employees shall not receive vacation pay in lieu of a vacation. For those employees who experience loss of income due to illness, layoff, military service, leave of absence or other legitimate reasons, the taking of vacations shall not be mandatory and employees could receive vacation based on following formula for days absent during the vacation year only:
Consecutive Days Absence Waived Vacation
30-59
60-89
90-119
120-149
150 & Over
1 Week
2	Weeks
3	Weeks
4	Weeks
5	Weeks
46
ARTICLE IX
WAGE DIVIDEND
901.	All employees of the bargaining unit hired prior to 10/1/06, and also after 10/1/06 in the Forge Shop, will be eligible for a wage dividend for the years after 2006, if they meet the eligibility requirements of this article. Payments will be made no later than Dec. 15^, subject to the conditions set forth below.
Prior to the start of the 2006 - 2007 Wage Dividend base period, employees hired prior to 10/1/06 in Quality, Heat Treat and Steel Stores will have a one time opportunity to opt out of the Wage Dividend benefit and receive a 5% increase to their base wage rate. Employees hired after 10/1/06 in these departments will automatically receive the higher base rate.
Length of Continuous Service*Percentages
More than 5 years..............5%
2 years to 5 years.............4%
Under 2 years..................3%
Continuous service means all time from the date of employment, including time lost for layoffs and authorized leaves of absence. An employee who quits or is discharged breaks his continuity of employment.
902.	Employees shall be eligible for their respective wage dividends if they have completed the required respective eligibility periods as of November 30th of the current year and are on the payroll of the Company on November 30th of the current year.
903.	Payment is based on the total straight time wages actually earned by each employee for the twelve (12) month period ending November 30th of the current year. Total straight time earnings shall include day rate earnings, piece work
47
earnings, shift premium, overtime premium, holidays and cost of living, bereavement pay, military leave pay, jury duty pay, court witnessing pay and civil disturbance pay but shall not include such items as vacation pay, wage dividend and payments made for suggestion awards.
904.	For the purpose of this plan, employees not at work on November 30th due to temporary curtailment of production caused by breakdowns, shortages of materials, accident or similar cause or because of illness or injury shall be deemed to be on the active payroll.
905.	Eligible employees on Company approved leave of absence, absence due to prolonged illness or who are in the Military, Naval or Maritime services of the United States, or who are on layoff on the eligibility cutoff date, who retire or who quit or are discharged during the wage dividend base period, shall be eligible for wage dividend pay based on the applicable percentage of actual earnings during the wage dividend base period.
906.	Time lost due to an industrial injury by an eligible employee will be treated as time worked and such employee’s wage dividend will be computed as follows:
907.	Such employee’s applicable average earnings during the period preceding industrial injury will be applied to time absent from work for such industrial injury for purpose of wage dividend computation so as to arrive at applicable earnings for such wage dividend base period.
908.	In the event of the death of an eligible employee who is entitled to a wage dividend under the provisions hereof, the wage dividend due such employee will be paid to his lawful heirs based on applicable percentage of actual earnings during wage dividend base period.
48
909.	In all instances, in order to be eligible for wage dividend, employees must have completed their required service as provided in this schedule.
An employee who quits or is discharged during a wage dividend base period will receive pro rata wage dividend based on the applicable percentage of earnings during such base period.
SAVINGS AND DEFERRAL INVESTMENT PLAN
910.	SDIP - Effective 1/1/92 Company will establish a Savings and Deferral Investment Plan. The Plan will permit eligible employees to contribute from 1% to 50% of gross wages on a before (401K) or after tax basis. The percentage of regular weekly pay that employees are eligible to contribute may be increased during the contract term upon mutual agreement of Company and Bargaining Committee. Employee contributions and associated earnings will be vested immediately. The Company matching contribution and associated earnings will be vested after five (5) years of Company service. Employee contributions and the Company matching contribution will be invested at the employee’s direction in the investment funds available under the plan. The Company may add additional investment choices in the future. The Company will be the sole administrator of the Plan.
PROFIT SHARING
911.	Company will distribute the yearly profit sharing design no later than 2/28 of each year of the agreement.
ARTICLE X
GROUP INSURANCE BENEFITS
1001.	Company will continue to provide group insurance and general information and benefits will be made available to all employees.
1002.	Company will continue to provide laid off employees group insurance benefits for affected employees and their eligible 49
dependents for the month in which the layoff occurs and two (2) calendar months thereafter. Company will continue to provide coverage to the family of an employee who dies while actively employed for the month of the death and two additional months thereafter.
1003.	Thereafter Company will make Group Insurance benefits available to laid off employees at prevailing group rate (being paid by Company for active employees). The laid off employee is to pay the total premium for this coverage directly to the insurance carrier.
1004.	Employees who go on Company approved medical leave status shall have group insurance coverage in effect for the employee and eligible dependents for maximum period of twelve (12) months.
GROUP LIFE AND AD & D INSURANCE
1005.	Group Life Insurance for active employees will be $21,000 effective 10/1/03 and $22,000 effective 4/1/05.
1006.	The Company will provide $1,000 life insurance for spouse of employees.
Employees who retire on or after 8/29/88 will not be covered by spouse life insurance.
RETIREE BENEFITS
1007.	Employees who retire under the ATI Ladish Forging, LLC., -Blacksmiths Pension Plan on or after 3/26/73 shall be covered by a $1,500 Group Life Insurance policy. This coverage does not include any Accidental Death and Dismemberment provisions.
HEALTH INSURANCE
1008.	Effective 2/27/2012 health insurance is available with monthly employee contributions of 18% of the monthly premium ($130 - Single and $285 - Family effective 2/27/12). In the
50
event the Company continues to contract with an insurance company to fully insure employees, the employee share of the premium will continue to be 18% of the premium. Should the Company elect to self-insure for health care the first year “premium cost” will be as quoted by the prior insurance provider. Subsequent “premiums” will be based on the actual experience/costs from the prior calendar year and take into account anticipated trend of future costs. The Company and participating employees will share premium increases (82% Company and 18% Employee). Choice of insurers and specific plan design are the Company’s determination. The expectation is that plan design would only change to control increased cost to the Company and employees or due to variations from one insurer to another.
Employees will have the opportunity to change plans during the open enrollment in March.
HRA’s will be established on 1/1/04 to offset potential increases to out-of-pocket expenses and drugs prescribed by physicians. Annual amount of the HRA will be $600 for those enrolled in a family plan and $240 for those enrolled in a single plan (entitlement to be pro-rated based on months of service in the calendar year for employees who may terminate). Participants may rollover up to $200 family and $80 for a single into the following calendar year.
1009.	A dental HMO/PPO will be offered to all employees. Employee premium contributions will be $10/month for a family contract during the term of this agreement. A free standing plan will also be offered with employee contributions of $34.73/month family and $13.16/month for a single plan. The dental insurance is only available to active employees. Annual increases to employee contributions will not exceed $6/month family or $2/month single coverage.
DENTAL COVERAGE: Effective January 1, 2012, the maximum allowable annual dental benefit for the HMO/PPO is increased from $1750 to $2,500.
51
1010.	Employees who go on Early or Disability retirement and their eligible spouse on or after 10/1/06 will be covered by an insurance plan offered by the Company. Choice of insurers and specific plan designs are the Company’s determination. The expectation is that a plan design would only change to control cost to the Company and the retirees or due to variations from one insurer to another. The maximum monthly Company contribution for early and disability retirees who retire on or after 10/1/06 and their spouses effective 10/1/06 is $974 for a family plan and $378 for a single. All current and future costs that exceed the above Company contributions will be paid by the retiree/spouse on a quarterly basis in advance of each calendar year. Failure to pay the required insurance costs by the first of each quarter will result in termination of coverage. When retiree or spouse become eligible for Medicare they will be enrolled in the Medicare Supplemental Plan. The Company’s maximum monthly contribution for the Medicare Supplemental Plan will be $43.
Effective 10/1/97 the Company's maximum monthly contribution for insurance premiums for employees who retire on or after 9/22/97 and their eligible dependents for the duration of this agreement will be $465.00 family and $179.00 single.
Beginning 9/21/97, any current costs or future cost increases beyond the above Company contribution limits will be paid by the retiree/spouse. Required premiums will be paid by the retiree/spouse on a quarterly basis in advance of each calendar quarter. Failure to pay the required premium by the first of each quarter will result in termination of coverage. The company will comply with state law with regard to the collection of insurance premium contributions from retirees.
Employees who go on Early or Disability retirements and their eligible spouse on or after 10/6/03 will be covered by a plan offered by the Company. Early or disability retirees who do not reside in the service area of the plan will be enrolled in the 52
comprehensive co-pay plan. When retiree or spouse becomes eligible for Medicare they will be enrolled in the "Medicare -Supplemental Plan". The Company's maximum monthly contribution for insurance premiums for employees who retire after 10/6/03 will be $935 for a family plan and $363 for a single plan. The exception to this will be individuals who elect the retirement incentive plan being offered as a part of this agreement. Company intends to self-fund the retiree plan for the period of 4/1/03 through 3/31/04 and future premiums will be determined by actual claims experience.
If a retiree plan option becomes available through the plan provided to actives, retirees may be enrolled in it. The Company retiree premium contributions would then be $465 and $179 or the minimum required by the plan, whichever is greater.
HEALTH AND ACCIDENT
1011.	For accidents or injuries that occur on or after 10/1/12, Health and Accident benefit will be $650 per week maximum of 52 weeks. For accidents or injuries that occur on or after 9/29/14, benefit will be $675 per week. For accidents or injuries that occur on or after 9/26/16, benefit will be $700 per week.
1012.	The Company will continue to pay the full cost of vision care, sickness and accident, Life and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plans for the duration of this Agreement.
VISION
1013.	The Company Vision Program for active employees will be
as follows: IN NETWORK
Frames	$45 to $82
Contacts	$50 to $100
OUT OF NETWORK $12 to $35 $50 to $100
WELLNESS PARTICIPATION
1014.	The Company may offer wellness incentives that are focused on early detection of any health concerns and improving
53
the overall health of the employee and spouse, and enable employees to affect the cost of their group health insurance.
ARTICLE XI
PENSION PLAN
1101.	Details of the pension benefits are contained in the pension booklet which will be mailed to all eligible employees.
1102.	The Pension Plan Benefit multiplier shall be $21 for those employees who retire or terminate with vested rights during the term of this agreement.
1103.	Delete reference to “Wisconsin Age Act of 1984” and effective January 1, 1987 the age 70 Mandatory Retirement Age will be deleted.
1104.	Effective 1/1/01 employees will cease to accrue benefits under the ATI Ladish Forging, LLC, Pension Plan. As detailed below, the Company will increase contribution to Blacksmith’s Pension Plan for “all hours worked” and hours paid for vacation and holidays for each year of the Agreement as follows:
Contributions to the Boilermaker Blacksmiths pension plan will be governed by the December 14, 2012 Amendment Seven (7) to the National Pension Trust.
ADDENDUM TO THE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT BETWEEN ATI LADISH FORGING AND BOILERMAKER BLACKSMITHS LODGE #1509
DATED OCTOBER 2, 2012 - SEPTEMBER 30, 2018
It is the intent of Company and Union by this agreement to implement the provisions of Amendment 7 enacted by the Trustees of the Boilermaker National Funds regarding the Minimum Contribution Rate (MCR) establishing a new MCR as follows:
54
							B cp	
							cp Ms S © o S cp © Q-S. © CTO g9 as 9 era ex © a? CP Q. 6 B.	S9 ora CP V 2> 3 CP 3 B*
	Blacksmiths Pension Contribution Rate Changes							
			AMENDED 2013 AND 2014 CONTRIBUTIONS					l-J V © l-p B* CP B* as ora
CH		2012 MCR Rates (205% of 2008 Rates)	Increase 108% of 2012 Rates Eff. 1/1/13	2013 Increase	Increase 108% of 2013 Rates Eff. 1/1/14	2014 Increase	"g © o » b w v. ©>© K © © B P- V> EL ©‘	
cn	All hours worked	$ 5.48	$ 5.92	$ 0.44	$ 6.40	$0.48	cp B • •	
	All time-and-one half overtime hours worked	$ 5.99	i $ 6.47	! $ 0.48	$ 6.99	$ 0.52	B9 B. B B o. ora	
	All double time hours worked	$ 6.50	$ 7.02	$ 0.52	$ 7.59	$0.57	© B	c B
	All holiday hours paid (Including floating holidays)	$ 4.45	$ 4.81	$ 0.36	$ 5.20	$ 0.39	tributi	g.
	All vacation hours paid	$ 4.45	$4.81	$ 0.36	$ 5.20	$0.39		
							o B cn © O ri © 2- ora ©	o © B r* g* s »-*• © B“ CP
ft)
ts) 00 00
2 $
© ft) o © <■* era B“ b*
B* M W
tQ 3 3
2 ? B
Q© CP CP tsi tsj
S O ©
Q GJ tsJ
JH !—k H* 4^ GJ
In order to maintain cost neutrality for the Company, the following adjustments will be made to the MCR: Effective 1/1/13, the increase in the wage reduction of $.44 set forth in the Memorandum of Understanding will instead be $.40. Effective 1/1/14, the increase in the wage reduction of $.48 set forth in the Memorandum of Understanding will instead be $.44 ($.84 total)
Negotiated $.10 per hour increases to the Boilermaker Blacksmith Pension will be deferred to wages per MCR agreement signed December 14, 2012 for years 2012 - 2017.
ARTICLE XII
WAGE RATES
1201.	Minimum hiring rate will be as stated in the Wage Schedules.
The minimum hiring rate for all incentive employees under the jurisdiction of the Union shall be the hourly rate of the job.
SHIFT PREMIUM
1202.	Employees working a regularly scheduled second shift shall be paid a shift premium of twenty-five cents (25$) per hour
56
for each hour worked. Employees working a regularly scheduled third shift shall be paid a shift premium of thirty cents (300) per hour for each hour worked.
ACCURATE FORGING, BOX OR SCRAP COUNTS
1203.	Accurate counts are necessary for the correct measurement of production, inventory, costs and scheduling. We agree it is Operator-Employee responsibility and accurate counts will be enforced.
PROPER RECORDING OF TIME
1204.	Accurate reporting of time (all productive, downtime, setup, experimental, etc.) on jobs is of prime importance to Company for cost purposes and will, therefore, be insisted upon.
AID TO PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE
1205.	Each Operator/Employee is responsible for notifying his supervisor of repairs needed on equipment. Cooperation in this respect will enable continued cost reduction through extension of unit operations. Union and Company will work together on this matter.
Employees who have advised the Company of a necessary repair on their unit may upon their request, receive a copy of a written repair request submitted to the Maintenance Department by the supervisor.
ARTICLE XIII GENERAL
SUPERVISION - DUTIES
1301.	It is agreed that the primary function of supervision is to supervise, schedule work, check accuracy of work, and instruct employees in their jobs. Supervision shall limit its normal activities to the above, except in cases of emergency, beyond the control of the Company.
57
1302.	The function of the Quality Department being engineering in nature will involve at times team action of supervisors, supervisory engineers, engineers, and members of the bargaining unit, working mutually on problems or projects.
BULLETIN BOARDS
1303.	At the request of the Union, the Company shall post on appropriate bulletin boards Union notices provided that the use of such boards shall be restricted to the posting of notices of business affairs, meetings and social events of the Union. No such notice shall contain anything controversial, political, or in any way reflect upon the Company or any employee.
HEALTH, SAFETY AND HOUSEKEEPING
1304.	Wearing of ear defenders in designated noisy areas shall be mandatory, which is consistent with the provisions of the Walsh-Healey Act. Company will make available the services of its Medical Director and Consulting Otologist to assist employees in becoming accustomed to the wearing of ear defenders.
Continuing a long established Company policy, and in conformance with State Statutes, employees are expected to report for periodic audiometric and vision acuity re-examinations as scheduled.
1305.	Both Company and Union agree to take aggressive and positive action to reduce scrap, mixed steel, and count discrepancies, as well as maintain a high degree of housekeeping.
1306.	Union acknowledges it is more than willing to do its part with respect to the elimination of these wasteful practices, but calls vigorous attention to the fact its members cannot be held responsible for scrap resulting from the direction of supervision, where deficiencies exist, management must take immediate and continuing measures to eliminate this problem.
58
BEREAVEMENT PAY
1307.	Employee shall receive a maximum of three (3) days off with pay for any death in employee’s immediate family. Bereavement paid days are to be computed from date of death to and including the day immediately following the funeral, which days are to be designated by the employee (assuming these days are scheduled workdays). No bereavement pay shall be provided for days on which the employee is not scheduled to work, except when an employee is on vacation. In such event, employee will be required to reschedule such unused vacation at another time. The immediate family is defined as mother, father, spouse, child, foster child when in the custody of the ATI Ladish Forging, LLC., employee, brother, sister, grandmother, grandfather, mother-inlaw, father-in-law and grandchildren of employee. In cases of stepchildren, pay will be authorized if a child has been raised in a normal parent-child relationship in a stepparent’s home during the younger formative years. Bereavement pay shall be based on previous calendar quarter average hourly straight time earnings.
JURY DUTY AND COURT WITNESSING PAY
1308.	An employee shall be excused from work on a workday on which he performs jury service or is subpoenaed as a witness in a court of law provided he gives prior notice to his supervisor. An employee who is excused for jury service or as a witness in court and who furnished the Company with a statement from the court with regard to jury pay or witness pay received from a regularly scheduled workday will be paid the difference between payment from the court and his average straight time hourly earnings of the preceding calendar quarter. Second and third shift employees who serve as jurors or witnesses will not be required to work their normal shift on the day the service is performed.
RESERVE DUTY
1309.	An employee in the Bargaining Unit who is obligated as a member of one of the Armed Forces Reserves to participate in active duty maneuvers for a period of two (2) weeks will be paid the difference between Reservist’s pay and the employee’s average straight time hourly earnings for the previous quarter up
59
to a limit of the above two (2) weeks which such employee participates in active reserve duty. This provision will only be applicable while our nation is on a peace time basis and will not apply during any state of war or national emergency.
1310.	In the event any reservist is called for emergency duty by the Governor, he shall be paid the difference between Reservist’s pay, and his average straight time hourly earnings of the previous quarter for the duties performed for a total maximum period of two (2) weeks per year.
INDUSTRIAL INJURY
1311.	On the day an employee sustains an industrial injury, the Company will provide hourly pay for up to eight (8) hours in the event injured employee is unable to continue working and is cleared through Main First Aid and the disability is verified within twenty-four (24) hours by the Company’s Medical Director or the employee’s personal/attending physician with concurrence by the Company’s Medical Director. In the event injured employee is an incentive worker, he shall receive whatever average hourly earnings he would have earned for the remainder of the eight (8) hours.
1312.	The Company will continue to furnish to its employees safety shoes, gloves and laundry service at cost.
NEW EQUIPMENT
1313.	In the event new equipment is installed, the historic practice of evaluating such installations on their own merits with consideration of effort and earnings on replacement will be followed. New equipment will have a ninety (90) day trial period of operation, during which time Blacksmiths will perform their normal functions and an evaluation of work elements will be made to resolve rates of pay, crew size, etc.
When new equipment is installed, Company will provide training as necessary to enable employee(s) to operate said equipment.
60
RESTRICTED DUTY
1314.	All active employees who temporarily become physically unable to perform their regular job satisfactorily due to a compensable industrial injury or non-work related injury or illness may be given temporary restricted work activities within the provisions of this section.
Eligibility, degree and duration of restricted work activity shall be determined by Company Medical Director or employee’s personal/attending physician with concurrence by Company Medical Director. In the event the Company Medical Director and employee’s personal/attending physician disagree, an independent medical opinion will be obtained at Company cost. Status will be re-evaluated on a periodic basis.
Upon approval of Company Medical Director, Departmental Management shall assign work activity in the following sequence: within present job classification, department or Bargaining Unit per specifications of medical restrictions. Employees will not incur a reduction in their hourly wage rate as a result of an assignment based on temporary work restrictions.
When employee is no longer physically restricted as determined by Company Medical Director or employee’s personal/attending physician with concurrence by Company Medical Director, the employee will return to their full bid functions.
PERMANENT MEDICAL RESTRICTIONS
1315.	When the Company Medical Director determines, either as a result of performing his own examination or as a result of concurring with the findings of an employee’s personal physician, that the employee has incurred permanent medical restrictions while employed by the Company and is unable to perform regular job duties due to those restrictions, the employee may be provided another job in the Bargaining Unit, consistent with his restrictions, in the following manner:
61
1.	The employee shall be assigned to any vacancy for which he is qualified, first within the department and then within the Bargaining Unit. Where there is more than one vacancy for which the employee is qualified, preference will be given to the employee’s current shift.
Any employee assigned to a vacancy outside of his department will retain his previous departmental seniority for layoff purposes only.
If there are no vacancies, or if employee's restrictions or qualifications preclude him from filling a vacancy, he will consistent with his seniority, bump the least senior employee performing a job for which he is qualified, first within his department and then within the bargaining unit. Employees so assigned will be considered the bid man of the job to which they are assigned via this procedure.
2.	In those cases where the opinions of the employee’s designated physician and the Company Medical Director are in conflict, the employee will undergo an independent medical examination to determine the exact nature and extent of the limitations. The physician performing the independent exam shall be selected by the employee from a list of two (2) choices supplied by the Company. The restrictions, as defined by the independent medical examiner, will then be used to determine the employee’s eligibility to be assigned to jobs consistent within the above procedure.
The Company and Union will meet to reach Agreement on work assignments consistent with the current Labor Agreement for employees who would have been laid off except for these job security provisions.
ARTICLE XIV
HEAT TREAT DEPARTMENT
62
JURISDICTION
1401.	The jurisdiction of the Heat Treating Department is over operations listed and defined as follows:
A.	Heat Treating - The altering of the physical properties of the metals of dies, tools, cutters, machine parts and products of the Company to produce a specified degree of hardness, toughness or strength by the process of controlled heating and cooling.
B.	Normalizing - The subjecting of metal parts to treating or treatment to relieve internal stress and rearrange internal structure after any process that tends to harden the metal.
C.	Hardness Inspection - Checking the degree of hardness of metal parts, by any and all employed means, such as Brinell Hardness Testing, Rockwell Hardness Testing, Scleroscope Hardness Testing, Tele-Brinell Testing, as well as the preparation of the surface for testing.
The checking of the degree of hardness as described above does not limit the Company’s right to have Die room employees test the hardness of dies and tooling in Die Room areas.
1402.	Included, as fully or partially defined above, shall be those processes and techniques called Annealing, Case Hardening-Furnace Tending, Tempering, Tool Hardening, Pot Packing, Aging, Solution Treating Quenching, Nitriding, Steam Treating, Slow Cooling, as applied to Heat Treating rather than Forging, Experimental Heat Treating not performed for laboratory purposes, Deep Freezing, Induction Heat Treating, and Fan Blasting as applied to Heat Treating. When unable to handle or perform heat treat on test material satisfactorily in the Quality Department, Heat Treat will perform heat treatment(s). Examples are large samples, special atmosphere requirements, special equipment requirements, duplicate production processes, satisfy
63
Engineering requests and/or run samples or test material with production pieces.
1403.	The adjustment of combustion equipment and temperature devices which includes the certification and recalibration of furnaces, heat generating equipment, and for temperature measuring devices.
It also includes the curing of an inspection of furnaces and the performing of ancillary duties necessary as a part of the primary responsibility. The making of all major adjustments and may include minor adjustments as defined below and considered precedent. The loading and hooking up of thermocouples and equipment needed to assure quality heating where exacting specifications are involved and in special cases, maintains a surveillance of heating cycles having such load thermocouples. Specialized requirements, such as setting up portable furnace used for very high temperatures (Tungsten) is also included.
Major adjustments, such as conversion of furnace from settings used to heat carbon and alloy steel, to lower temperature settings, such as used in heating Titanium, adjustment for or from a reducing atmosphere and adjustment to or from Aluminum heating are inclusive within Heat Treat’s jurisdiction.
Minor adjustments are within the jurisdiction of the IFPTE on the following basis:
1.	Minor adjustments, such as burner adjustments to correct for hot or cold spots.
2.	Changing of jobs forged in similar temperature setting ranges (i.e., Titanium to nickel based alloys) may require a minor adjustment.
Minor adjustments can be performed by Heat Treat personnel when production does not permit IFPTE personnel time to perform minor adjustments. At those specifications, Heat Treat
64
personnel may be called to assist or perform those minor adjustments.
Control of process, including heating of material under Forge Shop Control, is the responsibility of the Quality Department effected through IFPTE personnel. It is understood there is and will be some overlap of duties in making furnace adjustments.
1404.	The handling of all facilities, tools, devices and equipment necessary to perform the work described above, with the exception of the driving of trucks that are assigned to the Trucking Department shall be performed by the employees of the Heat Treat Department.
Included also shall be the surface preparation prior to heat treatment as directed by Management.
AWARDING OF JOB BIDS
1405.	When it is determined there is a need for a Heating Specialist a bid will be posted. If there are no qualified bids received the Company may realign manpower by shift. If there is no realignment and the vacancy continues to exist, based on business conditions, it will be reposted at the union's request.
DAILY APPLICATION OF SENIORITY
1406.	Classifications will be structured as group bids and employees will be given primary assignments as defined below: 1. Heating Specialist
2.	Building #2
3.	Building #66
4.	Bay 5
5.	Brinell
6.	Auxiliary
Employees holding primary assignments in (1) through (5) above will report to their primary assignment at the beginning of their shift unless notified by Heat Treat Supervision to report to the daily lineup.
65
Employees within the Auxiliary primary assignment will report to the daily lineup to select available jobs by seniority at the beginning of their shift.
SHIFT REASSIGNMENTS
1407.	In the event a shift is discontinued or should it be overmanned, workers on the overmanned shift are to be transferred to another shift, with junior employees without a job bid being transferred first. Should additional employees be needed, the most junior employees on the overmanned shift shall be transferred to the required shift. In the event an employee affected by such transfer in shift is returned to his regular shift, he will be reassigned to his bid job. The Company may request volunteers prior to the above, however, volunteers will not be considered transferred per Section 423-425. Volunteers will be transferred for a period not to exceed sixty (60) days.
OVERTIME DISTRIBUTION
1408.	Consistent with operating efficiency, overtime is distributed as equally as possible among all qualified employees and shall be credited on the appropriate classification roster.
Employees on Restricted Duty will be scheduled for weekend overtime consistent with overtime scheduling procedures and will be assigned the work they normally performed during the week provided it fulfills the overtime requirement and is within their medical limitations.
1409.	An employee holding a bid will be entitled to all overtime scheduled on his primary assignment.
End-of-shift overtime is work immediately preceding or following an employee’s regular shift. (An employee assigned to a job in the absence of an employee shall be entitled to the end-of-shift overtime.)
66
Person doing bid work, either primary bid or bid for the day, is entitled to any overtime attached to the start of the shift on the next regularly scheduled work day.
1410.	If additional employees are required to work on weekend overtime days, employee who has the lowest number of overtime occurrences on the classification roster, as specified in Section 1416, will be given the first choice. At the time he is advised of the opportunity to work overtime he will also be informed of the specific job assignments that are available and at that time will make his selection of assignment.
Weekend overtime in the Heating Specialist classification is, consistent with the historic practice, first offered to the employees assigned to the shift on which the overtime is scheduled. Employee with the fewest turns on the end of shift overtime roster on the preceding and succeeding shifts will be asked to work an additional four hours and be appropriately charged on the daily overtime list. If still unable to cover the overtime, the person with the fewest turns on the off-shift will be asked to work eight hours.
1411.	Weekend and daily rosters are maintained on each shift for the classifications listed herein below and overtime assignments are equalized among the employees on the respective rosters.
1412.	Employees will be credited overtime on the roster maintained in the Heat Treat Office. Weekend and daily roster will be adjusted each year with the first (1st) Saturday in January. Anyone on the shift having more overtime than the employees with the least amount of overtime shall be credited with a turn. The employees with the least amount of overtime on the roster shall be afforded the first opportunity to work overtime until everyone has at least one turn on the shift. Heat Treat Specialists do not zero out overtime rosters at the beginning of the year.
1413.	If an employee is given the opportunity on Thursday to work weekend overtime and declines, or if an employee is not
67
available due to vacation, illness, etc., he is credited on the roster as though he worked and the employee with the least overtime credited in the classification is then afforded such opportunity to work overtime.
1414.
A.	In the event an employee is absent from work on Thursday and fails to notify the Company prior to employee’s mid-shift on Thursday that he will be available for weekend overtime, he shall not be scheduled for either Saturday or Sunday.
B.	In the event an employee is scheduled for weekend overtime, has an absence on Friday and fails to notify the Company prior to employee’s mid-shift on Friday, that he is available for weekend overtime, his overtime will be cancelled; he will be charged as though he had worked and a replacement will be scheduled.
1.	In the event an employee scheduled for Saturday and Sunday overtime does not report for work or notify the Company of his absence on Saturday, his overtime for Sunday will be cancelled and he will be charged as though he had worked.
2.	An employee who is late for weekend overtime without prior notification to the Company will be sent home if a replacement has been secured, and he will be charged as though he had worked.
3.	If an employee calls in prior to his shift stating that he will be up to one (1) hour late, employee will be allowed to report to his overtime assignment for that day. However, if employee has not physically reported one (1) hour into the shift, a replacement will be secured and employee will be sent home upon reporting.
C.	In the event an employee is notified after the end of his work shift on Thursday to work on Saturday and/or Sunday and
68
refuses, he shall not be charged for such overtime. If he accepts, he shall be charged for such overtime worked.
1415.	In the event the classification roster is exhausted and additional personnel are required, Company, consistent with operating efficiency, will make overtime assignments utilizing qualified employees in other classifications on the shift.
1416.	Classification Rosters for overtime distribution are as follows:
1.	Heat Treat Operator
2.	Heat Treat Operator - Senior
3.	Heating Specialist
1417.	A newly hired employee upon completion of his probationary period, an employee permanently transferring into the Department or a regular department employee bidding into another primary assignment or shift shall be added to the appropriate roster and receive the highest number of overtime marks in the primary assignment. If the employee bids into a primary assignment that has no other employees, he will carry his previous overtime marks into the primary assignment.
WAGE RATES - HEAT TREAT
1418.	All rate ranges will increase as follows:
WITH WAGE DIVIDEND
Classification Effective
10/1/2012 9/30/2013 9/29/2014 9/28/2015 9/26/2016 10/2/2017
1/1/2013	1/1/2014	1/1/2015	1/1/2016	1/1/2017	1/1/2018
*	rates listed are as January 1st 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018
*	* Rates are 3% increase in September (or October) minus MCR of $.40 on January 1st in 2013 and an additional $.44 ($.84 total) per hour in 2014 through 2018.
69
Heating Specialist
Minimum	$21.05	$21.77	$22.51	$23.28
$20.11	$20.35				
1 Year				
$21.46	$21.74	$22.48	$23.25	$24.04	$24.85
Heat Treat Operator-Sr. Minimum $18.37	$18.56	$19.21	$19.88	$20.57	$21.28
6 Months $18.79	$18.99	$19.65	$20.33	$21.03	$21.75
1 Year $19.25	$19.47	$20.15	$20.85	$21.57	$22.31
Heat Treat Operator Minimum $14.96	$15.05	$15.59	$16.15	$16.73	$17.32
4 Months $15.68	$15.79	$16.35	$16.93	$17.53	$18.15
8 Months $16.42	$16.55	$17.14	$17.75	$18.37	$19.01
1 Year $17.71	$17.88	$18.51	$19.16	$19.83	$20.52
WITHOUT WAGE DIVIDEND
Classification Effective
10/1/2012 9/30/2013 9/29/2014 9/28/2015 9/26/2016 10/2/2017
1/1/2013	1/1/2014	1/1/2015	1/1/2016	1/1/2017	1/1/2018
*	rates listed are as January 1st 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018
*	* Rates are 3% increase in September (or October) minus MCR of $.40 on January 1st in 2013 and an additional $.44 ($.84 total) per hour in 2014 through 2018.
Heating Specialist Minimum
$21.24	$21.51
$22.25	$23.01
$23.79	$24.59
70
1 Year
$22.66	$22.98	$23.76	$24.56	$25.39	$26.24
Heat Treat Operator-Sr.					
Minimum					
$19.40	$19.62	$20.30	$21.00	$21.72	$22.46
6 Months					
$19.86	$20.09	$20.78	$21.49	$22.23	$22.99
1 Year					
$20.34	$20.59	$21.30	$22.03	$22.78	$23.55
Heat Treat Operator					
Minimum					
$15.83	$15.94	$16.51	$17.10	$17.70	$18.32
4 Months					
$16.59	$16.73	$17.32	$17.93	$18.56	$19.21
8 Months					
$17.37	$17.53	$18.15	$18.79	$19.44	$20.11
1 Year					
$18.73	$18.93	$19.59	$20.27	$20.97	$21.69
		ARTICLE XV			
STEEL STORES DEPARTMENT
JURISDICTION
1501. The jurisdiction of the Steel Stores Department shall be over the basic departmental operations as historically performed and consistent with provisions of Section 108, as follows:
1.	Warehousing (Outside and inside).
2.	Parting (cutting of warehoused material to meet plant stock needs).
3.	Cut and prepare stock control.
4.	Handling of scrap.
71
1502.	In the warehousing of all metals, ferrous and nonferrous, the departmental employees shall handle all tools, cranes, hand trucks, devices and equipment necessary to receive, unload, classify, mark for identity, store and disburse all warehoused metals. The paperwork required in connection with the warehousing functions will be performed by Steel Stores personnel. They shall perform all torch sample cutting for the Quality Department and samples for analysis.
1503.	The parting of warehoused material to size, including shop orders in Steel Stores, according to specifications, and the parting of material by use of a torch, shall be the exclusive jurisdiction of the departmental employees. The use of all equipment, tools and devices to handle the material in the described process with the exception of the trucks employed in moving cut stock and any process required to condition the surface of raw material, prepared of semi-processed stock and cut stock.
1504.	The warehousing of cut stock, prepared or partially processed stock and the routing of such material with the maintaining of location records, quantity, type with condition of such material shall be performed by employees of the department.
1505.	The parting, including by means of a torch, handling, and loading of scrap forgings, flashings, trimmings, bar crop, that are delivered to Steel Stores for a disposition, and the necessary equipment to perform the above work, except it is understood that scrap hauled and handled by truck shall be excepted.
1506.	It is agreed that the steels that are stored and cut by other jurisdictions in their areas, which are to be used for the manufacture of tools, dies, fixtures and machine parts, are not included in the Steel Stores jurisdiction.
72
DAILY APPLICATION OF SENIORITY 1507.
A. Bid employees shall perform their job. However, should conditions necessitate changes in job assignment, the changes will be made consistent with operating efficiency, and seniority shall apply. The daily application of seniority is confined to the shift. Prior to the start of the shift, equipment to be shut down for that shift will be designated and assignments in the daily line-up shall be by classification and seniority. Any deviation from this section shall be discussed and agreed to by the Steward or Committeeman.
REDUCED OPERATIONS
1508.
A.	The overmanned classification will be reduced by downgrading, with the employee with the least department seniority being displaced. (In downgrading, when vacancies are to be filled or junior employees displaced on other shifts, senior employees shall have choice of shift.)
B.	If an employee cannot fill a vacancy or displace anyone in his bid classification, such displaced employee shall exercise his departmental seniority in his previous classification in reverse order of advancement, and will first fill vacancies then displace most junior employee on the shift.
C.	If a displaced employee’s seniority does not provide him with the opportunity to a previously held classification, he shall exercise departmental seniority in filling vacancies.
D.	An employee who is assigned to a job, or requests and receives a no-bid job will acquire the classification.
E.	If a position is available in the employee’s classification on another shift, the employee may avoid a shift change by choosing a previous classification on his current shift. Employee then waives his right to return to his original classification upon recall and shall be so classified.
73
F.	In the event the Company decides to fill a job vacancy resulting from the death, retirement or termination of an employee, the job will be posted forbid notwithstanding the fact that there are employees in the department who are inactivated or laid off.
G.	In the event any additional employees are needed in the classification, except as under “F”, the employees who have been displaced from their classification shall be returned to their bid classification.
H.	Employees being recalled and upgraded shall follow this procedure:
1.	Recall to any available job.
2.	Upgrade to last classification, regardless of shift.
3.	Upgrade to bid shift and classification.
4.	Upgrade to bid job and classification when available.
I. Definition of a work unit for overtime scheduling purposes while department is experiencing a reduction in forces is as follows: A Crane Operator and a Yardperson will not be considered a work unit if it is scheduled to service other Steel Stores production units. If the Crane Operator and Yardperson are assigned any duties not associated with the production units they will be considered a work unit and the Steel Stores management must schedule accordingly.
OVERTIME
1509. Overtime will be distributed consistent with Section 309 on the following basis:
A.	Within each classification.
74
B.	The bid employee will perform his bid job when he and his bid unit are both scheduled for overtime work.
C.	If sufficient personnel are not obtained under “A”, the overtime will be distributed among departmental employees who previously worked in the classification.
D.	If additional personnel are necessary, overtime will be distributed within the department among qualified employees.
E.	It is understood that a Yardperson may be required to work in another Yardperson’s area.
WAGE RATES
1510.
WITH WAGE DIVIDEND
Classification Effective
10/1/2012	9/30/2013	9/29/2014	9/28/2015	9/26/2016	10/2/2017
1/1/2013	1/1/2014	1/1/2015	1/1/2016	1/1/2017	1/1/2018
*	rates listed are as January 1st 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018
*	* Rates are 3% increase in September (or October) minus MCR of $.40 on January 1st in 2013 and an additional $.44 ($.84 total) per hour in 2014 through 2018.
Crane Operator
Minimum
$14.47 3 Months	$14.54	$15.07	$15.61	$16.17	$16.75
$16.72 6 Months	$16.86	$17.46	$18.07	$18.70	$19.35
$18.46	$18.65	$19.30	$19.97	$20.66	$21.37
Cutoff Operator Minimum					
$20.54	$20.79	$21.50	$22.24	$23.00	$23.78
75
6 Months
$21.44	$21.72	$22.46	$23.22	$24.01	$24.82
WITHOUT WAGE DIVIDEND
Classification Effective
10/1/2012 9/30/2013 9/29/2014 9/28/2015 9/26/2016 10/2/2017
1/1/2013	1/1/2014	1/1/2015	1/1/2016	1/1/2017	1/1/2018
*	rates listed are as January 1st 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018
*	* Rates are 3% increase in September (or October) minus MCR of $.40 on January 1st in 2013 and an additional $.44 ($.84 total) per hour in 2014 through 2018.
Crane Operator Minimum
$15.33 3 Months $17.68	$15.43 $17.85	$15.98 $18.48	$16.55 $19.13	$17.14 $19.79	$17.75 $20.47
6 Months $19.52	$19.74	$20.42	$21.12	$21.84	$22.59
Cutoff Operator Minimum $21.70	$21.99		$22.74	$23.51	$24.31	$25.13
6 Months $22.63	$22.95	$23.73	$24.53	$25.36	$26.21
+Operators will occasionally be required to load saws #1603 and #1578 using any material handling equipment as necessary. Operators will be trained on operation of material handling equipment.
+Pay will be increased by $.35 per hour for operators on unit #1603 and #1578.
76
+Operators who fill in on these two saws, who also have been trained and are qualified to operate material handling equipment will receive $.35 per hour when running units #1603 and#1578.
D. Summer Help - $12.00 per hour.
ARTICLE XVI FORGE DEPARTMENT
JURISDICTION
1601.	The jurisdiction of the Forge Department is over that work fundamentally described as the altering or densifying of metals or materials accompanied by a change in grain structure.
1602.	Also included is the processing of tubular material as it may be processed through the equipment that is involved in the work under the definition above. Listed but not intended as a wholly inclusive list are the various operations falling within the confines of the definition:
Blacksmithing, Forging, Upsetting, Blanking, Offsetting, Pressing, Rolling, Drawing, Extruding, Forge Welding, Tapering, Coining, Bending, Sizing, Bulldozing, Straightening, Shaping, Forming, Twisting and Stretching.
1603.	The Auxiliary Operation, such as hot and cold trimming, stamping, stock coating, stock painting and punching of material processed under the above definition and the setting up, adjusting and the use of hammers, presses, rolls, machines, dies, equipment necessary to perform the operations defined above, as well as the tools and fixtures and dies as furnished by the Die Room, shall be the exclusive jurisdiction of the Forge Department employees with the following exceptions:
A.	The cold straightening of warped or bent forgings with the employment of gauged pressure to a forging placed and rotated on stationary supports.
77
It is understood that if such straightening is performed in the Forge Department in forging equipment, it shall be performed by Forge Shop employees.
B.	The driving of trucks, except trucks that will be available to the Forge Department personnel to transport product to facilitate efficient product flow, to move the automatic key driver, and use trucks in incentive cycle, to transfer material between furnaces, pieces of processing equipment and boxes, regardless of the operational sequences and the trimmer setters to haul tools and fixtures.
C.	The coating of dies, if performed in the Moly area of the Die Room will be performed by Die Room employees.
DAILY APPLICATION OF SENIORITY
1604. Regular bid employees and employees selecting vacancies from the daily line-up shall perform their bid function. If a bid employee is not present at the start of shift he will lose all rights to his bid and must select from available jobs upon reporting. Exceptions to this can be made with supervisor’s concurrence on the day before known tardiness is to occur. If an employee reports late and bid is open or becomes open the employee is required to perform bid function.
A.	When an employee’s bid job is not scheduled to operate at the start of a shift, displaced and non-bid employees shall select jobs from the daily line-up until their bid jobs are again available. Operators line-up will precede Helpers line-up.
B.	Job vacancies known by the Company at the time the line-up commences for a particular shift, shall be posted. Employees in the line-up will select jobs, by classification according to seniority, which employee can satisfactorily perform in the opinion of Supervisor and Department Committeeman or Steward. Job vacancies not filled by regular employees in the line-up may be filled by utilizing learners.
78
C.	If the number of available operators exceeds the number of vacancies, operators remaining shall exercise their full departmental seniority in the helper’s line-up.
D.	When, after all active non-bid and qualified learner operators have been assigned to Operator positions, and vacancies still exist, Company may fill such vacancies from employees who formerly were in the classification, by mutual agreement between Supervisor and employee, or fill vacancy using most senior qualified helper on the bid unit.
E.	Employees who will be absent shall notify the Company prior to start of regular shift so that employees may select from all vacant jobs on that day. Employees arriving after the job selection process has begun, but before all posted jobs have been selected, must exercise their seniority only for available jobs remaining in their classification at the time of arrival in the line-up.
F.	Crane Operators for #146 - #145 and #176 (Bay 3, Bay 6 and Bay 7) will act as Stamper (Helper) on jobs where Crane Is needed for setup only.
1605.	When two (2) or more hammers or other types of productive equipment are required and the combined crews of separate units results in more employees than are needed on the combined units, those employees whose bid functions are required on the combined units shall remain and perform required bid functions.
If the setup, as combined units requires an additional employee to perform a function not covered by any employee’s bid, then this function is to be performed by an employee from the displaced personnel on the basis of selecting the employees with the oldest work unit seniority and after that the oldest departmental seniority. Displaced employees all become Helpers.
79
When units are to be combined at the start of a shift and employee(s) are needed to prepare these units prior to the shift, those employee(s) will be scheduled from the employees on the combined crew.
Employee(s) displaced from a combined crew will first fill vacancies on their bid unit and then vacancies within the combined crew.
It is understood that only when 1st and 3rd shifts are to run together as combined units during a shift overlap that options will be paid to the displaced 1st shift bidholders.
1606.	Counterblow Operators will fill Counterblow Operator vacancies by seniority in the daily line-up. Remaining Counterblow Operators will exercise their seniority in the Drop Hammer line-up. The Counterblow line-up will -precede the Drop Hammer line-up.
MANIPULATOR ASSIGNMENT 1607.
A.	Manipulator bids will be established for the units serviced. Management will continue to assign machines to the units they've historically serviced with revisions as necessary to support production requirements.
B.	Two or more operators bid to a single unit will be assigned on the basis of unit seniority.
C.	When units are combined and a single operator is required rather than two or more, the operator bid to the initial unit will be used.
D.	An attempt will be made to keep assigned machines to assigned units with the prerogative assignment by management to obtain maximum production with the least amount of downtime.
80
SHIFT REASSIGNMENTS
1608.	In the event a shift is discontinued or overmanned, employees on the overmanned shift are to be reassigned to another shift on a classification basis, first with senior employee(s) who volunteer, then with junior employee(s) who will be placed. It is understood that the transferred employee will receive an option from their bid unit and will share in the overtime on the shift to which he is transferred. Volunteers will have the option to return to their bids after 60 days of their assignment to another shift. By mutual agreement between the parties a temporary bid may be posted to fill openings created by this voluntary shift change.
In the event an employee affected by such shift reassignment is returned to his regular shift, he will be returned to his bid job.
Any job openings on the undermanned shift shall be posted within five (5) work days of the shift reassignments.
1609.	In the event of a reduction in the Trimmer Setter classification, the overmanned classification will be reduced by downgrading, with the most junior employee within the classification being downgraded first, regardless of shift. Recall will be made in reverse order.
STATUS OF INACTIVE, NON-BID AND FORMER OPERATORS 1610. Operators who, because of industrial injury, illness, or other good reason agreed upon by Company and Union, are on inactive operators list, shall continue to accumulate operator seniority and may be assigned to no-bid helper jobs by supervision.
1611.	When no bids are received for an operator vacancy, the Company may fill such vacancy from among the physically able non-bid operators, beginning from the top of the non-bid operators list. Those operators who do not comply with this section shall be taken off the operators list, reclassified as helpers, and lose their operator seniority.
81
If all non-bid operators have been assigned to bid jobs, former operators may be assigned to fill any remaining vacancies by mutual agreement between Company and employee. In such event, his operator seniority shall commence as of date of reentry into the classification.
REHIRED EMPLOYEES
1612.	A rehired employee or an employee permanently transferred from one department to another in the Bargaining Unit who formerly completed an Operator learnership at ATI Ladish Forging, LLC.,, shall not be required to go through the Operator learnership after his rehire or permanent transfer, and will be given the opportunity to bid into Operator job vacancies if qualified.
However, Trainees if qualified in the opinion of Supervision and who are near the completion of their training period, shall be given consideration before placing rehired or permanently transferred Operators on the “No Bid” jobs.
So long as qualified Operators are available on the shift, rehired or permanently transferred former Operators and Trainees shall not operate a unit (Operator’s job) unless assigned to an Operator’s vacancy and placed on the active Operators’ seniority roster.
OVERTIME DISTRIBUTION
1613.	End of shift overtime will be performed by the employees who are working on the job when the end of shift overtime begins. End of shift overtime shall not exceed four (4) hours unless all other reasonable options are exhausted. Overtime at the beginning of a shift will be performed by the bid employee, and in the absence of the bid employee, the employee who worked on the unit the previous day. It is understood that a bid employee who is absent on the day previous to the day that overtime is scheduled on his bid unit, will report for work at his normal start time on the day following such absence. Bid employees working at least one-half of their scheduled shift on
82
the day previous to the day overtime is scheduled on his bid unit will be notified of an early start on the following day.
1614.	Bid employees will have first opportunity for all overtime on bid. If employee refuses, is unavailable, or accepts overtime he will be credited with a turn on the roster maintained in the Forge Shop Office. Such roster will be readjusted each year with the first Saturday in January. Anyone on the shift having more overtime than the employee with the least amount of overtime shall be credited with a turn. In the absence of the bid employee, the employee with the least amount of overtime in the classification on the roster shall be afforded the first opportunity to work overtime until everyone has at least one turn on the shift.
1615.	If additional employees will be needed to work on overtime days, such days shall be distributed as equally as conditions will permit among all employees within the classification. This will not prohibit the Company from starting up equipment with in-house employees during working hours on the overtime shift in the event of breakdown on the scheduled equipment. Non-bid equipment will be used first whenever possible.
FLAT RATE
Language in Sections 1616-1617 applies only to flat rated units.
1616.	Employees on flat rate unit(s) will be paid their respective rate for all time associated with the unit, including “idle” time as well as hours for unit on the line.
1617.	When incentive and flat rated units are running combined, crews from the combined units will receive the applicable incentive combined performance rate for all hours that their individual unit charges to the job. Upon completion of that job flat rated units will return to their original flat rate pay status.
83
INCENTIVES
1618.	New employees in the Forge Shop Department will be paid helper’s base rate for initial two (2) week period while assigned as extra helper to various jobs for indoctrination.
In event such new employee is assigned to work by himself, and not as an extra, he shall be paid as any other regular helper.
1619.	All piece work standards shall be established by management in such manner that an employee following the prescribed methods, working at a reasonable pace, shall produce at standard. The standard being defined as rated time per cycle based on the longest functions in the production cycle, plus all allowances applicable to the type and nature of work involved with no ceiling for exceptional performance.
1620.	Production standards shall be expressed in terms of standard hours per piece, containing a 20% allowance for lunch, personal, fatigue, die shift, etc., and shall include an incentive allowance of 39% over standard time. On #85 Hammer an additional 20% allowance for die shift/tightening keys will be added for high alloy, non-carbon materials prior to incentive allowance calculation.
An Adapter Rate of
10/1/2012	9/30/2013	9/29/2014	9/28/2015	9/26/2016	10/2/2017
1/1/2013	1/1/2014	1/1/2015	1/1/2016	1/1/2017	1/1/2018
*	rates listed are as January 1st 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018
*	* Rates are 3% increase in September (or October) minus MCR of $.40 in 2013 and an additional $.44 ($.84 total) per hour in 2014 through 2018.
Operator
$23.18	$23.51	$24.31	$25.13	$25.97	$26.84
MO/CR
$21.43	$21.71	$22.45	$23.21	$24.00	$24.81
84
Helper
$19.85	$20.08	$20.77	$21.48	$22.22	$22.98
will be paid on #85 Hammer for setup and removal of the large adapter tooling.
A special Pre-Production Experimental Rate of 10/1/2012 9/30/2013 9/29/2014 9/28/2015 9/26/2016 10/2/2017 1/1/2013	1/1/2014 1/1/2015	1/1/2016	1/1/2017	1/1/2018
*	rates listed are as January 1st 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 ** Rates are 3% increase in September (or October) minus MCR of $.40 on January 1st in 2013 and an additional $.44 ($.84 total) per hour in 2014 through 2018.
Operator
$23.18 MO/CR	$23.51	$24.31	$25.13	$25.97	$26.84
$21.43	$21.71	$22.45	$23.21	$24.00	$24.81
Helper					
$19.85	$20.08	$20.77	$21.48	$22.22	$22.98
per hour will be paid on new jobs where a production method has not been established. Once a proven production method has been established, job will be time studied and an incentive production standard will be issued.
Setups on #143 Press will be paid at
10/1/2012 9/30/2013 9/29/2014 9/28/2015 9/26/2016 10/2/2017
1/1/2013 1/1/2014 1/1/2015	1/1/2016 1/1/2017	1/1/2018
*	rates listed are as January 1st 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018
*	* Rates are 3% increase in September (or October) minus MCR of $.40 on January 1st in 2013 and an additional $.44 ($.84 total) per hour in 2014 through 2018.
Operator
$23.18	$23.51	$24.31	$25.13	$25.97	$26.84
M/O
$21.43	$21.71	$22.45	$23.21	$24.00	$24.81
85
Helper
$19.85	$20.08	$20.77	$21.48	$22.22	$22.98
per hour until revised tooling is available for production. Downtime and off-unit hours will be paid as per current incentive pay practice.
Maintenance rates will be as follows:
10/1/2012 9/30/2013 9/29/2014 9/28/2015 9/26/2016 10/2/2017
1/1/2013 1/1/2014	1/1/2015	1/1/2016	1/1/2017	1/1/2018
*	rates listed are as January 1st 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018
*	* Rates are 3% increase in September (or October) minus MCR of $.40 on January 1st in 2013 and an additional $.44 ($.84 total) per hour in 2014 through 2018.
Operator
$20.84	$21.10	$21.82	$22.57	$23.34	$24.13
M/O					
$19.20	$19.41	$20.08	$20.77	$21.48	$22.22
Helper					
$17.38	$17.54	$18.16	$18.80	$19.45	$20.12
Utility (Sweeper) rates will be as follows:					
10/1/2012	9/30/2013	9/29/2014	9/28/2015	9/26/2016	10/2/2017
1/1/2013	1/1/2014	1/1/2015	1/1/2016	1/1/2017	1/1/2018
* rates listed are as January 1st 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018
** Rates are 3% increase in September (or October) minus MCR of $.40 on January 1st in 2013 and an additional $.44 ($.84 total) per hour in 2014 through 2018.
Operator
$15.15	$15.24	$15.79	$16.35	$16.93	$17.53
M/O
$14.28	$14.35	$14.87	$15.41	$15.96	$16.53
86
Helper
$13.08	$13.11	$13.59	$14.09	$14.60	$15.13
1621. In the event grievances are submitted regarding any incentive standard, any adjustment arrived at as a result thereof shall be made effective, in any event, as of the date of submission or to the beginning of the particular run, but not more than five (5) days prior to the date of submission.
SUPPLEMENTARY PAY PRACTICES 1622.
A.	On Mechanical Trim Presses the helper’s rate will apply when trimming is being done. This specific helper’s rate will be based on the companion Forge unit. The operator’s rate from the companion Forge unit will apply for work of the mechanical press category; this includes preparatory work for a Forge unit, all extrusions and padding. It is understood that people working on above presses will assist in tool setups and adjustments.
B.	At the direction of Production requirements, it is necessary at times to perform cold trim or coin work on Forge Shop mechanical presses.
The application of this rate is not intended to indicate that the job requires a Mechanical Press Operator. Also, the fact that tool setups in Forge Shop are made by Trimmer Setters is not intended to relieve employees of the responsibilities attached to the rate.
C.	When auxiliary presses are used independently as a prime unit for hot forging work, the bid helper operating the press will receive Operator’s base rate and incentive, if incentive is established. If the bid helper is not available, a Mechanical Press Operator will fill the vacancy.
87
D.	An hourly rate for stock preparation and loading will be applied to employees who are assigned at the start of the shift to prepare furnaces and/or sort and pre-load stock for unit not scheduled to run on that shift but to run on the following shift. Also, rate is applicable only when employee is denied any incentive opportunity on the shift as a result of the assignment.
SETUPS
1623.
A.	On Unit #145 a setup price has been established and will be administered in same manner as hammer setups.
1.	A full setup will be applicable for changing tools for jobs using flat die, pots and extrusion working at floor level.
2.	Variations using adaptors, etc. are outlined in standards exhibit book.
3.	The setup is not complete until a piece is made.
B.	Counter Blow Hammer Setups - These setup standards are of the elemental nature (i.e., install adapter, install die set or singly, etc.) and therefore reporting of work done is on the basis of element or combination of elements to arrive at standard applied.
Installations are reported at start of job and removals are reported at end of run. Forging first piece is compensated for via job standards. On Unit #85, standards will continue to be applied on all changes except oversize dies used on steamchest, etc., and when removing or installing adapter for ram check or repair, which will continue under flat rate status.
C.	Consistent with existing practices, early starts and/or die resets are not defined as setup and thus do not qualify for the special setup rate.
88
1624. When two or more bid units are operating as a work unit as defined in Section 408(F) and setups are performed, the setup elements and amounts will be compared individually and the larger amount will be paid to the work unit crew. When a setup is performed off a single unit during the run the setup will be paid off the unit performing the setup.
It is understood that when units are operating individually, their respective base rates and setup rates shall apply. If flat dies are in one hammer and not to be changed, the higher setup rate will still be paid.
Any dies reversed constitutes a setup. No dies to be reversed unless okayed by supervision.
DIE SETUP 1625.
A.	A setup will consist of installation of dowels, dies, keys shimmed tight, and dies heated, slides adjusted, and one good and trimmed forging completed (if trimmer is provided), and dies removed from hammer when job completed. Installations are reported at start of job and removals are reported at end of run.
Barring any mechanical or extenuating circumstances beyond the operator's or crew's control (such as broken hammer rod, die or trimmer failure, furnace breakdown, supervision instruction to stop loading, etc.), a set-up for the final job of the day will be deemed payable when all of the pieces planned to forge are completed. If the last job of the day is incomplete and is scheduled to continue the next day, the current practice of only paying one set-up will still apply.
B.	Partial setups shall be paid in the following manner:
1.	64% installation of dowels, dies, and one good piece.
2.	36% for removal of dies when job completed.
89
An additional 50% of a full setup will be paid for the installation of a shoe or adaptor when required.
1626. WAGE RATES - FORGE SHOP NON-INCENTIVE
TYPE/ UNITS CLASSIFICATIONS
10/1/2012 9/30/2013 9/29/2014 9/28/2015 9/26/2016 10/2/2017
1/1/2013	1/1/2014	1/1/2015	1/1/2016	1/1/2017	1/1/2018
*	rates listed are as January 1 st 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018
*	* Rates are 3% increase in September (or October) minus MCR of $.40 on January 1st in 2013 and an additional $.44 ($.84 total) per hour in 2014 through 2018.
Vac. Press/112, 116,118
Oper (rates reflect $1.50 per hour increase for stocking coating and ability to run all three vacuum presses)
$20.63	$20.89	$21.61	$22.35	$23.11	$23.89
$26.61	$27.05	$27.95	$28.88	$29.84	$30.83
MO/Crane					
$22.61	$22.93	$23.71	$24.51	$25.34	$26.19
Helper
The Company increased the pay for all Vacuum Press Operators by $.50 per hour, with the understanding that all Vacuum Press Operators will perform stock coating of Mults (Vacuum press work only) on a machine designed by the Company. The stock coating will be a semi-automated process. The Union agrees that Vacuum Press Operators will work with Company personnel to discuss the best location, design, layout, etc, and any other issues that come up regarding the stock coating machine / process, and that stock
90
coating will not interfere with production. A $1 per hour increase was given for all operators to learn how to run all three vacuum presses.
10/1/2012	9/30/2013	9/29/2014	9/28/2015	9/26/2016	10/2/2017
1/1/2013	1/1/2014	1/1/2015	1/1/2016	1/1/2017	1/1/2018
*	rates listed are as January 1st 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018
*	* Rates are 3% increase in September (or October) minus MCR of $.40 on January 1st in 2013 and an additional $.44 ($.84 total) per hour in 2014 through 2018.
Flo Turn/ 208 Oper.
$24.21	$24.57	$25.40	$26.25	$27.13	$28.03
Ring Roll/ 202 MO/Crane					
$22.42	$22.73	$23.50	$24.30	$25.12	$25.96
Hyd. Press/154,189,147					
Helper					
$20.41	$20.66	$21.37	$22.10	$22.85	$23.63
Hyd. Press/146 MO/Crane					
$21.86	$22.15	$22.91	$23.69	$24.49	$25.32
Helper					
$19.91	$20.15	$20.85	$21.57	$22.31	$23.07
Forge Fire Oper.					
$21.76	$22.05	$22.80	$23.57	$24.37	$25.19
91
Test Bars/15 (3) Oper.
$20.54	$20.79	$21.50	$22.24	$23.00	$23.78
MO/Crane					
$19.07	$19.28	$19.95	$20.64	$21.35	$22.08
Helper					
$17.57	$17.73	$18.35	$18.99	$19.65	$20.33
Press & R.R./100,101					
Oper.					
$23.15	$23.48	$24.28	$25.10	$25.94	$26.81
MO/Crane					
$21.28	$21.56	$22.30	$23.06	$23.84	$24.65
Helper					
$19.38	$19.60	$20.28	$20.98	$21.70	$22.44
Conveyor/ 4984 Helper					
$18.41	$18.60	$19.25	$19.92	$20.61	$21.32
Furn. Prep 4989 Helper					
$18.07	$18.25	$18.89	$19.55	$20.23	$20.93
2nd & 3rd shift M.O.					
$21.86	$22.15	$22.91	$23.69	$24.49	$25.32
2nd & 3rd Shift Loaders					
$19.38	$19.60	$20.28	$20.98	$21.70	$22.44
92
Stock Coat $20.75	$21.01	$21.73	$22.47	$23.24	$24.03
Stock Coat (M.O.) $20.56	$20.81	$21.53	$22.27	$23.03	$23.81
Trim Setter $20.63	$20.89	$21.61	$22.35	$23.11	$23.89
Learnership Base (Classroom) $17.62	$17.79	$18.41		$19.05	$19.71	$20.39
Crane/ 3, 5, 8, 9 $22.41	$22.72	$23.49	$24.29	$25.11	$25.95
Crane/Loader/ 3, 5, 8, 9 $22.41	$22.72	$23.49	$24.29	$25.11	$25.95
When Flat Rate Units run combined, employees will be paid the flat rate of the unit to which they are assigned.
ARTICLE XVII
QUALITY (MET.) DEPARTMENT
JURISDICTION
1701.	The jurisdiction of the Blacksmiths in the Quality Dept, is as follows:
The processing of incoming test material into test specimens thru one or more operations such as layout, sectioning, experimental heat treatment and finish machining - employing facilities provided to the Physical Test Division for such purposes. Additionally, Blacksmiths are responsible for macroetching of etch samples, grain flows, red lining of test specimens and other material brought into Physical Test’s Etch Room for service
93
investigation. Blacksmiths are also responsible for primary preparation of samples such as chips, spectrograph samples, micros, etc., as requested by other divisions of the Quality Dept.
1702.	It is recognized that certain aspects of Quality Dept, functions overlap with duties of other Quality and operating department personnel and as such, these areas are not considered exclusive in this memo.
CLASSIFICATION WITHIN QUALITY DEPT.
1703.	All employees have been classified in accordance with the following classification: Test Material Processor. The Test Material Processor classification shall consist of three bids, as listed below. Bids are defined by work assignment and shift, for example, Test Material Processor - 1st shift. Based on workload, the Company will determine the number of each bid per shift. Future bids will be filled via the process outlined in Section 1707.
1.	Test Material Processor
2.	Test Material Processor - Spark Tester
3.	Test Material Processor - Special Machinist
Rates appropriate to classification appear under heading of “Rate Progression Schedule”.
1704.	Routine assignments for Test Material Processors (TMP) shall include, but not be limited to any of the following:
1.	Layout and section of test material.
2.	Turning, facing, form grinding, threading of cylindrical test specimens, polishing of test specimens and redlining of test specimens.
3.	Turning and facing of etch samples and sawing, shaping, milling and surface grinding of rectangular shaped test specimens.
4.	Preparation of etched samples.
5.	Produce test specimens through hot working operation of the Hot Compression Tester and related equipment is performed jointly with IFPTE Techs.
6.	Store, scrap and dispose of production related test material.
94
7.	Store, scrap and dispose of acceptance material.
8.	Experimental Heat Treat operations.
9.	Pick-up and delivery of test material.
Special Machinists - To perform any assignments using any or all equipment as required. The employees who are regularly assigned this and other unusual work not normally performed by other employees on a daily basis, are designated as Special Machinists within the Test Material Processor classification. Duties include, but are not limited to start-up of new equipment, the conditioning of cutting tools used by Physical Test, troubleshooting (by assignment), unique machining, and other duties at the sole discretion and as identified by management. Company will provide special and out of the ordinary tools; however, employees shall provide tools necessary to perform routine assignments.
Spark Tester - Employees designated as Spark Testers within the Test Material Processor classification are responsible for the testing of materials for identity verification of specifications or in the resolution of identity problems; using any one of several methods including grinders, spectroscope, thermo-electric coparators, TN Spectrace Analyst Unit, Acid spot tests, or other tools, following established procedures and methods. In the pursuit of the resolution of identity problems the employee assigned may, upon request, effect a resolution of material identity problems involving specifications, code or serial numbers. They may become involved when mixing of steel is reasonable suspected, where dual identity is detected or when identity is supposedly lost.
1705.	TMP's may be assigned to any work for which they are qualified. Equipment layout and assignments, whether to existing or new equipment, will be at Company's discretion, but will be reviewed with the union prior to implementing permanent changes.
95
1706.	In order to maintain skills and provide work variety for TMP's, the Company will establish a rotation for all employees, contingent on qualifications. The initial rotation will be reviewed with the union prior to implementation. The Company and the union will try to do this on a Bi-Weekly basis, although production requirements may influence scheduling.
CLASSIFICATION AND GROUP OPENINGS
1707.	Notices will be posted on the department bulletin board for a period of five (5) workdays indicating that the Company's intent to increase the number of TMP's on a particular shift and will permit TMP's on other shifts to fill such openings on a seniority basis. The request should be made via LCO Form #5733 (available in the Quality Dept.). This same procedure will be used to determine who has the primary responsibility for Spark Testing and Special Machining, however qualifications will be the primary determinant and seniority will be secondary. Employees who are first believed to be qualified and later determined to be insufficiently qualified, will return to their previous bid if available or assigned to another opening if not available.
1708.	Employees assigned to Spark Testing will begin their assignment at their current rate and progress to the top of the rate range within 24 months. Special Machinists will receive the higher rate upon their assignment.
SHIFT ASSIGNMENT
1709.	If the Company identifies an over manned shift, the employee with the least departmental seniority on that shift will be reassigned.
OVERTIME
1710.	Distribution of overtime shall be consistent with operating efficiency and shall be scheduled as equally as possible over a reasonable period of time among qualified employees. Rosters shall be maintained on each shift for all bids listed (Test Material Processors, Special Machinist and Spark Tester). The overtime of Sunday night starters shall be distributed
96
among Sunday night starters and overtime records will be kept separately.
If an employee requests to be excused, an attempt will be made to secure a replacement from the same classification and shift, or schedule an employee from another shift. However, if a replacement cannot be obtained, the employee with least amount of turns on the overtime roster on that shift, will be scheduled.
1711.	In the event an employee on a roster is not qualified to perform the overtime work and the Departmental Steward is so advised, he will not be scheduled for the assignment but will be scheduled at the earliest opportunity.
1712.	Overtime records will be kept in the form of “turns” rather than hours worked. Any overtime of less than 0.9 hours shall not be considered a turn worked.
1713.	Separate daily and Saturday - Sunday overtime records will be kept for TMPs in the Quality Dept.
1714.	In the Physical Test, daily overtime will rest with the employee performing the work at the end of the shift. In circumstances where such employee is not available, qualified employee on the overtime roster with the fewest number of turns will be scheduled.
1715.	If an employee is notified before the end of his shift Thursday that he will have an opportunity to work overtime within his classification on Saturday and/or Sunday, but is unable to work, he is credited as though he had worked.
All daily overtime is credited to the daily overtime roster as if worked provided employee is notified prior to the end of his shift.
OVERTIME ADMINISTRATION
1716.	In the event an employee is absent from work on Thursday and has not notified his supervisor that he will be
97
available for weekend overtime, he will be credited with overtime and the next employee on the overtime roster is scheduled.
1717.	All new hires, following completion of their probationary period and all qualified employees transferring to a different bid, except temporary transfers or assignments, shall be added to the new overtime roster. They will be considered to have the same overtime accumulation on the date of their eligibility for overtime as the employee on the roster with the most recorded overtime.
1718.	Employees on vacation and/or floating holiday shall be charged for overtime opportunities (to which he was entitled) as if he had worked.
1719.	For purposes of overtime distribution, employees not at work for whatever reason on any given day(s) on which they would normally have been assigned to work overtime, will be considered as having worked the turn(s) and will be charged accordingly.
1720.	Call-ins contrary to the rotating roster (not to exceed one opportunity for overtime) in Spark Test will be corrected by scheduling as soon as an overtime opportunity presents itself. Rosters will be posted and all employees in the classification will check proper rotation of overtime opportunities.
1721.	Selection will be made from overtime roster appropriate to the day and shift to which the daily overtime is continuous provided the scheduled overtime is for four (4) hours or less. Before shift overtime Saturday will be considered weekend and before shift Monday will be considered weekday.
1722.	All overtime rosters shall zero out on the first day of each new year. For example, the employee with the lowest number of turns shall have zero and all others will be credited with one turn. The records of overtime shall be available for inspection by stewards and committeemen.
98
1723.	It is recognized by both the Company and the Union that our customers’ urgent needs must be serviced and it is agreed that to accomplish this, there will be occasions when overtime is needed. It is therefore agreed that employees will work such scheduled extended hours.
SCHEDULING UNDER REDUCED HOURS
1724.	If it is necessary to reduce hours in the Quality Dept., which is a service department, it is understood that five-day coverage may be required. To provide fifth day coverage employees will be scheduled as required by classification and shift on the basis of seniority. A separate roster will be used for fifth day scheduling and shall be used on subsequent weeks until roster is exhausted. Reduction to thirty-two (32) hours per week, with each department scheduled separately, shall not exceed eight (8) weeks in the aggregate in a twelve (12) month period. Since some Quality Dept, classifications can be affected by more than one shop dept, it is understood that partial reductions can be made as affected.
1725.	Since Quality Dept, is a service department it may be necessary to schedule partial overtime operations when hours are reduced to provide necessary or required service. However, this overtime will be held to a minimum when there is a layoff in the department.
1726.	The aforementioned overtime will not be used to circumvent legitimate basis for recalls from layoff or discontinuing scheduling under reduced hours.
REDUCTION IN FORCES
1727.	In the event a classification is overmanned, a reduction in the classification will be effected with seniority governing. Employee affected will be assigned to a classification in which he previously held seniority and is qualified. His rate will be determined by Supervision and will be within the rate range of the new classification. If employee does not have sufficient seniority to be reassigned or if employee did not hold seniority in a
99
previous classification, he will be assigned to a departmental vacancy. In the event no vacancy exists, he will displace the least senior employee in the department, provided he is qualified to perform the work. In the event he cannot displace the least senior employee, he will be subject to layoff.
RECALLS
1728.	Quality Dept, employees being recalled from layoff will be recalled to any available job that they are qualified to perform but will be returned to their current classification when it becomes available.
1729.	All rate ranges will increase as follows:
3% on October 1, 2012
3% on September 30, 2013
3% on September 29, 2014
3% on September 28, 2015
3% on September 26, 2016
3% on October 2, 2017
1730. TEST MATERIAL PROCESSOR
WITH WAGE DIVIDEND
10/1/2012	9/30/2013	9/29/2014	9/28/2015	9/26/2016	10/2/2017
1/1/2013	1/1/2014	1/1/2015	1/1/2016	1/1/2017	1/1/2018
* rates listed are as January 1st 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018
** Rates are 3% increase in September (or October) minus MCR of $.40 on January 1st in 2013 and an additional $.44 ($.84 total) per hour in 2014 through 2018.
Minimum
$15.74	$15.85	$16.42	$17.00	$17.60	$18.22
3 Months					
$16.24	$16.36	$16.94	$17.54	$18.16	$18.80
100
6 Months
$16.77	$16.91	$17.51	$18.13	$18.76	$19.41
9 Months					
$17.28 12 Months	$17.44	$18.05	$18.68	$19.33	$20.00
$17.80 15 Months	$17.97	$18.60	$19.25	$19.92	$20.61
$18.31 18 Months	$18.50	$19.15	$19.82	$20.51	$21.22
$18.82 21 Months	$19.02	$19.68	$20.36	$21.06	$21.78
$19.32 24 Months	$19.54	$20.22	$20.92	$21.64	$22.38
$19.85	$20.08	$20.77	$21.48	$22.22	$22.98
Group 4 Test Material Processors shall receive an additional $.50/hour.
WITHOUT WAGE DIVIDEND 10/1/2012 9/30/2013 9/29/2014 9/28/2015 9/26/2016 10/2/2017 1/1/2013	1/1/2014	1/1/2015 1/1/2016	1/1/2017	1/1/2018
* rates listed are as January 1st 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 ** Rates are 3% increase in September (or October) minus MCR of $.40 on January 1st in 2013 and an additional $.44 ($.84 total) per hour in 2014 through 2018.
Minimum
$16.66	$16.80	$17.39	$18.00	$18.63	$19.28
3 Months					
$17.18 6 Months	$17.33	$17.94	$18.57	$19.22	$19.89
$17.74 9 Months	$17.91	$18.54	$19.19	$19.86	$20.55
$18.27 12 Months	$18.46	$19.10	$19.76	$20.44	$21.14
$18.82	$19.02	$19.68	$20.36	$21.06	$21.78
101
15 Months $19.35 18 Months	$19.57	$20.25	$20.95	$21.67	$22.41
$19.89 21 Months	$20.12	$20.81	$21.53	$22.27	$23.03
$20.41 24 Months	$20.66	$21.37	$22.10	$22.85	$23.63
$20.99	$21.26	$21.99	$22.74	$23.51	$24.31
1731. SUBGROUP 6		WITH WAGE DIVIDEND			
10/1/2012	9/30/2013	9/29/2014	9/28/2015	9/26/2016	10/2/2017
1/1/2013	1/1/2014	1/1/2015	1/1/2016	1/1/2017	1/1/2018
*	rates listed are as January 1 st 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018
*	* Rates are 3% increase in September (or October) minus MCR of $.40 on January 1st in 2013 and an additional $.44 ($.84 total) per hour in 2014 through 2018.
Minimum
$15.74	$15.85	$16.42	$17.00	$17.60	$18.22
3 Months					
$16.40 6 Months	$16.53	$17.12	$17.72	$18.34	$18.98
$17.10 9 Months	$17.25	$17.86	$18.49	$19.14	$19.81
$17.91 12 Months	$18.09	$18.72	$19.37	$20.04	$20.73
$18.44 15 Months	$18.63	$19.28	$19.95	$20.64	$21.35
$19.11 18 Months	$19.32	$19.99	$20.68	$21.39	$22.12
$19.64	$19.87	$20.56	$21.27	$22.00	$22.75
21 Months
102
$20.13	$20.37	$21.07	$21.79	$22.53	$23.30
24 Months
$20.81	$21.07	$21.79	$22.53	$23.30	$24.09
Group 2 Test Material Processors when operating hot compression tester shall receive an additional $.30/hour.
WITHOUT WAGE DIVIDEND
10/1/2012 9/30/2013 9/29/2014 9/28/2015 9/26/2016 10/2/2017
1/1/2013	1/1/2014	1/1/2015	1/1/2016 1/1/2017 1/1/2018
*	rates listed are as January 1st 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018
*	* Rates are 3% increase in September (or October) minus MCR of $.40 on January 1st in 2013 and an additional $.44 ($.84 total) per hour in 2014 through 2018.
Minimum
$16.66	$16.80	$17.39	$18.00	$18.63	$19.28
3 Months					
$17.35 6 Months	$17.51	$18.13	$18.76	$19.41	$20.08
$18.10 9 Months	$18.28	$18.92	$19.58	$20.26	$20.96
$18.94 12 Months	$19.15	$19.82	$20.51	$21.22	$21.95
$19.49 15 Months	$19.71	$20.39	$21.09	$21.81	$22.56
$20.19 18 Months	$20.43	$21.13	$21.85	$22.60	$23.37
$20.75 21 Months	$21.01	$21.73	$22.47	$23.24	$24.03
$21.28 24 Months	$21.56	$22.30	$23.06	$23.84	$24.65
$22.01	$22.31	$23.07	$23.85	$24.66	$25.49
1732. Summer Help - $12.00 per hour.
103
1733. The parties agree the intent of the 2005 supplemental agreement was to maximize the Company’s flexibility regarding work assignments, while it also provided additional compensation to TMP’s ($.66/hr) for the contract changes instituted at the time, as well as future efforts to support the intent of the parties. Future efforts may include realignment of other current equipment, further multi-machine operation by one employee, operation of a waterjet or introduction of new equipment. Changes that do not substantially affect the skill requirements of the TMP’s will not be cause for additional monetary consideration.
The parties recognize that the Company is contractually within its right to determine “the schedule of production, the assignment of work, the methods, processes and means of manufacturing, the control and regulations of the use of all equipment”. However, it is also recognized that it is in the best interests of the Company, Union and employees to have the participation and cooperation of the employees when undertaking efforts to improve productivity through changes to product flow and equipment realignment. Therefore, the Company will assure the Union that in such cases, no member on the Quality Department roster of 6/30/05 will be laid-off or incur a reduction of earnings as a result of any efficiency improvements realized through the joint efforts of the Company and employees of the Quality Department.
ARTICLE XVIII TUITION REFUND PROGRAM -(QUALITY/HEAT TREAT DEPARTMENTS)
1801.
A.	Purpose: The improvement of employees’ knowledge and skills contributes to the well-being and growth of the employee and the Company. The purpose of the ATI Ladish Forging, LLC, Tuition Refund Program is to provide encouragement and financial assistance to employees who take job related educational courses outside regular working hours on a voluntary basis for self-improvement.
104
B.	Eligibility: Full time active employees with one or more years of continuous service at the time of application are eligible for Tuition Refund Program benefits. Employees who are laid off while enrolled in an approved course shall be eligible for refund while on layoff status. Employees who resign or are discharged while enrolled in approved courses will not be eligible for tuition refund.
Employees who enroll in approved credit or noncredit regular, extension or correspondence course are eligible for Tuition Refund Program benefits. All courses must be offered by a school accredited by at least one of the following agencies:
1.	North Central Association of College and Secondary Schools
2.	National Home Study Council
3.	Wisconsin State Board of Vocational, Technical and Adult Education.
Courses taken under this program must be directly related to Company operations in which the employee is employed.
C.	Amount of Refund: Employees submitting certification of successful completion of approved credit courses with a grade of “C” or higher or a certificate of completion and attendance at not less than 80% of scheduled classes for approved noncredit courses, shall be eligible for reimbursement of 100% of the tuition and lab fee costs for such approved courses not to exceed a total of $750.00 per employee per calendar year. Employees who are eligible for state and/or federal financial assistance for tuition and lab fees will not be eligible for ATI Ladish Forging, LLC., Tuition Refund Program benefits.
Upon successful completion of an approved course, the employee shall provide the ATI Ladish Forging, LLC., Training Department with a receipt indicating the amount paid 105
for tuition and lab fee. The Company will pay 100% of the costs entailed by employees attending Company required seminars.
D.	Application and Approval: Employees desiring to receive benefits under this program must obtain “Application for Tuition Refund” form from ATI Ladish Forging, LLC., Training Department and submit completed form to Training Department no later than two weeks prior to the final registration date for the course. The employee will be notified of eligibility (or ineligibility) for tuition refund as promptly as possible.
ARTICLE XIX SEVERANCE PAY
1901. When in the sole judgment of the Company, it decides to close permanently a plant or discontinue permanently a departmentor a substantial portion thereof, an employee who is laid off either directly or indirectly as a result thereof because he was not entitled to other employment with the Company pursuant to the seniority, transfer and recall provisions of the Labor Agreement, shall be entitled to severance allowance in accordance with the following:
LENGTH OF CONTINUOUS SEVERANCELENGTH OF COMPANY SERVICE_____________________________ALLOWANCES
0 Years	to 3 Years	0	hours pay
3	Years	to 5 Years	120	hours pay
5	Years	to 7 Years	160	hours pay
7	Years	to 10 Years	200	hours pay
10	Years or more	240 hours pay
Severance allowances shall be computed on previous quarter’s average straight time hourly earnings which includes shift premium and cost-of-living.
Before the Company shall close permanently a plant or discontinue permanently a department or substantial portion 106
thereof, it shall give the Union when practicable, advance written notification of its decision.
Notification shall be given at least sixty (60) days prior to the effective closure date, and the Company will thereafter meet with Union representatives to provide them with an opportunity to discuss the effects of the Company’s course of action.
An employee shall have sixty (60) days after layoff to make a decision as to whether to accept the severance allowance or to remain on a layoff status. If the employee does not notify the Company in writing as to the decision during the sixty (60) day period, the employee shall be deemed to be continuing on layoff status and shall not be entitled to any severance allowance even though the employee may never be rehired. An employee electing to accept the severance allowance shall cease to have any seniority or other rights under the terms of the Agreement and if subsequently employed shall be considered anew employee. The severance allowance shall be paid in a lump sum within ten (10) days after the employee notifies the Company that he has decided to accept the severance allowance.
Any employee who voluntarily terminates his employment with the Company before his last day of work as designated by the Company shall not be eligible for a severance allowance.
Severance allowance shall not be duplicated for the same severance, whether the other obligation arises by reason of contract, law or otherwise. If an individual is or shall become entitled to any discharge, liquidation, severance, or dismissal allowance or payment of similar kind by reason of any law of the United States of America or any of the States, Districts or Territories thereof subject to its jurisdiction, the total amount of such payments shall be deducted from the severance allowance to which the individual may be entitled under this Article, or any payment made by the Company under this Article may be offset against such payments. Statutory Unemployment Compensation payments shall be excluded from the non-duplication provisions 107
of this section, except that the severance allowance will be allocated by the Company to the equivalent number of weeks immediately following termination.
This section shall not be interpreted to offset the Company’s right to lay off or in any other way reduce or increase the working force in accordance with its presently existing rights as set forth in Section 103 of this Agreement
ARTICLE XX PREVAILING LAWS AND TERMINATION OF CONTRACT
2001.	This Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto and their successors and assigns.
2002.	Any provision of this Agreement which may be in conflict with any Federal or State Law or Decree shall be and herein is modified and/or waived to conform with such law or decree, but any such modification or waiver shall not modify or nullify any other provision hereof. The parties hereto have set forth herein all the Agreements between them with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment or other conditions of employment of employees covered hereby, except for the ATI Ladish Forging, LLC.,. Pension Plan - Blks. Lodge 1509 AFL-CIO (as amended), which shall continue to be a separate contract between the parties. This contract shall continue to be the entire Agreement between the parties, except for the ATI Ladish Forging, LLC, Pension Plan - Blks. Ledge 1509 AFL-CIO (as amended), and shall remain in effect without modification or addition for its duration unless amended by mutual agreement.
2003.	This Agreement shall be in full force and effect from October 1, 2012, to midnight, September 30, 2018. Thereafter, it shall continue in force and effect from year to year unless either party hereto shall notify the other party by certified mail at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration date of the term or any
108
extended term of this Agreement, of an intention to make changes or to terminate the Agreement.
Entered into this 19th day of October, 2011.
ATI LADISH CO., INC. INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF BOILER MAKERS, IRON SHIPBUILDERS, BLACKSMITHS, FORGERS AND HELPERS
Dated:	fa, 20 i I
109
MISCELLANEOUS
HEAT TREAT
1.	When Heat Treat personnel are assigned to Bldg. 66 they will perform Bldg. 66 Die Heating work. When no Heat Treat personnel are assigned to Bldg. 66 the Die Heating work may be performed by Forge Shop personnel.
2.	Bay 5 Heat Treat crew to be able to operate Bay 3 Crane to load and unload forgings for Heat Treat cycles in Bay 3 furnaces.
3.	Changes pertaining to the incorporation of the CIA’s into the Heat Treat Department, modifications to the bid system and the combination of classifications are outlined in Exhibit II.
4.	Forge Shop quenching and Die Heating functions will be primarily performed by Forge Shop personnel. Forge Shop employees may be assisted by Heat Treat employees in these functions, if necessary.
5.	The parties agree the supercooler represents a very unique technology and the usual 90-day trial period is entirely insufficient to determine normal functions or evaluate work elements. However, it is anticipated the technology will develop to enable that to occur and when it does Section 1313 of the labor agreement will apply.
STEEL STORES
6.	Yardmen may be assigned to assist saws as determined necessary. Common sense and good judgment to be used in application of this language.
7.	Forge Shop personnel will be responsible for loading and unloading material drawdowns at #176 Press.
8.	One operator may be assigned to a cutting cell in the Steel Stores Department. After units have been facilitized and had a 110
reasonable trial period the parties will meet to address issues related to rate of pay.
9.	For purposes of product flow it is the Company’s practice to receive Steel Stores material in the Steel Stores Department. However, it is infrequently necessary to deliver the materials to Bldg 29 Shipping/Receiving. On those occasions the material will be unloaded, tagged, received into the system and sent to Steel Stores by Bldg 29 Material Handlers.
10.	Any employee may be responsible to make out scrap tags. The Company may assign a Steel Stores employee when it determines one is available.
11.	Any employee may be responsible to make out move tags and tag loads.
12.	Yardperson will be bid to an area (home base) but may be assigned to another area/function by management as work requirements dictate.
13.	If necessary, the loading and unloading of trailers in the West Yard will be serviced by a Yardperson.
14.	Steel Stores Yardperson will no longer be responsible for identifying loads to be moved inside from the West side scrap staging area. The function of moving loads from outside Steel Stores (West Yard) to the 1/4 mark staging area inside Steel Stores will be performed by the IAMAW Fork Truck Driver.
A Yardperson (Scrap Sorter) may then use a Standup Rider Truck to bring loads to his specific work area.
FORGE SHOP
15.	Bldg. 66 crane operators may be assigned to fill Helper vacancies on Bldg 66 units. If additional vacancies exist beyond the crane operators and the one current bid Helper, the vacancy(s) will be posted in the daily Helper line-up. It is
111
agreed that no additional bids will be awarded for Bldg 66 Helpers. The current bidholder will maintain his bid.
16.	Based on the jobs scheduled for the units, vacancies at 139 Presses may be listed in the Helpers line-up when there is an unsufficient number of qualified Hydraulic Press Operators available to run all jobs scheduled on the shift.
17.	When a unit has idled, Company may restart it again on the same shift.
18.	When combined with other units, #176 Crane Operator will be displaced unless stamping function or setups are required on #176.
19.	The practice of holding 2nd Shift employees overtime to perform 3rd Shift beta anneal will be discontinued. 3rd Shift beta anneal will be done by 3rd Shift employees.
20.	Beginning 10/5/03 Vacuum Press Operators may be required to assure match and thickness of forgings and to document findings for Company records. Operators will notify supervisor when observations are outside indicated limits.
21.	Forge Fire Blacksmith will be posted in the daily operators line-up same as any other job.
22.	When time studying a job, operator will be informed prior to the study, and upon completion of study, the operator will be informed of overall time the study consumed and number of pieces made.
23.	On Mechanical Presses - Operators will assume the loading function thus reducing the crew size by one (1) employee.
24.	Puller Bids on Unit #s 85, 145 and 176 to be designated by Unit#s. Puller bid to be posted on Unit #145.
112
25.	Forge Shop lineup will occur at the beginning of each shift currently 7:00 A.M., 3:00 P.M. and 11:00 P.M.
26.	When #176 Press is running combined and its cycle is affected by the production cycle of the other units the crew will be reduced by two (2) men (the alternate M.O. and the least senior Hydraulic Press Operator).
27.	Forge Shop quenching and Die Heating functions may be handled by Forge Shop personnel. Forge Shop personnel may be assisted by Heat Treat personnel in these functions, if necessary. The Company will establish a 1st shift floating bid for a Crane Operator Bays 3, 5, 8 and 9, and a 2nd shift Crane Operator/Loader bid. Operator may be assigned to other activities in these areas and additional manpower needs may be provided from the appropriate Forge Shop crew.
28.	Forge Shop furnaces may be monitored by Process Control when their involvement is required on the routing. The intent is to eliminate the redundant "watching" furnaces during nonproductive periods.
29.	It is the Company's intent to install remote devices for opening and closing furnace doors. Such equipment will be assigned to employees in the Bargaining Unit to perform the work. In the event the Company initiates the use of remote furnace door openers and determines it is not satisfactory and the Helper bids must be reinstituted, the former bidholders will have the option of returning to their former bids.
QUALITY
31.	Maintenance of housekeeping in both office and shop areas may be performed by outside contractors. "In the event custodial duties become a full time job assignment they will remain within the jurisdiction of Local 1509."
113
EXHIBIT I
AGREEMENT ON REVISION OF FORGE SHOP INCENTIVE SYSTEM BETWEEN ATI LADISH FORGING, LLC, CUDAHY, WISCONSIN AND LOCAL LODGE 1509
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF BOILERMAKERS, IRON SHIPBUILDERS, FORGERS AND HELPERS
PURPOSE
During the 1988 contract negotiations, the Company and the Union agreed to develop a revised incentive plan for agreed to units and job classifications in the Forge Shop. In developing the program, the parties agreed that the plan should be developed in a manner that would maintain the earnings of the affected units and classifications. In addition, the Plan should allow an opportunity for increased earnings through increased production with an emphasis on maximum utilization of equipment which should result in an overall increase in pieces produced. Earnings opportunity should also increase through overall unit productivity.
Another important aspect of the Plan is to improve quality while maintaining earnings and increasing earnings opportunity through increased productivity by the development of a system which would encourage a team work approach among the employees on the affected units in the Forge Shop.
In recognition of the need to effectively compete in the current and projected market for forgings produced at the Company, a critical component of the new Plan will be the encouragement of accurate time reporting. This will enable competitive pricing of the forgings produced.
Another significant aspect of the plan is to simplify the administration of the incentive system. This will also increase the cost effectiveness of the system and assist in the goal of establishing competitive pricing.
114
DEFINITIONS
Efficiency Ratio: This ratio is determined by multiplying the job standard times the crew studied in establishing the standard, times the pieces produced (excluding Hammer Scrap) and then dividing by the total reported man hours for all units in the group.
Groups: There are ten (10) incentive- groups of units:
Group 1 to include Units #5 and #10
Group 2 to include Units #7 and #8
Group 3 to include Units #32, #45, #64 and #29
Group 4 to include Units #70 and #73
Group 5 to include Units #25, #69 and #81
Group 6 to include Unit #80
Group 7 is Unit #176
Group 8 is Unit #85
Group 9 is Unit #143
Group 10 is Units #145 and 194
In addition to the Unit Groups, there shall be three (3) classifications which shall consist of all Unit Operators working within a specified Unit Group, all Manipulator/Crane Operators working within a specific Unit Group and all Helpers working within a Unit Group.
North End/South End Combined Units - For the purpose of developing a performance rate for combined units, the following two combined groups are established:
North - to include Units #80, #81, #85, #145, #176, #25, #70, #73, #69, #194
South - to include Units #5, #10, #7, #8
The combined performance rate will be applied to the specific job on which the units are working combined. If the units that are working combined are from the same incentive group (and no other units are involved) the normal group performance rate will apply.
115
Hammer Scrap: The forgings scrapped at the Unit, as determined by the operator.
Performance Pay Per Hour: Is calculated by multiplying the Efficiency Ratio of the Classification within the Unit Group, times the Performance Rate developed for each classification within each Unit Group.
Performance Rate: These rates were developed for each classification within each Unit Group after reviewing productivity and effort in the Base Period and are attached as Appendix A.
Reported Man Hours: All man hours charged to the units within a specified Unit Group.
Standard Earned Hours: Are calculated by multiplying the job standards (job standards and set up standards are calculated separately) times the crew size of the studied standard(s) times the pieces produced on each shift (excluding Hammer Scrap) for each job on a unit. The Standard Earned Hours for each job and setup on a unit are added together to get the total unit Standard Earned Hours.
Standards: Will be the existing running and set up standards.
Total Pay per Individual: Is the employee Hourly Rate for their job classification as set forth in Appendix A multiplied by the hours they worked. That amount would then be added to the performance pay for the classification within the Unit Groups worked.
Total Performance Pay: Is calculated by multiplying the Performance Pay per Hour by the Reported Hours in the Unit Group.
Unit Operators: Will consist of Hammer Operators, Hydraulic and Mechanical Press Operators and Blacksmiths.
116
Base Period: Is the Period used in developing the Performance Rate and consists of the first six (6) months of the calendar year 1988.
GENERAL
The Plan has been developed utilizing the existing running and set up standards. The parties agree that these standards shall remain frozen and will not be changed due to increased productivity as a result of operator ingenuity or through increased effort which results in increased production. The standards shall only be subject to review and change providing that any increase in production is a result of Company developed and instituted changes in equipment, tooling or production methods.
Any such restudy or change shall only apply to those specific elements affected by the Company developed and instituted changes in equipment, tooling or production methods.
In order to recognize changing conditions and product mix over a period of time, the parties shall meet on an annual basis to review the Plan. At this time, each party may put forth their suggested changes to the makeup of either the Unit or classifications within the Unit. No change to the existing Unit or Classification Group shall be made without mutual agreement by both the Company and the Union Committee. These reviews shall take place at or within two weeks of the yearly anniversary date of the Agreement.
When Units work as combined units, the preparing unit will not be sent home before eight (S) hours or the number of hours worked by the finishing unit, whichever is less.
In the event new jobs are run in the Forge Shop on units covered by the Plan, standards to those jobs will be developed by timestudy in the same manner as the existing standards were developed. During such time that a new job is run prior to a standard being established on any units within Groups A, B or C or the Company runs experimental tryout work or rework on any of these units an agreed to Efficiency Ratio of .78 shall be used in
117
calculating the Performance Pay per Hour for the time spent so engaged on those operations.
PAY CALCULATIONS
Pay calculations under the Plan will be calculated per shift on a daily basis. The Total Performance Pay and Total Pay per Individual will be calculated using the jobs run on each specific day.
Performance Pay for classifications within a Unit Group will be calculated as follows:
The Standard Earned Hours of all jobs worked on units within a Unit Group shall be added and the total shall be divided by the total reported unit labor hours for all the units within the group. This calculation will determine the Efficiency Ratio. The group Efficiency Ratio will then be multiplied by the Performance Rate of each classification within a Unit Group as set forth in Appendix A.
The Total Performance Pay for employees working within a classification within a Unit Group is determined by multiplying the Performance Pay per Hour for that classification times the number of reported hours they worked in the classification within the Unit Group. Each employee’s total pay for the day is calculated by taking the Hourly Rate for the classification in which they worked as set forth in Appendix B times the hours they worked and adding that amount to their Total Performance Pay for the day.
Employees will receive daily feedbacks the next workday in accordance with the current practice, which shall contain the following information:
1.	The Group(s) worked on,
2.	The Unit(s) worked on,
3.	The hours worked,
4.	The orders run,
5.	The number of pieces produced.
118
The daily group efficiency by group will be provided to the employees no later than two days after the day of production covered by the feedback.
INCORPORATION INTO LABOR AGREEMENT
This Plan shall be incorporated by reference into Article XVII, Section 1727 of the Labor Agreement between ATI Ladish Forging, LLC., Cudahy, Wisconsin and Local Lodge 1509 of the International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Shipbuilders, Blacksmiths, Forgers and Helpers and will be subject to change only in accordance with the terms of the Plan and by mutual agreement of the parties or at the time the Labor Agreement is subject to renegotiation.
AMENDMENTS
During 2003 contract negotiations the parties agreed to amend the incentive system as follows:
1.	When employees' bid units are idled/eliminated, those employees will be man-changed to miscellaneous (reference the clean-up sheet) and be paid the rate of 78% of the incentive rate for that day's remaining hours until they either punch out or are picked up to another running unit. The intended use is when the number of crew members is reduced for the balance of the day (reference Section 1605). When employees are picked up to another running unit/job, they will then received the new unit/job's rate of pay.
Example 1:
Units	Item	Usual Crew Size
10/8/7	QX123	21
8/7	EX123	16 (5 people without job get put on
78% and clean-up sheet)
7 XY123	15	(1 more person for a total of 6 are
on 78% and clean-up sheet)
119
Example 2:
Units Item Usual Crew Size
69/80	QX123	21
69	EX123	16 (5 people without job get carried
on crew as extras)
69/80	XY123	21 (people from the original
combined crew fills vacancies)
69	AB123	16 (5 people without job get put on
78% and clean-up sheet)
2.	The 12" and 18" adapters at 145 and 146 when moved while bolted together will count as only 1 adapter. There will no longer be flatbed adjustments at 80/81. The flatbed adjustments for 73 hammer will be handled on a daily TRO basis, if needed.
3.	When employees have completed all the scheduled work for the day and desire to leave early if there are no other jobs needed to be filled, the employees will be paid their full day's incentive pay, but forego their base rate for the hours not punched in. The incentive rate/percentage will be based on if the crew had remained on that unit for the full shift's hours. In the event an employee is transferred to facilitate after all work is completed, for the balance of the shift he will receive the higher of the two wages.
Example 1:
Units	Item	Wage/lncentive Pay
176/85/145 DZ064 Crew completes work between 7:00am and 1:00pm. Crew will get paid incentive rate as if worked 7:00am-3:00pm and they can punch out; they only forego two (2) hours of base rate.
Example 2: Units
10/8/7 8/7
Item Wage/lncentive Pay
HS013
HS014
120
7 CA189 1:00pm all work done, only after this last job CA189 is done the CA189 crew can get paid incentive rate as if worked until 3:00pm or they can punch out and only forego two (2) hours of base rate.
APPENDIX A
FORGE DEPARTMENT CLASSIFICATION HOURLY RATES AND UNIT GROUPS
The classification hourly rates and Unit Groups under the Plan are set forth herein.
INCENTIVE RATES
GROUP	
CODES	UNITS
7701	5, 10
7702	7,8
7703	32, 45, 29, 64
7704	70, 73
7705	25, 69, 81
7706	80, 145, 146, 194
7707	176
7708 7709 7710 7720-7729 7730-7739	85 143, 15 128, 139, 80, 81, 145, 176, 25, 70, 73, 69, 81 5, 7, 8, 10
10/1/2012	9/30/2013	9/29/2014	9/28/2015	9/26/2016	10/2/2017
1/1/2013	1/1/2014	1/1/2015	1/1/2016	1/1/2017	1/1/2018
*	rates listed are as January 1st 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018
*	* Rates are 3% increase in September (or October) minus MCR of $.40 on January 1st in 2013 and an additional $.44 ($.84 total) per hour in 2014 through 2018.
Operator (Incentive Multiplier - 6.50)
121
$19.95	$20.60	$21.72	$22.88	$24.07	$25.30
M.O./Crane (Incentive Multiplier - 6.02)
$18.47	$19.04	$20.08	$21.16	$22.27	$23.41
Helper (Incentive Multiplier - 5.80)
$16.80	$17.31	$18.28	$19.29	$20.33	$21.40
1.	Hourly rate will be applied for hours worked.
2.	When employees work on flat rate units, the flat rate will override the hourly rate.
3.	When crews are assigned by management to an incentive unit they will be counted as part of the crew for all hours they are part of the crew.
EXHIBIT II HEAT TREAT DEPARTMENT
I.	C.I.A. INCORPORATION
CIA group, formerly under Quality-Met, will be incorporated into the Heat Treat Department. The group currently consists of 24 employees which service Heat Treat, Forge Shop, Met Lab, and Welding departments.
II.	CLASSIFICATIONS
Heat Treat will be revised from current classifications to three:
HTS - Heat Treat Operator - Senior
Fully qualified to perform ALL Operations in Heat Treat including the functions currently performed by current CIA personnel except instrument service and combustion equipment maintenance. This includes crane operation, expediting, thermocouple installation, BHN, and any operation required for department operation.
122
HTO - Heat Treat Operator
Qualified to perform operations performed currently by HT operators, HT helpers, BHN operator, and BHN helper. This includes crane operation, expediting, BHN, and other department operations.
HS - Heating Specialist
Qualified to perform all operations; calibration, instrument service, system checks, combustion equipment maintenance, in all areas.
III.	PRIMARY ASSIGNMENT
Classifications will be structured as group bids and employees will be given primary assignments as defined below:
•	HS as defined by qualifications of classification
•	Building 2 - area as currently defined
•	Building 66 - area as currently defined
•	Bays 5 & 8 - combined
•	Brinell - area and operations as currently defined
•	Auxiliary - all other operations of equipment and furnaces.
Each classification and Primary Assignment will have manpower levels as determined by Heat Treat Management. Personnel will be transferable between primary assignments as needed.
a.	All current Combustion Instrument Adjusters will be classified as Heating Specialists.
b.	Heating Specialists will be assigned on a rotational basis to maintain skills.
123
c.	The Tuition Refund Program (Article XIX) will be extended to include all Heat Treat Department employees.
EXHIBIT III
FORGE SHOP ■ FLOATING CREW
Intent - The parties agree to establish a single bid for multiple incentive units for the purpose of increasing incentive opportunity on units with limited work backlogs.
UNITS - #32, #45, #64, and #29.
BIDS - The floating will be bid in the following manner:
Classification	#
Helpers	(4)
Hammer Operators	(2)
Manipulator Operators	(2)
Crew bids will be posted shortly after contract ratification.
The floating crew will be paid incentive and be added to the group incentive plan as a new Group #3.
EXHIBIT IV INTER JURISDICTIONAL ISSUES
In order to promote the efficient operation of the Cudahy Forgings Division plant, it is agreed that the Company and Blacksmiths Local No. 1509 will address inter-bargaining unit jurisdictional issues. The parties agree to explore using a mutually agreed upon outside facilitator to assist in this process. This agreement is conditional upon the Company reaching a similar understanding with other Bargaining Units to be involved in this process and it is understood that any proposed changes affecting Local 1509 are subject to the approval of membership.
124
EXHIBIT V OPERATOR LEARNERSHIPS
1.	Trainee selections for Operator Learnerships shall be in conformity with Article IV, Section 409. It is also understood that an evaluation of the candidate’s qualifications will include consideration of the years of service remaining until normal retirement and the ability to pass a standardized test conducted by the Company (testing will not be required for Forge Shop Learnerships). Employees who pass the standardized test will be exempted from having to take the test for a subsequent operator learnership for a period of three years.
Upon completion of the learnership, the Operator seniority date afforded the employee will be the date the employee entered the learnership classification.
Eligibility requirements as set forth in Article IV, Section 410, do not apply to Forge Shop Learnerships.
2.	All operators shall undergo a probationary period. Extension to the probationary period will not be granted. If, within the probationary period, the Learnership is terminated, either voluntarily or involuntarily, the Learner will be returned to the bid job held at the time of entrance into the Learnership Program. Once Forge Shop learner satisfactorily completes 100 hours of probationary period (400 hours for Heating Specialist learner) and remains in the learnership program he will forfeit all bid rights to former job, but will retain right to former classification with completion of probation and should Learnership be subsequently voluntarily terminated, the Learner must bid for a new job, fill vacancy, or by mutual agreement be assigned to a job.
3.	At the time a Learner goes on either industrial injury, extended sick leave, Company approved leave of absence or layoff, the Company will have the option to use the next employee in line to fill his vacancy.
125
Learners being recalled from layoff returning to the Forge Shop Department shall be returned to their last bid job (Learnership) when it becomes available. However, an employee who is laid off more than six (6) months from the Forge Shop Department loses his right to his Learnership and shall be returned to any available job in the Forge Shop, regardless of shift.
Any Learner who has his Learnership Program discontinued because of unsatisfactory progress will not be allowed to bid on another Learnership in the same classification unless mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union.
4.	Employees successfully completing an Operator Learner-ship shall be afforded the opportunity of bidding on jobs in their new classification. In the event there are no bid openings in the classification, employee may be assigned to a “no bid” helpers job by request.
It is specifically understood that an employee completing the Learnership Program shall not bid out of the classification for four (4) years from the date he enters the training program, except by approval of the Department Head and the Forge Shop Committeeman.
Employees hired into learnerships after 10/1/06 shall not bid to another classification for four years from the date of hire, except by approval of the Department Head and Committeeman.
5.	If a Probationary Learner is not assigned to a job within the Learnership classification he will have the right to return to his previous bid unit provided his Learnership and bid are on the same shift.
If the Company is aware that a probationary employee is not required to work in his Learnership classification prior to the end of shift, the employee will be scheduled to work on his previous bid for all hours (to include early start) for the next day.
126
Probationary Learners who will not be assigned to their Learnerships for that day will be notified prior to start of the daily lineup and Learner will be responsible for notifying proper Supervision of availability for original bid.
LEARNERSHIP SUBCOMMITTEE
6.	A Learnership Subcommittee, comprised of a Forge Shop supervisor, steward and qualified, active operator in the appropriate classification, will occasionally review the progress of operator learners. Reviews will occur for any learner whenever a member of the subcommittee determines it is appropriate.
LEARNER PAY AND TIME LIMITS
7.	Operator Learners shall have probationary periods and shall be compensated at the applicable operator rate after completing 100 hours (400 hours for Heating Specialist and Stock Coater to receive operator rate upon entry into learnership) of the probationary period of the particular learnership.
Heating Specialist Ring Roll Operator Open Frame Blacksmith Forge Fire Blacksmith Hammer Operator* Mechanical Press Hyd. Press Operator Vacuum Press Operator Manipulator Operator Flo Turn Operator* Crane Operator Trimmer Setter Stock Coater
Probationary Period
400 hrs. 400 hrs. 400 hrs. 400 hrs. 400 hrs. 400 hrs. 400 hrs. 400 hrs. 400 hrs. 400 hrs. 300 hrs. 100 hrs.
40 hrs.
Learnership Period
4000 hrs.
2000 hrs.
2000 hrs.
1500 hrs.
1500 hrs.
1500 hrs.
1500 hrs.
2100 hrs.
1500 hrs.
1500 hrs.
1000 hrs.
500 hrs.
200 hrs.
* Learnership period reflects minimum requirement. No learner will exceed 1750 hours within these specified classifications.
127
During the probationary training period, all Learners except Stock Coaters will be compensated as follows:
10/1/2012	9/30/2013	9/29/2014	9/28/2015	9/26/2016	10/2/2017
1/1/2013	1/1/2014	1/1/2015	1/1/2016	1/1/2017	1/1/2018
*	rates listed are as January 1 st 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018
*	* Rates are 3% increase in September (or October) minus MCR of
$.40 on January 1st in 2013 and an additional $.44 ($.84 total) per hour in 2014 through 2018.
$14.83	$14.91	$15.45	$16.00	$16.57	$17.16
Upon completion of 100 hours of probationary period (400 hours for Heating Specialist), Learners will receive make-up pay as follows:
10/1/2012	9/30/2013	9/29/2014	9/28/2015	9/26/2016	10/2/2017
1/1/2013	1/1/2014	1/1/2015	1/1/2016	1/1/2017	1/1/2018
*	rates listed are as January 1st 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018
*	* Rates are 3% increase in September (or October) minus MCR of $.40 on January 1st in 2013 and an additional $.44 ($.84 total) per hour in 2014 through 2018.
Heating Specialist (Without wage dividend) $2112	$2176	$2240	$2308	$2376 $2448
With wage dividend
$2564	$2640	$2720	$2804	$2888	$2972
Forge Shop Operators of Manipulators, Cranes, Presses and Hammers $617 $636	$655	$675	$695	$716
Forge Shop -
Trimmer Setters $521 $537	$553	$570	$587	$605
128
For balance of training employees will receive regular hourly rate, flat rate or incentive rate of classification as appropriate.
LEARNERSHIP - SPECIAL COMPENSATION
8.	Learners temporarily transferred to another classification shall be paid in conformity with Article IV, Section 423. Learners transferred within the classification after four (4) hours into their respective shift shall be paid in conformity with Article IV, Section 423.
9.	Time spent in other departments as prescribed by the Company and time spent in classroom training will be compensated at the Learner’s base rate (Section 1741 - Hourly Rates).
LEARNERSHIP - SPECIAL TRAINING
10.	Learnership Programs for Hammer Operators, Mechanical Press Operators, Hydraulic Press Operators, Vacuum Press Operators, Ring Roll Operators, Flo Turn Operators, Open Frame Blacksmiths/Hammer Driver and Forge Fire Blacksmiths will be revised as follows:
a.	For the probationary period training will continue to take its present form.
b.	After successful completion of the probationary period, additional training will be provided as a supplement to the continuous on-the-job training. It is understood that training will vary by classification and individual, based on their skills and comprehension abilities, but may include: blueprint reading; metallurgy; familiarization with the functions of other departments like Inspection, Die Design, Die Room, Forge Shop Engineering, Processing, Maintenance and Forge Shop supervision.
11.	Learnership for Trimmer Setters will be revised as follows:
a.	For the probationary period training will continue to take its present form.
129
b.	After successful completion of the probationary period, additional training will be provided as a supplement to the continuous on-the-job training. It is understood that training will vary by classification and individual, based on their skills and comprehension abilities, but may include: blueprint reading; metallurgy; familiarization with the functions of other departments like Inspection, Die Design, Die Room, Forge Shop Engineering, Processing, Maintenance and Forge Shop supervision.
12	.Learnership Program for Manipulator Operators will be revised as follows:
a.	For the probationary period training will continue to take its present form.
b.	After successful completion of the probationary period, additional training will be provided as a supplement to the continuous on-the-job training. It is understood that training will vary by classification and individual, based on their skills and comprehension abilities, but may include: blueprint reading; metallurgy; familiarization with the functions of other departments like Inspection, Die Design, Die Room, Forge Shop Engineering, Processing, Maintenance and Forge Shop supervision.
13	.Learnership Program for Crane Operators will be revised as follows:
a.	For the probationary period training will continue to take its present form.
b.	After successful completion of the probationary period, additional training will be provided as a supplement to the continuous on-the-job training. It is understood that training will vary by classification and individual, based on their skills and comprehension abilities, but may include: blueprint reading; metallurgy; familiarization with the functions of other departments like Inspection, Die Design, Die Room, Forge
130
Shop Engineering, Processing, Maintenance and Forge Shop supervision.
14.	Learnership Program for Heating Specialists will be revised as follows:
a.	Bid awards to trainee positions will be on the basis of seniority, first within the department and secondly within the bargaining unit from among those employees who have successfully passed the standardized testing offered through MATC. Procedurally, jobs will be posted and a test administered to those who bid. The final awarding would then occur as soon as the test results are provided.
In the case of employees from Quality, Forge Shop or Steel Stores filling Learnerships, they will retain bid rights in their former department for the first 400 hours. If a Learnership of an employee from one of these departments is terminated after the probationary period they must bid for a new job, fill vacancies or by mutual agreement be assigned to a job in the Heat Treat Department.
b.	After successful completion of the probationary period additional training will be provided as a supplement to the continuous on-the-job training. Classroom work will be offered by MATC and cover the general areas of industrial electronics and controls. Learners must complete all required classroom work and achieve a grade of C or better to continue as Learners.
c.	A Learnership Program Subcommittee, comprised of a Heat Treat Department Supervisor, a union representative and a qualified, active Heating Specialist, will review progress of Heating Specialist trainees and update the training program to assure it remains current with the requirements of the occupation and technologies available.
d.	Heating Specialist Learners will have a probationary period of 400 hours. The length of the Learnership shall be 4000 hours.
131
15.	A Learnership for Stock Coaters will consist of familiarization and use of materials, equipment, methods and general requirements of the job.
EXHIBIT VI
I	. PURPOSE
The ATI Ladish Forging, LLC, and Lodge 1509 recognize that the use of alcohol and drugs inhibits a person from performing duties safely and effectively. It is our intention to maintain a safe, healthful, and productive work environment for all employees, and to protect ATI Ladish Forging, LLC's reputation. Accordingly, the following policy is set forth. The responsibilities of all employees is clearly defined.
IL	POLICY
It is the policy of the ATI Ladish Forging, LLC, and Lodge 1509that employees shall not report to work under the influence of alcohol or drugs nor shall they possess, conceal or use such substances while they are on Company premises during scheduled working hours. Employees shall not sell or provide drugs or alcohol to any person while such employee is on Company premises during scheduled working hours. Employees who violate this policy are subject to disciplinary action.
Company and Union are, however, committed to providing the opportunity for rehabilitation to those employees whose drug or alcohol problem negatively impacts their ability to positively contribute as employees and citizens. Accordingly, a voluntary Employee Assistance Program (EAP) has been established for those employees who voluntarily seek help for alcohol or drug problems. Employees may contact the Medical Department for additional information.
132
I1L	PRESCRIPTION DRUGS
The appropriate use of legally prescribed drugs and nonprescription medications is not prohibited. The misuse or abuse of legal drugs while on Company premises or performing Company business is prohibited and will subject the employee to disciplinary action.
IV	. GUIDELINES
A.Testing for Just Cause - Where there is reasonable suspicion to believe that any employee is under the influence of drugs or alcohol, he or she may be tested. Where a supervisor observes an individual who, in his opinion, shows abnormal behavior, impairment, or incoherent tendencies, the Union will be notified and upon the concurrence of Labor Relations, the employee will be required to submit to testing in accordance with the procedure set forth below.
B.Industrial Accidents/lniuries - In the event of an incident that results, or could have resulted, in an industrial accident or injury, particularly in the case of a compensable injury, any person or persons involved may be required to submit to testing. With regards to industrial injuries, only employees that go outside for medical attention will be tested.
V	.Test Procedures
A.	Any employee required to submit to a test may be required to sign a release form that in part will require the listing of prescription drugs being taken that may result in a positive test result. This release will also provide the test results to be released to the Company's Medical Department.
B.	The drug test will be taken from urine specimens and the alcohol test by breathalyzer and analyzed by a certified professional laboratory contractor.
133
C.	The Company and clinic will assure proper handling of the specimens so that the sample results can be traced to the individuals. A chain of custody procedure will be developed to show a paper trail of the custody of samples at all times. Test samples will be stored by the testing lab in a scientifically acceptable manner for a minimum of 30 days unless requested in writing by the tested party prior to the end of the 30 days. Although employees will be allowed to produce the samples in private, the clinic will take the necessary steps to avoid any dilution or alteration of specimens and ensure the tamper resistance of the samples and the controlled dispatch to the testing lab.
D.	Confirmation of test results will be known normally within 24 to 48 hours following testing.
E.	Test will check for the following drugs using a clinically accepted screening method.
Alcohol *
Marijuana
Opiates Morphine Codeine Barbiturates Cocaine Amphetamines Other controlled substances as determined by Lab**
* Positive test result to be .04%.
Any positive result by this method will be reconfirmed by the testing lab using a second
clinically acceptable methodology before confirmation of a positive test result is presented to the Company. Any employee wishing to have a second or different confirmatory test performed may do so by submitting the necessary
134
payment to the laboratory within five working days of notification of the positive result. Should the second confirmation show a negative result, the Company will reimburse the employee for the cost of the second test.
* *Other controlled substances are defined by the testing lab plans available and may be more inclusive than the above list, but shall not be less than those listed.
F.	Any employee who is tested will have the right upon written request, to see the results of his or her test and to receive a copy of the test results.
G.	Human Resources Department will perform the following duties:
1.	Maintain confidentiality of records associated with the administration of this policy.
2.	Maintain information about drug abuse treatment facilities.
3.	Counsel supervisor/managers/employees regarding the administration of this policy.
H.	In the case of employees being tested as a result of reasonable suspicion, they will be considered under suspension pending test results. Should results not be positive and there is no basis for disciplinary layoff, the employee will be reimbursed for time cost awaiting test results.
VI. POSITIVE TEST RESULTS
A.	An employee who has a positive test result will be advised in a confidential meeting between the employee
135
and/or the employee and his Union representative, and the Human Resources Manager or his designee as soon as is reasonably possible.
B.	1. The employee will be referred to the Company's Employee Assistance Program (EAP) professional for an independent assessment.
2.	The purpose of the assessment will be to confirm and determine the extent of any suspected problem(s), and to make recommendations regarding the proper method of treatment.
3.	The employee will be afforded the opportunity to enter a treatment program and to follow all recommendations of the EAP or any referral resource they may prescribe.
4.	The employee will authorize the EAP to provide periodic reports of his progress and compliance in the treatment program to the Company.
5.	The Company will provide a medical leave of absence as required by the treatment program of up to 30 days for purposes of rehabilitation. Coverage of expenses for any such medical leave or other prescribed treatment will be covered as outlined in the employee insurance program.
6.	If outpatient treatment is required, the employee, with Medical Department approval, will be excused to leave normal work shift early to attend appointments that cannot be otherwise scheduled off-shift.
136
C.	For a period of two years, an employee who has tested positive will be subject to testing at the Company's discretion on a periodic basis without notice.
D.	For any positive result an employee who refuses treatment or agrees to treatment but does not complete the treatment and is not released back to work will be terminated.
E.	Any employee who tests positive for any drugs or alcohol a second time will be offered a second treatment and subject to a sixty day disciplinary layoff. Any subsequent positive result from a drug or alcohol test will be cause for termination.
F.	Any employee who refuses to submit to a test, adulterates a sample or refuses to cooperate as required by this procedure will be subject to immediate discipline, including possible discharge.
VII. EMPLOYEE PROTECTION
A.	Any employee who feels he or she has been treated unfairly by this policy has a right to grieve using the steps as outlined in the present contract. In the interest of expediency, both parties should make every effort to resolve quickly without jeopardizing either party's rights as covered by the contract.
B.	Nothing in this policy is to be interpreted as constituting a waiver of the Employer's right to take disciplinary measures for just cause or the Union and its members' rights to avail themselves of provisions in the collective bargaining agreement, including the grievance and arbitration procedures.
C.	Employees who voluntarily come forth and request company assistance in combating their problem shall not be penalized in any manner until such time as they have completed treatment and are subsequently found to be users
137
again under the testing for just cause provisions of this policy. In this situation, provisions of this policy will begin with the first nonvoluntary offense.
D.	Employees who voluntarily come forth and request assistance directly through the Company's EAP shall not have their right to confidentiality affected by the existence of this policy.
E.	The Company and the Union shall develop a procedure to assist management and union representatives in identifying factors which constitute reasonable cause for drug testing.
F.	In the case of incidents that nearly result or could have resulted in an industrial accident or injury, the area committeeman or in his absence a steward, if available, will be advised by a management employee of the Company's intent to require drug and alcohol testing.
138
EXHIBIT VII
4/13/00
TO:	J. Latus
cc:	L. Hammond/ M. Wollering
FROM:	R. Rash
SUBJECT:	PENSION CONTRIBUTIONS
As we agreed during contract negotiations the Company will on an annual basis fund the Blacksmith Pension Fund to cover those lost time hours that union representatives are compensated by the union. The union will advise the Company of the employees affected, the hours and will reimburse the Company for all monies involved.
R. Rash-3516 sm
139
2013
January
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
April
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
July
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
October
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
February
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28
May
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa
12 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
August
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
November
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
March
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
June
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
September
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
December
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
2014
January
SuMoTuWeTh Fr Sa 12 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
April
SuMoTuWeTh Fr Sa
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
July
SuMoTuWeTh Fr Sa
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
October SuMoTuWeTh Fr Sa 12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
February
SuMoTuWeTh Fr Sa
1
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22
23 24 25 26 27 28
May
SuMoTuWeTh Fr Sa 1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
August
SuMoTuWeTh Fr Sa 1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
31
November
SuMoTuWeTh Fr Sa
1
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22
23 24 25 26 27 28 29
March SuMoTuWeTh Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
June SuMoTuWeTh Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
September
SuMoTuWeTh Fr Sa
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
December
SuMoTuWeTh Fr Sa
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
2015
January
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
April
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 12 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
July
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 12 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25
26 27 28 29 30 31
October
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
February
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28
May
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
August
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
November
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
March
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
June
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
September
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
December
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
2016
January
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa
1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23
24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
April
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23
24 25 26 27 28 29 30
July
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23
24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
October
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa
1
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22
23 24 25 26 27 28 29
February
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29
May
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
August
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
November
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1314 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
March
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa
1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19
20 21 22 23 24 25 26
27 28 29 30 31
June
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa
12 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18
19 20 21 22 23 24 25
26 27 28 29 30
September
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa
1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
18 19 20 21 22 23 24
25 26 27 28 29 30
December
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa
1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
2017
January
SuMoTuWeTh Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
April
SuMoTuWeTh Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
July
SuMoTuWeTh Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
October
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
February
SuMoTuWeTh Fr Sa 12 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28
May
SuMoTuWeTh Fr Sa
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27
28 29 30 31
August
SuMoTuWeTh Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
November
SuMoTuWeTh Fr Sa 12 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
March
SuMoTuWeTh Fr Sa 12 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
June
SuMoTuWeTh Fr Sa 1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
September
SuMoTuWeTh Fr Sa 1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
December
SuMoTuWeTh Fr Sa 1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
2018
January
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
April
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
July
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
October
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
February
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa
1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
18 19 20 21 22 23 24
25 26 27 28
May
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa
1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19
20 21 22 23 24 25 26
27 28 29 30 31
August
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa
12 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18
19 20 21 22 23 24 25
26 27 28 29 30 31
November
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
18 19 20 21 22 23 24
25 26 27 28 29 30
March
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
18 19 20 21 22 23 24
25 26 27 28 29 30 31
June
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16
17 18 19 20 21 22 23
24 25 26 27 28 29 30
September
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa
1
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22
23 24 25 26 27 28 29
30
December
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa
1
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22
23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
2019
January
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
April
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
July
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
October
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
February
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28
May
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 12 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
August
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
November
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
March
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
June
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
September
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
December
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31