K9843
2016 - 2019
AGREEMENT
by and between
PERLICK CORPORATION
and
District 10, of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers
and
Local Lodge 1509 of the International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Ship Builders, Blacksmiths, Forgers and Helpers
Effective October 30, 2016
8300 West Good Hope Road - Milwaukee, WI 53223
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
The Perlick Corporation AGREEMENT 2016 - 2019
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into by and between THE PERLICK CORPORATION, hereinafter referred to as the ’’Company,” and DISTRICT NO. 10 of the INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS, Local Lodge 1509 of the INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF BOILERMAKERS, IRON SHIP BUILDERS, BLACKSMITHS, FORGERS & HELPERS, hereinafter referred to as the "Union,” is for the exclusive joint use and benefit of the contracting parties as defined and set forth herein.
ARTICLE I - RECOGNITION
Section 1	- Recognition of Union
(A)	The Company recognizes District No. 10 of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, as required by the National Labor Relations Act, as the exclusive bargaining agent for all maintenance and production employees in the following departments: Tool Room and Maintenance, Machine Shop, Assembly Department, Refrigeration Assembly, Cabinet, Shipping and Receiving, but excluding supervisory employees as defined in the Act, guards, watchmen, office and clerical employees, and further excluding all employees included in the units described in Paragraph (B) hereof.
(B)	The Company recognizes Local Lodge 1509 of the International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Ship Builders, Blacksmiths, Forgers & Helpers, as required by the National Labor Relations Act, as the exclusive bargaining agent for all employees in the Polishing and Plating departments: namely Polishers, Buffers,
i
er
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
Platers and Helpers, but excluding supervisory employees as defined in the Act, guards, watchmen, office and clerical employees, and further excluding all employees included in the units described in Paragraph (A) hereof.
Section 2	- Union Membership & Jurisdiction
The Company agrees that all present employees who are members of the Unions mentioned above may choose to remain members of the respective Union having jurisdiction over their work in their respective bargaining units; that all present employees who are not members of any of the above-mentioned Unions may choose to become and remain members of the respective Union having jurisdiction over their work in their respective bargaining units on the ninety first (91) day after the execution of this Agreement; that all new employees may choose to become and remain members of the respective Union having jurisdiction over their work in their respective bargaining unit on the ninety first (91) day after hiring date. Special condition Summer Help - (See Article VIII, Section 12).
If during the term of this agreement Wisconsin’s Right To Work Law is amended by the Wisconsin Legislature and signed into law, or a court invalidates the current law and all possible appeals of that decision have been exhausted, and if the change or invalidation of the law makes the language above illegal, then the parties shall meet and bargain over changes required to this provision.
The employer agrees that the making, assembling, erection, dismantling and repairing of machinery of all descriptions performed within the Company’s plant by the Company or when contracting to a contractor to be performed within the Company’s plant are recognized as coming within the jurisdiction of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers.
2
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
Section 3	- Non-Discrimination Clause
Should any portion of this Agreement conflict with federal or state laws or directions, such portions of the Agreement shall be inoperative to the extent and for the period necessary to conform to the law or directions without prejudice to any other portion of this Agreement.
The Company and Union mutually agree that neither will discriminate against any applicant, employee or member because of race, creed, color, age, sex, religion, national origin, sexual orientation, marital status, disability, or covered veteran’s status; nor do we discriminate against veterans of U.S. Armed Services or those who have been disabled as a result of such service.
When the masculine pronoun is used in the Agreement, it shall include the feminine, and the singular may include the plural, or vice versa as the context may require.
ARTICLE II	- MANAGEMENT CLAUSE
The management of the works and the direction of the working forces, including the right to hire, suspend, transfer, or discharge for cause, and the right to relieve employees from duty because of lack of work, or for other legitimate reasons, is vested exclusively in the Company, subject to the provisions of this contract. This will not be used for purposes of discrimination against any member of the Union. All disputes arising in operation under this clause shall be subject to the grievance procedure of this contract.
ARTICLE III	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 1	- Steps of Grievance Procedure
Should differences arise between the Company and its employees, either individually or collectively, as to the meaning and application of the provisions of this Agreement, or
3
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
should differences arise about matters not specifically mentioned in this Agreement, or should any trouble of any kind arise, an earnest effort shall be made to settle any such differences at the earliest possible time by use of the following procedures:
Step 1 - An aggrieved employee shall present his grievance to his Department Supervisor, accompanied by his Committeeperson or Steward and by mutual agreement of the Supervisor and Committeeperson, the Committeeperson and employee may have a 5 minute meeting to discuss the facts prior to the joint verbal grievance meeting taking place. However, this step will automatically be bypassed in the event of discharge.
Step 2 - If the grievance is not resolved within twenty-four (24) hours, the employee shall present the grievance in writing to a member of the Shop Committee who will in turn present the grievance to the Human Resource Department or in his absence to another designated representative of the Company. However, this step will automatically be bypassed in the event of discharge.
Step 3 - If the grievance is not settled in the second step within forty-eight (48) hours after presentation, the grievance shall then be taken up between the Shop Committee, and representative of the Union and a designated representative from the Human Resource Department. The Company shall answer the grievance in writing within ten (10) work days following the 3rd Step Grievance meeting. The Union will notify the Company within ten (10) work days following receipt of the written Company answer if the answer is unacceptable and if the grievance is being referred to arbitration. Time limits can be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
4
_® er'licki
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
Section 2	- Arbitration Procedure
In the event a grieving party (Union or Company) submits a grievance or dispute to arbitration, an arbitrator shall be selected according to, and shall be governed by procedures in this Article.
The parties may, by mutual agreement, select an arbitrator to hear a grievance. Failing to agree on the selection of an arbitrator within thirty (30) days from the date the grievance was noticed to arbitration, the grieving party shall make application to the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service for a list of arbitrators. The request shall specify that the list of seven (7) names of arbitrators who are members of the National Academy of Arbitrators be forwarded to the parties. Beginning with the grieving party, each party shall strike names alternately from the list until only one name remains. The seventh (7th) or remaining name shall serve as the appointed arbitrator. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the parties to the agreement and shall be complied within five (5) working days after the decision is rendered.
The expense of the arbitrator and Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service Arbitrator Panel Fee shall be borne equally by both parties. Bargaining Committee members, the grievant and other Union representatives participating in the arbitration shall be paid by the Union. The expense of witnesses for either side shall be paid by the party producing the witnesses. The cost of the stenographic records which may be requested by the arbitrator will be borne equally by the Union and the Company and all transcripts thereof will be paid by the party ordering same. During arbitration of grievances, any and all expenses of lawyers representing the Union shall be paid by the Union and any and all expenses of lawyers representing management shall be paid by management.
The arbitrator shall not have the power to add to, modify or change any of the
5
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
provisions of this Agreement and shall render his decision within sixty (60) calendar days from the hearing date. In no event shall a general wage increase or decrease be subject to arbitration.
The contracting parties agree, that as a part of the consideration of this contract, any and all disputes, claims, demands, or actions growing there from or involved therein, shall be by the contracting parties exclusively by the machinery provided in the grievance procedure set forth in Section 1 herein.
Section 3	- Right to Strike
It is understood and agreed that any provision of this Agreement which in any way restricts the Union’s right to strike shall cease to be binding upon the Union sixty (60) days after notice has been served upon the employer for the following:
1.	When negotiations for wage rates in accordance with terms of this Agreement result in no agreement.
2.	When negotiations for modification and/or termination or renewal of this Agreement result in no agreement.
3.	When any other dispute, for which there is no provision for a final settlement under the terms of this agreement, results in no agreement.
Section 4	- Picket Line
It is agreed that it shall not constitute a breach of this Agreement for any employee or Union member covered hereby to cross a picket line or to refuse to enter the premises of the employer, if such refusal does not constitute a violation of Sub-Section 303 (a) of the Taft-Hartley Act.
6
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
Section 5	- Discharge Cases
In the event of an employee being discharged from employment who believes he has been unjustly dealt with, such discharge shall constitute a case under the method of adjusting grievances, Article III Grievance Procedures. Such cases of discharge shall be taken up within ten (10) working days from the date of discharge. Should it be determined through the grievance procedure that an injustice has been dealt the employee with regard to discharge, the Company shall reinstate such employee with full compensation at the employee’s regular earned rate for the time lost.
ARTICLE IV - SENIORITY
Section 1	- Definition
Seniority is defined as the length of an employee’s service with the Company and it shall apply to layoffs, recalls, promotions and transfers throughout the plant in the following order: first, departmentally, second, bargaining unit wide, with consideration given to ability and skill, when such may be necessary.
Section 2	- Transfer - Company Request
The Company may temporarily transfer employees from one job to another, without the need to post the position, in the following situations:
An employee of any classification within a department, may be temporarily transferred within the shift due to necessity and/or needed skills to a job outside of his department, and in such case shall receive his own straight time hourly rate, or the maximum rate of the job he is transferred to, whichever is higher. Such transfer shall not exceed one
hundred twenty (120) calendar days in a one year period unless mutually agreed upon by the Company and Union. In the absence of a more senior employee, the junior of the
classification within a department is subject to transfer.
7
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
In the event the temporary transfer exceeds one hundred eighty (180) days in a one year period, the Company must post the open position, unless the temporary transfer is to cover for long term medical leave or other temporary conditions that would not warrant a position posting.
Employees may volunteer for temporary transfers by notification to the area Supervisor. In this event, the most senior employee will be given the first opportunity for a voluntary transfer if they are capable of doing the work of a more junior employee, and it does not remove them from performing a skilled position that would be detrimental to their current department production requirements.
General Labor employees may be transferred as indicated in Article VIII.
The Company and Union mutually agree to develop a Training Matrix Record Keeping System for Bargaining Unit employees by March 31, 2017, and this information will be shared between the Company and Union on a quarterly basis after implementation. General Labor employees will be exempt from this record keeping system. This training Matrix will also apply to Section 2a - Voluntary Transfer Program.
Section 2a - Voluntary Transfer Program
1.	A Voluntary Transfer/Training Program will be offered to all interested employees on a One year trial basis from 1/1/2017 to 12/31/2017 under the following conditions:
a.	The purpose of this program is to offer more employees cross training and development opportunities that some employees receive today thru normal temporary transfers, and open	this up to more people.
8
erlicle
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
However, as part of this program volunteers must be willing to work in any entry level job throughout the period of commitment.
b.	A sign-up sheet for those interested in participating will be posted on the bulletin board outside the central primary Men’s and Ladies Rest Room on the west end of the “tunnel”.
c.	The first signup sheet will be posted from 1/3/2017 until 1/13/2017 and a second sign-up sheet will be posted from 6/5/2017 to 6/16/2017.
d.	Those employees who sign-up on the January signup sheet will be volunteering to be temporarily transferred by seniority to any entry level job in any department from 1/16/2017 to 6/16/2017. Employees who sign-up on the June signup sheet will volunteering to be temporarily transferred by seniority to any entry level job in any department from 6/19/2017 to 12/29/2017.
e.	If an employee refuses to be transferred after sign-up for this voluntary program they will be removed from the program for the balance of the one year trial period.
f.	The Company and Union agree to meet to discuss this program in December 2017 and determine if it will continue. Continuation of the program will be determined by mutual agreement of the Company and Union and may also be modified by mutual agreement.
g.	There will be no change in pay for any employee who is temporarily transferred within this program. If an employee is not meeting job expectations in the program they may be removed after consultation between the Company, Union and volunteer employee.
h.	The Company may withhold employees from the Voluntary Transfer/Training Program if the employee would be removed from a position that would be	detrimental to their current
9
2016 - 2019 Labor Agreement
department production requirements.
Section 3	- Reduction of the Work Force
The Company agrees to operate five (5) days a week on a forty (40) hour basis giving due consideration to multiple shifts and scheduling overtime as required. In the event of a reduction in the work force, the following procedure shall be used departmentally:
(1)	Employees shall be laid off in accordance with their departmental seniority, with the last hired being laid off first.
(2)	At each layoff the Company may designate certain machines and/or classifications exempt from layoff. In the event such an exemption is made, the employee(s) with the greatest amount of seniority who has/have the present ability, without further training, to perform the work required shall be exempt. The Shop Committee shall be notified of exemptions when layoff announcement is made as provided in Section 5.
(3)	No more senior employee will be laid off if there is a lesser senior employee working in an entry level job within the bargaining unit. In such cases, the more senior employee will have the right to displace a lesser senior employee if the more senior employee has the skills to perform the work or accept said lay-off. If the more senior employee accepts the position, they will be paid at the rate appropriate for the position.
er
io
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
(4)	The Company shall not regularly schedule overtime in a department while employees of the department are on layoff except in the Machine Shop on the CNC equipment machining brewery fittings and in the Sheet Metal Department on the CNC Power Press, and press brakes, providing the employees on layoff cannot perform that work. “Regularly” is defined as three (3) consecutive calendar weeks.
Section 3A- Temporary Layoff
When work in a department is temporarily interrupted the Company will endeavor to make temporary layoff(s) on a seniority basis for up to five (5) cumulative working days per contract year. If this is not possible the affected employee(s) who does/do not possess the skill and ability to perform the work required shall be placed on temporary layoff. No department or portion of department will be permitted more than five (5) accumulative working days of temporary layoff per contract year. Any deviation beyond five (5) accumulative working days shall be mutually agreed to by the Company and Union. Notice of temporary layoffs shall be given to the Shop Committee when such layoffs occur.
Section 4	- Transfer Prior to Layoff
It shall be the policy before laying off any employee, to move such employee from one job classification to another, whenever consistent with the employee’s experience or skill, but if not so consistent, then the employee may refuse such transfer and upon layoff, the employee shall retain his seniority.
Section 5	- Layoff
The Company before laying off employees, shall supply the Shop Committee with lists of the employees to be affected forty-eight (48) hours in advance. Human Resources
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
will provide the address and phone number on the change notice to the Union chairperson.
Section 5A - Recall from Layoff
In the event of an increase in the work force, employees shall be recalled in departmental seniority order, the most senior, with the present skill and ability, without further training to perform the work required, first. Employees recalled to lower classifications than their permanent classification shall be paid at the temporary classification's ninety (90) day rate and shall be returned to their permanent classification when work becomes available, seniority permitting.
Section 6	- Seniority During Layoff
Seniority of laid off employees will accumulate while on layoff for a period of time equal to his total employment with the Company but not to exceed 10 years. If the employee is not called back within this time limit, his name will be dropped from Company records. Such employee dropped from the seniority list can be rehired as a new employee.
Section 6A - Rehire Former Employees
Former employees rehired into same classification(s) as in past employment shall be rehired at their last wage in that classification(s) plus interim wage increases, but less merit increases.
Section 7	- Downgrading
It is further agreed that no employee will be downgraded during the terms of this contract and unless first agreed to by the Company and the Union.
The selection of Lead Persons and Assistant Supervisors shall be made solely
12
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
by the Company, without regard to seniority.
Lead Persons shall receive an additional 5% and Assistant Supervisors will receive an additional 8% of their total current wage rate.
Employees who are engaged in a significant magnitude of training for specific skill sets, continuing for four hours or more at a time, shall receive Leadperson pay. (Examples); Activities such as training any employee to build glass washers, training any employee to run the tube bender, or training any employee to perform machine setup, will qualify for Leadperson pay. The Supervisor will be solely responsible for determining applicability of Leadperson pay for Training.
Section 8	- Probationary Period
All employees hired hereafter shall be employed for ninety (90) calendar days before being placed on the seniority list. When seniority is established, it will be retroactive to the hiring date. Employees hired may choose to join the Union on the ninety first (91) calendar day. The Union agrees the Company has right to dismiss employee anytime during ninety (90) calendar day probationary period for any reason. Probation Period may be extended up to 30 calendar days by mutual agreement of the Company and Union.
Section 9	- Notification - During Absence or Layoff
Seniority shall cease upon (1) justifiable discharge; (2) voluntary quitting; (3) if, after being laid off, the employee does not notify the Company within three (3) days after being notified of work availability by either USPS Priority mail with signature confirmation or Certified mail, return receipt requested or he may be contacted personally and sign an acknowledgement. The Company will furnish the Union a copy of 13
2016 - 2019 Labor Agreement
all recall letters or signed acknowledgments. Employee will be allowed five (5) working days before being required to report back to work. This does not apply to an employee who, by reason of illness or other good cause, is not able to report and so advises the Company. (4) If he absents himself for more than three (3) days without a justifiable reason, or fails to notify the Company for such absence.
Section 9A - First Day of Absence
Company is to be notified of employee’s absence on first day of such absence. Repeated violations will result in disciplinary action.
Section 10	- On the Job Training
Assistant Supervisor and/or Lead Person in a department may be trained first on any new or changed equipment or procedures. Selection of additional employees to be trained within a classification will be based on seniority with the most senior employee in the classification being selected, when qualifications are equal.
Section 11	- Union Committeeperson and Stewards
Shop Committeeperson, Stewards and Officers of the Union shall head the seniority list in their respective department. Their employment shall remain in effect as long as the department is in operation in order that they properly perform their respective duties for the mutual benefit of all concerned. The above mentioned employees shall be compensated at their earned hourly rate for all time consumed in Union activity with the Company during their regular working hours. There will be no compensation to any Union Committeeperson or Steward for Union activities which occur beyond the
scheduled quitting time for the individual department, except second or third shift Committeeperson, etc., required to process grievances or spend time in contract
negotiations during the first shift. They will be compensated at their earned hourly 14
2016 2019 Labor Agreement
rate for all time consumed in such activity by allowing these Committeepersons to deduct an equal amount of time from the end of their regular shift.
Section 12	- Shift Discontinuance
A Union Steward or Committeeperson whose shift is discontinued shall lose his Union title when transferred to another shift along with his right to head the seniority list as a Union official. He will regain his title and seniority when shift is restored.
Section 13	- Union Leave of Absence
Any member of the Union being elected to or selected for office for specific Union activities necessitating leave of absence, shall be granted such leave up to a maximum period of time equivalent to his total seniority with the Company. Such employee shall retain, and will accumulate seniority while on leave, and shall be returned to work at the prevailing rate of pay at the time of return.
Section 14	- Regular Leave of Absence
Employees who request a leave of absence and are granted permission for such leave by the Company, shall retain their seniority for a period of thirty (30) days while away from the plant. Refusal of permission for such leave of absence may be appealed through the regular Grievance Procedure. Extensions of thirty (30) day periods may be made by approval of the Company and the Shop Committee. Extensions, when granted, shall not interrupt seniority rights of such employees.
Section 14a - Request for Medical Leave of Absence
Employees must request a medical leave of absence in writing prior to the leave of absence beginning or in the event of an emergency, the request must be made within twenty four (24) hours by the employee or on their behalf. During the first twenty-six 15

2016-2019 Labor Agreement
(26) weeks, the Company will use medical information submitted for insurance benefits to verify disability. After twenty-six (26) weeks, employees must submit medical information every thirty (30) days to verify disability. If the employee is absent due to medical reasons over two (2) years; the employee will be terminated.
Section 15 - Job Posting
The Company agrees that all job vacancies shall first be filled with qualified personnel from within the department first and then the rest of the plant. Lead Person and/or Assistant Supervisor positions are not posted. All job openings shall be posted in the affected Department, and at time clock bulletin boards throughout the plant for a period of three (3) business days to fall within a two calendar week period, and will include the job classification, shift, and number of openings.
The Company shall furnish to each respective Union Chairperson a copy of all job posting(s) and name(s) of bidding employee(s) for such job posting(s) within five (5) business days after posting deadline. All postings in a given classification will be posted indicating number of openings available and need be posted only once in a sixty (60) day period until such number of openings are filled. The applicant will be selected on basis of ability to perform work and selection will be made from within the Department first and then in the plant, from qualified employees who have demonstrated their skill or who at the time of application for employment had indicated on the application experience that would qualify them for the position or who had provided the Company with proof for the personnel file of completion of schooling that would qualify them for the position. Consideration will be made on basis of seniority when skill, ability, merit, and physical ability are equal. In the event there are no qualified bidders, the Company may hire new employees.
16
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
The most senior person applying for an entry level position shall receive such posted position. Entry Level positions are described in Article VII, Section 2 of the Agreement. No applicant will be granted more than one successful transfer on a job posting within a twelve (12) month period with the exception of formal trainee positions which will be for a period of one year from the end of the training program. New employees will not be considered for a job posting during first twelve (12) months of their employment. The Company retains the right to temporarily fill such vacancy with an employee of its own selection. Any dispute arising in operation of this provision shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure.
Jobs applied for through job posting or permanent transfers mutually agreed to by the Company and Union, will carry a probationary period of twenty (20) working days. Working days are defined as twenty (20) days when the employee worked on the job the employee posted for. The applicant chosen for the position will receive a fair trial period and adequate instruction to enable him to qualify for the position for which he applies. However, anytime during the probationaiy period, if the supervisor of a department feels the applicant for the position cannot handle the work involved, the employee will be notified and transferred back to his old department and position.
Section 15B - Formal Training Program
The Company may choose to establish formal training positions that may last more than 180 days and up to 2 years. The company will post these formal trainee positions. Candidates will be selected on the basis of qualifications including demonstrated skill, related experience and educational background. Unless the level of qualifications are significantly more than a more senior candidate, Seniority will prevail. All trainee positions will be for a period not exceeding two years in length. The pay rate for trainee positions will begin at not less than $.45 per hour, Semi-annually. Trainees shall receive
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
a $.45 per hour increase once eveiy six months until the employee is elevated to the 90 day pay rate for the job. Increases will be based on merit, and will take into account the Company’s performance review for the trainee. The trainee must be paid the 90 day pay rate by the end of the training period. The Company may terminate the training program if the trainee is not performing to an acceptable level and progressing as needed to perform the required job duties as determined by the Company. Evaluations will be conducted Semi-Annually and a copy will be provided to the Union. Upon completion of the Training program, the employee will not be eligible to bid to a new position for a period of 1 year except by mutual agreement of the Company and Union.
Section 16	- Supervisory Seniority
Any member or former member of the Bargaining Unit transferred to a supervisory or office position prior to November 1, 1968 and, who at a later date, is transferred back to a position within the Unit, shall maintain his seniority accumulated while in the Unit.
Any member of the Bargaining Unit transferred to a supervisory or office position on or after November 1, 1968 and who at a later date is transferred back to a position within the Unit, shall maintain his seniority accumulated while in the Unit provided they have either maintained their Union membership, or have received a withdrawal card, leaving the Union in good standing.
An employee who transfers to a supervisor or office position after November 1st, 2007, who at a later date requests to be transferred back to a position in the bargaining unit shall maintain his seniority accumulated while in the unit, provided they return within one year from the date they left the bargaining unit. However, no supervisor or office personnel will be allowed to transfer back into the bargaining unit while there are bargaining unit employees on layoff.
18
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
Section 17	- Saturday Overtime
If a department working overtime on a Saturday requires additional personnel, the Company, from a voluntary signup sheet posted on the plant bulletin board, will ask the most senior individuals who have worked in the department offering the overtime and have the skill without further training to perform the work required. In the absence of skill without further training, employees will be selected in seniority order. If an employee is eligible for overtime in their home department, they must work that before being eligible to work voluntary overtime in any other department.
ARTICLE V - VACATIONS
Section 1	- Vacation - Amount and Payment
Vacations are based on the anniversary date of the employee's starting date, and paid vacations shall be granted to all employees as follows:
1.	One to Eight Year Seniority - Two (2) weeks vacation or eighty (80) hours. See Letter of Understanding.
2.	Eight to Fifteen Years Seniority - Three (3) weeks vacation or one hundred twenty (120) hours.
3.	Fifteen to Twenty-Two Years Seniority - Four (4) weeks vacation or one hundred sixty (160) hours.
4.	Twenty-Two through Twenty-Eight Years Seniority - Five (5) weeks vacation or two hundred (200) hours.
5.	In Twenty-Ninth Year of Seniority - Five (5) weeks plus one day vacation or a minimum of or two hundred eight (208) hours.
6.	In Thirtieth Year of Seniority and Over - Six (6) weeks vacation or two hundred forty (240) hours.
7.	The vacation rate of pay will be computed based on the employee’s current straight time hourly rate, including shift premium.
19
2016 2019 Labor Agreement
Above language subject to clauses following in Article V.
Employees requesting one (1) or more weeks of vacation or personal holidays must make that request at least three (3) days prior to the start of that vacation. Employees must give at least two working days notice to cancel scheduled vacation of five (5) consecutive days or more.
Notice must be given by lunch time the day before to schedule a day of vacation or personal holiday.
Section 2	- Vacation at Termination, Layoff, Illness, Accident, Leave of Absence
Employees at the time of layoff shall be given the option of being paid a pro rata vacation based upon the above vacation provisions. Employees who elect not to accept vacation pay at the time of layoff shall be paid for all unused vacation at the end of the calendar year or at termination, whichever occurs first.
Employees who are discharged, or who discontinue service with the Company shall be paid a pro rata vacation at the time that they leave the service of the Company, such pro rata to be based upon the vacation provisions herein above set forth. Employees with the Company less than one (1) year are not entitled to any vacation or vacation pay. Absences due to certified illness and industrial injuries not exceeding six (6) months and layoffs and approved leaves of absence totaling no more than three (3) months during a twelve (12) month period, will be considered as time worked in computing earned vacation, provided the employee involved has a minimum of five (5) years seniority with the Company. Employees with less than five (5) years seniority with the Company will
20
2016 — 2019 Labor Agreement
be allowed no more than twenty-three (23) working days absence for any reason in computing vacation pay.
Section 3	- Vacation - Military Service
An employee, who shall enter the military, naval or maritime service of the United States shall receive at the time of his leave for such service a proportionate vacation in accordance with the foregoing schedule. An employee returning from military service who receives an honorable discharge and reports for work within ninety (90) days shall receive future vacation pay in accordance with his accumulated seniority.
Section 4	- Vacation Pay at Death
In the event of death of any employee who is entitled to a vacation under the provisions hereof, such vacation pay and earnings due such employee shall be paid to his lawful heirs in accordance with the law.
Section 5	- Selection of Vacation Time
Vacations will be arranged at a time, which will not interfere with production, by agreement of Company and Union. Insofar as possible, the Company will arrange the vacation of an employee at a time that suits the employee. Employees having the greatest seniority will be given first choice in selection of their vacation period. Employee's selection of vacation shall be limited to two (2) weeks during the period of June, July, and August. Longer vacations during these months are only by Company approval.
Vacations will be on a staggered system with a maximum of 20% of each department allowed to select vacations in any given day. Company final approval prevails so that the entire 20% does not fall into any one or two classifications. In departments with fewer than 5 employees, the number allowed to select vacation will automatically be 21
oirlick.
2016- 2019 Labor Agreement
rounded up to the next whole number if it falls below 20%. The exceptions to the staggered system of vacations will be for valid reasons, such as moving, construction, painting, dismantling, etc., whereby the Company may designate a department or departments to be shut down completely for a vacation period. The Union shall be informed on or before March 1, of current vacation year of such departmental shutdowns. It will be Company intent not to schedule a shutdown in one department two (2) years in a row. Employees of such department will then be allowed as a group to select two/two week periods as vacation periods. The Company will then designate one or the other as vacation shutdown periods. Vacation selection charts will be posted on bulletin boards in each department by March 1, of each year. These will be finalized on or before April 1, of each year.
Vacations due an employee must be taken during the current calendar year, and in no event other than sickness, or layoff, may an employee waive his vacation in lieu of vacation pay.
Vacations can be selected in full day increments of eight (8) hours or one-half (1/2) day, four (4) hours.
Employees with one or more years of service may take four (4) days or eight (8) 1/2 days of vacation without prior notice.
Employees with one or more years of service may take twenty four (24) hours of vacation time one (1) or more full hours at a time provided the employee gives the supervisor twenty-four (24) hour notice, whenever possible.
On any day an employee selects a one or more hours vacation or one-half (1/2) day
22
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
of vacation, hours in excess of eight (8) hours on a one-half (1/2) day of vacation and a one-half (1/2) day worked shall be paid at the appropriate overtime rate per hour.
Section 6	- Christmas Week
It is agreed that working days of "Christmas Week" up to 33% of each department is allowed to select vacations, personal holidays or excused absence. Company final approval prevails so that the entire 33% does not fall into any one or two classifications. Employees having the greatest seniority will be given first choice on the Master Vacation Schedule. Unexcused absences will be charged against the absentee record. Employees who receive excused absences for Christmas Week shall not have them charged against their Perfect Attendance Record.
NO NOTICE VACATIONS WILL NOT BE ALLOWED DURING THIS WEEK.
ARTICLE VI - HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME PROVISIONS AND HOLIDAYS
Section 1 - Hours and Days of Work
1.	Eight (8) consecutive hours, with an assigned lapse period for lunch, will constitute a day’s work.
2.	First and Second Shift = Five (5) days, Monday through Friday, shall constitute a standard work week.
Third Shift - Five Days Sunday through Thursday, shall constitute a standard work week.
3.	Shift Schedule
What is commonly known as First Shift and Second Shift shall begin as follows:
23
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
8 Hour Day
First Shift -Start 6:45 a.m. to 3:15 p.m.
Second Shift-Start 3:15 p.m. to
11:45 p.m.
9	Hour Dav
First Shift -Start 5:45 a.m. to 3:15 p.m.
Second Shift-Start 3:15 p.m. to 12:45 a.m.
10	Hour Dav
First Shift -Start 5:45 a.m. to 4:15 p.m.
Second Shift-Start 4:15 p.m. to 2:45 a.m.
Sheet Metal Cell (560M) Alternate Work Schedule
First Shift
Monday thru Friday Saturday Sunday Second Shift	4:45am - 3:15pm (lOhrs) 4:45am-9:45am (5hrs) or 4:45am-10:45am (6hrs) 4:45am - 9:45am (5hrs)
Monday thru Friday Saturday Sunday	4:45pm - 3:15am (lOhrs) 11:45am - 4:45 (5hrs) or 11:45am - 5:45pm (6hrs) 10:45am - 3:45pm (5hrs)
A three shift operation if scheduled will be as follows:
8	Hour Day : Back to Back Shifts
First Shift -Start 6:45 a.m. to 2:45 p.m.
Second Shift-Start 2:45 p.m. to 10:45 p.m.
Third Shift -Start 10:45pm to 6:45 a.m.
Note: Back to Back 8 hour shift will have one 20 minute paid lunch, one 10 minute paid
break, and no wash up period, in lieu of an unpaid lunch as with other shifts.
24
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
9	Hour Dav
First Shift -Start 5:45 a.m. to 3:15 p.m.
Second Shift-Start 3:15 p.m. to 12:45 a.m.
Third Shift -Start 10:15pm to 6:45 a.m.
Saturday and or Sunday hours ■ When scheduled
5	Hours - First Shift - 5:45 a.m. to 10:45 a.m.
Second Shift- 10:45 a.m. to 3:45 p.m.
6	Hours - First Shift - 5:45 a.m. to 11:45 a.m.
Second Shift- 11:45 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.
8	Hours - First Shift - 5:45 a.m. to 2:15 p.m.
Second Shift- 2:15 p.m. to 10:45 p.m.
The Company and Union recognize that Alternative Work Schedules, beyond those listed in this agreement, may be necessary in the future to meet changing business needs. Such changes may only take place by mutual agreement between the Company and Union.
Employees on the First Shift and Second Shift refusing overtime will report at start of shift as indicated in paragraph three (3).
Employees on Second Shift refusing overtime will report at start of shift as indicated in paragraph four (4).
EXCLUSION: Shipping and^Maintenance personnel and individual
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
cases as required. There will be no other deviation from these hours.
In the event the employee cannot work a full 9-hour or 10-hour day, he will notify his supervisor as to the hours of overtime he would be available to work.
4.	When scheduling department overtime, the Company will attempt to make it voluntary. However, business conditions may require that certain department(s) may require mandatory overtime. Mandatory overtime will be limited to nine (9) hour work shifts per day Monday thru Friday. The Company will give notice to employees for mandatory overtime not later than the end of the work shift on Thursday, if overtime is needed and there are not enough volunteers. Exception: Maintenance Department personnel holding a boiler license shall be required to work overtime in the event that the second shift Maintenance personnel holding a boiler license does not report to work as scheduled or if the second shift Maintenance personnel holding a boiler license gives less than an actual twenty-four (24) hour notice of absence for the following shift. Maintenance personnel holding a boiler license required to work overtime shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours of overtime and will not be charged with such overtime. The overtime will be rotated monthly between qualified Maintenance personnel holding a boiler license. In the absence of the Maintenance personnel holding boiler licenses whose turn it is for mandatory overtime, the mandatory overtime requirement shall automatically move to the next Maintenance personnel holding boiler license in the rotation.
26
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
Overtime - Daily, Monday through Friday
Overtime hours will either be posted on departmental bulletin boards, or the supervisor will notify employees what overtime is scheduled for their work centers by noon of the work day prior to the overtime being worked. Employees are then required to sign-up for the overtime on the provided daily overtime sheet located in the department to be considered. Employees who sign up and fail to work are subject to the terms of the attendance policy. When applicable, the supervisor will poll qualified employees within the department to fill overtime needs.
Overtime - Saturdays Only
Saturday hours will be posted on departmental bulletin boards, no later than 1:00 p.m. on Wednesday. Employees are then required to notify their supervisor of the overtime hours they intend to work if any, by 1st shift, 1:00 PM Thursday, 2nd shift, 10:00 PM Thursday and 3rd shift 3:00 AM Friday.
If the employee is absent, tardy or leaves early it will count against their attendance record; and repeated similar absences shall be subject to the same disciplinary action as an absence on a regular workday.
Section 2	- Overtime Provisions
Time and one-half (IV2) shall be paid for all hours worked over forty (40) hours in any
one week, and all hours prior to normal starting time. Double time (2x) shall be
27
2016 - 2019 Labor Agreement
paid on all Sundays, established holidays, all hours over eight (8) hours on Saturdays, all hours in excess of ten (10) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period and all hours worked prior to two (2) hours prior to normal starting time.
The Company will maintain a record of and post all overtime hours worked or charged each employee. Overtime will be rotated among employees in the classification with the lowest number of overtime hours and the highest seniority. An employee will not be charged with overtime hours refused when less than a twenty-four (24) hour notice of overtime was given. An employee will be charged with all overtime hours worked and overtime hours available to him but not worked because of absence, for any reason. Work performed on overtime that requires a special skill will be rotated between the employees in the classification having the skill to perform the work. The Company will, to the best of its ability, equalize overtime between employees in a given classification and/or special skill within a classification during the course of a year. No overtime will be created and no monies will be paid for the purpose of equalizing overtime.
The twenty-four (24) hour notice requirement will be satisfied when overtime notice is given the prior work day.
Employees taking eight (8) hours of vacation may not work the one (1) hour overtime.
Section 3	- Holidays
The following holidays shall be observed: New Year’s Day, Good Friday, Friday preceding Memorial Day, Memorial Day, July Fourth, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day,
day after Thanksgiving, last scheduled work day prior to Christmas, Christmas Day, last
scheduled work day prior to New Year’s and two (2) Personal Holidays to be taken with
twenty-four (24) hour notice. In addition to payment of double time (2x) for hours
28
2016 - 2019 Labor Agreement
worked on any of the above designated holidays employee shall receive holiday pay.
All employees covered by this Agreement shall receive holiday pay for each of the above designated holidays not worked at the rate of eight (8) hours at their current hourly earnings, if (1) the employee has been on the payroll ninety (90) working days as of the date of the holiday, and (2) the employee has worked the last scheduled day prior to and the next scheduled work day after the holiday, in the week in which the holiday falls, providing said days are scheduled work days. However, employees who are absent on these days due to regular scheduled vacations, layoffs during the holiday week, jury duty, being subpoenaed as a witness, or other justifiable reason, shall receive holiday pay. Employees who are absent on these days due to bona fide illness or industrial injury shall receive holiday pay if the holiday falls within ninety (90) days of their original absence.
Section 4	- Rest Periods and Wash-Up
Employees shall receive a ten (10) minute break time and a five (5) minute (except employees of Departments 520 and 530 will get ten (10) minutes) wash up period at the end of the shift.
The break time is:
First Shift
Second Shift
Third Shift
9:30-9:40 AM
Eight (8) and nine (9) hour day - 6:30 - 6:40 PM
Ten (10) hour day - 7:30 - 7:40 PM
2:30-2:40 AM
The wash up period at the end of the shift is for personal clean up, i.e. washing hands, changing clothes, etc., so that people can be prepared to go to the time clock when the final bell sounds.
When employees are assigned to a 12 hour shift they will receive a paid ten (10) minute rest period upon completion of the 10th hour worked.
29
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
Section 5	- Shift Premium
A minimum premium of seventy-five cents (750) per hour will be paid to second shift workers and a minimum premium of seventy-five cents (750) per hour will be paid to third shift workers.
Section 6	- Minimum Hours
Any employee reporting for work as instructed shall be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours work, or four (4) hours pay at the regular rate, with time and one-half (1A) for Saturday work and double (2x) time for Sundays and holidays, unless notified not to report at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the time at which he is to start work. The provisions of this Section shall not apply to Acts of God or any act beyond the Company’s control, such as breakdown of the powerhouse. The Company will make full attempt to announce non-work days due to Acts of God or any act beyond the Company's control over local radio stations WTMJ and WISN, and post radio stations that employees are to listen to periodically on bulletin boards or other type of communication.
Section 7	- Bereavement Pay
All employees covered by this Agreement shall receive three (3) days bereavement pay figured at eight (8) hours pay at the regular rate in the event employee is absent due to death of a mother, father, spouse, mother-in-law, father-in-law, children and stepchildren, sister or brother. Two (2) days bereavement pay on above basis in the event of absence due to death of stepsister, stepbrother, stepfather, stepmother, grandparents, grandchildren, sister-in-law or brother-in-law and stillborn children.
30
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
To qualify for bereavement pay, the employee must have established seniority as of the date of death, attend the funeral, furnish proof of death, and sign a required substantiating information form. Bereavement time off must be taken within the two (2) work days prior to the funeral, or the two (2) work days immediately following the funeral.
Section 8	- Paid Lunch
When an employee works a twelve (12) hour shift, the employee will be paid for a twenty (20) minute lunch period.
ARTICLE VII - PAY PROVISIONS
Section 1	- Wages
The Company and the Union hereby agree that the Entrance Rates and Minimum Wage Rates for each job classification, as set forth in the attached schedule marked “Perlick Corporation Wage Rates,” will be effective October 30, 2016, October 29, 2017, October 28, 2018, as attached.
Section 2	- Pay Provisions - Article VII
All employees covered by this Agreement shall receive a general wage adjustment of 3.0% effective October 30, 2016; 3.0% effective October 29, 2017; 3.0% effective October 28,2018; applied to their present rates, including merit increases.
Entry classifications are as follows:
Production Assembler
General Labor
Packer & Crater B
Maintenance Helper
Production Worker
Shipping & Receiving B
Stockkeeper & Selector B
31
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
New hires in all entry level positions will be hired at a Wage rate not less than the amount listed in the attached schedule marked '’Perlick Corporation Wage Progression, Entry Level Positions" Employees may be progressed at a rate faster than the normal progression of time, but at a minimum must receive the rate established in the Wage Progression schedule.
SIGNING BONUS: All active and laid off employees on the Perlick seniority list on 10/31/2016 will be paid a $1000 signing bonus upon ratification of this tentative agreement. The bonus is subject to this agreement being ratified by the union membership not later than October 29, 2016 and the bonus payment will be made not later than November 17, 2016.
Section 3	- Jury Duty
Employees who are called for jury duty shall inform their supervisor of the jury duty summons as soon as possible. Seniority employees shall be compensated at their regular rate of pay minus the amount of jury duty pay they received for a maximum of eight (8) hours on any scheduled work day. Employees who serve one-half (1/2) day of jury duty shall be paid five (5) hours at their regular rate minus any jury duty pay received and will be allowed one (1) hour from the time of dismissal to report for work. Employees who serve one-half (1/2) day and do not report for work shall receive a maximum of five (5) hours at their regular rate minus any jury duty pay received. Second and third shift employees who serve a full day of jury duty shall not be required to report for work, those who serve one-half (1/2) day shall be paid five (5) hours at their regular rate minus any jury duty pay received and if report for work, shall be permitted to work three (3) hours. Employees claiming compensation from the Company as a result of jury duty service shall complete Form #1861, Request for Paid Time Off, and attach a copy of the
32
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
pay voucher received from the court and submit both to the Human Resources Department.
Section 4	- Pay Day
All shifts will be paid on Thursday afternoon for work performed the previous week. Prepaid vacation pay will be added to paycheck received prior to vacation in accordance with Company policy. The above to apply except in circumstances beyond Company control.
ARTICLE Vm - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section 1	- Business Representatives and Union Officials
It is agreed that authorized Business Representatives of the Union shall be given access to the Company's plant at all reasonable hours, upon notification to the Management, for the purpose of investigating and aiding in the settlement of a dispute and to see that the provisions of this Agreement are adhered to.
Section 2	- Bulletin Boards
Bulletin boards (3) shall be made available by the Company at convenient places as near as possible to the time clock for the posting of Union notices.
Section 3	- Solicitation of Membership
Employees and Union Representatives shall not solicit Union membership or collect dues on the working time of any employee, although such activities may be conducted by employees on Company property on the free time of the employees.
33
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
Section 4	- Reports
Upon the request of the Union, the Company shall furnish the Union with lists of employees in their respective department showing rates, ranges, classifications, date of hiring and shifts.
A member of the Union Committee will be on the In-Plant Safety Committee.
Section 5	- Notification - New Employees
In hiring new employees, the Company agrees to notify the Union Chairperson of the names of such employees, their wage rates, shift, and classifications within forty-eight (48) hours of the commencement of their employment. This provision also applies to any temporary/staffing employees who will be performing bargaining unit work.
Section 6	- Deductions - Time Off
Deductions for time off, whether due to tardiness or other causes, shall not be in excess of actual time lost.
Section 7	- Payroll Deductions
No payroll deductions shall be made except those required by state laws or federal regulations; and when authorized by the employee deductions will be made for government bonds, insurance, tools, and incidentals.
Section 8	- Check-Off Union Dues
Provided that on or before December 1 of this contract the Company receives an authorization form from an existing employee or from a new employee within 30 days of the employee completing the probation period, and provided that the form is in compliance with the National Labor Relations Act, the Company shall withhold 34
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
each month from the employee's wages his monthly Union dues only. The Company shall remit to the Local Union Financial Secretary within seven (7) days the amount withheld. The Union will indemnify the Company against all claims arising against it by reason of compliance with this section.
Section 9	- Doctor Visits (Worker’s Compensation)
It is further agreed that any time spent by an employee visiting a doctor during working hours due to industrial injury shall be compensated at the regular hourly rate of pay. It will be Company practice to schedule doctor calls during working hours when possible. There will be no reimbursement for any time spent in a doctor's office after working hours.
Section 9A - First Three Days of Industrial Injury
Employees who, as a result of work related injury or illness, are disabled from work and do not qualify for compensation for the first three (3) days as provided under the State of Wisconsin Workers Compensation Act, shall be paid benefits by the Company in an amount that would equal benefits received under the Accident and Sickness provisions of the Agreement.
Section 10	- Breaching of Contract
The breaching of the contract by any of the contracting Unions shall create no liability on any of the other contracting Unions.
Section 11	- Binding of Contract
This Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto and their successors and assigns.
35
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
Section 12	- Summer Help
Summer help hired will be classified and paid under the job classification ’’Summer Help” - Entry Level" as provided in the job classification section attached schedule marked ’'Perlick Corporation Wage Rates,’’. "Summer Help” can be employed in any entry level classification as described in Article VII, Section 2. All summer help classified personnel can be transferred from department to department without paperwork or change in pay rate. Summer help are not eligible for benefits described in this Agreement.
Summer Help may be employed during the period of May 1 to September 15 each year. Summer Help is not required to join the Union.
Section 13	- Severance Plan
In the event that any employee’s services with the Company are severed by the Company as a result of the permanent closing of the plant covered by this Agreement or the permanent closing of their department, such employee shall be entitled to severance pay under the following terms and conditions, providing that the Company is unable to offer the affected employee a job in the bargaining unit.
If an employee has completed at least one (1) full year of employment, he/she shall be entitled to receive the sum of six hundred dollars ($600.00) for each full year of service or part thereof. In addition, a severed employee who receives severance pay and has three (3) years or more seniority, who subscribes for the health and welfare plan, will be provided with hospital-surgical insurance only for a period of four (4) calendar months after the month in which the severance occurs. Those with less than three (3) years seniority will be carried for a period of one (1) calendar month after the month in which the severance occurs.
36
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
Section 14	- Wage Assignments
The Company shall not charge any employee for any wage assignments.
Section 15	- General Labor - Article VIII
A “General Labor” job classification as provided in Article VII, Section 2, may be utilized by the Company. A “General Labor” position will be established as a combined pool of talent that may be utilized in any department and may be transferred from department to department as needed without regard to seniority. The “General Labor” classification may perform Bargaining Unit work that is performed by any entry level job classification as directed by the Company and may also perform work in Maintenance Helper classification. In addition, General Labor Employees will not perform setup work on any machine operation, but may be engaged in general production operation of machines. Employees of any other job classification may not be transferred from their classification against their wishes, for the purpose of being replaced by a General Labor employee. No more than 30% of the unionized work force may be utilized in this classification at anytime. The 30% calculation is defined as follows: General Labor employees divided by total bargaining unit employees. Only bargaining unit employees who have completed their probation period will be part of the calculation.
General Labor employees will not be considered for a job posting above any more senior employee in any other job classification.
General Labor employees may be hired when all employees on layoff status are recalled from layoff. Except in a situation in which an employee chooses to take a layoff rather than displace a less senior employee, General Labor employees will be subject to layoff before bargaining unit employees of any other job classification.
2016 — 2019 Labor Agreement
Refer to the “Perlick Corporation Wage Rates” schedule in the agreement for the General Labor wages.
The Company reserves the right to increase the wage rate for General Labor Employees during the Life of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, and shall not exceed the wage rate of any employee in any other job classification. Progressive increases may be issued to employees in this classification as indicated above and they are not subject to the terms as described in Article VIII, Section 17, Merit Increases. Progressive increases are at the Company’s discretion based on its analysis of the General Labor employee’s overall work performance, and will not follow a General Labor Employee to a new job via the bidding procedure, and may be issued or removed based on individual performance.
Section 16	- Contract Books
Contracts in book form will be made available to all employees in a timely fashion.
Section 17	- Merit Increases
The Company will continue to maintain a merit increase potential. Employees that request a merit increase will be answered in writing within 30 days. If a merit increase is not granted, they will be informed of the reason.
An employee must maintain their level of performance after receiving a merit increase to maintain that increase. It is the supervisors’ responsibility to notify an employee of performance concerns, with the union area representative present. Employees will be held to the same standard that existed at the time the merit increase was given. If the Company removes an employee’s merit increase, it will only be the last one received.
38
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
An employee will maintain his or her merit increase regardless of his or her changes in classification.
Merit increases and adjustments in wage rates during the term of this contract shall be made by the Company, subject to the Grievance Procedure. Merit increases may be taken away in accordance with Article VIII, Section 17 of this Agreement.
Section 18	- Subcontracting
The Company will notify the union shop chairperson of any bargaining unit work to be subcontracted one (1) week prior to the work being contracted. Said notification will state the specific work to be contracted and the reason for the work to be subcontracted, including its effect on bargaining unit employees. The union will be provided an opportunity to discuss a plan to maintain said work in-house prior to the companies’ final decision to subcontract said work. In an emergency case, the company will notify the chairperson a soon as practical.
Section 19	- New Technology
Perlick Corporation intends to utilize new technological advances that are adaptable to Perlick operations to improve operating efficiencies and enhance our competitiveness in the marketplace. The International Association of Machinists & Aerospace Workers & International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Ship Builders, Blacksmiths, Forgers & Helpers Local Lodge 1509, recognize the need for integrating new technology into the manufacturing process and fully support the acquisition of and utilization of new technology as a means of providing long term stable employment.
The Company and the Union recognize the benefits of training employees on new technology and agree that current employees will be provided with the opportunity for
39
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
training on new technology, in keeping with other terms of this Agreement, before others are employed for that purpose.
The Company agrees that whenever reasonably possible to advise the Union at least thirty (30) days prior to the purchase or introduction of any technological changes that would substantially affect jobs or job content within the bargaining units. This information will include the necessary technical information about any new equipment or system in a format understandable to the non-specialist. The Company agrees to openly discuss these changes with the Union committee to resolve any issues or concerns.
Section 20	- Cellular Manufacturing
The parties recognize the Company’s intent to implement product cells, wherever feasible, throughout the manufacturing facilities. The Company agrees to negotiate with the Union issues, which relate to the operation of such product cells. Specifically, the parties will bargain over the size, scope of duties, wages, training and cross training, new job classifications and any other issues pertaining to the working conditions in such cells.
It is understood that cells continuously evolve primarily through the initiatives by cell members and both parties agree to allow flexibility and experimentation to encourage this process. In general, a product cell would be formed when several people are brought together in one area and, as a team is responsible for producing a part or a product.
Section 20A - Joint Continuous Improvement Process
The parties recognize the value of continuous improvement activities where the Company and Union work together on projects that make improvements to the manufacturing efficiency, quality or safety. This agreement allows the Company and Union to work together in Kaizen events and other related continuous improvement activities, 40
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
whereby Management employees may perform a limited amount of Bargaining Unit Work in conjunction with Union employees, who together engage in continuous improvement activities. This may include such things as setting up workstations, installing racks, moving material, making Product Samples, or other activities associated with continuous improvement events. Such activities shall be undertaken by mutual agreement of the Company and Union. A monthly Union and Management meeting to discuss shop conditions, grievances, and general issues to promote harmonious relations, will be undertaken by mutual agreement of the Company and Union.
A Productivity Improvement Plan may be implemented by the Company during the life of this agreement which offers an incentive to bargaining unit employees to share in cost savings achieved by improvements to efficiency and quality, or other key metrics that generate savings. Any such program needs to be further developed by the Company, and will be shared with the Union prior to implementation to seek both their input and mutual agreement for any program that is put into place. The Plan would include an incentive potential of up to 2% of earnings.
Section 21	- Available Time
Employees, who have work assignments that create idle time during the operation cycle, may be provided with secondary operations or other meaningful work assignments that can be performed safely internal to the operation cycle.
Section 22	- Drug and Alcohol Abuse Policy
In keeping with the Company’s longstanding commitment to provide each employee with a safe environment in which to work, to protect each employee from the increased hazards associated with the adverse affects of drug and alcohol in the workplace and 41
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
pursuant to its contractual authority to implement, clarify and/or amend reasonable work and safety rules, the following safety rules and Company policy shall apply equally to all employees.
A.	Policy
It is the policy of the Company that employees shall not be involved in the use, consumption, possession, sale, distribution or transfer of any drugs, narcotics, or alcoholic beverages while on Company property. For the purposes of this program, drugs are defined to mean any drug which is not legally obtainable, including those listed on Schedule A, and/or any drug which is legally attainable, such as prescription drugs, but which has not been legally obtained, is not being used for prescribed purposes and/or is not being taken according to prescribed dosages. Neither shall they report to work under the influence of drugs or alcohol in any manner, which may impair their ability to safely and efficiently perform assigned job duties or which may otherwise adversely affect the Company’s business or reputation. For purposes of this policy, a prohibited amount of drugs means the presence of an amount of an illicit drug in an employee that exceeds the threshold levels shown on Attachment A. With regard to alcohol, an employee who has a blood alcohol count as established in Attachment A or more will be considered as under the influence. This Policy is not intended to prohibit the incidental consumption of alcoholic beverages by Company personnel at business-related events or Company-sponsored activities at which such beverages are served, or in Company-approved social or entertainment activities related to sales or other corporate or public relations functions. However, employees attending or participating in such events are prohibited from being impaired by or under the influence of alcohol while so engaged, and are otherwise subject to the prohibitions contained in the Rules of Conduct. Violation of this policy will subject the 42
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
employee to disciplinary action up to and including termination.
The use of prescription drugs in a manner approved by a physician with the assurance that usage will not impair the employees’ ability to safely perform their job duties is not prohibited.
B.	Testing
1.	All employees experiencing an OSHA recordable injury will receive transport to a local hospital or physician for such treatment. The employee may also be required to submit to urine and/or blood test or any other similar testing method to determine if drugs, narcotics, or alcohol are in the employee’s system.
2.	Any employee inflicting or causing an OSHA recordable injury to another employee may be required to immediately submit to urine and/or blood test or other similar testing methods to determine if drugs, narcotics, or alcohol are in the employee’s system.
3.	No employee will suffer loss of wages while undergoing such tests, and all costs involving transportation to and from the hospital and all costs of examinations and tests will be paid by the Company.
4.	If any of the conditions of Subparts 1 through 3 above have been met and the lab analysis report shows that the above-mentioned tests prove positive for any employee, such employee will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment as described in Subpart F.
43
2016 2019 Labor Agreement
C.	Consent
Prior to being required to submit to any testing procedure described in this policy, the employee must be asked to sign a voluntary consent form provided by the Company. Refusal to sign a Drug and Alcohol test consent form shall be deemed a refusal to submit to a drug and/or alcohol test and will result in discharge. The Union will be notified when the Company utilizes this provision.
D.	Failure to Cooperate
An employee’s refusal to submit to such tests for alcohol, drugs or narcotics, will be considered a refusal of a direct work order and failure to cooperate in any investigation, and subject the employee to discharge. Similarly, an employee’s refusal to abide by any of the requirements of Part F of this policy after testing positive, including cooperation in follow-up testing, signing the Last Chance Agreement and complying with its terms, will be considered just cause for immediate termination.
E.	Reporting
Any evidence obtained by the Company of the unlawful use, consumption, possession, sale, distribution or transfer of drugs and narcotics, will be turned over to local or state law enforcement agencies for appropriate action.
F.	Consequences of Drug Testing/Positive for Drugs
An employee who tests positive for drugs or alcohol under Subpart II of this policy will be treated as follows:
1.	First Positive Test Result
Employees who test positive will receive a three (3) day disciplinary suspension
44
_® ezrlicKi
2016 — 2019 Labor Agreement
without pay and will be required to meet with the General Manager, or his/her designated representative, and the Union Committee person to discuss the test results. Employees with a first positive test result who can establish that they are dependent on drugs or alcohol will be eligible for referral to rehabilitation and counseling programs, the cost of some or all of which may be covered by health insurance. If the employee’s health insurance carrier doctor determines that inpatient rehabilitation is required, the employee will receive compensation for lost work time to the extent provided for under the Company’s Short Term Disability Plan for time spent in such inpatient rehabilitation program. Any costs of any inpatient or outpatient program not covered by the employee’s health insurance plan shall be borne by the employee.
As a condition of continued employment, employees who are referred to rehabilitation programs, whether inpatient or outpatient, will be required to sign the Last Chance Agreement attached as Attachment B. This agreement, requires that the employee follow all treatment recommendations, allow the treatment program to disclose information to the Company regarding the employee’s treatment, substance abuse and its impact on job performance and that the employee cooperate in unannounced follow-up testing for a period of twelve (12) months after his/her first positive test result. An employee’s failure to adhere to any aspect of the Last Chance Agreement or any subsequent positive test result within twelve (12) months of the first positive test will constitute just cause for immediate termination.
Employees who test positive and cannot establish a need for rehabilitation, as solely determined by the employee’s designated health insurance carrier, will ordinarily be suspended for three (3) days without pay for a first positive test result and be required to agree, as a condition of continued employment, to cooperate in follow-up unannounced testing for a period of twelve (12) months after the first positive test result. Such 45
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
employees will also be required to sign the agreement attached as Attachment B.
Whether an employee after a first positive test result establishes a need for rehabilitation or not, as a condition of continued employment, the employee must agree to follow-up surprise unannounced testing as solely determined by the Company for a period of twelve (12) months after the first positive test. Failure to cooperate in such unannounced testing or testing positive on any Company administered drug and alcohol test within twelve (12) month period shall be just cause for immediate termination.
2.	Second Positive Test for Drugs or Alcohol
Any employee who tests positive the second time for drugs or alcohol within twenty-four (24) months of his/her initial first positive test result will be immediately terminated and such second test result shall constitute just cause for immediate termination.
3.	Third Positive Test for Drugs or Alcohol
In cases where more than twenty-four (24) months passes between positive test results, a positive test result will be treated under the provision of Subpart F (1). Any employee who tests positive for drugs or alcohol a third time, irrespective of the amount of time which has passed between positive test results, will be subject to immediate termination and such third positive test result shall constitute just cause for immediate termination.
G.	Rehabilitation
This policy in no way alters the Company’s provision for an employee’s voluntary submission to a drug or alcohol rehabilitation program, and it remains the
46
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
Company’s desire and intent to encourage any employee with an alcohol or drug dependence problem to seek professional assistance before the problem leads to an incident requiring disciplinary action. Reimbursement for this treatment and the payment of Short-Term Disability benefits will be accordance with and to the extent provided by current Company insurance benefits and the collective bargaining agreement. Where a violation of this policy has occurred, an employee’s request to submit to a drug or alcohol rehabilitation program shall not serve to waive the application of disciplinary action under this or any other Company disciplinary policy or work rule.
1.	Confidentiality of Test Results
The results of drug and alcohol tests will be disclosed to the person tested and, if the results are positive, to such other supervisors, managers and safety personnel who need to know such information to make necessary accommodations and/or enforce the disciplinary procedures provided under this Policy. If the employee is represented by a union and consents in writing, test results will be disclosed to the Union that represents the employee. No other disclosure of test results will be made except upon written consent of the person tested or where compelled by law.
Attachment A - Testing Standards
A.	Screening Test Standards For Certain Drugs
The following immunoassay test cutoff levels shall be used when screening specimens to determine whether they are positive or negative for the following five (5) drugs or classes of drugs:
47
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
Initial Test Level
Marijuana metabolites	50 ng/ml
Cocaine metabolites	300 ng/ml
Opiate metabolites	300 ng/ml
Phencyclidine	25 ng/ml
Amphetamines	1000 ng/ml
B.	Confirmatory Test Standards For Certain Drugs
All specimens identified as positive on the initial screening test shall be confirmed using the gas chromatography/mass spectrometry test or an equivalently or more accurate and scientifically accepted method at the cutoff levels listed below. All confirmations shall be by quantitative analysis. The following quantitative levels shall be used in confirmation testing of specimens to determine whether they are positive or negative for the following five (5) drugs or classes of drugs:
Confirmatory Test Level
Marijuana metabolites Cocaine metabolites Opiates:
Morphine
Codeine Phencyclidine Amphetamines: Amphetamine Methamphetamine
15 ng/ml
150 ng/ml
300 ng/ml
300 ng/ml 25 ng/ml
500 ng/ml
500 ng/ml
The foregoing quantitative cutoff levels for screening and confirmatory tests are identical to quantitative cutoff levels adopted by SAMHSA (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration) for drug testing of federal employees in effect at this time. The quantitative levels specified herein shall be amended as 48
2016- 2019 Labor Agreement
necessary to conform to any revisions to such SAMHSA quantitative cutoff levels, which become effective hereafter.
C.	Test Standards for Other Drugs
When the Company requires that an employee sample be tested for any drug other than those specified in Subsection (A) and (B), a positive test result shall be reported by the laboratory only upon the confirmed detection of a quantitative level of such drug or drugs which is generally accepted as a forensically accurate quantum of proof.
D.	Alcohol Test Standards
The following table shall be used to determine what concentrations of blood alcohol constitute a positive test result, in that the employee will be presumed to be under the influence of alcohol:
Elapsed Time Since Employee Has Begun His Workday To Time The Employee Gives The Blood Sample	Blood Alcohol Level
0 hours - 1 hour	.04 or more
1 hour - 2 hours	.03 or more
2 hours - 3 hours	.02 or more
Percent by weight of alcohol in the blood shall be based upon grams of alcohol per 100 cubic centimeters of blood.
Attachment B - Last Chance Agreement
In consideration of Perlick Corporation (hereinafter referred to as the Company) willingness to continue to employ me, I,__________________________________________________
49
2016 - 2019 Labor Agreement
(print name) agree:
1.	To cooperate in any number of unannounced surprise tests of my breath, blood or urine for evidence of alcohol or drug use at time determined solely by the Company during the next twelve (12) months.
2.	To abstain from using, possessing or trafficking any illegal drugs at any time.
3.	Not to report to work, or to work under the influence of alcohol and not to possess
or consume alcohol while at work or working.
4.	To maintain an appropriate attendance record in accordance with Company Attendance Policy.
(Subpart Five and Six for use only with individuals who require rehabilitation)
5.	To follow my counselor’s and/or therapist’s directions and recommendations with respect to rehabilitation and to successfully complete any inpatient and/or outpatient rehabilitation programs recommended and/or directed by said counselor and/or therapist.
6.	To authorize persons involved in counseling, diagnosing and treating me, to disclose to my employer, my progress and cooperation, my drug and alcohol use, and any dangers they perceive in connection with me performing my job duties and to execute any written authorizations which said counselor and/or therapist in order to provide my employer with such information.
7.	I understand that an employee’s person or personal vehicle or other personal property, while on Company property, inclusive of parking lots, may be searched by management if management has reason to believe that a violation of this policy has been committed. Employee lockers and desks remain at all times the property of the Company and the Company reserves the right to conduct locker, desk and tool box searches at any time. Any such search shall be conducted in the presence of the employee. A refusal to submit to such a search by management will be considered insubordination and subject the employee to disciplinary action up to and including discharge.
50
__®
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
I understand and agree that I may be terminated from my job without recourse if I violate any of the terms of this agreement and that violation or revocation of any such terms constitutes just cause for discharge.
I understand that this agreement is not a guarantee of employment and that I may be terminated in accordance with the provisions of the collective bargaining agreement between the Company and the District No. 10 of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers and Local Lodge 1509 of the International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Ship Builders, Blacksmiths, Forgers & Helpers (hereinafter referred to as the Union) for any reasons provided for in said collective bargaining agreement (including, but not limited to, layoff for lack of work, loss of seniority provisions, rule violations, or other conduct constituting just cause for discharge) notwithstanding my compliance with this agreement.
I have read and understand this agreement and certify that I am entering into it voluntarily and with full knowledge of its significance after having been given a reasonable opportunity to discuss its terms with a representative of the Union and/or any other representative of my choosing. I also certify that I have not used drugs or consumed any alcohol in the last twenty-four (24) hours and that I am legally competent to execute this agreement.
Employee Signature:_____________________________________________
Date:___________________________________________________________
Witness:________________________________________________________
Union Representative:___________________________________________
or
Witness_________________________________________________________
Section 23 - Potential Sick Leave Legislation
If, during the term of this agreement, any federal, state or local law mandates that the
Company provide paid sick days to employees, and if that law becomes effective prior to the expiration of this collective bargaining agreement, then the parties agree to bargain
51
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
the effects of any such mandate, with the understanding that the Company shall have the right to credit paid time off under this contract toward any paid sick leave obligation under such federal, state or local law, and to make any changes to the holiday or other paid time off provisions of this contract in order to accomplish such crediting.
ARTICLE IX - INSURANCE PROVISIONS
SECTION 1 - AU Programs
All employees eligible for health insurance will be offered the opportunity to enroll in the Perlick Health Plan.
Spousal carve out is required for any spouse of a Perlick employee who is employed or becomes employed and has health insurance available to them at a cost of $200.00 or less monthly. Employees, who opt out of the health plan offered at Perlick, that is, decline in writing to participate will be paid $1000.00 single and $2000.00 family plan. However, if both spouses work at Perlick and are eligible for Health Insurance, they will not be eligible to receive an opt out Payment as the result of one spouse going on the other spouses plan. The monies are payable as close to the beginning of the calendar year as practical. If the spouse of an employee who opted out of Perlick health insurance loses coverage, the employee may rejoin the Perlick plan immediately. Employees will be required to repay opt out monies on a prorated basis. To opt out, employee must provide proof of other coverage and to be reinstated the loss of the other coverage.
Employees who participate in the Perlick health plan will share in the premium cost (COBRA Rate) by payroll deduction and employees will pay a monthly contribution of 17.63% of the Rate established for the plan year beginning 1/1/2011 for a Single, Single plus 1, or Family Plan and paying 50% of any increase, or receiving 50% of any decrease, from the previous year in health insurance premiums. However, in no event
52
2016 — 2019 Labor Agreement
shall the total employee contribution be less than 17.63% of the established COBRA RATE. If the COBRA Rate increases by more than 10% from the previous year, the Company and Union will agree to meet to negotiate plan design changes that will hold the cost of the plan to no more than a 10% increase from the previous year’s COBRA Rate. If an agreement is not reached within five (5) working days after meeting, the Company may implement Health plan changes that will limit the COBRA Rate increases to 10% or less. All premiums paid by employees will be paid with pre-tax dollars under Section 125. Any unforeseen costs related to the Patient Protection and Affordability Care Act (PPACA), will be used in determining the annual COBRA Rate.
The Company will arrange with a qualified provider to establish Health Care Savings Accounts (HSA) for employees who participate in the health insurance plan which will permit employees to make pre-tax contribution into the HSA. The Company will make a contribution each year of the agreement to employees HSA in the following amount: single $300.00, single plus 1 $600.00, family $600.00.
An open enrollment will be held for an effective day of January 1,1991 and each January 1 thereafter for the purpose of permitting employees to select health care coverage.
Comprehensive participating Vision Program. Dental coverage with twenty-five ($25.00) dollar single and $75.00 family deductible, five thousand ($5,000.00) dollar maximum, 80% - 20% co-insurance. Preventative, diagnostic, basic and restorative services, a 50% -50% co-insurance of major services and orthodontic.
The amount of life insurance and accidental death or dismemberment (AD&D) will be $30,000.00. In addition a $2,500.00 life insurance policy is provided for your spouse and a $1,000.00 life insurance policy on each dependent child over fourteen (14) days of 53
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
age. Between birth and fourteen (14) days of age each dependent child has $100.00 life insurance coverage. The company will provide the opportunity for employees to purchase additional life insurance at age rated group rates. This requires a minimum of 25% of employees who have life insurance to participate.
Sickness or accident benefits (Short Term Disability - STD) in the amount of seventy percent (70%) of the employees weekly wage or $480.00 per week maximum for twenty-six (26) weeks in Year 1 of the agreement and will increase to seventy percent (70%) of the employees weekly wage or $490.00 per week maximum for twenty-six (26) weeks in Year 2 of the agreement and will increase to seventy percent (70%) of the employees weekly wage or $500.00 per week maximum for twenty-six (26) weeks in Year 3 of the agreement. Benefits will (after seeing a doctor) start on the fourth day illness, first day of accident or the first day of hospitalization. The company will provide a Long Term Disability (LTD) at benefit percentage 40% maximum monthly benefit $6000. One hundred eighty (180) day elimination period with nervous/mental and substance abuse benefit duration thirty six (36) months, pre-existing condition 3/12 with a maximum benefit period age 65 or Social Security normal retirement age with Social Security offset.
The Company will provide the health and welfare plan at its sole expense for the term of this Agreement except for such exceptions set forth in this agreement.
New employees who subscribed for the health and welfare plan will become eligible for protection on the ninety first (91st) calendar day of their employment for single and family coverage.
New employees are covered by life, sickness and accident insurance, vision insurance and
dental insurance on the ninety first (91st) calendar day of their employment. Spouse
54
2016- 2019 Labor Agreement
and dependent children are covered by life insurance on the ninety first (91st) calendar day of employee’s employment. An extension of the probationary period as described in Article IV, Section 8 of the agreement will allow coverage to be delayed for up to an additional 30 calendar days.
Laid off employees with three (3) years or more seniority, who subscribed for the health and welfare plan for Medical, Dental and Vision coverage, will be carried in the group for a period of four (4) calendar months after the month in which the layoff occurs. Those with less than three (3) years seniority will be carried for a period of one (1) calendar month after the month in which the layoff occurs. All laid off employees will be carried in the group for a period of one calendar month after the month in which layoff occurs for Life Insurance and AD&D, STD, and LTD plans. Laid off employees who retain their seniority are eligible for protection as of the date of return to work. Employees terminating employment with the Company shall have the opportunity of continuing life insurance portion of the plan at their own expense without the necessity of showing "Proof of Insurability" or submitting to a medical examination.
Employees absent due to medical reasons, who subscribe to Medical, Dental or Vision coverage will be carried in the group for a period of one year from the date of absence beginning, and will be carried in the group for a period of one calendar month after the month in which absence begins for coverage of Life Insurance and AD&D, STD and LTD plans.
The Company will pay the company share of insurance costs while employees are out on aFMLA.
A Health Risk Assessment (HRA) may be offered to employees during the life of this
55
2016 2019 Labor Agreement
Agreement. The Company agrees to meet with the Union on this issue and keep them informed and involved as to the development of the program details. The HRA is a voluntary program, administered by a third party organization, and is designed to encourage the wellness of all Perlick employees. To encourage participation, the Company will offer an incentive of $100.00 to be placed into the Health Savings Account of each employee who fully completes the requirement of the Health Risk Assessment for each year of the agreement it is offered. The details of the HRA program will be announced to all employees after arrangements are finalized. It is recognized by both the Company and Union that specific medical information of individual employees must remain confidential and will not be released by the third party administrator to either the Company or Union. Only general information on the overall program results can be released.
The Company and Union agree to the concept of a Wellness Program to support the health and well being of the members covered by this agreement and to assist in controlling Health plan costs. In light of this, the Company may offer Wellness incentives to employees that are tied to wellness goals, and agree to meet with the Union to discuss the details of any such plan prior to implementation.
ARTICLE X - RETIREMENT POLICY
The Company will provide for early retirement, for employees who have a seniority date prior to 11/1/2001. To qualify for retiree insurance benefits, length of Perlick service plus the employees age must equal seventy (70) or more or to be age 62 with five (5) or more years of seniority. Retired employees who are eligible or who may qualify in the future for health insurance will participate in the same plans as active employees. Retirees after 11-1-2010 will be offered a one time opportunity at the time of the retirement, to receive a $2000 payment single plan and $4000 payment Single Plus 56
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
1 or Family Plan, if they opt out of the retiree health plan offering as described in this Article.
The Company will carry at its sole expense, a three thousand ($3,000.00) dollar group life insurance policy, less accidental death and dismemberment coverage for a maximum of ten (10) years for employees retiring prior to November 1, 1995, and ten thousand ($10,000.00) dollar life insurance policy, less accidental death and dismemberment coverage for a maximum of ten (10) years for employees retiring after November 1, 1995. Employee to surrender group life insurance policy in effect prior to the time of retirement.
Current employees who retire after 1/1/2005, who elect to participate in the health insurance program, will share in the premium costs at the same level as active employees.
Insurance premium payments are due from retirees no later than the end of the month proceeding the month for which the premium is being paid. Retirees may participate in Company sponsored health insurance plans for a maximum of five (5) years immediately after retirement. Retired employees must elect Medicare coverage upon eligibility. Retirement insurance benefits will not be provided for employees hired after 11/1/2001.
ARTICLE XI - PERLICK EMPLOYEE’S FUND
Section 1	- Retirement Program
Effective November 1, 1976 the Company and Union agree that The Perlick Employee’s Fund, a profit sharing fund established in 1942, will remain in effect and continue to provide a retirement program for Perlick employees. Any changes in the plan negotiated by the Union and the Company shall be incorporated into this Article. The following conditions apply:
57
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
Section 2	- Vesting
Vesting will be in accordance with the following schedule, two (2) years at 20%, three (3) years at 40%, four (4) years at 60%, five (5) years at 80% and six (6) years at 100%.
Section 3	- Laid-Off Employees
An employee is automatically paid out from the fund for his vested amount upon termination of seniority. Prior to termination of seniority an employee may request to be totally paid out from the fund for his current vested amount if he has been laid off for more than four (4) consecutive months.
Section 4	- Minimum Annual Contribution
The Company will make a minimum annual contribution to each employee’s account of three point seven five (3.75%) percent of the total annual wage earned by the employee at the Company.
Section 5	- Profit Sharing/401(k) Plans
The 401(k) Plan and The Perlick Employees Plan and Fund will be combined under one administrator for the purpose of plan administration and investments. Employees will be allowed a mortgage loan with maximum repayment terms not to exceed thirty (30) years. Employees may make other loans to the extent permitted by law. The Company will contribute 250 for each $1.00 contributed by the employee to a maximum of 6%. The contribution made by the Company will be 100% vested after six (6) years of employment with the Company based on current seniority. New Employees, upon becoming eligible to join the 401(k) Plan, will be automatically enrolled into the plan at a 3% contribution level made through an automatic payroll deduction, unless the employee otherwise chooses to opt out of making contributions.
58
__ ®
2016 -2019 Labor Agreement
ARTICLE XII - APPRENTICESHIP
All apprentices engaged in learning any of the Machinists trades shall be indentured in accordance with the Standards of Apprenticeship for Machinists Trades adopted by the Wisconsin State Council of the International Association of Machinists, which hereby become a part of this Agreement.
59
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
ARTICLE Xin - TERM OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement signed this Day of November 2016, shall become effective as of October 30, 2016 and shall remain in effect through midnight on November 2, 2019 and thereafter shall be automatically renewed from year-to-year unless at least sixty (60) days prior to the termination of any yearly period either party shall serve on the other written notice that it desires to modify or terminate this Agreement. Following the receipt of said written notice, the parties agree to meet in negotiations within ten (10) days.
FOR THE COMPANY: PERLICK CORPORATION
Deborah Swambar, VP of HR
Tori
, VP of Operations
Bruce A Weber, Diregtprof LR
David Stram, VP of Finance
FOR THE UNION: LOCAL LODGE 66, DISTRICT NO. 10, INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS, AFL-CIO
Diann Fechter, Business Representative
COMMITTEE:
Ro^dr A. Michaels - Committeeperson
Albert B. Cissa - Chairperson
Kevin M. Rehm - Committeeperson
J
s E. Boettcher - Committeeperson
FOR THE UNION: LOCAL LODGE 1509, INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF BOILERMAKERS, IRON SHIP BUILDERS, BLACKSMITHS, FORGERS & HELPERS
60
2016- 2019 Labor Agreement
ARTICLE I - RECOGNITION............................................................................1
Section 1	- Recognition of Union...................................................................1
Section 2	- Union Membership & Jurisdiction........................................................2
Section 3	- Non-Discrimination Clause..............................................................3
ARTICLE n - MANAGEMENT CLAUSE......................................................................3
ARTICLE m - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE....................................................................3
Section 1	- Steps of Grievance Procedure..................................................3
Section 2	- Arbitration Procedure.........................................................5
Section 3	- Right to Strike...............................................................6
Section 4	- Picket Line...................................................................6
Section 5	- Discharge Cases...............................................................7
ARTICLE IV	- SENIORITY..........................................................................7
Section 1	- Definition....................................................................7
Section 2	- Transfer - Company Request....................................................7
Section 3	- Reduction of the Work Force..................................................10
Section 3A- Temporary Layoff..............................................................11
Section 4	- Transfer Prior to Layoff.....................................................11
Section 5	- Layoff.......................................................................11
Section 5A- Recall from Layoff............................................................12
Section 6	- Seniority During Layoff......................................................12
Section 6A - Rehire Former Employees......................................................12
Section 7	- Downgrading..................................................................12
Section 8	- Probationary Period..........................................................13
Section 9	- Notification - During Absence or Layoff......................................13
Section 9A - First Day of Absence.........................................................14
Section 10	- On the Job Training..........................................................14
Section 11	- Union Committeeperson and Stewards...........................................14
Section 12	- Shift Discontinuance.........................................................15
Section 13	- Union Leave of Absence........................................................15
Section 14	- Regular Leave of Absence.....................................................15
Section 14a - Request for Medical Leave of Absence........................................15
Section 15	- Job Posting..................................................................16
Section 16	- Supervisory Seniority........................................................18
Section 17	- Saturday Overtime............................................................18
ARTICLE V	- VACATIONS...........................................................................19
Section 1	-	Vacation - Amount and Payment...............................................19
Section 2	-	Vacation at Termination, Layoff, Illness, Accident, Leave of Absence........20
Section 3	-	Vacation - Military Service.................................................21
Section 4	-	Vacation Pay at Death.......................................................21
Section 5	-	Selection of Vacation Time..................................................21
Section 6	- Christmas Week................................................................22
ARTICLE VI	- HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME PROVISIONS AND HOLIDAYS...................................23
Section 1	-	Hours and Days of Work......................................................23
Section 2	-	Overtime Provisions.........................................................27
Section 3	-	Holidays....................................................................28
Section 4	-	Rest Periods and Wash-Up....................................................29
Section 5	-	Shift Premium...............................................................30
Section 6	-	Minimum Hours...............................................................30
Section 7	-	Bereavement Pay.............................................................30
Section 8	-	Paid Lunch..................................................................31
61
2016 - 2019 Labor Agreement
ARTICLE Vn - PAY PROVISIONS........................................................................31
Section 1	- Wages.........................................................................31
Section 2	- Pay Provisions................................................................31
Section 3	- Jury Duty..........................................,..........................32
Section 4	- Pay Day.......................................................................33
ARTICLE Vm - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS..............................................................33
Section 1	-	Business Representatives and Union Officials................................33
Section 2	-	Bulletin Boards.............................................................33
Section 3	-	Solicitation of Membership..................................................33
Section 4	-	Reports.....................................................................34
Section 5	-	Notification - New Employees................................................34
Section 6	-	Deductions - Time Off.......................................................34
Section 7	-	Payroll Deductions..........................................................34
Section 8	-	Check-Off Union Dues........................................................34
Section 9	- Doctor Visits (Worker’s Compensation).........................................35
Section 9	A - First Three Days of Industrial Injury.......................................35
Section 10	- Breaching of Contract........................................................35
Section 11	- Binding of Contract...........................................................35
Section 12	- Summer Help..................................................................36
Section 13	- Severance Plan...............................................................36
Section 14	- Wage Assignments.............................................................37
Section 15A - General Labor................................................................37
Section 16	- Contract Books...............................................................38
Section 17	- Merit Increases..............................................................38
Section 18	- Subcontracting...............................................................39
Section 19	-NewTechnology.................................................................39
Section 20	- Cellular Manufacturing.......................................................40
Section 20A - Joint Continuous Improvement Process.........................................40
Section 21	- Available Time................................................................41
Section 22	- Drug and Alcohol Abuse Policy................................................41
A.	Policy.................................................................................42
B.	Testing................................................................................43
C.	Consent................................................................................44
D.	Failure to Cooperate..................................................................44
E,	Reporting..............................................................................44
F.	Consequences of Drug Testing/Positive for Drugs........................................44
G.	Rehabilitation.........................................................................46
Attachment A	- Testing Standards..................................................................47
A.	Screening Test Standards For Certain Drugs...........................................  47
B.	Confirmatory Test Standards For Certain Drugs..........................................48
C.	Test Standards for Other Drugs.........................................................49
D,	Alcohol Test Standards,................................................................49
Attachment B	- Last Chance Agreement..............................................................49
Section 24 - Potential Sick Leave Legislation..............................................51
ARTICLE IX	- INSURANCE PROVISIONS...............................................................52
SECTION 1 - All Programs...................................................................52
ARTICLE X	- RETIREMENT POLICY...................................................................56
ARTICLE XI	- PERLICK EMPLOYEE'S FUND............................................................57
Section 1	- Retirement Program............................................................57
Section 2	- Vesting.......................................................................58
Section 3	- Laid-Off Employees............................................................58
Section 4	- Minimum Annual Contribution...................................................58
Section 5	- Profit Sharing/401(k) Plans...................................................58
ARTICLE XH - APPRENTICESHIP........................................................................59
ARTICLE Xm - TERM OF AGREEMENT.....................................................................60
Wage Rate Schedule...........................................................................Appendix
62
2016-2019 Labor Agreement
63
PERLICK CORPORATION WAGE RATES
CLASSIFICATION		10/30/16			10/30/16 2016 90 DAYS
		3.00% 2016 START	2016 45 DAYS	2016 60 DAYS	
Journeyman Tool & Die	A	$24.08	$25.83	$27.59	$29.51
Journeyman Tool & Die	B	$22.55	$24.26	$27.07	$27.78
Toolroom Machinist General	A	$21.25	$22.75	$24.41	$26.15
Maintenance General	A	$19.43	$20.87	$22.38	$24.00
Maintenance General	B	$17.99	$19.32	$20.75	$22.24
Experimental Worker	A	$24.08	$25.83	$27.59	$29.51
Experimental Worker	B	$21.61	$23.16	$24.83	$26.53
Tool Grinder	A	$20.44	$21.97	$23.44	$25.16
Tool Grinder	B	$18.31	$19.71	$21.15	$22.67
Inspector		$19.65	$21.09	$22.61	$24.25
Machinist (Production)	A	$20.64	$22.07	$23.73	$25.39
Machinist (Machine Repair)		$21.12	$22.60	$24.27	$25.98
Lathe Operator	A	$19.02	$20.45	$21.89	$23.47
Lathe Operator	B	$17.99	$19.32	$20.75	$22.24
Lathe Operator Automatic	A	$19.66	$21.09	$22.61	$24.25
Milling Machine Operator	A	$19.02	$20.45	$21.89	$23.47
Production Worker		$16.08	$17.29	$18.54	$19.93
Screw Machine Operator	A	$20.64	$22.07	$23.73	$25.39
Screw Machine Operator	B	$19.02	$20.45	$21.89	$23.47
Toolkeeper	A	$18.53	$19.92	$21.34	$22.91
Inspector - Process		$18.53	$19.92	$21.34	$22.91
Electrician					$36.66
		10/30/16			
		2016	2016	2016	2016
CLASSIFICATION		START	45 DAYS	60 DAYS	90 DAYS
Toolcrib Attendant	A	$16.80	$18.09	$19.39	$20.78
Final Inspect - Refrigeration					
and/or Remote Systems		$19.12	$20.52	$22.01	$23.62
Mechanical Assembler					$21.64
Production Assembler		$16.28	$17.58	$18.90	$20.40
Parts Assembler		$14.79	$15.85	$17.04	$18.32
Sheetmetal Cell		$18.31	$19.71	$21.15	$22.66
Welder Arc & Gas	A	$19.84	$21.28	$22.82	$24.46
Welder Arc & Gas	B	$18.46	$19.79	$21.21	$22.74
Press Brake Operator	A	$17.82	$19.12	$20.47	$22.04
CNC - Power Press Operator	A	$17.82	$19.12	$20.47	$22.04
Machine Operator - S.M.		$16.78	$18.07	$19.37	$20.76
Shear Operator	A	$17.44	$18.75	$20.12	$21.59
Press Brake Operator (WS)	A	$17.82	$19.12	$20.47	$22.04
Utility Man	A	$18.26	$19.60	$21.04	$22.63
Utility Man - Cabinet	A	$18.74	$20.07	$21.55	$23.10
Utility Man - Cabinet	B	$17.82	$19.12	$20.47	$22.04
PERLICK CORPORATION WAGE RATES
10/30/16
CLASSIFICATION	2016 START	2016 45 DAYS	2016 60 DAYS	2016 90 DAYS
Spot Welder	A	$17,44	$18.75	$20.12	$21.59
Inspect & Repair	A	$17.13	$18.43	$19.77	$21.19
Woodworker	A	$17.13	$18.43	$19.77	$21.19
Woodworker	B	$16,44	$17.67	$18.91	$20.36
Shipping & Receiving	A	$17.57	$18.81	$20.28	$21.70
Shipping & Receiving	B	$16.18	$17.33	$18.73	$20.04
Shipping & Receiving - SM	$17.57	$18.81	$20.28	$21.70
Packer & Crater	A	$16.80	$18.09	$19.39	$20.78
Packer & Crater	B	$15.87	$17.02	$18.27	$19.61
Stockkeeper & Selector	A	$17.44	$18.75	$20.12	$21.59
Stockkeeper & Selector	B	$16.08	$17.29	$18.54	$19.93
Truck Driver	A	$17.66	$18.98	$20.36	$21.79
Jr. Grind,, Pol. & Buffer	A			$23.67
Polisher	B			$22.21
Plater	A			$23.10
Plater	B			$22.11
Solderer	$17.12	$18.35	$19.76	$21.09
Oiler	$15,63	$16.83	$18.12	$19.46
Maintenance Helper				$18.13
General Labor Start Rate				$14.07
General Labor 6 Month Rate				$14.61
General Labor 12 Month Rate				$15.15
Progressive Rate Opportunity				$15.15-$17.31
Note: Progressive increases will be available to General Labor Employees as described in Article VIII,				
10/30/16	10/30/2016
$14.07	$14.07
Summer Help - Entry Level
Note: During the term of the collective Bargaining Agreements, Summer Employees will be paid at the starting rate of the Entry Level classification or the Company has the option of paying a higher rate but it must be less than the lowest paid Entry Level Employee on the seniority list.
PERLICK CORPORATION WAGE RATES
CLASSIFICATION	10/29/17				10/29/17 2017 90 DAYS
	3.00% 2017 START		2017 45 DAYS	2017 60 DAYS	
Journeyman Tool & Die	A	$24.80	$26.60	$28.42	$30.40
Journeyman Tool & Die	B	$23.23	$24.99	$27.88	$28.61
Toolroom Machinist General	A	$21.89	$23.43	$25.14	$26.93
Maintenance General	A	$20.01	$21.50	$23.05	$24.72
Maintenance General	B	$18.53	$19.90	$21.37	$22.91
Experimental Worker	A	$24.80	$26.60	$28.42	$30.40
Experimental Worker	B	$22.26	$23.85	$25.57	$27.33
Tool Grinder	A	$21.05	$22.63	$24.14	$25.91
Tool Grinder	B	$18.86	$20.30	$21.78	$23.35
Inspector		$20.24	$21.72	$23.29	$24.98
Machinist (Production)	A	$21.26	$22.73	$24.44	$26.15
Machinist (Machine Repair)		$21.75	$23.28	$25.00	$26.76
Lathe Operator	A	$19.59	$21.06	$22.55	$24.17
Lathe Operator	B	$18.53	$19.90	$21.37	$22.91
Lathe Operator Automatic	A	$20.25	$21.72	$23.29	$24.98
Milling Machine Operator	A	$19.59	$21.06	$22.55	$24.17
Production Worker		$16.56	$17.81	$19.10	$20.53
Screw Machine Operator	A	$21.26	$22.73	$24.44	$26.15
Screw Machine Operator	B	$19.59	$21.06	$22.55	$24.17
Toolkeeper	A	$19.09	$20.52	$21.98	$23.60
Inspector - Process		$19.09	$20.52	$21.98	$23.60
Electrician					$37.76
		10/29/17			
		2017	2017	2017	2017
CLASSIFICATION		START	45 DAYS	60 DAYS	90 DAYS
Toolcrib Attendant	A	$17.30	$18.63	$19.97	$21.40
Final Inspect - Refrigeration					
and/or Remote Systems		$19.69	$21.14	$22.67	$24.33
Mechanical Assembler					$22.29
Production Assembler		$16.77	$18.11	$19.47	$21.01
Parts Assembler		$15.23	$16.33	$17.55	$18.87
Sheetmetal Cell		$18.86	$20.30	$21.78	$23.34
Welder Arc & Gas	A	$20.44	$21.92	$23.50	$25.19
Welder Arc & Gas	B	$19.01	$20.38	$21.85	$23.42
Press Brake Operator	A	$18.35	$19.69	$21.08	$22.70
CNC - Power Press Operator	A	$18.35	$19.69	$21.08	$22.70
Machine Operator - S.M.		$17.28	$18.61	$19.95	$21.38
Shear Operator	A	$17.96	$19.31	$20.72	$22.24
Press Brake Operator (WS)	A	$18.35	$19.69	$21.08	$22.70
Utility Man	A	$18.81	$20.19	$21.67	$23.31
Utility Man - Cabinet	A	$19.30	$20.67	$22.20	$23.79
Utility Man - Cabinet	B	$18.35	$19.69	$21.08	$22.70
PERLICK CORPORATION WAGE RATES
10/29/17
CLASSIFICATION		2017 START	2017 45 DAYS	2017 60 DAYS	2017 90 DAYS
Spot Welder	A	$17.96	$19.31	$20.72	$22.24
Inspect & Repair	A	$17.64	$18.98	$20.36	$21.83
Woodworker	A	$17.64	$18.98	$20.36	$21.83
Woodworker	B	$16.93	$18.20	$19.48	$20.97
Shipping & Receiving	A	$18.10	$19.37	$20.89	$22.35
Shipping & Receiving	B	$16.67	$17.85	$19.29	$20.64
Shipping & Receiving - SM		$18.10	$19.37	$20.89	$22.35
Packer & Crater	A	$17.30	$18.63	$19.97	$21.40
Packer & Crater	B	$16.35	$17.53	$18.82	$20.20
Stockkeeper & Selector	A	$17.96	$19.31	$20.72	$22.24
Stockkeeper & Selector	B	$16.56	$17.81	$19.10	$20.53
Truck Driver	A	$18.19	$19.55	$20.97	$22.44
Jr. Grind., Pol. & Buffer	A				$24.38
Polisher	B				$22.88
Plater	A				$23.79
Plater	B				$22.77
Solderer		$17.63	$18.90	$20.35	$21.72
Oiler		$16.10	$17.33	$18.66	$20.04
Maintenance Helper					$18.67
General Labor Start Rate					$14.49
General Labor 6 Month Rate					$15.05
General Labor 12 Month Rate					$15.60
Progressive Rate Opportunity					$15.61-$17.83
Note: Progressive increases will be available to General Labor Employees as described in Article Vin.					
				10/29/17	10/29/2017
Summer Help - Entry Level				$14.49	$14.49
Note: During the term of the collective Bargaining Agreements, Summer Employees will be paid at the starting rate of the Entry Level classification or the Company has the option of paying a higher rate but it must be less than the lowest paid Entry Level Employee on the seniority list.
PERLICK CORPORATION WAGE RATES
CLASSIFICATION		10/28/18			10/28/18 2018 90 DAYS
		3.00% 2018 START	2018 45 DAYS	2018 60 DAYS	
Journeyman Tool & Die	A	$25.54	$27.40	$29.27	$31.31
Journeyman Tool & Die	B	$23.93	$25.74	$28.72	$29.47
Toolroom Machinist General	A	$22.55	$24.13	$25.89	$27.74
Maintenance General	A	$20.61	$22.15	$23.74	$25.46
Maintenance General	B	$19.09	$20.50	$22.01	$23.60
Experimental Worker	A	$25.54	$27.40	$29.27	$31.31
Experimental Worker	B	$22.93	$24.57	$26.34	$28.15
Tool Grinder	A	$21.68	$23.31	$24.86	$26.69
Tool Grinder	B	$19.43	$20.91	$22.43	$24.05
Inspector		$20.85	$22.37	$23.99	$25.73
Machinist (Production)	A	$21.90	$23.41	$25.17	$26.93
Machinist (Machine Repair)		$22.40	$23.98	$25.75	$27.56
Lathe Operator	A	$20.18	$21.69	$23.23	$24.90
Lathe Operator	B	$19.09	$20.50	$22.01	$23.60
Lathe Operator Automatic	A	$20.86	$22.37	$23.99	$25.73
Milling Machine Operator	A	$20.18	$21.69	$23.23	$24.90
Production Worker		$17.06	$18.34	$19.67	$21.15
Screw Machine Operator	A	$21.90	$23.41	$25.17	$26.93
Screw Machine Operator	B	$20.18	$21.69	$23.23	$24.90
Toolkeeper	A	$19.66	$21.14	$22.64	$24.31
Inspector - Process		$19.66	$21.14	$22.64	$24.31
Electrician					$38.89
		10/28/18			
		2018	2018	2018	2018
CLASSIFICATION		START	45 DAYS	60 DAYS	90 DAYS
Toolcrib Attendant	A	$17.82	$19.19	$20.57	$22.04
Final Inspect - Refrigeration					
and/or Remote Systems		$20.28	$21.77	$23.35	$25.06
Mechanical Assembler					$22.96
Production Assembler		$17.27	$18.65	$20.05	$21.64
Parts Assembler		$15.69	$16.82	$18.08	$19.44
Sheetmetal Cell		$19.43	$20.91	$22.43	$24.04
Welder Arc & Gas	A	$21.05	$22.58	$24.21	$25.95
Welder Arc & Gas	B	$19.58	$20.99	$22.51	$24.12
Press Brake Operator	A	$18.90	$20.28	$21.71	$23.38
CNC - Power Press Operator	A	$18.90	$20.28	$21.71	$23.38
Machine Operator - S.M.		$17.80	$19.17	$20.55	$22.02
Shear Operator	A	$18.50	$19.89	$21.34	$22.91
Press Brake Operator (WS)	A	$18.90	$20.28	$21.71	$23.38
Utility Man	A	$19.37	$20.80	$22.32	$24.01
Utility Man - Cabinet	A	$19.88	$21.29	$22.87	$24.50
Utility Man - Cabinet	B	$18.90	$20.28	$21.71	$23.38
PERLICK CORPORATION WAGE RATES
10/28/18
CLASSIFICATION		2018 START	2018 45 DAYS	2018 60 DAYS	2018 90 DAYS
Spot Welder	A	$18.50	$19.89	$21.34	$22.91
Inspect & Repair	A	$18.17	$19.55	$20.97	$22.48
Woodworker	A	$18.17	$19.55	$20.97	$22.48
Woodworker	B	$17.44	$18.75	$20.06	$21.60
Shipping & Receiving	A	$18.64	$19.95	$21.52	$23.02
Shipping & Receiving	B	$17.17	$18.39	$19.87	$21.26
Shipping & Receiving - SM		$18.64	$19.95	$21.52	$23.02
Packer & Crater	A	$17.82	$19.19	$20.57	$22.04
Packer & Crater	B	$16.84	$18.06	$19.38	$20.81
Stockkeeper & Selector	A	$18.50	$19.89	$21.34	$22.91
Stockkeeper & Selector	B	$17.06	$18.34	$19.67	$21.15
Truck Driver	A	$18.74	$20.14	$21.60	$23.11
Jr. Grind., Pol. & Buffer	A				$25.11
Polisher	B				$23.57
Plater	A				$24.50
Plater	B				$23.45
Solderer		$18.16	$19.47	$20.96	$22.37
Oiler		$16.58	$17.85	$19.22	$20.64
Maintenance Helper					$19.23
General Labor Start Rate					$14.92
General Labor 6 Month Rate					$15.50
General Labor 12 Month Rate					$16.07
Progressive Rate Opportunity					$16.07-$18.37
Note: Progressive increases will be available to General Labor Employees as described in Article VIII.					
				10/28/18	10/28/2018
Summer Help - Entry Level				$14.92	$14.92
Note: During the term of the collective Bargaining Agreements, Summer Employees will be paid at the starting rate of the Entry Level classification or the Company has the option of paying a higher rate but it must be less than the lowest paid Entry Level Employee on the seniority list.
November 1,2007
Letter of Understanding
Between
Perlick Corporation
And
District 10, IAM&AW and Local Lodge MIO, International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Ship Builders, Blacksmiths, Forgers and Helpers
During the course of negotiations, the Company and Unions discussed and agreed to the following understanding as it applies to Article V of the Agreement.
New employees, after successful completion of the sixty (60) working day probation period, will be entitled to take up to one (1) week of unpaid vacation in advance of their one year vacation eligibility, as defined in Article V, Section 1 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. The employee will not be eligible to receive the pay for such advance vacation that may be taken until completion of the one year of service requirement. When an employee reaches their one year anniversary, the employee becomes eligible for the full two weeks of vacation. The employee is not eligible for any additional vacation until reaching January 1st of the year after the employees one year anniversary date.
FOR THE UNION: DISTRICT NO. 10, INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS, AFL-CIO
FOR THE UNION: INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF BOILERMAKERS, IRON SHIP BUILDERS, BLACKSMITHS, FORGERS & HELPERS
David Lawrence, International Representative
COMMITTEE:
November 1,2007
Letter of Understanding
Between
Perlick Corporation
And
District 10, IAM&AW and Local Lodge MIO, International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Ship Builders, Blacksmiths, Forgers and Helpers
During the course of negotiations, Perlick Corporation “the Company” and District 10, IAM&AW and Local Lodge MIO, International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Ship Builders, Blacksmiths, Forgers and Helpers, “the Unions” discussed and agreed to the following understanding as it applies to the recognition of Electrical Maintenance work to be represented by District # 10 of the IAM&AW.
The Company and Unions recognize the importance of this position and the extensive amount of technical knowledge, training and experience that it takes to perform this position at a high level of efficiency and safety.
The Company and Unions acknowledge that while agreeing to the terms of this letter of understanding, nothing herein or within the Collective Bargaining Agreement prevents Perlick to address its many various needs to hire and have work performed by outside contractors for various projects as deemed necessary as it has in the past; i.e., facilities, production equipment, and/or construction type work.
The Company and Unions also agree it is acceptable for Perlick Corporation to maintain up to one (1) full time contractor on the premise at any time and maintain a second contractor on a part time basis not to exceed more than six (6) months in a one year period. The purpose of the said aforementioned contractors is to perform Electrical and/or Electronic maintenance work on the Perlick facilities or equipment. While it is recognized that a certain amount of overlap of responsibilities is necessary in the performance of electrical work, it is not the intent of this letter to permit electricians to do work which is clearly mechanical in nature.
Furthermore, the Company and Unions agree that in the future the Company will make every effort to hire an employee to perform Electrical Maintenance work and that when hired; this person will become a member of District 10 of the IAM&AW. Such individual must be qualified as a Journeyman Electrician and/or an Electronic Technician with the necessary skills, experience and education to perform the job duties of the position. Subsequent to this agreement the Company and Unions will write a job description for the position and make it available to the Unions and furthermore, the
Company and Unions agree to meet for the purpose of establishing a specific classification, job title and wage rate.
FOR THE UNION: DISTRICT NO. 10, INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
FOR THE UNION: INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF BOILERMAKERS, IRON SHIP BUILDERS, BLACKSMITHS, FORGERS & HELPERS
CO
es L. Stillman
TTEE:
Letter of Understanding
Between
Perlick Corporation (The Company)
And
District 10, IAM&AW and Local Lodge MIO, International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Ship Builders, Blacksmiths, Forgers and Helpers (The Unions)
During the course of negotiations, the Company and Unions discussed and agreed to language concerning the opportunity for employees who retire after 11-1-2010, to opt out of the retiree health plan, which provides as follows within the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA):
“ARTICLE X - RETIREMENT POLICY
The Company will provide for early retirement, for employees who have a seniority date prior to 11/1/2001. To qualify for retiree insurance benefits, length of Perlick service plus the employees age must equal seventy (70) or more or to be age 62 with five (5) or more years of seniority. Retired employees who are eligible or who may qualify in the future for health insurance will participate in the same plans as active employees. Retirees after 11-1-2010 will be offered a one time opportunity at the time of the retirement, to receive a $2000 payment single plan and $4000 payment Single Plus 1 or Family Plan, if they opt out of the retiree health plan offering as described in this Article.”
Whereas the Company and Unions have met to discuss this language and have come to an understanding to revise the meaning of the last sentence in the above underlined paragraph. The Company and Unions therefore agree to the following:
•	Retirees meeting the qualifications as defined in Article X, who prior to retirement participate in the Perlick Medical Health Insurance, and retire on or after November 1, 2010, may elect to opt out of the retiree Health Plan during the five (5) year period of retiree coverage.
•	Retirees who choose to opt out of continuing the Perlick Medical Health Insurance offering will receive the following one-time payment based upon when they opt out of the Perlick Medical Health Insurance as indicated below:
•	Family Plan:
o $6000.00 - opt out begins within 1 year of retirement date.
o $5000.00 - opt out begins between 1 and 2 years of retirement date.
o $4000.00 - opt out begins between 2 and 3 years of retirement date, o $3000.00 - opt out begins between 3 and 4 years of retirement date, o $2000.00 - opt out begins between 4 and 5 years of retirement date.
Letter of Understanding	1	Retiree Opt-Out of Medical Plan
•	Single Plan:
o $3000.00 - opt out begins within 1 year of retirement date.
o $2500.00 - opt out begins between 1 and 2 years of retirement date.
o $2000.00 - opt out begins between 2 and 3 years of retirement date.
o $ 1500.00 - opt out begins between 3 and 4 years of retirement date.
o $ 1000.00 - opt out begins between 4 and 5 years of retirement date.
Opt out from the Perlick Medical Health Insurance requires that any premium payments that may be due, be made in a timely manner as described within the CBA. Once a retiree elects to opt out of Health Insurance coverage, said individual may not rejoin the plan for any reason.
Agreed to this	day of CT	2011.
Bruce A. Weber, VP of Human Resources
FOR THE UNION: DISTRICT NO. 10, INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS, AFL-CIO
Donald L. Griffin, Business Representative
COMMITTEE:
z_________1/
James V. West - Committeeperson
Arundell L. Gillespie - Chairperson
;s E. Boettcher - Committeeperson
ommmeeperson
FO
boilermakers; iron ship builders, blacksmiths, forgers &
ERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF
HELPERS
UNION:
CO
ITTEE:
es L. Stillman - Committeeperson
Letter of Understanding
2
Retiree Opt-Out of Medical Plan