INDEX
Advancement, Methods................15
Advancement, Requirements...........11
Bereavement Pay.....................42
Breaks..............................34
Bulletin Boards.....................49
Check Off, Dues..................... 5
Clean Up Time.......................34
Discrimination......................49
Duration Clause.....................53
Employee Lists......................50
Field Repair and Ind. Work..........35
First Aid...........................50
Foreman.............................23
Gloves..............................51
Grievances & Arbitration............26
Holiday, Pay........................ 7
Holiday, Schedule...................41
Hours of Employment................. 6
Injury Pay..........................18
Insurance, Group....................44
Job Classification Descriptions.....11
Job Posting.........................16
Job Preference System...............16
Jury Duty...........................43
Lay-off Notice......................18
Leaves of Absence...................22
Letters of Understanding............54
Lock Outs...........................30
Lunch Period........................34
Management Clause...................52
Mgmt/Union Committee Meeting........52
Minimum Rates.......................19
New Work Classified.................10
Overtime Pay........................ 7
Payday..............................18
Retirement Plan.....................48
1
Picket Lines........................30
Probationary Period.................17
Progression.........................15
Recall to Work......................18
Rehired Employees...................19
Reprimands..........................52
Safety Committee....................50
Safety Shoes........................51
Savings Clause......................53
Seniority...........................19
Shift Change Notice.................33
Shift, Conditions...................31
Shift, Premiums.....................34
Slow Downs..........................30
Strikes.............................30
Transfers, Disability...............25
Travel Expense......................35
Union Membership.................... 4
Union Representatives...............50
Union Security...................... 4
Vacations...........................36
Vending Machines....................35
Veteran Rights......................49
Wage Rates..........................10
Wage and Job Classif. -Sch. A.......55
Work Leader Premium.................19
APPENDIX
A--T00I Crib Attendant	Duties.......56
B—Authorization for Check-Off from Wages.............................57
C--Standard	Skill	Advancement
Guidelines (Schedule	D.) ........60
2
AGREEMENT
This Agreement is made and entered into by and between FELKER BROTHERS CORPORATION, 22 North Chestnut Avenue, Marshfield, Wisconsin, hereinafter referred to as the "Company" and LOCAL LODGE NO. 697 of the International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Shipbuilders, Blacksmiths, Forger, and Helpers, AFL-CIO, hereinafter referred to as the "Union.
The term "Company" as used in this agreement shall be deemed to include only Felker Brothers Corporation, 22 North Chestnut Avenue and 1707 East Fourth Street, Marshfield, Wisconsin, which the parties specifically recognize and acknowledge as the separate and distinct "Company". The term "Company" as used in this Agreement does not include nor does this Labor Agreement extend to any subsidiary, affiliate, or in any other entity in any manner related to Felker Brothers Corporation, Marshfield, Wisconsin.
PREAMBLE
This Agreement is entered into to insure harmony and complete understanding between the employer and the employees and provide the best method for solution of mutual problems. It shall be the purpose of the parties to this Agreement to administer the terms of this Agreement in such a manner that it will promote good will and harmonious relations.
3
ARTICLE 1. RECOGNITION, UNION
SECURITY, NON-RESTRICTED MEMBERSHIP, VOLUNTARY CHECK-OFF
Section 1.	Recognition
The Company recognizes the Union as the certified bargaining agent for all production and maintenance employees excepting office employees, engineers, draftsmen, watchmen and guards, professional and supervisory employees as defined by the National Labor Relations Act as amended on matters pertaining to wages, hours of employment and conditions of employment.
Section 2.	Union Membership
Employees shall have the option to become members of the Union commencing sixty (60) calendar days from the date of hire.
The Company shall notify the Union through the Secretary/Treasurer of all new employees who have completed sixty (60) calendar days of service with the Company. The Union agrees to accept all such eligible employees as members.
The Company will give the Union notice of new employees the same day of their employmen t.
Section 3.	Non-Restricted Membership
The Union shall not restrict membership but shall admit to membership all employees of the Company
4
who are eligible for membership under the Union’s Constitution and By-Laws.
Section 4.	Voluntary Check-Off
Upon receipt of proper voluntary written authorization, as contained in Appendix B, from any employees directing the Company to pay the Union Secretary-Treasurer the amount of monthly Union Dues prescribed by the Union’s Constitution and By-Laws, the Company will withhold such Union dues once each month from the employee’s paycheck and within 30 days, remit all such withheld Union dues to the Union Secretary-Treasurer in a lump sum. Such proper voluntary written authorization shall read as written in Appendix B.
Section 5
If any employee does not have sufficient earnings to pay his uniform obligation to the Union from his first pay check of the month as outlined in Appendix B, then this amount will be deducted from the first paycheck when he has sufficient funds to pay same.
Section 6
This Union shall indemnify, defend and hold the Company harmless against any claim made and against any suit instituted by any employee against the Company which shall arise out of action which shall be taken by the Company in accordance with the check-off and union security provisions of this agreement.
5
ARTICLE 2.	HOURS OF EMPLOYMENT AND OVERTIME
The first shift shall start at 6:45 a.m. Central Time for traffic convenience, and shall consist of 8 hours per day inclusive of a paid one-half (1/2) hour break period. The starting time for the 2nd and 3rd shifts shall be following the ending of the first shift, and the 2nd shift respectively- The normal work week shall begin with the normal beginning of the 3rd shift at 10:45 p.m. on Sunday. The 10:45 p.m. starting time of the 3rd shift shall be regarded as the beginning of the 24-hour day but such day shall be considered to be the day on which the first shift occurs.
The regular established work week shall consist of five regular established workdays Monday through Friday, of 40 hours, subject to the following exceptions:	When a paid
holiday occurs within a regular work week, the work days and work hours shall be decreased by the holiday or holidays; the work hours for the week will be decreased when it becomes necessary to discontinue work for reasons beyond the control of the Company, normally referred to as an act of God such as fire, flood, or power failure.
The above hours may be changed by written agreement between the Company and the Union.
6
Section 2. Overtime Pay and Pay for Saturday, Sunday and Holiday Work
Time and will be paid for all time worked over 8 hours in any one day or over 40 hours in any one week, or on Saturday (Friday night for 3rd shift) . Paid holidays will be counted as hours worked for overtime over 40 hours in any one week.
Work performed on Sunday (Saturday night/Sunday morning for third shift) or any paid holiday shall be paid for at double-time in addition to holiday pay.
In no event shall hours worked at time and one-half or double-time be counted as hours worked for the purpose of determining overtime pay hours in excess of 40 in any one week.
Voluntary Weekly Overtime
Voluntary weekly (M-F) overtime hours will be worked before or after the shift. There is no limit to the amount of overtime an employee can work on any one day.
Employees in the department where the overtime is needed will have the first opportunity to work the overtime. The selection of employees would go from the most senior to the least senior qualified to do the work needed.
7
For the purpose of distributing overtime equally in the machinist classification, all machinists would be considered all in one department for overtime purposes only.
Voluntary Weekend Overtime
Employees in the department where the overtime is needed will have the first opportunity to work the overtime. The selection of employees would go from the most senior to the least senior qualified to do the work. Employees will be notified prior to their end of shift on Wednesday.
Mandatory Weekday Overtime
Mandatory weekday overtime hours would be as follows:
1st shift 5:45 a.m. - 2:45 p.m. 2nd shift 2:45 p.m. - 11:45 p.m. 3rd shift 9:45 p.m. - 6:45 a.m.
Mandatory Weekend Overtime
Mandatory weekend overtime hours would be as follows:
1st shift
2nd shift
3rd shift
6:45 a.m. - 2:45 p.m.
2:45 p.m. - 10:45 p.m.
10:45 p.m. -	6:45 a.m.
8
Mandatory overtime will be assigned by reverse seniority within the department and the classification where the overtime is needed. Employees required to work will be notified prior to their end of shift on Wednesday. No employee will be forced to work two consecutive weekends.
The overtime/pension report will continue to be available that shows actual overtime hours/earnings.
9
ARTICLE 3.	WAGE RATES AND NEW WORK
Section 1.	WAGE RATES
Wages will be paid in accordance with the job classifications set forth in Schedule A. The Company has the right to make work assignments. Employees may be required to perform other jobs for which they are qualified with the objective of utilizing all available manpower efficiently and economically.
Section 2.	NEW WORK
Whenever a new job is created which has not been previously classified, the Company will meet and discuss the appropriate wage rate with the Union. This will be handled as an agenda item at the monthly Company/Union meeting. If an agreement is not reached, the Union may submit the issue directly to arbitration within fifteen (15) days after the monthly Company/Union meeting. The parties agree that the rate of pay for the new work shall be determined in accordance with the principle of comparable pay for comparable work.
10
Section 3.	Job Classification Descriptions
Semiskilled Progression
Semi-skilled employees may perform the following: all job preference positions, material handling, janitor, any pickling, grinding-polishing, shears, rolls, parts annealing, spot welder, and mailman. Also, the set-up and operation of Rigid Threaders, drills, saws, and presses (other than those listed for machine operators). Cutting of odd-degree elbows, other than 45 degree, shall be done by fab-fitters .
Qualified semiskilled drivers may drive over-the-road tractor/semitrailer units in the yard.
Sandblasting and mobile crane operation shall not be assigned to an employee of a specific classification but shall be performed by any employee assigned thereto with the proper knowledge of the work.
Maintenance Posting, Progression & Qualifications
Skill II maintenance shall be selected by posting and successful completion of a general mechanical aptitude test agreed upon by the parties. After 24 months in the skill II job an employee shall progress to skill I; after 18 months in skill I an employee shall progress to Maintenance Specialist I; after 18 months in Maintenance Specialist I an employee
11
shall progress to Maintenance Technician. Each progression step includes satisfying the Standard Skill Advancement (Schedule D) guideline requirement.
Machinist Posting,Progression& Qualifications
Skill II machinist shall be selected by posting. After 24 months in the skill II job an employee shall progress to skill I; after 18 months in skill I an employee shall progress to Machinist Specialist I; after 18 months in Machinist Specialist I an employee shall progress to Machine Tool Builder. Each progression step includes satisfying the Standard Skill Advancement Guideline (Schedule D) requirement.
Welder Posting,Progression& Qualifications
Skill II welder shall be selected by posting. After 12 months in the skill II job an employee shall progress to skill I. Progression includes satisfying the Standard Skill Advancement Guideline (Schedule D) requirement.
The Company agrees to finish welding testing within thirty (30) days of completion of an employee’s thirteen (13) week training period. If an employee does not pass the test during such thirty (30) day period he shall be returned to his original classification and rate of pay. An individual will be
12
allowed to retest in the 3-6 month period immediately after downgrade, if candidate showed evidence of work to attain skill. Facilities and instruction will be made available on a scheduled basis.
Utility_____Posting,____Progression_____& Qualifications
Utility shall be selected from Machine Operator, Welder or Semiskilled by posting and satisfying the Standard Skill Advancement Guidelines (Schedule D) requirement. A Utility individual may be utilized as a Welder and/or a Machine Operator.
Fabricator/Fitter Posting, Progression & Qualifications
Fab/Fitter II shall be selected from the Skill I Welder or Utility classification by posting and satisfying the Standard Skill Advancement Guideline (Schedule D) requirement. After 18 months in the Fab/Fitter II job, an employee shall progress to Fab/Fitter I. After 12 months in the Fab/Fitter I job an employee shall progress to Fab/Fitter Specialist.
Semiskilled and machine operators will be considered only if no other eligible (welder or utility) individuals signed the posting and they provide evidence of welding experience and the capability. Evidence must be provided within one (1) week of the
13
expiration of the posting. Upon proof or evidence being substantiated, the Company will provide a welding test to the individual. Individuals failing the welding test will remain in their current classification.
Fab/Fitter Training Criteria
Drafting Classroom time taught by experienced	Fab/Fitter	and
Draftsperson.
1.	Two hours a week for six weeks dependent on previous training and experience.
a.	Blueprint Reading
b.	Math, Trig, Rise, Run and Pitch c. Work utilizing the Fab/fitter Training Manual
d.	Charts/information on specialty fittings (i.e. Socket Welds)
The purpose of the Fab/Fitter is to explain the relationship between the print and the actual work on the shop floor and how to apply it, (the how's and why's). The purpose of the draftsperson is to explain the print and symbols.
Shadow time:
1.	Six months
2.	Must work	next to	an	experienced
Fab/Fitter	willing	to	work	with
him/her
3.	Must shadow Specialists	with	odd
pipe spools, etc.
4.	First three months on a beam with experienced Fab/Fitter.
5.	Minimum of two days a month for three months in pipe prep.
14
Patternmaker Posting
Patternmaker shall be selected from Fab/Fitter Specialist or Fab/Fitter I by posting and successful completion of an aptitude test agreed upon by the parties. Selected individual must satisfy the Standard Skill Advancement Guideline (Schedule D) requirement.
Machine Operators Posting, Progression & Qualifications
Skill II machine operators shall be selected by posting. After 6 months in the skill II job an employee shall progress to skill I. Progression includes satisfying the Standard Skill Advancement Guideline (Schedule D) requirement. Downgrades and lateral moves are allowed for Machine Operators to accept Welder II postings.
Section 4.	Methods of Advancement
Advancement shall be by criteria indicated for each classification in Schedule D, further delineated as follows, all criteria specifically subject to grievance procedure:
Progression
Progression shall be at the rate indicated unless suspended by the Company for cause which shall be reported in advance to the Union Bargaining Committee. Progression shall also be suspended for any employee after 1 month uninterrupted absence for any reason, resuming on the date of return to work.
15
Posting
Posted jobs shall be posted for at least four (4) consecutive work days (Monday-Friday) and filled on the basis of plant-wide seniority, and within the limitations of the current Standard Skill Advancement Guidelines. Employees will be notified of selection for job posting within seven work days.
Anyone not specifically qualified, yet interested in a posting, should notify the human resource department and request their name be added to the posting as an interested party. Consideration will be given only if enough qualified individuals do not sign.
It is the employees responsibility to notify the Company prior to absence from employment that when a job posting comes up, their name be included on any postings.
The Company does not have a job posting system within the semi-skilled classification. However, when an opening occurs in a job preference position, a general interest notice will be posted in the same manner as a posting.
It is the Company's intention to select the most senior employee who signs the general interest notice posting. If for good cause the Company does not select the senior employee, it will meet with the Union to discuss the matter before a final decision is made. It is also understood that this provision shall not limit the Company
16
in its assignment of semi-skilled employees to various jobs within the classification. Any employee who transfers pursuant to the general interest notice posting procedure will not be entitled to another transfer for six (6) months. However, the employee is still eligible for posting as per Article 3, Sections 4 and 5 of the Contract.
The following jobs are preference jobs and employees can be assigned to any jobs listed:
Tool Crib Attendant Outside Yard Men Shipping and Receiving
Section 5.	Probationary Period
The probationary period will commence on the day of transfer. Upon successful completion of the probationary period of at least twenty-five (25) and no more than forty-five (45) work days on the job to which the employee has transferred via this Article, the employee's rate will be effective retroactive to the date worked in the higher skill position	started,	including
extensions. The probationary period may be extended by written mutual consent of the Company and the Union. Unless mutually agreed to in writing, the new rate will become effective no more than three (3) calendar months after the date the posting is awarded.
17
Section 6.	Payday
Effective Jan. 1, 2018, employees covered by this Agreement shall be paid every Friday, by direct deposit.
Section 7.	Lay-Off Notice
All employees to be laid off shall be given at least two regular working days notice.
When it becomes necessary to lay off employees, the layoff shall be in order of seniority. The employees with the least seniority shall be laid off first provided those retained are capable of performing the available work. Upon rehiring, the employees with the most seniority shall be hired first provided the employee is able to perform the available work. The Company shall prepare and maintain a seniority list on a current basis and shall post it so it is available to all employees.
Section 8.	Recall to Work
Employees working their regular shift, who, after leaving their work, are called and report to work extra hours shall receive overtime pay for such hours worked with a minimum of three (3) hours pay.
Section 9.	Injury Pay
An employee injured while at work and compelled to lose time because of such injury shall be paid his straight time regular rate for all unworked but scheduled hours on the day the injury occurs provided the necessary lost
18
time be because of the injury and is verified by the physician.
Section 10.	Rehired Employees
Employees being rehired after layoff shall receive the rate of pay previously received, including any wage adjustment made during their absence.
A former employee, other than a laid off employee, rehired in his former classification, shall receive the rate he previously received including any wage adjustment made during his absence.
Section 11.	Minimum Rates
Employees assigned to work in a lower wage classification shall retain their regular base hourly rate of pay.
Section 12.	Work Leader Premium
An employee while in the capacity of Work Leader shall receive a premium of $1.10 per hour.
ARTICLE 4. SENIORITY & LEAVES OF ABSENCE & SHOP FOREMAN
Section 1. Seniority
An employee's seniority date is defined as the first date of employment or the first date of re-employment after a break of service. Employees shall be regarded as probationary employees until they have been employed for a probation period of sixty (60)
19
calendar days from the first date of employment or from the first date of re-employment after a break in service. The probationary period may be extended by mutual agreement in writing. During this probation period, the Company may discharge, layoff, transfer within his classification, or discipline an employee at the sole discretion of the Company, and any such action shall not be subject to the Grievance and Arbitration provisions.
Employees eligible to be recalled from an indefinite layoff shall be returned to their job or work in reverse order. Employees eligible to be recalled from an indefinite layoff will be notified in writing by the Company by certified mail sent to the employee's last known address as shown in the Company records. Employees will be expected to return from layoff on the next scheduled shift following this notification. If an employee does not report to work within ten (10) workdays from date of mailing the call-back notice, he shall be considered quit and lose all seniority rights. If an employee refuses to accept recall to his job classification (former highest opening), he shall be considered terminated and lose all seniority rights.
An employee shall be terminated and cease to have seniority of any kind if:
a)	He resigns or quits.
b)	He is discharged for proper cause.
20
c)	He fails to report to work for three (3) consecutive working days without notifying the Company for the reason for such absence.
d)	For all employees seniority will terminate if the employee is laid off for 24 months or does not return at the expiration of an approved leave of absence or an extension thereof.
e)	He violates the terms of a leave of absence by engaging in gainful employment elsewhere.
f)	An employee is retired.
g)	An employee does not report to work from layoff within ten (10) workdays after date of mailing of the callback notice. This time will be extended due to reasonable circumstances.
The Company shall post a complete roster of all employees in the bargaining unit, showing name, clock number, date of hire, of each employee, his plant wide seniority and his present job classification seniority. The roster shall be revised once each six (6) months, and shall be posted not later than fifteen (15) days thereafter. A copy of the roster will be given to the President and Secretary of the Union within fifteen (15) days of the posting.
21
Section 2.	Leaves of Absence
Employees may be granted a leave of absence by the Company upon written request. Copies of the leave of absence authorization shall be given to the Union. A leave of absence shall be automatically granted for the period of statutory compensation under Wisconsin Worker’s Compensation, and qualifying leaves of absence for Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA). The Company and the Union agree to follow the Universal Military reinstatement and employment of former employees of the Company who have been discharged from the military service of the United States of America.
If any employee is on an authorized leave of absence, he shall retain his seniority for the period of such leave of absence. If an employee is absent because of bona fide illness or non-occupational injury, the Company will grant a leave of absence for the duration of such disability up to a maximum of 18 months with the possibility of quarterly extensions up to an additional year. The Company reserves the right to require an employee eligible for leave or on leave to visit a doctor selected for and paid by the Company for examinations and/or verification of the employee’s ability to perform his assigned job.
22
If there is any disagreement between a doctor selected by the Company and a doctor selected by the employee, a third opinion will be sought from the University of Wisconsin Medical College for a binding decision. This expense will be paid mutually by the Company and Union.
Any employee selected as an officer or delegate will be afforded a leave of absence on Union business upon written request by the local Union at least 3 days before leaving if possible.
Section 3.	Work Leaders
As used herein, "work leaders" mean an employee who after receiving instructions and/or work specifications from their supervisor has the combined responsibility of directing the work of a group of employees and performing some of the same work themselves. Said direction generally consists of activities such as required to (A) plan work to be performed by group; (B) determine "on the job" working procedure; (C) arrange for necessary tools, supplies and facilities; (D) assign and instruct members of the group; (E) inspect and coordinate work performed by the group; (F) communicate with other leads, supervisors, and other management on drawing and schedule issues; and (G) complete	necessary	computer
23
transactions to prepare shipments for pulling and loading. Said direction does not include activities such as required to (A) hire, promote, demote, discipline, or discharge members of the group; (B) represent the company in handling employee grievances; (C) determine the schedule of hours, days, or weeks which members of the group shall work; or (D) perform other general supervisory or management functions.
The Union shall be notified in writing at the time permanent shop foreman selections are made.
Foremen, superintendents, quality control, engineers, health and safety, and inspectors may perform bargaining unit work on the following occasions: performing necessary functions of instruction or assistance to employees, performing work to determine the operating characteristics of new or existing equipment with a bargaining unit employee assisting, when involved in research and development work and for the start up or changing of new products, production methods, processes, or techniques.
The Company may designate one (1) salaried non-bargain!ng unit person per project to perform research and development work and for the start up or changing of new products, production methods, processes or techniques without restrictions as to the amount of time or bargaining unit work performed.
24
However, when more than one (1) non-bargaining unit person is needed per project to perform these duties, it will be necessary to have a bargaining unit employee participate and work with each and every additional salaried nonbargaining unit person for the purpose of assisting and learning the research and development work, start up or changing of new products, production methods, processes or techniques.
Supervision may experiment with scrap materials that will not enter the production stream. After completion of a sellable product, additional production work will be assigned to bargaining unit employee(s). A supervisor may inspect one piece of product, take it to another location for evaluation, return it or direct the disposition of it and other similar products that resolves a quality issue. "Common sense is to prevail."
Section 4.	Disability Transfer
In the event the Company is unable to find work within an employee's restrictions due to a work related injury, the Company will meet with the President of the Bargaining Committee to discuss finding work for the employee. An employee in a job preference position can only be displaced a maximum of sixty (60) days per year by an occupationally injured employee, unless otherwise mutually agreed to in writing by the Union and the Company.
25
ARTICLE 5. GRIEVANCES AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
Section 1. Grievance Procedure: A grievance as used in this agreement is to mean a disagreement, dispute, complaint or question by an employee claiming a violation of a contractual right and/or working condition provided under the terms and provisions of this collective bargaining agreement. The union grievance committee will consist of not more than six members of the bargaining unit.
Upon request to the immediate supervisor, an employee may schedule a mutually agreed upon time to discuss concerns or issues with the Human Resources Manager. Such requests will be honored and a meeting scheduled within two work days if practical.
Step 1. If a grievance arises, it will first be addressed by the grievant verbally to the foreman, with or without the assistance of a Union Committee person. This shall occur within ten (10) work days of the event, or knowledge of the complaint issue. The foreman will give a verbal answer within five (5) work days.
Step 2. Discipline grievances will be advanced automatically in writing to the 2nd step of the grievance procedure. If the Union or employee is not satisfied with the foreman's answer, the grievance shall be reduced to writing by the Union and presented
26
to the Plant Manager within five (5) work days, with a copy to the Human Resource Manager. The grievant(s) and a committee member shall meet with the foreman and Plant Manager within five (5) work days of delivery of the written grievance to attempt to settle the grievance. The Plant Manager shall provide a written response (addressed to the Union) to the grievance within five (5) work days of the step 2 meeting.
Step 3. If the grievance has not been settled in Step 2 of this procedure the Union may file a written request to appeal the grievance to Step 3 within five (5) work days following the Step 2 Company response, requesting the grievance be presented and discussed at the next month's Company/Union meeting. In no event shall more than one Company/Union meeting be bypassed for such discussion. The Company's written response shall be given to the Union within five (5) workdays of the Step 3 meeting.
Step 4A. Discharge grievances must be filed directly at Step 4 in writing within five (5) work days of the discharge. A Step 4 grievance meeting must be jointly scheduled to occur within fifteen (15) work days from the date that the discharge grievance was filed, involving the Union International Representative, The Union Grievance Committee, The Human Resource Manager, and appropriate management representatives.	The
27
Company must give their Step 4 answer within five (5) work days of the Step 4 meeting. If the discharge grievance is not resolved, the Union must file a request for an arbitration panel within five (5) work days of the Company's Step 4 answer. Should the Union fail to appeal the discharge grievance within five (5) work days following the Step 4 Company grievance response, the grievance shall be considered settled.
Step 4. If the grievance has not been settled in Step 3 of this procedure, the Union may appeal the grievance in writing within ten (10) workdays to Step 4 of the grievance procedure. A meeting will be scheduled within 20 workdays involving a union international representative, the union grievance committee, the Human Resources Manager and appropriate management representatives. The Company shall answer the 4th Step grievance in writing within 10 workdays. In the event the grievance is not resolved in step four (4) and is moved to the arbitration procedure, either party may request a meeting with the Federal Mediation Conciliation Commissioner to attempt to resolve the grievance prior to arbitration. The Union shall have a period of up to 30 calendar days following the Step 4 Company response to appeal to arbitration. Should the Union fail to appeal the grievance within 30 calendar days following the Step 4 Company grievance response, the grievance shall be considered settled.
28
2.	Arbitration Procedure:	The
Union will file for a list of seven (7) arbitrators from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. The Union will contact the Company within twenty (20) workdays of receipt of the list, for the purpose of alternating the striking of names, the last name being the designated arbitrator. The Company and the Union will alternate who will strike first from the list of arbitrators. All discharge/suspension arbitrations will enter the grievance process at step 4 and be subject to FMCS expedited arbitration process unless objected to by Company or Union within five (5) work days after the step 4 grievance meeting.
Each party may reject an entire panel a maximum of two (2) times. The cost of additional arbitration panel lists is to be paid by the party rejecting the entire panel.
The arbitration decision shall be binding on all parties. Every effort should be made to render a decision within sixty (60) calendar days of close of hearing; exception to be sixty (60) calendar days after receipt of briefs, if submitted. Arbitrator's decision to be in writing, bound by the terms and conditions of this agreement.
Each party shall bear the expense of preparing and presenting its own case to the arbitrator. The expenses of the arbitration and any other undefined expense(s) agreed to in
29
advance shall be borne equally by the parties.
3.	Days involved in a time limit shall begin the day after physical receipt of paperwork in Steps 2, 3, 4, and arbitration. Should the Union fail to present any grievance within the time limits provided in this Article, the grievance shall be treated as dropped. If the Company fails to respond in the time limits specified, the grievance shall be settled on the basis of the Union's requested remedy. The time limits of each step of this procedure may be extended by mutual written agreement between the parties.
At all steps of the grievance procedure, the grievant, Union, and the company shall disclose to each other available facts and documents relied upon to process the grievance.
Section 3.	Legal Picket Lines
Nothing in this Agreement shall in any manner restrict the right of the Union’s members to respect legal picketing lines formed against an employer by any bona fide Union in accordance with its recognized rules and regulations.
Section 4.	Strikes, Slowdowns, Lockouts
There shall (including sympathy or lockouts during Agreement.
be no strikes, strikes), slowdowns the period of this
30
ARTICLE 6. SHIFTS
Section 1. Fixed Shifts
In filling openings on the shifts, the following procedure will determine which employee is to be transferred:
Openings on 1st shift	Openings on 2nd shift	Openings on 3rd shift
1. Classification	Ask for volunteers, via classification. 2nd shift specific individuals will have preference.	Ask for volunteers, via classification. 3rd shift specific individuals will have preference.
Openings on 1st shift
Openings on 2nd shift
Openings on 3rd shift
2 . Volunteers based on:
a)Non-shift specific individuals by most seniority.
b) Shift specific individuals by most seniority.
a) 2nd shift specific individuals by least seniority.
b)Least senior non-shift specific individual.
c) Least senior shift specific individual.
a) 3rd shift specific individuals by least seniority.
b)Least senior non-shift specific individual.
c) Least senior shift specific individual.
31
3.If no volunteers, least senior, non-shift specific.
4 . If none, least senior shift specific.
Shift specific is relevant only for posted positions (does not apply to semi-skilled). Shift specific was introduced after the 1985 contract went into effect, in an effort to inform employees what shift they would initially be on if they signed and were awarded the posting. For purposes of definition, anyone who achieved their current classification prior to June 1, 1985 will be considered "non-shift specific." Anyone who achieved their current classification after June 1, 1985 will be considered shift specific to whatever shift that:
1.	Was indicated on their posting.
2.	They were hired into.
3.	If not indicated on the posting, the initial shift they were assigned to.
Employees in the 50-man window would stay on their current shift unless they desire to move to 1st shift by giving their 10-day notice. Employees in the 50-man window who want to transfer from 1st shift must wait for an opening on the off-shift within his/her classification.
32
Within classifications, any shift specific individual on an off shift with more seniority than a shift specific individual working on first shift may give a 10 day notice to displace the least senior shift specific individual on first shift. The shift specific individual being displaced will be assigned to the shift they originally posted to.
Postings to the second and third shift and hirees into such shifts may be assigned to such shifts indefinitely.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the 50 most senior employees with ten (10) or more years of seniority shall not be required to transfer from one shift to another (except in the case of partial or full discontinuance of a shift); provided, however, that no employee attaining ten (10) years of service on or after November 1,	1985, shall go
into this group exempt from involuntary transfer until an employee already in the exempt group leaves such group by death, termination or retirement. However, under no circumstances shall this provision result in there being less than (1) maintenance employee per shift.
Section 2.	Notification
A four (4) working day notice will be given for any non-voluntary shift change.
33
Section 3.	Shift Premium for Second and Third Shifts
Effective 10/26/15, employees working on the second and third shift shall be paid a shift premium of $.70 per hour applied to the rate. Effective 10/26/16 employees on second and third shift shall be paid a shift premium of $.75 per hour applied to the rate. Effective 10/08/17, employees on second and third shift shall be paid a shift premium of $1.15 per hour applied to the rate. For purposes of shift premium, if any shift begins between 5:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon, it shall be a first shift. If any shift begins between 12:00 noon and 9:00 p.m., it shall be a second shift. If any shift begins between 9:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m., it shall be a third shift.
ARTICLE 7. BREAK, QUITTING TIME, VENDING MACHINES
Section 1.	Break
There shall be a paid one-half (1/2) hour break during each shift which may be designated as a single or dual break period by the Company after agreement with the Union. There shall be no other non-work break or clean-up times. Employees are to conduct all personal business, including requesting absences, during breaks. Employees will have up to five minutes after break for requesting absences.
Section 2.	Time at Which Work Stops
34
Employee shall continue to work until such time as his break period actually starts and his work shift actually ends. Clean-up at machines and disposition of tools shall be as directed by the Company.
Section 3.	Vending Machines
Vending machines may be used only before and after shifts and at scheduled break periods.
ARTICLE 8.	FIELD REPAIR & INDUSTRIAL WORK
Field repair and industrial work is any work which involves production skills (i.e., welding, fabricating) or inspection of product, and involves being out of town overnight, or any work away from the plant involving more than one hour's time. The employees' regular hourly rate shall apply with a premium of six percent (6%) per hour applied to the rate while engaged in this work.
As to overnight trips, except if travel time is necessitated by employee training, travel time on public transportation, including waiting time, counts as hours worked.
As to 1-day trips all hours from departure to return, whether worked or travel time, count as hours worked.
One member of a multi-person field repair or industrial work crew shall be designated work leader and receive the work leader premium.
35
Employees sent out of the city to work shall receive board, lodging and transportation. The Company shall furnish the employees sufficient funds for such expenses.
ARTICLE 9.	PAID VACATIONS AND PAID HOLIDAYS
Section 1. Vacations
a. Vacation eligibility shall be determined as of January 1st of each year. The period for taking vacation shall be from January 1st to December 31st of each year.
Employees who are laid off for one full calendar year and are recalled after January 1 of the second year following lay off will receive vacation time off in the year they return as follows:
Recall Date	Vacation Time
During 1st Qtr.	Total credited last
year worked
During 2nd Qtr.	75% of credited
last year worked
During 3rd Qtr.	50%	of	credited
last year worked
During 4th Qtr.	25%	of	credited
last year worked
36
Example - Employee in three (3) week bracket
Lay off	8/31/96
Recall	3/1/98
1998 Vacation 8/10 x 120 hrs. = 96 hrs
Example - Employee in three (3) week bracket
Lay off	8/31/96
Recall	8/1/98
1998 Vacation 8/10 x 120 x 50% = 48 hrs
B.	New full-time employees hired between January 1 and March 31 are eligible for 40 hours of vacation in the year of hire after successfully completing 60 calendar days of employment. New full-time employees hired between April 1 and June 30 are eligible for 24 hours of vacation in the year of hire after successfully completing 60 calendar days of employment.
C.	Employees who have been employed for more than twelve (12) months but less than eighty-four (84) months and are still employed as of January 1st, shall receive vacation time off with pay based upon one tenth (1/10) for each month worked up to and including ten (10) months equal to ten (10) days or 80 hours.
D.	Employees with seven (7) or more years of service and who are still employed as of January 1st and who have
37
worked at least ten (10) months in the preceding year shall be eligible for vacation and vacation pay as follows:
Completed years of Service*
Number of Calendar
Weeks Vacation (Hours)
1	2	80	hours
7	3	120	hours
14	4	160	hours
22	5	200	hours
♦Completed years	of	service	are
determined by subtracting the year of hire from the current year on January 1st.
E.	Employees working less than 10 months will have their vacation prorated based on 1/10 for each month worked except:
An employee off work due to a job related injury or illness for which workers compensation is being received will be entitled to receive vacation as follows:
A.	If you do not return by
January 1, in the year that you return you will	get
vacation equivalent to	the
lessor of 1/4 of the	work
days remaining to the end of the year or your	full
vacation.
B.	If you return by the	last
work day of the year, such as 12/31, you will get your full entitlement for vacation in the next year.
38
EXAMPLES
Based on a 14 year employee entitled to 4 weeks vacation
Injury or	Return to	Vacation
Illness Date Work Date Eligibility
2/2/96	12/20/96	4	weeks
2/2/96	10/01/97	2.5	weeks
6/2/96	3/07/97	4	weeks
l/10th is considered earned provided the employee works at least 100 hours in the month.
F.	Earned vacation must be taken during the vacation year. However, employees with two (2) or less weeks of vacation may carry over not less than one (1) day and not more than five (5) days in to the next vacation year. Employees who elect to carry over vacation days must notify the company by December 1 each year or their unused vacations will be paid out.
G.	Shift premium will be paid for vacation and holiday hours based on the last shift worked prior to the scheduled vacation or holiday.
H.	Employees may request vacation days in increments of 4 or 8 hours. Prescheduled vacation must be requested prior to the beginning of their shift at least 2 full working days before the day of the requested vacation. Permission will be granted by the employer unless to do so will interfere
39
with the operations of the plant. Employees will be allowed to cancel vacation a maximum of 5 times per year (as single or consecutive days).
Examples of 2 days notice for 4 or 8 hour vacation requests:
Shift Worked	Day Rqst. Have Vac Request	
	off	in Prior to
6:45-2:45 pm	MON.	6:45 am Thurs.
	TUES.	6:45 am Fri.
	WED.	6:45 am Mon.
	THURS.	6:45 am Tues.
	FRI.	6:45 am Wed.
2:45-10:45 pm	MON.	2:45 pm Thurs.
	TUES.	2:45 pm Fri.
	WED.	2:45 pm Mon.
	THURS.	2:45 pm Tues.
	FRI.	2:45 pm Wed.
10:45-6:45 am	MON.	10:45 pm Wed.
	TUES.	10:45 pm Thurs.
	WED.	10:45 pm Sun.
	THURS.	10:45 pm Mon.
	FRI.	10:45 pm Tues.
I.	An employee who retires shall receive one tenth (1/10) of forty (40) hours pay for each month worked for each week of vacation earned since the preceding January 1st not exceeding 10/10's.
40
Section 2. Holidays
Each employee covered by this Agreement shall receive holiday pay of 8 hours on the basis of his straight time shop rate, including any appropriate shift premium for Christmas and New Year’s as negotiated, Good Friday, Memorial Day, 4 th of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and the Friday after Thanksgiving. New employees will receive retroactive holiday pay after successfully completing their probationary period.
Employees must work their full scheduled workday before and after the holiday in order to be eligible for holiday pay, unless the absence is excused per the attendance policy.
The Christmas/New Year schedule during the term of this agreement shall be as follows:
[ ] - Holiday
		2015			
Sun.	Mon. Tues.	Wed.	Thurs.	Fri .	Sat.
20	21	22	23	[24]	[25]	26
27	[28]	29	30	[31]	[ 1]	2
		2016			
Sun.	Mon. Tues.	Wed.	Thurs.	Fri .	Sat.
18	19	20	21	[22]	[23]	24
25	[26]	27	28	[29]	[30]	
		2017			
Sun.	Mon. Tues.	Wed.	Thurs.	Fri .	Sat.
17	18	19	20	21	[22]	23
24	[25] [26]	27	28	29	30
31	[ 1]				
41
ARTICLE 10.	BEREAVEMENT PAY
In the event of a death in an employee’s immediate family, as defined, the employee upon request, which shall include the circumstances, shall receive a leave of absence with pay of 8 hours on the basis of the employee’s straight time shop rate for each of the specified regularly scheduled work days lost by reason of the death and funeral in the period between the day of death and the day of the funeral (day following funeral if necessitated by travel) as follows:
Up to 3 days as to death of the employee’s spouse, child, step-child, step-parent, parent, brother, sister, parent-in-law; 1 day as to death of the employee’s grandparent, grandchild, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepbrother, step-sister or step-grandchild (up to 3 days if necessitated by travel) . If the travel required is over 150 miles one way (place of residence to place of funeral) by car or necessitates airplane travel, an additional day of travel (up to a total of three days, if appropriate) will be granted as long as such travel time does not occur on a week-end or holiday. Distance for travel by car will be determined by using the shortest route from Mapquest™ or other mutually agreed upon travel direction website.
42
ARTICLE 11.	JURY DUTY
Payment shall be made for time lost from regular working hours due to jury duty, such payment to consist of the difference between straight time hourly pay and jury pay received from the Court, the employee to return to work in the afternoon if discharged by the Court reasonably before noon.
1.	An employee summoned for jury duty shall present a copy of said Summons to the Human Resource Department. The employee is responsible for notifying his/her supervisor of dates he/she will be serving.
2.	The employee is responsible to present proof of service to the Human Resource Department.
3.	If discharged prior to noon, the employee at his/her choice would have the option of not reporting to work that day. If the person regularly works 2nd or 3rd shift and chooses not to come in to work that day, they will only receive compensation from the Clerk of Courts and the Employer for a total of 4 hours.
4.	A 2nd or 3rd shift employee who only serves 1/2 day may also elect to work his/her entire shift or 4 hours if 8 hours total pay is desired. The person working the full 8 hour shift keeps the Clerk of Court fee free and clear.
5.	Third shift employees may take the day following the jury duty as time off under the jury duty policy. Example:	Employee reports to work
43
on Monday (Sunday evening) despite the recording stating there is a scheduled trial and he/she has been selected as a juror. Employee has the option to take off of work on Tuesday for the time required for jury duty on Monday.
6.	A first shift employee has the option of returning for the balance of the first shift only. Compensation would be based on 4 hours less Clerk of Court fees plus pay for actual hours worked excluding any travel time.
7.	If an employee serves past noon, the court considers this a full day and an employee will not have to report to work for the day.
8.	Employee will be reimbursed the difference between jury pay and lost wages.
9.	People on jury duty receive 1/2 day, 4 hour credit if they report for jury duty but are not selected to serve.
10.	If the person on any shift so chooses not to return to work, no discipline will be issued.
ARTICLE 12.	GROUP INSURANCE
Section 1, Group Health Insurance Plan
Employees in the bargaining unit meeting the service eligibility requirement may elect to participate in the Company's group health insurance plan.
44
Effective January 1, 2010, the group health insurance plan offered by the Company shall be an insured plan. Employees shall have a choice of one of the three following deductible options for single, single plus one or family coverage: a $1,000/$2,000 upfront deductible; a $1,500/$3,000 upfront deductible; a $2,000/$4,000 upfront deductible; or a $2,500/$5,000 upfront deductible. The employee contribution, based on monthly insurance plan total
premium, will be:
Deductible Plan
$1000/2000 $1500/3000
$2000/$4000
$2500/$5000
80/20 co-pay
$7,500/$15,000
Employee Contribution
12%
8%
5%
2%
on the next
Changes go into effect 01/01/2016
Employees are eligible to participate in the group health insurance plan during periods of temporary total disability, occupational or non-occupational, for a maximum of twenty-six (26) weeks provided they pay their contribution by the first of each month.
45
Section 2.G	roup Life, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, and Non-Occupational Weekly Disability Plan
Employees in the bargaining unit meeting the service requirement shall be included in a group policy underwritten by an insurance company to be named by the Company, extending the following benefits:
Life	$30,000	$30,000	$30,000
AD&D	$30,000	$30,000	$30,000
Disability (1st day accident, 4th day illness)
Weekly Amount $355	$360	$365
Maximum Weeks - 26
Section 3.	Preventative Dental Program
Employees in the Bargaining Unit may enroll in the Blue Cross/BlueShield Dentacare 100 Plan. Enrollment is available to a new hire within thirty (30) calendar days of their employment and coverage will be effective the first of the month following date of hire. There will be a specified open enrollment annually in August.
Employees in the Bargaining Unit who choose to participate in the Dental Program will participate on the following basis: Company's share of the premium is 90%, employee's share of the premium is 10%. Any premium rate increases will be shared 90% by the Company and 10% by the employee.
46
The Company will continue to offer the Dentacare 100 Plan until such time as the Plan is cancelled by the insurance provider. In the event the Provider cancels the Dentacare 100 Plan, the Company and the Union agree to negotiate a new plan with the understanding that the Company contribution will be capped at the contribution level at the time the Dentacare 100 Plan is discontinued. In the event the new plan premium is higher than the Company's cap, the employee will pay the difference. Thereafter, the Company will pay 90% of the increase in the total premium under the new plan and employees will pay 10% of the increase.
EXAMPLE
Based upon the 1/1/2016 dental rates of $147.12/family and $51.08/single per month, the Company and employee's share would be as follows:
Company Share
Employee Share
Family $132.41/month	$14.71/month
Single $ 45.97/month	$ 5.11/month
If the full premium for the family plan was $100 per month at the time the Provider cancelled the Dentacare 100 Plan the Company would continue to pay up to $90 a month towards the cost of a family plan under an alternative plan agreed to by the Company and the Union. For example, if the cost of the new plan was $120 per month for a family plan, the Company would pay $90 per month and the employee would pay $30
47
per month. If the family plan increased the next plan year to $132 per month, (i.e., an increase of $12 per month) , the Company would pay 90% of the increase ($10.80 + $90 = $100.80) and the employee would pay 10% of the increase (i.e., $30 + $1.20 = $31.20).
Section 4.	Further Information
For details please read your Plan Manual and your Life Insurance Company Group Certificate and ask the Human Resource Department, if you have any questions about coverage or claims.
ARTICLE 13.	RETIREMENT PLAN
Contributions will be paid into the Boilermaker-Blacksmith Annuity Trust, on the basis of one dollar ($1.00) per hour for all hours worked (or paid in the case of paid time off such as vacation or holiday) for all employees covered by this Agreement. Contributions will be paid into the Felker Brother Corporation 401(k) Retirement Plan in the amount of sixty-five cents ($.65) per hour for all hours paid for all employees covered by this Agreement. Effective October 26, 2016 contributions will be paid into the Felker Brothers Corporation 401(k) Retirement Plan in the amount of seventy cents ($.70) per hour; effective October 26,	2017,
contributions will be paid in the amount of seventy-five cents ($.75) per hour for all employees covered by this Agreement.
48
ARTICLE 14.	MISCELLANEOUS
Section 1.	No Discrimination
The Company and the Union agree not to discriminate against any employee on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, age, disability, national origin, marital status, sexual orientation or on any other basis protected under state or federal discrimination laws. Alleged violations of this Section shall not be subject to the arbitration provisions of this Agreement. All references to employees in this agreement designate both sexes and all references shall be construed to include both male and female employees who are in the bargaining unit.
Section 2.	Veterans’ Rights
All employees who are drafted into the Armed Forces, also those employees who volunteer for military service during the period of local, state or national emergency, shall receive all benefits provided for by law and upon return to work shall receive the vacation benefits of the contract in effect on the date of return to work.
Section 3.	Bulletin Boards
The Union is authorized to post on the bulletin boards provided in the plant notices of Union meetings, social affairs of the Union and other proper matters.
49
Section 4.	International Rep.
International or Local Union representatives will be admitted to the plant upon request at the Company office, with 24 hours notice.
Section 5.	Employee Lists
The Company will furnish the Union Secretary/Treasurer and President a monthly list of all employees hired, discharged, laid off, recalled, reclassified or who have for any reasons terminated their employment. The list shall show the dates and employees’ classification and rate of pay. The Union shall notify the Company whenever changes take place in its committees or officerships.
Section 6.	First Aid
The Company shall provide a First Aid person not covered by this Agreement or a person trained in first aid, on all shifts.
Section 7.	Safety Committee
A joint safety and health committee will be established to provide overall direction and leadership. The committee will be made of up to four (4) union members selected by the Local Union and four (4) management members selected by the Company. A Local Union employee and a Company representative will co-chair the committee. The committee will meet at least every month and minutes of the meetings will be kept. The
50
committee will have the authority to issue work orders based on the seriousness of any safety or health hazard found to exist. The responsibilities of the committee will include, but are not limited to: review of injuries and illnesses to identify causes and prevention; review of changes in shop rules governing safety; discussion of the health and safety complaint procedure; review and analysis of OSHA 300 forms and employee medical visit data provided to the Company, to the extent permitted by law; review, analysis and receipt of copies of all reports, surveys, inspections and measurements of worker exposure to actual or potential toxic materials and harmful physical agents.
Section 8.	Work Gloves
The Company shall furnish appropriate work gloves to all employees requiring them, with replacements to be furnished upon the employee turning in the worn out pair.
Section 9.	Safety Shoes
Employees are eligible to receive reimbursement for steel toe safety shoes meeting ANSI/ASTM standards. The reimbursement will equal up to a $375 credit for three years to be paid upon shoe receipt (prorated for new hires).
51
Section 10.	Reprimands
When a written warning or verbal warning is issued to a bargaining unit employee the Company will void the warning for purposes of progressive discipline, provided his conduct for a period of twelve (12) months from date of such warning has not merited any additional disciplinary penalty for a similar violation as defined in the Company work rules. The Union will be provided with copies of all reprimands to employees in the bargaining unit. In the event an employee is to receive a written or verbal warning, a Union steward will be present.
Section 11.	Management/Union Committee Meetings
The Company and Union Committee will meet monthly at a mutually convenient time for the purpose of achieving productive and positive labor relations.
ARTICLE 15.	MANAGEMENT
The Company shall have the unqualified and undisputed right to manage its own affairs in all and every respect except that in the exercise of such management the Company will not contravene the terms of this Agreement.
The Company shall have the unqualified and undisputed right to make and enforce all reasonable Company rules. Each employee shall be given a copy of the rules and new employees shall receive a copy of the rules as soon as they begin work.
52
ARTICLE 16.	SAVINGS CLAUSE
In the event any terms of this Agreement shall be found in violation of any Federal, State or municipal law or regulation, only such provisions found to be illegal shall be inoperative and the balance of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
ARTICLE 17.	ENTIRE AGREEMENT
This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties and no verbal statements shall supersede any of its provisions. Any amendment or agreement supplemental hereto shall not be binding upon either party unless executed in writing by the parties.
ARTICLE 18.	DURATION
This Agreement shall be effective as of the 26 th day of October, 2015, and shall remain in effect through Wednesday, October 25, 2018 and from year to year thereafter unless either party desiring change or termination shall submit written notice to the other of such desire at least 60 days prior to October 25,	2018 or any
anniversary of such date.
53
Signed this _______ day of	at
Marshfield, Wisconsin.
FELKER BROTHERS CORPORATION
By:_______________________________
David Hendrickson, President
Carol Willfahrt, V.P. of HR
James Kluball, Plant Manager
LOCAL LODGE NO. 697 OF THE INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF BOILERMAKERS, IRON SHIPBUILDERS, BLACKSMITHS, FORGERS AND HELPERS AFL-CIO
By:_________________________________
John Schuh, President
Kurt Post, Vice President
Keith Hertel, Barg. Comm.
SCHEDULE A WAGES & JOB CLASSIFICATION
See Attachment. SCHEDULE B LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
1.	It is the policy of Felker Brothers Corporation not to subcontract Boilermaker fabrication work when individuals are on lay-off and can be utilized to eliminate the need for subcontracting.
2.	Orbital Welders will be operated by welders, utility or fabricators.
54
WAGE & JOB CLASSIFICATION
CLASSIFICATION	10/26/15	10/26/16	10/26/17
Patternmaker	23.50	24.05	25.00*
Fab/fit Spec	23.01	23.55	25.00*
Fab/Fit I	22.38	22.91	23.46
Fab/Fit II	21.99	22.51	23.05
Mach Tool Bldr	22.64	23.17	23.73
Maint. Tech	22.64	23.17	23.73
Machinist Sp I	21.49	22.00	22.53
Maint. Spec I	21.49	22.00	22.53
Utility	21.35	21.85	22.38
Welder I	20.83	21.32	21.83
Welder II	20.12	20.60	21.09
Mach Op I	20.83	21.32	21.83
Mach Op II	20.12	20.60	21.09
Machinist I	20.83	21.32	21.83
Machinist II	20.12	20.60	21.09
Maint I	20.83	21.32	21.83
Maint II	20.12	20.60	21.09
♦Effective October 8, 2017 SEMISKILLED - Hired after 1988:			
(Including Janitor and		Tool Crib	
Attendant) 1st 8 Mo.	17.79	18.21	18.65
After 8 Mo.	18.11	18.53	18.98
After 12 Mo.	18.44	18.88	19.33
After 16 Mo.	18.77	19.21	19.67
After 20 Mo.	19.10	19.55	20.02
After 24 Mo.	19.44	19.89	20.37
55
APPENDIX A
JOB DUTIES TOOL CRIB ATTENDANT
1.	Issue and record supplies and parts.
2.	Requisition supply	items	and
parts.
3.	Receive orders and	locate	items
properly.
4.	Requisition special	parts	for
maintenance.
5.	Maintain security of cage while on duty.
6.	Perform annual inventory along with cycle counts and inventory checks.
7.	Enter transactions on computer terminal.
8.	Check inventory levels with computer.
9.	Grind tungsten electrodes.
10.	Inventory gas bottles for periodic ordering.
11.	Maintain LTA safety signs.
12.	Check Q.C. gages against certified gages.
13.	Stamp name plates for vessels.
56
APPENDIX B
AUTHORIZATION FOR CHECK-OFF FROM WAGES
I hereby authorize Felker Brothers Corporation to deduct from any wages earned or to be earned by me, as your employee, and assign to Local Lodge No. 697, of the International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Ship Builders, Blacksmiths, Forgers, and Helpers, the sum of money determined by the Union, in succeeding calendar weeks as specified below, beginning with my first paycheck, until such weekly deductions shall total my Initiation Fee (or reinstatement fee, if applicable) and thereafter the sum of money set by the Union per month in payment of my Membership Dues, in accordance with its Constitution and By-Laws, and become due to it as my Membership Dues in said Union.
This assignment, authorization, and direction shall be irrevocable for the period of one (1) year, or until the termination of the current Agreement between the Employer and the Union, whichever occurs sooner; and I agree and direct that this assignment, authorization, and direction shall be automatically renewed and shall be irrevocable for successive periods of one (1) year each, or for the period of each succeeding applicable Agreement between the Employer and the Union,
57
whichever shall be shorter, unless written notice is given by me to the Employer and the Union not more than twenty (20) days and not less than ten (10) days prior to the expiration of each period of one (1) year, or of each applicable collective agreement between the Employer and the Union, whichever occurs sooner.
I understand that a Union initiation fee of $______________ will be
deducted from my check as follows:
Check Due on
1	.____________________________
25%	of above amount
$______________
2	. ______________
25%	of	above	amount
$______________
3	. ______________
25%	of	above	amount
$______________
4	._________________________________
25%	of above amount
$______________
It is understood that check No. 1 will be my first check due after employment and that if there are insufficient funds to cover any of the
58
above deductions that the difference will be made up in my next check.
Executed at ____________
this	day of	,
20.
Employee’s Signature
Employee’s Clock Number
59
APPENDIX C
SCHEDULE D STANDARD SKILL ADVANCEMENT GUIDELINE
DESCRIPTION OF CONCEPTS
1.	Classification and skill levels definition
CLASSIFICATONS	SKILL LEVELS
WITHIN CLASS
WELDER	WELDER 2
WELDER 1
FAB/FITTER	FAB/FITTER	2
	FAB/FITTER	1
	FAB/FITTER	SPEC.
PATTERNMAKER	PATTERNMAKER
MACHINIST	SKILL 2 MACH. SKILL 1 MACH. MACH. SPEC. 1 MACH. TOOL BLDR
MAINTENANCE	SKILL 2 MAINT. SKILL 1 MAINT. MAINT. SPEC. 1 MAINT. TECH.
UTILITY	UTILITY
MACHINE OPERATORS	MACH. OPER. 2 MACH. OPER. 1
60
2.	JOB POSTING - Will always be into the lowest skill level within a classification.	Skills and
ability (to include testing) being sufficient, seniority will prevail. Sufficient is defined for each entry level skill in the following pages.
3.	SKILL PROGRESSION -	Based	on
evaluation of individuals demonstrated ability	to	meet
specific requirements	for	each
skill as defined in the following pages. Rates will be effective on the actual date that the time has been completed. Company to pay for tuition and required textbooks for classes/seminars.
4.	EVALUATION PROCESS
A.	Evaluation Schedule and Frequency
1.	Initial Review is scheduled on the first four month review period after the individual has met the eligibility requirements as defined in the following pages.
2.	Subsequent Reviews will be made in four month intervals. First review is 2 months after ratification and 4 month intervals thereafter.
B.	Evaluation Criteria - A standard evaluation form will be used to evaluate each specific skill.
61
C.	Evaluators - An evaluation committee will be established to conduct the evaluation for each classification. Committee members will include two (2) union representatives and management representation.
D.	Evaluation Interview	-	The
immediate supervisor	of	the
individual being reviewed	will
discuss the results	of	the
evaluation with the individual. If the individual fails	to	pass,
the supervisor will identify the areas needing improvement and make recommendations for developing these areas.
62
CLASSIFICATION - MAINTENANCE
SKILL LEVELS - SKILL 2 MAINTENANCE SKILL 1 MAINTENANCE MAINTENANCE SPECIALIST 1 MAINTENANCE TECHNICIAN
REQUIREMENTS FOR EACH LEVEL
SKILL 2 - To be eligible for a skill 2 maintenance posting the individual must:
1. Commit to participate in (1) Mechanical &	(1) Electrical
course during the first two years of work in maintenance. Note:	Credit would be given
for courses completed successfully prior to job posting. Individual must pass course with a minimum grade of "C", or receive a pass on a pass/fail system.
Probation Period
The individual will work under a 45 day probation period. During this time the individual must demonstrate the ability to learn and apply initial maintenance tasks.
Failure to participate in the required courses without just cause during the first year in maintenance 2 will result in down grade.
63
SKILL 1 - To be eligible and capable of performing the available work as a skill 1 maintenance the individual must have completed 24 months in Skill 2 maintenance, Completed the Mechanical and Electrical courses with a minimum grade of "C" or pass if graded as a pass/fail, commit to participate in a Mechanical and Electrical course at the vocational school during the first 18 months of work in skill 1 maintenance and demonstrate the ability to perform the tasks listed below:
Tasks Required - The individual must have demonstrated the ability to satisfactorily perform the following tasks:
1. Repair welder cables 2. Repair Air Tools 3. Perform routine lift truck maintenance
4.	Inspect and hook up electric motors
5.	Change fuses and reset breakers 6. Service air compressors 7. Service Unit heaters
8.	Perform basic crane repairs (reset, collectors, damaged wiring)
9.	Change lights and fixtures
10.	Service Porta-Power jacks
11.	Service overhead doors
12	. Perform preventative maintenance 13. Inspect and repair chains and slings
14.	Use parts lists and specify parts.
64
MAINTENANCE SPECIALIST 1	- To be
eligible and capable of performing the available work as a Maintenance Specialist 1 the individual must have met all requirements for skill 1 maintenance, completed the Mechanical and Electrical courses with a minimum grade of "C" or "pass" grade, commit to participate in (1) of the specialist track courses listed below, serve 18 months in skill 1 maintenance and demonstrated the ability to perform the tasks listed below:
Note:	At maintenance specialist level
and above, individuals will be expected to specialize in either mechanical, electrical or hydraulics and pneumatics. The specific specialty will be determined based on company needs and individuals demonstrated ability.
Courses - Advanced
Mechanical
or
Electrical
Tasks Required - The individual must have demonstrated the ability to satisfactorily perform the following tasks:
1.	Crane control repairs and cable replacement
2.	Welder control repairs
3.	Trouble shoot stake welders, Burners,- and Elbow welders
4.	Perform plumbing
65
5.	Hydraulic repairs
6.	Perform Maintenance welding
7.	Run conduit and wire
MAINTENANCE TECHNICIAN - To be eligible and capable of performing the available work as a maintenance technician the individual must have completed 18 months working in maintenance specialist 1 and met all the requirements for maintenance specialist 1, completed the courses with a minimum grade of "C" or a "pass" grade, commit to participate in on going specialty seminars scheduled on company time and expense and demonstrate the ability to perform the tasks listed below:
Tasks Required - The individual must have demonstrated the ability to satisfactorily perform the following tasks:
Electrical Track
1.	Read	and interpret control
diagrams
2.	Create diagrams on simple motor
control circuits and routine hook ups
3.	Troubleshoot D-C or A-C drives
4.	Fully understand controls on all automatic welders and burners and be capable of trouble shooting electrical/electronic problems on these items.
5.	Hook up transformers and install control panels
6.	Fully understand overhead cranes, be able to trouble shoot problems and perform major repairs.
66
OR
Mechanical Track - Hydraulics/Pneumatics
1.	Be able to read and interpret hydraulic diagrams and pneumatic diagrams
2.	Fully understand hydraulic	and
pneumatic equipment, be able	to
trouble shoot problems and perform repairs involving: pumps, motors, valves, seals, packing	and
conductors.
3.	Be able	to create simple
hydraulic,	pneumatic hook up
diagrams.
CLASSIFICATION - MACHINE SHOP
SKILL LEVELS - SKILL 2 MACHINIST
SKILL 1 MACHINIST MACHINE SPECIALIST 1 MACHINE TOOL BUILDER
REQUIREMENTS FOR EACH LEVEL
SKILL 2 - To be eligible for a skill 2 machine shop posting the individual must:
1. Commit to participate in (2) Machine Tool courses at the vocational school during the first two years of work in machine shop. Note:	Credit would be given for
courses completed successfully prior to job posting. Individual must pass course with a minimum grade of "C", or receive a pass on a pass/fail system.
67
Probation Period
The individual will work under a 45 day probation period. During this time the individual must demonstrate the ability to learn and apply initial machine shop tasks.
Failure to participate in the required courses without just cause during the first year in skilled 2 machinist will result in down grade.
SKILL 1 - To be eligible and capable of performing the available work as a skill 1 machinist the individual must have completed 24 months in Skill 2 machinist, completed the Machine Tool 2 courses with a minimum grade of "C", and demonstrate the ability to perform the tasks listed below:
Tasks Required - The individual must have demonstrated the ability to satisfactorily perform the following tasks:
1.	Repetitive drilling & set-up using standard Felker drilling templates or paper pattern templates on the radial drills.
2.	Set up & repetitive machining of I.D.
& O.D. of flanges on the following machines:
A.	Vertical Lathes (King, Niles, Roller)
B.	Cincinnati and Summit Engine
Lathes
C.	Turret Lathes (Gisholt,
Warner & Swasey)
68
3.	Set up & machining of Tee’s in the King vertical lathe.
4.	Be able to sharpen drills.
5.	Be able to read micrometers 1" thru 16".
6.	Be able to read vernier calipers
7.	Read and interpret basic machine blueprints.
8.	Be able to perform basic "thru-hole" tapping on the small drill press and radial drills.
9.	Be able to set up operate the threading lathe and machine threads.
10.	Be able to set-up and machine pressed formed reducers.
MACHINIST SPECIALIST 1 - To be eligible and capable of performing the available work as a Machinist Specialist 1 the individual must have met all requirements for skill 1 machinist, completed the registered course with a minimum grade of ”C” or a "pass" grade, serve 18 months in skill 1 machinist and demonstrated the ability to perform the tasks listed below:
Tasks Required
1.	Be able to set up and run equipment in machine shop. A. Radial Drills B. Vertical Lathes
69
C.	Engine Lathes
D.	Turret Lathes
E.	Surface grinder and grinding lathe
F.	CNC Mills/Kita Mura
G.	Manual Vertical Mills
2.	Set-up and run threading lathe.
3.	Be able to sharpen tools, dies & punches.
4.	Be able to perform single point machining - includes:
A.	Thread chasing
B.	I.D. Boring
C.	O.D. Turning
D.	Facing
5.	Be able to ream, broach, bottom blind hole tap.
6.	Be able to set-up & run Rigid
threading machine.
7	Be able to machine tapers using
taper attachment.
8.	Be able to machine using the dividing head.
9.	Be able to perform repair type machining using "Given Dimensions" (example - shaft to bearing type repairs).
10.	Be able to determine correct feeds & speeds and be able to adjust all
70
machines to the desired feeds & speeds.
MACHINIST TOOL BUILDER - To be eligible and capable of performing the available work as a Machinist Tool Builder the individual must have completed 18 months working in machinist specialist 1, met all the requirements for machinist 1, completed the "Advanced Machine Tool" course with a minimum grade of "C" or pass if graded as a pass/fail, commit to participate in ongoing specialty seminars scheduled on company time and expense and demonstrate the ability to perform the tasks listed below:
Tasks Required - The individual must have demonstrated the ability to satisfactorily perform the following tasks:
1.	Be able to perform close tolerance machining.
2.	Be able to machine elbow dies and other form tools.
3.	Be able to build jigs and Fixtures from prints.
4.	Be able to plan operation sequence, determine appropriate machine tools to use, determine set up requirements including jigs and fixtures.
71
5.	Be able to perform non-electrical type repairs on machine tools and maintain machine tools.
6.	Be able to make decisions/problem solve.
CLASSIFICATION - UTILITY
REQUIREMENTS
Utility _ To be eligible and capable of performing the available work as a Utility operator the individual must:
Within 6 months posting,	the successfully pass tests:		of accepting the individual	must the first 8 welding	
1. Process: Material	Gas Tungsten Arc (GTAW) : Stainless Steel		Welding 1/4"
Plate
Joint:	Single Vee Groove
Position: 1G (Flat)
Criteria: 1 root & 1 face bend per ASME Sec. IX.
2. Process: Gas Tungsten Arc Welding
Material:	6" Sched 40 Pipe	Mild	Steel
Joint: Position:	Single Vee Groove 5G (1/4 Roll)		
Criteria:	2 root & 2	face	bends
per ASME Sec. IX.
72
3. Process:	Gas Tungsten Arc Welding
Material:	6" Sched 10 Stainless Steel Pipe
Joint:	Square Butt
Position:	5G (1/4 Roll)
Criteria:	2 root & 2 face bends per ASME Sec. IX.
4. Process:	Gas Tungsten Arc Welding
Material:	2" Schedule 10 Stainless Steel Pipe
Joint:	Square Groove
Position:	6G 45 degree fixed
Criteria:	2 root & 2 face bends per ASME Sec. IX.
5. Process:	Gas Metal Arc Welding (GMAW)
Material:	6" Sched 40 Mild Steel Pipe
Joint:	Single Vee Groove
Position:	5G (1/4 Roll)
Criteria:	2 root & 2 face bends per ASME Sec. IX.
6. Process:	Gas Metal Arc Welding (Short Arc)
Material:	3/8" Stainless Steel Plate
Joint:	Double Vee Groove
Position:	3G (Vertical) Downhill
Criteria:	1 root & 1 face bend per ASME Sec. IX.
7. Process:	Gas Tungsten Arc Welding (root pass) Gas Metal Arc Welding (fill & cap)
Material:	6" Sched 40 Stainless Steel Pipe
73
Joint:	Single Vee Groove
Position:	5G (1/4 roll)
Criteria:	2 root & 2 face bends per ASME Sec. IX.
8. Process:	Gas Tungsten Arc Welding
Material:	Nickel Alloy 10 Ga.
Joint:	Single Vee Groove
Position:	3G Vertical Up
Criteria:	1 root & 1 face bend per ASME Sec. IX.
Individual must successfully pass the
following weld	test within 6 months of
completing above weld tests.
9. Process:	Gas Metal Arc Welding (Short Arc)
Material:	6" Sched 40 Mild Steel Pipe
Joint:	Single Vee Groove
Position:	6G (45 degree fixed) Vertical Down
Criteria:	2 root & 2 face bends per ASME Sec. IX.
In addition	(without any special
instructions or demonstrations) the individual must be able to:
10.	Set up and operate manual oxy-fuel cutting equipment.
11.	Set up and operate manual low amp plasma arc cutting equipment.
74
12.	Set up and make all necessary machine adjustments to make satisfactory quality welds with both Gas Tungsten Arc Welding and Gas Metal Arc Welding equipment.
13.	Read, interpret and apply Felker "welding procedure specifications ."
14.	Identify the need for replacement and replace all consumable torch parts on GTAW and GMAW equipment -includes:	torch cups, collects,
collet bodies, contact tips, insulators, liners and guide tubes.
Within 3 months of passing the welding requirements, the individual must successfully demonstrate the following machine operator requirements:
1.	Set up the equipment for all normal operating conditions following standard operating procedures.
2.	Make necessary adjustments within set parameters during operation to produce acceptable quality product.
3.	Be able to recognize defective product and promptly notify proper personnel for assistance.
4.	Perform set up operations including: correct	tooling,	operating
parameters,	replacement	of
75
5.	consumable parts and preparation of tooling with minimal supervisory instruction.
PROBATION PERIOD
The individual will work under a 15 month probation period. To remain as, and be capable of performing the available work of a Utility Operator, the individual must meet all of the requirements described above.
FABRICATOR/FITTER II REQUIREMENTS - To be eligible for Fabricator/Fitter II posting the individual must:
1.	Have completed and passed all
welding requirements of Utility.
2.	Participate and complete the
Fabricator/Fitter II training program, (outlined below)
FABRICATOR/FITTER II TRAINING
1.	Blue Print Reading
A.	Orthographic Projection
B.	Isometric Drawings
C.	Weld Symbols
D.	Piping Spool Drawing
2.	Basic Fabrication Skills
A.	Pattern	Transfer	& Brake
Lines
B.	Fabricated Fittings	(includes
layout,	forming,	fit up,
welding,	squaring &	round up,
finishing of:)
76
Cones
Tangent Reducers
C.	Felker Standard Specifications D. Orientations (Nozzles)
PROBATION PERIOD
To remain as Fabricator/Fitter II and be capable of performing the available work for Fabrica tor/Fitter II, the individual must have participated in the Felker Fabricator II training program described above and satisfactorily perform all assigned work.
In addition, the individual must demonstrate the ability to read and interpret blue prints and be capable of fabricating the basic fittings described above.
FABRICATOR/FITTER I - To be eligible and capable of performing the available work for a Fab/Fitter I, the individual must:
1.	Meet all of the requirements for Fabricator/Fitter II and work a minimum of 18 months as a Fabricator/Fitter II, and be capable of performing the available work.
2.	Have demonstrated the ability to fabricate the standard fittings described under Fabricator/Fitter II training requirements and be capable of organizing work in a
77
fabricating crew while receiving supervisory direction.
Training Requirements
As Fabricator/Fitter I, the individual will receive on the job training and exposure under moderate supervision to all facets of fabrication including:
1.	Prefabricated piping jobs.
2.	Headers.
3.	Custom Fabrication.
4.	Lay out and fit up of all types of nozzles.
5.	Planning and organizing job to meet delivery schedules and make productive use of a fabricating crew.
6.	Control distortion and use various tools and procedures to correct dimensional problems due to weld stresses.
PROBATION PERIOD
Individuals in the Fabricator/Fitter 1 skill level will serve an 12 month probationary period. This period of time is required due to the time required to receive on the job exposure to the variety of jobs encountered in the fabrication areas.
78
To satisfy the probation requirements, the individual must demonstrate the ability to:
1.	Fabricate, without supervisory instruction, all standard fabricated fittings, typical prefabricated piping spools and custom fabrications.
2.	Organize production work for a fabricating crew with minimum supervisory instruction in a manner that consistently meets delivery schedules, quality standards and has average efficiency performance.
FABRICATOR/FITTER SPECIALIST - To be eligible and capable of performing the available work for Fabricator/Fitter Specialist the individual must work a minimum of 12 months in the Fabricator/Fitter I classification, meet all requirements for Fabricator/Fitter I classification, and demonstrate the following:
1.	Be able to complete the most complex prefabricated piping spools to required dimensional tolerances and specified quality standards.
2.	Be able to complete headers and other complex fabrications to the required dimensional tolerances and specified quality standards.
3.	Be able to read and interpret all blue prints, plan and organize the
79
job in a manner that consistently meets delivery schedules, obtaining above average production efficiency and requires below average rework.
CLASSIFICATION - PATTERNMAKER
SKILL LEVEL - PATTERNMAKER
PATTERNMAKER REQUIREMENTS
To be eligible for a patternmaker posting the individual must:
1.	Possess a minimum of 1 year work experience at the fab/fitter skill level and be capable of performing the available work.
2.	Participate in Felker patternmaker training pattern development using radial line, parallel line and triangulation methods of pattern development.
3.	Participate in Felker patternmaker training in the use of current software being utilized to develop computer generated patterns.
PROBATION PERIOD
The individual will work under an 18 month probation period. To remain as, and be capable of performing the available work of, a patternmaker, the
80
individual must demonstrate the ability to:
1.	Read and interpret all customer orders,	blue prints and
specifications.
2.	Develop paper patterns for all fabrications requiring radial line pattern development method.
3.	Develop paper patterns	for all
fabrications requiring	parallel
line pattern development method.
4.	Develop paper patterns	for all
fabrications requiring triangulation pattern development method.
5.	Develop computer generated patterns.
6.	Provide technical assistance to manufacturing when needed.
CLASSIFICATION - MACHINE OPERATORS
SKILL LEVELS - SKILL 2 MACHINE OPERATOR
SKILL 1 MACHINE OPERATOR
REQUIREMENTS FOR EACH LEVEL
SKILL 2 - To be eligible for skill 2 machine operator the individual must be selected as the successful bidder to one or more of the following positions:
81
1.	Four Corp Seamer Operator
2.	Pandjuris Seamer Operator
3.	Felker Butt Welder Operator
4.	Elbow Welder Operator
5.	Small Seamer Operator
6.	Press Brake Operator
7.	Porting Equipment Operator
8.	Koike Burner Operator
9.	Cybermation Burner Operator
10.	Plasma Elbow Cut-Off Saw
11.	CNC Elbow Saws
12.	Felker Seamer
13.	Makino Vertical - tee cell
14.	3-Way Trimmer
15.	Tee Welder
16.	Small Elbow Press & Trimmer
17.	Angle Ring Rolls
18.	Large Elbow Press and Trimmer
19.	Kas to Saw
20.	Fab Auto Welders
21.	Jetline Seamer
22.	Koike Seamer
23.	Any New or Additional Machines requiring a Skilled Equipment Operator.
PROBATION PERIOD
The individual will work under a 45 day probation period. During this time the individual must be capable of performing the available work and demonstrate the ability to:
1.	Set up the equipment for all normal operating conditions following standard operating procedures.
82
2.	Make necessary adjustments within set parameters during operation to produce acceptable quality product.
3.	Be able to recognize defective product and promptly notify proper personnel for assistance.
4.	Perform set up operations including:	correct tooling,
operating parameters, replacement of consumables parts and preparation of tooling with minimal supervisory instruction.
SKILL 1 - To be eligible and capable of performing the available work as a Skill 1 Machine Operator the individual must have completed 6 months as a Skill 2 Machine Operator, demonstrate the ability to recognize and solve the common equipment operating problems with minimum supervision, consistently produce acceptable quality product in a productive manner and commit to expand Machine Operator capability to include two (2) machines with a third machine if required by the Company.
PROBATION PERIOD
To remain as a Skilled 1 Machine Operator and be capable of performing the available work, the individual must demonstrate the ability to meet all of the requirements described in
83
the probation period for Skill 2 Machine Operator on a minimum of two of the machines listed. This must be accomplished within (1) year after advancement to Skilled 1 Machine Operator.
Section 11. Standard Skill Advancement Committee
The Company and the Union Agree each to appoint two members to a Committee to monitor and make suggestions to improve on the quality of training and evaluation process for skill progression. The committee shall discuss any suggestions during the Company/Union monthly meeting.
The committee will study, explore and make recommendations to the parties during the life of this agreement on matters concerning:
Quality of Training
Methods
Training Content Effectiveness
Quality of Evaluation Process
Methods Evaluation Content Frequency Appropriateness of Criteria Referral Issues Communication
84