K9864
a VOICE for working America
AGREEMENT
Between
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 2008
and
PRIORITY ONE SERVICES, INC. JEFFERSON, ARKANSAS
Effective
January 1, 2017 through December 31, 2019
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Agreement	1
Article 1	- Intent and Purpose	1
Article 2	- Recognition of the Union and Bargaining Unit	1
Article 3	- Union Security	1
Article 4	- Management Rights	2
Article 5	- Employee Rights	3
Article 6	- Discharge and Discrimination	4
Article 7	- Seniority	5
Article 8	- Weekend Work	7
Article 9	- Promotions and Transfers	8
Article 10	- Dispute Procedure	10
Article 11	- Working Conditions	12
Article 12	- Leaves of Absence	15
Article 13	- Vacations	18
Article 14	- Sick Leave	20
Article 15	- Holidays	21
Article 16	- Separation Pay	22
Article 17	- Union Cooperation	22
Article 18	- No Strike, No Lockout	22
Article 19	- Physical Examinations	22
Article 20	- Employee Safety Review Committee	23
Article 21	- General Conditions	23
Article 22	- Time Cards	25
Article 23	- Wages and Health and Welfare	26
Article 24	-401 (k)	26
Article 25	- Government Requirements	26
Article 26	- Separability	26
Article 27	- Agreements, Understandings, and Waiver	27
Article 28	- Expiration and Renewal	28
Schedule A - Wage	Rates	29
Attachment	30
AGREEMENT
This Agreement has been entered into between Priority One Services, Inc., hereinafter referred to as the "Employer" or the "Company," and the Professional and Health Care Division, United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, Local No. 2008, hereinafter referred to as the "Union."
ARTICLE 1	- INTENT AND PURPOSE
1.1	The Employer and the Union each represent that the purpose and intent of this Agreement is to promote cooperation and harmony, to recognize mutual interest, to provide a channel through which information and problems may be transmitted from one to the other, to formulate rules to govern the relationship between the Union and the Employer, to promote efficiency and service, and to set forth herein the basic agreements covering rates of pay, hours of work, and conditions of employment.
1.2	This contract represents the entire Agreement between the parties and both agree that they have exercised their rights in negotiations and neither has the right to add to or subtract from the items covered by this contract without the mutual consent of the parties.
ARTICLE 2	- RECOGNITION OF THE UNION AND BARGAINING UNIT
2.1	The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment, and other conditions of employment for all employees of the Employer at the National Center for Toxicological Research at Jefferson, Arkansas, involved in the performance of the Task I - Animal Husbandry and the Task II - Diet Preparation Services of the Employer's contract for Animal Husbandry and Diet Preparation Services at NCTR [Contract No. 222-00-660004(C) and HHSF223201110018C], but excluding guards and supervisors as defined in the National Labor Relations Act, as amended.
2.2	All procedures and duties performed within facilities that are normally considered duties of the bargaining unit as certified, with the exception of work performed by a scientist or technologist, may be subcontracted at the discretion of the Employer, so long as this Union contract is honored fully.
2.3	The Employer agrees not to enter into any agreement or contract with his Union-eligible employees, written or oral, individually or collectively, which in any way conflicts with the terms and provisions of this Agreement. Nothing in this Section is intended to, nor shall it, diminish any rights of the Employer in Sections 4.3 or 17.2.
ARTICLE 3	- UNION SECURITY
3.1	Upon request of the Union, the Employer shall, for the term of this Agreement, but in no way as a condition of employment, deduct initiation fees, as authorized, and
-1 -
shall deduct one-half (V2) of the union dues from the first (1st) pay of each month and one-half (%) from the second (2nd) pay of each month of employees who are members of the Union and who individually and voluntarily certify in writing authorization for such deductions. The authorization and assignment shall be irrevocable for a period of one (1) year from the date of execution or until the termination date of the Agreement between the Employer and Local 2008, whichever occurs sooner, and from year to year thereafter, unless not less than thirty (30) days and not more than forty-five (45) days prior to the end of any subsequent yearly period the employee gives the Employer and the Union written notice of revocation bearing the employee’s signature thereto. The Employer shall remit all sums deducted in this manner to the President of Local No. 2008 within fifteen (15) days of the end of each month. Prior to the request contained in the first (1st) sentence, deductions aforesaid shall be made from the second (2nd) pay of each month.
3.2	The Union shall indemnify, defend, and hold the Employer harmless against any claim or liability arising out of the administration of this Article.
3.3	Each month the Employer will furnish the name, position for which hired, starting rate, address, work location, Social Security number, birth date, and employment date of each new employee. The Employer shall also furnish the names of employees terminated each month along with the reason for termination.
3.4	In the event the Employer introduces major technological changes affecting bargaining unit work, the Employer will give the Union ten (10) days’ advance notice of such changes before such changes are implemented. The Employer will meet with the Union to discuss the implementation of such changes and seniority, if affected, before putting such changes into effect.
3.5	Active Ballot Club Deduction. The Employer is directed to make a uniform, bi-weekly deduction for the Active Ballot Club from those employees who voluntarily so authorize the Employer. Such funds shall be remitted to the Local Union.
3.6	Should there be any change in the Arkansas law or federal law to permit the Union Shop, the following will be effective thirty (30) days following the effective date of such change.
It shall be a condition of employment that all employees of the Employer covered by this Agreement become members of the Union in good standing within thirty (30) days of employment or the effective date of law change and shall remain members in good standing.
ARTICLE 4	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.1	Except as expressly and unequivocally limited by the language of this Agreement, the Employer shall have the exclusive right and prerogative to manage, conduct, and direct its operation, including, but not limited to, the rights to manage and
-2-
operate its facility and contract at NCTR (hereafter the "Facility"); to decide what work or services shall be performed by the Employer or by the employees covered by this Agreement, including, but not limited to, the right to subcontract or discontinue work; to direct the working forces, including to hire, establish hours of work and assign employees to work, transfer, suspend, discipline, or discharge employees for just cause, or lay off employees for lack of work or for other reasons; the right to determine the skill mix of its workforce; the right to establish, change, or introduce new or improved methods, materials, facilities, machinery, or techniques; to establish and enforce rules and regulations relating to the operation of the Employer and employees' conduct; to schedule overtime work and hours of work; and to control and direct the use of its machinery and materials.
4.2	The Employer has the right to introduce and purchase any new equipment and machinery, improve and modify existing machinery and equipment, to remove machinery, change product or product lines, and to add to or remove operations, as it sees fit, but the employees working on new, improved, or modified machinery or equipment, or new, improved, or modified products or product lines or operations shall remain in the bargaining unit.
4.3	Rules and Regulations. The Employer shall have the right to establish, maintain, modify, change, and enforce reasonable rules and regulations to assure orderly Facility operations, it being understood and agreed that such rules and regulations shall not be inconsistent or in conflict with the provisions of this Agreement.
The Employer shall maintain on its bulletin board and furnish the Union with a written or printed copy of all such rules and regulations.
4.4	The Company may create additional wage and job classifications, provided that the Company shall meet and confer with the Union before effectuating such changes and that such changes shall not result in any employee employed as of August 1, 2001, suffering a reduction in pay.
ARTICLE 5	- EMPLOYEE RIGHTS
5.1	All employees in the bargaining unit should have equal employment and working conditions. To assure these employee rights, management and Union Stewards shall establish a professional approach to the daily problems arising between the parties. Both parties shall strive to make our industry an industry run by professionals. This Section 5.1 is intended to assure that all employees in the bargaining unit are afforded the benefits of this Agreement and is not intended to affect the Company’s right to assign work or to require that jobs be rotated among all employees.
5.2	This Agreement provides minimum standards only and shall not prevent the Employer from granting additional payment or benefits, so long as such granting is not otherwise violative of this Agreement or state or federal laws.
-3-
ARTICLE 6	- DISCHARGE AND DISCRIMINATION
6.1	The Employer shall not discharge any employee without just cause and shall give at least two (2) written notices of similar magnitude against such employee, to the employee and to the Union, except that no warning notice need be given to any employee before discharge if the offense constitutes just cause for immediate termination. Examples of offenses that constitute just cause for immediate termination are proven dishonesty, sleeping on the job, drug abuse, incivility, sexual, racial, or ethnic harassment, insubordination, falsification of application for employment [discharge for falsification of application for employment must be within ninety (90) days from date of hire], recklessness resulting in or which could result in a serious accident while on duty, cruel and abusive treatment of an animal, any action by an employee which is contrary to an established scientific or technical procedure, in which employee has been trained or which has been instituted by the Employer, which could or does cause jeopardy to the validity of the data derived from any study or experiment, refusal of any employee to accept a job assignment, intentionally falsifying Company records, deliberately restricting work production, engaging in sabotage or espionage, being under the influence of an alcoholic beverage or drug while on Center property during working hours, drinking or possessing an alcoholic beverage or illegal drug on Center property, or carrying unauthorized weapons or ammunition on Center property. Warning notices (verbal and written) shall be void upon the passage of twelve (12) months from the most recent warning without the employee having committed an additional offense.
6.2	There shall be no discrimination on the part of the Employer against any employee or any individual being considered for employment because of race, color, age, creed, sex, religion, national origin, or sexual orientation. The use of the masculine pronoun in this Agreement is for convenience only, and shall be construed to refer to male and female alike.
6.3	The Employer shall not discharge or discriminate against any employee for upholding the Union principles or serving on a committee of the Union or any of its organizations.
6.4	Stewards shall be present if an employee is threatened with the loss of his job, unless the employee makes a request not to have the Steward present.
6.5	The Employer will comply with the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act.
6.6	A. The parties recognize that Section 6.1 essentially establishes a progressive discipline process, except for those specifically listed instances, in which case it is agreed that discharge for the first (1st) offense is appropriate. The progressive discipline procedure will be followed, except for those listed offenses which the Company reserves the right to terminate for first (1st) offense.
-4-
Step 1:	Verbal warning.
Step 2:	A written warning setting forth the specific complaint or
complaints against the employee.
Step 3:	A second (2nd) written warning (of similar magnitude given
in Step 2) which may be accompanied by time off (suspension) of up to two (2) days. The second (2nd) written warning will contain a notification that any subsequent violation of the rules and regulations occurring within twelve (12) months may, in the discretion of the Company, result in immediate discharge. In addition, the Company may elect to place the employee on a performance improvement plan (PIP). The PIP will specify a time period in which specific areas of performance must be improved. If at any point during the PIP the Company determines that the employee is not meeting the requirements of the PIP or is not making sufficient progress to improve his performance, the employee may be moved to Step 4 (termination) of the progressive discipline process.
Step 4:	Termination.
B.	In the event that an employee commits an offense that constitutes just cause for immediate termination as provided in Section 6.1, the Company in its sole discretion may, nonetheless, elect to use progressive discipline. In such cases, discipline shall begin at Step 2 or 3 of the disciplinary procedure as determined by the Company in its sole discretion.
ARTICLE 7	- SENIORITY
7.1	Definition. Seniority means length of service in the employ of the Employer and shall be computed from the date of last hiring. With respect to those employees who, on August 1, 1984, were already employed by the previous employer at the Facility, seniority or length of service shall include the continuous employment at this Facility or project after the probationary period is completed.
7.2	In all cases within the bargaining unit of decrease in force, recall, or promotion, preference shall be given to employees with the greatest length of seniority where the relative experience, past job performance, skill and ability of the employees, and qualifications of the employees to perform the work are equal. Production Aides with a LAT Certification will be given promotions to Technician over employees with an ALAT Certification. In any case where the Employer departs from strict seniority, it shall have the burden of proving the qualitative difference between the employees involved.
-5-
7.3	When an employee who is promoted to management and returns to the bargaining unit within twelve (12) months of the promotion, the time earned by the employee while in management shall be added to the employee’s seniority. If the employee returns to the bargaining unit after twelve (12) months, then the seniority of that employee shall only be that earned while in the bargaining unit.
7.4	Seniority shall be considered broken and all rights under this Agreement forfeited upon the occurrence of any of the following events:
A.	Absence from work without leave, as hereinafter provided for in this Agreement, for three (3) consecutive work days unless the employee can prove that his failure to apply for and obtain such leave was due to circumstances beyond his control.
B.	Failure to report for work and return to work, when laid off, in accordance with the following: An employee shall be given two (2) weeks' notice of recall mailed certified mail to the employee's last address in the Employer's records, with a copy to the Union, and the employee shall, within ten (10) days after the sending of the notification of recall, notify the Employer of his intent to return to work. If the employee fails to give notice of intent to return or fails to return to work as scheduled, he shall lose all seniority rights under this Agreement. It shall be the responsibility of each employee to keep the Employer informed of the employee's correct address.
C.	Voluntary termination or retirement.
D.	Discharge for just cause.
E.	While on leave of absence and without consent of the Company, engagement in other employment.
F.	Failure to report for work at the first (1st) regular shift after termination of a leave of absence, where no extension of the leave has been granted and without an excuse acceptable to the Company.
G.	Layoff status for a period equal to his length of continuous service with the Company or eighteen (18) months, whichever occurs first (1st).
H.	Approved continuous disability leave for a period of twelve (12) months.
7.5	The Employer shall monthly furnish the Union with a current seniority list covering all employees. The Union shall monthly furnish the Employer with a current list of Shop Stewards and shall notify the Company promptly of any changes. The Company will not recognize any Steward or cease to recognize any Steward without written notification.
-6-
7.6	Any controversy over seniority shall be subject to adjustment, settlement, and arbitration in the same manner as other controversies arising under this contract.
7.7	New employees shall be on a ninety (90) day probationary trial period and may be discharged during the probationary trial period by the Employer without the necessity for establishing just cause or any other excuse. Discharges during the probationary period may not be the subject for the grievance or arbitration procedures provided in this Agreement nor give rise to any other right or claim of relief on the part of such employee. However, after the employee has successfully completed the probationary period, the seniority date shall revert back to the beginning date of employment. During such probationary trial period, all other terms and provisions of this Agreement shall apply, unless otherwise exempted herein. The ninety (90) day probationary period contemplates that an employee will be on the job for ninety (90) days and not be absent due to illness, injury, or other reason. If the employee is not on the job for the full ninety (90) days, the Company and the Union may agree to extend the probationary period for a mutually agreeable period of time.
ARTICLE 8	- WEEKEND WORK
8.1	Assignments to weekend work shall be on the basis of seniority among employees who are trained and able to perform the required experimental procedures. The most such senior requesting employee will be given the assignment if he requests such assignment within ten (10) days of the work day. In the event that additional employees are required, the assignments will be offered to the next most senior qualified employee in the work group. In the event no one accepts the additional assignments, such assignments will be on the basis of reverse seniority. New hire employees within a given work group and present employees transferred from one (1) work group to another will have no more than three (3) months to be trained and able to perform the required experimental procedures for weekend duties within that work group. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Employer reserves the right to administer this Article to evenly and uniformly distribute weekend work.
8.2	Employees assigned to work weekends shall receive pay at an overtime rate of one and one-fourth (1%) the employee's hourly pay rate for Sunday work.
8.3	Employees posted to work on weekends may switch such weekends with another employee provided that:
A.	The employee substituting for the posted employee is fully qualified to perform the work;
B.	Such substituted employee will not accrue more than forty (40) hours in the week, except at the Company's direction;
-7-
C.	If for any reason the substituted employee is unable to work on the switched weekend, the posted employee works as posted on that weekend; and
D.	The Company is notified of the switch seven (7) calendar days in advance in writing signed by the posted employee and the substituted employee. In cases where the Company and the employee agree that an emergency exists, the written notice described above may be submitted less than seven (7) days in advance.
ARTICLE 9	- PROMOTIONS AND TRANSFERS
9.1	With respect to the filling of a permanent vacancy between work groups (except Diet Preparation), notice shall be posted on the bulletin board for five (5) days (excluding Saturday, Sunday, and holidays) to apply for the vacancy. In selecting an employee to fill the position, the Company shall give preference to employees with the greatest length of seniority where the relative experience, past job performance, skill and ability of the employee, and qualifications of the employee to perform the work are equal. In implementing this provision, the following shall apply:
A.	The Company shall not be required to post more than one (1) vacancy created by an employee transferring or being promoted as a result of being a successful bidder.
B.	The Company shall not be required to post for a vacancy created by a leave of absence or job injury.
C.	The Company shall not be required to post for temporary assignments of sixty (60) days or less. Any temporary job requiring more than sixty (60) days, will be required to be posted. No temporary assignment will be extended for employees unless mutually agreed upon by the employee(s), the Company, and the Union.
D.	The Company may deny a transfer request (but may not deny a promotion request) if the employee desires to transfer from an area where he has undergone specialized training and he has worked in that area less than one (1) year, or if the employee's transfer would cause more than a ten percent (10%) turnover within a year in the work group he desires to leave.
E.	The Company may deny a transfer request to an employee who has transferred within six (6) months.
F.	The Company may deny a transfer request of an employee which would result in current or former spouses, brothers, sisters, or in-laws working in
-8-
the same work group. (This provision shall not be applicable to spouses working in the same group as of July 31,1994.)
G.	If the Company determines that a particular work group is overstaffed, and no employee from the overstaffed work group volunteers to transfer, then the Company shall transfer the least senior employee in the overstaffed work group. The employee being transferred will have the option of bumping a less senior employee in another work group. This right to bump must be exercised within five (5) work days of notification of the transfer. Nothing in this paragraph shall affect or apply to any lay-off.
9.2	A work group is defined as follows:
Building 5A - that group of employees assigned to operations in Building 5A.
Building 53	-	that group of employees that work in Buildings 14, 53, and
the non-primate areas of Building 62.
Primate	-	that group of employees dealing with primates which are
maintained in dedicated primate holding areas.
Diet Preparation - that group of employees working with the preparation of diets and other formulations.
Animal Production Colony - that group of employees assigned to rodent breeding colony support.
The Company shall have the right to establish additional work groups, so long as they comply with the provisions of this Article, including those of Section 9.2.
9.3	When an employee is promoted to a higher position, the base pay for the higher position will be received. The anniversary date of original employment shall be maintained.
9.4	A. Production Aide will not do any animal care and handling that will involve direct "hands on" contact with the animals or the collection of scientific data (except in emergency situations). Nothing herein shall preclude a Production Aide from transferring animals, assisting in the euthanizing of animals, or training on tasks required for advancement.
B.	Production Aides in the Diet Prep work group will not handle feed in performing sterilization or packaging tasks. This does not preclude pouring feed into containers, transfer of dosed feed, loading or unloading trucks, or sorting pellets.
-9-
C.	Nothing in this contract shall entitle an employee to refuse to do any assigned work by reason of the contention that such work is not within his classification.
D.	If an employee is directed to work in a higher rated classification, he shall be paid the rate of the higher classification for the time spent doing such work. The Company will not use Production Aides in a higher rated classification, except where the Company is short-handed by reason of absenteeism or in the event of an emergency.
9.5	An employee promoted to a higher job classification who is not able to satisfactorily perform the requirements of the position within one hundred twenty (120) days may choose to voluntarily return to or may be demoted by the Company to the position he came from where, in the Company’s sole discretion, the employee’s lack of performance justifies the demotion. Where an employee is demoted by the Company, the Company must document its position, and the action would be subject to the grievance process.
9.6	The Company agrees that employees who are temporarily transferred shall not suffer a reduction in pay. Temporary transfer means an assignment so designated by the Company at the time it is made, which is expected to last sixty (60) days or less.
ARTICLE 10	- DISPUTE PROCEDURE
10.1	The Union shall have the right to designate a reasonable number of Shop Stewards, and the Union shall keep the Employer advised as to authorized Stewards.
10.2	Any employee has a right to file his own grievance. Before filing a grievance, employees are encouraged to seek relief through their chain of command and use the Company’s open door policy in an effort to resolve the issue. Where requested in writing, the time period to file a grievance at Step 1 below will be extended by up to five (5) additional working days in order to give the employee time to use the open door policy before resorting to the grievance procedure.
10.3	Should any differences, disputes, or complaints arise over the interpretation or application of the contents of this Agreement, there shall be an honest effort on the part of both parties to settle such promptly through the following steps:
Step 1: If any employee has a complaint, he shall notify the Union Steward or Union Representative, and he will put it in writing and present it to the Company. To be considered a valid grievance, the written submission must be made within seven (7) working days of the commission of the act originating the grievance; however, by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company, this date may be extended. If the Union Steward requests in writing a two (2) day extension to enable the Steward to more thoroughly investigate a grievance, it shall be
-10-
granted. The Project Manager or his designee will schedule a meeting within seven (7) days between the aggrieved employee, the Shop Steward, the Union Representative, and himself in order to resolve the issue. The Company and the authorized representative of the Union may agree to exclude the aggrieved employee from the Step 1 grievance meeting, if there is reasonable concern that the employee's presence may cause harm, disruption, or damage to the work site or workforce. Within three (3) days of the meeting, the Company will give the Union a written response.
Step 2: If the employee is still dissatisfied with the Company’s answer, he or his Steward may appeal in writing within fourteen (14) days of the Company's response. To be considered a valid appeal, the second (2nd) step appeal must be delivered to the Company within fourteen (14) days of the Company's response. The Site Manager or his designee will schedule a conference within seven (7) days between himself and the President of the Local Union or his designee. Within seven (7) days of the conference, the Company will give the Union a written response. The second (2nd) and third (3rd) step of this grievance procedure contemplates that the Union will cite the Article allegedly breached and the facts supporting its position or the reasons the Union disagrees with the Company’s response.
Step 3: In the event the preceding step fails to settle the complaint, the Union may refer the matter to the arbitrator; however, any such request for arbitration must be made not more than thirty (30) calendar days after the Employer gives its answer in writing in Step 2.
Grievance forms approved by the Company and the Union will be used for all steps of the grievance procedure.
10.4	An official of the Employer and an official of the Union shall select an arbitrator.
10.5	In the event said officials cannot agree upon an arbitrator, the Union and the Employer shall jointly request the Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to supply a panel of arbitrators from which the arbitrator may be chosen. If agreement on the selection of an arbitrator cannot be reached within five (5) days, then there shall be requested from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service a list of seven (7) arbitrators from which each party shall strike three (3) names [alternating, one (1) name at a time], the one (1) name then remaining being designated the arbitrator. The decision of the arbitrator shall be binding upon the Union, the Employer, and the aggrieved employee. The fee of the arbitrator, his necessary expenses, and the cost of the hearing room, if any, shall be paid equally and jointly by the Employer and the Union. Any other costs shall be borne by the parties incurring them.
-11 -
10.6	No grievance will be discussed, unless the outlined procedure has been followed, including the requirements of Section 10.11. It is agreed that Steps 1 and 2 may be waived, if acceptable to both the Employer and the Union.
10.7	A representative of the Union will be allowed in the Facility during regular working hours, when necessary for investigation of grievances or discussion of any matters regarding the terms and provisions of this Agreement. The Union official shall, upon entry, notify the Project Manager or his designated representative, if available. This requirement shall not permit the Company to refuse entry to a Union Representative during regular working hours when necessary for investigation of grievances or discussion of any matters regarding the terms and provisions of the Agreement. Such investigation or discussions shall not interfere with the employee's normal work duties.
10.8	The parties agree that grievances may arise of a general nature affecting or tending to affect several employees, and that such grievances may be initiated at any of the above-mentioned steps deemed appropriate by the parties.
10.9	The Employer reserves the right to restrict entry into the work site to an employee who has grieved his termination or suspension, and may deny his presence at the work site, except to pick up his personal belongings, or to meet with the Company and/or Union concerning the grievance. Unauthorized entry may result in immediate termination.
10.10	The Employer and the Union reserve the right to meet, by mutual agreement, to discuss matters on a non-precedent setting basis.
10.11	Where a grievance is submitted that does not cite the section(s) of the Agreement alleged to have been violated or that does not include sufficient detail to allow the Company to investigate, the Union will, upon request from the Company, provide additional information prior to the grievance being processed. No grievance shall be based on “past practice” unless the “past practice” has been regularly, consistently, and recently applied.
ARTICLE 11	- WORKING CONDITIONS
11.1	The hours for employees shall be scheduled by the Employer. Seniority will prevail as it applies to shift preference. The most senior employee within a work group will have preference to shift as long as the employee can perform the duties required on that shift.
11.2	Regular full-time hourly paid employees available for work will be given the equivalent of forty (40) hours' straight-time pay per week, [thirty-two (32) hours in holiday weeks], provided the employee reports and works as instructed, work is available and such is consistent with the requirements of the Employer's contract with NCTR. This guarantee shall not apply in cases of voluntary absence from work,
-12-
disciplinary suspension, or partial or complete shutdown resulting from fire, flood, strike, utility breakdown, reduction in force or consolidation of workforce, or other reasons or circumstances beyond the control of the Employer. The intent and understanding of this Section 11.2 is to encourage the Employer to have as few part-time positions as is consistent with the Employer’s contract with NCTR. This Section 11.2 does not prohibit part-time work, nor does it require the Employer to pay for work not performed. On the other hand, this Section 11.2 is designed to cover the circumstances where the number of total work hours is reduced on a long-term basis such that two (2) full-time positions are not possible. For example, if there is a half-time job available in the primate area and a half-time job is available in the Building 53 area, the Employer is obligated to combine this job into one (1) full-time position, if one (1) person is able to perform both jobs, and lay off one (1) person.
11.3	Time and one-half (114) the employee's straight-time hourly rate of pay shall be paid for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any one (1) day or in excess of forty (40) hours in any one (1) week.
11.4	If agreeable between the Employer and the Union, employees may be scheduled four (4) consecutive ten (10) hour shifts, without incurring daily overtime after eight (8) hours.
For the purpose of Section 11.4 only, hours worked in excess of ten (10) hours in any one (1) day or more than forty (40) hours in any week (but in no case both) will be paid at time and one-half (114) the employee's hourly rate of pay. If NCTR goes to four (4) ten (10) hour shifts, the Employer will have the right to do so.
11.5	There shall be no split shifts scheduled for employees. Split shift means any hours not scheduled consecutively, with the exception of the lunch period or break period.
11.6	An employee will have a minimum of twelve (12) hours off between scheduled shifts. If an employee is called back within twelve (12) hours after the scheduled shift, he will be paid for those not normally scheduled hours at the rate of time and one-half (134).
11.7	All employees who are instructed to report to work shall be guaranteed at least four (4) hours' work.
11.8	The Company will schedule personnel breaks and lunch either by providing two (2) fifteen (15) minute breaks during the shift and a thirty (30) minute lunch period, or no breaks and a one (1) hour lunch. Lunch periods will normally be scheduled to begin not less than three (3) hours, nor more than five (5) hours, after the beginning of the shift. However, the Company reserves the right, given the workload and/or experiments in process, to schedule lunch outside of that three (3) to five (5) hour period of time. The Employer will endeavor to schedule the break period during the
-13-
second (2nd) and third (3rd) hours of each such period worked. The Employer shall designate appropriate areas for break periods and lunch periods.
11.9	There shall be no pyramiding of overtime or premium pay, nor shall such pay be made for more than one (1) reason for the same hours worked.
11.10	A. Supervisory personnel have the right to schedule and direct any employee in completion of overtime work, when such work is necessary. In order to distribute the opportunity to work overtime fairly throughout the workforce, the following guidelines apply within each work group:
1.	As the opportunity to perform overtime arises, the supervisor will offer the overtime to those employees present at work, beginning with the highest senior employee familiar with and skilled in performing the assigned task(s) and working through to the employee with the least seniority familiar with and skilled in performing the assigned task(s) in their work group and job classification.
2.	If the overtime opportunity is declined by every eligible employee in the work group, the supervisor will assign the overtime to the least senior employee(s) who is/are familiar with and skilled in performing the assigned task(s).
B.	Nothing in this Section requires the supervisor to adhere to this procedure when emergencies requiring immediate action arise during off hours or weekends, or as other unplanned or unforeseen circumstances present themselves which require prompt attention and/or action.
C.	If an employee is denied overtime to which he is otherwise qualified, the Company shall correct the mistake with the next available overtime for which the employee is qualified.
11.11	Any employee who feels that he is not being properly trained, requires refresher training, or needs additional practice on procedures, may ask the Company for additional training, and the Company will provide such training as it deems appropriate, with the understanding that such additional training may be scheduled at the Company’s convenience.
11.12	It has been the practice that supervisors, in addition to their managerial duties, have also performed work that is being performed by the bargaining unit. This work has been regularly scheduled to balance production, to assist bargaining unit employees, to lend a hand in the event of an emergency, and for other good and proper reasons. The Union has requested assurances that the continuation of this practice will not erode bargaining unit work below its current levels. The Company, without in anyway agreeing to limit its right to determine the manning requirements of the contract with its
-14-
customer, assign work to employees, or otherwise affect its management prerogatives, is prepared to give comfort to the Union that it has no intention of eroding the work of the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 12 - LEAVES OF ABSENCE
12.1	Requests for leaves of absence must be made by the employee in writing to the Project Manager with a copy to the Union. Such requests must be made at least two (2) weeks prior to the desired date of leave, except in cases of sickness or injury or as otherwise specified below. This Section 12.1 applies to all leaves of absence taken under this Article 12, whether taken in accordance with Section 12.2 or any subsection of 12.3.
12.2	Except in special cases approved by the Employer, a leave of absence will not exceed the times hereafter set forth. Benefits (sick time, vacation, holidays, etc.) will not accrue during a leave of absence. If the employee's leave is less than twelve (12) months, his seniority shall be continuous. If the employee's leave is greater than twelve (12) months, his seniority upon returning to his job shall be the same as when he left for leave.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 12.2, an employee out on Workers’ Compensation shall be entitled to accrue sick leave for the first (1st) six (6) months.
12.3	The types of leave and the duration thereof shall be as follows:
A.	Personal Leave. An employee, upon written request and for good cause, may be granted a leave of absence without pay for a period of at least five (5) days, but not to exceed thirty (30) days. Good cause is, as mutually agreed between the Employer and the employee, a serious problem or actual emergency requiring the employee's absence. The Employer will not arbitrarily deny a request for personal leave. Where mutually agreed between the Employer and the employee, personal leave may be used for sickness or injury in cases where the employee is not eligible for FMLA leave.
B.	Sickness or Injury. A leave of absence because of sickness or injury, either on or off the job, will be granted to any employee for no less than thirty (30) days and not more than one hundred eighty (180) days (whether continuous or not) upon written request supported by medical evidence. Thereafter, extensions will be granted, provided that the total leave granted under this paragraph shall not exceed twelve (12) months and that any employee on a leave of absence for greater than six (6) months shall return to work in the work group designated by the Company. All requests for extensions must be made in writing prior to the expiration of the current leave of absence. Before any extension is granted, the
-15-
employee shall have the burden of providing proper, clear, and specific medical evidence prior to such extension, including a certification by the doctor that there is a reasonable likelihood the employee could return to his normal duties after the extension. The employee will give the Employer notice in writing of his desire to return to work supported by a doctor's release. Employees will use accrued sick days for sick leave. An employee will only be required to take his earned sick days equal to the amount of days required to begin coverage under the Income Protection Benefit section of the Health and Welfare Trust Fund. Where an employee has been absent from work on a leave of absence either continuously or intermittently over a period of twelve (12) calendar months due to sickness or injury, the employee shall not be eligible for another leave of absence (due to the same or a different sickness or injury) until the employee has worked continuously over a period of six (6) calendar months without taking any leave of absence or other leave without pay.
C.	FMLA. The Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) shall apply to the contract. The parties agree that the benefits described in Sections 12.3(A) and 12.3(B) are not in addition to, but part of, the FMLA benefit.
D.	How to Take Leave for Sickness or Injury on the Job. Employees who need to be absent from their job for a medical reason will be granted a leave of absence without pay after exhaustion of any accumulated sick leave as required by Section 12.3(B), subject to the following:
1.	The employee promptly notifies the Employer that the employee expects to be off from work for a medical reason;
2.	The employee informs the Employer of the employee's expected last day of work prior to taking medical leave; and
3.	The employee informs the Employer of the employee's expected return-to-work date.
Employees may work up to their requested leave date subject to the following:
1.	Furnishing a letter from the employee's physician, if so requested by the Employer, that the employee is able to do his normal duties; and
2.	The employee is able to perform all of the employee's normal job duties.
Employees may resume their jobs after the cessation of their medical disability subject to the following:
-16-
1.	Letter from the employee's physician that the employee is able to perform the employee's normal job duties; and
2.	Compliance with Section 12.4.
Pregnancy shall be treated as a medical disability.
E.	Injury on the Job Leave. The Employer will pay up to the first (1st) five (5) days of an injury on the job, provided a physician certifies the employee was hurt on the job and the employee promptly (the same day as the injury) reports the injury to the Company. This provision will be applicable only for the employee's initial industrial injury that requires lost time in any contract year. Any falsification of an injury shall result in immediate termination. The Company reserves the right to designate the doctor of first (1st) referral. The Company, in its sole discretion, may provide light duty for an employee for a limited time.
However, it is understood that if an employee is off fourteen (14) days or longer and is reimbursed by Workers’ Compensation back to the first (1st) day of loss, he shall not be entitled to make any claim under this provision.
F.	Union Business. The Employer will grant the necessary leave of absence without pay for employees appointed to or elected to Union office or a delegate to a Union activity. Such leave in no case shall exceed one (1) year.
G.	Funeral Leave. Three (3) days' leave with pay shall be granted for time necessarily lost from work, in the event of a death in the immediate family of any regular, full-time employee, provided that the employee attends the funeral. The days shall be taken in close proximity to the death and/or funeral and will include the funeral date. This provision shall be effective only as to time lost from the employee's regularly scheduled work, and this shall not be concerned with regular days off, paid holidays, or vacation periods. By immediate family is meant parents (which includes a stepparent), brother, sister, wife, husband, child, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, grandparents, or grandchildren.
One (1) day of leave with pay shall be granted for time necessarily lost from work in the event of a death of an aunt or uncle of any regular, full-time employee, provided that the employee attends the funeral.
If the employee is notified of such death while at work, he shall be excused from further work on that day without loss of pay, and the time off provided for above shall begin with the following day.
-17-
H.	Jury Duty. Any employee serving on a duly constituted jury or appearing in court and/or at the police department on behalf of NCTR or the Employer will be paid for hours necessarily absent from work. Such pay shall not exceed the employee's basic weekly pay. The employee shall notify the Employer promptly of any such necessary arrangements. In no event shall the Employer pay more than ten (10) days in any one (1) year.
Any employee required to appear in legal proceedings on behalf of the Employer shall be paid for any time necessary for that purpose, including travel time to the proceedings from the facility, and shall be reimbursed for parking fees resulting from parking for such proceedings. Parking receipts must be presented to receive reimbursement.
I.	Military. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, military leave will be granted in accordance with the law.
J.	Second Opinions. In all instances in this contract requiring a doctor’s opinion, the Company may, at its expense, request a second (2nd) doctor’s opinion and/or request the employee’s physician to substantiate his opinion with further documentation as to the illness, injury, or condition. In all such instances, the employee will cooperate with such requests and sign such releases as might be required.
12.4 Reinstatement Rights. Provided the employee gives proper notice and returns to work as scheduled when the employee is able to do so, but no later than one (1) year after beginning sickness or injury leave or within the applicable time limits for the other leaves, the employee will be eligible for reinstatement, provided he is able to resume his normal duties.
ARTICLE 13 - VACATIONS
13.1	All employees shall receive an annual vacation with pay for continuous employment as follows:
After one (1) year of employment - two (2) weeks [eighty (80) hours].
After five (5) years of employment - three (3) weeks [one hundred twenty (120) hours].
After fifteen (15) years of employment - four (4) weeks [one hundred sixty (160) hours].
Vacation benefits for part-time employees shall be proportionate to the vacation benefits for which a full-time employee is eligible.
-18-
Vacations may be consecutive.
13.2	Vacation pay will be paid at the employee's regular hourly rate in effect on the last day worked before beginning the vacation.
13.3	Vacation pay shall be paid to the employee prior to the start of vacation, provided the employee has given the Employer at least two (2) weeks' advance notice, and he is taking at least one (1) week of vacation.
13.4	When a holiday specified in this Agreement falls within the employee's vacation, an additional day off with pay shall be added to the employee's vacation, or pay given in lieu thereof.
13.5	Requesting Vacation.
A.	Short-term vacation requests of four (4) days or less must be requested and approved prior to the start of the vacation period.
B.	Vacation requests for five (5) days or more shall be submitted at least twenty-one (21) days prior to the start of the vacation. The Company will provide approval or disapproval for these requests within fourteen (14) days of such request. If such a request is made on less than twenty-one (21) days’ notice, the Company shall not be required to provide an answer within fourteen (14) days of such request. Vacation periods shall be arranged at any time during the year that is mutually agreeable to the employee and the Employer.
C.	Scheduling of vacation will be on a "first-come, first-served" basis up to three hundred sixty-five (365) days in advance, except where two (2) requests are received on the same day, in which event the request of the most senior employee shall be given priority. Once vacation is approved, it will not be subsequently disapproved by the Company unless the Company determines an emergency exists due to unexpected employee absence, unanticipated manning requirements, or unanticipated customer requirements.
13.6	Employees will not be required to use vacation time as sick leave or personal leave.
13.7	Accrued but unused vacation shall be paid an employee upon termination. No vacation shall be accrued for this purpose during the probationary period.
13.8	All non-probationary employees shall accrue vacation time for the first (1st) thirty (30) days of a job-related injury.
-19-
13.9	Employees with vacation balances exceeding two (2) times their annual benefit may, at the Company’s discretion, be required to use excess vacation. This use may be required by the Company during periods of work slowdown prior to implementation of a workforce reduction.
ARTICLE 14-SICK LEAVE
14.1	Each employee shall be allowed two-thirds (2/3) day paid sick leave for each month of continuous employment, up to a maximum accumulation of thirty (30) days. The employee, no more than two (2) times a year without the Company’s prior permission, will be able to use up to a total of five (5) days of his accrued vacation for the purposes stated herein, if he has not exhausted his sick leave.
14.2	Each employee shall be entitled to use earned sick leave for an incapacitating illness or injury, including an illness in the immediate family where the employee's presence is required, or for regularly scheduled doctor's visits.
“Incapacitating illness or injury” means an accidental injury or sickness which prevents an employee from performing each material duty of his occupation. It would be understood that if an employee was too sick to work, he would also be too sick to attend to other activities and he would ordinarily be at home recuperating or seeking medical attention.
An illness in the immediate family which “requires” an employee’s presence means that the employee’s presence is required at the side of or in attendance with his family. If an employee's child, spouse, or parent is hospitalized, the employee's presence shall be considered required.
14.3	Abuse of sick leave will result in disciplinary action. Falsification of the reason for sick leave, if proven, will be considered an offense for which immediate discharge under Section 6.1 is appropriate.
Abuse of sick leave means the consistent use of sick leave where the Company is unable to rely on the employee’s regular attendance.
Falsification of the reason for sick leave means claiming the right to sick leave when the employee is not sick or his attendance is not required for an immediate family member.
14.4	The Employer may require verification of the reason for sick leave, before paying the sick leave benefit, when it has a reasonable suspicion there has been a violation of this Article. Without limiting its rights or the circumstances causing suspicion, the following are examples of events which may support the Company’s determination that a reasonable suspicion exists:
1.	Use of sick leave (or vacation as sick) to “bridge” scheduled weekend days off during the regular work week.
-20-
2.	Use of sick leave (or vacation as sick) on a work day immediately before or after scheduled vacation or personal leave time [as defined in Section 12.3(A)] has been taken.
3.	Use of sick leave (or vacation as sick) on work days for which vacation leave or personal leave [as defined in Section 12.3(A)] has been denied.
4.	Use of sick leave (or vacation as sick) to report late or leave early from work in excess of two (2) in any twelve (12) month period.
14.5	Verification of the use of sick leave may require the employee to have a doctor’s note indicating the employee is under the regular care of the doctor for the sickness. Telephone consultations with the employee’s doctor will not be considered regular care. The employee shall be responsible for supplying the doctor’s verification for the need for sick leave immediately upon return to work, if requested by the Company. The Company may ask the doctor to support his findings with copies of the relevant medical records.
14.6	Pay for sick leave shall be at the straight-time rate. Paid sick leave shall not count as hours worked in determining eligibility for overtime.
14.7	Part-time employees shall accumulate and be entitled to use earned sick leave in proportion to average hours worked.
14.8	An employee who returns to work in the same work week as the illness or accident occurs shall be restored to that week's work schedule.
ARTICLE 15	- HOLIDAYS
15.1	The following holidays will be observed with pay on the dates designated by the United States government for observance:
New Year's Day
Martin Luther King, Jr.'s, Birthday
Washington's Birthday
Memorial Day
Independence Day
Labor Day Columbus Day Veteran's Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day
15.2	An employee entitled to holiday pay shall be paid an amount equal to eight (8) times the employee's regular hourly rate of pay. When an employee works thirty-two (32) hours in a work week, holiday pay shall be counted as hours worked for computing overtime. To qualify for holiday pay, an employee must have been on the active payroll during the week in which the holiday falls. Employees must report to work their scheduled day before and their scheduled day after a holiday, and must report as
-21 -
scheduled to work on the holiday if scheduled by the Employer, except where absence is excused by the Employer.
15.3	Employees who work on any of the above holidays shall receive holiday pay plus two (2) times their regular rate of pay for working the holiday.
15.4	No employee shall be rescheduled during a holiday week to avoid payment of holiday pay.
ARTICLE 16	- SEPARATION PAY
An employee who is permanently separated due to discontinuance of the job, closing, or reduction of force shall be given three (3) weeks' notice or three (3) weeks' pay in lieu of notice. Such notice or pay in lieu of notice shall not apply to any employee who is discharged for proper cause or any probationary employees.
ARTICLE 17	- UNION COOPERATION
17.1	The Union agrees to cooperate with the Employer in maintaining and improving the safest possible working conditions and practices, in improving the cleanliness and good housekeeping of the facility, and in caring for equipment and machinery.
17.2	The Union agrees to uphold the rules and regulations of the Employer in regard to punctual and steady attendance, proper and sufficient notification in case of necessary absence, conduct on the job, and all other reasonable rules and regulations established by the Employer. Any new rules and regulations or methods shall be discussed with the Union before installation.
17.3	The Union agrees to cooperate in correcting inefficiencies of members which might otherwise necessitate discharge.
17.4	The Union recognizes the need for improved methods and output in the interest of the employees and the business and agrees to cooperate with the Employer in the installation of such methods, in suggesting improved methods, and in the education of its members in the necessity for such changes and improvements.
ARTICLE 18	- NO STRIKE, NO LOCKOUT
During the period of this Agreement, there shall be no strikes, stoppages, slowdowns, or other interferences with normal work operations by any of the employees of the Employer or by any Union Representative for any reason whatsoever, and there shall be no lockout by the Employer.
ARTICLE 19	- PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS
-22-
19.1	Every employee shall fully cooperate with any requirement for a physical examination or testing requested by the Company without cost to the employee. The Company will provide a complete check-up after an employee has been exposed to ethylene oxide, if approved by the Occupational Health Unit physician at NCTR.
19.2	A urine specimen shall be taken from employees who provide a sample, if approved by the Occupational Health Unit physician at NCTR. Opportunity to provide a sample shall be offered at least annually. The samples shall be forwarded to an independent certified medical laboratory for testing. Test reports shall be forwarded to the NCTR Occupational Health Unit physician to be filed in the employee's health file. If requested, a copy of the medical laboratory report will be forwarded directly to the employee's personal physician. Employees shall be notified of receipt of urine sample test results within two (2) weeks of receipt.
19.3	Emergencies having the potential for exposure of an employee to a hazardous chemical, or the detection of a potential exposure of an employee through the safety program's routine monitoring, shall result in an examination of that employee by the Occupational Health Unit physician.
19.4	If the results of the physical examination are not conclusive, the Employer will provide additional testing or examinations for the employee at the Employer's expense. If necessary, more than one (1) physician will be engaged by the Employer to conduct such tests.
19.5	All physical examinations and testings will be considered as time worked, and the employee will be paid in accordance with the appropriate wage scale and overtime provisions.
19.6	A report of the physical examination, x-rays, and testing shall be forwarded to the employee's personal physician to become part of the employee's permanent medical history record, when requested by the employee through his designated physician. The Employer shall provide all releases or authorizations that may be required of it in order for the employee to obtain these records.
ARTICLE 20	- EMPLOYEE SAFETY REVIEW COMMITTEE
A committee shall be established for the purpose of discussing matters not otherwise covered by the terms of this Agreement which relate to the improvement of employee safety. The committee shall consist of at least two (2) representatives of the bargaining unit and at least two (2) representatives from the Employer. Meetings shall be held monthly. A Union Representative may be present upon the request of the local unit at any or all meetings.
ARTICLE 21	- GENERAL CONDITIONS
-23-
21.1	Employees will not be required to follow any practice contrary to federal or state laws or regulations.
21.2	Time spent by employees in travel from place to place during the same work day in order to perform work assigned to them by the Employer shall be paid for as time worked. Employees shall be compensated for necessary expenses incurred by them in connection with such travel as follows:
A.	Actual expenses when public transportation facilities are used.
B.	Employees who are required by the Employer to use their own
automobiles shall be compensated therefore at the then rate established by the Employer, which rate is established based upon the current government rate.
21.3	Employees shall be paid every two (2) weeks (bi-weekly) beginning week ending August 31, 2012.
21.4	Appropriate job-related or required immunizations shall be provided without cost to the employee.
21.5	The Employer shall provide adequate bulletin board space for the exclusive use of the Union. No grievances shall be posted on the bulletin board.
21.6	Lounge, lunch room, and locker facilities shall be provided and maintained for employees as they presently are, unless changed by NCTR.
21.7	Adequate and safe parking facilities shall be provided and maintained at convenient locations at no cost to the employee, so long as such facilities are provided by NCTR.
21.8	Employees shall not be charged for breakage or loss of Company or government property, unless due to proven gross negligence or willful misconduct.
21.9	Company Meetings. Employees will be compensated at their regular contractual rate of pay for any meetings where their attendance is required by the Employer.
21.10	When an employee is injured on the job or suffers a job-related illness and is certified as ready and able to perform all regular duties or returns on light duty but requires follow-up medical treatment as a result of the same injury or illness, the Employer shall adjust the work schedule as hereafter set forth without penalty to the employee to provide the time for the required medical care. After returning from such a compensated injury on the job, the Company will pay up to two (2) hours for any lost time for each scheduled and documented follow-up medical visit for such injury, provided that the employee uses his best effort to schedule such appointment at the
-24-
beginning or end of a work day to minimize time missed from work, and provided further, the Workers' Compensation carrier denies such payment. The employee agrees to allow the Company to contact the medical provider to assist in such scheduling.
21.11	The Employer shall insure that all employees have adequate time to clean up at the close of work period to catch appropriate transportation away from the Facility. If circumstances beyond the employee's control prevent an employee from catching transportation off the base, the Employer will provide transportation at no cost to the employee, provided the employee notifies the Employer of the problem prior to 4:30 P.M.
21.12	Night Premium Pay. The Employer will pay a night differential of fifty cents (500) an hour to all employees who work after 5 P.M. and before 5 A.M. during a work shift.
21.13	Consistent, on-time attendance and calling in when unable to get to work are requirements of the job. However, it is understood that an employee will be given three (3) hours’ leeway to get to work without disciplinary penalty in inclement weather.
21.14	Secondary Employment.
A.	In order to prevent contamination of NCTR animal colonies, no employee may perform any work at any other animal facility other than NCTR without the approval of the Company in writing seven (7) days in advance.
B.	Employment with the Company shall be considered each employee’s primary job, and no other employment will be allowed to diminish any employee’s performance or take priority over the employee’s position with the Company in any way while the employee is on Company time.
ARTICLE 22	- TIME CARDS
The Employer shall be responsible for providing adequate time-keeping records for the employees. When requested to do so, the Employer shall make such records available at a reasonable time to an authorized representative of the Union for examination. Employees will not be disciplined or suffer a reduction in pay when they clock in or out not more than five (5) minutes late on an occasional basis.
The Employer and the Union have further agreed that employees may clock in up to ten (10) minutes early on a daily basis subject to the following:
•	The purpose of allowing employees to clock in early is to provide extra time to employees to assure that they do not clock in late. Accordingly, no work shall be performed before an employee’s scheduled start time, except where the
-25-
employee is expressly instructed to so do on a particular day by an appropriate supervisor or manager.
•	Where no work has been performed, the employee will not be paid for the time between the early clock in and the employee’s scheduled start time. This practice is in accordance with United States Department of Labor regulation 29 C.F.R. § 785.48, which provides, “In those cases where time clocks are used, employees who voluntarily come in before their regular starting time or remain after their closing time, do not have to be paid for such periods, provided, of course, that they do not engage in any work. Their early or late clock punching may be disregarded.”
•	In the event this early clock in practice is determined to violate any applicable law, it shall cease to be effective.
ARTICLE 23 - WAGES AND HEALTH AND WELFARE
The Employer shall pay the wages set forth on Schedule A. The Employer shall contribute to the UFCW National Health and Welfare Fund the amount as set forth on Schedule A. Such contributions shall be paid on all hours paid to an employee not to exceed forty (40) hours per week. Such contributions shall be used to provide life, vision, dental, prescription drugs, and comprehensive health benefits as determined by the Trustees of the Plan. New employees shall have a thirty (30) day waiting period before being eligible. No payments shall be made by the Employer on behalf of an employee until after the waiting period has expired.
ARTICLE 24-401(k)
The Company shall make its 401 (k) program available to employees who desire to make a contribution. The Company will contribute one hundred forty dollars ($140) to the 401 (k) plan per quarter for each employee who has been actively employed for the prior ninety (90) days.
ARTICLE 25	- GOVERNMENT REQUIREMENTS
The Union recognizes the Company has a contract with the government that it is obligated to perform within. If there is any government requirement that is in conflict with the Labor Agreement, the Company will notify the Union of the conflicting paragraph in writing. The Union and the Company will then meet to discuss a remedy to the conflict, if necessary.
ARTICLE 26	- SEPARABILITY
Any provision of this Agreement which may be adjudged by a court of final jurisdiction to be in conflict with any federal, state, or local law shall become inoperative to the extent and duration of such conflict. Since it is not the intent of either party here to violate any
-26-
such law, it is agreed that in the event of a conflict between any provision of this Agreement and such federal, state, or local law, the remainder of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. The Employer and the Union agree that substitute provisions shall be negotiated promptly to replace those provisions coming into conflict with the laws herein described. The Employer and the Union further agree, if they are unable to reach an agreement on the substitute provisions, to arbitrate any differences concerning a substitute provision.
ARTICLE 27	- AGREEMENTS, UNDERSTANDINGS, AND WAIVER
27.1	This Agreement represents the entire Agreement between the parties, and there are no understandings or agreements, written or oral, relating to rates of pay, hours, work, or conditions of employment, other than those set forth in this Agreement or incorporated herein by reference.
27.2	Any future modifications, variations, or additions to this Agreement shall only be binding upon the parties if in writing and signed by the proper representatives of the Employer and the Union.
27.3	The Employer and the Union acknowledge that during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement, each had an unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or matter not removed by law from the area of collective bargaining, and that the understandings and agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement. Therefore, the Employer and the Union, for the life of this Agreement, each voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right, and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter not specifically referred to or covered by this Agreement, even though such subject or matter may not have been within the knowledge or contemplation of either or both of the parties at the time that they negotiated or signed this Agreement.
27.4	All side letters and letters of understanding shall be considered a part of this Agreement.
-27-
ARTICLE 28	- EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL
This Agreement shall be effective from the date hereof, except as otherwise specifically provided, and shall continue in full force and effect from January 1, 2017, through December 31, 2019, and shall continue from year to year thereafter unless either party serves written notice upon the other party ninety (90) days prior to December 31, 2019, of its desire to terminate, modify, and amend the provisions of this Labor Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this instrument to be signed and executed this 2nd day of November, 2017.
PROFESSIONAL AND HEALTH CARE DIVISION, UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL NO. 2008
PRIORITY ONE SERVICES, INC.
Pamela /_. Fontenot
Director of Human Resources Vice President Administration
Steve T. Gelios
President
Negotiating Committee:
Earnest Brown
James W. Henderson, Jr.
Frederick E. Thomas
-28-
SCHEDULE A - WAGE RATES
Classification	1/01/17*	1/01/18	1/01/19
Technician	$17.93	$18.56	$19.27
Assistant Technician	$14.90	$15.42	$15.96
Production Aide	$13.74	$14.22	$14.72
★Rate increase for 2017 will be retroactive to January 1, 2017.
Primate Workers' Premium
An additional one dollar ($1.00) per hour will be paid to all employees who are regularly assigned to work with primates, after the first (1st) four (4) months on the job, in consideration of the additional skill level involved.
Health and Welfare Plan
The Company will make a contribution to the UFCW National Health and Welfare Fund in the amount of $7.61 per hour through December 31, 2017. Effective January 1, 2018, the Company will make a contribution to the UFCW National Health and Welfare Fund in the amount of $8.07 per hour through December 31,2018. Effective January 1, 2019, the Company will make a contribution to the UFCW National Health and Welfare Fund in the amount of $8.55 per hour through December 31,2019.
Assistant Technicians
Assistant Technicians are those employees, who are not Production Aides, who have not received their AALAS certification by July 1, 2000 (or who were hired after October 1, 1995, and have not been certified).
No employee hired after October 1, 1995, may be promoted to or hired as a Technician, unless he holds an AALAS certification as an ALAT.
-29-
ATTACHMENT
ARTICLE 13 - VACATION LEAVE/ACCRUALS
FDA/NCTR Contract Start Date with Priority One Services, Inc.: September 7, 2011
13.1	All employees shall receive an annual vacation block grant of hours for continuous employment as follows:
•	1st month to the 12th month of service: Pro-rated grant based on the number of payroll periods from hire date to the start date (month/day) of the FDA/NCTR contract, which is September 7 of each calendar year.
•	Starting 2nd year of service through completion of the 5th full year of service (total of 60 months worked): 2 weeks or 80 hours of vacation granted on September 7 of each calendar year.
•	Starting 6th year of service through completion of 15th full year of service (total of 180 months worked): 3 weeks or 120 hours of vacation granted on September 7 of the calendar year in which the employee completed 5 years of service.
•	Starting 16th year of service and all years thereafter: 4 weeks or 160 hours of vacation granted on September 7 of the calendar year in which the employee completed 15 years of service.
A. An employee could achieve any of the above level of services between September 7 of the current year and September 6 (the next anniversary date of the contract). Therefore, the employee will be granted additional pro-rated vacation hours based on the number of months until the contract anniversary date of September 7.
• Vacation for any part-time employee shall be pro-rated based on authorized hours worked per week.
13.2 Vacation pay will be paid at the employee’s current rate of pay.
-30-
LOCAL UNION OFFICERS
STEVE T. GELIOS
President
KAREN HILL
Secretary-Treasurer
WALTER KEENER
Vice President
GLEN GIBBONS
Vice President
JUDY NELMS
Vice President
JOE PALMER
Recorder
BARBARA BRADLEY
Vice President
JOE HUEY
Vice President
STEVEN HICKS
Vice President
aVOICE for working America
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 2008 7924 Interstate 30, Suite A Little Rock, Arkansas 72209-2900 (501) 565-6306 or 1-800-828-2008
When you have a grievance or a question about your contract, see your Steward immediately.
PLEASE NOTIFY THE UNION OFFICE IF
YOU HAVE A CHANGE OF ADDRESS.