K9894
AGREEMENT BETWEEN LOCAL 458M GCC/IBT & AURORA FAST PRINT INC.
Tenn: February 1,2019 - January 31,2022
Allied Label: 4001 GCC/IBT: 1410M
1
Table of Contents
SECTION 1	- DEFINITION.....................................  3
SECTION 2	- RECOGNITION....................................  3
SECTION 3	- GENERAL LAWS.....................................3
SECTION 4	- UNION SECURITY.................................  4
SECTION 5	- NEW MACHINES OR PROCESSES........................4
SECTION 6	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND..........................5
JOINT STANDING COMMITTEE - ARBITRATION........................5
SECTION 7	- VACATIONS........................................6
SECTION 8	- HOURS............................................7
SECTION 9	- HOLIDAYS.......................................  7
SECTION 10	- JURY DUTY.......................................8
SECTION 11	- BEREAVEMENT PAY.................................8
SECTION 12	- OVERTIME........................................8
SECTION 13	- LUNCH PERIOD..................................  9
SECTION 14-	REHABILITATION AND TRAINING.......................9
SECTION 15	- SENIORITY....................................  10
SECTION 16	- PICKET LINE....................................10
SECTION 17	- HEALTH AND WELFARE BENEFITS................... 10
SECTION 18	- INTER-LOCAL PENSION PLAN WITHHOLDING.............10
SECTION 19	- NON-DISCRIMINATION.............................11
SECTION 20	- SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS......................11
SECTION 21	- MISCELLANEOUS..................................11
SECTION 22	- WAGES..........................................12
SECTION 23	- CHANGES AND MODIFICATIONS AND TERMINATION......13
SIGNATORIES...............................................  14
APPENDIX "A" - WAGES........................................15
2
AGREEMENT BETWEEN AURORA FAST PRINT, INC & GRAPHIC COMMUNICATIONS CONFERENCE INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS LOCAL No. 458M
Contract Effective - February 1,2019 Contract Expires - January 31,2022
This Agreement, Made and entered into between AURORA FAST PRINT, INC. and GRAPHIC COMMUNICATIONS CONFERENCE LOCAL NO. 458M, affiliated with the Graphic Communications Conference / International Brotherhood of Teamsters, wherein it is mutually agreed as follows:
This agreement shall be in force and remain in effect during the period from February 1,2019 to and including January 31,2022.
SECTION 1	- DEFINITION
1.1.	The Term "Union" means the Graphic Communications Conference I International Brotherhood of Teamsters Local No. 458M. The term "Employer" means Aurora Fast Print, Inc. the individual employer who has recognized the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all employees employed in the plant within the jurisdiction of the Union established by this agreement and who has authorized the Union to act on its behalf. The term "employee" means an employee who is subjected to this Agreement.
SECTION 2	- RECOGNITION
2.1.	The Employer recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all employees
performing any of the desktop, bindery, digital, or counter operations listed in this Agreement.
2.2.	Changes in this contract may be made from time to time (except in the matter of hours of labor and rate of compensation), by the unanimous vote of all members of the employed at Aurora Fast Print Inc. but before such changes shall become effective, they must have the approval of the Union.
SECTION 3	- GENERAL LAWS
3.1.	The general laws and rules of Local No. 458M GCC/IBT and general laws of the Graphic
Communications Conference/Intemational Brotherhood of Teamsters, existing and in effect in offices in this jurisdiction on the day of signing this Agreement, copies of which, in printed
3
form, are attached hereto, are made a part of this Agreement, excluding and excepting, those general laws and rules which are in conflict with the Labor-Management Relations Act.
SECTION 4	- UNION SECURITY
4.1.	Asa condition of employment all employees of the employer covered by this Agreement who are members of the Union in good standing, on the execution date hereof shall remain members in good standing, and those who are not members on the execution date hereof shall on the 60th day following the execution date become and remain members in good standing in the Union. It shall also be a condition of employment that all employees covered by this Agreement and hired, on or after its execution date shall, on the 60th day following the beginning of such employment become and remain members in good standing in the Union. New employees who are not members of the Union and are hired on or after the execution date of this agreement, shall apply for membership in the Union after their probationary period within thirty (30) days of hire. The probationary period may be extended an extra (30) days if agreed upon by the employee via a signed document. If the employee fails to become a union member within (30) days after probationary period they shall be discharged.
4.2.	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term members in "good standing" requires an employee to pay
dues, initiation fees or assessments as determined by the Local or International Union to support Union activities germane to collective bargaining, contract administration or grievance adjustment.
SECTION 5	- NEW MACHINES OR PROCESSES
5.1.	The Union agrees that in the event of the installation of a new piece of equipment unlike equipment presently used by the Company for work covered in the jurisdiction clause of this Agreement, such equipment shall be within the Union's jurisdiction and under a scale of wages determined by the Union. The wages, whenever fully adopted, shall be retroactive to the date the equipment was first used in production or at the end of any trial period that may be established by the parties.
5.2.	The Employer further agrees that, insofar as it is practical, to give the Union thirty (30) days notice in writing prior to the installation of any such press equipment. The Company agrees to meet with the Union promptly upon request, after such notice for consideration of the manning of such machines or handling of such processes, the conditions of work, wage scales, and other matters relating thereto. If agreement cannot be reached in a reasonable period of time, they
4
shall consider establishment of conditional trial periods on manning, wage scales or other conditions of work and at the completion of such trial period, shall meet to resolve the issues taking into consideration the information and facts gained from operations during the trial period. Any agreement reached shall be reduced to writing and become part of this Agreement.
5.3.	Should the parties fail to reach agreement following the trial period, the issues outstanding shall be settled in accordance with the grievance procedure. While the grievance is being processed, work shall continue, and the new equipment will be operated as agreed during the trial period. The wages, when finally determined by the arbitrator or by mutual agreement, shall be retroactive to the date the grievance was filed. Such grievance to be considered must be filed no later than twenty (20) days after the end of the trial period.
SECTION 6	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND JOINT STANDING COMMITTEE -ARBITRATION
6.1.	Any employee having a grievance arising under the terms of this Agreement shall first discuss the matter with his business manager or shop owners. Should the employee so desire, he may have the shop steward or fellow union member join him in presenting his grievance to the business manager or shop owners. All grievances must be presented to the business manager or shop owners no later than ten (10) calendar days after the date the grievance arose. Grievances not presented within this time period shall be deemed waived.
6.2.	Any employee not satisfied with the business manager's or shop owners's resolution of the grievance must take an appeal to the Business manager and shop owner of the Employer or his designated representative within ten (10) calendar days after hearing the resolution. Appeals not made within this time period shall be deemed waived. For timely made appeals, the grievance shall be taken up in a meeting with the employee, the Business manager and shop owner of the Employer or his designated representative, and an official of the Union, who shall be present to assist the handling of the grievance. Should the grievance not be disposed of at this stage, the Employer and the Union within ten (10) calendar days of the grievance meeting shall proceed to the Joint Standing Committee. However, the Employer agrees to try to resolve problems or grievances before arbitration.
6.3.	This Joint Standing Committee shall be selected each year to consist of one representative selected by the Employer and one representative of the Union. To this committee shall be referred all questions which may arise as to the construction to be placed upon any of the clauses of this Agreement or any alleged violation which cannot be settled otherwise. Such
5
Joint Standing Committee shall meet within one week, after due notice in writing shall have been filed with each representative of the committee, when any question of difference shall have been referred to it for decision by the authorized representative of either party to this Agreement; and should the Joint Standing Committee be unable to agree, then it shall refer the matter to the Board of Arbitration, representatives of each of the parties to this Agreement to select one arbitrator, and the two to agree upon the third impartial arbitrator. The decision of this board shall be final and binding on all parties.
6.4.	All verdicts, opinions and findings shall be presented in writing by the Arbitration Board to both parties interested, fully attested by said Arbitration Board within forty-five days after the last testimony or evidence has been taken. Cost of arbitration shall be shared equally.
6.5.	In all cases where disagreement arises there shall be no interruption of work and the conditions are not to be changed, pending disposition of dispute as provided herein.
6.6.	The Union agrees that conditions in plants of the employers in conformity with this Agreement shall not be disturbed except as provided in Section 3.
SECTION 7	- VACATIONS
7.1.	The vacation schedule for all current employees or any new hire employee for employment occurring shall be as follows:
1	week after 1 year of employment
2	weeks after 3 years of employment
3	weeks after 10 years of employment
7.2.	When an employee is about to enter on vacation, he/she shall be given the vacation pay for the time according to the regular pay period. Any employee leaving the service of his employer for reason whatsoever shall receive his accumulated vacation pay in the payroll a week following the week in which his services were terminated, except in cases of temporary layoff.
7.3.	Vacation period shall not be cumulative from year to year.
7.4.	When an employee has been off due to personal illness or injury for one week or longer prior to
the employee's scheduled vacation period, the employee and the employer, after the employee's return to work, may by mutual agreement consider the time lost through such personal illness or injury as vacation time; provided no other changes in the posted vacation schedule shall be made as a result of the vacation change granted because of the employee's personal illness or injury.
7.5.	When an employee has been laid off for five (5) working days continuously and his working
6
card remains at the same shop when lay-off occurred, at the request of the employee, this time may be used as vacation time.
7.6.	An employee may deduct from his regularly scheduled vacation any time (not to exceed three (3) weeks) lost due to illness, injury or unemployment.
7.7.	When employees are on scheduled vacations they are not eligible for employment in printing plants.
7.8	Vacation period January 1st through December 31st.
7.9	Employees shall receive vacations at the time they desire, subject to approval by the employer in order to permit the orderly operation of the plant.
The Employer shall establish a vacation schedule for each vacation year. This schedule shall cover the period January 1st through December 31st and such schedule is to be established and posted prior to December 1st. Vacation choices are to be made in order of seniority with the most senior having first choice for their first two weeks and moving down in order.
In establishing these schedules, the Employer may post reasonable restrictions, such as the number of employees who can be on vacation at one time from a department or certain weeks during which production requirements preclude the granting of vacations.
Once the schedules are established and posted, changes may not be made but vacation time not previously scheduled may be added at any time, upon one-week advance notice by the employee in writing on the proper vacation request form to the employer subject to mutual agreement between the employee and employer. The Employer has 24 hours from receiving request to grant or deny in writing on the same form. Choices previously made may be cancelled by employee with the approval of their supervisor.
SECTION 8	- HOURS
8.1.	40 hours, five days or nights from Monday to Friday, inclusive, shall constitute a week's work.
SECTION 9	- HOLIDAYS
9.1.	The following guaranteed holidays: New Year's Day, Memorial Day, July 4th, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day. Days celebrated as such when worked shall be paid for at double time for the number of hours worked plus straight time pay for a regular shift. When an employee is required to work on any holiday enumerated above, a minimum of 4 hours of work must be paid for. This shall not be construed as applying to regular night shifts, the time of which may overlap into any holiday.
9.2.	When a Contract Holiday falls on Saturday or Sunday, the Employer may, at his own option,
7
pay an extra day's pay for the Holiday, or give a day off either the Friday preceding or the Monday following the Holiday. The Employer will make every effort to give three days’ notice when exercising these options.
9.3.	An employee shall receive his straight time pay for each of the holidays listed above when not worked, if he has worked for the employer on the regular scheduled days next preceding and next following the holiday.
9.4.	If an employee (1) was laid off within ten (10) regularly scheduled work days preceding the holiday, or (2) was absent due to illness or other disability for less than thirty (30) days preceding the holiday, or (3) was on vacation during the occurrence or celebration of the holiday, then he shall receive his straight time pay for such holiday, notwithstanding that he does not qualify for such pay under Section 11.3 above.
9.5.	Extra employees laid off within the five (5) regularly scheduled work days preceding the
holiday who have worked less than two (2) shifts shall not be entitled to holiday pay.
SECTION 10	- JURY DUTY
10.1.	Any employee required to be absent from his employment to serve on a jury duty shall be paid his regular scheduled straight time wages plus vacation and Negotiated Pension Plan credits, minus any pay received as such juryman, which shall not include remuneration for meals, lodging or travel, for such time as he is required to be absent, up to a maximum of 5 scheduled working days.
The business manager shall be notified promptly of such call to jury service and such jury service shall be certified by the clerk of the court. Should an employee be called to serve on a jury, which results in lost time, and is not accepted for jury service, the Employer will reimburse said employee for lost time, up to one day’s pay.
SECTION 11	- BEREAVEMENT PAY
11.1.	When there is death in an employee's immediate family (parent, spouse, brother, sister, child, mother-in-law and father-in-law) he shall receive a maximum of three day’s pay while absent from his job attending the funeral.
SECTION 12	- OVERTIME
12.1.	All work in excess of 40 hours per week Monday through Friday shall be paid for at time and one half (1 1/2). Any hours that exceed fifteen (15) hours over their regular work week should
8
be paid at double time (2x) their regular hourly wage and all hours worked on the seventh day (Sunday) and Holidays shall be paid for at double (2x). The following shall be included in the 40 work week:
1.	Approved and scheduled vacation
2.	Excused absence
3.	Hours the employee is available to work, but were not worked due to employer, (i.e. employee went home early for lack of work)
4.	Approved Holiday per contract.
12.2.	Employees working on equipment when overtime is ordered shall be entitled to such overtime work on their equipment. In the absence of proof that the violation of this provision could not be avoided, the employer shall pay the employees so replaced the foil amount of overtime pay which he/she would have earned had he/she worked the overtime period.
SECTION 13	- LUNCH PERIOD
13.1	Each employee is encouraged to take a consecutive thirty-minute break for lunch at the employees’ request. Preferably within an hour before mid-shift or the hour after mid-shift. Employee’s will gain overtime when they exceed foil time hours.
SECTION 14-	REHABILITATION AND TRAINING
14.1	. The parties agree that technological changes may affect the j obs of employees covered under this Agreement. Every reasonable effort will be made to utilize the service of those employees whose jobs are affected by the installation of new or improved machines; but nothing herein shall be construed to require an employer to retain employees who are not needed or to assign employees to work which they are not capable of performing.
14.2	Both parties agree that employees should advance their skills if possible. If the Employer requires
an employee to attend a training class, the Employer shall pay all associated costs with the designated class.
If an employee wishes to take a class that is applicable to their employment, they must have Employer approval prior to beginning class. Employee shall pay all costs associated with the approved class but Employer will reimburse him/her upon satisfactory completion of class with a passing grade. This agreement will be in writing prior to start of class and the Employer, Employee and Union will all sign off.
9
SECTION 15	- SENIORITY
15.1.	When layoffs because of lack of work for one week or more becomes necessary., the Employer shall take into consideration: (a) greater length of service (b) competency and efficiency (c) physical ability. Factor (a) will govern the Employer's decision as to who will be laid off if factors (b) and (c) are reasonably equal. Should there be an increase in the workforce in ninety (90) days, the person or persons laid off through such cause shall be reinstated in the order in which they were laid off before other help may be employed.
15.2.	Each employer shall establish a separate seniority list for employees engaged in each department under this Agreement.
SECTION 16	- PICKET LINE
16.1.	It is understood and agreed that a refusal by the Union to cross the picket line of any Union affiliated with the G.C.C./I.B.T. engaged in a strike, duly authorized and sanctioned by the G.C.C./I.B.T. shall not constitute a breach or violation of this contract.
SECTION 17	- HEALTH AND WELFARE BENEFITS
17.1	Company will discuss with union in the near future.
SECTION 18	- INTER-LOCAL PENSION PLAN WITHHOLDING
18.1	The Employer shall withhold the percentage that is established by Local membership vote (but not less than $5.00) from each employee’s gross weekly wages and shall forward such amounts so withheld under one of the following options:
*Beginning on ratification date members will contribute $10.00 per week.
a)	Monthly to the "Trustees of the Inter-Local Pension Fund", to Local 458M GCC/IBT at 455 Kehoe Blvd. Suite 110, Carol Stream, Ill. 60188 upon receipt of a pension assignment form from the employee, along with an appropriate report form to permit proper crediting to the employee's account in the Fund.
b)	Weekly to the "Trustees of the Inter-Local Pension Fund", upon receipt of a pension assignment form from the employee, along with an appropriate report form to permit proper crediting to the employee’s account in the Fund.
c)	Monthly by separate check, to the individual employee.
d)	Weekly by separate check, to the individual employee.
18.2	Wages withheld and paid separately under any of the above options shall be forwarded or paid
10
within ten (10) working days from the month or week for which they are withheld. If the employer is in default in forwarding or paying wages as provided in this Article, he shall be liable for and agrees to pay such legal, court and/or other costs incurred in collection proceedings. Further, any such employer in default under this Article shall be required to pay direct to employees, such pension fund withholding by separate check at the same time the balance of employee's wages are due and payable. Further, the Union shall, in its discretion, have the right to terminate this contract, in whole or in part, as to such employer in default, by notice in writing to the employer.
18.3	Affiliation to this pension is required based on the Local 458M By-laws.
SECTION 19	- NON-DISCRIMINATION
19.1.	The parties agree that no discrimination shall be exercised against any employee in regard to hiring or any term and conditions of employment because of race, color, creed, religion, sex, age, disability, or national origin. Whenever any words are used in this Agreement in the masculine gender, they shall also be construed to include the feminine gender in all situations where they would so apply.
SECTION 20	- SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
20.1.	The working conditions and the condition of equipment and tools, must comply with the health and safety regulations of the State of Illinois and the United States Department of Labor. Where such conditions are not specifically covered by legislation, or when there is evidence that safety standards are not being complied with, they shall be presented to the Employer for adjustment through the Union. No member of Local No. 458M will be required to work under conditions where in the opinion of the Union and the Management it would be hazardous or unsafe for him to do so.
SECTION 21	- MISCELLANEOUS
21.1.	There shall be no limit upon the output of presses by the Union or its members.
21.2	The Union agrees that no employee shall leave the services of any employer unless a day or night's notice has been given to the business manager of the department.
21.3.	Any employee who, at the completion of his work on any shift has not been notified by the employer that he has been laid-off, shall be presumed to be in the employ of the Company for his next regular shift; provided, however, that in case such notice is impossible, a notification by telephone, FAX or special messenger directed to the employee at his residence not later than 4
11
hours before the commencement of his regular shift shall be deemed proper notice.
21.4.	The Union realizes that delicate confidences often exist between the management of a firm and its employees and agrees to hold any and all private matters acquired by its members in their employment as a sacred trust, not to be imparted to others or discussed outside the office in which they are employed.
21.5.	To the extent permitted by law, the Union will not permit any plant to operate at any different wages, hours, working conditions, shop practices, or in any manner whatsoever different from the wages, hours, working conditions and shop practices specified and agreed to herein.
21.6.	Any employee hired and not put to work shall be paid not less than a day or night's pay for the shift he was hired. Employees laid off after starting a day or night's work shall be paid not less than a day or night's pay. If an employee is employed after the regular starting time and is not ordered to work the following day, he shall be paid a full day's pay for the part day he worked. In an emergency beyond the control of the Employer, the employees shall be paid for the number of hours worked on that particular shift.
An emergency shall be deemed to exist when the plant, or any part thereof, shall cease to operate because of conditions caused by an act of God, fire, flood, failure of electrical power or equipment, breakdown of any press or its attachments, breaking or damage of press forms and other causes which are similarly not, nor reasonably could be, subject to the employer's control.
21.7	Intern position are limited to school/college age individuals willing to do minimal tasks in order to learn about the print industry. The position is to remain part time and temporary work is to be overseen by a full-time employee. Assistance in production is only permitted for learning and cannot be conducted independently. Interns will make minimum wage due to the amount of coaching the learning opportunity presents.
SECTION 22	- WAGES
22.1.	The wage scales for all classifications covered by this Agreement are listed in Appendix "A" of this Agreement.
22.2.	On temporary assignments to a higher rated job employees shall receive the wage applicable to such job for the time so assigned and employees being retrained as set forth in Section 14.
22.3.	All wage rates in excess of the rates established by this Agreement shall be subject to agreement between the Employer and the employee, and may be modified in any respect at any time without regard to the terms of this Agreement.
12
SECTION 23	- CHANGES AND MODIFICATIONS AND TERMINATION
23.1.	If either party shall intend or desire to change, alter or terminate the provisions of this Agreement, for the period commencing on February 1,2019 it shall give the other party written notice.
13
SIGNATORIES
LOCAL 458M
Graphic Communications Conference
International Brotherhood of Teamsters
Aurora Fast Print, Inc.
INTERNATIONAL APPROVED:
GEORGE TEDESCHI, PRESIDENT
DATED:______________________________
The approval by the Conference President of this Contract does not under any circumstances, make the Conference a party to this Contract nor responsible for its observance or for any breach thereof
14
APPENDIX "A" - WAGES
CLASSIFICATION (all rates expressed as hourly)	2018	2/1/2019 2.5%	2/1/2020 2.5%	2/1/2021 2.5%
Pre-press	19.78	20.27	20.77	21.28
Pressman - Bindery	19.78	20.27	20.77	21.28
Digital	19.78	20.27	20.77	21.28
General Worker	10.50	10.76	11.02	11.29
Any employee currently earning more than the above hourly rates shall not have their rate reduced unless mutually agreed upon by the Employer, Employee and Union.
Apprenticeship
2-year Program
Start-$15.00
14 Year-85%
1 Year-90%
1	14 Years-95%
2	Years-100%
New Hire after February 1,2019 - General Workers hourly rate will begin at $10.00 per hour and gain $.25 per hour, per year of their employment.
15