AGREEMENT
Between
Atlas Galvanizing, LLC
And
Metal Polishers Conference, International Brotherhood of Boilermakers^ Iron Shipbuilders, Blacksmiths, Forgers and Helpers, AFL-CIO, Local Lodge M 67
Effective: November 1,2016
Duration: October 31,2019
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article	Subject Agreement	Page 1
I	Recognition	1
n	Union Membership	1,2
m	No Discrimination	2
IV	Hours of Work and Overtime	2,3
V	Wages	3
VI	Seniority	3,4
VII	Vacations	4,5
vni	Holidays	5
IX	Reporting Pay	5
X	Rest Periods	6
XI	Grievance and Arbitration	6,7
XII	Plant Management	7
xm	Plant Rules and Regulations	8
XIV	No Strike - No Lockout	8
XV	Safety and Sanitation	8
XVI	Union Representation	8
xvn	Past Practice	9
XVIII	Industrial Injury	9
XIX	Group Insurance	9,10
XX	Sick Leave	10
XXI	Promotion	11
XXII	Pension	11
XXIII	Duration	11,12
	Appendix “A” Wages and Classifications 13,14	
AGREEMENT
This Agreement, made and entered into this first day of November, 20164, by and between the ATLAS OJLVANIZING, LLC, hereinafter referred to as the “Compai ly”, and the METAL POLISHERS CONFERENCE, INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD of BOILERMAKERS, IRON SHIPBUILDERS, BLACKSMITHS, FORGERS and HELPERS, AFL-CIO, 1 ,OCAL LODGE M67, hereinafter referred to as the "Union
ARTICLE I	- RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes the union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agency for all its production and maintenance employees, excluding truck drivers, office clerical, Watchmen, guards, pro 'essional employees and supervisors as defined in the Laboi Relations Act of 1947, as amended.
ARTICLE II	- UNION MEMBERSHIP
Section 1 - It shall be a condition of employment that all employees of the (Company covered by this Agreement who are members of the Union in good standing on the effective date of this Agreement,' shall remain members in good standing and those who are not members on the effective date of this Agreement shall, on the thirtieth (30th) day ft llowing the effective date of thijs Agreement, become and remain members in good standin > in the Union.	|
»
Section 2 - It shall also be a condition of employment that all employees covered by this Agreement and hired on or after its effective date shall, on the thirtieth (30th) <3 ay following the beginning of such employment, become and remain members in goo 1 standing in the union. <
Section 3 - Upon presentation of a properly signed dues deduction authoriz ation card, the Company shall deduct the initiation fee and thereafter monthly the regula r dues as required by the Union from the employee’s paycheck and transmit the same only t j the Secretary — Treasurer of the Union, Local M67, not later than the tenth (10th) day of every calendar month. I
Section 4 - If ahd when an opportunity for employment with the Company occurs, the Company agrees to notify the Secretary of the Union of such a vacancy. The I Inion agrees in turn to try to’supply the Company with qualified applicants for such jobs, and further agrees that the Company is not bound to hire any of these, if in the option । )f the Company, the qualifications of the applicants do not meet the needs of the position i to be filled. Prior membership in the Union shall not be a requirement.
1
Section 5 - The Union agrees to notify the Company seven (7) days prior to the disc harge of any employee for delinquency in the payment of dues or initiation fees.
ARTICLE III	- NO DISCRIMINATION
The Company arid the Union agree that there shall be no discrimination in th 5 employment because ofirace, color, sex, religion, age, national origin or handicap. “Pronouns”, whether masculine or feminine, as used throughout this agreement, she ll refer to either men or women. When this contract is written in English and Spanish, the; inglish version shall prevail.
ARTICLE IV	- HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME I	'
Section 1 - The normal work day shall consist of eight (8) hours and the noi mal work week shall consist of forty (40) hours, Monday through Friday, inclusive.
Section 2 - Timl and one-half (1 lA) shall be paid for all work performed: (e) in excess of eight (8) houi|s in any one (1) day; (b) in excess of forty (40) hours in anj one (1) week; (c) the first five (5) hours on Saturday, and (d) employees who work on Saturday must work the following regularly scheduled work day in order to receive time and one-half (1 *A) pay for the Saturday worked, (e). Overtime does not come into effect until foity (40) hours are worked in any one (1) week. Exceptions are: (i) on vacation; (ii) absent due to work injury, or (iii) excused absence.
Section 3 - Double (2) time shall be for all work performed: (a) in excess 0? ten (10) hours in any one (1) day, Monday through Friday, inclusive; (b) in excess of five (>) hours on Saturday; and (c) all work performed on Sunday.
Section 4 - Swing shift employees shall receive twenty cents ($0.20) per he ur shift differential, and the graveyard employees shall receive twenty-five cents ($0.25) pit hour shift differential. 1
Section 5 - Whereas the statutes of the Federal Government provide that th s Company may require la reasonable amount, as a condition of employment, the Co rapany agrees that ten (10) hours per day be deemed to fulfill these requirements. All overtime beyond this is strictly voluntary and is not a condition of employment. It is furthei • agreed that if any employee should request a release from this obligation on any specific date, and his request has been granted by the Company, failure to work overtime on that dat 3, shall not jeopardize his position.
Section 6 - Seniority shall be the determining factor in which employees a e selected to work overtime, provided the employee can perform the work which required o\ ertime work. The Company will furnish the Union with a list showing how overtime is I eing distributed among employees.
2
I	3
Section 7 - If an employee is temporarily transferred from a lower classifica ion to a higher classification, for the convenience of the Company, he shall receive the pay of the higher classification. If an employee is temporarily transferred to a lower classifica ion from a higher classification, for the convenience of the Company, he will continue to receive the higher rate of pay.
ARTICLE V-WAGES
Attached hereto and made a part thereof is Appendix “A”, setting forth the rates of )ay for each classification iistec' therein. Effective November 1,2016, each employee, wit] i the exception of Sub-Helpers, shall receive a seventy-five cent (0.75) increase per houi wage increase; Effective November 1,2017, each employee shall receive a seventy-five cent (0.75) per hour wage increase; and effective November 1,2018, each employee shajil receive a seventy-five cent (0.75) per hour wage increase. Sub-Helpers will receive a one t ollar ($1.00) per hour wage increase effective November 1,2016 then seventy-five ($0 J 5) cents per hour increase for th; final two (2) years of this agreement.
! ARTICLE VI - SENIORITY f
Section 1 - The Company agrees that in case of layoff and recall, seniority shall prevail. An employee shall retain the right of recall for one (1) year from the date । )f layoff, if he has completed hisjprobation period. After having completed his probationary period, the seniority rights of ah employee shall revert back to the hire date.
Section 2 - All hew employees shall be on probation for the first sixty (60) calendar days of employment and may be terminated for any and all reasons during this time.
|
Section 3 - An employee must report back to work within three (3) working days after having been notified by the Company at his last known address, either by tele phone or telegram. Upon consultation with the Company, this time limit may be extended i' mutually agreed upon by the Cotnpany and the employee.
i
Section 4 - If ah employee should be ordered to report back to work, and tl is period of employment is known to be short duration, the employee may waive his right tc be recalled, if agreed upon by the Company, without endangering his seniority, if his return to work would mean the loss of the position that he if filling at the time of such temp arary recall.
A waiver of such right of recall would preclude his right to bump the man who shall be hired to replace him. The employee would have the right to be recalled at the r ext job opportunity that becomes available with the Company. If he accepts the position offered to him at the second opportunity, his seniority, for the purpose of layoff or recall, sh< ill be deemed to be the same as if he had returned with the Company. Failure of the em aloyee to return at the second opportunity shall result in his termination by the Company, w ith a loss of all seniority rights, i
I I
Section 5 - The most senior employee shall have the choice of shift whereve ? practical. Shift preference shall not be exercised more frequently than once every si x (6) months, unless agreed upon by the Company.
Section 6 - The $hop Steward shall have top seniority for his term of office.
i
I	ARTICLE VH - VACATIONS
I i i
Section 1 - One (1) week vacation with pay, forty (40) hours, shall be granted to all employees who have been in the employ of the Company for one (1) year. Two (2) weeks vacation with pay, eighty (80) hours, shall be granted to all employees who have been in the employ of the Company* for two (2) years. Three (3) weeks vacation with pay, one hundred and twenty (120) hoursj will be granted to all employees who have been in the emp oy of the Company for seven 1(7) years. Four (4) weeks vacation with pay, one hundred s nd sixty (160) hours, will be granted to all employees who have been in the employ of the C ompany for fifteen (15) years, and five (5) weeks vacation with pay, two hundred (200) hours, will be granted to all employees who have been in the employ of the Company for twen ty (20) years, exception.of anyiemployees hired after December 31,1999.
Section 2 - New employees will not receive any vacation pay until they hav e been employed twe-one (12)!years. They will receive one (1) week; forty (40) hours paid vacation after twe-one (12) years employment with the Company. (This will not af ect any employees who have seniority at the present time.)
Section 3 - All employees who may be terminated voluntarily or involuntai ily after completing six (6) calendar months of service with the Company, shall receive a pi o-rated share of the next vacation pay. This is to be based on one-twelfth (1/12th) of his annual vacation pay for each month of service, or major fraction thereof. Vacation shall 1 e deemed earned and will be paic for if the employee is severed for any and all reasons.
Section 4 - The’ choice of vacation time shall be given to the most senior er iployee, wherever practical. Employees must give the Company adequate notice of their re quested days for vacation. Employees must take their allotted time off for vacations, unless agreed to by the Company. The Company cannot guarantee that every employee will be; illowed
vacation when desired;
Section 5 - Vacation pay shall be paid on the payday prior to the employee s taking his vacation. Vacation pay shall be computed at the employee’s hourly rate at the time he takes his vacation. Additionally, employees shall be paid their vacation payments in a stand-alone check.
5
Section 6 - Employees must work two thousand eighty (2,080) hours, less w cation time, to receive a full vacation pay, otherwise, the employee’s vacation pay will be prorated.
ARTICLE Vffl - HOLIDAYS
i
Section 1 - The following days shall be paid holidays and will be paid as sue h regardless of the day of the week on which they may fall, and if worked, they shall' >e paid for at the rate of double |(2) time, in addition to holiday pay.
New Year’s Day	Thanksgiving Day
Good Fric ay	The Friday after Thanksgiving Daj
Memorial Day	The Day before Christmas Day
Fourth of July
I
Labor Day
i
Christmas Day
The Day before New Year’s Day
Section 2	- If any of the above holidays should fall on a Saturday or Sunday, the Company will recognise as the holiday and pay as such, that the day which is locally and/or nationally observed in lieu of such holiday.
Section 3	- Employees must work at least four (4) hours of the regularly scl teduled workday before and after the holiday in order to receive holiday pay. Exception to these is: (a) on vacation; (b) absent due to work injury; (c) excused absence.
Section 4	- New employees shall not be paid holiday pay until they have bt en in the employ of the Company for three (3) months. Employees with less than five (5) y :ars of service with the Company, if laid off, will not receive holiday pay.
ARTICLE IX	- REPORTING PAY
Any employee ordered to report to work shall receive a minimum of four C) hours pay, including shift differential, if any. If an employee has not been given notice i lot to report to work on the following day before the end of his regular shift, he shall be considered as having been ordered to report for his next regular shift.
The above clause shall not apply in case of “power failure” or “Act of God which prevents the operations of the Company.
6
ARTICLE X	- REST PERIODS
The Company shall grant one (1) fifteen (15) minute rest period, to be taken in the first half of the employee’s shift. The Company shall grant a floating ten (10) minute paid rest period, to be taken in the second half of the employee’s shift.
ARTICLE XI	- GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION
Section 1 - To be germane, any dispute, grievance, controversy or claim of >reach of contract arising between the employee and the Company, between the Union as a v hole and the Company, must be processed under the grievance and arbitration clause of this contract, within thirty (30) days from the date of occurrence, or within thirty (30) days from he date that knowledge of any Alleged violation of the terms of this Agreement become knc w to the Union as a whole.
Section 2 - The term “process” shall be considered to mean the initiation of the “grievance and arbitration proceeding”. In case that the grievance should be proce ssed for failure of the Company; to pay wage rates as specified in the contract, the Company agrees to make an employee whole for sure financial loss as he has may have suffered for the entire period during which he-has been underpaid, if such claim is verified and approved luring the arbitration and grievance procedure.
Section 3 - Any dispute, claim, grievance and/or controversy arising between any employee of the Company against the Company, and any dispute, claim, grievance and/or controversy between the Union as a whole against the Company, concerning the interpretation, application of this Agreement, and any alleged claim of breach of c< intract, and any dispute, claim] grievance and/or controversy that the Company may have against the Union concerning the interpretation, application, implementation of this Agreement and/or any alleged claim of breach of contract shall be taken up in the following manner:
Step 1 -When an employee has a grievance, he shall contact his immediate supervisor with or without his Steward and endeavor to settle the dispute. If not settled within twenty-four (24^) hours, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays, it shall go to:
Step 2 -The employee and the Steward may ask for and be granted a meeting with management within forty-eight (48) hours, from the time of the request, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays. If not settled within seventy-two (72) hours, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays, it shall go to:
Step 3 - The grievance shall be reduced to writing and the Business Representative shall be called in and together with the Steward shall take the matt sr up with top Management. The Company agrees to meet with the Union representative wil hin seventy-two (72) hours, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays, after preseni ation of the written grievance to the Company. If a satisfactory solution to the problem is not agreed upon within forty-eiglit (48 hours after the beginning of the meeting between the
7
Union representative anil the Company representative, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays, both the Union and the Company agree to stipulate to arbitrate the dispute.
Section 4 - The Company and the Union will jointly request the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, Washington, D.C. to supply a panel of seven (7) arbitrators, three (3) to be stricken by.eadh of the parties signatory hereto, beginning with die party requesting the arbitration. The onej (1) remaining name shall be that of the Arbiter and his dec sion shall be binding upon both parties.
Section 5 - As ah alternative, any local arbiter acceptable to both parties may be chosen and his decision shall be final and binding upon both parties. The expense of the arbiter shall be borne equally by both parties.
Section 6 - Any decision that is mutually acceptable to both parties and which was agreed upon in the preliminary Steps of this Article, precludes any further action b' either of the signatory parties to ^this Agreement.
I	'
Section 7 - In the interest of fair play, in order that either one or both of the parties signatory to this Agreement shall have the right to have their “Day in Court”, it is mutually agreed that nothing in the Sections of this Article shall prevent any extension on tine that may be mutually agreed upon in order to invoke the grievance and arbitration procedure.
Section 8	- If the Company has a grievance against the Union, Steps 1 and 'I will be waived and the grievance procedure shall begin with Step 3.
Section 9	- At no time shall the Company require or ask, or demand, that th e Steward shall in any manner reveal to the Company how the Shop Committee individually or collectively, voted oh the question on whether to settle the grievance with the C impany before the Business Representative of the Union was asked to intercede.
. ARTICLE XII - PLANT MANAGEMENT
The right to manage its plant, including the right to hire, to transfer, to layo T, to promote, to demote, to; discharge or discipline for just cause are vested solely in th e Company, subject to Articles of this Agreement. If an employee has been discharged or has been given a disciplinary layoff, and he believes his discharge or layoff was unjust he shall have the right to submit his grievance to his Steward before leaving the plant. If, i ipon consultation with the Union, or by reason of the finding of an Arbiter, it shall be d stermined that his discharge or layoff was unjust cause, the employee shall be reinstated to h is job with back pay for all time lost and seniority rights unimpaired.
9
I
8
ARTICLE XHI - PLANT RULES AND REGULATIONS
It is mutually agreed by both parties that the plant rules become a part of the working conditions of the contract, and that the Company will meet with the Union, if and when any changes or additions are to be made, and to formulate these changes or additions before they go into effect.
I	...
ARTICLE XIV - NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
During the life of this Agreement there shall be no lockout on the part of the Company. During the hfe of this Agreement there shall be no strike, suspension of work, slowdown or other interruption of production by the Union or the individual emplo zee.
i
ARTICLE XV-SAFETY AND SANITATION
Section 1 - All toilets and work rooms shall be kept in a clean and sanitary < :ondition and suitable quarters with heat shall be provided for the employees in which they may change their clothes. !
Section 2 - All Safety appliances shall be in conformity with the California Safety and Sanitary Standardsias ordered and adopted by the respective State Commissior s. Failure to wear safety equipment as provided by the Company may result in immediate dismissal. All employees must exercise every effort in keeping workrooms, toilets and rest rooms clean.
Section 3 - The Company agrees to furnish gloves and aprons to the emplo zees at no cost to the employees, plus any other protective clothing as may be recommended jy the various State Commissions. Employees will be issued gloves and other safety items on a scheduled basis, not on demand. The maintenance and security of such issue will )e the employee’s responsibility. Failure to have readily accessible required safety issue will result in appropriate disciplinary action. The Company will give each employee two hundred dollarstwent ($425200.00) per year to purchase safety shoes (contract year).
Section 4 - The Company agrees to install an electrically cooled filtered w; iter fountain in an area convenient for all employees.
ARTICLE XVI	- UNION REPRESENTATIVE
i
The Business Representative of the Union shall have the right to free entrance to the plant during working hours, upon application to the Employer and authorization b y management. The Union Steward and Shop Committee shall suffer no loss of pay for time lost while negotiating a contract; processing a grievance and/or while engaged in iny other Union activity in administering the terms of this Agreement. The Union agrees tc keep such time down to a reasonable minimum.
9
ARTICLE XVII	PAST PRACTICES
Section 1 - The Company agrees that all Company customs and practices that have been proven beneficial to the employees in the past, shall be continued for the life o f this Agreement.
Section 2 - Seve rance Pay - Employees who have twenty (20) or more yea s of service with the compar y shall be entitled to a severance pay. The Maximum amoi nt of hours to be paid will be one hundred and twenty (120) hours, with the exception of iny employees hired prior to 49601999. Severance pay shall be based on the same nun ber of days or major fraction thereof as their earned vacation pay. Severance pay shall be computed at the employee’s hourly rate at the time of his leaving. It is understood i hat severance pay is provided for the purpose of normal retirement. Unless an employe ;e is incapacitated and unablp to continue employment, then he will be able to receive se verance pay at an earlier age thah normal retirement. If an employee passes away, the employee’s beneficiary will receive! the severance pay.
Section 3	- Credit Union - The Company agrees to cooperate in selecting 11 Credit Union and to make deductions on behalf of those employees who sign up.
i
I
Section 4	- Bereavement Leave - Regarding employees’ leaves because of bereavement in their falnily, the Company agreed to continue to grant leaves of abs ence, as per past practice, for this purpose, with the understanding that they may use either heir vacation pay or sick leave pay for this time off.
ARTICLE XVIII - INDUSTRIAL INJURY
Any employees,! who may be injured on the job and who are sent home by r Jason of a doctor’s order and opinion, or by the orders of management, shall receive a full da z’s pay for that day. If an employee, by reason of doctor’s orders and opinion, is unable tc resume work at his regular job [for any and all of the next five (5) working days subsequen: to the date of injury, then thelCompany agrees to pay such an employee eight (8) hours pay, including shift differential, if any, for any and all of die next five (5) working days.
t
ARTICLEXIX-GROUPINSURANCE
Section 1 - The Company agrees to provide medical coverage for each employee and their dependents, except as provided in Section 2. The employees will have Kaiser Permanente Health Plan Coverage.
9
L 10
Section 2 - New jEmployees will not be covered by group insurance until they have been employed by the Company for three (3) months. Employees with less than fiv; (5) years of service, will have no group insurance coverage if laid off for two (2) month s or longer. Any increase in'health insurance after October 31,2007, over and above eif ;ht percent (8%) per year, n!on-cumulative, will be paid by the employee. However, any employee hired after October 31,2013 shall be responsible for fifteen percent (15%) of their respective monthly premium.
Section 3 - The Company agrees to provide each employee, without cost to hem, a five thousand dollar ($5,000) live insurance policy, and in addition, the Company a jrees to provide employees ’ dep endents, without cost to them, a one thousand dollar ($ 1,00)) life insurance policy for the ir spouse, and a five hundred dollar ($500) life insurance policy for each child.
Section 4 - The Company agrees to provide dental insurance for its employe es and their dependents, with t le Company paying the full cost of such plan. The plan sha 11 consist of 80% of usual and customary fees based on 2004 cost for general dentistry work and 50% of usual and customary [fees for gold restorations. The plan has a deductible of one hundred dollars ($100) per calendar year, with a one thousand fiye hundred dollars ($1,500) maximum per calendar year.
i
[ ARTICLE XX-SICK LEAVE i
Section 1 - Employees in their first ten (10) years of employment with the company shall be entitled to five (5) days (40-hours) paid sick leave during die ensuing year. Employees who have more than ten (10) years of service with the Company will receive seven (7) days paid sic c leave per year, totaling fifty-six (56) hours.
Section 2 - Sick leave may be accumulated from year to year, up to a maximum of seven-fourteen (147) days. All accumulated and unused sick leave for the past or the current .year, may be translated into money and shall be paid to the employee, at his option, on two different occasions during the year, by the employee giving two (2) weeks notice t) the Company before such payment shall be made. One, shall be on the last payday prior to taking their annual vacation, or on the last payday prior to Christmas.
Section 3 - One day’s sick leave shall be deemed earned for each period of two (2) calendar months. If used before having been earned, and the employee is terminated, such payment of unearned sick leave will be deducted from any moneys that the emplo; r&e would have due him. If an employee is terminated for any reason, he will receive.all earned sick leave.
Section 4 - If an employee claims sick leave for time off because of illness during the current year before such sick leave shall be considered earned, the company may require a doctor’s certificate to substantiate claim of illness.
11
ARTICLE XXI - PROMOTION
When an opportunity for promotion within the Company arises, the Compan i will observe seniority, if the jskill and ability and other qualifications of the employee meets the requirement of the position involved. The Company will notify the Steward of its decision in making such a promotion. If, in the opinion of the Shop Committee, an employe: with more seniority was denied the opportunity of a chance for advancement, the Compa ny will meet with and consult with the Union Shop Committee to discuss reasons why it feels its choice was justified. The Company will consider whatever evidence the Shop Committee can bring forth to justify its claims that the most senior employee was qualified to f 11 the position, but reserves to itself the right to make the final decision.
ARTICLE XXH - PENSION PLAN
Company will provide a traditional 401K plan and the company will match up to five-hundred ($510.00) dollars a year of an employee’s contribution.
I
i ARTICLE XXIII-DURATION
This contract shdll become effective November 1,2016, and continue in effect until October 31,2019, and t'hereafter-extend itself annually from year to year, unless eh her party gives notice to the other not earlier than seventy-five (75) days, nor later than sixty (60) days before the expiration date of this contract, of its desire to amend, modify or te minate this Agreement, by registered or certified mail.
Metal Polishers Conference, International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Ship guilders, Blacksmiths, Forgers anc Helpers, AFL-CIO, Local; Lodge M67
For the Union


13
APPENDIX “A” WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
Classification	Effective 11/01/16	Effective 11/01/17	Effective 11/01/18
Lead	$24.49	$25.24	$25.99
Kettle	$22.69	$23.44	$24.19
Pickier	$23.47	$24.22	$24.97
Rope	$21.81	$22.56	$23.31
■ Pickier Helper	$22.20	$22.95	$23.70
Dryer	$22.69	$23.44	$24.19
Dryer Helper	$21.81	$22.56	$23.31
Muriatic Acid	$22.17	$22.92	$23.67
General Helper • 1	$21.41	$22.16	$22.91
Starting Rate:			
Sub-Helper	$13.04	$13.79	$ 14.54
The starting rate for New Employees and Sub-Helper are stated as above: After tl ree (3) months of service, they shall receive the rate of pay for the classification under wl ich they are working. .	|	.
'■	i
Employees with previous experience at the trade shall have a starting rate of $ 10.5 0 per hour. After three (3) rhonths of service, they shall receive the rate of pay for the classification under which they are working.
Sub-Helper Classification: The Company shall be allowed up to four (4) Sub-Hel sers on the day shift and no Sub-Helpers on the night shift. No employee with seniority date of
January 1, and above shall be affected by this new classification. Additionally, no c irrent employee shall be demoted to Sub-Helper in order to meet the number of employees referenced in this paragraph. However, the past practice of layoffs shall supersede ti le prior
sentence.
14