□

AGREEMENT
between
Porex, Filtration Group
0	and
INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS, A.F.L.-C.I.O.
D
Local Lodge No. 10
z
D
January 29,2019 - January 29,2022
J
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Articles	Page
I	Recognition..........................................................1
II	Discrimination.......................................................2
III	Hours of Work and Overtime Pay.....................................3-4
IV	Holidays.............................................................5
V	Reporting Pay........................................................6
VI	Transfer.............................................................7
VII	Vacation...........................................................8-9
VIII	No-Strike, No-Lockout	Clause.........................................10
IX	Bulletin Board......................................................11
X	Discharge and Discipline............................................12
XI	Management..........................................................13
XII	Scope of Negotiations...............................................14
XIII	Seniority.............................................................15
IXV	Health Care Benefits................................................17
XV	Life Insurance......................................................18
XVI	Military Service....................................................19
XVII	Grievance Procedure..............................................20-21
XVIII	Wages...............................................................22
XIX	Check Off...........................................................23
XX	Funeral Leave.......................................................24
XXI	Jury Duty...........................................................25
XXII	Safety Shoes/Uniforms/Safety Glasses..................................26
XXIII	Termination...........................................................27
Appendix A - Wage Schedule.........................................28
This Agreement has been entered into as of the 29th of January, 2019 by and between POREX, FILTRATION GROUP POROUS TECHNOLOGIES, CORP., hereinafter referred to as the "COMPANY," and LOCAL LODGE No. 10, of the INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS, A.F.L.-C.I.O, hereinafter referred to as the "UNION."
ARTICLE I
Recognition
Section I.	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours and all other conditions of employment of employees in the bargaining unit. The bargaining unit is composed of hourly paid employees of the Machinery Division of POREX, FILTRATION GROUP Richmond, Inc. who are employed as Machinists, and Machinist Apprentices, excluding supervisors as defined in the National Labor Relations Act, guards, watchmen, technical and clerical personnel, and all other employees of POREX, FILTRATION GROUP Richmond, Inc.
Section 2.	The terms "employee" or "employees" as hereinafter used in this Agreement shall refer to an employee or employees in the bargaining unit as in Section 1 of this Article defined.
Section 3.	When an applicant is hired to fill a regular assignment with the Company, they shall be placed on probation for four (4) months and during this four (4) months' period the terms of Article X of the Agreement shall not apply to them.
Section 4.	Part-time or temporary employees shall not be covered by the terms of this Agreement
1
ARTICLE II
Discrimination
A.	The Company will not interfere with, restrain or coerce the employees covered by this Agreement because of membership in, or activity on behalf of the Union. The Company will not discourage or attempt to discourage membership in the Union.
B.	The Union agrees that the employees covered by this Agreement will not engage in Union activities on Company time.
C.	The provisions of the Agreement shall apply to all employees covered by this Agreement, without discrimination on account of race, color, national origin, sex, religion, or any other legally protected status.
2
ARTICLE III
Hours of Work and Overtime Pay
The normal working schedule shall be forty (40) hours per week, Monday through Friday inclusive. Each employee shall be allowed 40 minutes relief during each full workday.
All work performed by plant employees on holidays and Sundays shall be paid for at the rate of double time. All plant employees shall be paid time and one-half their regular rates for hours worked in excess of their regularly scheduled hours each day. The Company agrees that it will not make changes in an employee's normal starting time on a particular day in order to defeat the overtime provisions of this paragraph. An employee who is laid off or loses time due to bona fide sickness (M.D. certified) during a normal workweek and who is required to work the following Saturday shall receive one and one- half times their regular rate of pay for work on such Saturday.
Employees whose normal work schedule is four ten-hour days per week will convert to an eight hour workday during weeks in which they receive holiday pay and are required to work the remaining days. During these weeks, all time worked in excess of 8 hours per day will be paid at the appropriate overtime rate.
Employees whose normal work schedule is four ten-hour days per week will convert to an eight hour schedule during any week in which they take a partial week of vacation. During these weeks, all time worked in excess of eight hours per day will be paid at the appropriate overtime rate.
Overtime shall be distributed within the Machinery Division by classification by a rotating system of least overtime hours worked. The employee with the least number of worked overtime hours will have first refusal of overtime opportunities. The details of the procedure shall be described in a Memorandum of Understanding. If no available employee in the classification desires the particular overtime, then the Company may require the employee in the classification with the least amount of overtime to work the overtime. It is understood that the Company is not obligated to offer overtime to an employee who cannot perform the job in question or who is not available to work the full overtime offered.
3
Second and third shift differential shall be paid in addition to basic wage and according to the following schedule during the life of this contract:
Second Shift	Third Shift
0.35 hourly	0.50 hourly
The bonus for safety is based upon the Company goal of zero recordable accidents. Any OSHA recordable accident which occurs inthe Machine Shop, regardless of whether or not the injured is a member of the 1AM, shall count against the bonus calculation for the I AM. OSHA recordable accidents incurred bya contractor shall count against the bonus calculation only if the accident is ruled as the responsibility of POREX, FILTRATION GROUP Porous Technologies, according to the guidelines set out by the VA Department of Labor and Industry. Any OSHA recordable accident incurred by an 1AM employee, regardless ofwhere the accident occurs, shallcountagainstthe bonus calculation forthe 1AM.
To qualify for bonus-pay out, employees must be on the payroll at the end of each quarter.
Hourly Incentive Program - Machine Shop
Base will be quarterly pay including overtime and shift differential.
Individual weight and criteria will be established at beginning of year.
All 1AM bargaining unit employees will receive a 6% bonus max for 2019,2020 and 2021
Category	Goal	Weight	Target	QI Result	Q2 Result	Q3 Result	Q4 Result
Safety	# of STEP Ideas	15%	>3	0.0%	0.0%	03%	0.0%
	5S Audit Average Score	30%	>4.0	(H)%	0.0%	0.0%	0.0%
Quality	# of Total Complaints / Month	15%	<5	0.0%	0.0%	0.0%	0.0%
	First Time Quality	10%	>99 6%	0.0%	0.0%	0.0%	0.0%
Service	Orders Shipped On-Time. In-Full	15%	>95%	0.0%	0.0%	0.0%	0.0%
	Overall Equipment Effectiveness	15%	>85%	0.0%	0.0%	0.0%	0.0%
45%				0.00%	0.00%	0.00%	0.00%
Cost	Attendance	133%		133%	1333%	1333%	1333%
				0.00%	0.00%	0.00%	0.00%
4
ARTICLE IV
Holidays
Holidays effective for the term of this contract shall be recognized as follows: New Year’s Day, Easter Monday, Memorial Day, July Fourth, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, the Friday after Thanksgiving, Christmas Eve, Christmas Day and an individually selected day. All holidays will be scheduled on a normal workday, Monday through Friday and the individually selected day will be subject to the same approval process as individually designated vacation days. An employee with less than 4 months of service will not be eligible for the floating holiday.
It is agreed that the Company will pay an employee for eight (8) hours at their regular straight-time hourly rate plus COLA for each of the above-mentioned holidays they do not work, provided they meet the qualifications for holiday pay. Any employee who works on a company designated holiday shall be paid double time, plus pay for the holiday.
To qualify for company designated holiday pay, an employee must work both their last-scheduled workday before and their first-scheduled workday following the holiday in question, unless they are absent because of a bona fide illness or have an excuse acceptable to management.
Leave of absence or layoff for more than twenty (20) days or an unexcused absence in a six months' period prior to any holiday or refusal to work on a holiday shall disqualify an employee for pay for the holiday in question.
5
ARTICLE V
Reporting Pay
The Company guarantees that each employee who reports to work on any regular working day (not having been notified on the last previous working day not to report, or, in the case of an employee who was not working on such last previous working day, having been notified to report) shall be entitled to receive a minimum amount of work or pay in lieu thereof, except in cases in which the failure of the Company to provide work is due to power failure or other causes beyond the control of the Company. The guaranteed work (or pay in lieu thereof) shall be four (4) hours.
All call-ins on Sunday to paid at two times hourly the and minimum of four hours paid, all other call-ins to be paid at one and one-half times hourly rate for minimum of four hours.
It is agreed that the Company will not require an employee to clean any machine on the employee’s time, but it is understood that employees are to be at their place of work with their proper materials and ready to commence work at the their scheduled starting time.
If employees are forced to wait through no fault of their own, no wage reduction shall be made by reason of such idleness.
6
ARTICLE VI
Transfer
It is agreed the Company may require an employee to transfer temporarily to another job, but if an employee is temporarily transferred to a higher-rated job for a purpose other than their being trained or instructed for a period of one-quarter of an hour or more, they shall receive the rate for the job to which they are so transferred.
7
ARTICLE VII
Vacation
Each employee who has six months continuous service as of July 3 or December 23 shall be entitled to vacation pay for the applicable vacation period.
Continuous service shall not be considered to have been broken by layoffs or temporary shutdowns of the Company's plant, except as noted in Article XIII, provided the employee is not at fault. An employee who has been absent for twenty (20) or more working days from January 1 through June 30 will be disqualified from receiving one week's vacation pay during the first half of the calendar year.
An employee who has been absent for twenty (20) or more working days from July 1 through December 31 will be disqualified from receiving one week's vacation pay during the second half of the calendar year.
The first twenty (20) days missed in the first and/or second 6-month period of the calendar year because of an employee's bona fide illness, and the first twelve (12) weeks missed during the entire calendar year because of circumstances qualifying for leave under the Family Medical Leave Act, are not counted as absences of this section. An employee who has not been counseled or lost vacation pay for the previous 3 full calendar years will be given a documented counseling session in lieu of disqualification. This section does not apply to extra vacation weeks.
In an emergency the Company may require an employee to work during their vacation, and such employee shall receive their vacation pay in lieu of their vacation, plus their regular pay for whatever time they work during their vacation period, but in such cases, the Company will give the employee as much notice as possible.
If a holiday, as specified in this contract, falls on a day on which an employee would have been scheduled to work they had not been on vacation, they shall be entitled to their holiday pay in addition to their vacation pay.
One week's vacation pay shall be 40 times an employee's regular rate of pay plus COLA and shift differential in the case of an employee regularly assigned in the week preceding their vacation to the second or third shift, as the case may be. Vacation money will be paid when an employee begins their vacation.
8
The Company will grant paid vacations to eligible employees in accordance with the following schedule:
Length of Continuous Service	Vacation per Calendar Year	Hours Paid
6 Months	1 Week	40
1 Year	2 Weeks	80
5 Years	3 Weeks	120
12 Years	4 Weeks	160
20 + Years	5 Weeks	200
28 Years	6 Weeks	240
(Removed as part of 2019 negotiation)- Eligibility for six (6) weeks of vacation only applies to those individuals hired on or before December 31,1987.
Employees with greater than two (2) weeks of vacation will be required to schedule those weeks in excess of two (2) no later than January 31 of the current calendar year. Scheduling of vacation will be conducted in the order of seniority (senior employee selects their vacation first). The Company maintains the right to determine how many employees may be away from work at any given time based on business conditions.
Employees in the active service of the Company shall be entitled to take their extra vacation week(s) without regard to their qualification for plant shutdown vacation pay.
Additionally, employees with more than 4 months of service who are eligible for less than 3 weeks of vacation per year qualify for one (1) paid and one (1) unpaid "personal" day off each calendar year. These days may be taken in four (4) or eight (8) hour increments, will be scheduled like other individually scheduled vacation days, and may not be carried into subsequent calendar years.
The Company to provide one paid personal day off and one unpaid personal day off.
9
ARTICLE VIII
No-Strike, No-Lockout Clause
The Union agrees that it will not call, encourage, authorize, ratify or engage in any strike, slowdown, or other interruption of work during the term of this Agreement or any extension or renewal hereof.
Each employee agrees that they will not engage in a strike, slowdown, or other interruption of work during the term of this Agreement or any extension or renewal hereof. It is agreed that any violation of this section will be grounds for discharge and such discharge will not be reviewable under the grievance procedure except on the question of whether such violation occurred.
10
ARTICLE IX
Bulletin Board
A section of the presently existing bulletin boards may be used by the Union for posting notices approved by the Company and pertaining to Union meetings, Union elections, Union appointments, results of Union elections and Union recreational and social affairs. Posting of such notices shall be handled by the Union through the office of the Human Resources.
11
ARTICLE X
Discharge and Discipline
1.	No employee shall be discharged, demoted or disciplined without good and sufficient cause. If it is determined that an employee with greater than 4 months seniority is to be terminated, the termination will take place when a Union Steward can be present. If a Steward is not available at the time the decision to terminate is made, the employee will be sent home immediately on unpaid status and instructed to return at a specified time and place for a meeting with management and the Union Steward. The employee called back in will not be paid by the Company for the time of this meeting. Any employee who has been discharged shall, if they so request, be granted an interview with their Union Steward before they are required to leave the plant.
2.	In all cases of discharge, demotion or written discipline the Shop Stewards shall be notified of the action immediately.
3.	Should there be any dispute between the Company and the Union concerning the existence of good and sufficient cause for discharge, demotion or discipline such dispute shall be adjusted in accordance with grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement.
4.	In the event it should be decided that an injustice has been dealt an employee with regard to discharge, the Company may be required to reinstate such employee with such compensation for time lost and restoration of such seniority, as may be determined, at the employee's regular rate provided there shall be deducted from such award any unemployment and/or other compensation from any source received during the period of their separation from the payroll of the Company.
12
ARTICLE XI
Management
The management of the plant and the direction of the working forces, including the right to hire, suspend or discharge, or to relieve employees from duty because of lack of work, is vested exclusively in the Company. The Company reserves all the rights, powers and authority possessed by it except insofar as they are specifically surrendered or abridged by express provisions of this Agreement.
13
ARTICLE XII
Scope of Negotiations
No subject or matter which could have been discussed or was discussed by either party during the negotiations of this Agreement without regard to whether it is or is not incorporated herein, shall be a subject for further negotiation during the term of this Agreement.
14
ARTICLE XIII
Seniority
In filling vacancies (the term vacancy shall include an opening in the same job classification on a different shift), or promotions in the bargaining unit, everything else being equal, preference shall be given in accordance with seniority.
In case of slack in production, layoffs are to be made on the basis of seniority. The Company will provide prior notice, reasonable under the circumstances, to a Union Steward in the case where layoffs are determined by the Company to be required. The last person hired in will be the first person laid off, and the person of greatest seniority in the plant will be the last laid off provided that, in order to avoid layoff, an employee must without question be able to efficiently perform the job which the Company has available. Employees on layoff will be recalled in the inverse order of layoff, provided, to be recalled, an employee must without question be able to efficiently perform the job which the Company has available. Employees who are laid off with over one (1) year seniority will be granted 90 % of base wage for the number of weeks equal to their full years of service, 3 months of insurance (medical, dental, life) paid for by the company at each employee's benefit election level at the time of layoff, and will qualify for job placement assistance to be provided by the company.
Temporary transfers shall not be affected by seniority. An employee's seniority will be terminated if:
a)	They quit.
b)	They are discharged.
c)	They have been laid off because of reduction or change in work and have not been called back within six (6) months; rehired within a year, in which case seniority shall be reinstated, or if, when they are called back by a personal visit, telegram, or registered letter, they fail to report within three (3) days of the time when they are requested to report.
d)	They are absent for five (5) working days without notifying the Company.
An employee accepting any official position with the employer or any position with the Union will not forfeit their seniority, provided that upon their application to return to their former position with the Company, their original seniority be voted upon and ratified by
15
membership of their Local Union. It is agreed that only one (1) employee at the same time can preserve seniority under this clause while serving in a position with the Union.
16
ARTICLE XIV
Health Care Benefits
The Company will continue to provide a basic program of Health Care Benefits to include basic vision and dental coverage for all employees, who have on the first of any month two (2) months’ service. The Company will also offer dependent coverage. In addition to this basic program the Company will offer alternative programs with higher levels of benefits for both employees and their dependents. Cost sharing for these programs will be as mutually negotiated.
Hourly paid employees who retire early will have the option to continue their health care benefits with certain restrictions at their own expense. The Company will contribute $100/month toward the retiree's cost of insurance continuation forthose who retire between 55 and 59 years of age. The Company will contribute $200/month toward the retiree’s cost of insurance continuation for those who retire between 60 and 62 years of age. Company to provide healthcare at no cost for employees over age 63 with 10 years of service until age 65. The employee must provide a minimum of 30 days’ notice of their retirement. The Company’s contribution will cease when the retiree reaches the age of 65.
The Company will provide a Short Term Disability of 50% of an employee's basic wage rate per week plus COLA and shift differential for up to 16 weeks from the first day of eligibility to all employees, who have on the first of any month four (4) months’ service, at its own expense. In the event of a catastrophic sickness or accident the above benefit will be extended ten (10) additional weeks to twenty-six (26) weeks.
17
ARTICLE XV
Life Insurance
The Company will provide Group Life Insurance at its expense covering each employee who has on the first of any month two (2) months service in an amount equal to one year's base wage calculated at base rate times 2080 hours, or $35,000, whichever is larger.
18
ARTICLE XVI
Military Service
Employees covered by this Agreement who may volunteer or are drafted into the Military Service of the United States Government shall retain their preference of employment and the right to return to their regular job upon release from such service in accordance with the "Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994."
19
□ □ □
D
ARTICLE XVII
Grievance Procedure
A grievance on the part of any employee (for the purpose of this ARTICLE XVII, the singular may also be read in the plural), shall be handled in accordance with the following procedure, provided no grievance will be considered which is more than four (4) weeks old.
a)	The grievant shall first discuss the matter with their immediate supervisor, whereupon if no satisfactory adjustment be made within three (3) working days, the grievance may be reduced to writing signed by the aggrieved employee and referred by them within three (3) working days to
b)	The Business Representative, or someone designated by him, and the Senior Manufacturing Manager, or his authorized representative, if the grievance pertains to an alleged violation of this Agreement and is not settled in this step b) within five (5) days, then that issue may, within ten (10) days thereafter be submitted to arbitration by the Union by giving written notice to the Company of its desire for this action.
Within five (5) working days after the receipt of such notice, each party shall name one arbitrator and the two arbitrators so named shall promptly meet and select a third arbitrator who shall be chairman of the arbitration of the arbitration board. If the arbitrators named are unable to agree upon a third arbitrator, t h e n the chairman of the arbitration board shall be appointed by the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service.
The arbitration board shall have power to receive testimony from the parties to the dispute and to hear such witnesses as they may desire to present. The parties may, if they so desire, be represented by counsel in all proceedings held before the arbitration board. The chairman shall preside at all meetings of the arbitration board and shall be the senior member thereof.
The Company shall bear the cost of preparing and presenting its case to the arbitration board, and the Union shall bear the cost of preparing and presenting its case to the arbitration board. All other expenses of arbitration, such as, but not limited to, the fee of the chairman of the arbitration board, the cost of a transcript of the record of the
20
proceedings of the board should either party desire it, and the hiring of a space in which the arbitration proceedings are held, shall be divided equally between the Company and the Union.
The decision of a majority of the arbitration board made within the scope of their jurisdictional authority shall be binding upon the Company, the Union and the aggrieved employee. The jurisdictional authority of the board is defined as, and limited to, the determination of any allegation of violation of a specific provision of this Agreement, submitted to it and considered by it in accordance with the provision of this Agreement. It is specifically understood that the arbitration board shall not add to, take from, or modify this Agreement.
21
ARTICLE XVIII
Wages
It is the intention of the Company that its wage scale for similar work under similar conditions shall be at least as high as that of other factories directly competitive to the Company. The Company may, in its discretion, make individual wage adjustments from time to time.
Rates of pay by job classification together with associated wage progression steps are set forth in Appendix A attached hereto. Wage progressions will be suspended for employees that miss four (4) consecutive weeks or more from work due to a leave of absence. The suspension will apply to time missed after the first (4) four weeks of LOA. Progressions will resume the Monday following their return to work. Progression increases will not be suspended for vacations.
A temporary Cost of Living Allowance will be calculated each quarter with the previous quarter as the basis. For each 0.4 change in the Consumer Price Index as published by the U. S. Department of Labor (1982 Series) one cent ($0.01) per hour adjustment will be made to the temporary COLA. Fractional index points will be carried forward to the next quarter. Revised COLA will be paid beginning the first full week of each quarter. The adjustment for January 2005 will be based on the November 2004 index compared with the August 2004 index. Adjustments will continue on a similar basis each quarter for the life of the agreement.
Payments under this plan will commence during the first full business week of January 2005 and will continue over the life of this Agreement at three (3) month intervals. Each payment will be based upon the calculation made the preceding interval.
22
ARTICLE XIX
Check Off
The Company agrees for the term of this Agreement, upon receipt of a written assignment and authorization, in a form satisfactory to the Company, voluntarily executed by an employee, to deduct from their pay once each month the current month's Union dues in the amount specified in such assignment or order, and to pay the monies thus deducted to the Union official specified by the Union. The Union shall indemnify and save the Company harmless against any and all claims, demands, suites or other forms of liability that may arise out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the Company for the purpose of complying with any of the provisions of this Section.
23
ARTICLE XX
Funeral Leave
The Company will reimburse an employee for eight (8) hours per day at their straight time hour-rate of pay (including applicable shift differential of shift to which employee is regularly assigned) for time lost from work, not to exceed five consecutive workdays, from day of death of a spouse, father, mother, son or daughter, and not to exceed three days from day of death through day of funeral for brother, sister, grandparent, grandchild, half- brother or half-sister, father-in-law, mother-in-law, step-parent, step-child, daughter-in-law, and son-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law . Employees will be permitted excused absence without pay for up to three days from day of death through the day of funeral in the event of the death of an uncle, aunt, nephew or niece. A copy of the death certificate and proof of relationship may be required.
An employee on vacation at the time a death occurs of a relative listed above (except during normal shutdown weeks) may notify the Company to consider them on funeral leave with vacation time either rescheduled or added to the end of allowable funeral leave.
24
ARTICLE XXI
Jury Duty
Any employee who loses pay by reason of jury duty shall be reimbursed the difference between their compensation for such jury service and their regular straight time rate of pay.
Day shift employees will be expected to report to work within one hour of being released from jury service. Afternoon and midnight shift employees will be excused and compensated for time missed on their next regularly scheduled shift following jury service on request. Employees must report their absence prior to the start of that s h i f t.
The employee shall bring a statement from the clerk of the court showing their compensation for jury service and the time they were released each day. Such compensation shall include one-hour travel time.
25
ARTICLE XXII
Safety Shoes/Uniforms/Safety
Glasses
The Company will make a $150 reimbursement to any employee who is required to wear safety shoes on the job, for the purchase of same. This shall be limited to one reimbursement per calendar year. The Company agrees to allow employees in the IAM, Local 10 to accrue unused portions of their safety shoe allowance from year to year with a maximum accrued value of $300.00. The Company has an account with Redwing shoe store in Chester, which will enable employees to purchase shoes directly from the store and have cost billed directly to the Company. Employees accept responsibility for ensuring that any purchases billed to the Company are in line with the CBA. Employees also agree that refunds for any purchases which were paid by the Company will be credited back to the Company.
The Company will provide uniforms in quantities mutually agreed upon during negotiations to each employee who is required to wear a uniform.
The Company provides the IAM employees the option of securing safety glasses through a vendor of their choice while the cost of the glasses is in line with policy.
26
ARTICLE XXIII
Termination
This Agreement shall remain infull force and effect until January 29, 2022 and shall be automatically renewed from year to year thereafter unless terminated or changed pursuant to the following conditions: If either party elects to terminate or modify this Agreement, itshall give written notice to the other party no later than sixty (60) days prior to the annual expiration date, such written notice not to become effective until sixty (60) days prior to said expiration date.
For the Company:	For the Union:
27
□
D 0
D
□
APPENDIX A
WAGE SCHEDULE EFFECTIVE JANUARY 29, 2019
CLASSIFICATION	2019 TOP RATE	2020 TOP RATE	2021 TOP RATE
Machinist	$33.71	$34.74	$35.81
*	Subsequent annual increases for the duration of this contract will consist of COLA (as outlined in Article XVIII (Wages) of current contract) being added to the stated rate and effective with the first pay period in January of that calendar year. The next calendar year will begin with COLA atzero.
The Union agrees to freeze the COLA for the length of the contract.
*	* Increases to these stated rates will be considered in exchange for recommended and approved productivity enhancement/improvements. These increases must be completely offset by the savings provided to the Company and will be effective with the first pay period following the successful completion of such improvements.
The Company agrees to increase hourly wage by $1.00 and then an additional 3.06% increase for 2020 and 2021
The Company agrees to a 3.06% increase for 2019,2020 and 2021.
ADDITIONS TO BASE WAGE RATES
All persons in the machinery division who are responsible to train new personnel orthose designated as "Team Leader" will be paid a premium of $2.00/hr respectively during the time that they are training and/or learning new processes/techniques for the purpose of training other personnel or serving in the role as "Team Leader". Management reserves the right to select trainers and Team Leaders based solely upon their qualification to do the specific job and proven training ability.
Project Leaders, assigned to serve as project lead on large projects will be paid a premium of $1,00/hour for time worked on the project. Management reserves the right to select Project Leaders.
28
REFERENCE DOCUMENTS
MEMORANDUMS OF UNDERSTANDING Tables of Content
Subject	Page
10 Hour/Day Employee Vacation Option	31
Weekend Duty Machinist	32
Weather Make-Up Days	33
POREX, FILTRATION GROUP USA Benefits Program	34
Waiver of Bargaining Rights and Arbitrability Regarding Pensions	35
Gym Membership	36
Performance Reviews	37
Addendums to Hourly Handbook	38
Severance Pay	39
Porex, Filtration Group Hourly Handbook	40
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING 10 Hour/Day Employee Vacation Option POREX, FILTRATION GROUP & International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, A.F.L.-C.I.0.
Paragraph four of Article ID in the Agreement between POREX, FILTRATION GROUP Richmond, Inc. and the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, AF.L.-C.I.O, states:
Employees whose normal work schedule is four ten-hour days per week will convert to an eight hour schedule during any week in which they take a partial week of vacation. During these weeks, all time worked in excess of eight hours per day will be paid at the appropriate overtime rate.
A verbal agreement between Machinery Supervision and the representation of the bargaining unit to allow the ten-hour per day employees to remain on a ten hour shift when taking a partial week of vacation has been in existence. An employee gives up 2 hours of standard pay (per day) and receives 8 hours of vacation pay (per day) when taking a vacation day. When taking a Yi day of vacation the employee receives 4 hours of vacation and chooses to work 6 hours at regular rate or 4 hours at regular rate, losing 2 hours of pay.
This memorandum is to document this option, which can be taken at the employee’s discretion.
Employees choosing this option are reminded that the overtime rate of time and one-half of their regular rate will only apply for:
•	Time in excess of their normally scheduled 1 O-hour shift.
•	Time in excess of 40 hours per week
-	Time worked on Saturdays.
The Machinery Supervisor may allow the employee to work two hours, at their regular rate of pay, to make up for the two hours lost on the vacation day (time swap).
For the Company:
Porex, Filtration Group
For the Bargaining unit:
LOCAL LODGE NO. 10, INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS, AFL-CIO
31
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING Weekend Duty Machinist POREX, FILTRATION GROUP & International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, A.F.L.-C.I.0.
An agreement has been made between the Management of POREX, FILTRATION GROUP and the bargaining unit detailing a Duty Machinist to cover emergency weekend production needs.
Each weekend a machinist will be "on call" from the time that the last machinist clocks out for the standard work week (normally 5 p.m. on Friday) until the first machinist clocks in for the start of the following standard work week (normally 7 a.m. on Monday). There will be no Duty Machinist on holiday weekends or other weekend that the plant is closed. Normal polling procedures will apply forMachinery work needed during these times.
The Duty Machinist will be contacted by the Machinery Division Supervisor (Facilities Engineer, Production Manager, or Director of Manufacturing) to handle jobs deemed as urgent.
This duty will rotate each week between the journeyman machinists working in the Production Machine Shop. The Machinery Division Supervisor will post a rotating schedule. A machinist may have another qualified candidate cover his duty for the entire weekend with prior approval from the Machinery Division Supervisor.
The company guarantees work (or pay in lieu of thereof) of four (4) hours per call-in. Pay for hours worked will be at normal rates as outlined in the approved bargaining agreement.
It is agreed that taking a vacation day on the day prior to or day immediately following a duty weekend does not excuse the duty weekend. The machinist would need to have a qualified candidate cover his duty assignment.
The company agrees not to include "duty call-in" overtime on the weekly OT list used for proper polling for normal overtime needs.
All call-ins on Sunday to be paid at two times hourly rate and minimum of four hours paid, all other call-ins to be paid at one and one-half times hourly rate for minimum of four hours.
For the Company:	For the Union:
32
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING Weather Make-Up Days POREX, FILTRATION GROUP & International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, A.F.L.-C.I.0.
Employees who have been coded WE for absence due to inclement weather may be offered an opportunity to make up the missed day by working additional hours during the week inwhichtheWEdaywas missed. Inorderto provide adequate time for machine shop planning, intentions to work the make-up day must be made at the time of the initial call reporting the absence. If the employee chooses to make up the time on a day{s) other than Saturday, the final decision on when the time will be made up will be at the discretion of the Machine Shop Supervisor.
The time worked as a make-up for the WE day will be worked at straight time rate. Any time worked in excess of 40 hours straight time paid during the week will be paid at time and one half.
No employee shall be forced to work a weather make-up day at straight time.
When the make-up time is worked, the original weather day will be re-coded as EA which does not count against an employee's attendance.
Inthe event Machinery Division is scheduled to work on Saturday, employees may be given the option of working Saturday on overtime without changing the weather day coding or working at straight time as a weather make-up day, changing the WE day to
EA.
If a machine shop employee isdrafted for non-scheduled hours during a week that he has a WE code, he may choose to work that time as a weather make-up, atstraight time.
The Company reserves the right to determine if there is sufficient work to provide the opportunity for the make-up day.
Porex, Filtration Group
LOCAL LODGE NO. 10, INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS, AFL-CIO
33
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
POREX, FILTRATION GROUP USA BENEFITS PROGRAM
Articles XIV (Health Care Benefits and Sickness and Accident Benefits) and XV (Life Insurance) of the collective bargaining agreement between POREX, FILTRATION GROUP Richmond, Inc. ("the Company”) and the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, A.F.L.-C.1.0., Local Lodge No. 10 ("the Union") dated January 20,2002 to January 22,2005, contains provisions relating to health insurance coverage, short term disability coverage and life insurance coverage ("benefits").
In order to better serve its bargaining unit members, the Union has requested that the Company provide these benefits under the National Benefit Plan of POREX, FILTRATION GROUP'S USA Operations, currently established strictly for all non- bargaining unit employees ("the plan"). The Union recognizes that the plan covers approximately 1,500 subscribers across all of the many POREX, FILTRATION GROUP USA facilities and therefore, its standard terms, costs, coverage and other provisions are not subject to negotiation between the Company and the Union.
In exchange for the Company's agreement to provide benefits to its members under the plan, the Union agrees to waive whatever right it may have to negotiate with respect to the terms, conditions, cost, operation and other provisions of the plan for a period of time limited to the duration of this Memorandum of Agreement. This waiver is effective from the date this Memorandum of Agreement is executed by the Union through the end of the plan's contracted renewal date (currently established renewal date is January 1,2006). This agreement will be extended for additional renewals unless the Union notifies the Company in writing no less than 90 days prior to the next renewal date, in order to provide both the Company and the Union the necessary time to find alternatives to the benefits provided for under the plan prior to the renewal date in order to ensure there is no lapse in coverage.
Nothing in this Memorandum of Agreement is intended to relieve the parties of their respective obligations under the bargaining unit contract, except to the extent expressly stated herein.
Porex, Filtration Group	LOCAL LODGE NO. 10, INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS, AFL-CIO
34
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Waiver of Bargaining Rights and Arbitrability Regarding Pensions
Local Lodge No. 10 of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, AFL-CIO ("the Union") hereby waives its right to engage in collective bargaining inany form with POREX, FILTRATION GROUP Richmond, Inc. ("the Company") or its successor concerning the issue of pensions. As used in this Memorandum of Agreement, the term "pensions includes defined benefit plans, defined contribution plans, 401 (k) plans, and all other types of retirement plans, and itspecifically includes the Bunzl USA, Inc. Deferred Savings Plan ("the Savings Plan"), but it excludes retiree health insurance to the extent that issue is addressed in Article XIV of the parties'collective bargaining agreement ("the Contract"). This waiver includes but is not limited to the issues of pension benefits and the terms, operation, application, and administration of any pension plan.
The Union also waives any right it or the members of the bargaining unit represented by it at the Company ("Unit Members") may have to file grievances and seek arbitration with respect to any dispute arising under Article XXIII of the Contract.
The waivers described above remain in effect for as long as Unit Members are eligible to participate in the Savings Plan or any successor plan. The Union understands that these waivers are of indefinite duration, and they may and are expected to extend beyond the term of the Contract effective January 23, 2005 through January 22, 2008. The Union further understands and agrees that the Company or Bunzl USA, Inc. retains the right to modify or terminate the Savings Plan or withdraw participation rights of Unit Members in the Savings Plan without engaging or offering to engage in collective bargaining negotiations with the Union.
The Union enters into these waivers knowingly and voluntarily based upon representations from the Company that participants in the Savings Plan represented by it (i) will receive, pursuant to the Contract, the benefits of the Savings Plan, as it now exists and as it may be amended in the future (subject to the Company’s right to terminate the Plan or withdraw participation rights of Unit Members), and (ii) are entitled to exercise the dispute resolution procedures of the Savings Plan, including rights under the federal Employee Retirement Income Security Act.
The Union represents and warrants that the undersigned Union representative is authorized to consent to these waivers on behalf of the Union.
Porex, Filtration Group
LOCAL LODGE NO. 10, INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS, AFL-CIO
35
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
WRITTEN PERFORMANCE REVIEWS
An agreement has been made between POREX, FILTRATION GROUP Richmond, Inc. ("the Company")and the Internationa) Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, A.F.L.-C.I.O., Local Lodge No. I 0 ("the Union") regarding annual written performance reviews for those employees represented by the Union.
Beginning in June, 2009, the Company will meet with each employee represented by the Union to discuss his or her individual job performance as it relates to goals and objectives both for the individual and the Company. During the performance review process, individuals will be provided with specific feedback in an effort to aid and guide them in an appropriate direction.
The performance review process will be used as a tool to aid in individual improvement, not for disciplinary measures.
Porex, Filtration Group	LOCAL LODGE NO. 10,
INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS, AFL-CIO
36
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
ADDENDUMS TO CURRENT HOURLY EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK
An agreement has been made between POREX, FILTRATION GROUP Richmond, Inc. ("the Company") and the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, A.F.L.-C. 1.0., Local Lodge No. 10 ("the Union") regarding changes to the Hourly Employee Handbook directed to improve overall absenteeism for those employees represented by the U n i o n.
Medical Leave of Absences
It is agreed that Medical Leaves of Absences will not extend past six (6) months. Should it be necessary for an employee to be away from work under a physician's care in excess of six (6) months, he or she will be removed from the payroll and will work with the insurance company to determine their eligibility for Long Term Disability. They will remain on a call back list for a period of one year form the first day of absence. Once removed from payroll, the Company will pay the "employee only" portion of their COBRA payment fora period not to exceed one (I) year from the 1 "day of absence.
The Union agrees that in cases of Medical Leave of Absences which extend past six (6) months, the employee will sign a HI PAA release and may be examined by a Company physician at the Company's request.
Attendance Policy
It is agreed that the current Attendance Policy will be modified to read as follows:
Each employee is generally required to be available to work during their assigned working hours. While the Company recognizes that there may be occasions when it is necessary for an employee to miss work, it is the employee's responsibility to notify the plant as soon as possible, but no later than their scheduled starting time. This allows supervision to plan the work of the department accordingly.
The attendance policy is intended to control excessive absenteeism or tardiness by individual employees, which may interfere with efficient operations.
•	When employees must be absent or expect to be late, they should call the supervisor's direct telephone line, or 524-4983. The employees will be asked to give their name, department, shift, clock number, supervisor, reason for the absence, the date they expect to return to work and the address and telephone number where they may be contacted.
•	No disciplinary action will be taken against employees on approved Leaves of Absence (LOA) under the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1995, funeral, military, or other LOA's that are addressed by specific policy statements, except as indicated in item 9 below.
•	Department heads will review the attendance record of each employee over the most recent three (3) month period at the end of each month. Disciplinary action will be taken as required to control poor attendance, which consists of verbal warnings, written warning, one day layoff, three day layoffs and discharge. Decision to take disciplinary action is based on the following:
1.	Unexcused absences will result in immediate disciplinary action of increasing severity beginning with a written warning.
2.	Employees may be required to obtain a doctor's note for their absence.
3.	Employees absent from work for five (5) scheduled workdays without notifying the Company will be terminated.
37
4.	If an employee has been absent, except for approved LOA, and on more than one occasion during the most recent three (3) month period and those absences total three (3) or more full days, disciplinary action will be taken. For purposes of this policy, the following description of absences apply:
One Full Day Absence - One (1) Full Day Absence
Two (2) Partial Day Absences =* One (I) Full Day Absence
Three (3) Late Reporting = One (I) Full Day of Absences
5.	Employees will not be subject to disciplinary action for on-the-job accidents in which the employee's actions were not the primary contributing factor.
6.	Severity of disciplinary action will be decreased by one level for each 12-month period without an attendance problem.
7.	Employees returning from LOA may be required to recertify in their job (or a job for which they qualify that is available to them) before they will be considered to have returned to w or k.
8.	Employees on LOA for over six (6) months will be terminated. They will be on a recall list for a period of one (1) year from the first day of absence.
Porex, Filtration Group
LOCAL LODGE NO. 10, INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION O F MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS, AFL-CIO
38
Memorandum of Understanding Severance Pay
Effective January 29, 2019 and ending January 29, 2022, employees who are laid off with over one (1) Year seniority will be granted 90% of base wage for two (2) weeks per every year of full service and 3 months of health care insurance. The layoff provision will revert to the original contract language beginning January 29, 2018 or upon signing of a new collective bargaining agreement between the Company and the Union prior to that date.
For the Company:
For the Union:
D
39
Memorandum of Understanding Handbook
0 □ [
[ D
n j
An agreement has been made between POREX, FILTRATION GROUP Richmond, Inc. ("the Company") and the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, A.F.L.-C.I.O., Local Lodge No. 10 ("the Union") regarding the use of the Porex, Filtration Group Hourly Employee Handbook directed to improve overall policy understanding.
Should any information in the Handbook conflict with a Collective Bargaining Agreement or with any federal or state law, the applicable agreement or provision of law will take precedence. This Handbook is not intended to substitute, replace, overrule, or modify any existing federal and state laws, agency rules, regulations or policies, or terms of a collective bargaining agreement (if relevant), nor be inclusive of every policy.
For the Company:
For the Union:
40