K9920
AGREEMENT
entered into by and between LIGHTNING EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICE INC.
and
LOCAL 363, LB.E.W.
May 1,2019 - April 30,2022
Table of Contents
PAGE
ARTICLE 1	EFFECTIVE DATE - AMENDMENTS	3
ARTICLE 2	UNION RECOGNITION	4
ARTICLE 3	HIRING - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS	4
ARTICLE 4	GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION	5
ARTICLE 5	SHOP STEWARD AND GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE	7
ARTICLE 6	SENIORITY	7
ARTICLE 7	WAGES	9
ARTICLE 8	HOLIDAYS	9
ARTICLE 9	VACATIONS	10
ARTICLE 10	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME	12
ARTICLE 11	GENERAL RULES	13
ARTICLE 12	GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS	16
ARTICLE 13	FILING OF NOTICES	17
ARTICLE 14	UNION BULLETIN BOARD	17
ARTICLE 15	DISCHARGES	17
ARTICLE 16	DISABILITY BENEFITS LAW	17
ARTICLE 17	HEALTH PLAN BENEFITS	18
ARTICLE 18	INJURY ON THE JOB	18
ARTICLE 19	EQUAL PAY = EQUAL WORK	19
ARTICLE 20	DEATH IN THE FAMILY	19
ARTICLE 21	RETIREMENT PLAN	20
ARTICLE 22	JURY DUTY	20
ARTICLE 23	PROMOTIONS	21
ARTICLE 24	SAFETY AND HEALTH	21
ARTICLE 25	LEAVE OF ABSENCE	22
[CSCv3 04-16-19]
Page 2 of 24
This agreement ("Agreement") is entered into and made effective as of May 1,2019 ("Effective Date") by and between LIGHTNING EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICE INC., having an address of 1978 Route 32, Modena, NY 12548 ("Company") and LOCAL 363 OF THE INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, affiliated with the AFL-CIO, having an address of 67 Commerce Drive South, Harriman, NY 10926 ("Union"). (The Company and the Union are sometimes individually referred to as a "Party" or collectively referred to as the "Parties.")
WHEREAS, the Union has been designated for the purpose of collective bargaining by the employees in the unit covered by this Agreement (individually an "Employee" or collectively the "Employees"), and has been certified by the National Labor Relations Board as the exclusive representative of said Employees, with respect to all matters pertaining to wages, hours of employment and working conditions; and
WHEREAS; the Parties hereto desire to establish a standard of conditions and procedure under which said Employees shall work for the Company during the Term of this Agreement and desire to regulate the mutual employment relations between the parties for the purpose of securing harmonious cooperation and the settling of all disputes that may arise in the employee-employer relationship by peaceful means;
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and agreements herein contained, the Parties agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
EFFECTIVE DATE - AMENDMENTS
SECTION I This Agreement shall take effect as of 12:01AM on the Effective Date and shall remain in effect until 12:00PM on April 30,2022 ("Expiration Date"), unless earlier terminated pursuant to this Agreement ("Term"); notwithstanding, this Agreement shall continue in effect from year to year thereafter from 12:01AM on the first day in May until 12:00PM on April 30 of each following year, unless amended or terminated pursuant to this Agreement.
SECTION 2 Sixty (60) calendar days prior to the Expiration Date, either Party notify the other Party of such Party's intent to amend (subject to the consent of the other party) or terminate this Agreement. The nature of the amendment desired shall be specified in said notice.
SECTION 3 This Agreement may be amended at any time by mutual consent of the Parties. Any such amendment shall be reduced to writing, state the effective date of the amendment, and be executed in the same manner as this Agreement.
[CSCv3 04-16-19]
Page 3 of 24
SECTION 4 The Union agrees that it shall not engage in, sanction, or permit any strike, sympathy strike, slowdown, picketing, or any other interference with the Company's business ("Work Stoppage") because of any dispute arising under the terms of this Agreement, and in exchange the Company agrees not to lock out the Employees. The Union and the Company shall mutually agree on the terms of any shutdown of Company operations. All disputes during the Term of this Agreement shall be addressed in accordance with applicable laws and this Agreement, and in particular as set forth in Article [4] of this Agreement ("Grievance and Arbitration.")
ARTICLE 2
UNION RECOGNITION
SECTION 1	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive collective bargaining agency of all Employees in a unit consisting of the following: All Employees employed by the Company located at 1978 Route 32, Modena, NY, but excluding office and professional employees, guards, watchmen and all supervisory employees as defined in the Labor-Management Relations Act of 1947.
SECTION 2	All Employees shall be required to become and remain members of the Union as a condition of employment from and after the thirty-first (31st) day following the date of their employment or the Effective Date of this Agreement, whichever is later.
SECTION 3 The Company agrees to deduct Union dues and initiation fees from the wages of those Employees who in writing so authorize the Company to make such deduction(s). Such written authorization shall be binding upon an Employee during the Term of this Agreement. The Company agrees to make such deduction(s) from the payroll of each week to be applied to the following month's account and to send a check for the total amount of said deduction(s), together with a list of the Employees for whom said deduction(s) were made, to the Financial Secretary of the Union, on or before the tenth (10th) day of the following month. New Employees who authorize such deduction(s) shall have their deduction(s) begin upon the completion of their first thirty-one (31) days of full-time employment.
ARTICLE 3
HIRING - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
SECTION 1	The Company shall have the right to hire whomever it chooses and agrees to advise new Employees at the time of hire that they shall become members of the Union from and after the thirty-first (31st) day following the date of their hire as a condition of employment.
[CSCv3 04-16-19]
Page 4 of 24
SECTION 2	The Company shall upon request furnish the Union with a list of new Employees, former Employees who have been rehired, or any change in the status of present Employees.
SECTION 3	The Company has and shall continue to have full control over all matters relating to the management and conduct of its business, except to the extent specifically conceded, abridged or modified by this Agreement.
SECTION 4	In the event the Company hires a worker from a temporary agency, that worker shall join the Union, become a full-time Employee, receive full benefits and complete any probation period if such Employee remains employed by the Company on the one hundred twentieth (120th) calendar day following the first day worked.
SECTION 5	Part-time Employees shall mean any Employee hired to work thirty (30) hours or less. Part-time Employees shall not be hired to displace full-time Employees.
ARTICLE 4
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION WARNING SYSTEM
SECTION 1 In the event any dispute or grievance shall arise between the Company, the Union or any Employee or the Employees of the Company, or any combination of the foregoing, relating in any manner to this Agreement or (not by limitation) to the interpretation, application or enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement, there shall be no Work Stoppage on account of such dispute or grievance, and such matters shall be settled in the following manner:
A A grievance shall first be taken up with the supervisor of the department by the Shop Steward, the Employee, or both. No grievance shall be taken up more than five (5) days after (i) it last occurred or (ii) disciplinary action has been taken.
B Any grievance which is not resolved within two (2) working days in accordance with paragraph A shall be reduced to writing by the Shop Steward and submitted to the human relations manager designated by the Company.
C If the grievance is still unresolved after three (3) working days following the submission thereof to the human relations manager, it may then be presented by the grievance committee and the Business Manager to representatives of the Company for resolution. An International Representative of the IBEW may be present at this step in the process solely to assist the Union. In the event a resolution is not then reached within ten (10) working days, either party may submit the grievance to arbitration ("Arbitration") within five (5) working days of the expiration of said ten (10) day period.
[CSCv3 04-16-19]
Page 5 of 24
D Any grievance which is not timely presented (time being of the essence) or otherwise not processed in accordance with the foregoing shall conclusively be deemed fully and forever waived.
E In the event the Company has a grievance against the Union, or any of its members, representatives or agents, the Company shall present such grievance in writing to the Shop Steward, and a meeting shall be held within five (5) working days; thereafter, the procedure set forth in Paragraph [C] of this Section [1] shall apply.
SECTION 2 The Arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with the then-applicable rules of the American Arbitration Association, with the arbitrator "Arbitrator") selected by the parties. The Arbitrator shall have no power to add to, subtract from, or modify any of the terms of this Agreement or any agreement subsequently made and entered into by and between the Parties.
SECTION 3 Each party shall bear its own expense with respect to the preparation and presentation of a matter to the Arbitrator and both shall equally bear the expense or fee, if any, of the Arbitrator. The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on both parties. All Arbitration proceedings shall be conducted and held within Orange County, New York.
SECTION 4 Employees may be disciplined or discharged for just cause, including chronic absenteeism and tardiness. Such disciplinary action or discharge shall be a proper matter for the grievance and arbitration procedures as provided herein.
WRITTEN WARNING SYSTEM
A An Employee subject to disciplinary action in the first instance shall receive a written warning; provided, that such warning shall be considered "verbal" and retained in the Employee's file, with a copy delivered to the Shop Steward.
B An Employee subject to disciplinary action in the second instance shall receive a written warning, which shall be retained in the Employee's file, with a copy delivered to the Shop Steward.
C An Employee subject to disciplinary action in the third instance shall be subject to suspension, a record of which shall be retained in the Employee's file, with a copy delivered to the Shop Steward.
D	An Employee subject to disciplinary action in the fourth instance shall be subject
to termination, a record of which shall be retained in the Employee's file, with a copy delivered to the Shop Steward.
[CSCv3 04-16-19]
Page 6 of 24
E Each warning shall be removed from an Employee's file after its one (1) year anniversary date.
F Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Employee subject to disciplinary action for gross misconduct (as may reasonably be determined by Company), including but not limited to misappropriation of Company funds, unauthorized use of Company credit cards or Company property, fighting while on Company property or otherwise during working hours, drinking alcoholic beverages while on Company property or otherwise during working hours, possession or being under the influence of illegal substances while on Company property or otherwise during working hours, falsifying or misrepresenting business records, engaging in conduct prohibited by applicable laws or this Agreement, defacing or purposely damaging Company property, prohibited mobile telephone (or similar electronic or communication device) use, or repeated or grievous insubordination, shall, in the reasonable determination of the Company, be subject to immediate termination without the requirement of previous warning(s), but only after investigation by the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 5
SHOP STEWARD AND GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
The Union shall promptly notify the Company as to the identity and contact information of the Shop Steward and the Grievance Committee as of the Effective Date of this Agreement, and also promptly thereafter if and when amended.
ARTICLE 6 SENIORITY
SECTION 1	"Seniority" means the rights accruing to Employees through the length of service which entitles them to certain preferences provided for in this Agreement.
SECTION 2	Seniority shall commence on an Employee's initial date of hire and continue thereafter unless and until forfeited for any of the following reasons:
A Layoff, sickness (except for compensatory injury), or leave of absence in excess of one (1) year;
B Voluntary termination of employment; or
C Termination of employment for cause.
SECTION 3	Employees shall be subject to a one hundred twenty (120) day probation period from initial date of hire. During such probationary period an Employee may be discharged
[CSCv3 04-16-19]
Page 7 of 24
for any reason whatsoever without intervention from the Union and without recourse to the protections provided to Employees (including but not limited to those set forth in Article 4) in this Agreement. The Company may request in writing to the Union to extend this period by an additional thirty days (30), setting forth the basis for and circumstances underlying such request, which request shall not be unreasonably denied.
SECTION 4 If an Employee is called upon to or enlist or serve in any branch of the Armed Services they shall continue to accumulate seniority with the Company during their absence. Upon honorable discharge and return to work within ninety days (90) of honorable discharge the rules of seniority shall prevail for Employees below them on the seniority list. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Employee who enters the Armed Services shall not accumulate any benefits (including but not limited to seniority and vacation rights) beyond the period of service plus ninety (90) days. The selective service law in effect at the time an Employee applies for reinstatement with the Company shall prevail in determining an Employee's seniority and other rights.
SECTION 5 Employees who are incapacitated by an injury arising out of and occurring in the course of their employment shall continue to accumulate seniority during their absence due to such injury. Upon recovery such Employee shall be reinstated to their former position with full seniority rights, provided (i) they are physically, mentally and otherwise qualified to perform the functions of their position and (ii) that said position has not been eliminated or filled by an Employee having greater seniority. If, by reason of the foregoing such Employee cannot be reinstated to such Employee's former position, such Employee shall be returned to such position as and when it may become available and when such Employee is physically, mentally and otherwise qualified to perform the functions of said position, giving full consideration to their seniority. Such Employee shall be paid at a rate commensurate with their qualifications, fitness, and ability for the particular position. It is understood that when such Employee returns to work the regular rules of seniority shall prevail for those Employees below them on the seniority list, unless otherwise mutually agreed by the Union and the Company.
SECTION 6 The following departments are recognized within the plant in regard to layoffs within those departments, which shall be done according to and respectful of Seniority: Warehouse, Van Drivers, CDL Drivers Class A Drivers, CDL Class B Drivers (26,001 lb. truck or more), Non-CDL Drivers (26,000 lb. truck or less) and Driver's Helper. An Employee's full seniority transfers into the new department after one year, and prior to that one-year period same shall revert back to the prior department in the event of a layoff. Layoffs shall follow seniority unless it can be established that certain licenses or certifications shall unreasonably interfere with the following of the seniority list.
[CSCv3 04-16-19]
Page 8 of 24
ARTICLE 7 WAGES
SECTION 1 The following Starting Wages for Employees hired on or after May 1, 2019, and wage increases for then-current Employees, shall be given effect for all Employees as indicated:
Starting Wage 5/1/2019	5/1/2020	5/1/2021
Class A CDL Drivers	$17.00	.50	.50	.50
Class B CDL Drivers	$15.00	.50	.50	.50
Non-CDL Drivers	$13.00	.50	.50	.50
Van Drivers	$11.10	.50	.50	.50
Warehouse	$11.10	.50	.50	.50
Driver's Helper	$11.10	.50	.50	.50
Any Drivers delivering to Manhattan will receive an additional $10.00 dollars per day Monday thru Sunday, with such additional $10.00 dollars per day paid weekly.
ARTICLE 8 HOLIDAYS
SECTION I After thirty (30) days of employment the following holidays shall be paid for in an amount equal to eight (8) hours straight-time pay. If a holiday falls on a Sunday, it shall be observed on the Monday immediately following and for all purposes Monday shall be considered the Holiday. If the holiday falls on a Saturday, the Company shall have the option of observing it on Monday or on the immediately preceding Friday. If the Company elects to observe the holiday on Friday, it shall give at least one (1) week advance notice to the Union and provided such notice is given then Friday is to be considered the Holiday for all purposes.
NEW YEARS DAY
MEMORIAL DAY (LAST MONDAY IN MAY)
JULY FOURTH
LABOR DAY
THANKSGIVING
CHRISTMAS DAY
[CSCv3 04-16-19]
Page 9 of 24
SECTION 2 Employees shall work the eight (8) hour day before and the eight (8) hour day after a holiday in order to be eligible to receive holiday pay, unless (i) the Employee had the absence previously approved by the Company at least two (2) weeks prior, or (ii) the Employee was absent due to a work-related injury and the Employee promptly provides the Company with written documentation of same signed by a physician.
If the Company and the Union mutually agree, changes in the holidays and holiday schedule may be made, and such changes shall be posted in advance for Employees.
SECTION 3 Employees who work on a Holiday shall receive time and one-half for working, plus their Holiday pay. No Employee shall be required to work on a Holiday except in the case of emergency and with the consent by the Union.
ARTICLE 9
VACATIONS
SECTION 1 Vacation eligibility shall be determined on the basis of full years of service. For vacation purposes, service credit for each Employee shall mean those months during the previous year in which the Employee was actually at work for the Company and worked at minimum fifteen (15) days or more. Lost time due to compensable accident, injury or illness for a period not exceeding sixty (60) consecutive days shall be credited as service. For all other absences of two (2) weeks or less, such lost time shall be credited as service, but if an Employees is absent for more than two (2) weeks then no service credit shall be allowed for that month.
SECTION 2 The vacation year shall be based on each Employee's anniversary date commencing as of their initial date of hire. On each anniversary date the Company shall calculate each Employees "full years" as of that day and allow vacation time based on the vacation schedule provided in this Agreement.
SECTION 3 Vacation credits are earned in the prior year for the current year.
SECTION 4 Vacation time cannot be carried from year to year. Employees may or may not choose to use all of the vacation time owed to them. The Company shall pay Employee for any unused vacation time at the end of the year or earlier upon mutual agreement. Acceptance of such payment shall satisfy the Company's vacation obligations to an Employee for that vacation year.
SECTION 5 New Employees shall work one (1) year for the Company before taking vacation days and shall have their first vacation period beginning with the day of their first anniversary. This applies to their first vacation period with the Company only.
[CSCv3 04-16-19]
Page 10 of 24
SECTION 6 Employees notifying their supervisor indicating their first, second and third choices on a Company approved vacation request form by February 15th of each year shall receive priority over those who do not do so. If two or more Employees give notice and request vacation during the same time period, seniority shall prevail. After February 15th of any year vacation shall be issued on a first come, first serve basis.
SECTION 7	The supervisor shall notify the Employee of which vacation period choice is acceptable, within seven (7) working days of receiving a written request.
SECTION 8	In any event, Employees shall give at minimum two (2) weeks' prior notice to the Company in order to receive their scheduled vacation time and pay before taking their vacation, unless approved otherwise by the Company.
SECTION 9	Employees may request portions of vacation time in increments of not less than eight (8) hours.
SECTION 10	In the event of a holiday falling in the vacation period, the Employee shall receive the holiday pay and not be charged with a vacation day for that particular day or days.
SECTION 11	Service credits for an Employee who has lost their seniority with the Company shall be canceled, and if such Employee is re-employed, they shall be considered a new Employee and shall not receive service credits for any time prior to the day of re-employment.
SECTION 12	If there is any conflict between Employees working in the same department as to when vacations shall be taken, seniority shall prevail if neither Employee gave notice to the supervisor prior to February 15th of that year, as provided in Section [6].
SECTION 13 A part-time Employee who averages more than thirty (30) hours per week over a six (6) month period from January to June or July to December will be eligible for one (1) vacation day for each six (6) month period to be used during the next six (6) month period.
VACATION BENEFITS ARE AS FOLLOWS:
After 1 year of employment:	Five (5) days available during the second year.
After 3 years of employment: Ten (10) days available during the fourth year.
After 10 years of employment: Fifteen (15) days available during the eleventh year.
[CSCv3 04-16-19]
Page 11 of 24
SICK TIME
SECTION 14 Sick time shall be available and used during each calendar year only in accordance with the following schedule:
After one (1) year of employment 3 days After five (5) years of employment 5 days
Unused sick time shall not be carried over to the next calendar year. The Company shall purchase from the Employee any unused sick time at the end of the calendar year (or prior to upon mutual consent.)
Sick time is computed using the same method as vacation, i.e. full years of service for each Employee as of their anniversary date.
A part-time Employee who averages more than thirty (30) hours per week over a six (6) month period from January to June or July to December will be eligible for one (1) sick day for each six (6) month period to be used during the next six (6) month period.
ARTICLE 10
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
SECTION 1 These provisions are designed to establish the basis for overtime compensation and to effect compliance with applicable laws, orders and regulations, and shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week or days worked per week. The Fair Labor Standards Act, Section 13: B (1) and 29CFR 782.3 may affect overtime compensation in regard to interstate commerce for Employees who drive across state lines.
SECTION 2 Notwithstanding language to the contrary contained elsewhere in this Agreement, in regard to truck drivers:
A The regular work week begins at 12:01AM Monday and ends midnight on Sunday;
B Truck drivers shall follow and comply with the applicable guidelines, rules and regulations as established by the Federal Motor Carriers Safety Administration (including but not limited to the 70 hours/ 8 day rule according to current Federal Motor Carriers Guidelines); and
C	Truck drivers shall be paid time and one half (IV2) for all hours worked over forty
(40) hours (excluding truck maintenance, safety meetings and all other non-driving related work.)
[CSCv3 04-16-19]
Page 12 of 24
SECTION 3	Notwithstanding language to the contrary contained elsewhere in this Agreement, in regard to warehouse workers:
A Eight (8) hours of work (exclusive of the lunch break) at straight time hourly rates constitutes the regular workday. The Company shall assign Employees their individual work hours and schedules as the Company may reasonably determine. Upon consent of the Union the regular hours and workweek may be changed.
SECTION 4	For all work an Employee performs on Sunday, they shall be paid at the rate of double their straight time hourly rate.
SECTION 5 Employees shall take an unpaid lunch break of at least thirty (30) minutes each day and shall always sign in and out (indicating time) for each lunch break. Employees on the road shall take an unpaid lunch break of at least thirty (30) minutes within the first eight (8) hours of their start time and call in the time of their lunch break to the Company. Employees may only work through a lunch break by getting prior approval from the Company to do so.
A For long distance trips which require an overnight stay, the Company shall provide (i) a meal allowance of up to $25.00 for the first day and up to $50.00 for each additional day, and (ii) a lodging allowance of up $125.00 per night (provided that if lodging cannot reasonably be secured within the allotted allowance the additional cost shall be approved by the Company.)
SECTION 6 Employees shall be allowed a ten (10) minute break in the morning and a ten (10) minute break in the afternoon. Morning break and afternoon break are not to be combined into one break without prior consent of the Company. Morning or afternoon breaks shall not be combined with each other or an Employee's lunch break.
SECTION 7 Any overtime paid outside of the Fair Labor Standards Act, Section 13: B(l) and 29CFR 782.3 shall be paid only for hours actually worked over forty (40) hours. All overtime work shall be approved in advance by the supervisor.
SECTION 8 The Company agrees to make reasonable efforts to hire and maintain at least one (1) full time Employee with a regular work week which begins Tuesday and ends on Saturday. If needed, any work to be performed on Saturdays, Sundays or Holidays shall follow the Seniority list beginning with the most senior Employee and ending with the least senior Employee.
SECTION 9 Employees are not permitted to punch in more than five (5) minutes prior to their scheduled start time unless having prior approval by the Company.
[CSCv3 04-16-19]
Page 13 of 24
ARTICLE 11
GENERAL RULES
SECTION 1 An Employee who reports for work at their regularly scheduled starting time and who has not been given notice during the previous working day not to report shall be guaranteed four (4) hours of work or four (4) hours of pay in lieu thereof, unless such Employee was absent from their regularly scheduled shift when notice not to report was given. This provision shall not apply where there is no work for Employees because of an emergency created by weather, wrecks, fire or smoke from fire, failure of electrical power, labor disputes, Acts of God or other causes beyond the control of the Company; in such cases, Employees may use unused sick or vacation days to make up for lost time.
SECTION 2 Company plant closings due to weather, fire or smoke from fire, failure of electrical power, acts of God or other causes beyond the control of the Company shall be promptly (given the particular circumstances presented) communicated by the Company to the Employees.
SECTION 3 An Employee who is or will be absent from work is obligated to personally notify their supervisor no less than one (1) hour prior to scheduled starting time. Failure to give such notification shall provide a basis for discipline and in addition, if an Employee is absent for two (2) consecutive work days without so notifying their supervisor same may, in the reasonable discretion of the Company (unless justification reasonably satisfactory to the Company for not so notifying their supervisor can be promptly established by the Employee) provide a basis for determination by the Company that such Employee has voluntarily resigned such Employee's position with the Company.
SECTION 4 If an Employee is absent for three (3) consecutive work days a physician's note confirming a medical directive for such absence, and, if requested by the Company, also giving clearance for such Employee to return to work.
SECTION 5 Consistent on-time attendance is required for continued employment by the Company.
SECTION 6 Excluding Truck Drivers when on the road, Employees leaving and entering the plant (including during lunch and other breaks) shall sign in and out using the Company time and attendance system.
SECTION 7 The Business Manager of the Union shall have the right at any time during working hours to visit and inspect the Company's plant in the performance of his duties, provided he first reports to and signs in with the operations office of the Company, complies with all applicable safety laws, rules and regulations, and in no way interferes with the operation of the Company's business.
[CSCv3 04-16-19]
Page 14 of 24
SECTION 8 Employees may be temporarily assigned between departments when needed, provided they receive their current rate of pay or the rate of pay of the assigned job, whichever is higher.
SECTION 9 Employees shall have the option of utilizing the direct deposit system if the Company can make arrangements with a local bank to do so at no or minimal cost.
SECTION 10 Employees who voluntarily resign, are fired or laid off shall promptly upon request return all Company property and shall do so prior to receiving their last paycheck or any other compensation owed to them.
SECTION 11 No outside employment is allowed while working for the Company unless it (i) does not unreasonably interfere with the Employee's work schedule or performance of such Employee's duties, and (ii) is approved in advance by the President of the Company in writing.
SECTION 12 Employees shall be furnished all required tools and equipment and shall be responsible to maintain and safeguard these items. The cost of tools or equipment lost or damaged due to negligence on the part of the Employee shall be reimbursed to the Company by the Employee at fair market value. This provision shall not apply to normal wear and tear or circumstances beyond the Employee's control.
SECTION 13 Employees shall abide by all rules, regulations and policies of the Company that are not inconsistent with this Agreement, provided the Union has reviewed and approved of policies.
SECTION 14 In the event of an emergency, the Company reserves the right to have an outside carrier/ owner operator or Company person fill in as a driver or delivery person. This section is not intended to displace a bargaining unit Employee from work, and a reasonable effort shall be made to utilize Employees.
SECTION 15 Employees are responsible to obtain and maintain their CDL licenses and medical card requirements in regard to any operation of commercial motor vehicles.
SECTION 16Truck Drivers shall call in by 8:30P.M. for the following days' work schedule. If no work is on the schedule at 8:30P.M., such Employees shall call back in by 8:00A.M. the following morning and then again at 10:00A.M. for any available work. Employees who fail to comply shall be subject to discipline.
SECTION 17 Employees who voluntarily resign without providing at least two (2) week's prior notice, shall only be entitled to and paid one third (1/3) of any remaining vacation and sick time.
[CSCv3 04-16-19]
Page 15 of 24
SECTION 18	Truck Drivers shall promptly call in after each completed delivery or pickup and report all pertinent information to the Company.
SECTION 19	All Company mobile telephones and devices shall be used for Company purposes only, and hands-free devices shall be used at all times while driving any Company vehicle.
SECTION 20	No Employee may take photos (or otherwise record, document or memorialize) any freight unless directed by the Company.
SECTION 21 Employees shall be required to use their allotted paid time off (Vacation, Sick) before being allowed to take days off without pay. After exhausting all allotted time Employees shall with prior approval be allowed no more than two (2) unpaid incidental days, and any additional days shall subject such Employee to discipline; notwithstanding, circumstances beyond an Employee's control reasonably requiring additional days shall be discussed with the Company and allowances beyond the two (2) days shall be granted solely in the discretion of the Company.
SECTION 22 An Employee absent from work due to bona fide illness or injury shall notify the Company as promptly and speedily as possible in the event such Employee shall be (or expects to be) unable to work because of such illness or injury.
ARTICLE 12
GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS
SECTION 1 Should any provision of this Agreement be declared illegal by a Federal Court where Federal law is involved, or a State Court where State law is involved, such provisions shall immediately become null and void, leaving the remainder of the Agreement in full force and effect, and the parties shall thereupon seek to negotiate substitute provisions which are in conformity with the applicable Federal or State law and the intent of this Agreement. Any dispute between the parties as to whether or not a Federal or State law shall supersede any part or provision of this Agreement shall be settled by Arbitration as provided for in [Article 4] of this Agreement.
SECTION 2 It is the policy and recognized mutual obligation of the Company and the Union that neither party to this Agreement shall discriminate in any manner against any Employee because of race, color, religious creed, sex, age, disability, sexual orientation, veteran status or national origin, or otherwise as provided by applicable Federal and State laws.
[CSCv3 04-16-19]
Page 16 of 24
SECTION 3	It is agreed that any part of this Agreement which may require approval of a Federal or State authority shall not be put into effect until so approved.
SECTION 4	Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as waiving any rights granted to either the Company or the Union under any applicable Federal or State laws.
ARTICLE 13
FILING OF NOTICES
Notice shall be given in writing in the following manner, except where otherwise specifically provided:
SECTION 1	Notice to the Union: By personal delivery to a Union Official, or by certified, registered or overnight mail addressed to the Union.
SECTION 2	Notice to an Employee: By personal delivery or by certified, registered or overnight mail to said Employee to their most recent address as it appears on the Company's records.
SECTION 3	Notice to all Employees: By posting on the bulletin board, or by delivery to the Union as provided above.
SECTION 4	Notice to the Company: By personal delivery to an officer of the Company, or by certified, registered or overnight mail addressed to the Company.
SECTION 5	General correspondence (excluding not by limitation, notices pertaining to bargaining) may also be sent between the Company and the Union via facsimile or email.
ARTICLE 14
UNION BULLETIN BOARD
SECTION 1 The Company shall provide a bulletin board in the plant for the posting of Union notices.
ARTICLE 15
DISCHARGES
An Employee who has completed their probationary period may be discharged or suspended only for just and sufficient cause. All discharges and suspensions are subject to review under [Article 4] of this Agreement.
[CSCv3 04-16-19]
Page 17 of 24
ARTICLE 16
DISABILITY BENEFITS LAW
SECTION I The Company reserves the right to obtain the necessary coverage under the New York Disability Benefits Law in any way that it deems appropriate. Such plan shall be known as the Disability Benefits Plan (Non-Occupational Disability) or simply the "Disability Benefits Plan."
SECTION 2 An Employee eligible to receive benefits under the Disability Benefits Plan shall also receive the following; For the waiting period required by the Disability Benefits Plan, as determined under then-applicable NYS disability benefits law, during which the Employee does not receive a benefit, the Company shall pay the Employee one (1) weeks' pay at the applicable rate. (Notwithstanding the foregoing, Employees shall immediately inform the supervisor of any injury in order to qualify for such pay and shall provide to the Company reasonable documentation of medical attention within twenty four (24) hours along with a physician's written determination confirming such Employee's inability to perform their work-related duties.)
ARTICLE 17
HEALTH PLAN BENEFITS
SECTION 1 Employees have MVP or a similar plan health insurance, as may from time to time be selected by the Company. Employees shall be responsible for and pay the monthly premium for individual coverage and the entire difference for family coverage, in accordance with the following: Forty (41 %) percent of the monthly premium for 2019, Forty (43%) percent of the monthly premium for 2020, and Forty (45%) percent of the monthly premium thereafter. Dental coverage is available to Employees who elect and who agree to pay fifty (50%) of the monthly premium, and the entire difference for family coverage. After an Employee signs a form authorizing deduction(s) for such premium(s), these deductions shall be made weekly.
SECTION 2 After an initial one-hundred and twenty (120) day probation period, Employees shall be covered during the first available period that the insurance carrier will allow if the Employee elects to have such insurance coverage.
SECTION 3 The Company and the Union may meet during the Term of this Agreement to discuss changes in medical costs or carriers.
[CSCv3 04-16-19]
Page 18 of 24
ARTICLE 18 INJURY ON THE JOB
SECTION 1 The Company shall pay for any part of the first week of absence due to an injury compensable by Worker's Compensation coverage in the following manner:
A The day the injury occurs shall be paid for at the regular rate of pay for eight (8) hours.
B Each of the immediately following four (4) working days of absence shall be paid for an amount equal to that paid by Worker's Compensation Law.
SECTION 2 If the above foregoing [Section 1], or any part thereof, provides less benefits than those of the Worker's Compensation Law, the regulations of the Worker's Compensation Law shall prevail and control. The Company shall be paid for an amount equal to that paid by the Worker's Compensation Law. The Company may recover any duplication of benefits paid to an Employee under this [Article 18]. (Notwithstanding the foregoing, Employees shall immediately inform the supervisor of any work-related injury in order to qualify for such pay and shall provide to the Company reasonable documentation of medical attention within twenty four (24) hours along with a physician's written determination confirming such Employee's inability to perform their work-related duties.)
ARTICLE 19
EQUAL PAY = EQUAL WORK
The Company and the Union agree on the principle of equal pay for equal work
ARTICLE 20
DEATH IN THE FAMILY
An Employee who is absent from work due to the death of a member of the Employee's immediate family shall be eligible for time off with pay as follows:
A The immediate family for this purpose is limited to spouse, father, mother, grandparents, grandchildren, sister, brother, son, daughter, stepmother, stepfather, father-in-law and mother-in-law.
[CSCv3 04-16-19]
Page 19 of 24
B Pay at the rate of eight (8) hours straight time shall be paid for time lost not to exceed three (3) working days for the purpose of attending services and handling personal matters related to death in the immediate family. The three (3) working days need not be consecutive working days, provided the conditions of attendance at services and handling related personal matters are met. Only regular working days shall be compensated.
C An Employee who is absent due to sickness or leave of absence is eligible for this benefit only if they have worked at least one (1) day in the seven (7) calendar days immediately preceding such death; provided, that if an Employee is required to be absent to care for such seriously ill family member, which ultimately results in the death of such family member, this requirement shall not apply.
D There shall be no duplication of pay of any kind during this period.
E If additional time off is necessary, available vacation or sick time may be used with the reasonable consent of the supervisor.
ARTICLE 21 RETIREMENT PLAN
Section 1 The Company has an established retirement plan available for Employees after one (1) year of employment (the "Simple IRA Savings Plan") into which the Company contributes up to three (3) percent of the participating Employee's gross pay per year. The Company may reduce this percentage by claiming hardship as described in the plan documents; provided, that this option may be utilized only once during the term of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 22 JURY DUTY
SECTION 1 In the event that an Employee is called for jury duty, the Company shall pay such Employees for lost time based on a normal work schedule; provided, that any remuneration received by such Employee from the government in connection therewith shall be signed over to the Company or otherwise deducted as against such payment(s). Such pay shall be computed on the basis of eight (8) hours per day, forty (40) hours per week and shall be limited to a maximum of two (2) weeks' pay per Employee per calendar year.
SECTION 2	Employees shall inform the Company immediately upon receipt of notification to report for jury or civic duty.
[CSCv3 04-16-19]
Page 20 of 24
SECTION 3	An Employee subpoenaed to serve as a witness in a trial for any reason except directly for the Company shall not be eligible for jury duty compensation but shall be allowed to use sick or vacation days.
SECTION 4	The Company reserves the right to ask the court or other authority to excuse the Employee from jury duty or other legal process if (in the determination of the Company) such service shall create a hardship for the operation of the Company's business.
ARTICLE 23
PROMOTIONS
It is the policy of the Company to give full consideration to Employees who are interested in promotional opportunities to higher rated jobs whenever possible.
An Employee who believes that they meet the requirements are encouraged to submit their names to the Company any time and indicate the job or jobs they wish to be considered for in the future, or to apply to postings by the Company in regard to any positions.
In selecting Employees for promotion, the Company shall consider, among others, the following factors:
A Satisfactory performance of work and duties as evidenced by:
1	.) Quality and quantity of work
2	.) Initiative and effort
3	.) Dependability
4	.) Attitude
5	.) Attendance record
6	.) Team building
7	.) Adaptability
8	.) Group and personal relations
B	Skills/ ability required for the job
C	Length of service
Final approval shall be made by and in the discretion of the Supervisor or President.
[CSCv3 04-16-19]
Page 21 of 24
ARTICLE 24
SAFETY AND HEALTH
A Purpose. It is the intent and purpose of the parties to observe all applicable safety and health regulations and standards, and to provide means for the reporting and remedy of any safety and/ or health hazards peculiar to the business operations and the plant.
B Safety and Health
SECTION 1	Employees shall abide by all applicable laws and Company safety procedures, policies and rules, and are required to attend at least two (2) of the quarterly safety meetings.
SECTION 2	Employees shall promptly apprise the Company of any hazard, actual or perceived.
SECTION 3	It shall be the responsibility of the Company to provide required protective equipment, including but not limited to: gloves, earplugs, face shields, goggles and shop aprons. Employees shall promptly notify the Company when repair or replacement items are needed.
SECTION 4	The Company may require Employees to utilize and wear safety equipment. If safety equipment is damaged due to Employee negligence, the Employee may be required to replace the equipment at the Employee's own expense. This does not apply to normal wear and tear, or accidents (not due to the fault to of the Employee) causing damage.
SECTION 5	All Employees agree to be bound by the drug and alcohol policy and testing program administered by the Company.
SECTION 6	Smoking or vaping is prohibited in any indoor area within the plant and	in
any Company vehicle.
SECTION 7	No pets or unauthorized passengers shall be allowed in Company vehicles.
C Reporting Injuries and Accidents
SECTION 1 It is the responsibility of an Employee to promptly notify the Company of any workplace or work-related injury, no matter how slight, and in any event within twenty-four (24) hours of such occurrence. If such an injury occurs on a Friday or on a weekend and the supervisor was not available to be notified, the Employee shall leave a voicemail for the President by calling the main dispatch number (845-883-4343.) Failure of an Employee to comply with the foregoing shall subject such Employee to disciplinary action.
[CSCv3 04-16-19]
Page 22 of 24
SECTION 2 Employees shall follow Company procedures and policies in regard to reporting vehicle accidents and complying with the filing of paperwork, pictures and forms with law enforcement and otherwise. Vehicle accidents shall be reported to the Company within two (2) hours of the occurrence.
A Any driver may be subject to discipline, including but not limited to immediate termination of employment, after two (2) at-fault vehicle accidents.
ARTICLE 25 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
SECTION 1 In the discretion of the Company, a leave of absence may be granted to Employees having at least three (3) years of service by the Company for valid and substantial reasons, without pay for not over thirty (30) days. Extensions may be granted in emergencies and for compelling reasons provided the Company consents in tis discretion to such extensions.
SECTION 2 Requests for leave(s) of absence shall be made in writing for a specific period of time and may be approved by the Company as provided in this Article [25]. If the time period may be longer than the position can be held open, the Employee shall be informed that the position may not be available when the Employee returns.
SECTION 3 The following provisions shall apply to all leaves of absence: The Employee shall pay one hundred (100%) percent of any health premium by good check paid to the Company on the first of every month; no vacation credit shall accrue during this time period; Employee shall retain membership in the Simple IRA Savings Plan up to the time allowed in the plan; Employee shall retain Employee's original date of employment and service; and Employees accepting other employment shall be deemed to have voluntarily resigned as of the last day worked and all leave of absence is unpaid.
[CSC&3 04-16-19]
Page 23 of 24
In Witness Whereof, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized representatives, to be effective as of the Effective Date first set forth above.
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCAL UNION 363
LIGHTNING EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICE INC.
President
By; ______________________________
Sam Fratto
Assistant Business Manager
[CSCv3 04-16-19]
Page 24 of 24