Carrier_________
A Urwted Technologies Company
AGREEMENT
BY AND BETWEEN THE
INDIANAPOLIS PLANT OF CARRIER CORPORATION
aNd
THE
UNITED STEELWORKERS
ON BEHALF OF LOCAL UNION 1999
Effective April 28. 2008 thru May 2,2011
TABLE OF CONTENTS
AGREEMENT ...............................I
PREAMBLE ................................I
ARTICLE I	RECOGNITION OF THE UNION .....1
ARTICLE 2	MANAGEMENT....................2
ARTICLE?	UNION SECURITY ...............3
ARTICLE 4	CHECK-OFF.....................4
ARTICLES	U	NION REPRESENTATION .......5
ARTICLE 6	STRIKES AND STOPPAGES.........7
ARTICLE?	DISCHARGES....................7
ARTICLES	SENIORITY.....................8
ARTICLE 9	RATES OF PAY AND CLASSIFICATIONS . .14
ARTICLE 10	HOURS OF WORK................22
ARTICLE 11	MILITARY SERVICE.............26
ARTICLE 12	MINIMUM PAY GUARANTEES.......27
ARTICLE 13	HOLIDAYS ....................28
ARTICLE 14	VACATIONS ...................31
ARTICLE 15	SAFETY AND HEALTH............34
ARTICLE 16	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE .........35
ARTICLE 17	BULLETIN BOARDS..............38
ARTICLE 18	INSURANCE PLAN ..............38
ARTICLE 19	PENSION PLAN.................43
ARTICLE 20	SAVINGS PLAN ................47
ARTICLE 21	COST-OF-LIVING CLAUSE .......48
ARTICLE 22	GENERAL CLAUSES..............44
ARTICLE 23	SEVERANCE PLAN...............52
ARTICLE 24	LEAVES OF ABSENCE ...........53
ARTICLE 25	TERMINATION..................55
ARTICLE 8-SENIORITY .....................58
SUPPLEMENT “A" ..........................5b
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS WITHIN OCCUPATION AL GROUPS.............58
APPENDIX “A" ...........................54
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES FOR FOUR DAY WORK WEEK......................62
SUPPLEMENTAL VACATION PLAN..............o3
LETTERS ................................6h
INDEX
Subject .................................Article	Page
Absence: Leave of Absence .......................24	53
Jury Duty ..........................22	50
Death in Family (Bereavement).......22	50
Supplemental Vacation Plan..........63
Vacation ...........................14	31
llliiess or Injury..................24	54
Agreement................................ I
Bereavement..............................22	50.51
Bulletin Boards..........................17	38
Call in Pay............................I	227
Cost of Living Clause....................21	4x
Discipline:
Discharges ..........................7	7
Warning Notices.....................22	4Q
Dues (Check Off)..........................4	4
Duration of Agreement....................25	55
Family Medical Leave Act ................24	55
General Increases.........................m	22
Grievance Procedure:
Filing a Grievance..................16	35
Step 1. 2. ami 3 ...................16	35,36
Time Limit .........................16	37
Arbitration.........................16	37,38
Holiday .................................13	28
Paid Holidays ...................... 28
Holiday Schedule ................... 2x
Eligibility of Holiday Pay..........13	2l>
Notice to Work .....................13	30
Working a Holiday ..................13	30
Failure to Report...................13	30
Computing Overtime .................13	30
Holiday Hours Defined...............13	30
Holiday Basing Period ..............13	30
Hours of Work............................10	22
Work Schedule ......................10	25
Four Day Work Week ............................ 62
Letter A Staggered Shift ...................... 66
Letter E Manufacturing Inventory . .	72
Incremental Increases ...................4	20
Insurance Insurance Plan..........................18	38
Life Insurance......................18	39
Spousal Life Insurance..............18	39
Dependant Life Insurance............18	39
Accidental Death & Dismemberment .18	39
Weekly Accident & Sickness Benefit .18	39
Optional Employee Life Insurance . . .18	39
Retiree Life Insurance..............18	40
Medical Contributions .........18	41.42
Dental Contributions................18	42
Letter L Health Care Legislation ...	79
Letter M Medical Coverage............	80
Jury Duty ...............................22	50
Layoff
Layoff...............................8	10.12
Voluntary Layoff................8	11.12
Temporary Dislocation ..........8	9
Operation Shutdown .............8	10
Leave of Absence Granting Leaves .........................24	53
Public Office.......................24	53
District Organizations..............24	54
Seniority Accumulation .............24	54
Returning from Leave................24	54
Classification Placement............24	54
Illness or Injury...................24	54.55
Family Leave .......................24	55
Letters of Mutual Understanding Letter A	Staggered Shift ............... 66
Letter B	Medical/Safety
Department Policy..........	67
Letter C	Credit Union ....................... 70
Letter D	Time Clocks/Deduction
from Paychecks/Check Shortages
Direct Deposit........... 71
Letter E	Manufacturing Inventory	...	72
Letter F	Alcohol and Drug Abuse	...	73
Letter G	Training Programs.........	74
Letter H	Continuous Improvement
Opportunities............ 75
Letter J	Vacation................. 76
Letter K	Pension Plan ...................... 78
Letter L	Health Care Legislation	...	79
Letter M	Medical Coverage..........	80
Letter N	Alignment Procedure ............... 81
Letter 0	Full Time Union
Representative....................... 82
Letter P	Skilled Trades ...................... X3
Letter Q	Medical Replacement ................. 84
Letter R	Labor Management
Participation Team........	85
Letters Savings and Vacation Plan .	Sb
Management..............................2	2
Manpower Move
Transfers < Pre-Job Bidding)........X	14-17
Shift preference ...................S	17
Occupational Groups.................X	58
Letter N Alignment Procedure	SI
Leiter Q Medical Replacement ....... S4
Military Pay ...........................II	2b
Minimum Pay Guarantees Reporting Pay ..........................12	27
Exceptions..........................12	27
Call in Pay.........................12	27,28
Negotiation Committee Members........... 5b,57
Operation Shutdown ......................8	Io
Overtime
Overtime Equalization ..............1(1	23
Overtime............................IB	24
Overtime Pay .......................IB	25
Computing Overtime for Holiday ... .13	30
Pension Plan ...........................19	43
Letter K	Pension Plan....................... 78
Preamble................................ 1
Probationary Employees ..................8	13,1b
Production and Maintenance Work .........8	19
Rates of Pay and Classification Job Classifications......................9	19
Temporary Transfers .................9	2D
Incremental Increases ...............9	20
Group Leader.........................9	21
Group Leader Seniority Rights .......9	21
Base Rates ..........................9	22,59-bl
Letter D Time Clocks/Deduction from Paychecks/Check Shortages
Direct Deposit .......... 71
Letter P Skilled Trades............. S3
Recall Rights ..........................8	II
Recognition of the Union................I	1
Retiree Pay .............................22
Safely and Health
Company Obligations..................15	34
Union Obligation ....................15	34
Joint Committee .....................15	35
Letter B Medical/Safety Department Policy....................	67
Letter F Alcohol and Drug Abuse ...	73
Savings Plan ............................20	47
Letters Savings and Vacation Plan .	86
Seniority Use of Seniority...........................8	8
Seniority Defined.....................8	8
Layoff................................8	10
Seniority List........................8	13
Continuous Service ...................8	13.14
Job Disqualification..................8	17.18
Transferring Out of LI nit ...........8	18.19
Group Leader Seniority Rights ........9	21
Seniority Accumulation ..............24	54
Seniority Payments...................22	51
Severance Plan ..........................23	52
Shift Premium............................10	25
Strikes and Stoppages ....................6	7
Supplemental Vacation Plan (SVP) ................ 63-65
Temporary Dislocations....................8	9,10
Termination
Vacation ............................14	34
Discharges...........................7	7.8
Union Representation Committee.................................5	5
Stewards.............................5	5
Grievance Investigation..............5	6
Payment of Union	Officers ..........5	6
Letter O Full Time Union Representation................................. 82
Union Security...........................3	3
Vacation
Vacation Policy......................14	31
Vacation Plan .......................14	31
Vacation Eligibility.................14	31.32
Vacation Entitlement.................14	32.33
Termination..........................14	34
Letter J Vacation............................... 76
AGREEMENT
Agreement dated April 28, 2008 between the INDIANAPOLIS PLANT OF CARRIER CORPORATION, or Carrier Corporation's successor, thereinafter called "The Company"), and the Ignited Steel, Paper and Forestry. Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union ol Local IInion N9Q. (hereinafter called "The Union").
Whereas, the National Labor Relations Board, by ns Certification of Representatives, dated June t>. N50, certified the Union as exclusive representative for collective bargaining purposes of the hereinafter defined employees of the Company, the Company and the Union hereby agree as follows:
PREAMBLE
The intent and purpose of the Agreement is to promote anil improve the Industrial and Economic Relationship between employees of the Company and between the Company and its employees, to improve working conditions for the employees, to improve workmanship and quality of the product of the Company, and to further to the fullest extent the safely and welfare of the employees.
The present Agreement supersedes all prior Agreement'' between the Company and the Union including any letter of interpretation, verbal understanding and/or past practices which might be in conflict with the present Agreement.
ARTICLE 1
RECOGNITION OF THE UNION
1.1	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining representative for all of the employees in the unit as defined herein.
1.2	The term bargaining unit shall mean and be construed to include all employees who are engaged in production and maintenance work at the Company’s Indianapolis. Indiana plant and any plant in which products are manufactured.
which the Company may build and operate within a twenty-five mile radius of Monument Circle in Indianapolis, Indiana, but excluding all clerical employees, all salaried employees, timekeepers, department heads. supervisors, engineers, draftsmen, and plant protection employees.
1.3	The term “employees", as used in the Agreement, shall refer only to employees for whom the Company recognizes the Union as sole and exclusive bargaining representative.
1.4	The Company and the Union agree that the provisions of this Agreement shall be applied to all employees without regard to race. sex. color, religious creed, age. national origin, or physical handicap. All references in this Agreement to “he", “him", “his", and “men” shall be construed as meaning either/or both sexes.
ARTICLE 2
MANAGEMENT
2.1	The management of the plant and the direction of the working forces, the type of products to be manufactured, the location of the plants, the schedules of production, the subcontracting of products or parts, the methods, processes, and means of manufacturing, the establishment of work and production standards or the revision thereof, reasonable rules and regulations for the conduct of employees and the enforcement thereof, and the supervision of the work, together with the right to hire, discharge, promote, demote, transfer, layoff, or assign work, or in any manner effectuate a change in the status of an employee, is the exclusive function of the management, subject to the provisions of this Agreement.
2.2	The Company shall be entitled to a reasonable production performance on the part of each individual employee covered by the Agreement as established by the Job Evaluation Plan and accepted industrial engineering methods of establishing production standards. It is further recognized that deliberate failure or refusal of employees to meet such standards so established shall be just cause for discipline by the Company.
2.3	The Company, without diminishing its rights to outsource, shall give notice to a three member Local Union Outsourcing Committee in advance of any outsourcing decision except in cases of emergency. The Company will communicate the reason for outsourcing and will give consideration to alternative suggestions or ideas made by the Committee. In those emergency cases where outsourcing was done prior to communication with the L[nion Outsourcing Committee, the Company will advise the Union Outsourcing Committee, within twenty-four (24t hours, of the outsourcing decision and the reasons why it was done.
ARTICLE?
UNION SECURITY
3.1	Each employee shall, as a condition of employment, beginning on the 31 st day follow ing the beginning of such employment, or the effective date of this Agreement, whichever is later, acquire and maintain membership in the Union.
Should the above provision be unenforceable lor any reason, then, to the extent permitted by law. each employee who would be required to acquire ur maintain membership in the Union if the provision in Section I above could lawfully be enforced, and who fails to voluntarily acquire or maintain membership in the Union, shall be required, as a condition of employment, beginning the 30lh day following the beginning of such employment or the effective date, whichever is later, to pay the I hi ion each month a service charge as a contribution towards the Union’s collective Bargaining representative expenses. The amount of the service charge, including an initiation fee if applicable, shall be designated by the Union’s International Secretary-Treasurer.
3.2	The Union agrees to indemnify the Company and hold it harmless against any and all suits, claims, demands, costs, and liabilities for damages or penalties that may arise out of or by reason of any action that may be taken by the Company for purpose of complying with the foregoing provision of this article.
3.3	The term “Seasonal Employee" as used in this Agreement shall be deemed to mean employees hired between the dates of April I to September 1, for a period not to exceed one hundred twenty (120) consecutive days. Qualified relatives will be given consideration for these jobs. The Company agrees to a cap of ten percent (10%) on seasonal employees, of the total full time permanent bargaining unit employees, at any given time. If the Company exceeds the ten percent (10%) cap at any given time, the number in excess will become probationary employees. No seasonal employee will be hired when bargaining unit employees are on lavoff.
ARTICLE 4 CHECK-OFF
4.1	The Company agrees to collect Union dues with a weekly payroll deduction and remit promptly to the International Secretary/Treasurer of the United Steelworkers, at a place designated by the International Treasurer, dues and initiation fees uniformly required of all Union members as designated by the International Treasurer of the Union, for all employees within the appropriate unit who voluntarily execute “an authorization for check-off dues" and cause it to be placed in (he hands of the Company. The Company agrees to submit each month to the Union a Union Dues Deduction Listing showing name, clock number, and amount of weekly dues paid.
4.2	The form of the "authorization for check-off dues” to be used shall be by agreement between the Company and the Union and shall be in compliance with the provisions of the Taft-Hartley Act.
4.3	The Union agrees to indemnify the Company and hold it harmless against any and all suits, claims, demands, costs and liabilities for damages or penalties that may arise out of or by reason of any action that may be taken by the Company for purpose of complying with the foregoing provisions of this Article.
4
ARTICLE 5
UNION REPRESENTATION
5.1	Committee. The Union Grievance Committee shall consist of the Local IInit President and not more than eight (St elected members, one of whom shall be designated by the Committee as the Chairman. If the size of the second or third shift warrant, additional members may be added to the Grievance Committee to represent the employees on these shifts.
5.2	In carrying out grievance investigation activities, members of the Lhiinn Grievance Committee shall service only the employees in their designated buildings. The buildings designated for service by members of the Umon Grievance Committee are as follows;
Carrier 8................. West Morris Street Bldg.
5.3	The President of the Local Unit and the Chairman of the Grievance Committee shall be able to carry out grievance activities in all buildings by following the provisions of paragraphs 5.7 and 5.X ot this Article.
5.4	The designation ot these buildings may be changed as required by the mutual agreement of the Company and the Union. If the size of the bargaining unit warrants, additional members may be added to the Grievance Committee by mutual agreement of the Company and (he Union.
5.5	If as the result of a local Union election, (he establishment of new buildings or any other action which changes any of the members of the Grievance Committee, the Company and the IInion will meet and arrange for the necessary transfers of classification and department changes of committeemen to insure (hat a grievance committeeman is assigned to each building as designated.
5.6	Stewards. The Company will recognize as Union Stewards and/or Chief Stewards representing the Union in their designated areas, only those employees who are certified as such by the Union in writing to the Company. Stewards shall be appointed on the basis of one steward
for each department unless a different basis is mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union. Stewards shall serve only in their designated areas.
5.7	Grievance Investigation. When it becomes necessary for a Union Officer. Steward, or Committeeman to be absent from their regular work assignment for activities related to grievance investigation, he or she shall report to his or her supervisor who will make reasonable arrangements for them to be away from their regular work. The Union Officer. Steward or Committeeman shall report back to the supervisor at the conclusion of the grievance activities.
5.8	In connection with grievance investigation, if a Union Officer. Steward, or Committeeman must enter a department other than his own, he shall secure permission from his supervisor indicating the other department he w ill enter. Upon entering the other department, he must contact the supervisor and state the reason he is in the department and the names of any employees he desires to contact. He shall also report back to the supervisor of his own department at the conclusion of the grievance activities.
5.9	Payment of Union Officers. No employee shall be disciplined or discriminated against in any manner because of their membership in the Union or for grievance investigation activities provided that this shall not be interpreted as creating an immunity for an employee from plant rules or from generally applicable standards of employee conduct. All Union Officers. Stewards, and Committeemen who shall be designated by the Union, for the purpose of carrying out grievance investigation activities, will be granted time off from their regular duties in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.7 and 5.8 of this Article. While carrying out these activities, they will be paid their base hourly rate for a period not to exceed their regularly scheduled hours of work.
6
ARTICLE 6
STRIKES AND STOPPAGES
6.1	It is the intent of the parties of this Agreement that the procedure provided herein for the settlement of grievances shall serve as a means for peaceful settlement of all disputes that may arise between them.
6.2	The Company agrees that during the life of this Agreement it v. ill not engage in any lockout of its employees.
6.3	The Union agrees that during the life of this Agreement it will not engage in or in any way encourage or sanction any strike, sympathy strike, sit-down, stay-in. slow-down, picketing or any other action which would interrupt or interfere with any of the operations ot the Company.
ARTICLE 7
DISCHARGES
7.1	Notification. Whenever an employee is suspended or discharged, the employee will he notified, then the grievance committeeman at interest in the building or. if the committeeman is absent, the chief steward or the department steward prior tn the employee leasing the plant. If it is not possible to notify the committeeman or the chief steward or department steward prior to the employee leaving the plant, the grievance committeeman at interest in the building or the chairman of the grievance committee will be notified by the end of the next working day after the date of the Company's action.
7.2	Review. If the discharged employee believes that he or she was discharged improperly, he or she may request a review in accordance with the grievance procedure as established in Article 16 of this Agreement, except that in this case the review procedure shall begin with the second step of the grievance procedure.
7.3	However, it is agreed that the discharged employee's right to such a review of their discharge shall be deemed to be
waived conclusively if the discharged employee's request for a review is not received by the Company within the three 13) working days following the date of the discharge, or within three (31 calendar days after the date on the returned receipt of the certified letter sent by the Company, in those cases in which the employee is not notified of the discharge personally. At any of the steps in the grievance procedure, the Union Grievance Committee may request that the discharged employee appear in person at the grievance meeting.
7.4	Revoking Discipline. If at any level of the investigation of the discharge, it is determined that the employee was discharged improperly, the discharge will be revoked and the employee may be made whole for all money and benefits lost as a result of the improper discharge or suspension during the investigation. All\disciplinary action will be initiated within two (2) work frig days after all the facts are known on the alleged violation.
ARTICLE 8 SENIORITY
8.1	Use of Seniority. The parties recognize that promotional opportunity and job security in the event of promotion, decrease of forces and recall after layoff, shall increase in proportion to length of continuous service. However, for an employee to esercise their seniority as described in this Article, they must first show evidence of having the ability and qualifications to perform or ability to learn satisfactorily the job to which their seniority otherwise entitles.
8.2	Seniority Defined. Seniority is defined as the length of an employee's continuous service with the Company from their latest employment date and will apply in all cases of promotion, layoff or recall to work.
8.3	Seniority shall be applied within the occupational groups set forth in Supplement "A" of this Article.
8.4	An occupational group will contain job classifications
8
arranged by labor grade, that have normal promotional-demotional possibilities.
K.5 The occupational groups with explanations as prepared by representatives of the Company and the Union are included in Supplement "A".
6. Realizing that deviations of procedures set forth in paragraphs S.I4, S.15 and X. 16 may be necessary to maintain efficient plant operations, it is further agreed that any deviations will be mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union.
x.7 Temporary Dislocation. Temporary Dislocation may not exceed sixteen < 1 bl hours in any thirty (30) day period on the shift of the department so affected.
St.7 A For those departments working the four day ten hour schedule, temporary dislocation activity may not exceed twenty 12{11 hours in any thirty {30) day period.
S.7B The Company will invoke no more than twelve ( 1 2i temporary dislocation days during a rolling fifty -two week perioil. Written notification shall be provided to the Unit President in advance of any temporary dislocation.
8.7C The Company and Union will continue to cooperate in an effort to eliminate the use ot probationary and/or seasonal employees work during any temporary dislocation.
8.8 Further, if an employee does not work under the provisions ot Article 12, paragraph 12.2. sub-paragraph (A) and (Bi, such time not worked will not be counted as lime lost under temporary dislocation.
8.4 It is not the intention of the Company to use the temporary dislocation provisions as a substitute for a planned reduction in the work force.
8. If) In the case of temporary dislocation, the seniority rules shall apply only within the job classification on the shift of the department so affected.
M
8.11	In the event that the limitation on the number or duration of the temporary dislocations or operation shutdowns is exhausted, the Company shall:
(A)	Invoke the layoff provisions of paragraphs 8.14 through 8.28 or:
(B)	Pay the employees affected at their base or regular hourly rates or assign them to other work as provided under Article 9. paragraphs 9.3 and 9.4.
8.12	Operation Shutdown. An operation shutdown is a total or partial departmental shutdown which extends beyond two (2) days but is no longer than five (5) consecutive days in the department so affected.
8.13	The Company will invoke no more than four (4) partial or total operation shutdowns per department during a rolling fifty-two w'eek period. In case of a partial departmental operation shutdown, the seniority rules shall apply to the job classification to be retained. Written notification shall be provided to the Unit President in advance of any operational shutdown
The Company and Union will continue to cooperate in an effort to eliminate the use of probationary and/or seasonal employees during a Temporary Dislocation or Operation Shutdown.
8.14	Layoff. For the purpose of this Agreement, the term layoff means an adjustment or a reduction in the work force involving the separation of employees from the active payroll, and does not include temporary dislocations of the working force.
8.15	In the event of a reduction in force, an employee may, in accordance with paragraph 8.1 of this Article, exercise their seniority within their own classification and then within classifications in the same labor grade or lower labor grade in their occupational group, ending with their movement to Group 7 or layoff.
10
S.16 In returning to work from layoff, the employee in accordance with paragraph S.l. of this Article, is eligible to he recalled to work beginning with jobs in the plantwide pool anil then to jobs in the employee's original occupational group ending with their return to work in their regular classification. However, if an employee does not have the seniority to be recalled to their home classification and/or labor grade in the plant-wide pool, the employee will have the right to be assigned to a higher classification in the plant-wide pool, prior to the Company hiring new employees. The employee will remain in this classification until their seniority enables them to return to their regular classification.
X.I7 In the event an employee is excess m the plant-wide pool and does not have the seniority to maintain their classification or a lower classification, prior to being laid-off the employee will be temporarily transferred to the highest classification in the plant-wide pool in line with their seniority. The employee will remain in this classification until their seniority enables them to return to their regular classification.
S.IS If an employee waixes a classification and takes a voluntary layoff in the course of a layoff, such waiver shall remain in effect only for the duration of the layoff and shall become void after the employee is returned tn their last classification and/or regular classification.
K.lu After thirty-six < 36) months ot Voluntary Lax off, an employee will be contacted one 11) lime by the Company if and when there is an open job. to he given the opportunity to return to the active payroll. The employee will be assigned to an open job prior to hiring new employees and after the Layoff/Recall Procedure and PreJob Bid System has been utilized. The employee will be assigned to the highest open job that he or she is qualified for in their occupational group or plant-wide pool ending with his or her home labor grade.
N.20 The employee will remain in the classification as assigned until the employee is recalled to their home classification per the Layoff/Recall Procedure or he or she Pre-Job Bids per his or her request.
11
8.21	The employee will not be eligible for an additional Voluntary Layoff until one of the following occurs;
(A)	The employee is recalled to their home classification and is later transferred out of said classification.
(B)	The employee Pre-Job Bids and is later transferred out of said classification.
8.22	A Voluntary' Layoff will not be granted by the Company for a semi or skilled classification until the employee is properly replaced. However, the Voluntary Layoff will be granted if the Company has not replaced the employee within ten (10) working days for the 5x8 schedule or eight (8) working days for the 4x10 schedule.
8.23	Prior to thirty-six (36) months, employees on Voluntary Layoff will have recall rights only to their home classifications. Also, if the employee refuses the opportunity to be returned to the active payroll after thirty-six (361 months, he or she will be entitled to be recalled to his or her home classificatipn only.
8.24	Employees presently on Voluntary Layoff for thirty-six (36) months or longer will be contacted if and when job openings exist, in line with their seniority, to be given the opportunity to be reinstated per the above stated procedure.
8.25	The Company will give to the Union Committee and to the employees who will be affected forty-eight (48) hours advance notice in the event of a manpower move if five percent (5%) of the work force is affected.
8.26	The Company will give the Union Committee, and to the employees who will be affected forty-eight (48) hours advance notice in the event of a layoff. In the event of a layoff which will affect ten percent (10%) of the work force, the Company w-ill give copies of the layoff list to the Union Committee seventy-tw'o (72) hours in advance, and will notify the employees affected forty-eight (48) hours in advance.
12
8.27	Each iinie employees are recalled to work From layoff, the Company will give the Union Committee a list of the recalled employees.
8.28	An employee improperly I a id-off or recalled tinder the provisions ot paragraphs 8.14 through 8.28 only, shall have ten (10) working days from the date the error is known by the employee to file a grievance. A grievance settlement in favor of the employee affecting wages shall not exceed 30 days of retroactive adjustment from the date ot the error and the Company will only he liable tor the difference between the base pay to which the employee was entitled and the base pay he or she earned al their other job. either with the Company or outside the Company.
8.29	Seniority List. The seniority list will be reyised by the Company eyery ninety (90) days, and a copy given to each member of the Grievance Committee.
8.30	Probationary Employees. All new employees of the Company shall be considered probationary employees (except seasonal employees) until they have completed ninety (90) calendar days of continuous sen ice with the Company, after which their seniority shall date from the first date of their latest hiring in the plant. The Company shall be the sole and exclusive judge ot the ability and qualifications of a probationary employee.
8.31	If a probationary employee, who is laid-oH or terminated prior to completing their probationary period is rehired within one (1 ) year from the date of their layoff, the employee must complete ninety 19()> calendar days of continuous service from the date of their rehire. Linder these circumstances, the employee's seniority will date from the date of the original employment.
8.32	Continuous Service. The length of continuous service of an employee means the aggregate length ol the period or periods of active service with the Company in the bargaining unit unless such service shall be broken by one or more of the following events, in which case it means the aggregate length of the period or periods of active service subsequent to the last such break in service.
13
(Al The employee voluntarily resigns from (he Company.
(Bl The employee is discharged by the Company.
(C) The employee fails, while laid-off, to communicate with the Company within three (3) calendar days after the date on the return receipt of the certified letter sent by the Company, unless such failure is excused by the Company on account of sickness, or other satisfactory cause. The Company shall be considered to have fulfilled its obligations to give the notice called for in paragraphs 8.32 and 8.33 by sending a certified letter, return receipt requested, to the laid-off employee’s address as shown on the Company's records.
(Di The employees' continuous absence from active employment by the Company for a period of more than thirty-six (361 months for any cause whatsoever except military service, and absences caused by accidents occurring on the Company’s premises, in which latter case such employee shall accumulate credit for continuous service until the termination of the period for which statutory compensation is payable.
8.33	At the end of thirty-six (36) months of continuous absence from active employment, employees having a seniority date prior to April 25, 1999 shall continue to have recall rights for twenty-four (24) additional months, but their seniority will not accumulate beyond the thirty-six (36) months.
8.34	Transfers (Pre-Job Bidding). The provisions of this section shall apply to an employee’s initial bid to transfer to an open job in a different classification or to a lateral transfer to a different department. Lateral transfer to a different department will be unlimited. Employees bidding to different classifications will be subject to the limitations of (E) below. An employee who desires to bid or transfer may do so in writing to the Human Resources Department subject to the following.
14
iA) The Company agrees to post a bulletin indicating the cutoff date and listing requisitions prior to the Human Resources Department writing a manpower move. The minimum posting period will he forts -eight (4Sj hours. It is understood that employees submitting Job Bids to these initial openings listed on this bulletin will not necessarily be transferred since employees who are excess or have recall rights have first preference.
(B)	If the hid to transfer is to a different classification, the employee may be interviewed prior to the job being filled to determine their ability and qualifications to perform the work for which he or she is bidding.
(C)	A copy of the bid to transfer will be pro* ided to the employee at the lime the employee submits a bld.
I Dt An employee may not have more than four |4) requests tor lateral transfers and/or bills for transfers to a different classification at any one time. If awarded a transfer the employee will he given the highest pay ing job. provided the employee meets all the applicable qualifications for the following classifications: Production Support Associate. Precision Inspector B. Group Leader and Apprentice.
(E> An employee granted a transfer to a different classification, in occupational groups I through 0. will not be eligible to transfer again until the employee has completed a minimum of six (61 months in that classification. Employees granted a transfer to a different classification within occupational group 7 will not be eligible to transfer again until the employee has completed a minimum of three (3) months in that classification.
(F)	At the conclusion of the manpower move, all bids will be destroyed.
15
(G)	Any employee requesting a transfer must have completed a minimum of six (6) months service with the Company.
(H)	A probationary employee may be unilaterally transferred by the Company if no bids for transfer were submitted and the job is designated for a new hire.
(1)	Any employee who is transferred per their request to a different classification in groups I through 7 and is later transferred as a result of the Layoff/Recall Procedure will be allowed to transfer without being subject to (E) above.
8.35	When a job opens, except for the provisions listed in paragraphs 8.36 and 8.37, it will be filled by either an employee having a Pre-Job Bid on file for a transfer under (Different Classification) or (Same Classification), depending upon which employee has the greater seniority. If the job is not filled in this manner, it will be filled by the transfer of a qualified employee within the plant. In filling a job in either of the above ways, the employee to be transferred will be moved provided that there is a qualified replacement available for semi and skilled classifications (This is not meant to permanently retain an employee in a job classification). Only employees in occupational groups 1 through 6 will be retained for up to two (2) weeks in order to provide a training opportunity or a qualified replacement. Employees in group 7 will be released immediately.
8.36	The provision in paragraph 8.35 addressing transfers to different classifications shall only apply when there is no employee working outside of their own classification as a result of layoff who has recall rights to return to their own classification.
8.37	When a job opens, and there are employed s) out of the classification, the job(s) will be filled first by lateral transfers. Any remaining open job(s) will be filled by individuals being recalled to their home classification. Only after all employees are recalled to their home classification will pre-job bids be accepted.
16
8.38	The name, seniority dale and department of employees transferred to jobs under this section will be posted on the bulletin board after each manpower move.
8.34	Unless an employee who has been qualified for a job under paragraph 8.34 (Bl of this section withdraws the application tor transfer prior to the posted cut otf time, the employee shall be required to accept the transfer.
8.40	When a classification is established, either as the result of a new or changed operation or the creation of a new department, and/or a department begins an additional shift, a notice ot such action will be posted on the bulletin board and bids honored.
8.41	Shift Preference. At the time of a work force adjustment which results in the employee being transferred, or when an employee has been transferred to an open job by means of a Pre-Job Bid. (he employee will have shift preference in line with their seniority. The Company w ill notify the employee in advance of the transfer whenever possible, so that the employee can indicate shift preference prior to the effective date of transfer. If advance notice is not possible, the employee will be given the right to exercise shift preference within three i3i days of the effective date of the transfer, and the Company will make the change as soon as possible and practicable.
8.42	During a manpower adjustment affecting a department, employees assigned to the department affected will be given an opportunity to change shift in line with their seniority within three 131 days of the dale of the manpower move.
8.43	Job Disqualification. If as a result of a physical condition brought about by injury or illness, and the employee is no longer able to meet the requirements of their job to the satisfaction of the Company, the employee may request a transfer, or the Company may initiate action to transfer the employee, to a job which the employee can perform to the satisfaction of the Company, and to which their seniority otherwise would entitle them, as provided for in paragraphs x. 1 through K.h of this Article, commencing
17
with classifications in the same or lower labor grades within their occupational group.
8.44	In considering such a transfer, the Company will require the employee to take a physical examination if this action is indicated based upon the employee's previous performance on their present job, the employee’s records in the Company's Medical Department, and in those cases in which there is an obvious indication that the judgment of the Company’s doctor is required before making a decision on the transfer.
8.45	If an employee is disqualified from their job because of failure to perform the assigned work as required for any reason, except as provided in paragraphs 8.43 and 8.44. the employee shall be given the opportunity to transfer to an open job which he or she can perform to the satisfaction of the Company, and to which their seniority otherwise would entitle them. If there are no open jobs available, the employee will then have the opportunity to replace only the least senior employee in Group 7.
8.46	Transferring Out of LI nit. Effective May I'1, 2002. an employee with seniority in the bargaining unit transferring out of the bargaining unit prior to or after the effective date of this Agreement, shall continue to accrue seniority, and commence work as an hourly rated employee in line with his or her seniority ranking and in accordance with the provisions of this Article, provided, the employee is transferred back to the unit within seven (71 months after transferring out of the unit.
8.47	If the employee again transfers out of the bargaining unit and once again is transferred back to the unit within seven (7) months, he or she shall commence work as an hourly rated employee with his or her seniority ranking in accordance with the provision of this Article. If the employee transfers for a third time to a position out of the bargaining unit, and thereafter is transferred back to the unit, the employee shall commence work as an hourly rated employee with no seniority ranking regardless of the length of time out of the unit.
IS
S.4S	Employees with seniority in the bargaining unit transferring out of the unit after the effective date of this agreement, and remaining out of the unit for seven (7 i consecutive months or more, and is thereafter transferred back into the bargaining unit shall commence work as an hourly rated employee with no seniority ranking.
S.44	Production and Maintenance Work. All production and maintenance work shall be performed only by employees in the bargaining unit, except for purposes of instruction, demon'.tration, performing work ot an experimental nature, checking the safeness of an operation and in case of an emergency where an employee is not available to do such work. The Company pledges its full cooperation to prohibit violations of paragraphs K.4m, 8.5<1 and X.51 and will instruct ail non-bargaining unit personnel on the seriousness of its intent anil the requirement for everyone to follow the provisions of paragraphs N.44. X.50 and S.5 I.
S.50	To enable the Company to keep its production abreast ot scientific and technical changes, die Company may, from time to time, providing this will not affect the tenure of employment for the regularly assigned employees, hire, transfer, train, and assign duties to technical men or women, or others w ho in the opinion of the Company, may be qualified for that purpose. Any violation of this provision should immediately be brought to the attention of the Production Manager.
S.51	The above shall not he used to displace any employee regularly assigned to such job. or to keep from placing an employee on such job.
ARTICLE 9
RATES OF PAY AND CLASSIFICATIONS
4.1	Job Classification. The job classifications and rates of pay shall be set forth in Appendix A attached hereto and made a part of this Agreement. These job classifications and rales of pay shall remain in effect during the life of this Agreement, except as changed in accordance with paragraphs 4.(2 and 4,13, Base Rates, of this Article.
14
9.2	The base rates shown in Appendix A will remain in effect for the life of the Agreement.
9.3	Temporary TYansfers. During the period of a temporary transfer made at the Company's request not to exceed twenty (2(1) consecutive calendar days, (he employee selected shall receive the base hourly rate of pay applicable to the job from which he or she is transferred or the corresponding rate of pay applicable to the job to which he or she is transferred, whichever is higher. If such temporary transfer is to a higher labor grade, employees will be asked to transfer based upon their seniority in the classification selected. However, if the transfer is to the same or lower labor grade, the junior employee will be assigned to the temporary transfer based upon the classification from which the employee is selected.
9.4	After an employee is assigned to the same job for twenty consecutive calendar days by means of a temporary transfer, the job shall be considered a permanent opening and subject to be filled as an open job under the provisions of Article 8. Seniority, paragraphs 8.34 through 8.40. Transfers, except as provided under Article 24, paragraph 24.6.
0.5 Incremental Increases. Progressive incremental increases as outlined in Appendix "A”, shall be effective on the preceding Monday if the increase is due to be effective on a Tuesday. The incremental increase will be effective the following Monday, if the increase is due to be effective on a day falling during the remainder of the week. If the incremental increase is due to be effective on a Monday, it will become effective on that Monday.
9.6	When an employee is transferred under the provisions of Article 8. paragraphs 8.34 through 8.40, Transfers, the employee shall receive the next higher incremental wage rate in the event of a transfer to a different pay grade; or the maximum wage rate in the event of a transfer to a different pay grade where the employee’s old pay rate exceeds the maximum of the new pay grade: or the same wage rale in the event of a transfer to same pay grade.
20
9.7	In the event an existing classification is eliminated through job evaluation and is replaced by a new classification, the incumbents transferring to the new classification will be paid according to the same step in the rale progression table that the employee maintained in the obsolete classification.
9.8	Group Leader. Employees classified as group leaders will receive an additional $1.50 per hour pay above the highest classification in the occupational group in which they lead.
9.9	Group leaders will be selected based upon the employees' knowledge, skill and ability to do the job with consideration given to seniority. An employee desiring to be a group leader must fill out a group leader application form at the hourly Human Resources department. Upon completing the application, the employee will be interviewed and selected for the position by the Group Leader Selection Committee, which will include the Cell Manager. Labor Relations Manager, Union President and Chairman ot the Union Grievance Committee or their designee. At the conclusion of the interview, all committee members shall complete the evaluation forms at the same lime and the evaluations will then be tallied. Group leader overtime will be handled under the normal rules of overtime.
9.	|0 Group Leader Seniority Rights. Group leaders will have bumping rights only within their occupational group. If for any reason a group leader is bumped out of their group into group 7. they will hump into the Production Associate "A" classification, unless they can demonstrate to the selection committee that they possess the knowledge, skill and ability to perform all elements of the Production Associate "A" classification, in which case they could retain group leader status.
9.11	Employees currently occupying the group leader classification will remain in this classification provided they complete the Group Leader Training Program scheduled.
21
9.12	Base Rates. Whenever it shall become necessary for the Company to establish a new base hourly wage rate, or to adjust an existing base hourly wage rate for reasons such as: the creation of a new job, the development of new manufacturing processes, substantia) changes in equipment of job content, or improvements brought about by the Company in the interest of improved methods and products, the Company shall establish or adjust such base hourly rates in proper relationships to rates paid for similar or comparable jobs within the plant.
9.13	A rate so established by the Company shall be subject to adjustment where it is found to be incorrect, and such adjustment shall be made effective the date the employee was assigned to the new- or changed job. If, after a thirty (30) day trial period, a grievance shall be filed by an employee holding such job. alleging that such rate does not bear fair relationship to the base hourly wage rates established for other jobs in the plant, the matter shall be handled in accordance with the Grievance Procedure including arbitration as set forth in Article 16 of this Agreement. It is agreed, however, that no such grievance shall be deemed to exist unless notice thereof shall be filed within the period commencing thirty <301 days and ending sixty (60) days after such rate shall have become operative.
9.14	General Increases:
Effective	April 28.2008	ML55
Effective	May 4.2009	SL55
Effective	Mav3.2010	&L55
ARTICLE 10
HOURS OF WORK
10.1	Hours of Work. The regular hours of work are eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week. The regular hours of work for a four day, ten hour schedule are ten (10) hours per day or forty hours per week. The work week shall begin at 12:01 A.M., Monday and end at midnight the following Sunday.
1(1.2 The Company may elect to schedule some departments, or employees within a department, to a four t4i day week, consisting of ten i i0j consecutive scheduled working hours each day. In such event, overtime rates will not apply until after the completion of the ten < 101 regularly scheduled working hours. The Company will provide the Union sixty (6th days notice prior to implementing this schedule.
10.3	The foregoing does not constitute any guarantee of hours of work per day or per week, nor does it limit the right ot the Company to require employees to work any specified number of hours, either per day or per week.
10.4	Overtime Equalization. It is recognized that emergency requirements for overtime work are inherent in certain departments such as Maintenance. Tool Room. Receiving. Shipping and other service functions, and that in these instances, and in emergency situations involving employees in other departments, it may not be possible to give employees advance notice of a requirement of overtime work.
10.5	On the other hand, in all cases m which the Company is able to anticipate a need to work overtime, employees shall be told before the end of the current shift if they are required to work overtime on the next scheduled shift. Also, if overtime is scheduled for Saturday or Sunday, the employees, who will be required to work overtime, will be told before the end of the shiti on Thursday. In addition, for those employees on the four <4) day ten t I()i hour schedule and required to work overtime on Friday. Saturday or Sunday, they will be told before the end of the shift on Wednesday.
lO.b If a change in the overtime schedule becomes necessary during the regular work week including Friday. Saturday or Sunday work, such notice shall be given to employees at least two (2) hours prior to the completion of the regular shift unless the overtime schedule is canceled because of a breakdown of equipment or Act of God.
23
10.7	Overtime work in each department will be divided as evenly as possible during the year, by classification and by shift, with the Company agreeing to limit the out of balance at one time between the employee having the most overtime hours worked and employee having the least overtime hours worked to eleven ill) hours on any one shift and twenty-two (22) hours between shifts, when the department is normally operating on a 4 x It) schedule. Should the department be operating on a 5 x 8 schedule, the out of balance limits will be nine (9) hours on any one shift and eighteen 118) hours between shifts. When both shifts are working overtime employees will work their normal shift consistent with the agreed to overtime rules. In addition to the above, in the event that a mistake in the scheduling of overtime is brought to the attention of the Supervisor by the employee and his or her steward one 11) hour prior to (he end of the shift and no action is taken to correct the error, the employee will be paid.
10.8	For purposes of dividing overtime work, overtime charges will be made in accordance with the charging of overtime rules mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union.
10.9	Overtime. The Company will pay one and one-ha If 11 1/2) times an employee's base hourly rate for time worked by an employee based on his or her work schedule as follows: for five (5) eight (8) hour days - in excess of eight {8) hours in any one day. for four (4) ten (10) hour days - in excess of ten < 10) hours in any one day.
10.10	The Company will also pay one and one-half times an employee's base hourly rate for time worked by an employee on Friday if the employee is on a ten {10) hour schedule. If an employee is on a ten hour schedule, where an employee is absent from work the employee shall not receive one and one-half (1 1/2) pay times the base hourly rate for work on Friday until the employee has worked in excess of forty (40) hours in the work week. Hours of work missed by an employee that are unexcused shall not be included as hours worked for overtime calculation, or on Saturday if the employee is on an eight (8) hour schedule. This provision does not apply to any employee
24
whose regular work schedule concludes with the fifth working day extending into a Saturday morning.
10.11	Overtime and premium payments shall not he pyramided.
1 (). 12 Overtime Pay. The Company will pay two (2) limes an employee’s base hourly rate for time worked by an employee on Sunday. However, there will not be any payment of double time when the regular scheduled eight (S) hours shift extends into either a Sunday or a Holiday. If overtime is scheduled beyond the regular eight 181 hours and extends into either a Sunday or a Holiday, such overtime will he paid for at two (2) times the employee's base hourly rate.
l(i. 13 Shift Premium. Employees reporting to work un the second (2nd) shift shall receive twenty 120) cents per hour premium for all hours worked on the second (2nd) shift.
10.14	Employees reporting for work on the third (3rd) shift shall receive twenty (20) cents per hour premium for all hours worked on the third (3rd i shift.
10.15	Employees commencing work or called in to work on shifts starting between the hours ot 12:(>O noon and 10:00 P.M. will be paid the second (2nd) shift premium. Employees commencing work or called in to work on shifts starting between the hours of 10:00 P.M. and 5:30 A.M. will be paid the third (3rd) shift premium.
10.16	Any first shift employee who works twelve (12) consecutive hours or more on his or her shift will receive second 12nd j shift premium commencing with the ninth 19th) hour of work. For those employees working fourteen {14) hours on a ten (10) hour schedule, second {2nd) shift premium will commence with the eleventh tilth) hour of work.
10.17	Work Schedule. Each employee is expected to begin his or her work on schedule and to continue their work until the completion of the scheduled shift. An employee shall ring in his or her attendance card or badge no earlier than fifteen (15) minutes before the starting time of their shift,
and shall ring out their attendance card no later than fifteen (15) minutes after the end of his or her shift, unless authorized by the supervisor.
ARTICLE 11
MILITARY SERVICE
11.1	Any employee who is called or volunteers to serve in the Armed Services of the United States Government shall, upon discharge or separation from such service under the conditions provided by law be reinstated to their former job and shift, if applicable, or a like job at its current status with full accumulated seniority, providing he or she is physically fit to perform the work and the Company has work available for which they are qualified. Any such employee must apply for reinstatement within ninety (00) days after the date of the discharge or separation from the Armed Services. In the event he or she became disabled while in such government service and is physically unfit to perform their regular work, the Company will place them in any available job that they are capable of doing satisfactorily. Employment rights shall be in accordance with the Selective Training and Service Act at the time of the discharge or separation from service.
11.2	Members of the Armed Forces Reserves and National Guard shall be granted a leave of absence for a period no longer than the two (2) week '‘Summer Training Program". Such employee shall receive the difference between eight (8) times their base hourly rate or ten (10) times their base hourly rate, as applicable, and their military pay for each normal workday, up to tw'o (2) weeks. Such payment will also be applicable to emergency call-ups for a period not to exceed two (2) w'eeks. The employee will present proof of attendance and of the amount of pay received from the military.
26
ARTICLE 12
MINIMUM PAY GUARANTEES
12.1	Reporting Pay. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2.2 of this Article, it any employee shall be required by (he Company to report tor work on any day anil the employee shall report at the time and place at which he or she was required so to report and shall not be put to work, or actually begins to work and works less than one half ( 1/2) their normally scheduled hours, the employee will be paid four <4) hours if normally scheduled to work a five < 51 day. eight iX i hour work schedule or five t5 i hours if normally scheduled to work a tour (41 day. ten < lOi hour work schedule. For days which are not normally scheduled work days, the reporting pay will be one half 11/2) of the posted hours scheduled for that day but not less than four (4i hours nor more than five (5) hours. At the Company 's discretion, the employee may be assigned and shall perform other work.
12.2	Exceptions. The provisions of the foregoing paragraph 12.1 shall not apply:
t At In any case in which an employee's request to be excused from work is granted bv the Company or in any case in which an employee, because of his or her own fault is not put to work or is suspended or terminated for disciplinary reasons after having been put to work, or
(Bi In any case in which any employee shall he laid off. after having been pul to work, by reason of any strike, slow-down, or other stoppage of work in connection with any labor dispute, or Act ot God.
12.3	Call-In Pay. If an employ ee is recalled to work from their home after having worked his or her regularly scheduled hours, either eight (X) or ten t Ifh. whichever is applicable, previously in the day. to perform work in any emergency, the employee shall be paid at the rale i.»f time and one-half 11/21 for the hours worked, but in no case shall they be paid less than four <4) hours if their normally scheduled
27
work day is eight (8) hours or less than five (51 hours if their normally scheduled work day is ten (101 hours at the rate of time and one half.
12.4	If an employee is called into the plant for work in an emergency on Saturday. Sunday or a Holiday, they shall be paid at the premium rate required for the hours worked, but in no case shall they be paid less than four (4) hours if their normally scheduled work day is eight (8) hours or less than five (51 hours if their normally scheduled work day is ten 110) hours at the premium rate for the day involved.
ARTICLE 13
HOLIDAYS
13.1	Paid Holidays. The following days shall be considered holidays regardless of the day of the week on which such holiday falls. When any of the following enumerated holidays fall on Sunday and the day following is observed as the holiday by the State or the Nation, it shall be paid as such holiday. Any holiday falling on Saturday will be celebrated on the Friday before such holiday.
New Years Day
Good Friday
Memorial Day - as celebrated in Indiana
Independence Day
Labor Day
Thanksgiving Day - as celebrated in Indiana
Friday after Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Day
During the tenn of this agreement, the holiday schedule (including four(4) designated floating holidays* is as follows:
05/26/08	05/25/09	05/31/10
O5/27/OS	05/26/09	06/01/10
07/04/08	07/03/09	07/05/10
09/01/08	09/07/09	09/06/10
11/27/08	11/26/09	11/25/10
11/28/08	11/27/09	ll/2b/10
12/24/08	12/24/09	12/23/10
12/25/08	12/25/09	12/24/10
12/31/08	12/31/09	12/31/10
01/01/09	01/01/10	01/03/11
01/19/09	01/18/10	01/17/1 1
04/10/09	04/02/10	04/22/11
For (he employee normally scheduled to work the four (4) day ten (lOl hour work schedule, and not scheduled to work on a holiday, the amount of holiday pay will be based upon the number of hours worked during the last full payroll week immediately preceding the holiday, including shift differential, divided by the days worked, but in no case more than four (41 days, then multiplied by the employee’s base hourly rate, but in no case less than ten 1101 hours including shift differential, multiplied by his or her base hourly rate, provided the holiday falls on a normally scheduled work day. The employee will be paid eight (Si hours times their base hourly rate including shift differential for a holiday which falls on a day not normally scheduled.
Employees arc required to work the scheduled shift before or the scheduled shift after a holiday to be eligible for holiday pay whenever more than one (It holiday is recognized together. For single day holiday employees are required to work the scheduled day before anil after the holiday to be eligible for holiday pay. Excuses provided by the Agreement will not disqualify an employee from holiday pay.
13.4	For the employee normally scheduled to work the five (5) day eight {8) hour schedule, and not scheduled to work on a holiday, the amount of holiday pay will be based upon the number of hours worked during the last full payroll week immediately preceding the holiday, including shift differential, divided by the days worked, but in no case more than five (51 slays, then multiplied by the employee's base hourly rate, but in no case less than eight (8) hours
including shift differential, multiplied by his or her base hourly rate.
13.5	An employee will be eligible for holiday pay if he or she works one (11 of the two (2) qualifying days during the week in which the employee is either laid-off or recalled.
13.6	Notice to Work. If a holiday falls on Friday or Monday, an employee is to be notified one (11 week in advance if they are to work on that Friday or Saturday.
13.7	Working a Holiday. An employee who works on any of the above named holidays will be paid the holiday pay to which they are entitled, plus double time for actual hours worked. The agreed to overtime rules will be utilized in determining the appropriate employee to work a holiday.
13.S	Failure to Report. An employee who agrees to work and is scheduled to work on a holiday, and who fails to report for work, will receive no pay for the holiday.
13.9	Computing Overtime. For the sole purpose of computing overtime, a holiday named in this Article, which is not worked, will be counted as a day worked except where an employee agrees to work and is scheduled to report for work on the holiday and fails to do so.
13.10	Holiday Hours Defined. The above-named holidays shall be consecutive twenty-four 124) hour periods beginning and ending on the holidays enumerated above.
13.11	Holiday Basing Period. The period to be used in calculating days worked for the employee will be the most recent full week the plant worked prior to the week in which the holiday occurs. For this purpose, a “full week” is one in which neither a holiday nor a complete shutdown to rhe plant occurs. This procedure will apply except when an employee is returning from regular vacation or an SVP vacation. In such cases, the computation will be based upon the last full week the employee worked.
30
ARTICLE 14 VACATIONS
14.1	Vacation Policy. During the term of this Agreement, the Company will grant vacations with pay to the eligible employees in accordance with the following plan.
14.2	Vacation Plan. The Company agrees to formulate and issue information about the vacation plan for each of the following business units: Manufacturing. Distribution Center, in any year on or before April 1st. Normally the Distribution Center will not have a vacation shutdown. Normally the plant will shutdown for a period of two weeks sometime between June 1st and September 1st during which all employees will take their vacations. It is understood that because of planned maintenance functions or unusual operating conditions, it may be necessary to schedule a limited number ot employees for vacations at times other than during the plant shutdown. In addition, it may be necessary to schedule that portion of an employee's vacation that extends beyond two (2) weeks at times other than during the plant shutdown. In these cases, the employee will schedule vacations as far in advance as possible.
14.3	Any holiday that should occur during an employee's vacation will entitle them to time off at a future dale, if so desired. Such time oft will be scheduled as far in advance as possible by the employee.
14.4	Vacation Eligibility. To be eligible tor a vacation with pay, an employee must be a full-time regular employee on the payroll as of June 1 st. An employee with less than five <5) years of continuous service since his or her latest employment date with service calculated as of August 31 st must also have worked a minimum of one thousand < 1.000) straight time hours during the basing period which is the fifty-two (52) completed payroll weeks immediately preceding June 1st of the vacation year. An employee with less than five i5) years of service, not on the payroll June 1st, will nonetheless be eligible if he or she is absent on June 1st because of illness, disability, or layoff; but the
31
period of absence does not exceed sixty (60) consecutive calendar days.
14.5	During the basing period, all overtime hours worked, all holidays not worked, all vacation hours not worked, and all hours lost due to compensable injury or sickness under the Workmen's Compensation Act shall be counted as “hours worked” for the purpose of meeting the one thousand (1,000) hours minimum service requirement. For the employee, in building up the one thousand 11.000) hour minimum service requirement, a week of vacation not worked will be credited as forty (40) hours; each additional day of vacation not worked will be credited as eight (8) hours, or ten (10) hours depending upon the employee's shift.
14.6	Employees with more than five (5) years of service as previously defined will be eligible for their vacation entitlement by being on the active payroll as of June 1 of any year, provided, however, that such an employee who is not on the active payroll as of June 1 shall nevertheless be eligible if he or she meets either of the following conditions:
(At the employee has w'orked five hundred (500) straight time hours during the basing period which is fifty-two (52) completed payroll weeks immediately preceding June 1 of the vacation year: or.
(B)	the employee is absent on June 1st because of illness, disability or layoff, but the period of absence does not exceed sixty (60) consecutive calendar days.
14.7	A reinstated veteran returning from military service will be eligible for a vacation with pay if he or she returns to work prior to the vacation shutdown.
14.8	Vacation Entitlement. The number of days of vacation with pay will depend upon the number of years of continuous service since latest employment date w'ith service calculated as of August 31 st.
32
Years of Continuous Service	Vacation
Since Latest Employment Date	Entitlement
Determined as of August 31	
1 Year	1 Week
2 Years	2 Weeks
3 'tears	2 Weeks
4 Years	2 Weeks
5 Years	2 Weeks
6 Years	2 Weeks and 1 Day
7 Years	2 Weeks and 2 Davs
S Years	2 Weeks and 3 Davs
9 Years	2 Weeks and 4 Davs
10 Years	3 Weeks
11 Years	3 Weeks
12 Years	3 W'eeks
13 Years	3 Weeks
14 Years	3 Weeks
15 Years	3 Weeks
16 Years	3 Weeks and 1 Dav
17 'tears	3 Weeks and 2 Days
LS 'tears	3 Weeks and 3 Days
19 'tears	3 Weeks and 4 Day
20 Years	4 Weeks
2 1 Years	4 Weeks
22 Years	4 Weeks
23 Years	4 Weeks
24 'Years	4 Weeks
25 Years and Over	5 Weeks
14.9	For the employee, vacation pay for a week will be their base hourly rate multiplied by the average hours of the days worked per week during the thirteen (13) completed payroll weeks immediately preceding June 1st. but in no case, less than forty (401 hours, multiplied by their base hourly rate. Similarly, for each additional day of vacation, the employee's pay will be their base hourly rate, multiplied by the average hours worked per week during the thirteen (13) completed payroll weeks immediately preceding June 1st, but in no case, less than eight iS) hours, multiplied by their base hourly rate as of June 1st of the vacation year. In this connection, the average hours worked per day will be obtained by dividing the hours worked per week by the days worked, but in no case more
than five (5) days. Shift premium will be added to this calculation, if applicable.
14.10	Termination. If between June 1st and September 30th. an employee is laid off, or their services are terminated after having become eligible for a paid vacation which they have not yet taken, (he employee shall receive their vacation check at the time vacation is paid to active employees.
ARTICLE 15
SAFETY AND HEALTH
15.1	Company Obligations. The Company will continue to make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its employees, maintain proper working conditions, and shall make available to its employees protective devices and equipment as required by the laws and regulations of the State of Indiana and/or federal laws. If an employee is asked to perform an assignment that is deemed to be unsafe, talk to your supervisor. If this does not resolve the issue, contact the EH&S Department. Do not perform work you believe is unsafe. An employee will not be penalized for such an act provided there is objective evidence to justify such action.
15.2	An employee injured while carrying out assigned work on Company premises shall be offered an escort and transportation when it is necessary to take the employee to a doctor, hospital, or clinic for treatment. On the day of the injury, the employee will be paid at the applicable hourly rate for the time lost from their scheduled work hours while receiving medical treatment. Any revisits required as the result of the initial injury shall entitle the employee to be paid at their base hourly rate for time lost from regularly scheduled work.
15.3	Union Obligation. The Union agrees to cooperate with the Company in encouraging its employees to observe such reasonable safety regulations as the Company may prescribe.
34
15.4	Joint Committee. The Company and the Union agree to form and maintain a cooperative Safety Committee made up of representatives from each. Membership will consist of four <4j representatives designated by each. The committee may be enlarged by mutual agreement of the parties should circumstances warrant. The committee may designate subcommittees as necessary to augment the process if required. Monthly meetings will be held on an agreed upon date in an effort to promote a safe and healthful work environment.
15.5	Through active participation and cooperation the committee will strive to increase employee education and awareness while recommending improvements in plant operations conducive to accident prevention and the safeguarding of employees.
15.6	The Indianapolis facility is smoke free. Designated smoking areas can be found outside the building and smoking will be limited to such areas.
ARTICLE 16
grievance procedure
16.1	Filing a Grievance. During the life of this Agreement, any dispute between the Company and the Union or any employees as to rhe application or interpretation of the provisions of this Agreement shall be subject to adjustment in the manner provided for herein. Any alleged grievance not filed in writing within ten i lt)i working days from the date the incident occurred may not be processed through the grievance procedure, except where a longer period is specifically provided lor in this Agreement.
16.2	Step No. 1 Any employee, believing that they have suffered a grievance through improper application or interpretation of this Agreement may, with or without the steward or committeeman at interest in their building area, present the grievance to the supervisor of the employee's department. If a satisfactory settlement is not reached within two (2) working days, the employee may request a meeting to verbally discuss the grievance with the
supervisor, the building area’s steward, and the Cell Manager of the building area. The Company will have two (2) working days from the date of the meeting to give an answer to the grievance. Following receipt of the supervisor's decision, the Union shall have two (2) working days in which to either accept the decision or appeal to (he next step in the grievance procedure.
16.3	Step No. 2 The grievance will be considered at a meeting between the building area's steward, the Grievance Committeeman (or Committeemen i at interest in the building, the Chairman of the Grievance Committee, the Labor Relations Representative, the Supervisor, Cell Manager and Area Manager within five (5) working days from the date of appeal. Grievances concerning employee suspensions will be initiated at this step of the Grievance Procedure. After the dale of the meeting, the Company shall have three (3) working days in which to give its written decision. Following receipt of the Company's decision, the Union shall have three (3) working days in w'hich to either accept the decision or appeal to the next step in the grievance procedure.
16.4	Step Nu. 3 The grievance will be considered at a meeting between the Grievance Committee, the President of the Union, the Chairman of the Grievance Committee, the Union International Representative, the Cell Manager, the Area Manager, the Labor Relations Representative, and Labor Relations Manager. The parties agree that each party shall disclose any and all relevant documentary evidence in its possession, or known to exist, concerning grievances prior to or during the Step 3 grievance meeting. Should additional documentary evidence come to light after the Step 3 grievance hearing, such evidence will be disclosed as soon as it becomes available. Grievances concerning discharge or other mutually agreed-upon issues will be initiated at this step of the Grievance Procedure. After the date of the meeting, the Company shall have five (5) working days in which to give its written decision. Following receipt of the Company's decision, the Union shall have five (5) working days in which to either accept the decision or appeal to the next step in the grievance procedure.
36
16.5	Time Limit. At any of the three (3) steps described in paragraphs 16.2 through 16.4, il the Lin ion fails to appeal the Company’s decision within the specified time limit, the grievance shall be considered settled on the basis of the Company’s decision.
16.6	At any of the three (31 steps described in paragraphs 16.2 through 16.4, if the Company fails to meet or give its decision within the specified time limit, the grievance shall be considered settled in lav or of the aggrieved employee.
16.7	Settlement of a grievance by the failure of either the Company or the Union to comply with the time limits specified in paragraphs 16.2 through lh.4 shall not constitute a precedent in any other case.
16.S	At any of the three {31 steps described in paragraphs 16.2 through In.4. the time limit can he extended by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union.
16.9	Arbitration. Within the five 15) working days provided in Step No. 3. paragraph In.4 for an appeal from the Company’s decision in Step No. 3, the Union may submit the grievance in arbitration by the giving of written notice of intention to arbitrate said grievance. The arbitrator shall be chosen, within ten (10) working days from the time that the IInion gives such written notice in the following manner.
16.10	The Company and the Union shall each appoint their representative for the purpose of selecting an arbitrator. In the event the two (21 representatives are unable to select an arbitrator within five < 51 working days from the date the casetsi have been appealed, either party may submit the matter for arbitration to the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. The Company agrees to electronically submit the request lor the panel, within five 151 days of the appeal, in effort to expedite the process. The parties shall request the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to submit a list of seven (7) impartial arbitrators. The Company and Llnion appointee shall alternatively strike one name until six (6) names have been stricken. The remaining name shall be that of the
arbitrator, unless both parties mutually agree that a new list should be submitted. The arbitrator shall not accept post-hearing briefs in discipline or discharge cases unless he or she determines that the case raises complex, novel, or precedent setting issues such that oral argument would be insufficiently helpful to the arbitrator's understanding of the position of one or both of the parties. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and conclusive on both the Company and the Union. The fees and expenses of the arbitrator will be paid one-half (1/2) by the Company and one-half 11/2) by the Union.
(A)	The arbitrator shall have jurisdiction only as to the application or interpretation of any meaning of this Agreement.
(B)	The arbitrator shall have no power to add to, or subtract from or modify any of the terms of this Agreement, and the arbitrator shall have no power to determine standards of production.
ARTICLE 17 BULLETIN BOARDS
17.1	The Company agrees to furnish an adequate number of bulletin boards to the LInion and permit the LInion to post on these bulletin boards, such announcements and notices of the Union, as from time to time may be submitted, by the President of the Union, to the Human Resources Department of the Company for such purposes concerning meetings of the LInion. holding and results of elections, appointments to office, and social, educational or recreational affairs of the Union, provided, however, that nothing herein shall be deemed to require the Company to post any announcements or notices containing anything offensive or political or controversial or reflecting upon the Company or any of its employees.
ARTICLE 18 INSURANCE PLAN
18.1	The parties agree that notwithstanding any provisions of
the Agreement. Summary Plan Description. Insurance
38
Agreements, or any plan documents to the contrary, that the active employee benefit levels referenced in this article will not be adjusted or lowered for the duration of this agreement, unless agreed to by both the Company and the United Steelworkers of America. Il is understood that any plan changes required to conform to recent or future legislation shall be made, in accordance with the law.
During the life of this agreement, the group insurance plan will consist of the following items:
Life Insurance
Effective 04/28/2008
Effective 05/04/2009
Effective 05/03/2010
$35.000
$36,000
$37,000
Spouse Life Insurance
$5,000
Dependent Life Insurance
$2,000
Accidental Death \ Dismemberment
Effective 04/28/21 K)8	$35,000
Effective 1)5/04/2009	$36,000
Effective 05/03/2010	$37,000
Weekly Accident & Sickness Benefit
Effective 04/28/2008	$280.00
Effective 05/04/20Q9	$290,00
Effective O5/O3/2O1O	$300.00
Effective 7/7/68, The Company will make available to employees an opportunity to purchase Optional Employee Life Insurance. Additional life insurance will be available at group rates paid through weekly payroll deductions. During the annual open enrollment period, employees can elect coverage for the following contract year. The amount of coverage available to employees will be:
Optional Employee Life Insurance
Effective (17/07/2008	$35.000
Effective 05/04/20Q9	$3h,000
Effective 05/03/2010	$37,01)0
39
Medical Coverage See 18.7
Dental Coverage See 18.8
Benefits incurred on or after 01/01 /2006 provided under the improved schedule presented to the Union on April 5. 2005. The annual maximum benefit allowance per covered person for class II and class III services combined is $1500.
Retiree Life Insurance
Fully paid by Company	$2,000
This benefit will not be available for employees retiring after 12/31/2006.
Early Retiree Health Care Plan
Plan Maximum	$1,500,000
18.2	Employees who have retired prior to December 31, 2006 are eligible to receive post retiree benefits in effect at the time of their retirement.
Employees who retire and enroll after December 31, 2006 will pay the full cost of retiree medical, as outlined in 18.5.
18.3	Life Insurance. Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance will be provided for those employees and their dependents who qualify for Disability Retirement subject to the waiver of premiums by the insurance carriers. Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance coverage will be provided for those employees receiving a disability retirement prior to age sixty-five (651 up to the age of 65.
18.4	The weekly employee contributions for medical coverage through the Company's Managed Care Medical Plan will be:
40
Employee Contributions - Medical Plan
ANTHEM
Time Frame				
1/5/09-1/3/10				
Medical				
Option	EE	EE+SP	EE+CH	Family
1	$15.60	$37.70	$24.40	$5 1.60
	$11.30	$27.50	$21.60	$37.40
3	$7.30	$ 1 7.50	$ 13.50	$23.70
HDHP	$0	$3.50	$2.KJ	$0.10
Prescription				
Option	EE	EE+SP	EE+CH	Family
1	$3.50	$7.00	$0.20	$ 10.60
	$1.70	$3.60	$3.30	$5.20
3	$0.00	$2.30	$1.70	$4.00
ANTHEM
Time Frame
1/04/10-1/02/11				
Medical Option	EE	EE+SP	EE+CH	Family
i	$17.40	$43.40	$3 3.SO	$54 30
T	$13.00	$31.60	$24.SO	$43.60
3	$$.40	$20.10	$15.50	$27.30
HDHP	$0	$4.00	$3.00	$7.00
Prescription				
Option	EE	EE+SP	EE+CH	Family
1	$4.00	$$.70	$7.10	$12.20
	$2.00	$4.10	$3.80	$6.00
	$0.00	$2.60	$2.00	$4.60
41
ANTHEM
Time Frame				
1/03/11- Medical	1/01/12			
Option	EE	EE+SP	EE+CH	Family
1	$20.60	$49.90	$38.90	$68.20
2	$15.00	$36.30	$28.50	$50.10
3	$9.70	$23.10	$17.80	$3 1.40
HDHP	$0 Prescription		$4.60	$3.50	$8.10
Option	EE	EE+SP	EE+CH	Family
1	$4.60	$10.00	$8.20	$14.00
	$2.30	$4.70	$4.40	$6.90
3	$0.00	$3.00	$2.30	$5.30
Life, AD&D. S&A 100% Company provided
Employee Contributions - Dental Plan
Time Frame
01/05/09 - 01/03/10
EE	EE+SP
$2.50	$5.40
EE+CH	Family
$6.00	$8.85
Time Frame 01/04/10-01/02/11
EE	EE+SP
$2.75	$5.00
Time Frame 01/03/11 -01/01/12
EE	EE+SP
$2.95	$6.40
EE+CH	Family
$6.55	SQ.70
EE+CH	Family
$7.10	$10.55
18.5	The cost of the early retiree medical coverage will be calculated on an annual basis and will be based on (he melded utilization experience of all domestic Carrier hourly retirees, covered spouses and covered dependents participating in early retiree medical coverage.
42
18.6	The Company shall have the right to select the insurance carrier covering Medical. Lite Insurance. Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance. Weekly Accident and Sickness Benefits, Dental, and to receive the dividend returns from the operation of the plan.
18.7	Medical Coverage details are set forth in the brochure furnished by the Company and to the Union. The contents of this brochure titled "Medical Benefits - Summary Plan Description For Hourly Paid Represented Employees -Indianapolis. Indiana" will be furnished to all employees.
18.X	Details of the Dental Plan are set forth in the Dental Plan brochure furnished by the Company to the Union and all employees.
18.0	Employees hired after April 22, 19o(j and subsequently laid off will be ineligible for Company health care continuation except as may be provided under the provisions of COBRA.
ARTICLE 19
PENSION PLAN
N.I During the life ol this Agreement, the Amended Pension Agreement dated April 25. I9Q9 is contained in a booklet titled "Employee Retirement Plan - Summary Plan Description - Carrier Corporation - Indianapolis. Indiana". This booklet constitutes a pan of this Article as incorporated herein by reference and shall continue in full force and effect according to its terms.
N.2 The Company and the Union agree to have the pension agreement comply with the minimum requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of N74 provided that compliance with the Act does not reduce any heretofore negotiated pension benefits. The pension agreement provisions are subject to approval by the IRS.
19.3	As agreed, the text entitled. "Retirement Plan lor Hourly Employees of The Carrier Corporation" and contained on
43
Pages 110-173 of the April 25, 1999 Agreement, will be replaced by language contained in Article 19 and the separate booklet titled "Employee Retirement Plan -Summary Plan Description - Carrier Corporation ■ Indianapolis. Indiana".
19.4	The parties agree that notwithstanding any provisions of the Agreement, Summary Plan Description. Pension Agreement, or any plan document to the contrary, the Pension Plan shall not be terminated during the life of the Agreement nor shall the Pension Plan be amended during the life of the Agreement in any manner that would adversely affect an employee's right to accrued benefits or benefits as they may accrue to an employee during his employment under the terms of the Agreement, except as may be required by law. Nothing in this paragraph is to be construed as affecting in any way rights otherwise reserved to the Company by this Agreement or by law.
19.5	Employees retiring during the life of this agreement w ill receive all pension benefit level increases on the dates outlined herein.
6.	The amount of pension benefit:
(A)	The monthly pension benefit payable to a participant at or after his normal retirement age shall be equal to the amount specified in 19.6 (b), and provided for in the booklet titled "Employee Retirement Plan - Summary Plan Description -Carrier Corporation - Indianapolis. Indiana".
(B)	Participants retiring from active employment on or after May 1, 2008 will be eligible for $46 multiplied by the years of his period of service (maximum 40 years).
(Ct A Pop Up provision will provide the participant an opportunity to select an option allowing the pension benefit to increase to the level of a participant without a spouse, should the retiree’s spouse predecease the retiree.
44
19.	7 Membership in the Plan: Every employee shall be eligible to become a participant in this plan as of the first day of the calendar month on or after his employment date. The employee must be an hourly employee of the company covered under the collective bargaining agreement. Plan benefits are paid tor entirely by the Company.
19.	S Vesting. If a participant leaves the Company before early or normal retirement, the participant may be entitled to a vested plan benefit. To qualify for a vested benefit, the participant must have completed at least a five-year period of continuous service.
19.	9 Credited Service. Credited service means the period of employment beginning on the employee's employment date or reemployment date, whichever is applicable, and ending on the employee's termination date. For the purpose of calculating the plan benefit, an employee can earn a maximum of 40 y ears credited sen ice.
19.1	0 Retirement Dates
(A) The normal retirement date for a participant in the plan shall be the 1 1 of the month following his b5,h birthday.
iBi A participant shall be eligible to elect early retirement following his completion ot at least 10 years continuous service and attainment of age 55.
{Ct It you become disabled while employed by UTC. full benefits can begin as early as the first dav of the month after you have been disabled for one year, provided you have at least 10 years of continuous service and you are receiving Social Security disability benefits.
45
19.1	1 Monthly Pension Benefit Payment Options
Standard Forms of Payment:
Life Annuity Option for single participants
50% "Pop-Up” Contingent Annuity Option for married participants
Optional Forms of Payment:
Life Annuity Option
50% "Pop-Up” Contingent Annuitant Option 100% "Pop-lip” Contingent Annuitant Option
19.1	2 Pre-retirement Death Benefits
(A) Before Age 55: if you die in active service after you complete a five-year period of service, your surviving spouse will automatically be eligible to receive a lifetime benefit from the plan. Payments will start on what would have been your normal retirement date. If your period of continuous service is at least 10 years when you die, your spouse can elect to have payments start as early as the first day of the month on or after the date that would have been your 55lh birthday. The benefit payable would be equal to 50%^ of the benefit that would have been paid to you if you left your employment on the date of your death with a vested benefit and elected a 50%' "Pop Up" joint and survivor annuity.
{B) After Age 55: If you die in active service after age 55 after completing a period of continuous service of at least five years, your surviving spouse will automatically be eligible for a benefit from the plan. The benefit payable would be equal to 50% of the pension you would have received if you had retired on the date of your death with a 50% contingent annuity. If you die after age 55 after completing a period of continuous service of at least 10 years, your beneficiary will be eligible to receive a benefit from the plan beginning on the first day of the month following your date of death.
46
19.1	3 UTC Represented Employee Retirement Plan
The official name of the retirement plan for hourly employees at Carrier Corporation’s Indianapolis, Indiana facility is the UTC Represented Employee Retirement Plan. The complete details and provisions of the retirement plan can be found in the official plan document entitled United Technologies Corporation Represented Employee Retirement Plan, li there is any conflict between the information in this Article 19. the plan documents will govern.
ARTICLE 20
SAVINGS PLAN
2	0.I During the life of this Agreement, the Savings Plan dated April 15, 19X4. which is attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference, shall continue in full torce anil effect according to its terms.
2	. Effective July 7, 2008. employees who have attained one (I) year of service will be eligible to deposit two dollars ($2) to fifty six dollars ($561 per week in a savings account in which the Company will match deposits at a rate of fifty percent (50% i. In addition, effective July 7, 2008. employees who have attained one < 1 > year of service will be eligible to deposit two dollars ($2) to ninety-two dollars t$92) per week in a savings account on an unmatched basis. Effective May 4, 2009, employees who have attained one < 1 ) year of service w ill be eligible to deposit two dollars < $21 to fifty-eight dollars ($58) per week in a savings account in which the Company will match deposits at a rate of fitly percent (50% i. In addition, effective May 4, 2009, employees who have attained one (11 year of serv ice will he eligible to deposit two dollars ($2) to ninety-four dollars ($M4i per week into a savings account on an unmatched basis. Effective May 3, 2010, employees who have attained one (11 year of serv ice will be eligible to deposit two dollars t$21 to sixty dollars ($o0) per week in a savings account in which the Company will match deposits at a rate of fifty percent «50‘ei. In addition, effective May 3, 2010. employees who have attained one (I) year of service will be eligible to deposit two dollars <$21 to ninety-six dollars <$%) per week in a savings
47
account on an unmatched basis. Details as to the plan's overall procedure will be highlighted in a separate brochure tilled "Employee Savings Plan - Carrier Corporation -Indianapolis". The Company will continue to offer a tax-deferred option as part of the Employee Savings Plan.
ARTICLE 21
COST-OF-LIVING CLAUSE
21.1	The cost-of-living allowance shall be paid as a clock card addition for all hours worked as shown in the table below:
Difference in C.P.I exceeding 6% between addition	Becomes a Clockcard
February 2008 and August 2008	October 6, 2008
February 2008 and February 2009	April 6. 2009
February 2009 and August 2009	October 5, 2009
February 2009and February' 2010	April 5, 2010
February 2010 and August 2010	October 4, 2010
February' 2010 and February 2011	April 4. 2011
21.2	The cost-of-living allowance shall be determined in accordance with changes in the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers Revised Series (CPl-W) - United States - all items. (1967-5-100) published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics U.S. Department of Labor, hereafter referred to as the “BLS Index".
21.3	The amount of the cost-of-living allowance that shall be effective shall be one cent iS.01) per hour for each .04 point increase in the BLS Index exceeding six percent (6%) annually. Such allowance shall also be subject to decrease at the rate of one cent ($.01) per hour for each ,04 point decrease in the BLS index, as provided in paragraph 21.1 above.
21.4	The allowance shall be subject to a maximum of twenty cents ($.20) for changes exceeding six percent (69c) in the C.P.L between February 200S and February 200,9. February 2009 and February 2010. and February 2010 and February 201L
48
21.5	Cosi-of-Livmg adjustment payments will have no impact upon wage incentive calculation and will apply to all hours worked. The cost-ot-h ving allowance as defined in paragraph 21.1 will not apply to hours not actually worked (such as vacation, holiday, bereavement, grievance, jury and military pay).
21.6	In the event the Bureau of Labor Statistics does not issue the BLS Index identified in paragraph 21.2 above, on or before the beginning of the payroll periods referred to in paragraph 21.1 above, any adjustment in the allowance required by the Index shall be effective at the beginning of the first pay roll period after receipt of the Index.
21.7	No adjustments, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made because of any revision that may later be made in the published figures for the BLS Index for any month on the basis of which the allowance has been determined.
21.8	The continuance of the cost-of-living allowance shall be contingent on the availability of the BLS Index in the lonn identified in paragraph 21.2, and calculated on the same basis as said Index. 11 the BLS index in that form or
calculated on that basis shall be revised or discontinued, the parties shall attempt to adjust this clause or, if agreement is not reached, the parties shall request the Bureau of Labor Statistics to provide a conversion or adjustment which shall be applicable in the interpretation ot this clause thereafter.
ARTICLE 22 GENERAL CLAUSES
22.1	Warning Notices. Il is agreed that the personal warning slips on an employee shall be considered void after the employee has worked twelve (12) months from the date of the first disciplinary action for the same offense. Voided records of disciplinary warnings are to be removed from the employee's personnel folder. All disciplinary action will be initiated within two 12) working days after all the facts are known on the alleged violation.
49
22.2	Jury Duty. If employees who have acquired seniority are required io serve on a jury during the regular hours scheduled to work, pay will be granted with a maximum allowance of eight (8) hours for any one day or ten (101 hours during a four (4) day. ten (101 hour work schedule. Employees assigned to second (2nd) or third (3rd) shift work and required to serve on a jury will be excused from their scheduled shift work, if so desired, and will be paid in the same manner.
22.3	For the purpose of paragraphs 22.2 through 22.7, the day on which an employee is summoned and reports for possible jury duty whether or not selected, shall be considered a day of jury service.
22.4	An employee must notify his Supervisor of pending jury service on the work day after he receives his notice.
22.5	If an employee is excused from jury duty on any day, he or she may report for work and work the balance of his or her shift.
22.6	In addition to being eligible for payment for jury duly service, an employee will be eligible for payment in the manner previously described in this section, for any day on which he or she is subpoenaed to appear in court as a witness.
22.7	An employee, who claims pay under paragraphs 22.2 through 22.7, must furnish the Human Resources Department with a statement, signed by the Clerk of the Court.
22.8	Bereavement Pay. The Company agrees to provide the employee three (3) days bereavement leave which shall be taken within two (2) weeks of death of the covered family member. No employee shall receive bereavement pay if the employee is on layoff at the time of death.
22.9	The employee will be paid up to twenty-four (24) hours pay for time lost, not to exceed eight (8) hours per day at their base hourly rate, or ten (10) hours per day on a four 14 > day ten (101 hour work schedule, not to exceed thirty
50
130)	hours. The employee must take their bereavement within two weeks of the death of a family member.
22.10	If a holiday should occur during the same time, an employee will be entitled to lime off for such holiday following the completion of the twenty-four (24) hour period stated above, if they so desire. Payment for such additional time off shall be in accordance with Article 13.2.
22.11	In case of death in an employee's immediate family during the time the employee is on a scheduled vacation, he or she shall be entitled to a maximum of three (3) additional days ott with pay at the completion of his or her scheduled vacation period if the employee so desires. Such payment shall be in accordance w ith paragraphs 22.x through 22.13.
22.12	The Company agrees to request documentation of death and relationship in cases in which there is reasonable belief that documentation will resolve discrepancies.
22.13	For the purpose of paragraphs 22.x through 22.13. immediate family shall be the employee's: mother, father, husband, wife, children, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law. son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparents, sister-in-law, brother-in-law. grandchiIdren and stepchildren.
22.13	A The Company agrees to pros ide the employee one (I) day bereavement leave for attendance at the funeral of a stepparent or step-grandparent. The employee will be paid up to eight (S) hours pay for lime lost at their base hourly rate, or ten ( 10) hours pay at their base hourly rate on a four (4) day ten (10) hour work schedule.
22.14	Retirement Pay. Employees who retire on or after March I. Iwill receive a lump sum payment of five hundred dollars ($500.001 at the time of retirement.
22.15	Seniority Payments. All employees with seniority preceding April 15. W84. will receive a seniority payment of one dollar and ninety-two cents ($1.^2) per hour as a clock card addition for all hours worked and a payment of
51
one dollar and twenty-seven cents ($1.27) per hour as a clock card addition for hours not actually worked (such as vacation, holiday, bereavement, grievance, jury and military pay). The seniority payments will apply only to employees hired prior to April 15. 1984.
ARTICLE 23
SEVERANCE PLAN
23.1	In the event that the Company discontinues an Indianapolis-based operation permanently or moves it to a new location, the following Severance Plan will be followed.
23.2	Under either of the above circumstances all employees whose jobs are eliminated at an Indianapolis-based operation will exercise fully their seniority rights as set forth in the Agreement which is in effect at the Company's Indianapolis-based operations at that time.
23.3	Job opportunities with the Company at a relocated operation will also be discussed with employees whose jobs at the Indianapolis-based location are eliminated as a result of the relocation. However, it is agreed that the offering and acceptance of jobs at a relocated operation will in no way affect any labor agreement which may be in effect at that location. The refusal of an employee to accept the offer of a job at a relocated operation will not affect his or her rights under the provision of this article.
23.4	If, as a final consequence of the discontinuance of an Indianapolis-based operation, as previously described, jobs are not available, either at the Company's Indianapolisbased operations or at a new location, terminating employees will receive severance pay in accordance with the following schedule.
SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE BY YEARS OF SERVICE
Weeks at Base Pay
Less than 5 years.....None
5 Years................1 Week
b years.......................2	Weeks
7 years.......................3	Weeks
X years.......................4	Weeks
u years.......................5	Weeks
l<i years.....................b	Weeks
11	years....................7	Weeks
12	years and over...X Weeks
23.	5 If an employee is laid off with recall rights in accordance with Article X as a result of a discontinuance of an Indianapolis-based operation, the employee will be eligible for severance allowance if he or she is not reinstated to the active payroll within the time trame as described in Article X. paragraphs 8.32 and 8.33.
23.	6 The applicable provisions oi the Pension Plan will also apply to eligible employees who terminate their employment with the Company under the circumstances described in this Article.
ARTICLE 24
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
24.1	Granting Leaves. An employee may be granted a leave of absence based on proper and justifiable reasons and the facts as presented in the request. Such leaves shall be applied for in writing to the Company and upon approval shall he granted in writing w ith a statement of the duration and circumstances thereof.
24.2	Public Office. An employee may be granted a leave of absence in order to occupy an elected public office, on a full-time basis. Such leaves shall be applied for in writing and shall be granted in writing with a statement of the duration and circumstances thereof.
53
24.3	District Organizations. An employee who is selected or elected for a position with the District Organization of the Union, the International Union, or full time position with the Local Union shall be granted a leave of absence for the maximum period as described in Article 8. paragraphs 8.32 and 8.33 of this Agreement. Such leaves shall be applied for in writing and granted in writing with a statement of the circumstances of such leaves. Any person on such leave of absence on the effective date of this agreement shall continue to accrue seniority.
24.4	Seniority Accumulation. During periods of leaves of absences, an employee's seniority shall accumulate.
24.5	Returning from Leave. An employee must return from a leave of absence granted under paragraph 24.3 within two (21 weeks from the expiration of such leave. Employees granted leaves of absence under paragraphs 24.2 and 24.3 shall return from such leave within the time provided in the written statement of the leave of absence. The failure of an employee to return to work in accordance with this section shall result in termination of employment. It is understood, however, that the time limits for such return may be extended by mutual agreement in writing by the Company and the employee.
24.6	Classification Placement. On return from leave of absence, the employee shall have the rights to placement in the bargaining unit that arise from the extent of their seniority. On leaves of absence of sixty (60) days or less, the employee will be returned to their former classification and shift, and department. On return from medical leaves of absence, regardless of the duration, the employee will be returned to their former classification, shift, department and job unless the employee’s physical condition prevents this reassignment. In such case, the employee shall have the rights to placement in the bargaining unit that arise from the extent of their seniority.
24.7	Illness or Injury. In case of verified illness or injury making it necessary for an employee to be temporarily absent from work, a leave of absence will be granted as follows:
54
Amount of Seniority	Maximum Amount of Leave
0 - 90 Day s (Probationary Period)	None
of) days to I year	3 Months
24.8	Family Leave. An employee may be granted an unpaid lease ot' up to twelve 11 2) weeks. A taniily leave will provide the employee an opportunity to take care of a newborn or newly adopted child, or to care for a sick family member.
24.m	The employee must provide (he reason for the leave in
writing to the Labor Relations Manager and must submit in writing every thirty (30) days a status report of the family leave situation. The employee must return to work within five (5) days from the conclusion ol the leave. The employee will be entitled Io a position within the bargaining unit under the provisions of paragraph 23.h.
24.10	The provisions of a family leave may exceed that which is outlined under the Family and Medical Leave Act of ImQ3.
ARTICLE 25
termination
25.1	This Agreement shall become effective April 28, 2t)itS and shall remain in full force and effect until I 2:O| am. April 25, 201 1. and shall then renew itself from year to year unless either party to the agreement gives written notice to the other party, at least sixty (fit)j days prior to the expiration ot the Agreement, of the desire to change, amend, or terminate the agreement.
55
Executed this 28th day of April, 2008
UNITED STEELWORKERS
Janies Adcock Bruce Reed
Chuck Jones
Kenny Dickerson Shelly Grace Barber-Carr
Roy Beatty
Linda Bennington Anna Vicki Clark
Marion Qualls Allen Johnson Bennie Porter
Greg Rippy
Maurie Wilkerson
INDIANAPOLIS PLANT OF CARRIER CORPORATION INDIANAPOLIS. INDIANA
Jean-Francois Brossoit Isham Jay Bennett Rejeana Pendleton Robert Fulk
James Jacobs Matt Schlotzhauer Kristen Abbott Lateia Harwell
56
NEGOTIATION REPRESENTATION April 2S. ZOOS
Indianapolis Plant
Carrier Corporation and
Indianapolis. Indiana
United Steelworkers
Local Union No. I 00m
L e*? W Gerard Jame> Fngbsb Turn CV*D«ay Fred Redmund hm Pi -binsoD
57
ARTICLE 8 - SENIORITY SUPPLEMENT “A" JOB CLASSIFICATIONS WITHIN OCCUPATIONAL GROUPS
GROUP 1	GROUP LEADER	10
PRECISION INSPECTOR B (CRAFTl	10
GROUP LEADER	8
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ATTENDANT	10
ERGONOMICS TECHNICIAN	8
	PRECISION INSPECTOR______________8 GROUP 2__________________________________GROUP LEADER 2___________8
TRUCK DRIVER	8
MATERIALS ASSOCIATE	8
	SALVAGE & REPAIR SHIPPER________8_ GROUP3___________________________________GROUPLEADER3____________10
MACHINE REPAIR TECHNICIAN	10
	ELECTRICAL/ELECTRONIC REPAIR____10 GROUP4___________________________________GROUP LEADER TOOL & DIE_11
TOOL AND DIE MAKER	11
TOOL AND DIE MAKER TRAINEE	11
GROUP LEADER 4	9
FABRICATION TECHNICIAN	9
OWNER OPERATOR	8
________PRODUCTION SUPPORT ASSOCIATE__S_
GROUP 5 GROUP LEADER 5 ACE PILOT 8
GROUP 6 GROUPLEADER	8
BRAZER	9
________ASSEMBLY SPECIALIST____________8 GROUP7 GROUPLEADER 7___________________7
GROUP LEADER 8	8
PRODUCTION ASSOCIATE A	8
PRODUCTION ASSOCIATE C	6
PRODUCTION ASSOCIATE D	7
PRODUCTION ASSOCIATE B	6
GENERAL MAINTENANCE	6
GROUNDS KEEPER	7
TEMPORARY	1
58
APPENDIX *‘A"
EFFECTIVE 04/2S/08
Labor
CirJJe
Classification
Start 6 nu O mr> I? I *■ mu I 8 mo 2lmn
1 Temperate
|4 1|
o	General Maintenance
o	Production Associate	Ei
6	Production Associate	L
15 2n	1541	|s	fJ)	i5	7S	15.J5	।r,	|r>.2<a
In 411	InG	|n	8 I	I 7	111	I 7 2 I	r 4 2	I 7,c,2
16 40	Io 5'1	In	s I	| 7	I>|	| 7 2 I	I7 42	17 o2
G round skeeper Production Associate D
Group I cader
10.45 17 14
T 10 |7 st, | 7 7o |7 47 18 17
In.us ] 7.14	17 In I 7 Sr |7 ?n 17.47 |S | 7
14 67
8	Assemble Speciahsls
5	Materials Asocialc
5 Ouner Operator
s Precision Inspector
s Production Associate 8
8	Salvage Jt Repair Shipper
8	Truck Dm er
8 Prod Support Associate
8 Ergonomic 7edinician
8	Group Leader?
8	Group Leader 5
8	Group Leader 8
4 Eabricaiion Technician
4	Braver
4	Group Leader 4
Io.70 Io 711
Io 7il |6 7U |o 7n |O 7(1 10.7(1 th 7,| Ih 7(1
17 OS I 7 08 1’08
I 7 OX I 7 08
I 7.08 1 7.H8
I 7.118
I 7 118
I 8.2.1
I 8.23 I 8.23 IS 23 18 23 18 23 18 23 18 23 1821
|4 71
I it Electrical Pleclr><nic Repair
IA Hazardous Ml k Ann l<i Machine Repair Tech lit Precision Inspector "B" in Group Leader J
I I Tool i Die Maker
I I Gniup Leader 1 1
GROUP LEADER EARNS $1.50 ABOVE THE HIGHEST CLASSIFICATION THAT HE OR SHE LEADS.
APPENDIX “A"
EFFECTIVE 05/114/09
Labor Grade	Classification	Start o mo	9 mo	12 mo	15 mo	18 mo	21 mu
I	I empvrary	14.86					
6	General Maintenance	15.81 15 98	16.15	16.33	1 6.5(1	16.67	16.84
h	Production Associate B	10.95 17.14	17 3n	17.56	17.76	17.97	18.17
h	Production Associate C	16.95 17.14	17 3n	17 56	17.76	17 97	18.17
7	Groundskeeper	17 50 17.69	1791	18.11	18.3]	18.52	18.72
7	Production Associate D	17 50 17.69	17.9]	18.| 1	18.31	18.52	18.72
7	Group Leader	20.22					
8	Assembly Specialists	17.25 17.63	18 02	18.40	18.78		
8	Malena Is Associate	17.25 17.63	18.02	18 40	18.78		
8	Owner Operator	J 7 25 17.63	18 02	18.40	18 78		
8	Precision Inspector	17 25 17.63	18.02	18.40	18.78		
S	Production Associate A	17.25 17.63	18.02	18.40	18.78		
8	Salvage & Repair Shipper	17.25 17.63	18.02	18.40	18.78		
8	Truck On ver	17.25 17 b3	18.02	18.40	18.78		
8	Prod Support Associate	17.25 17.03	18.02	18.40	18.78		
8	Ergonomic Technician	17.25 17 63	IS 02	18 40	18 78		
8	Group Leader 2	20.28					
X	Group Leader 5	20 28					
S	Group Leader 8	20.28					
Q	Fabncauon Technician	18.14 18.45	18.7b	19 07	19.38		
9	Brazer	18.14 18.45	18.76	19 07	19.38		
9	Group Leader J	20.88					
in	E leetncal/ElectTonic Repair	19.81 20.12	20.43	20.57	21 Ob		
iu	Hazardous Mils Attn	19.81 20.12	20.43	20.57	21.06		
io	Machine Repair Tech.	19 81 20.12	20.43	20.57	21,0b		
in	Precision Inspector "B"	19.8] 20 12	20.43	20.57	21.0b		
10	Group Leader 3	22.5b					
ii	Tool & Die Maker	20.00 20.30	20 60	20.90	21.20		
ii	Group Leader 1 1	22 70					
GROUP LEADER EARNS $1.50 ABOVE THE HIGHEST CLASSIFICATION THAT HE OR SHE LEADS.
60
APPENDIX "A''
EFFECTIVE 05/3/10
Labor (.iradc
Classification
Stan o rri'j 0 mu I 2 mo I 5 niu I S mu 21 mo
1 Tempo rars
15.41
h	General Maintenance	|o.?h	lb.5 3	1 n 7i i	1 n SX	17.05	17.22	I7 30
h	Production Associate B	17.50	I7 t,'>	17 u|	IX.1 1	IS. 31	lx.52	lb.72
h	Production Associate C	1 7 50	17 h0	1 7 w|	IX | |	1X31	IS.52	IX 72
7	Groundskeeper	IS.O5	15 24	1 S 4o	1 S br>	IS Sh	10 I)7	10 27
7	Production Associate L»	15.05	15.24	1S 4n	1 5 hb	IS Sn	10 07	10 27
7	Group Leader	20.77						
s	Assembly Specialists	17 Nil	I5|5	IS.57	IS.05	io .1.1		
8	Materials Associate	|7 Sill	15 15	IS.5'	IX 05	loll		
.8	Owner Operator	1 7 511	15 |5	IS 57	IS .05	|o 11		
8	Prec i $ ion Inspector	1 7 50	15 15	IS 57	IS.05	10 13		
X	Production Associate A	1 7 50	15 15	15 5n	IS 05	|0 33		
X	Salvage & Repair Shipper	1 7.S0	IS IS	IS 57	15 05	10 33		
X	Truck Driver	1 7.50	IS. IS	IS 57	1 s U5	10.33		
X	Prod Support Associate	17. Sil	15. IS	IS 57	IS 05	1 o. 3 3		
X	Ergonomic Techini lan	I7.511	lb. IS	IS.57	IS 05	10.33		
8	Group Leader 2	20 S3						
X	Group Leader 5	■>0 x I						
X	Group Leader S	20.53						
u	Fabrication Technician	IS.r.O	|o 1)0	1 o .11	10 h2	io 03		
4	Brazer	15 roa	1 o no	10.31	|o h2	1 o o.i		
Q	Group Leader 4	21 41						
]u	Electrical Electronic Repair	2o It.	2O.f7	20.515	21.12	2l.b|		
MJ	Hazardous Mils Ann	2o In	2<>.h7	20 Ox	21.12	2 1 b 1		
10	Machine Repair Tech.	2d Its	2ci r>7	20 ox	21.12	21 bl		
H>	Precision [nspeLtor "B"	20 3 b	2d r.7	2u OX	21 12	21 .b I		
in	Group Leader 5	23 1 1						
11	Tool i Die Maker	2n 55	20.55	21 15	21 45	21 75		
1 ]	Group Leader 11	2 3 'S						
GROUP LEADER EARNS $1.50 ABOVE THE HIGHEST CLASSIFICATION THAT HE OR SHE LEADS.
hl
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES FOR FOUR DAY WORK WEEK
1.	All departments except Shipping/Distribution/Receiving would be placed on a 4-day. 10 hour per day work schedule with the four days being Monday through Thursday.
2.	Shipping department personnel whose duties are tied to production lines will work production line schedules. Shipping/Receiving department personnel whose duties are not governed by production line schedules may remain on a 5-day. S-hour per day work week or could work a schedule of Monday through Thursday 10-hour work day.
3.	One of the current breaks of 10 minutes would be extended to 15 minutes for those on a 10-hour schedule.
4.	Maintenance department personnel would be assigned as needed. It is possible that some may follow the production line schedules to maintain equipment. Some may be scheduled in early for plant start-up. Others may be scheduled for 4 10-hour days Monday through Thursday.
5.	Holidays will be observed on the designated nationally observed days unless changed by mutual agreement.
6.	Holidays falling on an employee's regularly scheduled work day will be paid on the basis of the regularly scheduled hours for that day and also will be included in the calculation of weekly overtime.
7.	In the event management wishes to cancel 10-hour shifts and change to an 8-hour per day. 5-day work week, it may do so by providing a notice of not less than ninety (00) working days.
62
SUPPLEMENTAL VACATION PLAN
Section I.	Purpose
The purpose of this plan is to provide bargaining unit employees with supplemental vacation benefits as set forth herein.
Section 2.	Vacations
The Company will provide a quarterly payment of $250.00 to I Stj employees in seniority order, beginning July I, 200<S. Subsequent payments will be made to the next 15Q employees in descending seniority order such process will be executed each quarter thereafter
Section 2- Vacation Benefit Option and Payment
3.1	An employee shall have the following options with respect to each Vacation Benefit to which he has become entitled, subject to his irrevocable election in writing seven (7 > days following the date he becomes eligible.
Option A. He may elect to take any weeks of vacation benefit as time off from work in accordance with Section 10. in which event he shall be paid the vacation benefit at the time that said time off is scheduled: or
Option B. He may elect to be paid the vacation benefit at the time that he requests such payment, provided that such payment shall be made no later than the next time that he receives the vacation pay provided by Article 13 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement and provided further that such payment shall not be made al any time that the employee is on strike.
3.2	Each employee shall be given seven (71 calendar days in which to make his election of options as stated above. If an employee fails to make such election of option within seven 17 i calendar days, he shall be conclusively deemed to have elected Option B.
63
3.	Each employee who has elected Option A must take such time off as provided for in 3J no later than twelve (12) calendar months after eligibility of his entitlement. If the employee does not exercise Option A during this period, he will automatically be changed to Option B.
Section 4- Vacation Time Off
4.1	if an employee has elected Option A pursuant to Section 3, the vacation time off may be scheduled by the Company at any time during the remainder of the calendar year in which the employee became entitled to the Vacation Benefit or within the succeeding calendar year.
4.2	Any unpaid Vacation Benefit pursuant to Option A shall be payable to an employee on written application by him in the event of unemployment, other than unemployment caused by his being on strike, after the exhaustion of unemployment compensation, or in the event of illness or disability, after the exhaustion of the weekly sickness and accident benefit.
4.3	In the scheduling of vacations here under the Company will attempt to give preference to the wishes of the employees having the greatest seniority. If the Company determines that operations so permit, an employee may upon request take any full weeks of his annual vacation pursuant to Article 14 of the collective bargaining agreement in conjunction with vacations pursuant to this plan.
Section Disputes
5.1	If any dispute shall arise between the Company and the Union or any employee as to the application or interpretation of the provisions of this plan, and a resolution thereof cannot be reached betw'een representatives of the Company and the Union designated for this purpose such dispute shall be disposed of in the manner provided for in Article 16 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, commencing with .Step No. 3 thereof.
64
5.2	In the event that the Union or an employee wishes to submit a dispute as provided above, it or he must file a statement in writing with the Labor Relations Manager of the Company within ten (lift days from the date ot the notice to him of the action to which he objects. Said written statement shall fully set forth the nature of the dispute.
Section f». Reports
6.1	The Union shall he furnished in the form and at times mutually agreed upon such inlormalion as may be reasonably requested to enable the Union to be properly informed concerning the operation of the Plan.
Section 7. Status of Veterans
I.	Any employee returning to the active payroll after having served in the Armed Services will be granted the benefit contained in this SVP program so long as he is on the active payroll prior to the time that his seniority entitles him to pay ment.
Section S. New Participants
8. I Employees hired after April 28, 2()(>8 arc ineligible for
payment under this plan.
Note: The administration of the SVP as provided in the 201.15 through 2008 Agreement shall be in full force and all monies owed naid. The new SVP-2008 will be effective July I, 2008.
05
LETTER A
Letter of Understanding - Staggered Shift April 28. 2008
Mr. Kenneth Dickerson
Unit President. Local Union 1099-07
United Steelworkers
Indianapolis, Indiana
Dear Mr. Dickerson:
To be able to effectively ship and efficiently manufacture products at the Indianapolis operations, some shift hours must be staggered. This practice will be kept at a minimum and it will not be done to avoid overtime. If problems develop because of a staggered shift, the committee will be expected to bring this fact to the attention of the appropriate manager for an explanation of the reason for the scheduled shift in question.
Ven Truly 'tours.
AGREED:
Isham Jay Bennett
Senior Plant H/R Manager
Carrier Corporation
Indianapolis Plant
James C. Adcock
UNITED STEELWORKERS
LOCAL 1999
06
LETTER B
Letter of Undemanding - Medical/Safety Department Policy
April 2K, 2tXtX
Mr. Kenneth Dickerson
Unit President. Local LInion 1909-07
L[nited Steelworkers
Indianapolis. Indiana
Dear Mr. Dickerson:
This is to confirm the agreements reached during our recent negotiation sessions concerning Medical/Safety Department policies:
Visits to Company Doctor for Non-Occupational/Return to Work Physical: The Company agrees to the following regarding visits to the off-site Company doctor:
I.	Company medical papers will be given to the second shift employee prior to leaving the Indianapolis Carrier Plant facility it he is required to go to the Company doctor the following day.
2.	The nurse will inlomi the second shift employee that he can report to the Community Occupational Health Clinic al his convenience but prior to 4:00 pm the following day. However, the employee will be required to return to the plant Medical Department with the Company medical torms after each visit and prior to returning to work. Employees will be required to provide documentation of (heir arrival and departure in order to quality tor reimbursement as provided in 15.2.
3.	A first shift employee requiring a revisit to the Company doctor will be given the Company medical papers when he returns from his previous visit to avoid having to return to the Indianapolis Carrier Plant facility prior to going to the Company doctor on the next visit. However, the employee will be required to return to the Medical Department with the
h7
Company medical forms after each visit to the Company doctor.
4.	The Company will pay for parking expenses incurred on an authorized visit to the Company doctor upon presentation of a receipt of said expense.
5.	Employees shall be instructed to ensure that medical leave papers are complete to include information in all required fields of the medical leave form. When medical leave papers are incomplete and submitted within the required timeframe, employees will be provided an additional 24 hours to resubmit their medical leave form. Proper completion of medical leave papers does not establish approval of a leave or payment of benefits.
Our medical policy requires that all employees must pass a physical examination by a Company physician before returning to work if they have been (a) absent for more than thirty (30) consecutive calendar days because of personal leave of absence or on layoff because of lack of work or. (b) absent seven (71 consecutive calendar days due to an illness or injury. The Company reserves the right to require an examination even if the period of absence has been shorter than indicated above if the reason for his absence should so indicate.
The Company also agrees to have a qualified medical attendant present in the Medical Department whenever a major production line is running.
Safety Shoes: The Company has made arrangements for employees to purchase safety shoes direct from the shoe mobile, which comes to the plant once per year.
Prescription Safety Glasses:
1.	The Company will pay for new prescription glasses every two (2) years.
2.	The Company policy on prescription glasses does not apply when an eye examination reveals a change in the individual's prescription. In those instances, the Company will pay for the new prescription without regard to a time limit.
68
3.	Employees assigned to spot welding and/or departments having high metal pitting effect on glasses, the prescription eyeglasses will have plastic lenses. Because of the high risk of pining to glass lenses and scratching to plastic lenses in spot welding departments, the Company will pay for new prescription glasses more frequently than the two-year period stated in Item #1. The employees, however, are expected to carry out reasonable precautions to prevent damage to the lenses.
4.	The Company will pay for all tinting of glasses, if required and so stated on the prescription, except the tinting known as "shadow gray." Green tinted glasses (or equivalent 13.0) per the OSHA standard) will be furnished only to the employees required to work in spot welding/brazing areas.
5.	The Company does not pay tor the eyeglasses examination.
6.	It is the Company policy to replace at no charge to the employee any prescription eyeglasses when such glasses and/or frames break or are found to be deficient because of the manufacturer's quality.
7.	The Company will provide retirees who so desire, prescription eyeglasses at the Company's cost.
It is the Company's intention to post the above policies in a prominent location within the Medical Department.
Very Truly Yours.
AGREED:
Isham Jay Bennett
Senior Plant H/R Manager
Carrier Corporation
Indianapolis Plant
James C. Adcock
UNITED STEELWORKERS
LOCAL NOU
hM
LETTER C
Letter of Understanding - Credit Union April 28, 2008
Mr. Kenneth Dickerson
Unit President, Local Union 1999-07
United Steelworkers
Indianapolis. Indiana
Dear Mr. Dickerson:
This letter will sene to confirm rhe Company's commitment io provide Credit Union services to the extent now provided to employees and will continue to support the Credit Union in its operation.
Very Truly Yours.	AGREED:
Isham Jav Bennett	Janies C. Adcock
Senior Plant H/R Manager	UNITED STEELWORKERS
Carrier Corporation	LOCAL 1909
Indianapolis Plant
70
LETTER D
Letter of Understanding - Time Clocks
Deduction from Paychecks /Check Shortages / Direct Deposit April 28, 2008
Mr. Kenneth Dickerson
Unit President, Local Union 1999.(17
United Steelworkers
Indianapolis, Indiana
Dear Mr, Dickerson:
This is to confirm in writing the agreements reached during our contract negotiation meetings during the month of April. 2(i(K The Company has agreed to the following:
I.	Time Clocks - Each manufacturing manager will review the placement of lime clocks in his building with respect to tie-ups in lines because of an out-of-balance condition of departments. Where necessary, time card racks for departments will be realigned and it necessary, additional time clocks will he purchased to eliminate unnecessary delays in ringing-in and ringing-out.
2.	Deduction from Paychecks - As agreed, no deduction of more than 1.5 hours from an employee's paycheck will be made unless the employee has been given the opportunity to sign a wage deduction authorization form stating the reason for the deduction.
?. Check Shortages - If an employee has a shortage on their paycheck of more than $100.00 it shall be corrected by the close of business Friday. Any paycheck shortage less than $100,00 will be corrected on the following paycheck.
4. Direct Deposit - The Company will offer a direct deposit option for hourly employees.
Verxr Truly Yours.	AGREED:
Isham Jay Bennett	James C. Adcock
Senior Plant H/R Manager	UNITED STEELWORKERS
Carrier Corporation Indianapolis Plant	LOCAL 1909
71
LETTER E
Letter of Understanding - Manufacturing Inventory April 28, 2008
Mr. Kenneth Dickerson
Unit President, Local Union 1999-07
United Steelworkers
Indianapolis, Indiana
Dear Mr. Dickerson:
During a manufacturing inventory, employees will not be guaranteed a specific number of hours or days in which to complete the inventory. Employees will be reassigned as required, during the course of the inventory, until no further assignment is available. Employees will be released, regardless of seniority, when their assignment is completed.
This inventory' plan will be effective each year of this contract. The Company will call a meeting with Union representatives for purposes of explaining the details of the inventory plan.
Very Truly Yours.	AGREED:
Isham Jay Bennett
Senior Plant H/R Manager
Carrier Corporation
Indianapolis Plant
James C. Adcock
UNITED STEELWORKERS
LOCAL 1999
72
LETTER F
Letter of Understanding ■ Alcohol and Drug Abuse Ami 28, 2008
Mr. Kenneth Dickerson
Unit President. Local Union HW-07
United Steel's urkers
Indianapolis. Indiana
Dear Mr. Dickerson:
The Company agrees to continue an Alcohol and Drug Abuse Program during the term of (his Agreement.
Very Truly Yours,
AGREED:
Isham Jay Bennen
Senior Plant H/R Manager Carrier Corporation Indianapolis Plant
James C. Adcock
UNITED STEELWORKERS
LOCAL Noy
73
LETTER G
Letter of Understanding - Training Programs April 28. 2008
Mr. Kenneth Dickerson
Unit President. Local Union 199*3-07
United Steelworkers
Indianapolis. Indiana
Dear Mr. Dickerson:
The Company and Union have mutually benefited by the Training Program in place. It is the intention of both parties to reconfirm our commitment to continue this program to meet the common needs, as identified by the Company, on a timely and on-going basis, as discussed in the recent contract negotiations.
The Company also confirms its commitment to employees regarding training in the face of manufacturing advancements, job consolidations and the realignment of occupational groups.
This process will start immediately.
Very Truly Yours.
AGREED:
Isham Jay Bennett
Senior Plant H/R Manager
Carrier Corporation
Indianapolis Plant
James C. Adcock
UNITED STEELWORKERS
LOCAL 1999
74
LETTER H
Letter of Understanding - Continuous Improvement Opportunities April 28, 2008
Mr. Kenneth Dickerson
Unit President. Local Limon IQQQ-07
United Steelworkers
Indianapolis. Indiana
Dear Mr. Dickerson:
The Company and L’nion have agreed during recent contract negotiations to continue the joint support of continuous improvement opportunities throughout the Indianapolis manufacturing operation. Our continuous improvement efforts encourage the voluntary participation of hourly associates in continuous improvement action teams in areas such as total quality management, diversity, safety and health, and demand flow manufacturing.
The parties agree that the support and empowerment of hourly associates in these activities significantly contributes to the longterm security and positive working environment ol the Indianapolis manufacturing operation.
Very Truly 'tours,	AGREED:
Isham Jav Bennett	James C. Adcock
Senior Plant H/R Manager Carrier Corporation Indianapolis Plant
UNITED STEELWORKERS
LOCAL 1090
75
LETTER J
Letter of Understanding - Vacation
April 28. 2008
Mn Kenneth Dickerson
Unit President, Local Union IQQQ-Ol
United Steelworkers
Indianapolis, Indiana
Dear Mr. Dickerson:
Effective April 28. 2008. the scheduling of requested individual vacation days will be administered in accordance with the following provisions:
1.	To be eligible to bid for vacation the employee must be eligible for a minimum of 2 weeks vacation.
2.	The first two weeks of any employees' vacation eligibility will be dedicated to the plant shutdown period.
3.	Employees with at least 3 weeks of vacation may bid for the dates of excess vacation 8 weeks in advance and will be granted these weeks in line with their seniority.
4.	The total number of employees approved for earned vacation time, including both employees who have bid for a block of vacation days and those who have requested individual vacation days will not exceed 10% of a job classification within a department at any given time.
5,	Requests for individual vacation days will be honored up to the 10% limit. In addition, it is at the discretion of the supervisor to grant any vacation days over and above the 10% limit.
6.	In the event of a workforce adjustment, and a more senior person enters a department who is scheduled for vacation, forcing an excess 10% of employees scheduled for vacation, the supervisor will meet with the affected employees and negotiate a resolution.
76
The Supervisor will provide written verification to the employee when vacations are approved. The department will publish the schedule. Any errors in the schedule must be brought to the Supervisors attention within 5 working days after the schedule is published.
Very Truly 't ours.
AGREED:
Isham Jay Bennett
Senior Plant H/R Manager
Carrier Corporation
Indianapolis Plant
James C. Adcock
UNITED STEELWORKERS
LOCAL I mum
77
LETTER K
Letter of Understanding - Pension Plan April 28. 2008
Mr. Kenneth Dickerson
Unit President. Local Union 1999-07
United Steelworkers
Indianapolis, Indiana
Dear Mr. Dickerson:
This will confirm our discussion concerning the Indianapolis Pension Plan for LOCAL 1999.
Sections 2.20 and 2.28 (1 hour requirement and 501 hour requirements) are included in the Pension Plan documents because of IRS/ERISA requirements. The plan also provides the Elapsed Time Method for crediting service (including the two year "creep").
The Company will continue to use the Elapsed Time Method for crediting service under the Pension Plan.
Very Truly Yours.	AGREED:
Isham Jay Bennett
Senior Plant H/R Manager
Carrier Corporation
Indianapolis Plant
James C. Adcock
UNITED STEELWORKERS
LOCAL 1999
78
LETTER L
Letter of Understanding - Health Cure Legislation April 28, 2008
Mr. Kenneth Dickerson
Unit President, Local Union 1940-07
United Steelworkers
Indianapolis, Indiana
Dear Kir, Dickerson:
This will confirm the understanding and agreement reached at our recent contract negotiations between the Company and LOCAL IWQ concerning slate or federally legislated health insurance.
The parties recognized Ihe possibility that state or federal legislation providing for benefits which are duplicated, are in addition to. or in excess of. ihose specified in this agreement could be enacted and become effective during the term of this agreement or any extension ihereot. In that event, the benefits provided in this agreement will be modified through negotiations between the company and the Union to the end that, insofar as permitted by law. the cost of benefits provided at the company’s expense f I > through this agreement, < 2 i through state or federal tuxes, premiums or other costs imposed on the Company by such new legislation, or i 3 i and combination thereof, will be no different than such cost would have been had such legislation not been enacted.
Very Truly Yours.
AGREED:
Isham Jay Bennett
Senior Plant H/R Manager Carrier Corporation Indianapolis Plant
James C. Adcock
UNITED STEELWORKERS
LOCAL 1494
LETTER M
Letter of Understanding - Medical Coverage April 28. 2008
Mr. Kenneth Dickerson
Unit President. Local Union 1999-07
United Steelworkers
Indianapolis. Indiana
Dear Mr. Dickerson:
The Company agrees (hat it will not change the terms of its Medical Plan, as presented on April 9. 2008. during the life of this Agreement. The Company further agrees (hat employee contributions for the Medical Plan will not change from those provided elsewhere in the Company's Last, Best and Final Offer, dated April 28, 2008.
Very Truly Yours.
AGREED:
Isham Jay Bennett
Senior Plant H/R Manager Carrier Corporation Indianapolis Plant
James C. Adcock
UNITED STEELWORKERS
LOCAL 1999
80
LETTER N
Letter of Understanding - Alignment Procedure (Open and Backfill Jobsi
April 2S, 2(1QS
Mr. Kenneth Dickerson
Unit President, Local Union I QQM-tt?
United Steelworkers
Indianapolis, Indiana
Dear Mr. Dickerson:
The company will post within each department a sheet of open jobs that occur due to a manpower move.
Employees within the department having interest in the open jobs must sign up for the open job no later than the end of tlieir shift two normal working days prior to the effective date ot the move. Employees on the shift who have signed up of open positions will he placed in open jobs in seniority order based upon the employee's preference.
Jobs then remaining open will he filled as backfill jobs and assigned by management, from among those employees entering the department.
Very Truly Vours,
AGREED:
Isham Jay Bennett
Senior Plant H/R Manager Carrier Corporation Indianapolis Plant
James C. Adcock
UNITED STEELWORKERS
LOCAL l*J9o
SI
LETTER O
Letter of Understanding - Full Time Union Representatives April 28, 2008
Mr. Kenneth Dickerson
Unit President. Local Union 1990-07
United Steelworkers
Indianapolis, Indiana
Dear Mr. Dickerson:
The parties agree that there shall be three (31 full time Union Representatives at the Company's Indianapolis facility.
The Representatives shall be determined by the Union and its internal procedures, however the LInion and the Company agree that two (2> of the Representatives shall be employed on the first shift and the third (3rd) shall be a Representative on the second shift.
This agreement shall not alter, modify, or abrogate any other terms of the Collective Bargaining Agreement and is in addition to the current language covering LInion business or Union Representation that is currently contained within the agreement.
This Understanding shall remain in full force and effect until the expiration of the current Collective Bargaining Agreement, at which time it shall be up for review by either party should they so desire.
Very Truly Yours,
AGREED:
Isham Jay Bennett
Senior Plant H/R Manager Carrier Corporation Indianapolis Plant
James C. Adcock
UNITED STEELWORKERS
LOCAL 1999
82
LETTER P
Leiter ot Understanding - Skilled Trades
April 28, 2008
Mr. Kenneth Dickerson
Unit President. Local Union IMOQJ)7
United Steelworkers
Indianapolis. Indiana
Dear Mr. Dickerson:
The Company and LInion agree that employees, in the classificalions1 other than Electrical Repair. Machine Repair Technician and Tool Die Maker, may enter a skilled trades classification after April 28. 2002, through one of the following avenues:
1.	Successfully complete the current agreed upon Skilled Trades Apprenticeship Program for that trade or;
2.	Possess a current federal or state certified journey man's card for that trade or;
3.	Successfully complete (80( i minimum correct i the applicable Industrial Assessment test to be administered by Ivy Tech and complete a required interview.
*ithe term "in the classification" shall include all employees who have previously performed any of the referenced "trades", including the combined classification of the past, and apprentices to any of the above or previously combined and/or titled classification, and those employees who have previously held such classification shall be permitted to re-enter the "trades" without further stipulation.
Very Trulv Yours,	AGREED:
Isham Jay Bennett
Senior Plant H/R Manager
Carrier Corporation
Indianapolis Plant
James C. Adcock
UNITED STEELWORKERS
LOCAL 1QMQ
LETTER Q
Letter of Understanding - Medical Replacement April 28, 2008
Mr. Kenneth Dickerson
Unit President. Local Union 1994-07
Linked Steelworkers
Indianapolis, Indiana
Dear Mr. Dickerson:
If the Company determines that it will be necessary to bid a "Medical Replacement" job the following will apply:
ai The Medical Replacement job must be filled by seniority.
b) The temporary bidder may realign by shift according to their seniority.
c> In the event of multiple jobs the junior bidder will be considered the Medical Replacement job.
d)	If it becomes necessary to reduce the classification, the Medical Replacement employee will come out in seniority order, with the least senior employee being reduced first.
e)	When the incumbent worker returns they will return to the same position held prior to leave.
f)	When the incumbent returns the least senior Medical Replacement will return to their Department and Classification, where their seniority places them, on the following manpower move.
g)	If a worker, on leave, decides to retire the Medical Replacement job must be bid as a permanent position, on the following manpower move.
Very Trulv Yours.
AGREED:
Isham Jay Bennett
Senior Plant H/R Manager Carrier Corporation Indianapolis Plant
James C. Adcock
UNITED STEELWORKERS
LOCAL 1999
84
LETTER R
Leiter ot LJiidersianditig - Labor Management Participation Team
April 28, 2008
Mr. Kenneth Dickerson
Unit President. Local Union |oOM-07
United Steelworkers
Indianapolis. Indiana
Dear Mr. Dickerson:
In recent negotiations the parties discussed the problems that exist in the administration of the overtime rules. The parties agreed that to address this problem they would create a Labor Management Participation Team. This team, which will function on an equal (.inion and Company status, will agree to educate both hourly and salaried associates in the proper administration of overtime rules. The team will also jointly monitor ox er-time balance within departments.
This team will not circumvent management's liability for overtime niles violation liability.
Very Truly Yours.	AGREED:
Isham Jay Bennett
Senior Plant H/R Manager Carrier Corporation Indianapolis Plant
Janies C. Adcock
UNITED STEELWORKERS
LOCAL NQy
85
LETTER S
Savings and Vacation Plan April 28. 2008
Mr. Kenneth Dickerson
Unit President, Local Union 1999-07
United Steelworkers
Indianapolis. Indiana
Dear Mr. Dickerson:
Within 90 calendar days of the ratification of the Agreement, the Company will pay to all qualifying employees all monies they are eligible for in accordance with the SVP language below.
Section 2,	Retirement
1.	Each employee with seniority as of April 14, 1969 shall be credited With fractional Retirement Units at the rate of onefifth (1/5) unit for each whole year of seniority prior to April 14, 1969.
1.	Any Retirement Benefit with which an employee has been credited Shall be canceled if he dies or on the termination of his employment unless such termination is a retirement pursuant to Section 4 hereof.
Section 3.	Retirement Benefits
1.	Except for employees who retire on a deferred vested pension. Effective April 14, 1969 each employee who retires pursuant to the Pension Agreement shall become entitled as of the date of his retirement to a payment of Retirement Benefits based on the following:
(A) For each Retirement Unit, an amount equal to
a forty (40) hour week of vacation pay pursuant to Article 13 of the collective bargaining agreement for the most recent calendar year prior to the year of his retirement in which he received a paid vacation.
86
(B i For each uncancelled Vacation Unn, an amount calculated at the rate of vacation pay he would receive if he v.as then entitled to use such Vacation Unit tor a Vacation Benefit under this Plan.
(C) The balance of any unused Vacation Benefits as as provided in Section 5 hereof.
Very Truly Yours,
Isham Jay Bennett
Senior Plant H/R Manager
Carrier Corporation
Indianapolis Plant
AGREED:
James C. Adcock
UNITED STEELWORKERS
LOCAL 19mm
87
2008		
JANUARY	FEBRUARY	MARCH
S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S	S M T W TFS
12	3	4	5 6	7	8	9	10	11	12 13	14	15	16	17	18	19 20	21	22	23	24	25	26 27	28	29	30	31	1 2 3	4	5	6	7	8	9 10	11	12	13	14	15	16 17	18	19	20	21	22	23 24	25	26	27	28	29	1 2	3	4	5	6	7	8 9	10	11	12	13	14	15 16	17	18	19	20	21	22 23	24	25	26	27	28	29 30 31
APRIL	MAY	JUNE
12	3	4	5 6	7	8	9	10	11	12 13	14	15	16	17	18	19 20	21	22	23	24	25	26 27	28	29	30	1 2 3 4	5	6	7	8	9	10 11	12	13	14	15	16	17 18	19	20	21	22	23	24 25	26	27	28	29	30	31	12	3	4	5	6	7 8	9	10	11	12	13	14 15	16	17	18	19	20	21 22	23	24	25	26	27	28 29 30
JULY	AUGUST	SEPTEMBER
1	2	3	4	5 6	7	8	9	10	11	12 13	14	15	16	17	18	19 20	21	22	23	24	25	26 27	28	29	30	31	1 2 3	4	5	6	7	8	9 10	11	12	13	14	15	16 17	18	19	20	21	22	23 24	25	26	27	28	29	30 31	12	3	4	5	6 7	8	9	10	11	12	13 14	15	16	17	18	19	20 21	22	23	24	25	26	27 28 29 30
OCTOBER	NOVEMBER	DECEMBER
12 3 4 5	6	7	8	9	10	11 12	13	14	15	16	17	18 19	20	21	22	23	24	25 26	27	28	29	30	31	i 2	3	4	5	6	7	8 9	10	11	12	13	14	15 16	17	18	19	20	21	22 23	24	25	26	27	28	29 30	1 2 3 4 5 6 7	8	9	10	11	12	13 14	15	16	17	18	19	20 21	22	23	24	25	26	27 28	29	30	31
2009		
JANUARY	FEBRUARY	MARCH
S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4	5	6	7	8	9	10 11	12	13	14	15	16	17 18	19	20	21	22	23	24 25	26	27	28	29	30	31	1	2	3	4	5	6	7 8	9	10	11	12	13	14 15	16	17	18	19	20	21 22	23	24	25	26	27	28	1	2	3	4	5	6	7 8	9	10	11	12	13	14 15	16	17	18	19	20	21 22	23	24	25	26	27	28 29	30	31
APRIL	MAY	JUNE
12 3 4 5	6	7	8	9	10	11 12	13	14	15	16	17	18 19	20	21	22	23	24	25 26	27	28	29	30	1 2 3	4	5	6	7	8	9 10	11	12	13	14	15	16 17	18	19	20	21	22	23 24	25	26	27	28	29	30 31	1 2 3 4 5 6 7	8	9	10	11	12	13 14	15	16	17	18	19	20 21	22	23	24	25	26	27 28 29 30
JULY	AUGUST	SEPTEMBER
12 3 4 5	6	7	8	9	10	11 12	13	14	15	16	17	18 19	20	21	22	23	24	25 26	27	28	29	30	31	1 2	3	4	5	6	7	8 9	10	11	12	13	14	15 16	17	18	19	20	21	22 23	24	25	26	27	28	29 30 31	12	3	4	5 6	7	8	9	10	11	12 13	14	15	16	17	18	19 20	21	22	23	24	25	26 27	28	29	30
OCTOBER	NOVEMBER	DECEMBER
1 2 3 4	5	6	7	8	9	10 11	12	13	14	15	16	17 18	19	20	21	22	23	24 25	26	27	28	29	30	31	1	2	3	4	5	6	7 8	9	10	11	12	13	14 15	16	17	18	19	20	21 22	23	24	25	26	27	28 29 30	1	2	3	4	5 6	7	8	9	10	11	12 13	14	15	16	17	18	19 20	21	22	23	24	25	26 27	28	29	30	31
S8
2010		
JANUARY	FEBRUARY	MARCH
S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S
1 2 3	4	5	6	7	8	9 10	11	12	13	14	15	16 17	18	19	20	21	22	23 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	12	3	4	5	6 7	6	9	10	11	12	13 14	15	16	17	18	19	20 21	22	23	24	25	26	27 28	12 3 4 5 6 7	8	9	10	H	12	13 14	15	16	17	18	19	20 21	22	23	24	25	26	27 28	29	30	31
APRIL	MAY	JUNE
4	5	6	7	8	9	10 11	12	13	14	15	16	17 18	19	20	21	22	23	24 25	26	27	28	29	30	i 2	3	4	5	6	7	8 9	10	11	12	13	14	15 1*	17	18	19	20	21	22 23	24	25	26	27	28	29 30 31	12 3 4 5 6	7	8	9	10	11	12 13	14	15	16	17	18	19 20	21	22	23	24	25	26 27	28	29	30
JULY	AUGUST	SEPTEMBER
1	2 3 4	5	6	7	8	9	10 11	12	13	14	15	16	17 18	19	20	21	22	23	24 25	26	27	28	29	30	31	1	2	3	4	5	6	7 8	9	10	11	12	13	14 15	16	17	18	19	20	21 22	23	24	25	26	27	28 29 30 31	12	3	4 5	6	7	6	9	10	11 12	13	14	15	16	17	18 19	20	21	22	23	24	25 26	27	28	29	30
OCTOBER	NOVEMBER	DECEMBER
1 2 3	4	5	6	7	6	9 10	11	12	13	14	15	16 17	18	19	20	21	22	23 24	25	26	27	28	29	30 31	12	3 4 5 6 7 8 *41011 1213 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30	12	3 4 5	6	7	8	9	10	11 12	13	14	15	16	17	18 19	20	21	22	23	24	25 27	28	29	30	31
2011		
JANUARY	FEBRUARY	MARCH
S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S
1 2	3	4	5	5	7	8 9	10	11	12	13	14	15 16	17	18	19	20	21	22 23	24	25	26	27	28	29 30 31	1	2	3	4	5 6	7	8	9	10	11	12 13	14	15	16	17	18	19 20	21	22	23	24	25	26 27 28	1	2	3	4	5 6	7	8	9	10	11	12 13	14	15	16	17	18	19 20	21	22	23	24	25	26 27	28	29	30	31
APRIL	MAY	JUNE
1 2 3	4	5	6	7	8	9 in	11	12	13	M	15	16 17	18	19	20	21	22	23 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	12	3	4	5	6	7 8	9	10	11	12	13	14 15	16	17	18	19	20	21 22	23	24	25	26	27	28 29 30 31	12	3 4 5	6	7	8	9	10	11 12	13	14	15	10	17	18 19	20	21	22	23	24	25 26	27	28	29	30
JULY	AUGUST	SEPTEMBER
1 2 3	4	5	6	7	3	9 10	11	12	13	14	15	16 17	18	19	20	21	22	23 24	25	26	27	28	29	30 31	1 2	3 4 5 6 7	8	9	10	11	12	13 14	15	16	17	18	19	20 21	22	23	24	25	26	27 28	29	30	31	1 2 3 4	5	6	7	6	9	10 11	12	13	14	15	16	17 18	19	20	21	22	23	24 25	26	27	28	29	30
OCTOBER	NOVEMBER	DECEMBER
1 2	3	4	5	5	7	8 9	10	11	12	13	14	15 16	17	18	19	20	21	22 23	24	25	26	27	28	29 30 31	1 2 3 4 5 6	7	8	9	10	11	12 13	14	15	16	17	18	1H 20	21	22	23	24	25	26 27	28	29	30	1 2 3 4	5	6	7	8	9	10 11	12	13	14	15	16	17 18	19	20	21	22	23	24 25	26	27	28	29	30	31
Notes
9(1
UNITED STEELWORKERS
UNITY AND STRENGTH FOR WORKERS