K9948
NAS Pensacola/NAS Whiting Field T-6 COMBS Program
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
JPATS Logistics Services, LLC (JLS)
AND
International Association Of Machinists And Aerospace WorkersLocal Lodge No. 2777
EFFECTIVE DATE: 16 May 2019 - 15 May 2022
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article Subject Page
Contents ..................................................... 2
Preamble ..................................................... 3
01.00	Intent and Purpose ............................... 3
02.00	Management Rights ................................ 3
03.00	Union Recognition................................. 4
04.00	Union Security ................................... 4
05.00	Shop Stewards/Visitation ......................... 5
06.00	No Strike - No Lockout ........................... 7
07.00	Government Security/Responsibility................ 8
08.00	Seniority ........................................ 8
09.00	Non-Bargaining Unit Personnel ................... 10
10.00	Hours of Work ................................... 11
11.00	Shift Assignment ................................ 12
12.00	Overtime ........................................ 13
13.00	Wage Rules ...................................... 15
14.00	Premium Payments ................................ 15
15.00	Holidays ........................................ 15
16.00	Vacation ........................................ 16
17.00	Sick/Personal Leave ............................. 19
18.00	Jury Duty/Witness Pay ........................... 21
19.00	Absence From Work ............................... 22
20.00	Leaves of Absence ............................... 22
21.00	Promotions, Transfers and Temporary Assignments 25
22.00	Layoff Recall/Reduced Workload .................. 29
23.00	Discharge and Discipline ........................ 30
24.00	Grievances ...................................... 32
25.00	Arbitration ..................................... 34
26.00	Training ........................................ 35
27.00	Safety/Safety Equipment ......................... 36
28.00	Uniforms ........................................ 36
29.00	Bulletin Boards/Distribution .................... 37
30.00	Paychecks ....................................... 37
31.00	Group Insurance ................................. 38
32.00	Retirement Plan ................................. 38
33.00	Off Site Temporary Assignment ................... 38
34.00	General ......................................... 38
35.00	Duration ........................................ 41
Appendix “A” Wages .......................................... 42
Appendix “B” Group Insurance .................................43
Appendix “C” Pension .........................................48
Appendix “D” Job Descriptions ................................49
Appendix “E” Alcohol/Drug-Free Policy.........................63
Appendix “F” Discipline Guide ............................... 66
1
PREAMBLE
This Agreement is made and entered into this 16th of May 2019 by and between JPATS Logistics Services, LLC (JLS) T-6 A/B COMBS, NAS Pensacola / NAS Whiting Field (hereinafter referred to as the Company) and the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers Local Lodge #2777, (hereinafter referred to as the Union).
It is understood wherever in this Agreement employees or jobs are referred to in the male or female gender, it shall be recognized as referring to both males and females.
01.00 INTENT AND PURPOSE
01.01 It is the intent and purpose of the Company and the Union to set forth herein the entire Agreement with respect to wages, hours, and working conditions as relates to the government contract covered by this Agreement.
01.02 Further, it is the mutual intent of the parties to provide for the efficiency of the operation and maximum production of the employees under methods which further the safety of all affected parties, the efficiency and economy of operations and the continued employment under conditions of reasonable hours, compensation and working conditions as contained herein so that operations will be uninterrupted and duties faithfully performed in order for the Company and its employees to fulfill their mutual and vital responsibilities to both the public and to the Government with due regard to competitive conditions.
01.03 It is recognized by the Agreement to be the duty of the Company, the Union, and the employees to cooperate fully, both individually and collectively, for the advancement of said conditions; and to provide a grievance procedure for the settlement of the employees' grievances; and to provide that there shall be no interruption and/or impeding of operations during the term of this Agreement.
01.04 The Union recognizes that the Company is a contractor to the Federal Government and that the Company is required at all times to meet its contractual obligations. Nothing in this Agreement is intended nor will any provision of the Agreement prevent the Company from meeting its obligations and responsibilities as a contractor. The Union and the Company recognize that the Government may impose various demands or obligations upon the Company and its employees. If such action requires, the Company and the Union agree to comply with the requirements to the degree necessary, subject to rebuttal by either or both parties through the grievance and arbitration procedures and/or the courts, if deemed necessary.
2
02.00 MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
02.01 The Company shall retain the exclusive authority, rights and powers to manage its business and direct the working force. Such authority, rights, and powers include, but are not limited to, the right to hire, assign, transfer, promote, reclassify, layoff, discipline for just cause (including suspension and discharge); determine work schedules and the starting and quitting time; the number of hours and shifts to be worked; the qualifications of employees; to establish and modify rules and regulations not in conflict with the terms of this Agreement; to close down, curtail, or move the business, or any part thereof; to discontinue its business in whole or in part; to sell or dispose of all or any part of the business; to introduce new or changed methods; to determine the means of service or production; and to otherwise generally manage the operations and direct the working force. These rights are not intended to be all inclusive, but enumerate by way of illustration, the type of rights which belong to the Company.
02.02 Except as expressly modified by a specific provision of this Agreement, or except as such rights are specifically relinquished herein, all rights, powers or authority which the Company had prior to the signing of this Agreement are retained by it. No relationship between the parties shall be construed to constitute or create any implied limitation on the Company's authority, rights, or powers.
3
03.00 UNION RECOGNITION
03.01 The Company recognizes The International Association of Machinists and Aerospace workers, AFL-CIO, District 75, as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of work and all other conditions of employment for all employees covered by this Agreement.
a.	Included: All production and maintenance employees, which includes Supply Technician and Quality Control Inspector employed by the employer on the T-6 COMBS program at NAS Pensacola, Pensacola, Florida and COMBS at NAS Whiting Field, Milton, Florida.
b.	Excluded: Office clerical employees, Foreman, Managerial Employees, Professional Employees, and Supervisors as defined in the Act.
03.02 The Company acknowledges the Union's rights specifically designated by the terms of this Agreement. As the employee's representative, the Union recognizes its duty to cooperate in any reasonable manner with the Company, to support its efforts to assure a fair days work by each employee, to cooperate in combating all practices which decrease efficiency and to maintain standards of quality and service.
4
04.00 UNION SECURITY
04.01 Deductions shall be made for the accrued regular monthly Union dues or Agency fees of each employee in the bargaining unit for whom the Union dues or Agency Fees Deduction Authorization has been received, beginning with the pay for the first full pay period in the month following receipt of such authorization, provided that sufficient earnings remain to cover Union dues or Agency fees after all deductions required by law are made, and such Union dues or Agency fees deductions shall continue in like manner monthly thereafter, except as qualified in this Article.
a.	Deductions shall be remitted to the Secretary-Treasurer of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers Grand Lodge within 10 days following the first payday of each month. The Company will electronically furnish the General Secretary of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, Secretary Treasurers of Local Lodge 2777 and District 75, at the same time, a list compiled in alphabetical order of those employees for whom deductions have been made and the amount of each deduction.
b.	When ceasing to deduct Union dues or Agency fees for any reason, the Company will submit the name(s) of such employee(s) in alphabetical order, and the reason for no deduction to the Secretary Treasurers of Local Lodge 2777 and District 75 at the same time the monthly dues deduction list is remitted.
c.	When ceasing to deduct Union dues or Agency fees for any reason, the Chief Steward will be notified of the stoppage within one (1) business day of the stoppage.
04.02 At the time this Agreement becomes effective, the parties agree to begin to use the following Union Dues or Agency Fees Deduction Authorization form for all new dues deductions, or a similar Union-supplied form. In addition, each individual authorization card signed and dated prior to the date of the contract ratification shall, upon ratification, have its effective date changed to reflect the ratification date and the initial irrevocable period shall run one (1) year from the date of the ratification of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. Thereafter, dues authorization shall conform to the terms of the Dues Authorization Form.
04.03 The Union shall indemnify and hold the Company harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability that shall arise out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the Company for the purpose of complying with any of the provisions of this Article provided the Company has met its obligations under the terms of this Article.
04.04 The Company will provide office space to the Chief Steward for the purpose of carrying out his/her responsibilities under the grievance procedure and storing related records and equipment provided there is space available.
5
05.00 SHOP STEWARDS VISITATION
05.01 The Company agrees to recognize the Stewards and Chief Steward duly authorized by the Union to represent those employees covered by the terms of this Agreement. The number of Stewards and Chief Steward shall be in that number required by the Union to assure each employee in the Unit ready access to a Steward in his/her assigned work location. It is agreed this objective can be achieved with not more than one (1) Shop Steward per shift, per location, exclusive of one Chief Steward, on first shift, unless modified by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union. The Chief Steward will be allowed to visit both Units, when necessary, to fulfill duties of the Chief Steward as described in this agreement, with permission from management.
05.02 The Union will notify the Company in writing stating the names of the Stewards, Chief Steward and the areas they represent. Any subsequent changes of Stewards will not be recognized by the Company until official notice is received from the Union. The Company will provide this information to each supervisor having authority over employees covered by this Agreement. The Union may post this information on the Union bulletin boards.
05.03 Subject to other provisions of this Agreement, reasonable and necessary time off from work during straight time work hours shall be authorized without loss of pay or benefits to permit Stewards and the Chief Steward to carry out their responsibilities under the grievance procedure to employees in their area of representation, providing the carrying out of these responsibilities will not unreasonably interfere with the assigned work duties of the Steward or the employee involved. The Union will ensure that the Chief Steward and Shop Stewards engage only in those activities which are authorized by this Agreement. Instances of alleged abuse or misuse of time by the Steward, or Chief Steward, shall be brought to the attention of the Union, who shall take the action necessary to correct the problem.
05.04 Recognizing the mutual benefit of resolving problems at the lowest level, an employee who has an alleged grievance may discuss the matter with the employee's Steward. The necessary time away from the Steward's official work assignment shall be arranged in a manner to minimize interruption of work flow. When the Steward finds it necessary to discuss a problem or labor-management disagreement with a unit employee and/or management official, the Steward shall request permission to leave his/her work assignment from his/her supervisor. Should the need arise for a Steward to enter another supervisor's work area, the Steward's supervisor will contact the supervisor of that area to establish a time for the Steward to enter the area. In each instance, the supervisor's permission will be granted unless he determines compelling work commitments dictate otherwise. If permission is initially denied, the supervisor shall establish an alternate time which shall be prior to the end of the employee's next work day, at which time the Steward can contact the employee. Stewards shall not handle any grievance arising outside of his/her assigned area of representation, except however, a Steward may represent the area of another Steward who is absent from work.
6
05.05 The scope of the Steward's activities on Company time shall be limited to the following:
a.	To consult with an employee regarding an alleged grievance or the presentation of a grievance for which the employee desires the Steward to be present.
b.	To investigate an alleged grievance or a grievance of record before presentation to the appropriate supervisor.
c.	To present an alleged grievance or a grievance to an employee's immediate supervisor in an attempt to settle the matter for the employee or group of employees who may be similarly affected.
d.	To meet with an appropriate supervisor or other designated representative of the Company when necessary to adjust grievances in accordance with the grievance procedure of this Agreement.
e.	During an investigation in which it is determined by supervision that an employee may be subject to discipline, said employee shall be advised of his right to Union representation. If requested, his Shop Steward shall be provided.
f.	To consult with the Chief Steward regarding a grievance or an alleged grievance.
g.	The Steward will have the opportunity to meet with newly hired employees during the first two (2) weeks of employment with the Company. Such a meeting will be in a location designated by the Site Manager and shall not exceed more than twenty (20) minutes in length.
05.06 Subject to existing security regulations, the Business Representative or other authorized Business Representatives of the Union shall have access to the Company's work areas during working hours for the purpose of investigating grievances that have arisen, attending meetings in accordance with the grievance procedure, and ascertaining whether or not this Agreement is being observed. Before doing so, he/she shall report to the Business Administration Manager or other authorized Company Representative, who shall permit said Representative to enter the Company's premises, provided that such right shall be exercised reasonably and will not interfere with the normal conduct of the Company's operations. Authorized Business Representatives of the Union may be escorted by a Company Representative at all times they are on Company premises.
05.07 It is agreed that the Company shall not be required to pay an employee for any time that he/she is taken away from his/her work to serve the Union in any official capacity or to serve on any Union committee, except as provided in the Agreement.
05.08 The Steward shall be empowered to adjust employee grievances occurring under his/her jurisdiction as provided for in the grievance procedure, so long as such adjustments are not in conflict with the provisions of this Agreement.
05.09 Stewards and the Chief Steward shall be seniority employees of the Company selected from among those employees he/she represents.
7
06.00 NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
06.01 It is expressly understood and agreed that the business of the Company is directly related to the important and vital work of the United States Government and that efficient and uninterrupted services must be furnished to those agencies who have need of and make use of the capabilities of the Company. Therefore, the parties agree that during the term of this Agreement:
a.	The procedure provided for herein, for the settlement of grievances arising under this Agreement, may serve as a means for the settlement of disputes that may arise between the Parties. However, nothing in this section, or any section of this Agreement, limits the Company's or the Union's right to seek and receive legal and equitable relief in the event of the breach of the no strike - no lockout provision, including but not limited to, injunctive relief prohibiting any lockout, strike, sympathy strike, sit down, work stoppage, stay in, slow down, refusal to work, picketing, or any other action which would interfere with any of the operations of the Company.
b.	The Union (its officers, and/or agents and/or members) shall not authorize, encourage, sanction, or take part in any strike, sympathy strike, sit down, work stoppage, stay in, slow down, refusal to work, picketing or any other action which deliberately interferes with any of the operations of the Company.
c.	Any employee or employees, individually or collectively, who shall cause, encourage, or take part in any violation of this article, or any activities prohibited by this article, may be immediately discharged, or subject to other disciplinary actions as the Company may unilaterally consider appropriate. Any such disciplinary action shall be subject to the grievance procedure and arbitration procedure as defined herein. If it is determined under the established grievance/arbitration procedure that such an employee(s) did participate in such an action, in violation of this provision, the disciplinary action taken shall not be altered. If the decision under the grievance and arbitration procedure is that such an employee or employees did not participate in such acts, the redress shall be as determined by the grievance/arbitration procedure and limited to "making whole' the individual employee involved, if warranted.
d.	In the event of a violation of this article, the Union, (its officers, agents and members) individually and collectively agree that it will use its best efforts and end such prohibited conduct, taking actions including:
1.	Requesting, through personal contact or meeting with employees that they comply with the Agreement and not take part in any such prohibited conduct.
2.	Immediately notify all employees in writing that such prohibited conduct is in violation of the Agreement.
3.	Requesting those employees violating this Agreement to return to work and/or otherwise fully comply with the terms of this Agreement.
4.	Make every other reasonable effort to have employees cease such acts as prohibited.
8
e.	The Company agrees that it will not engage in any lockout of employees during the term of the Agreement, providing the Union is in full compliance with the provisions of this article.
9
07.00 GOVERNMENT SECURITY/RESPONSIBILITY
07.01 The Company, all representatives of the Union having access to the premises, and all employees are required to comply with applicable Government security regulations when performing work for the Government. The Company and the Union agree that security information will be revealed only to persons properly cleared and required by the Government to have the information.
a. A new employee or employee needing to renew their base access pass will be paid up to twenty (20) minutes on any day. This time is not provided for an employee who forgot to bring their base access credentials to work.
07.02 The Union and the Company recognize that employees covered hereby are performing services for the U.S. Government in U.S. Government facilities and by use of U.S. Government equipment. The Company is not authorized to maintain, modify, or repair such government facilities except as contractually directed.
07.03 The employee will be responsible for the reasonable care of customer and/or Company furnished equipment and will notify the Company of any accidents, sabotage, or willful damage to Company, customer or employee property or material.
10
08.00 SENIORITY
08.01 New employees and those rehired after a break in continuous service as defined in Section 08.03 shall be in a probationary status until they have completed seventy five (75) calendar days from the most recent date of hire. Should conditions warrant, the seventy-five (75) day probationary period may be extended upon written mutual agreement of both the Company and the Union. The Company may transfer, layoff, or discharge such probationary employees at will, and such action shall not be reviewable through the grievance procedure.
08.02 Seniority of employees shall be established as follows:
a.	Employees seniority date shall be set as their most recent date of hire into the COMBS T6 program.
b.	Employees transferred to the COMBS T6 contract by the Company shall retain their original hire date if reflecting uninterrupted time of service prior to transfer into NAS Pensacola/NAS Whiting Field COMBS T6 program. This date will be referred to as an anniversary date from this point on. It will be utilized in respect to benefit time but forfeit in regards to seniority purpose with the exception of when two or more employees have the same hire date for tie breaking purpose.
08.03 The seniority of an employee shall be forfeited and cancelled and the employees' employment with the Company shall be terminated under the following conditions:
a.	Discharge for just cause.
b.	Resignation.
c.	Failure by the employee to notify the Company of the employee's intention to return to or not to return to work in response to a recall notification within forty-eight (48) hours after the receipt of such recall notice, and of the employee's return to work within fourteen (14) calendar days following the receipt of such notice if recall is accepted by the employee.
d.	Rejection of recall to the highest classification from which the individual has been displaced or laid off.
e.	Failure to be recalled from layoff within eighteen (18) months following such layoff.
f.	Failure to report for work on the expiration of an approved leave of absence.
g.	Accepting other employment while on approved leave of absence without the prior permission of the Company.
h.	Absence from work for a period of three (3) consecutive workdays without reporting to the Company a reason for such absence.
i.	Transfers or promotions outside the bargaining unit that exceed three (3) months.
11
08.04 When two (2) or more employees have the same seniority date as herein provided, first it will be determined if any of the involved parties have an anniversary date from other company contracts reflecting uninterrupted time of service prior to transfer into NAS Whiting Field/NAS Pensacola COMBS T6 program. If so, this date will be utilized to determine the senior party. Otherwise, the employee having the lowest last four (4) numbers of his/her social security number shall be considered having the least seniority for tie breaking purposes.
08.05 Employees covered hereby who were or are transferred or promoted to positions within the Company, but not within job classifications covered hereby, shall retain, and accrue seniority hereunder, but shall not be construed as working under the terms of this Agreement while occupying such positions. It is understood and agreed that employees so transferred or promoted shall retain and accrue seniority for a period of thirty-one (31) days from the date transferred or promoted out of the bargaining unit. During this thirty-one (31) day period, employees may be returned to their previously held position by the Company or by their decision to return. Employees that are laid off after the thirty-one (31) day period may return to the Bargaining Unit and exercise their seniority as retained and accrued by this article by bumping the least senior employee(s) in equivalent or lower rated classifications, provided they are qualified to perform the duties of the classification. A new seniority date shall be so established for said employees(s).
a.	Employees who have exceeded the thirty-one (31) day period out of the Bargaining Unit, who voluntarily elect to return, may be returned to the Bargaining Unit provided that all of the provisions of Articles 22.03, 21.04, and 21.05 have been exhausted to fill the position that the employee has elected to return to. A new seniority date shall be so established for said employee(s).
b.	The Company will notify the Chief Steward when a Bargaining Unit employee transfers to a non-Bargaining Unit job.
08.06 The Company agrees to provide the Union with an updated seniority list for NAS Pensacola and a list for NAS Whiting Field whenever there is a change in the existing seniority list. This list shall contain employees' names, classifications, employees' number and seniority dates as provided under Section 08.02.
08.07 Shift Seniority Bidding Preference: Bidding will be for the employees’ assigned site in each job classification shown in Appendix A. Employees may exercise seniority (by time in class) during the times indicated in Article 11.01 (b).
12
09.00 NON-BARGAINING UNIT PERSONNEL
09.01 It is understood and agreed that non-bargaining unit personnel will normally not perform the work of employees covered by this Agreement, except under the following conditions:
a.	For the purpose of instructing and training employees.
b.	Under emergency conditions. The term "emergency" as used in this provision is defined to mean any unforeseen combination of circumstances which would require immediate action.
c.	Up to two (2) consecutive hours on any shift when an employee fails to report to work, and other qualified employees are not available in the classification on the shift in the overtime group.
d.	Up to one (1) hour on any shift when supervising three (3) or less employees (limited to the work that is performed by the employees being supervised).
e.	When the work being performed is incidental to the job duties of a position not covered by this Agreement.
f.	When required to maintain their personal qualifications and proficiency or required for certification.
13
10.00 HOURS OF WORK
10.01 No provision of this Agreement shall be construed as a guarantee of any specified numbers of hours of work either per day or per week.
10.02 Eight (8) consecutive hours, exclusive of a meal period of thirty (30) minutes shall constitute a normal work shift.
10.03 The workweek for payroll purposes shall consist of seven (7) consecutive calendar days, beginning 12:01 a.m. Saturday and ending at 12:00 p.m. the following Friday. The normal assigned workweek schedule shall consist of five (5) workdays, starting on Monday, with two (2) consecutive days off. The first (1st) and second (2nd) scheduled days off in an employee's workweek are counted as the sixth (6th) and seventh (7th) days of the week. The odd assigned workweek shall consist of five (5) consecutive days beginning on a day other than Monday. Special assigned alternate workweek schedule (AWWS) is defined as a workweek schedule that consists of four (4) I ten (10) hour days.
a.	Special/odd workweeks are defined as a workweek schedule that does not start on a Monday.
b.	Assignment to special/odd workweeks shall be offered to the senior employee(s) within the classification(s) in the overtime group(s) affected. In the event none of the employees want such assignment, the least senior employee(s) within the classification(s) in the affected overtime group(s) shall be assigned.
c.	Special alternate workweeks schedules (AWWS) defined as a workweek schedule that consists of four (4) I ten (10) hour days:
1.	This AWWS will be (4) consecutive days between Friday through Thursday from 03:59 through 23:00
2.	Employees will be selected to be assigned to an AWWS as follows:
•	Qualified volunteers will be selected in seniority order
•	If there are insufficient volunteers the least senior qualified employees will be selected
3.	An AWWS employee on an approved day of vacation on a regularly scheduled AWWS work day will be paid for ten (10) hours of paid vacation.
4.	An AWWS employee who has regularly scheduled work day on the day observed as a paid holiday will receive ten (10) hours of holiday pay
5.	An AWWS employee who is scheduled for Jury Duty will be re-assigned to a regular work week schedule during the week(s) that Jury Duty is scheduled
6.	An AWWS employee who is scheduled for Bereavement Leave on a regularly scheduled AWWS work day will be given ten (10) hours of pay on such days.
14
10.04 Work shifts shall be established as follows:
a.	The first shift will begin between 4:00 a.m. and 10:59 a.m. The second shift will begin between 11:00 a.m. and 7:59 p.m. The third shift will begin between 8:00 p.m. and 3:59 a.m.
b.	An employee's starting time shall normally be the same each day of the week, unless the employee voluntarily agrees to a change, or the Company needs to adjust the employee’s start time based on operational needs. When the Company has advance knowledge of the operational need for a change; the employee will be provided at least a seven (7) calendar day advance notice.
c.	Nothing in this Article is intended to prohibit, limit, or restrict the Company's right to change the starting time of any shift within the time limits set forth above, or to assign employees to special/odd workweeks within the limits set forth in Article 10.03 (b) and 10.04 (b).
10.05 The Company shall permit the employee to take a fifteen (15) minute uninterrupted rest period during each half of the work shift which may be taken without loss of pay. Employees scheduled to work two (2) or more hours of overtime shall be entitled to a ten (10) minute rest period prior to the start of the overtime period and any scheduled rest periods on the shift the overtime is worked.
15
11.00 SHIFT ASSIGNMENT
11.01 The Company and the Union agree to the principle that shift preference consideration for available jobs in a Site overtime group should be given to the senior qualified employee in each classification in the overtime group based on operational requirements.
a.	The Company will post a shift preference sheet at least two weeks prior to June 1 and December 1, each calendar year. Senior qualified employees shall have preference for the available openings in their classification. The posting shall be removed three working days prior to the dates listed above and the new assignments will be posted the following work day. The shift assignment will take effect no sooner than seven days after posting of the new assignments. Failure to sign the posting may result in the Company transferring, from one shift to another shift, the least senior qualified employees within any given classification to the available openings.
b.	An employee who changes job classification, and/or shift, to accept a promotion, a lateral move, a position during a layoff, or a temporary assignment, between postings, may be required to remain in that position, including the shift, until the next shift posting period.
c.	Employees may mutually agree to exchange shifts within the same job classification. Also, such exchange will be made for no less than one work day and must be approved by the Site Manager prior to the exchange.
d.	The Company retains the right to establish hours of work and shift starting times per Article 10.04(c). Whenever there are different starting times within a designated shift, site, and classification, that the Company expects to remain in effect for the duration of the shift period (i.e. six (6) months), the shift starting time will be awarded or assigned as stipulated in Article 10.03(b), until the next shift posting period, as defined in Article 11.01(b)., occurs. This is not a guarantee that shift starting times will not be changed or revised at any time.
16
12.00 OVERTIME
12.01
a.	It is understood and agreed that the Company reserves the right to require employees covered by this Agreement to perform overtime work in order to meet government contract requirements. Failure to work assigned overtime may result in disciplinary action.
b.	Employees required to work additional hours (either prior to or at the end of their regularly scheduled shift), will not be denied the opportunity to fulfill their regular shift that day to prevent the payment of overtime. However, in order to get overtime pay, the employee must remain at work through the end of his regularly scheduled shift in order to receive OT pay.
c.	This Section does not guarantee the payment of overtime on a given workday outside of the normal eight (8) hour workday.
12.02
a.	Overtime shall be paid at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the straight time hourly rate for hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours in a work week.
b.	If less than forty (40) hours are made available during the employee's regularly scheduled five (5) day work week, then hours worked on the 6th day and/or 7th day will be at one and one-half (1 1/2) times the straight time hourly rate.
c.	Overtime shall be paid at two (2) times the straight time hourly rate for all hours worked on a holiday in addition to the straight time pay on such holiday.
d.	Overtime shall be paid at two (2) times the straight time hourly rate for authorized work performed on the seventh (7th) day of the employee's assigned work week, to the extent such hours exceed forty-eight (48) regular hours in a work week.
12.0	3 No overtime shall be worked except by direction of the proper COMBS supervisory personnel of the Company.
12.0	4 The Company agrees to assign overtime among qualified employees by shift, classification, and Site overtime group within the confines of contractual requirements to include the off-site recovery of downed aircraft. To this end, the following procedure will be followed:
a.	In Progress Overtime - Any specific job in progress on a normal workday by an employee, or group of employees, which at the sole discretion of the Company requires overtime to be worked, such work shall be performed during the overtime assignment by those employees who have been performing the work in progress at the end of the normal shift. It is understood the overtime assignment to such a specific job will be because it is the employee's normal assignment, and employees shall not be removed from such work and replaced by other employees with the intent of providing that employee with the overtime opportunity.
b.	End of Shift Overtime - When the Company determines that end of shift overtime work is required other than referenced in (a) above, qualified employees 17
presently at work on the shift in the classification(s) and overtime group needed to perform the work who have the most seniority will be offered the work first. Should the employee decline, the next qualified employee in that classification, shift, and overtime group presently at work with the next lowest seniority will be offered the work, and this sequence will be followed until the required number is obtained. Should the required number not be obtained in a voluntary manner because all employees presently at work decline to work the overtime assignment, the Company shall assign the work to the qualified employee on the shift in the classification and overtime group with the least seniority, and this employee shall perform the work assignment. Employees assigned to perform the work will be notified one (1) hour prior to the start of the overtime, or, as soon as practical, but not less than thirty (30) minutes.
c.	Prior to Shift Overtime - In those cases where it is predetermined that overtime will be required prior to the start of the employee’s shift, all qualified employees in the classification on the shift and in the overtime group shall be offered the work by seniority, and if the required number cannot be obtained voluntarily, those employees with the least seniority will be required to perform the overtime. Employees who are absent from work when the overtime is offered will not be considered.
d.	Sixth and Seventh Day Overtime
In those cases where it is predetermined that overtime will be required on the sixth and seventh day, all qualified employees in the classification on the shift and in the overtime group, who are at work on the day the overtime is offered, shall be offered the work by seniority, and if the required number cannot be obtained voluntarily, those employees with the least seniority will be required to perform the overtime.
e.	At NAS Pensacola and NAS Whiting Field, employees shall be offered overtime in accordance with the procedure set forth above. If the Company determines that additional personnel are needed, it may obtain such employees from other overtime groups in accordance with (b) above.
f.	An employee who is called in to work after the employee's regular shift, and after leaving the facility, or who is called in or scheduled and reports to work on the sixth or seventh day of an employee's work week, will be paid the applicable rate for hours actually worked, or four hours at the straight time hourly rate, whichever is greater.
18
12.05 On-Call-Duty (Supply Operations)
a.	Employees who are assigned weekend on-call-duty for supply operations will be issued a company mobile phone and will be responsible for answering and responding to supply operations, on the weekend, during the employee's normal shift hours. Employees will be paid fifty dollars ($50.00) for each weekend they are assigned on-call-duty.
b.	In addition to the fifty dollars ($50.00) in (a) above, employees who are on-call and reports to work for an on-call assignment, will receive a minimum of two (2) hours pay at their effective rate of pay.
c.	Employees assigned on-call-duty and are unable to carry a company mobile phone for any reason are required to notify their supervisor prior to the start of their on-call-duty assignment. Employees who fail to respond to supply operations calls will forfeit their weekend on-call-duty pay and will be subject to discipline.
19
13.00 WAGE RULES
13.01 The Company shall pay the scale of wages included in “Appendix A” made a part hereof.
13.02 For the purpose of this Agreement, an employee's straight time hourly rate is defined as the employee's base rate as listed in Appendix A. An employee’s “effective rate” is the rate listed in Appendix “A”, and/or shift premium, or any other such premiums agreed to as a part of this Agreement.
13.03 Employees promoted or temporarily assigned to a job classification with a higher rate shall receive the rate of the higher job classification or continue at their present rate, whichever is greater. Temporary assignments to a job classification with a higher rate will be offered to the senior qualified employee on the shift in the work center affected. If temporarily assigned, they shall, upon return to their prior classification, assume the rate held prior to the temporary assignment.
a. Employees temporarily assigned to a job classification with a lower rate shall continue to receive their present rate. This section is not applicable when an employee is assigned to a lower job classification under the provisions of 22.01 (b).
20
14.00 PREMIUM PAYMENTS
14.01
Shift differential premiums will be paid, above employees’ straight time basic rate, for hours worked on such shift as defined in Article 10.
a.	A shift differential premium of fifty ($0.50) cents per hour will be paid to employees working on the second shift as defined in the Agreement.
b.	A shift differential premium of fifty-five ($0.55) cents per hour will be paid to employees working on the third shift as defined in this Agreement.
14.03
A Hazardous Duty premium of fifty cents ($0.50) per hour will be paid to employees required to ship hazardous material.
21
15.00 HOLIDAYS
15.01 The following ten (10) days are designated as holidays:
New Years Day	Presidents' Day
Martin Luther King Jr.’s Birthday	Memorial Day
Independence Day	Labor Day
Columbus Day	Veterans Day
Thanksgiving Day	Christmas Day
a.	In addition to the holidays listed above, if directed by the United States government, the Company will observe any holidays declared as a legal holiday and observed by the U.S. Government at NAS Pensacola / NAS Whiting Field. If there is such a holiday, employees shall be paid for the holiday provided that the Company receives additional reimbursement for the holiday by the Government.
b.	If the Company is prevented from working as a result of a government edict, or of acts of God, the Company will reimburse employees for the time missed, if the Company is so reimbursed by the customer.
c.	Each November 1, all employees on the active payroll will be awarded 8 hours holiday pay, which shall be used for the sole purpose of base closure events only. This time will not be allowed to roll over.
15.02 A full time employee who is on the active payroll on the holiday and has worked on the employee's last scheduled shift preceding the holiday, and the employee's first scheduled shift following the holiday, unless excused by the management, (excused does not include unpaid leave of absence, workers' compensation, or short/long term disability) shall be eligible for eight (8) hours pay, at the employee’s effective rate, for such holiday. Employees assigned to an AWWS shall be eligible for ten (10) hours holiday pay at the employee’s regular rate of pay.
15.03 Paid holidays shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of computing overtime payments.
15.04 For purposes of determining eligibility for holiday pay, paid time off, excluding paid time off under the Company's group insurance plan, shall be considered as time worked.
15.05 It is understood and agreed that the Company reserves the right to require employees to work on a holiday; however, every effort will be made to schedule as many employees off as possible.
15.06 Should any of the holidays authorized above fall on an employee's scheduled day off, or during an employee's vacation period, or a period in which an employee is on Paid Personal Time, except under the Company's Group Insurance Plan, the
22
employee(s) will be paid at their straight time hourly rate or will be authorized an alternate day off with pay, if requested prior to the holiday. The alternate day off is to be taken at a time convenient to the Company within two (2) weeks before or after the holiday. Every effort will be made to schedule the employee on the day which he/she requests. An employee shall not receive vacation pay or paid personal leave in addition to holiday pay for the same day.
15.07 Should any holiday stated above occur on a Saturday or a Sunday, the holiday will be observed under the same schedule observed by military/government personnel located at NAS Pensacola and/or NAS Whiting Field.
23
16.00 VACATION
16.01 Each employee covered hereby shall accrue vacation credits as follows:
a.	For vacation purposes, the individual employee's hire date with the T-6 COMBS contract or anniversary date with the Company, whichever is earlier, shall be the reference point for accrual of vacation, and as defined in Article 08.02.a.
b.	Employees with less than six (6) years of continuous service, as defined in 16.01 (a.) above, shall accrue one and fifty-four hundredths (1.54) hours of vacation per credited week. Eighty (80) hours of vacation may be accrued during the fifty-two (52) credited work weeks per year.
c.	Employees with six (6) years, but less than ten (10) years of continuous service, as defined in 16.01 (a.) above, shall accrue two and thirty-one hundredths (2.31) hours of vacation per each credited work week. One-hundred twenty (120) hours of vacation may be accrued during the fifty-two (52) credited work weeks per year.
d.	Employees with ten (10) years of continuous service, as defined in 16.01 (a.) above, shall accrue three and eight-one hundredths (3.08) hours of vacation per each credited work week. One hundred sixty (160) hours of vacation may be accrued during the fifty-two (52) credited work weeks per year.
e.	The number of vacation hours accrued in 16.01 (b), (c), and (d) shall be the maximum number of hours which may be carried over from one anniversary year to the next.
16.02 For the purpose of accruing vacation credits for employees, a credited work week shall be defined as follows:
a.	A credited work week is defined as a week in which an employee is paid by the Company for time worked, holiday pay, jury duty pay, military pay differential, Sick/Personal Leave, vacation pay, funeral leave pay or are on Workers' Compensation that does not exceed six (6) months.
b.	Absences that are compensated under Short Term Disability Insurance or Long Term Disability Insurance are not credited work weeks for vacation accrual.
16.03 For the purposes of determining eligibility for accrued vacation credits, vesting shall be defined as follows:
a.	The employee must complete their probationary period before becoming eligible for vacation. Vacation shall accrue bi-weekly on a credited work week basis and is available for use as accrued.
b.	The individual employee's anniversary date, as established under Article 16.01 (a.) and each continuous service anniversary date thereafter shall be the reference date for rate of accruing vacation.
c.	Employees shall retain vacation accrued until such vacation is taken.
24
d.	Vacation accrued in excess of the maximum allowed in Article 16.01 (b), (c), and (d), must be taken by the employee by the employee's next anniversary date. If all excess vacation is not taken or scheduled by sixty (60 ) days prior to the employee's next anniversary date, the Company will schedule the excess time off.
e.	Vacation taken by the employee is deducted from the employee's unused vacation until such vacation is exhausted.
16.0	4 Vacation pay shall be computed at the employee's straight-time hourly effective rate, as defined in Section 13.02, at the time the vacation is taken.
16.0	5 Employees who are terminated from employment, are laid off or who voluntarily terminate employment after submitting a two (2) week advanced written notice are eligible to receive pay in lieu of vacation for all accrued unused vacation.
a. Employees who are temporarily laid off, may at their discretion retain their accrued unused vacation for a period of up to, but not to exceed thirty (30) days. At any time during the thirty (30) day period the employee may request in writing and be paid for his/her vacation pay. At the expiration of the thirty (30) day period the employee will be paid for any vacation time that is owed to the employee at the time of the layoff.
16.06 Vacation must be requested no less than seven (7) days in advance and will, insofar as practical, be granted as requested by eligible employees subject to operational requirements. When conflicts in requested vacation periods arise, the employee having the greater seniority shall be given preference. However, an employee who has requested and had scheduled vacation approved will not be displaced.
a.	Vacation may only be scheduled on the employee's regularly scheduled work days and only for the amount of hours regularly scheduled on that day to a maximum of eight (8) hours per day, or ten (10) hours per day if assigned to AWWS. Vacation may be taken in increments of one-half (.5) hour.
b.	Vacation period of eight hours or less must be requested a minimum of one (1) hour in advance and must be approved as outlined in 16.06 (c); subject to operational requirements.
c.	Employees' requests for vacation leave must be approved by management or his/her designee before such leave is taken. Employees, failing to secure such approval, who subsequently fail to report to work as scheduled, will be subject to appropriate disciplinary action for unexcused absence.
d.	The maximum allowable length of vacation will be the amount of the employee's unused vacation at the end of the payroll period immediately preceding the vacation period requested.
16.07 Once approved, an individual's vacation period may not be changed or amended without his/her consent except in case of extreme emergency or as provided in 16.06 above.
25
16.0	8 When a holiday, as defined in this Agreement, falls within an employee's vacation period, such holiday hours shall not be charged as vacation hours.
16.0	9 Part-time employees will be paid for vacation after completing one (1) year of service on a pro-rata basis determined by the number of hours worked in the previous anniversary year as a percent of 2080 hours per year.
16.10	It is understood and agreed that employees transferring to the contract after the date of ratification of the Agreement shall retain their original date of hire with the Company for the purpose of accrual of vacation credits.
16.11	Paid days of vacation shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of computing pay for overtime.
16.12	For the purposes of establishing service as provided under 16.01, employees transferred from the bargaining unit who return to the bargaining unit shall receive service credit for such time outside the bargaining unit.
26
17.00 SICK/PERSONAL LEAVE
17.01 Regular, full-time employees shall accrue one and seven hundredths (1.07) hours of Sick/Personal Leave for each credited workweek up to a maximum of one hundred sixty (160) hours. Accrued Sick/Personal Leave is authorized for use after satisfactorily completing the employee's probationary period. A credited workweek is defined as a week in which an employee is paid, by The Company, wages for time worked, holiday pay, jury duty pay, military pay differential, Sick/Personal Leave or vacation pay.
a. If an employee's military pay is greater than the employee's regular pay, such time off for training purposes, up to a maximum of ten (10) work days in a calendar year, shall count as a credited work week.
17.02 All Sick/Personal Leave hours shall be credited to the employee's account. Sick/Personal Leave may be utilized for sickness, medical appointment, or personal reasons on a one-tenth (0.01) hour basis.
a.	Sick/Personal Leave hours shall be paid at the employee’s straight time effective hourly rate, as defined in Section 13.02. Such hours shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
b.	The employee and the Union recognize their obligation to prevent unnecessary absence or any other abuse of this sick leave provision. The Company recognizes the existence of bonafide family medical emergencies and employees shall be able to utilize sick leave to attend either a spouse or child.
17.03 An employee who is prevented from reporting for work by reason of sickness or injury, shall promptly notify the Company of his/her inability to report for work, giving the reason for the absence and when the employee expects to return to work in accordance with the procedure as outlined by the Company. Whenever possible, such notice shall be prior to the start of the employee's shift, but no later than during the first hour of the shift if the employee is prevented from providing notice prior to the shift for a reason beyond the control of the employee. The Company reserves the right to require a medical certificate for absences in excess of three (3) days. In a situation where the employee is delayed while en route to work because of illness, sickness, injury, or an accident, such notice shall be as soon as possible. Failure to provide such notice as referenced above shall be considered as a no report, and such time absent for that day shall not be paid as Sick/Personal Leave.
17.04 Personal Leave may be utilized for personal business, to supplement sick leave or vacation or in case of unforeseen circumstances subject to the following restrictions:
a.	In cases of personal business or when used to supplement vacation leave, personal leave should be requested by the beginning of the shift preceding the shift the employee will be absent and will insofar as practicable be granted as requested. When conflicts in requested personal leave scheduling arise, the employee having the greater bargaining unit seniority shall be given preference with due consideration to the timeliness of the conflicting requests.
27
b.	Personal leave may be utilized in cases of bonafide family or personal emergency or in cases of base closure. In cases of bonafide family or personal emergency the employee is to notify his/her immediate supervisor as soon as possible.
c.	Personal Leave shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
d.	Personal Leave may be taken by the employee once he/she has evidenced his/her intent to leave the Company subject to the approval of management.
17.0	5 Sick/Personal leave hours may not be utilized on the employee’s regularly scheduled day off. Requests for Sick/Personal Leave are limited to the number of accrued hours. Employees are responsible for not exceeding accrued leave balances.
17.0	6 In cases where records indicate probable abuse of Sick/Personal Leave taken for illness or injury, the Company may require the employee to obtain a written medical verification of such illness or injury from a licensed physician prior to returning to work. Such medical verification will be required when the Company has given the employee prior written notice, with a copy to the Chief Steward, that the employee is considered to be an abuser of this article.
a.	For the purposes of this article, probable abuse by individuals shall be indicated by consistent absenteeism on a particular day or days of the week (i.e., consecutive Monday absenteeism) or consistent absenteeism following periods of overtime work.
b.	In cases where records indicate probable abuse of Sick/Personal Leave taken by groups of employees, as outlined in 17.05 (c.), the Company may consider such abuse as cause for disciplinary action.
c.	For the purpose of this article, probable abuse of Sick/Personal Leave by groups shall be indicated by an excessive number of employees being absent on a given day in a given work center or work centers resulting in a significant impact on production or flight schedules.
17.07 Employees who are laid off or who voluntarily terminate employment after submitting a two (2) week advanced written notice are eligible to receive pay for all accrued unused Sick/Personal Leave.
a. Employees who are temporality laid off may at their discretion retain their accrued unused Sick/Personal Leave for a period of up to, but not to exceed thirty (30) days. At any time during the thirty (30) day period the employee may request in writing and be paid for his/her Sick/Personal Leave pay. At the expiration of the thirty (30) day period the employee will be paid for any Sick/Personal Leave that was owed to the employee at the time of the layoff.
17.08 Bereavement Leave. Any employee will be granted time off with pay, at his/her effective rate, as defined in Section 13.02, to attend the funeral or memorial service of family members as follows:
28
a.	Four (4) consecutive workdays in the case of immediate family members defined as mother, father, or legal guardian, sister, brother, spouse, daughter, son, stepdaughter or stepson, grandchildren, or those of whom the employee has legal guardianship, grandmother, grandfather, mother-in-law, father-in-law, step-father, step-mother, stepsister, or step-brother.
b.	Two (2) consecutive workdays in the case of other family members limited to sister-in-law, brother-in-law, son-in-law, or daughter-in-law.
c.	The Company shall grant up to five (5) additional workdays off without pay in the event of death of a member of the employee's immediate family as defined in 17.09 (a) at the employee's request or the employee may use vacation or Sick/Personal Leave for which they are eligible.
d.	Two (2) consecutive days without pay (vacation or sick/personal) Leave may be used by the employee) shall be granted by the Company in the event of death of an employee’s aunt or uncle.
29
18.00 JURY DUTY / WITNESS PAY
18.01 When employees are required to serve on jury duty, or to report to a court in person in response to a jury duty summons, or to report for jury examination, they shall be granted pay for their regular work shift, less any fee or other compensation paid to them by the court for such service for the work day that they were required to report and/or serve. If a first shift employee is released from jury duty at a time such that there are four or more hours remaining in their regular work shift he/she shall be expected to notify his/her supervisor and report to work for the balance of the shift if so directed. If the employee is released from jury duty at a time more than six (6) hours before the start of his/her regular work shift, he/she is expected to report to work and no supplement pay will be made for that shift.
a.	Pay for such time lost shall be computed at the employee's straight-time effective hourly rate, as defined in Section 13.02. In no event shall payment be made for jury duty performed on the employee's regularly scheduled days off, holidays defined herein or for any hours in excess of eight (8) in any regular workdays or hours in excess of forty (40) in any workweek.
b.	To be eligible for payment of jury service pay, employees must notify their supervisor no later than the completion of their next regular work shift following receipt by them of such notice or summons. Further, they shall be ineligible to receive jury service pay until such time as they present to the Company a statement from an official of the court attesting to the date or dates and time of such jury service, and the fee or compensation paid to them therefore by the court, exclusive of transportation allowances.
c.	Any employee called for the above purpose(s) who is scheduled to work on the third (3rd) shift, shall not be required to work the night before he/she is to report and shall receive payment as outlined above.
d.	Paid days for jury service shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of computing pay for overtime.
18.02 Employees responding to a subpoena as a Company witness are considered to be on paid time.
30
19.00 ABSENCE FROM WORK
19.01 Employees shall not leave work prior to the completion of their scheduled hours without prior permission from their supervisor.
19.02 Employees shall not be absent from work without prior permission from their supervisor except in cases of illness, injury, or reasons beyond the control of the employee. Giving a false reason for an absence shall be cause for disciplinary action up to and including discharge.
19.03 It is the duty of every employee who, for any reason, will be absent from work on a scheduled workday, or who expects to report for work late, to notify the Company of the reasons therefore, in accordance with the procedures outlined by the Company. Such notice shall be at least sixty (60) minutes prior to the start of the shift.
19.04 Should an employee not have proper cause for failing to report for work, or failing to report on time, or for failing to report the reason therefore as provided herein, such failure shall be considered cause for disciplinary action.
31
20.00 LEAVES OF ABSENCE
20.01 Limited unpaid personal leaves of absence may be granted by the Company upon request of employees who have completed their probationary period. Such leaves shall be for not less than five (5) work days and not more than thirty (30) calendar days. Requests for unpaid personal leave of absence must be made in writing and must receive approval by the Program Manager with the concurrence of Human Resources. A maximum of two (2) extensions may be approved by the Company. However, if the employee does not return to work after the personal leave of absence, the employee shall be terminated.
a.	Vacation credits and paid personal leave credits are not earned while on a leave of absence under the provisions of this article.
b.	Health insurance may continue for a maximum of sixty (60) days provided the employee pays his/her portion of the premium at least ten (10) days prior to the next months insurance coverage.
20.02 Seniority shall continue to accumulate during the approved leave of absence. When an employee has been granted a leave of absence for a-specified period of time, it will be the employee's responsibility to request an extension of such leave prior to expiration if additional time is required. All such extensions must have prior Company approval.
20.03 Leave of absence for legitimate personal health reasons supported by sufficient medical verification may be granted to an employee for a period of up to thirty (30) calendar days and may be extended for up to twenty-six (26) calendar weeks when supported by satisfactory medical evidence supplied by a licensed physician. Leaves of absence for personal health reasons will not exceed six (6) months. An employee who is unable to return to work after exhausting twenty-six (26) weeks of STD will be terminated. Employees terminated after twenty-six (26) weeks of STD shall be put on a potential rehire list for an additional twenty-six (26) weeks and shall be offered a one-time opportunity for re-employment for vacant positions for which they qualify; subject to providing a medical release from a certified physician. This offer of reemployment would be provided prior to filling the vacancy from an outside source.
a. Health Insurance will continue for employees who are on a leave of absence covered under Article 20.03 provided the employee pays his/her portion of the premium at least ten (10) days prior to the next month’s insurance coverage.
20.04 An employee on leave of absence for personal health reasons may return to work prior to or at the expiration of such leave upon the full written release of a licensed physician provided the employee is able to perform his/her assigned duties safely. Should the Company question the employee's capability to perform the assigned duties safely, the Company may have the employee examined by another physician, prior to returning the employee to work. If the physician selected by the Company and the employee's physician disagree, then the employee shall be examined by a third mutually acceptable physician and that physician's decision shall decide the employee's capability. Any such additional examination costs shall be incurred by the Company.
a. While on leave of absence for personal health reasons, the employee shall
32
notify the Company as to his/her potential of returning to work on a bi-weekly basis, except in those cases where the employee's physician has provided an expected date of return.
20.0	5 Leaves of absence without pay for Union business will be granted to Bargaining Unit employees not to exceed two (2) weeks, provided at least five (5) work days advance notice is given in writing to the Company. However, not more than two (2) employees may be on such leave at any one time and of the two (2) employees, no more than one (1) will be from the same work center.
20.0	6 Leaves of absence without pay in workers' compensation injury and legal occupational disease cases will be granted automatically for the full period of legal temporary disability, and seniority will accumulate for the full period of such leave. Employees on Worker’s Compensation will continue to accrue vacation for a maximum of three (3) months.
a. While on leave of absence covered under Section 20.06, employees will keep the Company informed as to his/her expected return to work date or his/her potential of returning to work.
20.07 An employee who has completed his/her probationary period, who is called to and performs short term active duty of thirty (30) days or less, including active duty training as a member of the United States Armed Forces Reserves or National Guard, shall be paid the difference between the employee's military rate and the employee's straight time hourly rate of pay for a period of up to ten (10) scheduled working days per calendar year. The employee must present a copy of the employee's orders to the Company as soon as they are received by the employee. Upon return from active short term duty, the employee must present pay vouchers so that the calculation of the difference in pay may be computed. The employee will be given a leave of absence for, and will accumulate seniority during such period of service. Employees required to report for military training in excess of thirty (30) consecutive days or those called to active duty shall be reinstated in accordance with the Universal Military Training Service Act. The parties to this Agreement shall comply with current applicable state and federal legislation regarding military service.
20.0	8 When leaves of absence are granted, the employee, upon return to active employment, will be returned to his/her classification on a job the employee is qualified to perform based upon seniority.
20.0	9	When an employee fails to return to work at the	expiration of the approved leave of
absence, the employee shall be disciplined up	to and including discharge at the
option of the Company.
20.10	Any member of the Union elected or appointed	to a full time Union position shall,
upon written request by the Union, be granted a leave of absence for Union activities for up to a four (4) year period. Employees on such leave shall retain and accrue seniority. Not more than two (2) employees shall be on such leave at any one time. If the employee's group insurance through the Company is to be continued, the Union or the employee shall be required to pay the full monthly insurance premium.
a. When the activities for which such leaves of absence are granted shall cease, the Union shall immediately notify the Company in writing, and if application is made therefore within fifteen (15) days thereafter, such Union member will be given 33
re-employment in a similar position, if same still exists, or a comparable position in accordance with his/her qualifications and seniority privileges, and applicable wage rate at the time of return to the active payroll.
20.11	Any member of the Bargaining Unit shall, upon written request, be granted a leave of absence to pursue and serve in a local, state or federal elective political office. Such leave of absence will be limited to a maximum of two (2) years. During such periods of unpaid leave, the employee shall retain but not accrue seniority.
20.12	The parties agree to be in compliance with the Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) of 1993 as mandated by law, regardless of the number of employees within the bargaining unit.
a.	Seniority will accumulate during all FMLA leaves.
b.	No employee shall be required to utilize paid vacation for any FMLA absence for which the employee does not request to receive such pay.
c.	Employee(s) may use accrued Sick/Personal Leave before being placed on unpaid FMLA leave, if requested by the employee.
20.13	A Family Leave of Absence, without pay, of up to twelve (12) weeks during any twelve (12) month period may be granted for any of the following reasons:
1.	The birth of a child;
2.	The placement of a child with an employee for adoption or foster care;
3.	To care for a spouse, child or parent who has a serious health condition;
4.	Because of an employee’s own serious health condition.
20.14	For purposes of calculation, the twelve (12) month period will begin on the first day of requested FMLA utilization without pay, and will be a rolling period.
20.15	Health insurance benefits will remain in effect during the family leave of absence for a period not to exceed twelve (12) weeks. Employees will be responsible for the share of the premium that they normally pay and the coverage can be cancelled by the Company if the employee fails to pay his or her share, while in an unpaid status only. Employees who return to work before the allotted twelve (12) weeks are exhausted will be entitled to their former position or to an equivalent position unless they otherwise would be ineligible to return to work.
20.16	The intent of this provision is to meet the requirements of the Family and Medical Leave Act, the requirements of which will govern its application. Family Leaves of absence in excess of twelve (12) weeks during the twelve (12) month period may be granted by the Company at its sole discretion. In such cases where the employee is in an unpaid status, the employee will be responsible for the cost of insurance premiums which must be paid in advance by the employee if they are to remain in force during the additional leave period. In the event, the FMLA is either repealed or diminished through legislative action, the provisions of this article will still be applicable.
34
20.17	To be eligible for a family and medical leave of absence, an employee must have worked for the Company for twelve (12) months (continuous or non-continuous) and worked at least 1,250 hours during the previous twelve month period and must submit a request for FMLA in writing.
35
21.00 PROMOTIONS, TRANSFERS AND TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS
21.01 TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS.
In order to provide maximum stability to ensure the even flow of operations, the security of all employees and minimize the possibility of layoffs, the Company may temporarily assign employees to other assignments on the contract.
a.	The Company will notify the Union Chief Steward in writing within three (3) business days when a temporary vacancy is filled and the reason for the temporary vacancy.
b.	Due to the nature of the contractual work to be performed, employees may be brought in from other locations to perform specific short-term assignments at COMBS NAS Pensacola and COMBS NAS Whiting Field as the need arises not to exceed forty-five (45) calendar days, so long as there are no employees in the classification on layoff who are qualified to perform the assignments. Such actions shall not prevent overtime or cause the layoff of any employee within the classification in the bargaining unit who is qualified to perform the work. The Company will meet with the Union and inform them of the reasons such actions are necessary. If the Union disagrees, the issue may be submitted by the Union to the grievance and arbitration procedure, providing there are qualified employees in the classification on layoff.
c.	If the temporary assignment is made to fill the position of an employee who is unable to work due to illness or injury, the assignment will be for the entire length of time the ill or injured employee is absent from work, and will be filled in accordance with Section 21.04 below.
d.	In the case of all other temporary assignments, no employee will be assigned to the temporary assignment for more than forty-five (45) calendar days.
e.	If there are no qualified employees from the classification on layoff status, or qualified employees who have previously been displaced from the classification into a lower rated classification, temporary vacancies of not more than forty five (45) workdays may be filled at the Company’s discretion under the provisions of Article 13.03, or 26.01, or by new hire. The forty-five (45) workday limit may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties on a non-precedent basis.
f.	Employees hired to fill a temporary vacancy who attain seniority will be allowed to sign job postings for job vacancies.
g.	Seniority employees transferred to fill a temporary vacancy under Article 21.03, or Article 21.04 shall be returned to the classification, shift/site they were in, prior to the transfer, after completion of the assignment.
h.	Should a temporary vacancy, as described in this section, become permanent, it shall be filled in accordance with Article 21.03.a.
36
21.02 NEW AND REVISED JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
a. The job descriptions, except as modified by Article 2, Section 02.01 describe typical and normal requirements. These requirements are characteristic of the job and illustrate a level of difficulty of work and are not intended to list or describe all work operations or tasks done within the classification. These requirements do not fit all specific individual work assignments, and the description when written was stated so as to be broad enough to include all variations of work in the classifications.
a. The Company shall notify the Union of its intention to create a new job which is not now covered under this Agreement or to revise an existing classification. Said notice shall be given to the Union in advance of the implementation of such new job or revision of an existing classification. The wage rate for such new or revised job classification shall be established by mutual agreement.
21.03 FILLING JOB VACANCIES
a. Replacement of employees who have terminated employment or who have been promoted, or the filling of newly created job classifications will be accomplished as follows:
1.	When it is determined by the Company that a vacancy in a job classification covered by this Agreement exists, and that such vacancy shall be filled, and there are no qualified employees who are eligible for recall as provided by Article 22.03 as a result of a reduction in forces, the vacancy shall be posted for a period of at least five work days. Employees who are interested in accepting the position may sign the posting. The job will be awarded to the most senior qualified employee.
2.	Employees are required to keep their personnel files up to date and may be required to provide documentation of their experience and education.
3.	An employee that has changed classifications due to a promotion shall not be considered for any vacancy until that employee has been in their current classification for a period of six (6) months or more.
4.	An employee may apply for a lower rated classification after completing six (6) months in their current classification.
5.	After satisfying 21.03.a.1 above, an employee may move laterally to a vacancy in accordance with this article a maximum of once every twelve (12) months.
6.	The above 21.03 a. shall not apply to an employee who has been placed into their current classification due to the provisions of Article 22.01.
37
7.	The Chief Steward shall be provided copies of all employee signed postings with annotation of those determined to be qualified and eligible for the vacancy, and those that are determined to be ineligible or not qualified for the vacancy.
8.	If no qualified employees apply for the position, the vacancy may be filled at the Company's discretion by offering the vacant position to the senior qualified employee in the work center and/or organization where the vacancy exists, or under the provisions of Article 26.01 or by new hire.
9.	If the senior applicant is determined not to be qualified to satisfactorily carry out the duties and responsibilities of a classification for which he has applied, the Company will notify the employee and the Chief Steward of the reasons for such disqualification.
10.	The Company reserves the right to cancel any vacancy prior to the awarded employee assuming the duties thereof.
11.	When an employee is awarded a transfer/promotion under the provisions of this Article and such employee fails to satisfactorily perform the duties of that job within a period of up to thirty (30) workdays after assuming the position, the employee will be returned to the position he/she last held prior to the award of such transfer/promotion provided the classification has not been abolished. The thirty (30) workday time limit may be extended by mutual written agreement of the parties. In the event the employee's previous classification has been abolished, he/she may exercise his/her bumping rights as defined in Article 22.00. An employee so returned shall be given a notice of failure(s) in the performance of the job duties, as evaluated by the supervisor. An employee so returned shall not be given consideration for future vacancies in the same classification from which they returned for a period of six (6) months, at which time they must present evidence of additional qualifications to be considered for future vacancies in that same classification.
(a) Those employees that have filled in behind the above referenced returned employee will be returned to the last position they held. Those that have been displaced due to no fault of their own will be given recall rights to the classification from which they were displaced. Upon recall, if such employee fails to satisfactorily perform the duties of the job within a period of up to thirty (30) workdays after assuming the position, the employee will be returned to the position last held prior to the recall, employees
12.	An employee awarded a job vacancy shall be reclassified to the job classification as of the first day of work on the job, except as provided in Article 26.01.
13.	Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to prevent an employee from performing work which is below his/her classification when required to do so by the Company provided the employee is qualified to perform the work assigned. Such an employee shall not suffer a reduction in pay.
(a) All employees required to work in a lower classification will be offered the work in accordance with Article 21.04.
38
	(b) Revised job classifications will be filled by the incumbent employee(s). 14. The Company agrees during the term of this Agreement it will not introduce the use of any written test as an aid in determining the ability and/or qualifications of employees for advancement without first reviewing and discussing such tests with the Union.
21.04	TRANSFER ASSIGNMENTS, TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS AND ASSIGNMENTS TO A LOWER CLASSIFICATION. a. When it is determined by the Company that (a) one (1) or more employees of a classification are to be transferred from one overtime group to another, or (b) a temporary position exists, or (c) an assignment must be made to a lower classification (except during a layoff), such transfer or assignment will be offered to the senior employee(s) volunteering from within the classification(s) in the overtime group affected. In the event that an insufficient number of the employees volunteer to be transferred, the least senior qualified employee(s) within the classification(s) in the affected overtime group shall be transferred.
39
22.00 LAYOFF RECALL / REDUCED WORKLOAD
22.01 In the event of layoff:
a.	Employees in their probationary period, as defined in this Agreement, in the job classification affected shall be laid off first, on the condition that the remaining employees are qualified to perform the work.
b.	Thereafter, seniority employees in the affected classification having the least seniority will be laid off. Employees so laid off from the classification may bump the least senior employee(s) in equivalent or lower rated classifications, provided they are qualified to perform the duties of the classification.
c.	An employee who has taken layoff rather than exercise seniority to displace an employee in a lower rated classification, shall not be permitted to exercise recall and/or seniority rights to displace another employee who remained at work after such employee had elected layoff.
d.	At least five (5) working days prior notification will be given to affected seniority employees being placed on layoff. This notification shall apply only if the Company has had such prior notification and shall not apply where such reduction in force and lack of notification is beyond the control of the Company.
22.0	2 When it is necessary to effect a cancellation of operations for reasons beyond the control of the Company for a temporary period up to and including five (5) work days within a thirty (30) day period, employees in the classifications affected shall be temporarily laid off in accordance with their seniority. The employees affected shall have the option to use Sick/Personal Leave, vacation or take time off without pay.
22.0	3 For the purpose of recall, recall will be offered by seniority to qualified employees who have been laid off or displaced from the following:
a.	The classification being recalled, or
b.	A classification equally rated to the classification being recalled, or
c.	A classification rated higher than the classification being recalled, prior to complying with Articles 21.01 and 21.03, provided they are qualified to and can satisfactorily perform the duties of the job without additional training in the classification, which is being recalled. An employee will not be offered recall if such employee is currently assigned to a higher rated classification to which a recall of employees has been initiated.
22.04 Notification of openings for reemployment shall be given by the Company by registered or certified return receipt mail to the last recorded mailing address furnished by the employee. Such notifications will also inform the employee of his/her option to reject or accept the recall if the position is not the highest classification that the individual has been displaced or laid off from. A copy of such
40
notice shall also be sent to the Union. In order to preserve his/her recall rights, the employee must notify the Company of his/her intent to return or not to return to work within forty-eight (48) hours of receipt and must report to work within fourteen (14) calendar days after receipt if accepting recall.
a.	If the employee rejects recall, the next employee that has been displaced or laid off may be recalled.
b.	If the employee does not respond or rejects recall to the highest classification the individual has been displaced or laid off from as required by this article, the next employee may be recalled and the notified employee will be terminated. If no qualified employee remains, the position will be filled under the provisions of 21.01 .e. If still no qualified employee remains, the position will be filled under the provision of 21.03.a.8.
22.05 Failure of the employee to keep the Company advised in writing of his/her current correct address shall relieve the Company of the obligations of this article.
22.06 Should an employee fail a medical examination required for a particular job, and as a result thereof, is unable to perform the duties of his/her job classification, the employee will be offered assignment to perform other work which he/she has the qualifications and seniority to perform or be laid off in accordance with article 22.00 due to lack of work. In the event the employee elects such reassignment, he/she will assume the rate of the new job classification.
22.07 Any employee who reports for work on his/her regular shift and there is no work available shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours pay at his/her straight time hourly rate.
a.	If possible, the Company will make an attempt to notify an employee prior to the employee reporting to work if there is not any work available.
b.	The Company will maintain an up-to-date Employee Telephone List in each work center and/or department to ensure that employees will be contacted for the purpose of recall, notification of extra work and/or overtime, or lack of work.
c.	It is the employee's responsibility to notify the Company of any change in his/her telephone number.
22.08 In the event the Company requires a temporary shutdown or reduction in the scope of its operations, it will allow eligible employees to take vested vacation, Sick/Personal Leave or leave without pay during such periods at the option of the employee. Employees who are not eligible for vacation benefits or Sick/Personal Leave benefits will be considered on non-paid leave during such periods.
22.09 Should conditions occur beyond the control of the Company to cause a reduction in work available on an employee's shift, in his work center and classification, the Company may assign the affected employees other work or allow them to take time off. The employees affected shall have the option to use Sick/Personal Leave, vacation time, or take time off without pay. Under this specific condition only, vacation or Sick/Personal Leave may be approved for less than one hour. Vacation or Sick/Personal Leave may be used to give an employee the pay equivalent to a normal workday.
41
23.00 DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
23.01 It is understood and agreed the Company may only discipline or discharge any employee covered hereby for just cause. Should an employee feel such action improper and in violation of the employee's rights under this Agreement, the employee shall be extended all the rights and privileges accorded by the grievance and arbitration procedures contained herein, provided the employee has completed the probationary period defined in the seniority article of this Agreement.
a.	A letter of warning, reprimand, suspension or discharge shall be removed from the employee's file and shall no longer have any future effect if it has been found through the grievance and/or arbitration procedure to have been unjustifiably issued.
b.	A letter of warning or reprimand not involving a suspension shall be removed from the employee's file after a period of six (6) months from the date of issue.
c.	A letter of suspension shall be removed from the employee's file after a period of twelve (12) months from the date of issue.
d.	The Company has the right to establish reasonable work rules and regulations, not in conflict with the terms of this Agreement, with such additions and revisions thereto, as are made by the Company.
e.	The company will meet with the Union prior to implementation of any new or revised rules and regulations. The extent of any penalty levied against an employee for an alleged violation of the rules and regulations is subject to the grievance procedure.
f.	It is understood and agreed that any disciplinary action issued to an employee by the Company shall be issued within ten (10) calendar days following knowledge by the Company of the occurrence of the alleged violations. The above specified time limit may be extended by mutual written agreement of the parties.
g.	Letters of reprimand and suspension once removed from an employees file shall not have any future affect on discipline.
23.02 Any employee who defaces, adds to or writes over any general notices or bulletin, or posts unofficial bulletins or any notices that are vulgar or offensive may be subject to disciplinary action.
23.03 Failure to follow established safety procedures; to utilize required or provided safety equipment or protective clothing; or to commit unsafe acts may be subject to disciplinary action.
23.04 In all cases of discharge and suspensions, the Chief Steward, or his designee will be present. When written warning or reprimand notices are given to employees of the bargaining unit, a Shop Steward will be present. The Chief Steward will receive a copy of said notices within three (3) business days. In all cases where an employee is being discharged, suspended, or will be receiving a written warning notice or written reprimand, the employee shall be advised of his/her right to Union representation and may request the presence of his/her Union Steward, or in the case of suspension or discharge, the Chief Steward. Such requests will be honored
42
by the Company. In cases involving suspension or discharge, the employee shall be provided a reasonable amount of time to discuss the matter with his/her Steward, or the Chief Steward, prior to leaving the premises, except in cases where a Steward or the Chief Steward is not available at the site, or the continued presence of the employee is disruptive.
23.05 In cases of layoff, dismissal, or suspension, the employee and the Chief Steward shall be given a copy of the notice, as applicable if the employee is available to be presented with such copy. If the employee is not available, a copy of the notice will be sent to the employee by certified or registered mail to the employee's last known address and a copy shall be given to the Chief Steward. The employee shall have the right to appeal the action shown on the notice, provided the employee files a written grievance with the Company in accordance with the grievance procedure of this Agreement. In all cases where disciplinary action is given to an employee when the employee is not present or is unavailable, the Chief Steward shall be able to file a grievance on behalf of the employee, provided the employee signs the grievance prior to the start of the Step 3 meeting.
43
24.00 GRIEVANCES
24.01 It is the intent of the parties to this Agreement that the procedure provided herein for the settlement of grievances shall serve as a means for the settlement of all disputes that may arise out of or regarding the interpretation and application of this Agreement. The term “grievance” as used in this Agreement means any dispute arising out of or regarding the interpretation, application, claim of breach or violation of a specific and designated article and section of this Agreement and any Company policy in conflict with this Agreement. Grievances settled or withdrawn at Step 1 or Step 2 of the grievance procedure shall not set a precedent, unless specifically stated in writing. Failure to move a grievance from one step of the grievance process to another shall not set a precedent and shall not establish a practice unless mutually agreed
24.02 Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent an employee from discussing any problem with his/her supervisor, or other Company official, but there shall be no formal grievance until it has been presented as provided in Step One below, with the Steward. The Union agrees that neither the Steward nor other Union official shall solicit grievances.
24.03 Grievance Procedure
a.	STEP ONE
Any grieved employee, with the employee's Steward present, shall present the employee's grievance verbally to the supervisor involved within ten (10) workdays following the date the grievant or the Union was aware of the condition or occurrence upon which the grievance is based. An employee having a grievance will be given a reasonable amount of time, during working hours to take the grievance up with the employee's Steward without loss of pay. The supervisor, to whom the grievance was presented verbally, shall respond within two (2) workdays following the meeting with the employee and the Steward on the grievance.
b.	STEP TWO
If a satisfactory resolution cannot be reached as provided under Step 1, the grievance shall then be reduced to writing on a form furnished by the Union and presented to the Site Manager within three (3) workdays following receipt of the answer of the supervisor referenced in Step 1, or if the supervisor referenced in Step 1 does not respond to the grievance within the two (2) workdays referenced above.
The Site Manager will provide a written answer to the Steward within five (5) workdays after receipt of the written grievance. During the five (5) workday period in which the Site Manager has to submit the written answer. Either party shall have the right to request a meeting to further discuss the details involved in the grievance, attempting to arrive at a mutually satisfactory resolution. The grievant, Steward, and the persons as designated by the Company, shall attend this meeting. Such meeting shall be held during working hours, and no loss of pay shall be incurred.
44
c.	STEP THREE
If a satisfactory resolution cannot be reached as provided under Step 2, the Union Chief Steward, or his designee, may submit the grievance to the Site Manager within five (5) workdays following the receipt of the answer referenced in Step 2. If an answer has not been received under Step 2 within five (5) workdays following the meeting, the Union Chief Steward may submit the grievance to the Site Manager.
A meeting shall be scheduled by the Site Manager or designee to discuss the grievance within five (5) workdays following submission of the grievance by the Chief Steward. The Site Manager shall submit a written answer to the Chief Steward within five (5) workdays after the meeting is held. The grievant may also be requested to attend such meeting if it is felt necessary by the Company or the Union. Such meeting will be held during working hours and no loss of pay shall be incurred. The Site Manager and a representative of the IAMAW may also be present if requested by the Chief Steward, or the Chief Steward's designee, or by the Company. The parties shall have the authority to resolve the grievance or appeal it to arbitration, providing such appeal to arbitration is submitted to the Company by rejection of the answer as provided under Step 3 within ten (10) workdays following receipt of this answer.
1.	When mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union the Grievance Committee (consisting of the Chief Steward and one (1) Grievance Committee member, the Steward involved and the grieved employee) shall be present at the Step 3 proceedings of the grievance procedure and/or meetings concerning special situations. Such meetings will be held during working hours and no loss of pay shall be incurred by the Committee.
24.04 It is understood and agreed that any of the steps of the grievance procedure may be waived and/or any of the time limits extended by mutual written agreement of the parties.
24.05 In cases involving discipline which involves suspension or discharge, Section 24.00 (a), Step 1, and Section 24.00 (b), Step 2, will be waived upon request by the Chief Steward or his designee, upon his absence, and the matter taken up within two (2) workdays of the action with the Site Manager.
24.06 It is understood that the Chief Steward may file grievances on behalf of the Union's interests under this Agreement. Therefore, if a grievance pertains to the Company's interpretation of the intent and purpose in the application of a specific article and section of this Agreement, the grievance may be filed by the Chief Steward on behalf of the Union and initiated at Step 3 of the grievance procedure. Further, if a grievance relates to policy and affects numerous employees, the grievance shall be consolidated and filed by the Chief Steward in behalf of a group of employees and initiated at Step 3 of the grievance procedure. Otherwise, grievances shall be filed and signed by the employee involved or affected.
45
24.07 The Union’s Business Representative and the Company's Manager of Labor Relations or designee shall meet and discuss and attempt to resolve any grievance that is not resolved per Step 3 of this grievance procedure and appealed to arbitration by either party.
46
25.00 ARBITRATION
25.01 There shall be no grievances presented to arbitration until all steps of the grievance procedure have been utilized, except as provided in Sections 24.04, 24.05 and 24.06 of the Grievance Procedure. All such grievances shall be considered as settled on the basis of the last Company answer and not subject to arbitration unless either party (Union or Company) first serves written notice of intention to arbitrate upon the other party within ten (10) workdays after receipt of the Company answer at the final step of the grievance procedure.
25.02 If, within ten (10) workdays from the time of such notice given as provided in Section 25.01 of the Article, the parties cannot agree on a settlement or an adjustment of the dispute, then the party filing the grievance shall request the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS) to submit a list of seven (7) names from which the arbitrator shall be chosen within ten (10) workdays after receipt of such list. The specified time limit may be extended by mutual written agreement of the parties. The names contained on the list shall be stricken in turn until one (1) name remains, and that person shall become the arbitrator. Both parties may agree to sign the FMCS panel request form for NAA certified arbitrators and shall divide equally the cost of submitting a request for arbitration to the FMCS.
a. The party striking first shall alternate from panel to panel. Either party may reject one (1) panel. Upon such rejection, an additional panel shall be requested in writing from the FMCS by the party rejecting such panel with a copy of such request to the other party and both parties signing such form so that a NAA certified arbitrator list is supplied.
25.03 Both parties agree that they will continue to make every effort to attempt to resolve any issue before them during the period of time before it is actually heard by the arbitrator.
25.04 The arbitrator shall not have the jurisdiction or power to add to, subtract from, modify, alter or change any of the terms of this Agreement or any other terms made supplemental hereto, or arbitrate any new provision into this Agreement. The arbitrator's authority is to interpret and apply provisions of this Agreement. The arbitrator shall be bound entirely by the records presented in the form of evidence and argument.
25.05 In no event shall the Company be penalized or in any way liable for any monetary award or grievance settlement prior to thirty (30) days preceding the date of the filing of the grievance. Any monetary award shall be limited to the actual loss incurred by the grievant, less such other compensation, including wages, commissions, workers' compensation and unemployment compensation, as the grievant may have received or which may be due to the grievant for the designated award period.
47
25.06 The parties will jointly submit a signed statement setting forth the issue or issues to be decided by the Arbitrator, the specific contract violations and the remedy sought. The issue or issues shall be the sole matter to be decided by the Arbitrator. Should the parties fail to agree upon the issue, each party may submit a separate statement of issues it considers in dispute and the Arbitrator shall determine at or before the hearing the issue or issues to be arbitrated.
25.07 The parties reserve the right to file post-hearing briefs within thirty (30) days of the arbitration or as determined by the arbitrator if a longer period is requested by either party.
The arbitrator shall render his/her decision within thirty (30) days of receipt of the briefs or the close of the proceedings if the parties waive the right to file post-hearing briefs. Each party shall serve one copy of their respective briefs to the arbitrator, mailed by the date established by the arbitrator, with one copy of their respective brief mailed on the same day to the opposing party. The arbitrator's decision or award shall be in writing and should reveal the reasoning and grounds on which it is based. The award shall be delivered or mailed to each party.
25.08 The decision of the arbitrator, within the purview of the arbitrator's authority, shall be final and binding on all parties.
25.09 The parties agree that either party may be represented at arbitration hearings as they may choose and designate. Evidence may be presented either orally or in writing or both.
25.10 Each of the parties will assume the expenses of presenting its case including the compensation and other expenses of witnesses called or summoned by it.
25.11 All fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be paid equally by both parties.
a. In cases of cancellation that do not involve a compromised settlement by the parties, the party requesting cancellation shall pay all fees or costs of the arbitrator for such cancellation. In cases where the cancellation is a result of a compromise settlement by the parties, fees or costs of the arbitrator for the cancellation shall be shared equally by the parties.
48
26.00 TRAINING
26.01 As determined by the Company, bargaining unit employees may be transferred to other assignments within the bargaining unit for the purpose of direct training of employees in the processes within the supply system and/or equipment involved. All completed training will be documented.
a.	Senior employees within a classification will be offered training in accordance with the Company's needs.
b.	If an employee is transferred by the Company for direct training purposes to a job paying a higher rate, the employee will continue to receive the pay rate being paid the employee prior to the date of the assignment, until determined qualified by the Company.
c.	The Company will determine the need and the number of employees to be so trained and will arrange such direct training as appropriate.
26.02 In the event of a reduced workload in a work center and/or classification, the company may at its option arrange direct training of affected employees in other work centers and/or classifications. Such direct training will be offered by seniority.
49
27.00 SAFETY I SAFETY EQUIPMENT
27.0	1 It is the intention of the Company to maintain safe and healthful conditions as is necessary to protect employees from injury. It is the desire of the Parties to this Agreement to maintain high standards of safety in the operations of the Company in order to eliminate, as far as possible, industrial accidents and illnesses.
27.0	2 The Company shall make available foul weather gear to those employees who are required to perform work outdoors. The type of foul weather gear provided will be as follows:
a.	Rain coats and pants will be made available to employees required to perform outdoors when needed.
b.	The Company will provide the following personal protective equipment: safety glasses, goggles, face shields, hearing protection devices, hard hats, chemical resistant gloves, and disposable protective clothing. These devices must bear an acceptable label of approval, either embossed or attached, stating that they meet OSHA or American National Standards Institute (ANSI) requirements.
c.	Should any additional safety equipment or protective clothing be required by the Company or the Government after ratification of this Agreement the Company will provide same.
27.03 Safety shoes will be replaced once per fiscal year. Employees will be reimbursed up to one hundred twenty-five ($125) dollars of cost of replacement safety shoes.
27.04 Employees shall be required to comply with all safety rules and regulations established by the Company and government agencies, and to wear such protective clothing or use such safety equipment as may be required and furnished by the Company. Employees occupying Quality Control, Ground Service Equipment Mechanic and Helper positions will be reimbursed up to one hundred ($100) dollars of cost for prescription safety glasses for the duration of the contract.
50
28.00 UNIFORMS
28.01 Employees will be required to wear the uniforms designated by the Company. The cost of such required uniforms shall be incurred by the Company.
28.02 Any cost incurred due to an employee's decision to change the material, cut, add an approved Union shirt sleeve patch, or to obtain additional uniforms above what is furnished in 28.03 below, will be the sole responsibility of the incurring employee.
28.03 The Company will provide the employee his/her choice of the following that will equal five sets of uniforms at hire and there after replacements as needed:
a.	Uniform pants,
b.	Uniform t-shirts, with or without a pocket, per the employee’s request,
c.	Uniform shirts,
d.	Uniform coveralls (1 set ofcoveralls equals 1 shirt + 1 pant).
28.04 The Company will provide one (1) jacket with choice of light or with winter liner for employees. New hires and employees transferred will be eligible for one (1) jacket with liner, thirty work days after entering bargaining unit. Jacket will be replaced as needed due to wear.
28.05 Employees may wear an approved IAM patch, not significantly larger than the Company’s logo, on the right shoulder, or right breast of the uniform shirt.
51
29.00 BULLETIN BOARDS / DISTRIBUTION
29.0	1 There shall be no distribution or posting by the Union or by employees of political materials in support of or against any candidate or issue, or other notices, literature or advertisements without prior approval of the Business Administration Manager other than herein provided.
29.0	2 The Company agrees to provide space for two (2) Union-owned bulletin boards for the exclusive use of the Union at appropriate places in the work site for the purpose of posting legitimate Union notices. Legitimate Union notices are defined as:
a.	Notices of meetings.
b.	Notices of official Union elections and results.
c.	Notices of official Union appointments.
d.	Official notice of Union recreational and social events.
e.	Official correspondence between the Union and the employees.
f.	Other notices which are specifically approved in writing by the Site Manager.
29.03 The mutually agreed places for the Union Bulletin Boards are as follows:
a.	NAS Pensacola Tool Room
b.	Supply Building (Whiting Field)
29.	04 The Company will attempt to provide alternate space for the Union Bulletin Board(s) in the event space can not be provided in the agreed place(s) due to circumstances beyond the control of the Company. The alternate location(s) must also be mutually agreed upon by the parties.
29.	05 Union memos, for Union communications, as defined in Article 29.02, will be allowed when COMBS operational requirements include travel between the sites.
52
30.00 PAYCHECKS
30.01 Employees may elect to have payroll and other employee disbursements by direct deposit. Direct deposits post to employee’s bank accounts on Friday morning on a bi-weekly basis.
53
31.00 GROUP INSURANCE
31.01 Group Insurance Plans apply to all full-time employees covered hereby which provides benefits as specified in Appendix B.
31.02 As these Plans are provided by outside vendors and/or are Company-wide Plans, the Company may find it necessary or desirable to amend, revise or replace some or all of the Plans during the life of this Agreement between the Parties. Should this occur, the Company will immediately advise the Union of such changes and will meet as soon as possible with the Union to negotiate the effect of such changes on the employees covered by this Agreement.
54
32.00 RETIREMENT PLAN
32.01 Employees may contribute to the Company’s 401K Plan, but will not be entitled to Company-matching contribution.
55
33.00 OFF-SITE TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT
33.0	1 Bargaining Unit employees on temporary detachment assignments performing Bargaining Unit work retain their rights under the Collective Bargaining Agreement as if working at COMBS, NAS Pensacola or COMBS, NAS Whiting Field.
33.0	2 Employees of the Bargaining Unit will be temporarily assigned to off-site work not associated with the Bargaining Unit. The following provisions will apply to such assignments:
a.	Employees on such assignments shall retain their rights provided by the Collective Bargaining Agreement as if working at COMBS, NAS Pensacola and COMBS, NAS Whiting Field.
b.	Such off-site assignment will be offered by specific site performing the work to the employee(s) who volunteer from within the classification(s) the Company determines necessary to perform the work.
c.	Such assignments shall not exceed ninety (90) calendar days, unless extended by mutual agreement of the parties.
d.	Such assignments shall not be to a management and/or supervisory position.
56
34.00 GENERAL
34.01 Employees covered by this Agreement shall be governed by all Company rules, regulations, and orders which are not in conflict with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
34.02 Should any provision or provisions of this Agreement be rendered or declared invalid by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation or regulation or by reason of any decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidation of such part or parts of this Agreement shall not invalidate the remaining portions hereof and the said remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
34.03 There shall be no discrimination by the Company or the Union against any employee because of race, sex, creed, color, national origin, age, handicap, veteran status or other status protected by applicable federal, state or local laws or regulations.
a. There shall be no discrimination by the Company or the Union against any employee because of membership or non-membership in the Union. There shall be no interference, restraint, or coercion by the Company of any employee in the exercise of the employee's lawful activities on behalf of the Union, so long as such activities are not conducted on Company time, nor interfere with other employees performing their jobs, or with the conduct of operations, except as specifically provided in the Agreement under the grievance procedure and as referenced in Section 05.03.
34.04 The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon the Company and its successors, assigns or future purchasers.
34.05 It is not the intent of the parties to establish or permit rules, customs, or practices which are designed to limit production or increase the time required to do any work. It is further agreed that there will be no attempt to place limitations or restrictions on the use of machinery, tools or other labor-saving devices. It is understood and agreed that the adoption of new or revised work practices, machinery, tools or other labor-saving devices will be implemented in accordance with established regulations with full consideration given to the safety of all employees.
34.06 The terms “qualified" or “qualifications" under this Agreement include having the ability to perform the work satisfactorily, and the physical ability to carry out such work.
34.07 With respect to minimum knowledge, education and experience requirements for the individual job descriptions as negotiated by the parties, it is understood and agreed that it is not the intent of either party that such minimum requirements be utilized to demote or displace individuals incumbent in such positions as of the date of this agreement.
34.08 The parties acknowledge that during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement, each had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or matter not removed by law from the area of collective bargaining, and that the understanding and agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement. Therefore, the parties, for the life of this Agreement, waive the right, and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement,
57
to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter referred to or covered in this Agreement. Furthermore, the parties, for the life of this Agreement, waive the right, and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter not specifically referred to or covered by this Agreement, even though such subject or matter may not have been within the knowledge or contemplation of any of the parties at the time this Agreement was negotiated or signed.
34.0	9 No agreement, waiver or modification of any of the terms, conditions or covenants contained herein shall be made by any employee or group of employees with the Company and in no case shall it be binding upon the parties hereto, unless such agreement is made and executed in writing between the parties hereto.
34.10	The contract shall be printed at the Company’s expense. The Company shall furnish a sufficient number of printed agreements for bargaining unit employees on the payroll as soon as possible after the signing of the Agreement, as well as for all future bargaining unit employees hired. In addition, the Company shall furnish five (5) copies of printed contracts to the Union.
34.11	Where not specified, any reference in this Agreement to “days” shall mean Calendar Days.
58
35.00 DURATION
This Agreement shall be effective May 16, 2019 and shall continue in full force and effect through May 15, 2022 and thereafter from year to year unless at least sixty (60) days prior to the normal expiration date of this Agreement either party gives written notice by certified mail to the other of its’ intent to amend, modify, or terminate the Agreement. In witness whereof the Parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their authorized agents on this 14th day of May 2019.
FOR: JPATS Logistics Services, LLC (JLS)
For: International Association of Machinists & Aerospace Workers
Ulysses E. Shields
Qirector Human Resources
Employee and Labor Relations
Clementine Jenkins
Business Representative, District 75
Tim Whitfield
Site Manager, T-6 A/B COMBS
Donald Daugette_
Site Manager, T-6A COMBS
Tracy Hobbs
Chief Steward, T-6 COMBS
Robert Karcher
Negotiating Committee Member
59
Appendix A
WAGES
Effective the pay period following 06-01-2019, each bargaining unit employee will receive a three percent- (3.00%) general wage increase applied to his/her basic hourly rate.
Effective the pay period following 06-01-2020, each bargaining unit employee will receive a two and a half percent (2.50%) general wage increase applied to his/her basic hourly rate.
Effective the pay period following 06-01-21, each bargaining unit employee will receive a two percent (2.00%) general wage increase applied to his/her basic hourly rate.
Title	Current	Eff 06-01-2019	Eff 06-01-2020	Eff 06-01-2021
QUALITY CONTROL INSPECTOR	$29.15	*$30.15	$30.90	$31.52
SUPPLY TECHNICIAN	$20.74	$21.36	$21.89	$22.33
*$1.00 an hour equity adjustment for Quality Control Inspector. No GWI for 2019				
60
APPENDIX B
GROUP INSURANCE
The Company will sponsor and make available to full-time employees, beginning on the first day of employment, a PPO Bronze plan and a Company Preferred High Deductible Healthcare Plan (HDHP) with a Health Savings Account (HSA) for qualified account holders. There will be no Company contribution. The offered group insurance plans may be modified from year-to-year for cost containment, improve coverage, legally required or carrier imposed changes. Because policies are company wide, all group insurance changes are effective January 1 of the calendar year and do not correspond with the contractual period of performance. The Company agrees that medical health care benefits premiums shall be at a seventy-five percent (75%) (Employer) and twenty-five percent (25%) (Employee) split during the life of this contract (includes dependent coverage).
Employee contributions will be made through payroll deduction and are effective the dates indicated below. In order to continue coverage(s), active employees that are off work are obligated to pay contributions at the same interval and amounts as would have been deducted from their paycheck due each payday.
Open enrollments will be conducted each year and during the hiring process.
SUMMARY OF EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
The Company will offer fulltime employees two medical plans, 1) Company Preferred High Deductible Healthcare Plan (HDHP) with a Health Savings Account (HSA) for qualified account holders or 2) Charter PPO. There will be no Company contribution during the life of this agreement for participants enrolled in the HSA medical plan. The Company and Union agree that employees may opt the Company’s Core Plan (Consumer HSA) or the Charter plan at a 70% I 25% cost share. The Company and Union agree that for 2019 employees would not be assessed the spousal surcharge for medical coverage. Because policies are Company wide, all group insurance changes are effective January 1 of the calendar year and do not correspond with the contractual period of performance. The Company agrees that medical health care benefits premiums shall be at a 75 employer/25 employee split during the life of the contract (include dependent coverage). The Company will provide each covered full-time employee a fringe rate of $4.48 per hour, not to exceed 80 hours or $358.40 per pay period.
a.	Employees who do not have Tricare coverage and elect to opt-out of Company medical coverage will be offered $716.80 per month, however, proof of eligible medical insurance coverage must be provided to receive the Opt-out payment.
b.	Employees who have Tricare coverage and opt-out of medical coverage will be offered $400.00 per month. Effective January 1, 2020 the opt-out of medical coverage for employees who have Tricare shall be $440.00 per month, during the life of this contract. However, proof of eligible medical insurance coverage must be provided to receive the optout payment.
61
c.	The Company will furnish the following group insurances at no cost to the employee. Employees are automatically enrolled.
1.	Life insurance in the amount of one (1) times the employee’s annual salary.
2.	Personal Accident insurance in the amount of one (1) times the employee’s annual salary.
3.	Business Travel Accident insurance.
4.	Short-Term Disability insurance at sixty (60%) percent of base pay.
d.	An employee may purchase and will pay one hundred percent (100%) of the premiums of the following group insurances.
1.	The Company will make available through payroll deduction Long Term Disability (LTD) insurance at either the 40% and 60% level as defined in the current Summary Plan Description for full-time employees. Employees who enroll in the Company’s LTD insurance coverage shall be solely responsible for bi-weekly contributions for level of coverage selected.
2.	Optional Employee Life Insurance.
INSURANCE RATES
	COVERAGE LEVEL	MONTHLY	BI-WEEKLY
Consumer HSA	Employee	$0.00	$0.00
	Employee + Spouse	$696.73	$348.37
	Employee + Children	$497.85	$248.93
	Employee + Family	$1,000.00	$500.00
Charter PPO	Employee	$719.20	$0.00
	Employee + Spouse	$814.84	$407.42
	Employee + Children	$599.08	$299.54
	Employee + Family	$1,605.95	$802.98
Comprehensive Dental	Employee	$16.00	$8.00
	Employee + Spouse	$32.00	$16.00
	Employee + Children	$32.00	$16.00
	Employee + Family	$48.00	$24.00
Preventative Dental	Employee	$8.00	$4.00
	Employee + Spouse	$16.00	$8.00
	Employee + Children	$16.00	$8.00
	Employee + Family	$24.00	$12.00
VSP	Employee	$6.00	$3.00
	Employee + Spouse	$10.00	$5.00
	Employee + Children	$10.00	$5.00
	Employee + Family	$16.00	$8.00
SUMMARY OF JPATS LOGISTICS SERVICES (JLS) HEALTH BENEFITS PLANS
62
HIGH DEDUCTIBLE HEALTHCARE PLAN (HDHP) WITH HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNT (HSA) -NO COMPANY MATCH
	IN NETWORK	OUT OF NETWORK
Deductibles Single/Family	$2,000 person $4,000 Family	$3,000 person $6,000 Family
Coinsurance	80%	
Out-of-Pocket Maximum (OOPM)	$5,000 Person $10,000 Family	$6,500 Person $13,000 Family
Lifetime Maximum	Unlimited	
		
SERVICES	COPAYMENT/COINSURANCE AFTER DEDUCTIBLE	
Primary Care Visit - 1 njury/lllness	Deductible +20%	Deductible +50%
Specialist Visit	Deductible +20%	Deductible +50%
Preventive Care/Screening/lmmunization	No Charge	Deductible +50%
Diagnostic Test (X-ray, Blood Work)	Deductible +20%	Deductible +20%
Imaging (CT/PET Scans, MRIs)	Deductible +20%	Deductible +50%
Generic Drugs (Retail/Mail Order)	Deductible + 30%	Not Covered
Preferred Brand Drugs (Retail/Mail Order)	Deductible + 40%	Not Covered
Non-Preferred Brand Drugs (Retail/Mail Order)	Deductible + 50%	Not Covered
Specialist Drugs (Caremark Speciality Pharmacy)	Deductible + 50%	Not Covered
Outpatient Surgery	Deductible + 20%	Deductible + 20%
Emergency Room Care	Deductible + 20%	Deductible + 20%
Emergency Medical Transportation	Deductible + 20%	Deductible + 20%
Urgent Care	Deductible + 20%	Deductible + 50%
Hospital Stay (Facility Fee)	Deductible + 20%	Deductible + 50%
Physician/Surgeon Fees	Deductible + 20%	Deductible + 50%
Mental/Behavioral Health Outpatient/lnpatient	Deductible + 20%	Deductible + 50%
Substance Use Disorder Outpatient/lnpatient	Deductible + 20%	Deductible + 50%
Rehabilitation Services	Deductible + 20%	Deductible + 50%
Hospice Services	Deductible + 20%	Deductible + 50%
63
CHARTER BRONZE
	IN NETWORK	OUT OF NETWORK
Deductibles Single/Family	$500 Person $1,500 Family	$2,000 Person $5,000 Family
Coinsurance	80%	
Out-of-Pocket Maximum (OOPM)	$2,500 Person $5,000 Family	
Lifetime Maximum	Unlimited	
		
SERVICES	COPAYMENT/COINSURANCE AFTER DEDUCTIBLE	
Primary Care Visit - Injury/lllness	$30.00	50% Coinsurance
Specialist Visit	$50.00	50% Coinsurance
Preventive Care/Screening/lmmunization	No Charge	50% Coinsurance
Diagnostic Test (X-ray, Blood Work)	No Charge	No Charge
Imaging (CT/PET Scans, MRIs)	20% Coinsurance	50% Coinsurance
Generic Drugs (Retail)	$20 Copay	Not Covered
Generic Drugs (Mail Order)	$40 Copay (90 day)	Not Covered
Preferred Brand Drugs (Retail)	$40 Copay (3 Refills)	Not Covered
Preferred Brand Drugs (Mail Order)	$80 Copay (90 day)	Not Covered
Non-Preferred Brand Drugs (Retail)	$60 Copay (3 Refills)	Not Covered
Non-Preferred Brand Drugs (Mail Order)	$120 Copay (90 day)	Not Covered
Specialist Drugs (Caremark Speciality Pharmacy)	$60 Copy (31day supply)	Not Covered
Outpatient Surgery (Facility/Physician Fees)	20% Coinsurance	20% Coinsurance
Emergency Room Care	$200 Copay/20% Coinsurance	$200 Copay/20% Coinsurance
Emergency Medical Transportation	20% Coinsurance	20 % Coinsurance
Urgent Care	$40 Copay	$40 Copay
Hospital Stay (Facility Fee)	20% Coinsurance	50% Coinsurance
Physician/Surgeon Fees	20% Coinsurance	20% Coinsurance
Mental/Behavioral Health Outpatient/lnpatient	20% Coinsurance	50% Coinsurance
Substance Use Disorder Outpatient/lnpatient	20% Coinsurance	50% Coinsurance
Rehabilitation Services	20% Coinsurance	50% Coinsurance
Hospice Services	20% Coinsurance	50% Coinsurance
64
APPENDIX C
Pension Plan
1AM National Pension Fund
The Company (Employer) shall contribute to the I.A.M. National Pension Fund, National Pension Plan for each hour or portion thereof for which employees in job classifications covered by this Agreement are entitled to receive pay under this Agreement as follows:
One dollar and sixty cents ($1.60) per hour effective January 1, 2019.
One dollar and seventy cents ($1.70) per hour effective January 1, 2020.
One dollar and eighty cents ($1.80) per hour effective January 1, 2021.
One dollar and ninety cents ($1.90) per hour effective January 1, 2022.
a.	If the employee is paid only for a portion of an hour, contributions will be made by the Company for the full hour to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week. If an employee’s paid hours for the week are less than forty (40), any fraction of an hour will be rounded up to a full hour.
b.	The Company (Employer) shall continue contributions based on a forty (40) hour workweek while an employee is off work and entitled to receive pay under this Agreement and while employees are off work serving as members of the Union negotiating committee and actively engaged in negotiations with the employer.
c.	Contributions for a new, probationary, part-time and full-time employee are payable upon completion of the seventy-five-day probation period and shall cover all contributions due from the first day of employment.
d.	The I.A.M. Local Lodge No. 2777 and the Company (Employer) adopt and agree to be bound by, and hereby assent to, the Trust Agreement, dated May 1, 1960, as amended, creating the I.A.M. National Pension Fund and the Plan rules adopted by the Trustees of the I.A.M. National Pension Fund in establishing and administering the foregoing Plan pursuant to the said Trust Agreement, as currently in effect and as the Trust and Plan may be amended from time to time.
e.	The parties acknowledge that the Trustees of the I.A.M. National Pension Fund may terminate the participation of the employees and the Employer in the Plan if the successor collective bargaining agreement fails to renew the provisions of this pension Article or reduces the Contribution Rate. The parties may, by mutual agreement, increase the Contribution Rate, and/or add job classifications or categories of hours for which contributions are payable.
f.	This Article contains the entire agreement between the parties regarding pensions and retirement under this Plan and any contrary provisions in this Agreement shall be void. No oral or written modification of this Agreement shall be binding upon the Trustees of the I.A.M. National Pension Fund. No grievance procedure, settlement or arbitration decision with respect to the obligation to contribute shall be binding upon the Trustees of the said Pension Fund.
65
APPENDIX D
JOB DESCRIPTIONS
Job Title:	T-6 COMBS Quality Control Inspector	FLSA Status:	Non-Exempt
Reports To:	T-6 COMBS Manager	Revision Date:	1 1.04.05
SUMMARY
The incumbent is required to monitor, observe and evaluate supply functions in the T-6 COMBS warehouse. The Quality Control Inspector also functions as the training instructor and Safety Monitor for assigned personnel. The incumbent will also be responsible for review of all aircraft documentation as necessary to eliminate possible errors. The Quality Control Inspector will also be responsible for performing PT6A-6A Engine QEC Build-up and Tear-Downs to include documentation and signing engine logbooks. The Quality Control Inspector will be under the direct supervision of the T-6 COMBS Manager.
ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS
THE ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS INCLUDE, BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO, THE FOLLOWING DUTIES. ADDITIONAL ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS MAY BE IDENTIFIED BY THE ORGANIZATION AND LISTED AS SUCH IN THE INCUMBENT’S PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL ELEMENTS. VARIOUS TASKS MAY BE ASSIGNED UNDER EACH ESSENTIAL FUNCTION. THOSE THAT ARE LISTED UNDER THE EXAMPLES OF WORK ARE NOT ALL INCLUSIVE; THEY ARE EXAMPLES ONLY AND MAY BE AMENDED OR ADDED TO AS NEEDED BY THE ORGANIZATION.
E Monitoring, observing and Evaluating Maintenance in the COMBs and Safety Procedures
□	Performing PT6A-68 Engine QEC Build-Up/Tear-Down procedures to include documentation
I Monitor and coordinate Hazmat receiving functions to comply with Base Hazmat requirements
□	Ensuring Compliance with Procedures
□	Dealing with Coworkers/Clients/Public
EXAMPLES OF WORK
EXAMPLES OF WORK PERFORMED IN THIS CLASSIFICATION INCLUDE, BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO, THE FOLLOWING TASKS. THESE TASKS MAY BE AMENDED OR OTHER TASKS MAY BE ASSIGNED AS NECESSARY.
□	Monitoring and reporting on COMBS warehouse supply procedures.
□	Assisting warehouse-receiving clerks in performance of receiving inspections during peak loads.
□	Inspect Hazmat deliveries for compliance and coordinate to meet base requirements.
E Investigate and submits items for warranty claims when required.
E Accomplishing forms and documentation reviews as required.
Advises management on revising inspection/receiving regulations, as required, to meet contractual requirements. Preparing discrepancy reports and recommending actions in regards to vendor material found to be damaged w hen received.
□	Accomplishing the functions of the Site Safety and HAZMAT Program Monitor.
D Reviewing aircraft documentation to screen for possible errors.
□	Accomplishing site training for new personnel and assisting with training recordsmaintenance.
□	Setting up and maintaining the Technical Library.
I Performing QEC installation inspections.
□	Cleaning of warehouse, shops, offices and restroom as required.
66
Clerical and other assigned duties as required.
INCUMBENT PERFORMS OTHER JOB-RELATED TASKS AS ASSIGNED AND REQUIRED; ANY DUTIES/TASKS INCLUDED IN THE EMPLOYEE'S PERFORMANCE EVALUATION ELEMENTS ARE ESSENTIAL TO THAT EMPLOYEE'S POSITION WITHIN THE JOB CLASSIFICATION.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS
The following minimum qualifications have been identified by subject matter expert's (SME'S) who have supervised this position or functioned in the position; they are based on job analysis information supplied by these SME'S. However, if a candidate believes he/she is qualified for the job although he/she does not have the minimum qualifications set forth below, he/she may request special consideration through substitution of related education and experience, demonstrating the ability to perform the essential functions of the position. Any request to substitute related education or experience for minimum qualifications must be addressed to the Director of Human Resources in writing, identifying the related education and experience which demonstrates the candidate's ability to perform all essential functions of the position. If a candidate believes he/she needs a reasonable accommodation to meet these minimum qualifications or, if called for an interview, to attend such an interview, the candidate must notify the Director of Human Resources in writing of the need for the accommodation and identify the specific accommodation requested.
EDUCATION AND/OR EXPERIENCE:
E Graduation from a standard four (4) year high school or equivalent (GED) and a Minimum of five (5) years recent experience in aircraft maintenance.
I DOCUMENTED PROOF OF AIRCRAFT MECHANIC EXPERIENCE.
□	Valid FAA Airframe and Power plant Certificate
KNOWLEDGES, SKILLS, ABILITIES AND OTHER CHARACTERISTICS:
The following skills and abilities are required:
•	Familiarity with FAR’s relating to aircraft components, parts, hardware and equipment (FAR Part21 and FAR Part 43).
□	Thorough knowledge of warehouse shipping and receiving procedures.
I Ability to communicate effectively, both orally and in writing.
□	Ability to deal courteously with the customer
Knowledge of the following is required:
[ Military or Commercial aviation maintenance
□	U.S. Government regulations for federal contractors and FAA Maintenance programs; and aircraft maintenance terminology.
□	Extensive working knowledge in logistics and data information systems.
PHYSICAL DEMANDS: The physical demands described here are representative of those that must be met by an employee to successfully perform the essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.
While performing the duties of this job, the employee is regularly required to stand, walk, use hands and fingers, handle, or feel; reach with hands and arms; talk and hear. The employee is frequently required to sit, stoop, kneel, crouch, or crawl. The employee is occasionally required to climb, balance or smell. The employee is occasionally required to lift and/or move up to 50 pounds. Specific vision abilities required by this job include close vision, distance vision, color vision, peripheral vision, depth perception, and ability to adjust focus.
67
WORK ENVIRONMENT: The work environment characteristics described here are representative of those an employee encounters while performing the essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.
The diversity of working conditions may range from a standard office type environment where there is no physical discomfort to an environment where inclement weather may subject individuals to severe changes of temperature, less than adequate lighting, dust wind and rain. On occasion, individuals may also be required to work in areas where high noise hazards prevail, thus requiring the use of adequate ear protection.
EXAMPLES OF TITLES IN CAREER PROGRESSION
COMBS Foreman COMBS Manager * Assistant Program Manager
68
Supply Technician
Job Summary7
Operates COMBS Tool room, maintaining inventory' accuracy while coordinating and expediting flow of material, parts, and assemblies supporting Site maintenance requirements in accordance with established policies and procedures. Pick up and deliver materials from out lying sites. Makes stops at various vendors to obtain or deliver materials as needed. Delivers oil analysis samples as required.
Principle Accountabilities
-	Operates the Site COMBS/Support Section/Tool room.
-	Manages all assigned inventory and equipment.
-	Coordinates and expedites flow of material, parts, and assemblies supporting Site COMBS maintenance requirements in accordance with established policies and procedures.
-	Reviews production schedules and confers with Program Resource Manager, Site Supervisor, and Lead Mechanics to determine parts required or overdue and to locate parts.
-	Requisitions parts and materialsand establishes delivery priorities.
-	Is responsible for ordering, tracking, and insuring timely delivery of parts required.
-	Examines parts delivered to verify correctness and serviceability.
-	Monitors and controls movement of parts in the repair cycle to home office or appropriate repair station.
-	Completes all required hard and computer documentation.
-	Uses Company provided computer systems including automated maintenance management system.
-	Manages material and component inventory at Site, and processes and expedites supply transactions to insure timely repair and receipt of required items.
-	Processes supply requests from maintenance technicians.
-	Assists maintenance technicians in the research of parts requests, and performs research/validationto backorder non-filled issue requests.
-	Coordinates and expedites flow of material, parts, and assemblies between COMBS Program Management Office (PMO) and SiteSupervisor.
-	Reviews maintenance schedules and confers with site supervisor or scheduler to determine time change items and other material required or overdue, and locates and expedites required items for timely delivery.
-	Arranges movement of parts or material between site and other locations as directed by home office or site supervisor.
-	Completes and maintains required paper and automated supply records.
-	Maintains paper and automated inventory records and insures accountability of parts, material, and equipment on site.
69
-	Prepares reports and gathers and submits other data as requested by the site supervisor or PMO.
-	Performs clerical and physical tasks in connection with shipping and receiving parts and equipment.
-	Verifies outbound shipments are accurate by comparing items to be shipped with documents, insures items are properly packaged, identified with shipping information, and loaded into transport, and prepares and keeps records of items shipped.
-	Verifies the correctness of incoming shipments by comparing items received with manifests and other shipping documents, checks for damaged items, insures items are properly identified in inventory' or for distribution to appropriate maintenance activity, and prepares and keeps records of goods received.
-	Manages and maintains Tail Number Bins (TNB) and items removed to facilitate other maintenance (FOM).
-	Manages bench stock.
-	Orders and stores inspection time compliance technical order (TCTO) and time change items (TCI).
-	Manages and tracks cannibalization program.
-	Establishes procedures for controlling cross-cannibalization of reparable assets.
-	Establishes a storage area for reusable containers.
-	Ensures receiving inspections are performed on parts and engines.
-	Maintains an orderly Contractor Operated Managed Base Supply (COMBS)
-	Documents all requisitions, issues and receipts in the automated system and maintains manual records as required.
-	Orders all materials and parts using established supply priorities.
-	Monitors special tool for calibration and processes for repair/calibration.
-	Processes reparable items throughthe program’s repair cycle.
-	Verifies and monitors each back ordered request.
-	Participates in aircraft documentation reviews.
-	Conducts annual inventory as directed.
-	Ensures that items requiring special containers or boxes are properly containerized prior to movement.
-	Obtains, uses, handles, and disposes of hazardous materials in accordance with existing SDS, applicable state and federal guidelines, customer directives and company policies.
-	Operates general and special purpose motor vehicles, including tugs and forklifts.
-	Makes special deliveries and pickups as time permits and with priorapproval.
-	Receives, stores, and issues hand tools, machine tools, replacement parts, and equipment to maintenance personnel.
-	Keeps records of tools and equipment issued to and returned by workers.
-	Searches for lost or misplaced tools and equipment.
-	Keeps tool and equipment inventory and requisitions new tools and equipment as needed.
-	Unpacks and stores new equipment and tools.
-	Visually inspects tools and equipment in his care for wear or defects and reports damage or wear beyond useful life to site supervisor.
70
-	Performs tool and equipment corrosion prevention and control Etches or otherwise marks tools and equipment forcontrol.
-	Supports contingency operations as directed, including command/unit self-directed exercises, general deployment and extended deployments under wartime conditions to include nuclear/biological/chemical (NBC), conventional, and/or terrorist attack.
-	Pick up, and deliver materials to out lying locations.
-	Handle Hazardous materials and chemicals.
-	Picks up and delivers to local vendors.
-	Dealing with Coworkers/customer/Public
-	Undergoes training in use of personal protective equipment (PPE) and uses it on the job as directed.
-	Practices good housekeeping, tool control, FOD awareness/prevention and safety at all times.
-	Travels and works off station in support of deployed operations.
-	- Shall perform other job-related duties as may be assigned.
Experience & Education
-	Must have a minimum of two years’ hands-on material coordinator, material expediter, or supply technician experience.
-	Must have an in depth knowledge of company supply systems operation, terminology, procedures, and typical automated supply systems operation.
-	Completion of a military supply technician technical school is desired.
-	Must be able to read, write, speak and understand English.
-	Must have a working knowledge (aircraft/vehicle movement and safety/hazards) of flight line operations.
-	Must be able to successfully complete job training and demonstrate required job proficiency in all areas of assigned supply responsibilities, as well as all other assigned duties, within 60 days of hire or task/duty assignment.
-	Must have at least a working knowledge (input and extract data) of computers.
-	Must be able to become proficient in use of company’s automated maintenance management system and other supply support software within 60 days of starting on-the-job training.
-	Musthave at least a working knowledge of common aircraft hand and special tools.
-	Must be able to work dayshift, nightshift, overtime, or weekend duty, and overtime, and travel as part of a maintenance recovery team or deployed maintenance team asrequired.
-	Must have a working knowledge of aircraft safety directives.
-	Must be willing and able to deal with the customerand company employees in a courteous, professional and effective manner.
-	Must be willing and able to conduct specialty on the job training
-	Must be willing and able to obtain and maintain a SECRET security clearance.
-	Must have a current civilian driver's license.
-	Must be willing and able to work with job required hazardous materials
71
-	Must have a working knowledge of the methods used to protect delicate material.
-	Must have a working knowledge of base, federal and company procedures for the handling, transportation and disposal of hazardous wastematerials
Physical Requirements/Working Environment
-	This classification activity is usually accomplished in a hanger/flight line-like environment and as such requires the scope of physical movements and postures normally associated with aircraft and equipment maintenance in such an environment.
-	Typical physical activities include climbing, mounting and dismounting vehicles and stands, standing, stooping, bending, lifting, pushing, pulling, crouching, kneeling, twisting, stretching, walking, working in tiring, uncomfortable positions, and motor vehicle operation.
-	May require lifting of objects whose weight normally will not exceed 501bs.
-	Special vision abilities required to perform this job are close, distant, and peripheral vision, depth perception and the ability to adjust andfocus.
72
APPENDIX E
ALCOHOL/DRUG FREE POLICY
73
He
JBQJ1PATS Logistics Services
Drug and Alcohol-Free Workplace Policy
POLICY STATEMENT
JPATS Logistics Services, LLC, (JLS), is committed to delivering a drug free work environment, and is compliant with the federal and state or country regulations prohibiting unlawful possession, use, or distribution of illicit drugs or alcohol by employees on its property. Compliance with the conditions of U.S. laws and regulations, including those of the Department of Transportation, as well as the applicable laws and regulations of other countries where we conduct business is a condition of employment. Further, compliance with this Policy and related Business Practices is a condition of employment. Applicable corrective courses of action for employees found to be in violation of this Policy may include mandatory Employee Assistance Program participation or disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment. The circumstances of each violation will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis consistent with intent of this Policy and Counseling and Disciplinary Action Business Practice. An employee shall notify their immediate supervisor and appropriate Human Resources Department representative in writing of their conviction under any criminal drug statute for a violation no later than five (5) days after such conviction. Such a conviction may result in disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment.
JLS conducts drug and alcohol tests in accordance with the law (pre-employment, reasonable suspicion, random, follow-up, routine fitness-for- duty, post incident, and other testing as determined required), and may test for a wide range of drugs including, but not limited to, alcohol, amphetamines, cannabinoids, opiates, or narcotics. Without limitation, these substances are further identified and listed in the Drug & Alcohol-Free Workplace Business Process. Employees, as well as potential hires, are subject to this Policy. Offers of employment are made contingent upon the successful completion of a drug test.
Employees taking over-the-counter medications or prescription drugs that might impair safety, performance, or motor functions must advise their supervisor of the possible impairment before reporting to work under the influence of the aforementioned substance. Due to the proliferation of abuse of prescription drug use, sale, distribution, or manufacture, employees who test positive for controlled medications without prescription by an authorized physician are subject to the provisions of the Drug Free Workplace Policy.
To report violations of this Policy, employees should call the Ethics Hotline at 877-296-8010 or at www.iapws.ethicspoints.com.
7315 N. ATLANTIC AVENUE • CAPE CANAVERAL, FL 32920-1631 • 321.784.7100
74
APPENDIX F
Discipline Guide
Hs
JUU/PATS logistics Services
Guidelines for Employee Relations Counseling & Security Disciplinary Actions
Approved By:	Shaun Boyd Program Manager	Effective Date:	August 1,2018
Number:	06-10	Revision:	New
This material contains proprietary information of JLS Worldwide Services, Inc. (JLS). Disclosure to others, use, or copying without the express written authorization of JLS is strictly prohibited. Any authorized copying of this material, in whole or in part, must include this legend.
75
76
KKC	Guidelines for Employee Relations Counseling & Security
JgK V IP ATS Logistics Services	DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Table of Contents
Summary of Changes....................................................................................3
Purpose...............................................................................................3
Associated Documents..................................................................................3
Employee Relations Guideline Information..............................................................3
Security Violations Guideline Information.............................................................6
Export / Import Violations Information................................................................7
This material contains proprietary information of JLS Worldwide Services, Inc. (JLS). Disclosure to others, use, or copying without the express Page 2 of 8
written authorization of JLS is strictly prohibited. Any authorized copying of this material, in whole or in part, must include this legend.
77
Guidelines for Employee Relations Counseling & Security
JfKVi^TS logistics Services	DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Summary of Changes
•	Updated guidelines to incorporate security violations measured disciplinary actions.
Purpose
This document is intended to provide supervisors and managers with information to assist in the Counseling and Disciplinary Action process (Business Process 11-08.0) and JLS Employee Security requirements.
Associated Documents
•	11-08.0, Counseling and Disciplinary Action
•	Applicable Security Reporting Form
Guideline Information
The illustrations are not intended to be all inclusive, but rather provide examples of the types of behaviors or infractions which are common and can be used to evaluate the course of action and calibration of a remedy.
Illustrations of MINOR Offenses
•	Initial observation of poor workmanship, quality or productivity, unsatisfactory performance
•	Isolated (first time) incidents involving minor damage to government furnished or company provided tools and equipment
•	Accidental timekeeping omissions
•	Tardiness or absenteeism
•	Dress code violation
•	Frequent personal phone calls or excessive use of the internet for non-work reasons
•	Failure to wear, display or use personal ID badge
•	Demonstrating unprofessional behavior or attitude that violates the JLS Values
Minor Offenses: Remedies and Disciplinary Action
At the first indication of a problem, the immediate supervisor should verbally counsel the employee to correct the behavior and assure that they understand the associated company policies, business practices and processes involved. Minor offenses may not require disclipline, but may require coaching and training. The immediate supervisor should aslo evaluate whether training is necessary. Recurring violations may progress to written disciplinary action, suspension or termination of employment depending on circumstances and the employee’s past history of counseling and disciplinary action.
Illustrations of MAJOR Offenses
•	Repetitive poor workmanship, quality, productivity, or unsatisfactory performance after counseling
•	Incidents involving negligence that results in major damage to government furnished or company provided property, tools and equipment
•	Willful or careless disclosure of proprietary information to unauthorized persons
•	Insubordination and unprofessional conduct
•	Improper internet, computer and e-mail use (offensive jokes, images, chain mail)
•	Inflicting computer viruses on company computers
•	Unauthorized personal use of company or government property, equipment, supplies, vehicles or software
•	Verbal altercations
•	Operating vehicle without valid driver’s license
•	Failing to immediately notify supervisor of a reportable incident
This material contains proprietary information of JLS Worldwide Services, Inc. (JLS). Disclosure to others, use, or copying without the express Page 3 of 8 written authorization of JLS is strictly prohibited. Any authorized copying of this material, in whole or in part, must include this legend
78
KgC	Guidelines for Employee Relations Counseling & Security
gtiWMTS logistics Services	DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
•	Demonstrating carelessness, negligence or inattentiveness that results in injury, illness or property damage
Major Offenses Disciplinary Action
A first time violation may result in a written warning including suspension up to and including termination of employment for willful violations. Recurring violations or incidents that involve erratic or volatile behavior may result in immediate termination of employment depending on circumstances and the employee’s past history of counseling and disciplinary action. Major violations may require training and/or coaching to insure that the employee has the knowledge, skills and ability to successfully perform the job.
Illustrations of SEVERE Offenses
•	Willful violations of applicable statutory regulations
•	Violation of Workplace Threats and Violence business practice (e.g., recurring verbal altercations, physical altercations, threats of violence to commit bodily harm)
•	Violation of the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct Document No 5-1 and related business policies and practices (e.g., theft, fraud, bribery embezzlement, sabotage, conflict of interest, unauthorized disclosure of confidentiality and proprietary information, deliberate timekeeping misrepresentation, failure to cooperate or being untruthful in investigations
•	Violation of Security business practice (e.g., unauthorized access to restricted areas, disclosure of restricted information, unauthorized possession of firearms and weapons on company or customer property or in the workplace)
•	Violation of Diversity and Equal Employment Opportunity business policy (e.g., discrimination, harassment, retaliation)
•	Violation of Information Technology business policy and practices (e.g., improper internet, computer and e-mail use to include pornography, gambling, etc.)
•	Violation of Drug and Alcohol-Free Workplace policy and practice (e.g., unlawful manufacture, possession, use or distribution of illicit drugs or unauthorized use of alcohol on company or customer property, reporting to work under the influence of illicit drugs, alcohol or undisclosed controlled substances which include side effects that may impair cognition and motor skills, failure to comply with drug and alcohol screening requirement for reasonable suspicion, probable cause (post-accident) or adulteration of urine specimen.
•	Violation of ES&H business policy (e.g., willfully and knowingly working unsafe, working without personal protective equipment, failure to stop work for unsafe working conditions, unsafe acts which cause workplace illness or injury to self or another employee, operating equipment or vehicles in an unsafe manner without proper license)
Severe Offenses Disciplinary Action
•	Management should remove potentially dangerous, hostile, disruptive, or volatile employees from the work area immediately. These employees will not be allowed to return to the workplace until an appropriate investigation has been conducted and with the concurrence of HR and/or Employee Relations.
o If suspension is required, it is typically without pay, pending the outcome of the investigation. Situation, circumstances, and personnel involved may dictate the compensation decision; consult with Human Resources prior to any suspension without pay.
o Suspension duration may vary depending on the complexity of the infraction and the duration necessary to complete the investigation.
•	If an infraction is verified to be in the severe category, it may result in immediate termination of employment. Depending on the nature of the violation, the manager may request that an employee be
This material contains proprietary information of JLS Worldwide Services, Inc. (JLS). Disclosure to others, use, or copying without the express Page 4 of 8
written authorization of JLS is strictly prohibited. Any authorized copying of this material, in whole or in part, must include this legend.
79
KgC	Guidelines for Employee Relations Counseling & Security
MTS logistics Services	DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
“ineligible for rehire”. The Vice President (VP) of Human Resources (HR) must approve any request for an employee to be designated as “ineligible for rehire”.
An investigation may be required to determine the facts associated with reported or suspected violations as appropriate. A thorough investigation must be conducted prior to administering disciplinary action and the employees should be given the opportunity to present their statement of associated facts. The nature of the violation will determine the type and level of investigation.
•	All violations of discrimination, harassment, threats and violence in the workplace must be reported to COE Human Resources, and Ethics and Compliance Officer for awareness and collaboration on investigation protocol and action recommendations.
Employees may file their appeal to disciplinary action verbally or in writing through any internal resource; COE Director of Employee Relations, Vice-President Ethics,Compliance & Training, Ethics Hotline, Aviavtion HR Business Partner or VP Human Resources, or their respective General Manager.
•	The employee, supervisor or manager may request removal of form with the approval of COE Human Resources.
However, an employee’s failure to improve performance up to an acceptable level in accordance with the performance improvement plan, demonstrating a negative or disruptive attitude or behavior or failure to sustain acceptable performance may result in action up to and including termination of employment.
•	When an employee has been previously counseled regarding their performance deficiency but has failed to improve as required, and it is perceived that the employee has the ability, skills and motivation to improve performance, a performance improvement plan may be initiated through collaboration with the appropriate HR Representative and should include:
o A description of the actions and recommendations to be taken by the employee and management to achieve performance improvement
o A description of how performance improvement will be assessed
o A description of the consequences of not making substantial performance improvement progress o Identification of a timetable for achieving performance improvement to an acceptable level o Employee’s acknowledgement and commitment to work towards performance improvement
•	Alternatively, employees may be terminated if there are other compelling factors such as lack of skills or an understanding of job requirements to reasonably expect the employee to improve performance over a period, typically 30 to 90 days. Collaboration with the appropriate COE HR Representative is required before initiating a final action to terminate employment.
•
•	Employees are not eligible for the following while on a performance improvement plan:
o Submitting an application for a job posting
o Transfer or promotion
o Receiving a merit or other salary increase if the performance improvement plan is active at time of merit cycle
•	An employee on a performance improvement plan may be selected for lay-off in conjunction with the layoff criteria or a reduction-in-force initiative.
File Retention
Retention of Counseling Documentation (Form 6000-007, Counseling and Disciplinary Action) (this form should be used for any offense/violation.)
This material contains proprietary information of JLS Worldwide Services, Inc. (JLS). Disclosure to others, use, or copying without the express Page 5 of 8
written authorization of JLS is strictly prohibited. Any authorized copying of this material, in whole or in part, must include this legend.
80
ggC	Guidelines for Employee Relations Counseling & Security
gKViPATS logistics Services	DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Violation Type	Retention Period	Retention Location
Counseling only	12 months	Immediate Supervisor
Minor and Major	12 months	Official Personnel File
Severe	Indefinitely	Official Personnel File
•	The employee or manager may request removal of form with the approval of COE Human Resources.
•	Employees may file their appeal to disciplinary action verbally or in writing through any internal resource;
HQ Director of Employee Relations, Vice-President Ethics, Compliance & Training, Ethics Hotline, COE HR Representative, or VP Human Resources, or their respective VP.
Security Violations
Failure to comply with security procedures constitutes a breach of security. Any employee responsible for a security violation is subject to disciplinary action as indicated below. An adverse information report must also be submitted to the government on any employee found responsible for a security violation. Penalties associated with the following four types of violations are cumulative only within a 5-year period, but are not cleared from an employee's record with the passage of time. For example, if an employee has three violations within a 5-year period and does not have another until 8 years later, it will be treated as a first offense. However, JLS reserves the right to evaluate the seriousness of a single offense on a case-by-case basis and take more or less severe disciplinary action that indicated below. Each type of violation carries its own penalties. Penalties are cumulative only within a type. They are independent of any penalty or combination of penalties for the other types of violations:
1.	Violation: Improper transport or shipment of classified material.
Disciplinary Actions:
First offense - Reprimand.
Second offense - suspension without pay.
Third offense - Suspension without pay.
Additional offense(s) within a 5-year period - Suspension without pay, or possible termination.
2.	Violation: Failure to properly store or safeguard classified material; notably, stored in an improper container, open and unattended container, or unsecured and unattended classified document. Failure to properly perform security monitor duties that results in an open and unattended container or unsecured document. Failure to comply with access control procedures.
Any person who opens a classified container or removes a document from a container is directly responsible for securing the container or document, unless he or she transfers responsibility to someone else with the proper level of clearance and "need to know" who verbally accepts that responsibility, or unless another person is assigned the responsibility by the supervisor.
Disciplinary Actions:
First offense - Reprimand.
This material contains proprietary information of JLS Worldwide Services, Inc. (JLS). Disclosure to others, use, or copying without the express Page 6 of 8 written authorization of JLS is strictly prohibited. Any authorized copying of this material, in whole or in part, must include this legend
81
HC	Guidelines for Employee Relations Counseling & Security
JIWlMTSlegistlcsServices	DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Second offense - Suspension without pay.
Additional offense(s) within a 5-year period - Suspension without pay, or possible termination.
3.	Violation: Loss of classified document.
Disciplinary Actions:
First offense - Suspension without pay.
Additional offense within a 5-year period - Suspension without pay, or possible termination.
4.	Violation: Willful violation of security procedures or the unauthorized disclosure of classified information by whatever means.
Disciplinary Action:
First offense - A determined amount of suspension without pay, or possible termination.
Export / Import Violations
Failure to comply with the Department of State and Department of Commerce regulations and JLS Export I Import procedures constitutes a violation of company policy and federal law. Any employee that exports a controlled item without approval from Global Security and Trade Compliance is subject to JLS disciplinary action and subject to monetary fines from the appropriate federal authority. Disclosure will be made to the appropriate government agency for violations of the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) and Export Administration Regulations (EAR). Penalties associated with export violation can include, personal fines, removal of export privileges, administrative penalty and sanction. Each type of violation carries its own penalties based upon the severity of the infraction and item exported improperly.
1.	Violation: Improper transport or shipment of export controlled item.
Disciplinary Actions:
First offense - Reprimand and retraining. Violation reported to appropriate government agency.
Second offense - Suspension without pay. Violation reported to appropriate government agency, export privileges suspended.
Third offense - Suspension without pay. Violation reported to appropriate government agency, export privileges suspended permanently.
2.	Violation: Willfully bypassing GTC and executing a controlled export and or failure to comply with export control procedures.
Any person who willfully exports a controlled item with the intent of bypassing JLS Export Control policies, thus putting the company at risk for export penalties and creating a mandatory disclosure to the appropriate government agency, will be subject to the following potential administrative actions:
Disciplinary Actions:
First offense - Reprimand and retraining. Violation reported to appropriate government agency.
This material contains proprietary information of JLS Worldwide Services, Inc. (JLS). Disclosure to others, use, or copying without the express Page 7 of 8
written authorization of JLS is strictly prohibited. Any authorized copying of this material, in whole or in part, must include this legend
82
HC	Guidelines for Employee Relations Counseling & Security
MTS logistics Services	DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Second offense - Termination or Suspension without pay. Violation reported to the appropriate government agency.
Every Company employee, wherever located, must adhere to this Policy and shall take appropriate action to ensure that no export controlled products, services, or technical data coming into the possession of the Company are exported, re-exported, or imported unless the Company has obtained appropriate U.S Government authorization. All exports, re-exports or imports shall be coordinated through the Sr. Director, Global Security and Export Control.
The aforementioned program is administered by the Security Department in collaboration with Human Resources and in accordance with established policies in the JLS Security Manual.
This material contains proprietary information of JLS Worldwide Services, Inc. (JLS). Disclosure to others, use. or copying without the express Page 8 of 8
written authorization of JLS is strictly prohibited. Any authorized copying of this material, in whole or in part, must include this legend
83