K9967
CONTRACT
Between Event Technologies and The International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees Local #8 for PARX Casino Xcite Center
ARTICLE 1	SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
Section 1.	Coverage. This Agreement Is between Event Technology, (hereinafter, "Employer") and the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees and Motion Picture Operators of the United States and Canada, Phlladelphla Local 8, (hereinafter, "Union")
Section 2.	Coverage. This Agreement shall apply and cover stage employees employed by the Employer in Philadelphia at PARX Casino Xcite Center Such employees shall, unless otherwise speciicaffy specified, be referred to as "employees".
Section 3.	Employer acknowledges and agrees that the Union has demonstrated to Employer's satisfaction that it represents a majority of the Employer's Employees in an appropriate bargaining unit. Employer hereby recognizes IATSE Local 8 as the collective bargaining representative under Section 9(a) of the National Labor Relations Act of Employer's Employees in the bargaining unit listed in coverage of this agreement. "Union Jurisdiction" of this Agreement.
Section 4.	Union Jurisdiction. This Agreement Is intended to cover Local S's jurisdiction in the construction, fabrication, assembling, erecting, application, presentation, dismantling, maintenance repair, handling, placement, loading, unloading, or operation of hydraulic, electronic and sound equipment or devices, lasers, pyrotechnics, computers and all other types of theatrical effects or apparatus and all scenery, drops, travelers, trusses, scaffolding, displays or other staging of theatrical accessories and effects associated ad or substitute materials of every kind in the PARX Xcite Center. All such work shall be done only by employees of the employer under the jurisdiction of the Union and this Agreement.
ARTICLE ll	CONDITIONS
Section 1.	The minimum daily call shall be four (4) hours.
Section 2.	"Base Rate" = straight time rate.
Section 3.	The work week shall consist of Monday through Sunday. Any work performed in excess of 10 hours a day or forty hours a week shall be paid at time and one half the "Base Rate".
Section 4.	No Holiday upcharge if labor call is guaranteed and booked two (2) weeks in advance. All national holiday calls shall be a minimum of six (6) hours. If holiday labor calls are not booked two (2) weeks out, hofiday rates will be paid at time and one half.
Section 5.	Once an employee reaches a higher rate of pay he/she shall remain at that rate until an eight hour break is given.
Section 6.	If Employee work any portion of an hour they shall be paid for the full hour.
Section 7.	The Employer cannot unreasonably replace Employees on the job In order to solely avoid paying the higher rate.
Section 8.	All Employees must be guaranteed a one-hour meal break neither before the first four hours nor after the first five hours of work. A one hour meal break must be given each five hours thereafter. In the event an Employee is not given a meal break as required the Employer agrees to pay in addition to the prevailing rate one additional straight time hour each hour until such break is provided. If necessary employees can be broken for one-half hour with no penalty, however the employees shall be compensated for the entire hour including the one half hour break. The Union Steward will notify the Employer of any pending meal penalty situations so that the Employer has the opportunity to avoid paying a meal penalty. There shall be a minimum two- hour call back after a one hour meal break.
ARTICLE II! MANPOWER MINIMUMS
Section 1.	Local minimum call shall consist of a Steward and additional personal required to set, operate and strike equipment. Local 8 personal shall not be replaced for positions falling under the jurisdiction of this Local as defined in Article 1 Sections.
Section 2.	Local 8 agrees to supply qualified personal for all positions needed by Contractor, in the event the Local can not supply qualified personal to perform task required by the Contractor, the Contractor has the right to supply crew, however Contractor's crew shall work under the Local’s Agreement.
ARTICLE IV	BENEFITS
Section 1.	Health and Welfare Fund. The Employer shall make contributions to the IATSE National Welfare Fund Plan C, at the rate of Fifteen percent (15%) for all Employees for all gross wages. Contributions will be sent, on the 15th day of the month, following the work period. The Employer further agrees to be bound by the all of the terms and conditions of The Agreement and Declaration of Trust for each respective Fund, to wit: (1) the IATSE National Health & Welfare Fund and (2) the IATSE National Pension Fund, each as restated September 22,2005, and as amended, respectively, and each respective Fund’s Statement of Policy and Procedures for Collection of Contributions Payable by Employers, as related to the contributions due as set forth hereinabove.
Section 2.	Pension Fund. The Employer shall make contributions to the IATSE National Pension Fund Plan C, at the rate of two and one half percent (2.5%) fo all Employees for all gross wages. Contributions will be sent, on the 15th day of the month, following the work period. The Employer further agrees to be bound by the all of the terms and conditions of The Agreement and Declaration of Trust for each respective Fund, to wit: (1) the IATSE National Health & Welfare Fund and (2) the IATSE National Pension Fund, each as restated September 22,2005, and as amended, respectively, and each respective Fund’s Statement of Policy and Procedures for Collection of Contributions Payable by Employers, as related to the contributions due as set forth hereinabove.
Section 3.	Annuity Fund. The Employer shall make contributions to the IATSE Local 8 Annuity Fund, a trust fund established under an Agreement and Declaration of Trust for all Employees gross earnings at the rate of Two and One Half percent (2.5%) for gross wages.
Section 4.	The Pension and Health and Welfare contributions should be sent on a monthly remittance for to: IATSE NATIONAL BENEFIT FUND PO BOX 11944, NEWARK. NJ 07101 4944. Remittance form shall include employees name, social security number, gross wages and benefit amounts. The Pension Remittance shall also include the number of days worked in addition to the social security number, gross wages and pension amount.
ARTICLE V	PAYROLL
Section 1.	The Employer agrees to make dues deductions from each employee's gross income from the Employer, at a rate of three and one half (3.5%) of such gross wages. Such deduction shall be forwarded to the Union (2401 S. Swanson St. Philadelphia, PA 19148) on or about the Fifteenth (15) day of each month following the month of the deduction.
Section 2.	Employer shall provide proof of payroll. Employer shall make all deductions and pay all taxes required by law. Employer shall provide workers compensation insurance. If Employer is unable to provide the payroll. Employer agrees to use Payroll Company supplied by the Local.
Section 3.	Employer agrees to make payroll no later than Fifteen (15) days of submitted bill. In such cases that payroll is not received within Fifteen (15) days a Ten (10%) percent charge will be added.
ARTICLE VI	RATES
Section 1. 5/1/18-5/1/19
Rate $40.00 per hour
ARTICLE VII	PAST PRACTICE
Section 1. In the event a question arises as to how a particular condition not specifically covered in this contract shall be treated, It Is understood and agreed that the practice and precedent established with the signing of this contract shall prevail until Union and Management negotiate a resolve of the same.
ARTICLE VIII	JUST CAUSE TERMINATION
Section 1.	The Union agrees that Employer has the right to replace and or dismiss any Employee for just cause shown, including, but not limited to recurrent tardiness, dishonesty, insubordination, theft or other criminal conduct, incompetence, drug or alcohol use as described in subparagraph B.
Section 2.	No Employees shall report to work while intoxicated or under the influence of drugs or alcohol, other than as legitimately prescribed by a physician provided such prescription does not impair the Employee in any manner. Any Employee who reports to work so impaired or who uses or possesses either drugs or alcohol at the work place, will be immediately removed from the call by the Employer, without the right to pay for hours not worked on that call. Any Employee who is so removed by the Employer from a call will be subject to discipline up to and including discharge for just cause.
ARTICLE IX	GRIEVANCES / ARBITRATION
In the event that during the term of this Agreement, any dispute or disagreement involving the interpretation or application of any provision of this Agreement, hereinafter referred to as a “grievance" arises between the Employer and the Union or between the Employer and any employee represented by the Union, said grievance shall be handled in accordance with the following procedure.
Step 1. For employee initiated grievances, the grievance shall submitted orally by the Union or employee to the General Manager (or his designee) within Eve Five (5) calendar days of the date of the event(s) giving rise to the grievance. The General Manager (or his designee) shall respond to the oral
grievance within two (2) working days of its submission. In the event the General Manager (designee) is not able to resolve the grievance, the Union or the employee may submit the grievance in writing as set fourth in Step 2 below. All grievances initiated by the Union or Employer, rather than by an employee or group of employees, shall be submitted in writing as set fourth in Step 2 below.
Step 2. The Grievance shall be reduced to writing and presented by the Union to the General Manager (designee) or by the Employer to President or Business Agent of the Union (or designee) within Ten (10) calendar days after the date of the event(s) giving rise to the grievance. Such a written grievance shall be dated and signed and shall state the provisions of the Agreement involved In the grievance, the date® of the alleged violation(s), the name of the individual or individuals aggrieved, and the remedy sought The designated representative of the Employer or the Union, as the case maybe, shall respond to the written grievance in writing within Ave (5) calendar days of its submission. The designated representatives of the Union and the Employer shall hold a meeting to discuss the matter within Two (2) calendar days of the written response and shall make good faith efforts to settle if at all possible. The decision, is any. of such representatives shall be final and binding upon the parties and any employee® concerned. Failure of the aggrieved party to serve a written grievance within the given time period will constitute a waiver of the grievance.
Step 3. if the designated representatives of the Employer and the Union fail to settle the dispute within Five (5) calendar days of the meeting, either party may request that the matter be submitted for binding arbitration to an arbitrator (who belongs to the National Academy of Arbitrators) who practices in this Region of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. Such action must be initiated with Ave (5) calendar days after Step 2.
Step 4. Since all disputes, controversies or grievances arising out of this Agreement are intended to resolved amicably, neither party shall take any steps or institute any action, whether by way of lockout, concerted refusal to work, work stoppage, strike, or otherwise, to enforce or settle a grievance arising under this Agreement.
Any grievance or dispute between Employer and the Union concerning the interpretation, application or meaning of a provisions in the Agreement that has been processed in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement may be submitted to binding arbitration with an impartial arbitrator to be selected by mutual agreement of the parties, or by alternately striking off of a list of seven(7) arbitrators furnished for that purpose by the FMCS. From such list, the Union and the Employer shall each alternately strike one name until Six(6) names have been eliminated and the person whose name remains on the list shall be selected to act as the impartial arbitrator. The Arbitrator shall have no power or authority to add to, subtract from or in any way alter amend, change or modify the terms of this Agreement. The Arbitrator's award shall be written and It shall be binding upon the Employer, the Union, and the employees involved in the controversy. The parties hereby agree that the decision and award of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon both parties, without further right of recourse or appeal. The compensation and necessary expenses of the Arbitrator shall be home equally by Employer and the Union.
ARTICLE X	SEVERABILITY
In the event that any term, paragraph, or provision of this Agreement is found to be unenforceable or in violation of law, either in whole or in part, then the offending language shall be construed as valid and enforceable to the extent permitted by law, and the invalidity of the offending language shall not effect the validity of the remaining terms, paragraphs, or provisions of this Agreement and each such term, paragraph or provision of this Agreement shall be valid and enforced to the fullest extent by law.
In the event any term, paragraph or provision is held Invalid where the compliance with any such provision is restrained, then the Employer and Union shall enter into immediate negotiations, upon
request of either, for the purpose of arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement for such article or section.
ARTICLEXI	NONDISCRIMINATION
The Employer agrees not to discriminate against any Employee or applicant for employment by reason of membership in the Union, or because of anything said or done in furtherance of the Union. The Parties agree not to discriminate against any Employee or applicant for employment because of race, age, sex, handicap, veteran slams, religion, national origin, creed or sexual preference.
ARTICLE XII	LOCAL’S RELATIONSHIP TO INTERNATIONAL
As the Union is a member of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees and Moving Picture Operators of the United States and Canada, nothing in this contract shall ever be construed to interfere with any obligations the Union owes to the International Alliance by reason of a prior obligation, but this in no event shall be construed so as to conflict with any applicable State or Federal laws or the terms of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XIII	TERM
Section 1. This contract is to be in force and binding May 1,2018 through May 1,2019.
AGREEMENT
This Agreement (’‘Agreement") is made this 18U1 day of May, 2018 ("Effective Date"), by and between Greenwood Gaming & Entertainment, Inc,, d/b/a Pant Casino, 2999 Street Road, Bensalem, PA 19020 ("Purchaser"), and First Philadelphia Labor Services LLC, d/b/a Event Technologies Group, 1201 North 3rd Street, Unit 329, Philadelphia, PA 19122 ("Contractor).
WHEREAS, Purchaser operates a casino known as “Parx Casino", located at 2999 Street Road, Bensalem, Pennsylvania (the “Premises'), which has, among other amenities within the casino, a concert hall known as the "XCite Center":
WHEREAS, Contractor is regulariy engaged in the business of producing, spring, parting, installing and operating show-technology equipment and producing live events ("Production Services"):
WHEREAS, the parties desire to enter into an agreement for the provision of Production Services by Contractor to Purchaser;
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises contained herein, and other good and valuable consideration, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties intend to be legally bound as follows:
1.	Term. This Agreement becomes effective upon the Effective Date through and including May 31,2019 ("Initial Term"). At the end of the Initial Term and each Additional Term thereafter, Purchaser shall have the option to renew the Agreement for an additional year by written notice to Contractor (each, “Additional Term") (collectively, Initial Term and Additional Term, the “Term”).
2.	Production Services. Contractor shall provide in a safe, workmanlike manner, satisfactory to Purchaser and subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the following during the Term:
a.	Services: Contractor shall provide on Premises at the XCIte Center up to 12 qualified professionals at a time, who will provide event design and construction, rigging, audio-visual (including lighting, acoustics, photography and videography) and other production services, as requested verbally or in writing by Purchaser ("Work").
b.	Materials and Equipment To be provided by Purchaser. Any additional materials or equipment provided by Contractor shall be provided if authorized in advance in writing signed by Purchaser in the form of purchase order attached hereto as Exhibit “A". To the extent that the terms and conditions of the purchase order conflict with the terms of
1
this Agreement, the Agreement terms control.
c.	Contractor shall ensure that its professionals (1) follow the direction of Purchaser and any designees of Purchaser in connection with the Work (including any artists and their producers) and (2) comply with all laws, codes, ordinances and professional standards bearing on the performance of the Work. Contractor warrants to Purchaser that all Work, services, materials and equipment furnished under the Agreement will be of good quality and that the Work will be free from all defects and/or deficiencies not inherent in the quality required or permitted, and that the Work will conform to the requirements of the Agreement and comply with all laws, codes, ordinances and professional standards bearing on the performance of the Work. Work not conforming to these requirements, including substitutions not properly approved and authorized, may be considered defective. Contractor’s warranty excludes remedy for damage or defect caused solely and exclusively by Purchaser’s abuse, modifications not executed by Contractor, improper or insufficient maintenance, improper operation, or normal wear and tear and normal usage. If required by Purchaser, Contractor shall furnish satisfactory evidence as to the kind and quality of Work, materials and equipment
d.	Unless otherwise agreed in writing by Purchaser, Contractor shall secure all permits, licenses and approvals required to perform its duties pursuant to this Agreement and will comply with all applicable workers’ compensation, employers' liability, and other federal, state, county, and municipal laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
3.	Payment to Contractor. Purchaser shall pay Contractor pursuant to the rate schedule attached hereto as Exhibit "B" within thirty (30) days after receipt and approval of Contractor’s itemized invoice for services rendered pursuant to this Agreement The rate schedule identifies sums owed by Purchaser to Contractor and does not reflect payment arrangements from Contractor to its individual employees and sub-contractors. Contractor is solely responsible for ensuring that all employees and sub-contractors that It provides to perform work at the Premises on its behalf are paid in accordance with all laws and labor agreements that may apply.
2
4.	Representation? and Warranties. Contractor warrants and
represents that it has the right to enter into this Agreement and to perform as contemplated hereunder, that Contractor and any and all of its sub-vendors has secured and/or will secure all legally required permissions from third parties to provide and use the goods and services contemplated hereunder and that Contractor has not been a party to or subject to any agreement or other instrument or judgment, order or governmental permit or license that imposes restrictions upon Contractor relating to the right to enter this Agreement and to perform as contemplated hereunder.
Contractor hereby warrants and represents to Purchaser that Contractor is in compliance and, throughout the Term, will remain in compliance with all applicable international, federal, state, and local laws, including, without limitation, laws governing the privacy and security of personally identifiable information stored or processed on behalf of Purchaser, copyright and trademark laws, equal employment opportunity, nondiscrimination and workers’ compensation laws, the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act. the National Labor Relations Act, the occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (known as "OSHA"), and the Immigration and Nationality Act, including obtaining all immigration documents, visas, clearances, permits and the like necessary and appropriate for the lawful provision of services contemplated by this Agreement Contractor shall provide documents verifying the same upon request by Purchaser.
Contractor hereby warrants and represents to Purchaser that throughout the Term, Contractor will comply with Purchaser’s policies and procedures, which may be amended by Purchaser in its sole discretion from time to time, Including those relating to workplace safety and the security of Purchaser’s information technology systems, and Contractor will provide reasonable assurances and ensure that its employees and sub-vendors provide reasonable assurances as may be requested by Purchaser from time to time.
Contractor represents and warrants that it is responsible for appropriate wage and other payments to its employees and sub-vendors and all appropriate tax payments in connection with the Agreement, that Purchaser will make no tax payments on behalf of Contractor or its employees and sub-vendors, and that Purchaser has no responsibility for making any payments on behalf of Contractor □r its employees or sub-vendors. To the extent that any taxes or other sums are owed by Contractor or its employees or sub-vendors in connection with the Agreement, pursuant to any federal, state, or local laws, Contractor assumes all responsibility of same and acknowledges that Purchaser has no responsibility for making any such payments.
3
Contractor shall immediately notify Purchaser if it becomes aware of any restrictions or claims by third parties that, if true, would contradict Contractor’s warranties and representations set forth In this Section 4.
5.	Insurance.
A. Prior to Contractor’s entry upon Purchaser's premises and throughout the Term, Contractor shall (a) procure and maintain the insurance described below from reputable insurers that cany a minimum AM Best rating of A-, VII, authorized to do business in Pennsylvania and otherwise acceptable to Purchaser and (b) present a current Certificate of insurance, evidencing the required coverage and identifying Greenwood Racing, Inc. as the Certificate Holder, delivered to Parx Casino, 2999 Street Road, Bensalem, PA 19020, Attn: Lega! Department
B. Except for professional liability coverage, all insurance shall be written on an “occurrence” basis and not on a “claims made” basis. “Greenwood Racing, Inc. and all parents, subsidiaries and affiliates, and their respective agents, officers, members, directors, employees, successors and assigns (“Additional Insureds") shall be named as additional insureds on all policies except Workers Compensation and Professional Liability for ongoing and completed operations. The coverage for an Additional Insured shall apply on a primary and non-contributory basis. Contractor shall provide an endorsement stating that the coverage afforded as Additional Insured will be primary and non-contributory to any other coverage available to Purchaser, shall include a waiver of subrogation in favor of Greenwood Racing, Inc. and Additional Insureds, and that no act or omission of Greenwood Racing, Inc. or Additional Insureds shall invalidate such coverage. Contractor shall also provide endorsements for all policies stating that a Notice of Cancellation will be provided to Purchaser with advanced notice.
i.	Worker? Compensation and Employer's Liability
•	Workers Compensation: Statutory limits
•	Employer's Liability: $1.000,000 each accident - bodily injury by accident; $500,000 each employee - bodily injury by disease; $500,000 policy limits - bodily injury by disease.
ii.	General Liability Insurance
• Limit of Liability: $2,000,000 per occurrence for bodily injury including death and property damage; $2,000,000 personal & advertising injury; $2,000,000 general aggregate and $2,000,000 aggregate for products and completed operations.
4
• Coverage: Premises operations; blanket contractual liability; personal injury liability (employee exclusion deleted); products and completed operations; independent contractors, employees and as additional insureds; cross liability; and broad form property damage (including completed operations).
iii. Commercial Vehicle Liability
•	Limit of Liability: $1,000,000 per occurrence combined single limit for bodily injury including death and property damage
1)
Coverage: Owned, non-owned and hired vehicles. (Symbol
Iv. Umbrella or Excess Insurance
•	In addition to the above-listed insurance, all events and conditions under this Agreement must be insured by means of a comprehensive wrtfjrella or excess insurance policy, that provides no less than $ I# 30,000 in excess coverage/?"/
C.	If any sub-vendors or contractors are engaged on behalf of Contractor to perform any services in connection with this Agreement, Contractor shall notify Purchaser of such event and ensure that such sub-vendors or contractors obtain and maintain, and provide evidence of insurance to Purchaser that complies with the requirements set forth above.
D.	Failure to maintain the insurance required in this section will constitute a material breach and may result in termination of this Agreement, in Purchaser’s sole discretion.
E.	By requiring the insurance as set out in this section, Purchaser does not represent that coverage and limits will necessarily be adequate to protect Contractor, and such coverage and limits shall not be deemed as a limitation on Contractor’s liability under the indemnities provided to Purchaser in this Agreement, or any other provision of the Agreement.
F.	If Contractor has secured any insurance coverage and/or limits (primary or excess basis) that exceed the minimum acceptable coverage specifications and/or limits set forth in Purchaser’s insurance requirements, the specified coverage and limits listed within the insurance requirements shall increase to the full extent of the coverage and limits of liability obtained under the policy, and in no event shall the coverage and/or limits provided be less than the minimum insurance requirements outlined herein.
5
6.	Indemnification of Purchaser.
A.	To the fullest extent permitted by law, Contractor agrees to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless Purchaser, its parent, subsidiary, affiliate, and successor companies, and its and each of their respective officers, directors, members, managers, partners, principals, licensees, employees, agents, Purchasers, and representatives (“Indemnified Parties") from and against any and all liability for loss, damage, and expense (including, without limitation, attorney’s fees and court costs) for which the Indemnified Parties may be held liable or incur by reason of injury or harm (including death) to any person (including without limitation, Contractor’s employees, agents, sub-vendors and contractors, and Purchaser patrons) or damage to the Premises or any property of whatsoever kind or nature arising out of or in any manner connected with (i) the use, misuse, erection, maintenance, operation, or failure of any machinery or equipment, whether or not such machinery or equipment was furnished, rented, or loaned by any of the Indemnified Parties; (ii) the Work, actions or inactions of Contractor, or any sub-vendors, contractors, employees, or agents of Contractor on or around the Premises; (iii) the breach by Contractor of any of the representations, warranties, covenants or conditions contained in this Agreement; (iv) any claim for unpaid fees, costs or wages by any independent contractor or employee retained by Contractor to provide services related to the Agreement; or (v) the use of the Premises or other areas used by Contractor which are otherwise accessible to the public, Purchaser employees, guests, or independent contractors, or Contractor’s employees, guests, or independent contractors fClaims"), even for, and if caused in part by, any act, omission, or negligence of the Indemnified Parties (“Indemnified Acts”). It is expressly understood and agreed that the indemnity and defense contained in this Addendum covers Claims by Contractor’s employees and that Contractor expressly waives any immunity and defense to this indemnification obligation which may arise under the Workers Compensation Act of any state. In addition, Contractor shall defend the indemnified Parties against any claim which may potentially give rise to indemnification of the Indemnified Parties, even if such claim alleges that the Indemnified Parties are wholly or partially at fault or strictly liable for causing the loss.
B.	If indemnification for the Indemnified Parties’ negligence or other level of liability is expressly prohibited by law, such defense shall continue until it is conclusively established by a court of competent jurisdiction that: 1) the Indemnified Parties are solely liable for causing the bodily injury or property damage alleged; and 2) that neither Contractor, nor its employees, nor anyone for whom Contractor may be liable, is liable for causing any part of the bodily injury or property damage for which defense and indemnification is sought.
6
C.	If any provision herein is found by a court to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, such provision shall be construed and/or reduced or reformulated by the court in such a way as to make it valid and enforceable to the maximum extent possible. Any invalidity or unenforceability of any provision shall attach only to such provision and shall not affect or render invalid or unenforceable any other provisions herein, shall not constitute a waiver of any common law indemnification rights, or render invalid or unenforceable any other portion of the Agreement
D.	Purchaser reserves the right to take exclusive control and defense of any claim involving an Indemnified Act and Contractor will cooperate fully with Purchaser in asserting any available defenses. In the event that Purchaser is successful in filing suit against Contractor to enforce this indemnification provision, Contractor shall pay Purchaser’s reasonable attorney’s fees and court costs.
E.	Contractor's indemnification obligations are set forth in this Section 6 shall continue after termination or expiration of this Agreement.
7.	Termination for Default.
A.	Purchaser may terminate this Agreement, without penalty, five (5) days after written notice to Contractor, (i) if Contractor does not obtain and furnish proof of the insurance described in Section 5 or if Purchaser is not provided at the time specified with the requisite insurance certificates, or if the above-described insurance is terminated, altered, or changed in a manner not acceptable to Purchaser, (ii) if Contactor violates any of the terms, conditions, covenants, warranties or representations set forth in Sections 2,4, 6,15 or 16 of this Agreement, or (iii) if Contractor becomes insolvent, files a voluntary bankruptcy petition, has an involuntary bankruptcy petition filed against Contractor, has a receiver or trustee appointed for Contractor, or has an execution of an assignment of the benefit of creditors of Contractor, that is not vacated or nullified within fifteen (15) calendar days of such event
B.	Contractor may terminate this Agreement, without penalty, if Purchaser fails to make payments when due pursuant to Section 3 and Purchaser fails to cure its breach within five (5) days after written notice of breach to Purchaser.
8.	Termination for Convenience. Either party may terminate this Agreement upon thirty (30) days’ prior written notice to the other party.
9.	Non-Excluslvity. Contractor has other clients requiring similar services and will provide its services to them, provided the services provided to
7
Purchaser hereunder are not delayed, Purchaser’s business operation is not impaired and Purchaser's confidential and/or proprietary information is not disclosed in the course of such services. Purchaser may secure services contemplated by this Agreement from any other source during the Term.
10.	Assignment. Contractor shall have no right to assign this Agreement without the prior written approval of Purchaser, and any attempted assignment in violation hereof shall be void and of no force or effect
11	- Inconsistent Terms; Entire Agreement; Modifications. This Agreement expresses and contains the entire agreement and understanding between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes and replaces any and all prior agreements and understandings, either oral or written, with respect to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement may not be modified, altered or amended except by a written instrument signed by all parties. To the extent that the terms set forth in this Agreement conflict with the terms of any prior agreements between the parties or any purchase orders between the parties, the terms in this Agreement control.
12.	Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement Facsimile, electronically scanned, electronic and/or digital signatures shall be deemed original for all purposes.
13.	Governing Law & Forum Selection. This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted under the laws of the State of Pennsylvania, except its choice of law rules. The parties irrevocably submit and consent to the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the state court of Pennsylvania in Bucks County and expressly waive any right they may have to seek any change of jurisdiction or venue.
14.	Independent Contractor. This Agreement is made by and between Purchaser and Contractor for the sole purpose of providing the goods and services described in Section 2. Contractor is not a promoter or co-promoter of any events at the Premises, nor shall its role be presented or described as such. The relationship created by this Agreement is that of independent contractors, and nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed or construed as creating any partnership, joint venture, employment relationship, agency or other relationship between the parties. Neither party shall have the right, power or authority to waive any right, grant any release, make any contract or other agreement, or assume or create any obligation or responsibility, express or implied, on behalf of or in the name of the other party or to bind the other party in any manner for anything whatsoever or otherwise to act in the name of the other party. No officer, employee, agent, or servant of either party shall be deemed at any time to be an employee, servant, or agent of the other party for any purpose
8
whatsoever. Each party shall require all of its personnel to refrain from making any representation by word or conduct whereby any other person might understand or believe that such persons are employees, agents, or servants of the other party.
15.	Gaming Control Board. Contractor acknowledges that Purchaser is a slot machine licensee pursuant to the Pennsylvania Race Horse Development and Gaming Act (the “Gaming Act") and that, pursuant to the Gaming Act, Contractor may be required to file certain applications, registrations or other documentation with the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board (“PGCB") in connection with the provision by Contractor of the goods and services described herein. Contractor agrees that it will promptly file and maintain such documentation and other information if It is required by PGCB. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, Contractor acknowledges and agrees that in the event that (a) Contractor fails to provide such documentation or information on a timely basis to PGCB, or (b) Purchaser identifies a reasonable threat of detriment to its gaming licenses from the continuation of this Agreement, then Purchaser shall be entitled to terminate this Agreement without liability to Contractor, other than for payment for goods and services properly provided by Contractor prior to the date of termination, subject, however, to any restrictions that may be imposed upon Purchaser by PGCB or the Gaming Act or regulations promulgated thereunder.
16.	Confidential Information.
A.	During the Term, Contractor and its officers, directors, shareholders, employees and agents may gain access or be exposed to certain confidential and proprietary information relating to the business of Purchaser, including, without limitation, plans, operations, products, services, policies, business methods, sales information, and such other information, which shall remain confidential and proprietary and will be used solely for the purpose of the services described in this Agreement and for no other purpose; provided, however, that (a) such information may be disclosed by Contractor to such employees and contractors of Contractor who are informed of the confidential nature of such information and provided each such representative keeps this information confidential and shall be deemed bound by the terms hereof to the same extent as if the representative was a party hereto, (b) any disclosure of such information may be made to which Purchaser has consented in writing, and (c) Contractor and its representatives may disclose such information if required by subpoena or court order, provided that Contractor provides Purchaser advance written notice and an opportunity to file an objection to the disclosure. Contractor will be responsible for any breach of this Section 17 by it or its representatives. Upon termination or expiration of the Agreement, Contractor shall return all of Purchaser’s confidential and proprietary information to Purchaser.
9
B.	Contractor shall not publish, distribute, or use any information relating to this Agreement or use Purchaser’s name (or the name of any division, affiliate or subsidiary thereof), logo, trademark, service mark or trade dress for the purpose of advertising, making a news release, creating a business reference, for product or service endorsements without the prior written approval of Purchaser.
C.	The obligations in Section 16 shall survive termination or expiration of the Agreement and may be enforced by injunctive relief or other equitable or legal remedies without the necessity of proving inadequacy of legal remedies and without proving irreparable harm.
17.	Notices. All notices or other communication required under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be delivered either by personal delivery, or by overnight, certified, or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid by United States mail, addressed as follows:
Contractor	Event Technologies Group 1201 North 3"1 Street Unit 329 Philadelphia, PA 19122 Attention: Anthony Tortorice, Jr. Telephone No: 267-246-8002 (direct); 800-918-6540 Fax No: 215-689-4894
Purchaser:	Greenwood Gaming & Entertainment, Inc. 2999 Street Road Bensalem, PA 19020 Attention: Nathan Powell and Tom Bonner, Esq. Telephone No: 267-223-3820; 267-223-3812
18.	Waiver. No course of dealing or delay by either party to this Agreement in exercising any right, power or remedy under this Agreement will operate as a waiver of any right, power or remedy of that party, and no waiver by a party of a breach of any provision of this Agreement will not be considered or constitute a waiver of any succeeding breach of the provision or a waiver of the provision itself.
19.	Severability. If any covenant, term or provision of this Agreement is deemed to be contrary to law, that covenant, term or provision will be deemed separable from the remaining covenants, terms and provisions of this Agreement and will not affect the validity, interpretation or effect of the remainder of this Agreement
10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this agreement on the date first written above.
GREENWOOD GAMING &
FIRST PHILADELPHIA LABOR SERVICES LLC, d/b/a EVENT TECHNOLOGIES GROUP
Name:
Title:

11
EXHIBIT “A" Purchase Order Form
12
PURCHASE ORDER NO.
Date
Vendor ID
STANDARD PURCHASE ORDER TERMS AND CONDITIONS
ff tj pundWt order (“Order j r subRd to If* spxcficationv iwm, fond canrffcr® striated aorttar	hcftte and on me tcu ffrurtif page of ttwi Order .Aratrrtanen rs nmted io M* 1 rm <*nj
mwmns nvifun *te kxfo Gweraood Gaming and EnWrtannwut Inu and «subsidiaries and uffihalirt CRiryM*) hs retry objects to any famn uf cunddite* wy«tg itw tefms	riwtiftm
dcknoAkxn/iwnl or stahjmort at acceptteca: tuch wums sti.il ba of no force or effect. To tne d*tenl that any typewritten or maber-stemctad ptuunon of tins Ortxtr is Inwuxatarit wfli tey ti'intM ixovafon the lyhuwTiUen ruhocr-Knmpcg provision IMl Oavtrti This Oner ennsttute* th* totorx agreem*mi buhvwi Suite ana Buyer ami may tw chtegte or mtxtkuit urt> oy wr-utii tust/umetfl Sntrwl by Buyer s nulhwtmd rrrrmcnintjv*.
T &i¥rneij Loa ted	Thg panfas acMxmtedyu and ug»w ttwt any off*tr Jrq acceptance Dy trw parted shod bo a rntittact mad.' n Ihn ixxomtewnahii ol PufraylYurtoi Lfored Slates Att
Uptons bertiitmng tu ffn wUcWy. runstncteM\ ttwoitai andpiffarnwnci! of fort agreement shal be cnrrteiod and governed m aercrdtece rath Um dnm«U; taws o< me CwnrrorwrtWi at Ptomuytoft* vXhLA« ip wig rffi’d in prraptes of cun&ci # taws. [Sdlvr apnjes rtwt the Pennsylvania suit enurn touted in Doylestown. Bucks Ccnmty P«in*ylvama <or d there * usdu&ve intent iLsirjtficttnri rhe United Sines D st ncl Coin far w tastenn Chsme! oi Piufodefonta^ *Mtt have estfusn^ junsdefeon and venro over arty depute nrsmg out of this purchase and .rgnxmwt
£ Pncu. Thu pnee Jud not be h*qbcr jhjn Inal opooaring on Um face of this Order Unless otherwise slated o«r the leai pi fats Order art prvm, aru m Umtei Sixua OoN.es tUSDt-
1 Phckxig hna Shipment. No charge wril Iwr inaessud raperst Buyer te packaging wi>bng. cartage <x stcrogo unlm otherwise kteugmtiud m U*> Otte. (kinds purctctstffl uncer inn Oriiv file* shall be uriatfy packed by Solar tu pnAud thu axdunh. tu secure Uw buwes: ir.Hiwonbtan costs, nnc to conform »o me tw^uh tenants at commcm ranws and ait afiphcANU> *oenfc<nw<ts Sirffor sruN pfocu Buyer's Order mmbar cn ttw ouUidu of nMi stUpmcnl tw*urforr and on ,iS doaetumfo retadnp to such Vwsniert
4	. Tda Risk nJ Loss and Drfiwry Afl shipment umU he delivered F,U B dcsMaWm rusrtjMfod by Buyer m Hs Order othunwyu m wrueig. Frffo tn and mA N toss nr thinwgu to Iha Qmxii sfuK pw fo Buy** unco dafotey to the d*«ma*on Uocfonated by wj Buw-r in Oftfor or dUteWin m wnbng. Utouthpnjftd ndvattow cfopnwrH nuu shfomorti other *nan for rho quanVtv ordered oitj retotfubfo a! Scler t cxpwitw Utifou ufourfoM ugrued <n wnVng. Sdfor shall not make any mnltfttl romrhrtments wpeodiieton airnnqemcftrt rrt c«teri of tlie amount pr in *K}vancc at ttin (ma rwceisary to meet Buyer's ddwf schydute wasd »it Sefcr t own rirfc
5	WamtfflteL Sriter warrants ths! ail Gcods AHal 'be renumUy ftt for dm purixv# mtefotd by the Buyet
fi fotjMchan and Acrt^nco Buyer reserves thu nghl to tospetl hl Goods pne* to	by Selle* nt Buyur's expense Buyer shall ncvcrthclsss iftcciw M GmJs s jhfotr to rsutf 4i*p«“ion and
WC'fftf’* dfte Mmtry al dttlmuxi. FkwI jntfXKtton and acceothncu bn vwttw 60 days. Dcfectr/tGouth mny be return ad «1 Buyer’s ofWin for refund redd h* hSpfACenisrtf ,nf Seder s expemu
7 -4X&9und Sirttvtfgtd Fxreptas may tM) cj8>-am<*j prmritbtd un ilw Order the pnee mdudet Ji oppheabiv foiteat siata. foc^il. pruwvghjI ur rwicuonai tases irscupt autei laxits. Tax .wd surcbinjn'-ta«> shod app'sn a$ ir»»t an das (Jnte and t>uc»trquvnt <inxu. Hu-A-erwr Buyer shoU uiiimburM Setter only in Ukmu ' *tu»ru n nous not hirvn a v-ihd ortnuption awheare.
9 CcnfirtcrRUlity Sdk.<sh.iH tuM mtoHsn. itoAttXito nr uMJ uny eilomditon icforting to ttto ftortdraw nrher nr usa foe Buyer s rrw ttv nnw cH any drnsKMi dilNotu or iutmdnry ttteC'.J) for;*’ If Alemark servcc m.vk w trade nmv. te ttwj purpose al .idvcdrurHj. nwtiuncj n news rckus* cntJUrxj • tmuMMW rWirtetoe kr’ nrwfcrf 1 Cx si r-Tdr <mXlw«mwit4 without 3»u prw wntum 4ppte*jU ul Ruvr-f
<f iJtfedrtWPtupwtv SMfor wahants ttut tiw sak uw w muxporjrtuto into rniriufotJirfod prpduA; of till matfrm» pant, couponisrJs ser«te» dfteCts. ’filtered and rijjito tenrsltod or hnaisvd fiuttrundur wtvdi are rapt pl Buyer's dffi*fon contponioc <w nwufociura shall be free and dear or rfdongemenl at any vskl swtcril copynghi trotfe marie or tifoer prap«n>tary tights Selca »to>H rdumnity Atto *ow Buyer and nr. cuatoma*ii h.wmteu» bam iHty ♦Uhl nd ^<pmsni. IfotoiMy rand toss ttf .my kmd (wiEfudwu) tn s&vU and expunxes including mtumnya tarM ansnv] out of rLjimt. sma tr AClKrt. aNr.tjmg such mtottftemenL *bch ctam^ sum <w act an* Setter hereby aom«< to defend. Seller m.iy mpUic.; nr nenlily ,wy Whngfoy gotrt,. wtn tnmiwihk* rjrwjth ite-pptaWr to B lyx-r nt suh-.uurtiuPy tfw s.w«v! form, fit ;wxl fonrWi m3 jw to remove tfm semev at infongarnent.
ID Cuinttinncn with LnwiJ
taiSetter shod comply at dr, orm tutpeaso Attn al ppptraUe lews crflaianrarti. regutatan* and codsi. icofiiniwriY 'l4ws"j a* pedunumeu undof tins ante . Svlfoi aQ’eu - to imterndy Buy* * axunM jr« to hafo Buyer iMmdeM ircm any to« nt tHrjiriw arsmu knni Mder's ncattompkancu wrilt any aofUcnWc Lavr..
tn itiditor wsrrams mm the matexdt to Ui funwimd urn! tna so»koi kr ba rorttored undvr tte; Drrtar fotal tx: n».wiutoctuhfo non win in «>mrfujnc, wun al rd^varu torterat. i»wta local for»s ted w|titaro<r» ted oppteabfo otenMiumii pmhforiwm cn dikj Libor.
(ciSalkrt wpirartU mot it hm not offered m qkratn	w4 not offer ex g ve Jo an? mnpCoync. aqeni or trptcscrtteY* V Oliver itny grskXy is any feckbacl or trnnq cl vatau pmluOtod by any applicable
tow. An/ hrflacn ol tha wan-anty shpM tx? n nkrirrai biVHth d <-ncn and uvnty enntma bvtaivtn Huyur imu SuB^t
KJISdta tnstt comply aS ruies .rnd rrtjjatinns Urn Pemsvlrtoa Gaming C««iqI Board vndi rcspeel to rvjninKcm or cartfrcaiion ryguptwonto and .my othw appteade vencat tcgUmKm. (wpJ ptoUacts ftttwwn Buyer snu Sslfer tJwH be vutowd to (Im rufon rmd w^atam. at ttw PemsylMmj Hoae Racmg Ctrtnnij;Mon and ttn Pennkylvaiw Gnming Conuoi Borrm (arm Agte<ias*> tpttw n| the Amwjos snail h*to (hu nghl to appruvu rx ttsj^fruw of any cnfrtruEt m trier drsefebon. pt nny fora Buyer bo pernwted la ttuWtoW Any puymenC r«5*n Rdfor rf dtr cctei to da m> by cltox Agency.
(lilto Vrixte to taurnf to hem irautanui o< toft penwu rr flnjmcwd iritu^4y o€*pptton< nt the Garmnq mjidtennc jdup 43?a»i i (b): tey u^jiwment.* r.cnirjcfoal aHUWwrUHp *rth ji cfot nMcfwte bewtsufa vuto b« temaAtod
11 Farcu Ktojettu. rfoithtr party shatt be bdd resj*xn»tofe te ae.v delay rx L-utee m peifonn<rc& c! any pail bi lEi'rt Ordm ip tot ruteni uch rtefoy or fofjre « caused try JSooe. 4tnnn. cr-ri rinrt’sr, gu.Wffitefl or mftary nufoortty act nt God « awf smbf caiwi Myoid iti enntmi mu wititowi tr» UtSI nr rvwjlipsnee ol Ine d*Lr,r*i c* nn(vp*rt<wn*fiy party or its u4>>.ontrjctes branded ttart (a.i such p*Mtf gives nrompl notwa? And (hl tohtMt rnftwaWc sreps tn mifopfo ihra dut.iwm <V ihc dcLvy or to l.xc ot {Khtomwxe to Ihe mrctS .» ntey ■< dekry rrfmn.pcrtrwmiDce vunhrxxM. for a pffrr.ri el n: tew ftffebn !‘Sj flays, the nfot< p.»nv may tormsmto Wifc Drtter without liuhlitv
U l€*m*nfl1«on te Cuwemtrce, (n *W4>qn u oil uthur rajnts and fumudci. Bu/m stett Mw Vw? injhl to termnato thru tntte to wnrifo ut m pud witonut tans*; wrthoul iiattouy upon Wicx tn wttonu to Ibu Setter Buyqr sfoN havfl no(tpfoi<Y tetenwidton of the Order pravuttud Iho 8 ryar gt**ra w Ben notiut ta Setter pi nt feast fw*» I-!; hussfoniw days prxw tn sfutknom ol SlteaaM Gacdu («,»• BWentary ittetol a* (r| forty fJ{|) buMfists aays prior !□ shipminl ci Costocn Gtwxtx (i o mmmmH or custom onfotel hornsi
13	Rrmrftejuri for Defouit. ta RthHon to thu txjhti tenfened fo paragraph tj. Buyer nuiy temtoaki fots Oder lot delautt. without any Buyer Ihbdity Io Settnr ri irScr tats tn rnofoi «ity rtetewry m «ocuufjrwwr miii II* fcchtjdute wrt forth Mwi. w te feduni to LUtnply with any trf Hie ether requintmento on terms aifo condriinr® u( fora Orrkjr m lot ifoum to rru*n prfl*jr-rtS itoKte w rvdrr -u> mv to entteXhtf pwrtemance of Order In thu went o! tumwraatton far setter ■ dkrfatdL Buyer mey procure :bn Goryta r’tsewheie and pn tuir^ tertn a* Bu *i-r	appmotmU- ted «(•*♦ shi# bv kiU* fa*
excels m-procuanwint tests Fixfow. Sutter shall be fcibte to Buyer for any mhui mmt’Cvfoi nt law or equity
14	AtHupnmrnL Suiter may n« QMXfn any lights f» nUmicira duw ar to tx*ateq dun t*Kte this Drtte wti suU pw p «r wfrik-n ixinsonl nl UuyK Any tNypoited .kMUgiMhum try S**jr wiftvuM rujai enr^nn »(qD be vad ate tX na rttrei Buyer mav «w*bi fort Order io ittty alfifcrtrd company* bb| any waxoohtt m mforcM. «r (c I Buyiw *> artemcr
15	. WawtM Fadurn cf Buytrf to mstsl upte [Mirt* wnumen of any terms o! ttws Ofdct or to u*«Misr any tx/Mi hcretttidex shal net (k ?j*r>tfwt’d ai> a wave* c* dtmiutol rnmtf uf ;lw fullrt^ pifftomanEe tf any H*Ji term or condthyn <x 'mure cihctom- of 5ucn nght
th Payment inveer UwN b* puri only on dekwrvdted occupied Gcotf* m acardanoi with ttw tenns or ims Order Due dales far payment1*. sn-Mi b* cnmfwted (rtxu iha tote of met darr on wluea (t. Buyer r«flww a correct ewwca m {to Buyer ntarves ttw Goods o^stetxid m Aurti mvracn Fpr purposes ni daternwtog daounts in* ttew of wrtron! Vwl b* IN* data the mac* u m»W fo Snttnr
PURCHASE ORDER NO.
Date
Vendor ID
Payncnl of tte uivator ifcal no* eoftswu* acceptance <rf UH* Gouda and tfufl bo subject to an accMCpnate adiusmwt tai Uitofa oi Setter to niuct rfw Mqurfumcria i>f tins Oder Any cash jtqvMt* qf adjnoces art lufty fdwicwble upon Seta * faduru la mW Bia doiwfy wheduto.
17 tXrfway Tenn. Uriasi ouiwwsu ptovrtM nn Ine laa* el 1M CWer tantpcriaSun from dl dwmrtbc (U S ) iftippng pwn.x is f- OH OU^ottcn to fi ts Buyur s bcrfrfv at Bx? exktoAi town on wvt Orito*. Thu term F OK fletUonbcto m u*cd <n tJauMc nwtsn* ktra rf ospensta to hM Buyar on bow dtn earner* cnnveyancn, al	duhrwy ptwl u*muh trw fitayw a tocihy is located.
Udess otafwt&o provided m |tw laca r>l tors nnJvr twrapcrtaitai from uO sbpptfig pnina nutfido Urn Uritod SUflcs * DOU Hrtunteim aiXMlj tn BcycZ* fcwifiiy al ttw ztodre** ximwn wt the Order
ttt. li’SdirtirtcY Ruyur may canrd tfw CkWi totoOrt Mrilrty n tbtf erf (it 'rtprfwncy 0* 3w wta, (ii> MnjJ cd 3 ^uUmtary pdWnn m wnUjptty by Sctttr («} Mr*i V< any rivtAtniary i-etfton m intnkiijpicy Sdter (w) atjprwwtrit ol a fwtrver or Uuidvs fur Sutler c* (vj an entculw of m	fo toe txineii *j< tivcrf.atx by Sota prartoiftJ txit mf h pct ® on. Ofjpo-f^nrwn ck
uuiqnmani is iwi vhcuitd ar naMid wibwi Wtem (t$.i ataKkv days ef sueJi «wttol
19. Orttor ol PnXcicnee* hi Uio ovwl of any tuconwUcncy ar cnnltd between or among toe prcvftm of fl rm Order sucn toC3twui4mcy or comkl shal be rniAlvcrf Uy tou fafowing drset ■ idmg nrctor rtf pmftwcr t) Typed prorii&w id torth -ri the Onto*. 2f Doaxncr.tA henwraxd by reference on too tatto pagciM of this Crdnr 11 Preprinted oi iAuxUrd !m< and cacohfejrw otocr ntl-ranecd herein and.'oi’ scl fcfih on the fwvio*«r ude erf Hxt face uww(*J of ttw aniw. 4) SaJament erf Wade and $; Speafkiakris auachad Web/ ix tneerocrfaindl ay rrJdiftncn Buyers w*a«kattnnj	pr«va*
met muter uf rf»r Setta
2b. hiierruffion^ Trnnsncflans. POFHent wil be in Uni^kJ Stslea unllars unless ot:Wfw.it, sgrvuti ta by Tiwolc njtrfwcr* m ttv- (Jrtfe,
21 kxanrHjr As to Vcwtor-pravxted licrncc*. Vendor sgnws to pratod dnfam ncta lwmtoSflr anrt HXJOfnu/y fiapn tram rod jy.irw* »wd frfnty dwte tor i«Wy mii.ry inrinring dtmth. <r flwwmy oamM}a lo the cxlcm caused by ftw ncgSgwl *idn or ormssenw ct VmmJc.* 3 cmploy<x». agents, or suirttjiifcados in CMiftorrnng seiw«r* bcrcun’ln1 wwl few hi p.'ru^v<K -v hops erpawc Bayvt by a ntgutotwy agwty nua muA of Vnrxtoru laikire to n&seiw fUoHfleVom Ueeunder. Vendor tottanrrtralKto b rondrticMiijd upon njBuyer nfOrstcn cl mr^y ntttibcaap** trf cLi-tflhl and i! rft»Gnabta oturrurnipbon jmd ns^stance imrf {bf Vwxbx i asiurnpSun uJ too claim dnAmsu tu indttde 3n> hjjht to oytxrttt ® "wtnwi at rt» »tMStXk«l4v dtwsehvri
NOTICE TO BIDDERS - PENNSYLVANIA GAMING LAW SECTION 1213
PROHIBITIONS CONCERNING FELONY CONVICTIONS
All Uddan are tartby notifM of the provisions of section 1213 of Uw Poonsytvania guning laws which may prohibit registralion or cehitlcmlon of any bidder who has an owner, dtfsetor, officer or principal "who has been convicted of a Many or gambling offense in any jurisdiction... unless IS years has elapsed from the data of expiration of the sentence for Ihe offense."
H you bdievo that the provisions of this section ol the gaming laws may apply lo you or your company, you are required to bring this matter to the attention of Philadctphia Park Casino ( PPC"| prior to submission of your bid. Submission of a bld wrthout accompanying notica tn PPC that section 1213 may apply to you or your company cnnstilulCT (1) your representation trial section 12t3 does NOT apply and (2) your agreement that PPC shall have no liability or obligation to you or your company in the event that work or payments are disrupted by directive of the pitnnsylvania Gaming Control Board on the basis of matters related to ssetion 1213.
EXHIBIT "B* Rate Schedule
1.	Four (4)-hour minimum calls, per person, per call
2.	$60.00 per hour, per person
3.	Overtime rate: $90.00 per hour, per person after ten (10) hours, per person, per day
4.	Holiday rate: $120, per hour, per person on the following holidays: New Year’s Day, Easter, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas. Holiday overtime rate: $180 per hour, per person, after ten (10) hours, per person, per day. However, holiday rate and holiday overtime rates do not apply if Purchaser books at least two (2) weeks in advance, with a six (6)-hour minimum call on a holiday.
13