K9969
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into this/ll^$‘T day of. W 20 , by and between 3535 LV Corp dba LINQ Hotel (hereinafter referred to as “Employer”), and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local Union No. 357, AFL-CIO, and International Union of Painters and Allied Trades District Council No. 15, Local 16, AFL-CIO (hereinafter referred to jointly as the “Union”).
WITNESSETH
WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to cooperate to stabilize labor relations by establishing general standards of wages, hours, and other conditions of employment for the employees set forth below, and to insure die peaceful, speedy, and orderly adjustment of differences that may arise from time to time between Employer and its employees; without resort to strikes, lockouts, boycotts, slowdowns or other economic interferences with the smooth operation of the business of the Employer.
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and covenants herein contained, the parties hereto agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
Recognition and Definitions
1.1	- Recognition: The Employer recognizes the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining representative for all employees employed by the Employer in the bargaining unit defined in Section 1.03.
1.2	- Definition of Employee: The term “employee” or “employees” as used in this Agreement means all persons directly employed by the Employer at its facility located at 3535 Las Vegas Boulevard South to perform work covered by the classifications set forth in Article 16, but excluding Administrative Employees, Dispatchers, the Buyer, and all other employees, office-clericals, guards and supervisors as defined in the Act.
1.3	- Definition of Bargaining Unit: The term “bargaining unit” means the aggregate of all employees (as such term is above defined) employed by theEmployer.
1.4	- Definition of Gender: Whenever the context so requires, the masculine shall be deemed to be the feminine.
ARTICLE!
Notice to Purchaser, Assignee or Transferee
This agreement shall be binding upon the successors, as assigns and heirs of the parties hereto. If the employer shall, during the term of this Agreement, sell, assign or transfer its business, said Employer shall, upon execution of an agreement of sale, assignment or transfer, notify the prospective purchaser, assignee or transferee, by certified mail of the existence of this Agreement and shall simultaneously send to the Union, by certified mail, a copy of such notice given to the prospective purchaser, assignee or transferee. The Signatory Employer shall be
I
responsible for making adequate provisions to ensure payment for accrued wages, vacations and fringe benefits as of the date of the transfer.
ARTICLE 3
Employment Procedure
3.1	- Employment Procedures: In the employment of workmen on all work covered by this Agreement, the following provisions shall govern:
a)	The Employer shall fax the dispatching office of the Union for such applicants as it may, from time to time, need, and the dispatch office shall immediately furnish to the employer the required number of qualified and competent applicants of the type needed and requested by the Employer, strictly in accordance with the provision of this Article. It shall be the responsibility of the Employer, when ordering men, to give the Union all of the pertinent information regarding the applicant’s employment. At the same time it notifies the Union, the Employer may solicit additional applicants from any other source. The employer agrees that it shall notify the Union that it is soliciting applicants from other sources.
b)	The dispatching office will furnish, in accordance with the request of the Employer, each such qualified and competent applicant from among those entered on said lists to the Employer by the selection of applicants for referral to jobs shall be on a non* discriminatory basis and shall not be based on, or in any way affected by union membership, by-laws, rules, regulations, constitutional provisions, or any other aspect or obligation of union membership, policies or requirements, nor upon the race, color, religion, disability or national origin of the applicant.
c)	All new bargaining unit employees shall be dispatched by the union within one week after starting work. This shall be accomplished in a manner that is consistent with the Union’s regular dispatch procedures.
3.2	- Eligibility Conditions for Registration and Dispatchment: In order to be entitled to registration and dispatchment as a journeyman worker, the applicant must be able to demonstrate that he has worked in the trade for a minimum of four (4) years. In attempting to ascertain whether the applicant complies with this provision, the Union shall consider such evidence as satisfactory completion of a bona fide apprenticeship program in a trade or letters or reference from previous employers.
3.3	- Employer Rights: Subject to the foregoing, the Employer shall be the sole judge as to the competency of all applicants for employment. The Employer may reject any job applicant refereed by the Union. It is understood that should the Employer reject any applicant for any reason, the Employer shall upon written request from the Union received within five business days of the rejection, confirm either verbally or in writing, that the Employer did not use any unlawful criteria in judging applicants for employment. This confirmation shall be made within five business days from receipt of the request made by the Union. The Union may request and the Employer shall provide upon request a list of all criteria utilized in judging applicants for employment in bargaining unit positions. No Employee shall be discriminated against because of activities in behalf of or in representation of the Union which do not interfere with the proper performance of his duties.
2
3.4	- Posting Requirements: The Union shall post in places where notices to applicants for employment with the Employer are customarily posted, all provisions relating to the functioning of these hiring arrangements.
ARTICLE 4
Union Security
4.1	- Union Shop: Subject to the provisions of the Labor Management Relations Act, 1947, as amended, it shall be a condition of employment hereunder that all employees covered by this Agreement who are members of the Union in good standing on the date of execution of the Agreement shall remain members in good standing throughout their employment by the Employer, and those who are not members of the Union on the date of execution of this Agreement, shall, on the 30th day following execution of this Agreement, become and remain members of the Union throughout their employment by the Employer. It shall also be a condition of employment hereunder that all employees covered by this Agreement shall, on or after the 30,fi day following the employee’s first employment by the Employer in the classification covered hereunder, become and remain members of the Union throughout their employment with the Employer.
4.2	- Effect of State Laws: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary therein, Section 4.01 shall not be applicable if all or any part thereof shall be in conflict with applicable law; provided, however, that if all or any part of Section 4.01 becomes permissible by virtue of a change in applicable law, whether by legislative or judicial action, the provisions of Section 4.01 held valid shall immediately apply.
4.3	- Indemnification: The Union will indemnify and save the Employer harmless against any and all claims, demands or other forms of liability which may arise out of or by reason of any action taken or not taken by the Employer at the request of the union in accordance with the provision of this Article.
ARTICLE 5
Union Representatives and Shop Stewards
5.1	- Union Representatives: The Employer agrees that the authorized representatives of the Union shall be granted access at any reasonable time to those areas of the premises where employees represented by the Union are employed, when such visits are necessitated by matters concerning the administration of this Agreement provided that the Union has scheduled a mutually convenient time for such visit with the Employer’s designated representative, upon reasonable advance notice of their desire to be on property, and, upon arrival at the designated time, announce their presence to the Employer before continuing onto the premises. The Union will be required to sign in and be badged. There shall be no more than two (2) representatives of the Union per visit. The Employer may, in its discretion escort the Union Representatives while on the premises. The Union recognizes that the Employer has an obligation to provide a professional, courteous, and safe environment for its employees, patrons and guests. As such, in no case shall such access interfere with work of any employee or with a guest or patron’s activities, or otherwise disrupt the operation of the casino. It is agreed that such representatives of the Union will conduct their business as expeditiously as possible in order to minimize interference with the Employer’s business.
3
5.2	- Shop Stewards: The Union may select from among the bargaining unit employees Shop Stewards whose function in addition to their normal work shall be to report to the Business Representative of the Union grievances or alleged infractions of this Agreement. The Union agrees to notify the Employer in writing of the employees selected to serve as Shop Stewards.
a)	It is understood that there shall be no more than two (2) Stewards and one (1) alternate Steward designated on any given shift. The Union shall designate one Steward on each shift to be the Lead Steward.
b)	Union business shall not be conducted during working time except as set out below. Stewards shall not engage in Union activities during working time, nor leave their assigned work location during working time unless the Employer’s designated representative has agreed the employee should attend a meeting with another employee or management. Except as described in the preceding sentence, any time spent by the Stewards attending to Union matters or acting in a capacity as Steward will not be compensated by the Employer. The Employer shall allow Stewards 10 minutes per shift to conduct regular Stewards duties.
c)	Stewards do not have the authority to call any strike, work stoppage, slowdown or cessation of work or engage in any other activity in violation of the No Strikes or Lockouts article. Any violation of this provision or the No Strikes article will result in immediate discharge.
d)	Stewards do not have the authority to adjust any grievance which may result in a deviation of the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement.
e)	Any Steward having an individual grievance in connection with his or her own work may ask another Steward to represent him or her in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
f)	Stewards who enter the facility outside of their regularly scheduled work hours to conduct Union business shall, prior to entering, notify the Employer’s Director of Labor Relations or their designated representative in advance of doing the same and receive approval for entering the facility. This entry shall only be for the purpose of a prescheduled meeting.
g)	The Union recognizes that the Employer has an obligation to provide a professional, courteous, and safe environment for its employees, patrons and guests. In no case shall such access interfere with work of any employee or with a guest or patron’s activities, or otherwise disrupt the operation of the casino. Stewards will not interrupt or interfere with conversations between a supervisor and an employee unless the employee specifically requests the presence of the Steward for reasons allowed by law. Stewards will not use any type of recording device to record conversations with employees, supervisors, or supervisors and employees, or grievance meetings.
ARTICLE 6
Hours of Work - Overtime - Schedules
6.1	- Work Day and Work Week
a)	A work week shall be a guarantee of forty (40) hours consisting of five (5) consecutive eight (8) hour days or four (4) consecutive ten (10) hour days. If, however, an employee fails to work through no fault of the Employer, then, in that event, the guaranteed work week will be reduced by the amount of time not worked. Days off will be consecutive, except for relief shifts or shift changes.
4
1) Should the employer desire establishing a six day work week, the employer and the union will meet at the request of the employer to set the terms and conditions that would apply.
b)	Further, the weekly guarantee shall not apply to the following situations:
1)	The first week of employment for:
i.	All new hires including all employees temporarily hired to work on special projects.
11.	Employees recalled from layoff.
iii.	Employees providing relief for vacations or leaves ofabsence.
iv.	Employees returning to active employment after any period of absence off work.
2)	The week in which an employee begins his vacation or other absence does not begin at the end of the employee’s scheduled workweek.
3)	The week in which an employee ends his vacation or other absence from the job if the employee does not return to work at the beginning of his scheduled workweek.
4)	For employees hired or recalled for special projects, any week of employment on a special project wherein work is not available due to conditions beyond the control of the Employer, such as shortage of materials, unavailability of equipment, or inaccessibility to the work area due to business activity.
5)	When shifts or days off are changed at the request of the employee or by exercising his seniority rights under Section 11.03.
6)	The first and last week of employment for employees hired to provide relief for vacations or other absences from the job.
c)	Workday: Each work day shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours (for a five-eight shift) or ten (10) consecutive hours (for a four-ten shift), inclusive of an uninterrupted one-half (1/2) hour meal period and two (2) fifteen (15) minute paid breaks, within any twenty-four (24) hours shall constitute a work day. All time worked in excess of eight
(8) straight time hours in any one (1) day for a five day eight hour work week, all time worked in excess of ten straight time hours in any one day for a four day ten hour work week, or hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours in any work week shall be considered overtime and paid for at the rate of one and one half times the straight time rate of pay.
1) No employee shall be required to take time off for the purpose of offsetting overtime pay, however it is understood that if the Employer provides at least forty-eight (48) hours advance notice prior to working a shift that involves working hours in excess of the daily guarantee (overtime), the Employer may shorten an employee’s subsequent shift or a shift later in the work week by the same number of hours that overtime was worked within the same work week. An employee who falls under this provision shall maintain the weekly forty (40) hour guarantee except if said employee fails to work forty (40) hours through no fault of the Employer. If the Employer fails to provide forty-eight (48) hours notice, this provision does not apply and said employee shall not have any subsequent shifts reduced to maintain a forty (40) hour work week.
6.02 - Emergency Call-Out Provision
When an employee is called out in an emergency, they shall be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours work at (2) two times the regular hourly rate for the hours actually worked, whichever is the greater.
No employee shall be required to take time off for the purpose of offsetting overtime pay.
5
6.03
Shift Premiums.
(a)	An employee who is scheduled to work the swing shift, that is, an employee who works part of his/her regular eight (8) or ten (10) hour shift between 7:01 p.m. and midnight, shall be paid the swing shift differential per hour above the regular straight-time rate for the entire shift as defined in Section 6.05 (d).
(b)	An employee scheduled to work the grave shift, that is, an employee who works part of his/her regular eight (8) or ten (10) hour shift between midnight and 4:59 a.m., shall be paid the grave shift differential per hour above the regular straight-time rate for the entire shift as defined in Section 6.05 (d).
(c)	An employee assigned to replace another for a full shift shall receive the differential applicable to that shift.
(d)	Shift Differentials:
Effective	4/1/2019	4/1/2020	4/1/2021	4/1/2022	4/1/2023
Swing Shift	$0.30	$0.30	$0.30	$0.30	$0.30
Grave Shift	$0.35	$0.35	$0.35	$0.35	$0.35
ARTICLE 7 Holidays
7.1 New Year’s Day Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day
January 1
Last Monday in May
July 4
1st Monday in September 4th Thursday in November
December 25
a)	The Employer provides two (2) flexible holidays (16 hours,) per calendar year to each eligible employee. The scheduling of these paid days off must be approved by the employee’s supervisor. The Employer will make every effort to accommodate the scheduling of flexible holidays. Due to the nature of our business, it may be necessary to deny flexible holiday requests on peak business days, (see Harrah’s Las Vegas City-Wide Attendance Policy for the definition of a “peak business day.”)
b)	Employees are eligible for flexible holidays as outlined below.
1)	Two (2) flexible holidays are earned and available for use after the employee has completed their 90 day probation period that calendar year. Then every January 1st thereafter.
2)	Employee must be actively on the payroll and must have received prior management approval in writing. Such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
3)	Must be taken as paid time off.
6
4)	Cannot be canceled within 30 days of approved selection except in emergency.
5)	If the floating holiday has not been used or approved to be used prior to the effective date of an employee’s termination, the floating holiday shall be paid at the time of termination if the employee is eligible as defined above.
Except in cases where circumstances make it impossible to do so, the Employer shall give fortyeight (48) hours advance notice of holiday work schedules.
All such holidays are recognized whether an employee is scheduled to work or not work on such days that the holiday may fall.
7.2 Compensation An employee shall be paid at the rate of two and one-half (2 l/2x) his regular, straight-time rate of pay for work performed on a recognized holiday, with a guarantee of eight hours, as provided in Article 6. An eligible employee shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular, straight-time rate for holidays on which no work is performed.
An employee who performs work on a recognized holiday which coincides with the sixth (6th) or seventh (7th) day worked in his workweek shall be paid for such work at three (3x) times the employee's regular, straight-time rate of pay.
Except in cases of bona fide illness or injury, an employee who is scheduled to work on a recognized holiday and who fails to do so, shall receive no pay for the holiday. Employees may be required to produce satisfactory evidence that their absence was, in fact, due to bona fide illness or injury.
If a recognized holiday falls during an employee's vacation period, the employee shall receive an additional day’s pay computed on the basis of eight hours at his regular, straight-time rate.
ARTICLES
Vacations
8.01a Each regular employee who has one (1) year of continuous service, as defined in Section 8.02, will receive one (1) weeks’ vacation with pay computed on the basis of forty (40) straight-time hours.
8.01b Each regular employee who has two (2) but less than six (6) years of continuous service, as defined in Section 8.02, will receive two (2) weeks of vacation with pay computed on the basis of eighty (80) straight-time hours.
8.01c Each regular employee who has six (6) but less twelve (12) years of continuous service, as defined in Section 8.02, will receive three (3) weeks of vacation with pay computed on the basis of one hundred and twenty (120) straight-timehours.
8.1	d Each regular employee who has twelve (12) or more years of continuous service, as defined in Section 8.02, will receive four (4) weeks’ vacation with pay computed on the basis of one hundred and sixty (160) straight-timehours.
7
8.2	Continuous Service Defined A regular employee will be considered as having a year of continuous service for the purpose of obtaining a year's eligibility for vacation if he remains on the payroll for the full year and has worked at least 1600 hours during the twelve (12) months preceding his anniversary date. If a regular employee completes twelve (12) months in the employment of the Employer and works less than 1600 hours during such twelve (12) month period due to temporary absence, including absence due to illness or injury, he will be entitled to a partial vacation determined by the ratio of hours worked to 1600 hours. Time spent on an earned vacation, holidays not worked and on jury duty, for which an employee is eligible for benefits under Section 10.01, will be counted as time worked for the purpose of computing the 1600 hours required under this Section 8.02.
8.3	Scheduling of Vacations Insofar as possible, vacations will be granted at times most desired by the employee, with the twelve (12) months of the year open for selection, but the final right of allotment of vacation periods is reserved to the Employer in order to insure the orderly operation of the establishment.
Subject to the above understanding, the following procedure shall be adhered to in scheduling vacations for employees covered by this Agreement.
a.	Employees are required to submit requests for vacation time at least thirty (30) days in advance.
b.	Where two (2) or more employees select the same vacation period, the conflict, if any, shall be resolved by the supervisor concerned in favor of the employee with the greatest seniority.
c.	In recognition of the inconvenience caused employees by last minute changes in vacation schedules, it is agreed that except for emergencies of a serious nature, no changes shall be made within thirty (30) days of the date an employee is scheduled to go on vacation.
d.	Vacation periods may be split by mutual agreement in weekly segments, but the choice of deferred dates in such circumstances will be subordinate to the preference of employees taking a full vacation.
e.	Employees may be granted additional vacation time without pay provided that a request for such additional time off is made at the time the vacation period is agreed upon. The additional unpaid vacation time shall not exceed one (l)week.
f.	Vacation carry-over shall not be permitted under the Terms of this article unless under special circumstance and the Department approval. Request for single day vacations must be submitted one (1) week in advance.
8.4	Payment for Vacations When an employee is eligible for a vacation under the provisions of this Article, he may, upon application to his Employer, draw his vacation pay at the time he leaves to go on vacation. Such vacation pay shall be based upon the employee's then current regular, straight-time wage rate.
Except for hardship cases, vacations must be taken as paid time off during the twelve (12) month period following the employee's anniversary date.
8.5	Prorated Vacations If an employee who has completed at least six (6) but less than twelve (12) full months of continuous service is terminated for any reason, vacation pay will be granted in pro rata amount accrued to date of termination in the ratio of hours worked to 1600 hours, but
8
not in excess of one twelfth (1/12) of a full vacation benefit for each full month employed since the employee's anniversary date.
Employees who have completed one or more years of continuous service who are terminated for any reason shall be entitled to receive a prorated vacation computed according to the formula set forth in the paragraph immediately preceding.
8.6	Effect of Change of Ownership A change of ownership without business interruption of at least thirty (30) days shall not operate to break an employee's continuity of service for vacation eligibility. Employees who are transferred from one hotel to another operated by the same corporation, at the request of, or with the approval of the management of both hotels, shall maintain their vacation credits.
ARTICLE 9
Leave of Absence
9.1	- Leave of Absence Request
a)	Subject to the provisions of Article 11 of this Agreement, an unpaid Leave of Absence (LOA) may be granted for periods which require an employee to be absent from work for five (5) consecutive scheduled days or more. Employees, who meet the eligibility requirements, may apply for a particular LOA.
b)	Employees must provide any required supporting documentation and an expected date of return. Leaves will not be granted for an indefinite period. Failure to return to work on or before the date indicated, without proper notification of the Employer, may result in termination of employment based on job abandonment.
c)	The Employer will review and authorize all LOA requests. The Employer shall consider all compelling requests for a LOA, including bereavement. If it is established that an employee on a LOA has accepted gainful employment during such leave, he may be terminated without recourse; the provisions of Article 13 of the Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding. Employees will complete a signed LOA request form and submit it to their supervisor and the required medical documentation detailed in Section 9.02 shall be submitted to Human Resources.
9.2	- Medical Documentation
a)	Employees may be required to provide the Employer with medical documentation regarding their own or an immediate family member’s serious medical condition, in accordance with FMLA provisions and as follows:
1)	Upon extension of a current period of qualifying leave;
2)	Upon request for Intermittent Leave;
3)	Upon exhaustion of FMLA leave and the beginning of other qualified leave;
4)	Annually during a qualifying period of Intermittent Leave.
5)	Or at any other time permitted by the FMLA.
b)	Any employee absent five (5) or more days due to illness or injury, whether or not compensable under the terms of the Nevada Industrial Insurance Act, shall, upon request, present a release from his physician stating that he is physically able to perform the duties of his former position.
9.3	- Types of Leave
a)	Family/Medical Leave Act (FMLA)
Where this Article provides rights greater than those provided for under FMLA, this
9
Article governs. Where FMLA provides rights greater than those provided in this Article, FMLA governs.
The rights provided in the Article shall not be added to those provided by FMLA to produce a greater right than employee would have under either this Article or FMLA standing alone; there shall be no duplication of rights. Where this Article governs, only the requirements set forth in this Article, and not those in FMLA, must be met by the employee.
b)	Workers Compensation Leave
Any work-related injuries must be reported when they occur, and payments, if applicable, will be coordinated through your Risk Manager. Leave for injuries reported as work-related, are not counted against your annual FMLA entitlement.
c)	Harrah’s Medical Leave
Harrah’s Medical Leave is intended for full-time employees who are not eligible for FMLA or have exhausted their FMLA allowance. Employees may be eligible for Harrah’s Medical Leave for their own serious medical condition, as evinced by medical documentation, as follows:
1)	Full-time employees with more than 90 days and up to five (5) years of continuous employment may be eligible for up to six weeks of Harrah’s Medical Leave.
2)	Full-time employees with more than five years of continuous service who have exhausted all available FMLA leave may be eligible for up to an additional 14 weeks of Harrah’s Medical Leave.
		LENG TH OF EMPLOYMENT		
TYPE OF LEAVE	ELIGIBILITY	90 Days to 1 Year	1 - 5 Years	5 + Years
Family/ Medical Leave of Absence (FMLA)	1 year of service and 1,250	Up to 12 weeks hours of work in prior	N/A (in a rolling 12-month rolling 12-month period	period)	
Military Family Leave (FMLA)	1 year of service and 1,250	“p'o26 weeks total hours of work in prior	N/A rolling 12-month period	Mthtaty FMLA (ma roll,ng	
	iz-monm	jenoaj
Harrah’s Medical Leave (HML)	Full-time employees with 90 days of service	Up to 14 weeks
Personal Leave of Absence (PLOA)*	Full or part-time employees with 90 days of service and	TI . ,	, .. r »	»	Up to 6 weeks satisfactory work	r performance	
10
	All employees will be granted time
Military Leave of Absence (MiLOA)	off for Military Leave upon Immediately	submission of written military orders, for up to five (5) years of active duty service.
* Granted by Department Manager upon HR approval and based on business demands/depariment needs. Employees must use flexible holidays/Vacation while on Personal Leave if they have time available. Appropriate medical or legal documentation will be required.
9.4 - Light Duty
a)	During the time that an employee's bona fide illness or injury compensable under the Nevada Industrial Insurance Act precludes him/her from performing the duties of his/her classification, the Employer reserves the right to assign him light duty work which is either covered by or outside the scope of this Agreement. If the bargaining unit employee rejects the assignment to perform light duty work, whether within or outside of the bargaining unit, the employee shall be disqualified for benefits under the Nevada Industrial Insurance Act. However, if the bargaining unit employee rejects the assignment to perform light duty work, the bargaining unit employee shall not otherwise be subject to discipline and shall continue to be entitled to leave for which the employee is eligible under Section 9.01 (a) of this Article.
b)	In the event a bargaining unit employee is assigned and accepts out of bargaining unit light duty work, the Employer shall make contributions on behalf of the employee pursuant to Articles [health and pension benefits] of this Agreement. The Employee working out of the bargaining unit shall be paid the applicable temporary total disability rate mandated by the Nevada workers compensation statute. In the event of a termination, the employee shall be entitled to all rights in accordance with Articles [discipline and discharge] and [grievance and arbitration] of the Agreement except in the event of arbitration, the arbitrator’s power shall be limited to restoring the employee to their pre-injury bargaining unit position. No other provisions of the collective bargaining agreement shall apply to employees working in out-of-unit light duty positions. The employee shall comply with all Company, House and Departmental rules. Employees shall be prohibited from receiving double benefits or recovery, pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and an action or decision by the State Industrial Insurance System, Nevada Department of Administration, or any other local, state or federal department, agency or court.
c)	If the light duty assignment is for work covered by this Agreement, the following shall apply: 1) The employee shall be paid the appropriate hourly rate of the employee’s bargaining unit classification.
2)	The Employer shall assign the employee to work hours consistent with the needs of the business and availability of light duty work, and without regard to any guarantee of hours or days of work in this Agreement.
3)	Time spent working light duty shall not count as shifts worked for completion of the probationary period. However, the employee's shifts worked, before and after assignment to light duty, shall be combined to complete the probationary period. Time spent working light duty shall not be considered a break in service when calculating
11
seniority or vacation entitlement.
4)	All Company, House, and Departmental rules, subject to the modifications and restrictions set forth herein, shall applyto such employee.
5)	Employees shall be prohibited from receiving double benefits or recovery, pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and an action or decision by the State Industrial Insurance System, Nevada Department of Administration, or any other local, state or federal department, agency or court.
ARTICLE 10
Jury Duty
10.1	-Jury Duty
a)	An employee who has completed his probationary period and who is required to serve on a jury and who loses work time because of such service shall be paid the difference between the jury fee received and his regular, straight-time rate of pay. It is understood and agreed that this benefit applies only to an employee’s regularly scheduled days of work and no benefits shall be paid for time spent serving on juries on days on which the employee was not regularly scheduled to work.
b)	Payment for regular jury service, as provided herein, shall be limited to a maximum of thirty (30) days in any twelve (12) moth period.
c)	Payment for grand jury duty service, as provided herein, shall be limited to a maximum of forty-five (45) days in any twelve (12) moth period.
d)	It shall be the responsibility of the employee to secure from the Jury Commissioner’s office or the Clerk of the Federal Court, as the case may be, an affidavit of service. In turn, the Employer shall make such payments as are required under this Article on the next regular payday following the submission of the affidavit of service.
e)	The provisions of this Article shall not apply to any jury summons received by an employee prior to his date of hire. Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, an employee who is required to serve four (4) hours or more on a jury on a regularly scheduled workday shall be excused from work on that day, but shall, nevertheless, be entitled to receive the difference between the jury fee received for that day and his regular, straight-time rate of pay.
10.2	- Administrative and Legal Proceedings: An employee required by the Employer to testify or appear at any administrative hearing or in any court proceeding on behalf of the Employer shall be paid the reasonable and necessary expenses incurred by the employee to attend such hearing, and shall be compensated for any time lost from work less any allowance paid the employee by the agency or court involved.
ARTICLE 11
Seniority
11.1	-Seniority
a) The Employer and the Union recognize the principle of seniority which, for the purpose of this Agreement shall be interpreted to mean that:
1)	An employee having the longest continuous time assigned to his/her classification as defined in Article 16 of this agreement shall have preference for retaining or regaining employment in case of curtailment or expansion of operation; provided such employee has the ability to perform the work
12
involved satisfactorily. For the purpose of the Agreement, Classification Seniority shall be calculated as the date the employee was assigned to the classification, even though the terms and conditions of the Agreement may not have applied during that period of time.
2)	Continuous Service as defined in Article 8.02 is the employee's adjusted date of hire for the calculation of Vacation benefit.
11.2	- Calculation of Continuous Service: For the purpose of this Article, length of continuous Service shall be calculated as follows:
a)	There will be no deduction for any time lost which does not constitute a break in continuous service.
b)	A break in continuous service will occur in the following instances.
1)	Voluntary termination or resignation
2)	Discharge or any other permanent separation
3)	Absence exceeding the period of one year for any reason.
11.3	- Assignment of Shifts and Days Off
a)	The Employer agrees to give senior employees preference when assigning shifts and days off provided the senior employee is qualified to perform the work involved on the shift bid for.
b)	When a shift becomes open, the senior employee qualified to perform the work necessary shall be given preference to working the shift. If no qualified employee bids on the open shift, it shall be assigned to the least senior employee. Where a shift bid results in additional vacancies the Employer is required to conduct only two additional shift bids. After that the Employer may assign the vacant shift(s) to the least senior employee(s).The posting and bidding procedure for open shifts and shift assignments shall continue as heretofore. When shifts or days off are changed as a result of the posting and bidding procedure, overtime, if applicable shall be paid in accordance with Article 6. When probationary employees complete their probationary period or when temporary employees go on regular status, their regular shift shall be determined by the bid system.
c)	If changes in shifts and days off are made for the convenience of management and such change results in overtime, then the overtime shall be paid.
11.4	- Re-Employment after a Break in Service: An employee, who incurs a break in continuous service as defined in Section 11.02, if subsequently re-employed, will assume employment as a new employee, except as provided immediately below.
11.5	-Notification
a)	An employee who is laid off by the Employer through no fault of said employee and who has the greatest length of service and the ability to perform the work involved satisfactorily, shall be recalled by name through the Union’s referral system, advising of the date and time the employee is to report and by confirming such telephone communication in writing. If such employee fails to report to work within five (5) business days excluding Holidays and weekends of the time specified for the employee to report, his seniority shall be terminated and the Employer shall be free to hire a replacement in accordance with Article 3 of this Agreement. The recall provisions of this section shall expire one (1) year from the date of layoff.
b)	The telephone communications referred to above shall occur as simultaneously as practical with the Employer’s direct communication to the employee and the writing confirming the telephone communication shall continue to be the Personnel Action Form
13
(PAF) used in the past. “Simultaneously as practical'’ means that the Employer shall use reasonable efforts to make the calls referred to above as close together in time as practical under the circumstances.
11.6	- Probationary Employees
a)	The probationary period for new employees shall be the first 45 shifts worked. Provided that with consent of the Union the Employer may extend a new employee’s probationary period by an additional 15 shifts. There shall be no seniority among probationary employees. Probationary employees may be laid off, discharged or otherwise terminated at the discretion of the Employer, and such action shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
b)	In case of a reduction in force, probationary employees will be laid off before laying off employees with seniority standing.
c)	After completing his probationary period, the employee will cease to be on probation and will become a regular employee whose seniority shall be computed from his original date of hire.
ARTICLE 12
Management Rights and Responsibilities
12.1	* Rights to Manage: The right to manage the Employer’s business and the direction of its employees, including but not limited to, the following rights, are reserved to the Employer. Such rights include the right to direct, plan and control operations, to determine the number of employees to be employed, and to determine the means, methods and schedules of operations. The Employer reserves the right, which is hereby recognized by the Union, to initiate any action toward any employee, including, but not limited to, reclassification, retention, scheduling, assignment, promotion, transfer, layoff and/or rehire. Seniority, among other factors, will be considered by the Employer when making these decisions. All of the foregoing rights are reserved to the Employer except to the extent they may be contrary to or inconsistent with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
12.2	- Rules and Posting: The Employer may establish and administer reasonable rules, regulations and procedures governing the conduct of employees, provided that such rules, regulations and procedures are not inconsistent with any provisions of this Agreement. The Employer shall post any such rules, and provide written notice to the Unions, so the employees and the Unions may have an opportunity to become familiar with them and discuss the effects of them. The reasonableness of any rules, regulations and procedures provided for herein, are subject to the grievance procedures of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 13
Control and Discharge
Bl No employee, after having completed his probationary period, shall be discharged, suspended without pay or subjected to other disciplinary action without just cause, Prior to discharge for reasons other than dishonesty, drunkenness, drinking on duty, willful misconduct or participation in a proven, deliberate slowdown, work stoppage, strike in violation of this Agreement, using or being under the influence of a controlled substance, except in accordance with a valid prescription, failure to report to work without just cause,
14
leaving the premises without prior permission of supervisor and sleeping on the job, the Employer will first give employee a written warning notice of his unsatisfactory conduct or performance and allow the employee a reasonable opportunity to correct any deficiency. A copy of said warning notice shall be furnished to the Union. Warning notices shall become null-and-void one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of issue.
132	Employees with less than three (3) years’ service may be offered before, after, or at any time during the grievance process, including up until the close of the hearing at any arbitration, three (3) months’ pay in lieu of processing a grievance and arbitrating the discharge
133	Any employee covered by this Agreement who is discharged or laid off by the Employer and disputes that the discharge or layoff was proper through the grievance and arbitration procedure, shall have an affirmative duty to mitigate any potential damages which might result to the employer in the event the discharge proceeds to arbitration and an arbitrator overrules the discharge. In any dispute over back pay due to an employee under an arbitration award, the arbitrator shall have no authority to award any back pay to that employee unless that employee or the Union has affirmatively proven, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the employee has fulfilled his/her duty to mitigate damages at all times since the discharge. The mitigation obligation includes seeking jobs outside the casino industry, and the employee’s prior job.
ARTICLE 14
Grievances and Arbitration
1	4.1 Definition: A grievance shall be defined as a dispute regarding the interpretation or application of the provisions of this Agreement raised by the Union or an employee, alleging a violation of the terms and provisions of this Agreement. However, disputes specifically excluded in other Articles of the Agreement from the grievance and arbitration procedure shall not be construed as falling within this definition.
142	Procedure: All grievances shall be handled exclusively in the following manner:
Step One: If an employee or the Union has a grievance, the matter shall be referred to the designated representative of the Employer in writing. Grievances involving discharge cases must be filed with the Employer within seven (7) days of the date of discharge. Grievances involving other matters must be filed with the Employer within fifteen (15) days after the first occurrence of the event, giving rise to the grievance or within fifteen (15) days of the time the employee or the Union reasonably could have acquired knowledge of the event.
Step Two: If the representative of the Employer and the representative of the Union are unable to resolve the grievance within fifteen (15) days after the Employer receives the written grievance, as provided in Step One, the grievance may be submitted to arbitration by the Union giving the Employer written notice of its intent to do so within an additional fifteen (15) days.
143	Arbitration: If the parties are unable to agree upon a mutually satisfactory impartial arbitrator, they shall jointly petition the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service for a panel of
15
seven (7) arbitrators. Upon receipt of said panel of names, the Union representative and the Employer representative on the arbitration board shall each, alternately, strike the name of an arbitrator until one alone remains. The remaining arbitrator shall then be requested to hear the case. The determination of which party is to first strike a name from the arbitrator's panel shall, be made by lot.
The arbitrator shall have no power to add to, subtract from, amend, change or alter any of the terms of this Agreement.
The fee and expenses of the impartial arbitrator shall be divided equally and paid in equal portions by the Employer and the Union.
It is understood and agreed that the arbitrator's award shall be final and binding upon the employee, the Union and the Employer.
Monetary awards or settlements in favor of an employee shall be complied within (7) days of receipt of proof or verification of interim earnings, if applicable, or in such longer period of time as may mutually be agreed upon.
In computing the time within which acts required by this Article shall be done, Saturdays, Sundays and recognized holidays under this Agreement shall be excluded.
144	Time Limits: It is understood and agreed that if an employee or the Union fails to abide by the time limits specified in this Article 14, the grievance shall be invalid. Likewise, it is agreed if the Employer fails to abide by the time limits imposed upon him, the grievance shall be granted.
ARTICLE 15
NO STRIKES - NO LOCKOUTS
15.1	No Strikes: During the term of this Agreement, neither the Union collectively nor employees individually will engage in any no-work stoppages, picketing, sympathy strikes or any other form of economic action or interference with the Employer’s business except as authorized in Sections 15.3.
15.2	No Lockouts: During the term of this Agreement, the Employer will not lock out any of the employees in the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement, except where the employees have the right to refuse to cross the picket line under Section 15.3
15.3	Picket Lines: Refusal of an employee to cross a bona fide picket line sanctioned and approved by the Union, the Southern Nevada Central Labor Council and/or the Southern Nevada Building and Construction Trades Council shall not be construed to be a breach of this Agreement; provided that the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not be applicable with respect to:
a)	Any picket line established for organizational or recognition purposes or any picket line, economic or otherwise, of any union which as of the effective date of this Agreement does not have in effect a collective bargaining agreement with theEmployer.
b)	Any picket line established as a result of a labor dispute between an employer other than the Employer party hereto and a union other than a Union party hereto.
c)	Any picket line established as a result of a labor dispute between the Employer party
16
hereto and a union which currently has a collective bargaining agreement with the employer unless and until such picketing has been in effect on a continuing basis, twenty-four (24) hours a day, for ninety (90) days.
ARTICLE 16
Classifications and Wage Rates
16.1	Classifications and Wage Rates
a)	Effective upon the Union’s ratification of this Agreement, or upon the Employer’s implementation of this Article, the Employer’s “Pay for Performance Program” shall not apply to employees covered by this Agreement. Additionally, all current employees whose anniversary dates have occurred prior to the date of the Union’s ratification of this Agreement or the Employer’s implementation of this Article, shall receive their annual evaluation and wage increases, (ifapplicable)..
b)	The wage rates shall be as per Appendix A for each group and employee covered by this Agreement. All increases to wages will upon ratification of this agreement shall be retroactive to 04/01/2014.
c)	Provided that new hires may, for the first ninety (90) calendar days of their employment be paid a rate equal to eighty percent (80%) of the full contract rate of pay for the employee’s classification.
d)	Any employee who temporarily works more than one (1) hour in a higher paid classification shall be paid the higher base rate for that classification for all hours worked in said higher classification.
16.2	Adjustments to Base Wage Rate
On the anniversary date of this contract each year the base wage rate for each group will be determined by Appendix A.
163 Pay Rate for Employees New to the Classification: During the term of this Agreement each employee hired into, transferred into or promoted into any of the classifications set out in 16.01 above shall be paid at the base wage rate set out in 16.01 above for that respective classification. The Employer may, in its sole and absolute discretion, pay any newly hired, promoted or transferred employee a starting wage rate above the rate set out in 16.01 above.
16.4	Wage Rates of Current Employees: No employee’s wage rate shall be reduced as a result of ratification of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 17
Meals - Uniforms - Tools
17.1	-Meals
a)	An employee shall receive one (1) hot meal during the course of an eight (8) hour shift, as near to the middle of the shift as possible, or, at the option of the Employer, the employee may be paid five dollars ($5.00) in lieu thereof. If an employee is required to work overtime for two (2) hours or more beyond his regular shift, or is called out in an emergency and works four (4) hours or more, he shall be entitled to a meal. Meals served to employees shall be palatable, wholesome and comparable in quality to those served to the customers. A selection of meal items shall be made available daily (including at least two (2) meat entrees).
b)	Except for grill items, no entree shall be included on the menu more than two (2) times in
17
a calendar week. A fish entree shall be carried at least once in a calendar week.
17.2	-Uniforms
a)	Employees shall be provided (5) shirts and pants to employees required to wear uniforms while on duty. Employees shall be allowed to wear their uniforms to and from work. The employee must provide and wear footwear appropriate to the work being performed on a regular basis (excluding steel-toed shoes). The Employer agrees to keep on hand an adequate supply of proper fitting coveralls for use by employees as needed.
b)	The Employer shall not charge an employee more than the actual replacement cost of uniforms lost by the employee, less a reasonable allowance for normal wear and tear, such allowance shall be computed at twenty-five percent (25%) of the cost to the Employer of a new uniform, if lost within 90 days of being placed in service and fifty percent (50%) thereafter.
17.3	- Tools: The Employer shall provide all necessary tools including power tools, disposable and short use life tools. Employees shall provide all basic hand tools required to perform the applicable craft work. If an employee brings their personal tools to work and they are damaged, stolen or worn out while being used for work, the Employer shall replace them with the same tool(s), If available at no cost to theemployee.
17.4	- Use of Employee’s Automobile: Employees working under this Agreement shall not be permitted nor required, as a condition of employment, to furnish the use of an automobile or other conveyance to transport men, tools equipment or materials.
17.05 Parking.
The employer shall continue their practice of furnishing free parking to its employees.
ARTICLE 18
Bulletin Boards
181	The Employer shall provide one locking bulletin board which shall be placed in a mutually agreeable location for the purpose of posting notices that are approved by the Union and have been approved by the Employer in advance of posting. The Union shall provide notices at least 72 hours prior to them being posted to the Employer’s Director of Human Resources, or their designated representative for review and approval.
182	Notices are restricted to*. Notices of Union recreational and social affairs; notices of Union meetings, nominations and elections; Union newsletters and other Union related information.
183	It is understood that all notices must be factual in basis and shall not contain statements that are disparaging the Employer, its officers, board members, agents and/oremployees.
ARTICLE 19
Individual Agreements
19.01 - Individual Agreements: No employee covered by this Agreement shall be compelled or permitted to enter into any individual contract or agreement with the Employer concerning the conditions of employment set forth herein.
18
ARTICLE 20
Payment of Wages
20.01 - Payment of Wages: Employees who or are discharged shall be paid in full not later than the next business day of the Payroll Office. Employees who resign or quit shall be paid in full no later than the day they would have regularly been paid, or seven (7) days after they resign or quit, whichever is earlier.
ARTICLE 21
Health Insurance and Retirement
21.1	- Group Health Insurance Benefits Plan. The Employer agrees to provide coverage of health benefits to Regular Full Time employees under the Employer’s group health benefits plan in a manner consistent with the provision of benefits to non-unit employees, and according to the terms of the plan as implemented and administered by the Employer in its sole discretion.
a) The Union agrees that the Employer may elect to fully or partially insure or self insure the group health benefits plan or change benefits during the life of this Agreement providing it first notifies the Union and fully advises the Union of any such change. Any changes to the group health benefits plan shall also apply to all managerial, supervisory, clerical and other non-bargaining unit employees covered by theplan.
21.2	Pension Plan. The employer will contribute into Pension Plan B of l.B.E.W, Local Union No. 357 (“Plan B”) the hourly contribution shown in the “total” column of Option A in the chart below. Additionally, the employer shall contribute pre-tax deferrals from an employee’s wages at the designated hourly rate set forth in the “deferral” columns of Options B or C. The employee will be allowed to elect participation in Option A, B or C for the twelve (12)-month period beginning on the contract anniversary date (April 1st) during an open enrollment period that shall occur annually during the month prior to the contract anniversary date (March)
	A Company Deferral Total	B Employee Deferral Total	C Employee Deferral Total
		Add	Add
4/1/2020	$1.00	$1.25	$2.50
4/1/2021	$1.00	$1.25	$2.50
4/1/2022	$1.00	$1.25	$2.50
4/1/2023	$1.00	$1.25	$2.50
All contributions and deferrals shall be made at the time and in the manner determined by the Trustees of Plan B, and shall be made for the duration of this Agreement and any renewals or extensions thereof as to any employee covered by this Agreement
With respect to all contributions and deferrals to Plan B, the employer accepts and agrees to be
19
bound by the Plan B Trust Agreement, Plan Document, Summary Plan Description, and all other rules, policies and procedures adopted by the Plan B Trustees, as exist now and as may be adopted, amended and/or revised from time to time by the Trustees, including audit and collection policies, as well as all applicable requirements of ERISA, the Internal Revenue Code, and applicable regulations and guidance. Further, the employer designates and accepts the Employer Trustees of Plan B, and their successors, as its representatives on the Board of Trustees.
Article 22
Scope of Work
22.1	- The Employer agrees that the scope of work that has historically been performed by bargaining unit employees shall continue to be performed by those employees with the following exceptions:
a)	The Employer has the right to assign bargaining unit work to Engineering/Maintenance Department employees of the Employer who are not part of the bargaining unit, including supervisory employees
b)	The Employer retains the right to sub-contract work that has been historically performed by bargaining unit employees to the extent and on the same basis as such sub-contracting has been done prior to the Union’s petition for representation, provided that it or its general contractor(s) utilize contractors that pay their employees no less than the appropriate area standard for the specific craft work being performed. For the purposes of this Agreement, the area standard shall be defined as the prevailing rate in effect in Clark County Nevada for the Craft work inquestion.
c)	Non-bargaining unit employees of the Employer may perform work that has historically been performed by bargaining unit employees in the event of bona-fide emergency. They shall not perform said work for more than (24) twenty four continuous hours without the approval of the Union.
ARTICLE 23
General
In the event that any provision of this Agreement shall be rendered invalid by applicable legislation or be declared invalid by any court or regulatory agency of competent jurisdiction, such action shall not invalidate the entire Agreement, it being the express intention of the parties hereto that all other provisions not rendered invalid shall remain in full force and effect. The parties agree to attempt to cure such invalidity by negotiations.
ARTICLE 24
Non-Discrimination
There shall be no discrimination against any present or future employee by reason of race, creed, color, age, disability, national origin, sex, union membership, or any characteristic protected by 20
law, including, but not limited to, claims made pursuant to Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Nevada Fair Employer Practices Act, or any other similar laws, rules or regulations. All such claims shall be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure (Article 14 of this Agreement) as the sole and exclusive remedy for violations. Arbitrators shall apply appropriate law in rendering decisions based upon claims of discrimination.
ARTICLE 25 Safety
25.1	- The Union and the Employer agree that it is in the best interests of all parties that the Employer maintains a safe and healthy work place. As such, the Employer agrees to abide with all State and Federal laws that pertain to workplace safety.
25.2	- In the interest of maintaining a safe and healthy work environment, it is understood that all employees shall observe and abide by the Employer’s safety policies and procedures. Failure to abide by the Employer’s safety policies and procedures may result in disciplinary action. It is understood that employees shall not be subject to any disciplinary action relative to violations of safety policies and procedures if the Employer has not provided said employees with adequate training.
ARTICLE 26 Administrative Check-Off
26.1	- Administrative Check-Off: The Employer signatory to this Agreement hereby agrees to check-off from the wages of any employee employed by such Employer during the term of this Agreement, administrative dues in the amount specified in the Union’s bylaws and to remit said amount to the Union in the following manner.
a)	The Union will notify the Employer in writing of the amount of administrative dues specified in the bylaws, and will submit to the Employer a copy of the bylaws or the applicable bylaw provisions.
b)	For each payroll period, the Employer will deduct from the wages of each employee the amount specified in the bylaws based on the number of hours worked during said payroll period, and will accumulate said deductions to the end of the month, provided that the employee has executed and furnished to the Employer a payroll deduction authorization in the form of Exhibit I attached hereto which by this reference is made a part hereof.
c)	On or before the 30th day of each month, the Employer will remit to the Union the entire amount of administrative dues due and owing as to each employee for the month previous, together with a list of employees covered during the applicable period.
d)	On or before the 30,hday of each month, the Employer will remit to the Unions the hours worked for each employee for the month previous.
26.2	Indemnification: The Union shall indemnify and save the Employer harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits and other forms of liability which shall arise out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the employer at the request of the Union under the terms of this Article.
21
ARTICLE 27 Term - Termination - Renewal
27.01 - Term of Agreement: Except as specifically otherwise provided for herein, this Agreement shall become effective upon ratification and shall continue in full force and effect to and including 03/31/2024, and from year to year thereafter unless either party hereto shall notify the other, in writing, by certified mail not less than sixty (60) days and not more than ninety (90) days prior to the Termination Date of any succeeding year of a desire to terminate, modify or amend this Agreement.
ARTICLE 28
Complete Agreement
28.1	- The Employer and the Union acknowledge that during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement, each had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or matter not removed by law from the area of collective bargaining, and that the understandings and agreements arrived at by the Parties after the exercise of that right opportunity are set forth in this Agreement. Therefore, except as set forth in this Agreement, neither Party shall have any further obligation to bargain over any matter to take effect during the term of this Agreement.
28.2	- The Employer shall not be deemed to have agreed to any term or condition of employment not specifically set forth in this Agreement, including, but not limited to any past practices, except as set forth in paragraph 4below.
28.3	- No agreement, alteration, understanding, variation, waiver or modification of any of the terms or conditions or covenants contained herein shall be made by any employee or group of employees with the Employer, and in no case shall it be binding upon the Parties hereto, unless such agreement is made and executed in writing by the Employer and the Union.
28.4	- The following past practices survive the execution of this agreement:
a) Coffee available in the Engineering Department break room.
22
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties h«e duly authorized representatives of this{£,*V For the Unions: INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCAL UNION NO. 357, AFL-CIO By. Al D. Davis, Bus. Managei/Financial Sec. Date: For the Employer: LINQ HOTEL By. ' Name:	Aic^b Title:	/*/'*'/ f Date: blzdll"}	to have caused this Agreement to be executed by their MLdav of A PA /4- . 2019. INTERNATIONAL UNION OF PAINTERS AND ALLIED TRADES DISTRICT COUNCIL 16	Z~\ Jfadn Lamberth, Regiq^X! Director (/ate: ^/lofswr?	
EXHIBIT I
PAYROLL DEDUCTION AUTHORIZATION
Date____________________
I hereby request and voluntarily authorize LINQ Hotel to deduct from any wages or compensation due me, the initiation fees, re-initiation fees and regular monthly union dues uniformly applicable to the members in accordance with the Constitution and By-Laws of the Union.
This authorization shall remain in effect and shall be irrevocable unless I revoke it by sending written notice to both the Employer and Union, by registered mail, during a period of fifteen (15) days immediately succeeding any yearly period subsequent to the date of this authorization or subsequent to the date of termination of the applicable contract between the Employer and Union, whichever occurs sooner, and shall be automatically renewed as an irrevocable check-off from year to year unless revoked a hereinabove provided.
Signed:__________________________________
Social Security No.____________________________
24
EXHIBIT 2
It is hereby mutually agreed by and between 3535 LV Newco, LLC known as the Linq Resort and Casino (formerly known as 3535 LV Corp dba The Quad Resort and casino) and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local Union No. 357, AFL-CIO and International Union of Painters and Allied Trades District Council No. 15, Local 159, AFL-CIO, the Card Check verification conducted by the Parties for the “Engineer Supervisor" and Audio/Visual Technicians shall be covered by the collective bargaining agreement in effect April 1, 2019 through March 31, 2024 except as provided or detailed by this Memorandum of Agreement.
1.	Engineer Supervisor title will be changed to Facility Lead. Facility Lead positions with department lead responsibilities shall be paid at $2.00 per hour over the contractual rate for that department. If a Facility Lead has lead responsibilities for two (2) or more departments, the rate shall be $2.00 over the highest department contract rate. Current Facility Lead Employees shall receive wage increases per the attached document titled “Union Proposal 3 Linq Facilities Leads”.
2.	Audio Visual Technicians. The Employer agreed to recognize this classification to be covered by the current collective bargaining agreement with the following contract rates and rates specific to the two individuals in the Audio visual classification.
	4/1/2019	4/1/2020	4/1/2021	4/1/2022	4/1/2023
AudioVisual Technician	$ 26.20	$27.40	$28.60	$29.80	$31.00
3.	Employees covered by the Memorandum of Agreement shall participate in the IBEW Local Union Pension Plan B as provided in Article 21.02 of the collective bargaining agreement effective January 01, 2016. Effective January 1,2016 Bargaining Unit member shall cease to eligible employees under Caesars Entertainment S&RP. Employer contributions to the Caesars Entertainment 401k shall cease effective December 31, 2015. Any withdrawal of 401k contributions shall be subject the Summary Plan Description for the 401k Plan.
4.	The current Paid Time Off Plan shall be converted to the Article 7 Holidays and Article 8 Vacation in the collective bargaining agreement. Paid Time Off hours shall be adjusted by individual employee to reflect Holidays remaining to the employee anniversary date with the balance of hours converted to vacation. In the event the employee has insufficient hours to offset the Holidays to his/her anniversary date, the Holiday Pay will be in accordance to the Article 7 but the straight time hours will be drawn against the post-anniversary vacation hours.
5.	No employee shall suffer a reduction in wage as a result of this Memorandum of Agreement.
Article 16 - Classifications and Wage Rates Appendix A
Classification	Rate	4/1/2019 $1.20	4/1/2020 $1.20	4/1/2021 $1.20	4/1/2022 $1.20	4/1/2023 $1.20
Laborer	$18.90	$20.10	$21.30	$22.50	$23.70	$24.90
Maintenance Runner	$19.81	$21.01	$22.21	$23.41	$24.61	$25.81
Tool Cage	$20.05	$21.25	$22.45	$23.65	$24.85	$26.05
Room Maintenance	$21.84	$23.04	$24.24	$25.44	$26.64	$27.84
Carpet Layer	$26.26	$27.46	$28.66	$29.86	$31.06	$32.26
Painter/Taper	$26.67	$27.87	$29.07	$30.27	$31.47	$32.67
Upholsterer	$27.47	$28.67	$29.87	$31.07	$32.27	$33.47
Plumber	$24.32	$25.52	$26.72	$27.92	$29.12	$30.32
Shop Technician	$23.81	$25.01	$26.21	$27.41	$28.61	$29.81
Pool Technician	$22.38	$23.58	$24.78	$25.98	$27.18	$28.38
Boiler Maintenance	$27.94	$29.14	$30.34	$31.54	$32.74	$33.94
Carpenter	$30.45	$31.65	$32.85	$34.05	$35.25	$36.45
HVAC Technician	$28.74	$29.94	$31.14	$32.34	$33.54	$34.74
Locksmith	$26.81	$28.01	$29.21	$30.41	$31.61	$32.81
Maintenance Kitchen	$26.81	$28.01	$29.21	$30.41	$31.61	$32.81
Electrician	$30.41	$31.61	$32.81	$34.01	$35.21	$36.41
Audio Visual Technician	$25.00	$26.20	$27.40	$28.60	$29.80	$31.00