K9974
N A L
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE
WEST OHIO COMMUNITY ACTION PARTERNSHIP
AND THE
OHIO ASSOCIATION OF PUBLIC SCHOOL EMPLOYEES/AFSCME, LOCAL 4 AND ITS’ LOCAL #133
OAPSE/AFSCME Local 41AFL-00
March 11,2019 through March 11,2022
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE 1	- PREAMBLE................................................. 1
ARTICLE 2	- DEFINITIONS.............................................. 1
ARTICLE 3	- NON-DISCRIMINATION....................................... 1
ARTICLE 4	- UNION RECOGNITION.........................................1
ARTICLE 5	- UNION REPRESENTATION......................................]
ARTICLE 6	- OAPSE MEETINGS. CONFERENCES. EMPLOYER MEETINGS............2
ARTICLE 7	- DUES DEDUCTION ...........................................3
ARTICLE 8	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS.........................................5
ARTICLE 9	- WORK RULES/POLICIES.......................................7
ARTICLE 10	- EMPLOYMENT INFORMATION...................................7
ARTICLE 11	- PERSONNEL FILES..........................................7
ARTICLE 12	- CORRECTIVE ACTION........................................8
ARTICLE 13	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES.....................................9
ARTICLE 14	- PROBATIONARY PERIOD.................................... 13
ARTICLE 15	- HOURS OF WORK.......................................... 13
ARTICLE 16	- TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT BIDDING.......................15
ARTICLE 17	- TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT ROTATION OF EXTRA TRIPS...... 16
ARTICLE 18	- OVERTIME............................................... 17
ARTICLE 19	- JOB POSTING PROCEDURES..................................18
ARTICLE 20	- JOB CHANGES/TRANSFERS.................................. 18
ARTICLE 21	- GROUP RATIOS/GROUP SIZE................................ 18
ARTICLE 22	- SUPPLY ALLOWANCE .......................................18
ARTICLE 23 - SUBCONTRACTING......................................... 19
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE 24	- PERFORMANCE APPRAISALS...................................19
ARTICLE 25	- LAYOFF AND RECALL........................................19
ARTICLE 26	- SENIORITY................................................21
ARTICLE 27	- EDUCATION AND TRAINING POLICIES AND PROCEDURES...........22
ARTICLE 28	- PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS....................................23
ARTICLE 29	- EMERGENCY CLOSINGS.......................................23
ARTICLE 30	- HOLIDAYS.................................................27
ARTICLE 31	- DRUG TESTING/CRIME CONVICTIONS...........................28
ARTICLE 32	- VACATION LEAVE...........................................36
ARTICLE 33	- SICK LEAVE...............................................38
ARTICLE 34	- FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE.................................40
ARTICLE 35	- BEREAVEMENT LEAVE........................................44
ARTICLE 36	- LEAVE OF ABSENCE.........................................45
ARTICLE 37	- JURY/MILITARY LEAVE......................................46
ARTICLE 38	- PROGRAM CALENDAR.........................................46
ARTICLE 39	- LABOR-MANAGEMENT MEETINGS................................47
ARTICLE 40	- SAFETY COMMITTEE.........................................47
ARTICLE 41	- PROHIBITION AGAINST HIRING AHEAD OF BARGAINING UNIT EMPLOYEES.47
ARTICLE 42	- JOB DESCRIPTION/QUALIFICATION............................48
ARTICLE 43	- OAPSE-PEOPLE PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS..........................48
ARTICLE 44	- USE OF FORMS.............................................48
ARTICLE 45 - 403 (b) PLAN.............................................48
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE 46	- NEGOTIATION PROCEDURES....................................49
ARTICLE 47	- INSURANCE.................................................49
ARTICLE 48-COBRA.......................................................50
ARTICLE 49	- MEDICAL RELATED/PROCEDURES/F1RST AID/ CHANGING FACILITIES.51
ARTICLE 50	- WAGES.....................................................52
ARTICLE 51	- TRAVEL EXPENSES...........................................52
ARTICLE 52	- REIMBURSEMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLE EXPENSE....................52
ARTICLE 53	- FAILURE TO TIMELY PROCESS PAPERWORK.......................52
ARTICLE 54	- FOOD SERVICE POSITIONS....................................53
ARTICLE 55	- SUMMER WORK...............................................53
ARTICLE 56	- CHECKS/DIRECT DEPOSIT.....................................53
ARTICLE 57	- COMMUNICABLE DISEASES.....................................54
ARTICLE 58	- PRIMARY CAREGIVER/ TEACHERS PLANNING DAYS.................54
ARTICLE 59	- RECALL LETTERS FROM LAYOFF................................54
ARTICLE 60	- MULTIPLE WORK SITES.......................................54
ARTICLE 61	- EMERGENCY CALLS...........................................54
ARTICLE 62	- CHANGE OF DOCUMENTS.......................................54
ARTICLE 63	- LIGHT DUTY................................................54
ARTICLE 64	- CELLULAR TELEPHONES.......................................54
ARTICLE 65	- SEVERABILITY..............................................55
ARTICLE 66	- SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS....................................55
ARTICLE 67 - DURATION................................................55
ARTICLE 1
PREAMBLE
Section L This agreement, entered into by the West Ohio Community Action Partnership hereinafter referred to as the "Employer," or "Board" and the Ohio Association of Public School Employees (OAPSE)/AFSCME Local 4. AFL-CIO and its Local 133. hereinafter referred to as the "Union," has as its purpose the mutual satisfactory relationship between the Employer and the Union; the establishment of an equitable and peaceful procedure for the resolution of differences which may arise: and the establishment of wages, hours and other terms and conditions of employment.
ARTICLE 2 DEFINITIONS
Section 1.	The word "day" shall mean calendar day unless otherwise indicated.
Section 2.	All references to employees in this Agreement designate both sexes, and wherever the male gender is used it shall be construed to include male and female employees.
Section 3.	The term "employee" as used in this Agreement shall refer to those persons included in the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 3
NON-DISCRIMINATION
Section 1. There shall be no discrimination or intimidation by the Employer or the Union against any employee on the basis of age, sex, race, color, religion, national origin, marital status, political affiliation, disability, sexual orientation or membership or nonmembership in the Union.
ARTICLE 4
UNION RECOGNITION
Section L The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining representative of the employees included in the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 5
UNION REPRESENTATION
Section 1.	The Employer agrees to permit Union staff representatives who are not employees of the Employer access to the Employer's premises. Such staff representatives shall also be permitted access to the Employer's facilities for any scheduled Union meeting. The Union agrees that such visitations shall not interfere with the work duties of the employees except to the extent otherwise authorized herein. Such visitations shall be for the purpose of conducting Union business, with prior notification to the Chief Operating Officer or Designee.
1
Section 2.	The Employer shall recognize as Union representatives the President of the Local, or in his/her absence, the Vice President, a grievance committee chairperson, and stewards as designated by the Union. The responsibilities of stewards shall not interfere with the work duties of the employees.
Section 3.	The Union shall provide to the Employer an official roster of its Union representatives which is to be kept current at all times and shall include the following:
1.	Name
2.	Department
3.	Union office	held
No employee shall be recognized by the Employer as a Union representative until the Union has presented the Employer with written certification of that person's selection.
Section 4.	The Local President, the Vice President. Secretary, Treasurer, the grievance committee of no more than seven members shall be permitted time off without loss of pay for the purpose of conducting Union business, as defined in section 5 of this article.
Section 5.	Any labor/management meetings, grievance hearings, prc-disciplinary conferences, or meetings with the Employer or its representatives concerning the enforcement of this Agreement scheduled during the normal work hours of affected Union representatives shall not cause them to suffer any loss of pay.
Section 6.	The Employer agrees that the Union and its representatives may use the Employer's inter-agency mail system to distribute mail for Union purposes.
Section 7.	The Employer agrees to provide bulletin boards for use by the Union in each facility/building.
Section 8.	The Union President/Designee shall be allowed to meet with each new employee to orient, educate and update each employee in the units covered by this settlement for thirty (30) minutes within the first fifteen (15) days of employment. Such meetings shall be for the purpose of informing employees of union membership programs and their rights and obligations under the Agreement and shall be conducted during the employee's scheduled work time and at the work location. The Union shall be provided with the names of all new employees and his/her duty location prior to their start date.
ARTICLE 6
OAPSE MEETINGS, CONFERENCES, EMPLOYER MEETINGS
Section 1.	Up to three delegates shall be permitted to attend the annual OAPSE Conference without loss of pay. The President is an automatic delegate to the Annual Conference. The Local
2
will elect one delegate, in addition to the President for each 100 members or fraction thereof. The total number of days allowed for each delegate will be no more than six days total during any calendar year. Notification of delegate status and intent to attend said meeting shall be presented to the Chief Operating Officer at least two (2) weeks prior to the meeting date.
Section 2.	The Union may use the Employer's facilities for Union meetings and other appropriate activities with prior approval from the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Operating Officer
Section 3.	Board meeting agendas shall be sent to the Union Local President at least three workdays prior to any Board meeting. Any addendum to the Board meeting will be available to the Union Local President one hour preceding the opening of the Board meeting. The Union Local President shall be notified of any change in meeting dates or times, as soon as. those changes are known to the Employer.
ARTICLE 7
DUES DEDUCTION
Section 1.	The Employer agrees to deduct from the wages of Union members for the payment of dues to the Union, upon presentation of a written authorization individually executed by any employee. All employees who are members of the Union and all employees who subsequently join the Union shall maintain their membership in good standing during the term of this Agreement.
Section 2.	All dues deductions shall be made twice per month from the employee's wages as follows:
For nine (9) month employees - eighteen (18) deductions; for twelve (12) month employees - twenty-four (24) deductions -for any other employees - the number of deductions shall equal the number of months employed times two.
Within 15 days after the deductions are made, the Employer shall forward all dues to the Union State Treasurer with an alphabetical list of those employees for whom payment is made, amount deducted, and a copy of the list shall be submitted to the Union's Local Treasurer.
Section 3.	The Union shall notify the Employer in writing of the annual dues rate for the employees in the bargaining unit. The Union will also notify the Employer in writing of any change to that annual dues rate. The Employer agrees to implement any change in the annual dues rate within thirty (30) days after receipt of written notice from the Union.
Section 4.	If requested by the Union, the employer will provide to the Union for each employee the amount of the gross annual income as reflected on the employee's W-2 form received from the Employer for the previous year and any deferred or tax-sheltered compensation.
3
Union Security, Dues/Fees Deductions
All employees of the Bargaining Unit shall become either:
1.	A Member of West Ohio Community Action Partnership Local 133 shall execute an authorization for dues deduction on a form provided by OAPSE, or:
2.	In the alternative, the Chief Fiscal Officer shall deduct from the salaries of the employee(s) not applying for Membership, a fair share fee in the amount set forth in written notification by the Local Treasurer, such notice to be provided not later than September 5th of each school year. Such fee shall be required as a condition of employment following a Waiting Period of ninety (90) days following employment.
3.	Any employee of the Bargaining Unit who has been declared exempt for religious convictions by the State Employee Relations Board shall not be required to pay said Fair Share Fee. However, such employee shall pay in lieu of such Fair Share Fee. on the same time schedule as Union dues are payable, an amount of money equal to such Fair Share Fee to a non-religious charitable fund exempt from taxation under Section 501(c) (3) of the Internal Revenue Code, mutually agreed upon by such employee and the OAPSE State Treasurer. Such employee shall furnish to the OAPSE State Treasurer written receipts evidencing payment to such agreed upon non-religious charitable fund. Failure to make such payment or furnish receipts as proof of payment shall subject such employee to the same sanctions, as w?ould nonpayment of Union dues under the Agreement.
4.	In no case shall the monthly fair share fee be in excess of the regular OAPSE Membership dues.
5.	All Bargaining Unit Members shall either authorize payroll deduction for the payment of dues or remit payments, in full, directly to the State Treasurer.
6.	Such deductions shall be made in the same manner as dues. Signed Payroll Deduction Authorizations executed by the members shall be continuous from year-to-year from the duration of the term of recognition of West Ohio Community Action Partnership Local 133 as the Bargaining Representative or until such time as the employee withdraws such authorization in writing. Withdrawal of Membership does not preclude payment of the Fair Share Fee. An employee may withdraw Membership in compliance with the instructions on the original application form signed by the member. Should a Member withdraw during the Withdrawal Period, the Board Treasurer shall then deduct according to Section 7.
4
7.	Payroll deductions shall occur immediately upon request or in the case of new employee(s) following the Waiting Period.
8.	The Chief Fiscal Officer shall notify the OAPSE State Treasurer of the gross salary of the employee based on W-2 information and the amount of dues or fair share fee to be deducted. The Chief Fiscal Officer shall forward to the OAPSE State Treasurer the amount of the State dues/fees. along with a complete description by name and amount, for each employee. A copy of this description shall be forwarded to the Local Treasurer.
9.	The Union shall defend and indemnify the Agency, the Chief Fiscal Officers. Members, Agents and Assignees in both their Individual and Official capacities and hold them harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability, including legal fees and expenses that may arise out of or by reason of the action taken by the Agency, its Officers. Member Employees and/or Agents for the purpose of complying with any of the provisions of this Article or in reliance on any list, notices, or assignments furnished under any of such provisions. The Union shall retain control of and appointments of Legal Counsel for defense and indemnification purposes.
ARTICLE 8
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Section 1. The management of the Employer, the control of the premises, the operation of the Employer, and the direction of the work force are vested exclusively with the Employer. The Employer retains, solely and exclusively, all its inherent rights to manage the Employer as such rights existed prior to the execution of the Agreement and all functions it possessed prior to entering into the Agreement with the Union, except such rights as are specifically abridged by this Agreement.
Section 2. Except as expressly and specifically limited and restricted by a provision of this Agreement, it is understood that the rights, which are the exclusive jurisdiction of the Employer, include but are not limited to the following: the right to operate the Employer and manage its business and operating in all respects in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities; the determination of services to be provided, the location of facilities, including the establishment of new facilities and the relocation or closing of facilities or any section thereof-, to introduce new or improved equipment, methods, the determination of type, and volume of work and/or services to be provided, work to be performed, schedules of hours of work, scheduling of overtime, to require overtime and to determine the number of overtime hours to be worked, to determine methods, means, and processes of operation, size of work force, to determine the number of employees it shall employ at any time, allocation and assignment or reassignment of work duties to employees, including shift time, the number and length of shifts, shift rotation, weekend rotation, and holiday rotation; to make necessary changes in the work schedule of an employee when required by Employer operating needs, to reorganize.
5
discontinue, or enlarge any department, section or unit; control of all material, supplies, equipment and orders for the placement of work to be performed: the right to establish and enforce operational standards and to direct the working forces, including the right to hire, transfer, promote, demote, lay off, and to discipline, suspend or discharge employees; to make changes in job classifications and job content to insure maximum efficiency of operations, to determine the policies regarding the selection and ability of employees and to establish the amount of supervision so as to maintain discipline and efficiency; to establish, modify, or abolish jobs, job descriptions, job classifications, and work standards; to establish, change, revise, enforce rules and regulations governing the work force: to require employees to observe Employer rules and regulations. The Union recognizes the Employers right to establish, change, revise and enforce safety and work rules, and procedures governing the work force and to select and assign such duties as the Employer deems appropriate, to bargaining unit employees and to supervisory and other categories of employees excluded from this Agreement including temporary employees who may be required to perform bargaining unit work.
Section 3.	The Employer's judgment and decisions on all rights provided in this Article shall not be subject to the Grievance Procedure or Arbitration under this Agreement, except as specifically abridged by this Agreement.
Section 4.	Without limiting the foregoing, it is agreed that Employer operations require the prompt carrying out of all orders, directions, and instructions issued by immediate supervisors, or other supervisory or managerial personnel, which do not endanger the health or safety of the employee. It is expressly understood that refusal to carry out such orders, directions, or instructions shall be deemed to be sufficient cause for discharge or discipline at the Employer's option.
Section 5.	The Union recognizes that the Employer shall not be bound, or restricted by. or required to follow or refrain from following any practice, custom or procedure which was in effect prior to this Agreement, unless specifically required to do so elsewhere in this Agreement.
The failure of the Employer to exercise any of its rights herein shall not constitute a waiver thereof and shall not preclude the Employer from exercising the same in some manner, so long as it does not conflict with an express provision of this Agreement.
Section 6.	The Union and all members of the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement agree to cooperate with the Employer to attain and maintain full efficiency and optimum quality of all services provided by the Employer.
Section 7.	The Employer and the Union recognize that the programs operated by the Employer and the Employer's status as grantee and/or delegate agency is expressly conditioned on the Employer's satisfaction of pertinent. Federal and State statutes. Federal Regulations promulgated by the United States Department of Health and Human Services and other State and Federal government agencies. The parties agree notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, that all such statutes and regulations shall preempt this Agreement to the extent that they are in conflict or contrary to one another.
6
ARTICLE 9
WORK RULES &POLICIES
Section 1.	No change in work rules, policies and/or directives, which affect the employees in this bargaining unit, shall be made without written notice to the Union.
Section 2.	The Employer shall supply the Union a current copy of the Employer's Personnel Policies. Modifications and changes shall be sent to the Union Local President, provided, however, the Employer may not make any change to Employer's Personnel Policies which affects the employees in this bargaining unit without the written notice to the Union.
ARTICLE 10
EMPLOYMENT INFORMATION
Section 1.	The Employer agrees to provide to the Union information concerning all new hires, appointments, promotions, transfers, corrective actions (i.e.. suspensions, reductions, and removals), and reclassifications which affect either the classifications or the personnel in the bargaining unit. The Employer shall provide to the Union the name, classifications, rate of pay. date of action, type of action, and position description of the person appointed, promoted, transferred, or reclassified; this information shall be provided at the end of the payroll period.
Section 2.	The Employer shall provide the Union President with an employee directory, which shall include the names, addresses, home phone numbers, positions held and date of hire of all employees of Employer. The Employer shall provide the Union officers with supplements to the employee directory as new employees are hired.
ARTICLE 11
PERSONNEL FILES
Section L The official personnel file for each employee shall be maintained in the Human Resources Office. An employee may schedule an appointment with the Chief Operating Officer to review their file with twenty four (24) hour notice (except in case of an emergency or upon mutual agreement.) A Union representative, if desired by the employee, may accompany the employee to review the file. Upon request, one copy of material contained in the file shall be provided the employee at no expense. Employees will be charged for additional copies. File reviews will be conducted during normal business hours of the Human Resources Office.
Section 2.	If an employee disputes the accuracy or completeness of any information maintained in the personnel file, he may submit a statement of rebuttal or explanation, which will be attached to the document or information in dispute.
Section 3.	All records of disciplinary actions except for child endangerment shall cease to have force and effect for purposes of progressive corrective action twelve (12) months, excludes
7
summer layoff after their effective date. All written disciplinary materials, disciplinary personnel actions, accident reports, and written reprimands will remain in the employee's personnel file and shall not be used for the purpose of the progressive discipline process after that twelve month period.
Section 4.	An employee shall receive and initial a copy of any disciplinary or corrective action before it is placed in his personnel file or it will be invalid, provided however, if the employee refuses to initial it, a statement to that effect shall be noted on the document, and the employee shall not use his refusal to initial said action as a basis to challenge the validity of said action.
Section 5.	Whenever a verified (ex. Subpoena) legal complaint is made concerning an employee, the employee shall be informed of the complaint. When a legal request is made to review the personnel records of an employee, the employee shall be notified of the request within twenty-four (24) hours after the request is made.
ARTICLE 12
CORRECTIVE ACTION
Section 1.	No employee shall be reduced in pay or position, suspended, discharged, or removed except for just cause.
Section 2.	The Employer and the Union agree that all disciplinary procedures shall be carried out in private and in a businesslike manner. Any employee in disagreement with the action taken by the Employer may file a grievance in accordance with the grievance procedure contained in this agreement.
Section 3.	Whenever the Employer and/or his designee determines that there may be cause for an employee to be suspended, reduced, or discharged, a pre-disciplinary conference will be scheduled for the purpose of advising the employee of the potential charges against the employee and the evidence in support thereof.
A. In some instances the Employer may determine that the employees continued presence at the work site is not in the best interest of the Agency. In these instances the employee may be sent home with pay or without pay until the completion of the Employer's 72 hour investigation.
Section 4.	Any employee questioned by the Employer is entitled to have a Union representative(s) present should such questioning move from investigatory to accusatory, or should the employee reasonably believe that disciplinary action may result.
Section 5.	Whenever the Employer is going to impose discipline upon an employee, the Employer shall follow the principles of progressive discipline except in certain instances where the employee's presence at the work site has been determined to be considered dangerous, in cases of serious misconduct, or the offense warrants immediate action by the Employer. The disciplinary7 procedure is for violations of any agency policies and procedures with the exception
8
of rights covered by the union contract and the attendance policy shall be as follows for all employees:
A.	Counseling with written documentation of the counseling in the personnel file within ten (10) workdays of the alleged infraction.
B.	Verbal warning/reprimand
C.	Written warning letter/reprimand
D.	One (1) day suspension without pay
E.	Three (3) day suspension without pay
F.	Five (5) day suspension without pay
G.	Discharge
In disciplinary decisions, principles of progressive discipline shall be observed, taking into account the nature of the violation, the employee's record of discipline and the employee's record of performance and conduct.
Section 6.	No disciplinary action shall be valid if the charges are not presented to the employee within five (5) workdays after the employee's supervisor or the Chief Executive Officer knew of the incident!s) upon which the charges are based.
Section 7.	A notice shall be posted at two conspicuous places at each site that notifies employees that they have a right to have a Union steward present upon request during any stage of an investigation that may result in disciplinary action against them.
ARTICLE 13
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section L A grievance is any matter concerning the interpretation, application, or alleged violation of this Agreement, significant health and safety problems, or the reasonableness of the application of work rules, policies and/or directives that affect the rights of the Union or employees, or any discharge or other disciplinary action.
A class action grievance is a grievance, which affects all or many persons in the bargaining unit.
Section 2.	The parties have a common interest in the effective resolution of problems. It is desirable that the problems be resolved as soon as possible and at the lowest level possible. No reprisal of any kind shall be taken against any person involved in grievance proceedings because of such participation. Each grievance shall be processed in the following manner:
Step 1 - Informal Step: Within ten (10) work days after the aggrieved person know s, or should have known, of the act. event or condition on which a grievance is based, the aggrieved person
9
shall discuss the complaint with the employee's immediate supervisor with the objective of resolving the matter informally at that level. The immediate supervisor shall respond to the aggrieved person within five (5) workdays of the informal discussion. The aggrieved person may waive Step 1 and file a formal grievance immediately at Step 2 within the ten (10) day time limit stipulated herein.
Step 2 - Immediate Supervisor: If the problem is not resolved informally, the aggrieved person may present a formal grievance in writing to his immediate supervisor no later than five (5) workdays after the aggrieved person has received a response at the informal level. Within five (5) workdays after the filing of the grievance, the immediate supervisor shall schedule a meeting with the aggrieved person to discuss the grievance and attempt to resolve it. Within five (5) workdays after that meeting, the immediate supervisor shall provide the aggrieved person with a written response to the grievance, providing specific reasons for the decision.
Step 3 -Chief Operating Officer : If not satisfied with the written response received from the immediate supervisor, the aggrieved person may. within five (5) workdays after receipt of that written response, appeal in writing to the Chief Operating Officer. Within five (5) workdays after the receipt of the grievance at Step 3. the Chief Operating Officer shall schedule a meeting with the aggrieved person to discuss the grievance and attempt to resolve it. Within five (5) workdays after that meeting, the Chief Operating Officer shall provide to the aggrieved person a written response to the grievance, providing specific reasons for the decision.
Step 4 - Chief Executive Officer: If not satisfied with the written response received from the aggrieved person may, within five (5) workdays after receipt of that written response, appeal in writing to the Chief Executive Officer. Within five (5) workdays after receipt of the grievance at Step 4. the Chief Executive Officer shall schedule a meeting with the aggrieved person to discuss the grievance and attempt to resolve it. Within five (5) workdays after that meeting, the Chief Executive Officer shall provide to the aggrieved person a written response to the grievance, providing specific reasons for the decision. Extension may be granted if agreeable by both parties due to extenuating circumstances.
Step 5 - Arbitration: If not satisfied with the written response from the Chief Executive Officer, the Union may, within thirty (30) work days after the Chief Executive Officer's response, submit the grievance to arbitration by giving written notice to the Chief Executive Officer. The Employer and the Union shall jointly request that the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS) provide a list of arbitrators. The arbitrator shall be selected by the alternate strike method from a list of seven (7) names submitted by FMCS within ten (10) days after the receipt of the list. Prior to striking names, either party may reject the list twice and request FMCS to submit another list. The Union and the Employer shall alternately strike names until one (1) name remains and that person shall be the arbitrator. Upon the written request of either party, the parties shall meet or confer at least seven (7) calendar days prior to the arbitration hearing date to seek to settle the grievance. If it cannot be settled, the parties shall attempt to draft an agreed-upon submission statement. At the meeting, each party shall provide
10
the other party with a list of the witnesses it intends to call and a list of documents it intends to submit to the arbitrator relative to its case in chief. Following the conclusion of any such meeting, should either party determine it necessary to call additional witnesses and/or submit additional documentation (relative to its case in chief), said party shall notify the other party of such witness (es) and/or documentation prior to the commencement of the arbitration hearing. If the parties are unable to agree upon a submission statement, but have agreed to proceed to arbitration over the underlying dispute, each party may submit a statement of the issue, and the arbitrator shall frame the issue or issues to be decided. The arbitration hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the rules and regulations of FMCS. The arbitrator shall be requested to render a decision and award within thirty (30) calendar days following the hearing or submission of final briefs.
The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the aggrieved person, the Union, and the Employer. The losing party shall pay the fees and expenses of the arbitrator.
The grievant, witnesses, the Union President, the Union Vice-President, and one steward will be permitted to attend arbitration hearings without loss of pay.
Section 3.	An "aggrieved person" is the Union or the person or persons making the claim. A grievance may be brought by the Union or an employee in the bargaining unit on behalf of other employees similarly situated in which event the grievances may be processed as a group grievance and separate grievances by each of the affected employees need not be filed.
Section 4.	Grievances shall be processed promptly. However. the lime limitations provided for in the article may be extended by mutual written agreement between the Employer and the Union. Grievances should be processed in the order set forth herein. However, grievances concerning wages, insurance, suspension or discharge may be introduced directly at Step 4. For those grievances introduced directly at Step 4, the time limitations within which a grievance must be brought as set forth in Step 1 shall apply.
Section 5.	Workdays, as used in this article, shall not include Saturdays, Sundays, holidays, sick days, or scheduled days off. For purposes of this article, the term workday is the workdays of the employee when the employee is the moving party and the workdays of the Employer w hen the Employer is the responding party.
Section 6.	A grievance will be withdrawn at any point by submitting a written statement to that effect or by permitting the time requirements at any step to lapse without further appeal. Any grievance not answered by the Employer within the time limitations set forth in the particular step shall be conceded to be responded to in favor of the aggrieved person and the aggrieved person shall be granted the relief requested.
Section 7.	The written grievance shall be submitted on a grievance form, which shall contain the following information:
11
1.	Aggrieved person's name and signature and date signed:
2.	Name of the aggrieved person's immediate supervisor;
3.	Date and time of the incident giving rise to the grievance:
4.	Date and time the grievance was first discussed with supervisor:
5.	The articles and sections of the agreement violated;
6.	A brief statement of the facts involved in the grievance;
7.	The remedy requested to resolve the grievance;
8.	Name of Union representative.
Failure to fully complete the grievance form will not void the grievance. The grievance form may be amended at any step in the grievance procedure. Forms for processing grievances shall be available through the following individuals/locations:
1.	Designated Union officials;
2.	Union stewards:
3.	Members of the Union Grievance Committee;
Records of grievances maintained by the Employer shall be maintained in a separate Hie and shall not become a part of an employee's personnel file.
Section 8. The aggrieved person shall have a Union representative at all Steps of the Grievance Procedure. Additional Union representatives may attend if so desired by grievant. In the event that the employee does not desire Union representation, the Employer will advise the Union of the time and place of the grievance meeting and the Union shall have an opportunity to be present and. in such event, no adjustment as a result of that employee's grievance shall be inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement. No labor organization or representative of the employee other than those designated by the Union may represent the employee or be present during any step of the grievance procedure. A grievant has a right, but is not required to attend a grievance meeting at any step.
Section 9, The Employer shall give copies of written responses at each level of the grievance procedure to the Union President or designee. The Employer shall provide a monthly list to the Union of pending third step grievances upon request.
Section 10. All meetings scheduled under Steps 1 through 5 of this procedure shall be scheduled at mutually agreeable times and shall be scheduled during the business hours of the Administrative Offices. The aggrieved employee. Union representatives, and any witnesses required shall not suffer any loss of pay while attending such grievance meetings scheduled during their normal work hours.
Section 11. The expense of any non-employee witnesses for arbitration hearings shall be borne, if any, by the party calling the witness. The fees of any court reporter shall be paid by the part}' asking for one; such fees shall be split equally if both parties desire a court reporter or request a copy of any transcript.
12
ARTICLE 14
PROBATIONARY PERIOD
Section 1.	The probationary period for members of the bargaining unit shall be ninety calendar (90) days excluding any scheduled layoff periods as dead time. Probationary periods shall be required for newly hired and promoted employees. Probationary periods shall not be required for laterally moved or voluntarily or involuntarily demoted employees.
Section 2.	Absences during a probationary period shall cause the probationary period to be extended by the applicable number of consecutive days of absence.
Section 3.	Employees serving an initial probationary period who are terminated from service with the Employer shall have no recourse to the grievance procedure provided for in this Agreement to appeal such action. Employees serving non-initial probationary periods who do not satisfactorily complete the non-initial probationary periods shall be returned to their former position if available with all benefits as if they had never left that position or to a different position if available, and employee meets qualifications of the position.
Section 4.	An employee serving a non-initial probationary period shall not lose any benefits while serving in the probationary period.
ARTICLE 15
HOURS OF WORK
Section 1.	The normal hours of work for all designated WEST OHIO CAP personnel are between 6:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. The work hours for COLT Transportation is a 24 hour 7 day a week schedule based on clients needs. No permanent change in existing work hours of employees will occur without the written consent of the Union prior to implementation. Employees shall sign in and out on a staff in & out sheet, no more than 5 minutes before your scheduled work time.
Section 2.	Employees who are required by the Employer to work more than forty (40) hours in any one week shall receive over-time compensation for such time worked over forty (40) hours at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times his regular rate of pay.
Section 3.	The Employer shall endeavor insofar as may be reasonably practicable to make equal distribution of overtime among employees in the work unit, within departmental job classifications.
13
Section 4-A. Each employee who works 8 or more hours per day will receive a one-hour unpaid lunch break. Lunch breaks for each employee will be scheduled based on agency need. Requests for variations in scheduled lunch breaks must be reviewed and approved by program directors or designee. Teachers, Co-Teachers. and FSW who eat lunch with the children, and who work 6.5 hours will not receive a break on the days children are in session. However, the employee will receive a one hour unpaid lunch on days when children are not in session. Based on agency need, lunch breaks will be determined for all other staff not listed above, who work less than 8 hours per day.
Section 4-B. West Ohio CAP is committed to providing staff, families, children, customers and visitors with a smoke/tobacco free environment.
For purposes of this policy, "use of tobacco'* shall mean all uses of tobacco, including cigars, cigarettes, pipe tobacco, chewing tobacco, snuff any other matter or substances that contain tobacco, in addition to papers used to roll cigarettes and other lighted smoking devices for burning tobacco and any other plant. This will also include the E-vapor type smoking devices.
Therefore, in the interest of safety and health of all West Ohio CAP staff and the public, use of tobacco products will be prohibited on any property owned by West Ohio CAP. Also, inclusive will be West Ohio CAP owned vehicles, in any building housing West Ohio CAP staff and parking lots. Smoking in personal vehicles on any West Ohio CAP property or parking lot is prohibited. No employee will use tobacco at any West Ohio CAP activity or function, regardless of where the event occurs.
This policy compiles with Ohio Revised Code 3791.031 prohibiting smoking in any public place or place of employment.
All West Ohio CAP staff are expected to help enforce this policy as written. Individual compliance is required.
Violation by West Ohio CAP staff of this policy will result in disciplinary action.
Section 5.	Bus drivers shall be paid for actual hours worked for a minimum of forty (40) hours per week, during the annual scheduled weeks of work established by the agency.
Section 6.	Any employee shall have the right to reject, for reasonable cause, any offer or request for extra time, overtime, call back, on call, or call in except in emergency situations. In emergency situations, the supervisor will inform the employee of the details of the emergency. The supervisor will consider an employee's reasons for not wanting to do the requested work, but retains the right to require the employee to do requested work.
Section 7.	Employees will be provided keys to their assigned work site, where warranted.
14
ARTICLE 16 TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT BIDDING
A. ANNUAL BID
Section L There shall be an annual bid to allow bus drivers to select routes. The annual bid shall be conducted no later than one week before the start of school.
Section 2.	Route information, which will include the bus by number and a seniority roster, will be posted at least five (5) workdays prior to the bid. Prior to the annual bid. the employer shall develop the route information with input from transportation staff. The bid sheet will indicate estimated route times. The seniority list shall include drivers on one list.
Section 3.	In order to qualify to bid as a driver, the employee must pass the annual physical exam prior to the first day of recall in order to work.
Drivers must be state-certified and must hold a valid CDL with the school bus driver endorsement, if required, in order to bid or to work as a driver on any route.
Section 4.	On bid day, employees will select their routes on an agency seniority basis.
Section 5.	Employees on leave of absence shall be permitted to bid. The Transportation Manager or his/her designee has the right to temporarily assign an employee currently unassigned to replace an employee on leave of absence.
Section 6.	If an employee is unable to bid due to a dire emergency, that employee will be allowed to submit an absentee bid. The Transportation Grievance Steward or his designee shall bid on behalf of an absent bidder in accordance with information provided by the bidder.
B.	ON-GOING BID
Section I.	Available positions will be posted for five (5) workdays.
Section 2.	Bidders must have an Employer representative initial their bid and shall receive a copy of the bid. Anyone withdrawing a bid must do so prior to the posting deadline and must have an Employer representative initial the withdrawal.
Section 3.	All bids are final when the posting deadline occurs. The most senior eligible bidder based upon classification seniority will be awarded the route.
Section 4.	Employees may make two (2) successful bids in the on-going bid procedure per year.
15
Section 5.	Routes will be awarded within seven (7) workdays of the posting deadline. If operational needs exist, the Transportation Manager and the Union may agree to delay the route award.
Section 6.	All driver positions posted in the annual bid will be re-posted during the contract year in the on-going bid procedures, if such positions become vacant due to resignation, termination of employment, or death of an employee during the year.
C.	COLT TRANSPORTATION
Section 1. All COLT drivers are required to be available for any scheduled transports during any 24 hours/7 day a week schedule. These scheduled trips vary based on the need of the clients.
ARTICLE 17 TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT ROTATION OF EXTRA TRIPS
Section 1.	Extra trips, which are planned to extend beyond the employee’s normal workday, shall be posted for bid. Childcare and individual transports are considered extra trips, unless stated on bid sheet
Section 2.	How assigned:
A.	Trips are assigned according to employee's availability, and agency seniority, except in emergencies. All trip rotation lists will be visibly posted.
B.	Extra-curricular trips shall be assigned in a separate rotation according to seniority and current classification of drivers.
C.	Emergency trips shall be assigned to anyone available and the employee will not lose his/her place in the rotation.
D.	Trips, which are performed by bargaining unit members, will be assigned on a rotation basis from the appropriate list in order of seniority, starting with the most senior driver and proceeding to the least senior driver. Drivers will be given three (3) days notice of extra trips. A driver who rejects the extra trip assignment rotates to the bottom of the list. The Employer may assign the least senior available driver once the Employer has offered the trip and such trip has been refused by the more senior available drivers.
16
1.	Within two (2) hours of posting, the driver next in rotation for extra driving assignments will advise Transportation Supervisor, in writing, on a form of his/her acceptance or rejection of that trip.
2.	Any driver who fails to return the form within two (2) hours will be considered to have rejected that trip.
E.	If the Employer cancels the trip with less than 24 hours notice, the employee shall be paid the estimated hours for the trip, up to forty hours per week.
F.	An employee on unpaid leave of absence when he/she reaches the top of the rotation list will miss his/her turn and be placed at the bottom of the list.
G.	If an employee at the top of the list is on vacation, sick leave or leave of absence and returns within the three (3) days prior to the trip, that employee will be passed over, but remains at the top of the list.
H.	Trips will be assigned in the order received.
ARTICLE 18
OVERTIME
Employees will be notified at the time of employment as to whether they are classified as exempt or non-exempt. This policy addresses payment for overtime for non-exempt employees. Exempt and non-exempt are defined as follow s:
a.	Exempt: Salaried employees not eligible to receive overtime pay. Exempt employees may be expected to work additional hours in order to finish projects.
b.	Non-Exempt: Hourly employees eligible to receive overtime pay.
The nature of the duties and responsibilities of some employees may require overtime w ork from time to time. Overtime work should be considered an exceptional situation. Overtime occurs after an employee has accumulated 40 work hours in a week.
If a non-exempt employee is required to work overtime hours, the employee will receive monetary compensation for the additional hours worked as prescribed by wage and hour laws.
All overtime must be approved by the employee's immediate supervisor prior to working the overtime hours. In cases when obtaining prior approval is not possible, such as situations involving child contact, the employee must obtain the supervisor's approval as soon as possible follow ing the overtime hours.
The Employer agrees to follow’ the provision of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA)
17
ARTICLE 19
JOB POSTING PROCEDURES
Section 1.	Whenever the Employer determines that a permanent vacancy exists within the bargaining unit, a notice of such vacancy shall be posted on the Employer's bulletin boards in all facilities and elsewhere for a period of five (5) workdays. No posting shall be made until after the Union Local President is given a copy. During the posting period, anyone wishing to apply for the vacant position(s) shall do so by submitting a written application or bid slip to the Employer. The Employer shall not consider applications submitted after the five (5) day period has expired. No one from outside of the bargaining unit shall be considered for a vacancy as long as there is a qualified bargaining unit member who applies for the vacancy. All bids will require a written bid form signed by union member.
Section 2.	Postings shall contain the classification title, rale of pay, benefits, the job site or location, the minimum qualifications and desired qualifications for the job, and a brief summary of job duties.
Section 3.	The position shall be awarded to the most senior applicant who meets the qualifications of the position.
Section 4.	Any employee denied a position shall be given reasons for their rejection in written form.
ARTICLE 20
JOB CHANGES/TRANSFERS
Section 1. The Employer shall not change the job title or duties of a position within the bargaining unit in order to exclude that position from the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 21
GROUP RATIOS/GROUP SIZE
Section L A medical staff person (LPN. RN. or medical assistant) shall be stationed at all sites, which have 100 or more children.
ARTICLE 22
SUPPLY ALLOWANCE
Section L Each teacher, co-teacher and other classroom staff shall requisition all supplies needed for the operation of the classroom.
18
ARTICLE 23
SUBCONTRACTING
Section 1. All bargaining unit work shall be performed by bargaining unit employees. The Employer agrees not to contract out any bargaining unit work and shall not have any bargaining work performed by any individuals outside of the bargaining unit or by outside contractors, unless mutually agreed. The Union agrees the agency may use substitute employees when bargaining unit employees are on leave of absence.
ARTICLE 24
PERFORMANCE APPRAISALS
Section L Each employee shall be evaluated annually by his supervisor using a standard evaluation form and shall'be based upon his work performance through direct observation, investigation and/or knowledge of the evaluator.
Section 2.	A copy of each evaluation shall be reviewed with the employee with a copy given to the employee at the conclusion of the evaluation session. No evaluation of any employee shall be filed in the employee's personnel file without an opportunity for a discussion between the employee and the evaluator. Each supervisor and employee shall sign the evaluation form. The signature by either party does not constitute approval or disapproval but only that the evaluation has been reviewed.
Section 3.	An employee may present written comments, which shall be dated and entered as an attachment to the evaluation form.
Section 4.	Some staff evaluations will include recommendations for improvement. An evaluator shall provide specific recommendations in cases where warranted.
ARTICLE 25
LAYOFF AND RECALL
Section 1. Whenever the Employer determines it necessary to reduce the work force, the following procedures shall apply:
A.	The Employer shall determine the number of employees, the classifications, and positions to be affected by the layoff. The Employer agrees to meet with the Union to discuss possible alternatives and the impact of the layoff prior to initially notifying the affected employees.
B.	Before any full time employee is laid off. the Employer shall layoff all part-time and substitute employees in affected job classifications. Employees serving a
19
probationary period after initial appointment shall be laid off before employees who have completed a probationary period.
C.	Employees in the positions affected shall be placed on a seniority list by agency seniority in descending order of agency seniority. Employees with the least agency seniority shall be laid off first in the affected classification.
D.	If possible, the Employer shall notify the affected employees and the Union, in writing, at least thirty (30) calendar days in advance of any layoff. Each notice of layoff shall state the following:
a.	Reasons for the layoff.
b.	The effective date of layoff.
c.	A statement advising the employee of his/her rights of reinstatement from the layoff and bumping rights.
E.	An employee who is laid off, whether initially or as the result of a bump, may bump an employee in a lower classification, provided the employee is qualified to perform the duties of the position/classification as determined in accordance w ith existing qualifications, and provided the employee possesses the license and/or certification necessary for the classification, or the ability to obtain such as required, except for positions requiring licensure for government regulations or the employee may bump an employee with the least agency seniority in any classification that he has previously held (regardless of department). "Qualified to perform the duties" shall mean that the employee possesses the knowledge, skill, ability and qualifications to perform the work. "Lower classification" shall mean a classification with a lesser hourly base rate of pay. "Least agency seniority" shall mean the least senior employee based on agency seniority in the affected classification.
F.	Employees who wish to bump into another position in accordance with this Article must notify the Employer, in writing, of such intent within five (5) workdays of receipt of the layoff notice.
G.	Names of employees shall be placed on a recall list based upon seniority and department in descending order of seniority. A copy of this list shall be provided to the Union. Vacancies due to layoff shall be filled from the recall list first. The individual with the most classification seniority shall be recalled first. An employee is eligible for recall for a period of twelve (12) months to a job in his classification, any similar classification and any classification he previously held.
H.	The employer shall not hire, transfer, promote or reassign any person to perform the duties of any laid off employee.
20
I.	Recall notices shall be sent by certified mail, to the last address known to the Employer, return receipt requested, with a copy to the Union. Offers of recall must be accepted or declined in writing by the first person on the recall list before the next person may be recalled. The employee shall have fourteen (14) calendar days from the date of receipt of the recall notice to return to work, unless a later date is otherwise specified in the notice. A recalled employee will be placed in the step, which most nearly corresponds, to the employee's salary at the time of recall with the employee receiving credit for time off on layoff. If more than one job is to be filled by the recall procedure, the Employer shall make every effort to return the employee to the same shift. If the recalled employee fails to return to work by the fourteenth day. or by such extended date as mutually agreed, the employee forfeits the right of recall.
J.	No qualifications may be added, by the Employer, to a position or classification in anticipation of or during a layoff or bumping process. The Employer shall not abolish any jobs until the bumping process is complete.
K.	In the event a new vacancy comes open during a layoff or recall, the open job will go up for bid first according to Article 19.
ARTICLE 26 SENIORITY
Section I.	Agency seniority shall be computed on the basis of the total uninterrupted length of continuous service with the Employer.
Section 2.	An approved leave of absence, absence due to layoff, disciplinary suspension, or workers' compensation leave does not constitute a break in continuous service provided the employee follows the procedure for such leave and returns to active service immediately following the expiration of the approved leave or disciplinary suspension.
Section 3.	Employees laid off shall retain their seniority for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of layoff.
Section 4.	Once each quarter the Employer shall provide the Union with a copy of a current seniority list of all bargaining unit classifications. The Union may meet with the Employer to review the list at the next labor/management meeting. The seniority list shall be made up by classification and shall contain, in order of seniority, names and dates of hire of each employee in the bargaining unit.
Section 5.	Seniority shall be computed based upon the date the employee signs a letter of acceptance. Drawing a number will break ties on and corresponding to the number of employees in question, (i.e. drawing a number from a hat). The drawing of the number will be observed by both Union and Management designated staff for confirmation of drawing results.
21
Section 6.	For purposes of this Article and Agreement, reinstatement shall refer to recall from layoff, return from disciplinary suspension, return to employment by the award of an arbitrator or any court of competent jurisdiction, return from leave of absence, workers' compensation leave, or military leave, or return to a position as the result of a non-initial probationary failure.
ARTICLE 27
EDUCATION AND TRAINING POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
If West Ohio CAP provides funding for an employee to obtain college credits in pursuit of a college degree or a CDA. that employee agrees that he/she will continue their employment with West Ohio CAP for a period of five (5) years after the education payment is made by West Ohio CAP on the employee's behalf. In the event that the employee does not complete five (5) years of West Ohio CAP employment, the employee agrees to pay back all or a portion of these educational funds according to the following graduated forgiveness schedule:
a.	If the employee's employment ends within two (2) years of the funding, the employee shall re-pay 100% of the educational funding;
b.	If the employee continues employment for over two (2) years after the funding, the employee shall repay 75% of the funding:
c.	If the employee continues employment for over three (3) years after the funding, the employee shall repay 50% of the funding:
d.	If the employee continues employment for over four (4) years after the funding, the employee shall repay 25% of the funding:
e.	No repayment shall be required when the employee's employment continues for over five (5) years:
f.	Upon the termination of an employee's employment during the five (5) years after the education funding, West Ohio CAP shall withhold funds up to the repayment amount from the employee's final payment from West Ohio CAP, and West Ohio CAP will enter into a payment agreement with the departing employee for any remaining balance.
In the event that West Ohio CAP'S educational funding results in the employee earning a bachelor's degree, then all West Ohio CAP funds received by an employee towards this college degree shall be repaid to West Ohio CAP by the employee in full if the employee's employment does not continue for at least five (5) years after the date said degree is obtained. This 100% repayment requirement after a degree is obtained shall apply even if the employee does not complete their degree until after their West Ohio CAP employment is terminated.
22
For example, if an employee receives $2,000.00 in educational funding on January 15. 2016, and then her employment terminates on July 1. 2018, she shall be required to repay $1,500.00 (75%) upon her early termination. If $600.00 is repaid from the employee's last paycheck, this would leave a balance of $900.00. A typical repayment plan might be $50.00 per month thereafter. If this same employee obtains her degree in 2018. her repayment obligation will increase by $500.00. because the West Ohio CAP investment of $2,000.00 towards her college degree is 100% re-payable since she didn't complete five (5) years of employment after she received funding which contributed to funding her college degree.
Funding for college courses which does not result in a college degree, such as funding for certification renewal, shall be repaid according to the graduated forgiveness schedule. Each incidence of funding shall commence a new five (5) year employment forgiveness term, except that all West Ohio CAP funding which results in a college degree shall be fully repaid, if West Ohio CAP employment does not continue for five (5) full years after the date of the degree is awarded no matter when prior to the college degree such funding occurs.
If a Head Start or Early Head Start employee retires from West Ohio CAP at age 59 A or older, and has received education funding within the five (5) years prior to retirement, no repayment shall be required.
ARTICLE 28 PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS
Section L Employer shall pay the full cost of the annual physical examination and reexamination, if necessary, required for all bus drivers and bus monitor possessing a bus driver's commercial drivers license. The employer shall select the doctor to administer the examination.
Section 2. As mandated by Ohio Department of Job and Family Service Child Care Licensing rules or licensing entity, all Head Start, Early Head Start, and child care employees must receive a physical at hire only. The physical results need to be on the form which meets approved licensing mandates.
ARTICLE 29 EMERGENCY CLOSINGS
Non Weather Related Closings
Emergency closings are at the discretion of the Chief Executive Officer.
23
Emergency closings for Elead Start & Early Elead Start sites including but not limited to. electrical power failure, lack of water, lack of heat or air conditioning, hazardous road conditions (not weather related) which may endanger the safety or health of children and employees may result in the West Ohio CAP facility' being closed at the discretion of the Chief Executive Officer.
In the event of a non weather related closing, employees at a site located away from West Ohio CAP will report to West Ohio CAP facility to perform tasks related to their positions. Staff may request from supervisor to remain at site if health, safety, and availability applies.
If non weather related incident occurs at WEST OEIIO CAP, all staffwill be reassigned by supervisors to other sites to complete tasks related to their positions. Refer to the Emergency Response Plan.
Weather Related Closings
If WEST OHIO CAP facility is closed due to inclement weather all staff w ill remain home. Staff will have the option of using an inclement weather day if' available, a personal day. an annual leave day. or a no-pay day.
Weather related closings are at the discretion of the Chief Executive Officer. All decisions relative to Head Start, Early Head Start, and Child Care/Prcschool are delegated to the Child Development Sendees Director. Office staff. Child Care staff. PreSchool staff. Floating teachers, and 12 month floating co-teacher will follow WEST OHIO CAP Weather Related Closing instructions.
All eligible WEST OHIO CAP employees may receive up to five (5) days of pay in the event of severe weather. Staff will have the option to report to their site location if accessible, to Central to work, use personal, vacation, no pay or inclement weather for pay purposes. Staff w ho choose to report to work must call their supervisor within 30 minutes of arrival to work to discuss work schedules and duties for the day.
The CEO has the discretion to send employees home early due to inclement weather. If employees are sent home early due to inclement weather, they shall be paid regular time for their regularly scheduled hours.
It is the responsibility' of each employee to listen to local radio, television stations and text alerts for emergency closing information.
Employees are asked to use their best judgement on those days where the WEST OHIO CAP offices are opened, but the employees feel that driving to work may pose a significant risk due to inclement weather. In these cases, those employees who feel that it would be dangerous for them to be on the roads, and do not report for work, will have the option of taking VACATION. PERSONAL, or NO PAY for the day (s).
Choosing to exercise this option will not adversely affect the employees' attendance
24
record. Staff who choose not to report to work, must call their supervisor to discuss the decision.
A Level 3 Civil Emergency declared by law enforcement officials in Allen County or the county in which an employee lives will excuse employee (s) from coming to work until the Level 3 emergency is lifted. All employees who were scheduled to work during a Level 3 will be paid using the 5 Inclement Weather leave days allotted each year, vacation, or personal time, or leave without pay.
The Chief Executive Officer will deal with any other extenuating circumstances relating to severe weather conditions on an individual basis.
In the event the employ ee has scheduled a vacation day or personal day ( previously to the agency closing), the employee will not be required to use this day as a vacation day unless they have reached their maximum of (5) days off for severe weather.
If the employee has called in sick previous to the agency closing, or made previous arrangements for a medical appointment or procedure, you will not be required to use this as a sick day unless they have reached your maximum of (5) days off for severe weather.
Head Start/Early Head Start
In the event of severe weather conditions. Head Start and Early Head Start closing decisions will generally be made following the local School District in determining whether or not to close the center. If the work location is closed prior to opening, staff at that location does not report to work. The work location is defined as the building where you work. Opening is defined as the time in which staff is scheduled to report. Building Open means staff have access to their work area.
If Head Start AM classes only are cancelled priorto opening. Head Start AMco-teachers have an option o fusing an Inclement Weather Day or reporting to work. Full day classes will automatically go on a one (1) hour delay. Full day classes eventually may go to a two (2) hour delay or cancel for the day. All classroom staff, floating co-teachers. Home Based staff and Family Service Workers are to report at 9:00am. Bus drivers are to report one hour prior to the start time of their next route time and Nutrition Specialist and Food Service Workers are to report one hour prior to the next scheduled class. Staff that normally reports at 9am would report at their regularly scheduled time.
25
When WEST OHIO CAP is delayed, front desk staff must report 30 minutes prior to the agency opening time. Staff will be paid regular time for their regularly scheduled hours.
If'the work location is closed after the scheduled reporting time, the staff stays at site.
There may betimes when local schools will remain open and WEST OHIO CAP or Head Start/Early Head Start will close. School DELAYS orclosings do not affect WEST OHIO CAP or Head Start/Early Head Stall decisions.
Staff who are located or drive for any partnership site will follow their emergency closings for cancellations. Staff will have the option to use vacation, personal.no pay. or inclement weather for pay purposes, reporting to site if accessible, orto WEST OHIO CAP to perform job related tasks.
Routes will be driven at any partnership site that remains open for students
26
ARTICLE 30 HOLIDAYS
West Ohio CAP will observe the following holidays. Head Start centers will be closed according to the program year calendar. Employees will be granted the following holidays:
New Year's Day Martin Luther King Day Presidents' Day Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Columbus Day Veteran’s Day Thanksgiving Day Day after Thanksgiving Christmas Day-Five Personal Days
January 1st
January (3rd Monday)
February (3rd Monday)
May (last Monday)
July 4th
September (first Monday)
October Sth
November 11th
November (4th Thursday)
November (4Ih Friday)
December 25th
To be determined by program needs (no less than 1 hour per request)
Generally, when a holiday falls on a Sunday, it will be observed the following Monday; likewise, if it falls on a Saturday, it will be observed the preceding Friday.
Full time employees will be paid for their regularly scheduled hours for the day/days on which the West Ohio CAP is closed for a holiday as holiday pay. Employees who are not regularly scheduled to work on a holiday will not receive any pay for the holiday. Because of the nature of some duties of the program's operation, some employees may be requested or be required to work a holiday. All holiday work requests must receive prior approval from the employee's supervisor.
No holiday pay will be granted for any holiday, which falls during a period of time in which any employee is laid-off, on leave of absence or not regularly scheduled to work.
The Employee must work their regularly scheduled work time the day before the holiday, and on the first regular work day after the holiday, to be paid their regularly scheduled hours. In the event the employee misses work on either of the day before or the day after the holiday, pay is the equivalent of the average hours of paid time the day before holiday and the day after holiday. Paid time equals sick leave, annual leave, personal leave, funeral leave, inclement weather, jury duty and military leave. Employees will be paid for holidays when on approved paid annual leave.
Employees may also be given time off without pay or penalty for holidays recognized by their religion. The employee must have prior approval from his/her immediate supervisor so their absence does not interfere with normal program operations.
Personal day becomes effective upon completion of the probationary period.
Prorated schedule for Personal Days
27
Employees are granted personal days on July 1 each year.
If an employee has a hire date prior to July 1 of the current year, they will receive 5 personal days.
For new hires:
If an employee is hired July 1 - September 30, they will receive 3 personal days (to be used after the 90 day probation period).
If an employee is hired October 1 - December 31, they will receive 2 personal days (to be used after the 90 day probation period).
If an employee is hired January 1 - March 31, they will receive 1 personal day (to be used after the 90 day probation period).
If an employee is hired April 1 - June 30, they will receive 4 personal days July 1 to be used after the 90 day probation period.
ARTICLE 31 DRUG TESTING/CRIME CONVICTIONS
1.	STATEMENT OF POLICY
Lima/ Allen Council on Community Affairs believes in the importance of providing a safe workplace for all of its employees. West Ohio CAP is concerned with the health and well-being of all employees, as well as with the safety of any other persons that may interact with on duty employees. Substance use has the potential to negatively impact any workplace, including ours. Behaviors related to substance use can endanger everyone around the user, not just the users themselves. This policy is intended to foster a safer workplace.
Management is fully committed to our Drug-Free Safety Program (DFSP) Policy which establishes clear guidelines for acceptable and unacceptable employee behavior for everyone in the workplace. West Ohio CAP cannot tolerate substance use in violation of this Policy and intends to hold everyone reasonably responsible for supporting the Policy.
This document (the ‘‘Policy") describes West Ohio CAP' Drug-Free Safety Program, and every employee is expected to read, understand, and comply with it. The Policy applies to every employee, including all members of management. The consequences stated in this Drug-Free Policy will apply to anyone who violates the Policy.
West Ohio CAP does not condone the abuse of alcohol and/or other drugs and shall consider any employee to be in violation of this Policy should said employee engage in:
1.	Use of illegal drugs or alcohol during work hours. For purposes of this Policy, alcohol shall refer to any preparations, including medications that contain alcohol. For purposes of this Policy, illegal drug shall refer to any substance that is illegal to use and/or possess under Ohio and/or U.S. law, including any prescription drug that is used without benefit
28
of a current, valid physician's prescription or in a manner or quantity contrary to the specifics of the prescription;
2.	Misuse of alcohol to the extent that it conflicts with any requirement of this Policy:
3.	Sale, purchase, transfer, trafficking, or possession of any illegal drugs;
4.	Arrival at and/or return to work with any measurable amount present in one's body of alcohol and/or illegal drugs to the extent that said measurable amount exceeds the limits established by this Policy.
This Policy shall become effective on July 1, 2013. at which time all current employees shall be expected to have signed a statement acknowledging receipt and understanding of the Policy as well as intent to be bound by it as a condition of continued employment. Any questions regarding this Policy prior to or following its implementation are encouraged and should be directed to West Ohio CAP Drug-Free Workplace Coordinator(s). New employees will be required to sign an acknowledgement of this Policy and its applicability to continued employment prior to beginning duty
West Ohio CAP holds all employees accountable in terms of substance use and this Policy, but also supports efforts to obtain help by employees who may have a problem related to the use of alcohol and/or illegal drugs. Employees who come forward voluntarily, in lieu of any violation of this Policy, to identify that they have a substance problem will receive employer support and assistance as defined elsewhere in this document and will be treated with the degree of confidentiality commensurate with any medical condition.
However, support and assistance will be extended only in cases free from any violations of this or other workplace policies and free from the commission of any criminal acts. If an employee tests
positively for drug or alcohol use and/or otherwise violates of this Policy, West Ohio CAP reserves the right to take the actions prescribed by this policy. In no case will an admission of Policy violation or an acknowledgement of an active substance abuse problem negate, in and of themselves, the requirements mandated by specifics of this Policy or negate disciplinary measures resultant from violations of this Policy. West Ohio CAP furthermore reserves the right to question and/or investigate any employee’s fitness for any and all assigned duties.
Employees whose jobs are subject to any unique circumstances, special law. regulation, or unique agreement with one or more of West Ohio CAP customers and/or contractual partners may face additional requirements, restrictions, and consequences related to substance use. All consequences that may apply to any employee as a result of violating this Policy are spelled out within this document.
In addition to the specific prohibitions and restrictions on the use of illegal drugs and alcohol stated above, the Policy includes the following elements intended to support and enforce these prohibitions and restrictions:
• annual training for all employees, with additional, specific annual training for all supervisory personnel, regarding substance use, its relationship to workplace safely, and interventions available to those who have a problem.
o access to employee assistance in the form of a clinical assessment, by a qualified professional, of a potential chemical dependency/substance abuse problem
© drug and alcohol testing.
29
The Safety Committee Chair and Co-Chair shall serve as West Ohio CAP Drug-Free Workplace Coordinators. Questions about this Policy and/or inquiries regarding intervention resources may be directed to them.
II.	EMPLOYEE/SUPERVISOR EDUCATION & EMPLOYEE SUPPORT
All employees, including supervisory personnel, shall receive annually 1 hour of drug and alcohol education provided by an appropriately credentialed professional. This education will provide information on the health and safety impact of alcohol and other drug use. the nature of addiction, and how/where one can obtain intervention services if a problem exists.
This education will provide information on the health and safety impact of alcohol and other drug use. the nature of addiction, and how/where one can obtain intervention services if a problem exists.
All supervisory/management employees shall receive 2 hours of additional training, regarding their roles, limitations, and obligations under this Policy. Supervisory-specific training will include education regarding reasonable suspicion testing. one of the types of drug/alcohol testing mandated by this Policy. Each supervisor needs to obtain this training once.
As stated above. West Ohio CAP will support and assist, to a reasonable extent, any employee who comes forward and requests assistance with a substance abuse problem. Neither requests for such assistance nor acknowledgement of said problem shall negate any consequences resultant from previously, currently, or subsequently occurring violations of this
Policy. Verbal or written acknowledgement by an employee to West Ohio CAP of the employee's actual violation of this Policy shall be commensurate with a positive lest for prohibited substances as defined by this Policy and shall result in disciplinary action equivalent to that which would result from such a positive test result.
In addition to information available via West Ohio CAP Drug-Free Workplace Coordinator(s), West Ohio CAP maintains the availability to all employees of a formal Employee Assistance Program (EAP) via St. Ritas Occupational Health. The EAP is not a treatment program, but rather a resource via which employees can obtain confidential, professional assessment of substance abuse and/or chemical dependency problems. The EAP is also equipped to assist employees, as needed, with referral to formal chemical dependency and substance abuse intervention providers. West Ohio CAP shall bare no costs, beyond those covered by existing healthcare benefits, associated w ith evaluation and/or treatment of substance abuse and/or chemical dependency disorders.
III.	SUBSTANCES TO BE TESTED FOR VIA URINE AND/OR BREATH COLLECTION
Breath testing for alcohol and urine testing is conducted congruent with the testing guidelines of 49 CFR. Part 40. Amphetamines (including Ecstasy). Opiates, Cocaine, Marijuana, and PCP will be tested for using the guidelines of 49 CFR, Part 40 as a 5-panel and 9-panel testing will include: Methadone, Propoxyphene, Barbiturates, and Benzodiazepines, in most cases.
30
• Note that whether subject to specific testing or not, this Policy also prohibits the presence in any on duty employee's body of any illegal drug, including an illegally obtained or inappropriately administered prescription drug.
IV.	WHEN WILL TESTING OCCUR?
Employees will be tested for the presence of drugs and/or alcohol in their systems under any and/or all of the conditions outlined below:
A.	Pre-Hire Testing
Prior to finalization of any offer of employment, prospective employees of West Ohio CAP must complete urine drug testing as delineated in Section III and V of this Policy. A negative result of this test shall be a pre-requisite for hiring. A positive result of this test shall result in termination of the hiring process and shall render the individual in question ineligible for future employment by West Ohio CAP. Under no circumstances shall any individual be considered an employee of West Ohio CAP without having completed and obtained a negative result upon the testing described in this paragraph. A negative result of any required pre-hire testing shall not guarantee or constitute an offer of employment by West Ohio CAP.
B.	Reasonable Suspicion Testing
Reasonable suspicion testing will occur when a supervisor makes specific observations of an employee that indicate the employee may have violated this policy. All reasonable suspicion situations shall result in both breath alcohol and urine drug testing as specified in Section III and V of this Policy. Following determination that reasonable suspicion exists, the employee in question shall be removed from duty and shall be barred from all Employer property and job sites pending the
results of required testing. Reasonable suspicion is not proof of Policy violation and is not grounds for disciplinary action. It is rather grounds for taking investigatory action in the form of breath alcohol and urine drug testing. The basis of the reasonable suspicion will be documented in writing by the supervisor(s) in question prior to the release of the test findings. A reasonable suspicion test may occur based on:
1.	Specific behavior, observed by a supervisor, such as direct observation of apparent drug/alcohol use or possession and/or apparent physical symptoms of drug and/or alcohol use, that indicate an employee may have violated this Policy:
2.	A pattern of abnormal conduct or erratic behavior, observed and documented by a supervisor, that indicates an employee may have violated this Policy;
3.	Arrest and/or conviction for a drug-related offense. Employees must notify West Ohio CAP, within 24-Hours, of any drug-related arrest and/or conviction;
Training regarding appropriate determination and documentation of reasonable suspicion will be part of the annual professional training provided to supervisors. When reasonable suspicion testing is required, transportation to the collection site and subsequently to the employee's home will be furnished by an Employer manager. Under no circumstances will an employee be authorized to operate a motor vehicle in such a situation.
C.	Post-Accident Testing
31
Post-accident testing will always consist of both a breath alcohol and urine drug test as described in Section 111 above. Post-accident testing will be conducted:
1.	Whenever a workplace injury occurs that requires medical attention and/or is subject to a potential claim of Worker's Compensation.
2.	In any case involving an accidental death of and/or caused by an on-duty employee.
3.	Following any vehicular accident involving an Employer owned vehicle or vehicle
owned by
an employee using that vehicle on Employer business at the time of the accident.
4.	Following any accident resulting in property damage of $500.00 or more.
5.	Following any accident involving at least one on duty employee of Lima Allen Council
on
Community Affairs and ai least one non-employee member of the public.
Employees should also be aware that a positive result on an alcohol and/or drug screen following a workplace injury may, under Ohio law. void the employee's ability to be compensated for the injury via the State Bureau of Worker's Compensation system.
D.	Return-to Duty Testing
In the event that West Ohio CAP elects not to terminate the employment of an employee who violates this Policy, said employee will be immediately and indefinitely suspended, without pay, from all duties. In order to potentially return to duty, the employee in question must meet several conditions delineated elsewhere in this Policy. One such condition is completion of a return-to-duty urine drug test as described in Sections III and V of this Policy. This testing shall be conducted at a lime and place of West Ohio CAP choosing. A positive result for prohibited substances on this test shall result in termination of the employee's employment by West Ohio CAP. A negative result on such a test shall not guarantee that West Ohio CAP will elect to return the employee to duty and/or retain the employee in the future.
E.	Unannounced Follow-Up Testing
In the event that West Ohio CAP elects not to terminate the employment of an employee who violates this Policy, said employee will be subject to unannounced alcohol and drug testing, as described in Sections III and V of this Policy, for a period of one year following the initial suspension from duty related to this violation. The timing, frequency, and nature of this testing (alcohol/other drugs/alcohol and other drugs) shall be at the sole discretion of West Ohio CAP. In the event that an unannounced follow-up test results in a violation of this policy, the employee in question will be terminated from his/her employment by West Ohio CAP.
F.	Timeliness of All Testing
In any situation calling for breath alcohol and/or urine drug testing, testing is to occur immediately upon notification to the employee that testing is required. Any delay in testing, or any other conduct on the part of the employee in question that serves to interfere with the prompt, accurate completion of the testing process shall be treated as a refusal to test as required by this Policy and shall be commensurate with a positive test result.
32
V. SPECIMEN COLLECTION, ANALYSIS, AND RESULT REPORTING PROCEDURES
A.	Collection
West Ohio CAP has contracted with St. Ritas Occupational Health to collect the urine and breath specimens mandated by this Policy and to provide the Medical Review Officer (MRO) services, described below, pursuant to the oversight of this process.
Urine and breath specimen collection will be conducted by trained collection personnel who meet U.S Department of Health and Human Services (USDHHS) standards for urine collection and breath alcohol testing. Confidentiality is required from our collection sites and labs.
Collection shall be conducted in as private a setting as is permitted given the strict scrutiny by collection personnel that must be maintained so as to avoid any alteration or substitution of the specimen(s). An observed voiding of urine may be required should documented irregularities in the collection process indicate that such manipulation may be occurring. Failure to appear for collection when scheduled and/or any conduct that significantly impedes the timely and accurate completion of the collection/testing process shall be considered refusal to participate in testing as required by the Policy and shall be commensurate with a positive test result.
B.	Analysis
Urine specimens shall be analyzed only at laboratories meeting USDHHS standards. All analysis shall consist of an initial screening assay. In the event that the initial assay renders a positive result for a prohibited substance, it shall be followed by a confirmatory assay. The standard of resulting employed with respects to the urine drug testing specified by this Policy is known as’ systems presence testing. If any prohibited substances are detected in a urine sample at or above the cut-off levels as established by USDHHS guidelines, the substance(s) will be deemed to be present in the system of the individual being tested and the test result will be reported as positive.
The presence of any positive blood alcohol level in excess of 0.02 %. as determined by an evidentiary breath alcohol device, shall be considered a positive result.
To ensure the veracity of all final testing results, a Medical Review Officer (“MRO"). independent of the laboratory analyzing the urine specimen(s) shall be responsible for reporting the results to the employee in question and/or to West Ohio CAP. The MRO is a doctor with a specialized knowledge of the testing process. Any claims of valid reasons for the presence in the employee's system of an otherwise prohibited substance shall be investigated by the MRO. as shall be any claims of an inability to produce sufficient urine for analysis. The MRO shall be the sole authority as to the results of all testing. West Ohio CAP shall play no role in the determination of test results.
An employee who adulterates a urine specimen, attempts to adulterate a urine specimen, substitutes a specimen, or otherwise manipulates the collection and/or testing process as per the report of the MRO and/or collection personnel shall be considered to have refused participation in testing as required by the Policy and shall be subject to disciplinary action commensurate with a positive test result. An inability to produce/provide a breath and/or urine specimen is
33
considered a positive test unless there is a verifiable medical reason, as established by the MRO. that the specimen could not be produced.
C.	Result Reporting
An employee who tests positive under this Policy will be given an opportunity to explain the findings to the MRO prior to the issuance of a positive test result to West Ohio CAP.
Upon receipt of a confirmed positive finding, the MRO will attempt to contact the employee by telephone or in person. If contact is made by the MRO. the employee will be informed of the positive finding and given an opportunity to rebut or explain the findings. The MRO can request information on recent medical history and on medications taken within the last thirty day's by the employee. If the MRO finds support in the explanation offered by the employee, the employee may be asked to provide documentary evidence to support the employee's position (for example, the names of treating physicians, pharmacies where prescriptions have been filled, etc.). A failure on the part of the employee to provide such documentary evidence will result in the issuance of a positive report by the MRO with no attendant medical explanation. A documented violation of our Policy will have occurred. If the employee fails to contact the MRO as instructed, the MRO will issue a positive report to West Ohio CAP. Upon contacting the MRO, the employee in question may, at his/her own expense, elect to instruct the MRO to submit the sample in question for a repeat of the confirmatory assay process. Under no circumstances may this right to repeat the confirmatory assay be exercised after the final test results have been reported by the MRO to West Ohio CAP. Furthermore, as stated above, the MRO shall be the sole authority in determining the final results of any/all testing specified by this Policy. West Ohio CAP shall play no role whatsoever in establishing the results of any testing.
All test results will be reported by the laboratory conducting the analysis to the MRO prior to the results being issued to the employee or to West Ohio CAP. The MRO will receive a detailed report of the findings of the analysis from the testing laboratory. Each substance included in testing will be listed along with the results of the testing. In the event that West Ohio CAP receives a summary report of a positive test, this report will indicate simply that the test in question was positive for one or more specific substances.
The employee being tested is required to complete any and all necessary releases of information requested by West Ohio CAP, the collection facility, and/or the MRO for the purpose of completing the testing process outlined above and for the purpose of sharing the results of said testing with West Ohio CAP. Failure to provide said release(s) shall constitute a refusal to comply with mandated testing and shall result in disciplinary action commensurate with a positive test for prohibited substances.
All records of drug/alcohol testing will be stored separately and apart from the employee's general personnel documents. These records shall be maintained under lock and key at all times. Access is limited to designated Employer officials with a legitimate need to access them. The information contained in these files shall be utilized only to properly administer this Policy and to provide mandated documentation to certifying agencies for review as required by law. Other than for these express purposes, these records may not be shared by West Ohio CAP with any third party absent the express written consent of the employee in question. Any designated Employer officials that shall have access to these records are charged with the responsibility of maintaining the confidentiality of these records. Disciplinary action shall be taken, up to and
34
including termination of employment, against any employee who knowingly violates the confidential nature of these records.
Any employee tested for alcohol and/or other drugs under this Policy has the right to review and/or receive a copy of their own test results. An employee may request from the Drug-Free Coordinator, in writing, that a copy of the results be provided. West Ohio CAP will use its best efforts to promptly comply with this request and will issue to the employee a copy of the results personally or by U.S. Certified Mail. Return Receipt Requested.
D.	Negative Dilute Test Results
In the event that the MRO reports the results of the testing regarding a specific urine sample to be negative, but in addition specifies that that urine sample is "diluted”. has a "low creatinine level”, or other synonymous result, the employee in question shall be required, at a time of West Ohio CAP' choosing, to repeat the collection and analysis process. Should the MRO report the results of the testing regarding a specific urine sample as "substituted”, the employee in question shall be considered to have refused testing and shall be subject to disciplinary action commensurate with a positive test for prohibited substances.
VI. POSITIVE TEST RESULTS
Positive test results for alcohol and/or other drugs, as defined by this Policy, shall constitute a violation of this POLICY and shall result in immediate, indefinite suspension, without pay. of the violating employee.
West Ohio CAP may take additional disciplinary action, up to and including termination. In the event that West Ohio CAP elects not to terminate the employee of a violating employee, said employee will remain suspended, without pay from all duty until the following steps have been completed:
1.	The employee must complete thorough clinical evaluation by and to the satisfaction of a qualified chemical dependency professional. The qualifications of said professional must be acceptable to West Ohio CAP. Such assessment is available via West Ohio CAP' Employee Assistance Program (EAP).
2.	The employee must authorize via any/all necessary written releases of information the assessing chemical dependency professional to submit to West Ohio CAP. in writing, as detailed summary of the recommendations, if any, made by the assessing chemical dependency professional pursuant to the employee in question.
3.	The employee must demonstrate initial and ongoing compliance with any and all recommendations delineated in the assessing chemical dependency professional's written report.
4.	The employee must, as applicable, complete urine drug testing as described in Sections III, IV and V of this Policy.
5.	The employee must submit to unannounced follow-up testing as described in Section IV of this Policy.
6.	The employee must continue to demonstrate compliance with any and all recommendations issues by the assessing chemical dependency professional and by subsequent professionals involved in the employee’s evaluation, education, and/or care.
35
Compliance with the above steps is a pre-requisite of potential return to duty. Compliance with the above steps does not provide a guarantee of return to or continuation of employment.
VII. TERMINATION NOTICES
In those cases where violation of this Policy results in the termination of employment, all termination notices will list "misconduct'* as the reason. Termination shall be deemed "for cause."
ARTICLE 32
VACATION LEAVE
Employee will earn vacation time as outlined below. Once becoming a full lime full year (52 weeks) the employee becomes eligible to earn vacation. Employees are eligible to use vacation after 9 months of consecutive employment at the 52 week level (full time). Vacation days can be carried over to the next year.
Scheduling of vacation time requires prior approval. Requests for vacation time arc to be submitted to the immediate supervisor in writing at least 10 working days in advance of requested time off.
Vacation requests for less than 16 hours need to be requested seven (7) days in advance. Changes to scheduled vacation time, requires prior approval by the immediate supervisor.
VACATION ALLOTMENT:
1.	Regular Full-Time/Full-Year Employees:
Employee is employed at least 32.5 hours per week. 52 weeks per year. The accrual is as follows:
a.	1 - 4 years:	80 hours per year (2 wreeks)
b.	5 - 9 years:	120 hours per year (3 weeks)
c.	10-19 years	160 hours per year (4 weeks)
d.	20 & over	200 hours per week (5) weeks
Employees cannot accumulate more than 240 hours of vacation leave.
Vacation credit for full-time employees shall be computed on the basis of hours in active pay status.
Vacation shall not accrue during any period an employee is on leave without pay. No vacation may be taken in advance of being accrued.
Holidays occurring during the period approved for vacation will not be charged against such leave.
Whenever possible, vacation requests will be honored, but shall be subject to the need of West Ohio CAP in the performance of its mission. A vacation request can be denied based upon the program scheduling and physical staff requirements for uninterrupted West Ohio CAP services.
36
Vacation shall not be granted for periods of less than one (1) hour.
Request for emergency vacation must be submitted to the employee's immediate supervisor as soon as the need for such leave develops.
In the event of any employee's hospitalization while on vacation, at the employee's request, the vacation may be cancelled effective with the first day of illness and the employee may be paid from accrued sick leave. Hospitalization or illness must be verified by a physician.
Employees who terminate for any reason before they have completed 90 working days of continuous service are ineligible to receive pay for accrued vacation.
a.	They will receive pay for accrued vacation if they are laid off or are discharged for reasons other than cause.
b.	They will not receive pay for accrued vacation if they are discharged for cause.
Temporary or substitute employees are not eligible to earn or accumulate vacation lime.
2.	Vacation Leave may accrue and be carried forward each year. However, employees who have accumulated more than 80 hours of vacation leave, will be given the option of being paid for their vacation leave in excess of 80 hours.
You cannot sell less than 20 hours (so your balance must be over 100 hours to participate
Annual time will be paid in full. Example: If you sell 20 hours, you will be paid for 20 hours and your lave balance will be reduced by 20 hours.
To qualify, you must have used at least 40 hours of annual leave and/or personal leave in the past 12 months.
If you sell annual leave, it will be included in your payroll direct deposit. The "Request To Sell Annual Leave'* form, needs to be completed and attached to THE FRONT of your timesheet. The annual leave will be paid with that payroll if all qualifications are met and approved.
If you would like to have your tax withholdings changed for this one payroll, please see Finance Coordinator. If you don't make arrangements for taxes to be changed, it will be assumed that you would like your regular withholding.
The West Ohio CAP does not permit employees to routinely take leave without pay. Any leave without pay must be approved by your immediate supervisor and will only be granted for extenuating circumstances.
The number of weeks may vary, either more or less, depending on the needs of the Head Start program and funding.
37
ARTICLE 33 SICK LEAVE
Section 1.	Sick leave is time off with or without pay for periods of illness or incapacity resulting from non-occupational or occupational injury, as well as for medical, dental, or optical examinations or treatments.
Section 2.	Sick leave may be used when the employee's condition interferes with or makes it impossible for the employee to satisfactorily perform her or his assigned duties.
Section 3.	Absences that are due to illness should be reported as soon as possible (by 7:00 A.M.) for classroom staff, or before the scheduled workday on the first day of absence by contacting the immediate supervisor. If you are unable to report to work for any reason, you MUST notify your immediate supervisor or central office in direct phone contact (no voicemail) at least one hour prior to your scheduled starting time. If the employee is going to be out more than 1 day, she/he is required to call every day. The employee's failure to report her/his absence within 1 working day could result in dismissal.
Supervisors will offer alternative contacts information.
Section 4.	Management reserves the right to require a doctor's certificate indicating that the employee has now recovered enough to be able to return to work.
Section 5.	An employee will be eligible to earn sick leave with pay after the initial provisional period as follows
A.	Regular Full time employees shall accumulate 7.33 hours per month effective July 1st, 2012 as of the date of hire. Employees do not earn extra sick leave hours for working overtime.
B.	Temporary or substitute employees are not eligible to earn or accumulate sick time.
Section 6.	Excessive absences, even though reported, may result in disciplinary action, which may lead to termination. An absence is any leave without pay or the use of sick time. Absences during any 12-month period may indicate a pattern of excessive absenteeism. Excessive absence is considered to be 48 hours of absence for eight (8) hour per day staff who work 52 weeks per year. For those staff that works 6.5 hours per day, excessive absence is considered to be 39 hours of absence for those who work 52 weeks per year. For those employees who work 38 weeks per year or any number of weeks other than 52. the hours will be prorated. For example, excessive absence for 8 hour. 38 weeks per year employees will be 35 hours. Written record of the counseling session will be placed in the employees personnel file.
An employee is deemed absent when he/she is unavailable for was as assigned/scheduled and such time off was not scheduled/approve in advance. When Sick Leave or Leave without Pay is used because of absence it will be counted against the employee.
38
Supervisors should monitor their employee's attendance on a regular basis and address unsatisfactory attendance in a timely and consistent manner. If Supervisors notice a pattern of unscheduled/unapproved usage they should discuss this concern with the employee.
Serious, chronic and/or prolonged health conditions that require regular follow up with a physician will be addressed individually provided proper documentation is received from the physician.
D.	Full-Time/Part Year employees accumulate a pro-rated amount of sick leave.
E.	The West Ohio CAP does no permit employees to routinely take leave without pay. Any leave without pay must be approved by your immediate supervisor and will only be granted for extenuating circumstances. Refer to Policy No. S6.5-4.
Section 7. An employee out on sick leave for more than three (3) consecutive working days 'will be required to submit to her or his supervisor a written statement from a physician indicating status/condition of illness and/or ability to return to work. From the information provided by the employee or the physician, the Family and Medical Leave Policy may need to be considered. The West Ohio CAP complies with the Family and Medical Leave Act and recognizes that employees may be granted a leave of absence under certain conditions.
Section 8. Sick leave with pay may accrue and be carried forward each year. Accrued sick leave carries no monetary value upon termination. Sick leave may not accumulate to more than 90 days (720 hours).
Section 9. Each May, employees who have accumulated more than 80 hrs of Sick Leave will be given the option of being paid for one-half of their sick leave in excess of 80 hrs. Each November, employees who have accumulated more than 80 hours of sick leave will be given the option of being paid dollar to dollar for sick leave in excess of 80 hours in a minimum amount of 20 hrs up to a maximum of 40 hours. In the event the sick leave buy back set forth in this Section is declared non allowable by any funding source, this Section shall be null and void.
Section 10.	Sick leave with pay will not accrue to an employee during any period, which the employee is on an unpaid leave.
No sick leave may be taken in advance of being earned.
Section 11.	Illness extending beyond earned sick leave will be charged against earned annual leave if applicable, unless an employee requests leave of absence without pay.
Section 12.	Sick leave may not be granted for a period of time less than one (1) hours.
Section 13.	No accrued sick leave shall be paid upon termination of employment, or during their terminal week of employment.
Section 14.	Earned sick leave may be taken for postnatal care of one's spouse.
39
Section 15.	Sick leave will be accrued during the defined period of provisional employment, but any time off taken during this interval will be without pay except for scheduled holidays.
Section 16.	Application for sick leave with intent to defraud, will result in dismissal and refund from the employee to West Ohio CAP for salaried or wages paid during such sick leave.
Sick leave credit shall be computed on the basis of hours in active pay status.
ARTICLE 34
FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE
The following Family and Medical Leave Policy is designed to comply with the provisions of the federal Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), with all legal updates including addition of Military Family Leave Entitlements of 2009.
Employees who have been employed for at least 1 year and for at least 1.250 hours during the preceding 12-month period are eligible for family and medical leave. For employees not eligible for family and medical leave, the West Ohio CAP will review business considerations and the individual circumstances involved. Except for those employees designated as "highly compensated employees" (defined as the top 10% wage earners), employees will be returned to the same or to an equivalent position upon their return from leave.
Family or medical leave will be unpaid leave. If an employee requests leave for her or his own serious health condition, the employee must use all of her or his accrued paid sick, personal, and vacation leave. If leave is requested for any of the reasons listed below, the employee must use all of her or his accrued paid sick, vacation, and personal leave. The remainder of the leave w ill then consist of unpaid leave.
REASONS FOR LEAVE:
All employees and./or military family who meet the applicable time of service requirements may be granted a total of 12 weeks of unpaid family leave and paid sick and vacation leave combined (during any 12 month period) for the following reasons:
1.	The birth of the employee's child and in order to care for the child
2.	The placement of a child with the employee for adoption or foster care
3.	To care for a spouse, child, or parent who has a serious health condition, but not a
parent in-law
4.	A serious health condition that renders the employee incapable of performing the function of her or his job.
5.	Because of qualifying exigency arising out of the fact that your spouse, son or daughter, parent is on covered active duty or call to covered active duty status with the Armed Forces
The entitlement to leave for a child's birth or for placement of a child for adoption or foster care w ill expire 12 months from the date of the birth or placement.
40
SERVICE MEMBER FAMILY LEAVE
An eligible employee who is the spouse, son daughter, parent or nearest blood relative of a covered service member shall be entitled up to 26 work weeks of leave during a 12-month period to care for a service member who is undergoing medical treatment, recuperation or therapy, is otherwise in an outpatient status or is a otherwise on the temporary disability retired list, for a serious injury or illness. This leave is available on a one-time basis only. A "service member" included any individual who has served in the Armed Forces (including National Guard or Reserves) within five years of the date the individual undergoes medical treatment, recuperation therapy.
INTERMITTENT/REDUCED SCHEDULE LEAVE:
For intermittent leave or leave on a reduced leave schedule, there must be a medical need for leave, and it must be that such medical need can be best accommodated through an intermittent or reduced leave schedule. The treatment regimen and other information described in the certification of a serious health condition meets the requirements for certification of the medical necessity of intermittent leave or leave on a reduced leave schedule. Employees needing intermittent FMLA leave or leave on a reduced leave schedule must attempt to schedule this leave so as not to disrupt West Ohio CAP's operations. In addition. West Ohio CAP may assign an employee to an alternative position with equivalent pay and benefits that better accommodates the employee's intermittent or reduced leave schedule.
DEFINITION OF ’’SERIOUS HEALTH CONDITION”:
y
A "Serious Health Condition" means an illness, injury, impairment, or physical or mental condition that involves one of the following:
1.	Hospital Care
Inpatient care (i.e., an overnight stay) in a hospital, hospice, or residential medical care facility, including any period of incapacity or subsequent treatment in connection with or consequent to such impatient care. "Incapacity." for the purposes of FMLA, is defined to mean inability to work, attend school, or perform other regular daily activities due to the serious health condition, treatment therefore, or recovery there from.
2.	Absence Plus Treatment
A period of incapacity of more than three consecutive days (including any subsequent treatment or period of incapacity relating to the same condition) that also involves either of the following:
a.	Treatment two or more times by a health care provider, by a nurse or physician's assistant under direct supervision of a health care provider, or by a provider of health care service (e.g., physical therapist) under orders of, or on referral by. a health care provider: (Treatment shall include examinations to determine if a serious health condition exists and evaluations of the condition. Treatment does not include routine physical examinations, eye examinations, or dental examinations.)
41
b.	Treatment by a health care provider on at least one occasion which results in a regimen of continuing treatment under the supervision of a health care provider. A regimen of continuing treatment includes, for example, a course of prescription medication (e.g.. an antibiotic) or therapy requiring special equipment to resolve or alleviate the health condition. A regimen of treatment does not including the taking of over-the-counter medications such as aspirin, antihistamines, or salves or bed-rest, drinking fluids. exercise, and other similar activities that can be initiated without a visit to a health care provider.
3.	Pregnancy any period of incapacity due to pregnancy or for prenatal care.
4.	Chronic Conditions Requiring Treatments - A chronic condition which meets all of the following criteria:
a.	Requires periodic visits for treatment by a health care provider, or by a nurse or physician's assistant under direct supervision of a health care provider.
b.	Continues over an extended period of time (including recurring episodes of a single underlying condition);
c.	May cause episodic rather than a continuing period of incapacity (e.g.. asthma, diabetes, epilepsy, etc.).
5.	Permanent/Long-term conditions Requiring Supervision:
A period of incapacity, which is permanent or long-term due to a condition for which, treatment may not be effective. The employee or family member must be under the continuing supervision of, but need not be receiving active treatment by a health care provider. Examples include Alzheimer's, a severe stroke, or the terminal stages of a disease.
6.	Multiple Treatments (Non-Chronic Conditions)
Any period of absence to receive multiple treatments (including any period of recovery there from) by a health care provider or by a provider of health care services under orders of. or on referral by, a health care provider, either for restorative surgery after an accident or other injury, or for a condition that would likely result in a period of incapacity of more than three consecutive calendar days in the absence of medical intervention or treatment, such as cancer (chemotherapy, radiation, etc.) sever arthritis (physical therapy), kidney disease (dialysis).
7.	"Qualifying exigency leave’* is one of the two new military family leave provisions. It may be taken for any qualifying exigency arising out of the fact that a covered military member is on active duty or call to active duty status. The Department's new regulations include a broad list of activities that are considered qualifying exigencies and will permit eligible employees who are family members of a covered military member to take FMLA leave to address the most common issues that arise when a covered military member is deployed, such as
a.	attending military-sponsored functions
b.	short notice deployment (7days or less)
c.	making appropriate financial and legal arrangements, and arranging for alternative childcare and unusual school activities
42
d.	counseling, rest and recuperation of the covered military member
e.	cost deployment events
f.	additional events which rise out of the covered military member's active duty or call to active duty status, provided that West Ohio CAP and employee agree that such leave qualify as an exigency, and agree to both the timing and duration of such leave.
APPLICATION FOR LEAVE:
In all cases, an employee requesting leave must complete an "Application for Family and Medical Leave" and return it to the Chief Operating Officer office. The completed application must state the reasons for the leave, the duration of the leave, and the starting and ending dates of the leave.
NOTICE OF LEAVE:
An employee intending to take family or medical leave because of an expected birth or placement, or because of a planned medical treatment, must submit an application for leave at least 30 days before the leave is to begin. If leave is to begin within 30 days, an employee must give notice to her or his immediate supervisor and to the Chief Operating Officer office as soon as the necessity for the leave arises.
MEDICAL CERTIFICATION OF LEAVE:
An application for leave based on the serious health condition of the employee or the employee’s spouse, child, or parent, must be accompanied by a "Medical Certification Statement" completed by the applicable health care provider. The certification must state the date on which the health condition commenced, the probable duration of the condition, and the appropriate medical facts regarding the condition.
If the employee is needed to care for a spouse, child, or parent, the certification must so state along with an estimate of the amount of time the employee will need. If the employee has a serious health condition, the certification must state that the employee cannot perform the functions of her or his job.
BENEFITS COVERAGE DURING LEAVE:
During a period of family or medical leave, an employee will be retained on the West Ohio CAP's health plan under the same conditions that applied before the leave commenced. An employee is not entitled to the accrual of any seniority, sick leave or vacation leave that would have accrued if not for the taking of leave. (An employee who takes family or medical leave will not lose any seniority or employment benefits that had accrued before the date leave began).
RESTORATION TO EMPLOYMENT:
An employee eligible for family and medical leave (with the exception of those employees designated as "highly compensated employee's"), will be restored to her or his old position or to a position with equivalent pay, benefits, and other terms and conditions of employment. The West Ohio CAP cannot guarantee that an employee will be returned to her or his original job. A
43
determination as to whether a position is an "equivalent position" will be made by the West Ohio CAP.
RETURN FROM LEAVE:
An employee must complete a "Notice of Intention to Return form Family or Medical Leave" before she/he can be returned to active status. If an employee wishes to return to work prior to the expiration of a family or medical leave of absence, the employee must notify her/his supervisor at least 5 working days prior to the employee's return.
FAILURE TO RETURN FROM LEAVE:
The failure of an employee to return to work upon the expiration of a family or medical leave of absence may subject the employee to termination. An employee who requests an extension of family leave or medical leave due to the condition, recurrence, or onset of her or his own serious health condition, or of the serious health condition of the employee’s spouse, child, or parent, must submit a request for an extension, in writing, to the employee's supervisor. This written request must be made as soon as the employee realizes that she or he will not be able to return at the expiration of leave period.
West Ohio CAP reserves the right in complying with Federal Law changes as defined specifically to provisions contained with Family Medical Leave Act.
ARTICLE 35
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
Section 1.	When the death of a member of an employee's family necessitates her or his absence from work, up to three days with pay may be granted by the immediate supervisor for the following people:
Spouse
Son (step/in-law)
Daughter (step/in-law)
Step-mother
Step-father
Mother/in-law Father/in-law Brother
Sister
Grandmother Grandfather Grandson Granddaughter
Anyone who permanently resides in the employee's household.
Section 2.	When the death of a member of an employee's family not listed above, necessitates her or his absence from work one day with pay may be granted by the immediate supervisor for the following persons:
Aunt
Aunt -in-law
Brother-in-Law
Grandmother-in-law
Uncle Uncle-in-law Sister-in-Law Grandfather-in-law
Nephew' Niece Niece
44
Death of persons not listed above that necessitate the employee's absence from work, one day without pay may be requested to attend services. Considerations may be given for the use of vacation time.
In order to receive bereavement pay under this Section, the employee must submit proof of his or her attendance at the funeral or memorial.
ARTICLE 36
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
The Chief Operating Officer may approve a leave of absence without pay to any employee because of sickness, disability or other personal reasons. The application for such leave must be submitted in writing by the employee, stating the reason for the request.
Section L If the leave of absence request is for personal reasons, including extended illness, injury' or pregnancy, it shall be accompanied by a statement from the employee's physician, stating the nature of the illness or incapacity which causes the employee to be medically disabled for performance of his/her normal regular work.
Section 2.	A leave of absence request may be granted for any period up to one hundred eightv (180) days.
Section 3.	Time spent on such leave of absence without pay shall not be considered time in service for purpose of determining sick leave or vacation leave credit.
Section 4.	Any employee who is absent from work with an acceptable medical excuse, or on an unpaid leave, granted according to West Ohio CAP Personnel Policies, for more than 30-days, shall be required to pay their own health care premium, after the 30-day period. Employees using sick leave shall not be considered as absent from work until eligible sick leave time is used.
Section 5.	Should the employee decide to return before the expiration of the leave without pay. he/she may do so after giving the Chief Executive Officer at least three (3) days notice and provide proper certification indicating he/she is capable of performing normal regular work.
Section 6.	Upon return from leave of absence, the employee will be reinstated in his/her former position or one of equal employment status and salary.
Section 7.	If the employee fails to return to work at the expiration or cancellation of a leave of absence without securing an extension, the employee will be deemed to be absent without leave. If such an absence continues for more than three (3) working days, the employee shall be terminated.
Section 8.	When an employee requests permission to return to work after being granted leave without pay as a result of illness or disability, he/she must provide a statement from his/her physician indicating that she/he is capable of resuming normal and regular work duties.
Section 9.	Any person hired or transferred to fill a vacancy created by an employee on leave of absence, shall be temporary in nature and shall last only until the regular employee returns to work.
45
ARTICLE 37 JURY/MILITARY LEAVE
Jury Duty:
When leave of absence must be taken for jury duty, the West Ohio CAP recognizes this leave with pay. Employees shall be compensated at their normal rate of pay for the duration of jury duty, less the amount paid for duty by the court. If employees are not selected to serve and, therefore, released by 12:00 P.M., they shall return to the West Ohio CAP for the completion of the workday. Proof of jury duty must be submitted with the Time and Attendance Report.
Employee must notify their immediate supervisor when they are called for Jury Duty.
Witness Duty:
When a leave of absence must be taken to answer a subpoena in court, the West Ohio CAP will recognize this leave with pay only when the employee is not financially involved in the outcome of the case. Proof of the subpoena must be submitted with the Time Sheet.
Military’ Leave:
Employees shall be granted permission to be absent from work in order to receive their physical examination for military service in the Armed Forces. They shall be entitled to use paid sick leave for that purpose during such absence for a period not to exceed one day. Management may require written notice of enlistment. Please refer to FMLA Service Member Family Leave
Unpaid Short-Term Military Leave:
Short-term military leave may be granted employees for a period not to exceed fifteen (15) calendar days a year. To qualify for the benefits provided, employees must provide a copy of their military order to their supervisor prior to reporting for their training duty. The employee will not receive paid leave if they are paid by the military for time on leave.
Extended Military’ Leave:
Extended military leave is governed by the Federal Uniformed Service Employment and Reemployment Right Act of Chapter 5903. If the employees' voluntarily return to a branch of military service, they lose the right to be reinstated. This does not apply to first enlistment.
ARTICLE 38
PROGRAM CALENDAR
Section L The Employer agrees to meet with the Union President and/or a Union representative to develop the program calendar.
46
ARTICLE 39
LABOR-MANAGEMENT MEETINGS
Section L In the interest of sound labor/management relations, unless mutually agree to otherwise, once every two (2) months, on a Friday, between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.. need to consider if language or procedure change the Chief Executive Officer or designee shall meet with not more than six (6) representatives of the Union to discuss those matters addressed in Section 2 below. Additional representatives may attend by mutual agreement.
Section 2, In the interest of providing timely responses to management/labor concerns, an agenda will be exchanged at least three (3) workdays in advance of the scheduled meetings with a list of the matters to be taken up at the meeting. Late agenda items may be discussed only by mutual agreement of the parties. The purpose of such meetings shall be to:
1.	Discuss the administration of this Agreement.
2.	Discuss with the Union any proposed changes by the Employer which affect the bargaining unit.
3.	Discuss the grievances, which have not been processed beyond Step 4 of the grievance procedure, but only when such discussions are mutually agreed to by the parties.
4.	Disseminate general information of interest to the parties.
5.	Discuss ways to increase productivity and improve efficiency.
6.	Give the Union representatives the opportunity to share the views of their members on
topics of interest to both parties.
7.	To consider and discuss health and safety matters relating to employees.
Section 3. If special labor/management meetings have been requested, and mutually agreed upon, they shall be convened as soon as possible.
Section 4, Labor/management meetings are not intended to be negotiations sessions to alter or amend the basic agreement.
ARTICLE 40
SAFETY COMMITTEE
Section L The Employer and the Union agree to establish a Safety Committee consisting of up to four (4) non-bargaining unit members appointed by the Employer and four (4) bargaining unit members appointed by the President of the Local Union. The purpose of the Committee is to discuss safe and healthful working conditions and procedures of the Employer and to encourage all employees to follow said procedures. The joint Safety Committee shall meet as needed or upon request if an emergency arises. The meetings shall take place during the normal business day and employees who attend shall be compensated al their normal rate of pay while in attendance.
ARTICLE 41
PROHIBITION AGAINST HIRING AHEAD OF BARGAINING UNIT EMPLOYEES
Section 1. No individual outside of the bargaining unit shall be hired for a bargaining unit position ahead of an employee in the bargaining unit who can fill that position by promotion.
47
ARTICLE 42
JOB DESCRIPTIONS/QUALIFICATIONS
Section 1.	All existing employees shall be given a copy of their current job description at hire and annually thereafter. Any employee who changes his or her job classification should receive a copy of the job description for the new position no later than the first day that the employee starts working in the new classification. New employees shall receive a copy of their job description no later than the first day that they start work. The job description must accurately describe what the employee is required to do.
Section 2.	The Employer shall not arbitrarily add unreasonable qualifications to a position, which would result in current employees being eliminated from that position.
Section 3.	Employees who are not delivery personnel shall not be required to transport or carry Employer equipment or materials weighing more than forty (40) pounds.
ARTICLE 43
OAPSE-PEOPLE PAYROLL DEDUCTION
Section L The Agency agrees to deduct from the wages of any employee an OAPSE-PEOPLE deduction as provided for in a written authorization. Such authorization must be executed by the employee and may be revoked by the employee at any time by giving written notice to both the Agency and the Union. The Agency agrees to remit any deductions made pursuant to this provision promptly to the Union together with an itemized statement showing the name of each employee from whose pay such deductions have been made and the amount deducted during the period covered by the remittance.
ARTICLE 44
USE OF FORMS
Section 1. Anytime the Employer contemplates using any new form, which affects employees or making revisions to any existing form, which affects employees, the Employer shall notify the Union at least thirty (30) days in advance.
ARTICLE 45
403 (b) PLAN
Section 1.	The Employer must notify employees of their rights under the 403 (b) Plan and shall make certain that information concerning the 403(b) Plan available for employees is distributed to employees timely. The Employer shall give employee quarterly statements itemizing the contributions to the employee's account in the Plan. An employee will be eligible for 403 (b) on the first day of the month following the first anniversary of the employee's date of hire.
Section 2.	The employee shall be able to receive his balance in the 403 (b) Plan within thirty (30) days of leaving employment.
Section 3.	The Employer agrees to contribute four percent (4%) of the employee's annual salary to the employee’s 403(b) Plan.
48
ARTICLE 46
NEGOTIATION PROCEDURES
Section L A reasonable number of representatives or designees of the Employer, and a reasonable number of representatives named by the Union shall comprise a Joint Committee for the purpose of negotiating a successor to this Agreement. In addition, each team of representatives or designees shall be authorized to admit a reasonable number of observers to such meetings. The bargaining unit members will be able to serve on the Union's negotiating team without loss of pay. All time paid to these employees while serving in negotiations shall be at the regular rate of pay.
Section 2. At least seventy-five (75) and no more than one hundred and fifty (150) days prior to the expiration date of the Agreement between the Employer and the Union, either party may notify the other of a desire to commence bargaining. Within fifteen (15) days of such notice, the parties will meet for the purpose of establishing an agenda for bargaining and to discuss administrative details. Subsequent meetings shall be held at times and places mutually agreed to by the Employer and the Union. Negotiation meetings shall be conducted during normal business hours.
Section 3, In the event the members of the joint negotiation committee are unable to reach agreement by forty-five (45) days prior to the expiration of the Agreement, either party may request the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to appoint a mediator to assist the parties in attempting to resolve all remaining issues. Should a new contract not be agreed upon by the expiration date of the original contract, the terms of this procedure shall expire and the parties -agree that the Union has not waived its right to strike should an agreement not be reached prior to the expiration date of the original contract.
Section 4. The parties also agree that this procedure shall apply to any midterm negotiations under a contractual re-opener provision and the Union has not waived its right to strike should an agreement not be reached. In the event there are negotiations pursuant to a contractual re-opener provision and agreement is not reached within thirty (30) days after reopening, either party may request the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to appoint a mediator to assist the parties in attempting to resolve all remaining issues. On such reopening, if the parties fail to reach agreement on such reopened matters within sixty (60) days after such reopening, unless time is extended by mutual agreement, then in that event, any picketing, striking or other concerted action shall not be prohibited.
ARTICLE 47
INSURANCE
Hospitalization & Health Insurance
Employees may be required to pay no more than 20% of the cost of the hospitalization and health insurance plan in effect at the time of enrollment.
If an employee declines to participate, a waiver of insurance will be signed and dated by the employee. One copy of the waiver will be filed in the employee's personnel file.
An employee will be eligible for health insurance coverage after they have completed their 90 calendar day provisional period.
49
Dental Plan
The West Ohio CAP will administer the dental plan through dental insurance carrier and all claims should be submitted to the dental insurance earner for processing and payment.
The Union and Employer agree to re-open negotiations on this Article only 60 to 30 days prior to November 1. 2020 and November 1. 2021.
rhe schedule of Benefits will be distributed to all new employees, or can be obtained from the Chief Operating Officer.
ARTICLE 48 COBRA
Under Federal law called the Comprehensive Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1986 (COBRA), most employers sponsoring group health plans must offer to their employees an extension of health coverage (called "continuation coverage") to their employees at group rates, at his/her own expense, under certain circumstances when coverage would otherwise end. We at the West Ohio CAP abide by the requirements of COBRA. The circumstances which qualify for an extension of coverage are called "qualifying events". Below is a list of qualifying events for yourself, your spouse, and your dependent children.
Qualifying Events For Yourself:
•	A reduction in hours worked makes you ineligible for coverage.
•	Termination of employment for reasons other than gross misconduct on your part.
Qualifying Events For Your Spouse:
©	Death of employee (yourself)
• Termination of your employment for reasons other than gross misconduct.
© A reduction in employee’s hours worked.
® Divorce or legal separation.
•	Employee becomes eligible for Medicare.
Qualifying Events For A Dependent Child:
•	Death of employee-parent.
•	Termination of parent’s employment for reasons other than gross misconduct.
© A reduction in parent's hours worked.
•	Parent's divorce or legal separation
•	The dependent ceases to be a dependent child under the health plan.
You or a member of your family must inform the Chief Operating Officer of a divorce, legal separation, or a child losing dependent status within 30 days of the event. The West Ohio CAP has the responsibility for notifying you or your family of continuation options within 14 days of your death, termination of employment, reduction in hours, or Medicare entitlement. If you do elect continuation coverage with the current Health Care provider, they are required to give you
50
coverage which, as of the time coverage is being provided, is identical to the coverage provided under the plan to similarly situated employees or family members for whom a qualifying event has not occurred.
COBRA requires coverage be continued for a maximum of 18 months if you lose group coverage due to termination of employment or a reduction in hours. A second qualifying event, such as divorce or a dependent child losing dependent status, may occur to your dependents while coverage is already being continued. If so. the continued dependents will be eligible for additional months of continued coverage, up to a maximum of 36 months from the date group coverage was first terminated. If group coverage is terminated because of death of the employee, divorce, legal separation, the employee's entitlement to Medicare, or dependent child losing dependent status, coverage may be continued for 36 months.
Your continuation coverage may be cut short for any of the following 3 reasons:
1.	The West Ohio CAP no longer provides group health coverage to any of its employees.
2.	The premiums for your continuation coverage are not paid.
3.	You become covered under Medicare or another group health plan.
For additional information about continuation coverage, please contact Chief Operating Officer or Chief Financial Officer.
ARTICLE 49
MEDICAL RELATED PROCEDURES/FIRST AID/CHANGING FACILITIES
Section L The Employer agrees to provide adequate training to employees who are required to perform medical related procedures including the administration of medications or perform first aid.
Section 2.	The Employer shall provide rubber gloves and all materials in order to comply with universal precautions dealing with body fluids at each work site and on each vehicle.
Section 3.	The Employer shall provide all items needed to administer medications or perform first aid at each work site and on each vehicle.
Section 4.	The Employer shall provide in classrooms proper facilities and materials for changing children including a sink with running water, gloves, sanitizing materials, disposal bucket, etc.
Section 5.	The Employer shall apply the Ohio State Board of Nursing rules and regulations to medical personnel and medical procedures performed by employees.
Section 6.	The Employer shall have a medically qualified medical liaison to oversee medical personnel.
51
ARTICLE 50 WAGES
For the period from March 11. 2019 through March 10. 2020, employees shall receive a wage increase of three (3%) retroactive to November 1, 2018. which shall include any COLA increase announced by the Office of Head Start, and such adjustment shall only be payable upon WEST OHIO CAP's receipt of the notice of funding from the Office of Head Start.
Section 1
The Employer and the Union agree to re-open negotiations on Article 50 (wages) no earlier than sixty (60) days and no later than thirty (30) days prior to March 11.2020.
Section 2
The Employer and the Union agree to re-open negotiations on Article 50 (Wages) no earlier than sixty (60) days and no later than thirty (30) days prior to March 11.2021.
ARTICLES!
TRAVEL EXPENSES
Section L Limits in charging meals are as follows: Breakfast = $ 7.00: Lunch $11.00: Dinner = $23.00 Meals eaten while providing services to participants (i.e.. community habilitation) or in those cases when the employee is on overnight stay on authorized business are reimbursable at flat rate or per Finance Procedures or Policy. Hotel or motel expenses must be prior-approved through the use of purchase orders in order to be reimbursed.
Section 2. Mileage will be reimbursed at the Internal Revenue Service rate. It is the responsibility of the employee driving the car to accurately log mileage and submit this information on the mileage form. Completed mileage forms shall be submitted to the employee's immediate supervisor on a monthly basis.
ARTICLE 52 REIMBURSEMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLE EXPENSES
Section 1. If the Transportation Manager orders a driver to operate a faulty vehicle that causes the driver to be cited for defects, the Employer will reimburse the employee for any fine received.
ARTICLE 53
FAILURE TO TIMELY PROCESS PAPERWORK
Section 1. The Employer shall file all papers relating to disability, workers' compensation and related matters, that require input from the employer within the time required by the agency or company processing the application. Failure on the part of the Employer to timely process the
52
paperwork shall result in the Employer being required to pay the employee for any expense incurred or lost benefits, if any.
ARTICLE 54 FOOD SERVICE POSITIONS
Section 1, The Employer shall provide food service employees with a smock and/or apron daily, at the Employer's cost.
ARTICLE 55 SUMMER WORK
Section L All summer work shall be offered to employees within the bargaining unit.
Section 2. Summer work shall be bid. A summer work bid list shall be created. Any employee desiring summer work shall sign the bid list. Summer work shall be awarded to the most senior applicant who is in the classification of the position.
ARTICLE 56 CHECKS/DIRECT DEPOSIT
Section L Payroll stubs shall be distributed by the Finance office, supervisor or mail to the employees on payday. If the normal pay date falls on a holiday, the payroll stubs shall be distributed on the business day immediately preceding the holiday.
Section 2.	Each payroll stub shall contain the number of hours worked, the hourly rate, the amount of overtime earned, an itemization of all deductions, the amount of sick leave used and the balance remaining, vacation balance, and personal leave balance.
Section 3.	Expense checks shall be paid within the second (2nd) pay period after submission of expenses.
Section 4.	All new employees will use direct deposit. Direct deposits shall be placed into the employee's bank account no later than 11:00 a.m. on the pay date.
Section 5.	Any shortages in an employee's check shall be corrected within twenty-four (24) hours, once employee has notified the Chief Financial Officer (CFO).
ARTICLE 57
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES
Section 1. Once transported home, children diagnosed with head lice, ringworm, or other communicable diseases may not be picked up by the bus or permitted into the classroom until the agency has received written verification by a health care provider.
53
ARTICLE 58
PRIMARY CAREGIVER/TEACHER PLANNING DAYS
Section 1. Employees shall be provided adequate time to do required paper work (i.e. lesson plans. IEP's, etc.). Employees will not be disciplined for failure to complete required paper work if time is not allotted by the Employer.
ARTICLE 59
RECALL LETTERS FROM LAYOFF
Section L Employees will receive only a Recall Letter with projected return dates that will require employees to return their recall letter by the deadline.
ARTICLE 60
MULTIPLE WORK SITES
Section 1. Employees who travel between work sites may end the day at the last site rather than return to the base work site if the employee cannot return to the base work site prior to the employee's regular quitting time, provided however, the employee who does not return to the base work site must remain at the last site until the employee's regular quitting time.
ARTICLE 61
EMERGENCY CALLS
Section L Employees shall be notified immediately when there is an emergency telephone call for the employee.
ARTICLE 62
CHANGE OF DOCUMENTS
Section 1. Management representatives shall not change pay sensitive documents supplied by an employee without the permission of the employee.
ARTICLE 63
LIGHT DUTY
Section L Any employee who is physically or mentally unable to perform the duties of the employee's position due to illness, injury, or at risk pregnancy, verified by a physician and shall be reassigned at the physician's request to a position of lighter duty, if available, for the duration of the period which the employee is unable to perform the normal duties of the position al the employee's regular rate of pay, not to exceed 90 days.
Section 2. An employee shall not lose his position because of the creation of a light duty position for another employee.
ARTICLE 64
CELLULAR TELEPHONES
Section 1. For safety reasons, agency cellular telephones shall be available for use by employees who perform home visits alone. The employees shall not use the cell phone for personal business.
54
Personal cell phones should be used for “emergency situations'* only, or at break or lunch. All cell phones should be placed in “vibrate, ringer off or manner mode'* during work hours, if they must be available. Texting or accessing the internet shall be regarded as cell phone usage.
ARTICLE 65 SEVERABILITY
Section 1.	Should any part of this Agreement or any provisions contained herein be declared invalid by a tribunal of competent jurisdiction, and federal or state legislation, governmental regulation, or court decision, it shall be of no further force and effect, but such invalidation of a part or provision of this Agreement shall not invalidate the remaining portions and they shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 2.	In the event any provision herein is so rendered invalid, upon written request of either party hereto, the Employer and the Union will meet promptly for the purpose of discussing a mutually satisfactory replacement for such provision.
ARTICLE 66 SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS
Section 1, The covenants and agreements herein contained shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties and their representatives, successors, and assigns.
ARTICLE 67 DURATION
, Section I. This agreement shall be effective as of March 11, 2019 and shall remain in full force and effect until March 11, 2022.
FOR THE UNION
55
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Between
LIMA/ALLEN COUNCIL ON COMMUNITY AFFAIRS (LACCA)
And
OAPSE LOCAL 133 COLLECTIVE BARGAINING UNIT
March 2, 2010
2010-2011 WAGE AGREEMENT
For the period from March 11, 2010 through March 10, 2011, wage increases shall be as set forth herein.
Retroactive to November 1st, 2009, the base hourly rate for all employees shall be increased by one percent (1%).
It is recognized that the one-time temporary stimulus one percent (1%) increase expires August 28, 2010. Effective August 29, 2010, employees shall receive an increase of one percent (1%) in their base hourly rate, subject to Office of Head Start Regional Office approval.
For LACCA	For Local #133
Attachment #1
Tentative Agreement between LACCA & Local 133 Pending Ratification and Board Approval
March 2, 2010
Wage Increases
All employees will receive 1.0% salary increase, retro to 11-1-2009.
All base salary grades will be adjusted at 1.0%.
Effective August 29th 2010, employees shall receive an increase of one percent (1%) in their base hourly rate, subject to Office of HS Regional office approval.
Salary Grade changes
Grade 6 — Add Primary Caregiver/FSW $.50 increase at each level
Grade 4 - Add $.50 for co-teacher w/CDA
Longevity
Add $.20 Longevity for current employees lOplus yrs of service as of August 14, 2007 payable first full pay of 2007-08 Head Start school year one time retro from Nov 1, 2006.
In subsequent years, employee with 10 yrs or more of service will receive $.20 hr adjustment with first fall payroll period of that Head Start Year, non-retroactive.
Health Insurance
Stays the same
Re-opener before January 1, 2011
Holidays
Add one Personal Day
**Note Personal Day as 3 total
I	3//<A
LONGEVITY ADJUSTMENT
Employees who earn 10 years or more service prior to August 14th of any calendar year, shall receive a one-time adjustment of $.30 per hour effective with the first full payroll period of the Head Start year. Employees who received a longevity adjustment of $.20 per hour prior to August 14th, 2013 will receive a one-time adjustment of $. 10 per our effective with the first full payroll period following August 14th, 2013.
__£m£.-_iijm£ J^DUrS—Ecx_
Vvb'nl
__bcuV;________L6_o_s/D„Ma.rA__in

lL_ .Ard-^£u^Aire_LDL^13LQjQe_£JiiA^Aedi Ao. J^dr.
A_ 3aha/- ±jMU£JL-§>£^l 4^-.% l&ToLr&t±e£ 4-f-crfi-£& -thSr-r^e & "i&JL ^iln
LONGEVITY ADJUSTMENT
Employees who earn 20 years or more service prior August 14th of any year, shall receive a one-time adjustment of $.20 per hour effective with the first full payroll of the Head Start program year to begin in August 2018. (Part of the Wage Reopener in 2018)
FOR MANAGEMENT
LIMA / ALLEN COUNCIL ON COMMUNITY AFFAIRS
SALARY BY GRADE - Ratified 4/4/19
Attachment #2
Retro 11/1/17, Eff. pay Retro 11/1/18, Eff. pay period begin 8/5/18 period begin 4/14/19
Bargaining Unit Positions	Certification Type	2018	2018	2019	2019
	Grade 6	2.60% New Hire	3.00% Non-New Hire	1.77% New Hire	3.00% Non-New Hire
Classroom Teacher	With AA	$	12.33	$	13.64	$	12.55	$	14.05
Classroom Teacher	With BS	$	15.09	$	16.70	$	15.36	$	17.20
Classroom Teacher	With MA/MS	$	15.44	$	17.08	$	15.71	$	17.59
Home Based Teacher	With AA	$	12.33	$	13.64	$	12.55	$	14.05
Home Based Teacher	With BS	$	15.09	$	16.70	$	15.36	$	17.20
Home Based Teacher	With MA/MS	$	15.44	$	17.08	$	15.71	$	17.59
Teacher / Family Service Worker	With AA	$	12.33	$	13.64	$	12.55	$	14.05
Teacher / Family Service Worker	With BS	$	15.09	$	16.70	$	15.36	$	17.20
Teacher / Family Service Worker	With MA/MS	$	15.44	$	17.08	$	15.71	$	17.59
					
Specialist (All)	With AA or CDA	$	12.33	$	13.64	$	12.55	$	14.05
Specialist (All)	With BS	$	13.52	$	14.97	$	13.76	$	15.42
Specialist (All)	With MA/MS	$	13.91	$	15.39	$	14.16	$	15.85
Primary Caregiver	With CDA	$	10.77	$	11.75	$	10.96	$	12.10
Primary Caregiver	With AA	$	12.33	$	13.64	$	12.55	$	14.05
Primary Caregiver	With BS	$	15.09	$	16.70	$	15.36	$	17.20
Primary Caregiver	With MA/MS	$	15.44	$	17.08	$	15.71	$	17.59
Primary Caregiver / FSW	With CDA	$	11.16	$	12.33	$	11.36	$	12.70
Primary Caregiver / FSW	With AA	$	12.89	$	14.23	$	13.12	$	14.66
Primary Caregiver / FSW	With BS	$	15.63	$	17.30	$	15.91	$	17.82
_Primary_Caregjver_/FSW _	With MA/MS Grade 5	$	15.99	$	17.66	$	16.27	$	18.19
Bus Drivers	CDL	$	11.68	$	12.91	$	11.89	$	13.30
Delivery Driver	CDL	$	11.68	$	12.91	$	11.89	$	13.30
Janitorial Techinician	No CDL	$	11.68	$	12.91	$	11.89	$	13.30
Van Drivers	No CDL	$	10.55	$	10.66	$	10.74	$	10.98
Dispatcher	No Degree Grade 4	$	10.55	$	10.66	$	10.74	$	10.98
Co-Teacher	No Degree	$	10.26	$	10.30	$	10.44	$	10.61
Co-Teacher	With CDA	$	10.77	$	10.82	$	10.96	$	11.14
Co-Teacher	With AA	$	11.03	$	11.75	$	11.23	$	12.10
Co-Teacher	With BS	$	11.29	$	12.22	$	11.49	$	12.59
Co-Teacher / FSW	No Degree	$	10.26	$	10.30	$	10.44	$	10.61
Co-Teacher / FSW	With CDA	$	10.77	$	10.82	$	10.96	$	11.14
Co-Teacher / FSW	With AA	$	11.03	$	11.75	$	11.23	$	12.10
Co-Teacher / FSW	With BS	$	11.29	$	12.22	$	11.49	$	12.59
Child Care Worker	No Degree	$	10.26	$	10.30	$	10.44	$	10.61
Child Care Worker	With CDA	$	10.77	$	10.82	$	10.96	$	11.14
Child Care Worker	With AA	$	11.03	$	11.75	$	11.23	$	12.10
Union Salaries by Grade.xls/lja
7/17/2019
Attachment #2
LIMA / ALLEN COUNCIL ON COMMUNITY AFFAIRS
SALARY BY GRADE - Ratified 4/4/19
Gracie 4
Family Service Worker	No Degree	$	10.26	$	10.30	$	10.44	$	10.61
Family Service Worker	With AA	$	11.03	$	11.75	$	11.23	$	12.10
Family Service Worker	With BS	$	13.37	$	14.81	$	13.61	$	15.25
Family Service Worker	With MA/MS	$	13.76	$	15.22	$	14.00	$	15.68
Receptioni£t/Di_spatcher _	No Degree	$	10.26	$	10.30	$	10.44	$	10.61
	Grade 3								
Food Service Worker	No Degree	$	10.26	$	10.30	$	10.44	$	10.61
Food Service Worker	With Food Serv Cert	$	10.77	$	10.82	$	10.96	$	11.14
	Grade 2								
Administrative Support Staff	No Degree								
Administrative Support Staff	With Certification								
Administrative Support Staff	With AA								
Program Secretary	No Degree	$	10.26	$	10.30	$	10.44	$	10.61
Program Secretary	With AA	$	12.36	$	13.64	$	12.58	$	14.05
Health Assistant	No Degree								
Health Assistant	With Certification								
Health Assistant	With AA								
Disabilities Assistant	No Degree								
Disabilities Assistant	With Certification								
Disabilities Assistant	With AA								
Parent Involvement Assistant	No Degree								
Parent Involvement Assistant	With Certification								
Parent Involvement Assistant	With AA								
Data Entry Clerk	No Degree								
Data Entry Clerk	With Certification								
_Data EntryClerk	_	With AA								
*	New Hire rate remains in effect for one full calendar year based on hire date.
*	Non-new hire rate is for promotional opportunities beyond the one full calendar year eligibility only.
Union Salaries by Grade.xls/lja
7/17/2019