K9983
NON-DISCRIMINATION POLICY
We believe each individual has the right to work in a professional atmosphere that promotes equal employment opportunities and prohibits unlawful discriminatory practices, including harassment. It is expected that all relationships be business-like and free of bias, prejudice and harassment and we are committed to a work environment in which all individuals are treated with respect and dignity.
It is the policy of Cartamundi to ensure equal employment opportunity without discrimination or harassment on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, pregnancy, childbirth and related medical conditions, sex stereotyping, transgender status, and gender identity, national origin (including limited English proficiency), age, disability, or political affiliation or belief, or, against any other basis as defined by law in the future. These policies will apply consistently to any employment related action and business or work related social activity or discussion, including but not linn :ed to recruitment, hiring, demotion, promotion, transfer, layoff, termination, rate of pay or any other such action.
US1DOCS 6065785vl
-I-
Local 224 Officers
2019
President....................
Financial Treasurer..........
Recorder.....................
1st Vice President...........
2nd Vice President...........
3rd Vice President...........
Trustee......................
Scott Trudell
John McCaffrey Edward Nieves Raymond Montagna Bryan McCarthy Robert Bozek Odalie Ince
-II-
INDEX
Page
AGREEMENT.....................................................1
ARTICLE I	- RECOGNITION.......................................1
ARTICLE II	- HOURS OF LABOR...................................2
ARTICLE III	- OVERTIME - HOLIDAYS............................4
ARTICLE IV	- RATE OF PAY......................................6
ARTICLE V	- SENIORITY AND LAYOFFS............................7
ARTICLE VI	- JOB BIDDING PROCEDURE...........................12
ARTICLE VII	- DISTRIBUTION OF WORK...........................14
ARTICLE VIII	- ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES......................14
ARTICLE IX	- GENERAL AGREEMENT...............................16
ARTICLE X	- VACATIONS........................................20
ARTICLE XI	- LEAVES OF ABSENCE...............................21
ARTICLE XII	- MILITARY SERVICE...............................23
ARTICLE XIII	- DEATH IN IMMEDIATE FAMILY.....................23
ARTICLE XIV	- TERMINATION....................................24
WORK AREAS...................................................26
WAGE STRUCTURE...............................................27
CLASSIFICATIONS..............................................28
JOB SKILL PROGRESSIONS.......................................31
-Ill-
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT, effective the 1st day of April 2019 between Cartamundi East Longmeadow LLC (hereinafter referred to as the Company), and RETAIL, WHOLESALE AND DEPARTMENT STORE UNION/LOCAL 224, United Food Commercial Workers. Playthings, Jewelry and Novelty Workers Division (hereinafter referred to as the Union).
ARTICLE I	- RECOGNITION
1.01 The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all production, maintenance and warehouse employees at its Plants in East Longmeadow, Massachusetts and within a 30 mile radius, excluding however, all clerical and professional employees and all supervisory employees as defined in the National Labor Relations Act.
1.02 Union Membership: All present employees who are now members of the Union, shall, as a condition of employment, continue to remain members of the Union in good standing. All new employees shall, not later than thirty (30) days following the beginning of such employment, acquire and maintain membership in the Union to the extent of paying such periodic dues and initiation fees as are uniformly required of all Union members as set forth on the check off card signed by the individual employees.
The Union agrees that neither it nor any of its officers will expel any member in good standing contrary to its Constitution and By-laws.
1.03 The Company agrees to deduct initiation fees and weekly dues in such amounts as may be specified by the Union as officially and duly established under its Constitution and By-laws, from the earned wages of those employees to whom this Agreement applies, who are members of the Union, and who individually in writing have authorized such deductions. The Union will give the Company written notice of initiation fees and weekly dues and will notify the Company of any changes at least thirty (30) days in advance of the date that any changes therein shall become effective.
The Company shall make available to the Union on the first Friday of each month a check comprising of the deductions of initiation fees and weekly dues from the employees’ pay checks.
1.04 All new employees in Labor Grades 6 and below shall be considered probationary employees until they have completed a thirty (30) day probationary period. All new employees in Labor Grades 7 and above shall be considered probationary employees until they have completed a sixty (60) day probationary period. The discharge or layoff and seniority rights of probationary workers shall not be subject to review by the Union during the probationary period. A ninety (90) day probationary period shall apply for purposes of attendance under the Company’s attendance policy.
1.05 The Company reserves the right to hire temporary employees. Temporary employees are employees who are hired to work not more than 1040 hours of a calendar year. The number of temporary employees employed at one time will not exceed 50% of the total number of regular employees. The Union’s agreement to increase the number of temporary employees will not be unreasonably withheld.
-1-
The Company agrees to provide the Union prior to the starting dates of these employees their names and starting dates. These employees will be designated as temporary employees and will receive a signed receipt from the Company as to their temporary status. The discharge of temporary employees is subject to review by the Union after the first 90 days of employment. The layoff and seniority rights of temporary employees shall not be subject to review by the Union. Temporary employees are not eligible for any insurance related benefits.
Temporary employees will not be offered overtime if it deprives regular employees the opportunity to work overtime within the work area.
Temporary employees are not eligible for job bidding unless all other regular employee bidders have been considered and the job remains open. If a temporary employee is a successful bidder, such employee will be subject to the applicable probationary period in Section 1.04.
A temporary employee who bids for and accepts a permanent position will be paid a training rate equal to the mid-point between the current Federal/State minimum wage and the start rate for the position for which the employee is hired. Once the employee completes the probationary period, he/she will receive the start rate for the position for which he/she was hired.
ARTICLE II	- HOURS OF LABOR
2.01 Eight (8) consecutive hours, exclusive of a lunch period, shall constitute a workday, and a workweek will be defined as beginning:
Sunday, p.m. (Third Shift)
Monday, a.m. (First Shift)
Monday, p.m. (Second Shift)
Any time worked over eight (8) hours per day and/or forty (40) hours per week, shall be classified as overtime.
At the signing of this contract, Union and Management have agreed to the hours of work and lunch periods as posted in each cost center. Any changes to these work hours, lunch periods or work week will be made by mutual agreement, except that the Company may make changes to work hours, lunch period or work week on a cost center basis as a result of capital investment, new equipment or productivity improvement/business process improvement initiatives, after notice to and consultation with the Union.
At the signing of this contract, Union and Management have agreed to the hours of work and lunch periods as posted in each cost center. Any changes to these work hours or lunch periods will be made only by mutual agreement, except that the Company may make changes to work hours on a cost center basis as a result of capital investments or new equipment, after notice to and consultation with the Union.
The Company reserves the right to establish other part-time or full-time shifts as necessary to maintain production requirements.
2.02 Buildings with cost centers having a three-shift operation will work continuous hours in these centers that work three (3) shifts. Other changes may be made by mutual agreement between the Union and Management, except that the Company may make changes to work hours on a cost
-2-
center basis as a result of capital investments or new equipment, after notice to and consultation with the Union.
2.03 Any employee who has completed his or her regular shift, has left the Plant and is recalled to work shall be guaranteed a minimum of three (3) hours pay at one and a half times the employee’s regular rate of pay. If the call is of an emergency nature, the employee called in to do the job shall only be required to do the job that they have been called in for. Employees who are called in to work on a weekend shall receive one and a half their regular rate of pay.
Employees who report for work at the regular starting time on their shift when they have not been notified not to report and for whom work is unavailable, shall be provided with four (4) hours work or four (4) hours straight time pay in lieu thereof at their regular rate of pay.
In the event there is insufficient work for any employee in his or her job classification within his or her cost center, the employee may be reassigned to perform other appropriate work in the Plant. For the purposes of this provision, “other appropriate work” shall be defined to mean work within the employee’s classification, job family, or work which the employee has the skills and ability to do with minimal training. A “job family” is a collection of job classifications related by skill progression, skill set requirements, process location or similar job requirements. The affected employee will retain his or her rate of pay.
An employee may not be assigned work outside of his or her classification which would jeopardize his or her safety or the safety of other employees.
However, this clause shall not apply in case of fire, acts of God, power interruption, major machine breakdown, or similar circumstances beyond the Company’s control after the employee reports to work.
A notice not to report for work as required by this Article will be given by the Company either by telephone, radio, or by other public announcement at least one and a quarter (1-1/4) hours before the time the employee is scheduled to report to work.
2.04 Forty cents ($.40) per hour will be added for each straight time hour worked as a shift differential for all work done on a full eight (8) hour second shift.
2.05 Sixty-five cents ($.65) per hour will be added for each straight time hour worked as a shift differential for all work done on a full eight (8) hour third shift.
2.06 To recognize that in order to increase productivity the Company may feasibly stagger meal breaks so that core process equipment may run 24 hours, provided that the Company shall accommodate Union concerns as long as they do not affect the continuous operation of the core process equipment.
2.07 In cases of emergency, employees who are asked to work during their lunch period shall receive an additional ten (10) minute rest period with pay and will be considered to be on a continuous shift for the day.
Employees who have a twenty (20) minute lunch break with pay are not allowed to leave the building without their supervisor’s permission.
-3-
2.08 Employees who are temporarily transferred to another shift at the Company’s request shall receive their shift differential.
ARTICLE III	- OVERTIME - HOLIDAYS
3.01 All work performed in excess of eight (8) hours in any one-day and work performed on Saturday shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2).
The Union will not engage in a concerted refusal of overtime work. Employees are required to do such overtime work as is necessary in order to maintain production requirements except that, on request, an employee will be excused from doing such work if notice was not given by three (3) hours into the shift two (2) days, or earlier, prior to such overtime work being required, or, may be excused for other reasons at the discretion of the Company.
3.02 All work performed on Sunday shall be paid for at the rate of double time. However, should any shift be established whose workweek commences on a day other than a Monday, time and one-half (1-1/2) shall be paid for the sixth (6th) day and double time for the seventh (7th) day.
3.03 Work performed by employees eligible for holiday pay on any of the holidays listed in the following section, shall be paid for at the rate of double time in addition to holiday pay of eight (8) hours. However, time and one-half (1-1/2) will be paid for work performed on any of the holidays listed in the following section in the event that the employee does not work his/her entire scheduled work week in the week in which the holiday occurs; provided, further, that work performed in excess of eight (8) hours on a holiday shall be compensated at the rate of double time.
-4-
3.04 The Company agrees to pay eight (8) hours pay based on the employee’s rate of pay to all regular employees who have worked the scheduled work day before and the scheduled work day after in their home cost center and have worked any voluntary work days before and/or after the following listed holidays:
New Year’s Day
Presidents’ Day Good Friday Day before Memorial Day Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Veterans’ Day Thanksgiving Day Day after Thanksgiving Day before Christmas Christmas Day Employee Birthday (floating birthday holiday)*1
1. The Employee Birthday will be converted to a “Floating Birthday Holiday”. The Floating Birthday Holiday will be planned during the vacation planning process per articles 10.04 and 10.05.
In the case of an emergency where the employee fails to meet the holiday pay eligibility requirement, the Union President and Management will review each case where proper documentation has been provided in order to determine whether to excuse the employee from the holiday pay eligibility requirement.
In addition, all second and third shift employees will have their respective shift differentials included in their average hourly straight time earnings. Furthermore, part-time workers shall receive holiday pay based upon their normally scheduled workday.
Within the first nine (9) calendar months of each calendar year, January through September, employees requesting permission to be excused from work at time of overtime notice will be excused by Management from Saturday work which is scheduled either prior to Monday holidays or following Friday holidays and will not be considered to have failed to work the day preceding the Monday holiday or following the Friday holiday for purposes of holiday pay qualifications if they have worked their regularly scheduled shift proceeding the Monday holiday or following the Friday holiday. However, employees who have agreed to work said Saturday or have failed to request permission at the time of overtime and who fail to appear for such Saturday work will be considered to have failed to fulfill the requirements for holiday pay. Also, during this nine (9) calendar month period, all other requirements for holiday pay eligibility must be fulfilled. If any employee is laid off by the Company for lack of work during a week in which a holiday falls, they shall be paid for the holiday. In addition, any employee who is recalled during a week in which a holiday occurs said employee shall be paid for that holiday. An employee with a recall date will receive subsequent holiday pay that falls within his/her layoff period.
Probationary workers who are discharged during the week in which a holiday falls will not be paid holiday pay, except that probationary employees with at least thirty (30) days employment
-5-
will be paid for the holiday providing that the employee works the scheduled work day before and after the holiday.
Working on holidays will be voluntary.
3.05 The Company will notify the Union forty-eight (48) hours prior to any of the holidays mentioned in this Article, of their intention to operate or close down.
3.06 Employees who are permitted a sick leave will be given one (1) day’s holiday pay if one or more of the named holidays falls during the period of their excused sick leave or in the week they return from sick leave. However, in the event of consecutive holidays (Thanksgiving, Day after Thanksgiving, Day before Christmas and Christmas Day), employees will be paid two (2) days holiday pay. Such pay to be given at the same time holiday pay is made up for all factory employees.
3.07 If any of the holidays covered in this Agreement falls on a Sunday, it shall be celebrated on the following Monday or if it falls on a Saturday, it shall be celebrated on the proceeding Friday. The Plant will close and any work performed on such a Monday or Friday will be paid for at the rate of double time plus the regular holiday pay, provided the employee works his/her entire scheduled work week in which the holiday occurs. If this condition is not fulfilled, the employee will be paid for the holiday at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2).
3.08 If an employee is required to come in before their normal starting time and is allowed to leave early because of a lack of work or emergency, they shall be paid for the hours prior to their normal starting time at the rate of time and one half (1-1/2).
3.09 An employee will not be obligated to work more than ten (10) hours of overtime in his/her cost center in any five (5) day work week (typically Monday through Friday) during the period from January 1 through June 30. During the period from July 1 through December 31, an employee will not be obligated to work more than ten (10) hours of overtime in his/her cost center in any five (5) day workweek (typically Monday through Friday) and, after exhausting voluntary options more than eight (8) hours of overtime in his/her cost center during the sixth and seventh days of the workweek (typically Saturday/Sunday). Any voluntary overtime in another cost center shall not count toward an employee’s ten (10) or (8) hours of overtime, as applicable.
ARTICLE IV	- RATE OF PAY
4.01 The minimum starting rate for employees shall be $12.00 per hour, or the current Federal/State minimum wage, whichever is greater.
4.02 Effective as of April 1, 2019, all regular, full-time employees covered by this agreement shall receive an increase of 2.0%.
Effective as of March 30, 2020, all regular full-time employees covered by this agreement shall receive an increase of 2.0%.
All regular full-time employees on payroll as of April 1, 2019 will receive a one-time $200.00 signing bonus.
-6-
Effective April 1, 2019, the “snow crew” will be compensated at the rate of $100.00 per person per event. The definition of event will be agreed to by the Union representing the “snow crew” and the Management.
4.03 Overtime shall be computed daily.
4.04 All employees are to have five (5) minutes wash-up time at noon and five (5) minutes wash-up time at the end of the day.
4.05 Employees who are called upon for Jury Duty will not be required to report for work on a morning when they are required to report for Jury Duty. It is expected, however, that if they are dismissed or excused for the balance of the day before noon that they will report for work for the balance of the day. The Company and Union agreed to the implementation of the Middlesex Jury Law which became effective January 1, 1985.
Employees who report for Jury Duty and are dismissed early and cannot report for work because their shift has been completed shall receive their normal days pay. Hardship cases regarding payments for Jury Duty will be handled through Human Resources.
4.06 Employees called in to work on snow removal shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) their regular rate of pay for all hours worked prior to the start of their regular shift. Any employees called in to work snow removal on Sunday shall be paid at the rate two times their regular rate of pay.
Employees who work on snow removal will be allowed to work their normally scheduled shift, but in no event more than twelve (12) continuous hours unless permission to do so is specifically granted by the Supervisor.
4.07 If the Company hires an employee from outside the Company, the employee will be slotted to the same rate of pay as current employees in the same job classification provided that such employees have the same number of year’s experience. The Union President and a Human Resources Manager will approve the rate to which the new hire should be slotted. If licenses are necessary for the position, this clause is not applicable.
If an employee bids and is accepted on a job, the employee will not be paid at a rate higher than the lowest rate paid for the job. If the employee has at least five (5) years seniority, Management will, with participation from the Union President, slot the employee based upon seniority job rate, and related work experience. Lateral and down bids, if accepted, shall be slotted by Management, with participation from the Union President, at a rate not to exceed the job rate, provided, if a down bid is within a job skill progression, the employee will be slotted by seniority or at 90% of the employee’s current rate, whichever is greater.
ARTICLE V	- SENIORITY AND LAYOFFS
5.01 The Company and Union agree that when making promotion decisions within the bargaining unit and/or increases or decreases of the work force, the Company shall be governed by employee length of service when the ability of the candidates is relatively equal.
-7-
5.02 In the event of a Reduction in Force, displacement shall take place in the following order:
(a)	Seniority permitting, the affected employee shall bump the least senior employee on the same shift and in the same job classification.
(b)	Seniority permitting, the affected employee shall bump the least senior employee in the same job classification on the shift of his/her choice. The same job classification shall be defined as the specific job title that the affected employee holds. However, in the event of a reduction in force within a job skill progression within the same job classification, an affected employee would be given an option of bumping the least senior employee in the lowest job classification on the shift of his/her choice, seniority permitting. In this situation, the affected employee will retain his/her former job classification.
(c)	Seniority permitting, the affected employee shall bump the least senior employee on the shift of their choice in the job last previously held by the employee. This only may occur if the affected employee is immediately able to perform the job with customary orientation for the position. The affected employee would be paid a rate commensurate with his/her skill for the job classification he/she was being placed in. In placing an employee into a position, the pay rate and seniority of the incoming employee will be comparable to other employees with similar seniority currently holding the classification.
When a Reduction in Force, outside of a Company designated shutdown period exceeds thirty (30) days, Core Process employees, defined as Labor Grade 8 and above, may bump the least senior employee in a job not previously held, regardless of seniority and shift, if the following conditions are met: (1) the Job is recognized as a Job of Last Resort and (2) the affected employee is qualified to perform the job with only such training as is necessary for an employee who holds the classification. If the employee has at least five (5) years seniority, Management shall, with participation from the Union President, slot the employee to the rate of the job based upon job rate, seniority and related work experience at a rate not to exceed 150% of the job rate for the position bumped into. This process is voluntary, and the Core Process employee is not required to accept the assignment and may choose to go on to layoff status.
(d)	Employees affected by the Reduction in Force will be indefinitely laid off and will not be allowed to bump job classifications, which they have not held. However, seniority permitting, affected employees may bump the following Job of Last Resort classifications:
Jobs of Last Resort:
Utility Operator-Level 1 WC45 (LG 5)
Utility Assembler-Level 1 (LG 5)
Logistics Shipper-Level 1 (LG 7)
Manufacturing Materials-Level 1 (LG 7)
-8-
Technical Jobs of Last Resort:
Molding Trainee-Level 1 (LG 6)
Machine Technician-Level 1 (LG 7)
Machine Technician-Level 1 - Casemaking (LG 7)
Seniority permitting, affected employees will have their choice of bumping the least senior employee on the shift of their choice. If the employee has at least five (5) years seniority, Management shall, with participation from the Union President, slot the employee to the rate of the job based upon job rate, seniority and related work experience.
(e)	Within the Reduction in Force Procedure, where ability is equal, length of continuous service will prevail.
If a job is lost through a Reduction in Force and is subsequently reposted and a displaced employee from that specific job classification is awarded the job within two years of his/her displacement the pay rate will be comparable to other employees with similar seniority holding the classification if they are able to perform the identified job with customary orientation for the position.
5.03 No employee may claim seniority over any job or classification except when Section 5.02 (d) applies. When a cost center is liquidated and its operations absorbed by another cost center, the employees of the former cost center shall retain Plant seniority in the new cost center.
5.04 (a) When a temporary layoff outside of a Company-designated shutdown period exceeds thirty (30) days, the affected employee may bump the least senior employee within classification on the shift of his/her choice, seniority permitting, and, within 180 days, may return to his/her prior job classification. It shall be the responsibility of affected employees to provide notice of a desire to return to his/her previous shift and job classification by bidding upon a posted position and by noting that the bid is to return to his/her previous shift and job classification. Temporary layoffs are defined as layoffs with a recall date.
(b)	When a temporary layoff outside of a Company-designated shutdown period exceeds (30) thirty days, affected “core process” classified employees may bump per 5.02(d) if they are able to perform the identified job with customary orientation for the position. The affected employee will receive a pay rate not to exceed 150% of the labor grade job rate for the position that they are bumping into if it is identified as a Job of last resort. This process is voluntary and the Core Process employee is not required to accept the assignment and may choose to go on to layoff status.
(c)	When cost center activities curtail prior to the year-end Company designated shutdown, cost center employees may bump within cost center and within exact classification and may return to his/her prior shift of record, seniority permitting, when cost center activities commence. Management, with participation from the Union President, will manage this process.
-9-
5.05 When business conditions necessitate a curtailment of cost center operations, all probationary employees, temporary employees and employees with six months or less seniority may be laid off from that department.
5.06 If one or more laid-off employees are needed for temporary (up to six (6) weeks) employment, laid off employees, in point of seniority within classification as above defined, will be given the opportunity of doing such work as required as he/she so desires. In the event the number of employees needed for temporary employment is not met, point of lowest seniority shall be required to do above temporary work as the business necessitates. Any employee who is not needed to perform the above temporary work shall not be considered to have broken their service record as set out in this Article 9.22.
5.07 It shall be the responsibility of each laid-off employee to furnish the Company with the information if he/she changes their address or telephone number during the time of layoff.
5.08 No new employees shall be hired so long as there are laid-off employees who desire to return and are capable of performing the work required. Employees who are called back to work on a seniority basis to jobs other than those, which they have performed, shall be slotted by Management, with participation from the Union President, based upon seniority, job rate, and related work experience.
5.09 Seniority shall prevail in the choice of shifts to be worked or when there are openings or vacancies, business conditions permitting, providing ability, work record, skill and work experience are relatively equal as determined by Management after consultation with the Union President.
Seniority is not to be construed to mean that an employee can claim preference during the course of the day on a job being performed by another employee because of the completion of a job by said employee or of interruption of operation due to a breakdown or the like.
5.10 If seniority, as above defined, is not observed, the employee involved shall receive full financial remuneration for time lost, provided the Union has presented a grievance to the Supervisor of the cost center involved, in writing, within forty-eight (48) hours of the time the events giving rise to the grievance were known or should have been known to the employee, the Union, or any person acting on behalf of the Union.
5.11 When an employee is permanently transferred from one cost center to another, said employee shall retain their Plant seniority.
5.12 Before implementing a temporary or indefinite layoff or recall, the following will apply:
(a)	A meeting will be held with the following: The Local Union President or his/her representative, the Director(s) of the affected Departments or his/her representative,
-10-
and the Human Resources Representative. This meeting will be held to insure the due process of applicable contractual rights of the affected employees.
(b)	In cases of layoff, either temporary or indefinite, it is agreed that the Human Resources Representative will give a layoff list to the Union President, or in his/her absence the Union Representative, before implementation and Section 5.12(a) has been adhered to, forty-eight (48) hours prior to the commencement of such layoff and also will supply a list of recall after layoff.
(c)	Affected employees with or without bumping rights will be processed through the Human Resources Department (see Reduction in Force Procedure) with Union representation. Employees without bumping rights will be notified of layoff and given applicable information concerning unemployment compensation, benefits and bidding rights.
(d)	Employees notified of layoff shall work the full schedule for his/her cost center of the following regular work day after they have been notified of layoff, except in emergencies beyond the control of the Management, such as breakdowns. If an Employee chooses not to work the following regular weekday after notification, layoff shall be deemed to have commenced the day of notification.
(e)	Employees who are laid off will maintain bidding rights and recall rights for a period of one (1) year from date of layoff.
(f)	Employees who bid on a job from layoff and are accepted only will maintain recall rights to their former job for thirty (30) days, unless their seniority permits them to bump their former job.
(g)	When there is a need to recall employees from lay-off, the Union President or his/her representative will be notified.
(h)	The Human Resources Department will contact an affected employee eligible for recall by phone and/or certified mail at the address of record. It is the affected employee’s obligation to provide the Human Resources Department, with a current address/phone number.
(i)	Employees will be recalled to their former position and shift. Employees will first be recalled to their former position, seniority permitting, or may be recalled to a Non-Technical Job of Last Resort, if available, and seniority permitting. Employees failing to respond will be removed from payroll as a voluntary quit.
(j)	Employees on layoff for a greater period than thirty (30) days must clear through the Medical Department prior to returning to work.
5.13 The Group Leader and Group Leader Technical job progressions will limit the bumping rights of those within the classifications to the cost centers in which they work. No Group Leader or Group Leader Technical will be able to claim seniority rights within these classifications other than within their home cost center.
Within the Skilled Trades (CC20) employees holding the Group Leader Technical job classification will only be able to utilize bumping rights within the discipline that they oversee (i.e. Electrical, Utility/Millwright, and Maintenance Machine Repair).
-11-
ARTICLE VI - JOB BIDDING PROCEDURE
6.01 The Human Resource Department will post any open job for a period of three (3) business days, during which time any employee may apply for it. Priority shall be given to employees in the cost center. Lateral bids may, after consultation with the Union President, be allowed as long as the bid is not within the same job classification. However, any accepted employee with less than five (5) years seniority will not be allowed to earn a rate greater than the lowest rate paid in the job classification. Furthermore, both lateral and downbids, if accepted, after consultation with the Union President, cannot occur until one (1) year has elapsed from previous acceptance of his/her job position. If no applications are received, or none accepted by the Company, the job will be filled by hiring from outside the Plant.
If an employee has bid on a job and has a Suspension or a Written #2, the bidder may be denied an open position at the discretion of the Company after consultation with the Union President.
Should the Union disagree with Management’s refusal to accept any bids, the Union shall be allowed to discuss it with the Company.
If an employee applies, and the Management accepts the applicant for trial, the applicant will be given a trial period not to exceed thirty (30) days. During the trial period, the employee shall retain seniority rights in his/her former cost center. If, at any time during the thirty (30) days either the employee or the Company decides to terminate the trial period, the employee will be returned to the former department without loss of seniority.
6.02 The Company agrees to allow employees with one (1) year of service in their current job classification to request a shift change when such a vacancy within his or her job classification exists on the shift of their choice. However, for Labor Grades 8 and above, the Company would require a period of up to sixty (60) days to train a replacement before the transfer is affected. For Labor Grades 2 through 7, the Company would require a period of up to thirty (30) days to train a replacement before the transfer is affected. For all Labor Grades, the training period will commence on the date when the replacement begins work. In addition, employees in Labor Grades 2 through 7 who have at least six (6) months of service in their current job classification will be allowed to bid on positions which are of a higher labor grade. In the case of an employee in Labor Grade 8 and up whose bid is accepted, that employee shall not be allowed to bid upon another position for at least one (1) year.
6.03 It is understood and agreed that in all cases of promotion within the bargaining unit, increase or decrease of working forces, the following factors shall be considered and where ability is relatively equal, length of continuous service shall govern.
6.04 Jobs will be filled in the following order: within cost center, work area, Plant wide.
(a)	Most senior bidder who had previously held the open job but lost it through a reduction in force within the last twelve (12) months. However, if a position which an employee held and was subsequently reduced from becomes open again within six (6) months, the employee will be given the option of returning to his/her former position without posting the position.
-12-
(b)	Among bidders who hold the same classification and bidders who are down bidding, the most senior bidder.
(c)	Most senior bidder in the work area where ability is relatively equal.
6.05 All hourly job bids will be posted for three (3) consecutive business days until 3:00 p.m. on the third day. The employee shall sign a receipt when bidding on a job and copies of the signed receipt shall be given to the employee and to the Union.
6.06 If a job is posted after 12:00 noon on a business day, the three-day period will not begin until the following business day.
6.07 (a) If the employee has at least five (5) years seniority, Management will, with participation from the Union President, slot the employee based upon seniority, job rate, and related work experience. Lateral and down bids, if accepted, shall be slotted by Management, with participation from the Union President, at a rate not to exceed the job rate, provided, if a down bid is within a job skill progression, the employee will be slotted by seniority or at 90% of the employee’s current rate, whichever is greater.
(b) If an employee is accepted on a bid to a job of a higher labor grade (promotion) and has at least five (5) years seniority, Management will, with participation from the Union President, slot the employee at the employee’s current rate of pay or slot the employee based upon seniority, job rate and related work experience, whichever is greater. The rate of pay of employees holding the classification will not be affected.
6.0	8 To fill jobs outside the work area, job bids will be reviewed among the Director or his/her representative of the function where the job is posted, the Union President, and the Human Resources Representative. Job bids will be reviewed within five (5) working days.
6.0	9 Any employee who has made a bid for a posted job position and has been denied shall be given a denial slip within three (3) business days from the Human Resources Representative with the reason as to why his/her bid was denied.
6.10	The Company agrees to post all jobs and to give a copy of a Bid Summary Sheet to the Local Union President prior to notifying any employee of a job bid decision.
6.11	The Company agrees not to post any jobs during its shutdown periods.
6.12	Late bids by employees will be considered on an individual basis.
6.13	The existing Bid Summary Sheet will be utilized if the position becomes open within 30 days from the date when the original bid closed, for labor grades 7 and above, and within 60 days from when the original bid closed, for labor grades 6 and below. If the respective 30-day and 60-day periods have expired, the job will be reposted.
6.14	An employee will be an ineligible bidder if he/she puts in a job bid after he/she has reported and started the trial period of a new position without withdrawing the job bid.
-13-
6.15	When reviewing employees who have bid on a job the Company agrees to consider other factors which would indicate potential ability in addition to aptitude tests or related work experience.
6.16	All temporary bid positions will end no later than the Company designated year end shutdown and employees performing in those temporary positions will return to their former permanent position of record.
ARTICLE VII	- DISTRIBUTION OF WORK
7.01 Supervisors will distribute regular and overtime work to the employees within the cost center as equally and fairly as possible, consistent with the economical and efficient operation of the cost center. In considering whether overtime work has been distributed as equally and fairly as possible, time and one half (1 1/2) shall be considered separately from double time.
7.02 No employee will be allowed to hold down two (2) jobs in the factory or warehouse, such as factory work in the daytime and sweeping offices at night.
7.03 Supervisors, Coordinators or Assistant Supervisors will not be allowed to change any time slips without first notifying the employee.
7.04 Supervisors will not do any work regularly performed by the bargaining unit. Nothing in this provision shall prevent Supervisors from instructing employees, solving quality issues or addressing safety concerns.
7.05 Any employee leaving the bargaining unit by transfer or promotion out of the bargaining unit will retain, for a period of thirty (30) days from the date of transfer or promotion, all seniority that has been gained in the bargaining unit. In the event the employee returns to the bargaining unit after thirty (30) days from date of transfer or promotion out of the bargaining unit, the employee will lose from, their seniority in the bargaining unit a time equal to the time spent out of the bargaining unit from date of transfer or promotion.
ARTICLE VIII	- ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
8.01 Should any dispute arise between the Union and the Company (or any member of the Union) regarding the meaning or application of any provision of this Agreement, negotiations for settlement shall be conducted in the following manner:
8.02 The aggrieved employee may with or without their Union representative consult the Supervisor in an attempt to adjust the grievance within forty-eight (48) hours of the occurrence of the grievance or first knowledge of same.
8.03 If the grievance is not thus settled, it shall be submitted to the Union President who will consult with the Management Representative within four (4) working days of the date of the occurrence of grievance or first knowledge of same by the aggrieved employee and attempt to adjust the grievance. If not successful, the grievance shall be submitted to the Union Grievance Committee.
-14-
8.04 If then the grievance is not settled, it shall be presented to the Management Grievance Committee within a twenty-four (24) hour period. The Union President, the Grievance Committee and, if necessary, the aggrieved party will then meet with the Management Grievance Committee in an attempt to adjust the grievance. A reply will be given to the Union by the Human Resource Representative within three (3) working days following the meeting.
8.05 If the Management Grievance Committee, Union President and Grievance Committee are unable to adjust the grievance, it shall be reduced to writing and the matter shall be referred to the Representative of the Executive Management, The Grievance Committee shall have the privilege of bringing in a representative of the International Union if they so desire but shall not be required to do so. Meetings for this purpose shall be held within twenty-five (25) working days after the grievance has been answered by the Management Grievance Committee. However, if a meeting with the Executive Management is not held within twenty-five (25) working days, the answer submitted by the Management Grievance Committee shall be considered Management’s final answer.
8.06 In the event this final decision does not satisfactorily settle a grievance, the matter may only be referred by the Union or the Company to an arbitrator chosen pursuant to the procedures of the American Arbitration Association. This step must be taken within thirty-five (35) working days from the date the grievance has been answered by the Management Grievance Committee. Failure to process the grievance within any of the time limits herein prescribed in Article IX shall constitute a full and complete waiver and abandonment of the grievance with no further right of appeal or recourse by either party unless, such time limits are mutually extended in writing by both the Union and the Company. Any decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on both parties during the life of the Agreement. The Arbitrator shall have no power to add or subtract from or modify any of the terms of this Agreement or any supplementary agreement nor to rule on any matter except while this Agreement is in full force and effect between the parties.
8.07 Decisions involving financial remuneration shall be reduced to writing and shall be retroactive to the date the grievance was presented to the Supervisor if it is so agreed. In grievances involving remuneration, the Union will present grievances in writing to the Management Grievance Committee.
8.08 It is agreed that representatives of the Union shall be allowed to leave their cost center to consult with the Chairperson of the Grievance Committee during working hours, providing they first notify their Supervisor before leaving the cost center. The representative of the Union should only leave the work area when it is absolutely necessary to do so. If it is necessary for the Union representative to be replaced, the Union representative will wait a reasonable time until he or she is replaced before leaving the work area.
8.09 Any grievance meeting shall be without loss of time to the members of the Grievance Committee providing Management is in agreement to said meeting.
8.10 The Grievance Committee may meet with the Executive Management from time to time (but not more often than monthly) to discuss general conditions other than specific grievances of employees and when it desires to do so, it shall request an appointment date through the Management Grievance Committee.
-15-
ARTICLE IX	- GENERAL AGREEMENT
9.01 Whereas, the parties share the mutual interest of trying to secure the future of the East Longmeadow Manufacturing facility and the jobs of the employees working in the facility; and whereas the parties share the mutual interest of encouraging further corporate investment in East Longmeadow Manufacturing: now, therefore the parties agree:
(a)	To work cooperatively to combine classifications with related functions into one classification with the understanding that no employee will have his or her rate reduced as a result of combining classifications, provided further that any employee with a rate below that of a new combined classification rate shall have his or her rate increased to the new combined classification rate.
(b)	To work cooperatively to group classifications and/or classifications with related functions in one Cost Center so that employees may be assigned to work based on the efficient distribution of work.
(c)	To recognize that in order to be competitive, it may be necessary for the Company to assign additional related activities to an employee when there is insufficient work within the employee’s classification or when it is sensible to do so to be more productive.
(d)	To recognize that the Company may assign work within classification by criteria which will enhance productivity and that in doing so, the Company shall work with the Union.
(e)	To recognize that business impact may be considered by the Company in placing an employee on a corrective action step with the understanding that the Company will work with the Union on these matters.
(f)	To recognize that in order to increase productivity, Group Leaders may be regularly assigned to perform the same work as employees they lead as provided for in current job descriptions.
(g)	To recognize that in order to increase productivity the Company may feasibly stagger meal breaks so that core process equipment may run 24 hours, provided that the Company shall accommodate union concerns as long as they do not affect the continuous operation of the core press equipment.
9.02 The Union and its members individually and collectively agree that during the term of this Agreement and any extension thereof there shall be no strike, walkout, slow-down, sit-down or other stoppage of work.
9.03 It is agreed that the Union will not authorize any strike, not otherwise prohibited, or picket the Company’s Plant or Premises in respect to any controversy, dispute or grievance, if the grievance procedure provided herein has been completely and fully complied with by the Company.
-16-
9.04 The Company agrees as part of the consideration of this Agreement, that neither the International Union, the Local Union, or their Officers or Agents, shall be liable for damages for unauthorized stoppages, strikes, intentional slowdowns, or suspensions of work, if the Company and the Union comply with all of the provisions of the grievance procedure.
9.05 The Union agrees that as part of the consideration of this Agreement, that it will take immediate steps to end any unauthorized stoppages, strikes, intentional slowdowns or suspension of work, not later than the end of the same shift in the following regular work day after violation occurs. It is further agreed that in the event of such an unauthorized stoppage the Union shall post a notice to the effect that the stoppage is unauthorized and shall order all employees to end such unauthorized stoppage. For this purpose, regular workdays shall be Monday through Friday,
9.06 In the event of a stoppage in violation of this Agreement, the Company shall have the right to discipline by way of discharge or otherwise, any member of the Union who participates therein, furthers or agitates such strike action. Such action may be subject to review through the grievance procedure.
9.07 The Company agrees not to effect a lockout if the grievance procedure is pursued by the Union and fully followed.
9.08 The parties hereto agree that only the Union Grievance/Negotiation Committee shall have the right to waive or modify any of the terms of this Agreement for the life of this Agreement.
9.09 It is agreed that the Union may post notices in all cost centers; notices to be first approved by the Management.
9.10 It is agreed that at no time will there be any work sent out to be done as home work. In order to advance in job skill progression classifications it may be necessary to participate in training outside of work hours and is up to the employee. The employees who choose to do so should apply for reimbursement, in advance, by submitting educational assistance request form per Human Resources policy.
9.11 The Union agrees that the operation of the Plant is strictly the business of the Management. The Union further agrees that Management must receive the full cooperation of the Union in the disciplined running of the Plant.
9.12 The Company will give to the Union a list of all Supervisors, Assistant Supervisors and Inspectors at the time of signing of the Agreement. The Union will give to the Company a list of all Officers, Bargaining Committee Members and Cost Center Stewards at the signing of the Agreement. All changes thereafter affecting these lists will be rectified in writing as soon as practicable.
9.13 Any provisions of this Agreement that are in conflict with any Federal or State Law shall be unenforceable.
9.14 Employees taking Company property from the Plant without Management authorization may be subject to immediate discharge.
-17-
9.15 Union Employees participating in the Pension Plan for Hourly Employees of Hasbro, Inc. East Longmeadow Manufacturing Facility provided for in §9.15 (the “Defined Benefit Plan”) shall terminate active participation in the Defined Benefit Plan in connection with their termination of employment from Hasbro effective August 31, 2015. In connection with the Sale:
(a)	all current Union Employees employed as of the date of the Sale will as of the date of Sale be credited with additional service through March 27, 2016 for purposes of calculating accrued benefits under the Defined Benefit Plan;
(b)	each current Union Employee employed as of the date of the Sale will be vested for his or her accrued pension benefits, as calculated taking into account the additional service credit in (a) above; and
(c)	Hasbro will continue to administer the Defined Benefit Plan and the participants’ benefits in the Defined Benefit Plan.
Effective January 1, 2016, the Defined Benefit Plan shall be replaced with an Annual Company Contribution (as defined below) to the Cartamundi East Longmeadow 401(k) Plan administered by the Company, which shall provide:
(a)	an annual contribution of an amount equal to 3% of eligible compensation (pay, overtime and eligible bonus) (the “Annual Company Contribution”) for each eligible employee to his or her 401(k) account;
(b)	the Annual Company Contribution shall be made after the end of the year for which the contribution is being made, usually by March 15 of the year following the year for which the Annual Company Contribution was earned;
(c)	to be eligible for an Annual Company Contribution, a Union Employee must work at least 1,000 hours during the calendar year and must be employed on the last day of the plan year for which the Annual Company Contribution is being made;
(d)	Union Employees may not take loans involving that portion of their 401(k) account related to the Annual Company Contribution; and
(e)	Union Employees are immediately vested in the Annual Company Contribution.
9.16	Effective April 1,2016 eligible employees shall have the option to receive Medical, Dental and Vision Plans per the January 24, 2016 agreement. For the term of the contract, yearly changes to the Medical Plan design will be per agreement by the Bargaining Committee and the Company.
Effective April 1, 2016, Union employees will be offered the same Dental and Vision plan options as offered to all other Cartamundi East Longmeadow LLC employees and any changes in plan features or design during the term of this contract will be applicable to all employees, including Union employees. All employees pay the full cost of the Vision Plan.
-18-
9.17	Retired Union Employees and their dependents shall not be eligible to participate in any health insurance program or retiree health insurance program of Hasbro or Cartamundi East Longmeadow LLC; provided, however, that any retired Union Employee or dependent participating in Hasbro’s retiree health insurance plan as of the date of the Sale shall be permitted to continue to participate in Hasbro’s retiree health insurance plan until December 31, 2015; and provided, further, that Hasbro and the Cartamundi East Longmeadow LLC shall offer COBRA coverage to retired Union Employees as required by law.
9.18	Should any part hereof, or any provision herein contained, be rendered or declared invalid by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation, or by a decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, each invalidation of such part or portion of the Agreement shall not invalidate the remaining parts or portions hereof, and they shall remain in full force and effect.
9.19	All terms of this Agreement are subject to compliance with Acts of Congress, including the Economic Stabilization Act of 1970, as amended, and government regulations and Presidential orders issued thereunder, which affect the amount and effective dates of changes in wage increases and other benefits called for by the provisions of this Agreement.
9.20	Subject to the express provisions of this Agreement, the management of the business and direction of the working forces, including, but not limited to the right to direct, plan and control Plant operations; to establish and change work schedules; to make assignments; to hire, promote or transfer employees; to establish rates and regulations not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement; to maintain Plant efficiency; to lay off employees because of lack of work or for other legitimate reasons; to choose and direct supervision; to introduce new or improved methods or facilities; to change existing methods or facilities; to engage outside labor services and subcontract work and to determine the number of Plants, their locations and whether or not to operate or close all or any part of them is vested exclusively in the Company and is not subject to arbitration under Article IX of this Agreement.
Except as limited by the express terms of this Agreement, the management of the business and direction of the working forces otherwise is vested in the Company, including, but not limited to, the right to assign, direct, retire, discipline, suspend and discharge employees for just cause and to establish and apply standards of performance.
The exercise or non-exercise of these rights retained by the Company shall not be deemed to waive any such rights, or the discretion to exercise them in some other way in the future.
9.21	There will be a Labor/Management Safety Committee with equal representation from the Management and the Union.
9.22	The Company agrees to notify the Local Union prior to it increasing the established work standard for any position. Management will comply through the Management Grievance Committee.
9.23	Each quarter the Company will submit to the Union the Seniority Listing including rates of pay for all employees covered by this Agreement. The seniority of an employee will not be considered to be broken except through the following acts and/or conditions:
-19-
(a)	Discharge for any justifiable reason.
(b)	Voluntarily leaving the service of the Company. Employees who absent themselves without permission and fail to notify the Management within forty-eight (48) hours shall be deemed to have terminated their employment
(c)	Employees who do not report back upon expiration of leaves of absences, or, employees who have been laid off for a period of one year, will be considered to have left the Company and will cease to have seniority rights as they apply to benefits where longevity is a factor including vacation, pension plan, seniority and group insurance.
9.24	The Company will follow all Federal requirements to insure and maintain a drug-free work place. To that end, the Company may test employees for just cause. Just cause shall include any damage to property or personal injury. The Director of Safety and representative from the Human Resources Department shall determine, after consultation with the Union, whether there is just cause. No employee shall be disciplined for scoring “positive” on such a test. Rather, an employee who scores “positive” on such a test shall be referred to the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) for counseling and shall be subject to periodic drug screening occurring two times within one year of the initial test. Any employee who refuses EAP counseling shall be terminated. In addition, an employee who scores ‘“positive” on a test subsequent to the initial test shall be terminated.
9.25	In the event of a complete closing of the Plant the Company will offer severance benefits of a minimum of two (2) weeks for each year of service up to maximum of twenty-six (26) weeks. In addition, the Company will provide medical insurance coverage to employees for the duration of the severance period. The Company agrees to provide employees with 60 days of notice prior to termination.
9.26	Employees who are absent due to their own serious health condition may be eligible to be compensated 66% of their weekly wages for up to twenty-six (26) weeks.
ARTICLE X	- VACATIONS
10.	01 The terms, conditions and limitations of the vacation pay shall be as set forth in this Article.
The Company agrees that all factory employees as designated in the recognition clause, who have completed thirty (30) weeks of employment but less than forty (40) weeks of employment with the Company as of June 1, shall be given three (3) days with pay; all factory employees who have completed forty (40) weeks but less than one (1) year of employment as of June 1, shall be given four (4) days with pay.
If an employee has not accrued a minimum of 1040 compensated hours consisting of regular, holiday, vacation, jury duty and bereavement time, he/she will only receive one-half (1/2) the vacation that he/she would otherwise have been eligible to receive. If an employee has not accrued any regular hours during any twelve (12) month period, he/she shall not be eligible to receive vacation. The vacation period shall begin on June 1 and end on May 31.
Vacation pay shall be computed for hourly paid employees at their regular rate, at their average straight time earnings.
-20-
10.	02 Employees who have completed more than one (1) year of employment shall receive vacations or vacation pay as follows:
(a)	One (1) year of service as of June 1, but less than two (2) years shall receive one (1) week vacation pay.
(b)	Two (2) years of service as of his/her anniversary date of employment, but less than five (5) years, shall receive two (2) weeks vacation pay. However, an employee may be scheduled during the vacation shutdown period for the 2nd week of his/her vacation.
(c)	Five (5) years and over, but under twelve (12) years of service as of their date of hire, shall receive three (3) weeks vacation with pay. This third week of vacation shall be specifically subject to the limitations of Paragraphs 11.05 and 11.06 of this Agreement.
(d)	Employees with twelve (12) years and over, but under twenty (20) years of service as of their hire date, shall receive four (4) weeks vacation with pay. This fourth week of vacation shall be specifically subject to the limitations of Paragraphs 11.05 and 11.06 of this Agreement.
(e)	Employees with twenty (20) years of service as of their date of hire shall receive five (5) weeks vacation with pay. This fifth week of vacation shall be specifically subject to the limitations of Paragraphs 11.05 and 11.06 of this Agreement.
Any employee who has been on the payroll for one (1) year or more and who is called into military service shall receive vacation pay in accordance with the above schedule provided the employee has not already taken his/her vacation.
10.	03 The time for each employee’s vacation period shall be left to the sole discretion of the Company with the understanding, however, that unless otherwise mutually agreed between the Company and the employee, up to two (2) weeks of vacation shall be given between June 15 and September 15. All employees who are entitled to three (3), four (4) or five (5) weeks of vacation shall be allowed to take their third, fourth or fifth weeks of vacation at their discretion. Employees may take their third week of vacation in segments of two (2) or three (3) days. Employees may take fourth or fifth weeks of vacation in days. Management, however, reserves the right of final approval so as to effectively maintain proper staffing requirements.
10.	04 All employee vacation forms shall be turned in no later than the first Friday in March. Management will have all forms approved by no later than the 1st Friday in April. The assignment of these vacation periods will be based on seniority. Selection or change after the first Friday in April will be granted on a basis of available time and production requirements, honoring prior commitments first.
10.	05 Effective March 28, 2016 “pre-paid” vacation pay will be discontinued.
ARTICLE XI	- LEAVES OF ABSENCE
11.01 Employees with at least two (2) years of continuous service may be eligible to take an unpaid two (2) week Personal Leave of Absence. A Personal Leave of Absence will only be allowed if the employee’s department schedule will allow for the absence and if the employee has exhausted all of his or her vacation time. If applicable, this leave shall run concurrently with an
-21-
employee’s family and medical leave entitlement. Employees with ten (10) or more years of service will be eligible for holiday pay during a personal leave of absence.
11.02 The maximum amount of time an employee on workers’ compensation will remain on payroll shall generally be one (1) year. However, if an employee provides a doctor’s certification prior to the expiration of the one (1) year period that there is a reasonable expectation that the employee will return to work and any employees who are out of work on workers’ compensation as of February 4, 2007 will remain on the company payroll according to the following guidelines:
Length of Service	Eligible to Remain on Payroll
	
Less than 10 years	1 year
10 years but less than 15 years	1-1/2 years
15 years plus	2-1/2 years
If an employee returns from a worker’s compensation leave prior to the expiration of his or her payroll eligibility period and the employee is subsequently absent from work due to the same worker’s compensation occurrence within two (2) years from the last worker’s compensation leave, the employee shall only be eligible to remain on the payroll for the amount of time remaining for the initial eligibility period.
11.03 Employees are eligible for family and medical leave in accordance with the Company’s Family and Medical Leave Policy. Any disputes regarding an employee’s eligibility for leave under the Company’s Family and Medical Leave Policy will be resolved by the Union President and the Human Resources Representative. Employees who have completed twelve (12) months of service and who have worked at least 1,000 hours in the preceding twelve (12) month period are eligible for Family and Medical Leave (“FMLA Leave”). Eligible employees may take unpaid leave for up to thirteen (13) weeks for the following reasons:
(a)	because of the birth or placement for adoption or foster care of a new son or daughter and in order to care for that child;
(b)	to care for a parent, spouse, son or daughter who has a serious health condition; or
(c)	for the employee’s own serious health condition.
Employees who are absent due to their own serious health condition may be eligible to be compensated 66% of their weekly wages for up to twenty-six (26) weeks.
11.04 Employees who submit a certified physician’s note stating that the employee is under the physician’s care and is temporarily unable to perform his/her job duties may be placed out of work at the Company’s discretion. The time period in which a person is placed under doctor’s care is subject to the attendance policy and counts as one absence if the absence is not covered by the FMLA.
11.05 With the approval of Management and the Union, employees with at least fifteen (15) years of service and who have exhausted their FMLA entitlement, may be allowed up to an additional six (6) months of “Emergency” Leave. These employees will be eligible for Emergency Leave once every three (3) years, subject to the nature of the emergency and Management’s approval.
-22-
11.06 All requests for Leaves of Absences, with the exception of emergency leaves, must be submitted at least two weeks prior to the start of the requested leave.
11.07 Employees who obtain leave of absence or extension thereof with permission of the Management and who fail to report to the Management within forty-eight (48) hours after the leave has expired, shall be deemed to have terminated their employment, Right to appeal by any employee due to exceptional and unforeseen circumstances shall be granted. The Company agrees to give the Union a copy of all leaves of absences, giving the starting date and expiration date.
11.08 Leaves of absences which are in excess of twelve (12) months in duration, as defined in Section 11.02, shall not be considered as part of an employee’s longevity, nor will it be counted for purposes of the pension plan.
11.09 If any employee is out on a leave of absence for more than six (6) months, but less than twelve (12) months, he/she will receive only one-half of his/her allowable vacation. If out for twelve (12) months or more, he/she will not receive any vacation pay. Provisions of this vacation pay shall apply to the vacation year which is established from June 1 to May 31.
11.10 Employees who are absent because of an industrial accident and who wish to return to work but are prohibited from doing so by the sole discretion of the Company physician shall he paid 50% of their wage until they are eligible for Worker’s Compensation.
11.11 Employees with health plan benefits (medical, dental, vision) through Cartamundi East Longmeadow LLC and are out of work on any type of leave, including those out on layoff or Workers Compensation, will be required to pay health plan premiums at the employee’s current rate (meaning the same rate as an active employee with the same plan option and coverage level) and will be required to pay employee Union dues, on a monthly basis, for the duration of the leave One missed payment will result in the cancellation of health coverage. (See procedure)
ARTICLE XII	- MILITARY SERVICE
12.0	1 No employee shall lose their seniority rights or the rights to their job by reason of enlisting into the Armed Forces of the United States, providing said employee was on payroll at the time of enlistment, and they shall be reinstated as provided for in the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Act of 1994 and amendments thereto.
12.0	2 A Military Leave of absence will be granted to employees with official orders stating the start and completion dales of the leave.
ARTICLE XIII	- DEATH IN IMMEDIATE FAMILY
13.0	1 In the event that an employee suffers the loss by death of any of the following members of the employee’s family: Grandchild, Grandparent of the employee, Sister-in-Law, Brother-in-Law, Daughter-in-Law, Son-in-Law, Father-in-Law, Mother-in-Law, and Stepchild, the employer agree to allow the employee up to three (3) days leave with pay, based on the employee’s average hourly straight time earnings, for the department’s regular scheduled hours which the employee would have worked in his/her department at that time. This leave will be allowed for the purpose of
-23-
arranging and attending the funeral or its equivalent, provided that proper documentation is submitted by the employee. Management, with participation of the Union President, shall review all requests for leave under this section prior to any rejection of such requests.
If the employee suffers the loss by death of any family members mentioned above and cannot attend the funeral or its equivalent due to personal reasons, the employee may take up to one (1) day of excused leave without pay for the purpose of grieving.
If the employee suffers the loss by death of his or her spouse’s grandparents, the Company agrees to allow the employee one (1) day’s leave with pay during the normal work week for the purpose of attending the funeral, or its equivalent, to be computed on the basis indicated in this Article, provided that proper documentation is submitted by the employee.
13.0	2 In the event that an employee suffers the loss by death of any of the following members of the employee’s family: Mother, Father, Wife, Husband, Child. Step-Mother or Step-Father, Brother or Sister, three (3) days of bereavement pay will be paid.
ARTICLE XIV	- TERMINATION
14.01 The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall become effective on April 1, 2019.The terms of the agreement shall continue uninterrupted for a period of two years until midnight April 4, 2021.
14.02 At least sixty (60) days but not more than ninety (90) days prior to the annual termination date of this Agreement, if either party is desirous of making changes, they will notify, in writing, the other party of such desire. If such notice is not given, this agreement will continue in full force and effect.
14.03 IN WITNESS WHEREOF The parties hereto have caused these presents to be signed by their respective officers and their respective seals to be hereunto affixed the day and year first above written.
-24-
Cartamundi East Longmeadow LLC
BY: Jeff Lombard CEO
RETAIL, WHOLESALE AND DEPARTMENT STORE UNION UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIALWORKERS, LOCAL #224 (Playthings, Jewelry and Novelty Workers Division)
BY: Scott Trudell
President
BY: John McCaffrey
Financial Treasurer
BY: Edward Nieves
Recorder
BY: Raymond Montagna
1st Vice President
BY: Bryan McCarthy
2nd Vice President
BY: Robert Bozek
3 rd Vice President
INTERNATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE
Tina Buonaugurio
President
New England Joint Board
RWDSU/UFCW
April 1, 2019
-25-
WORK AREA CONFIGURATIONS
Work Area 2
CC20 Skilled Trades
Work Area 3
CC24 Manufacturing Materials
Work Area 4
CC’s41 &45
Printing & Converting
Work Area 5
CC’s 50, 52, 69, 75 Intermediate
Work Area 6
CC22 Distribution Logistics
Work Area 7
CC64 Final Assembly
Work Area 8
CC68 Molding Operations
Work Area 9
CC14 Quality Assurance
Work Area 10
CC83 Play-Doh
-26-
	WAGE RATES FOR HOURLY EMPLOYEES Effective April 1, 2019	
LABOR GRADE	• START RATE		JOB RATE
2	$10.00	
3	$10.00	$10.51
4	$10.00	$11.24
5	$10.00	$12.08
6	$10.36	$13.24
7	$11.40	$13.87
8	$12.08	$14.60
9	$12.61	$15.34
10	$13.24	$16.07
11	$13.82	$16.81
12	$14.50	$17.65
13	$15.19	$18.39
14	$15.95	$19.30
17	$16.25	$19.81
18	$16.55	$20.07
19P	$17.23	$21.12
• Start Rates are not less than Federal/State minimum wage.
-27-
Cartamundi East Longmeadow LLC
HOURLY POSITIONS as of April 1,2019
LABOR GRADE 2
Temporary Employees
LABOR GRADE 5
Utility Assembler Level 1
Utility Assembler - Restricted
Utility Operator CC45 Level 1
LABOR GRADE 6
Machine Technician Auto Bagging Level 1
Molding Trainee Level 1
Utility Assembler Level 2
LABOR GRADE 7
Bobst Operator Level 1
Logistics Shipper Level 1
Machine Technician Level 1
Machine Technician Auto Bagging Level 2
Machine Technician - Casemaking Level 1
Machine Technician Puzzles Level 1
Manufacturing Materials Level 1
Quality Technician Level 1
Robotics Level 1
Tool Crib Attendant Level 1
Utility Operator CC45 Level 2
Utility Technician Printing & Converting Level 1
LABOR GRADE 8
Machine Technician Card Converting Level 1
Machine Technician Lamination Level 1
Machine Technician - Casemaking Level 2
Maintenance Utility Operator Level 1
Manufacturing Materials Level 2
Molding Utility Level 2
Pallet Repair
Pressman Level 1
Quality Technician Level 2
Utility Operator CC45 Level 3
Utility Technician Printing & Converting Level 2
-28-
LABOR GRADE 9
Electrician Level 1
Group Leader Level 1
Guillotine Cutter Level 1
Logistics Shipper Level 2
Machine Technician Level 2
Machine Technician Auto Bagging Level 3
Machine Technician Lamination Level 2
Machine Technician Collation Cell
Machine Technician Puzzles Level 2
Molding Setter Level 3
Molding Technician Vacuum Forming Level 1
Robotics Level 2
Tool Crib Attendant Level 2
LABOR GRADE 10
Guillotine Cutter Level 2
Machine Technician Card Converting Level 2
Machine Technician - Casemaking Level 3
Machine Technician Puzzles Level 3
Machine Technician Utility Level 1
Maintenance Mechanic Level 1
Maintenance Utility Operator Level 2
Manufacturing Materials Level 3
Molding Technician Level 4
LABOR GRADE 11
Bobst Operator Level 2
Electro-Mechanical Technician Level 1
Group Leader Level 2
Group Leader Technical Level 1
Logistics Shipper Level 3
Machine Technician Level 3
Machine Technician Card Converting Level 3
Machine Technician Utility Level 2
Machinist Level 1
Maintenance Mechanic Level 2
Molding Technician Vacuum Forming Level 2
Robotics Level 3
Steel Rule Die Technician Level 1
Tractor/Trailer Driver
-29-
LABOR GRADE 12
Electrician Level 2
Electro-Mechanical Technician Level 2
Machine Technician Lamination Level 3
Machine Technician Utility Level 3
Machinist Level 2
Maintenance Mechanic Level 3
Maintenance Utility Operator Level 3
Mold Maker
Molding Senior Technician Level 5
Steel Rule Die Technician Level 2
LABOR GRADE 13
Bobst Operator Level 3
Electrician Level 3
Group Leader Level 3
Group Leader Technical Level 2
HVAC-R Technician
Maintenance Mechanic Level 4
Pre-Press Technician
Pressman Level 2
LABOR GRADE 14
Electro-Mechanical Technician Level 3
Injection Mold Experimental Technician
LABOR GRADE 15
Group Leader Technical-Electro Mechanical
Group Leader Technical-Electrical/Electronic
LABOR GRADE 17
Pressman Level 3
LABOR GRADE 18
Pressman Level 4
LABOR GRADE 19-P
Group Leader Technical/Lithographic
-30-
Cartamundi East Longmeadow LLC
JOB SKILL PROGRESSIONS as of April 1, 2019
Bobst Operator Level 1 (LG 7)
Bobst Operator Level 2 (LG 11)
Bobst Operator Level 3 (LG 13)
Electrician Level 1 (LG 9)
Electrician Level 2 (LG 12)
Electrician Level 3 (LG 13)
Electro-Mechanical Technician Level 1 (LG 11)
Electro-Mechanical Technician Level 2 (LG 12)
Electro-Mechanical Technician Level 3 (LG 14)
Group Leader Level 1 (LG 9)
Group Leader Level 2 (LG 11)
Group Leader Level 3 (LG 13)
Group Leader Technical Level 1 (LG 11)
Group Leader Technical Level 2 (LG 13)
Guillotine Cutter Level 1 (LG 9)
Guillotine Cutter Level 2 (LG 10)
Logistics Shipper Level 1 (LG 7)
Logistics Shipper Level 2 (LG 9)
Logistics Shipper Level 3 (LG 11)
Machine Technician Level 1 (LG 7)
Machine Technician Level 2 (LG 9)
Machine Technician Level 3 (LG 11)
Machine Technician Auto Bagging Level 1 (LG 6)
Machine Technician Auto Bagging Level 2 (LG 7)
Machine Technician Auto Bagging Level 3 (LG 9)
Machine Technician Card Converting Level 1 (LG 8)
Machine Technician Card Converting Level 2 (LG 10)
Machine Technician Card Converting Level 3 (LG 11)
Machine Technician Casemaking Level 1 (LG 7)
Machine Technician Casemaking Level 2 (LG 8)
Machine Technician Casemaking Level 3 (LG 10)
Machine Technician Lamination Level 1 (LG 8)
Machine Technician Lamination Level 2 (LG 9)
Machine Technician Lamination Level 3 (LG 12)
-31-
Machine Technician Puzzles Level 1 (LG 7)
Machine Technician Puzzles Level 2 (LG 9)
Machine Technician Puzzles Level 3 (LG 10)
Machine Technician Utility Level 1 (LG 10)
Machine Technician Utility Level 2 (LG 11)
Machine Technician Utility Level 3 (LG 12)
Machinist Level 1 (LG 11)
Machinist Level 2 (LG 12)
Maintenance Mechanic Level 1 (LG 10)
Maintenance Mechanic Level 2 (LG 11)
Maintenance Mechanic Level 3 (LG 12)
Maintenance Mechanic Level 4 (LG 13)
Maintenance Utility Operator Level 1 (LG 8)
Maintenance Utility Operator Level 2 (LG 10)
Maintenance Utility Operator Level 3 (LG 12)
Manufacturing Materials Level 1 (LG 7)
Manufacturing Materials Level 2 (LG 8)
Manufacturing Materials Level 3 (LG 10)
Molding Technician Vacuum Forming Level 1 (LG 9)
Molding Technician Vacuum Forming Level 2 (LG 11)
Molding Trainee Level 1 (LG 6)
Molding Utility Level 2 (LG 8)
Molding Setter Level 3 (LG 9)
Molding Technician Level 4 (LG 10)
Molding Senior Technician Level 5 (LG 12)
Pressman Level 1 (LG 8)
Pressman Level 2 (LG 13)
Pressman Level 3 (LG 17)
Pressman Level 4 (LG 18)
Quality Technician Level 1 (LG 7)
Quality Technician Level 2 (LG 8)
Robotics Level 1 (LG 7)
Robotics Level 2 (LG 9)
Robotics Level 3 (LG 11)
Steel Rule Die Technician Level 1 (LG 11)
Steel Rule Die Technician Level 2 (LG 12)
Tool Crib Attendant Level 1 (LG 7)
Tool Crib Attendant Level 2 (LG 9)
-32-
Utility Assembler Level 1 (LG 5)
Utility Assembler Level 2 (LG 6)
Utility Operator CC45 Level 1 (LG 5)
Utility Operator CC45 Level 2 (LG 7)
Utility Operator CC45 Level 3 (LG 8)
Utility Technician Printing & Converting Level 1 (LG 7)
Utility Technician Printing & Converting Level 2 (LG 8)
NON-JOB SKILL PROGRESSION POSITIONS
Group Leader Technical-Electrical/Electronic (LG 15)
Group Leader Technical-Electro Mechanical (LG 15)
Group Leader Technical/Lithographic (LG 19P)
HVAC-R Technician (LG 13)
Injection Mold Experimental Technician (LG 14)
Mold Maker (LG 12)
Pallet Repair (LG 8)
Pre-Press Technician (LG 13)
Temporary Employees (LG 2)
Tractor/Trailer Driver (LG 11)
Utility Assembler - Restricted (LG 5)
-33-
NOTES
-34-
Cartamundi &
Cartamundi East Longmeadow LLC
Date:	August 6, 2019
Subject:	Memorandum of Understanding
From:	Gary P. Brennan
To:	Scott Trudell
President, Union-Local #224
Cc:	Philip Wauters
Sandi Mauro
Eric DeFilipi
Lisa Denver
As a result of negotiations between the Union, RWDSU Local 224, and Cartamundi East Longmeadow LLC, in reference to the current Labor Agreement effective March 28, 2016 and expiring on March 31, 2019, the Union and the Company have reached agreement on the following revisions effective April 1,2019.
Two (2) year Contract beginning April 1, 2019 and expiring on April 4, 2021.
4.02 Effective April 1, 2019, all regular, full time employees covered by this agreement shall receive an increase of 2%.
Effective March 30, 2020, all regular, full time employees covered by this agreement shall receive an increase of 2%.
All regular full-time employees on payroll as of April 1, 2019 will receive a one-time $200.00 signing bonus.
10.03 Effective April 1, 2019 Clause 10.03 will be eliminated from the CBA. Employees impacted by 10.03 in 2019 will be compensated in 2019 per the current CBA 10.03 language.
Effective April 1, 2019, the "snow crew" will be compensated at the rate of $100.00 per person per event. The definition of event will be agreed to by the Union, representing the "snow crew", and the Management.
Cartamundi East Longmeadow LLC
443 Shaker Road, East Longmeadow, MA 01028 USA
People, Safety, Quality, Cost, Customer Service, Environment
Company Officials
Vice President Operations Cartamundi East Longmeadow, LLC
Vice President Human Resources Cartamundi North America
Union Officials
Union President
Financial Treasurer
Recorder
1st Vice President
2nd Vice President
3rd Vice President
Date
Date. P- 4 o2o/ 9
Cartamundi East Longmeadow LLC
443 Shaker Road, East Longmeadow, MA 01028 USA
People, Safety, Quality, Cost, Customer Service, Environment