K9989
BARGAINING AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
RIVIERA COMMUNITY CLUB INC.
AND
LABORERS INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA,
LOCAL 252
June 1, 2019 - May 31, 2022
i
PREAMBLE
The provisions contained herein shall constitute an agreement between Riviera Community Club, Inc. referred to as "Employer”, "General Manager" or "Management" and Laborers Union Local 252, affiliated with the Laborers International Union of North America, AFL-CIO referred to as "union," governing the wages, hours and other conditions of employment for the bargaining unit employees.
Whenever words denoting the feminine or masculine gender are used in this agreement, they are intended to apply equally to either gender.
ARTICLE 1 - SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
1.01 This agreement excludes all part-time, seasonal, and salaried employees not covered by this bargaining agreement. This agreement shall apply to affected employees as contained in this agreement of Riviera Community Club, Inc. of Pierce County. Affected employee’s means all employees engaged in Clerical, Maintenance, Grounds, and Construction and Operation of Utility Systems, and office work in accordance with the National Labor Relations Board certification in Case
19-RC-13921 AS LISTED IN ARTICLE XVII SECTION 17.01.
1.02 The Employer may employ up to Four part-time seasonal Greens Keepers or Janitorial service workers between April 1st and September 30th which shall be exempted from this agreement. Part-time seasonal workers shall not be allowed to work more than 999 hours in any calendar year. Any part-time seasonal worker who works more than 999 hours in any calendar year shall be included in the bargaining unit and will enjoy all protections and provisions afforded by this agreement. (If additional emergency temp employees are needed the company will contact the union and receive authorization prior to hiring additional short-term employees)
1.03 The bargaining unit employees of the Riviera Community Club Inc. will report to the General Manager, or Assistant Manager and or the employers designated bargaining unit representatives. The General Manager will be the sole contact when conducting its operations which requires direct contact with the members of the bargaining unit or the employers bargaining unit representatives.
2
ARTICLE 11- RECOGNITION, UNION SECURITY, EMPLOYMENT
2.01 Recognition: The Employer recognizes the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining agent of employee categories covered in Article I while working in bargaining unit classifications.
2.02 Employees hired after the effective date of this Agreement shall apply for membership and tender all regular monthly dues and initiation fees not later than the thirty-first (31) day following the beginning of such employment, and all employees who are accepted into membership in the union shall maintain their membership in good standing as a condition of their continued employment.
2.03 The Employer will, within ten (10) days of hiring or terminating an employee, provide to the Union the name, address, social security number, date of hire, classification and rate of pay of such employee.
2.04 The Employer must comply with all notification letters sent by the Union that such employee has failed to remit periodic dues and/or initiation fees required by the Union as a condition of maintaining membership in good standing.
ARTICLE III	-NON-DISCRIMINATION
3.01 The Employer, the Union, and all employees agree to comply with all applicable State and Federal employment discrimination laws.
ARTICLE IV-	UNION REPRESENTATIVE
4.01 The Union Business Representative shall have access to the Employer's place of work, provided it does not interfere with production or cause employees to neglect their work.
ARTICLE V-	PROBATIONARY PERIOD
5.01 A new employee shall serve a probationary period of 90 calendar days. An employee discharged during this three-month period has no recourse through or to the grievance and mediation provisions herein and are not eligible for benefits. The General Manager and the Union by mutual agreement may extend probationary employees for an additional sixty (60) days.
3
ARTICLE VI	-OVERTIME
6.01 All work performed in excess of ten (10) hours in one day, or forty (40) hours in one week shall be paid at time and one-half (11/2) the employee's regular straight time rate of pay. All overtime must be pre-approved by the General Manager, Assistant Manager or his designated Union representative. The shifts shall be applied and managed at the discretion of the general manager.
6.02 Overtime shall be paid in increments of no less than fifteen (15) minutes.
6.03 Overtime work required for maintenance and repairs will be assigned to the most qualified and readily available employee(s) as determined by the General Manager, Assistant Manager or the designated Union representative.
6.04 For the purpose of this agreement, the standard work week will be Monday through Sunday.
6.05 Time will be adjusted to the nearest fifteen (15) minutes for both straight and over-time work performance.
6.06 Time keeping: All non-exempt employees covered by this agreement will be required to track hours worked. Both Parties agree that the initial method of tracking will be manual/handwritten timecards. At the end of each pay period each employee will be required to sign their timecard to attest to its accuracy. Additionally, each employee’s manager/supervisor will also be required to sign the timecard. Should either party desire to change the method of timekeeping they will submit their request for a change to the other party and both parties agree to bargain in good faith until a mutually agreed upon timekeeping alternative is established. The bargaining for this particular item can be done while still in the active agreement timeframe and will not affect any other items in the agreement. All employees must adhere to then-scheduled hours and any deviations must be approved by their direct supervisor. All hours worked are subject to section 16.01 of this agreement.
ARTICLE VII	- VACATION
7.01 Employees will receive vacation at the following rates:
New employees will begin to accrue 5 days of vacation in the first year starting
4
immediately (at a rate of 1.538 hours per 2 week pay cycle) and will be allowed to use any available accrued vacation time after completion of their 90-day probationary period. In years 2 and 3 the accrual will stay at 5 days per year. In year 4 and beyond the accruals will be based on the following table, and then be subject to the following incremental increases.
Year 4
Year 5
Year 6
Year 7
Year 8
Year 9
10	Days
11	Days
12	Days
13	Days
14	Days
3 Weeks 15 Days
CONTINUE PATTERN THROUGH 18 YEARS
Year 18 and beyond 5 Weeks 25 Days
Vacation shall be accrued on a quarterly pro-rata basis. No more than one year can be accrued. Employees may accrue up to one year of accrued vacation and one (1) year of earned vacation. Any accrued but unused vacation in excess of one (1) year vacation hours (based on length of service) will be forfeited. No vacation period may be taken in excess of two weeks at any one time, without the express permission of the General Manager in order that Riviera operations are not unduly disrupted. All earned vacation time may be taken in one half (1/2) day increment. Earned, but unused vacation shall be paid in full at any time an employee’s employment has ended for any reason.
ARTICLE VIII - HOLIDAYS
8.01 Each eligible employee shall receive a full day’s (8 hours) pay at straight time rate for the following holidays:
New Year’s Day Memorial Day Fourth of July
Labor Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day
Veterans Day
Plus three personal holidays with the General Manager's or Assistant General Manager’s prior approval as to the date(s) of such holidays.
5
Employees required to work on one of the designated holidays shall be compensated at the rate of time and a half.
8.02 Holiday Pay
1.	Represented employees are eligible for holiday pay and benefits after the ninety (90) day probationary period as described in Article V, provided they work regularly scheduled shifts immediately before and after a paid holiday.
2.	Employees who fail to work their scheduled shifts immediately before or after the paid holiday, may qualify for holiday pay if the absence from work was due to personal injury or illness, or death in their immediate family, such employee may apply for sick pay or bereavement leave if eligible.
3.	If employees work on a paid holiday on their regularly scheduled day off, such employee will receive holiday pay for their regularly scheduled shifts, plus the straight-time rate of pay for all hours worked on that day.
4.	Should a paid holiday occur during an employee's vacation or regularly scheduled day off, and is therefore not worked, the employee will be granted one additional day’s pay provided the employee works his or her next regularly scheduled shift immediately following such a holiday.
5.	Employees who are on leave of absence for more than five days are not eligible for holiday pay.
8.03 Holidays which fall on Saturday will be observed on the preceding Friday. Holidays which fall on Sunday will be observed on the following Monday.
ARTICLE IX - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
9.01 Employees will earn sick leave at the rate of eight (8) hours for each month worked. Sick leave may be used in one (1) hour increments, not to exceed the employee’s regularly scheduled work shift for that day, for the employee’s own illness or to care for a member of employee's immediate family. A doctor's written verification is required for any sick leave over three (3) days. Any other use of sick leave shall be as prescribed by law or set forth in 9.03 herein.
9.02. Sick leave is limited to an accrual of thirty (30) days carryover at the end of each calendar year. Upon voluntary separation, the employee will be paid for thirty-three (33) percent of his accrued, but unused sick leave. Any sick leave in excess of thirty days shall be forfeited at the end of each calendar year. There will be no pay out for unused/forfeited sick leave greater than the aforementioned 30 days.
9.03 Sick leave may not be used concurrently with any earned vacation leave unless expressly approved by the General Manager, Assistant Manager or the General
6
Managers designated non-Board representative and then only for extenuating circumstances, at the Employers discretion.
9.04 Up to three (3) days of bereavement paid leave may be used for the death or funeral of a member of the employee's immediate family. Immediate family is defined as parent, parent-in-law, spouse, child, brother, sister, grandparents or stepchildren.
9.05 Unpaid leave of absences shall be at the sole discretion of management. Leave of absence for full time employees is available at the sole discretion of management under the following conditions:
1.	A personal leave of absence for a reasonable period of time, up to 30 days, will be considered for approval after a written request is submitted to the General Manager. It is within Riviera's sole and absolute discretion whether the request for personal leave of absence should be granted and whether the duration of the requested leave is reasonable.
2.	At Riviera's sole discretion, additional extensions of up to 30 days may be granted upon approval of the General Manager.
3.	Any misrepresentation made to obtain or continue a leave is grounds for disciplinary action to include immediate termination of leave of absence and/or dismissal from further employment.
9.06 Medical Leave
1.	If employees are unable to perform their usual and customary work for longer than five days due to illness or injury, or they are hospitalized for any length of time, they must submit documentation to Riviera supporting a medical leave of absence which specifies the basis for the absence, the date the medical leave began and the expected duration of disability. If sufficient documentation is provided, medical leaves of absence may be granted incrementally (generally not greater than 30 day increments) for up to 12 months.
2.	Duration of medical leaves must be supported by adequate documentation by physicians. Failure to furnish such documentation shall result in disciplinary action.
3.	Employees must give notice to Riviera that they will be on medical leave as soon as they learn that such a leave is required.
4.	Failure to return from medical leave of absence after release by a physician will be considered job abandonment and will result in automatic terminate
7
ARTICLE X	- JURY WITNESS DUTY
10.01 Leave shall be allowed to permit an employee to serve as a member of a jury or to appear as a subpoenaed witness before a court or grand jury.
10.02 An employee shall receive his/her regular pay during a period of civil leave minus the amount that the employee is paid for his jury or witness service. The employee is required to provide proof of such service payment to the Employer.
10.03 The employer is not responsible for compensation for any Travel Time, Travel Costs, Meals or Lodging.
10.04 The Employer’s reimbursement to an Employee for compensated Jury service shall be limited to five working days in any 12-month period.
ARTICLE XI	-WORK STOPPAGES
11.01 During the term of this Agreement, there shall be no lockout by the employer and no strike, slow down or work stoppages by the employees, the Union or representatives of the Union.
ARTICLE XII	-GRIEVANCES
12.01 Employees are encouraged to resolve any work conflict through discussion with the General Manager. Management will attempt to resolve a conflict in accordance with this agreement.
12.02 An employee who has a grievance or dispute shall discuss it with his/her supervisor within five (5) days of incident occurrence. At the employee’s request, Union Representative may be present for this discussion. If a Union Representative is present, the employer has the right to include its representative.
12.03 If the matter is not resolved at the discussion stage, the employee shall present the grievance in writing to the Union Business Agent within five (5) days of the discussion.
12.04 The Union Business Agent or his designated Union representative will meet with the General Manager within ten_(10) days. If the matter is not resolved within that ten (10) day period by the Union and General Manager, the Union Representative or the General Manager will submit the grievance to a mutually agreed upon board of conciliation within fifteen (15) days.
8
12.05 The board of conciliation will be comprised of a minimum of one and maximum of two uninvolved person(s) from the Riviera Board and a minimum of one and maximum of two uninvolved person(s) from the Laborers Union. The Board of Conciliation will convene to discuss the grievance. The actual number of Board of Conciliation members will be agreed upon prior to the start of the meeting.
12.06 If a settlement is not reached through the board of conciliation then within thirty (30) days of the grievance being submitted to the Board of conciliation, the Unionor the General Manager or their designated representatives may submit the grievance to mediation.
12.07 The mediator shall be chosen by the Employer and the Union and, in the event of their inability to agree upon a mediator, the Employer or the Union may request a list of seven (7) names from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. Upon the receipt of such a list of mediators, the parties shall select a mediator by alternately striking names from the list. The cost of the mediation shall be shared equally between the union and the employer.
12.08 In the event a dispute is settled at any stage in the grievance procedure, such settlement shall be binding upon all parties and persons affected thereby.
ARTICLE XIII	- HEALTH AND SAFETY
13.01 The employer and the Union agree that they will cooperate in the enforcement of health and safety standards, and the rules that may be established by the Employer in compliance with OSHA, (Occupational Safety and Health Act), WISHA, (Washington Industrial Safety and Health Act) or other statutory regulations. The Employer agrees to provide the appropriate safety and protective equipment such as but not limited to, hard hats, eye protection and hearing protection.
13.02 A safe working environment is of primary concern to the Employer and accordingly all outside, or field personnel shall wear Hard hats and other safety equipment on an as required basis or in designated areas. Failure to wear appropriate safety equipment when instructed shall be grounds for discipline and may lead to dismissal.
13.03 In accordance with a need for employees to be physically and mentally alert to possible dangers in the workplace, employees agree to remain ‘drug free’ and to submit to periodic drug testing at the discretion and expense of the employer. (See Appendix A for the drug policy).
9
ARTICLE XIV	- PAY DAYS
14.01 The pay period shall be biweekly with a day no later than Friday designated as payday. In the event a holiday falls on Friday, the preceding day shall be established as the payday
ARTICLE XV	ON CALL & CALL OUTS
15.0	1 An employee who is called to work outside of his regularly scheduled shift shall receive a minimum of (2) hours pay at one and a half their regular straight time rate of pay. In the event an employee reports for work and the Employer decides that no work is needed or possible that day, the employee shall be sent home and shall receive payment for two hours "show-up time." If the Employer advises that no work will be available on the following day or for the remainder of the week (as the case may be) then no "show-up time" will be payable.
15.0	2 Employees on call will be compensated at a rate of $40.00 per each day they are on call. The aforementioned $40.00 will be in addition to any regular hours worked. On call duties require the employee to be readily available to triage problems as well as respond to issues outside of their normal scheduled work hours. The assignment of on call duties will be determined by the department Manager/Supervisor and it is agreed that the department Manager/Supervisor will have ultimate responsibility for managing any employee that they schedule for on call duties. Exempt employees will not be eligible for on call compensation.
ARTICLE XVI	- HOURS OF WORK
16.01 The normal workday will be eight (8) hours, which excludes a thirty (30) minute lunch period on the employee’s own time. There is no guaranteed 40-hour workweek or eight-hour day, except for employees who are paid on a salary basis shall be guaranteed 40-hours pay each week. All non-exempt employees will be paid a hourly wage and will be paid for all regular and overtime hours worked. The shifts shall be applied and managed at the discretion of the General Manager Assistant Manager or the designated Bargaining Unit representative.
16.02 When existing conditions render it desirable to temporarily change the workday, such change shall be made at the discretion of the General Manager.
16.03 Rest Breaks. The Employer shall provide each employee with a fifteen (15) minute paid rest break during the first four (4) hour period of the work day and a second fifteen (15) minute paid rest break during the second four (4) hour period of the day. The employee shall remain within the work area and failure to do so will be grounds for discipline which may lead to dismissal.
10
ARTICLE XVII	- WAGE RATES, BENEFITS AND CLASSIFICATIONS
17.01
	Classification	#of emp	Start Rate	Current Rate	6/1/19	6/1/20	6/1/21	6/1/22
**	Maint Superintendent	1	27.57	30.40	Cola	Cola	Cola	Cola
*	Water Superintendent	1	27.57	30.40	Cola	Cola	Cola	Cola
**	Golf Superintendent	1	27.57	30.40	Cola	Cola	Cola	Cola
**	Building Superintendent	1	27.57	30.40	Cola	Cola	Cola	Cola
	Water Maintenance 3	1	22.74	25.07	Cola	Cola	Cola	Cola
	Water Maintenance 2	1	20.32	22.40	Cola	Cola	Cola	Cola
	Water Maintenance 1	0	17.37	19.15	Cola	Cola	Cola	Cola
	Greens Keeper/Grounds 3	2	20.01	22.06	Cola	Cola	Cola	Cola
	Greens Keeper/Grounds 2	1	19.23	21.20	Cola	Cola	Cola	Cola
	Greens Keeper/Grounds 1	0	16.34	18.02	Cola	Cola	Cola	Cola
	Building Maintenance 3	1	20.32	22.40	Cola	Cola	Cola	Cola
	Building Maintenance 2	0	18.85	20.78	Cola	Cola	Cola	Cola
♦ * ** ***	Building Maintenance 1	0	16.02	17.66	Cola	Cola	Cola	Cola
	Bookkeeper 2	1	24.56	27.08	Cola	Cola	Cola	Cola
	Bookkeeper 1	1	20.01	22.06	Cola	Cola	Cola	Cola
	Administrative Assistant	1	21.53	23.74	Cola	Cola	Cola	Cola
	Trainee	0	13.77	15.18	Cola	Cola	Cola	Cola
	Receptionist	0	13.77	15.18	Cola	Cola	Cola	Cola
	Flagger	0	15.46	17.04	Cola	Cola	Cola	Cola
Start rate will be the beginning wage rate for each position. Each year this value will move up one level. This will now allow for disparity between start rates and more tenured staff members.
Rate increases will be based on COLA. This will be measured using the most current 12-month period of the Seattle-Tacoma-Bellevue Consumer Price index. The minimum amount will be 3.5% and the maximum amount will be 5%. Amounts over and above this will be at the Employers discretion and would be applicable to the entire Union Employee group. In the event COLA is at zero (0) or below in any given year then there will be no increases in that year.
Individual Merit increases may be awarded to any individual in the Union Employee Group on a case by case basis at the Employers discretion.
* This position is a Salary exempt positions within the bargaining unit, based on 2080 hours per year and is not eligible for overtime.
** These positions are Salary non-exempt and are eligible for overtime.
*** These positions are currently not filled or are part time and are assigned a grade level for reference of full-time status only.
11
17.02 Health and Welfare
It is agreed that the Employer shall contribute a sum of Eight hundred thirty dollars ($830.00) for each month worked by each employee performing work covered by this Agreement regardless of union membership. Said contributions shall be made to Northwest Laborers-Employers Health and Security Trust Fund in the manner as set forth in the Trust Agreement of said Trust Fund. The details of the Health and Security Plan established by this Trust Fund shall continue to be controlled and administered by a Joint Board of Trustees. The Trust Agreement, as amended, shall become part of this agreement.
17.03 Health and Welfare Increases
Effective June 1, 2019 the employer agrees to pay the following amounts of the overall $830.00 amount identified in item 17.02
Table 1
Year 1 - Employer will contribute $605.00
Year 2 - Employer will contribute $630.00
Year 3 - Employer will contribute $655.00
The remaining portion of the amount identified in 17.02 after the Employers contribution identified in Table 1, will be the responsibility of the employee via a wage deferral of wage deduction. Any premium increases in years 1 through 3 that exceed the increase in employer contributions as identified in table 1 above will be the employee’s responsibility and will be adjusted annually from yearly employee wage deferrals, per hour. If annual wage deferrals do not cover the total increase the balance shall be paid by the employee through a payroll deduction. Any employee contributions shall be afforded IRS 125 plan provisions.
Employees shall be responsible for any cost/increases above those covered by Employer above. The employee’s portion, if any, shall be paid by a pre-tax payroll diversion.
Note: The current contribution rate is $830.00 per month of which the employer shall be responsible for $605.00 per month per table 1
17.04 Pension
Effective June I, 2019 the employer shall contribute to the Western Washington Laborers Employers Pension Fund the amount of three dollars ($3.00) per hour worked for each employee covered by this
12
agreement. Vacation and Holiday Hours shall be considered as hours worked for the purpose of this requirement. The employer shall contribute one dollar ($1.00) per hour worked for the term of the contract. The current employee contribution rate is two dollars ($2.00) per hour effective June 1, 2019 the employee contribution rate is subject to change by wage deferrals as allowed for in article 17.04 defined below.
The employees as a unit have the option to defer any wage increase amount from each yearly wage increase and contribute it to the pension fund based on a majority vote which determines the deferred amount.
ARTICLE XVIII	- SEVERABILITY
18.01 If any portion of this Agreement is held invalid by operation of law, or by any tribunal of competent jurisdiction, or if compliance with, or enforcement of, any portion is restrained by such tribunal, the remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby. The parties shall enter into immediate collective bargaining negotiations for the purpose of arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement for such portion.
ARTICLE XIX	- RIGHTS OF MANAGEMENT
19.01 The Employer reserves the right to recruit, hire, promote and/or transfer members to positions within the Community Club to discipline and/or discharge employees for just cause, to relieve employees from duties because of lack of funds or lack of work, to determine methods, means, and personnel necessary for operations as mutually agreed.
ARTICLE XX	- ENTIRE AGREEMENT
20.01 The Agreement expressed herein in writing constitutes the entire Agreement between the parties, and no oral statement shall add to or supersede any of its provisions.
ARTICLE XXI	-SUBORDINATION OF AGREEMENT
21.01 It is understood that the parties hereto are governed by the provisions of applicable Federal and State law. When any provisions thereof are in conflict with or are different from the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of said Federal or State law is paramount and shall prevail.
ARTICLE XXIII - TERM OF AGREEMENT
22.01 Upon the execution by both parties, this Agreement shall become effective June 1, 2019 and shall remain in effect through May 31, 2022.
22.02 Negotiations on proposed amendments to this Agreement may be held at any time by mutual agreement of the Union and Employer. Any such negotiations shall be restricted to the subjects agreed upon in advance in writing and shall not, therefore, open all subjects to negotiation.
22.03 Any party wishing to negotiate modifications to this agreement shall notify the other party by written notice at least 60 days prior to contract expiration Both the Union and the Employer pledge to bargain and negotiate in good faith.
22.04 Notwithstanding the provisions of 22.01, in event negotiations for a new agreement extend beyond the anniversary date of this Agreement, all of the terms and provisions of the Agreement shall continue to remain in full force and effect during the course of collective bargaining until such time as the terms of a new Agreement have been consummated.
22.05 Future bargaining of this and any successor agreements will be done by the General Manager of the Riviera Community Club Inc. and his / her chosen representatives as well as the Union and his / her chosen representatives.
Signed this	day of UUAJ 2019.
Laborers Local 252 Affiliated with the Laborers International Union of North America.
lera Co
unity Club, Inc.
14
ARTICLE XXIII - TERM OF AGREEMENT
22.01 Upon the execution by both parties, this Agreement shall become effective June 1, 2019 and shall remain in effect through May 31, 2022.
22.02 Negotiations on proposed amendments to this Agreement may be held at any time by mutual agreement of the Union and Employer. Any such negotiations shall be restricted to the subjects agreed upon in advance in writing and shall not, therefore, open all subjects to negotiation.
22.03 Any party wishing to negotiate modifications to this agreement shall notify the other party by written notice at least 60 days prior to contract expiration Both the Union and the Employer pledge to bargain and negotiate in good faith.
22.04 Notwithstanding the provisions of 22.01, in event negotiations for a new agreement extend beyond the anniversary date of this Agreement, all of the terms and provisions of the Agreement shall continue to remain in full force and effect during the course of collective bargaining until such time as the terms of a new Agreement have been consummated.
22.05 Future bargaining of this and any successor agreements will be done by the General Manager ofthe Riviera Community Club Inc. and his/ her chosen representatives as well as the Union and his / her chosen representatives.
Signed this 1. c(_____day of ' TLIvV -c:‘.	2019.
International Union of North America.
Ih’iera Community Club, Inc.
14
APPENDIX A
SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY
In accordance with the Substance Abuse "Drug Free' Policy in the Laborers Union Local Number 252 and the Riviera Community Club, Inc.'s Collective Bargaining Agreement, the parties hereby agree to the following Substance/Drug Abuse Program:
ARTICLE I
TESTING OBJECTIVES
Section 1.	Prohibited Substances: A drug is defined as any substance which may affect mental or motor function including but not limited to, illegal drugs, controlled substances, designer drugs, synthetic drugs and look-alike & drugs, Alcohol is defined as any beverage or substance containing alcohol
Section 2.	Legal Drugs: The use of drugs, which are lawfully obtained and properly used, shall be permitted provided their use does not interfere with the individual's proper and safe work performance.
Section 3.	Management will be responsible for all costs incurred for testing done at their request.
Section 4.	Management will be responsible to provide training of their supervision in problems of substance abuse and to maintain a level of ongoing training sufficient in their opinion to enable their supervision to recognize behavior and conditions indicating potential substance abuse.
ARTICLE 2
PROCEDURE FOR SCREENING
Section 1.	Employees covered under this agreement will be tested within the first ninety (90) days of employment. If the test results are positive, the employee will be subject to immediate termination.
Section 2.	Testing shall be uniform and scheduled equally for all full-time employees whether members of the bargaining unit or non-bargaining unit personnel. Upon request, the Employer will provide evidence of testing of nonbargaining unit personnel included within the meaning of this section. Long-term employees promoted to a new position may, at the employer's discretion, be retested prior to assumption of their new duties. There will be no annual test requirement beyond the scope of this agreement.
Section 3.	Employees covered under this agreement are subject to post accident testing.
Section 4.	The employer agrees that it will follow the current at the time of testing
15
collection and testing procedures of The United States Department of Transportation, Office of Drug and Alcohol Policy and Compliance.
APPENDIX B
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
It is agreed that job descriptions will be update completed and incorporated into appendix B by July 31, 2019.
The Superintendents of the Maintenance, Water, Golf Course and Buildings departments will complete a job description for each Classification in Article XVII that they oversee. These recommended descriptions will be presented to the General Manager of the Riviera Community Club and the Union Business Representative of Laborers Local 252 for clarification questions, final review and adoption into the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
16