23, o o o
2003-2007
National Agreement
between
General Electric Company
and
IUE-CWA, The Industrial Division of the Communications Workers of America, AFLrCIO, CLC
and its
Affiliated GE IUE-CWA, AFLrCIO, CLC Locals

THIS BOOK CONTAINS
2003-2007
GE RJE-CWA, AFL-CIO, CLC
National Agreement
AND
2003-2007 Wage Agreement
2003-2007
GE IUE-CWA, AFLCIO, CLC
National Agreement
The 2003 Amendments to the Agreement are shown in bold type
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE NO.	PAGE NO.
I.	Union Recognition........................ 1
II.	Union Security........................... 1
IB.	Working Conditions....................... 4
IV.	Discrimination and Coercion.............. 4
V.	Working Hours: Straight Time
Overtime............................. 5
VI.	Wage Rates.............................. 12
VIL	Holidays................................ 21
VIII.	Continuity of Service
Service Credits..................... 24
IX.	Vacations............................... 28
X.	Transfers............................... 38
XL	Reduction or Increase in Forces......... 41
XII.	Union and Local Representatives
and Stewards........................ 43
XIII.	Grievance Procedure..................... 47
XIV.	Strikes and Lockouts.................... 51
XV.	Arbitration............................. 52
XVI.	Posting................................. 64
XVII.	Notification and Publicity...........    64
XVIII.	Financial Support....................... 64
XIX.	Information............................. 65
XX.	Traveling Time and Expenses............. 66
0)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CONTINUED
ARTICLE NO.	PAGE NO.
XXL	Local Understandings................... 66
XXIL	Job and Income Security.............  -	67
XXIII.	Military Pay Differential.............100
XXIV.	Retraining Program....................102
XXV.	jury Duty..............................103
XXVI.	Absence for Death in Family...........103
XXVIL	Sick and Personal Pay................104
XXVIII.	Upgrading and Job Posting............107
XXIX.	Responsibility of the Parties.........108
XXX.	Issues of General Application..........109
XXXI.	Duration of Agreement.................110
XXX1L	Modification and Termination.........110
XXXlll.	Notices..............................Hl
(ii)
PREAMBLE
This Agreement (referred to as the 2003-2007 GE IUE-CWA, AFL-CIO, NATIONAL AGREEMENT), is entered into as of the 16th day of June 2003, by and between the General Electric Company (hereinafter referred to as the “Company”) and IUE-CWA, The Industrial Division of the Communications Workers of America, AFL-CIO, CLC (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”), acting for itself and in behalf of each of the below-listed IUE-CWA, AFL-CIO, CLC Locals currently certified as collective bargaining representatives of Company employees and such other IUE-CWA, AFLrCIO, CLC Locals as may hereafter be certified as collective bargaining representatives of Company employees (each referred to individually as the “Local”).
The Locals which are initially parties to this National Agreement and the bargaining units represented by such Locals and the Union are listed below:
LOCAL NO. LOCATION
CLASSIFICATION
120 —	Philadelphia, PA	P & M
(GEI, Inc., Apparatus Sendee Center)
123—	Allentown, PA	P&M
(GEI, Inc., Apparatus Service Center)
161 —	Salem, VA	P&M
181—	Charlotte, NG	P&M
(GEI, Inc., Apparatus Service Center)
195 —	Atlanta, GA (GE Lighting Distribution Center)	Salaried OfficeClerical Warehouse
201 —	Lynn River Works, MA	P&M
201 —	Lynn River Works, MA	Salaried
203—	Bridgeport, CT	P&M
251 —	Boston, MA	Service (GECHS)
(iii)
LOCAL NO. LOCATION
CIASSIFICATION
255 —	Pittsfield, MA	P&M
301 —	Schenectady, NY	P&M
301 —	Schenectady, NY	Powerhouse
303 —	Albany, NY	P&M
	(GE1, Inc., Apparatus Service Center)	P&M
380 —	Waterford, NY	Salaried
	(Technicians)	
607	Emporium, PA	P&M
620 —	Charleston, VW	P&M
	(GEI, Inc., Apparatus Service Center)	
623 —	Pittsburgh, PA	Salaried
	(GE1, Inc., Apparatus Service Center)	
623 —	Pittsburgh, PA	P&M
	(GEI, Inc., Apparatus Service Center)	
640 —	Bridgeville, PA	P&M
	(GE Lighting, LLG Bridgeville Glass Hani)	
692 —	Newcomerstown, OH	P&M
	(GEI, Inc., Apparatus Service Center)	
701 —	Madisonville, KY	P&M
703 —	Murfreesboro, TN	P&M
704 —	Bucyrus, OH	P&M
	(GE Lighting, Inc.-Bucyrus lamp Plant)	
705 —	Dover, OH	P&M
	(GE Lighting, Inc.-Dover Products Plant)	
707—	Canton, OH (GE Supply)	Warehouse
707—	Cleveland, OH	P&M
	(GE lighting, Inc.-Euclid Specialty Coatings Operation)	
707 —	Cleveland, OH (Engineering Support Operation)	P&M
(iv)
locai.no. location
CI ASSIF1 CATION
707 —	Cleveland, OH (GE Lighting, Inc.-Tungsten Produces Plant)	P&M
707 —	Cleveland, OH (GE Lighting, Inc.-Tungsten Products Plant)	Maintenance Electricians
707 —	Cleveland, OH (Facilities and Security Services Operation - NEIA)	Boiler Room
707 —	Cleveland, OH (Facilities and Security Services Operation - NELA)	Maintenance
707—	Cleveland, OH (Facilities and Security Services Operation - NEIA)	Grounds Crew
707—	Cleveland. OH (Facilities and Security Services Operation - E< 152S(.)	Boiler Room
707 —	Qeveland, OH (GE Lighting, Inc.-Facilities and Security Services Operation ~E. 152 Sc)	Maintenance & Service
707 —	Cleveland, OH (GETS Service Center)	P&M
707 —	Cleveland, OH (Apparatus Warehouse)	P&M
707 —	Ravenna, OH (Ravenna Distribution/ and Warehouse Center)	Maintenance & Warehouse
707-	Willoughby, OH (GE Lighting, Inc. -Lucalox Pioducts)	P&M
707 —	Willoughby, OH (GESM GE Quartz, Inc.)	P&M
712 —	Lake Worth, FL (GECHSj	Service
715 —	Cleveland, OH (GE Lighting, Inc.-Euclid Lamp Plant)	P&M
(v)
LOCAL NO. LOCATION
CLASSIFICATION
722 —	Warren, OH	P&M
	(GE lighting, Inc.-Ohio Lamp Plant)	
734 —	Austintown, OH	P&M
	(GE lighting, Inc-AustintownProducts Plant)	
736—	Miarni/Ft. Lauderdale, FL (GECHS)	Service
740—	Jacksonville, FL	P&M
	(GEI, Inc, Apparatus Service Center)	
747 —	Jonesboro, AR	P&M
761 —	Louisville, KY (Appliance Park)	P&M
767—	Somerset, KY	P&M
	(GE Lighting, LLC- Scjrneraet Glass Plant)	
773 —	Cincinnati, OH	P&M
	(GEL Inc, Apparatus Service Center)	
788 —	Dallas, TX	P&M
	(GEI, Inc., Apparatus Service Center)	
805 —	Tell City, IN	P&M
818 —	Fenton, MO (GEL Inc., Apparatus Service Center)	P&M
850 —	Sat) Diego, GA (GECHS)	Service
850—	Iros Angeles, CA (GECHS)	Service
850 —	Mira Loma, CA (Mira Loma Distribution Center)	Warehouse
859 —	Evansville, IN (GEI, Inc., Apparatus Service Center)	P&M
901 —	Foil Wayne, IN	Salaried
901 —	Fort Wayne, IN	P&M
1004 —	Arkansas City, KS (GE Engine Services, Inc.)	P&M
1020 —	Denver, CO	P&M
(GEI, Inc., Apparatus Service Center)
(v*)
I.OGAl.XO. LOCATION
CLASSIFICATION
1027 — Oklahoma City, OK	Service
(GECHS)
1081— DeKalb, IL	P&M
1105 — New Orleans, LA	P&M
(GEI, Inc,, Apparatus Service Center)
1124— Tucson, AZ	P&M
(GEI, Inc., Apparatus Service Center)
1140 — Minneapolis, MN	P&M
(GEI, Inc,, Apparatus Service Center)
1160— Mesabi, MN	P&M
(GEI, Inc., Apparatus Service Center)
1161 — Appleton, W1	P&M
(GEI, Inc,, Apparatus Service Outer)
(vii)
ARTICLE I ____________________________________________
Union Recognition
■	1. The Company agrees to recognize the Union on behalf of and in conjunction with its Locals for those bargaining units of Company employees for which the Union or any of its Locals* through National Labor Relations Board certifications, is designated as the exclusive collective bargaining representative of employees within such units for the purpose of collective bargaining in respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment and other conditions of employment
■	2. Where the Union or any of its Locals through National Labor Relations Board certifications shall have been lawfully designated as the exclusive collective bargaining representative for any additional bargaining units of Company employees, such certified representative shall be recognized as provided above and become a party hereto, and the terms of this National Agreement shall thereupon be applicable to the employees within such unit
ARTICLE II
Union Security
■ 1. Ag&uy Shop
(a)	Subject to applicable law. all employees who, as of the date of this Agreement are members of the Union in good standing in accordance with the constitution and bylaws of the Union or who become member's of die Union following the effective date of tins Agreement, shall, as a condition of employment, remain members of the Union in good standing insofar as the payment of an amount equal to the periodic dues and initiation fees, uniformly required, is concerned.
1
(b)	Subject to applicable law, all present employees who are not members of die Union and stU individuals hired after the effective date of this agreement., shall, beginning on the thirtieth (30th) day following the effective date of this agreement or the thirtieth (30th) day following employment, whichever is later, as a condition of employment, either become and remain members of the Union in good standing insofar as the payment of an amount equal to the periodic dues and initiation fees, uniformly required, is concerned, or, in lieu of such Union membership, pay to die Union an equivalent service charge.
■ 2. Union Dues w Service Charge Deduction Aiithcrrization
(a)	The Company, for each ofitsemployeesincluded within the bargaining units recognized by the Company pursuant to Article I hereof, who individually, in writing, duly authorizes his Company Paymaster to do so, will deduct from tire earnings payable to such employee on the second pay day of each month, the monthly dues (including initiation fee, if any) for such employee’s membership in the Local, or die equivalent sendee charge, and shall remit promptly to die Local all such deductions. Local unions and local management are audiorized to negotiate variations from this checkoff procedure with respect to Ute frequency of dues deductions (including weekly dues tieductions), or the equivalent service charge, and to modify checkoff authorization forms in accordance with any such local agreements.
(b)	Subject to applicable law, individual authorizations executed after the effective date of this Agreement shall be signed cards in die form agreed to by die Company and the Union.
■ 3. Contributions to CWA COPE FUND
(a)	Employee Authorization.
2
The Company agrees to deduct from the pay of each employee voluntary contributions to the CWA COPE Fund (“CWA-COPE-PCC”), provided that each such employee executes or has executed an “Authorization for Assignment and Check-Off of Contributions to CWA-COPE-PCC” form and provided further that such authorization has not been revoked.
Deductions shall be made only in accordance with the provisions of and in (Jie amounts designated in said form, together with the provisions of this Section of the Agreement.
A properly executed copy of “Authorization for Assignment and Check-Off of Contributions to CWA-COPE-PCC” form for each employee for whom voluntary contributions to CWA-COPE PCC arc to be deducted hereunder, shall be delivered to the Company before any such deductions are made. All deductions shall be made pursuant to such properly executed forms for so long as they remain in effect. Such deductions shall be made from the employee’s regular pay each pay cycle that the authorization remains in effect.
(b)	Termination of Company Obligations
The Company’s obligation to make such deductions shall terminate automatically upon the termination of the employee who signs the authorization, upon written request, or upon his transfer to a job or location not covered by this Agreement.
(c)	Remittance to the Union
The Company agrees to remit said deductions monthly to the Union as follows:
(1)	The total amount of CWA-COPE-PCC contributions deducted.
3
(2)	The names, social security number and amounts from whose wages such deductions have been made.
(3)	The Company shall, at the same time remit to the Union its check for the amount shown under item (a) above, care of IUE-CWA, The Industrial Division of the Communications Workers of America, AFL-CIO, CLC (IUE-CWA).
(d)	Subject to applicable law, individual authorizations executed after the effective date of this Agreement shall be signed cards in the form agreed to by the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE III________________________________________
Working Conditions
■	1. The Company will continue to proride systematic safety inspections, safety devices, guards, and medical service to minimize accidents and health hazards on its premises.
ARTICLE IV_________________________________________
Discrimination and Coercion
■	1. Neither the Company nor any of its Foremen, Superintendents, or other agents or representatives, shall discriminate against any employee because such employee is a member, Steward, Officer, or other agent or representative of the Union or of any Local.
■	2. Neither the Union nor any Local, nor any Steward, Officer, or other agent or representative of either, shall intimidate or coerce any employee, nor solicit members or funds in the plant during working hours.
4
■	3. (a) The Company, the Union and its IUE-CWA Locals shall not discriminate againstany employee on accountof race, color, sex, creed, marital status, age or national origin.
(b) The Company, the Union and its IUE-CWA l ocals shall not discriminate against any employee because of physical or mental disabiHty or because he or she is a disabled veteran or veteran of the Vietnam era in regard to any position for which the employee is qualified.
ARTICLE V______________________________________________
Working Hours: Straight Time — Overtime
■ 1. (a) Workweek
The regular working week for both salaried and hourly rated employees shall be 40 hours per week, 8 hours per day, 5-day week, from Monday to Friday inclusive. The workweek on multiple shifts may be less than 40 hours.
An employee’s workday is the twenty-four hour period beginning with his regularly assigned starting time of his workshift, and his day of rest starts at the same time on the day or days he is not scheduled to work. His workweek starts with the start of his regularly assigned work period on Monday of that workweek, except on continuous operations. Upon commencing work on Monday at a newly assigned starting time which is earlier than his starting time during the preceding week, the workday immediately preceding such Monday shall end provided the employee has had a 24-hour period of rest prior to the newly assigned starting time.
Variations in hours of work and schedules of hours of the several shifts, including multiple shifts where the workweek starts late Sunday night and where such hours on Sunday are considered as part of the Monday workday, are subjects for local negotiations.
5
(b)	Continuous Operations
Special schedules of hours and overtime will apply (1) on jobs which require continuous operation such as powerhouse attendants and on jobs requiring continuous manufacturing processes such as those which, for reasons of protection of equipment and material, must be run on a 24-hour day and a weck-by-weck basis, or (2) on process oriented jobs which cannot readily be operated on a non-continuous basis such its chemi cal plastic, silicone and glass operations. Existingjobs or processes described in (2), but not currently on continuous operations its of July 1, 1973, may be designated as continuous operations by negotiation and agreement between local management and the Local Union. In the case of jobs described in (2), where new operations or processes are developed or established after July 1,1973, the Local will be given thirty (30) calendar days notice prior to die designation of such jobs as continuous operations.
(c)	Wien a change is made in the hours of work or working schedules of substantially all employees of a plant or a department thereof, local management will notify the employees and the Locals respectively a Hec ted at least one week in advance of the effective date of such change. When a change is made in the hours of work or working schedules of various individuals or smaller groups of employees, the Foreman will give the affected employees and their Union Steward jls much notice its possible.
Any grievance resulting from the establishment of a new working schedule will be handled through the regular grievance procedure.
■ 2. Overtime - Regular Workweek
The Company will pay an hourly rated or salaried employee on a nonexeniptjob for overtime as follows:
(a)	At the rate of time and one-half for hours worked
6
either
(1)	In excess of 8 hours in any single workday; or
(2)	In excess of 40 hours in any given workweek; or
(3)	In excess of 8 hours in any continuous 24 hours beginning at the starting time of the employee’s shift; or
(4)	After working his regular schedule, if on multiple shifts of less than 8 hours each; or
(5)	On his Saturday.
(b)	At the rate of double time for hours worked either
(1)	On his Sunday; or
(2)	On his “observed” holiday; or
(3)	In excess of 12 hours in his workday; provided that an employee who shall have worked in excess of 12 hours in any single workday, and who shall be required to continue at work beyond that workday, shall continue to be paid at the double time rate for hours worked until he shall have been relieved from work; or
(4)	Outside the employee’s regularly scheduled shift on a calendar Sunday or calendar observed holiday.
(c)	At the rate of double time and one-half for hours worked either
(1)	On his holidays listed in Article VII as paid holidays; or
(2)	Outside die employee’s regularly scheduled shift on any of the calendar holidays listed in Article VII as paid holidays; or
(3)	For salaried employees only, for hours worked on an observed holiday7 or outside
7
the employee’s regularly scheduled shift on any calendar observed holiday.
(d)	An employee who is transferred from his regular established shift to another and who is thereafter returned to his original shift during the same week, or during the immediately succeeding week, shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for the first 8 hours worked following the first such transfer, except where either or both such transfers (i) results from the failure of another employee or employees to report for work; or (ii) is made in connection with a lack of work situation; or (iii) is made at the employee’s request; or (iv) results from an emergency breakdown of equipment or machinery; or (v) is made in connection with an established program of shift rotation.
■ 3. Continuous Operations
(a) Workday - Workweek
(1) When any employee on continuous operations has a scheduled workweek of 5 days at work and 2 days off, his first scheduled day off shall be considered as the 6th day of his workweek, and his second scheduled day off whether or not successive, as the 7th day of his workweek. When such working schedule contains a regularly recurring workweek of 6 days at work and one day off, such scheduled day off shall be considered as the 7th day of his workweek mid the day immediately preceding as the 6th day of his workweek.
■ 4. Ouertime-Continuous Operations
The Company will pay an hourly rated or salaried employee on a nonexempt job for overtime as follows:
(a)	At the rate of time and one-half for hours worked either
8
(1)	In excess of 8 hours in any single workday; or
(2)	In excess of 40 hours in any given workweek; or
(3)	In excess of 8 hours in any continuous 24 hours beginning at the starting time of the employee’s shift; or
(4)	On his Saturdays or Sundays if either day is not his 7th day of his workweek; or
(5)	On employee’s 7th day of his workweek if such day is neither his Saturday, Sunday or observed holiday; or
(6)	On his Saturdays and Sundays (as a minimum if employee is on a special schedule other than that outlined in 3(a)(1) above).
(b)	At the rate of double time for hours worked either
(1)	On the employee’s 7th day of his workweek, if such day is his Saturday, Sunday or observed holiday; or
(2)	On the employee’s 6th day of the workweek if falling on an observed holiday; or
(3)	In excess of 12 hours in his workday; provided that an employee who shall have worked in excess of 12 hours in any single workday, and who shall be required to continue at work beyond that workday, shall continue to be paid at the double time rate for hours worked until he shall have been relieved from work.
(c)	At the rate of double time and one-half for hours worked on the holidays listed in Article VII as paid holidays.
■ 5. General
(a)	Listed holidays referred to above shall mean those holidays listed in Article VII of this Agreement.
9
(b)	Each Local shall be furnished a list of the observed holidays referred to above.
(c)	Computation of overtime shall be in accordance widi (he day as defined in 1 (a) above and shall be allowed under only one of these overtime provisions for any given hours.
(d)	All salaried employees if absent for personal reasons other than vacation shall be paid in accordance with the established plan.
(e)	In cases where the Company instructs employees to report ahead of schedule and/or remain after the regular schedule to change clothes, etc., employees involved will be paid for such additional time.
■ 6. Night Shift Differential
Hourly rated and salaried employees hired on or before August 1,1994 assigned to recognized second and third shift operations shall have 10% added to their regularly determined earnings for all work performed on such shifts. Employees hired after August 1,1994, who have no record of prior GE service, shall have sixty cents ($.60) added to their regular hourly rate for all work performed on such shifts until they have accumulated five (5) years of continuous service after which they will receive the 10% night shift differential Recognized second and third shifts shall in all cases be those beginning between 12 noon and 3:30 a.m. In exceptional cases the starting time for a recognized second shift may be earlier by mutual agreement between die Local and local management.
fl 7. Other Special Payments
(a)	Early Efparting and Call-In
(1)	Employees who are called in outside of their regular schedule of hours will be paid at the
10
applicable premium rate, but not less than the equivalent of four hours pay at their straightrime rate. The straight-time rate for qualified pieceworkers will be not less than their AER and for learners on piecework will be the lower of their average earnings or their AER.
(2)	Day shift employees who are called back after the end of their regular day shift (or told to report prior to their regular starting time) will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for hours worked outside their regular schedule, up to midnight and at the rate of double time for hours worked after midnight and up to the beginning of the regular day shift.
(3)	Employees on the second and third shifts who are called back after the end of their regular shift (or told to report prior to their regular starting time) will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for hours worked up to the beginning of their regular shift.
(4)	Subsections (1), (2) and (3) above are not applicable where an employee continues to work into the next shift following his normal quitting time.
(b)	Ttepmt-in Time
Employees who report for work in accordance with their regular schedules, and, without previous notice thereof, neither their regularly assigned nor any reasonably comparable work is available, will receive not less than four hours pay at the rate applicable had they worked. This Subsection (b) shall not be applicable where the inability of the Company to supply work is the result of fire, snowstorm, flood, powder failure or work stoppage by employees in the same Company location. Qualified
II
pieceworkers will be paid at least their anticipated earned rate. Learners on piecework will be paid their average earnings if less than the anticipated earned rate.
(c)	Dispensary Time
Employees will be paid at their applicable rate for time spent in attending the Company dispensary for examination or treatment of any injuries arising out of and in the course of their employment, whenever such time would otherwise have been spent by the injured employee on the work assigned to him. Qualified pieceworkers will be paid at least their anticipated earned rate. Learners on piecework will be paid their average earnings if less than the anticipated earned rate. Employees who are directed not to return to work as a result of their injury shall be paid at their straigh t-time rate to the end of their scheduled work shift.
■	8. Division of Overtime
Overtime shall be divided as equally as proficient operations permit among the employees who are performing similar work in the group. A record of overtime worked by employees (or credited to them) will be maintained by the immediate supervisor of the group and will be available for examination by the appropriate Union Steward upon request.
ARTICLE VI_____________________________________________
Wage Rates
■	1. Any question which affects hourly rates, piecework rates or salary rates of individuals or groups shall be subject to negotiation between the Local and the local management.
■	2. The Company shall furnish the respective Locals concerned with information concerning all hourly and Siilariedjob classifications, definitions, rates and progression
12
schedules, including the anticipated earned rate, if any, for pieceworkjobs, and changes therein, for alljobs included within the bargaining units respectively represented by such Locals. Such Locals will also be informed of those piecework jobs within such bargaining units for which there is no anticipated earned rate. It is understood that the job classifications and definitions referred to above are merely for purposes of identification and general description and do not purport to be all-inclusive or exhaustive of the actual requirements of any job so classified or defined. In addition, upon request of any Local, the Company will furnish to such Local a copy of the currently applicable wage structure for the plant or location.
■	3. When an employee is hired or transferred through the Company Personnel Department, he will be given a card showing his job classification, starting rate, rate of progression or progression schedule, if any, job rate and anticipated earned rate and sharing rate, if any, applicable to the job for which he is hired or to which transferred.
■	4. Piece Prices - Hourly Rated Piecework Employees
(a)	Piece prices are classified as standard, temporary or special and all piecework vouchers will indicate the classification.
(1)	A Standard Piece Price is one set where the manufacturing method has become established.
(2)	A Temporary Piece Price is one set where the manufacturing method is under development or has been changed, or the average pieceworker on the job has not yet attained normal performance.
(3)	A Special Piece Price is one set on work which usually repeats infrequently or is in small quantities or has some special feature or purpose.
13
(b)	There will be no change in a standard price except where there is a change in manufacturing method.
Where such a change in manufacturing method is made, die price may adjusted. However, such adjustment shall be limited to those parts of the job affected bv die change.
In order that the operator trill be able to make the same hourly earnings under a new price where a change in manufacturing method is made which does not reduce the job value on which the original price was computed, the adjusted price will be in direct proportion to the change in allowed time for the part of the job affected by the new method. When a price is reduced on such jobs, the employee and his representative trill be given at least one week’s notice that the price is to be changed.
(c)	Subject to the foregoing, the Company will replace a temporary price with a standard price within six mondis if reasonably possible under the circumstances.
(d)	A piecework employee temporarily taken off his regularjob by die Company to perform another'job, when he would otherwise have continued workingon his regular job, shall be paid no less than his average straight-time earning rate on his regular job.
hi cases of machine breakdowns, faulty materials, lack of material, or odier unusual conditions, generally of short duration and not the fault of the operator, the employee will be paid for such conditions in accordance with the present local practice, prodded the employee notifies his Foreman or other designated supervisor at the time the condition occurs.
(e)	When a Company representative makes a lime study of any job, the employee and his Steward will be notified and advised of its purpose. On jobs where the piece price is in dispute between the Company and the Local, and is scheduled to be retimed, die Steward may be present during
M
this retiming and observe the conditions under which it is made. If the Steward requests, the Foreman will explain to him the data used in making up the piece price from the time study and/or applicable tables.
■ 5. Step Rales and Profession Schedules
The Union and the Locals recognize that starting rates, progression rates, and job rates for hourly rated and salaried employees will vary, depending on the job, its location, and its surrounding circumstances.
The following provisions of this Section 5 are applicable to all hourly rated and salaried employees except draftsmen, apprentices and other trainees participating in an entrytype training program; provided that hourly rated employees hired after August 5,1991 who have no record of prior GE service, shall be placed on starting rates and progression schedules in accordance with the provisions contained in Section 8 of this Article.
(a)	Hourly Rated Employees on Daywork
(1)	All starting, progression and job rates for hourly rated employees will be on steps in accordance with the applicable local wage structure.
(2)	The minimum starting rates for till hourly rated jobs will be as follows:
(a)	On jobs with ajob rate which is not more than two (2) steps below the top of the one month progression schedule:
Four (4) steps below job rate.
(b)	On jobs with a job rate which is not more than five (5) steps, nor less than three (3) steps below the top of the one month progression schedule:
Three (3) steps below job rate.
15
(c)	On jobs with a job rate which is more than five (5) steps below the top of the one month progression schedule:
Two (2) steps below job rate.
(3)	Applicants fully experienced on jobs of the kind for which hired will begin at a rate not less than two steps below the job rate and will be increased to thejob rate in accordance with the applicable progression schedule set forth in paragraph 4 below', except that when tire applicant is hired for ajob to which the six month progression schedule is applicable, thejob rate rntist be paid at the end of six months.
(4)	Each hourly rated employee will progress on steps from his starting rate to thejob rate of his job in accordance with the following progression schedules:
(a)	ONE MONTH
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
Step rates up to, and including, the top of the One Month Progression Schedule in effect at each local planton October 26, 1969:
One (1) step at the end of each one month period.
(b)	THREE MONTH
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
Step rates from one to three steps (inclusive) above the top of the One Month Progression Schedule:
One, (1) step al the end of each three month period.
(c)	SIX MONTH
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
16
Step rates more than three steps above the top of the One Month Progression Schedule:
One. (I) step at the. end of each six month period.
(5)	The above progression schedules are mandatory for employees on the job.
(b)	Salaried Employees
(1)	All starting, progression and job nates for salaried employees will be on steps in accordance with the applicable local salaried structure.
(2)	The minimum starting rates for all salariedjobs will be as follows:
(a)	On jobs with a job rate of Grade No. 8 or higher:
Four f4) steps below job rate.
(b)	On jobs with ajob rate of Grade Nos. 4 through 7:
Three (3) steps below job rate.
(c)	On jobs with ajob rate of Grade No. 3 or lower:
Two (2) steps below job rate.
(3)	Each salaried employee will progress on steps, from the starting rate to thejob rate established for that employee’s particular job, or to the top of the progression schedule (the Grade No. 11 rate), whichever is less as follow?:
(a)	THREE MONTH
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
Step rates up to and including Grade No. 6;
One (I) step at theend ofeach. three month period.
(b)	SIX MONTH
17
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
Step cates from Grade No. 6 up to and including Grade No. 11 :
One (1) step at the end of each six month period.
(4)	The above progression schedules are mandatory for employees on die job.
(5)	Any further increase in rate for any salaried employee above the top of the progression schedule, up to thejob rate for die employee’s job will also be on steps but shall be b;tsed solely on die employee’s performance on thejob. In addition, each such employee will be reviewed at least once each year.
(6)	Applicants fully experienced on jobs of die kind for which hired will begin at a rate not less than two steps below thejob rate and will be increitsed to thejob rate within six months for normal performance.
(7)	Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section 5(b), the job rate shall be paid for normal performance.
(c)	Hourly Rated Employees
New incentive prices will be set on the basis of the established step rate plan for incentive workers in those locations which have such plans in effect.
(d)	Group Leaders and Instructors
(1)	Group leaders of dayworker groups shall be paid two steps above the highest job rate in the group. If individuals in any group have a preferential rale above thejob rate, die leader may be assigned a rate up to two steps above such preferential rate if negotiated locally.
18
(2)	Group leaders who are leading pieceworkers who are on individual piecework shall be paid at least two steps above the highest AER in the group. Rates in excess of this minimum shall be paid in accordance with job requirements and shall be negotiated locally.
(3)	Rates of instructors and group leaders other than the above shall be negotiated locally.
■	6. Notice to Locals of Wage Increases for Hourly Rated and Salaried Employees.
Whenever a Local’s request for a wage increase for an employee within its bargaining unit is denied, the Local shall be advised in advance if the increase is subsequently granted by the Company within six months after such request.
■	7. At those locations which do not have an “anticipated earned rate (AER)” in their rate structure, its counterpart for that location will be used wherever “anticipated earned rate (AER)” is used in this agreement.
■	8. Starting Rates and Progression Rates and Schedules for Employees Hired After August 5, 1991.
(a)	This Section will apply to hourly employees hired for jobs with a job rate within the one month progression schedule who have no record of prior GE service and salaried employees hired for jobs with ajob rate within the three month progression schedule who have no record of prior GE service. Employees hired after Augusto, 1991, who have no record of prior GE service, may be hired at a minimum of 70% of job rate. Employees will progress in six (6) month steps to job rate in accordance with the following table:
19
Hiring Hate as Percent of Job Rate
95
90
85
80
75
70
Number of Progression Steps
1
2
3
4
5
6
For the purposes of this Section 8 only, time spent away from ajob within the one month progression schedule, up to a maximum of twelve months for any single absence, shall be included in the time required to progress to job rate. The preceding sentence shall apply to absences which begin on or after July I, 1997.
(b)	Employees on the above progression schedule who are transferred to higher rated jobs within the one month progression schedule (hourly) or the three month progression schedule (salaried) will have their paid rates adjusted to the same percentage of the new job rate. Time accumulated toward the next progression step will be carried fonmrd and progression timing to die next step will not be affected by such transfer. Employees on the above progression schedule who are transferred to higher rated jobs outside the one month progression schedule (hourly) or the three month progression schedule (salaried) will have their paid rates adjusted according to the other provisions of this Article and Article X.
(c)	Employees on the above progression schedule who are transferred to a lower rated job will have their progression rates adjusted to the same percentage of the new job rate. They will progress to the next higher
20
percentage progression step based on the time accumulated since their last step.
(d)	Employees hired under the provisions of this paragraph will progress to the job rate of their assigned job in accordance with the schedules contained herein; the other provisions of this Article and Article X, Transfers, notwithstanding. After completing the initial progression schedule and reaching job rate of the assigned job the other provisions of this Article and Article X will be applicable to subsequent transfers.
ARTICLE VII
Holidays
■	1. Listed Holidays
New Year’s Day Martin Luther King’s Birthday President’s Day Memorial Day Independence Day
Labor Day
Election Day
Thanksgiving Day
The day before Christmas Day Christmas Day
An additional listed holiday is to be designated by each location. (This holiday will be mutually selected by the local union and local management prior to December 31 of the year preceding the year in which the holiday will occur. In the absence of mutual agreement by such December 31, the holiday will be designated by local management.)
Local management and the local union at each plant may agree in writing to substitute a different holiday in place of any of the above-listed holidays for all purposes.
■	2. Hourly Rated Employees
21
(a)	Ail hourly rated employee not on continuous operations will be paid, for each of the above listed holiday's not worked, up to eight hours at his average straight-time hourly rate as taken from the last periodic statistics available at the time his holiday occurs (current rate for dayworkers), for a number of hours equal to his regular daily working schedule during such week. providing each of the following conditions are met:
(1)	Such employee has been employed at least 30 days prior to any such holiday'.
(2)	Such employee works his last scheduled workday prior to and his next scheduled workday after such holiday within his scheduled workweeks. This condition shall not prevent payment of holiday pay to:
(i)	an employee who has been absent from work because of verified personal illness for not more than three months prior to the week in which tire holiday occurs and who works or repoits for the Company’s physical examination the next scheduled workday following the holiday; or
(ii)	an employee who has been continuously absent from work for not more than two weeks prior to the week in which the holiday occurs and who is not at work either or lx>t 11 such workdays due to approved absences for personal illness or emergency illness at home, death in his family, layoff or union activity; or
(iii)	an employee w'ho is not at work on either or both such workdays solely due to military encampment or jury duty; or
(iv)	an employee who is absent from work on either the last scheduled workday prior to
22
double consecutive holidays (when such double consecutive holidays have been arranged under the provisions of Section 4 thereof) or his next scheduled workday after such double consecutive holidays (in such case, the employee will be entitled to holiday pay only for the first of such double consecutive holidays if he works the last scheduled workday prior to that holiday, but not the next scheduled workday after the second holiday; and he will be entitled to holiday pay only for the second of such double consecutive holidays if he fails to work the last scheduled workday prior to the first of such double consecutive holidays but works the next scheduled workday after the second of such double consecutive holidays).
(b)	Hourly rated employees on continuous operations will be paid for the above-listed holiday's under the above conditions if the holiday falls within their scheduled workweek and they are not scheduled to work on the holiday. If such employee fails to work as scheduled, he will not be paid for the holiday. If, however, such failure to work on the holiday is due to verified personal illness, death in family, jury duty, or emergency illness at home, the employee will be paid for the holiday if he is otherwise eligible in accordance with all the provisions of Section 2(a) above.
(c)	Hourly rated employees who are receiving the night shift differential pursuant to Article V, 6 shall have the same added to any holiday pay received by' them under this article.
■ 3. Any of the above-listed holidays falling on Sunday shall be treated for all purposes under this Agreement as falling
23
on the following Monday and shall for such purposes be observed on that Monday only. In like manner, any of the above-listed holiday's falling on Saturday shall be treated for all purposes under this Agreement (including the purposes of Section 2(c) of Article V) as falling on the preceding Friday and shall for such purposes be observed on that Friday only. However, local plant management and a local union may, by local agreement in writing, substitute a day other than the preceding Friday for any such holiday which falls on Saturday,
For an employee on continuous operations, when a holiday fells on his scheduled day off, his next non-premium scheduled workday shall be deemed to be his holiday. In no event will an employee receive the holiday pay or premium more than once for a holiday.
ARTICLE VIII_________________________________________
Continuity of Service - Service Credits ■
■ 1. Defmiliim of Terms
(a)	“Continuity of sendee” designates the status of an employee who has service credits totaling 52 or more weeks.
(b)	“Continuous service” designates the length of each employee’s continuity of service and shall equal the total service credits of an employee who has “continuity of service.”
(c)	“Service credits” arc credits for periods during which the employee is actually at work for the Company or for periods of absence for which credit is granted. (As provided in Section 3.)
(d)	“Absence” is die period an employee is absent from work either with or without pay (except a paid vacation period), computed by subtracting the date following the last day worked from the date the employee returns to
24
work. Each separate continuous period away from work shall be treated as a single absence from work.
(e)	“Illness” shall include pregnancy, whenever the Foreman or other immediate supervisor is notified prior to absence from work.
■ 2. Loss of Service Credits and Continuity of Service
(a)	Service credits previously accumulated and continuity of service, if any, will be lost whenever the employee:
(1)	Quits, dies, resigns, retires or is discharged.
(2)	Is absent from work for more than two consecutive weeks without satisfactory explanation.
(3)	Is absent from work because of personal illness or accident and fails to keep the Company notified monthly, stating the probable date of his return to work.
(4)	Is notified within a year from date of layoff that he may return but fails to return or to give satisfactory explanation within two weeks.
(5)	fs absent from work without satisfactory explanation beyond the period of any leave of absence granted him by the Company.
(6)	Is absent from work for a continuous period of more than one year for any reason, other than (a) a leave of absence granted in advance, or (b) an absence due to a compensable accident (up to 18 months) or compensable illness (up to 18 months).
(b)	Individuals who at the time of layoff had one (1) year of continuous service shall, despite loss of sendee as a result of such layoff, be retained on the recall list and
25
be eligible for reemployment in accordance with the applicable local procedure for a period of sixty (60) months following layoff or until retirement, whichever occurs first. Similarly, in the case of individuals with the required service absent due to illness or injury7, the same extended recall arrangement will be made only if:
(1)	The individual reports promptly to the Personnel Office for employment upon recovery7.
(2)	Tire individual is otherwise eligible in which case he will promptly thereafter have his name added to tile recall list.
Actual recall will be predicated upon the individual meeting the Company health requirements.
(c)	If the Company reemploys an employee who has lost service credits and continuity of service because of layoff due to lack of work for more than one year, because of absence due to illness or injury for more titan one year, or because of termination for transfer to a successor employer, such employee shall have such service credits and continuity of service automatically restored if his continuous service at the time of his layoff, termination for transfer to a successor employer, or first day of illness was greater than the total length of such absence or if the employee has recall lights under Section 2 (b) of this Annie or if the employee is placed under Preferential Placement.
(d)	The service record of each employee laid off and reemployed after layoff or reemployed fol lowing illness or injury, will be reviewed by the Company at the time of his reemployment and in each case, such employee will be notified as to his service credits and continuity of service, if any.
(e)	tf the Company rcemploys, on or after June 27,1988, a former employee who had continuity of service at the time
26
of a previous termination of Company employment {and the employee is not eligible for automatic seaice restoration under Section 2(c)}, the Company shall restore such contini iity of service after die employee has completed three years of continuous service following reemployment. An employee in the process of service restoration tinder this section who is laid off and again rehired or recalled shall have all service credits earned following reemployment on or after June 27,1988 accumulated for die purpose of service restoration under this Section 2(e).
(f)	Service restoration provided for in th is Section 2 wi 11 be contingent upon the employee’s full repayment of any of die following lump sum benefits paid under Article XXII: Income Extension Aid under Section 4(b) (1) (iii), Special Voluntary' Layoff Bonus under Section 4(c), Special Retirement Bonus under Section 3(b), or severance pay due to a plant closing termination which occurred within six months prior to the date of reemployment. Such repayment must be made within a reasonable time after rehire. No such repayment is required of benefits paid if the reemployment date is more than one year from the date of the prior termination.
■ 3. Service Credits
Service credits for each employee shall be granted for periods during which the employee is actually at work for the Company, and service credits for absences shall be added to an employee's service, after reemployment with continuity of service or with prior service credits, as follows:
(a)	Employees when reemployed with prior service credits or continuity of service following absence due to illness, accident, layoff, leave of absence granted by the Company, because of termination for transfer to a successor employer, or due to plant closing, will receive service credits for up to a total of the first twelve months of such absence. Where the absence of an employee, with continuity of
27
service, is due to a compensable accident or compensable illness, and the employee is reemployed without loss of continuity of service, service credits will be granted for die period of his absence in excess of twelve months up to a maximum of six additional months.
(b)	For all other absences of two weeks or less, such employees will receive service credits, but, if the absence is longer than two weeks, no service credits will be allowed for any part of such absence.
If an employee wrho has lost prior service credits or continuity of service is reemployed, he shall be considered a new employee and will not receive service credits (unless all or part of prior service credits are restored) for any time prior to the date of such reemployment.
ARTICLE IX_________________________________________
Vacations
■ 1. Paid Vacation Periods
Vacations with pay will be granted in each calendar year (hereinafter called the ‘Vacation year”) to eligible hourly rated and nonexempt salaried employees as follows*.
(a)	Salaried Employees
Years of Continuous Service
1
5
7
15
20
30
Vacation
2 weeks
2 1 /2 weeks
3	weeks
4	weeks
5	weeks
6	weeks
28
(b)	Hourly Rated Employees years of Continuous Sendee
1
2
5
7
15
20
30
Vacation
1	weeks
2	weeks
2 1/2 weeks
3	weeks
4	weeks
5	weeks
6	weeks
■ 2. Eligibility Requirements
An employee whose continuity of service is unbroken as of December 31 or his last scheduled workday in the last week of the year immediately preceding the vacation year shall qualify for a vacation or vacation allowance under the provisions of this Article if he:
(a)	Actually performs work as an active employee of the Company during the last full calendar week of the year immediately preceding the vacation year; or
(b)	Receives earnings from the Company directly applicable to all or part of such week.
If an employee has not qualified under (a) and (b) above, but returns to work without loss of continuity of service during the vacation year, he will become entitled to a vacation or vacation allowance in die vacation year after he shall have worked in the vacation year for one month or for a period equal to that of his absence if his absence was less than one month. Any such employee reemployed too late to work for one month in the vacation year will be paid his vacation allowance and may have a portion of the time
29
out considered as the vacation to which he is otherwise eligible.
■ 3. Determination of Paid Vacations
(a)	Basic or Guaranteed Vacations
The basic vacation period of an eligible employee shall be based upon his length of continuous service as of December 31 of die year immediately preceding die vacation year.
(b)	Additional (or Initial) Vacation
An eligible employee whose continuing accumulation of service credits during a vacation year entitles him to an additional vacation under the provisions of Section 1 (or who completes his first year of continuous service during the vacation year) will receive such additional vacation (or his initial vacation), provided that an employee shall not be entitled to any such vacation in a vacation year unless he shall actually perform work as an active employee of die Company during such vacation year after having qualified for such vacation. EXCEPTION: Where a plant shutdown is scheduled for the last week of the year employees who would have qualified for vacation payment during this shutdown will receive such payment if they return to work (or report for physical examination and are approved for employment) the first scheduled workday following the shutdown or were at work the last scheduled workday immediately' preceding the shutdown.
■	4. Termination of Employment
An employee who quits, is discharged, dies or retires will promptly thereafter' receive the full vacation allowance to which he may then be entitled. In the case of employees who died, vacation allowances will be treated as wages owing the employee, and payment made accordingly.
30
■	5. Use of Vacation Time far Absences afEmployees
(a)	Leave of Absence
An employee who is granted a leave of absence may have die first portion of such leave designated as die period of any vacation to which he may then be entitled, if the Manager shall approve.
(b)	Extended Illness, Accident er Layoff
Subject to management approval, an employee who is absent because of illness or accident, or because he is laid off for lack of work, may elect (except in a plant or part thereof which is scheduled for an annual shutdown) to have the first portion of such absence designated as the period of any vacation to which he may then be entitled. The employee’s election to apply unused vacation to extend active service must be made within one week of the beginning of the applicable absence.
(c)	Incidental Absences
An employee whose absence is excused because of personal illness, personal business, holidays that are unpaid, temporary lack of work, or short workweeks (of 1/2 day or longer) may (with the Manager’s approval) utilize extra vacation time to which he is entitled in excess of the scheduled Shutdown or in excess of two weeks in locations where there is no shutdown for such absences in the form of vacation days. This time maybe paid out in units of no less titan 1/2 day periods.
(d)	Other Absences
An employee who is absent from work for any reason other than those reasons listed above will not be entitled either to have his vacation scheduled or to receive a vacation allowance during the period of such absence.
31
(e)	Vacation Payment Guarantee
An employee whose service is terminated or whose absence from work continues beyond the end of a vacation year and who did not receive in such vacation year the full vacation pay for which he had qualified, shall receive at the end of the vacation year or upon prior termination of service, a vacation allowance in lieu of any vacation to which he was entitled.
■ 6. Computation of Vacation Pay
(a)	Basic Formulas
Vacation pay for each week of vacation to which an employee is entitled will be computed by multiplying die appropriate weekly hour-multiplier as determined by Subsection (b) below, by the appropriate rate-multiplier as determined by Subsection (c) below. (Vacation pay for any extra day or half day of vacation to which an employee may be entitled will be determined by (i) dividing by five or ten respectively the weekly hour-multiplier determined for him under Subsection (b) below and (ii) multiplying such daily equivalent by the appropriate rate-multiplier determined by Subsection (c) below.)
(b)	Determination of Weekly Hour-Multiplier
The weekly hour-multiplier for vacation pay computations for all employees will be 40 hours except as noted in the following paragraphs of this Subsection (b).
32
(i)	Short Schedules
The weekly hour-multiplier of an employee whose regular weekly schedule at the time his vacation begins is less than 40 hours will be the greater of either (A) his scheduled hours per week at the time the vacation begins, or (B) his scheduled hours per week during the last fiscal week, as determined by the GE fiscal calendar, worked by him during the year preceding the vacation year, but in any event will not be greater than 40 hours.
(ii)	Multiple-Shift Short Schedule
Notwithstanding the provisions of (i) above, the weekly hour-multiplier for an employee who is on a multiple shift operation and whose regular weekly schedule of hours is not less than 371/2 hours shall be not less than 40 hours.
(iii)	Extended Schedules
The weekly hour-multiplier of an employee who shall have worked an average of more than 40 hours per week during the weeks paid in the calendar year which immediately precedes the vacation year will be determined in accordance with the following schedule:
33
Weekly Average Weekly Houk	Hour-Multiplier
40	but less than 42	40
42	but less than 42.5	42
42.5	but less than 43.5	43
43.5	but less than 44.5	44
44.5	but less dian 45.5	45
45.5	but less than 46.5	46
46.5	but less than 47.5	47
47.5	and higher	48 (maximum)
NOTE: For tfie purposes of the foregoing schedule, average weekly hours will be computed by dividing the total number of hours actually worked Ijy die employee during Ute weeks paid in said year by the number of weeks in such year, except that die following listed types of time Jost from wor k will be couniec) as time worked.'
(A) Time spent on union activity,
(B) A listed or observed holiday,
(C) July duty service;
(D) Military Service for which service credits are granted under Article XX1I1;
(E) Annual shutdowns and vacation periods;
(F) Employees' personal absences Ibrwhich pay is granted;
(G) Time paid for deadi-in-flunily absence;
(H} Time lost due to a compensable accident or toi ripe usable illness.
(iv)	Continuous Operation
The weekly hour-multiplier of'an employee who is, at the time of his vacation, regularly assigned to work on a continuous operation schedule will be die greater of eidier (a) the number of hours per week he would have been paid, up to a maximum of 48 hours, including premium hours for Saturday and/or Sunday, had he worked forty (40) hours on his established regular schedule including Saturday and/or Sunday, on the week or weeks scheduled for vacation or (b) the hours provided by the application of Section 6(b) (iii) above.
34
(c)	Determination of Rate-Multiplier
The rate-multiplier for various types of employees will be as follows:
ir employe?	Rate-Multiplier The greater of; Current Rate (including	Year End Rate (including night-shift txmusfor	night-shift bonus far wtplvyf& who are ngu-	employees who aw regularly schrdtiled on a	lady scheduled on a night nightshift)	shift)
Hourly employee incentive	His average earnings	His average earnings (exclu- (exclusive of overtime	rive of overtime premium) premium) obtained from obtained from the last peri-the last periodic starts-	odic statistics applicable tics available at die	to time worked by him during time his vacation begins year preceding vacation (except that when an	year, employee’s job and rate are changed within one month before his vacation period, the new rate of earnings will be used in place of the last regular periodic statistics).
Hvudy employee on daywork	Regular hourly daywork Regular hourly daywork rate in effect at die	rate in effect dining the time his vacation	last full calendar week begins.	worked by him during year preceding vacation year.
Salaried emplayre	Hourly equivalent of	Hourly equivalent of employee’s actual	employee’s actual straight straight time salary	rime salary rate for last rate in effect at time	week worked by him during vacation begins.	year preceding vacation year.
(d)	Payments for Incidental Absences
The payments described in Section 5(c) will lie paid on the same basis as outlined above.
35
■ 7. Scheduling of Vacations
(a)	Scheduling
In the event of one or more shutdowns scheduled in any plant within (lie vacation year, one of such shutdowns will be of no less than two (2) weeks duration and during such Shutdown, the vacation for eligible employees shall be considered to run concurrently. Provided written notice is given to the Local union prior to April 1, this Shutdown may be split into two periods of not less than one (1) week duration,, but in no case shall the combined split periods exceed three weeks. In such cases, local management and the Local may also agree on special rules dealing with vacation eligibility for the subsequent year where one of the mandatory Shutdown periods extends into the last calendar week of the year. Exceptions for certain departments or individuals by reason of the requirements of the business shall be at management's discretion. With respect to other scheduled shutdown periods, employees entitled to vacation time in excess of two (2) weeks, may elect to take the time off without pay as though on temporary layoff for lack of work and take his remaining vacation time off at some earlier or later date including the week immediately preceding or following the Shutdown period. Vacations taken at times other than during shutdown periods will be scheduled to conform to the requirements of the business at the Manager’s discretion. For any partof a Shutdown period for which an employee is not eligible or does not become eligible for vacation pay during the vacation year, and during which he has no work available, he will be deemed to be on temporary layoff for lack of work.
(b)	Ineligibility for Income Extension. Aid
In the event an employee elects to take time off without pay during a scheduled shutdown period, such employee
36
shall not be eligible for Income Extension Aid for that scheduled shutdown period.
(c)	Postponement or Divis ion of Vacation
It will not be permissible to postpone vacations from one year to another, or to omit vacations and draw vacation pay allowances in lieu thereof, except with the written approval of the Manager. No vacation shall be divided unless it is of two weeks or more duration, in which case it may, with the consent of the Manager, be divided.
■	8. Time of Vacation Payment
Except as otherwise provided in this Article, vacation allowances for full weeks shall be paid to an employee on or about the last day worked by him prior to die beginning of the vacation scheduled for him (except payments under 5(c)). An employee who takes his vacation prior to the date upon which he becomes eligible, will receive payment (computed in accordance with Section 6 above) after he becomes eligible. Additional day or days for which an employee may qualify later in the year may be taken at the time of the regular vacation and payment for such dme (computed in accordance with Section 6 above) will be made after the employee has qualified.
■	9. Holiday in Vacation Period
When the vacation period of any employee includes one of the holidays listed in Article VII, an additional day of vacation will be granted with pay, if the holiday occurs during the scheduled workweek of the employee. When the vacation period of a salaried employee includes an observed holiday, an additional day of vacation will be granted with pay, if the holiday occurs during the scheduled workweek of the employee. In either case, die extra day must be taken immediately before or after as an extension of the vacation,
37
except when a holiday(s) falls within a Shutdown period in conformance with Section 7 of this Article.
■	10. Death in Family in Vacation Period
When an employee on vacation experiences a death in family which would otherwise qualify the employee for leave under Article XXVI, the employee will be entitled to substitute up to two (2) days of death in family leave for days of vacation. Those two (2) days may be subsequently taken as vacation per management approval, or, in the alternative, may be used to extend the vacation period then in progress.
ARTICLE X___________________________________________
Transfers
■ 1. Hourly and Salaried Employees
(a)	In die case of employees who are laid off from their regular jobs for lack of work, every’ effort will be made to transfer them to relatedjobs having an equal rate or to available openings on jobs having a higher rate.
(b)	Employees permancndy transferred to lower rated jobs will receive either one week’s advance notice of such transfer, or payment for the first week’s work after transfer at their rate immediately prior to transfer. For pieceworkers such payment shall be at the rate of their immediately preceding average straight time earnings.
(c ) An employee who desires a transfer to another shift may so advise his Foreman in writing with a copy to the Personnel Department. As openings occur in his department on work for which he is presently qualified, consideration will be given his request along with others in accordance with his relative seniority. Such transfers, however, shall not take precedence over the normal upgrading of qualified longer service employees. Exceptions
38
to die above may be made in certain special cases by mutual consent.
This does not supersede any existing local agreement.
■ 2. Hourly Rated Daywork Employees
An hourly rated employee on daywork when permanently transferred
(a)	To a higher rated daywork job will be transferred at a rate commensurate with his qualifications to perform the job to which transferred, but not less (han the rate he was paid on the job from which transferred.
(b)	To an equal or lower rated daywork job will be transferred at the lower of the daywork rate he was paid on the job from which transferred or the job rate of the job to which transferred.
(c)	To a piecework job will be paid for three weeks the lower of the daywork rate he was paid on the job from which transferred or the AERof the job to which transferred, except that he will be paid his piecework earnings on the new job if they are higher.
■ 3. Hourly Rated Piecework Employees
An hourly rated employee on piecework when permanently transferred
(a)	To a higher rated daywork job will be transferred at a rate commensurate with his qualifications to perform the job to which transferred, but not less than his immediately preceding average earnings or two steps below the job rate of the job to which transferred, whichever is lower; however, an employee transferred to a related daywork job where the training time is incidental will receive thejob
39
rate of the new job.
(b)	To an equal or lower rated daywork job will be transferred at the job rate of the job to which transferred.
(c)	To a piecework job will be paid for three weeks the lower of llie AER of the job from which transferred or the AER of die job to which transferred, except that he will be paid his piecework earnings on the newjob if drey are higher.
■	4. Sections (2) and (3) above notwithstanding, an employee who is transferred to a daywork job that he formerly held on a permanent basis will be transferred at not less than the step rate he was paid at the time he held such job.
■	5. Salaried Employees
A salaried employee when permanently transferred
(a)	To a higher rated salaried job will be transferred at a rate commensurate with that employee’s qualifications to perform the job to which transferred, but not less than the rate that employee was paid on die job from which transferred.
(b)	To an equal or lower rated salaried job will be paid the lower of the rate that employee was paid on the job from which transferred or thejob rate of the new job.
■	6. Minimum Starting Rate
In any case where the transfer rate as provided above is less than the minimum starting rate of die job to which transferred, die minimum starting rate will be paid,
■	7. Progression toJob Rate
40
If after transfer, an employee is on a progression schedule and receiving less than the job rate of the job to which transferred, he will progress to job rate in accordance with die provisions of Article VI.
ARTICLE XI 
Reduction or Increase in Forces
■	1. Whenever there is a reduction in the working force or employees are laid off from their regular jobs, total length of seniority, applied on a plant, department, or other basis as negotiated locally, shall be the major factor determining the employees to be laid off or transferred (exclusive of upgrading or transfers to higher rated jobs). However, ability will be given consideration.
Similarly, in all cases of rehiring after layoff, total length of seniority, applied on a plant, department, or other basis as negotiated locally, shall be the major factor covering such rehiring if the employee is able to do the available work in a satisfactory manner after a minimum amount of training.
Where employees have accumulated six months or more of service credits, but have not established continuity of service, seniority will be considered in Ure above cases.
*	2. Since the number of employees in the individual bargaining units covered under this Agreement varies from less than 50 to more than 10,000, each Local shall negotiate with local management a written agreement covering the layoff and rehiring procedure for the employees represented by the Local.
■	3. Employees who have been or who may be transferred to jobs outside the bargaining units, maybe returned to their former classification in the bargaining unit in accordance with their total length of continuous service.
41
Employees who, after October 3,1966, are transferred to jobs outside the bargaining units may be returned to their former classification in the bargaining unit in accordance with their total length of continuous service at the time they left the unit phis tire number of years outside the unit up to a maximum of five such years outside the unit
Employees who, afterJune 30,1985, are transferred to exempt management jobs outside the bargaining units may be returned to their former classification in the bargaining unit in accordance with their total length of continuous sendee during the period up to twenty-four (24) months following the first such transfer to ajob outside the unit.
Employees who, after June 30,1991, are transferred to jobs outside the bargaining units may be returned to their former classification in the bargaining unit in accordance with their total length of continuous service during the period up to six (6) months following die first such transfer to ajob outside the unit.
■	4, An employee who retires at his or her option as provided in the Company Pension Plan shall cease to have any rights under the provisions of this Agreement (However, this Agreement shall continue to be applicable to retired employees returned to active employment by the Company.)
■	5. Employees will 1 >e given at least one week’s notice and one week’s work at the prevailing schedule before layoffs are made due to decreasing forces.
■	6. An employee with continuity’ of service out due to illness for a period not exceeding one (I) year, or in the case of a work-related injury or illness, not exceeding eighteen (18) mouths, who returns to work shall be reemployed on his former job providing he is able to perform die job and normal seniority provisions permit.
42
ARTICLE XII
Union and Local Representatives and Stewards
■ 1. LayoffDeferment
(a)	An employee who is an official of any Local, and who has accumulated six months or more of service credits shall, on written request of the Local, be deferred from layoff (except temporary' layoffs) so long as work for which he is qualified is available and so long as the official’s duties would permit such layoff deferment under applicable law. Such employee shall displace an employee with less actual seniority on work for which the employee who is a Local official is qualified or, in the event such employee does not have actual seniority to displace any employee, then the employee shall to the extent necessary to defer him from such layoff be deemed to have greater seniority than the shortest service employee in die bargaining unit on work for which the employee who is a Local official is qualified. If die foregoing provisions do not enable a Local official to be deferred from layoff, such official may displace to a higher rated position previously held by such official. Such deferral from layoff will continue only so long as the employee retains his position as an official of any Local. This provision shall apply to a minimum of four and a maximum of twelve such officials, dependent on the number of employees within such units as follows:
Employees 500 or less 501-2000 2001-5000 Over 5000	Union Officials 4 6 . 10 12
(b)	An employee who is a Steward of such Local and who has accumulated six months or more of sendee credits shall, upon written request of the Local, and if a majority
43
of the group of employees he represents assents as certified in writing by the Local, be deferred from layoff (except temporary layoffs) so long as work for which he is qualified is available among the group of employees he represents. In the event of a layoff affecting the group of employees represented by the employee who is a Steward, such employee shall, in accordance with the applicable local supplement or the focal procedures on layoff and displacement, displace ait employee within the group who has less actual seniority on work for which the Steward is qualified. In the event the Steward does not have sufficient actual seniority to displace any employee within the group, in accordance with the applicable local supplement or the focal procedures on layoff, then such Steward shall be deemed to have sufficient seniority to retain his job classification and wage rate within the group. Such deferral from layoff will continue only so long as the employee retains his position as a Steward, This provision shall, in general, apply to a maximum of one Steward for each Company Foreman.
(c)	Paragraph (a) and (b) hereof shall apply only to those officials whose names, titles and order of precedence, and to those Stewards whose names and sections, have been furnished in writing to the Company prior to the giving of notice of layoff by the Company and shall not apply to any such officials or Stewards who are on leave of absence pursuant to die provisions of Section 2 hereof.
■ 2. Leave ofAbsence
Upon written request of the Union or any Local:
(a)	Employees who are officials of the Uuion or officers of such a Local, who have at least one year of continuous service, and who represent the Union in its relations with the Company, shall be granted one war's leave of absence by the Company, without forfeiture of prior accumulated continuous service. This provision shall be limited at any
44
one time to not more than 12 officials of the National Union and not more than 6 officers of any Local.
(b)	If made at the end of such leave of absence
(I)	such leave of absence may be extended yearly.
(2)	such employees will be reemployed in work of the same or a similar character in the same or other divisions of the same plant, if qualified therefor, and if entitled thereto on the basis of their prior accumulated continuous service. In the case of employees who are officials of the Union or officers of a Local and who are granted a leave of absence after the effective date of this Agreement, such employees will be entitled (solely for determining their relative seniority for purposes of layoff and rehire under Article XI) to add to their prior accumulated continuous service the total period of any such leave of absence.
■ 3. Payment for Time on Local Union Activities
(a)	Unless otherwise provided by local written agreement, employees not on leave of absence pursuant to the provisions of Section 2 hereof will be paid by the Company at their respective rates then prevailing for absences from work while engaged in the following activities on Company premises:
(1)	During each fiscal month, the number of weeks in such General Electric fiscal month multiplied by 1 1 /2 hours per week for those Stewards whose names and sections have been furnished to the Company pursuant to the provisions of Section 1 (c) hereof, while engaged in processinggrievances at Foreman
. level pursuant to the provisions of Article XIII, Section 2(a).
45
Where any plant is regularly scheduled on a fortyeight hour per week basis, the above allowances will be based on 2 hours per week.
Payment to Stewards will be made on a weekly basis within the above limits.
(2)	Up to a total of eight hours per week (exclusive of time payable under Section 1 hereof) for members of Local Executive Board or for Negotiating Committee members while engaged in processing grievances with representatives of local management pursuant to the provisions of Article XIII, Section 2(b) and 2(c). Such Committee members or Executive Board representatives shall be limited at any one meeting concerning a bargaining unit of less than 5000 employees to six representatives, and shall not exceed twelve for any larger bargaining unit, unless the number is increased by mutual agreement of the Local and local management. This does not limit the number of Executive Board members and does not prevent meeting of the full Executive Board with local inanagementwhen such meetings are arranged in advance.
(b)	(1) Local managementand die Local may negotiate a local agreement with respect to payment to local Stewards in excess of the limits provided in (a) (1) above.
(2) In those plant locations where the number of employees in the bargaining unit is 5000 employees or more or where more than one product department is located, local management and the Local may negotiate a local agreement with respect to payment to Local Executive Boards or Negotiating Committee members in excess of die limits provided in (a) (2) above.
46
(c)	Employees requesting payment pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph (a) hereof, shall report all time spent on the handling of grievances to their respective Foremen or other immediate supervisors.
Chief Stewards or Executive Committee members in Works where they act as Chief Stewards, will be permitted to contact Stewards in their respective divisions when the officers of the Local deem such contact necessary. They will advise their own Foremen before leaving their departments and also contact the Foreman in the department which they are visiting before they contact the Steward.
The Company shall report their names, rates of pay and time absent from work to their respective Locals, and shall in no event be required to make any payments pursuant to Paragraph (a) hereof, except to the extent that such reports are approved by such Locals, and such Paragraph (a) is otherwise applicable.
(d)	Whenever an OSHA inspection shall occur in a work area that includes employees represented by a Local Union listed in the Preamble, an employee designated by the Union who accompanies the OSHA inspector as the employees’ representative will be paid for time lost from work during such inspection.
ARTICLE XIII________________________________________
Grievance Procedure
■	1. Grievances may be filed by an employee or group of employees, a Steward or the 1	Grievances of a general
nature filed by foe I xx ai shall be initiated at the second step of the grievance procedure.
■	2. Steps. Grievances other than those of a general nature may be processed only by recourse to the following successive steps:
47
(a)	Step One (Foreman Level)
(1)	Within a reasonable time after the occurrence or knowledge of the situation, condition or action of Management giving rise to the grievance, the employee affected thereby or his Steward may present the grievance to the employee’s Foreman or other immediate supervisor. (If presented by the employee, he may also have his Steward present)
(2)	Within one working day after such presentation, such Foreman or other immediate supervisor shall give to such employee and Steward his decision with respect to such grievance, or shall advise them that additional time for such decision is needed, in which event he shall give them such decision within one week thereafter.
(3)	A Steward who submits a written grievance to his Foreman shall receive, upon request, a written reply.
(4)	If a settlement is not reached between the Steward and his immediate supervisor, the Local may refer the grievance to two representatives of the Local for discussion in the department with representatives of local management for settlement, if possible.
(b)	Step 7 wo (Management Level)
(1)	If a settlement is not reached at Step One, the designated Local official may present to a representative designated by local management, a written statement of such grievance within thirty (30) days of the Company answer at Step One of the grievance procedure giving all pertinent infonmation relative to the grievance and indicating the relief requested, provided, however, that the designated Local official may advise local management that
48
additional time is needed, in which case the Local shall have an additional one week to process the grievance to Step Two. The time limit between Step One and Step Two may be extended by mutual agreement.
(2)	Meetings between representatives of the Local and local management shall be arranged at mutually agreeable times for the purpose of discussing such grievances. In those cases where it is mutually agreed by Management and Local representatives that an inspection of the job would be helpful in settling the case, a subcommittee of the Local with Management representatives shall be allowed to make an inspection of thejob. Local representatives may include the Business Agent or his assistant or officers of the Local.
Grievances referred to Step Two will be scheduled and discussed as expeditiously as possible but not later than forty-five (45) days after the grievance has been presented to Step Two. Such time limits may be extended by mutual agreement.
(3)	Upon request, local management will give the Local a written reply, such reply generally to be issued within two weeks following discussion of the grievance on the merits at the Second Step. Any extension necessary to issue a written reply shall be limited to two weeks.
(c)	Step Three (Headquarters Level)
(1)	Any grievance, having been processed through Step Two without satisfactory settlement, may be referred to the National Officers of the Union for submission to an Executive Officer of the Company or his
49
t designated representative, who shall arrange meetings for the purpose of discussing such grievances.
Such grievances shall be submitted to the Company not less than two weeks prior to the date of any discussion and not more than three months after the completion of discussions and the final decision oflocal managementsStepTwo.
When the Union requests an emergency meeting on a particular grievance or grievances, such a meeting shall take place within one week after the Company receives the request for such an emergency meeting.
The Company shall give its final decision to the Union in writing within a reasonable time after the completion of discussion on any grievance.
The discussions provided for above may, by mutual agreement, be held at die plant location of the Local submitting the grievance, if requested by the Union.
(2)	A grievance filed on behalf of a candidate for preferential placement under Article XXII which arises solely due to the failure of Company management at a designated location to select such candidate, where such designated location employ’s no employees represented by the Union, may be filed at the Headquarters level. A grievance filed on behalf of a candidate for preferential placement under Article XXII which arises solely due to the failure of Company management at a designated location to select such candidate, where the candidate's original location has closed, may also be filed at the Headquarters level, provided the grievance arises following the original location’s
50
r
plant dosing date. The Company shall give its final decision to the Union in writing within a reasonable time after discussions with the Union and an opportunity to investigate the facts.
■ 3. Discipline Based on WarningNotias
Before imposing a disciplinary penalty or discharge which is based upon the cumulative effect of written warning notices, the Company will notify the employee concerned one week in advance. The matter may be made a subject for grievance discussions, but such discussions shall not prevent imposition of the penalty pending their final outcome, and in the eventit is determined that an employee has been improperly penalized, he will be reimbursed for any loss of wages sustained as a result of the imposition of the penalty'.
ARTICLE XIV________________________________________
Strikes and Lockouts
■ 1. There shall be no strike, sit-down, slowdown, employee demonstration or any other organized or concerted interference with work of any kind in connection with any matter subject to the grievance procedure, and no such interference with work shall be directly or indirectly authorized or sanctioned by a Local or the Union, or their respective Officers or Stewards, unless and until all of the respective provisions of the successive steps of the grievance procedure set forth in Article XIII shall have been complied with by the Local and the Union. The foregoing exception will not apply if (a) the matter is submitted to arbitration as provided in Article XV, or (b) 12 months shall have elapsed after receipt by the Union of the Company’s final decision on the grievance at Step Three, or (c) the Company shall not have received written or telegraphic notice of such strike from the Local more than 24 hours prior to the
51
commencement of such strike, which notice will specify' die exhausted grievance over which the strike is being called. Upon receipt by die Company of such a strike notice, the Company and the Union will meet immediately to discuss the dispute and the contemplated action so that management may assess die situation.
■	2. The Company will not lock out any employee or transfer any job under dispute from the local Works, nor will the local management take similar action while a disputed job is under discussion at any of the steps of the grievance procedure set forth in Article XIII, or if the matter is submitted to arbitration as provided in Article XV.
ARTICLE XV
Arbitration
■	I. Any grievance which remains unsettled after having been fully processed pursuant to the provisions of Article XIJI, and which involves either,
(a)	the interpretation or application of a provision of the Agreement, or
(b)	a disciplinary penalty (including discharge) imposed on or after the effective date of this Agreement, which is alleged to have been imposed without just cause, or
(c)	a nondisciplinary termination occurring after the effective date of this agreement,
may be submitted to arbitration upon written request of either the Union or the Company, provided such request is made within 60 days after the final decision of the Company has been given to the Union pursuant to Article XIII, Section 2(c). For the purpose of proceedings within the scope of (b) above, the standard to be applied by an
52
r
arbitrator to cases involving disciplinary penalties (including discharge) is that such penalties shall be imposed only for just cause.
■ 2. (a) A request for arbitration shall state in reasonable detail the nature of the dispute and the remedy requested. A copy of the request shall be sent to the American Arbitration Association.
(b) Within 30 days after receipt of a request to arbitrate, the receiving party will give its response thereto in writing, with a copy to the Association, suiting whether or notit believes the stated dispute to be arbitrable. If the receiving party believes the dispute not to be arbitrable, it will state its reasons in reasonable detail.
1	(c) If the response agrees to the arbitrability of the
dispute, the Association will proceed to process the request in accordance with Section 3,
(d) If a response to a request for arbitration disagrees as to arbitrability of the dispute, either party may request a conference to discuss the arbitrability of the dispute, and to seek to resolve the differences between the parties.
■ 3. (a) When a request for arbitration involves only relief from a disciplinary penalty or discharge alleged to have . been imposed without just cause, or involves a dispute which I the Company admits to be arbitrable, or when a final court judgment shall have ordered arbitration of a request, the Association shall submit the appropriate matter promptly to one of the Contract Arbitrators listed below for scheduling of a hearing thereon.
The Contract Arbitrators shall serve for the duration of this Agreement. The Association will assign each arbitration case in rotation, in the order of Contract Arbitrators listed below. If a Contract Arbitrator states that he is unable to accept a case, i t will be referred to the next Contract Arbitrator in line.
53
Whenever the number of unresolved arbitration requests assigned to a Contract Arbitrator shall exceed three, any additional requests which would otherwise be assigned him in order of rotation shall be referred to the next Contract Arbitrator in line.
CONTRACT ARBITRATORS
Timothy L. Bornstein Leroy D. Clark
Larry Dias
Phillip Dunn
Robert L. Gibson Laurence T. Holden, Jr. Charles F. Ipavec Mark L. Irvings
Michael J edel
Otis King
Richard Mittenthal
William Nowlin
Craig E. Overton Jay Nadlebach Joan W. Parker Marsha Saylor Eric J. Schmertz Anthony Sinicropi Joseph P. Sirefman Janet M. Spencer Theodore St Antoine Jeffrey B. Tener Paul S. Zonderman
In all discharge and upgrading cases, the Association shall expedite the handling of such cases as follows:
(i)	Request from the Contract Arbitrator, at the time of appointment, two or three proposed alternative hearing dates for hearing day's within sixty (60) day's of appointment.
(ii)	Communicate proposed alternative hearing dates to designated representatives of die parties promptly and secure a firm commitment on a hearing date.
(hi) Schedule agreed upon hearing date in accordance with regular procedure.
(b)	Only one request shall be scheduled for the same arbitration hearing, except by mutual agreement of the parties.
54
(c)	In the conduct of an arbitration hearing, the applicable provisions of the Voluntary Labor Arbitration Rules of the Association shall control, except that either party may, if it desires, be represented by counsel.
(d)	The dispute as stated in the request for arbitration shall constitute the sole and entire subject matter to be heard by the arbitrator, unless the parties agree to modify the scope of the hearing.
(e)	In the event that a party' initiating a request to cancel or postpone a hearing fails to provide notice to avoid incurring a cancellation fee, and no good cause can be shown for the untimely cancellation, such party shall be responsible for payment of the applicable fee:
(i)	1-2 weeks prior to hearing date 50% per diem rate
(ii)	less than 1 week prior to hearing date 100% per diem rate
■ 4. (a) In the event the receiving party has asserted that the dispute contained in a request for arbitration is not arbitrable, the Association shall have authority to process the request for arbitration and appoint an arbitrator in accordance with the procedure set forth in Section 3 above only after a final judgment of a court has determined that the grievance upon which arbitration has been requested raises arbitrable issues and has directed arbitration of such issues. The foregoing part of this section shall not be applicable if the request for arbitration involves only relief from a disciplinary penalty or discharge alleged to have been imposed without just cause.
(b) In the consideration and decision of any question involving arbitrability (including any application to a court for an order directing arbitration), it is the specific agreement of the parties that:
(i)	Some types of grievance disputes which may arise 55
during the term of this Agreement shall be subject to arbitration as a matter of right, enforceable in court, at the demand of either party. (See Section 6 below.)
(ii)	Other types of disputes shall be subject only to voluntary arbitration, i.e., can be arbitrated only if both parties agree in writing, in the case of each dispute, to do so. (See Section 7 below.)
(iii)	This Agreement sets out expressly all the restrictions and obligations assumed by the respective parlies, and no implied restrictions or obligations inherent in this Agreement or were assumed by the parties in entering into this Agreement.
(iv)	In the consideration of whether a matter is subject to arbitration as a matter of right, a fundamental principle shall be that the Company retains all its rights to manage the business, including (but not limited to) the right to determine the methods and means by which its operations are to be carried on, to direct the work force and to conduct its operations in a safe and effective manner, subject only to the express limitations set forth in this National Agreement, Local Seniority Supplements executed under the provisions of Article XI thereof, and Local Understandings executed in accordance with Section 3 of Article XXI thereof; and it is understood that tlie parties have not agreed to arbitrate demands which challenge action taken by the Company in the exercise of any such rights, except where such challenge is based upon a violation of any such express limitations (other than those set out in Section 7 below).
(v)	No matter will be considered arbitrable unless it is found that tire parties clearly agreed that the subject
56
involved would be arbitrable in light of the principles of arbitrability set forth in this Article and no court or arbitrator shall or may proceed under any presumption that a request to arbitrate is arbitrable.
(c) If a final judgment of a court has determined that a request raises arbitrable issues, the court’s decision shall specify in reasonable detail the issues as to which arbitration is directed. The arbitration shall thereafter proceed only upon die issues specified in such final court judgment and the arbitrator shall have no authority or jurisdiction to consider issues other titan those specified.
■	5. Thepowersofanarbitratorshallincludetheauthority to render a final and binding decision with respect to any dispute brought before him including the right to modify or reduce or rescind any disciplinary action taken by the Company but excluding the right to amend, modify or alter the terms of this Agreement, or any Local Understanding.
The expense of the arbitration will be borne equally by both parties.
Individuals who are covered by this .Agreement do not have the right to invoke the arbitration procedure on their own initiative. The arbitration procedure can only be invoked by the Company on its behalf or the Union on behalf of the employees.
■	6. (a) Arbitration as a matter of right includes only requests to arbitrate which involve:
(i)	Disciplinary action (including discharge) or nondisci pl in ary terminations but with certain exceptions spelled out in this article;
(ii)	The claimed violation of a specific provision or provisions of the National Agreement (with the limitations and exceptions set out in this Article);
57
(iii)	The claimed violation of a provision or provisions of a signed Local Seniority Supplement entered into in accordance with Article XI, Section 2 of this National Agreement or of a provision or provisions of a Local Understanding entered into in accordance with Article XXI, Section 3 of this National Agreement.
(b) A request for arbitration, in order to be subject to arbitration as a matter of right under the provisions of Subsections (a) (ii) and (a) (iii) above, must allege a direct violation of the express purpose of the contractual provision in question, rather than of an indirect or implied purpose. For example, a request which claims incorrect application of the method of computing overtime pay under the provisions of Section 2 of Article V would be arbitrable as a matter of right, whereas a request which questioned the right of the Company to require the performance of reasonable overtime work, on the claimed ground that Article V contains an implied limitation of that right, would be subject only to voluntary arbitration. A request that Article XI and the appropriate Local Seniority Supplement had been violated by the layoff of a senior employee in preference to a junior employee would be arbitrable as a matter of right but a request that subcontracting of work in the plant while bargaining unit employees are on layoff violated a claimed implied limitation of Article XI and the applicable Local Seniority Supplement would be subject only to voluntary arbitration.
■ 7. All requests for arbitration which are not subject to arbitration as a matter of right under the provisions of Section 6 above, are subject only to voluntary'arbitration. In particular, it is specifically agreed that arbitration requests shall be subject only to voluntary arbitration, by mutual agreement, if they
(a)	Involve the existence or alleged violation of any
58
r
agreement other than those described in 6(a) above,
(b)	Involve issues which were discussed at national level negotiations, but which are not expressly covered in this National Agreement.
(c)	Involve claims that an allegedly implied or assumed obligation of this National Agreement has been violated.
(d)	Involve claims that Article I, or Section 3 of Article IV of this National Agreement has been violated; provided, however, that grievances which claim that a disciplinary action, discharge, upgrading action or transfer action violates Section 3 of Article IV will be subject to arbitration as a matter of right.
(e)	Would require an arbitrator to consider, rule on or decide the appropriate hourly, salary or incentive rate at which an employee shall be paid, or the method (day, salary or incentive) by which his pay shall be determined. (See footnote)
(f)	Would require an arbitrator to consider, rule on or decide any of the following:
(i)	The elements of an employee’sjob assignment;
(ii)	The level, title or other designation of an employee’s job classification;
(iii)	The right of management to assign or reassign work or elements of work. (See footnote)
(g)	Would require an arbitrator to determine the method or data to be used by the Company in setting an incentive price or standard. (See footnote)
Footnote: Subsections e, 1, and g reflect die fai t that this National Agreement does nut set Out specific rates or classilicatitins for jobs, and ate. designed to confirm lilt* intent of Article XT.Siy.uon 1 and Article XT, Section 5 (first sentence) that disputes over individual job classifications, rates of pay, incentive standards, etc., are assigned by the parties Ui local negotiations, and not to arbitration.
59
(h)	Involve claims of violation of Sections 1 and 2 of Article XI, in locations in which a Local Seniority Supplement has not been signed in accordance with Section 2 of Article XI.
(i)	Pertain in any way to the establishment, administration, interpretation or application of Insurance, Pension or Savings Plans, or other Benefit plans in which employees covered by this Agreement are eligible to participate.
(j)	Involve discipline or discharge imposed on employees having less than six months of service credits with, die Company, provided that if by Local Understanding a period of less than six months has been agreed upon as the probationary1 period for new employees, and such Local Understanding is applicable to the particular employee involved, such agreed upon shorter period of time shall be substituted for “six months” in the foregoing; and provided further that nothing in this suteccdon shall limit the authority of an arbitrator with respect to disciplinary' penalties or discharges imposed in violation of Section 1 of Article IV.
(k)	Pertain in any way to Article XXII of til is Agreement or its interpretation or application.
(1)	Pertain in any way to the provisions of any local agreement covering a retraining program under the provisions of Article XXIV hereof, or the interpretation or application thereof.
■ 8. (a) The parties shall refrain from requesting transcripts for those hearings where the submission to arbitration meets the following criteria:
(i)	The interpretation of one or more provisions of die
60
collective bargaining agreement is not involved; and
(ii)	There is no “procedural” question such as arbitrability or due process; and
(iii)	There is no claim alleging discrimination in violation of Section 3 of Article IV of this Agreement; and
(iv)	The only issue in a discharge or discipline case is whether the discharge or discipline was imposed for just cause.
(b) An arbitrator shall give his Award without an Opinion in certain arbitration cases in accordance with the following:
(i)	An Award without an Opinion shall consist of a summary statement by an arbitrator of no more than two pages which briefly sets forth the basis of the Award.
(ii)	An Award without an Opinion shall be given in all discipline or discharge cases meeting the criteria in Section 8(a). above, under the following procedure:
(1)	If the party requesting arbitration believes the grievance meets the criteria, that party would so indicate in its written request for arbitration.
(2)	If the party requesting arbitration does not indicate in its written request for arbitration that it believes the case meets the criteria, the other party may indicate that it believes the grievance meets the criteria in its written agreement to arbitrate.
(3)	If th e party requesting arbitration indicates that it believes the grievance meets the criteria in 8(a), above, in its request for arbitration, or if the other party so indicates in its written
61
agreement to arbitrate, the Association will instruct the designated arbitrator to issue an Award without an Opinion subject to the discretion given the arbitrator in (4) below.
(4)	If either party disagrees with the indication of the other party (provided for in (1) and (2), above) that the grievance meets the criteria set forth in 8(a), above, that party’ may request a written Opinion from the arbitrator so long as such request is made before the hearing is closed. When such a request is made by either party, the arbitrator shall rule whether a written Opinion is waived under the criteria set forth in 8(a) above.
(5)	If evidence is admitted during the hearing at the instance of either party which, in the judgment of the other party, would change the case from one meeting the criteria in 8(a), above, to a case not meeting the criteria, the oilier party' may then demand a written Opinion so long as such demand is made before the oral hearing is closed - notwithstanding prior agreement to waive die Opinion. This provision, however, should not be interpreted in any way to imply that either party would agree to the introduction of evidence at the hearing which would change the nature of the case.
■ 9. Any arbitration case between the Company and the Union which is limited to a disciplinary' penalty other than discharge is covered by the supplemental arbitration procedure set forth below:
(a)	The following rules shall apply in cases covered by' this section:
(i)	The only issue before the arbitrator shall be whether
62
the discipline was imposed for just cause.
(ii)	There shall be no transcript of the hearing.
(iii)	There shall be no post-hearing briefs or other written arguments by the parties.
(iv)	If either party so requests, there shall be a thirty (30) minute recess before any closing oral argument by the parties.
(v)	The arbitrator shall render an Award without an Opinion no more than twenty-four (24) hours after the closing of the oral hearing.
(b)	The compensation for an arbitrator for hearing a case under this procedure shall be a fee of $1,000.00 for each case. The arbitrator shall also be entitled to travel expenses in accordance with the regular procedures of the American Arbitration Association.
(c)	A special panel of arbitrators shall be established to hear cases under this procedure by mutual agreement of the parties.
(d)	Whenevera requestfor arbitration meets the criteria set forth above, the Association shall designate an arbitrator from the special panel of arbitrators, as provided for herein, to hear the case instead of a regular Contract Arbitrator, as provided for in Section 3 (a) of this Article, as follows:
(i)	Assignments will be made by the American Arbitration Association based on the arbitrators’ geographical proximity, the availability of the arbitrators, and the number of cases assigned particular arbitrators at given locations. No arbitrator will be assigned to more than 25% of the cases at a given location under this procedure without the mutual consent of the parties.
63
(ii)	A date for a hearing shall be scheduled within sixty (60) davs of the appointment of the arbitrator.
ARTICLE XVI________________________________________
Posting
The Company will make bulletin boards available for the use of the Locals for the posting of notices. All notices shall be subject to the Manager’s approval and he will also arrange for posting.
ARTICLE XVII_______________________________________
Notification and Publicity
■	1. The Company agrees to notify the Local and the National Officers of any matter affecting employees generally and concerning which the Union or the Local is die certified bargaining representative and not covered by this Agreement as soon as the Foremen are notified.
■	2. On any grievance or other matter which has been negotiated between the Companyand the Union or the Local, the Company will notify the Union or Local of any decision or determination before it notifies the employees affected.
ARTICLE XVIII______________________________________
Financial Support
Tlie Company shall not give financial aid to or otherwise support any labor organization. This, however, shall not prevent both parties to this contract from cooperating and exchanging such information essential for the furtherance of agreeable relations.
64
ARTICLE XIX___________________________________________
Information
■	1. Nfw Employees - Reengaged Employees
The Company will provide each Local, from information of record, with a monthly list of newly hired and reengaged employees; the information will consist of name, home address, seniority date, occupation, department; Foreman, and checkoff status.
■	2. Laid Off Employees
The Company will provide each Local, on a monthly basis, with information on employees laid off for lack of work after notification has been given to the employees; the information will consist of the name, home address of record, continuous service date, occupation, department, and Foreman. A list of employees on recall by work location shall also be provided quarterly (effective 1/1/01). The Foreman will give to the Steward information on extended layoffs, whenever possible one week before the employee is laid off.
■	3. Transfers
The Company will provide each Local with information on transfers which are made through the Personnel Office.
■	4. Master List of Employees
Semiannually, the Company, from information of record, will provide the Local with a complete list of all employees then in the bargaining unit and showing the name, home address, continuous service date, seniority date, occupation, departmentjob rate, paid rate/average earnings, clock cand number, and checkoff status of each employee on such list.
65
ARTICLE XX________________________________________
Traveling Time and Expenses
Hourly rated and salaried employees traveling at the request and with the prior approval of the Company will receive:
■	1. Payment at the rates applicable had they worked for all time spent in such travel; provided, however, that where die assignment requires one or more overnight stays, an additional one hour’s pay at such rates for trip preparation shall be allowed, but no payment shall be made for traveling time between die hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., or in excess of eight hours in any one day.
■	2. Reasonable expenses for transportation, meals, and hotels wherever necessary. Where travel is by automobile not owned by the Company, such transportation expense shall be at rates equal to diose periodically published by the Internal Revenue Service, provided use of such automobile has been specifically approved in advance by the Company. (Apparatus Service Centers are covered by a separate supplement.)
■	3. Traveling time and expenses shall be itemized and submitted to Management for approval.
ARTICLE XXI_______________________________________
Local Understandings
■	1. The provisions of th is Agreement are subject to all present local understandings, and such understandings will remain in effect unless changed in the manner provided in die following section.
■	2. After the effective date of this Agreement, new local understandings will be recognized and made effective only where set fordi in writing and signed by local management
66
and the Local, and approved by the Company and the Union.
■	3. The existence of, or any alleged violation of, a local understanding shall not be the basis of any arbitration proceeding, unless such understanding is in writing and signed by the Company and Union.
ARTICLE XXH______________________________________
Job and Income Security
■	1. Definitions
(a)	The terms “plant closing” and "to close a plant” mean the announcement and carrying out of a plan to terminate and discontinue either all Company operations at any plant, service shop, or other facility, or those Company operations which would result in the termination of all employees represented by the Union at that location when those employees do not have displacement rights.
Such terms do not refer to the termination and discontinuance of only part of the Company’s operations at any plant, service shop, or other facility (except as specifically provided in the paragraph above) nor to the termination or discontinuance of all of its former operations coupled with the announced intention to commence there either larger or smaller other operations. Any employees released by such latter changes will be considered as out for lack of work and will be subject to provisions applicable to those on layoff.
Also, such terms do not refer to the transfer or sale of such operations to a successor employer who offers continued employment to Company employees. Company employees who are not offered continued employment by the Company or by the successor employer will be
67
considered as out for lack of work and will be subject to provisions applicable to those on layoff.
(b)	The term “plant dosing date” means the day when benefits for and terminations of represented employees begin because of a plant closing.
(c)	The terms “transfer of work,” “to transfer work, ” and “work transfer’* mean the discontinuance of ongoing work at one location coupled with the assignment of the same work to a different location, including subcontracting the same work to another employer, if such assignment of work would directly cause a decrease in the number of represented employees performing such work at the first location.
(d)	The term “robot” means a programmable, multifunction manipulator designed to move materials, parts, tools, or specialized devices through variable programmed motions for the performance of a variety of tasks.
(e)	The term “automated manufacturing machine” means a device for doing work which has programmable controllers (PC), numerical controls (NC), computer numerical controls (CNC) or direct numerical controls (DNC).
(f)	The term “automated office machine” means a device for doing office work which is computer-based and which includes word processing, data processing, image processing, electronic mail or business and engineering graphics devices.
(g)	The term “week’s pay” as used in this Article XXII, for a salaried employee shall be the higher of (a) the employee’s normal straight-time weekly salary (including any night shift bonus) for the last full week worked by him or (b) die employee’s normal straight-time weekly salary (includiugany night shift bonus) in effect during the last full calendar week worked by him during the calendar year
68
preceding the year in which his current layoff began. A “week’s pay” for an hourly employee on daywork shall be calculated by multiplying the higher of (a) his straight-time hourly rate (including any night shift bonus) which he was paid during the last week worked by him or (b) his straight-time hourly rate (including any night shift bonus) which he was paid during the last full calendar week worked by him during the calendar year preceding the year in which his current layoff began, times the number of hours in the employee’s normal workweek, up to 40 hours. A "week's pay” for an hourly employee on incentive shall be calculated by multiplying the higher of (a) his average straight-time earning rate (including any nightshift bonus) obtained from the last available periodic statistics applicable to time worked by him during his last week worked or (b) his average straight-time earning rate (including any night shift bonus) obtained from the last available periodic statistics applicable to dine worked by him during the calendar year preceding the year in which his current layoff began, times the number of hours in the employee’s normal work week, up to 40 hours.
(h)	The term “Special Early Retirement Option Offset” includes the present value of the difference between the pension benefits the employee would be eligible to receive absent exercise of the Special Early Retirement Option or the Plant Closing Pension Option, and the benefits to be received under the Special Early Retirement Option or the Plant Closing Pension Option, including the present value of any Pension Plan Supplements payable as a result of a permanent job loss event as defined in the GE Pension Plan. This difference shall be measured from the date of termination for retirement to the date the individual would be otherwise able to receive an unreduced pension. For the purpose of determining present value, the interest rate discount assumption used will be whichever of the following two interest rates applicable to the first day of the calendar year in which the participant retires produces the smaller
69
offset: (1) the lump sum interest rate for private sector payments as may be published by the PBGC, or (2) the “Applicable Interest Rate” under the GE Pension Plan (currently the 30-year treasury rate).
This Special Early Retirement Option Offset shall also include an amount attributable to health benefits payable as a result of a permanent job loss eve nt as defined in the GE Pension Plan. As ofjanuary 1,2003, this amount wi 11 be calculated by multiplying $5,189 times the number of whole years between the date of termination for retirement and the date when first eligible for Medicare. The resulting number shall be reduced by a factor equivalent to the percent of employee contributions toward the average value of health coverage at the time of the Special Early Retirement Option or Plant Closing Pension Option election. The $5,189 figure shall be adjusted annually based on annual increases in the medical component of the Consumer Price Index for all-urban consumeis. The annual adjustment will be made at the end of the calendar year based on the year over year increases of the October index figures
■ 2. Plant Closing
(a)	General
(1)	Whenever the Company decides to close a plant, the Company shall give notice of its decision to the Union, the Local or Locals involved, and the employees concerned. Thereafter, as the Company, in the course of such plant closing, no longer has need for the work then being done by an employee, his employment by the Company may be terminated, subject to compliance with the provisions of this Section 2.
(2)	Each employee shall be given at least one week’s advance notice of the specific date of his termination.
70
(b)	Severa nce Pay
(1)	An eligible employee whose employment is terminated because of plant closing shall be entitled to Severance Pay in a lump sum, for which he is eligible as described below and the full vacation allowance for which he might have qualified for the calendar year in which his employment is terminated and any other accumulated allowances due him, provided that after the announcement of intent to close a plant he:
(i)	continues regularly at work at the closing location until the specific date of his termination, or
(ii)	fails to continue regularly at work until the specific date of his termination due to verified personal illness, leave of absence, or layoff
(2)	An eligible employee will be similarly eligible for Severance Pay and his full vacation allowance if he was laid off or was placed on an approved illness or injury absence prior to the Company’s announcement of intent to close a plant and continues on layoff with protected service, or on illness or injury absence with protected sendee, until the location’s plant closing date.
(3)	Also eligible for Severance Pay under this Section 2 (b) are former employees of a closed location who in the period from 18 months to 12 months prior to the location’s plant closing date were laid off and who broke service prior to such date. Except as provided in this paragraph, such former employees are ineligible for any other benefits payable to active employees affected by a plant closing. The payment of Severance Pay as described
71
herein shall not serve to restore service or otherwise affect die benefit status of such former employees.
(4)	Such employee may request that his date of termination be advanced so that he can accept other employment and the local management will give due regard to this request.
(5)	Notwithstanding die prosisions of this Section 2, an employee who is affected by plant closing may elect, prior to the specific date of his termination for plant closing, to be placed on lack of work status. In such event, the employee will be paid benefits under Section 4 below, in lieu of any and ail of the benefits set forth in this Section 2.
(6)	Computation of Severance Pay
(i)	An employee with one or more but less than fifteen years of continuous service will, in accordance with the provisions set forth above, be eligible for Severance Pay computed on the basis of one and 1/2 week’s pay for each of the employee’s full years of continuous service plus 8/8 of a week’s pay for each additional 3 months of continuous service at die time of termination; provided that the amount of the Severance Pay Ixmefit as computed under this paragraph shall be subject to a minimum benefit equal to 4 weeks’ pay.
(ii)	An employee with fifteen or more years of continuous service will, in accordance with the provisions set forth above, be eligible for Severance Pay computed on the basis of two weeks’ pay for each of the employee’s full years of continuous service plus 1/2 of a week’s pay
72
for each additional 3 months of continuous sendee at the time of termination.
(7)	Deferral Election
An employee who elects to receive Severance Pay in a lump sum may elect to defer payment of half or all of the lump sum until die first month of the year following his termination because of a plant closing. Once made, such election will be irrevocable. Payment shall be made to die estate of any employee electing to defer payment under this Section 2(b) (7) if such employee dies before payment has been made.
(c)	Employment Assistance Program
To assist employees terminated because of a plant closing to find new jobs and to learn new skills, local management will establish an Employment Assistance Program following announcement of a decision to close a plant. The Employment Assistance Program will includejob placement assistance and education and retraining assistance.
(1)	Job Placement Assistance
(i)	Job Placement Assistance will include job counseling as well as job informadon services. Examples of such services are counseling in job search and interviewing techniques, identification and assessment of skills, and employment application and resume preparation as well as providing employees information on placement opportunities.
(ii)	Local Union involvement will be encouraged in these activities and local management may also use the expertise and resources of public and private agencies in providing these services.
73
(iii)	Two (2) employee representatives designated by the Local (one such representative in a plant of less than 300 represented employees) wall each be paid by the Company at their respective rate then prevailing, for approved absences from work up to a total of eight (8) hours per week to work with local management in the establishment and operation of the Employment Assistance Program.
(2)	Education and Retraining Assistance
(i)	An employee with one or more years of continuous service who is terminated as a result of a plant closing will be eligible to receive Education and Retraining Assistance for courses approved by the Company which contribute to or enhance the employee’s ability to obtain other employment prodded that die employee begins the approved course within one year following termination. Approved courses will normally be given at schools which are accredited by recognized regional or state accrediting agencies and may include:
*	Occupational or vocational skill development;
•	Fundamental reading or numerical skill improvement;
•	High school diploma or equivalency achievement; and
•	College level career oriented courses.
(ii)	An employee will be reimbursed up to a maximum of ten thousand ($10,000) for authorized expenses which are incurred within three years following termination provided a passing grade is received in the course.
74
Authorized expenses include verified tuition, registration and other compulsory fees, costs of necessary books, and other required supplies. However, if tuition or other authorized expenses are covered by government benefits, other employers, or scholarships, the Company reimbursement will notapply to that portion covered by such other plan,
(iii)	An employee who elects to receive benefits under die Income Extension Aid layoff option in lieu of benefits under the Plant Closing section of this Article will not be eligible for Education and Retraining Assistance.
(d)	Optional Local Plant Closing Termination Agreement
Because the circumstances in a plant closing will vary in terms of employment, location and timing, as well as other local considerations, the Local Union and local management may negotiate a Special Local Agreement covering the plant closing termination procedure for employees represented by the Local. Any such agreement shall be in writing and approved in accordance with Article XXI, Section 2, of this National Agreement.
■ 3. Petraining and Readjustment Assistance
(a)	Rate Guarantee
An hourly rated or nonexempt salaried employee whose job is directly eliminated by a transfer of work, the discontinuance of a discrete, vmreplaced product line, the introduction of a robot, or the introduction of an automated manufacturing or office machine shall be paid on any job to which transferred or recalled in the plantata rate not less titan the ngular hourly daywork rate (average earnings exclusive
75
of overtime premium in the case of incentive workers and actual straight time salary rate in the case of nonexempt salaried employees) of the job eliminated for up to seventy-eight (78) weeks immediately following the original transfer or layoff. In the event that an hourly rated or nonexempt salaried employee is displaced due to a reduction in force within six months of foe Company’s decision to subcontract work that would otherwise have been performed by the employee had it not been subcontracted, and where such decision did not reduce the number of represented employees performing ongoing work at that time, such subsequen dy displaced employee shall be eligible for rate guarantee under tit is Section 3(a), effective at foe time of displacement.
(b)	Special Retirement Bonus
(1)	Election
An hourly rated or nonexempt salaried employee who is age sixty (60) or older with fifteen (15) or more years of continuous service and is assigned to ajob classification which the Company has announced is expected to be directly adversely affected by a transfer of work, the discontinuance of a discrete, unreplaced product line, the introduction of a robot, or the introduction of an automated manufacturing or office machine may elect to be considered for termination with a Special Retirement Bonus. This election shall be made within fifteen (15) days following the Company announcement of its decision involving foe transfer of work, the discontinuance of a discrete, unreplaced product line, introduction of a robot, or introduction of an automated manufacturing or office machine which
76
is expected to result in the elimination of certain jobs.
(2)	Procedure,
Eligible employees electing this option will be designated by their seniority for a Special Retirement Bonus. A termination under this option will be effective and the Special Retirement Bonus will be paid when ajob in the particular job classification to which the eligible employee is assigned is directly eliminated by the previously announced transferor work, the discontinuance of a discrete, unreplaced prodtictline, introduction of a robot, or introduction of an automated manufacturing or office machine, which directly results in a net reduction in die total number of employees working in that same job classification.
(3)	Special Payment
This Special Retirement Bonus shall be $14,000.
(4)	Indirect Bcm us Eligibility
In i he event that the number of eligible employees electing this option is less than the number of employees directly adversely affected by the Company’s announced action, opportunities to elect Special Voluntary Layoff Bonus under Section 4(c) shall arise, up to the number of positions directly adversely affected by the transfer of work, the discontinuance of a discrete, unreplaced product line, or the introduction of an automated manufacturing or office machine. To be eligible an employee must be in a classification that is reduced due to displacement as a result of an announced Company action described above, and otherwise
77
meets the criteria established in Section 4(c). Such displacement is hereby deemed to be a reduction of force of indefinite duration.
(c)	Special Placement Procedure
(I)	Election
An hourly rated or nomexempt salaried employee whose job is directly eliminated bv a transfer of work, the discontinuance of a discrete, unreplaced product line, die introduction of a robot, or the introduction of an automated manufacturing machine or office machine may request a Special Placement from the eliminated job in lieu of placement, displacement or layoff under the regular local layoff and re hiring procedure. The Special Placement request must be made within two (2) working d.ivs following notification to the employee of the regular placement, displacement or layoff.
(2)	Placement
(i)	If a timely request is made, an eligible employee shall be placed, or displace with seniority, on an available equal or lower rated job classification if the employee has the necessary minimum qualifications for tile job; provided the Special Placement would tie on a higher ratedjob than that provided by the regular placement.
(ii)	If an eligible hourly rated employee who has made a timely request is unable to be placed under Section 3(c) (2) (i) above, such employee shall be placed, or displace with seniority, on an equal or lower rated job up to the top of the one mon tit progression schedule without regard to the regular minimum qualifications for the
78
job; provided the Special Placement would be on a higher rated job than that provided by the regular placement.
(iii)	An employee placed under this Section 3(c) is required to achieve normal performance within the time period of the regular progression schedule.
(d)	Optional Local Retraining and Placement Agreement
Whenever the Company announces a transfer of work, the discontinuance of a discrete, unreplaced product line, the introduction of a robot, or the introduction of an automated manufacturing or office machine, the Local Union and local management may negotiate a Local Retraining and Placement Agreement
(e)	Preferential Placement
(1)	Eligibility
An hourly rated or nonexempt salaried employee eligible for; (i) Severance Pay under Section 2 or (ii) Income Extension Aid (“IEA”) resulting from being displaced and subject to layoff in the immediate chain of displacement resulting when a job is directly eliminated by a transfer of work, the discontinuation of a discrete, unreplaced product line, the introduction of a robot, or the introduction of an automated manufacturing or office machine may elect, prior to the employee’s termination for plant closing or layoff, and up to thirty (30) days thereafter (except where the laid off employee has elected to receive his IEA in lump sum), to be placed in a Preferential Placement status.
79
(2)	Election Procedure
To elect Preferential Placement tlie employee shall designate up to five (5) domestic General Electric Company manufacturing plant, service shop or distribution center locations on forms provided exclusively by the Company. Effective January 1, 2004, the term “locations” used in the prior sentence shall be construed for the sole purpose of this paragraph to include like locations maintained by GE affiliates participating in thejob and Income Security Plan for Hourly Employees and thejob and Income Security Plan for Nonexempt Employees. This election will not affect an individual’s continuity of sot vice. Individuals who have made this election will be placed in Preferential Placement status either: (i) on their designated termination date for plant closing, or (ii) on their layoff date. Individuals otherwise eligible for Preferential Placement may request, following the conclusion of decision bargaining, that their plant closing or layoff date be advanced in order to assume Preferential Placement and accept placement prior to their anticipated plant closing or layoff date. I axai management shall give due regard to such request Up to three location substitutions to those designated will be permitted during the three year eligibility period. Locations which are opened or closed during this eligibility period may be added or eliminated from the designated locations and shall not be considered one of the three substitutions, provided however that no more than three locations may be designated at any one time. All such substitutions shall be made on forms provided by the Company.
80
(3)	Placement Standard
Individuals in Preferential Placement status will be given preference, to the extent practical, over new hires for job openings at the locations designated by them in order of their length of continuity of service when they possess the necessary job qualifications established by tire hiring location. The term “necessaryjob qualifications” shall be applied based on the upgrade standard for jobs above entry level. For entry level jobs in the One Month Progression Schedule the term “necessary job qualifications” shall be the standard a current employee at the location must meet to be placed in the entry level job.
Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, Preferential Placement candidates applying for entry level positions in the One Month Progression Schedule with 25 years or more of continuous service shall be provisionally placed in such positions for up to three months. Such candidate must either demonstrate satisfactory progress in performing the entry level duties or perform such duties at a fully satisfactory level by the end of this provisional placement period. Failure to so demonstrate or perform will result in the candidate’s removal from provisional placement. The candidate will then continue in Preferential Placement status as if such provisional placement had not occurred. The administrative removal of provisionally placed Preferential Placement candidates shall not be subject to arbitration,
(4)	Benefits While in Preferential Placement Status
While in Preferential Placement status, an eligible
81
employee will be paid IEA or IEA~type layoff’benefits under the procedures set forth in Section 4(b) (1) (i) of this Article up to the amount, as applicable, of either (i) the employee's eligibility for Severance Pay under Section 2 (b) (6) of this Article or, (ii) the employee’s eligibility for IEA under Section 4 (a) (1) of this Article. For those employees affected by a Plant Closing, if at the end of the thirty (30) day period the employee does not elect to participate in Preferential Placement, the amount of Severance Pay available under Section 2, less any amount paid in JEA-type benefits, will be paid in lump sum and the employee will terminate service, Such payments shall be in lieu of any and all other benefits set forth in the applicable Section 2 or Section 3 of this Article; provided, however, that an eligible employee affected by a plant closing may receive reimbursement for authorized expenses incurred pursuant to Section 2 (c) (2) resjrecting couixes registered for within one year, and completed within three years, of the employee’s scheduled plant closing date, and an eligible employee electing Preferential Placement from layoff status is eligible to participate in the Individual Development Program.
(5)	Seniority
Individuals placed or re-employed under ri vis Section 3 (e) will have seniority for the purpose of subsequent layoff, recall, upgrading and other seniority purposes at their new location based upon the established seniority procedures and practices at their new location. Once placed through Preferential Placement, an employee will not be eligible for recall to his former location except in the event he is laid off or terminated by a plant
82
dosing at his new location. I ( laid off or terminated due to plant dosing at the location at which he was placed, recall rights will be reinstated for the remainder of the original recall period.
(6)	fatocatwn Assistance
[fan individual who elected Preferential Placement is placed or re-employed under this Section 3 (e) within three (3) years from, as applicable, that individual’s designated date of termination for plant closing or layoff date, that employee shall be eligible for reimbursement for substantiated reasonable and necessary' relocation expenses to the new location up to a maximum of $3,000 for individual employees without dependents or $6,000 for employees with dependents living in the employee's home (as verified by federal income tax returns). An eligible individual who has elected Preferential Placement is eligible for reimbursement of documented expenses up to $175 per visit incurred for the purpose of attending approved selection procedures established by the designated locations.
(7)	Residual Benefits
If an employee who elected Preferential Placement is not placed or re-employed by the Company within one year from that individual’s designated date of, as applicable, (i) termination for plant closing or (ii) layoff, that individual will, as appropriate, be deemed either: to have been terminated its of that individual’s respective date of termination for plant closing and paid the Severance Pay foe individual would have received under Section 2 (b)(6) if foe Preferential Placement status had not been elected, less any lEA-type benefits paid under paragraph 4 83
of this Section 3 (e), or break service and be paid any remaining IEA under Section 4 (a) (1) > less any IEA benefits paid under paragraph 4 of this Section 3 (e). If placed or re-employed from Preferential Placement status, weekly IEA~type or weekly IEA layoff benefits need not be repaid in order to restore eligibility for future layoff benefits based on prior service.
(8)	Termination of Preferential Placement Rights at a Selected Location
An individual on Preferential Placement shall administratively forfeit placement opportunities at a selected location for repeated failure to make good faith efforts to respond to opportunities for placement consideration. Examples of such failure include:
Rejecting an interview or offer of employment
Failing to respond to a scheduled selection procedure without adequate notice
(9)	Termination of Preferential Pkicement Status
Preferential Placement status will terminate upon the earlier of any of the following occurrences:
(i)	recall at the work location that gave rise to the preferential pkicement status prior to placement,
(ii)	placement at a designated preferential placement location,
(iii)	acceptance of ajob offer and failure to report as scheduled without satisfactory explanation^
(iv)	refusal of three preferential placementjob ofiei-(v) the lapsing of three years since the election this status.
84
Individuals placed under this Section 3(e) and thereafter laid off within eighteen months may, notwithstanding normal eligibility requirements, elect Preferential Placement.
■ 4. fncame Extensitm Aid
(a)	Computation of Income Extension Aid
(1)	An employee with one or more years of continuous service will, in accordance with the provisions hereinafter set forth, have available Income Extension Aid computed on tire basis of one week’s pay for each of the employee’s full years of continuous service plus 1/4 ofaweek’s pay for each additional 3 months of continuous service at the time of layoff.
(2)	If the amount of Income Extension Aid available to any employee as computed in Subsection (a)(1) has been reduced by payments under any of the options below, then, prodding he has returned to work from layoff, the total amount available as described in Subsection (a)(1) shall be automatically restored. This Subsection (2) shall notapply where payments have been madeunderSection4(b)(l)(iii) or under Plant Closing Section 2 where the employee is rehired within 6 months of termination, except that when an employee makes repayment of benefits paid under such Section 4(b)(1) (iii) or Section 2, this Subsection (a)(2) shall apply when he returns to work with respect to a subsequent layoff.
(3)	Minimum Benefit
The amount of the Income Extension Aid benefit as computed under Section 4(a) (1) shall be subject to a minimum benefit equal to 4 weeks’ pay. An
85
employee laid off.while in the process of service restoration under Article VIII, Section 2(e) shall qualify for the minimum benefit so long as his or her total service credits (including credits not yet restored) equal 12 mon dis.
(b)	Benefits Available at Layoff
(1)	An eligible employee laid off for lack of work may elect from the following;
(i)	The employee, while on layoff from the Company and so long as he is unemployed, may elect to receive a weekly payment from the Income Extension Aid payable to hint, in such amounts and upon such conditions as set forth in this subsection.
Prior to the exhaustion of his entitlements to federal and state unemployment compensation benefits, the weekly payment shall be in that amount (if any) which, when added to the total federal and state unemployment compensation benefi is received for dtat week, equals seventy-five percent of his weekly pay as defined in Section 1 (g), provided, however, that payment shall be made only if the employee has applied for and received unemploymentcompensation benefits for that week and only if he has provided the Company with satisfactory proof of the total of such benefits received for the week. In die event an employee seeking benefits under this Section 4 is denied unemployment compensation payment in whole or in part, solely because of a disability arising more than 31 days following layoff rendering the employee unable to work, or due to the receipt, of public
86
or private retirement income, because of insufficient earnings to establish unemployment compensation eligibility or because unemployment compensation benefits have been exhausted for the base year, that employee shall be entitled to weekly IEA [wneit as though there had been no such unemployment compensation disqualification.
After exhaustion of his entitlements to federal and state unemployment compensation benefits, the weekly payment shall be in that amount which equals seventy-five percent of his weekly pay as defined in Section 1 (g). Payments shall be made only if the employee certifies that he is still unemployed and they shall continue only until the full amount for which the employee qualifies under Section 4(a) is paid. Payments (in such amount and upon such conditions as set forth above) may also be made to an employee on layoff while he is unemployed and attending a recognized trade or professional school or training course under the GE Individual Development Program, attendance at which makes him ineligible for state or federal unemployment compensation benefits. Percentage changes referenced in this Section 4(b) (1) (i) shall be effective 10/1/97.
(ii)	In any event, at the end of one year on layoff, or upon termination of continuity' of service due to voluntary retirement, any balance in the Income Extension Aid available to him not theretofore paid will be paid in a lump sum to the employee.
87
(iii)	As a special option, an employee may, with the approval of local management, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, elect to receive the total amount of Income Extension Aid and any vacation or other accumulated allowances due, and at the time of such payment, terminate employment and thus forego recall rights.
(2)	Income Extension payments made under Subsections (b)(1) (i) and (ii), above, shall not affect service credits previously accumulated, continuity' of service, and recall rights, h will not be necessary for an employee to repay any Income Extension Aid payable under said Subsections (b) (1) (i) and (ii) above.
(3)	In the event an employee elects, as provided for in Section 7(a) of Article IX of this Agreement with respect to a scheduled shutdown period, to take the time off without pay as though on a temporary layoff, the employee shall not be eligible for Income Extension Aid for that scheduled shutdown period,
(c)	Special Voluntary Layoff Bonus
Whenever the Company announces an indefinite reduction in force, a Special Voluntary Layoff Bonus opportunity’ will exist. To be eligible an employee must be age sixty (60) or older, have fifteen (15) years of continuous service, be in a specificjob classification directly adversely affected, and must have filed a request to be considered at least fifteen (15) days in advance of the announcement of tire indefinite reduction in force. To die extent such requests exceed the number of affected jobs in each classification, selection will be on the basis of seniority. Alternatively, in the event that the number of eligible employees electing this option is less than the number of
88
employees directly adversely affected, secondary opportunities, up to the total number of positions directly adversely affected, shall be available to eligible employees in classifications affected by displacements resulting from the indefinite reduction in force. Employees selected for a Special Voluntary Layoff Bonus must confirm their acceptance immediately following the Company’s offer of the Special Voluntary Layoff Bonus. Employees accepting a Special Voluntary Layoff Bonus will receive a lump sum payment of $14,000 in lieu of any other payment under this Article and will terminate service with the Company.
■ 5. Notice, Bargaining and Information Requirements
This Section sets forth the full obligations of the Company with regard to notice, bargaining with and information to the Union concerning plant closing, work transfer, subcontracting and the installation of robots or automated manufacturing or office machines.
(a)	Plant Closing
(1)	Notice
The Company will give notice of its intent to close a manufacturing plant, service shop or distribution center a minimum of one year in advance of the plant closing date to the Union, the Local involved and to employees concerned. Such notice will include identification of the plant to be closed, the Local involved and the date when terminations of represented employees because of the plant closing are expected to begin.
(2)	Bargaining
If the Local requests decision bargaining within ten (10) working days following a Company notice of intent to close a manufacturing plant, service shop,
89
or distribution center, the Company will be available to meet with the Local within five (5) working days of such request and the bargaining period shah continue for up to sixty (60) calendar days from the date of the Company notice of intent to close the plant unless this period is extended by mutual agreement. The Company will make a decision whether or not to close the plant after this bargaining period.
(3)	Information
If information is requested by the Local for bargaining provided for in Section 5(a) (2) of this Article, the Company will promptly make the following information available to the I.xx'al for such bargaining. This information will specifically include the express reason(s) for intending to close the plant and, where employment cost is a significant factor, the related wages, payroll allowances and employee benefits expenses of represented employees at the plant intended to be closed. This information will be treated as confidential by the Local.
(b)	Transfer of Ongoing Production Work
(1)	Notice
The Company will give notice of its intent to transfer ongoing production work a minimum of six (6) months in advance of the effective date of the work transfer to the Local involved. Such notice will include identification of the work to be transferred, the expected decrease in the number of represented employees as a direct consequence of die tmnsfer of work and the anticipated date of the transfer of work.
90
(2)	Hargaining
If the Local requests decision bargaining within ten (10) working days following a Company notice of intent to transfer ongoing production work, the Company will be available to meet with the Local within five (5) working days of such request and the bargaining period shall continue for up to sixty (60) calendar days from the date of the Company notice of intent to transfer the work unless the period is extended by mutual agreement. The Company will make a decision whether or not to transfer such work after this bargaining period.
(3)	Information
If information is requested by the Local for bargaining provided for in Section 5(b) (2) of this Article, the Company will promptly make the following information available to the Local for such bargaining. The information will specifically include the express reason(s) for intending to transfer die work. Where cost is a significant factor in the Company’s intent to transfer the work, the Company will provide the Local with a cost comparison between the production cost of the work to be transferred and the projected cost to the Company of having the work performed elsewhere. Likewise, the Company will also provide the related wages, payroll allowances and employee benefits expenses of represented employees for the work intended to be transferred and of their counterparts who would be assigned the work. This information will be treated as confidential by the Local.
91
(c)	Transfer of Nonproduction Work
(1)	Notice
The Company will give notice of its intent to transfer nonproduction work, or subcontract nonproduction work, at the same plant location or elsewhere if such subcontracting of work would directly cause a decrease in the number of represented employees performing such work, a minimum of sixty (60) calendar days in advance of the effective date of the work transfer or subcontracting to the Local involved. In the case of transfers of work or subcontracting that would directly cause a decrease of more titan 50 represented employees performing such work, the notice period will be six (6) months. Such notice will include identification of the work to be transferred or subcontracted, the expected decrease in the number of represented employees as a direct consequence of the transfer of work or subcontracting and the anticipated date of the transfer of work or subcontracting.
(2)	Bargaining
If the Local requests decision bargaining within ten (10) working days following a Company notice of intent to subcontract or transfer nonproduction work, the Company will be available to meet with the Local within five (5) working days of such request and the bargaining period shall continue for up to forty-five (45) calendar days from the date of the Company notice of intent to subcontract or transfer the work unless this period is extended by mutual agreement. This bargaining period shall continue for up to sixty (60) days instead of forty-five (45) days in cases where the subcontract or transfer of nonproduction work would directly cause a decrease
92
of more than fifty (50) represented employees performing such work. The Company will make a decision whether or not to subcontract or transfer such work after this bargaining period.
(3)	Information
If information is requested by the Local for bargaining provided for in Section 5(c) (2) of this Article, the Company will promptly make the following information available to the Local for such bargaining. The information trill specifically include the express reason (s) for intending to subcontract or transfer the work. Where cost is a significant factor in the Company’s intent to transfer the work, the Company will provide the Local with a cost comparison between the cost of the nonproduction work to be transferred and the projected cost to the Company of having the work subcontracted or performed elsewhere. Likewise, the Company will also provide the related wages, payroll allowances and employee benefits expenses of represented employees for the work intended to be subcontracted or transferred and of their counterparts who would be assigned the work. This information trill be treated as confidential by the Local.
(d)	Subcontracting of Trades Work at Plant location
(I)	Notice
The Company will give notice to the Local of its intent to subcontract trades work, where the work will be done by a subcontractor at the same plant location or elsewhere and there is no decrease in the number of represented employees performing such trades work, before finalization of the proposed
93
action provided that the work is of it nature that is normally performed by trades workers (maintenance, tool & die, and other similar classifications). Notice will not be required in emergency7 situations.
(2)	Bargaining
If the Local requests bargaining concerning such subcontracting, the Company will promptly meet and discuss its plans wiffi die Local. However, in no event will the Company be obligated to withhold die effectuation of the proposed subcontracting for more than twentyone (21) calendar days from the date of the notification to the Local.
(3)	Information
If information is requested by the Local for bargaining provided for in Section 5(d) (2) of this Article, the Company will promptly make the following information available to die l .ocai for such bargaining, Tilts information will specifically include the express reason(s) for intending to subcontract die work and, where employment cost is a significant factor, comparative related wages, payroll allowances ; and employee benefits expenses of represented employees for the work intended to be subcontracted and of their counterparts who would be assigned die work. This bargaining information will be treated as confidential by the Local,
(e)	Installation of Robots or Automated Manufacturing or Office Machines
With respect to the installation of robots or automated manufacturing or office machines, (he Company will give a minimum of sixty (60) days’ notice to the Local involved
94
before the use of a robot or an automated manufacturing or office machine in a work area. Such notice will include a description of the function of the device, identification of the work involved, the expected decrease in the number of represented employees as a direct consequence of the use of the device and the anticipated date of the use of the derice.
(f)	The Company trill notify die Local in writing of its decision to utilize a subcontractor to perform work of the type regularly performed by bargaining unit employees, where the work will be done by a subcontractor at another location and there is no decrease in the number of represented employees performing like work. The notice will give a general description of the work and state the express reasons for subcontracting the work.
■ G Job Preservation
(a)	Decision Bargaining Guarantee
In the event the Company announces its intention to close a plant under Section 5 (a), and following decision bargaining the Company retracts or modifies its announced intention based on a counter-proposal offered by the union to preserve jobs, such preserved jobs shall be excluded from further impact under Section 5 (a) for the earlier of three years or die duration of this Agreement and, in any case, for at least 12 months. In the event the Company announces its intention to transfer Ongoing Production Work under Section 5 (b), or transfer Nonproduction Work under Section 5 (c) and, following decision bargaining die Company retracts or modifies its announced intention based on a counter-proposal offered by the union to preserve jobs, such preserved jobs shall be excluded from further impact under Section 5(b) and Section 5(c) for the earlier of three years or the duration of this Agreement and, in any case, for at least 12 months. Following die expiration of the Contract, such preserved jobs shall be subject to
95
subsequent announcements of intent and decision bargaining in conformance with Section 5.
(b)	Job Preservation Steering Committee
The Company recognizes the importance ofjob security to the Union and acknowledges that subcontracting work and the introduction of enhanced technology, while enabling the Company to succeed in the many competitive environments in which it operates, may result in a decrease in General Electric Companyjobs. In order to balance competitive realities with the Union’s interest in protecting jobs, the Company and Union will establish a joint Job Preservation Steering Committee at each Company location employing over 50 bargaining unit employees to meet and discuss issues such as:
•	Opportunities for job creation
•	Potential plant dosing, outsourcing/subcontracting
and work transfers, including situations where there is no direct decrease in the number of represented employees
♦	Training for anticipated technology changes
•	Work practices and local agreements to increase efficiency
•	Investment plans and potential impact on jobs
Upon request the Steering Committees will meet on a quarterly basis. Union representation on the Steering Committee will be determined solely by the Union and will Ire restricted to a maximum of 2 representatives for the first 50 to 500 bargaining unit employees, and 1 for each additional 500 unit employees up to a maximum of 6 representatives in total. Such representatives will be compensated at their regular rate for up to four hours for lime spent participating in the quarterly Steering Committee
96
meetings. This Steering Committee structure is not intended to displace the workings of other ongoing union-management activities, including the grievance procedure and the decision bargaining provisions of Article XXII, which exist at each plant location.
The Company and the Union mutually agree to encourage Local management and Local unions at every covered location to fully participate in the Steering Committee discussions in order to preserve and create jobs. Recognizing that there may be some issues that would benefit from the presence of representatives from the Company and the Union, the Company agrees to consider requests for participation by the Company and Union representatives at specific local job preservation committee meetings on key job preservation issues identified by the Union.
It is recognized by the Company and the Union that locations not meeting the 50 employee threshold may have job preservation issues that would justify conductingjob preservation meetings on a periodic basis. Local management and the Local union are authorized to hold such meetings where a need exists.
The Company and the Union recognize the value of holding periodic meetings at the business level to discuss the state of die business and future plans that may impact employees represented by the Union, To that end, the Company and the Union will develop a process to conduct semi-annual meetings at the business level for this purpose.
(c) Job Preservation Guarantee
In the event that the Company decides not to pursue potential outsourcing and work transfer opportunities reviewed in a Job Preservation Steering Committee as a result of proposals made by the union, the jobs that would have been directly impacted by the potential outsourcing
97
or work transfer shall be excluded from further impact under Section 5 for the earlier of three years or the duration of this Agreement but, in any ease, for at least 12 months provided the Company and the Local agree in writing on the specific jobs that were preserved by the union’s proposals.
■	7. Vested Bights Under Pension Plan
The receipt of Income Extension Aid, Severance Pay, or a rate guarantee will not affect any rights the employee may have under the Vesting Provision of the Pension Plan.
■	8. Lump Sum Payments
Sendee credits previously accumulated, continuity of service, and recall rights will be lost upon receipt by the employee of an Income Extension Aid payment in lump stun under Section 4(b)(I)(hi), special termination payments under this Article, or payment of Severance Pay tinder the Plant Closing Section 2. However, an employee eligible for such a payment, who is within one year of reaching optional retirement at age 60 under the GE Pension Plan, shall retain such previously accumulated seivice credits <ind continuity’ of sendee until such employee reaches optional retirement age notwithstanding the receipt of such a payment unless the employee retires before electing optional retirement at age 60.
In the event of a subsequent rehire as a “new” employee within a period of time which does not exceed the length of prior seivice, service credits, and recall rights previously lost shall be automatically restored prodded repayinent of die Income Extension Aid is made by the employee within a reasonable time after rehire. No such repayment, however, shall be required if die rehire date is more than one year from the date of termination which resulted from the election of a lump sum payment under Section 4(b) (1) (iii)
98
or the special termination payments under Section 3 (h) or Section 4(c).
Service credits, continuity ofservice, and recall rights lost at termination upon receipt of payments under Plant Closing Section 2, shall be restored automatically without repayment in the event of subsequent rehire more than 6 months after such termination. An employee who having received payments under Plant ClosingSection 2, is rehired 6 months or less after his termination and who has made arrangements satisfactory to the Company providing for repayment shall, during such time as he is not in default of such arrangements and for die purpose only of layoff and recall, be deemed to possess the service credits, continuity of service, and recall rights to be restored to him upon hill repayment.
■	9. Non-DupHcation
If any part of an employee’s continuous service is used as the basis for an actual payment under any of the options of the Income Extension Aid or Severance Pay arrangement, that part of his continuous service may not be used again for such purpose, either during that period of layofl'or any subsequent period of layoff or plant closing, unless repayment has been made as provided in Section 8, above.
Where an indefinite reduction in force triggers eligibility for benefits under this Article, the designation of individuals who may exercise the benefits under this Article will be based on the integrated order of their seniorityso that the number of employees electing benefits does not exceed the net number of positions eliminated.
Employees, eligible for a benefit under this Article either by designation or by election, may exercise only one severance or layoff benefit. Employees who have exercised the Special Early Retirement Option or Plant Closing Pension Option under the Pension Plan shall have the
99
Special Early Retirement Option Offset deducted from any severance or layoff benefit otherwise due under this Article.
■	10. Other
The provisions of this article shall not be applicable where the Company decides to close a plant or lay off an employee because of the Company’s inability to secure production, or carry on its operations, as a consequence of a strike, slowdown, or other interference with or interruption with work participated in by employees in a Company plant, service shop, or other facility. However, the operation of this section shall not affect the rights or benefits already provided hereunder to an employee laid off for lack of work prior to the commencement of any such strike, interference, or interruption.
■ 11. A grievance arising under this article may be processed in accordance with the grievance procedure set forth in Article XIII. However, no matter or controversy concerning the provisions of this article or the interpretation or application thereof shall be subject to arbitration under the provisions of Article XV hereof, except by mutual agreement.
ARTICLE XXIII___________________________________________
Military Pay Differential
An employee with 30 days or more of service credits attending annual encampments of or training duty in the Armed Forces, Suite or National Guard or U.S. Reserves shall be granted a military pay differential, computed as set forth below, for a period of up to 17 days of such military service, during each calendar year. The employee shall be granted service credits for such 17 day period or portion thereof during which he is absent. Such military pay differential shall be the amount by which the employee’s
100
normal straight time wages or salary, calculated on the basis of a workweek up to a maximum of 40 hours, which the employee has lost by virtue of such absence, exceeds any pay received for such absence from the Federal or State Government, recalculated to exclude the Government pay applicable to Saturday and Sundays. Saturdays and Sundays shall be counted in computing the 17 day period. Such items as subsistence, rental, and travel allowance shall not be included in determining pay received from the Government
An employee with 30 days or more of service credits who does not exhaust the 17 calendar day period during the calendar year for his annual encampment or training duty and who is required during the same calendar year to attend a weekend period of training shall be granted a military pay differential provided that the 17 calendar day period of military service in the same calendar year is not exceeded. Such military pay differential shall be the amount by which the employee’s normal straight time pay, calculated on the basis of a nonpremium workday, up to a maximum of eight (8) hours, which the employee has lost by virtue of such absence, exceeds any pay received for such day or days of absence from the Federal or State Government, recalculated to exclude the Government pay applicable to Saturdays and Sundays. Saturdays and Sundays shall be counted for the purpose of determining the extent to which die 17 calendar days of military service have been utilized in the same manner as annual encampment or training duty.
An employee with 30 da\s or more of service credits, who is called out by the National Guard or the U.S. Reserves to perform temporary emergency duty (other than duty under an order by the President or Congress activating members or units of the Reserves or National Guard) due to a fire, flood, or domestic civil disturbance, or other such disaster will be paid a military pay differential calculated as
101
described above, for the pay lost by reason of such emergency duty, for a period not to exceed eight weeks in any calendar year and shall be granted service credits for such absence up to eight weeks.
An employee who has less than 30 day's of service credits may also be absent for the reasons and periods set forth above without deduction of service credits for such absence, but shall not be eligible for the military pay differential.
Employees will be permitted to lake a vacation and attend a military encampment at separate times and be granted both a vacation pay allowance and a military' pay differential. However, an employee may not receive a vacation pay allowance and a military' pay differential for the same period. An employee may, however, receive a military pay differential for the period, if any, by which the time spent in such encampment exceeds such vacation, but not exceeding die maximums specified above.
ARTICLE XXIV___________________________________________
Retraining Program
■	1. Retraining Programs as appropriate for employees represented by each Local are subject to negotiations between the Local and local management. Any written agreements covering such Retraining Programs are subject to approval by the Union and the Company.
■	2. No matter or controversy concerning the provisions of this article or any local retraining agreement shall be arbitrable except by mutual agreement.
102
ARTICLE XXV________________________________________
Jury Duty
■	1. When an hourly-paid employee is called for service as a juror, he will be paid upon proof of service the amount of straight-time earnings lost by him by reason of such service, up to a limit of 8 hours per day and 40 hours per week.
■	2. When a salaried employee is called for service as a juror, he will continue to be paid his normal straight-time salary during die period of such service.
■	3. Similar pay as specified in Sections 1 and 2 will be granted to an employee who loses time from work because of his appearance in court pursuant to proper subpoena, except when he is either a plaintiff, defendant, or other party to the court proceeding.
ARTICLE XXVI
Absence for Death in Family
An hourly paid employee with 30 days or more of sendee credits who is absent from work solely because of the death and funeral of his or her spouse, child, stepchild, stepbrother, stepsister, foster child (if living in the employee’s home), grandchild, stepgrandchild, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, parent, stepparent, grandparent, stepgrandparent, grandparent-in-law, brother, brother-in-law, sister, sister-in-law, mother-in-law, or father-in-law, will be compensated, on the basis of his average straight-time earnings, for the time lost by him from his regular schedule by reason of such absence, for three days for each such absence and up to eight hours per day. In the event of death of the employee’s spouse, child, parent or stepparent, stepchild or foster child, an additional two days absence (up to eight hours per day) shall be allowed.
103
ARTICLE XXVII
Sick and Personal Pay
■ 1. An hourly employee with one or more years of continuous service, absent because of (a) personal business, or (b) personal illness for which weekly disability benefits are not payable under the General Electric Insurance Plan, or under Workmen’s Compensation, will be paid Sick and Personal Pay for each absence of an hour or longer, up to the number of hours applicable in accordance with the following schedule:
Maximu m Hours of Sick and Personal Payfor Continuous Service Each Calendar Year
1 through 9 years...........16 Hours
10 through 14 years.........24 Hours
15 through 24 years.........32 Hours
25 years and over...........40 flours
Sick and Personal Pay for absences of an hour or longer shall be compensated based on the actual scheduled hours of work during which the employee was absent, not to exceed the above maximums based on continuous service.
An employee may seek approval from his Manager to utilise Sick and Personal Pay for absences due to an olrserved holiday or temporary layoff. Management approval, as provided herein, will not be unreasonably withheld. An employee is expected to notify' his Manager in advance of the absence whenever possible, in order dial the Manager may have an opportunity to arrange for a replacement or to reschedule the work.
104
X 2. Accumulation of Sick and Personal Pay
An employee who has any unused Sick and Personal Pay remaining at the end of a calendar year may elect during the Open Enrollment Period of each year to accumulate such unused Sick and Personal Pay, up to a maximum of two hundred and forty (240) hours, and have such pay carried forward to die following calendar year for use in die event of approved absences, Absent such an election, all unused Sick and Personal Pay attributable to the current year will be paid as an allowance in February at the rates in effect during the pay period including December 31 of the prior calendar year including, if applicable, night shift bonus for employees who are regularly scheduled on a night shift. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 1, an employee who is otherwise eligible for Short Term Disability benefits under the GELife, Disability and Medical Plan may be retained at full pay during an extended absence due to illness or injuiy, to the extent possible, by combining any accumulated pay under this Section with Short Tenn Disability benefits. Such an employee may restore eligibility for Sick and Personal Pay earned and expended in a given year to the extent such pay was expended for an absence that was later determined to be covered by Short Tenn Disability or Workers’ Compensation Benefits by repaying the net amount of pay received in the same calendar year. If an employee is unable to repay because of hardship, management may approve the employee’s request to take time off without pay for subsequent absences which would otherwise qualify for payment of Sick and Personal Pay and are within the eligibility schedule set forth in Section 1.
■ 3. Rate of Pay
The rate of pay applicable to absences covered under this article will be current normal straight-time hourly earnings in effect when last at work prior to die absence,
105
including night shift bonus for employees who are regularly scheduled on a night shift. (In cases of pieceworkers, the normal straight-time hourly wages as determined from the last periodic earnings statistics will be used.)
■ 4. Maximum Hours
(a)	The maximum Sick and Personal Pay hours payable for any one day of approved absence will be the number of hours in tire employee’s established regular daily schedule for the day of absence not to exceed his total eligibility.
(b)	The maximum hours of Sick and Personal Pay payable to an employee in a calendar year will be the maximum number of Sick and Personal Pay hours based on the employee's continuous service as stated in Section 1.
In addition, any unused Sick and Personal Pay up to a maximum of 240 hours carried over from the preceding calendar year, will be available for payment of approved absences.
When the hours of an employee’s established regular daily schedule are changed to less than six (6) hours per day during die course of a calendar year, die maximum Sick and Personal Pay hours payable to such employee for that calendar year will be adjusted by determining the proportion of the maximum Sick and Personal Pay hours used by the employee prior to such change, (based on the regular daily schedule of work hours in effect before the change) and then reducing by the same proportion the employee’s revised maximum hours based on the regular daily schedule of work horns in effect after the change.
(c)	An employee working a regular daily schedule of not less than six (6) hours shall receive Sick and Personal Pay based on his regular daily schedule up to the Maximum Hours for which he is eligible under the table in Section 1.
106
■	5. Sick and Personal Pay Allowance
When an employee is terminated because of a plant closing or die sale of a business to a successor employer and the successor employer does not have a similar sick and/or personal pay benefit, the employee will receive an allowance in lieu of any unused sick and/or personal hours. Similarly, an allowance in lieu of any unused sick and/or personal hours will be paid if an employee retires, dies, breaks continuity of service due to layoff or is approved for a leave of absence of 12 months or more. Such allowance will be paid the earlier of termination or twelve months following removal from the active payroll.
ARTICLE XXVItl_________________________________________
Upgrading and Job Posting
■	1. Standard forfilling open jobs and. upgrading
The Company will, to the extent practical, give first consideration for job openings and tipgrading to present employees, when employees with die necessary qualifications are available. In upgrading employees to higher rated jobs, the Company will take into consideration as an important factor, the relative length of seniority of the employees who it finds are qualified for such upgrading; provided, however, that in upgrading employees tojob openings with job rates within die one-month progression schedule, as provided for in Article VI, Section 5(a) (4) (a) of this Agreement, the relative seniority of those employees found qualified for such upgrading shall be tile controlling factor.
When filling a job opening by upgrading, a request for die open job by an employee in a different, equal rated job classification or a higher rated job classification shall be treated as though it were a request to be considered for a higher rated job classification if thejob opening affords the employee with an immediate or future higher earnings
107
opportunity; provided that the employee has not previously so transferred during the same calendar year.
■	2. Local Negotiations
Because the product mix, organization complexity, and other circumstances vary in the plant locations covered by this agreement and to improve the opportunity for upward mobility of all employees represented by the Union and to continue to assure an equal opportunity for such employees to express their interests in and be considered for upgrading to job openings without regard to race, color, sex, creed, marital status, age, or national origin, local management and die Local Union shall negotiate a written upgrading agreement for each of die locations listed in die Preamble. In order to implement the provisions of Section 1, above, it is die intent of the parties that such agreement would provide for advance notice of job openings which are to be filled by upgrading where practical. Such agreement shall be approved in accordance with Article XXI, Section 2, of this National Agreement and shall not alter any obligation or right not to fill an opening by upgrading nor shall it limit any right an employee or the Union may have under Article XIII, XIV, and XV of this National Agreement to protest a selection.
ARTICLE XXIX____________________________________________
Responsibility of the Parties
The parties recognize diat, under this Agreement each of diem has responsibilities for the welfare and security of die employees:
(a)	The Company recognizes diat it is the responsibility of the Union to represent die employees effectively and fairly;
(b)	Subject only to any limitations stated in this
108
Agreement, or in any other agreement between the Company and die Union or a Local, die Union and the Locals recognize that the Company retains the exclusive right to manage its business, including (but not limited to) the right to determine die methods and means by which its operations are to be carried on, to direct the work, force, and to conduct its operations in a safe and effective manner.
This article does not modify or limit the rights of the parries, or of the employees, under any other provisions of this Agreement or under any other agreement between the Company and the Union or the Locals, nor will it operate to deprive employees of any wage or other benefits to which they have been or will become entitled by virtue of an existing or future agreement between the Company and the Union or a Local.
ARTICLE XXX
Issues of General Application
This Agreement, the 2003-2007 Settlement Agreement, the 2003-2007 Wage Agreement, and the 2003-2007 Pension and Insurance Agreement between the parties are intended to be and shall be in full settlement of all issues which were the subject of collective bargaining between the parties in national level collective bargaining negotiations in 2003. Consequently, it is agreed that none of such issues shall be subject to collective bargaining during the term of this Agreement and there shall be no strike or lockout in connection with any such issue or issues; provided, however, that this provision shall not be construed to limit or modify the rights of the parties hereto under Article VI, Section 1, and Article XIV of this Agreement.
109
ARTICLE XXXI______________________________________
Duration of Agreement
This National Agreement shall be effective as ofjune 16, 2003, between the Company, the Union, and each of the IUE-CWA, AFL-CIO, CLC Locals now certified as the representative of Company employees, as set forth in the Preamble to this Agreement, and shall continue in full force and effect to and including the 17th day of June, 2007, and from year to year thereafter unless modified or terminated as hereinafter provided.
ARTICLE XXXII
Modification and Termination
(a)	Either the Company or the Union may terminate this National Agreement by written notice to the other not more than ninety days and not less than sixty’ days prior to June 17, 2007, or prior tojune 17 of any subsequent year. Not more than 15 days following receipt of such notice, collective baigaining negotiations shall commence between the parties for the purpose of considering the terms of a new agreement, and a proposal for a revision of wages which may be submitted by either the Company or the Union.
(b)	If either the Company or the Union desires to modify this National Agreement, it shall, not more than ninety das^s and not less than sixty days prior to june 17, 2007, or prior tojune 17 of any subsequent year, so notify lite other in writing. Not more than 15 days following receipt of such notice, collective bargaining negotiations shall commence between the parties for the purpose of considering changes in this National Agreement, and a proposal for revision of wages which may be submitted by either the Company or the Union.
110
If settlement is not reached by June 17,2007, or prior tojune 17 of any subsequent '.'car. this National Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until the tenth day following written notice given by either the Company or the Union of its intention to terminate such Agreement, during which time there shall he no strike or lockout
ARTICLE XXXIII
Notices
All notices given under the provisions of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be sufficient if sent by mail addressed, if to the Union, to 1UE-CWA, The Industrial Division of the Communications Workers of America, AFU CIO, CLC, 1275 K Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20005, or to such other address the Union shall furnish the Company in writing; and if to the Company, to General Electric Company, Fairfield, Connecticut 06828. or to such other address the Company shall furnish the Union in writing.
Dated: July 17,2003
111
IUE-CWA, THE INDUSTRIAL DIVISION OF THE COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA, AFLCIO, CLC
Edward Fire Arthur D. Smith Norman J. Klein, Jr. Robert K. Santamoor Charles R. Smith VincentJ, Vines Janet Bernard Michael Betts Ric Casilli Michael Cerrone Howard Connors
Carmen DePoalo
James Ledford
Dale Luce
Terry Naumann
Randy Payton Roy Rogers Michael Scarchilli
Rodney Wheeler
Lauren Asplen Thomas M. Kennedy Peter Mitchell
112
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
Dennis W. Rocheleau Charles E. Welch Douglas j. Baker PaulV. Lalli Jennifer L. Waldo Barbara Beckmann ThomasJ. Conway,Jr. Larry Cook John D. Curtin
Kevin J.F. Fitzgerald Daniel F. Gilbert Michael J. Gorman Mark A. Nordstrom Virginia D. Proestakes Carl H. Roberts Peter S. Rogowski Allan O. Rowe Jerry Wald
113
2003-2007
Wage Agreement
IUE-CWA
2003-2007 Wage Agreement
The Company will provide general wage and salary increases as follows:
■	1. General Increases
Effective, Date	Increase
June 16, 2003	Three percent (3.0%) applied to rates in effect on June 15, 2003.
June 21,2004	Two and one half percent (2.5%) applied to rates in effect on June 20, 2004.
June 20,2005	Two and one half percent (2.5%) applied to rates in effect on June 19, 2005.
June 19,2006	Three percent (3.0%) applied to rates in effect on June 18, 2006.
■	2. Cosl-nf-Living Adjustments
(a)	Cost-of-Living Adjustments effective on the dates shown below in the amount of one cent ($.01) per hour for hourly employees (forty cents ($.40) per week for salaried employees) for each full nine hundredths of one percent (.09%) by which the National Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (CPI-W; Base 1982-84 - 100), as published by the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, increases in the applicable measurement period.
NOTE; The amounts stated fur salaried employees throughout the Wage Agreement are based on a normal workweek of 40 hours.
(1)
Effective Date December 15, 2003 June 21,2004 December 20, 2004	Measurement Period June 2003 through October 2003 October 2003 dirough April 2004 October 2003 through October 2004*
June 20, 2005 December 19,2005	October 2004 through April 2005 October 2004 through October 2005*
June 19, 2006 December 18, 2006	October 2005 through April 2006 October 2005 dirough October 2006*
April 16,2007	October 2006 through February 2007
* (While the measurement period for the Cost-of-Living Adjustment effective December includes the entire period from October through October, the adjustment shall be die difference between the full amount calculated for the period and the amount of the Cost-of-Living Adjustment paid effective in June.)
(b)	No adjustment, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made in pay or benefits as a result of any revision which later may be made in the published figures for the Index for any month on the basis of which the cost-of-living calculation shall have been determined.
(c)	In die event that die Bureau of Labor Statistics issues a new or revised Index widi eidier a conversion table, converted Index, or a conversion procedure by which die present formula can be made applicable to any change in said Index, the Union and the Company agree to accept such conversion method.
(2)
If no such conversion method is provided by the BLS following any revision of the Index, die parties will promptly undertake negotiations solely with respect to agreeing upon a substitute formula for determining a comparable Cost-of-Living Adjustment, and failing agreement in such negotiations, the Union and the Locals shall, upon • giving 10 days’ written notice, have die right to strike solely widi respect to such issue.
■ 3. Wag? Structure Modification - Effective June 16, 2003
Each local plant’s hourly daywork, salary, and hourly incentive wage structure step rate values will be increased effective June 16, 2003 as follows:
(a)	Daywork Structures
All step rate values in effect on June 15, 2003, which are higher than $21,030 per hour will be increased incrementally by $.01 per hour for every $. 15 or part thereof by which such step rates exceed $21.030 per hour. (At locations where the R-18 or local equivalent straight time hourly rate is lower than $21.030, that rate will be the initial rate for an adjustment in step rate values.)
(3)
EXAMPLE-HOURLY
Step Rate Values
Greater 'I'luiti
$21,030 per hour $21,180 per hour $21,330 per hour
•
$25,380 per hour
Equal to or
Less Than
$21,180 per hour $21,330 per hour $21,480 per hour
•
$25,530 per hour
Increment
$.01 per hour $.02 per hour $.03 per hour
•
♦
$.30 per hour*
*And continuing in such $.01 increments up to and including the highest step rate.
(b)	Incentive Structures
All incentive step rate values which are not used for the pricingor payment of incentive work will be increased an incremental amount equal to the increment applied to die local plant’s daywork job rate equivalent.
(c)	Salary Structures
All step rate values in effect on June 15, 2003, which are higher than $841.20 per week will be increased by $.40 per week, for every $6.00 per week by which such step rate values exceed $841.20 per week.
(4)
EXAMPLE-SALARY
Step Rate. Values
Increment
Greater Than
$841.20 per week
$847.20 per week
$853.20 per week
Equal to or
Less Than
$847.20 per week
$853.20 per week
$859.20 per week
$ .40 per week $ .80 per week $1.20 per week
$1,015.20 perweek $1,021.20 per week $12.00 per week*
*And continuing in such $.40 increments up to and including die highest step rate.
■ 4. The wage and salary increases described in 1,2, and 3 above shall constitute the amount by which:
(a)	Each hourly daywork rate or weekly salary rate shall be increased on the effective date specified in the amount and manner described.*
(b)	The earnings of incentive employees (excluding night shift differential), computed in accordance with the local plant’s formulas and procedures and applicable to such incentive work at die time of its performance, shall be increased.* For diis purpose,
(i)	The percentage general increase will be applied as follows:
*f.mplowes hirrd on progression-alter August 5,1991, under lire provisions of Article VI, Section k will have their paid progression rates adjusted to maintain the same percentage of the new job rate.
(5)
• Where the local plant’s existing formula contains both a percentage factor and a cents-per-hour adder, each will be increased by the percentage general increases.
* Where the local plant’s existing formula contains only a cents-per-hour adder (no percentage factor) the existing Piecework Base Rate and the cents-per-hour adder each will be increased by the percentage general increases.
(ii) The Cost-of-Living Adjustments will be incorporated in the existing payroll adder in the same formula.
■ 5. The pay increases herein provided shall be applicable to all employees (both hourly paid and salaried) in bargaining units certified to the IUE-CWA, AFLCIO, CLC or its affiliate IUE-CWA, AFLrCIO, CLC Locals as of June 15,2003, which, as of that date, are listed in the Preamble of the 2003-2007 GE IUE-CWA National Agreement. Employees in any bargaining unit for whom the IUE-CWA, AFL-CIO, CLC or any of its Locals shall be certified as the collective bargaining representative after the effective date of this Agreement shall receive pay increases provided for by Sections 1, 2, 3 and 4 of this Wage Agreement but only insofar as such increases shall, by terms of said sections, become effective after the date of such certification.
The Provisions of the Wage Agreement shall continue in full force and effect between the parties hereto, to and includingjune 17, 2007.
IN WITNESS WHEKEOE the parties have caused their names to be subscribed to this Agreement by their duly authorized representatives this 17th day of July, 2003.
(6)
1UE-CWA, THE INDUSTRIAL DIVISION
OFTHE COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS
OF AMERICA, AFLCIO, CLC
Edward Fire Arthur D. Smith NormanJ. Klein, Jr. Robert K. San tamoor Charles R. Smith Vincent J. Vines Janet Bernard Michael Betts Ric Casilli
Michael Cerrone Howard Connors
Carmen DePoalo James Ledford Dale Luce Terry Naumann Randy Payton Roy Rogers Michael Scarchilli Rodney Wheeler Lauren Asplen Thomas M. Kennedy Peter Mitchell
(7)
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMEW
Dennis W, Rocheleau
Charles E. Welch
DouglasJ. Baker PaulV.Lalli Jennifer L. Waldo Barbara Beckmann Thomas j. Conwayjr.
LanyCook
John D. Curtin
Kevin J.F. Fitzgerald
Daniel F. Gilbert Michael]. Gorman Mark A. Nordstrom Virginia D. Proestakes Carl H Roberts
Peter S. Rogowski
Allan 0. Rowe Jem'Wald
(8)
INDEX
Page No.
Absence:
Death in Family.............................. W3
Definition of................................ 24
Leave for Union Activity..................... 44
Observed Holiday............................ 104
Personal Business........................... 104
Personal Illness............................ 104
Temporary Layoff............................ 104
Accident, Compensable..................... 25,27
Agency Shop................................... 1,2
Agreement, Duration of........................ 110
Applicants Fully Experienced When Hired...	16
Arbitration:
Contract Arbitrators......................... 54
Expedited Arbitration........................ 54
Expenses..................................... 55
Issues Arbitrable as a Matter of Right..	57,58
Issues Arbitrable on a Voluntary Basis..	58-60
Joinder of Cases, Prohibition on ............ 54
Supplemental Procedure.................. 62,63
Time Limit for Appeal to .................... 53
Automated Mfg. Machine, Definition of.....	68
Automated Office Machine, Definition of...	68
Average Earnings, Pay at............10,14,38,39, 40
Bargaining Unit, Return to................ 41,42
Bulletin Boards................................ 64
(0
Page No.
Call-in Pay............................... 10-11
Checkoff of Dues and Initiation Fees......	2
Chief Stewards Contacting Stewards........	47
Coercion, Discrimination and................... 4
Company Convenience, Taken off Job for....	14
Continuity of Service: Definition of................................. 24
Loss of.................................... 25
Restoration of........................   25-27
Continuous Operations: Holiday, Pay for Listed....................... 23
Overtime Pay...........................   8-10
Workweek for Premium Pay Purpose.......	6,8-9
Continuous Service: Definition of................................. 24
For Return to Unit..................... 41,42
Cost-of-Living Adjustments ...(Wage Agreement (1>(2>(3)>
Cope Fund.................................... 2-4
Death in Family, Absence for................. 103
Discrimination, Prohibitions Against......	4,5
Dispensary Time............................... 12
Down Time, Payment for........................ 14
Dues, Deduction of............................. 2
Duration of Agreement......................   110
Early Reporting, Pay.......................... 10,	11
Employee, Information toWhen Hired or Transferred................................ 13
(ii)
Page No,
Established Plan for Salaried.................. 10
Financial Support.............................. 64
General Increases ..............(Wage	Agreement (1))
Grievance Procedure......................... 47-51
Preferential Placement..................... 50-51
Group Leaders, Pay of....................... 18-19
Holidays: Listed........................................ 21
Listed Not Worked, Pay for.................. 23
Listed Worked, Pay for..................... 7-9
Local Negotiation of........................ 21
Night Shift Differentia].................... 23
Observed, Information to Local on.......	10
Observed Worked, Pay for................... 6-9
Qualifying Conditions for Payment.......	22-24
Vacation Period, Holiday in................. 37,	38
Illness;
Absence for................................. 25
Compensable................................. 25,	27
Definition of............................... 25
Return to Work from ........................ 42
Income Extension Aid: Computation of................................ 85
Layoff Benefits.......................... 86-88
Minimum Benefit......................... 85.86
Repayment After Rehire .................. 98,99
(iii)
Page No.
Service Requirements........................... 85
Ineligibility for Income Extension Aid.......	36, 37
Increase in Forces............................. 41,42
Indirect Bonus Eligibility’....................... 77
Instructors, Rates of........................ 18,19
Issues of General Application.................... 109
Job and Income Security....................... 67-100
Job, Inspection of................................ 49
Job Openings..................................... 107
Job Preservation............................... 95-98
Job Transfer, Prohibition on...................... 52
Jury Duty........................................ 103
Layoff Deferment for Union Representatives .	43-44
Leave of Absence for Union Activity ........... 44-45
Local Negotiations, Subjects for:
Continuous Operations, Designation ofjobs	6
Dues Deductions, Frequency of................... 2
Group Leaders and Instructors Rates.......	18-19
Holidays, Substitutions for Listed............. 21
Layoff and Rehire Procedure.................... 41
Rates of Individuals or Groups............ 12
Retraining and Placement Agreement........	79
Retraining Program ........................... 102
Upgrading Agreement........................... 107
Work Schedules, Variations in................... 6
Local Understandings.............................. 66
Local Union Activities, Pay for Time on......	45-47
Page No.
Local Union, Information to: Grievance Decisions............................. 64
Job Classifications...................... 12
Layoffs....................................... 65
Master List of Employees...................... 65
Matters Affecting Employees Generally....	64
New Hires..................................... 65
Observed Holidays, List of.................... 10
Plant Wage Structure ....................   12,13
Reengaged Employees........................... 65
Transfers..................................... 65
Wage In creases.............................   19
Lockout, Prohibition on.................... 52, 109
Manufacturing Method, Change in................. 14
Military Pay Differential.................. 100-102
Modification of Agreement...................... 110
Multiple Shifts.................................. 5
Night Shift Differential.........10,	23,35, 68, 69,105
Notices, Posting by Local Union................. 64
Notices to Company and/or Union...........6,	13, 20, 38,45,53, 64, 65, 89-95,110
Notice Requirements
Installation of Robots or Automated Manufacturing or Office Machines.........	94-95
Plant Closing........................... 89,90
Shutdown Scheduling........................... 36
Transfer of Work........................... 89-93
Page No.
OSHA Inspection.............................. 47
Overtime; Computation of............................. 9
Continuous Operations.................... 8-9
Division of............................... 12
Record of................................. 12
Regular Workweek for Premium Pay Purpose	5
Pension Plan: Retirement Under.......................... 42
Vested Rights............................. 98
Personal Absence Pay..................34,100-104
Piece Prices, Definition of.................. 13
Plant Closings: Definitions of............................ 67
Employment Assistance Program.......... 73-75
Local Termination Agreement .............. 75
Relocation Assistance..................... 83
Notice Requirement..................... 89-90
Preferential Placement..............26, 79-85
Severance Pay........................72-73,82
Sick and Personal Pay Allowance....... 104
Successor Employer..................... 67,	107
Probationary Period.......................... 60
Progression Schedules, Step Rates......... 15-21
Rate Guarantee............................ 75-76
Rates, Local Negotiations of................. 12
Recall Rights ............................ 25-26
(vi)
Page No.
Reduction in Forces....................... 41-42
Report-in Time.............................. 11-12
Responsibility of the Parties............. 108-109
Retrainingand Readjustment Assistance.....	75-85
Retraining Program............................ 102
Robot, Definition of........................... 68
Seniority..........................41,43,82-83,107
Service Charge Deduction........................ 2
Service Credits:
Accrual of............................... 27-28
Definition of............................... 24
Loss of..................................... 25
Restoration of........................... 26-27
Service Record, Review of...................... 26
Severance Pay.............................71-73,83
Shift Transfer, Pay for......................... 8
Shift Transfer, Request for.................... 38
Sick and Personal Pay..................... 104-107
Special Piece Price, Definition of............. 14
Special Placement Procedure................. 78-79
Special Retirement Bonus.................... 76-77
Special Voluntary Layoff Bonus............ 88, 89
Standard Piece Price:
Change in................................... 14
Defmitionof...............................   13
Steering Committee.......................... 96-97
Step Rate Plan................................. 15
Step Rates and Progression Schedules......	15
Steward, Notification of Time Study to ..... 14,15
(vii)
Page No.
Strike Notice................................. 5	J -52
Strikes, Prohibition on................... 51,109
Successor Employer....................26,27,67,107
Temporary Layoffs........................31,43,104
Temporary Piece Price: Definition of.................................. 13
Replacement with Standard................... 14
Termination of Agreement...................... 110
Time Study of Job........................... 14-15
Transfer of Job, Prohibition on................ 52
Transfers................................... 38-41
Traveling Time and Expenses.................... 66
Union Dues Deduction Authorization........	2
Union, Information to..................... 64,65
Union Recognition............................... 1
Union Security................................ 1,2
Union Solicitation of Member or Funds.....	2
Union Time, Pay for......................... 45-47
Upgrading and Job Posting...............41,107,108
Vacations:
Absences, Use of Vacation Time for.....	31, 32
Computation of Pay....................... 32-35
Death in Family in Period................... 38
Determination of Paid....................... 30
Eligibility Requirements.................... 29
Holiday in Period........................ 37-38
Paid Periods............................. 28-29
(riii)
Page No.
Postponement or D ivision of.............. 37
Scheduli ng of........................... 3fi
Shutdown Period........................... 36
Wage Agreement........................... (1) -(7)
Warning Notices. Discipline Based on.....	51
Week’s Nonce:
Disciplinary Penalty...................... 51
Layoff Due to Decreasing Forces........ 41-42
Schedule Change............................ 6
Standard Piece Price, Change in........... 14
Transfer to Lower Rated Job............... 38
Work Schedules, Notice of Change in......	6
Work Transfer, Definition of.............. 67-68
Workday, Definition of for Premium
Pay Purpose................................ 5
Working Conditions ........................... 4
Workweek, Continuous Operations for
Premium Pay Purpose........................ 6
Workweek, Regular for Premium Pay Purpose................................... 5
(ix)
2003
JANUARY	FEBRUARY	MARCH
SMTWTFS	SMTWTFS	SMTWTFS
1 2 3 4	1	1
5 6 7 8 9 10 II	9345670	33*5678
13 13	14	15	16	17	18	9	10	11	13	13	14	15	9	10	11	12	13	14	15
19 30	31	22	33	34	35	16	17	18	19	30	21	23	16	17	18	19	20	21	22
26 2?	36	39	30	31	23	24	25	26	27	28	23	2*	25	26	27	28	29
30 31
•wr	JUNE	JW*
SMTWTFS	SMTWTFS	SMTWTFS
123	1234567	13345
4	5	6	7	8	9	10	8	9	10	11	12	13	W	8	7	8	9	10	ft	12
11	12	13	14	15	16	17	15	16	17	IB	19	20	21	13	14	15	16	17	18	19
18	19	20	21	22	23	34	22	23	34	25	26	27	28	20	21	22	23	24	25	26
25	26	37	28	29	30	31	29	30	27	28	29	30	31
SEPTEMBER	OCTOBER	NOVEMBER
SMTWTFS	SMTWTFS	SMTWTFS
1 2 3 4 5 6	1 2 3 4	1
7 8 9 10 11 12 13	56789 10 11	2345678
14 15 16 17	IB	19	20	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	9	10	11	12	13	14	15
21 23 23 24	2$	26	27	19	20	21	22	23	24	35	(6	(7	18	19	20	21	22
282930	26	27	28	29	30	31	73	34	35	26	27	28	29
30
APRIL
SMTWTFS 1 2 3 4 5
6 7	8	9	10	11	12
13 14	15	16	17	18	19
20 21	22	23	24	25	28
27 28	29	30
AUGUST SMTWTFS 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 36 27 26 29 30 31
DECEMBER
SMTWTFS
1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 16 17 1B 19 20 2t 22 23 34 25 36 27 26 29 30 31
2004
JANUARY
SMTWTFS 1 2 3
4 5 6 7 B 9 10
11 12 13 14 15 16 17
IS 19 20 21 22 23 24
25 26 27 28 29 30 31
FEBRUARY SMTWTFS 1 2 3 4 5 8 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 29 29
MARCH SMTWTFS
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 2S 27 28 29 30 31
APRIL
SMTWTFS 1 2 3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
16	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	28	27	28	29	30
MAY SMTWTFS 1
2	3	4	5	6	7	6
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	IB	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	25	27	28	29
30 31
JUNE
SMTWTFS
1 2 3 4 5
8	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	IB	17	IB	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30
JULY SMTWTFS 1 2 3 4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	28	27	26	29	30	31
AUGUST SMTWTFS 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 26 29 30 31
SEPTEMBER SMTWTFS ) 2 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 IB 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 2B 29 30
OCTOBER
SMTWTFS 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
NOVEMBER
SMTWTFS
1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 16 17 18 19 20
21 22 23 24 25 28 27
28 29 30
DECEMBER SMTWTFS 12 3 4 5 6 7 B 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 18 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
2005
JANUARY
« M I W r F $
1
2 3 4 5 « 7 8
9 10 11 12 13 14 15
1# 17 IB 19 20 21 22
23 24 25 28 27 28 29
30 31
FEBRUARY
8 M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 10 It 12
13 M 15 16 17 18 19
20 21 22 23 24 25 26
27 2S
MARCH
8 M 7 W 7 F 8
1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 K> 11 12
13 14 15 16 17 18 19
20 21 22 23 24 25 26
27 2B 29 30 31
APRIL
8	M	T	W	Y	F	S
1 2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	II	12	13	14	15	16
17	16	19	»	21	22	a
24	25	28	27	23	29	3t>
MAY
8	M	T	W	T	F	I
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
6	9	10	1!	t2	13	14
16	16	17	IB	19	20	21
K	23	24	25	26	27	28
29 30 31
JUKE
8 M T W 7 F 8
12 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11
12 13 14 15 16 17 18
19 20 21 22 23 24 25
26 27 26 » 30
JULY
8	M	T	W	T	F	8
I 2
3	4	5	8	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	t6
t?	18	19	a	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	a	29	30
31
AUGUST
8 M 7 W 7 F 3 12 3 4 5 6
7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 a 21 22 23 24 25 X 27 a ffl 30 31
mptember
8 M T W T F 8
1 2 3
4 5 6 7 6 9 10
11 12 13 14 15 16 17
18 19 20 21 22 23 24
25 28 27 28 29 30
OCTOBER
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30 31
NOVEMBER
S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5
6 7 9 9 10 11 12
13 14 15 16 17 18 19
20 21 22 23 24 25 a 27 28 a »
DECEMBER
8 M T W T F B
1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 IQ It 12 13 t4 t5 t6 17 ia 19 a 2i 22 a a 25 a 27 26 a 30 31
2006
JANUARY
8 M 7 W T F 8 1 2 3 4 5 6?
6 9 TO 11 12 13 14 15 18 17 18 19 » 21 a a a a a a a a 30 31
FEBRUARY
8 M T W T F S
12 3 4
5 6 7 6 9 10 If 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 a 21 a a a a a a 28
MARCH
8 M T W T F 8 12 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 H 15 18 17 t8 19 a zi a a a a a 2? a a a 3i
APRIL
8	M	r	W	T	F	8
1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	t2	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	a	21	a
a	a	a	a	a	a	a
a
MAY
8	W	T	W	7	F	8
1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	t9	»
2i	a	a	a	a	a	2?
a 29 X 31
SEPTEMBER
3 M 7 W T f B
1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 It 12 13 14 15 16 i7 is t9 a at a a a a a a a a a
JUNE
8	M	T	W	t	F	8
1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
II	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	2e	27	a	a	a
OCTOBER
S	M	7	W	T	F	8
1	2	3	4	5	8	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	1?	16	19	M	21
a	a	a	a	a	a	a
a 30 31
JULY
8	M	T	W	T	F	8
1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
IB	17	18	19	a	21	a
23	24	a	a	27	a	a
30 31
NOVEMBER
8 M T W T F 8 12 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 W 20 21 22. 3 24 25 a a? a a a
AUGUST
S M T W 7 F 8
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 If 12 13 14 15 18 17 13 19 a 2i 22 a a a a a a 29 a 31
DECEMBER
8 M 7 W T F 8
1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 H 12 13 14 15 16 t7 is is a 2t a a 24 a 26 27 23 29 30
31
2007
JANUARY
S M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2	3	4	5	6
7 B 9 10 11 12 10
14 15	16	17	1B	19	20
21 22	ii	24	25	26	27
28 29	30	31
FEBRUARY
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
IB	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	20	27	28
MARCH
S M T W T F 8
1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10
11 12 13 14 15 16 17
18 19 20 21 22 23 24
25 26 27 28 29 30 31
APRIL
S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
B 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 1B 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30
MAY
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2	3	4	5
6	7	6	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	29	33	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31
JUNE
S M T W 1 F S
1 2
3 4&67B9 10	11	12	13	74	15	18
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	«	30
JULY
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	13	19	20	21
22	23	24	2S	26	27	28
29 30 31
AUGUST
S M	T	W	T	F	8
12	3	4
5 6	7	3	9	W	11
12 13	14	15	16	17	18
19 20	21	22	23	24	25
26 27	28	29	30	31
SEPTEMBER
S M	T	W	T	F	$
1
2 3	4	5	6	7	8
9 10	It	12	13	(4	15
16 17	18	19	20	21	22
23 24	25	26	27	28	29
30
OCTOBER
S	M	T	W	7	F	S
1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
26 29 30 31
NOVEMBER
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30
DECEMBER
S	M	T	W	7	F	S
1
2	3	4	5	6	7	6
9	10	H	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	2S	26	27	28	29
30 31