BETWEEN THE
STATE OF NEW JERSEY
AND THE
STATE TROOPERS FRATERNAL^
ASSOCIATION OF N.J.
FOR THE UNIT CONSISTING OF TROOPER TROOPER II TROOPER I
OF THE DIVISION OF STATE POLICE
JULY 1, 2000-JUNE 30, 2004
STATE TROOPERS UNIT TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE	TITLE	PAGE NO.
,-^H I	RECOGNITION....................................1
n	DUES CHECKOFF.............................. -...1
m	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS..............................I
IV	NO STRIKE......................................2
V	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME.....................2
VI	TIME OFF....................................   4
VH	LEAVES OF ABSENCE...........................-..5
Vm	PROMOTIONS.....................................6
DC	SPECIALIST SELECTION........................-..7
X	SALARY, MAINTENANCE AND FRINGE BENEFITS
JULY 1,2000 TO JUNE 30,2004 ....................8
XI	TUITION REIMBURSEMENT.........................10
XII	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE...........................10
XHI	INTERNAL INVESTIGATION PROCEDURE..............15
XIV	CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT.............................16
XV	ACCESS TO PERSONNEL FILES.....................16
XVI	REENLISTMENT..................................17
J^R	XVn	ASSOCIATION BULLETIN BOARDS...................17
*	XVm	TRANSFER......................................17
XIX	INFORMATION AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS............18
^R	XX	INTEROFFICE MAIL..............................18
J^R	XXI	OUTSIDE WORK..................................18
XXII	ASSOCIATION-STATE COMMITTEE...................19
j^R	XXffl	ASSOCIATION SECURITY..........................19
j^R.	XXIV	SAVINGS.......................................20
^^R	XXV	COMPLETE AGREEMENT............................20
XXVI	NON-DISCRIMINATION............................20
XXVII	PRINTING OF AGREEMENT.........................20
’^^R	XXVIII	CONTRACT NEGOTIATION..........................20
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
APPENDIX A.
APPENDIX B
.25
APPENDIX C.
.26
This Agreement made as of the 11"1 day of May, 2001 by arid between the State of New Jersey, hereinafter called the "STATE” and the State Troopers Fraternal Association of New Jersey, hereinafter called the "ASSOCIATION".
WHEREAS the parties hereto have entered into collective negotiations and desire to reduce the results thereof to writing, NOW THEREFORE, it is mutually agreed as follows:
ARTICLE! RECOGNITION
The State recognizes the Association as the sole and exclusive representative for all Troopers
in the Division of State Police but excluding Sergeants, Lieutenants, Captains, Majors, Lt Colonels, and the Colonel, for purposes of negotiating terms and conditions of employment
All references to employees in this Agreement designate both sexes, and wherever the male gender is used, it shall be construed to include male and female employees.
ARTICLE II DUES CHECKOFF
A.	The State agrees to deduct from the salaries of Association members biweekly dues for membership in the Association provided the member has signed and filed an appropriate written authorization as required by law.
The dues so deducted will be transmitted by the 15 th of the month following the month in which the deductions were made, to the Association's Treasurer. The Association shall certify to the appropriate State official in writing the current rate of the membership dues.
Dues deductions for any employee in this bargaining unit shall be limited to the Association, the duly certified majority representative, and employees shall be eligible to withdraw such authorization only as of July 1 provided a notice of withdrawal is filed timely with the responsible payroll clerk.
B.	It is agreed that employees who are not members of the Association shall be required to pay a fair share fee in lieu of the regular dues, fees and assessments of members. The fair share fee shall be determined by the Association but shall not exceed 85% of the payments of regular members. New employees who are not Association members shall be required to pay the established fair share fee in the first payroll period following thirty (30) days of employment The fair share fee shall be withheld from regular bi-weekly payroll and remitted to the Association at the same time and in the same manner as monies collected for dues. Any change in the rate of deduction shall be provided to die State thirty (30) days prior to its implementation.
This provision shall become effective in the first payroll period thirty (30) days after the Association has submitted satisfactory evidence of the establishment of a demand and return system as provided in the statute. It is further conditioned upon the additional requirements set forth in Sections 2 and 3 of Chapter 477 Laws of1979, and such requirements must be continuously met
ARTICLE HI MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
The State shall retain and may exercise all rights, powers, duties, authority and responsibilities conferred upon and vested therein by the laws and constitutions of the State of New Jersey and of the United States of America.
Except as specifically abridged, limited or modified by the terms of the Agreement between the State and the Association and The New Jersey Employer-Employee Relations Act, Chapter 303, L. 1968 as amended, all such rights, powers, authority, prerogatives of management and responsibility to enforce reasonable rules and regulations governing the conduct and the activities of employees are retained by the State.

ARTICLE IV
NO STRIKE
During the term of this Agreement the parties hereto agree that there shall be no strikes of any kind whatsoever, work stoppages, slow-downs, or job actions which interfere with or interrupt the operation of the Division.
ARTICLE V
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
A.	General Provisions
1.	Except as provided in paragraph G below, all work performed in excess of forty (40) hours in a seven (7) consecutive calendar day work cycle shall be considered overtime.
2.	The seven (7) consecutive day work cycle, for computation purposes, shall commence at 12:01 am. on Saturday and end at midnight on Friday.
3.	Work, for purposes of this Article, shall be defined as any service performed which arises out of the employee's status as a law enforcement officer. Meal and break periods which occur during periods of work shall be computed as work time.
4.	Any schedule change or shift change which is effective on less than forty-eight (48) hours notice to the employee shall cause the entire work obligation so changed to be paid at the overtime rate. Change shall be defined as an alteration from-a regularly posted work schedule. Work schedule posting shall continue pursuant to past practice. The forty-eight (48) hour notice period shall be calculated from the time that the extra work, overtime work, is completed.
5.	Except as provided in paragraph G below, under no circumstances shall there be less than eight (8) hours of time off between consecutive shifts of work. Any violation of this provision shall result in paid overtime compensation for all time which violates the eight (8) hour provision.
6.	The regularly scheduled work day shall consist of no less than eight (8) hours and shall not include split shifts.
B.	1. Meal time will not be scheduled in those assignments where meal facilities are not available to the employees.
2.	When non-scheduled hours are worked and the Division adjusts the previously scheduled hours, the Trooper shall not be required to work a period of less than a half shift of previously scheduled time. Adjustments of previously scheduled time may reflect unforeseen occurrences. When such changes are made, the Trooper shall be given as much notice as is practicable under the circumstances.
C.	Call In Time
1.	When an employee is called in for duty outside his normal tour of duty, or on a day when he/she is not scheduled for duty, the employee shall be guaranteed a minimum of three (3) hours compensation, whether or not the three (3) hours are worked, except when the end of the call-in period coincides with the beginning of his scheduled shift.
2.	When an employee is required to appear before any court, administrative agency or judicial tribunal as a witness, or otherwise in matters directly related to the exercise of responsibilities emanating from his/her employment on a day he/she is not scheduled to work, or is called in at a time other than his/her normal tour of duty, the employee shall be guaranteed a minimum of three (3) hours compensation regardless of the actual time involved, except when the call-in period falls within the three (3) hour period immediately preceding his/her scheduled shift. D. Appendix C is herein incorporated by reference. (Letter of Assistant Attorney General Deborah Poritz. dated 5-9-87, memo dated 4-22-87, revision of S.O.P. C22 "Activity Reporting System” dated 5-11-87).
E.	Hours of Work
1.	Except as modified herein, Article V shall continue in full force and effect.
2.	The seven (7) consecutive day work cycle, for computation purposes, for employees
2
assigned to a pass list based upon five (5) eight (8) hour workdays (8 hour pass list), shall commence at 12:01 a m. on Saturday and end at midnight on Friday. The seven (7) consecutive day work cycle, for computation purposes, for employees assigned to a pass list based upon four (4) ten (10) hour workdays (10 hour pass list), shall commence not earlier than 5:00 p.m. (1700) on Friday afternoon. The seven (7) consecutive day work cycle, for computation purposes, for employees assigned to a pass list based upon a combination of twelve (12) hour and eight (8) hour workdays (12 hour pass list), shall commence not earlier than 7:00 p.m. (1900) on Friday afternoon.
3.	The foregoing enumeration of the eight (8), ten (10) and twelve (12) hour pass lists is not intended to limit the present practice by the Superintendent to schedule employees for workdays which are not less than eight (8) hours, but which may not be ten (10) or twelve (12) hour shifts.
4.	The Superintendent's decision to implement or discontinue, in whole or in part, a ten (10) or twelve (12) hour pass list, and the Superintendent's decision to determine those work units and those employees within a work unit which may be assigned to an eight (8), ten (10) or twelve (12) hour pass list, shall not constitute a policy, rule or practice, and shall not be subject to review through the grievance procedure or any other forum.
5.	Vacation leave and personal leave will be charged to the employee on an hour for hour basis. For example, vacation leave or personal leave taken on a ten (10) hour workday will be charged as 1.25 vacation or personal leave days. All other leave days and holidays will be charged on a day for day basis.
F.	Compensatory Time Off
1.	Compensatory time off will be recorded in a “bank” up to a maximum of fortyeight (48) straight time hours. Any overtime earned by an employee with forty-eight (48) hours banked is payable only in cash.
2.	C.T.O., once banked in the C.T.O. bank, shall remain and only be used at the request
of the employee. Each request is subject to prior employer approval based on operational needs.
3.	All overtime shall be compensated as paid compensation at the time and one-half (1-1/2) rate, (the overtime rate shall be base plus maintenance divided by 2,080 x 1.5), unless the employee, at said employee's sole option, elects to take compensation for overtime in compensatory time off (C.T.O.) which shall accumulate in a C.T.O. bank. Compensatory time compensation in the C.T.O. bank shall accumulate at time and one-half (one and one-half hours banked for each hour of overtime worked in quarter hour units).
4.	Employees who are required to work on a Saturday or Sunday which had been scheduled as a day(s) off, will to the extent practicable, be granted a Saturday or Sunday as compensatory time off.
5.	No compensatory time off shall be lost as the result of an inter-troop transfer or reassignment to a different pass list.
6.	Upon request, compensatory time off may be attached to vacation with the approval of the Division.
7.	The	Department	reserves the right	to pay	off all or a portion of any earned
compensatory time	off balances	in the employee’s	C.T.O bank at the end of a fiscal year. The
employee will be notified by May 1 if the Department decides to make any such payment.
8.	The	Department	reserves the right	to pay	off all or a portion of any earned
compensatory time	off balances	in the employee’s	C.T.O.	bank prior to any promotion and/or
inter-troop transfer. In the event of promotion, any earned compensatory time balances in the employee’s C.T.O. bank will be valued at the rate of pay in effect for the employee at his last permanent rank immediately prior to promotion (C.T.O. dollar valuation). In the further event that the Department decides to make no payment or a partial payment upon an employee’s promotion, the C.T.O. dollar valuation as adjusted by any payment will be credited to the promoted employee’s C.T.O. bank. Any balances in the promoted employee’s C.T.O. bank not in one-quarter hour increments will be rounded up to the next one-quarter hour.
3
G.	Twelve Hour Work Day
1.	Where a twelve (12) hour pass list is utilized, the schedule of work shall consist of twelve (12) or eight (8) consecutive hours of duty based upon alternating thirty-six (36) and forty-four (44) hour seven (7) day work cycles.
2.	There shall be a minimum of ten (10) hours time off between consecutive shifts of work. Any violation of this provision shall result in paid overtime compensation for all time which violates the ten (10) hour provision.
3.	All work performed in excess of thirty-six (36) hours in a seven (7) day work cycle in the thirty-six (36) hour workweek of an alternating thirty-six (36)/forty-four (44) hour workweek schedule will be considered overtime. All work performed in excess of forty-four (44) hours in a seven (7) day work cycle in the forty-four (44) hour workweek of an alternating thirty-six (36)/forty-four (44) hour workweek schedule will be considered overtime.
4.	Overtime may be returned within the seven (7) day work cycle providing forty-eight (48) hour notice is made in accordance with A.4 above.
5.	Movement of an eight (8) hour shift within a fourteen (14) consecutive day work cycle will require forty-eight (48) hours notice.
6.	There will be only one (1) forty-four (44) hour workweek in a fourteen (14) consecutive day work cycle.
7.	Vacation leave and personal leave will be charged to the employee on an hour for hour basis. For example, vacation leave or personal leave taken on a twelve (12) hour workday will be charged as 1.5 vacation or personal leave days. AU other leave days and holidays will be charged on a day for day basis.
ARTICLE VI
TIME OFF
A.	Vacations
Troopers shall receive annual vacation without loss of pay as follows:
1.	Less than one (1) year of service, one (1) day vacation for each month of service. Service will not include time spent in the Academy.
2.	After one (I) year of service and up to five (5) years service, twelve (12) days vacation.
3.	After five (5) years service and up to twelve (12) years service, fifteen (15) days
vacation.
4.	After twelve (12) years service and up to twenty (20) years service, twenty (20) days vacation.
5.	After twenty (20) years service, twenty-five (25) days vacation.
6.	Upon separation from the State or upon retirement, an employee shall be entitled to vacation allowance for the current year prorated upon the number of months worked in the calendar year in which the separation or retirement becomes effective and any vacation leave which may have been carried over from the preceding calendar year.
7.	If a permanent employee dies, having earned vacation credits, a sum of money equal
to tire compensation figured on his/her salary rate, at the time of death, shall be calculated and paid to his estate.
8.	Each employee covered by this Agreement may, at his/her option, cany forward up to one year's earned vacation.
B.	Holidays
1.	All troopers shall be entitled to the foUowing holidays as additional days off without loss of pay or if worked, shall be compensated with compensatory time off:
New Year's Day
Martin Luther King's Birthday
Lincoln's Birthday
Washington's Birthday
Good Friday
Labor Day Columbus Day Election Day Veteran's Day Thanksgiving Day
4
Memorial Day
Independence Day
Christmas Day
2.	a When the Governor grants a holiday which is in addition to the existing scheduled number of holidays, Troopers shall be granted such additional holiday, which shall be scheduled at the discretion of the Troop Commander or his designee.
b. In the event the Governor grants less than a day off, Troopers shall be granted an equal number of hours regardless of the assignment of the Troopers.
C.	Bereavement Leave
1.	All Troopers shall be permitted bereavement leave with pay not to exceed three (3) calendar days to be taken during a period beginning with the date of death of spouse, children, brothers, sisters, mothers, fathers, mothers-in-law, fathers-in-law, grandparents of employee or spouse and grandchildren or any other member of the employee's household, and ending the day after the funeral.
2.	The aforesaid bereavement leave shall not be construed as a limitation or restriction on the emergency leave practices beneficial to employees heretofore applied by foe Division of State Police, but shall merely be considered a guarantee of a minimum leave in cases of death as referred to herein.
3.	It is expressly understood by and between the parties that such bereavement leave, or part thereof will only be granted when foe three (3) days or part thereof occur on the affected Trooper’s duty day or duty days.
D.	Layoff and Recall
When it is necessary to lay off employees of the Unit, the Association shall be notified at once. Division seniority shall be foe determining factor in identifying those to be affected, and layoffs shall be implemented in inverse order of hiring (those hired last being laid off first). The State will provide a minimum of forty five (45) calendar days notice of layoff to affected employees. Laid off employees' names shall be placed on a special re-employment list, and persons on such list will be given preferential consideration over all other applicants considered for appointment, or employment and rehired in reverse order of layoff without examination.
ARTICLE VII
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
A.	Leave of Absence Without Pay
An employee may make written application for a leave of absence. The application shall set forth foe reason for the request and should be forwarded through channels to foe Siqjerintendent Leave of absence without pay for a maximum period of twelve (12) months shall only be granted under unusual circumstances where denial would result in extreme personal hardship and deprival of opportunity for the requesting employee. Consideration of such requests shall be weighed against the negative effect of such leave on Division operations and scheduling. The decision with regard to the granting or denial of requests for leave of absence under this Article shall lie ultimately with foe Superintendent
B.	Personal Leave Days
1.	There shall annually be three (3) personal leave days with pay granted to employees. Such leave shall not be cumulative.
2.	Newly hired employees shall be credited with one-half (1Z2) day of personal leave after each full calendar month of employment to foe maximum allowance in each year as provided above.
3.	Scheduling foe use of personal leave days shall be in accordance with the principles surrounding use of vacation time. Consideration shall be given to emergency use of such leave.
5
ARTICLE VIII PROMOTIONS
Promotions to Sergeant and Detective Sergeant
A. Promotions to the rank of Sergeant and Detective Sergeant shall be made based upon the application of criteria to be established by the Division as to each vacancy to be filled by promotion. B. When such vacancies occur, the Division shall announce all criteria to be met by the candidates and the weight to be assigned to each of the criterion announced which will constitute the exclusive basis for promotion in accordance with provisions set forth in this Article.
C.	1. The announcement shall be made as follows:
(a)	By teletype message to each station, troop, section, bureau and unit;
(b)	By written notice posted on all official STFA bulletin boards throughout the Division;
(c)	By written copies personally delivered or mailed to the President of the STFA.
2.	The announcement shall be made in a minimum of two (2) weeks prior to the actual promotions.
3.	The announcement shall contain the following information:
(a)	An exact description of the specific vacant position;
(b)	The location of the vacancy by section or troop, bureau, unit or station;
(c)	The title and rank of the vacancy;
(d)	The criteria to be met by candidates;
(e)	The exact percent of total weight to be assigned each criterion.
(0	In the event the Division elects to use or apply seniority in any form it shall be included in detail in its notice of vacancy.
D.	1. The total weight to be assigned to criteria shall be 100 percentage points (100%).
2.	The Division shall apply the criteria to each candidate and shall prepare a list of candidates for each position vacancy in order of highest to lowest total score, including the individual scores relating to each of the criterion.
3.	(a) The candidate(s) with the highest numerical score(s) shall be first promoted, subject to the Superintendent's judgement that the candidate with the highest score on the list is qualified for promotion. If the Superintendent determines that the candidate with the highest score on the list is not qualified for promotion, that list will no longer be utilized.
(b) If the list remains effective for a period after the announced vacancies are filled, subsequently announced similar vacancies may be filled from the remaining list in the order of the highest score subject to the Superintendent's determination that such list shall continue and subject to his judgment that die highest scoring individuals) on the list is (are) qualified for promotion. E. 1. At a reasonable time prior to the date of formal announcement, the Division shall provide the President of the STF A the list(s) of candidates as described in B.4.b. above.
2.	Each candidate shall be notified in writing of his/her final score and numerical standing on the list(s) within a reasonable time prior to the announcement of promotion.
3.	The list(s) of candidates shall remain in effect until otherwise determined by the Division, provided the criteria for the specific announced vacancy does not change.
4.	In the event a candidate rejects an offer of promotion to a specific announced vacancy he/she shall be removed from the list and the candidate with the next highest score on the list(s) shall be considered for the promotion. The candidate who rejected the promotion shall remain eligible for other announced vacancies on other lists, if any, for which he or she is qualified.
5.	(a) Within the two (2) week period following the announcement of the promotions), all candidates shall be afforded the opportunity, upon written request, to examine their scores, gradings, documentation and other factors relating to the application of criteria. Extension of the two (2) week period may be granted in unusual circumstances where the trooper is not available.
(b)	Upon written request, the Division shall provide the Association with information relating to the process and mechanics utilized by the Division in the scoring of any or all candidates.
(c)	A promoted candidate shall receive written notification of the new rate of pay and
date of rank within one (1) week after promotion and shall within ten (10) days of the effective date of the promotion assume the vacant position for which the promotion was announced, subject to the overriding operational requirements of the Division.
F.	All promotions are probationary for one (1) year during which time the employee must meet requirements of the new rank or grade established by the Superintendent The probationary period may be extended for an additional six (6) months if the Superintendent deems that conditions warrant the extension and, in such cases, the affected employee and the Association shall be notified of such extension, in writing, prior to the expiration of the original one (1) year probationary period. In the event the employee fails to meet the requirement of the new rank or grade, he/she may be subject to reduction to the former rank or grade. In the event the Superintendent effects such a reduction during or at the conclusion of the probationary period, the affected employee shall receive, in writing, the specific reasons for the reduction including, but not limited to, the requirements not met by the employee during his/her jrrobationary period or as extended. If no reduction in rank or grade takes place at the conclusion of the original probationary period or as extended, then the probation will be deemed ended.
G.	In order to provide the employee with that information necessary in order to prepare for and otherwise be guided in the attainment of career goals, the Division shall:
1.	Provide die Association and the unit membership with notice of any changes in criteria in advance of announcements for vacancies.
2.	The Division shall make reasonable attempts to develop a text or list of approved source material for the guidance and information necessary to meet the criteria for specific positions to which employees can aspire and apply for promotion.
H.	In the event the Division elects to include a written or oral examination as part of the promotional process, all procedures relating to the use of such examination shall be negotiated to the extent required by law.
I.	The promotional procedure set forth in the article shall be uniformly applied to all employees. Arbitration disputes arising under the Article shall be limited to consideration of the procedures set forth herein. In no case shall an arbitrator consider the propriety of the application of promotional criteria or the selection of the most qualified candidate(s).
ARTICLE IX
SPECIALIST SELECTION
A.	Normally, except as Division needs require and except for reassignment within a section, position vacancies for Specialists will be announced via teletype specifying the appropriate criteria to be met by applicants. Said announcement shall be posted for at least seven (7) days on bulletin boards throughout the Division.
B.	The Troop Commander shall forward a complete list of all Troopers who meet the criteria and who have expressed interest in the position to the appropriate Division office. Should a Trooper submit a summary of his qualifications that summary will be forwarded for review in the selection process.
C.	When requested by a Trooper applicant, die Division will provide reasons for the selection which has been made. If specifically requested, such response will be made in writing. Either request must be made within thirty (30) days of the selection. If a Trooper fails to request the reasons for the selection, the Trooper shall waive the right to proceed through the grievance procedure.
D.	For the purpose of this Article, all Trooper positions assigned to Division or Troop Headquarters (except Tactical Patrol Units) and Station Detectives are to be considered Specialist positions.
6
7
ARTICLE X
SALARY, MAINTENANCE AND FRINGE BENEFITS, JULY 1,2000 TO JUNE 30,2004 A. Administration
All salary adjustments will be made consistent with the provisions, practices and policies of the State and in accordance with the State Compensation Plan effective at the time. During the term of this Agreement normal merit increments shall be paid to all eligible employees. Employees who have been at the eighth step of the range for eighteen (18) months or longer shall be eligible for movement to the ninth step providing their performance warrants this salary adjustment, according to existing standards governing the granting of normal increments. Double increments shall be eliminated for employees who become sworn members after July 1,2000.
B.	Compensation Program
1.	Subject to Legislative enactment providing full appropriation of funds for these specific purposes, the State agrees to provide the following benefits during fiscal years 2000-2001, 2001-2002, 2002-2003 and 2003-2004 effective at the time stated, and payable foot or within a reasonable time after enactment of the appropriation.
2.	a. There shall be a 4% across-the-board salary increase effective July 1,2000.
b.	There shall be a 4% across-the-board increase effective July 1,2001.
c.	There shall be a 4% across-the-board increase effective July 1,2002.
d.	There shall be a 4% across-the-board increase effective July 1,2003.
3.	The salary schedules for employees covered by this Agreement shall be set forth in Appendix A of this Agreement
The salary advancement schedule for employees covered by this Agreement who became sworn members after July 1,2000 shall be set forth in Appendix B of this Agreement
4.	The maintenance allowance for employees coveted by this Agreement shall be as follows:
a.	Effective July 1, 2000, foe maintenance allowance for all employees shall be $9,631.63.
b.	Effective July 1, 2001, foe maintenance allowance for all employees shall be $10,016.89.
c.	Effective July 1, 2002, the maintenance allowance for all employees shall be $10,417.57
d.	Effective July 1, 2003, the maintenance allowance for all employees shall be $10,834.27.
5.	Maintenance allowance shall be phased in over a three-year period for employees who
become sworn members after July 1,2000. The first third of foe allowance shall be earned at foe beginning of the first year upon graduation and paid fan foe beginning to the end of foe first year of service. The second third of foe allowance shall be earned at foe beginning of foe second year and paid fan foe beginning to foe end of foe second year of service. The last third of foe allowance shall be earned at foe beginning of the third year and paid fan foe beginning to foe end of the third year of service.
6.	Maintenance allowance shall continue during absence while on authorized sick leave as a result of non-service connected injury or illness.
7.	It is agreed that the State shall continue the Prescription Drug Benefit Program during foe period of this Agreement The program shall be funded and administered by the State. It shall provide benefits to all eligible unit employees and their eligible dependents. Each prescription required by competent medical authority for Federal legend drugs shall be paid for by the State from funds provided for the program subject to a deductible provision which shall not exceed $5.00 per prescription or renewal of such prescription and further subject to specific procedural and administrative rules and regulations which are part of foe program.
8
8.	All employees not provided transportation shall be compensated at the rate of twenty-seven (27) cents per mile for travel in their vehicle to and from their place of assignment and permanent place of residence in excess of twenty (20) highway miles each way. This mileage rate shall be adjusted on a cents per mile basis equal to adjustments made in paragraph 9. below.
9.	Employees authorized to use a personal vehicle in the performance of their duties shall be compensated for such use at the rate of thirty-one (31) cents per mile, portal to portal, as provided or adjusted by law.
10.	a.	Clothing allowance shall be paid at the rate of $900 annually, commencing with the
first pay period of fiscal year 2000-2001.
b. Employees of the unit not eligible for the clothing allowance provided in lO.a. above shall receive a uniform maintenance allowance which shall be paid at the rate of $800 annually commencing with the first pay period of fiscal year 2000-2001.
C.	Dental Care Program
1.	Full-time employees and eligible dependents shall be eligible for the State-administered Dental Care Program.
2.	Participation in the Program shall be voluntary with a condition of participation being that each participating employee authorize a bi-weekly salary deduction not to exceed fifty percent (50%) of the cost of the type of coverage elected, e.g. individual employee only, husband and wife, parent and child or family coverage.
3.	Each employee shall be provided with a brochure describing the details of the Program, enrollment information and the required forms.
4.	The optional Group Dental program which provides services through specific dental clinics or DPOs will be continued for employees in this unit Participation in this program shall be voluntary with a condition that each participating employee authorize a biweekly salary deduction not to exceed fifty percent (50%) of the cost of the coverage for a one (1) year period. Employees may enroll in only one of the two programs or in no program at all.
D.	Eye Care Program
1.	Full-time employees and eligible dependents shall be eligible for the State-administered Eye Care Program. The Program shall provide for each eligible employee and dependent to receive a $35 payment for prescription eye glasses with regular lenses and a $40 payment for such glasses with bi-focal lenses. Each eligible employee and dependent may receive only one (1) payment during the two (2) year period ending June 30, 2002, and only one (1) payment during foe two (2) year period commencing July 1, 2002. The extension of benefits to dependents shall be effective only after foe employee has been continuously employed for a minimum of sixty (60) days.
2.	Eligible dependents of full-time employees shall be eligible for a maximum payment
of $35 or foe cost whichever is less, of an eye examination by an Ophthalmologist or Optometrist, during foe two (2) year period ending June 30,2002, and only one payment during foe two (2) year period commencing July 1,2002.
E.	Special Compensation
Employees who are scheduled or authorized to work between the hours of 9:00 pan. and 7:00 a.m. shall be granted special compensation computed at the rate of seven percent (7%) of their base hourly salary rate for each full or quarter hour worked. This special compensation shall be accumulated and paid in December of each year of this Agreement This special compensation shall not become part of base salary for foe computation of premium payments.
F.	Educational Incentive
1.	In order to recognize the achievement of foe employee’s educational advancements foe State shall provide an annual education incentive payment for employees who attain the following degrees:
9
60 credits
or Associates	- $500
Bachelors	- $1000
Master’s and above -$1500
2.	AU credits and degrees must be from an institution accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting association, such as Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools.
3.	The incentive payment is an annual lump sum payment, which shall not be added to base.
4.	The incentive payments are not cumulative. The member shall only be entitled to the amount at the highest degree they hold.
5.	The incentive payment shall be made on or before June 30 of each fiscal year. The employee must have attained the degree or the earned requisite credits by July 1 to receive the payment for that fiscal year. If not, the employee shall commence receiving the payment in the next fiscal year.
G.	Cooperative Effort
The parties to the Agreement understand that the public services provided to the citizenry of the State of New Jersey require a continuing cooperative effort They hereby pledge themselves to achieve the highest level of service by jointly endorsing a concept of intensive productivity improvements which may assist in realizing that objective. This provision is not intended to nullify or modify any portion of the STFA Agreement.
ARTICLE XI
TUITION REIMBURSEMENT
A.	1. Employees may be eligible for tuition reimbursement for post-secondary courses (taken at a properly accredited educational institution) which are directly job related and/or necessary to increase such employee's expertise in his or her area of work, as determined by tire Superintendent, provided the employee is not being reimbursed for the same coursefs) from other sources, such as L.E.E.P. and/or the V A.
2.	The maximum reimbursement per credit shall be equivalent to the tuition at the State Colleges or the actual tuition, whichever is less.
3.	Approved courses shall be taken during off duty hours.
B.	1. Written application must be made through channels to the Fiscal Control Bureau, Administration Section prior to enrollment in a course of study, stating the basis for die request for reimbursement. Within twenty (20) calendar days a response will be made in writing as to whether or not tile Division will provide reimbursement subject to the availability of funds.
2.	In order to secure reimbursement the employee must complete the course of study and
maintain a course grade of not less than "C" or equivalent at the undergraduate level, or satisfactory for program completion in graduate study. Written proof of payment of tuition must be submitted to the Division along with a copy of the final grade received.
3.	Tuition reimbursement shall ordinarily not exceed twelve (12) credits per year.
C.	The operation of this program is subject to the availability of funds. In the event that funds are not sufficient to meet all requests which would otherwise be approvable, the State may provide tuition reimbursement at less than full cost
ARTICLE XII
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
A.	Establishment
This Article establishes the policy and procedure for the submission and settlement of grievances of Troopers of the New Jersey State Police.
B.	Definition of a Grievance
The term "Grievance" shall mean an allegation that there has been:
10
1.	A breach, misinterpretation, or improper application of the terms of this Agreement; or
2,	A claimed violation, misinterpretation, or misapplication of the written rules and regulations, policy or procedures affecting the terms and conditions of employment C. Purpose
1.	In order to promote a cooperative employer-employee relationship within the Division, it is the policy of the Division to establish and provide the best working conditions and personnel relations possible. Adherence to this policy should minimize grievances; however, it is recognized that grievances may arise, and when they do, the parties mutually agree to make every effort to settle such grievances.
2.	It shall be the responsibility of all officers and non-commissioned officers of the Division to consider and take appropriate action promptly and fairly upon grievances of their subordinates.
D.	Application
1.	Every employee shall have the right to present a grievance in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Agreement, provided, however, that when any grievance is not presented through the Association, notice of the filing of the grievance and a copy of the same shall be forwarded to the President of the Association prior to any grievance meetings with the grievant In such case, the Association shall be given the opportunity to be present at all grievance meetings or discussions held on such grievances.
2.	A grievance on behalf of an employee or employees of this unit may be initiated by the President of the Association or his/her designee who shall commence the grievance procedure at Phase One except as otherwise provided herein where commencement shall be at Phase Two.
3.	These procedures are not applicable to matters relating to removal or disciplinary action resulting from hearings pursuant to the Rules and Regulations.
4.	These procedures are not applicable to performance notices. However, the employee may request, in writing on a special report form, within seven (7) calendar days of receiving the performance notice that the performance notice be reviewed by the Station Commander, Unit Head or his designee. A meeting will be scheduled between the parties within fifteen (15) calendar days of the request. The Station Commander, Unit Head or their designee shall provide a written response to the employee within ten (10) calendar days of the meeting. The written response shall set forth the position of both parties and make reference to any documentation considered. The employee may request in writing, within ten (10) calendar days that the written response be reviewed by the Troop Commander or the Section Supervisor or their designee. The Troop Commander, Section Supervisor or the designee shall review the matter on the papers and provide a written response within fifteen (15) calendar days. The response from the Troop Commander, Section Supervisor or the designee is final and binding. At all proceedings pursuant to this paragraph, the trooper shall have the right to Union representation.
5.	Grievances relating to written reprimands issued pursuant to the Rules and Regulations shall be subject to the procedures in paragraph H.
6.	At the request of the Trooper and with the consent of the Superintendent, the imposition of any penalty will be imposed pending a determination of any timely filed grievance. In the absence of such a request, the imposition of any penalty shall be stayed pending a determination of any grievance if timely filed.
7.	The Trooper or his/her representative who attend a scheduled grievance meeting/discussion, while on duty, shall suffer no loss of pay as a result thereof and shall not be required to make up such time or the reasonable time required to travel to and from such meeting/discussion. The Association Representative, if an employee of the Division, shall notify the Labor Relations Unit as to the assigned association designee regarding time off to attend said meeting/discussion.
11
8.	A Trooper, his/her representative or any witnesses relevant to the grievance who attend a scheduled grievance hearing while on duty, shall suffer no loss of pay as a result thereof and shall not be required to make up such time or the reasonable time required to travel to and from such hearing.
9.	Copies of all written grievances and written determinations at each phase, will be forwarded to the Association President or a designated representative before the expiration of the time limits within which the grievant or Association must move to the next phase of foe grievance procedure or to arbitration or Attorney General's determination.
10.	Group grievances, i.e., grievances involving more than one (1) individual employee of this unit as grievants, shall be presented to a designated superior officer common to all employees of the grievant-group.
11.	Grievances involving foe issue of promotion may be filed initially at Phase Two.
12.	If the finding or resolution of a grievance at any phase in foe formal grievance procedure is not appealed within the prescribed time, said grievance will be considered settled on the basis of the last answer provided, and there shall be no further appeal or review. Failure of the State to take the appropriate action within the time limits specified in this Article should be construed as a rejection of the grievance.
13.	Time limitations herein may be extended by written mutual agreement of the parties.
E.	Grievance Investigation-Time Off
1.	When a grievance has been formally submitted in writing and the Association represents the grievant, and where the Association officer or other mutually acknowledged Association representative who has been recognized for these purposes requires time to investigate such grievance to achieve an understanding of the specific problem during working hours, foe officer or representative will be granted permission and a reasonable amount of time, limited to one (1) hour, to investigate without loss of pay. Requests for the use of this time shall be acted upon promptly. It is understood that foe supervisor shall schedule such time release, providing the work responsibilities of the officer or representative and of any involved employee are adequately covered and providing further there is no disruption of work. Such time release shall not be unreasonably withheld and, upon request, could be extended beyond the one (1) hour limit for specified reasons if, to the supervisor, the circumstances warrant an exception to this limit
2.	If a request for use of grievance investigation time is denied by the supervisor, foe Association representative making the request may appeal that judgement directly to the Labor Relations Officer without prejudice to the rights of the Association under the grievance procedure.
3.	The Association and the State shall discuss and agree upon the representatives of the Association who shall have foe authority to implement this procedure and the area or function they may represent. Thereafter the parties shall keep a current list of all mutually agreed upon representatives and their respective areas of authority.
F.	Mechanics
The Trooper may orally and informally present any grievance arising out of employment to the Trooper's immediate superior. Within three (3) calendar days of such presentation, the immediate superior will reply to the Trooper.
1.	Phase One
A grievance may be submitted in writing by foe Trooper or foe Association representative to foe Troop Commander, Bureau Chief or their designee within fifteen (15) calendar days from the act or event which is the subject of the grievance or fifteen (15) calendar days from the date on which foe grievant (employee, group, or Association) should reasonably have known of its occurrence or of the acquisition of knowledge of the act or event which is the subject of foe grievance. The Troop Commander, Bureau Chief or their designee may schedule a meeting between the parties to resolve foe matter in dispute.
The Troop Commander. Bureau Chief or their designee shall provide the Trooper and the Association with a written determination within fifteen (15) calendar days of the grievance
12
submission.
2.	Phase Two
a.	In the event the grievance is not satisfactorily resolved, die Association may within ten (10) calendar days of receipt of the Phase One written determination, submit die written grievance to the Superintendent or his/her designee through channels explaining the specific nature of the grievance and the relief sought on the form provided.
b.	Within five (5) calendar days of the receipt of the grievance, the Superintendent or his/her designee shall advise the Association if he/she intends to conduct a hearing and schedule same within fifteen (15) calendar days of receipt of the grievance. If no hearing is to be held, the Association will have seven (7) calendar days to submit their position in writing to the Superintendent or his/her designee. Further, if no hearing is to be held, the Association may advance the grievance to Phase Three a. or b. as appropriate.
c.	The Superintendent or his/her designee may respond in writing to the substance of the grievance at this time or at any time within twenty (20) calendar days of receipt of the grievance notwithstanding the above stated right of the Association to move the grievance to Phase Three.
d.	If a hearing is held, the Superintendent or his/her designee shall provide a written decision within twenty (20) calendar days of receipt of the grievance or not later than five (5) calendar days after the completion of the hearing if later. A copy of the decision shall be forwarded to the Office of the Attorney General, the grievant and the Association. If no hearing is held at Phase Two, then the Association will be entitled to a hearing at Phase Three.
3.	Phase Three
a.	If a grievance, as defined in paragraph B.2. of the Grievance Procedure is not satisfactorily resolved as provided in Phase Two, the Association may, within ten (10) calendar days ftom receipt of the answer to Phase Two, or if no answer is received, or no hearing is to be held, submit the grievance to the Attorney General. If no hearing was held in Phase Two, the Association shall have an opportunity for a hearing at this phase to present its views on the issue(s) in dispute. If a hearing was held at Phase Two, then, the Attorney General or his/her designee shall review the grievance and the written record developed at Phase One and Phase Two, together with any written submissions which the parties may make and take whatever action he/she deems appropriate. A written decision shall be rendered within twenty (20) calendar days of the submission of the grievance to the Attorney General, and the decision shall be final and binding on the parties. In no event shall the Attorney General's decision have the effect of adding to, subtracting from, modifying or amending the provisions of this Agreement.
It is understood this procedure is on a trial basis and may be terminated by the Attorney General. Prior to termination, parties agree that a meeting may be scheduled with the Attorney General to discuss any modifications to the procedure.
It is further understood that the trial utilization is not intended to preclude the Association from pursuing its position as to the arbitrability of such issues before the Public Employment Relations Commission via a Scope of Negotiations petition.
Nothing herein shall preclude the Attorney General from designating the Policy Council to hear B.2. grievances as the final step.
b.	(1) If a grievance, as defined in paragraph B.l. of this Article, is not satisfactorily resolved at Phase Two. the Association may, within twenty (20) calendar days from receipt of the answer, or from the date on which the answer was due, submit the grievance to arbitration pursuant to the rules of the Public Employment Relations Commission. Notice shall also be given to the Superintendent and the Director of the Office of Employee Relations.
(2)	The arbitrator shall be selected pursuant to the rules of the Public Employment Relations Commission and shall be made from the list of arbitrators provided by the Public Employment Relations Commission.
(3)	The arbitration shall be final and binding upon the parties. In no event shall the arbitration decision have the effect of adding to, subtracting from, modifying or amending the
13
provisions of this Agreement The cost of the arbitrator shall be bome equally by both parties.
(4)	At the request of either party, a pre-arbitration conference shall be held at a mutually convenient time and place to frame the issue(s) or to attempt a resolution of the grievance. Factual stipulations and issues of discovery may be addressed in an attempt to avoid delays in the arbitration procedure if it is to be undertaken. Such conference will not delay the arbitration of the grievance unless mutually agreed upon by the parties.
G.	Expedited Grievance Procedure
1.	The Association, through its President, may make written request to the Superintendent for expedited handling of a grievance. The request must set forth die specific nature of the grievance and the relief sought and must be submitted within seven (7) calendar days from the date on which the act or event which is the subject of the grievance occurred, or seven (7) calendar days from the date on which the grievant should reasonably have known of its occurrence.
2.	Requests for use of the expedited grievance procedure may be appropriate for those grievances where the granting of a timely remedy would be precluded because of the time limits set forth in Section F of this Article, and where the central issue involved in the grievance is clearly of very substantial consequence or emergent in nature.
3.	The Superintendent shall respond within forty-eight (48) hours of receipt of a request for expedited grievance handling with a determination regarding whether the expedited procedure should be invoked. If the Superintendent denies the request, the Association may appeal die decision to a special arbitrator selected in advance by the parties who shall determine the sole issue of whether the expedited procedure should be invoked under the terms of this Agreement The decision of the arbitrator on this issue shall be binding on the parties, and should be transmitted to the parties in the most expeditious manner. Upon denial of expedited processing by the arbitrator, the grievance may be initiated within eight (8) days at the proper phase under paragraph D. or F. of this Article.
4.	If the Superintendent grants expedited processing of a grievance, or if the special arbitrator orders expedited processing, the Superintendent shall make a ruling on the merits within ten (10) days of such determination.
5.	If the Superintendent denies the grievance on its merits or fails to respond within the required ten (10) day period, the Association may appeal that decision to arbitration, except as provided under paragraph G.6. following. Under these procedures, the arbitrator selected must be able to schedule a hearing on the grievance within thirty (30) days of the Superintendents denial of the grievance or thirty (30) days after the expiration of the ten (10) day period established in paragraph G.4. (whichever occurs first). The arbitrator will be required to render a decision on the merits of the grievance within fifteen (15) days of the completion of the hearing.
When the arbitrator is to be selected for expedited procedures above, the Public Employment Relations Commission should be advised that arbitrators provided must be prepared to meet the schedule.
6.	A grievance, as defined under paragraph B.2. of this Article, that would normally proceed to the Attorney General shall not be entitled to arbitration as provided in paragraph G.5. above. Upon denial of such a grievance on its merits by the Superintendent, or the expiration of the ten (10) day period established in paragraph G.4. (whichever occurs first) the Association may make written appeal of the decision directly to the Attorney General. In the event of such appeal, the Attorney General shall render a decision within fifteen (15) days and such decision shall be final and binding on the parties.
7.	The Superintendent may initiate the expedited grievance procedure set forth herein with respect to any pending grievance. If the Association objects, the matter is appealable to the special arbitrator as provided under paragraph G.3. of this Article.
8.	The parties agree that John Tesauro and Michael Murray shall serve as the special panel of arbitrators described in paragraph G.3. The arbitrator shall be selected on a rotational basis in each incident.
14
Costs of expedited arbitration shall be shared by both parties.
9.	Whenever the expedited grievance procedure shall be utilized, expedited processing will in no way serve to modify, amend or otherwise alter the conditions established in the grievance procedure unless specifically provided for in paragraph G.
H.	Written Reprimands
1.	Phase One
A grievance concerning a written reprimand may be presented in writing by the Trooper or the Association representative within fifteen (15) calendar days from the issuance of the written reprimand to the Troop Commander, Bureau Chief or his/her designee, who shall schedule a meeting with the parties within fifteen (15) calendar days of receipt of the grievance.
The Troop Commander, Bureau Chief or his/her designee shall provide the Trooper and the Association with a written determination within fifteen (15) calendar days from the date of the meeting. The written determination shall include the position of both parties and a reference to any documentation considered.
2.	Phase Two
In the event the grievance is not satisfactorily resolved, the Trooper, the Association President or his/her designee may present the grievance within ten (10) calendar days of the issuance of the Phase One decision to the Superintendent or his/her designee. The Phase One decision must be attached to the grievance. At the time of the presentation of the grievance to the Superintendent or his/her designee, the Association must indicate whether they want a hearing or a review on the papers. If a hearing is requested it will be scheduled within fifteen (15) calendar days of receipt of the grievance. The Association may bring a court reporter to this hearing. If no hearing is requested, the Superintendent or his/her designee will issue a written decision at Phase Two after a review, on the papers, of the Phase One decision, together with any supplemental papers submitted by the parties.
The Superintendent or his/her designee shall issue the written decision within twenty (20) calendar days of receipt of the grievance. If a hearing is held a written decision shall be issued within ten (10) calendar days after the completion of the hearing. The Phase Two written decision shall be appealable to Phase Three under F.3a.
If the written reprimand was issued by the Superintendent then die Association may advance the grievance directly to Phase Three under F.3a
ARTICLE XIII
INTERNAL INVESTIGATION PROCEDURE
A.	Establishment
This establishes the internal investigation procedures to be followed when a Trooper is questioned by a superior officer in connection with a State Police investigation.
B.	Purpose
1.	Troopers of the Division hold a unique status as public officers in that the nature of
their office and employment involves the exercise of a portion of the police power of the State.
2.	The security of the State depends to a great extent on the manner in which Troopers perform their duty. Their employment is thus in the nature of a public trust
3.	The management, administration, disposition and discipline of the Division of State Police have been delegated to the Superintendent.
4.	The wide-ranging powers and duties given to the Division and its Troopers involve them in all manner of contacts and relationships with the public. Out of these contacts questions may arise concerning the actions of Troopers. These questions may require immediate investigation by superior officers designated by the Superintendent
5.	These procedures are established to ensure certain rights to Troopers under investigation and shall not be constmed to limit supervisory or command authority in normal operations. In an effort to ensure that these investigations are conducted in a manner which is
15
coB(juCjve to good order ana discipline, me lotiowingpajceaure
_ j^fechsnics
Before a Trooper is ordered to respond to a complaint by Special Report he/she shall ’sed of die specific nature of the complaint and the time period involved if possible.
•*	If a Trooper of the Division is placed under arrest or is likely to be placed under arrest
shall be afforded all constitutional rights.
Upon request, the Trooper shall be furnished with a copy of the guidelines set forth in Internal Investigation Manual concerning rights and obligations of a Trooper as a principal iT ne the internal investigation procedure.
”^4 The questioning of a Trooper shall be conducted at a reasonable hour in a non-without threat or promise of reward, and when the Trooper is on duty. If the rnannci, *»*“*	»
of investigation requires that he be questioned while on duty leave, he/she shall be untied compensatory time off.
aw^ 5	questioning shall be conducted at a location designated by the investigating
usually at the headquarters or sub-station to which the Trooper being questioned is assigned.
officer^	Before any questioning takes place, the Trooper shall be apprised of the following:
a. Identity of the officer in charge of the investigation and the identity of the officer the questioning, including ranks, names and assignments. Also, the identity of all conducting
peBOnsp^eSe^|a(Ure of the investigation, including any allegation and/or any violation of rales, , r-.,lMinns and orders involved.
168	jf applicable, name(s) of the complainant and/or witness, in writing. The addresses of
nmnlainants and/or witnesses need not be disclosed.
d. Whether the Trooper is involved in the investigation as a principal or as a witness at that Upon being advised of the above, the Trooper shall so acknowledge on the appropriate	shaU be of a reasonable duration and rest periods allowed. Time shall
ded for personal necessities, meals and telephone calls as are reasonably necessary.
*”*7 It shall be the duty of each Trooper of the Division of State Police to answer pertinent questions regarding any matter which is the subject of investigation.
ARTICLE XIV
CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT
Where a loss or damage to personal property is sustained as a result of an action taken in the Mice of an assigned duty of an employee of this unit, such loss will be adjusted. Aclaimfor per”>	filed with the employer within thirty (30) days of the date of the loss on a claim
vided by the employer which shall be filled out by the employee, including the requested ^^m^nL The State shall provide aid and instructions necessary for the completion and prtjcessing of the forms.
^TThe thirty (30) day requirement for the filing of such claim may be extended by mutual dement, and shall not be unreasonably withheld.
ARTICLE XV
ACCESS TO PERSONNEL FILES
within fifteen (15) working days of a written request, an employee shall on ah annual basis be ed a specific date upon which to review his/her personnel file which is maintained at Division 8130	- ~ Cnrh review shall be made in the presence of an appropriate official of the Division,
tj^admiartgrs. ou*'** *
shall not require a loss of the requesting employee's paid time. The personnel file subject to “d . tion sha|i include the employee's employment application, performance appraisal forms, ' fs of commendation, record of promotions, special training or other related achievements,
reports of criticism or fitness, reprimands, suspensiori, fines, demotions, arid other disciplinmy action. Nothing in this Article shall be construed as granting an employee access to confidential documents other than the above items or to pre-employment investigation reports, or other information received from sources under an understanding of confidentiality, regardless of whether or not these materials are normally maintained in the same file or folder with other personnel records.
B.	Subsequent to such review of an employee's personnel file, the employee shall be allowed to place in the file a response of reasonable length to any material contained therein.
C.	An employee may request the correction or expungement of information in the file where there are pertinent and substantive inaccuracies. Such request shall not be unreasonably denied when the inaccuracies can be satisfactorily documented by the employee.
D.	No document of anonymous origin shall be maintained in an employee's personnel file and
no complaint shall be retained in the employee's personnel file.
ARTICLE XVI
REENLISTMENT
A.	Where refusal to reenlist is contemplated, the Trooper will be advised of such pending action and counseled as to his/her faults or failings in order that he may have an opportunity to improve.
B.	Notice of refusal to reenlist shall normally be given to the Trooper two (2) weeks prior to the expiration of his enlistment
C.	If a Trooper is refused reenlistment, he/she may request the reasons in writing within two (2)
weeks of that refusal and such reasons will be given.
I)	. During a Trooper’s enlistment periods, there shall be counseling at prescribed intervals concerning performance in an attempt to provide the opportunity to satisfy Division standards prior to Hie time at which the decision is made concerning reenlistment. At least one such counseling shall occur six (6) months prior to the end of the enlistment.
ARTICLE XVII
ASSOCIATION BULLETIN BOARDS
A.	The Division shall provide space on a bulletin board at each substation, Troop Headquarters and Division Headquarters for the use of the State Troopers Fraternal Association of New Jersey. The space provided shall be one-fourth (1/4) of the available space on each such board but not to exceed two (2) feet by three (3) feet.
B.	The Association shall limit its postings to notices, bulletins, reports, meeting announcements, social and recreational events, achievements, and similar materials which shall not contain any profane or obscene matter or be defamatory to any individual or the State. The Association shall not post election campaign materials. Postings shall be signed by an authorized representative of the Association or the organizational origin shall be set forth.
C.	Any material which the State alleges to be in violation of the conditions above shall be promptly removed. Any dispute as to the appropriateness of any posting may be initiated as a grievance at Phase Two or submitted to the Office of Employee Relations for determination.
ARTICLE XVIII
TRANSFER
A.	Transfer orders will be communicated to the affected Trooper as soon after their issuance as is
practical.
B.	No Trooper shall be transferred on less than ten (10) days notice to tire Trooper of the proposed transfer, but this notice requirement does not apply to emergency assignments.
C.	Any Trooper submitting a request for transfer or consideration for a particular assignment shall receive from Division Headquarters or the Troop Commander, whichever is appropriate, an acknowledgment and response, or acknowledgment with a notification when a response will be
16
17

transmitted, within two (2) weeks from such submission- Such response and acknowledgment shall be in writing.
ARTICLE XIX
INFORMATION AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS
A.	The Association agrees to furnish to the Division of State Police a complete list of all officers and representatives of the Association together with their titles, addresses and designation of responsibility and to keep such list current The Association will also provide copies of its constitution and by-laws or other governing articles and keep them current
B.	The State agrees to provide to the Association on a quarterly basis, a mailing list of names and
addresses of all Troopers in the unit coveted by this Agreement
C.	The Division agrees to give the Association an opportunity to meet with each State Police recruit graduating class of the Academy, for one (1) hour, during the last week prior to graduation, to explain and discuss the structure, purpose and function of the Association.
D.	When the Division publishes the Triangle for the information of employees, announcements or statements of Association meetings or affairs shall be included, time and space permitting, if requested by the Association, provided such announcements are consistent with the editorial practices in effect.
E.	A copy of all Rules and Regulations, Standing Operating Procedures, Operations Orders, Administrative Orders and Personnel Orders will be forwarded to the Association President The information so supplied and documents pertaining to grievances may be shared with the Association's counsel for the proper functioning of the Association in representing its members. The information shall be treated with the same confidentiality as Division policy requires. All of the materials supplied remain the property of the Division. The President shall sign a receipt for all information received.
F.	The Evaluation System shall be applied equally to all Troopers.
G.	The State shall make every reasonable effort to insure that existing exercise equipment will be repaired or upgraded as necessary on an ongoing basis.
ARTICLE XX
INTEROFFICE MAIL
Where the Association has mail to be delivered to its officers, Executive Board members, and Station representatives, or material previously approved for posting on Bulletin Boards, the interoffice mail system will be made available provided that priority is retained for the business of the State.
ARTICLE XXI
OUTSIDE WORK
A.	A Trooper may engage in outside employment with prior approval of the Superintendent.
B.	A Trooper desiring to engage in outside employment shall request permission in writing from the Superintendent Approval or disapproval of such requests shall be transmitted within fourteen (14) calendar days.
C.	It is understood that outside employment shall in no way interfere with the efficient operation of the Division and the absolute priority of the Trooper's responsibility to assignments in his/her work as a Trooper.
D.	Any grievance under this Article shall be submitted directly to the Superintendent, and if not resolved may be submitted as a grievance under paragraph B.2. of Article XII by the Association.
18
ARTICLEXXII
ASSOCIATION-STATE COMMITTEE
A.	A committee consisting of State representatives, Division personnel and Association members shall be established for the purpose of reviewing the administration of this Agreement and to discuss problems which may arise.
B.	Said committee may meet sometime during the months of March, June, and September or whenever the parties mutually deem it necessary. These meetings are not intended to by-pass the grievance procedure or to be considered contract negotiation meetings but are intended as a means of fostering good employment relations through communications between the parties.
C.	Either party may request a meeting and shall submit a written agenda of topics to be discussed
seven (7) days prior to such meeting.
D.	A maximum of eight (8) members of tile Association, the Association Executive Secretary and the Association Attorney may attend such meetings and, if on duty, shall be granted time off to attend not to be deducted from the time provided in Article XXIV.
ARTICLE XXIII
ASSOCIATION SECURITY
A.	1. The State and Division of State Police agree that the conduct of the internal affairs of the Association is the sole responsibility and right of the officers and members of the Association.
2.	The State, Division of State Police and the Association agree not to discriminate against, interfere with, or coerce any employee in the exercise of his/her right to form, join and assist the Association or to refrain from any such activity.
The Association shall have the right to exercise its lawful and constitutional prerogatives except as specifically restricted by this Agreement
B.	l a. Officers and/or members of the Executive Board (or designees) of the Association shall be granted a total of three hundred and twenty-five (325) days per year leave effective July 1,1996, not to be deducted from their duty leave or vacation, to pursue the affairs of the Association. In addition, three hundred and twenty-five (325) days leave without pay per year shall be granted.
b. The allocation of such leave among the Officers and members of the Executive Board shall be determined solely by the Association.
2.	Leave days which are not utilized in one (1) contract year may be carried forward for use in the next contract year.
3.	The Association may be advanced a maximum of twenty (20) paid leave days in any contract year, in which the provided three hundred and twenty-five (325) paid leave days have been exhausted. Any paid leave days so advanced will then be deducted from the number of paid leave days normally creditable in the next contract year. Approval of requests for advances of such leave time shall not be unreasonably withheld.
C.	The use of leave time shall be subject only to the operational needs of the Division of Stale Police as determined by the Superintendent or the Superintendent's designee and may be used by any member without restriction. Such leave shall not be unreasonably denied.
D.	The Officers of the Association shall be allowed use of a telephone at State facilities where practicable, and where it does not interfere with the State's normal operations. The STFA shall reimburse the State for any telephone charges. Abuse of this right shall result in forfeiture.
E.	It is recognized that Executive Board members and station representatives of the Association have a need for continuity in their assigned locations which exceeds that of other Troopers. It is, therefore, agreed that:
1.	Station representatives of the Association will not, subject to the overriding operational requirements of the Division, be routinely transferred involuntarily, except that he/she is subject to normal rotational transfer to or from toll roads.
2.	Executive Board members will not be involuntarily transferred from the Troop to which they are assigned when named to that office for the term of office but not exceeding two (2)
19
years, providing such retention may be interrupted if emergency conditions warrant, and except that he/she is subject to normal rotational transfer to or from toll roads.
F.	The President and First Vice President of the Association shall be given priority for the assignment of day jobs. Such priority will not apply where emergency conditions exist
ARTICLE XXIV
SAVINGS
In the event any provision of this Agreement shall conflict with any Federal or State law, the appropriate provision or provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed amended or nullified to conform to such law in which event such provision may be renegotiated by the parties.
ARTICLE XXV
COMPLETE AGREEMENT
A.	The State and the Association acknowledge this to be their complete Agreement and that this Agreement incorporates the entire understanding by the parties on all negotiable issues whether or not discussed. The parties hereby waive any right to further negotiations except as specifically agreed upon and except that proposed new rules, or modifications of existing rules, affecting working conditions, shall be presented to the Association and negotiated upon the request of the Association as may be required pursuant to the laws of the State of New Jersey.
B.	The State agrees that all mandatorily negotiable benefits, terms and conditions of employment relating to the status of Troopers of the Division of State Police covered by this Agreement shall be maintained at standards existing at the time of the agreement
C.	If, during the term of this Agreement legislation becomes effective which has the effect of improving wages or fringe benefits otherwise available to eligible employees in this unit this Agreement shall not be construed as a limitation on their eligibility for such improvements.
D.	The Division of State Police will include a request for an annual medical examination for all Troopers over the age of thirty (30) years in its fiscal year budget submission for each year covered by Oris Agreement.
E.	All terms of this Agreement are subject to budgetary and/or legislative limitations or changes.
ARTICLE XXVI
NON-DISCRIMINATION
The State and the Association agree that the provisions of the Agreement shall apply equally to all Troopers and that there shall be no intimidation, interference, or discrimination because of age, sex, marital status, race, color, creed or national origin, political activity, private conduct or Association activity which is permissible under law and which does not interfere with an employee's employment obligation.
ARTICLE XXVII
PRINTING OF AGREEMENT
The State will reproduce this Agreement in sufficient quantities so that each employee in the negotiations unit may receive a copy, plus additional reserve copies for distribution to employees hired during the term of the Agreement. The Agreement covet will include the seal of the State of New Jersey and the Association insignia.
ARTICLE XXVIII
CONTRACT NEGOTIATION
A.	This Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until June 30, 2004, and shall be automatically renewed from year to year thereafter unless either party shall notify the other in writing by certified mail prior to October 1 in the year preceding the contract expiration that it desires to amend the terms of this Agreement. Either party may submit to the other a written list of
20
cnanges oesrreo in me terms or a successor Agreement.
B.	Should either party notify the other of its desire to amend this Agreement through the procedure in A. above, the terms of this Agreement shall remain in force until the effective date of a successor Agreement, unless one party notifies the other party of its discontinuation within ninety (90) days.
C.	Collective negotiation meetings shall be held at times and places mutually convenient to the parties.
D.	The State agrees to grant the necessary duty time off to Association officers and representatives not to exceed six (6) in number, to attend scheduled negotiation meetings.
21
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the State and the Association have caused this Agreement to be signed by their duly authorized representatives.
FOR THE STATE TROOPERS FRATERNAL ASSOCIATION:
Governor’s Office of Employee Relations
of Employee^gejations
Public Safety
22
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
It is understood by the parties that the State's obligation to defend and indemnify employees against liability claims or judgments arising out of the performance of their official State duties is governed by the TORT Claims Act. specifically N.J.S.A. 59:10A-l through 59:10A-6. For informational purposes, it is here stated that the above obligation has been interpreted by the Attorney General of New Jersey to include actions against State Troopers and Non-Commissioned Officers alleging false arrest, except that such obligation shall not extend to false arrest actions where it is determined by the Attorney General that:
a.	the act or omission was not within the scope of employment; or
b.	the act or omission was because of actual fraud, willful misconduct or actual malice; or
c.	the defense of the action or proceeding by the Attorney General would create a conflict of interest between the State and the employee.
Additionally, the State’s obligation to indemnify shall not extend to any award for punitive damages ultimately granted against the Trooper or Non-Commissioned Officer who is the defendant in the action.
In any of the above matters, the Attorney General may determine and authorize the use of outside counsel where, in his judgment, such is warranted. In such cases the reasonable costs of such counsel shall be borne by the State.
23
APPENDIX B
STATE OF NEW JERSEY DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL STATE TROOPER SALARY ADVANCEMENT CHART FOR MEMBERS SWORN IN AFTER JULY 1,2000
COMPLETED YEARS OF SERVICE	STEP	RANGE
0	1	T17 '
1	2	117
2	3	T17
3	4	T17
4	5	T17
5	6	T17
6	2	T17
7	5	T18
8	6	T18
9	7	T18
9.5	7	T19
10.5	8	T19
12 and thereafter	9	T19
FOR INFORMATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY
24

State of Stem Scrsgy
DEPARTMENT OF. LAW ANO PUBLIC SAFETY .
Hay St 1987
..-hiehard*DT~Loccke;~EhqZ . Loecke & Correia 90 Ease Palisade
• RoX 8X0-----’
: JEng
.JDeat
■- I am pleased* to' report to you that the work of the Joint Laplesentation Cowuittee i<tM co 'ba cooing tpA^p^- successful . .conclusion--with-'the-^prepara^ion of < revised S.O.PNvhi^h is sat •out la tile, attached "CHANGE NOTICE** - Revisions •'to S.O.P, *C22t ” Activity Reporting Systea,? dated July 12.,. 1980. 'X^believe w ; ■ feeve.'neSdlVea the isgileaentation issues'.before ns. and chat the revisions I _am. forwarding to you.’today represent**'’our joint ’understanding of chose issues. .	. Pursuant .tp .our •origihal
•discussionsthose revisions to S.O.P. C22, upon your review and •concurrence, will represent the work of the Gowsittee in its final :forsTand will complete the settlement of this natter.:-;
Tour •confiscation at your earliest convenience will enable us co tranasir the revised S.O.P. «to-the State police as quickly as possible; -.It would be appropriate for us<tb.jM9orialize pur Joint understanding and I therefore ask chae-^ybu'/send are a confirming letter indicating your concurrence in tha j revisions.
Thank you for your continuing cooperation throughout our discussions.
Very truly y<
Deborah, T. Pofitfef
- * * .Assistant Attorney General > ■ Director, Division «»f law
DTPifg
Actacnoent cc: Trooper jhouas Iskrryckl
AV* Jthty ts An Equal O^yorwity Empfoytr
2fi
April 22. 1987
SUBJECTS "CHANGE NOTICE'' - Revisions to S.O.P. C22, "Activity Reporting System,* datedJuly 12, 1980 ’’
TO : Executive Officer, Section Supervisors, Bureau Chiefs and Unit . Saads, Division Headquarters;; ^.Commanders, Troops A,' B, C, D, B; and All Stations '
troopers	-	.	t	-
■
1. S.O.P. C22 hasbeen revised to reflect a chapga"-' 1« ~ the handling of "unscheduled tine f«r troopers.,/^Troopers yho work la excess of forty (40) hours in a seven -(TJ^consecutive calendar work cycle, shall ••be *conpensated at?: the : overtine rapq pf time and one^half«	:  -
a.- The seven consecutive day. ..work . cy.de^; for . computation purposes» • shall compence at 12:01-a.m.- on Saturday land 'end at-'midnight . on Friday.	! *	.♦£•* —...
b.	The regularly scheduled xorK day shall consist of-no less-than-eight- (8)-hour-s. •	• •	..~
c.	work,, for the purposes ^of- this order, shall be defined as any' service '-perJ orbed. -^Which ' .. arises out of the employe^1 s. status . as a .law enforcement officer;' Neal periods trtiich occur during, periods of work 'shall'be1 cod-ps*od as .work time. 2 *	.
d.	Any schedule change or’ "shift change which is effective on less than forty-eight (48) hours notice..* -to the 'trooper shall - cause the entire work obligation so changed bo be paid at the overtime rate. Change .shall. be defined as an alteration from a regularly posted work schedule.
(1)	Any regular schedule or shift may b.e.. changed or adjusted providing : a notice* is given to the* toooper a minimum -of forty-eight (48) hours prior to the change.	....
(2)
When* the hours-of a- regularly scheduled
-work'* day of * not’ ‘JIS Si*-• than eights: (8b.	..
.hours' are extended-/' the minimum" forty-"
eight hour notification time of'a future adjustment shall begin when the trooper
27
is notified, extra hours worked. wy be reduced from- « future scheduled work day within the work week. TtMetice of such a reduction may not be.^Mde prior to the commencement of the^regu-larly scheduled workaday oh which"; extra hoars were worked.. *	• ’• '<
(3)	When notice is not given under_d.(2)* then the forty-eight (48) hear period shall be calculated from the completion i of the extra tine worked.
When** non-scheduled hdurs ‘are . worked .......and the-■-work . .schedule- is . adjusted*....... . the. trooper shall*.not. be. regulied/jjp^
work* lass, than four hours. . . .	'
.a.	Overtime« compensation J. fitall be ipald-T’/ln
cash - unless the trooper at his sola^optloxi ' elects compensatory ti^ off.' Such election shall-, be nade at the end of the. work'^week * and shall not be changed; • Compensatory • tine off (C.T.O.) shall accumulate -in -a
.C.T.O. bank. Compensatory . time., in ‘.the C.T.O. bank shall accusnilate at the time and one-half rate (one and one-half hours banked for * each hourj ofc overtime worked in quarter hour units).
't. C.T.O. oice; 'banked, shall* only be used •• at the request of the trooper. C.T.O.
'may be accumulated and granted in hours* up to and including, a full working day. Each request .is subject to prior approval based on the Division's 'operational needs.
g.	At no time khall any- trooper's accumulated time in the bank exceed the total of twenty-four (24) hours*- e.g.' (14 hours O.-T. * 24 hours in the C.T.O. bank). ■
h.	Under no circumstances -shall there be less than eight (0) hours of time . off between consecutive scheduled work days.'
, Any violation of this provision shall result in ’paid overtime compensation’;-.for those hours which violate the eight;?(8) hour- provision. .-Call 4-lnj,,time shall, not p be Included in the:eight *<•> hour provision.
Call in -time hours worked shall be compensated format a minimum of .three (3) hours.
at straight me whether..or; not th< (3) bouxs:’?>axe ‘ worked. --------■*
with J shift, emo a.
thrde’-^
wepc wuw	-
teied coln^gto^g:. -
the.^beginning	—	______
-Ibcstaple: a troops# ’■ called in&at3si i.m.-* 'instead of coming .in normall'?!?^
j .	Authorised "paid" leave-time'*~nnd.' compensatory
time from the -C.T.O. bank shall be.coasted
tory ‘time -la- granted n a .scheduled work da/.

28
filulr of Stem Jrrsry ?	:
DEPARTMENT OF LAW ANO PUBLIC SAFETY ?•; ‘ DIVISION OF STATE POUCE
♦	eosromccsoxiM*	-<<
«UTTMKTON.f(CVJKUlY0M2S*MU
W.CAXYSOWAXOS	NWIMMN9	'	OO&ONUCwUMauaO
<MlllirlTiiiM	Iwulwafot
Nay U. 1987 - •*
SUBJECT: ■OMHfiE WnCE* *- Revisions to S.0,P?C22.
Systai," datod'tfuly -12, 1980	‘
TO : Executive Officer, Section Supervisors, Bureau Chlefs.and Unit ..........HeldS7tHT1s1to Headquirters; Caoaaflders*,'Troops Aj BJfC, •D;-E;-“ and All.Stations
TROOPERS
1.	S.O.P. C22 has "been revised to reflect -• -change-in the bundling of.
* unscheduled tine for troopers. Troopers who work. in excess of. forty.. (40).. hours In a seven (7) consecutive'calendar day Work cycle,'shall be coopen-■ sated at the overtlae rate of tine end one-half.
i	a. Pie seven, consecutive day work cycle, for coupu.totion purposes
shall comaiice at 12:01 a.«; onSaturdayand end at uidnTghton ’•‘Friday*. • *	’	........ ’
b.	The regularly scheduled work day shall consist of no less than eight (81 hours. . _
c.	Work, for the. purposes of this order, shall be defined as any service performed which arises out of the e«ployee!s status as a law enforcesent officer. Heal gferlods which occur.during periods of work shall be computed as-work t1«e.
d.	Any schedule change or shift change which is effective, on less than forty-eight (48) hours notice to the troopertshall’.cause -the entire work obligation so changed to be pa id‘at-the'over-tine rate. Change shall be defined as an alteratign.froei a regularly posted work schedule.	:>
*	(1) Any regular schedule or shift «ay be changed or adjusted *
'	.	providing a notice-Is given to the trooper a minlaua of
.forty-eight (48) hours prior to] the change.
(2) When the hours of a regularly scheduled work day of not less.than eight (8) hours are extended, the nlnlawa forty-eight (48) hour notification tine of aifvture ad-justoent-.shall begin when tae trooperls notified;-. Extra houi^jworked my be reduced free a future scheduled work day.withip the work week. Notice of such a. reduction iav of.tbe^reguUHyy tcheduledwork day on which extra hours mn ' worno. ।	____ *
•<3) li.rj 9<’*n 'md‘r <2)> then **“............
forty-eight (d») hour period shall be oaleulatad TW* the coroletion of th. extra time worked. '	‘
b°"r? worked Ind the work schedule 1s fror^?**"’0’’*'' *ha" "ot ««•’«'’ *>	tte.
*"	1,1411	<■' cash unless-tfo-irooper
.’’’‘ option elects compensatory tine off.. Sadi election
»e oFaTfork w.Hend s6.11 St tertSoed Ji!! I’ ***	«h»U accumulate it tMtine
^rSS^^SJrS! SMt!r 'l,*nk"i fOr'‘f hW,r "
■ f‘	,hi11 ’n1jr b* 01ed *** re^ies’t.of the
<« «c«1««d and granted In bourn, up to orioruSSil	£fe* rKK'«t mbjeetto
pnor^approval based on the Division's operational needs. ••
’■	'! ^Jy2!w,pe!:,s •«~lat«l tn-tbefbank.. .
exend the total ,f	(24) hour, .	fours
,u.i. ■ Hours in the C.T.O. bank).	t
h. Under no circuastances shall there be less than eight-^8) scheduled work ddys. - .
sst^^5S?•p„£:}’1i:.t,-' sh*n ■»* *	•
*" Jjf'thre/rv w°“rs ™rked S*1?11 *>« compensated for at a ■inloua hoon'IL i! te” at ’traight tine whether or not the: three (3) hours.are Worked, except when the end of the call in tine oerind KiSle-VtSoSj 19 °I «9ularly scheduled shift?4 noSJlW at r	“ ®:0°	’“«“<! of coming in
iSriheynini^tt^.	tW° '?“r* ll0urs «We»»«t1oo,
J'	*!"* compensatory tine from the’S.T.O.
J*1,1 b* counted as work tine for the purpose of coroutine arrle&duUd wrt Jv
31
Btate nf New SerBen DEPARTMENT OF LAW AND PUBLIC SAFETY DIVISION OF STATE POLICE rosromaaaxNM
WEST TUBiTON. HEW |E*SCVWie«U EET« H. FEKMTTI. |r	COLONEL CX. PAGANO
Attorney Cere'll	Superintendent
August 8, 1989
iSUBJECT: "CHARGE KOTICE" - s.O.P. C22, "Activity Reporting Sy Sten," dated July 12,1980
TO ' : Executive Officer, Section'Supervisors, Bureau Chiefs .and Unit Heads, Division Headquarters-, Coosanders, Troops A, B, Ci O, E; and Ail Stations
4. ‘S.O.P. C22, "Activity Reporting Systen,* has been revised to reflect the changes necessitated by the State Troopers Fraternal Association (S.T.F.A.) Arbitration Award concerning schedule/shift changes fra forty-eight (48) to seventy-two (72) hours notification.. '
' 2. . Rewove and destroy pages 11, 12, and 14A dated 4/87. Replace with revised pages.'U;12; and 14A dated August 8, 1989. .
3.	torrent supply-dlgMew Jersey State Police Overtime Record XSP434A) will be utilized1 until revised fora becomes available. •
• - • -
4.	For your 1nf6raat1on and compliance.
• -. .
BY ORDER OF THE SUPERINTENDENT
NOO/rcb att.
32
Christine Todo Whitman Goaemor
^tate of J?efo ^Jersey Office of the Governor Office of EMfoovs Relations PO Box 22S
Tienton NJ 0B62SO22S
PHiur B. Whitcomb Director
December 12,2000
Mr. Edward H. Lennon, President State Troopers Fraternal Association 2634 Highway 70 Manasquan, NJ 08736
RE: Association Leave Days
Dear Mr. Lennon:
This letter will confirm our agreement that for the term of the successor collective bargaining agreement between the State of New Jersey and State Troopers Fraternal Association, the Association President or his/her designee will be provided an additional 150 days per fiscal year of paid Association leave. The additional 150 days of Association leave are to be utilized for Association activities in connection with the Consent Decree issued in United States of America vs. State of New Jersey and Division of State Police of the New Jersey Department of Law and Public Safety, Civil #99-5970 (MLC) and for such other related Association activities. The additional 150 days of paid Association leave will terminate on the expiration date of the successor bargaining agreement
If the foregoing sets forth the terms of our agreement please sign where indicated below.
Very truly yours,
Director
President, STFA
F:\USERS\IAL\PWSPPROS.DOC
Nao jersey Is An Equal Opportunity Employer ■ Printed on Recycled Papa and Recyclable
33
Christine Todd Whitman Governor
^Stafe of J?efn Serneg Office of the Governor Office of Employee Rhations PO Box 228 Trenton NJ 086254228
Philip B. Whitcomb Dmtor
January 24,2001
Edward H. Lennon, President State Troopers Fraternal Association 2634 Highway 70 Manasquan. New Jersey 08736
RE: RESOLUTION OF PENDING GRIEVANCES AND UNFAIR PRACTICES CHARGES
Dear Mr. Lennon:
This letter will confirm our agreement that the STFA and representatives from the Department of Law and Public Safety, the Division of State Police and the Office of Employee Relations will conduct meetings within the next 60 days to review the backlog of pending cases to determine which cases may be withdrawn or settled. These meetings will be for the express purpose of reducing the number of pending cases. The parties also agree to expedite all pending Phase IV, now Phase III, cases to hearing within the next 60 days.
This letter will also confirm the parties agreement to enter into a pilot program for the duration of one (1) year regarding the Phase III hearings. The Division agrees to establish a panel of three (3) hearing officers, one of which will be a DAG, to hear Phase III cases. The STFA and the Division will meet to determine which cases the DAG should hear. The panel will be used to hear any pending Phase IV, now Phase III, cases.
If the foregoing sets forth the terms of our agreement, please sign where indicated below.
Very truly yours.
Philip B. Whitcomb Director
President, STFA
F:\USERS\DMMVCASES DOC
Nor Jrrsry Is An Equal Opportunity Employer ■ Printed on Recycled Paper and Recyclable
34
JStete of Jersey
Office of nffi Governor PO Box 001
Trenton NJ 08625-0001
Donalp T DiFrancesco Acting Gotvmor
March 22, 2001
Ed Lennon, President
State Troopers Fraternal Association
2634 Highway 70
Manasquan, New Jersey 08736
Re: Withdrawal of Unfair Labor Practice Charges
Dear Mr. Lennon:
This letter will confirm our agreement that the STFA will withdraw the following Unfair Labor Practice Charges:
OER#3722 (Gag Order Case)
OERS3759 (Trooper-Mentor case)
If the foregoing sets forth the terms of our agreement, please sign as indicated
below.
Very truly yours,
Philip}). Whitcomb Director
Ed Lennon President, STFA
F:\USERSWDOSTATEPOL\ULPLTR.DOC
Neto Icrffv Is An Equal Opportunity Employer • Printed on Recycled and Recyclable Paper
35
Donald T. DiFrancesco
Acting GtMvrwr
^tate of Nefn Jersey Office of the Governor fOBoxOOI
T«£n„>xNJ0S6254X»1
March 22,200!
Ed Lennon, President
State Troopers Fraternal Association
2634 Highway 70
Manasquan, New Jersey 08736
Re: Assignment as Acting Sergeants
Dear Mr. Lennon:
This letter will confirm our agreement concerning STFA represented enlisted members who are in assignments as acting sergeants. During the first eight bi-weekly pay periods of continuous service as acting sergeants, the enlisted member will receive his current rate of pay and be eligible to receive overtime compensation in accordance with the State/STFA agreement. Following completion of ei^it bi-weekly pay periods of continuous service as acting sergeant, the enlisted member will receive the sergeant's rate of pay for the regular hours worked and wifi be eligible to receive overtime compensation at the trooper's rate of pay in accordance with fire State/STFA agreement for the duration of the assignment as acting sergeant. Following completion of eight bi-weekly pay periods of continuous service as acting sergeant, any compensatory time earned will be calculated at the trooper’s rate of pay. Any enlisted members who are in assignments as acting sergeants for periods of one (1) year or eighteen (18) months of continuous service will be eligible for movement to the next higher step as may be applicable according to standards governing the granting of normal increments. With the exception of acting pay as set forth in this letter, during assignment as an acting sergeant, the enlisted member will be subject to all of the terms and conditions of the State/STFA agreement
If the foregoing sets forth the terms of our agreement please sign below.
Very truly yours,
Philip B. Whitcomb Director
President, STFA
F:\USERS\DMM\ASSNSERG.DOC
Mir ftrscv If An	Opportunity Employer • Prmtetl on Rocudrd RoiriaM.* Piper
36
Donald T. DiFrancesco Actiag Governor
Office of Tre Governor POBctcOM Trenton NJ 0B62S40D1
Much 27,2001
Mr. Ed Lennon, President
State Troopers Fraternal Association
2634 Highway 70
Manasquan, NJ 08736
RE: Salary Advancement
Dear Mr. Lennon:
This letter win confirm our agreement concerning the salary advancement for enlisted members through the 118* class. Members of these classes will advance to foe Trooper II T18 Range Step 7 rate of pay after completion of seven years of service. Members of these classes will advance to foe Trooper I T19 Range Step 9 rate of pay after completion of nine and one-half years of service.
If the aforementioned sets forth the terms of this agreement, please sign where indicated below.
Very truly yours,
Philip B. Whitcomb, Director Office of Employee Relations
F:\USERS\JADpwMlpro.doc
Nor ferity h An Etyui Opportunity Erupioyer • Printed on Recyeled and RecyelaEie Paper
37