Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection - Metadata Header
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/)
Title: Michigan State University and American Federation of State, County, & Municipal Employees (AFSCME), AFL-CIO, Local 1585, Council 25 (2002)
K#: 800020
Employer Name: Michigan State University
Location: MI East Lansing
Union: American Federation of State, County, & Municipal Employees (AFSCME), AFL-CIO
Local: Local 1585, Council 25
SIC: 8221	NAICS: 611310
Sector: S	Number of Workers: 1000
Effective Date: 08/01/02	Expiration Date: 07/31/06
Number of Pages: 53	Other Years Available: Y
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School, http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
%00&	1600
Agreement between MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY
and
AFSCME LOCAL 1585
COUNCIL NO. 25 AFSCME AFL-CIO
AFSCME INTERNATIONAL
August 1, 2002 - July 31, 2006
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity institution.
Agreement Between
MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY
and LOCAL UNION NO. 1585, AFSCME, AFL-CIO
August 1,2002-July 31,2006
PREFACE
-1 The Board of Trustees of Michigan State University and AFSCME Local 1585 recognize their moral and legal responsibilities under federal, state, and local laws.
-2 The University and the Union recognize the moral principles involved in the area of civil rights, fair employment practices and affirmative action, and have reaffirmed in their Collective Bargaining Agreement their commitment not to discriminate because of race, creed, color, sex, age, marital status, handicap, sexual preference, political affiliation, or national origin.

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article Number	Paragraph		
	Number	Article Title	Pa	
	1	Preface Table of Contents	i ii
	3	Agreement	1
1	4	Purpose and Intent	1
2	8	Rights of the Employer	1
3	9	Aid to Other Unions UNION	2
4	10	Recognition	2
5	12	Union Security - Req. of Union Membership	3
6	13	Union Dues, Initiation Fees and Service Charges	4
7	25	Representation Districts	6
8	29	Stewards & Alternate Stewards	8
9	33	Union Bulletin Boards UNION SECURITY	9
10	35	Seniority	9
11	44	Seniority Lists	12
12	49	Loss of Seniority	12
13	54	Seniority of Officers GRIEVANCE	13
14	55	Grievance Procedure General Conditions	14
15	61	Presenting a Grievance	15
16	74	Computation of Back Wages	16
17	75	Reprimand, Suspension or Discharge	17
18	79	Special Conferences	18
19	80	Medical Dispute	19
Article Number	Paragraph		
	Number	Article Title	Page
20	81	LAYOFFS Temporary Layoffs	19
21	82	Layoffs	19
22	86	Recall Procedure	20
23	90	Work Opportunities for	21
24	94	Laid-OfT Employees LEAVES OF ABSENCE Absences	21
25	95	Paid Holidays	22
26	100	Vacations	23
27	110	Personal Leave Hours	24
28	115	Sick Leave	25
29	128	Funeral Leave	27
30	132	Jury Duty	28
31	133	Union Release Time	28
32	145	Non-Paid Unpaid Leaves	30
33	156	Military Leave	31
34	158	Educational Leave of	31
35	160	Absence for Veterans General Conditions	32
36	170	PROMOTIONS & TRANSFERS Filling of Vacancies	33
37	184	Transfers	35
38	189	COMPENSATION & WAGES Classifications	36
39	192	Wage Rate Increase Plan	37
40	196	Red Circle Rates	37
41	197	Working Hours	38
42	208	Time-and-One-IIalf in	39
		Specific Areas of Work	
iii
Article Number	Paragraph		
	Number	Article Title	Page
43	210	BENEFIT PROGRAMS Equalization of Overtime	40
44	216	Hours Longevity Pay	41
45	225	Health Care Coverage	41
46	232	Dental Program	43
47	234	Disability Plans	44
48	242	Employee-Paid Life Program	45
49	243	Death Benefit (Expanded Life	45
50	246	Insurance) RETIREMENT Retirement Benefits	46
51	262	ADDITIONAL ARTICLES Educational Assistance	48
52	267	Supervision Working	51
53	269	Student Labor	51
54	271	Safety Committee	52
55	274	Agreement Copies	52
56	276	Supplemental Agreements	52
57	277	Maintenance of Conditions	53
58	281	Special Provisions	53
59	341	Savings Clause	64
60	342	Contract Documents	64
61	343	Modification	64
62	352	Effective Date	65
IV
I
AGREEMENT
-3 This Agreement, entered into this twenty-fourth day of May, 2002 between Michigan State University, (hereinafter referred to as the “EMPLOYER”), and AFSCME Local Union No. 1585, Council 25, AFL-CIO, (hereinafter referred to as the “UNION”).
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE AND INTENT
-	4 The general purpose of this Agreement is to set forth terms and conditions of employment, and to promote orderly and peaceful labor relations for the mutual interest of the Employer, the employees and the Union.
-	5 The parties recognize that the interest of the Employer and the job security of the employees depend upon the Employer’s success in establishing a proper service to the State.
-	6 The Employer and the Union will encourage to the fullest degree friendly and cooperative relations between the respective representatives at all levels and among all employees.
-	7 Accordingly, the officials representing the Employer and the Union will from time to time during the life of this Agreement, at the request of either and the mutual convenience of both, meet for the purpose of appraising the problems which have arisen in the application, administration and interpretation of this Agreement and which may be interfering with the attainment of their joint objective as set forth above. Such meeting shall not be for the purpose of settling grievances nor for conducting continuing collective bargaining negotiations, nor to in any way modify, add to, or detract from the provisions of this Agreement
ARTICLE!
RIGHTS OF THE EMPLOYER
-	8 The Employer reserves and retains, solely and exclusively, all rights to manage and direct its work forces, except as expressly abridged by the provisions of this Agreement, including by way of illustration but not limitation, the determination of policies, operations, assignments, schedules, discipline, and layoff, for the orderly and efficient operation of the University.
ARTICLE 3
AID TO OTHER UNIONS
-9 The Employer will not aid, promote or finance any labor group or organization which purports to engage in collective bargaining or make any agreement with any such group or organization for die purpose of undermining the Union.
ARTICLE 4
RECOGNITION
A.	Employees Covered
-10 Pursuant to and in accordance with all applicable provisions of Act 379 of the Public Acts of 1965, as amended, the Employer does hereby recognize the Union as the exclusive representative for the purpose of collective bargaining in respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment, and other conditions of employment for the term of this Agreement of all employees of the Employer including part-time employees, in the following seniority units, excluding executive, administrative, academic, students, supervisory, professional, technical, clerical personnel, and those employees in other recognized bargaining units.
B.	Seniority Units
-11 The seniority units shall be:
Agriculture and Natural Resources, College of
Campus Park and Planning, Division of
♦Clinical Center
♦Cyclotron
Housing & Food Services, Division of
Human Ecology, College of
Human Medicine, College of
Instructional Media Center and Office of Special Programs
Intercollegiate Athletics, Department of
Natural Science, College of
Osteopathic Medicine, College of
Physical Plant, Division of
Police and Public Safety, Department of
♦♦Theatre Department
University Health. Center
University Laboratory Animal Resources
2
■ *
University Services and Continuing Education, Divisions of
Veterinary Medicine, College of
•This Unit shall be a separate seniority unit and shall be represented by the Chief Steward (or in his/her absence by the Local President).
••The addition of this unit shall not change the practice of assignment of the setup crew.
ARTICLE 5
UNION SECURITY - REQUIREMENTS OF UNION MEMBERSHIP
-12	To the extent allowed by the laws of the State of Michigan, it is agreed that:
a.	Employees covered by this Agreement at the time it becomes effective and who are members of the Union at that time shall be required as a condition of continued employment to continue membership in the Union for the duration of this Agreement
b.	Employees covered by this Agreement who are not members of the Union at the time it becomes effective shall be required as a condition of continued employment to become members of the Union for the duration of this Agreement on or before the first (1st) day after the thirtieth (SO**1) day following such effective date, or pay to the Union a sum equivalent to the initiation fee and membership dues as a charge for representation services.
c.	Employees hired, rehired, reinstated or transferred into the bargaining unit after the effective date of this Agreement and covered by this Agreement shall be required as a condition of continued employment to become members of the Union for the duration of this Agreement on or before the first (1st) day after the thirtieth (30th) day following the beginning of their employment in the unit or pay to the Union a sum equivalent to the initiation fee and membership dues as a charge for representation services.
d.	An employee who shall tender an initiation fee (if not already a member) and the periodic dues, or a sum equivalent to the initiation fee and periodic dues, uniformly required of all employees in the seniority units that are represented by the Union, shall be deemed to meet the conditions of this section.
3
e.	Employees of the seniority units that are represented by the Union shall be deemed to be in compliance with this Union Security Clause if they are not more than sixty (60) days in arrears in payment of membership dues or the sum equivalent to membership dues as a charge for representation services.
f.	The Employer shall be notified in writing, by the Union, of any employees in the seniority units that are represented by the Union who are sixty (60) days in arrears in payment of membership dues, or the sum equivalent
g.	The Union shall indemnify and save the Employer harmless from any and all claims, demands, suits, or any other action arising from this Article, or from complying with any request for termination under this Article.
ARTICLE 6
UNION DUES, INITIATION FEES AND SERVICE CHARGES
A.	Payment by Checkoff or Direct to Union
-13 The Employer will check off initiation fees and biweekly dues, or service charges, on the basis of individually signed voluntary checkoff authorization cards in forms that have been furnished by the Union. (The Union will request a Special Conference over Its intent to change the content of the authorization cards.) Employees may tender the initiation fee uniformly required as a condition of acquiring membership in the Union and biweekly membership dues, or service charges, by signing the proper authorization. The Employer will present employees with checkoff authorization cards at the time of initial employment within the bargaining unit If the employee chooses not to authorize payroll deduction at the time the card is presented, the Employer will notify the Union and identify the employee and department where he/she is employed.
B.	Employer Responsibility for Deductions
-14 The Employer shall have no responsibility for the collection of initiation fees and membership dues, or service charges or any other assessments that are not in accordance with the Union Security Clause of the Agreement
C.	Delivery of Executed Authorization for Checkoff
-15 A properly executed copy of the form authorizing checkoff by an employee for whom initiation fees and biweekly membership dues, or service charges, are to be deducted in accordance with the Union Security Clause of the Agreement shall be mailed at the Union expense to the Union before any payroll deductions are made. Deductions shall be made thereafter only under a properly executed authorization for checkoff which is in effect Any authorization for checkoff form which is incomplete or in error will be returned to the Union by the Employer.
4
D.	When Deductions Begin
-16 Deductions under all properly executed authorizations for checkoff shall becom effective at the time such authorizations are tendered to the Employer and shall b deducted from die first (1st) pay of die month and each month thereafter.
E.	Refunds
-17 In cases where a deduction is made that duplicates a payment that an employe already has made to the Union, or where a deduction is not in conformity with th provisions of the Union Constitution or By-Laws, refunds to the employee will be made b the Union.
F.	Remittance of Deductions to Secretary -Treasurer
-18 Deductions for any calendar month shall be remitted to the designated Secretary Treasurer as soon as possible after the first pay of that month. The Employer shall fumisl the designated financial officer, monthly, with a list of those for whom the Union ha submitted signed forms authorizing checkoff, but for whom no deductions have been made The Union will notify the Office of Employee Relations, in writing, regarding changes ii designated Secretary-Treasurer and financial officer.
G.	Termination of Checkoff
-19 An employee shall cease to be subject to checkoff deductions beginning with th< month immediately following the month in which he/she signs a dues termination card a the Union office. The designated Secretary-Treasurer will be notified by the Employer oi the names of such employees following the end of each month in which the terminatior took place.
H.	Disputes Concerning Checkoff
-20 Any disputes between the Union and the Employer which may arise as to whether oi not an employee properly executed or properly revoked an authorization for checkoff, shat be reviewed with the employee by a representative of the local Union and the designated representative of the Employer. Should this review not dispose of the matter, the dispute may be referred to Step III of the Grievance Procedure. Until the matter is disposed of, ne further deductions shall be made.
I.	Limit of Employer’s Liability
-21 The Employer shall not be liable to the Union by reason of the requirements of this Agreement for the remittance or payment of any sum other than that constituting actual deductions made from wages earned by employees.
5

J.	List of Members Paving Dues or Service Charges Directly
-22 The Union will furnish the Employer, within fifteen (15) days after the effective date vK this Agreement, the names of all members paying dues or service charges directly to the Union. Thereafter the Union win furnish the Employer a monthly list of any changes.
K.	Disputes Concerning Membership
-23 Any dispute arising as to an employee’s membership or service charge shall be reviewed by the designated representative of the Employer and a representative of the local Union, and if not resolved, may be submitted to Step UI of the Grievance Procedure. However, the employee may be retained at work while the dispute is being resolved.
•24 The Union shall indemnify and save the Employer harmless from any liability resulting from any and all claims, demands, suits or any other action arising from compliance with this Article, or in reliance on any list, notice, certification or authorization furnished under this Article.
ARTICLE?
REPRESENTATION DISTRICTS
-25 The representation districts and the number of Stewards in each district shall be as follows:
Agriculture and Natural Resources, College of North South
Akers Hah
Automotive Services
Brody Hall
First Shift
Second Shift Third Shift Case Hall Crossroads
Custodial Services
First Shift
Second Shift Third Shift
Fee Hall
Food Processing
District
Steward
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
Alternate
Steward
1
2
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
6
Food Stores	1	1
General Stores	1	1
(Intending Campus Mail) Grounds Maintenance	1	1
Holden Hall	1	1
Holmes Hall	1	1
Hubbard Hall	1	1
Human Ecology	1	1
Human Medicine	1	
Instructional Media Center*	1	1
(Including Office of Special Programs) Intercollegiate Athletics, Department of	1	1
Kellogg Center	1	1
Laundry	1	1
(Including Upholstery and Drapery Shop,		
Residence Halls, Maintenance Shops, Residence Halls Construction Shop)		
Mason-Abbott Hall	1	1
McDonel Hall	1	1
Natural Science, College of	1	1
Owen Graduate Hall	1	1
(Including Eppley Center) Printing	1	1
(Including Continuing Education) Police and Public Safety, Department of	1	1
Recycling and Waste Management	1	0
Shaw Hall	1	1
Snyder-Phillips Hall	1	1
Telephone Office	1	2
Tool Room	1	1
Union Building	1	1
University Laboratory Animal Resources	1	I
University Apartments	1	1
University Health Center	1	1
Veterinary Medicine, College of	1	1
West Circle Complex	1	4
Wilson Hall	1	1
Wonders Hall	1	1
♦The areas in parenthesis shall be considered as separate districts for Overtime Equalization, Article 43.
-26 The number of Stewards may be increased or decreased and the units may be redistricted by mutual written agreement of the Employer and the Union. When more than one Alternate Steward is indicated in a district, the Union shall notify the Employer of the Alternate Steward’s jurisdiction.
7
-27 It is mutually recognized that the principle of proportional representation which reflects the increase and decrease in the work force is a sound and sensible basis for implementing this section of the Agreement
-28 Problems arising under this Article may be resolved by the submission of a grievance at Step III of the Grievance Procedure.
ARTICLES
STEWARDS AND ALTERNATE STEWARDS
-29 In each district, employees in the district shall be represented by one District Steward or during his/her absence an Alternate Steward, who shall be a regular employee and working in the district The District Steward or Alternate Steward shall be notified of scheduled overtime periods. During scheduled overtime periods for more than one employee in his/her district the District Steward or Alternate Steward shall be scheduled to work as long as there is work scheduled in their district that they can perform and shall be so notified and scheduled.
-30 The District Stewards or Alternate Stewards during their working hours, without loss of time or pay, shall, in their own district, in accordance with the terms of this section, investigate and present grievances to the Employer, upon having received permission from their supervisor to do so. The supervisor will normally grant permission and provide sufficient time to the District Stewards or Alternate Stewards to leave their work for these purposes subject to necessary emergency exceptions. The privilege of District Stewards or Alternate Stewards leaving their work during working hours without loss of time or pay is subject to the understanding that the time will be devoted to the proper handling of grievances or posting bulletins in their districts and will not be abused; and District Stewards or Alternate Stewards will perform their regularly assigned work at all times, except when necessary to leave their work to handle grievances or posting bulletins in their district as provided herein. Between 5:00 pan. and 7:00 a.m. two (2) District Stewards (or two (2) Alternate Stewards) may be excused with pay to attend a regularly scheduled steward meeting. Any alleged abuse by either party will be a proper subject for a Special Conference. An executive board member who is also a District Steward or Alternate Steward may be excused for one (1) Stewards’ and one (1) executive board or special executive board meeting per month not to exceed two (2) hours per meeting per month.
-31 Notwithstanding his/her position on the seniority list, a Steward shall in the event of a layoff of any type within his/her district be continued at work as long as there is work in his/her district which he/she can perform and shall be recalled to work in the event of a layoff to the first vacancy in his/her district which he/she can perform.
8
-32 The Union will furnish the Office of Employee Relations with the names of authorized representatives and such changes as may occur from time to time in si personnel, so that the Employer may at all times be advised as to the authority of individual representatives of the Union with which it may be dealing. The Employer v in return, through the Office of Employee Relations keep the Union advised as to representatives.
ARTICLE 9
UNION BULLETIN BOARDS
-33 The Employer will provide enclosed bulletin boards that may be locked in es district which may be used by the Union for posting notices of the following types:
a.	Notices of Union recreational and social events.
b.	Notices of Union elections.
c.	Notices of results of Union elections.
d.	Notices of U nion meetings.
e.	Notices of job openings covered by this contract
-34 The Union shall have the exclusive right to the use of its assigned bulletin boards, the event a dispute arises concerning the appropriateness of material posted on the Un Bulletin Boards, the President of the Local Union will be advised by the Office of Emplo; Relations of the nature of the dispute and the notices or bulletins in questions will removed from the bulletin boards until the dispute is resolved.
ARTICLE 10
SENIORITY
A. Probationary Employees
-35 New full-time employees, not currently employed at the University, shall considered as probationary employees for their first 1040 hours of work. Part-ti employees shall be considered probationary for their first 520 hours of work. When employee finishes the probationary period, the employee shall be entered on the senior
9
list of the unit or occupational group, whichever is in effect, and shall rank for seniority from the date the probationary period began. There shall be no seniority among probationary employees.
-36 The Union shall represent probationary employees for the purposes of collective bargaining in respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment and other conditions of employment except discharged or disciplined employees for other than Union activity.
B. Temporary Employees
-37 Appointments - There shall be no seniority or rights of recall for persons who are employed for specific temporary jobs lasting nine (9) months or less. At the time of employment, the temporary appointment shall not be extended beyond nine (9) months, except when a temporary employee fills the position of a regular employee on leave of absence, in which case the employment period may continue for the duration of the leave of absence. The Union will be provided the name of the temporary employee and the name of the employee on leave. Such term shall not exceed two years. After completion of the probationary period, the temporary employee may not be discharged prior to the date certain for termination except for just cause. The temporary employee may not be transferred to a regular job until after compliance with the posting provisions of Article 36.
a.	The Employer shall have the right to “recycle” temporary employees in the bargaining unit Recycled employees shall continue to receive the job rate.
b.	Temporary employees shall not replace or displace regular employees on a permanent basis except as provided for in applicable provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement
c.	The total number of temporary employees in the bargaining unit at any one time shall be limited to no more than 30% of the regular bargaining unit employee complement, excluding temporary employees.
d.	Beginning January 28, 1999, temporary employees who are recycled shall receive credit for the immediately preceding employment cycle for bidding purposes only, as provided for in Article 10, Section B, paragraph 38 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement Thereafter, recycled temporary employees shall continue to carry past recycled service for bidding purposes only, as provided for in Article 10, Section B, paragraph 38 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement
e.	Except as provided for herein, the conditions of employment for temporary employees shall be provided for in Article 10, Section B of the Collective Bargaining Agreement
10
-38 Bidding on Vacancies - Provided he/she has completed a probationary period ii his/her original seniority unit within the past 12 months a temporary employee may bid 01 posted vacancies within that seniority unit under the following conditions, whichever come first:
a.	Four (4) weeks prior to the end of his/her term of temporary employment.
b.	Upon completion of six (6) months of continuous employment.
c.	For thirty (30) calendar days after completion of the employee’s term oi temporary employment
For bidding purposes only, his/her seniority will be recognized for time actually worked after regular full-time employees in the seniority unit and in the bargaining unit have had an opportunity to bid and transfer in accordance with the requirements of Article 36.
-	39 Benefits - Upon completion of six (6) months of employment, temporary employees will become eligible for vacation on a proportional basis. Temporary employees shall be granted sick leave and holiday pay, on a proportional basis, from their date of hire.
€. Part-time Employees
-	40 Employees regularly scheduled to work twenty (20) hours per week but less than twenty-six (26) hours per week shall be considered half-time (1/2) time employees; those regularly scheduled to work more than twenty-six (26) hours per week but less than thirty-six (36) hours per week shall be considered three-quarter (3/4) time employees and those regularly scheduled to work thirty-six (36) hours per week to forty (40) hours per week shall be considered full-time employees.
-	41 Benefits - The following benefits shall be extended to part-time employees on a proportional basis: Vacation time, holidays, personal leave, sick leave, longevity, retirement, health care, dental, employee paid life and accidental death and dismemberment
-	42 Seniority - Part-time employees shall retain seniority on the same basis as full-time employees. This seniority shall be exercised during period of layoffs, recall, and for filling of vacancies.
-	43 Funeral Leave shall be granted to part-time employees on the same basis as full-time employees.
ARTICLE 11
SENIORITY LISTS
-	44 Seniority shall not be affected by the race, creed, color, sex, age, marital status, handicap, sexual preference, political affiliation, or national origin of the employee.
-	45 The seniority lists on the date of this Agreement shall show the names of all employees of the unit entitled to a ranking for seniority, in addition to such other information as may be required by paragraph 48 of this Agreement. Service records in effect at the date of this Agreement shall be used by the parties hereto as the records of continuous service as of such date.
-	46 The Employer will keep the seniority lists up to date at all times, and whenever a Steward shall raise a question of seniority, shall make the seniority list available for his/her inspection.
-	47 Within thirty (30) days after the ratification of this Agreement and every six (6) months thereafter during the term of this Agreement, the Employer shall give to the Union two (2) copies of the names of all Union members covered by the Agreement together with their addresses as they then appear on the records of the Employer.
-	48 The Employer agrees to give to the Union updated seniority lists five (5) copies, two (2) listed by classification, and three (3) alphabetical every three (3) months. The lists shall include name, classification, date of seniority, rate of pay, division in which they work, and department Said lists will be given to the Union in January, April, July, and October.
ARTICLE 12
LOSS OF SENIORITY
A.	General
-49 An employee shall lose his/her status as an employee and his/her seniority if:
a.	He/She resigns or quits other than in Paragraphs 51,52, and 53.
b.	He/She is discharged or terminated (unless reversed through the grievance or arbitration procedures).
c.	He/She retires.
12
d.	He/She does not return to work from layoff within fourteen (14) calendar days after being notified to return by certified or registered mail or by telegram addressed to the employee at his/her last address filed with the Office of Human Resource Services. An employee who changes his/her aiddress must notify the Employer of the change.
e.	He/She has been on layoff for a period of time equal to their unit seniority at the time of their layoff or two (2) years, whichever is lesser.
f.	He/She is absent from work including the failure to return to work at the expiration of a vacation, or disciplinary layoff, for three (3) consecutive working days or a leave of absence for five (5) consecutive working days without notifying the Employer, except when the failure to notify and work is due to circumstances beyond the control of the employee.
-50 A grievance involving compliance with this section shall begin at Step HI of the grievance procedure, and may be processed through the grievance and arbitration procedures.
B.	Return Rights to the Union
-	51 An employee returning to the Union within twelve (12) months of his/her termination from University employment shall receive credit for University seniority earned prior to the date of termination, after successful completion of a trial period of 240 hours of work, for calculation of vacation, longevity, and retirement eligibility.
-	52 Employees who retum(ed) to the University more than twelve (12) months after terminating will receive credit for past service after working for five (5) continuous additional years. Such prior service credit can only be applied toward retirement Employees will receive service credit for part-time service to qualify for retirement status.
-	53 The provisions of this article shall only apply to employees returning to the Union after the effective date of this Agreement
ARTICLE 13
SENIORITY OF OFFICERS
-54 Notwithstanding their position on the seniority list, the President, Vice-President, Secretary-Treasurer, Recording Secretary and Chief Steward of the local Union shall, in the event of layoff, be continued to work at all times when one or more districts or divisions or fractions thereof are at work, provided they can perform any of the work available.
13
ARTICLE 14
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE - GENERAL CONDITIONS
, -55 The following time limits shall apply to Steps of the Grievance Procedure unless extended by mutual agreement.
-56 The grievance must be presented in writing by the District Steward to the District Supervisor of a unit or division within fifteen (15) working days after its alleged occurrence in order to be a proper matter for die Grievance Procedure.
A.	Time of Meetings
-57 A meeting to discuss the grievance will be scheduled between the Union and the District Supervisor, the Administrative Bead of a unit, division or college or the Employer’s representative within seven (7) working days of receipt of the written grievance or appeal.
B.	Time of Answers
-58 A written answer will be given to the Union by the District Supervisor and the Administrative Head within seven (7) working days from the date of the meeting at which the grievance was discussed. The Employer’s representative will have ten (10) working days after the third step meeting to submit a written answer to the Union.
C.	Time of Anneal
-59 Any grievance not appealed from an answer at Step I or II of the Grievance Procedure within seven (7) working days from receipt of said answer shall be considered settled on the basis of the last answer and not subject to further review.
D.	Nonconformance
-60 If the Employer fails to schedule a meeting or to reply in writing within the prescribed time limits, the grievance may be appealed to the next higher step of the Grievance Procedure within seven (7) working days after the expiration of the applicable time limits. Nonconformance will in no way reduce or modify in any way the Employer’s good faith effort to meet and/or answer any step of the Grievance Procedure.
14
ARTICLE 15
PRESENTING A GRIEVANCE
-61 Any employee having a problem in connection with his/her employment shall present it to the Employer as follows:
A.	Immediate Supervisor
-62 If an employee feds he/she has a problem, they may discuss it with their Immediate Supervisor or with their District Steward who may then discuss it with the employee’s Immediate Supervisor.
B.	Step I
-	63 If the problem is not resolved, the District Steward may reduce the problem to writing and submit the grievance to the District Supervisor. A grievance shall be defined as a written dispute concerning the interpretation, application, and alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Agreement The grievance shall be dated and signed by the aggrieved employee and his/her District Steward. He grievance shall set forth the facts, including dates, and provisions of the Agreement that are alleged to have been violated and the remedy desired. The grievance shall not be considered submitted until the District Supervisor or his/her designee receives the written grievance. At the time it is received, the grievance shall be dated and signed and a copy (if requested) returned to the District Steward. A meeting will be arranged between the District Steward and the District Supervisor to discuss the grievance. The District Supervisor will then answer the grievance in writing.
-	64 The Chief Steward may be present at any step or steps of the Grievance Procedure as well as an additional representative of the Employer, and if the Employer or the Union request that the aggrieved employee be present at any step or steps of the Grievance Procedure to participate in the discussion, they will be required to do so.
-	65 A written grievance involving a complaint of an individual employee must be signed by the grievant. The Chief Steward may sign and file at Step II a grievance which involves more than one District Steward within the same administrative unit He/She may also sign and file at Step III a grievance which involves more than one administrative unit The Chief Steward may file a grievance involving more than one (1) employee within an administrative unit at Step II.
C.	Step II
-66 If the grievance is not resolved, the District Steward may refer the grievance to the
Chief Steward who may submit the appeal in writing to the Administrative head of the unit or division or his/her designee indicating the reasons why the written answer of the District Supervisor was unsatisfactory. A meeting will be scheduled between the Chief Steward,
15
District Steward, and the representatives designated by the Administrative Head to discuss the grievance. The Administrative Head, or his/her designee will then answer the grievance in writing.
D.	Step IH
-67 If the Administrative Head’s written answer is not satisfactory, the grievance may be referred to the Union President who may submit his/her appeal to the Office of Employee Relations indicating the reasons why the written answer of the Administrative Head was unsatisfactory. A meeting between no more than three (3) representatives of the Union and three (3) representatives designated by the Director of Employee Relations will be held to discuss the grievance within twenty (20) working days from the date the grievance is received by the Office of Employee Relations. After the Step III meeting the Employer’s representative will submit a written answer to the Union.
-68 The Union representative may meet at a place designated by the Employer on the Employer’s property for at least one-half (1/2) hour immediately preceding the hearing.
E.	Sten IV
-	69 If the Office of Employee Relation’s answer is not satisfactory, settlement may be determined by decision of an Arbitrator selected by the parties. The Union President within thirty (30) calendar days of the Step HI answer will notify the Office of Employee Relations in writing that the Union wishes to appeal the grievance to arbitration.
-	70 In the event the parties cannot agree upon an Arbitrator within ten (10) working days of the date of the appeal, the Union shall, within fifteen (15) working days after failing to mutually agree on an Arbitrator, file a Demand for Arbitration with the American Arbitration Association who shall select an Arbitrator and the Arbitrator shall establish a mutually acceptable hearing date. Grievances processed to arbitration by the Union which pose continuing financial liability to the Employer, shall, at the request of the Employer, displace grievances with arbitration dates which pose no financial liability to the Employer. Such displaced grievances shall be scheduled in die next open date.
-	71 In the event the Union fails to appeal the grievance to arbitration within the specified tune Hunt or fails to file the Demand for Arbitration within the specified time limit, the grievance shall be considered settled based upon the Step HI answer given by the Office of Employee Relations. The fees and approved expenses of the Arbitrator will be paid by the parties equally. The rules of the American Arbitration Association shall apply to all arbitration hearings.
-	72 Grievances, within the meaning of the Grievance Procedure and of this arbitration clause, shall consist only of disputes about the interpretation or application of the clauses of this Agreement and about alleged violations of this Agreement The Arbitrator shall have no power to add to, or subtract from, or modify any of the terms of this Agreement, nor shall he/she substitute his/her discretion for that of the Employer or the Union where such
16
discretion has been retained by the Employer or the Union, nor shall he/she exercise any responsibility or function of the Employer or the Union.
-73 Finality of Decisions - There shall be no appeal from the Arbitrator’s decision. Each such decision shall be final and binding upon the Union and its members, the employee or employees involved, and the Employer. Hie Union will discourage any attempt of its members and will not encourage or cooperate with any of its members in any appeal to any Court or Labor Board of a decision of the Arbitrator so long as the Arbitrator has not exceeded his/her contractual or legal authority. The Employer shall not appeal the derision of the Arbitrator to any court or Labor Board so long as the Arbitrator has not exceeded his/her contractual or legal authority.
ARTICLE 16
COMPUTATION OF BACK WAGES
-74 No claim for back wages shall exceed the amount of wages the employee would otherwise have earned at his/her regular rate.
ARTICLE 17
REPRIMAND, SUSPENSION OR DISCHARGE
-75 At the time a written reprimand, suspension or discharge is received, an employee may, and is encouraged to, request the presence of the District Steward, Alternate Steward or designated Union representative.
A.	Notice of Reprimand, Suspension or Discharge
-76 In the event an employee is disciplined by written reprimand or written suspension or discharged by written notification, a copy of the discipline shall be given to the employee, a copy to the District Steward or Alternate Steward and a copy mailed to the local Union office at the time it is given to the employee. Such notice shall be specific and outline the reasons for the disciplinary action.
B.	Appeal of Reprimand, Suspension or Discharge
-77 Should the reprimanded, suspended or discharged employee or the Union consider the discipline to be excessive and without just cause, the Chief Steward or his/her designated representative shall, within seven (7) regularly scheduled working days after the Union office receives the written notification of the discipline, submit it as a grievance. A
I
grievance over a written letter of reprimand or suspension shall be submitted by the Chief Steward at Step II of the Grievance Procedure. A grievance over a discharge shall be submitted by the Chief Steward at Step III. Failure to submit a written grievance within the tin* limits shall constitute a waiver of all claims concerning such disciplinary action or discharge.
-C.-- Use of Past Record
'■ '£ '■ vi78 ■- In 'imposing any reprimand, suspension or discharge on a current charge, the •j'jifaifJayrr will not take into account any prior infractions of which the Employer had knowledge that occurred more than two (2) years previously. No derogatory inference win result and/or the material relating to disciplinary action be held against an employee in relation to his/her employment because of the need to retain records beyond the two (2) year period. Upon written request from a Local 1585 Bargaining unit employee, the records section will purge the employee’s file of disciplinary actions over two (2) years old if there have been no intervening disciplinary action. At that time, also, the records unit will instruct the originating department to purge its personnel file of the same material.
ARTICLE 18
SPECIAL CONFERENCES
-79 Special Conferences for important matters will be arranged between the local President and the Employer or its designated representative upon request of either party. Such meeting shall be between at least two (2) representatives of the Employer and at least two (2) representatives of the Union. Arrangements for such Special Conference shall be made in advance and an agenda of the matters to be taken up at the meeting shall be presented at the time the Conference is requested. Matters taken up in a Special Conference shall be confined to those included on the agenda. The members of the Union shall not lose time or pay for time spent during their regularly scheduled work hours in such Special Conferences.
18
ARTICLE 19
MEDICAL DISPUTE
-80 In the event of a dispute involving any employee’s physical ability to perform his/her job at the University, when the employee is not satisfied with the determination of the University’s physician, he/she may submit a report from a medical doctor of their own j	choosing and at his/her own expense. If the dispute still exists, at the request of the Union
1	or the Employer, the University’s physician and the employee’s physician shall agree upon
a third medical doctor to submit a report to the Employer and the employee, and the decision of such third party will be binding on both parties. The expense of the report of the third party shall be shared equally by the Employer and the employee. The prevailing determination will be effective at a date mutually agreed to by the Union and the University.
ARTICLE 20
TEMPORARY LAYOFFS
-81 Due to vacation periods and conditions beyond the Employer’s control, adjustments of the work force can be made without application of the layoff procedure of the Agreement If such temporary adjustment continues for more than ten (10) working days, the Union can request the Employer to adjust the working force according to the layoff provision of the Agreement and the Employer will do so within five (5) working days thereafter.
ARTICLE 21
LAYOFFS
-82 When there is a decrease in the work force, temporary and probationary employees will be laid off on a seniority unit wide basis provided the seniority employees can do the available work.
-83 Seniority employees will be laid off according to bargaining unit seniority within a seniority unit, affected by a layoff, provided the greater seniority employees are able to perform the available work. However, the Employer shall not be required to promote an employee at the time of layoff unless the employee has previously performed the higher rated job and is able to perform the work. Seniority employees laid off within a seniority unit shall be allowed to displace, by grade level, the least senior employees not affected by
19
the layoff if they are able to perform the work. By grade level shall mean the to be laid off employees) shall first displace the least seniority like classified employee(s) in another seniority unit If the to be laid off employee(s) is unable to perform the work and/or there is no least seniority like classified employee(s) with less seniority in another seniority unit, the to be laid off employee(s) may displace the least seniority employee(s) within the same pay grade level. If the to be laid off empioyee(s) is unable to perform the work and/or there
is no least seniority employee(s) with less seniority within the same pay grade level, the to
be laid off emplpyee(s) may displace the least seniority employee(s) in the next immediately lower pay grade level and so on until the to be laid off employee(s) is able to displace another empk>yee(s) or accept the layoff.
-84 Disposition of these cases may be initiated at Step II or Step in of the Grievance Procedure.
-85 Employees to be laid off for an indefinite period of time will have at least fourteen (14) calendar days notice of layoff. The Union President and District Steward will receive a list from the Employer of the employees being laid off on the same date the notices are issued to the employees.
ARTICLE 22
RECALL PROCEDURE
-	86 When the working force is increased after a layoff, employees will be recalled
according to seniority, provided the greater seniority employees are able to perform the available work.
-	87 Seniority of an employee who is re-employed from a seniority list in the same seniority unit that he/she was laid off from shall be restored to his/her status as of the date he/she left the service of the Employer.
-	88 Notice of recall shall be sent to the employee at his/her last known address by
registered or certified mail with Return Receipt Requested. If an employee fails to report for work within fourteen (14) calendar days from the date of first attempt of delivery, it shall be considered a voluntary termination.
-	89 Employees who are recalled to work from a layoff must successfully pass a physical examination to be taken at the Health Center before they return to work.
ARTICLE 23
WORK OPPORTUNITY FOR LAID-OFF EMPLOYEES
-	90 The Employer, so far as reasonably practicable, before hiring new employees in any seniority unit, shall give work opportunity to seniority employees who are currently on layoff providing the employees can perform the available work.
-	91 Any employee who is recalled under paragraph 90 will accrue seniority in the new unit effective as of the date of layoff. He/She shall retain seniority in his/her former unit until his/her seniority in the new unit equals the seniority he/she had in his/her former unit At this time all of the seniority in his/her former unit shall be cancelled.
-	92 Should there still be seniority employees on layoff, the Employer will attempt before hiring new employees to place them in any work opportunity within the University (and not represented by the Union) providing they are capable of performing the available work, paragraph 92 shall not be a grievable item.
-	93 An employee recalled under paragraph 92 shall continue to accrue University seniority. However, the employee’s unit seniority will be frozen as of the date of reporting for recall.
ARTICLE 24
ABSENCES
-94 An employee is not expected to absent himself/herself from work for any reason other than personal illness without making prior arrangements before the start of their shift with his/her Supervisor. Unless such prior arrangements are made, an employee who, for any reason, fails to report for work must immediately notify his/her Supervisor of his/her reason for being absent. If the absence is to continue beyond the first day, the employee must notify the Supervisor on a daily basis unless otherwise arranged with and specifically approved by the Supervisor. In proper cases, exceptions will be made.
21
ARTICLE 25
HOLIDAYS
-95 The paid holidays are designated as:
Labor Day
Thanksgiving Day
Friday after Thanksgiving Day
Christmas (2 days) New Years (2 days) Memorial Day Independence Day
-96 Whenever one of these holidays falls on a Saturday and the employee does not work on this day or on a scheduled day off in the employee’s work week and no other day is observed as a holiday by the Employer, the employee win receive an additional day off with pay, the time to be arranged with his/her supervisor. Whenever one of the above holidays falls on Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed as the designated holiday.
■	97 Employees who are required to work on any University designated holiday shall be paid at a rate of one and one-half (1 V4) times their regular rate of pay plus holiday pay. An employee shall not receive more than 2 Vi tunes their regular rate of pay for hours worked on a holiday. Employees shall be scheduled to work on a designated holiday in accordance with Article 43 (Equalization of Overtime).
-	98 An employee who is on vacation or sickness and disability leave with pay when a holiday occurs will be paid for the holiday and no charge will be made against accrued vacation or sick leave credits.
-	99	There will be no holiday pay when:
a.	A holiday fails during a vacation period preceding termination (except when an employee is retiring).
b.	The employee is on a leave of absence without pay, on layoff, or on Regular Worker’s Compensation, however, if an employee is laid off for the period between the end of fall semester and the beginning of winter semester because of lack of work, they will receive the same holiday pay given to the rest of the employees.
c.	An employee is absent on an unpaid leave the day before or the day after the holiday(s) unless his/her absence is excused.
22

ARTICLE 26
VACATIONS
A.	General Vacation Eligibility
-100 The following schedule shows the monthly vacation accruals for all full-time employees. For part-time employees see paragraph 41. Vacation time is credited at the end of each month.
Service Months Completion of 6 months	Accrual 48 hours	Annual Accrual	Special* Maximum Accrual
T** month through dO® month	8 hours per month	96 hours	128 hours
61“ month through 120* month	12 hoars per month	144 hours	192 hours
121“ month	16 hours per month	180 hours	240 hours
•Additional time cannot exceed the special maximum amount shown.
-101 A regular employee in the Housing and Food Services who works only during the school year (normally from September through June) is allowed twelve (12) days vacation for each school year worked. After sixty (60) months of service on a regular basis, an employee is entitled to eighteen (18) days vacation each year and after one hundred twenty (120) months is entitled to twenty-four (24) days vacation each year. Years of service must be consecutive and an employee will be given credit only for time actually worked in meeting the requirements of the progressive vacation plan.
B.	Method of Scheduling Vacation Davs
-102 The Employer is responsible for keeping the records of each employee’s vacation account up to date. Upon request and within a reasonable period of time, the employee shall be informed of the number of vacation credits remaining in their account
23
-103 An employee may use his/her accumulated vacation leave in full hour increments at any time during the calendar year with permission of the supervisor(s) as long as it conforms with the requirements of his/her individual department, however, no department shall have a blanket policy which denies vacation in one hour increments. Except for requests originating from a pre-vacation scheduling program, approval or refusal of vacation requests must be returned to the employee within seven (7) working days or less.
-104 Supervisory approval should be sought a minimum of one (1) working day prior to the desired time off.
C.	Other Provisions
-105 There shall be no vacation accrual:
a.	During an approved leave of absence without pay.
b.	While on Regular Workers’ Compensation.
c.	During an extended military leave of absence (credit for service months is granted).
d.	During a vacation period preceding termination.
e.	Beyond the “Special Maximum Accrual.”
f.	While on layoff.
-106 Employees will receive their base rates of pay during vacation.
•107 In the event of a dispute regarding the choice of vacation time, whenever possible the seniority employee will be given his/her choice of vacation time.
-108 If any of the holidays stipulated in the Agreement should occur during an employee’s scheduled vacation, the employee shall receive one (1) additional vacation day for each holiday.
-109 If an employee retires or terminates for any reason, he/she shall be paid for any accrued vacation credits.
ARTICLE 27
PERSONAL LEAVE HOURS
-110 Personal leave with pay is granted to regular employees with the approval of their supervisors for attending to personal matters. Leave is given during each fiscal year in
accordance with the following schedule:
Employed	Hours
7/1 -12/31	24
1/1-3/31	12
4/1 -5/31	6
6/1-6/30	0
-	111 An employee terminating prior to January 1 shall only be eligible for one-half of the annual personal leave accrual, to be adjusted on the employee’s final payroll check.
-	112 No carry-over of unused personal leave day credit from one fiscal year to another shall be allowed.
-	113 Supervisory approval should be sought a minimum of one (1) working day prior to the desired time off. It is understood that the use of personal leave is of a private nature.
-	114 The personal leave days or fractions thereof, credited to each full-time, regular employee shall be utilized and charged to him/her in increments of not less than one (1) full hour.
ARTICLE 28
SICK LEAVE
-115 Every regular full-time employee shall accumulate and be credited with 104 hours of paid sick leave per year, to be credited at the rate of four (4) hours for each completed biweekly payroll period. Employees may use sick leave after they have completed their first month of service. Maximum accrual is 1200 hours.
-116 Sick leave shall be available for use by employees for the following purposes:
a.	Acute personal illness or incapacity over which the employee has no reasonable control.
b.	Absence from work because of exposure to contagious disease which, according to public health standards, would constitute a danger to the health of others by the employee’s attendance at work.
c.	Medical and dental care or treatment to the extent of time required to complete such appointment when it is not possible to arrange such appointments for nonduty hours.
25
d.	Illness or disability associated with pregnancy when a physician indicates that the employee is unable to perform all of the duties of her job. It is intended that absence due to these conditions, or maternity leave use, is not a performance issue that adversely influences the appraisal rating on an employee’s performance evaluation.
e.	Not to exceed twenty-four (24) hours sick leave credit per year for absence from work because if illness in the immediate family. Defined as: spouse, parents and anyone living within the household of the employee. An additional forty (40) hours may be used for the care of spouse, parent and dependent children. Hie total number of hours shall not exceed 64,
-117 All employees shall accumulate sick leave from the date they are hired.
•118 A regular full-time employee with ninety (90) days of continuous service who suffers injury compensable under the Workers’ Compensation Act shall continue to receive his/her regular rate for time lost during the first seven (7) days not covered by the Workers’ Compensation Act, provided he/she follows the instructions of the University Health Director, and provided he/she returns to work not later than the time recommended by the University Health Director. In the even of dispute, the Medical Dispute clause of this Agreement shall apply as regards the settlement of such dispute. Following the first seven (7) days, such seniority employees shall be paid the difference between the employee’s regular wages and payment received under provisions of the Act, to be deducted from accumulated sick leave until his/her sick leave is exhausted.
-119 Employees who have exhausted their sick leave credits, but are still unable to return to work, may as an option, continue to receive their pay against any unused vacation credits.
•120 Employees who are laid off shall have available any unused sick leave previously earned, effective at the time they are recalled.
-121 Employees who leave to enter the Armed Forces of the United States under the provisions of a selective service act, who are members of the Armed Forces and are called to active duty, or who enlist in the Armed Forces during a declared national emergency shall, upon reemployment by the Employer, have available any unused sick leave previously earned; provided that such reemployment takes place within ninety (90) days after discharge or release from active duty in the Armed Forces.
-122 An employee using sick leave during a period that includes a scheduled holiday will be paid his/her base rate of pay for the holiday. He/She cannot be paid for both on the same day, nor will they be charged for a day of sick leave.
-123 An employee who transfers from one unit to another shall transfer with them any unused sick leave time.
26
-124 Employees who regularly work at least twenty (20) hours per week on a continuous basis shall accrue sick leave time proportionate to the hours worked, as per Paragraph 40.
-125 Each District Supervisor shall be responsible for reviewing employee requests for sick leave and questioning their validity, and may request a statement from the employee’s personal physician concerning the employee’s disability before approving the payment of J	sick leave. The supervisor may, with reference to the needs of his/her district, require
I	prompt notification from his/her employees of the necessity for taking sick leave. Prior
|	notification should be provided by the employee before the beginning of their shift so the
I	supervisor can make arrangements for the work schedules. Employees who find they are
|	going to be absent longer than they first anticipated should notify their supervisor in
accordance with the Absence Clause of the Agreement (Article 24).
-126 AU payment for sick leave shall be made at the employee’s base rate of pay.
-127 Accrued sick leave credits shall be used prior to receiving unpaid leave for illness or disability-
ARTICLE 29
FUNERAL LEAVE
-128 If a death occurs among members of an employee’s immediate family, the employee upon notification to the supervisor wiU be excused from work for three (3) consecutive work days without loss of pay to attend the funeral and make other necessary arrangements.
-129 Definition of Employee’s Immediate Family. The employee’s immediate family shall be interpreted as including: spouse, child, stepchild, father, mother, sister, brother, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, grandparents, grandparents-in-law, grandchild, stepparents, half brother and half sister.
-130 In the case of death of the employee’s or spouse’s step-brother, step-sister, unde, aunt, nephew or niece, the employee will be excused from work without loss of pay for one (1) day, the day of the funeral, to attend the funeral For the purpose of this article “aunt” shaU include the uncle’s wife, and “uncle” shall include the aunt’s husband.
-131 Permission may be granted to a reasonable number of employees in a unit who wish to attend the funeral of a fellow employee or former employee, without loss of pay, provided they return to work after the funeral. Employees who serve as pallbearers at a funeral of a fellow employee or former employee will be paid during the time they must be off the job.
27
ARTICLE 30
JURY DUTY
-132 A regular employee who serves on jury duty or is required to testify pursuant to a court-issued subpoena, if the subpoena does not require the employee to testify against the University, will be paid the difference between jury duty or witness fees and the base pay. An employee is expected to report for regular University duty when temporarily excused j from attendance at court When requested, an employee on jury duty will be assigned to j the first shift An employee shall notify their supervisor of jury and/or subpoena dates as soon as they are known.
ARTICLE 31
UNION RELEASE TIME
A. President and Chief Steward
-	133 It is agreed that the Employer will allow the President and the Chief Steward of Local 1585 100% paid release time to carry out the duties of their respective offices. It is understood that they will confine their activities to the campus and the East Lansing Union Office.
-	134 The Union President and Chief Steward will be compensated at the base rate of pay they were receiving at the time of their election or selection.
-	135 The Union President and Chief Steward shall not be eligible for overtime in their former units.
-	136 The Union President and Chief Steward shall be eligible to bid on posted vacancies. If selected to fill a vacancy, the employee will state whether they expect to fill the vacancy permanently or return to his/her Union Office upon completion of the trial period. When the trial period is completed, the employee shall either remain in the new position or return to his/her Union office receiving the base pay of the new classification.
-	137 When either the Union President or the Chief Steward relinquishes their office, they shall have return rights to the same classification and rate of pay in their former unit unless the Employer’s or the employee’s circumstances have so changed as to make it impossible or unreasonable to do so.
-	138 While the President and Chief Steward are in office, seniority shall continue to accrue.
28
-	139 In the event the President or the Chief Steward are required to take a leave from their elected position due to personal illness, the Local, after fourteen (14) calendar days may notify the Office of Employee Relations that it intends to install in the vacant position of the President or Chief Steward, an acting President or Chief Steward and the person assuming the duties of the President or Chief Steward shall be granted the full contractual benefits under the Labor Agreement
B.	Executive Board Members
-140 Between 5 p.m. and 7 a.m. two (2) executive board members may be released with pay to attend a regularly scheduled or special executive board meeting not to exceed two (2) hours per month.
C.	Union Education
-141 Release time with pay will be granted to those employees who are elected or selected by the Union to attend education classes conducted by the Union or official Union business. The number will not exceed ten (10) employees at any one time and the total number of hours will not exceed two hundred (200) hours in any one (1) calendar year. The Union agrees to give the Office of Employee Relations as much advance notice as possible concerning such requests for release time.
D.	Union Business
-142 Members of the Union elected to local Union positions or selected by the Union to do work which takes them from their employment with the Employer shall at the written request of the Union receive a temporary leave of absence without pay for periods not to exceed two (2) years or the term of office, whichever may be shorter.
-143 If the member’s position or work for which these leaves were granted is terminated for any reason, the Union shall within ten (10) calendar days notify the Employer in writing of the termination date. The member shall within the same ten (10) calendar day period advise the Employer in writing of his/her intent to return to the University and shall return to work within thirty (30) calendar days of the termination date or forfeit all rights of employment with the Employer.
29
ARTICLE 32
UNPAID LEAVES
-144 The following unpaid leaves may be granted for cases of exceptional need upon the request of employees who have acquired seniority under this Agreement.
A.	Excused Absences
-	145 Excused absences may be granted by the immediate supervisor but shall not exceed ten (10) consecutive days unless approved as a leave of absence. Normally excused absences will not exceed ten (10) working days in each fiscal year.
-	146 Excused absences will not require the use of accrued paid time (Le. personal leave or vacation), except for failures to report to work due to inclement weather or transportation problems.
-	147 Employees on excused absence will continue to accrue all benefits.
B.	Personal Leaves
-	148 Personal leaves of absence may be arranged with the immediate supervisor for up to three (3) months. Such leaves may be extended in additional three (3) month periods but may not exceed one (1) year.
-	149 Personal leave may be used for such reasons as the settlement of an estate, serious illness of a member of the employee’s family, child care, and an extended trip. Personal leaves shall not be used for the purpose of obtaining employment elsewhere.
-150 Personal leaves may also be granted for educational purposes to an employee with
five (5) or more years of continuous service. An employee returning from a leave of absence for educational purposes will not have return rights to their former position, but will have bidding rights to posted vacancies. Educational courses taken during a leave of absence are not reimbursable under Article 51.
■	151 If an employee wishes to take an extended leave of absence (to exceed ten (10) days) for reasons other than medical, this leave may be granted without the mandatory use of vacation time and/or personal leave.
C.	Leave of Absence for Illness or Disability
-152 A leave of absence may be granted to an employee suffering an extended illness or disability who is unable to return to work and has exhausted all sick leave accrual.
-153 Leave of this kind may be extended to a maximum of two (2) years.
30
*154 Employees must present a physician’s transcript concerning their illness or disability at the time the employee reports for the required physical examination prior to returning to active employment.
ARTICLE 33
MILITARY LEAVE
A.	Extended Service	'
-155 Upon application, a military leave of absence (without pay) will be granted to employees who are employed in other than temporary positions. This applies to employees who are inducted through a selective service system or voluntary enlistment, or if the employee is called through membership in the National Guard or reserve component into the Armed Forces of the United States.
B.	Short Tours of Duty
-156 Regular employees who belong to the National Guard, United States Reserve Corps, or other Federal or State military organizations, will be allowed the normal fifteen (15) calendar days leave of absence when ordered to active duty for training. In the event these same employees are ordered to active duty for the purpose of handling civil disorders, they will be allowed ten (10) additional calendar days leave of absence during a fiscal year. The Employer will pay the difference between the employee’s military pay and base pay, if their military pay is less. If the employee takes military leave during his/her vacation, they will receive full pay.
ARTICLE 34
EDUCATIONAL LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR VETERANS
-157 Employees who are reinstated in accordance with the Universal Military Training Act, as amended, and other applicable laws and regulations, will be granted leaves of absence for a period equal to their seniority, but not to exceed two (2) years (without pay) in order to attend school full time under applicable federal laws in effect on the date of this Agreement
-158 An employee who fails to notify the Employer within thirty (30) calendar days of the expiration of a leave of absence in excess of one (1) year duration, will be given written notice within twenty-one (21) calendar days prior to the expiration of said leave.
31
ARTICLE 35
GENERAL CONDITIONS
A.	Leave of Absence with Pay
-	159 Leaves of absence with pay shall be granted for purposes as described in Article 25 through 31.
-	160 An employee shall accrue sick leave credits and vacation credits during a leave of absence with pay, and employee benefits shall continue for the duration of the leave.
-	161 AU requests for leaves of absence shall be made with the employee’s immediate supervisor.
B.	Leave of Absence without Pay (Including Layoff)
-	162 Regular employees who have completed their probationary period are eligible for unpaid leaves of absence.
-	163 AU leaves of absence mud he approved by the cnpervkpr, adminkfrafiye head wfHw unit, and the Office of Human Resource Services. They may be taken for the reasons as specified in Articles 32 through 34.
-	164 During an unpaid leave of absence or layoff, an employee will not accrue vacation or sick leave nor be eligible for any payments for time off work provided by this Agreement (Except excused absences.)
-165 Unless otherwise specifically provided for by this Agreement, seniority shaU accumulate during leaves of absence or extensions, and layoffs.
-166 The employees must check with the Benefits Office about maintaining the employee group benefits for which they are eligible or enrolled during leaves of absence subject to and consistent with these plans.
C.	Return to Active Employment
-167 The Employer at its option and without cost to the employee may require that a physician or physicians of its choosing examine the employee before returning him/her to active employment
-168 An employee returning from a leave of absence wiU be placed in their former classification and district unless the Employer’s or the employee’s circumstances have so changed as to make it impossible or unreasonable to do so.
32
ARTICLE 36
FILLING OF VACANCIES
-	169 The Employer will fill vacancies on a seniority basis first within a seniority unit where a vacancy occurs with employees who bid on posted vacancies and possess the minimum qualifications (as stated in the Classification Description) for the vacancy under consideration. Unsatisfactory work performance may be a proper cause of denial of consideration for a vacancy if substantiated.
-	170 If there are no qualified bidders or no bidders from within the seniority unit affected, the Employer will select the most senior applicant in Local 1585 who possesses the minimum qualification of the classification. Unsatisfactory work performance may be a proper cause for denial of consideration for a vacancy if substantiated.
-	171 Vacancies will be posted for a period of five (5) working days in a conspicuous place in employees’ work areas. AU job postings will state the classification, rate of pay, location, shift, minimum qualifications, and starting time. A copy of the Position Vacancy Notice will be provided to the Steward and the Union on the first day of the posting. Employees must apply for vacancies by submitting the employee request for consideration for nonacademic position vacancy to the Office of Human Resource Services by the closing date specified on the position vacancy notice (minimum five (5) working days.) A copy of the list of those employees who bid on the posting together with the individual selected shaU be mailed to the Local 1585 office.
-	172 Postings shall remain posted for five (5) working days before the vacancy is filled. Temporary transfers may be used, if necessary, during the posting period.
-	173 Vacancies shall be tilled within ninety (90) days of the posting or reposted.
-	174 An employee shall be limited to applying for two vacancies per posting. If the employee is the most senior applicant on the initial interview list for both vacancies in his/her seniority unit he/she shaU be notified of his/her seniority ranking by the seniority unit and must specify which vacancy he/she prefers. An employee who has bid on more than one vacancy and accepts one of them thereby relinquishes any claim to others for which the employee applied. In cases where employees with the same seniority date apply for a posted vacancy, they shall be chosen in alphabetical order to fill that vacancy.
-	175 If it should become necessary in filling a vacancy to bypass an employee’s seniority, reasons for denial shall be given in writing to such employee with a copy to the Steward of the district
33
-176 The employee who is selected shall be granted up to 520 hours of work trial period to determine:
a.	The employee’s ability to perform the work.
b.	The employee’s desire to remain on the job.
-177 During the first three weeks ot the trial period, the employee shall have the opportunity to revert to his/her former position. For the remainder of the trial period, he/she may revert to his/her former classification. If the employee is unsatisfactory in the new position after two hundred forty (240) hours ot work, reasons shall be given in writing by the employer if requested by the employee. The employer may then return the employee to his/her former classification. In such event the employer will compensate file employee for the remaining hours of the trial period at the rate of fifty (50) percent of the promotional increase or fifteen (15) cents per hour, whichever is greater. The matter may then become a proper subject for the grievance procedure.
-178 The employee who is promoted will receive the job rate of the new classification when they begin the trial period of the new position.
■	1W An employee who has been notified they have been accepted to fill a posted vacancy shall assume the new position no later than 3 weeks from the effective date the vacancy is scheduled to be filled.

-	180 An employee who bids on a vacancy that is posted under this section and is subsequently selected and placed in the vacancy shall 'remain assigned to the location, except for promotional or demotional opportunities, for twelve (12) months before j becoming eligible to bid on another posted vacancy. Such employees may bid on j promotional or demotional vacancies after three (3) months.	I
-	181 If an employee is temporarily assigned to a job with a higher maximum rate, and he/she is capable of doing the job, he/she shall receive an increase of fifteen (15) cents per hour, or the probationary rate, whichever is greater, but in no event shall they be paid more than the maximum rate of the job to which she/he is temporarily assigned. If the temporary assignment in a higher classification is for three (3) hours or more, the employee wB receive the Increase in pay for eight (8) hours. An employee who is assigned on a temporary basis to a job in a lower pay grade shall have his/her hourly pay rate maintained. This section shall not be used to circumvent the posting requirement as stated in this Article. However, if the employee is so assigned because of medical restriction, the rate of pay shall be that of the lower position. An employee so affected may be eligible for long term disability consideration in accordance with applicable provisions.
34
-182 The parties recognize the mutual commitment to and the Employer’s program for Affirmative Action. To that end therefore, it may be necessary to fill vacancies for Affirmative Action purposes. The parties agree to cooperate to tile extent possible for the achievement of this objective in the following manner.
A.	Underutilization shall be mutually identified by the parties.
B.	When a vacancy is posted that has been identified as underutilized, the groupfs) for which it is underutilized shall be identified on the position posting.
C.	The University will be permitted to fill the vacancy with the most senior qualified individual from the identified group(s) possessing minimum qualifications from within the bargaining unit
D.	In the event there is no qualified individual from the identified group(s) within the bargaining unit, the Employer shall be permitted'to fill the posted vacancy with non-bargaining unit individuals with the concurrence of the Union.
E.	In the event any dispute arises as to the intent or application of this provision, the parties agree to utilize the process of Expedited Arbitration for resolution.
F.	Such actions as listed above shall bypass the appropriate provisions of Article 36.
ARTICLE 37
TRANSFERS
-	183 Transfer of Employees: If an employee with seniority is transferred from one seniority unit to another seniority unit as described in Article 4, Seniority Units, the employee will be given seniority in the new unit equivalent to that which they had accrued in the former unit and all of his/her seniority in their former unit shall be cancelled.
-	184 If an employee is transferred to a position under the Employer not included in Local 1585, and is thereafter transferred again to a position within Local 1585, the employee shall not have accumulated seniority while working in the position to which he/she was transferred. This shall not be applied to employees who were transferred to a position under the Employer not included in Local 1585 before July 1,1971.
-	185 Employees transferring under the above circumstances, paragraphs 183 and 184, shall retain all rights accrued for the purposes of any benefits provided for in this Agreement
35
-186 If and when operations or divisions or fractions thereof are transferred from one location to another for a period of more than seven (7) calendar days, employees affected will be given consideration to transfer on the basis Of seniority, desire and classification. Location exchange will be considered in such cases. Unsatisfactory work performance may be a proper cause for denial of consideration for a vacancy if substantiated.
-187 The Employer agrees that in any movement of work not covered above in paragraphs 183,184, and 186, the Employer will discuss the movements with the Union in order to provide for the protection of the seniority of the employees involved. In any determination to contract work, the Employer will observe and abide by the provisions of the Public Employment Relations Act, as amended.
ARTICLE 38
CLASSIFICATIONS
-188 The Employer retains the right to eliminate, change and establish classifications. In the event a new classification is established or an existing classification is changed, the Employer shall place it in an existing pay grade in the Wage Schedule or in a new pay grade, on the basis of the relative value of the elements of the new or changed classification in comparison with the elements of existing Union classifications.
•189 The following procedure will be used whenever a new or changed classification is placed in the Wage Schedule, as provided in paragraph 188 of this article.
a.	The Employer will provide the Union with a written copy of the new or changed classification which shall describe the job content sufficiently to identify the classification.
b.	Upon receipt of the Employer’s classification description, a reasonable number of representatives of the Union may meet with representatives of the Employer to discuss the new or changed classification and the placement in the Wage Schedule.
c.	If there is a disagreement with placement in the Wage Schedule, a grievance concerning compliance with Paragraph 189 of this article may be processed through the Grievance and Arbitration procedure, provided it is submitted in writing at Step III of the Grievance Procedure within seven (7) working days after the Union is afforded the opportunity to discuss the matter with the Employer. If such a grievance is processed through Arbitration, the Arbitrator shall have no power or authority to revise the classification or to establish or change the wage rate, but only to determine whether the proper placement has been made in the Wage Schedule in accordance with Paragraph 188 of this article.
36
-190 In the event the Employer eliminates a classification, prior notice shall be given to the Union. The Employer agrees that classifications will not be eliminated for the purpose of undermining the Union. Disputes concerning violations of this provision may be submitted at Step III of the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 39
WAGE RATE INCREASE PLAN
-	191 Effective August 1,2002 there will be a 1.75 % across-the-board wage increase.
-	192 The wage schedule for subsequent years of this Agreement will be prepared following the determination of the percent wage increases for each year, in conformance with the terms of the “Memorandum of Understanding between Michigan State University and the Coalition of Labor Organizations,” effective January 1, 2002, and ratified by the Union, a copy of which is attached hereto, until and including July 31,2006.
-	193 The probationary rate shall be five (5%) percent less than the job rate for pay grades II through XIV. The probationary rate shall be ten (10%) percent less than the job rate for pay grades XV through XXIII.
-	194 Newly hired employees shall receive the probationary rate of the applicable grade level during the probationary period and shall receive the job rate of the applicable grade Level upon completion of the probationary period within the classification.
ARTICLE 40
RED CIRCLE RATES
-195 All regular full-time employees currently receiving “Red Circle Rates”, i-e. rates in excess of the maximum rate for a specific classification within a certain grade level will continue to receive general increases as provided for in the Agreement Any “Red Circle Rates” after the effective date of this Agreement shall be determined mutually. Employees “Red Circled” after the effective date of this Agreement shall have their rates frozen until such time as the new rates surpass the “red circle” rates.
ARTICLE 41
WORKING HOURS
A.	Shift Differential
-196 Effective August 1, 1993, employees who work on the second or third shift shall receive, in addition to their regular pay, fifty (50) cents per hour and forty-five (45) cents per hour, respectively, additional compensation. Such differential is to be added to the total wages and does not increase the hourly rate and will be paid for all hours worked on a shift.
B.	Shift Hours	i
-197 The first shift is any shift that regularly starts on or after 5:00 a.nu, but before 1:00 p.m. The second shift is any shift that regularly starts on or after 1:00 p.m. but before 9:00 pun. The third shift is any shift that regularly starts on or after 9:00 pan. but before 5:00 aan.
C.	Shift Preference	j
-198 Shift preference will be granted on the basis of seniority within the classification as ! openings occur. The transfer to the desired shift will be effected within two (2) weeks following the end of the current pay period within which a written request is made, provided the employee can do the work.	i
a. An employee who is assigned to a specific shift based on his/her request shall remain assigned to that shift and not be eligible for another shift preference transfer for a period of six (6) months.
D.	Rest Periods
-199 Employees may take a rest period of not more than fifteen (15) minutes for each half	J
day of work. Rest periods should be taken at a time and in a manner that does not	j
interfere with the efficiency of the work unit The rest period is intended to be a recess to	g
be preceded and followed by an extended work period; thus, it may not be used to cover an	J
employee’s late arrival to work or early departure, nor may it be regarded as accumulative	|
if not taken.	g
E.	Wash-Up Time
-200 Employees will be given the necessary time prior to punching out, to wash up and change uniforms if used.
38
F.	Call-In Pay Show-Up Pay
-201 An employee reporting for emergency duty at the Employer’s request for work which the employee had not been notified of in advance and which is outside of and not continuous with the employee’s regular work period, shall be guaranteed at least three (3) hours pay and three (3) hours work at the rate of time and one-half.
-202 An employee who reports for scheduled work and no work is available will receive three (3) hours pay at the employee’s regular straight time rate.
G.	Overtime
-	203 Overtime is defined as hours worked in excess of eight (8) in a day, or forty (40) hours in an employee’s work week for which the employee is paid time-and-one-half his/her regular rate of pay, unless otherwise specified in Article 42.
-	204 For the purpose of computing overtime, all hours paid will be considered time worked.
-	205 Overtime shall not be pyramided, compounded or paid twice for the same time ________________ worked.______________________________________________________________
-	206 In the event that a work schedule(s) is converted to four ten-hour days per week, time-and-one-half the regular straight time rate will be paid to employees who work over 40 hours per work week.
ARTICLE 42
TIME-AND-ONE HALF IN SPECIFIC AREAS OF WORK
-207 Time-and-one-half the regular rate will be paid to employees who work over forty (40) hours in a work week in the following specific areas of work:
a.	Building Services Custodian classification within the Physical Plant
b.	All employees in the Department of Intercollegiate Athletics.
-208 Time-and-one-half the regular straight time rate will be paid to all employees who work over eighty (80) hours in any pay period of two (2) calendar weeks in the College of Agriculture and Natural Resources.
39
ARTICLE 43
EQUALIZATION OF OVERTIME HOURS
-209 Overtime hours shall be divided as equally as practicable among employees in the same classification in their district An up-to-date list showing overtime hours and unit seniority date will be posted in a prominent place in each district before the 15th of each month.
-210 Whenever overtime is required, the person with the least number of overtime hours in that classification within the district will, except in necessary emergencies, be called first and so on down the list in an attempt to equalize the overtime hours. After exhausting this procedure and the need still exists, the Employer may require the least senior available, qualified employee to work. The Union reserves the right to grieve what is an emergency. Employees in other classifications may be called if there is a shortage of employees in the classification needed. In such cases they would be called on the basis of least hours of overtime in their classification provided they are capable of doing the work. When employees are notified by telephone, they will be called in order of lowest hours first.
-----------211—For the purpose of this clause, time not worked because the employee was unavailable, or did not choose to work, will be charged the average number of overtime hours of the employees working during that overtime period (2 hour minimum).
-	212 On July 1 each year, the amount of overtime hours credited to each employee will be reduced equal to the amount of overtime hours credited to the employee at the bottom of the overtime list and only excess overtime hours for each employee shall be carried forward.
-	213 An employee who has changed classifications will be charged with the highest number of overtime hours that exist in the new classification on the day he/she was reclassified.
-	214 When an employee terminates his/her term as Chief Steward, President, Steward, or Alternate Steward, his/her overtime hours shall be disregarded and he/she shall assume the average number of hours in his/her classification in his/her district, unless he/she is currently charged with less than average hours.
40
ARTICLE 44
LONGEVITY PAY
-215 All regular employees of the Employer hired prior to August 19, 1996 shall be entitled to receive longevity pay for length of continuous service with the Employer according to the following rules and schedule of payment
-216 LONGEVITY YEAR The longevity year is defined as the twelve (12) month period beginning October 1 of each year and ending September 30. For longevity payment purposes only, a year of continuous full-time service is defined as any longevity year in which the employee is actively employed for at least 39 calendar weeks (273 calendar days).
-217 Longevity pay shall be computed as a percentage of the employee’s regular annual base wage. Base wage shall be that wage which an employee is bring paid on September 1, 1988, of the calendar year in which the longevity payment Is due. The annual base wage shall be equal to the employee’s hourly rate times 2080 hours as of the first pay period in September. If an employee is not on the payroll at that time, the hourly rate to be used will be the hourly rate upon his/her return. Base wage shall not include overtime or premium pay.
-218 INITIAL ELIGIBILITY The last date of hire as a regular employee will be used as the normal longevity date. To qualify for the first longevity payment, an employee must have completed six (6) years of continuous service as of October 1 of any year. To qualify for initial eligibility, the employee must have been on active employment for at least 39 calendar weeks (273 calendar days) for six (6) consecutive years and an employee on October 1 of that year to receive the longevity payment Periods of active employment of less than 39 calendar weeks will be counted toward the employee’s years of continuous service.
-	219 CONTINUING ELIGIBILITY After establishing initial eligibility, employees must be actively employed for 39 calendar weeks (273 calendar days) during the longevity year and an employee as of October 1 to receive the longevity payment on December 1. Periods of active employment of less than 39 calendar weeks, while not qualifying the employee for payment of longevity, shall be counted toward the employee’s years of continuous service.
-	220 Payments to employees who are eligible each October 1 will be paid on December 1. No longevity payment as shown in the schedule below shall be made for that portion of an employee’s regular wage which is in excess of $9,500.
-	221 Employees terminating prior to October 1 will receive a prorated longevity payment
41
-222 AU regular employees, as of the date of the ratification of the Successor Agreement, shall be grandfathered under the current Longevity Fay program. Employees who hire into the bargaining unit after the date of the ratification of the Successor Agreement will be, and shall remain, ineligible for the Longevity Pay program.
-223 Longevity Pay Schedule
Continuous Service	Annual Percentage
6 or more and less than 10 years	2%
10 or more and less than 14 years	3%
14 or more and less than 18 years	4%
18 or more and less than 22 years	5%
22 or more and less than-----6%
26 years
26 or more years
8%
ARTICLE 45
HEALTH CARE COVERAGE
-224 Regular employees may enroll for health coverage within sixty (60) days of their initial employment date. Employees may enroll in Blue Cross/Blue Shield, Blue Care Network or Physicians Health Plan (HMO’S).
-225 For a regular full-time employee with single, two-party, or family coverage, the Employer shall pay one hundred percent (100%) of the total monthly premium cost of basic Blue Cross/Blue Shield coverage. The Employer contribution for three-quarter time employees wiU be seventy-five percent (75%) of the full-time contribution of the Blue Cross/Blue Shield plan and for one-half time employees will be fifty percent (50%) of the full-time contribution of the Blue Cross/Blue Shield Plan. In no event shall it exceed the full-time contribution for equivalent coverage. The monthly premium for dependents on sponsored dependent riders will be deducted from the employee’s paycheck.
42
-226 The University contribution for coverage under one of the Health Maintenance Organizations selected by the employee, will not exceed the contribution schedule (single, two-party, family, etc.) for basic Blue Cross/Blue Shield coverage.
-227 Effective June 30, 1997, employees enrolled in the Physicians Health Plan or Blue Care Network will assume a ten (10) dollar “Point of Service” co-pay.
-228 Effective June 30, 1997, employees enrolled in the Physicians Health Plan or Blue Care Network will assume a five (5) dollar prescription drug co-pay.
-229 While an employee is on layoff and collecting Unemployment Compensation, the Employer will make its normal contribution toward the cost of the Health Plan premium for two (2) months beyond the month of separation due to layoff.

-230 Upon evidence of other insurance coverage, employees eligible for MSU health care coverage are eligible to opt out of the MSU Health Plan each year during the May Health Plan Open Enrollment to be effective July 1 through June 30 and receive a $600.00 lumpsum special check payment to be made in the month of July of the next plan year. Reenrollment will be allowed during the plan year if proof of involuntary loss of other insurance coverage is provided within thirty-one days of loss of coverage. The employee would receive a prorated waiver payment in July.--------------------------------------
I	ARTICLE 46
J
!	DENTAL PROGRAM
S
|	-231 Dental Program - The dental program will be provided to all regular full-time 1585
I	members. Fifty percent (50%) or greater regular part-time employees may enroll
themselves and their eligible dependents with a proportionate University contribution (based on the number of dependents covered.)
a.	Fees for the below mentioned services will be covered on a usual, customary, and reasonable basis with a fifty percent (50%) co-payment
b.	Basic diagnostic, preventative, emergency palliative, restorative, oral surgery, endodontics, periodontics, and prosthodontics subject to a $600 annual maximum per individual.
c.	Orthodontics subject to a $600 lifetime maximum per individual.
d.	The dental program benefits will be provided consistent with the carrier’s conditions and procedures.
IB
th
43
-232 Regular employees will have the option to select a managed care dental plan. The program will be provided by a carrier selected by MSU. These benefits will be provided consistent with the carrier’s conditions and procedures. For additional information contact the Benefits Office.
ARTICLE 47
DISABILITY PLANS
A. Long-Term Disability Plan
-233 A University-paid Long-Term Disability Plan will be granted to all regular full-time employees with at least thirty-six (36) continuous full-time equivalent (FTE) service months.
-234 The LTD Program provides after a one hundred eighty (180) day disability waiting period or after exhausting all sick leave accruals, whichever is later, for a continuation of Hie mriHlhly benefit pqiial tn CO percent nf hose salary lip tn a maximum $3,000 benefit including any benefits from Social Security or Worker’s Compensation programs.
-235 The LTD Program additionally pays the employee’s normal contribution and the University contribution to the base retirement program made available through the University and selected by the employee.
-236 At the Employer’s expense, the employee may continue to participate in the Employee Paid Life, health care and dental programs.
-237 For additional information, contact the Benefits Office.
B.	Extended Disability Plan
-238 Eligibility - Regular full-time employees with at least sixty (60) continuous full-time equivalent (FIE) service months are eligible for extended disability leave.
•239 Usage - In cases which are expected to result in total disability, eligible employees will be granted extended disability leave with full pay and benefits for up to six (6) months or until all accruals are exhausted, whichever occurs later. This leave will include the aggregate of accumulated sick leave, vacation and personal time to the extent these benefits are due the employee.
C.	Workers’ Compensation (Long Term)
-240 An employee who is receiving regular Workers’ Compensation for a period in excess of six (6) months shall receive, at the Employer’s expense, life insurance and health care coverage for the period covered by Workers’ Compensation. If it is determined by Benefits that the injured employee will be off work in excess of six (6) months, the above benefit may be implemented upon such determination without requiring premium payments from the affected employee.
ARTICLE 48
EMPLOYEE PAID LIFE PROGRAM
-241 Coverage is available to regular full-time and part-time employees through an optional Employee-Paid Life program. The program is entirely funded from employee premiums and rates are subject to future group experience. The insurance is decreasing term with no cash or loan value and coverage may be selected up to $187,500 depending upon age and the plan selected.________________________________________________
ARTICLE 49
DEATH BENEFIT (EXPANDED LIFE PLAN)
-	242 The Employer will provide, at no employee cost, a fully paid life insurance program to all regular full-time employees at the time of employment
-	243 This program will provide a life insurance benefit in the case of death of an eligible employee on active duty status (including unpaid leaves of absence of 180 days or less) equal to one times the annual wage (Le. basic hourly rate times 2080).
-	244 The employee may designate a beneficiary if desired; if no beneficiary is designated, the life benefit payment will be made in the following order: A. spouse, B. children, C. parents or D. brothers and sisters. If no survivors, payment will be made in a lump sum to the estate.
45
ARTICLE 50
RETIREMENT BENEFITS
A.	Base Retirement Program
-245 Michigan State University provides a base retirement program with the Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association (TIAA), College Retirement and Equities Fund (CREF) and other retirement programs made available through the University and selected by the employee.
-246 Eligibility and Participation - Regular full-time and part-time employees are dibble for participation in TIAA-CREF or other retirement programs made available through the University, and selected by the employee, in accordance with the following policies:
a. The program is optional to employees under age 35 or who are over age 62 at the time of employment
------->». The program is required as a condition of employment for employees who have attained age 35.
c. Once required participation commences, it is not possible to withdraw from TIAA-CREF or other retirement programs made available through the Universify, and selected by the employee while employed at the University.
-247 Premium Contribution - The TIAA-CREF Retirement Annuity or other retirement programs made available through the University, and selected by the employee, are financed by a five (5%) percent deduction from an employee’s base wage, overtime and shift differential with the University contributing ten (10%) percent
-248 Complete details concerning the provisions of the University’s TIAA-CREF Retirement Annuity Plan or other retirement programs made available through the University, and selected by the employee, may be obtained from the Benefits Office.
B. Retirement for Employees Hired Prior to January 1,1973
-249 Effective January 1, 1973, the Universify Retirement Program ceased to exist However, to insure that no employee lost credit for prior years of service, the following guidelines were established to provide that an employee will receive no less than what an improved plan formula would give him or her upon retirement
-250 Those persons employed prior to January 1,1973, who were 55 years of age or older and/or had 25 years of service on January 1, 1973, could elect to remain subject to the improved University Plan formula described below.
-	251 The formula governing the old Retirement Plan was improved by basing pensions on an amount equal to the highest three (3) year average earnings, multiplied by two (2%) percent for each year of service, with a $3,600 ceiling.
•	252 For employees participating in TIAA-CREF and/or other retirement programs made available through the University, and selected by the employee, with a University contribution, this new formula will be applied for each employee at retirement and will become the minimum received by the employee.
-	253 The annuity value, at the time of retirement, purchased by MSU’s contribution to TIAA-CREF and/or other retirement programs made available through the University, and selected by the employee, will be compared to the pension amount as computed in paragraph 251 above, and the employee will receive the larger of the two figures. Employee contributions to TIAA-CREF and/or other retirement programs made available through the University, and selected by the employee, (retroactive to 1-1-73) will provide additional annuity income.
-254 Those employees not participating in TIAA-CREF or other retirement programs made available through the University, and selected by the employee, will have their retirement income figured solely on the improved formula plus a ten (10%) percent addition added to the base pension prior to actuarial reduction or the selectinn of a survivor option.
-255 Employees who terminate without meeting the minimum requirements for retirement will receive a retirement pension from the contributions made to the individual TIAA-CREF annuity contract or other retirement programs made available through the University, and selected by the employee, consistent with provisions of those contracts.
C. University Retirement
-	256 University Retirement Defined - University retirement shall be defined at 1) attainment of age 62 or older with 15 years of service, or 2) at any age with 25 years of service. Interruptions in employment of less than one (1) year duration shall not constitute a break in service as it pertains to retirement
-	257 Employees meeting the minimum retirement requirements wifi remain eligible to maintain group health care and dental plan coverage and receive the health care and dental plan coverage and receive the Employer contribution. Employees participating in the Employee-Paid Life Plan at the time of retirement or terminating at age 65 or thereafter and who were enrolled prior to July 1, 1977, shall receive a $2,000 life benefit fully paid by the Employer.
-	258 An employee who retires under the definition in paragraph 256 shall be paid for fifty (50) percent of his/her unused sick leave, but not to exceed a maximum of fifty (50%) percent of twelve hundred (1200) hours, as of the effective date of separation.
47
-259 An employee who does not meet the definition of University Retirement in paragraph 256 but has at least five (5) years, but less than ten (10) years of continuous service and has attained 65 years of age at the time of their separation shall be paid fifty (50%) percent of their unused sick leave as of the effective date of separation. An employee who does not meet the definition of University Retirement in paragraph 256 but has at least ten (10) years of continuous service and has attained 65 years of age at the time of their separation shall be paid one hundred (100%) percent of their unused sick leave as of the effective date of separation but not to exceed a maximum of one hundred (100) days, unless J he/she has received a University contribution to TIAA-CREF and was employed after 1-1- j 73 in which case the employee shall be paid as in paragraph 258.
j -260 Prorated longevity payments shall be made to those employees who retire under the	j
definition of University Retirement in paragraph 256 prior to October first of any year.	|
This also applies to those employees not under the definition of University Retirement in j paragraph 256 but who are 65 years of age at the time of their separation. Such prorated payments as indicated above shall be based on the number of calendar months of full-time service credited to an employee from the preceding October first to the date of retirement or separation and shall be made as soon as practicable thereafter.
ARTICLE 51
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE
:	A. Qualifications
-261 Full-time employees who meet the following provisions may apply for the Educational Assistance Program.
a.	Twelve (12) continuous FTE service months with the University are required.
b.	Admissions as a student either in a degree program at Michigan State University, or in a degree program or job related course at Lansing Community N	College, MS.U. Outreach Programs, or from those institutions accredited by
generally recognized accrediting agencies and/or are listed in the Education L	Directory of the UJS. Department of Education. In addition, institutions
M	approved under such government training programs as the G.I. Bill of Rights
will also be recognized.
c.	The appropriate educational assistance application complete with departmental approval, must be submitted by employee requesting educational assistance.
i
B.	Non-Credit Courses
a.	Employees may apply for reimbursement and release time for non-credit courses.
b.	Only job-related courses which are offered through the University Outreach (e.g. Lifelong Education, Continuing Education and Evening College), MSU Computer Laboratory, Davenport College, Lansing Community College, High School Adult Education Programs, Human Resource Development Programs or other Staff Benefits Office approved Educational/Training programs are reimbursable.
c.	If non-credit courses only are being taken during an academic year, reimbursement will not exceed eight hundred ($800.00) dollars.
d.	If non-credit courses are being taken during the same academic years as courses per paragraph 261 above, the total reimbursement will not exceed the MSU rate per credit for fourteen (14) credit hours.
e.	Employees must document their successful completion of non-credit courses by submitting (1) a certificate for the course signed by the instructor, or (2) a form provided by Staff Benefits signed by the instructor.
C.	Release Time
-262 When a course is not available during non-working hours, the employee may request release time with pay not to exceed five (5) hours per week to attend one course. The department administrator or designee shall determine whether unit functions will allow such release time to be granted. Such determination shall be within the sole discretion of the Employer.
D.	Tuition Reimbursement
-263 Eligible employees shall be reimbursed for classes, not to exceed fourteen (14) credit hours per academic year and MSU registration fee under the following conditions:
a.	The employee has submitted the appropriate application to her/his supervisor at least ten (10) working days before the initial meeting of the course(s) for which they are seeking approval.
b.	The classes for which the employee is seeking tuition reimbursement may not exceed fourteen (14) total credit hours per academic year.
c.	The employee shall provide the Employer with evidence that they have successfully completed the approved course(s). A grade of 2.0 or better is required for credit course(s).
49
<L If the employee is covered by benefits such as scholarship or fellowship aid, government aid, G.I. benefits, or similar assistance, reimbursement will be made only for that portion of the tuition fee which exceeds the amount of those benefits.
E.	Tuition Waiver
-264 Except as specifically provided below all general provisions of educational assistance apply.
a.	Local 1585 Bargaining Unit members who are eligible for educational assistance shall be eligible for a tuition waiver program. This tuition waiver program will be applicable only to those MSI! courses enrolled in through the University’s standard registration procedure. As a condition of tuition waiver, an employee must sign an agreement authorizing payroll deduction for the amount of tuition waived to be used in the event he/she does not successfully complete the course(s).
b.	Employees interested in utilizing the tuition wavier program must submit their educational assistance complete with departmental approval to the Benefits Office ten (10) working days prior to the beginning of early registration (except fall term, when it is regular registration). The application must be marked with a request for tuition waiver.
c.	If the above time lines are met and educational assistance application is approved, the Benefits Office will forward a list of employees eligible for tuition waiver to the Fees and Scholarship Office and to Local 1585.
d.	The Fees and Scholarship Office billing will reflect tuition waiver. Employees will be responsible for all charges in excess of the registration fee and in excess of fourteen (14) total credit hours per academic year. In the event the approved course(s) are unavailable at the time of registration, other appropriate course(s) may be substituted and the application amended subject to the approval of the department administrator or designee and the Benefits Office by telephone when necessary.
e.	Employees who have had their tuition waived authorize the Benefits Office to verify successful completion of approved courses at the end of the semester. In cases when tuition waivers are withdrawn (e.g., terminated employee, nonapproved course, unsuccessful completion), the University will attempt to payroll deduct the waived tuition. If the University is unable to make collection through payroll deduction, the Union agrees to be responsible for the outstanding debt(s).
50
F.	Course-Fee Courtesy
-265 Full-time employees with sixty (60) FTE service months are eligible under the course-fee courtesy policy as it is provided to the faculty of the University.
ARTICLE 52
SUPERVISION WORKING
-266 Supervisory employees shall not perform work in any job classification of a seniority unit except as outlined in Paragraph 267.
-267 It is understood that supervisory employees may from time to time perform tasks normally assigned to bargaining unit employees. However, supervisors will not perform work which would deprive regular employees of overtime, cause regular employees to work any reduced hours, nor will they perform any bargaining unit work when regular employees are laid off in the individual unit where the work is being performed. Hie parties agree that the Union, Housing and Food Services and Employee Relations representatives will commit to act immediately to address concerns raised by the Union over administration of this section.
ARTICLE 53
STUDENT LABOR
-268 It is the policy of the Employer to provide jobs for students to assist them in obtaining an education. It is the intent of the Employer to use student employees to supplement the work force and not displace it.
-269 The University agrees to provide at or about mid-semester of each academic semester the following information concerning student employees:
a.	Name
b.	Seniority Unit
c.	Hours Worked
51
ARTICLE 54
SAFETY COMMITTEE
-270 A Safety Committee of not more than ten (10) employees and the Employer’s representatives shall be established. The Union will furnish the Employer the names of its members of the Safety Committee and such changes as may occur from time to time in such personnel. This Committee shall meet at least once a month during regular working hours for a period not to exceed two (2) hours for the purpose of making recommendations to the Employer. If the Safety Committee feels that an investigation should be made concerning a particular safety practice, rule or condition, then one Union member of the Safety Committee and a representative of the Employer of the Safety Committee will be designated to investigate the particular practice or rule and make proper recommendations to the Employer.
•271 It shall be the intent of both parties to resolve safety concerns or grievances internally before contacting outside agencies. Employees are encouraged to first discuss safety concerns with supervision and/or departmental safety committees if established.
-272 Any employee safety apparel or apparatus required by University rules, or State laws, win be paid for by the University.
ARTICLE 55
AGREEMENT COPIES
-273 At least three (3) official (proof) copies of the contract shall be signed by appropriate representatives of the Employer and Union and shall be distributed among Employer, Union and printer.
-274 The Employer shall provide the Union with up to 1,500 “small-book” copies of the contract including current changes within ninety (90) days of ratification and final proof reading by the Union.
ARTICLE 56
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS
-275 All supplemental agreements shall be subject to the approval of the Employer and the Union.
52
ARTICLE 57
MAINTENANCE OF CONDITIONS
-	276 It is not the intent of the University to introduce for the first time in its history, mass layoffs or reduction of hours. If, due to conditions beyond the control of the University, it becomes necessary to reduce an Employee’s working hours, the University agrees to meet ' with the Union in order to affect a mutually agreeable settlement If no agreement can be reached at that meeting, the proposed reduction can then be implemented and the dispute may then be arbitrated on the basis of the questions put before the arbitrator by both sides.
-	277 The University agrees to continue an Employee Assistance Program for the Union. The Union shall maintain a representative on the committee set up to advise the Office of Employee Assistance.
-	278 The University shall furnish all employees with appropriate uniforms including laundry services. Employees shall wear uniforms furnished by the Employer unless otherwise mutually agreed.
-	279 The University agrees to provide the Union with a campus restricted Centrex line which shall be paid for by the University.
ARTICLE 58
SPECIAL PROVISIONS
-280 The proceeding agreements apply only to the departments or divisions indicated, and establish no precedent for seniority units not specifically mentioned
I. COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES
-281 Assignment of Employees - Employees in the College of Agriculture and Natural Resources may be assigned to other tasks during certain times without an increase or decrease in their regular rate of pay as opposed to being laid off because of lack of available work in the specific classification. It is understood that the above provision does not guarantee twelve (12) months employment each year to any employee but is merely a sincere effort on the part of the Employer to utilize file talents and services of regular full-time employees during normally slow periods.
53
-282 The Employer will provide jobs for students to the end that impecunious youngsters may secure an education. Many students are employed in order to receive practical training as a part of their education. Therefore, the employer’s current policy with respect to the employment and assignment of students in the College of Agriculhire and Natural Resources will be continued.
-283 The University’s current policy with respect to the employment and assignment of academic personnel, graduate students and students on research projects in die College of Agriculture and Natural Resources will be continued and the foremen and supervisory employees in the College of Agriculture and Natural Resources may spend up to thirty (30%) of their time performing work outside of their supervisory duties in work related to research and special assignments in the bargaining unit
-284 Additionally, it is understood that, in emergency situations when regular employees are not immediately available, supervisory employees in the College of Agriculture and Natural Resources may be required to perform work within specific job classifications. The same thing is true when operational difficulties are encountered or in the testing of materials. Likewise, instruction or training of employees may well include demonstrating proper methods of accomplishing the tasks assigned and no dispute over the policy stated above shall be occasioned by such demonstration.
-285 The Employer’s current policy with respect to the employment and assignment of personnel to the cooperative training program in the Creamery of the College of Agriculture and Natural Resources will be continued.
II.	GROUNDS MAINTENANCE
A.	Tree Trimmer Trainee
-	286 In the event that a Tree Trimmer position is vacated a Tree Trimmer Trainee position shall be posted and filled.
-	287 The Tree Trimmer Trainee shall remain in this classification for a period not to exceed one year in order to be properly trained as a Tree Trimmer and then shall be promoted to Tree Trimmer, salary grade XVIII. The trainee position shall remain vacant until another Tree Trimmer position is vacated.
-	288 While it is the intent in the foreseeable future to maintain the existing Tree Trimming work force, this agreement does not preclude the Grounds Department from adjusting the Tree Trimming work force as operational needs dictate.
54
B.	Grounds Equipment Maintainer II Mechanic and Maintainer Grounds Equipment HI
-	289 The Maintainer Grounds Equipment I will be promoted to the Maintainer Grounds <	Equipment II upon completion of two (2) years of satisfactory experience as a Maintainer
j	Grounds Equipment I, if the employee meets the minimum qualification requirements of
j	the current Maintainer Grounds Equipment H classification.
-	290 A Maintainer Grounds Equipment II will be promoted to the Maintainer Grounds Equipment III classification upon completion of a year of satisfactory experience as a Maintainer Grounds Equipment II if the employee meets the minimum qualification requirements of the current Maintainer Grounds Equipment ill classification.
-	291 Employees classified as Maintainer Grounds Equipment I and II will be allowed release time to take the State of Michigan Certification test for engine repair, electrical systems, and manual transmission. The department will pay the fee required for such tests, upon successful completion of such tests.
-	292 While it is the intent in the foreseeable future to maintain the existing Maintainer Grounds Equipment work force, this Agreement does not preclude the Grounds Department from adjusting the Maintainer Grounds Equipment work force as operational needs dictate.
C.	Eve and Toe Protection
-293 The following provisions apply to those employees in the Grounds Department who are required to wear eye protection and toe protection:
a.	Employees who wear prescription glasses will be given an allowance of $25.00 for the purchase of safety prescription glasses.
b.	Employees who are required to wear toe protection will be given an allowance of $25.00 toward the purchase of safety shoes.
c.	The above allowances shall not be given more than once a fiscal year and only upon suitable proof of purchase.
d.	The University will seek, through its purchasing process, vendors who will provide the lowest price on the above items. The employee may purchase the above items anywhere so long as the items meet the minimum requirements under the applicable law.
III.	HOUSING AND FOOD SERVICES, PHYSICAL PLANT AND INTERCOLLEGIATE ATHLETICS
A.	Assignment of Employees
-	294 Employees in the Housing and Food Services, Physical Plant and Intercollegiate Athletics may be assigned to other tasks during certain times without an increase or decrease in their regular rate of pay as opposed to being laid off because of lack of available work in their specific classifications.
-	29S The Employer will furnish the Union with a list of the employees who are being assigned to other tasks rather than laid off. This list shall be sent to the Union office prior to any reassignment under this section.
-	296 It is understood that the above provision does not guarantee twelve months employment each year to any employee but is merely a sincere effort on the part of the Employer to utilize the talents and services of regular full-time employees during normally slow periods.
B.	Kitchen Sanitation Worker
-	297 Half-time employees (the equivalent of one full-time employee) shall be hired as Kitchen Sanitation Workers (Level VII) in the following units: Akers, Holden, Holmes, Hubbard, Mason-Abbot, McDond, Owen, Snyder-Phillips, Wilson and Wonders. The University agrees to post and fill these part-time positions by the end of fall term, 1978.
-	298 As full-time KSW positions are vacated, they may be replaced with full or half-time employees equivalent to the full-time position regardless of the previous number of full-time KSW’s in a particular unit as long as a dishwashing (and/or pot and pan cleaning) operation is necessary in the unit Schedules may be rearranged to accommodate part-time employees.
-	299 The Division of Housing and Food Services shall continue to supplement the regular work force with student employee as management deems appropriate in accordance with the contract
-	300 This provision does not in any way effect any other classifications nor does it constitute the relinquishment of management’s right to schedule, direct the work force or to eliminate a classification.
C.	Schedule of Employees to Work Designated Holidays
-301 This provision applies to work to be performed by two or more 1585 members in a district on designated holidays:
56
a.	For purposes of scheduling employees, overtime equalization lists shall be utilized in accordance with Article 43.
b.	The District Steward shall be scheduled to work on a designated holiday if he/she
-	has previously occupied or
-	is currently in or
-	has previously performed on a regular basis the classification and/or duties to be performed on that day.
c.	If the District Steward is not scheduled as above, the Alternate Steward shall be scheduled in conformance with above.
d.	District Stewards and Alternate Stewards who work on a holiday shall have their holiday pay calculated on their regular rate of pay for their normal University classification.
e.	If employees, including the District Steward or Alternate Steward in a classification scheduled to work, decline to work, they shall be charged on the equalization lists and management may assign and schedule employees in order of lowest seniority within the classification scheduled to work on that designated holiday.
f.	This provision shall not alter Section D of the Housing and Foods article.
D.	Cook Classification
-302 Effective January 1,1978:
a.	The Cook-Level IX description shall be implemented by this date.
b.	AU Cook I’s Level IV shall become Cooks-Level IX. AU remaining Cook H’s-Level XI shall become Cooks-Level IX and red-circled at salary Level XI.
c.	Employees currently classified as Cook I in Mayo and Campbell Halls will remain at Level IV, red-circled, and be reclassified as FSW, Senior.
d.	Cook, Senior will remain unchanged at Level XVI.
e.	A Cook will be assigned to replace a Cook, Senior who is absent for an entire (8) hour period and shall receive the probationary rate of Cook, Senior according to paragraph 181. If more than one Cook is present, the temporary promotion shall be made on a rotating basis. The Union and management recognize the temporarily promoted Cook must be willing and able to assume Cook Senior duties.
illiij
111	-303 This Agreement applies only to the Cook sequence in die Division of Housing and
|| I	Food Services excluding Kellogg Center.
a. All Level 09 Cooks, who have successfully completed a two-year probationary i|||	period shall, upon completion, automatically proceed to a Cook H, Level 12
|||j	position.
Ill
lip	E.	Assignment of Meat Cutters and Stockhandlers to the Freezer Room
ji|l	-304 It is agreed that assignment to the freezer room is less desirable than other
l|ll	assi^iments in Food Stores. Therefore, employees will be assigned to the freezer room on a
seniority preference basis, and shall be compensated at an additional fifty (50) cents per 11	hour during the period of the regular assignment to the freezer room. Employees, who,
| ||	during the course of their regular duties are compelled to occasionally enter the freezer
!|||	room and are not obliged to spend over one (1) hour consecutively in the freezer room,
||| |	shall not be eligible for the additional compensation. If a sufficient number of employees
Ijll I	do not opt for the freezer room assignment, the least senior employees shall be assigned.
'I	F. Baker (Central Bake Shop)
||h	-305 If an employee is assigned or caused to be transferred to the position from a higher
11	pay rate than grade XIV maximum, the employee’s	pay rate shall be red circled and
11	his/her classification shall be retained for whatever	future benefits he/she may drive
therefrom.
IV.	INSTRUCTIONAL MEDIA CENTER
-306 Motor Vehicle Operators - the pick up and delivery of equipment will be performed by 1585 personnel, however, it is jointly recognized that in some situations it may not be possible for only Motor Vehicle Operators to pick up and deliver audio visual equipment as incases where:
a.	The security of equipment, on or off-campus is jeopardized.
b.	Professional and technical staff are needed to determine equipment needs on the program site and the IMC vans are used as a mobile center.
c.	An emergency occurs, such as equipment failure, absence of personnel, last minute deadlines, and other circumstances beyond the control of the dispatchers.
d.	Off-campus programs which require the transportation of an authorized operator as well as equipment when prior delivery is not possible, and when overtime has been offered and refused by bargaining unit employees.
58
e.	During slow periods, Motor Vehicle Operators will be reassigned other duties in order to provide wort.
f.	All programs involving Central Administration (Presidents and Vice Presidents).
V.	CUSTODIAL SERVICES
A.	Grievance/Disciolinarv
-307 Meetings involving the District Supervisor for Third Shift employees shall normally be scheduled at 4:30 p.m. on Fridays unless mutually agreed otherwise.
-308 For Custodial Services employees scheduled Sunday through Thursday, the District Supervisor or his/her designee shall hold meetings requiring a District Steward during the employee’s normal working hours unless mutually agreed otherwise. These meetings shall occur not more than once a week.
B.	Eonalization of Overtime
-309 On July first of each year, the number of overtime hours credited to each employee in the custodial department will be reduced to zero.
a. Overtime for classifications other than Custodians (Set Up Worker, Building Services Custodian, Swimming Pool Operator-Custodian, and Stockroom Personnel) shaU be offered first to the employees within the classification needed and second to all employees within the three (3) Physical Plant Custodial Districts. In both first and second situations overtime shall be offered to employees with lowest overtime hours first and so on down the list (the present practice of posting available overtime will be continued).
-310 An employee who changes classifications within the custodial series (Custodian II, III, and IV) shall retain the number of overtime hours which the employee held before the date of change.
-311 Custodial overtime within a building will be offered first to the head custodian normally assigned to the building where the overtime is available; and second to all other custodial employees normally assigned to the building; and then to all other custodial employees. In the second and third situations, overtime should be offered to employees with the lowest overtime hours first and so on down the list
59
-312 When the Employer combines buildings for the purpose of custodial overtime, the overtime shall be offered first to the building heads in the buildings being combined based on the lowest overtime hours worked, until a building head accepts the overtime or all refuse it, after which it shall be offered to those employees regularly assigned to those buildings being combined based on the lowest overtime hours worked within the classification needed.
C.	Automotive Services
-313 It is agreed that Automotive Services, Physical Plant Division, will continue their long-standing policy relating to split runs on the Campus Bus System. Included in this policy are the following:
a.	Split runs will be minimized as much as possible.
b.	All new employees shall read the job description and be aware they may have to operate a split run.
c.	The Bus Drivers may suggest alternate solutions to eliminate any or ail split runs. These solutions will be considered and adopted if they:
-	Do not increase operating costs.
-	Do not eliminate needed service.
D.	Bus Department Bidding Procedure
-314 Before the start of each Michigan State University school semester, Bus Drivers will choose their bus runs by seniority within the Bus Department with the first choice going to the highest seniority driver and so on down the seniority list Hereafter, the “start of the semester” shall be defined as the first day of each school semester that buses commence operation with that semester’s schedule.
-315 After the start of the semester but before two-thirds of the semester has been completed, if a new bus run is established, all Bus Drivers will rebid runs by seniority as stated in paragraph 314.
-316 After the start of the semester but prior to the completion of two-thirds of that semester, if a Bus Driver is not able to continue his/her run and is not expected to be able to return to that run for the remainder of that semester, all drivers from that driver’s position on the seniority list and on down will rebid the bus run chosen by said driver and all other drivers with less seniority. All bidding will be based on first choice to the highest seniority Bus Department driver.
60
-317 After the start of the semester, if a Bus Driver is unable to continue his/her run for an unspecified period of time, but he/she is expected to return prior to the end of the semester, drivers from the extra board will be offered the run in the order of highest Bus Department seniority.
-318 After the start of a semester, if a Bus Driver who has not chosen a run returns to work in the Bus Department, the runs chosen by drivers with less seniority than the returning driver will be re-bid by the returning driver and all drivers with less seniority. All re-bidding will be based upon first choice to the highest seniority Bus Department driver.
-319 During the last one-third of a semester, if a new run is established, it will be filled by a driver from the extra board with first choice given to highest seniority employee assigned to the extra board and so on down the list If the new route necessitates hiring an additional employee, and the more senior extra board employees decline the new run, the new employee will be assigned to that route.
-320 During the last one-third of the semester, if a new employee is hired he/she will be assigned to the extra board for the remainder of the semester, unless the more senior employees already assigned to the extra board decline any other options which might be available to them.
-321 Whenever re-bidding is necessary, all driver assignments will remain the same as originally established until the completion of the re-bidding process.
VI. UNIVERSITY SERVICES
A.	General Stores and Campus Mail Service
-322 University Stores management will administer a training program, successful completion of which will move employees from grade XIII to the top of grade XVII in thirty (30) months.
-323 New employees hired as Material Handlers will automatically enter the training program and will receive step increases each six (6) months providing they have successfully completed that portion of the training to which they are assigned. New employees hired as Material Handlers will be assumed to be in the training program at all times during the first thirty (30) months of employment.
-324 The amount of the step increase will be determined by dividing the difference between the start of grade XIII and the top of grade XVII by five (S). If there is a remainder to the quotient, it will be applied to the last increase.
61
B.	University Printing
-325 The classification Print Shop Trainee will apply to all new 1585 employees without previous printing experience hired in the Print Shop bindery.
-	326 Printing management will develop and implement a training program, successful completion of which will move employees from Grade level VI to the top of Grade Level IX in twenty-four (24) months.
-	327 New bindery employees will automatically enter the training program and will receive step increases each six (6) months providing they have successfully completed the portion of training to which they have been assigned.
-	328 New employees will be assumed to be in a training program at all times during the first twenty-four (24) months of employment Unsuccessful completion of any aspect of the training program will result in layoff for a new employee or return to a former classification for a Seniority employee.
-	329 The amount of the step increase will be determined by dividing the difference between die start of Grade Level VI and the top of Grade Level IX by four. If there is a remainder to the quotient, it will apply to the last increase.
V	IL VETERINARY MEDICINE
A. Work Schedule
-	330 There shall not be any change in the work schedule without agreement between Employer and employee.
-	331 Any change in the work shift shall be discussed seven (7) days prior to change except in an emergency.
-	332 Any time worked not included in the regular work schedule shall be considered overtime.
Vin. OVERTIME EQUALIZATION -ULAR
-	333 Overtime hours shall be divided as equally as practicable among employees in specific work locations. An up-to-date list showing overtime hours and unit seniority date, by specific work location, will be posted in prominent places within the seniority unit by the IS* day of each month. A copy shall also be provided to the steward of the district
62
•334 Whenever overtime is required within a specific work location, the overtime shall be offered first to employees normally assigned to that group on a rotating basis. After exhausting tins procedure and the need still exists, the Employer shall offer the overtime to employees normally assigned to other specific work locations, regardless of classification. In such cases, they would be called on the basis of least hours of overtime within the seniority unit
-	335 For the purpose of this agreement time not worked because the employee was unavailable or did not choose to work, will be charged the average number of overtime hours of the employees working during that overtime period.
-	336 On July 1 each year, the amount of overtime hours credited to each employee within the seniority unit will be reduced to a zero base.
-	337 The Employer will make a reasonable effort to maintain hours between specific work locations equal, with a maximum variance between locations not to exceed 100 hours. If in the event equalized hours of one group exceed that of another location by greater than 100 hours, overtime shall be offered to employees in the lower group, until such time as the groups are once again equalized. At that time, provisions of paragraph 334 would again be applicable.
-	338 Weekend overtime shall be offered in increments of not less than 3 hours, except in necessary emergencies.
-	339 For purposes of this Agreement, specific work location and employee groups shall be defined as regular 1585 employees normally assigned to locations in ULAR. The present ULAR locations are:
a.	Veterinary Research Farm/Indnerator
b.	Giltner Hall
c.	Psychology Research Building/Fee Hall/Veterinary Ciinic/Olds Hall
d.	Life Science Building/MLS.U. Clinical Center
63
ARTICLES?
SAVINGS CLAUSE
-340 If during the life of this Agreement any of the provisions contained herein are held to be invalid by operation of law or by any tribunal of competent jurisdiction or if compliance with or enforcement of any provisions should be restrained by such tribunal pending a final determination as to its validity, the remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby. In the event any provision herein contained is so rendered invalid, upon written request of either party hereto, the Employer and the Union shall immediately enter into collective bargaining for the purpose of negotiating a mutually satisfactory replacement for such provision.
ARTICLE 60
CONTRACT DOCUMENTS
-341 The provisions herein contained constitute the entire Agreement between the parties.
ARTICLE 61
MODIFICATION
-342 This Agreement shall continue in full force and effect from the date hereof until 11:59 p.m., July 31,2006, and from year to year thereafter, unless notice of modification is given as provided in paragraphs 344,345.
-343 This Agreement shall be effective from and after August 1,2002, until and including July 31,2006.
-344 If either party desires to modify or change this Agreement, it shall, sixty (60) days ' prior to the expiration date or any subsequent expiration date, give written notice of amendment, in which event the notice of amendment shall set forth the nature of the amendment or amendments desired. Any amendments that may be agreed upon shall become and be a part of this Agreement without modifying or changing any of the other terms of this Agreement The Employer agrees to continue all contractual rights and benefits past the expiration date of this contract until a new contract takes effect as long as there is no strike by the Union. There shall be no lockout by the Employer.
64
-346 Notice of modification - Notice shall be in writing and shall be sufficient if sent by certified mail addressed, if to the Union, to the Local 1585 President and if to the Employer, addressed to the Director Employee Relations, or to any such address as the Union or the Employer may make available to each other.
ARTICLE 62
EFFECTIVE DATE
-347 This agreement shall become effective as of August 1, 2002, IN WITNESS THEREOF THE PARTIES HAVE SET THEIR HANDS:
Date Signed: May 24.2002
Fred L. Poston
VP for' Fin. & Oper. & Treas.
FOR THE UNION
Denise Anderton
Ast VP, Human Resources
Samuel A. Baker
Director, Employee Relations
Personnel Administrator
Housing & Food Services
Asc. Mgr., CANR Administration
President
65
University Housing
Personnel Administrator Physical Plant
Manager, Custodial Services
Director, University Services
JeoniferJ?
Personnel Ast Administrator
Grounds Maintenance
AFSCME Council 25
Rick Gierman
Negotiating Team
Mike Massey
Negotiating Team
Negotiating Team
Negotiating Team
antes Rhodes, Jr
Negotiating T
66
APPENDIX I
LOCAL 1585 AESCME CLASSIFICATION AND LEVEL SCHEDULE
CLASSIFICATION
LEVEL
Agricultural & Special Equipment Operator I	XVI
Agricultural & Special Equipment Operator II	XIX
Agricultural Group Leader	XX
Agricultural Research Aide	XVIII
Animal Attendant	VI
Animal Caretaker I	IX
Animal Caretaker II	XIV
Animal Caretaker III/Repair	XV
Animal Caretaker IH/Treadmill	XV
Animal Caretaker IV	XVII
Animal Caretaker Research I	XV
Animal Caretaker Research II	XVIII
Athletic Equipment Worker	XIX
Baker/Central Bake Shop	XIV
Baker/Central Bake Shop Trainee	IX
Bakery/Pastry Chef	XIX
Baker/Pastry Chef Assistant I	XV
Baker/Pastry Chef Assistant II	XVII
Banquet Setup Worker/Kellogg Center	XII
Building Sanitation Worker	VIII
Building Security Worker	XII
Building Services Custodian	XIV
Building Services Group Leader	XV
Building Services Worker	II
Building Services Worker/Kellogg Center	VII
Central Sterilization Worker	XI
Central Sterilization Worker Group Leader	XIV
Cook I	IX
Cook II	XII
Cook HI	XVI
Cook, Cowles House	XV
Cook, Kellogg Center	XVIII
Cook, Range/Kellogg Center	VII
Cook Vegetable/Kellogg Center	xin
Costume Maker	VII
Cowles House Services Assistant	XIV
Custodian I	n
Custodian II	X
Custodian HI	XII
67
LEVEL
CLASSIFICATION
Custodian IV Dairy Processing Worker Dining Room Worker Drapery Maker I Drapery Maker II Driver, Bus Driver/Buyer Assistant Cyclotron Driver/Buyer Produce Feed Mill Operator Food Processing Worker I Food Processing Worker II Food Service Cashier/Attendant Food Service Worker Aide Food Service Worker I Food Service Worker n Gardener I Gardener II Greenskeeper I Greenskeeper II Grounds/Site Construction Group Leader Grounds Utility Worker Groundskeeper I Groundskeeper II Gym Store Attendant Herder I Herder H Horticulture Aide Host/Kellogg Center Incinerator Worker Intramural Supply Attendant Kitchen Sanitation Worker I Kitchen Sanitation Worker H Laboratory Preparation Aide Laboratory Sanitation Worker Laboratory Worker Laborer Agricultural I Laborer Agricultural II Laborer General Laborer I Laborer II Laborer III Laundry Control Checker Laundry Equipment Maintainer Laundry Helper

68
CLASSIFICATION	LEVEL
Laundry Worker I Laundry Worker II Lodal & Huge haul Operator Mail Carrier Maintainer Bowling Alley Equipment Maintainer Custodial Equipment Maintainer Fire Extinguisher Equipment Maintainer Food Equipment I Maintainer Food Equipment II Maintainer Grounds Equipment I Maintainer Grounds Equipment H Maintainer Grounds Equipment HI Maintainer Heating Equipment Maintainer Irrigation Systems Maintainer Munn Arena |	Maintainer Parking Meter Equipment Maintenance Worker Agricultural I Maintenance Worker Agricultural H Maintenance Worker I Maintenance Worker II Maintenance Worker IH Maintenance Worker ULAR Maintenance Worker Veterinary Material and Logistics Worker I Material and Logistics Worker II Material Handler Material Handler Group Leader Material Handler Trainee Meat Cutter I Meat Cutter II Meat Cutter HI Motor Vehicle Operator Pest Control Worker Recydittg/Salvage Worker I Recyding/Salvage Worker H I	Set-up Worker I 1	Set-up Worker II 1	Sexton I	Snackshop/Concession Attendant I	Stockhandler I I	Stockhandler II I	Stockhandler III I	Stockhandler Cyclotron Laboratory I	Stockhandler Scientific Supplies I	VI XI XVI X XVII XVHI XIX XIX XXII XVI XX XXII XX XX XVII XIX xrv XVI XU XVI XIX XIX XVII XV XIX XV XVHI XIII XV XVII XVHI XII XX VI X XVI XIX XIV VII xn XVI XVIII XIX XV
69
If-
CLASSIFICATION
Stockhandler Scientific Supplies II
Stockroom Attendant I
Stockroom Attendant II
Swimming Pool Operator-Custodian I
Swimming Pool Operator-Custodian II
Telephone Operator
Tree Trimmer I
Tree Trimmer II
Tree Trimmer, Trainee
Warehouse Attendant
LEVEL
XVIII XV
XVIII XIV XIX X
XVIII
XIX XIV
XVI
70
APPENDIX n
Wage rate schedule effective August 1,2002, for those employees included in the seniority units clause of this Agreement*
LEVEL	PROBATIONARY JOB RATE

$ 7.48	$ 8.48
$ 8.66	$ 9.12
$ 9.18	$10.18
$1138	$12.19
$11.78	$12.40
$1X15	$12.79
$1237	$13.02
$12.65	$1332
$12.75	$13.42
$13.09	$13.78
$13.17	$13.86
$1332	$14.23
$13.85	$1438
$14.22	$14.97
$1437	$15.13
$14.52	$15.28
$14.18	$15.75
$14.53	$16.14
$14.80	$16.44
$15.14	$16.82
$15.60	$1733
$16.06	$1734
$16.20	$18.00
$16.82	$18.69
$16.93	$1831
•Except as specified in Appendix VI.
APPENDIX m
Wage rate schedule effective August 1,2003, for those employees included in the seniority units clause of this Agreement*
The wage schedule for this Agreement will be prepared following the determination of the percent wage increase for each year, in conformance with the terms of the “Memorandum of Understanding between Michigan State University and the Coalition of Labor Organizations,” effective January 1,2002, and ratified by the Union, a copy of which is attached hereto, until and including July 31,2006.
♦Except as specified in Appendix VII.
APPENDIX IV
Wage rate schedule effective August 1,2004, for those employees included in the seniority units clause of this Agreement*
The wage schedule for this Agreement will be prepared following the determination of the percent wage increase for each year, in conformance with the terms of the “Memorandum of Understanding between Michigan State University and the Coalition of Labor Organizations,” effective January 1,2002, and ratified by the Union, a copy of which is attached hereto, until and including July 31,2006.
♦Except as specified in Appendix Vlll.
73
APPENDIX V
Wage rate schedule effective August 1,2005, for those employees included in the seniority units clause of this Agreement.*
The wage schedule for this Agreement will be prepared following the determination of the percent wage increase for each year, in conformance with the terms of the “Memorandum of Understanding between Michigan State University and the Coalition of Labor Organizations,” effective January 1,2002, and ratified by the Union, a copy of which is attached hereto, until and including July 31,2006.
♦Except as specified in Appendix IX.
74
APPENDIX VI
Specific Classification - Wage Rate Schedule Effective August 1,2002, for those employees included in the seniority units clause of this Agreement
Dining Room Worker (Level IA)
Start	6 mo.	12 mo.
$7.48	$7.98	$8.48
Food Service Worker Aide (Level IB)
Start	6 mo.	12 mo.
$8.66	$8.89	$9.12
Food Service Cashier/Attendant (Level IC)
Start	6 mo.	12 mo.
$9.18	$9.68	$10.18
Building Service Worker (Level II)
Start	6 mo.	12 mo.
$11.19	$11.69	$12.19
Food Service Worker I (Level II)
Start	6 mo.	12 mo.
$11.19	$11.69	$12.19
Laundry Helper (Level II)
Start	6 mo.	12 mo.
$11.19	$1L69	$12.19
Snack Shop Attendant (Level VII)
Start	6 mo.	12 mo.
$12.42	$12.92	$13.42
Kitchen Sanitation Worker I (Level VII)
Start	6 mo.	12 mo.
$12.42	$12.92	$13.42
75
Animal Caretaker II (Level XIV)
Start	6 mo.	12 tno.
$14.28 $14.78 $15.28
Animal Caretaker III (Level XV)
Start	6 mo.	12 mo.
$14.75	$15.25	$15.75
Anima] Caretaker IV (Level XVII)
Start	6 mo.	12 mo.
$15.44	$15.94	$16.44
76
APPENDIXVII
Specific Classification - Wage Rate Schedule Effective August 1,2003, for those employees included in the seniority units clause of this Agreement
The wage schedule for this Agreement will be prepared following the determination of the percent wage increase for each year, in conformance with the terms of the “Memorandum of Understanding between Michigan State University and the Coalition of Labor Organizations,” effective January 1, 2002, and ratified by the Union, a copy of which is attached hereto, until and including July 31,2006.
APPENDIX VIII
Specific Classification - Wage Rate Schedule Effective August 1,2004, for those employees included in the seniority units clause of this Agreement
The wage schedule for this Agreement will be prepared following the determination of the percent wage increase for each year, in conformance with the terms of the “Memorandum of Understanding between Michigan State Univenaty and the Coalition of Labor Organizations,” effective January !, 2002, and ratified by the Union, a copy of which is attached hereto, until and including July31,2006.
r
I
j	APPENDIX IX
Wage rate schedule effective August 1,2005, for those employees included in the seniority units clause of this Agreement.
The wage schedule for this Agreement will be prepared following the determination of the percent wage increase for each year, in conformance with the terms of the “Memorandum of Understanding between Michigan State University and the Coalition of Labor Organizations,” effective January 1,2002, and ratified by the Union, a copy of which is attached hereto, until and including July 31, 2006.
79
APPENDIX X
DEFINITIONS
Agreement - Whenever the word “Agreement” is used in this document, it shall be considered synonymous with the word “Contract”.
Demotion - Demotion shall be considered the movement of any employee to a lower grade level.
Full-Time Equivalent (FTE) Service Months
A.	Full-time equivalent (FTE) service months is defined as the cumulative full-time equivalent (FTE) months of service for Universify employment of 50.0% or greater. FTE service months will be used in determining eligibility for University benefits which require a service waiting period.
B.	FTE service months will be credited each month as follows:
a)	1.00 credit per month for full-time (90% -100% ) employees
b)	.75 credit per month for 3A time (65% - 89.9%) employees
c)	.50 credit per month for Vi time (50% - 64.9%) employees
C.	For new hires, terminations, percent of employment changes, etc, FTE service months will be credited based on an employee’s status as of the 15* of the month.
D.	Employees on paid and unpaid leaves of absence or layoff will continue to accrue FTE service months based on their percent of employment immediately prior to the leave/layoff.
E.	Employees meeting the minimum retirement requirements will remain eligible to maintain group health and dental coverage and receive the Employer’s proportional contribution.
F.	If an employee retires with 15 years of service and at least age 62, use the following FTE Service Months ranges to determine the employer’s health and dental contribution during retirement
YRS MOS	FTE SERVICE MONTHS
	‘/ztime (50%-64.9%)	3A time (65%-89.9%)	Full-time (90%-100%)
15	180	90.00-	117.00-	162.00-
	116.99	161.99	999.99
If an employee retires with 25 years of service at any age, use the following FTE Service Month ranges.		
YRS MOS	FTE SERVICE MONTHS	
15	180	14 time	14 time (50%-64.9%)	(65%-89.9%) 150.00-	195.00- 194.99	269.99	Full-time (90%-100%) 270.00-999.99
HeZShe-Wherever personal pronouns are used in this Agreement, it shall be understood that the gender is neuter.
I literal Transfer - A lateral transfer shall be considered the movement of any employee within the same grade level.
Promotion- Promotion shall be considered the movement of an employee to a higher grade level.
Proportional Benefits - Part-time benefits are listed in Paragraph 41 shall be apportioned to persons assigned less than full-time in the following manner:
26	hours but less than 36 hours....75%
20	hours but less than 26 hours...30%
Less than 20 hours.—no benefits
Rates of Pay
Base - Is the per hour rate of the employee not including shift differential or overtime computations.
Regular - Is the per hour rate of the employee including shift differential.
Seniority.
a.	University Seniority - length of continuous employment, (including Article 12), starting with the original date of hire with the Employer, including periods of authorized leaves of absence and layoffs consistent with other Articles of this Agreement This date shall be used for benefit purposes.
b.	Bargaining Unit Seniority - total length of employment within all units listed in Article 4, starting on the last date of hire with the Employer, except as abridged in Articles 12, 22, and 23. This date shall be used for filling vacancies and layoffs.
81
To Assist - As used in the Union classification descriptions connotes that an employ ee in a classification will provide whatever operational help is necessary to accomplish a task, function or end. “To assist” does not necessarily infer that another co-worker or employee must be constantly present during the accomplishment of a task.
Unavailable - An employee shall be considered unavailable for overtime in the following situations:
-	The employee is on sick or funeral leave within 24 hours prior to the scheduled overtime, except of sick or funeral leave of less than four (4) hours.
-	While the employee is on vacation and until he/she returns from vacation to his/her regular shift unless the employee provides prior written notification to his/her Supervisor of his/her availability.
-	The employee has signed an overtime waiver form indicating that he/she does not wish to work any overtime.
-	The employee is on an unpaid leave of absence, layoff, Regular or Worker’s Compensation.
-	Except that only in the Custodial Department if it becomes necessary to assign overtime, the language in Article 42 and 43 shall apply and overtime waivers will not be recognized. However the Employer will not arbitrarily and/or capriciously assign employees.
In these situations the employee will not be contacted for overtime, but will be charged the average number of overtime hours of the employees working during the overtime period.
Union - Whenever the words Local 1585 or Union appear in this Agreement, they shall mean AFSCME Local Union Number 1585, AFL-CIO.
University or Employer - Whenever the words University or Employer appear in the Agreement, they shall mean Michigan State University.
Workers* Compensation
“Full” - Is the payment of Workers’ Compensation including sick, vacation or personal leave accrual supplementation.
“Regular” - Is the payment of Workers’ Compensation with no sick, vacation or personal leave accrual supplementation.
INDEX
Topic	Article Number	Paragraph Number	Page
Absence before/after Holiday	25	99	22
Absences	24	94	21
Address Change	12	49d	13
Affirmative Active	Preface	2	i
	36	183	35
Agreement (Def. Of)	App. X		80
Agreement		3	1
Agreement Copies	55	274-275	52
Aid to Other Unions	3	9	
Alternate Prepaid Health			
Plans (HMO) Appeal of Reprimand,	45	225	42
Suspension or Discharge Appendix I Classification	17	77	17
& Levels Appendix H Wage Schedule	App. I		67-70
8-1-02	App. H		71
Appendix III Wage Schedule 8-1-03 Appendix IV Wage Schedule	App.III		72
8-1-04	App. IV		73
Appendix V Wage Schedule 8-1-05 Appendix VI Specific Class.	App. V		74
8-1-02 Appendix VII Specific Class.	App. VI		75-76
8-1-03	App. VII		77
Appendix VIII Specific Class. 8-1-04 Appendix IX Specific Class.	App. VIII		78
8-1-05	App. IX		79
Appendix X Definitions Assignment of College of	App. X		80-82
Agriculture & Natural Resources Employees	58	282-286	53-54
Assist (Def. of)	App. X		82
Base Rate of Pay (Def. of)	App.X		81
Call-in Pay Checkoff Authorization	41	202-203	39
Cards	6	13,15,16	4-5
Chief Steward	13,15	54,64-65	13,15
Release Time	31	133	28
Topic	Article Number	Paragraph Number	Page Number
Overtime	31	135	28
Classification & Levels	App. I		67-70
Classifications	38	189-191	36-37
Classifications (Specific)App.II,III,VIII,IX			75-79
Computation of Back Wages	16	74	17
Contract Documents	60	342	64
Contract Expiration	61	343-344	64
Death Benefit (Expanded Life Ins.)	49		243-245	45
Definitions	App. X		80-82
Dental Program	46	232-233	43-44
Disability Plans	47	234-241	44-45
Long Term Disability		234-238	44
Extended Disability Han		239-240	44
Discharge	17	75-78	17-18
Dues	6	13-24	4-6
Dues Deduction List	6	18	5
Educational Assistance Educational Leave of Absence for	51	262-266	48-51
Veterans	34	158-159	31
Effective Date	64	347	65
Employer Paid Life Program	48	242	45
Employer (Def. of)	App. X		82
Equalization of Overtime Hours	43	210-215	40
Stewards	8,43	29,216	8,40
All Employees	43	210-215	40
Unavailability for Overtime	App. X		82
Excused Absence	32	146-148	30
Executive Board Meetings	31	140	29
Failure to Return to Work	12	49	13
Filling of Vacancies	36	170-183	33-35
Posting		172-175	33
Trial Period		177-179	34
Temporary Assignments		182	34
Affirmative Action		183	35
Finality of Decisions	15	73	17
Full-time Equivalent (FTE)			
Service Months	App. X		80-81
Full Worker’s Compensation			
(Def. of)	App. X		82
Funeral Leave	29	128-131	27
Definition of Employee’s			
Immediate Family		129	27
84
1 j	Tobis 1	Article Number	Paragraph Number	Page Number
1	General Conditions (Leaves)	35	160-169	32
Leaves with Pay		160-162	32
Leaves without Pay		163-167	32
Return to Active Employment		168-169	32
Grievance Procedure — General			
Conditions	14	55-60	14
Time of Meetings		57	14
Time of Answers		58	14
Time of Appeal		59	14
Non-conformance		60	14
Grievance Procedure Steps	15	61-73	15-17
Grounds Maintenance	58	287-294	54-55
Tree Trimmer Trainee (Grounds)		287-289	54
Grounds Equipment Maintainer H		290-293	55
Eye & Toe Protection (Grounds)		294	55
He/She	App. X		81
HMO-Alternate Prepaid			
Health Plan	45	225	42
Health Care Coverage	45	225-231	42-43
Holidays	25	95-99	22
Housing & Food Services,			
Phys. Plant & Int Athletics	58	295-306	56-58
Assignment of Emps.		295-297	56
Kitchen San. Worker		298-301	56
Schedule of Employees & Stewards to work designated			
Holidays	58	302	56-57
Cook Classification		303-304	57-58
Freezer Room Assignment		305	58
Baker (Central Bake Shop)		306	58
Initiation Fees	5,6	12d,13-14	3,4
Instructional Media Center	58	307	58-59
Motor Vehicle Operators		307-e	59
Insurance	45-50	225-261	42-48
Health Care Coverage	45	225-231	42-43
Dental Program	46	232-233	43-44
Disability	47	234-241	44-45
Employee Paid Life Prog.	48	242	45
Expanded Life Plan	49	243-245	45
85
Topic	Article Number	Paragraph Number	Page Number
Retirement	50	246-261	46-48
Jury Duty	30	132	28
Layoffs	20,21	81-85	19-20
Effect on Seniority	35	166	32
Failure to Return	12	49d-f	12-13
Health Care Coverage	45	230	43
Stewards	8	31	8
Notice of President &			
Chief Steward	13	54	13
Temporary	20	81	19
Recall	22	86-89	20
Work Opportunity	23	90-93	21
Vacation & Sick Leave			
Accrual	35	165	32
Leaves - General Conditions	35	160-169	32
Leave of Absence for			
Illness or Disability	32	153-155	30-31
List of Stewards	8	32	9
Longevity Pay	44	216-224	41-42
Initial Eligibility		219	41
Continuing Eligibility		220	41
Longevity Phy Schedule		224	42
Prorated Payment	44,50	222,261	41,48
Loss of Seniority	12	49-53	12-13
Maintenance of Conditions	57	277-280	53
Medical Coverage	45	225-231	42-43
Medical Dispute	19	80	19
Membership in the Union	5	12	3-4
Military Leave	33	156-157	31
Effect on Vacation Allowance	26	105-c	24
Extended Service	33	156	31
Short Tours of Duty	33	157	31
Modifications	61	343-346	64-65
Notices			
Absence	24	94	21
Layoff	21	85	20
Recall	22	88	20
Reprimand, Suspension,			
or, Discharge	17	75-78	17-18
86
Article Topic	Number		Paragraph Number	Page Number
Overtime	41	204-207	39
Stewards	8	29	8
Specific Areas	42	208-209	39
Equalization	43	210-215	40
Paid Union Leave/Release Time	31	133-144	28-29
Part-time Employees	10	40-43	11
Hours		40	11
Benefits		41	11
Seniority		42	11
Funeral Leave		43	11
Personal Leave	32	149-152	30
Personal Leave Hours	27	110-114	24-25
Physical Plant	58	295-297	56
Assignment of Employees		295-297	56
Custodial Services - Grievance/ Disciplinary		308-309	59
Custodial Services - Equalization of Overtime		310-313	59-60
Custodial Services - Automotive Services		314	60
Custodial Services - Bus Depart Bidding Procedure		315-322	61
Posting of Job Vacancies	36	170-183	33-35
Preface		1-2	i
Presenting a Grievance	IS	61-73	15-17
Immediate Supervisor		62	15
Step I-District		63-65	15
Supervisor Step H - Administrative		66	15-16
Head Step III - Employer’s		67-68	16
Representative Step IV - Arbitration		69-73	16-17
Finality of Decisions		73	17
President Release Time	31	133-138	28
Probationary Employees	10	35-36	9-10
Proportional Representation	7	27	8
Proportional Benefits (Def. of)	App. X			81
Purpose and Intent	1	4-7	1
87
Topic	Article Number	Paragraph Number	Page Number
Rates of Pay (Def. of)	App. X		81
Recall Procedure	22	80-89	20
Recognition	4	10-11	2-3
Employees Covered		10	2
Seniority Units		11	2-3
Red Circle Rates Regular Rate of Pay	40	196	37
(Def. of) Regular Worker’s	App. X		81
Compensation (Def. of)	App. X		82
Representation Districts List of Representation	7	25-28	0-8
Districts Number of Stewards &		25	0-7
Alternate Stewards Reprimand, Suspension or		25	0-7
Discharge	17	75-78	17-18
Rest Periods	41	200	38
Retirement Benefits	50	246-261	40-48
A. Base Retirement Programs		240-249	40
Eligibility & Participation B. Retirement for Employees		247	40
before Vl/73		250-250	46-47
University Retirement		257-261	47-48
University Retirement Defined		257	47
Insurance Payment for Unused Sick		258	47
Leave		259-260	47-48
Prorated Longevity Pay		201	48
Return Rights to the Union	12	51-53	13
Rights of the Employer	2	8	1
Safety Apparel	54	273	52
Safety Committee	54	271-273	52
SavingsClause	59	341	64
Seniority	10	35-43	9-11
Definition of	App. X		81
Probationary Employees	10	35-30	9-10
Temporary Employees		37-39	10-11
Part-time Employees		40-43	11
Recall	22	80-89	20
Laid-off Employees	21	82-85	19-20
88
	Article	Paragraph	Page
Topic	Number	Number	Number
Seniority Lists	11	44-48	12
Seniority of Officers	13	54	13
Seniority of Stewards	8	31	8
Seniority Units	4	11	2-3
Shift Differential	41	197	38
Shift Hours		198	38
Shift Preference		199	38
Sick Leave	28	115-127	25-27
Payment for Unused Sick Leave	SO	259-260	47-48
Worker’s Compensation	28	118	26
Special Conferences	18	79	18
Special Provisions	58	281-340	53-63
I. College of Agriculture			
& Natural Resources		282-286	53-54
11. Grounds Maintenance		287-294	54-55
HI. Housing & Food Services,			
Physical Plant & Inter.			
Athletics		295-306	56-58
IV. Instructional Media Center		307	58-59
V. Custodial Services		308-322	59-61
VI. University Services		323-330	61-62
vn. Veterinary Medicine		331-333	62
VHI. Overtime Equalization			
ULAR		334-340	62-63
Specific Classification -8-1-02, Wage Rate Schedule Specific Classification -	App. VI		75-76
8-1-03, Wage Rate Schedule	App. vn		77
Specific Classification -8-1-04, Wage Rate			
Schedule	App. VIII			78
Specific Classification -8-1-04, Wage Rate Schedule Stewards and Alternate	App. IX		79
Stewards	8	29-32	8-9
Stewards’ Meetings		30	8
Student Labor	53	269-270	51
Supervision Working	52	267-268	51
Supplemental Agreements	56	276	52
89
	Article	Paragraph	Page
Topic	Number	Number	Number
Suspension	7	75-78	17-18
Table of Contents			ii-iv
Temporary Assignments	36	182	34
Temporary Employees	10	37-39	10-11
Temporary Layoffs	20	81	19
Termination of Checkoff	6	19	5
TIAA-CREF	50	246-256,260	46-48
Time-and-One-Half	41	202^04-207	39
Time-and-One-Half in			
Specific Areas of Work	42	208-209	39
Transfers	37	184-188	35-36
Trial Period	36	177-179	34
Unavailable (Def. of)	App.X		82
Union (Def. of)	App. X		82
Union Bulletin Boards	9	33-34	9
Union Dues, Initiation Fees			
& Service Charges	6	13-24	4-6
Union Education Leave	31	142	29
Union Release Time	31	133-144	28-29
President & Chief Steward		133-138	28
Executive Board Member	s	139-141	29
Union Education		142	29
Union Business		143-144	29
Union Security - Requirements			
of Union Membership	5	12	3-4
University (Def. of)	App.X		82
University Seniority	App.X		81
University Services	58	323-330	61-62
General Stores & Campus			
Mail Service		323-325	61
University Printing		326-330	62
Unpaid Leaves	32	145-155	30-31
Excused Absences		146-148	30
Personal Leaves		149-152	30
Illness or Disability		153-155	30-31
Use of Past Record	17	78	18
Vacations	26	100-109	23-24
Veterinary Medicine	58	331-333	62
Wage Rate Increase Plan	39	192-195	37
Wage Schedule	App. n		71
	App. Ill		72
	App. rv		73
	App. V		74
	App. VI		75-76
90
Topic	Article Number	Paragraph Number	Page Number
	App. VII		77
	App. VIH		78
	App. IX		79
Wash-up Time	41	201	38
Worker’s Compensation	47	241	45
Sick Leave	28	118	26
Definitions	App. X		82
Disability	47	241	45
Work Opportunity for Laid-			
Off Employees	23	90-93	21
Working Hours	41	197-207	38-39
Shift Differential		197	38
Shift Hours		198	38
Shift Preference		199	38
Rest Periods		200	38
Wash-up Time		201	38
Call-in Pay - Show-up Pay		202-203	39
Overtime		204-207	39
91
2002
s	January						Important Dates
	M	T	W	T	F	S	
		I	2	3	4	5	JANUARY
							1 New Year's
6	7	8	9	IO	II	12	21 Martin L King. Jr. Day (US)
13	14	15	16	17	18	19	FEBRUARY 5 Anniversary of the
20	21	22	23	24	25	26	Constitution (M) 12 Lincoln s Birthday (US)
27	28	29	30	31			12 Chinese New Year
							13 Ash Wednesday 14 Valentine's Day (C. UK, US)
		March					18 Presidents'Day (US) 22 Washington's Birthday (US)
s	M	T	W	T	F	S	24 Hag Day (M) MARCH
							10 Mothering Sunday (UK)
							17 St Patrick's Day (C, US)
3	4	5	6	7	8	9	20 Spring begins 21 Benito Juarez1 Birthday (M)
IO	n	12	13	14	IS	16	24 Palm Sunday
17	r8	19	20	21	22	23	28 Passover* 29 Good Friday
24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31 Easter APRIL
31							1 Easter Monday (C, UK) 7 Daylight Saving Time begins
		May					24 Administrative Professionals Day (US)
S	M	T	W	T	F	S	MAY 1 Labor Day (M)
							
			I	2	3	4	5 Battle of Puebla (M)
5	6	7	8	9	IO	n	6 May Day Bank Holtday (UK) 10 Mother's Day (M)
12	13	14	15	16	17	18	12 Mother's Day (C, US) 18 Armed Forces Day (US)
19	20	21	22	23	24	25	20 Victoria Day (C)
26	27	28	29	30	31		27 Memorial Day, Obsvd. (US) 27 Spring Bank Holiday (UK)
							JUNE
							14 Flag Day (US)
				y			16 Father's Day 21 Summer begins
S	M	T	w	T	F	S	24 St Jean Baptiste (Quebec) JULY
	I	2	3	4	5	6	1 Canada Day (C) 4 Independence Day (US)
7	8	9	IO	II	12	13	AUGUST
14	15	16	17	18	19	20	5 Civic Holiday (C) 26 Summer Bank Holiday (UK)
21	22	23	24	25	26	27	SEPTBttER
							2 labor Day (C, US)
28	29	30	31				7 RoshHashanah* 15 Declaration of
							Independence (M)
s	M	September T WTF				S	16 Independence Day (M) 16 Yom Kippur* 23 Autumn begins OCTOBER
I	2	3	4	5	6	7	12 Day of the Race (M) 14 Columbus Day, Obsvd. (US)
8	9	IO	n	12	13	14	14 Thanksgiving (C) 16 National Boss Day (US)
15	16	17	18	19	20	21	24 United Nations Day (US)
22	23	24	25	26	27	28	27 Daylight Saving Time ends 31 Halloween
29	30						NOVEMBER
							1 All Saints Day (M)
							2 Day of the Dead (M) 5 Election Day (US)
		November					11 Veterans'Day (US) 11 Remembrance Day (C)
s	M	T	W	T	F	S	20 Revolution Anniversary (M) 28 Thanlsgiving (US)
							
					i	2	30 Hanukkah*
3	4	5	6	7	8	9	DECEMBER 7 Peart Harbor Remembrance
IO	n	12	13	14	IS	16	Day (US) 12 Virgin of Guadalupe (M)
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	22 Winter begins
24	25	26	27	28	29	30	25 Christmas 26 Boxing Day (C, UK) 26 Kwanzaa begins
February
S M T W T F
I
345678
IO II 12 13 14 15
17 l8 19 20 21 22
24 25 26 27 28
April
S M T W T F
12345
7 8 9 10 n 12
14 15 16 17 18 19
21 22 23 24 25 26
28 29 30
June
S M T W T F
234567
9 10 n 12 13 14
16 17 18 19 20 21
23 24 25 26 27 28
30
August
S M T W T F
				I	2
4	5	6	7	8	9
II	12	13	14	15	16
18	19	20	21	22	23
25	26	27	28	29	30
		October			
s	M	T	w	T	F
		I	2	3	4
6	7	8	9	IO	II
13	14	15	16	17	18
20	21	22	23	24	25
27	28	29	30	31	
December
s	M	T	w	T	F
I	2	3	4	5	6
8	9	IO	n	12	13
15	16	17	18	19	20
22	23	24	25	26	27
29	30	31			
* All Jewish holidays begin at sundown the day before they are listed here.
2003
s	M	January			F	s	Important	February						
		i	W	1				S	M	T	w	T	F	s
			I	2	3	4	JANUARY							I
5	6	7	8	9	IO	n	1 New Year's					6		8
12	13	14	15	16	17	18	20 Martin L Kino, Jr. Day (US) FEBRUARY	9	IO	n	12	13	14	15
19	20	21	22	23	24	25	1 Chinese New Year 5 Anniversary of the	16	17	18	19	20	21	22
26	27	28	29	30	31		Constitution (M) 12 Lincoln's Birthday (US) 14 Valentine's Day (C, UK, US) 17 Presidents' Day (US)	23	24	25	26	27	28	
		March					22 Washington's Birthday (US) 24 Hag Day (M)			April				
s	M	1	W	1	F	S	MARCH S Ash Wednesday 17 St. Patrick's Day (C, US)	S	M	T	w	T	F	s
						I				I	2	3	4	5
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	21 Spring begins 21 Benito Juarez'Birthday (M)	6	7	8	9	10	II	12
9	IO	II	12	13	14	15	30^ Mothering Sunday (UK)	13	14	IS	16	17	18	19
16	17	18	19	20	21	22	6 Daylight Saving Time begins	20	21	22	23	24	25	26
23	2+	25	26	27	28	29	13 Palm Sunday 17 Passover*	27	28	29	30			
30	31						18 Good Friday 20 Easter							
			May				21 Easter Monday (C, UK) 23 Administrative Professionals				June			
S	M	T	W	T	F	s	Day (US) MAY	s	M	T	W	T	F	s
				I	2	3	1 Labor Day (M) 5 Baffle til Puebla (M)	I	2	3	4	5	6	7
4	5	6	7	8	9	IO	5 May Day Bank Hotiday (UK)	8	9	IO	II	12	13	14
II	12	13	14	15	16	17	10 Mother s Day (M) 11 Mother's Day (0, US)	l$	16	17	18	19	20	21
18 25	19 26	20 27	21 28	22 29	23 30	24 31	17 Armed Forces Day (US) 19 Victoria Day (C) 26 Memorial Day, Obsvd, (US)	22 29	23 30	24	25	26	27	28
							26 Spring Bank Holiday (UK) JUNE							
														
s	M	T	w	y T	F	s	14	Rag Day (US) 15	Father's Day 21 Summer begins 24 St Jean Baptiste (Quebec)	s	M	August T W T			F	s
		I	2	3	4	5	JULY 1 Canada Day (C)						I	2
6	7	8	9	IO	XI	12	4 Independence Day (US) AUGUST	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
13	14	15	16	17	18	19	4 Civic Holiday (C)	IO	II	12	13	14	15	16
20	21	22	23	24	25	26	25 Summer Bank Holiday (UK) SBTHnei	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
27	28	29	30	31			1 labor Day (C, US) 15 Declaration of	24	25	26	27	28	29	30
							Independence (M) 16 Independence Day (M)	31						
		September					23 Autumn begins 27 Rosh Hashanah*			October				
s	M	T	W	T	F	S	OCTOBER 6 Yom Kippur* 12 Day of the Race (M)	S	M	T	w	T	F	s
	I	2	3	4	5	6					I	2	3	4
7	8	9	IO	II	12	13	13 Columbus Day, Obsvd. (US) 13 Thanksgiving (C)	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
14	15	16	17	18	19	20	16 National Boss Day (US) 24 United Nations Day (US)	12	13	14	IS	16	17	18
21	22	23	24	25	26	27	26 Daylight Saving Time ends	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
28	29	30					31 Halloween NOVEMBER	26	27	28	29	30	31	
							1	All Saints Day (M) 2	Day of the Dead (M)							
		November					4 Efation Day (US) 11 Veterans'Day (US)			December				
s	M	T	w	T	F	s	11 Remembrance Day (C) 20 Revolution Anniversary (M)	S	M	T	w	T	F	s
						I	27 Thanksgiving (US) DECEMBER		I	2	3	4	5	6
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	7 Pead Harbor Remembrance	7	8	9	IO	II	12	13
9	IO	n	12	13	14	15	Day (US) 12 Virgin of Guadalupe (M)	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
16	17	18	19	20	21	22	20 Hanukkah* 22 Winter begins	21	22	23	24	25	26	27
23	24	25	26	27	28	29	25 Christmas	28	29	30	31			
							26 Boxing Day (C. UK)							
							26 Kwanzaa begins							
* All Jewish holidays begin at sundown the day before they are listed here.
2004
		January					Important			February				
s	M	T	W	T	F	s	Dates JANUARY	s	M	T	W	T	F	S
				I	2	3		I	2	3	4	5	6	7
4	5	6	7	8	9	IO	1 New Year's 19 Martin L King, Jr. Day (US)	8	9	IO	II	12	13	14
n	12	13	14	IS	16	17	21 Chinese New Year	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	FEBRUARY 5 Anniversary of the	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
25	26	27	28	29	30	31	Constitution (M) 12 Lincoln's Birthday (US) 14 Valentine's Day (C, UK. US) 16 Presidents' Day (US)	29						
		March					22 Washington's Birthday (US) 24 Rag Day (M)			April				
s	M	T	W	T	F	S	25 Ash Wednesday MARCH	s	M	T	W	T	F	s
	I	2	3	4	5	6	17 St Patrick's Day (C, US) 20 Spring begins					I	2	3
7	8	9	IO	II	12	13	21 Benito Juarez'Birthday (M)	4	5	6	7	8	9	IO
14	IS	16	17	18	19	20	21 Mothering Sunday (UK) APRIL	II	12	13	14	is	16	17
21	22	23	24	25	26	27	4 Daylight Saving Time begins	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
28	29	30	31				6 Passover* 9 Good Friday 11 Easter 12 Easter Monday (C, UK)	25	26	27	28	29	30	
		May					21 Administrative Professionals Day (US)				Jun	e		
s	M	T	W	T	F	s	MAY 1 Labor Day (M)	S	M	T	W	T	F	S
														
						1	3 May Day Bank Holiday (UK)			1	2	3	4	5
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	5 Battle of Puebla (M) 9 Mollier's Day (C. US)	6	7	8	9	IO	n	12
9	IO	n	12	13	14	15	10 Mothers Day (M) 15 Armed Forces Day (US)	13	14	15	16	17	18	19
16	17	18	19	20	21	22	24 Victoria Day (C)	20	21	22	23	24	25	26
23	24	25	26	27	28	29	31 Memorial Day, Obsvd. (US) 31 Spring Bank Holiday (UK)	27	28	29	30			
30	31						JUNE 14 Flag Day (US)							
S	M	T	w	y T	F	s	20 Father's Day 21 Summer begins 24 St Jean Baptiste (Quebec) JULY	S	M	August T W T			F	s
				I	2	3	1 Canada Day (C) 4 Independence Day (US)	I	2	3	4	5	6	7
4	5	6	7	8	9	IO	AUGUST	8	9	IO	II	12	13	14
II	12	13	14	15	16	17	30 Summer Bank Holiday (UK)	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	SEFT0M® 6 Labor Day (C, US)	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
25	26	27	28	29	30	31	15 Declaration of Independence (M) 16 Rosh Hashanah* 16 Independence Day (M)	29	30	31				
		September					22 Autumn begins 25 Yom Kippur*			October				
S	M	T	W	T	F	S	OCTOBER 11 Columbus Day, Obsvd. (US)	s	M	T	W	T	F	S
				2	3	4.	11 Thanksgiving (C)						I	2
							12 Day of the Race (M)							
5	6	7	8	9	IO	II	16 National Boss Day (US)	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
12	13	14	IS	16	17	18	24 United Nations Day (US) 31 Dayfight Saving Time ends	IO	II	12	13	14	IS	16
19	20	21	22	23	24	25	31 Halloween NOVEMBER	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
26	27	28	29	30			1 AU Saints Day (M) 2 Day of the Dead (M)	24	25	26	27	28	29	30
							2 Election Day (US) 11 Veterans' Day (US)	31						
		November					11 Remembrance Day (C) 20 Revolubon Anniversary (M)			December				
S	M	T	w	T	F	S	25 Thanksgiving (US) DECEMBER 7 Pearl Harbor	S	M	T	w	T	F	S
	I	2	3	4	5	6					I	2	3	4
7	8	9	IO	n	12	13	Remembrance Day (US) 8 Hanukkah*	5	6	7	8	9	IO	II
M-	IS	16	17	18	19	20	12 Virgin of Guadalupe (M) 21 Winter begins	12	13	14	15	16	17	18
21	22	23	24	25	26	27	25 Christmas	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
28	29	30					26 Boxing Day (C. UK) 26 Kwanzaa begins	26	27	28	29	30	31	
* All Jewish holidays begin at sundown the day before they are listed here.
January S M T W T					F	S	2005 Important	s	M	February				
										T	W	T	F	8
						I	JANUARY			I	2	3	4	5
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	1 New Year's	6	7	8	9	IO		
9	IO	n	12	13	14	S	J7_MarhnLKmg.Jr.Day(US) FEMUARY	13	14	15	16	17	18	19
16	17	18	19	20	21	22	5 Amiverwy otthe Constitution (M)	20	21	22	23	24	25	26
23	24	25	26	27	28	29	8 Chinese New Year 9 Ash Wednesday	27	28					
30	31						12 Umeki's Birthday (US) 14 Valentina's Day (C. UK. US)							
		March					21 Presidents'Day (US) 22 Washington's Birthday (US)			April				
s	M	T	W	T	F	S	24 Rag Day (M) MARCH	s	M	T	W	T	F	s
		I	2	3	4	5	6 Mothering Sunday (UK) 17 St Patrick's Day (C. US)						I	2
6	7	8	9	IO	n	12	20 Spring begins	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20 Palm Sunday 21 Bonito Juarez' Birthday (M)	IO	n	12	13	14	15	16
20	21	22	23	24	25	26	25 Good Friday 27 Easter	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
27	28	29	30	31			^ZB, Easter Monday (C. UK) 3 Dayfight Saving Time begins	24	25	26	27	28	29	30
			May				27 Administrative Professionals Day (US)				June			
s	M	T	W	T	F	S	my 1 Labor Day (M) 2 May Day Bank Holiday (UK)	S	M	T	W	T	F	8
I	2	3	4	5	6	7					I	2	3	4
8	9	IO	u	12	13	14	5 Battle of Puebla (M) 8 Mother's Day (C, US)	5	6	7	8	9	10	II
15	16	17	18	19	20	21	10 Mother's Day (M) 21 Armed Forces Day (US)	12	13	14	15	16	17	18
22	23	24	25	26	27	28	23 Victoria Day (C)	19	20	21	22	73	24	25
29	30	31					30 Memorial Day. Obsvd. (US) 30 Spring Bank Holiday (UK)	26	27	28	29	30		
							JUNE							
							14 Hag Day (US)							
s	M	T	w	y T	F	S	19 Father's Day 21 Summer begins 24 St. Jean Baptiste (Qutbec)	S	M	August T W T			F	8
					I	2	1 Canada Day (C) 4 Independence Day (US)		I	2	3	■4	5	6
3	4	5	6	7	8	9	AUGUST 1 CMc Holiday (C)	7	8	9	IO	II	12	13
IO	n	12	13	14	15	16	29 Summer Bank Holiday (UK)	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	SEPTEMftR	21	22	23	24	V	26	27
24	25	26	27	28	29	30	IS Declaration at independence(M) 16 Independence Day (M)	28	29	30	31			
31														
							22 AiAmm begins							
		September					OCTOBER 4 Rosh Hashanah*			October				
S	M	T	W	T	F	8	10 Columbus Day, Obsvd. (US) 10 Thanksgiving (C)	8	M	T	w	T	F	s
				I	2	3	12 Day al the Race (M)							
							13 Yom Kippur'							
4	5	6	7	8	9	IO	16 National Boss Day (US) 24 United Nations Day (US)	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
		13	14	is		17	30 Daylight Saving Time ends	9	IO	H	12	13	14	15
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	31 Htifoween NOVEMBER	16	17	18	19	20	21	22
25	26	27	28	29	30		1 All Saints. Day (M) 2 Day at the Dead (M) 8 Election Day (US)	23	24	25	26	27	28	29
								30	31					
							11 Veterans'Day (US)							
		November					11 Remembrance Day (C) 20 Revolution Anniversary (M)			December				
S	M	T	W	T	F	s	24 Thanksgiving (US)	8	M	T	w	T	F	8
		I	2	3	4	5	7 Paul Harbor					I	2	3
6	7	8	9	IO	u	12	Remembrance Day (US) 12 Virgin of Guadalupe (M)	4	5	6	7	8	9	10
13	14	15	16	17	18	19	21 Winter begins 2$ Christinas	n	12	13	14	IS	16	17
20	21	22	23	24	25	26	26 HanuHah*	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
27	28	29	30				26 Boxing Day (C, UK) 26 Kwanaa begins	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
* All Jewish holidays begin at sundown the day before they ate listed here.
2006
January
S M T W T F S
I 8	2 9	3 4 5	6 13	7 14
		10 n 12		
is	16	17 18 19	20	21
22	23	24 25 26	27	28
29 s	30 M	31 March T W T	F	s
5	6	I 2 7 8 9	3 10	4 n
12	13	14 is 16	17	18
19	20	21 22 23	24	25
26	27	28 29 30	31	
s	M	May T W T	F	s
	I	2 3 4	5	6
7	8	9 10 n	12	13
14	IS	16 17 18	19	20
21	22	23 24 25	26	27
28 s	29 M	30 31 Jw/y T W T	F	s
2	3	4 5 6	7	I 8
9	IO	n 12 13	14	15
16	17	18 19 20	21	22
23	24	25 26 27	28	29
30 s	31 M	September T W T F		s
3	+	567	I 8	2 9
IO	II	12 13 14	IS	16
17	18	19 20 21	22	23
24	25	26 27 28	29	30
s	M	November T W T F		s
5	6	I 2 7 8 9	3 10	4 II
12	13	14 15 16	17	18
19	20	21 22 23	24	25
26	27	28 29 30		
Important Dates
JANUARY
1 New Year's
16 Martin L King, Jr. Day (US)
29 Chinese New Year
FEBRUARY
5 Anniversary of the
Constitution (M) 12 Lincoln's Birthday (US) 14 Valentine's Day (C. UK, US) 20 Presidents'Day (US) 22 Washintfon's Birthday (US)
24
MARCH
Rag Day (M)
1 Ash Wednesday
17	St Patrick's Day (C. US)
20	Spring begins
21	Benito Juarez* Birthday (M)
26 Mothering Sunday (UK) aprh
2 Daylight Saving Time begins
9 Palm Sunday
13	Passover*
14	Good Friday
16	Easter
17	Easter Monday (C. UK)
26 Administrative Professionals
1 Labor Day (M)
1 May Day Bank Holiday (UK) S Battie of Puebla (M)
10 Mothers Day (M)
14 Mothers Day (C, US)
20 Armed Forces Day (US)
22 Victoria Day (C)
29 Memorial Day, Obsvd. (US)
29 Spring Bank Holiday (UK)
JUNE
14 Rag Day (US)
18 Father's Day
23	Summer begins
24	St. Jean Baptiste (Qudbec)
JULY
1 Canada Day (C)
4 Independence Day (US)
AUGUST
7 Civic Hobday (C)
28 Summer Bank Holiday (UK) SEPTEMBER
4 Labor Day (C, US)
15	ttecteation of Independence (M)
16	Independence Day (M)
23 Autumn begins
23 Rosh Hashanah*
OCTOBER
7 Yom Kippur*
9 Columbus Day, Obsvd. (US)
9 Thanksgiving (C)
12 Day of the Race (M)
16 National Boss Day (US)
24 United Nations Day (US)
29 Daylight Saving lime ends
31 Hafioween
NOVEMBER
1	AH Saints Day (M)
2	Day of the Dead (M)
7	Election Day (US)
11 Veterans'Day (US)
11 Remembrance Day (C)
20 Revolution Anmversary (M)
23 Thanksgiving (US)
DECEMBER
7 Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day (US)
12 Virgin of Guadalupe (M)
16 Hanukkah*
22 Winter begins
25 Christmas
26 Boxing Day (C, UK)
26 Kwanzaa begins
February
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
i	2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	io	n
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26 27 28
April S M T W T F S
i 2345678 9 10	n	12	13	14	15
16 17	18	19	20	21	22
23 24	25	26	27	28	29
30
June
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
1 2 3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
n	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30
August
s	M	T	w	T	F	s
		I	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	IO	II	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31		
		October				
s	M	T	w	T	F	s
I	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	IO	II	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31				
December
s	M	T	w	T	F	s
					I	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
IO	n	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30
31						
* All Jewish holidays begin at sundown the day before they are listed here.