Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection - Metadata Header
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/)
Title: Michigan, University of and American Federation of State, County, & Municipal Employees (AFSCME), AFL-CIO, Local 1583, Council 25 (2002)
K#: 800064
Employer Name: Michigan, University of
Location: MI Ann Arbor
Union: American Federation of State, County, & Municipal Employees (AFSCME), AFL-CIO
Local: Local 1583, Council 25
SIC: 8221	NAICS: 611310
Sector: S	Number of Workers: 2500
Effective Date: 05/10/02	Expiration Date: 07/31/05
Number of Pages: 150	Other Years Available: Y
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School, http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
Table of Contents
Article 1,	Recognition and Definitions........................................  2
Article 2,	Management Rights..................................................  4
Article 3,	No-Interference and No-Lockout Guarantee.............................4
Article 4,	Non-Discrimination.  ..............................................  5
Article 5,	Union Security.......................................................6
Article 6,	Initiation Fee or Processing Fee/Dues or Sendee Charge Checkoff......8
Article 7,	Bulletin Boards...................................................  10
Article 8,	Work Schedules................................;...................  11
Article 9,	Classification and Wages............................................15
। Article 10, Overtime.............................................................16
Article 11,	Shift Premium....................................................  19
Article 12,	Call BackPay.......................................................20
Article 13,	Reporting Pay......................................................20
Article 14,	On-Call Pay........................................................20
Article 15,	Rates of Pay on Transfer.........................................  21
Article 16,	Seniority Definition and Loss of Seniority.......................  22
Article 17,	Employee and Address Lists.......................................  23
Article 18,	Probationary Employees.............................................24
Article 19,	Reduction of the Working Force and Recall Procedures...............26
Article 20,	Promotions and Other Transfers...................................  29
Article 21,	Return to Unit.....................................................37
Article 22,	Holidays...........................................................37
Article 23,	Season Days........................................................39
Article 24,	Personal Discretion Time...........................................41
Article 25,	Paid Time Off......................................................42
Article 26,	Funeral Leave Pay..................................................50
Article 27,	Jury and Witness Service...........................................50
Article 28,	Annual Military Duty.............................................  51
Article 29,	Leaves of Absence..................................................52
t Article 30, Group Life Insurance.................................................58
Article 31, Health Insurance..................................................  58
Article 31,	Group Insurance Program............................................60
Article 31	a, Other Flex Benefits..............................................62
Article 32,	Travel Accident Insurance.........................................  62
Article 33,	Disability Plan...................................................  62
Article 34,	Retirement Plan.....................................................63
Article 35,	Longevity Pay.....................................................  64
Article 36,	Tuition Support Program.............................................65
Article 37,	Health and Safety...............................................    66
Article 38,	Discipline....................................................      68
Article 39,	Grievance Procedure.................................................71
Article 40,	Arbitration.........................................................80
■£,-Article41, Special Conference..................................................82
■®Aiticle 41a, Lead Person Pay...............................................      83
MKtticle 42, Miscellaneous....................................................    .84
■B&fticle 43, Waiver.............................................................  85
Article 44, Term of Agreement.................................................   87
Appendix A,	Wage Schedules.................................................... 88
Appendix B,	Classification Titles and Pay Grades.............................. 93
Appendix C,	Steward Districts and Chief Steward Classification Grouping....... 101
Appendix E,	Classification Series.............................................106
Appendix F,	Grievance Procedure......-......................................  109
Memorandum of Understanding, Miscellaneous...................................   110
Memorandum of Understanding, Work Schedules.................................... 112
Memorandum of Understanding, Application of Article 19......................... 113
Memorandum of Understanding, Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee-Pay....... 114
Memorandum of Understanding, Special individual Rates.......................... 115
Memorandum of Understanding, Experimental Training Program......................117
Memorandum of Understanding, Union Orientation................................  120
Memorandum of Understanding, PTO Accrual........................................121
Memorandum of Understanding, Pre-Arbitration Grievance Investigations.......... 122
Memorandum of Understanding, Safety Shoes...................................... 123
Memorandum of Understanding, Alleged Misclassification of an Employee...........124
Memorandum of Understanding, Technological Change............................   125
Memorandum of Understanding, Child Care.........................................126
Memorandum of Understanding, Health Insurance....,............................. 127
Memorandum of Understanding, Work Schedule Option Pay...........................128
Memorandum of Understanding, Hospitals and Health Centers Training Initiative..129
Memorandum of Understanding, President’s Pay.................................   130
Memorandum of Understanding, Article 20, Section D, Posting Procedures......... 131
Memorandum of Understanding, Retroactive Payments.............................. 132
Memorandum of Understanding, Instrument Processor/Sterilizer................... 133
Memorandum of Understanding, Arbitration Back Log & Expedited Arbitration (XARB).................................................
Memorandum of Understanding, Seasonal Leave of Absence.......................
Memorandum of Understanding, Paper Disciplinary Layoff.......................
Memorandum of Understanding, One-Time Wage Payments .........................
t , Memorandum of Understanding, Reclassification............................
Memorandum of Understanding, PTO Accrual.....................................
Memorandum of Understanding, Labor/Management Committee on Standardization Qualifications for Selected Classifications..................................
Memorandum of Understanding, Implementation of Changes to Article 20, Section B, Position and Shift Changes Within a Department...............................
^Memorandum of Understanding, Personal Discretion Time (PDT) Renewal Change arid PTO Sellback transition Period......................................
Memorandum of Understanding, Training.......................................
Memorandum of Understanding, Prescription Drug Rider.........................
134
136
137
138
139
140
141
143
144
145.
147
1	The Regents of The University of Michigan, hereinafter
called the "University" or the "Employer,” and AFSCME, Local I583, Affiliated with Council #25 AFSCME, hereinafter called the "Union," enter into the following agreement, this 10th day of May, 2002, which amends the collective bargaining agreement executed on December 17,1997, and which collective bargaining agreement, as amended and fully bargained, settles and contains all matters with respect to wages, benefits, hours and other terms and conditions of employment for the term of the agreement.
ARTICLE 1
RECOGNITION AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION A.	DESCRIPTION OF UNIT
2
Pursuant to and in conformity with the Certification issued by the Michigan Labor Mediation Board on May 3,1968, in case No. R67 1-308, the University recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive representative for the purposes of collective bargaining in respect to wages, hours and all other conditions of employment for all employees in the following described bargaining unit:
3
All service-maintenance employees at all facilities of The University of Michigan, excluding temporary employees, student employees, professional employees, teaching faculty, research staff, clerical employees, security officers, traffic enforcement officers, barbers, technical employees, supervisors, administrative staff and all employees in Unit A and Unit B found to be appropriate in Michigan Labor Mediation Board Case Number R65 H-25 and R65 H-28, decided September 27,1967.
SECTION B.	DEFINITIONS

4
The terms "employee" and "employees” as used in this Agreement (except where the Agreement clearly indicates otherwise) shall mean only an employee or employees within the bargaining unit described in Section A.
5
The term "temporary employee" shall mean any individual, or individuals, whose employment is fixed at the time of employment to not exceed ninety (90) calendar days, ^ndwill not exceed ninety (90) calendar days without the iAy.fej.consent of the Union, and is for the purpose of meeting jjpaistaffina shortages and staffing short-term projects or is irregular and casual except that the employment of any such ffit&i^dividual during the month of May or June shall not exceed g^^eptember 30 without the consent of the' Union. A OW’temporary employee may be used to fill in for an employee sA-^’Osing PTO time or on an approved leave of absence for the i|y®Kduration of the absence not to exceed one (1) year. The ’ -^University shall provide notification to the Union of all temporary employees who are being used to replace employees on either PTO time or on approved leave of absence, which will include the names of the employees being replaced.
9
5a. When a "temporary employee" is replacing an employee using PTO time or an approved leave of absence, the use of such a "temporary employee" shall not exceed the duration of the absence of the employee replaced, and in no event shall it exceed one (1) year.
5b. Except as specifically provided for in reference paragraphs 5 and 5a above, no "temporary employee" who has been employed for up to ninety (90) days shall be employed for consecutive terms of employment in the same department or subdivision of a department without an intervening period of at least twenty-eight (28) calendar days between such consecutive terms of employment.
6 The term "full-time employee" shall mean an employee whose normal schedule of work is forty (40) hours per calendar week.
j 7 The term "part-time employee" shall mean any employee
1 whose normal schedule of work is (ess than forty (40) hours per
I calendar week.
8	The term "student employee" shall mean any individual, or
individuals, (1) enrolled in the University of Michigan and whose normal schedule of work is less than thirty (30) hours per calendar week or (2) pursuing a University educational program for which services related to that educational program are rendered.
9	It is understood that such an individual's status as a
"student employee" will not be affected, though not enrolled, when working on a full-time basis during the following periods:
a.
between consecutive terms;
during the Spring-Summer term (May-August).
ARTICLE 2
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
All management rights and functions, except those which are clearly and expressly abridged by this Agreement, shall remain vested exclusively in the University. It is expressly recognized, merely by way of illustration and not by way of limitation, that such rights and functions include, but are not limited to: 1) full and exclusive control of the management of the University, the supervision of all operations, the methods, processes, means and Human Resources by which any and all work will be performed, the control of property and the composition, assignment, direction and determination of the size and type of its working forces; 2) the right to determine the work to be done and the standards to be met by employees covered by this Agreement; 3) the right to change or introduce new operations, methods, processes, means or facilities, and the right to determine whether and to what extent work shall be performed by employees; 4) the right to hire, establish and change work schedules, set hours of work, establish, eliminate or change classifications, assign, transfer, promote, demote, release and lay off employees; 5) the right to determine the qualifications of employees, and to suspend, discipline and discharge employees for cause and otherwise to maintain an orderly, effective and efficient operation.
ARTICLE 3
NO-INTERFERENCE AND NO-LOCKOUT GUARANTEE
SECTION A.	NO-INTERFERENCE
The Union, and its officials, will not cause, support, condone, or take part in any interference with the operations of the University, nor will any employee or employees cause, support, or take part in any interference with the operations of the University during the term of this Agreement.

SECTION B.	NO-LOCKOUT
12 The University shall not conduct a lock-out of its employees during the term of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 4
NON-DISCRIMINATION
SECTION A.
J 3 The University and the Union agree that there will be no discrimination in the application of this Agreement because of race, creed, color, national origin, age, sex, marital status, handicap, sexual orientation, Vietnam era veteran status or HIV antibody status.
13a Nothing in this agreement shall be construed to prevent the University from making reasonable accommodations for
| individuals with disabilities as required by State and Federal
1 laws.
14 Nothing in this Section shall be construed to prevent an employee alleging discrimination from exercising constitutional or statutory rights which may be available.
SECTION B.
15 The University, in accordance with Michigan Public Act 379 of 1965, and as it may be amended from time to time, will
I not aid, promote, or finance any labor organization for the
I	purpose of undermining the Union.
I	SECTION C.
■	16 The University shall not discriminate against, intimidate,
■	restrain or coerce any employee because of or with respect to
■	his/her lawful union activity or his/her membership or non-
■	membership in the Union.
I jfK

ARTICLE 5
UNION SECURITY
SECTION A.
17	During the life of this Agreement and to the extent the laws of the State of Michigan permit:
18	Every individual who becomes an employee after the execution date of this agreement and in the month following thirty (30) calendar days employment in the bargaining unit, shall tender to the Union, as a condition of continued employment, either the uniformly required initiation fee, or in the alternative, an amount equivalent to the uniformly required initiation fee as a processing fee.
19	Every employee, beginning with the month following thirty
(30)	calendar days employment in the bargaining unit, and every month thereafter, shall tender to the Union, as a condition of continued employment, either uniformly required union dues, or in the alternative, an amount equivalent to uniformly required union dues as a service charge.
SECTION B,
20	No employee shall be terminated under Section A. of this Article unless:
21	The Union first has notified the employee by letter, explaining that he/she is delinquent in not tendering either the uniformly required initiation fee or processing fee and/or either uniformly required union dues or an amount equivalent to uniformly required union dues, and specifying the current amount of such delinquency and warning him/her that unless such initiation fee or processing fee and/or dues or service charge are tendered within thirty (30) calendar days he/she will be reported to the University for termination as provided in this Article, and
22	The Union has furnished the University with written proof that the procedure of Section B. 1. of this Article has been followed or has supplied the University with a copy of the letter sent to the employee and notice that he/she has not complied with the request. The Union must specify further, when requesting the University to terminate the employee, the following by written notice:
>3 "The Union certifies that has failed to tender either uniformly required initiation fee or processing fee and/or uniformly required union dues or service charge required as a condition of continued employment under the collective bargaining agreement and that under the terms of the agreement, the University shall terminate the employee."
SECTION C.
24 The Union shall indemnify and save the University harmless from any and all claims, demands, suits, or any other action arising from this Article or from complying with any request for termination under this Article.
25 To assist new employees, including other University staff members placed in the bargaining unit, with their obligation under this Article, the University will advise them of this obligation in writing, provide them with a Voluntary Authorization j for Deduction of Initiation Fee or Processing Fee and Union Dues or Service Charge form and the address of the Union’s headquarters.
ARTICLE 6
INITIATION FEE OR PROCESSING FEE DUES OR SERVICE CHARGE CHECKOFF
26	During the life of this Agreement and to the extent the laws of the State of Michigan permit and as provided in this Article, the University will deduct an initiation fee or processing fee and current and periodic Union dues or service charge based upon a uniform dues and initiation fee schedule from the pay of each employee who voluntarily executes and delivers to the University the following authorization form:
27	VOLUNTARY AUTHORIZATION FOR DEDUCTION OF INITIATION FEE OR PROCESSING FEE AND UNION DUES OR SERVICE CHARGE
Local 1583, AFSCME
Name __________________________ (type or print)
Social Security No.________________________
Department___________________________________
28	I authorize the University to deduct from wages earned or
to be earned by me initial Initiation Fee _ or Processing Fee and Union Dues __ or Service Charge _ (check one) as certified to the University by the Secretary of the Union, and to remit the same to the Union at such time and in such manner as may be agreed upon between the University and the Union.
29	This authorization and direction shall remain in effect during the period of this Agreement, and unless revoked in writing by me at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to the termination date of the collective agreement between the University and the Union which is in force at the time of delivery of this authorization, such authorization and direction shall be automatically renewed for the period of each succeeding applicable collective agreement between the University and the Union unless revoked in writing by me at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to the termination date of each applicable collective agreement between the University and the Union. This < authorization and direction shall be automatically revoked upon my termination of employment with the University.	j
8
(Signature of Employee)
(Address of Employee)
Date of Signing
i	________________________________________________
■ Date Delivered to University
30 The following certification form shall be used by the Union when certifying initiation fee or processing fee and membership
| dues or service charge:
CERTIFICATION OF SECRETARY OF UNION
J1	I certify that the membership dues or service charge for
employees in the bargaining unit is _ per___and that the
initiation fee or processing fee is
Date
Signature_________________________
Secretary of Union
Date of Delivery to University
32
l Payroll deductions shall be made only from the pay due ; employees for each bi-weekly pay period; provided, however, the initial deduction for any employee shall not begin unless both (1) a properly executed "Voluntary Authorization for Deduction of Initiation Fee or Processing Fee and Union Dues or Service
^-Charge" and (2) the amount of the initiation fee or processing fee
8and membership dues or service charge certified by the Secretary of the Union has been delivered to the University at a place designated by the University at least thirty (30) calendar ys, prior to the last day of a bi-weekly pay period. Changes in e amount of the initiation fee or processing fee and Bpership dues or service charge also must be delivered to diversity at a place designated by the University at least ^ calendar days prior to the last day of a bi-weekly pay ■jfl before the change will become effective.
33
34
35
ARTICLE 7
BULLETIN BOARDS
36
Any material posted must be authorized by the Union and designated as an official Union publication. Such notices may be posted by the day shift steward, or the alternate steward if the steward is absent from work in his/her district. If a varan™
An employee may revoke his/her "Voluntary Authorization For Deduction of Initiation Fee or Processing Fee and Union Dues or Service Charge" only as provided by the terms of his/her voluntary authorization.
All sums deducted by the University shall be remitted to the Secretary of the Union at an address given to the University by the Union, once each month by the fifteenth (15th) calendar day of the month following the month in which the deductions were made, together with a list of names and the amount deducted for each employee for whom a deduction was made. The University will also notify the Union of the name of each employee who revokes his/her "Voluntary Authorization For Deduction of Initiation Fee or Processing Fee and Union Dues or Service Charge.”
The University shall not be liable to the Union by reason of the requirements of this Article for the remittance or payment of any sum other than that constituting actual deductions made from the pay earned by the employee. In addition, the Union shall indemnify and save the University harmless from any liability resulting from any and all claims, demands, suits or any other action arising from compliance with this Article, or in reliance on any list, notice, certification or authorization furnished under this Article.
The University shall provide the Union with space on not less than seventy-five (75), unless the parties mutually agree to a j different number, glass enclosed, lockable bulletin boards. The j Union will be furnished with one (1) key for each board and a list of locations. The location of any board which is to be changed shall be by mutual agreement of the parties. The Union's exclusive space on these boards shall be thirty-six (36) inches by forty-two (42) inches which shall be for the purpose of posting union notices.
occurs in both the steward and alternate steward appointments in a steward district, the Bargaining Chairperson may designate an employee from the district of the vacancy to post the notices after informing the University Human Resources/Affirmative Action Office. Although not limited to the following notices, they shall be of that type:
7	1.	Recreational and social events of the Union;
2.	Union meetings;
3.	Union elections, appointments;
4.	Results of Union elections;
5.	General communication relevant to the Union's role as a collective bargaining agent.
|b It is understood that such notices shall not be derogatory i or inflammatory.
19 In the event a dispute arises concerning the
■ appropriateness of material posted, the Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee will be advised by the University Human Resources/Affirmative Action Office of the nature of the dispute, and the notices will be removed from the bulletin boards until the dispute is resolved.
ARTICLE 8
WORK SCHEDULES
SECTION A. SCHEDULE OF WORK
40 Each full-time employee, unless he/she is specifically designated as having a special schedule, shall have a regular schedule of work which shall consist of the following:
41 Five (5) consecutive work days of eight (8) hours each, excluding the lunch period provided in Section B., if non-paid, , followed by two (2) consecutive days off; and
sAs;;
wL . Starting times which do not vary from earliest to latest, by SK fflbre than four (4) hours. The first work day of a regular S^lschedule of work may begin on any calendar day,
MFw^ji'"Special Schedule" means a schedule of work other than |^K|i$§sgfcl&nschedule of work for which no notice of assignment for wook nopri ho aivon This Section shall not
be construed as and is not a guarantee of any hours of work per day or calendar week.
SECTIONS. LUNCH PERIODS
44 Lunch periods shall be scheduled as to time and duration by the University. Lunch periods of thirty (30) consecutive minutes or more shall be non-paid. Paid lunch periods shall not exceed twenty (20) minutes. If an employee has already started his/her non-paid lunch period as scheduled for a work day and he/she is directed to, and does, return to work before the end of thirty (30) consecutive minutes, he/she shall be paid for the time not worked prior to returning to work. Thereafter, the non-paid lunch period need not be rescheduled.	|
SECTION C.
45 A full-time employee's assignment to a regular schedule ) of work will reoccur from calendar week to calendar week, while	i
such a schedule exists and within the starting time variation permitted by Section A. for a minimum of twelve (12) calendar weeks. Such an employee will be given four (4) calendar days notice of his/her assigned schedule of work for the entire calendar week.
46
46a
46b
Changes in such an employee's assigned regular schedule of work will not be made from one calendar week to the next, except for employee absences and variations in the regular amount of work which were known prior to the required four (4) days notice of his/her assigned schedule.
In the event that the regular schedule of work of an employee is changed to a different shift, notice of the change of regular work schedule and shift shall be given to the employee as soon as practicable but not less than ten (10) calendar days before the work schedule and shift change is to be effective.
In the event that an employee will be assigned to a special schedule, as defined in SECTION A, notice of the change will be given to the employee(s) as soon as practicable but not less than 10 calendar days before the work schedule change. A special schedule assignment will be for a minimum of 12 weeks. The Union will be notified of the special schedule assignment, and expected duration, if known. Assignment to a special schedule will be offered in the same department, or sub division of a department such as a building, a separate geographic location or patient care unit to the employees in the
classification with the greatest University seniority. Thereafter, assignment to the special schedule is made by assigning the employee with the least seniority in the classification to the special schedule. Such an employee may opt for alternate placement limited to the language in paragraphs 114 through 118, conditioned on ability to perform the work. Ability to perform the work means present skills, basic knowledge and physical fitness, within the knowledge of the University from its records or as otherwise made known to the University, to competently perform the full range of duties of the position in question. If not placed by paragraph 118 that employee will be assigned to the special schedule in the affected department conditioned on the ability to perform the work.
7	Changes in such an employee’s assigned regular schedule of work will not be made during the calendar week, except for employee absences and unforeseen variations in the regular amount of work.
8	If a change in an assigned regular schedule of work is made as provided by this Section, the employee with the least seniority who is assigned to the same classification and shift in the same department, or subdivision of a department such as a building, a separate geographic location or patient care unit, will be changed, but not more than two (2) consecutive times, providing the change would not adversely affect the operation of the University. If, however, an employee with more seniority requests the change, that employee will be changed.
49	If there are further changes, this procedure will be
followed in reverse order of seniority until all employees have been changed. Thereafter, if necessary the procedure will be repeated.
I
50 s In any case, a change in such an employee's assigned I -regular schedule of work will not be considered a violation of this t 'Article when it results from the application of any other provisions i .jjOf this Agreement or to maintain full-time employment.
Notwithstanding the minimum twelve (12) calendar week |^^^^ovision provided by this Section, the University may rotate the KHKmfts and days off of full-time employees within a department or HMMBubdivision of a department such as a building, a separate H^^B&ographic location or patient care unit as the case may be, but ^^Hgtmore often than once every twelve (12) calendar weeks.
52
53
54
SECTION D.
55
SECTION E.
56
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section A. of this Article an employee's regularly assigned five (5) consecutive work days need not be followed by two (2) days off as a result of a regular schedule of work change as provided by this Section.
An employee who needs time to wash because of the nature and conditions of his/her job, will be excused by his/her supervisor to use necessary time, not to exceed ten (10) minutes, to wash before the end of his/her working period.
Notwithstanding the schedule changes permitted by this Section, no chief steward, steward nor alternate steward shall be subject to such changes, as long as his/her assigned regular schedule of work continues to exist. If another schedule of work for the same classification in his/her area of representation exists and starts within two (2) hours of his/her assigned regular schedule of work, he/she shall be assigned to that schedule, replacing the employee with the least seniority whose work he/she has the ability to perform. The replaced employee shall then have his/her schedule changed.
Notwithstanding any provisions of the Agreement to the contrary, an employee may be assigned to any regular schedule of work for the purposes of job orientation or a training program. It is understood that as soon as the orientation or training program is completed, the employee will be assigned to a schedule to which his/her seniority entitles him/her.
There shall be a rest period which shall be taken at a time and place and in a manner which does not interfere with the efficiency of the department. Such rest period shall be with pay and shall not exceed fifteen (15) minutes for each four (4) hours of work. The rest period is intended to be a recess to be preceded and followed by an extended work period. Consequently, it may not be used to cover an employee's late arrival to work or early departure, to extend the lunch period, nor may it be regarded as accumulative if not taken.
ARTICLE 9
CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGES
SECTION A.	WAGE SCHEDULE
Wages shall be paid in accordance with the wage schedules as set forth in Appendix A.
The pay grade assigned to each existing classification and the pay grade assigned to each new or changed classification shall remain in effect and as assigned during the term of this Agreement unless the job content of a classification is significantly changed.
SECTION B.	NEW OR CHANGED CLASSIFICATIONS
In the event a new classification is established or an existing classification is changed, the University shall assign it to an existing pay grade in the wage schedule on the basis of the relative value of the elements of the new or changed
i classification in comparison with the elements of existing ! classifications which have a job content sufficiently similar or j dissimilar in nature to provide a practical comparison.
SECTION C.	PROCEDURE FOR ASSIGNMENT OF A NEW OR CHANGED CLASSIFICATION TO A PAY GRADE IN THE WAGE SCHEDULE
) The following procedure will be followed whenever a new or changed classification is assigned to a pay grade as provided in Section B.
J < The University shall provide the Union with a written [ .^^classification description of the new or changed classification hwhich shall describe the job content sufficiently to identify the ^classification.
& t Upon receipt of the University's description, the grgaining Chairperson, or his/her designated representative, “ '.not more than two (2) others from Council 25 and the tional Union, with a representative of the University shall Sfded an opportunity to meet to discuss the new or ^classification and the assignment to a pay grade.
ijSjprp. is a disagreement with the assignment to a pay ^grievance concerning compliance with Section B. of the
74
74a
75
76
77
78
'.'New employees, employees returning from a leave of absdfibedr layoff; employees transferred into a new unit of distribution or into another classification in the same unit of distribution, and employees withdrawing the written statement expressing the wish not to work overtime will be charged with the; highest number of overtime hours then worked by any employee; in the same classification in the unit of distribution. An employee who is continuously absent from work for one (1)	i
month or more, for whatever the reason except as provided | above, shall be charged for overtime in the same amount as the | employee who was next lowest on the overtime record at the I time his/her absence began, except he/she shall not be charged I for any overtime charged to that employee during the first month I of his/her absence.	|
Employees who work overtime or who are assigned I overtime and do not work, whether excused or not, shall be charged for the overtime worked or offered for the purposes of equitably distributing overtime. Any inequitable distribution will be rectified in the future scheduling of overtime. An overtime record shall be maintained for each unit of distribution and posted within seventy-two (72) hours after any overtime is worked. Overtime assigned and not worked, whether excused or not, shall be color coded in red when posted. Overtime worked shall be posted in a contrasting color.
The overtime record for each unit of distribution will begin at zero for all employees, effective with the beginning of the first pay period following the execution date of this Agreement and shall continue through the expiration date of this Agreement.
SECTION E. DEFINITIONS
For the purposes of this Article and the computation of overtime premium the following definitions shall apply:
1.
2.
3.
"Day" means the twenty-four (24) consecutive hour period beginning with an employee's starting time on each work day.
"Calendar Week" means seven (7) consecutive calendar j days beginning at midnight between Saturday and i Sunday.	i
"Unit of Distribution" means either a department or a I building or other separate geographic location even I though employees are working in the same department. |
ARTICLE 11
SHIFT PREMIUM
A shift premium in accordance with the schedule in paragraph 83a shall be paid to any employee who is scheduled to start work on or after 12 noon and before 8:00 p.m. Starting times within this period of time shall be known as the afternoon shift.
A shift premium in accordance with the schedule in paragraph 83a shall be paid to any employee who is scheduled to start work on or after 8:00 p.m. and before 4:00 a.m. Starting times within this period of time shall be known as the evening shift.
An employee who works beyond his/her scheduled hours shall continue to receive the shift premium, if any, if he/she works an additional full eight (8) hour shift, he/she shall be paid the shift premium for that shift, or the shift premium for his/her first eight (8) hours, whichever premium is greater.
If an employee's schedule of work is divided by a period of time exceeding one (1) hour (split shift), the second segment will be considered a starting time for determining shift premium.
A premium in accordance with the schedule in paragraph 83a, shall be paid to an employee during the period of time he/she is assigned to a special schedule and subject to schedule changes without notice. When an employee receives this premium, he/she shall not receive a shift premium.
FectiveDate
Shift Premium Schedule
Afternoon Shift Evening Shift Special Schedule

<2002	$.35	$.45	$.45
®4,2002	$.40	$.50	$.50
(&3,2003	$.45	$.55	$.55
01,2004	$.50	$.60	$.60

W'
18
ARTICLE 12
CALL BACK PAY
84
An employee who returns to work because of a call made after he/she has left the University premises upon completion of his/her assigned schedule of work shall receive the overtime premium as set forth in Section A. of Article 10 for the time worked, or a minimum of four (4) hours pay at his/ her hourly < rate, and shift or special schedule premium, if applicable, | whichever amount is greater. This shall not apply, however, to 4 employees who are called in to begin work prior to the start of | their shift and work continuously, except for a lunch break, into ( their shift, provided the University permits him/her to work his/her! assigned schedule of work for that day. To the extent an I employee is paid the overtime premium pursuant to this Article, | he/she shall not be paid an overtime premium under Section A. | of Article 10 for the same time worked.	I
85
ARTICLE 13	I
REPORTING PAY
A full-time employee who reports to work at his/her scheduled starting time when he/she has not been notified that no work is available shall be paid his/her hourly rate, plus shift premium or special schedule premium, if applicable, for not more than four (4) hours for any portion of the four (4) hour period during which no work is offered by the University. Such payment will not be payable if no work is available because of conditions beyond the control of the University such as fire, flood, tornado, power failure, labor dispute and student disruption, or if the employee fails to receive notice not to report through his/her owr® fault, such as	absence or failure to provide a correct address or S
telephone number.	■
ARTICLE 14	B
ON-CALL PAY	B
86
Each employee specifically designated as in an "on-call" status shall be paid twenty percent (20%) of the job rate for his/her classification for hours spent in that status. Employees,
20
when designated for on-call status, are required to restrict their whereabouts to the extent that they are required to leave word at their home or with their supervisor where they can be reached and be in a position to return to work immediately when called. Upon return to work, such employees are not eligible for call back or reporting pay, as provided in Articles 12 and 13, nor for on-call pay while at work, but shall be paid their regular hourly rate, plus shift premium or special schedule premium, if applicable, or the overtime premium as set forth in Section A. of Article 10, if applicable, for actual work performed. Time spent in an on-call status shall not be counted in calculating time worked for determining when an overtime premium shall be paid.-
ARTICLE 15
RATES OF PAY ON TRANSFER Except for transfers on a temporary basis,
An employee with seniority who is transferred shall be paid the job rate for the classification to which he/she is transferred, and
A probationary employee who is transferred shall be paid the probationary rate for the classification to which he/she is transferred.
An employee who is transferred on a temporary basis to a classification in a lower pay grade shall have his/her hourly rate maintained.
An employee who is transferred on a temporary basis to a classification in a higher pay grade for fifty percent (50%) or four (4) hours of his/ her assigned schedule of work on any day of nwedfishall be paid, dependent upon his/her employment status, efth'er the job rate or the probationary rate for that classification fdf-ail hours worked during his/her shift.
21
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
ARTICLE 16
SENIORITY DEFINITION AND LOSS OF SENIORITY
SECTION A,	DEFINITIONS
For the purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall apply:	J
"Seniority" means uninterrupted employment with the | University beginning with the latest date of hiring with the	|
University and shall include periods of University employment i outside the bargaining unit, layoffs and other periods of absence) authorized by and consistent with this Agreement.	I
I
SECTION B.	LOSS OF SENIORITY	I
I
An employee shall lose his/her seniority and no longer be an employee if:
He/she resigns or quits;
He/she is discharged (unless reversed through the Grievance or Arbitration Procedure);
He/she retires;
He/she does not return to work from layoff within seven (7) calendar days after being notified to return by certified or registered mail or by telegram addressed to the employee at his/her last address filed with the University Human Resources Office and the Union president, or his/her designated representative, has been notified in writing of that fact, except when the failure to return to work is due to circumstances beyond the control of the employee and the University has been® so notified;	■
He/she has been on layoff for a period of time equal to I his/her seniority at the time of his/her layoff or two (2) years, fl whichever is less; or	fl
He/she is absent from work for three (3) consecutive days fl without notifying the University, except when the failure to notify fl and work is due to circumstances beyond the control of the fl employee. After such absence, the University shall send writtenfl notification to the employee at his/her last known address that fl
a
he/she has lost his/her seniority, and his/her employment has been terminated. In addition, the Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee, or his/her designated representative, shall be notified in writing of that fact.
A grievance involving compliance with this Section shall begin at Step Two of the grievance procedure, and may be processed through the Grievance and Arbitration Procedures by the Union only for an employee who has lost his/her status as an employee and his/her seniority, provided it is submitted in writing at Step Two of the grievance procedure within seventy-two (72) hours after facts have occurred giving rise to his/her grievance, except that in the event of employment termination as provided in paragraph 98 or 100 a grievance may be submitted, provided it is submitted in writing within seventy-two (72) hours after the Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee, or his/her designated representative, has received written notification of the termination.
SECTION C.	REINSTATEMENT
If an employee with one or more years of seniority resigns or quits and subsequently is rehired by the University, within twelve (12) months of the termination of their previous employment, their original seniority date will be restored upon completion of three (3) consecutive years of employment, excluding time on leave of absence.
ARTICLE 17
EMPLOYEE AND ADDRESS LISTS
SECTION A. EMPLOYEE LISTS
The University shall prepare and maintain a list which ? shall show the names alphabetically and the classification title, ; department number, pay grade, hourly rate and seniority date of all employees. The Union (Local 1583) shall be given two copies 1 and Council 25 one copy of the list within thirty (30) calendar & days after the date of this Agreement, and thereafter a current j® fist monthly.
flk^epartmental seniority list, including the same Mmfotrftat ion,> shall be maintained by each department. This list ^^^l®Bavailable for inspection by the employee or his/her
99
ARTICLE 19
REDUCTION OF THE WORKING FORCE AND RECALL PROCEDURES
SECTION A.	PROCEDURE FOR THE REDUCTION OF
THE WORKING FORCE
*
112
When it is necessary for a department to reduce the | workforce in a classification, temporary employees in the I affected classification shall be removed first. Of the remaining i employees, those employees with the least seniority in the I affected classification in that department shall be removed first, provided that the employees remaining in the classification have the ability to perform the work available. In applying this procedure, full-time probationary employees shall be removed from the affected department and classification or replaced, as the case may be, prior to removing or replacing full-time, non probationary employees, and part-time probationary employees shall be removed or replaced prior to removing or replacing part-time, non-probationary employees.
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
A removed employee shall be transferred, conditioned upon ability to perform the work available, in the following order of priority:
To a vacancy, if any, in the same classification;
To a vacancy, if any, in another classification assigned to the same pay grade;	j
To replace an employee with the least seniority, if any in the same classification;
To replace an employee with the least seniority, if any, in the same pay grade;
To a vacancy, if any, in a classification assigned to the next lower pay grade;
To replace an employee with the least seniority, if any, in a classification assigned to the next lower pay grade;
The procedure set forth above shall be applied for an employee who is replaced as a result of the application of the above procedures.
1
In applying the procedures set forth above, a removed or replaced full-time employee shall be transferred to another full-time position. A removed or replaced part-time employee shall be transferred to either a full-time or part-time position. Part-time employees eligible for benefit programs may exercise seniority to maintain benefit eligibility rather than accepting a transfer to a position without benefit eligibility.
NOTE: There is no paragraph 122 & 123.
A removed employee not transferred as provided in 2. above shall have the procedure set forth in 2. e and f applied to classifications assigned to each succeeding next lower pay grade until he/she is transferred or laid off.
The procedure set forth in 2. and 5. above shall be applied for an employee who is replaced as a result of the application of the above procedure until he/she is transferred a laid off.
NOTE: There is no paragraph 126,127,128.
SECTION B.	PROCEDURE FOR RECALL
An employee with seniority who has been laid off or transferred as a result of a reduction of the working force shall be recalled to work, conditioned upon ability to perform the work available, in accordance with the reverse application of the procedure for reduction of the working force.
SECTION C, SENIORITY PREFERENCE
For the purposes of this Article, the executive officers of the Union, the bargaining committee, chief stewards, stewards and alternate stewards shall have seniority preference over all the employees they represent, conditioned upon ability to perform the work available, provided, however, that in the Application of subparagraph 2. of Section A., each priority shall include the following provision: "providing the department ^includes'employees, or a vacancy for employees, represented.”
aCaO&EO, TEMPORARY LAYOFFS
ISKhe event employees with seniority are laid off because ry discontinuance of operations, or any portion
132
133
134
In the event the hours of work of a full-time employee wit seniority are reduced to part-time for more than ten (10) work
thereof, caused by the academic calendar or conditions not immediately correctable by the University, temporary adjustments in the work force can be made without application q the Reduction of the Working Force or Recall Procedures. The Union will be notified of such temporary adjustments. If such temporary adjustments continue for more than five (5) work ) days, the Union can request the University to apply the reductiorj of the working force procedure and the University will do so j within the following five (5) work days.	|
k
131a If the circumstances of a planned reduction in force or | reduction in hours are known in advance by the University, the Union will be given written notice of the planned changes not less than 14 days prior to the reduction and an opportunity for explanation of the circumstances will be scheduled with the President, the Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee and the Chief Steward(s) for the classiflcation(s) affected. It is understood that responsibility for notifying the employees affected remains with the University and that any disagreements regarding reductions will be submitted using the grievance procedure after employees have been notified.
SECTION E. NOTICE TO UNION AND LIABILITY
Names of employees removed from a classification, given the option of remaining in the part-time position, or laid off in a reduction of the working force and recalled to work shall be giver to the Union office in writing. A grievance alleging a violation of the reduction of the working force or recall procedures may be processed through Grievance and Arbitration Procedures, provided it is submitted in writing at Step Two within seventy-twc (72) hours after the Union receives notification of a removal, a part-time option, or layoff or a recall to work.
SECTION F. DEFINITION
For the purposes of this Article "ability to perform the work" means present skills and basic knowledge and physical fitness, within the knowledge of the University from its records o as otherwise made known to the University, to competently perform the full range of duties of the position in question. SECTION G. PROCEDURE FOR THE REDUCTION OF HOURS
days, that employee shall have the option of remaining in the part-time position. If that option is not selected, the full-time employee with the least seniority in that classification in that department, provided that the employees remaining in the classification have the ability to perform the work available, shall have the option of remaining in the department in the part-time position, or be transferred, conditioned upon ability to perform the work available, in accordance with the procedures set forth in subparagraphs 2. through 6. of Section A.
ARTICLE 20
PROMOTIONS AND OTHER TRANSFERS
SECTION A. DEFINITIONS
Promotion - A "promotion" is defined as the transfer of an employee to a regular job opening in a classification assigned to a higher pay grade.
Regular Job Opening - Except during the months of May and June, a "regular job opening" is a position which is expected to be filled for more than ninety (90) calendar days, except as provided in Article I, paragraph 5 regarding use of PTO time and leaves of absence. In the event that a position which was not expected to be filled for more than ninety (90) calendar days is still filled after ninety (90) calendar days, that position, upon request of the Union will become a "regular job opening" subject to the provisions of this Article for the balance of the need for it to be filled. The University will notify the Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee if the position is still filled after ninety (90) calendar days. During the months of May and June, the use of a "temporary employee" shall not exceed September 30.
Necessary qualifications - “Necessary qualifications" means that the records of the University or other knowledge made known to the University indicates the reasonable certainty that the employee will be able to perform competently the full rdhge of duties of the regular job opening within a reasonable
Odoftime.
POSITION AND SHIFT CHANGES ERARTMENT
Wtfployee who wishes to change from one position to ifion, or from one shift to another shift, within his/her
OSO
139
139a
own classification and department, shall fill out a “Request for Transfer" form supplied by the University identifying either a specific position or the location and/or days off and the range of starting times and file it with the department at a place designated by the department. The employee and the Union ‘ office will receive a copy of the filled out Request for Transfer form.	“
Position or shift changes may be made by the University ! among employees within a subdivision of a department such as( a building, a separate geographic location or a patient care unit| as the case may be, prior to considering Request for Transfer | forms. If such changes are made they will be done on the basis of seniority. After this process, if it is utilized, and prior to posting all Request for Transfer forms on file, and property completed listing the specific information referenced in paragraph 138, at the time a regular job opening occurs shall be considered by the University for that regular job opening. Any Request for Transfa forms not properly completed listing the specific information required will be disqualified from consideration. During the monl of December employees who want to be considered for a transfer during the following year may complete up to two (2) Request for Transfer forms and submit them to their department The Request for Transfer forms are valid only for the following calendar year. Each December employees who want to be considered for position and shift changes in the following calendar year must complete new Request for Transfer form(s). Employees transferred or promoted into a department from another department may complete up to two (2) Request for Transfer forms and submit them to their new department after they have been in their new department a minimum of six months. These Request for Transfer forms will be valid only for the remainder of that calendar year.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 20, paragraph 139, for the purposes of position or shift changes among employees, the following will be considered as centralized departments;
1.	Hospital Materiel Services
2.	Hospital Food & Nutrition Services
3.	Hospital Environmental Services
4.	Ann Arbor Plant Building Services
5.	Ann Arbor Housing Residential Dining Services
6.	Ann Arbor Housing Facilities
In addition, an employee whose appointment is less than twenty (20) hours per week shall not have their assigned hours of work increased to a full time schedule as a consequence of the application of 1. and/or 2. above.
Among the employees considered, employees will be offered the position in accordance with seniority and in such a manner as will not adversely affect the operation of the University. The Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee, or his/her designated representative, will receive written notification where such an offer would adversely affect the operation of the University. An employee who has a Request for Transfer on file and refuses an offered position or shift change, will have that Request for Transfer form removed from the file and they will not be considered for that position or shift change under the provisions of Section B for the remainder of the calendar year.
SECTION C. PROMOTIONS WITHIN A CLASSIFICATION SERIES EXISTING EXCLUSIVELY WITHIN A DEPARTMENT
In making a promotion or transfer within a classification series which exists exclusively within a department, the employee with the most seniority who has the necessary qualifications will be given the promotion or transfer when the classification is assigned to pay grade 2 through 6. When the classification is assigned to pay grade 7 or above, qualifications shall be the determining factor, except that among those with equal qualifications, seniority shall control.
In addition, and if as a result of reorganization within a department, or subdivision of a department, a different complement of classifications exists within the department, any position assigned to a new or additional existing classification within a classification series, will be subject to the provisions of this Section.
If a promotion or transfer is made under this Section, the seniority of employees shall be applied in the following order of preference; first - employees within a classification series from classification^) in the same pay grade; second -i®06|oyees within a classification series from the classification(s) dxt lOwer pay grade; third - employees within a ffehsenes from the classification(s) in each next
•lower pay grade.
fifth •
143
144
145
1.
4.
4
2.
3.
A.
B.
C.
D.
Ann Arbor Campus
Dearborn Campus
Flint Campus
Each other separate geographic area shall be a separate posting area.
The name of the employee who was promoted, together with his/her classification title and seniority date will be sent to ■ the Union office.	•
For the purposes of this Article, the classifications in eadj series are set forth in Appendix E. From time to time, and after discussing the matter with the Union, the classifications assign^ to the series may be changed by mutual agreement.	i
SECTION D, PROMOTIONS AND TRANSFERS - POSTING j AND BIDDING PROCEDURE	I
If a regular job opening is not filled from within a department or in another manner consistent with the terms of this Agreement, the regular job opening, except for openings in pay grade 1 and openings which are fillet by offering the opening to employees in seniority order through the first three orders of preference set forth below, will be posted throughout a posting area for six (6| calendar days, Monday through Saturday. Each of the । following geographic areas shall be a separate posting j area:
An employee in one of the posting areas as set forth I above may make known to the University in writing that I he/she wishes to be considered for a "regular job openin® in another posting area if such an opening is posted. « Such a notification shall include the classification and the£ starting time or times and department or departments if these are essential factors. In such a case, this employ will be considered along with the bidders by the same standard set forth in #3 below, provided his/her written notification is received prior to the end of the posting period for that “regular job opening."
When the opening is filled, the employee with the most seniority among the bidders in the posting area who has the necessary qualifications will be given the promotion transfer when the classification is assigned to pay grade through 6. External candidates will not be considered by the hiring department until it has been determined that
there are no qualified internal bidders. When the classification is assigned to pay grade 7 or above, qualifications shall be the determining factor, except that among those with equal qualifications seniority shall control. When the opening is filled under this Section, the seniority of employees shall be applied in the following order of preference: first- bidders within a classification series from the same or another classification in the same or higher pay grade: second- bidders within a classification series from the classification(s) in the next lower pay grade; third- bidders within a classification series from the classification(s) in each next succeeding lower pay grade; fourth- other bidders.
When the opening is to be filled in classifications assigned to pay grade 7 or above, employees meeting the posted qualifications shall be considered for the opening. Of those employees who possess the posted qualifications, no less than the three most senior will be interviewed. The most qualified of the internal or external applicants will be selected. When qualifications are equal, seniority shall be the determining factor.
However, no employee shall be promoted or transferred into a department or unit under the supervision of a relative. For purposes of this Article, relative means an employee's spouse, or the son, daughter, parent, grandparent, brother, sister, grandchildren (or the spouse of any of them), of either the employee or his/her spouse, or of any other related person living in the employee's household.
• SECTION E, GENERAL PROVISIONS
j . "When a regular job opening is posted in accordance with o&JCtion D., the posting will note the classification, the pay grade, inaccurate description of the duties to be performed in this
lar job opening, the department, the starting time and the isedssary qualifications for openings in pay grades 2 through 6, e necessary and any desired qualifications for openings in iade 7 and above, for which the person must at least
a the necessary qualifications in order to be considered, of the posting will be sent to the Union Office. The ityjshall include a sequential numbering system on all job
147a
148
149
At the request of either the Union or
--- -------
Conference shall be held to discuss and clarify any concerns o information regarding the relevance of necessary or desired qualifications posted for regular job openings.
During any period in which employees are being considered for promotion or transfer and during any posting period, the regular job opening may be filled by anyone on a temporary basis.
At the time a bid is received by the supervisor or the Human Resources Office, it will be dated and a copy returned ri the employee. Only bids providing all requested information ar| received by the University within the posting period by the ■? employee's supervisor or at a University Human Resources | Office will be considered by the University prior to making a I promotion or transfer. Once a regular job opening is posted, | other methods of filling a regular job opening shall not be used! until all bidders are considered in accordance with the standard! set forth in Section D.	■
150
151
An employee who does not provide all requested information or deliberately falsifies information on the bid form may be disqualified.
Any bidder must be at work or otherwise available following the closing date of the bid and during the period when bidders are being considered. If a bidder is not at work or otherwise available to be considered, the bidder may be disqualified.
152
153
An employee who has received a disciplinary layoff with® the twelve (12) month period prior to the date the University I begins considering employees for a promotion or transfer, mayl be disqualified by the Human Resources Office. However, prio® to such action, the University through a designated	I
representative, shall discuss the matter with the employee and® the Bargaining Chairperson or his/her designated representative
An employee who is promoted or transferred to another classification will be given a reasonable period, but not to exc one (1) month, to demonstrate in actual performance whether he/she has the ability to perform the work. If he/she does not have the ability to perform the work, he/she shall be returned , the classification from which he/she was promoted or transferr
34
University a Soeci* and given a written notice of reason. A copy of this notice will be university, a bpeci<4 an« a	„hiof ctoward and to the Union office.
sent to the employee's chief steward and to the Union office.
If the employee requests within the one (1) month period following a promotion or transfer from another classification, he/she shall be returned to a regular job opening in the classification from which he/she was promoted or transferred, but in any event, he/she shall be returned within the one (1) month period following his/her request. If there is no regular job opening in the classification from which the employee was promoted or transferred, the employee will be returned to any other regular job opening in the same pay grade for which the employee has the necessary qualifications. If no such regular job opening exists, the employee will be returned to a classification in the same pay grade consistent with seniority and ability to perform the work. An employee affected by such a return shall be placed or laid off in accordance with the provisions of Section A. of Article 19.
In the event that an employee is returned to the classification from which he/she was promoted or transferred, the University shall consider the other bidders prior to posting again.
An employee who has been hired, promoted or transferred, including an employee returned at the employee's request, but not an employee returned by the University because the employee does not have the ability to perform the work, need not be considered by the University for a subsequent transfer or promotion during the twelve- (12) month period following the hire and six (6) month period following the transfer and promotion; unless the employee is the only bidder who meets the standard set forth in Section D.
An employee who has bid for a promotion or transfer in accordance with the provisions of Section D. and who has more seniority than the employee selected for promotion or transfer, will^be notified in writing within twenty-one (21) days after a , person has been selected for the job opening that he/she lacks the qualifications or he/she does not have equal qualifications, | as the case may be, together with the name and seniority date of 7 the employee promoted or transferred. A summary list of J. bidders, and the name and seniority date of the »PWpri selected for the job opening will be sent to the Union ®e vifthin twenty-one (21) calendar days after the person has
Selected. An employee who has been notified that he/she n selected for promotion to a classification in pay
ARTICLE 21
158
159
Simultaneous posting of more than one {1) opening at the! o	1 nn -irr deleted
starting time in a classification within th»	" ®te: Paragraphs 163-188 are deleted.
ARTICLE 22
160
HOLIDAYS
161
_	- ----------\	...y a I Uioi
same starting time in a classification within the same department! shall be considered a single regular job opening for the purpose® of this Article.	"
grades 2-6 because he/she lacks the qualifications may, through the Bargaining Chairperson, request an explanation. An employee who has been notified that he/she has not been selected for promotion to a classification assigned to pay grade | or above because he/she lacks the qualifications, may | individually request an explanation. Upon request of the 1 Bargaining Chairperson, the University will provide the Union j with information and explanation as to why the chosen applicants was more qualified. This information will be provided to the I Union no later than the Step Two hearing, if applicable.
Should a regular job opening fail to receive any bids for a minimum of three (3) different, but consecutive, posting periods, after written notice to the Union Office, the University may discontinue posting for one (1) year such regular job openings which subsequently occur in that classification, in that department and at that starting time. Thereafter, the University will again post any such regular job openings and the provisions of this paragraph shall be repeated. The Union shall be sent a written notice, on a weekly basis, of all regular job openings for which no bids were received by the University.
Promotions or other transfers resulting from the application of this Article can be questioned through the Grievance and Arbitration Procedures only by an employee who— has more seniority than the employee selected for the promotion® or transfer and/or who has a higher order of preference and, if applicable, who has bid prior to the closing date.
A grievance concerning compliance with this Article shall begin at Step Two of the Grievance Procedure provided the grievance is submitted in writing within the fifteen (15) calendar day period following the day on which the aggrieved employee had knowledge of the facts giving rise to the employee's grievance.
RETURN TO UNIT
An individual who has performed the type of work now performed by employees in the bargaining unit who is or was in the past transferred out of the unit, but not to another bargaining unit, may be returned by the University to the unit. In such a case the return shall be to a vacancy in the classification from which he/she was transferred, or if none, then to a vacancy in a classification in the same pay grade. If no vacancy exists, the return shall be by replacing the least senior employee in the classification from which he/she was transferred. However, an individual placed in the bargaining unit from another bargaining unit or non-bargaining unit shall not use his/her University seniority date for the purposes of Promotions and Transfers for twelve (12) calendar months. Any employee placed in the bargaining unit from another bargaining unit or non-bargaining unit will be placed in a pay grade 01 position, unless otherwise agreed by the Union and the University, or the placement is to a regular job opening for which no bids were received or for which there were no bidders possessing the necessary qualifications.
SECTION A.
The following holidays will be observed on the calendar day on which each falls, except that a holiday falling on Sunday will be observed on the following Monday and a holiday falling on Saturday will be observed on the preceding Friday:
l.r'New Year's Day
’ 2jsi; Memorial Day
3./.Independence Day
TfeWLiaborDay
*"* "giving Day
/Thanksgiving Day
$tmdsDay
190a
Providing sufficient other employees capable of doing th( ln addjtion to the holiday pay as provided in Section C. or SUbS,i,U,e *° □ an X““i ^Ton7heyholid% »IH be paid fortbe xnree (3) days of his/her choice that are of greater personal an L nri(S nne-hatf times his/ her hourly rate and significance than the designated Holidays for any three (3) of th ^7!! if applicable. To the extent that an employee is designated Holidays within the calendar year in which the shl.^ pr r_liant'to this Section he/she shall not be paid an designated Holidays fall. A written request for such substitution;- pai nremium under Section A of Article 10 for the same must be given to the employee's immediate supervisor on or t overtime premium under becuon a. or e before July 1 of each year.	■ time worked.
191
SECTION B.
If an employee is regularly scheduled to work on Christmas Day, New Year's Day or Independence Day that falls on a Saturday or Sunday, and the employee is regularly
* * - ' - - — * — —I— A AM,	L* Z*\| |^4 >1 k f
======== esss?
based on the Saturday or Sunday that the holiday occurred only.
SECTION C.
192
Each full-time employee, other than an employee on layo or on any leave of absence, shall receive eight (8) hours pay at his/her hourly rate plus shift or special schedule premium if applicable, for the holiday, provided the employee meets the following eligibility requirement:
193
An employee who fails to work on a holiday on which he/she is scheduled to work shall not receive holiday pay as provided in Section C. or D. unless his/her failure to work is excused because of (1) personal illness or injury as provided in Article 25 or (2) other extraordinary circumstances beyond the
meet his/her employment obligation. An employee who is late but finishes his/her schedule of work, meets the eliqibilitv requirement.
ARTICLE 23
SECTION D,
SEASON DAYS
194
Each part-time employee normally scheduled to work eight (8) or more hours per calendar week, other than an employee on layoff or on any leave of absence, who meets the eligibility requirement set forth in Section C. shall receive pay fd the holiday determined by multiplying his/her hourly rate plus ■ shift premium, if applicable, times his/her normal schedule of hours per calendar week divided by five. Those normally scheduled to work less than eight (8) hours per calendar week shall not receive pay for the holiday.
SECTION E.
SECTION A.
।	‘ Between the days observed as the Christmas Day and
‘ New Year’s Day holidays (except for University Hospitals, between December 15 and January 15), there shall be four (4) Seiion Days which may be designated on an individual basis.
■r^SfiSTION B.
fah'Season Day shall be the consecutive twenty-four ijgiipd starting with the employee’s starting time on the
Which the Season Day is designated.


38
SECTION C,
200
201
ARTICLE 24
202
203
SECTION F.
204
An employee who fails to work on a Season Day on . the employee is scheduled to work shall not receive the pay
1
Each full-time employee, other than an employee on iaj or on any leave of absence, shall receive eight (8) hours pay | his/her hourly rate plus shift or special schedule premium if | applicable, for each Season Day for which the employee is nJ scheduled to work, provided the employee meets the followinl eligibility requirement:
The employee works the employee's last scheduled wc day prior to and the first scheduled work day following the day observed as the Christmas Day and the New Year's Day holid respectively, unless his/her failure to work on either or both su days is excused because of (1) personal illness or injury as provided in Article 25, or (2) other extraordinary circumstance beyond the control of the employee which cannot be corrected in time for him/her to meet his/her employment obligation. An employee who is late, but finishes his/her schedule of work, meets the eligibility requirement.
SECTION D.


Each part-time employee normally scheduled to work I eight (8) or more hours per calendar week, other than an ■ employee on layoff or on any leave of absence, who meets th® eligibility requirement set forth in Section C. shall receive pay each Season Day for which the employee is not scheduled to work, determined by multiplying his/her hourly rate plus shift premium, if applicable, times his/her normal schedule of hou. per calendar week divided by five. Those normally scheduled work less than eight (8) hours per calendar week shall not receive pay for the Season Days.
SECTION E.
An employee who works on a Season Day will be paid the time worked at the employee's hourly rate and shift promt if applicable. In addition and for each Season Day the emplo works, an equivalent amount of time, not to exceed a total of, thirty-two (32) hours shall be added to the employee's PTO ; accrual and, thereafter, shall be subject to the provisions of Article 25.
provided in Section C. or D. unless his/her failure to work is excused because of (1) personal illness or injury as provided in Article 25, or (2) other extraordinary circumstances beyond the control of the employee which cannot be corrected in time for him/her to meet his/her employment obligation.
When an employee is scheduled to work on a Season Day, he/she will be given at least four (4) calendar days notice unless circumstances do not permit advance notice.
Paragraphs 206-229 are deleted.
PERSONAL DISCRETION TIME
A non-probationary employee may use personal discretionary time, provided the employee notifies the department head no later than thirty (30) minutes prior to the beginning of the employee's shift, except when the failure to notify Is due to circumstances beyond the control of the employee. Personal Discretionary time is limited to not more than twenty-four (24) hours (twelve [12] hours for employees working half time or less) in a 12 month period from each June 1st through May 31st of the following year, and not more than 1/3 of the hours in any one month. It is not available for the last scheduled work day prior to nor the first scheduled work day following a holiday or other time off, whether approved or not, except regularly scheduled days off. Hours used under this Article shall be charged to accrued PTO time in not less than four (4) hour increments. In no case will the provisions of this Allele be available if it is being used for the purpose of a work stoppage.. An employee’s personal discretionary time renews on ilune 1*cif each year.
' Employees who use no personal discretionary time during eirtl^montn time period will be eligible for additional PTO Sell ^Jfifecbordance with Article 25, Section F.
Understanding regarding personal discretion time ^necessary transition period from January, 2003 to ils;
.	ARTICLE 25	■,
PAID TIME OFF	J
SECTION	A.	ELIGIBILITY	;
The Paid	Time Off (herein after referenced to a “PTO”)?
program provides for paid time off from work for personal illne family care responsibilities, vacation and personal business, employee shall be eligible to receive PTO in accordance with provisions of the Article when he/she meets the requirements Sections B, C and D.
1. Except as provided in 2. and 3. of this Section, full-time employees accrue PTO according to the following schedule:
Seniority	Monthly Accrual	Maximum Accrual
0 to 5 Years	13.3 hours	240 hours
5 to 10 Years	17.3 hours	312 hours
Over 10 Years	21.3 hours	384 hours
An employee will accrue but not be eligible to use PTO prior to the completion of his/her probationary period. I full-time employee shall accrue PTO beyond the maximum total hours listed above (pro-rated for part-tin employees). If an employee reduces his/her appointmt fraction and correspondingly his/her maximum accrual, any PTO accrued over the maximum for the employee1! new appointment will be paid to the employee.
2.
depending upon the day of the calendar month on whh the event occurs as follows:		
	Start of	End of
	Employment	Employment:
	or Return	or Start i
Day of	from Leave	of Leave 1
Calendar Mo,	of Absence	of Absence j
One through ten	100%	none	j
Eleven through twenty	50%	50%	|
Twenty-one through end	none	100%	]
42
During the calendar month in which a full time employe^ aiKs^ procedure. starts or ends employment, or starts or returns from art) leave of absence, he/she will accrue PTO hours I
Except as provided in 2. above, an employee shall not accrue any hours of PTO during any leave of absence or during any calendar month in which he/she is absent without pay for fifteen(15) or more work days. During any calendar month in which he/she is absent without pay for less than fifteen (15), but more than seven (7) work days, he/she shall accrue 50% of PTO accrual.
Part-time employees normally scheduled to work eight (8) or more hours per calendar week accrue hours of PTO on a basis which is directly proportionate to that accrued by full-time employees. Those normally scheduled to work less than eight (8) hours per calendar week shall not accrue PTO.
Hours of PTO accrue and are recorded on the first day of each calendar month of employment.
SECTION B, USAGE OF PTO - SCHEDULED
1. PTO may be used for scheduled absences (such as ' vacations, planned personal absences, preventative medical and dental care appointments, etc.) when approved in advance by the supervisor.
■' • ■
■; Scheduled PTO time shall be scheduled to meet the work requirements of the University on a departmental basis <’«;wwith due consideration given to an employee’s wishes as -teaitto time and duration in accordance with the following
lEach department will post prior to March 1 and iSfcfetember 1 of each year and at such other times as may f^l^tpblished by a department any limitations concerning ^^tereduling of time off, including the election to close HMMfeny or all of the operations of the department and ■HBglfptime off during the close down period. Such ^^^gns shall not include a limitation on the length of an individual employee to provide time off for ^BHgwSyee with less seniority.
■Uj^will request time off during the month of March ^^^H^gftrber for all scheduled time off to be taken
43
during the following May through October and Now A full-time employee or a part-time employee working through April respectively unless a department , thirty-two(32) or more hours in a calendar week, will be granted establishes a procedure in which time off can be paid time off from his/her assigned schedule of work for a requested on a more frequent basis, in which casej preventive medical or dental care appointment, including post-off will be requested for those time periods. < operative examinations and care, providing he/she gives his/her l immediate supervisor written notice at least five (5) calendar
Based upon these requests and within the time peg qgys prior to the appointment, unless the appointment Is
4.
5.
6.
7.
established by a department, the department will | schedule time off in order of preference by classifiil on the basis of seniority.	|
Upon completion of the scheduling, the time off sc shall be posted during the last week of April and 0 or on a more frequent basis as established by the department, and may only be changed because of requirements caused other than by the scheduling off.
8.
An employee who transfers from a department an<J has not taken his/her scheduled and posted time his/her time off preference. In such a case, he/sh permitted to reschedule, consistent with the work requirements of his/her new department.
If a day observed by the University as a holiday as provided in Article 22 occurs during an employee's off, he/she shall, if otherwise eligible for it, receive pay and will not have that time off charged against accrual.
Time off which is not scheduled and posted in accordan the above procedure may be granted in the sole discreti University, provided it is requested as promptly as possi no later than the beginning of the employee’s shift, ex extraordinary circumstances beyond the control of the e cannot be corrected in time for him/her to meet his/her employment obligation, PTO time may be granted for the absences. Written Supervisory approval or disapproval ( not scheduled according to 229c shall be given to the ei within three (3) working days or prior to their requested whichever comes first.
SECTION C.	PREVENTIVE MEDICAL AND DENTAL j CARE APPOINTMENTS
44
scheduled by the University doctor. The written notice shall include the time and day of the appointment, the name of the doctor and the probable duration of the absence. A series of appointments may be included in the same noticed In the event that a doctor schedules a return appointment or post-operative examination or care which prevents giving the required notice, as much notice as possible based on the circumstances is required. In the event that the time of the appointment adversely affects the operation of his/her department, the employee will reschedule the appointment to a mutually convenient time. Notwithstanding the fact that such an absence is not the result of a sickness or injury within the meaning of this Article, the
provisions of this Article shall apply.
SECTION D.	USAGE OF PTO-UNSCHEDULED
In order to be paid for unscheduled PTO, an employee must call in at least 30 minutes prior to the start of their shift unless circumstances are beyond the employee's control. For an unscheduled absence which is due to personal illness, PTO shall be payable to an employee provided the employee’s department head is notified of the nature of the sickness or injury and the probable duration thereof as soon as possible, but in no event later than the beginning of his/her shift, except when the failure to notify is due to circumstances beyond the control of the employee.
In all cases on returning to work from an absence due to personal illness an employee must certify on a form provided by the University the following:
1. The nature of the sickness or injury which prevented . < him/her from working, including time, dates and - circumstances, and whether or not under the care of a physician;
njh&arhount of time lost from work in hours because of ^sickness or injury;
3. The name of the person to whom advance notice was • given, together with the time, or the reason notice was rj given.
In the event that facts and circumstances indicate that the employee may not be eligible for PTO pay as claimed, evident of eligibility may be required. A physician’s statement on a for provided by the University is such evidence, but will not be a mandatory requirement necessary to receive PTO unless othe evidence is not satisfactory or except as provided below.
Arbitrary failure to follow accepted medical practice shall be reason for discontinuing or withholding PTO. If sickness or inji recurs frequently or regularly so as to raise a question about tl employee's general state of health, or there is an arbitrary failt to follow accepted medical practice, the University may require the employee to see the employee’s own physician and provid the University with a statement concerning his/her health problem, the treatment required and what can be expected. If the employee does not have a personal physician, the Univers will assist the employee in obtaining appropriate medical care.
The University may request a Sick Time Conference with an employee, the employee's supervisor, a representative of the University Human Resources Office, the Bargaining Chairpere and the Chief Steward to discuss the employee's sick time usage and ability to work. Although not limited to the following information discussed shall be of the type:
1.
2.
3.
time lost from work due to sickness or injury;
physician’s evaluation(s);
ability of employee to meet employment obligation of regular and reasonable attendance.
If the University requires an employee to be examined by a physician or physicians of its choosing with a report of the findings made to the University, that examination and report* be without cost to the employee.
SECTION E.	SUPPLEMENTAL DISABILITY INCOME FOR EXTENDED DISABILITY
229f
A full-time employee who has at least two full years ofj continuous service and has received PTO, as provided in this Article, for ten (10) consecutive work days (80 hours) will be i eligible for up to not more than sixty (60) days (480 hours) off
46
Supplemental Disability Income in the immediately following five (5) year period. This five (5) year period begins on the first day that the employee became eligible for Supplemental Disability
Income.
This Supplemental Disability Income will be available to an eligible employee only for consecutive and contiguous work days of absence following an original fen (10) consecutive work days of absence for which PTO provided by this Article has been received. Thereafter other accrued hours of PTO are again used and paid.
A full time employee will have the full four hundred and eighty (480) hours of Supplemental Disability Income reinstated in full on the first day of the following each successive five year period provided the employee is at work on that day. If the employee is not at work on that day, reinstatement will take place on the day the employee returns to active employment. In no case will the employee be eligible for more than four hundred and eighty (480 hours of Supplementary Disability Income in any five (5) year period.
Part-time employees normally scheduled to work eight (8) or more hours per calendar week will be eligible for Supplemental Disability Income on a basis which is directly proportionate to that of full-time employees. Those normally scheduled to work less than eight (8) hours per calendar week shall not be eligible for Supplemental Disability Income.
SECTION F.	SELLING BACK UNUSED PTO TIME
j 1,	Once per year full time employees may sell back to the
: t University up to six unused PTO days (48 hours) at 100% : -of current value, providing that at least five days (40
hours) remain in their PTO bank to cover unanticipated -w^jj-absences. Part-time employees scheduled to work (8) or . ' - <v^ifiore hours per calendar week may sell back PTO days ,	a basis which is directly proportionate to that of full-
tlme employees.
^employee who uses no personal discretion time during ^iftwelve (12) month period from June 1st through May pay sell back to the University up to nine unused ays ( 72 hours) at 100% of the current value, g that at least three days ( 24 hours) remain in P bank to cover unanticipated absences. Part-

47
229h
229i
.'time employees scheduled to work (8) or more hours peg
vise?	calendar week may sell back PTO days on a basis whinBRFCTION I. REPORTING TIME ANO ATTENDANCE
; n is directly proportionate to that of full-time employees, i
* Time worked and absences from the normal work
Note: See Memo Of Understanding regarding sell back provisions i schedule are to be reported to the nearest 1/10 of an hot during the necessary transition period from January to June renewals i
for personal discretion time.	ISECTION J. PTO AND WORKERS* COMPENSATION
3. During the October benefits open enrollment period, a j written request to sell back some PTO time may be I submitted. The written request must contain the followirl information:	I
1.	Employee’s name
2.	Employee’s Social Security number
3.	Number of PTO hours the employee wishes to sell back
4.	The minimum balance to be maintained in the employee’s PTO bank if greater than five days (40 hours)
5.	The employee's signature
Once submitted a written request may not be rescinded.
In the event an employee has received PTO pay due to personal illness or injury for any period of time for which the employee would otherwise be eligible for a loss of time Worker’s Compensation Benefit, a Worker’s Compensation Benefit will not be substituted for the PTO pay for the first eighty(80) hours of PTO time paid for the absence due to personal illness or injury. Thereafter the Worker’s Compensation Benefit will be substituted and the employee credited with any PTO time paid rather than the Worker’s compensation Benefit. In no case will an employee receive payment, whether it be from Worker’s compensation or PTO Pay in excess of what would have been paid if the employee had been at work. If, for whatever reason this has happened, adjustments in subsequent payments to an employee from whatever the source will be made. For the ; purposes of this section PTO is considered as sick pay.
4. Payment for PTO time sold back will be made in the employee's last paycheck received in January.
SECTION K. PAY IN LIEU OF PTO TIME
An employee will receive pay in lieu of paid PTO time only SECTION G. ACCRUAL TRANSFERS UPON PTO START y®. after completion of the employee's probationary period and then "j. only under the following circumstances.
Upon the start-up of the PTO program employees were I
credited with all accrued short term sick hours up to the	I Retirement; or
permitted maximum accrual of 800 hours (or if a part-time	ft Start of a leave of absence	nrmnrieri that the
employee, the appropriate proportionate number of maximum ft Termination, for whatever the	' p	.	,
accrued hours). These hours are available for employees to ul employee has one (1) year of	ty
to satisfy the 80 hour qualifying period for Supplemental ■ termination;; or
Disability Income and for use, if necessary, immediately upon ■ Death, in which case a survive t p >
the exhaustion of the employee's Supplemental Disability	S	Selling back of PTO	cmninvpp	who is aranted a
Income. Employees were also credited with 100% of their	I	SUt^a leave of absence, excrept that an em^ ^is sran^
,	,	■	eaifflfitrfabsence for for a oenod of six (6) montns or less siidii, upun
accruals for vacation.	■	° up hundre(!j (120) hours of accrued
itfed, provided the request is made prior to the beginning of the
SECTION H. PTO AND TERMINATION
Unused PTO will be paid to the employee upon termination of employment, reduction in force, start of a militai leave of absence (at employee’s option), and other leaves of • absence.
ence.
48
230
231
232
233
229m 1.
2.
Pay for PTO time shall be at the employee’s rate of pajtpXcept as otherwise provided in this Agreemen , u J «Y the time taken, times the number of hours of accrued Lnci witness service shall be considered time wor • PTO time scheduled and used. Pay for PTO time shall employee shall furnish the University a written s paid to the employee on the employee’s regular pay da the court showing the days of jury duty or wrtnes ..... t ; the amount of jury duty or witness fees he/she was eligible to
Pay in lieu of PTO time shall be at the employee’s ratej reCeive for each day. The employee will report for wor en pay at the time the event set forth in section K. occurs,! released from jury duty or witness service.
times the number of hours accrued PTO time. I
ARTICLE 26
FUNERAL LEAVE PAY
In the event of the death of (1) an employee's spouse, < (2) a domestic partner with whom the staff member shares livii accommodations and expenses, or (3) the son, daughter, parent, grandparent, brother, sister, grandchildren (or the spouse of any of them), of either the employee or his/her spou or domestic partner or (4) any other related person living in the employee's household, an employee who attends the funeral t service shall be granted time off work with pay (maximum of eight [8] hours a day at his/her hourlyrate plus shift or special schedule premium, if applicable). The amount of time off wort with pay shall be only that which is required to attend the funel or service and/or make necessary funeral or service
arrangements, and (prior to or subsequent to the funeral or ■ service) financial, custodial, or other necessary arrangements® surviving family member, but in no event shall it exceed three® work days.	■
If additional time off is needed, the employee may requi the use of accrued PTO time.	I
In the event that an employee is on PTO, the provision^ this Article nevertheless shall apply.
ARTICLE 27
JURY AND WITNESS SERVICE
An employee who loses time off his/her assigned schedule of work because of jury duty service or to testify pursuant to a subpoena shall be paid for such time lost at hii hourly rate plus shift or special schedule premium, if applical
An employee who does not lose time from his/her assigned schedule of work, but who nevertheless has performed jury duty service or testified pursuant to a subpoena within the eight hour period immediately before the beginning of his/her shift, at his/her request, may have an amount of time off work equal to the time he/she was required to spend in court during that eight hour period. In such a case, the employee will be paid for this time off, in the same manner as if he had lost time from
work.
An employee who is required to report for jury duty service or testify pursuant to a subpoena following completion of a shift which ends after midnight, will be excused from work at midnight and paid for such lost time at his/her hourly rate plus shift or special schedule premium, if applicable.
None of the above provisions will apply to an employee who is a plaintiff, except for a plaintiff in a domestic dispute, whether testifying pursuant to a subpoena or not. Such an employee must make prior arrangements with the supervisor for either PTO or an excused absence without pay.
ARTICLE 28
ANNUAL MILITARY DUTY
w An employee who is a member of the Armed Forces W Reserves or National Guard and who loses time from his/her K assigned Schedule of work to participate in annual military £ training, or for service required as a result of a civil disorder or gneriiporary emergency, shall be granted an excused pto work, not to exceed fifteen (15) work days in any year. Such an employee will be paid for the time Ofouriy rate plus shift or special schedule premium, ed Forces Reserves or National Guard base
fftsfe against such pay. Except as otherwise rjAgreement, such service shall be considered fiffemployee shall furnish the University with
written evidence of service and the amount of base pay he/sh^
was eligible to receive. If an employee requests and is | SECTION D. MILITARY scheduled for PTO during a period of training or service, he/$a
shall not be eligible for the pay provided by this Article for thafl An employee entering the military service as (1) an ........................................................... I	jndUctee through the Selective Service System, or (2) a voluntary i enlistee while having a 1-A selective service classification, or (3) a member of the Armed Forces Reserves or National Guard either pursuant to an order or call to active duty or active duty for training, or by volunteering during a period of national emergency, shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for the period of active duty or active duty for training, not to exceed four (4) years, plus additional time imposed by law and the period in which reinstatement must be requested as set forth in paragraph 248.
period of time for which he/she received PTO pay.
237
ARTICLE 29
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
SECTION A, MEDICAL
An employee with seniority who (1) is unable to work I because of personal sickness or injury and (2) has exhausted! PTO pay under Article 25 shall be granted a leave of absence!

without pay upon request in writing and furnishing evidence cj disability satisfactory to the University. Such request and evidence may be furnished by the Union or any other interns party. Medical leave may be taken in an intermittent basis or a reduced effort schedule up to an absence totaling 12 week but only when medically necessary and PTO is exhausted.

238
The leave of absence shall be for the period of continu disability, but not to exceed twelve (12) months, unless exten by the University. In no case, however, shall a leave and extensions exceed two years. To continue the leave of abse an employee must receive appropriate medical treatment an furnish satisfactory evidence of continuing disability. When necessary, physicians' opinions shall be the basis used to determine the question of appropriate medical treatment or evidence of continuing disability.
SECTION B, DISABILITY
239
Subject to, and consistent with, the University Disabiii Plan as provided for in Article 33, an employee who qualifies-disability benefits will be granted a leave of absence for an indefinite period.

SECTION C. PERSONAL
240
An employee with seniority may be granted a leave of absence without pay by the University for a period not to exceed six (6) months. The leave may be extended for additional periods, but in no case shall a leave and extensiol exceed one year.
SECTION E. UNION
An employee with seniority who is elected or temporarily appointed to an elective office with the Union (Local 1583), Council 25 or the International Union, upon written request of the Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee of the Union, shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for the period of time for which elected or temporarily appointed.
An employee with seniority who is elected for regular employment with the Union (Local 1583), Council 25, or the International Union, upon written request of the Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee of the Union, shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for not more than a year. Upon written request of the Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee of the Union the leave will be extended for additional periods, but in no case shall a leave and extensions exceed two years.
SECTION F, UNION-EXCUSED ABSENCE
sr
Employee with seniority who is elected or selected by h^upon the written request of the Chairperson of the mmittee, shall be granted an excused absence
Or a period of time sufficient to attend conferences ^provided, however, and except for executive pion, and chief stewards, not more than one ^department will be granted an excused e time. Provided further, no such request ffilbss an oral or written request is received at ffipdar days prior to the requested time off. An b,confirmed in writing. For the purposes of si. and J. of this Article shall not apply, but
SECTION G. CHILDCARE
245
245a
SECTION H. FAMILY MEDICAL
245b
SECTION). EDUCATIONAL
246
"Child" is defined as a biological, adopted or foster chile stepchild, a legal ward, or a child of a person who is serving in the capacity of a parent and who is under the age of eighteen (18) years of age or older and incapable of self-care because i a mental or physical disability.
An employee with seniority who is unable to work becaiB s/he is needed to care for a seriously or chronically ill family ■ member will be granted a (eave of absence of up to twelve (1« weeks. The twelve (12) weeks is reduced by any medical or ■ child care leave of absence taken in the current calendar yearj
the excused absences shall be considered time worked except an educational leave of absence shall not be eligible for benefits as otherwise provided in this Agreement.	'I under the Disability Plan. For the purposes of this Section, and
J ... .—r—t. nf ArtiHo 1R cAninrifv shall not
Within the twelve (12) month period following the birth c the employees child or the adoption or foster care placement । a child, an employee with seniority, upon written request, shall granted a leave of absence without pay for not more than six ( months. The leave may be extended for additional periods bu all cases a leave and extension must be completed by the end one year from the date of the child's birth, adoption or foster placement.
Family member is defined as the staff member's spous® or a domestic partner with whom the staff member shares livid accommodations and expenses; and without regard to their place of residence, the child, sibling, parent, grandparent, or other related individual whose care is the responsibility of the staff member, spouse, or domestic partner.
An employee will not be required to use PTO or perso discretion time prior to taking a Family Medical Leave of Absence.
An employee with seniority shall be granted an educational leave of absence without pay for the purpose of pursuing a formal full-time educational program. Such a lea shall be for a period of up to one (1) year and shall be renev for additional periods of up to one (1) year, but in no case st leave and renewals exceed four (4) years or the employee’s seniority, whichever period of time is the lesser. An employ
UdUCl HIV -------z - ...
not withstanding Section A. of Article 16, seniority shall not accrue during an educational leave of absence or any renewal, provided, however, after return to work from an educational leave of absence, Section A. of Article 16 shall become applicable. Upon return to work from an educational leave of absence, or any renewal, an employee shall not be eligible for a further educational leave of absence until the employee has worked for at least twelve (12) calendar months.
SECTION J. RETURN TO ACTIVE EMPLOYMENT
The University, at its option and without cost to the employee, may require that a physician or physicians of its choosing examine the employee before returning the employee to active employment.
In addition, and in order to be eligible to return to active employment, an employee returning from a military leave of absence must have a certificate of satisfactory completion of service and apply for reinstatement within ninety (90) days after release from duty,
In addition, and in order to be eligible to return to active employment, an employee returning from any leave of absence must provide at least fourteen (14) calendar days notice of the employee’s intent to return from leave.
In addition, and in order to be eligible to return to active employment, an employee returning from a medical or childcare leave of absence must provide, at least fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the end of the leave, a statement from the employee's physician releasing the employee to return to work, exceptthatthis shall not apply in the case of a childcare leave of absence granted for an adoption.
W’ .■ & -
^W-Emptoyees returning from initial child care, medical, or family leaves of absence which have not exceeded twelve (12) weefewill be returned to their former position or an equivalent ! P®^fr^M^t^Conclusion of an initial child care, medical or absence which exceeded twelve (12) weeks a igibfe to return will be placed in their former cation; and if formerly eligible for health lent of 20 hours or more; provided that employee or the University have not his impracticable. In like manner, a full-
time employee returning from a medical or childcare leave of
■ ■ -	e ve (12) weeks will be placed in Subject to, and consistent with, the Group Life Insurance
Plan, coverage may be continued during a leave of absence provided direct payment of the employee's portion of the _ premium is made through and as prescribed by the University, f except as provided by the University Disability Plan.
their former department, classification and full-time status. Atj the conclusion of any other leave of absence (excluding militaj leaves), employees will be placed at their former hourly rate pay. In any case, placement will be consistent with seniority ability to perform the work. In cases where a leave is not for
fixed period of time or when an employee returns prior to the expiration of any leave, or extension, the return to active employment shall be within the fourteen (14) calendar-day pe after notice is given to the University. If the return is not time! the employee will be terminated, unless extraordinary circumstances beyond the control of the employee prevented employee from returning as scheduled, except that continual of the reasons that the employee was granted a leave shall n be an extraordinary circumstance. If the employee was able I (1) seek a leave extension prior to the leave expiration or (2) notify the University that the return would not be timely, but di not, this exception to termination shall not apply. Employees affected by this return shall be placed or laid oft in accordance with the provisions of Section A. of Article 19.
250a
251
252
252a
A Chief Steward, District Steward or Alternate Steward® and extensions, nn frnm a Inatra	ok^ri k^i>A	u. K
returning from a leave of absence shall have the option to be
placed in the same job classification in the same Chief Stew Classification Grouping or Steward District in which he/she previously worked.
SECTION K.	GENERAL CONDITIONS
During a leave of absence, an employee will not accru PTO nor be eligible for any payments for time off work provid by this Agreement.
Subject to, and consistent with, the Group Health Insurance Plan, coverage may be continued during a leave o absence provided direct payment of the total premium is ma through and as prescribed by the University, except as provid by the University Disability Plan.
Subject to and consistent with the Group Health Insu C Plan and the Group Dental Assistance Plan coverage including University contributions will be continued for up to 1 weeks in each 12 month period for employees with 12 or mo months of service during Child Care, Family Medical and Personal Medical leaves of absence. Eligibility for such coverage shall be renewed each January 1.
During a (eave of absence, both the University's and the employee's contributions to the Retirement Plan are discontinued, except as provided by the University Disability Plan, provided, however that subject to and consistent with the Retirement Plan, an employee on a leave of absence may continue active participation by making direct payment of any amount to TIAA-CREF, Fidelity or Calvert.
As a condition of being granted an extension of a Personal, Military, Childcare or Educational Leave of Absence, an employee must request an extension of the leave at least thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the leave of absence.
Unless otherwise specifically provided for by this
Agreement, seniority shall accumulate during a leave of absence
SECTION L.	SEASONAL LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Not more than eighty (80) Seasonal Leave of Absence positions, University wide, may be established, including Flint and Dearborn campuses to include a prearranged period of inactive employment of from three (3) weeks to four (4) months. An employee working in such a position will not receive University pay nor be eligible for unemployment compensation during the period of inactive employment. Such a regular job opening will be posted designating the appropriate periods of inactive employment. The provisions of Article 20, Promotions , andGther Transfers and Article 19, Reduction of the Working ‘ Forceand Recall Procedures shall not be available for, or applicable to, any employee during the period of inactive enipibjjftient. PTO accrual shall cease during the period of 1 Inadwe'dmployment and shall resume upon return to work.
Contributions to health, dental, and life insurance will bring the seasonal leave of absence and employee sto these plans (if any) will be deducted from the last to the seasonal leave. The Union will receive a $t of employees on seasonal leaves of absence.
ARTICLE 30
256
I
GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
Through the period of December 31, 2002, employees] continue to participate in the Basic Group Life Insurance Plan The schedule of coverage and employee contributions are | provided on pages 62 & 63 of the University Benefits Office i "Your Benefits 2002" publication.	I
Effective 1/1/03 through the term of this Agreement the University Group Life Insurance Plan shall be as provided by the University within the Flexible Benefits Program. The University plan offers $30,000 of life insurance coverage with the full cost paid by the University. Employees enrolled in the Basic Group Term Life Insurance Plan as of December 31, 2002 are automatically enrolled in the University Group Life Insurance Plan. Those not enrolled will need to provide evidence of good health with an approved University health statement.
Note:
The Optional Life Insurance Plan shall be provided by the University within the Flexible Benefits Program. The amounti Optional Life Insurance coverage elected by an employee ma) range from $5,000 at the minimum to an amount equal to six j times the employees salary, up to a maximum of $1,000,000.] Salary as indicated is based upon an employee's job rate for normal 40-hour workweek excluding overtime and other premiums. The cost of the Optional Group Life Insurance PI is fully paid by the employee and is determined by the amour® of coverage selected, current age, smoking status, and curre® salary. The amount of coverage chosen and its cost will increase when salary increases. The cost will also increase when moving into the next higher age bracket.
The Dependent Life Insurance Plan shall be as provided by University within the Flexible Benefits Program.
Paragraphs 257 &258 are deleted
259
ARTICLE 31
HEALTH INSURANCE
The Group Health Insurance Plan shall be as provid the University. During the term of this Agreement no less t
58
the Michigan Blue Cross/Blue Shield and the United of Omaha Major Medical schedule of hospital and medical benefits in effect at the execution date of this Agreement will be provided and maintained. Prior to the execution date of this Agreement the ■ Union had the opportunity to have explained the hospital and medical coverage available from the various organizations during the term of this Agreement and from which an employee can select coverage. In the event of any changes in the coverage from any of the organizations, the Union will be notified prior to the effective date of the change.
The University will contribute up to $489.57 per month toward the cost of the group health care coverage offered by the University and the employee will contribute $268.59 per month for full family coverage if the total premium for full family coverage does not exceed $758.16 per month. If the total premium exceeds or is less than $758.16, the $489.57 and the $268.59 shall change to reflect one half the increase or ! decrease. However, the University contribution toward any i, group health care coverage selected shall not exceed the fi contribution toward premiums of the Blue Cross/Blue Shield and . United Major Medical plans for one person, two persons, or full ; family coverage.
In addition, and if the University increases its monthly contribution for University employees not represented by a Union, the University will increase its contributions for employees in this bargaining unit in the same manner and to the same extent.
, If, during the term of this Agreement, a federal or state law is enacted which requires the payment of taxes or premiums to ^either the federal or state government or another entity for hospital or medical benefits for employees, the University may . make such adjustments in the schedules of benefits provided by this Article to avoid duplication of benefits. In addition, any such ta^B^or premiums paid by the University shall be included in the Ijpollar limitation provided in this Article.
Group Dental Assistance Plan shall be as provided varsity.During the term of this Agreement no less Benefit Life Insurance Company schedule of S4R;effect at the execution date of this Agreement d maintained. In the event of any changes in ^jniion will be notified prior to the effective date
59
262b If, during the term of this Agreement, a federal or state | is enacted which requires the payment of taxes or premiums t< either the federal or state government or another entity for den benefits for employees, the University may make such adjustments in the schedule of benefits provided by this Article avoid duplication of benefits. In addition, any such taxes or premiums paid by the University shall be included in the total dollar limitation provided by this Article.
259
259a
260
contribution toward premiums of the Blue Cross/Blue Shield and a major medial plan for one person, two persons, or full family coverage.
In addition, and if the University increases its monthly contribution for University employees not represented by a Union, the University will increase its contributions for employees in this bargaining unit in the same manner and to the same extent.
EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2003
Article 31
GROUP INSURANCE PROGRAMS
The Group Insurance Plans shall be as provided by the University within the Flexible Benefits Program. Prior to the execution date of this Agreement the Union has had the opportunity to have explained the hospital and medical coverai available from the various organizations during the term of this Agreement and from which an employee can select coverage. In the event of any changes in the coverage from any of the fl organizations, the Union will be notified prior to the effective d* of change.	fl
The University will provide a monthly opt out credit to fl those employees who elect no health insurance coverage fl consistent with the Flexible Benefits Program. University ■ employees who do not elect to opt out or enroll in a health ■ insurance plan within 60 days of the eligibility date will be S automatically enrolled in the Comprehensive Major Medical P® Opt down credits will not be provided if automatic enrollment B occurs.	B
The University will contribute up to $489.57 per monthBb toward the cost of the group health care coverage offered by University and the employee will contribute $268.59 per moni for full family coverage if the total premium for full family coverage does not exceed $758.16 per month. If the total premium exceeds or rs less than $758.16, the $489.57 and tl $268.59 shall change to reflect one half the increase or decrease. However, the University contribution toward any ’ group health care coverage selected shall not exceed the i
If, during the term of this Agreement, a federal or state law is enacted which requires the payment of taxes or. premiums to either the federal or state government or another entity for hospital or medical benefits for employees, the University may make such adjustments in the schedules of benefits provided by this Article to avoid duplication of benefits. In addition, any such taxes or premiums paid by the University shall be included in the total dollar limitation provided in this Article.
The Group Dental Plan shall be as provided by the University within the Flexible Benefits Program. Employees have a choice of three dental plan options. During the term of this Agreement no less than the University of Michigan Dental Plan, Option I schedule of benefits in effect at the execution date of this Agreement will be provided and maintained. In the event of any changes in the benefits, the Union will be notified prior to the effective date of change. The University contribution toward dental plan coverage will be as provided in the Flexible Benefits Program. The University will provide a monthly opt out credit to those employees who elect no dental coverage and have at least one year of continuous service. The opt out credit will be provided consistent with the Flexible Benefits Program. The ✓University will automatically enroll employees in the University of Ofetiigan Dental Plan, Option I after one year of continuous
j&||j^p^uring the term of this Agreement, a federal or state which requires the payment of taxes or premiums
BHUon^^hlloral or state government to another entity for employees. the University may make such flffiHBffiiW^the schedules of benefits provided by this Article fl^^^HK®raaugn of benefits. In addition, any such taxes OR University shall be included in the total ^^^^^^fl^^tpyided in this Article.
60
61
ARTICLE 31A
OTHER FLEX BENEFITS
A.
262c
B.
ARTICLE 32
TRAVEL ACCIDENT INSURANCE
263
264
1.
ARTICLE 34
RETIREMENT PLAN
265
2.
266
3.
One-half the principal sum for loss of any one member. H
267
4.
Disability benefits.
ARTICLE 33
DISABILITY PLAN
268
269
1.
270
2.
In the event that cash benefits are received from oth< sources as set forth in the Plan, the disability income forth in 1. above shall be adjusted so that the combin
An eligible full-time employee shall receive a disability income which shall be 50% of the employee's monthly base income (hourly rate times 2,080 divided by twe! [12]) or $1,200.00 per month, whichever amount is Ie
The principal sum will be paid for loss of life or any two members (hand, foot, or sight of one eye).
The amount of the principal sum of insurance for full-ti employees shall be $50,000, or five (5) times hourly rat times 2,080, whichever is more, except as the amount may be reduced proportionately by a catastrophic accident.
75% of the employee's gross monthly base income; or
For each month that a disability income is received, Retirement Plan, Group Life Insurance, and Health Insurance Plan contributions shall be made by the University, if and when applicable as provided in the i Disability Plan.
During the term of this Agreement and consistent with terms of the Travel Accident Insurance Plan, the following, without cost to an employee, will be provided and maintained:
of disability income and cash benefits of other sources shall not exceed:
The Hyatt Legal Plan; Metpay Group Auto/Homeowners/Liabilj Insurance; TIAA Long - Term Care Group Insurance; and a Vision Plan shall be as provided under the Flexible Benefits Plan.
During the term of this Agreement and consistent with terms of the Disability Plan, the following, without cost to an employee, will be provided and maintained:
the employee’s net monthly base income (gross monthly base income minus the employee’s regular retirement, health insurance, federal income tax, state income tax, life insurance, and FICA deductions) whichever amount is less. Deductions will be calculated using the employee's actual dependency status.
3

^During the term of this Agreement and consistent with the j0frthe Retirement Plan, the following will be provided and tfned:
■rt* University will contribute an amount equal to ten (10) .ggfercent of an employee's earnings each month and the employee will contribute an amount equal to five (5) [pent of the employee's earnings each month, or
e option of the employee, age thirty-five (35) or older, years of service and working full-time, the
rsity will contribute an amount equal to five (5) ;an employee's social security base earnings and the employee will not contribute. When re in. excess of the social security base, 1.
apply.

ARTICLE 35
LONGEVITY PAY
SECTION A, ELIGIBILITY
275
An employee will be eligible for annual longevity pay in accordance with Section B. of this Article if (1) the employee received pay as an employee in the calendar year preceding (1 year of payment and (2) except as provided in Section D., the employee is still an employee on June 30 in the year of payme SECTION A. ELIGIBILITY
ARTICLE 36
TUITION SUPPORT PROGRAM
SECTION B. SCHEDULE OF PAYMENTS
276
Longevity pay shall be based on seniority as of June 30 the year of payment and shall be computed as a percentage of Form W-2 gross earnings for the calendar year preceding the year of payment in accordance with the following schedule:
277
Seniority
6 or more, but less than 10 yrs.
10 or more, but less than 14 yrs.
14 or more, but less than 18 yrs.
18 or more, but less than 22 yrs.
22 or more, but less than 26 yrs.
26 or more yrs.
SECTION C. PAYMENT DATE
Percentage of Form W-2 Gross Earnings not to excee $10,000 in calendar year20( $10,500 in calendar year 20I $11,000 in calendar year 20 $11,500 in calendar year 20
2%
3%
4%
5%
6%
8%
278
Longevity pay to an eligible employee shall be paid no later than July 31 in the year of payment.
SECTION D. RETIREMENT OR DEATH
279
If an eligible employee retires or dies, the employee d survivor, as the case may be, shall nevertheless be ? entitled to the longevity pay based on the employee's seniority at the time of retirement or death.
Such longevity pay shall be prorated on the basis of completed calendar months of service from the preceding June 30 to the date of retirement or death.
An employee will be eligible to receive tuition support as provided in Section B of this Article if (1) the employee has more than six (6) months seniority at the time of enrollment in educational course approved by the University at, or through, an educational or training institution approved by the University and (2) the employee successfully completes the educational course and (3) the employee was on the active employment rolls throughout this entire period. Approvals must be authorized prior to enrollment. “Successful completion” means a final transcript grade of “C” or better for credit courses and a certificate of satisfactory completion for a non-credit course.
An "educational course,” within the meaning of this Article, is one which either (1) is job-related or (2) prepares the employee to enroll in one that is job-related. The term "job-related" includes preparation for potential promotion as well as improvement in currently utilized skills and knowledge.
SECTION B. AMOUNT OF SUPPORT
■4 t.;/,
ifvetsitv of Michigan Courses. Full-time employees will receive ' “ e percent (75%) of the cost of in-state tuition plus
&r) fees for up to four (4) credit hours per term. Part-yees whose normal schedule of work is at least labours per calendar week, but less than forty (40) lendar week, will receive tuition support proportional lived by a full-time employee. Non-University of urses. Full-time employees will receive tuition t more than seventy-five percent (75%) or eight ♦two dollars ($852.00) per term, whichever is less, tuition plus registration fees paid by the employee.
I an employee receive tuition support in excess of even hundred four dollars ($1,704.00) for h any twelve (12) month period. At the option of
i
the employee, tuition support under this Article may be paid J	SweX'Sta^Sg
calendar week, but less than forty (40) hours per calendar wee will receive tuition support proportional to that received by a fu| time employee.
If the University increases the tuition support amounts for I University employees not represented by a union, the Universal will increase the amounts for employees in this bargaining unit! the same manner and to the same extent.	I
284
SECTION C.
Educational courses under this program are to be takeni during non-working hours.	I
ARTICLE 37
HEALTH AND SAFETY
SECTION A.
285
286
The University shall continue to provide for the health aB safety of employees during the hours of their employment. InS this regard the University will receive and consider written ■ recommendations with respect to unsafe conditions or other ■ health and safety ideas from any employee or the Union. ■
A Joint Health and Safety Committee of University and® Union representatives shall meet at least once a month for® regularly scheduled meeting to discuss unsafe conditions, he^, and safety ideas. At least one calendar week prior to the * meeting, the University and/or the Union shall submit an ageiB of matters to be discussed to the other party. If no such agen® is submitted, there shall be no meeting. If the Joint Health aiH Safety Committee feels that an investigation should be made® concerning a particular practice or rule that affects the healt^H and safety of employees, one regular Union member and od^K regular University member shall be designated to promptly investigate and thereafter report their findings to the Joint and Safety Committee which may make an appropriate recommendation to the University. The University shall res^H in writing to the Joint Health and Safety Committee within s^K (7) calendar days after receipt of any recommendation
of the Union, not to exceed four (4), who have been designated as regular members of the Joint Health and Safety Committee shall not suffer loss of time or pay when absent from their
assigned schedule of work while attending a meeting or participating in an investigation for the Joint Health and Safety Committee. The University and the Union shall exchange a list of its regular members. The other party shall be notified promptly in writing of any changes in its members.
SECTION B.
It is recognized and understood by the Union and the Universitythat some of the work performed by employees in this bargaining unit involves potential hazards and risks inherent in the work itself.
A working condition, procedure, operation or process will not, for tiie purpose of this Article, be considered unsafe if the work and the methods, practices and procedures required to perform it are in conformance with established and accepted industry practices and procedures and with recognized and accepted safety standards and protocols.
Whenever an employee alleges that an unsafe condition exists on a work assignment to which he/she has been assigned, and the unsafe condition could with reasonable certainty cause serious physical harm or disabling illness or injury, the employee
shall immediately contact his supervisor. If the supervisor agrees that an unsafe condition exists, the supervisor will reassign the employee to other work until the unsafe condition is corrected. If correction is not made by the supervisor, or if the supervisor is not certain of the seriousness of the condition, the supervisor will contact the department head (or equivalent level ^rvi^ion) who will, if facts and circumstances warrant, University Department of Occupational Safety and ijftealth for investigation and determination of what ecessary to correct the unsafe condition. Until head (or equivalent level of supervision) has fed unsafe condition, the employee will be irk or, in the alternative, not be required to assignment. In the event that the Equivalent level of supervision) disagrees Ration and after explanation to the e (who may nevertheless be required to
perform the assignment) may immediately request the Chief Steward who may immediately file a grievance at Step Two of the Grievance Procedure. Such a grievance hearing will be scheduled as promptly as reasonably practicable, but in no ei later than the next two (2) working days. Should an investig by the University Department of Occupational Safety and Environmental Health be deemed necessary in accordance the above procedure, the employee will not be required to proceed with the work assignment until such investigation a determination is completed.
286d
287
287a
It is understood and agreed that the Union, consistent Article III, Section A., does not condone any abuse of the
provisions of this Section, and that an employee who intentionally makes false claims or refuses to perform a work assignment when no unsafe condition exists shall be subject ^SECTION C.
discipline.
SECTION C.
An employee who is injured during the employee's h of employment shall report the injury to the employee's immediate supervisor as soon as possible. If the injury is to extent of doctor's or hospital care, arrangements will be m by the University to provide transportation to University Hos if practicable, otherwise to another medical facility. The inju
employee shall be paid at the employee's hourly rate of pay, shift premium, if applicable, for the time lost from work, pro ' the employee returns to work and finishes out the shift folio treatment, unless on doctor's orders the employee is told n return to work, in which case the employee's pay shall cea completion of treatment. In no event, however, shall the employee be paid for time beyond the quitting time of the scheduled shift or for any overtime hours.
SECTION A.
ARTICLE 38
DISCIPLINE
Al) decisions on any disciplinary actions for employe with seniority shall be made on the basis of whether or not is just cause. The parties agree that discipline should be' corrective and progressive rather than punitive. In that reg the University will follow a discipline procedure which is bol
i corrective and progressive. The application of the discipline procedure will generally be a documented oral warning, written warning, disciplinary layoff(s) or written warning in lieu of disciplinary layoff, and discharge. In any individual situation, the extent of disciplinary action taken will depend on the facts, including mitigating and aggravating circumstances, available at the time the decision is made. For serious offenses, steps of progressive discipline may vary.
SECTION B.
In taking disciplinary action, the University shall not take into account any prior incidents which occurred more than two (2) years previously.
>. When the University intends to order an employee to leave work for disciplinary reasons, the employee's steward shall be notified by the University and without loss of time or pay, be fforded the opportunity to be present and hear the reasons, and thereafter be afforded the opportunity to consult with the mpldyee for a reasonable period of time at a place provided by he University before the employee leaves the premises, provided, however, if the immediate removal of the employee m University premises is necessary or if the employee is not therwise available, such opportunity to be present and hereafter consult need not be afforded. In the event immediate removal is necessary, the University, within the shift, shall notify he Union of the incident. If the steward is not present before the mployee leaves work, the steward shall hear the disciplinary
•easdns upon arrival. It is understood that this Section does not prevent the suspension of the employee or notice to the mployeb'bf the disciplinary action taken before the arrival of the tewartf orhotice to the employee that the steward has been understood that the steward is present as an Tfjnj^FKbthat the grievance procedure is the
Ure to review the merits of the disciplinary
shall notify the Chairperson of the SKSfldf his/her designated representative, prior ^Idyee Thereafter, and prior to final
jlity, the Union shall have the opportunity
289
SECTION F.
290
1.
was taken arbitrarily or
a.
b.
2.
SECTION G.
291
ARTICLE 39
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
SECTION.A: UNION REPRESENTATION
SECTION E.
292
was excessive; otherwise he/she must affirm it.
Whenever time limits are used in this Article, actual receipt or a postmark, if mailed, will control.
jjfteyrard and one alternate steward for each shift, |B4acility or department (hereinafter called
If he/she finds there was no just cause, he/she shall nullify the disciplinary action taken.
If the arbitrator finds there was just cause, he/ she may modify the disciplinary action taken only if it:
A grievance which (1) concerns a disciplinary layoffs discharge of a non-probationary employee, and (2) alleges^ no just cause in fact existed, or that the disciplinary action' taken arbitrarily and was clearly excessive, may be proces
to review the case with the University provided such review isi requested by the Union within two (2) calendar days after notification by the University of such proposed action.
If any grievance alleging a violation of this Article should be taken to Arbitration, the arbitrator's authorization shall be limited to the fact question of whether there was just cause and as follows:
? . ^Employees shall be represented by the Union in the grievance procedure as follows:
The University shall give the Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee, or his/her designated representative written notification of any disciplinary action taken which invol a disciplinary layoff or discharge, including a copy of any wri notification to the employee and letters of reprimand and disciplinary layoff, if any, involved in the decision, within five ( calendar days after the action is taken.
The review shall be held within two (2) calendar days after request by the Union. The employee and the employe immediate supervisor and one other University employee) necessarily in the bargaining unit) named by the Union who be in possession of relevant facts will be at the review unless requirement would not permit the review to be held within the (2) calendar day period because of the unavailability of the employee or the absence from work of the supervisor, provid however, the University and the Union may arrange for anot mutually agreeable time. In addition, the employee and each representative of the Union, not to exceed two (2), who lose from the assigned schedule of work while attending such a review, shall not suffer loss of time or pay provided permissi received from the employee's immediate supervisor to leave work and the employee reports back to the immediate supe when the review has been completed.
In the event that an employee is suspended from employment pending a decision as to the extent of the disciplinary action to be taken, if any, the suspension will bet longer than is necessary to gather sufficient facts to make th decision. In the event a suspension lasts for fourteen (14) or, more calendar days and a decision has not been made, the Union may request a meeting with the University to discuss employee's status. If at that meeting the Union requests a decision, the University will take disciplinary action within the next two (2) calendar days based on the information availabl the University at that time.
through the Grievance and Arbitration Procedures provided it is submitted in writing at Step 2 within seventy-two (72) hours after receipt by the Union of the University's written notification of the disciplinary action. Failure to submit a written grievance by the Union on behalf of the employee within the seventy-two (72) hour period shall constitute a waiver of all claims concerning such disciplinary layoff or discharge.


Bh in Appendix C. Each steward and alternate e an employee with seniority working within the ^presents.
299
300
301
302
302a
303
304
305
306
No steward or alternate steward shall be assigned to a! work location outside of the district he/she represents except provided by Article 19, in which case Section C. of Article 19 shall be applicable.
The alternate steward shall only represent an aggrieve employee when the steward is absent from work.
When both the steward and the alternate steward are absent from work, the aggrieved employee shall be represent by a steward, from one other district where there is a steward the shift made known to the University as provided in paragra 313.
When no steward or alternate steward from the aggrie employee's district, or no steward or alternate steward from o other district is available, the aggrieved employee may be represented by the Chief Steward who represents the classification to which his/her position is assigned.
If the Chief Steward is not available, the President or Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee will be called. In su a case the Chairperson or President will either represent the employee or identify another who will represent the employee.
When a steward has a grievance, he/she shall be represented by the alternate steward if he/she so requests.
One chief steward for each combination of classificatio groupings for employees of the Ann Arbor Campus as set fo in Appendix C, Each chief steward shall be an employee with seniority assigned to one of the classifications the chief stew represents.
In addition there shall be a chief steward for employee working in the Medical Center and a chief steward for emplo, in the rest of the bargaining unit at the Ann Arbor Campus. E such chief steward shall be an employee with seniority workit within the area the chief steward represents and on a shift w starts on or after 12:00 p.m.
One chief steward for employees working at the Dea Campus. The chief steward shall be an employee with seni working at the Dearborn Campus.
One chief steward for employees working at the Flint mpus. The chief steward shall be an employee with seniority rking at the Flint Campus.
When a chief steward has a grievance, he/she shall be resented at Step One of the grievance procedure by the chief ward working nearest to him/her if he/she so requests, or in alternative, the Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee or her designated representative may begin such a grievance at ep Two.
The Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee or his/her signaled representative(s) who shall be employee(s) with niority.
The University and the Union shall on the request of either _rty meet to redistrict by mutual agreement, including an crease or decrease in the number of stewards. In the event ie parties cannot agree, the question of adequate presentation shall be decided by an arbitrator based on the esentation of the facts and arguments of the parties.
A district steward or Chief Steward, while on leave of bsence, may represent employees in the grievance procedure s set forth in this Article with mutual consent of the University (nd the Union. In such an event, the steward's or Chief Reward's time shall be unpaid.
SECTION B, UNIVERSITY REPRESENTATION
The University will be represented in the grievance procedure as follows:
tep 1. The immediate supervisor of the aggrieved employee.
Step 2. The University Review Committee, including the department head, o equivalent level of supervisor (or designated representative), of the aggrieved employee;
eCTIONC,
Igibn.shall furnish the University Review Committee e stewards, alternate stewards, chief stewards plbers. Any changes in the list shall be reported University Review Committee in writing.
^rsity shall furnish the Union with a list of its ; or equivalent level of supervisor, and their
315
office location and the members of its Review Committee, changes in the list shall be reported promptly to the Union in writing.
SECTION D, EMPLOYEE GRIEVANCE
A grievance is defined as a disagreement, arising und and during the term of this Agreement, between the Universi and any employee concerning (1) the employee's employme and (2) the interpretation and application of the provisions of Agreement. Such a grievance may be submitted only by the aggrieved employee in accordance with the procedure set fa in Section G., except that the Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee or his/her designated representative in the Chairperson's absence, may submit a grievance on behalf of aggrieved employee, beginning at Step Two of the grievance procedure, provided the grievance is submitted within the fift (15) calendar day period following the day on which the aggrieved employee had knowledge of the facts giving rise to employee's grievance and the aggrieved employee refuses Io process his/her grievance. Such a grievance by the Chairpe of the Bargaining Committee or his/her designated representative, in addition to the requirements of paragraph must set forth the reasons the employee refuses to process grievance.
SECTION E.	GROUP GRIEVANCES
316
In the event that employees have a group grievance, i shall be sufficient if one employee or their steward or chief steward submits the grievance on behalf of all named and similarly affected employees. A group grievance shall be on one in which the fact questions and the provisions of the Agreement alleged to be violated are the same as they relat each and every employee in the group. Such group grievanc shall begin at that step of the grievance procedure where all affected employees have a common supervisor.
SECTION F.	UNION GRIEVANCES
317
A Union grievance is defined as a disagreement, oth than one which can be processed under Section 0. or E. a arising under and during the term of this Agreement, betwei the University and the Union concerning the interpretation a application of the provisions of this Agreement on a questio which is not an employee grievance.
74
In the event that the Union has a grievance, it shall begin Ht Step Two of the grievance procedure, provided the grievance is submitted within the fifteen (15) calendar day period following the day on which the Union had knowledge of the facts giving rise to the grievance. Such a grievance shall be submitted by the Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee or the Chairperson's designated representative, on behalf of the Union. SECTION G. PROCEDURE
The following grievance procedure shall be the means for resolving grievances:
STEP ONE - ORAL PRESENTATION
An employee promptly should notify the employee's immediate supervisor that he/she may have a grievance. A grievance meeting for resolution of the potential grievance shall be scheduled with the employee, district steward and immediate supervisor as promptly as practicable, but in any event during the employee’s next eight (8) regular working hours following the request, or at any other time if mutually convenient, provided that the request for the meeting is made within the fifteen (15) calendar day period following the day on which the employee , had knowledge of the facts giving rise to the potential grievance. Before the meeting, the district steward, at the steward's request, shall have the opportunity to discuss the concerns with the employee and with other employees in his/her district, one at a time, In possession of facts relevant to the potential grievance, for a reasonable period of time at a place provided by the Immediate supervisor.
The purpose of the meeting is to discuss the grievance and to engage in problem solving in an attempt to reach a mutually egreed resolution.
qeved employee does not receive a satisfactory <the employee does not receive any answer, . dual working day following the day of the oral Ajipon written request by the involved employee Gdrby the University, the employee's immediate Mhe necessary arrangements for the the Chief Steward within three (3)
se of the meeting is to discuss the
321
322
323
324
325
r. In such a case the University Review Committee shall Inotify the Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee and make
*--*»•*	Ahi*!	and/nr thp
I
The Chief Steward, at his/her request, shall have the | opportunity to discuss the grievance with the employee, the | employee’s district steward, and other employees in the |nuu>y Ar the employee’s”chief steward and/or the employee’s district, one at a time, in possession of facts relevf arrangements ro_p________ohma tn
to the grievance for a reasonable period of time at a place provided by the immediate supervisor.
STEP TWO - WRITTEN GRIEVANCE SUBMISSION
In review of the facts relevant to the grievance, the Chi Steward may reduce the grievance to writing for submission ts Step Two.
The grievance shall be dated and signed by the aggrie employee and shall set forth the name of the steward, the fad including dates, and provisions of the Agreement that are alleged to have been violated and the remedy desired.
The Chief Steward shall provide a copy of the written grievance to the aggrieved employee, the district steward, Uni office and the aggrieved employees’ supervisor.
The grievance shall be considered submitted at StepT when received by the University Review Committee for written answer, provided it is submitted within the ten (10) calendar d period following the day of receipt of an unsatisfactory answei Step One. The Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee or his/her designated representative may submit the written grievance to the University Review Committee.
Upon receipt of the written grievance, the University Review Committee shall set a place and time during working hours, or outside of working hours if mutually convenient with the next fourteen (14) calendar day period for a hearing of th grievance with the Chairperson of the Bargaining CommitteeB the Chairperson’s designated representative, and at the optiB the Chairperson, or the Chairperson's designated represent^® the aggrieved employee, the employee’s chief steward and/B Council 25 representative. The University Review CommitteB shall provide at least five (5) calendar days notice to the par^B as to the scheduling of such a hearing. The aggrieved emdM will sign a notice as acknowledgement to the date, time anc^B location of the hearing. It is understood that this section dc^B not apply to cases where the employee is not actively emp^B and at work; such as a leave of absence, suspended, ^B discharged, absent without permission or otherwise absent^B
arfaiiyc”'-— —
employee, if presence is requested as provided above, to be present for the hearing. Prior to the hearing of the grievance and if the employee’s chief steward is not present, the Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee, or his/her designated representative, at his/her request, shall have the opportunity to discuss the grievance with the aggrieved employee and with other employees, one at a time, in possession of facts relevant to the grievance, for a reasonable period of time at a place provided by the University Review Committee. In the event an aggrieved employee, fails to appear, the Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee or his/her designated representative will have the opportunity to present the case and an answer will be issued based on the facts known to the University at the time of the hearing. If the failure of the aggrieved employee to appear was due to facts and circumstances beyond their control, the hearing
will be rescheduled.
The written answer will be issued within the forty-five (45) calendar day period following the date of the Step Two hearing, . except in the case of a grievance involving a discharge, the time period shall be thirty (30) calendar days.
In potential violations involving the duration of employment of a temporary employee as is indicated in paragraph 5, the Union will provide the University with a list of the temporary employees. The University will then gather information on the employment of the temporary employees within thirty (30) calendar days and hold a conference to share the information. The time limits for filing a grievance as a result would begin as of the day of the conference.
As an alternative to the Step Two hearing, and at the request of either party, following discussion and mutual agreement, a written grievance similar in facts, circumstances and an alleged contractual violation (s) may be added as an addendum to an existing grievance. In such a case, the $	icq will not be heard at the Second Step of the grievance
final disposition of the appended grievance(s)
W£Same as the original grievance.
ttitten answer regarding an employee who has been the bargaining unit with retroactive pay and benefits, ^the following:
4.
328
329
7.
8.
9,
4.
5
6.
1.
2.
3.
1.
2.
3.
Upon request to the University Review Committee, a representative of the International and a representative of Council 25 who will represent an employee in the grievance arbitration procedures, may visit the University for the pu preparing the case for presentation.
4 while directly involved in the manner provided at the appropriate | step of the grievance procedure for the following activities:
Oral presentation,
Reducing the grievance to writing,
Discussion of grievance with the employee and other employees, or
Hearing.
SECTION H. INVESTIGATION BY INTERNATIONAL AND COUNCIL REPRESENTATIVES
Employee name
Department
Former classification and new classification
Seniority date
Effective date of change
Former rate of pay and new rate of pay
Number of hours of back pay Total amount of back pay earned Number of hours of PTO accrual.
During such a visit, the representatives of the Intemati or Council 25 may view any area of the University relevant to grievance with the Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee, representative of the University, at its option, may accompa the parties. In addition, the International and/or Council 25 representatives and the Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee may privately interview employees, one at a time, possession of facts relevant to the grievance. The interviews shall be held at a place provided by the University and fora reasonable period of time.
330
During any such visit, the representatives shall not ini way interfere with the orderly and efficient operation of the University.
SECTION I, PAY, TIME LIMITS AND ADJUSTMENT
331
An employee who loses time from his/her assigned schedule of work in the manner provided for in this Article s do so without loss of time or pay.
332
A steward, alternate steward, chief steward, or the w granted a necessary and reasonable amount of time off fro his/her assigned schedule of work, without loss of time or
Such union representatives and other employees shall receive permission from their immediate supervisor to leave their work, but must report back to their immediate supervisor when their part in the grievance handling has been completed.
If the aggrieved employee or the Union, as the case may ibe, does not submit the employee's grievance to Step Two of 5 the grievance procedure within the prescribed time limit, the ; grievance shall be considered settled on the basis of the University's answer at Step One, except the University Review Committee may extend the time limit for submission to Step Two, providing the extension is requested by the aggrieved employee or the Union before the time limit ends.
The Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee, the aggrieved employee and the employee's chief steward shall all receive a copy of all written answers.
SECTION J. LIABILITY
Except as otherwise specifically provided or limited, the University shall not be liable on a grievance claiming back wages ortother financial reimbursement for any of the following periods:
. _s The period prior to forty-five (45) calendar days prior to the|ime a satisfactory oral answer is received at Step One or the pe>dprior to sixty (60) calendar days prior to the time the |h grievance is submitted at Step Two.
-period between the first date the arbitrator is available Ration hearing and the date of hearing, when the first fled by the Union. ■
WITHDRAWAL OF GRIEVANCE
ance which has been submitted may be withdrawn |itany step of the grievance procedure without
prejudice to the position the Union may take in handling anotj grievance.
ARTICLE 40
ARBITRATION
SECTION A. SUBMISSION TO ARBITRATION
339a
340
341
The Union, at its discretion, may be represented by an outside advocate in selecting arbitrators and hearing dates; a in assigning and presenting arbitration cases.
A grievance as defined in this Agreement, which is properly submitted to Step Two of the grievance procedure ai is within the jurisdiction of the arbitrator, may be submitted to arbitration by the Union if the aggrieved employee does not receive a satisfactory written answer, or if the employee does
arbitrator is designated. This panel of arbitrators from which the blind draw is made may be changed from time to time by mutual agreement of the parties.
If at any time the panel is reduced to less than two (2) and the parties cannot agree on new panel members, either the University or the Union, or both, within the next seven (7) calendar days only, may request the American Arbitration Association to submit a list of five (5) qualified arbitrators, none of whom may be in the employment of the University. If one of the five (5) arbitrators on the list is not mutually agreeable, then the arbitrator shall be selected from the list by alternately striking names, beginning with the Union until one name remains. The remaining person shall act as the arbitrator.
The arbitrator selected shall be for a single grievance unless the parties mutually agree otherwise.
In the event that the University and the Union request and receive a date or dates from an Arbitrator without a specific case
receive a written answer within the forty-five (45) calendar daj
period (thirty [30] calendar day period for a grievance involvin : assigned, the University and the Union will promptly assign a discharge) following the date of the employee's Step Thre : case or cases to the offered date. Cases will be assigned hearing, provided the Union gives written notice to the Univer ’ alternately by the Union and the University, except that any
Review Committee within the twenty-eight (28) calendar day period following the day of receipt of an unsatisfactory answe Step Two. Such notice shall identify the grievance and the is and state the provisions of the Agreement involved. If no sut notice is given within the applicable twenty-eight (28) calends day period, the grievance shall be considered settled on the i basis of the Step Two answer. AFSCME 1583/Council 25 wfl notify the University when an arbitration case is closed and !■ is no longer intent to arbitrate. The University, Local and Col will meet quarterly in a pre-arbitration conference to review I accepted cases in an attempt to resolve.	|
discharge case that is older than nine (9) months will be
scheduled next, in order of discharge date. Whenever practicable, assignment of cases and changes therein should be confirmed in writing.
SECTION C, TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF ARBITRATION
Every grievance submitted to an arbitrator for decision shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
SECTION B. SELECTION OF ARBITRATORS
Following the written notice to the University Review] Committee, the University and the Union may attempt to set an arbitrator. If an arbitrator is not selected by mutual agree within the seven (7) calendar day period following receipt o| written notice, unless extended by mutual agreement, then! the next seven (7) calendar days only, unless extended by| mutual agreement, the arbitrator shall be selected on a bliffl draw from a panel of arbitrators mutually agreed to by the l University and the Union. In the event an arbitrator does ■ accept selection, the blind draw will be repeated until an 1
The University and the Union may arrange mutually agreeable terms for a pre-hearing conference to consider means of expediting the hearing by, for example, reducing the issue or issues to writing, stipulating facts and authenticating proposed exhibits.
^■<.The arbitrator shall not have any authority to add to, subtract from, or otherwise modify any of the terms of this Agreement,
otherwise provided and limited by this ^QgB8^i^0fa-9rievance claiming back wages shall exceed the the employee otherwise would have earned ^SBBM^uheration or payment the employee may have
80
81
348
349
350
received during the employee’s period of suspension from | employment with the University.
An employee who loses time from work during the employee's assigned working hours when testifying during an arbitration hearing shall do so without loss of time or pay.
The arbitrator's decision when made in accordance with his/her jurisdiction and authority established by this Agreemen shall be final and binding upon the University, the Union, and! employee or employees involved.
The fees and expenses of the arbitrator, shall be share equally by the University and the Union, except that if the Unit does not receive a written answer or the written answer is not postmarked within the forty-five (45) calendar day period (thirtj [30] calendar day period for a grievance involving a discharge! following the date of the Step Two hearing, unless extended mutual agreement of the parties, and the Union gives written notice for arbitration of the grievance as provided in Section A
the University will pay the full fees and expenses of the arbitr if the grievance is sustained by the arbitrator. If the University the Union request postponement of a scheduled hearing date a specific case, the requesting party will pay the full fees and expenses of the arbitrator if their position is not sustained by arbitrator.
351
Either the University or the Union may arrange at its expense, unless the parties mutually agree to share the expense, for a court reporter to record and/or transcribe the hearing. The transcript, or a copy of the transcript, shall be available to the Arbitrator. In the event that the party which ' not arrange for the court reporter wishes a copy of the transa the cost of the court reporter and transcripts shall be shared equally.
352
ARTICLE 41
SPECIAL CONFERENCE
At the request of either the Union or the University, Special Conferences shall be held for the purpose of cons' matters of mutual interest, other than grievances under consideration in the Grievance Procedure, provided that ffl acceptable arrangements as to time and place can be ma
82
83
All Special Conferences shall be arranged through the Bargaining Chairperson, or his/her designated representative and a designated representative of the University Human Resources Office.
Representatives of the Union and employees not to exceed six (6) shall not suffer loss of time or pay when absent from their assigned schedule of work for the purpose of attending a Special Conference.
Conferences may be attended by representatives of Council 25 and the International.
It is understood that Special Conferences shall not be for the purpose of continuing collective bargaining negotiations, nor, in any way, to modify, add to or detract from the provisions of this Agreement, nor to change or alter the rights of either the University or the Union under the terms of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 41-A
LEAD PERSON PAY
An employee who, in addition to his/her normal duties and responsibilities, is specifically assigned by his/her Immediate supervisor the responsibility to assign and coordinate the work of three or more assigned assistants and to see that the assignment runs smoothly and efficiently and to answer to his/her immediate supervisor for progress or lack of progress and the quality of the work being done shall be paid a rate of his/her normal hourly rate, plus $1.25 per hour, plus shift premium or special schedule premium if applicable, for the entireshiftin which he/she works in such an assignment. Typicallyassignments shall be made to run the day-to-day : activities ©femployees assigned to one or more work sites. DotfesifrfclUde direction, manpower requests, material ordering, “^“^ftftsationwith other parts of the organization, customer 6<and the reporting of job related problems to his/her *^A-fead person will have no authority to hire, ‘fecfiarge or approve time off requests. Nothing in hall be construed to mean that an employee must I these responsibilities, or that the employee must ’ ’ ’ nment. Such assignments are offered etion of the University. At the request of Sal conference to evaluate this program, ms or difficulties, will be scheduled within
162
ARTICLE 42
MISCELLANEOUS
B3
SECTION A.
357
72 hours. Following the discussion and failing successful resolution, at the Union’s request, the University, will discontinue the specific assignment in question within 7 days. For lead person assignments of at least 30 calendar days, and at the employee’s request, documentation of lead person responsibility will be noted in the employee’s personnel folder.
A
358
It is not the University's intention to have work regularly | and customarily performed by employees in the bargaining unit a performed on University operated premises by sources outside I the University during the term of this Agreement.	I
In the event a decision is made to have work regularly an* customarily performed by employees in the bargaining unit ■ performed on University operated premises by a source outside* the University, no employee in the bargaining unit shall suffer afl loss of base wages as a result of such a decision.	"
SECTION B.
359
360
361
5
It is not the University’s intention to have students perfo work regularly and customarily performed by employees in th bargaining unit to the extent that student employment erodes I proportion of such work being done by employees in the d bargaining unit.
Work regularly and customarily performed by an employee shall not be performed by a student employee or< temporary employee to the extent that it results in the employee's layoff or removal from a classification. Neither s . an employee be required to take a PTO to permit employer for a student employee or temporary employee. If any suet incident occurs the employee shall be compensated for any in base hourly rate, plus shift or special schedule premium; applicable.
When a student employee or temporary employee; been scheduled for work, he/she shall not be called to do work which otherwise would have been performed by an i
employee in the bargaining unit on an overtime basis by extending his/her shift. If such an incident occurs the appropriate employee shall be compensated as if the employee had worked this overtime.
A position filled by a full-time employee which becomes open will not be split into two or more part-time positions in order to provide employment for a student employee, unless the position cannot be filled with an employee on a full-time basis. It is understood that this commitment does not obligate the University to establish full-time positions from part-time positions.
Except for Section B. of this Article, the employment of a student employee shall not violate any provision of this Agreement
SECTION C.
Work regularly and customarily performed by an employee shall not be performed by a supervisor to the extent that it results in the employee's layoff or removal from a classification. If any such incident occurs the employee shall be compensated for any loss in hourly rate, plus shift or special schedule premium, if applicable.
In addition and in the event that a supervisor is performing work normally and customarily performed by employees in the bargaining unit on a regular and recurring basis for more than eight (8) hours in a calendar week, the University will either .reduce the hours of such work or assign the supervisor to a classification in the bargaining unit, provided, however, that this paragraph shall not apply to seasonal operations or remote ideations. The application of any requirement of this paragraph will not violate any provision of Article 20 or 21.
ARTICLE 43
WAIVER
I. ”^e University and the Union acknowledge that during the stations which resulted in this Agreement each had the itfed right and opportunity to make demands and proposals “Spect to any subject or matter not removed by law from ia of collective bargaining, and that the understandings ’feements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of tit and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement.
Therefore, the University and the Union for the liteof this Agreement each voluntarily and unqualifiedlywaives the right, and agrees the other shall not be obliged-,'jto bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter referred to or covered in this Agreement, or with respect to any subject or matter not specifically referred to or covered in this Agreement even though such subject or matter may not have been within the knowledge or contemplation of either or both parties at the time that they negotiated or signed this Agreement.
ARTICLE 44
TERM OF AGREEMENT
367
ftiis agreement shall became effective and shall remain in full force and effect until and Deluding July 31,2005, when it shall terminate. This agreement shall not be extended jeyond July 31,2005, except by written consent of the parties. If either party desires to mend or modify this agreement, written notice to that effect shall be given to the other party not less than 60 or more than 90 days prior to July 31,2005.
568
Executed the 10 day of May, 2002.
Ok Regents of the University Michigan
American Federation of
APPENDIX A
WAGE SCHEDULES
369	Effective with the beginning of the bi-weekly pay
period starting on August 5,2001, the wage schedule shall be as shown in Schedule A.
370	Effective with the beginning of the bi-weekly pay
period starting on August 4, 2002, the wage schedule shall be shown in Schedule B.
371	Effective with the beginning of the bi-weekly pay
period on August 3,2003, the wage schedule shall be shown in Schedule C.
372	Effective with the beginning of the bi-weekly pay
period on August 1,2004, the wage schedule shall be shown in Schedule D.
372a	On the effective date, non-probationary employees
will be increased to the Job Rate.
372b	Probationary employees will be paid not less than
the Minimum Probationary Rate nor more than the Job Rate and will be increased to the Job Rate at the beginning of the first pay period following completion of their probationary period.
WAGE SCHEDULE A
373
Pay Grade
01
02
03
04
05
06
Minimum Probationary Rate Change	Job Rate
$7.32	$11.26
$7.57	$11.64
$7.81	$12.02
$8.09	$12.45
$8.52	$13.11
$8.93	$13.74
$9.53	$14.66
$10.00	$15.39
$10.61	$16.33
$11.08	$17.04
$11.55	$17.77
$12.03	$18.50
$12.47	$19.18
$13.75	$21.15
374
Pay Grade
01
02
03
04
05'
06
07
08
09
10
11
12
13
14
Minimum Probationary Rate Change	Job Ra’
$7.50	$11.54
$7.75	$11.93
$8.01	$12.32
$8.29	$12.76
$8.74	$13.44
$9.15	$14.08
$9.77	$15.03
$10.25	$15.77
$10.88	$16.74
$11.35	$17.47
$11.84	$18.21
$12.32	$18.96
$12.78	$19.66
$14.09	$21.68
WAGE SCHEDULE C
375
Pay Grade
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
09
10
11
Minimum Probationary Rate Change	Job Ra'
$7.73	$11.89
$7.99	$12.29
$8.25	$12.69
$8.54	$13.14
$9.00	$13.84
$9.43	$14.51
$10.06	$15.48
$10.56	$16.25
$11.21	$17.24
$11.69	$17.99
$12.19	$18.76
$12.69	$19.53
$13.16	$20.25
$14.52	$22.33
375a
Pay Grade
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
09
10
11
12
13
14
WAGE SCHEDULE D
Minimum Probationary Rate Change	Job Rai
$7.96	$12.24
$8.23	$12.66
$8.50	$13.07
$8.80	$13.53
$9.27	$14.26
$9.71	$14.94
$10.36	$15.94
$10.88	$16.74
$11.54	$17.76
$12.05	$18.53
$12.56	$19.32
$13.08	$20.12
$13.56	$20.86
$14.95	$23.00
APPENDIX B
CLASSIFICATION TITLES AND PAY GRADES
376	Classification Title	Pay Grade		Classification Code
	Aide Anesthetist Aide Animal Aide Audio-Visual Aide Galley Food Svc Aide Laboratory Aide Medical Procedures Aide Nurse 1 Aide Nurse II Aide Nurse III Bum Care		04 04 03 02 04 04 03 04 05	960180 930180 910180 941980 ■ 930380 960870 960580 960680 960780
■	Aide Nurse Ill-Intensive Care Aide Nurse Ill- Orthopedic Care Aide Operating Room Aide Psychiatric Aide Teacher Aide X-Ray Assistant Locksmith Attendant Ambulance Attendant Animal Attendant Entrance Attendant Laboratory Attendant Linen Attendant Linen Service Attendant Locker Room Attendant Parking Attendant Patient Equipment Attendant Patient		05 05 04 03 03 04 07 09 03 03 02 03 05 03 03 05	960820 960800 960860 961880 960280 960980 971590 960380 930280 960480 930480 950380 950480 910280 970180 960500
	Visitor Entrance Attendant Service		04	970200
	Station		06	970380
	Baker 1		03	940180
	Baker II Baker III Baker IV Baker Hospital 1 Baker Hospital II Baker Production 1		05 07 08 07 08 04	940280 940380 940480 940200 940300 940580
93
Classification Title
Pay Grade
Classification Code
Baker Production 11	07	940680
Baker Production IK	08	940780
Binder Book 1	03	951380
Binder Book II	07	951480
Binder Book III	09	951580
Botanical Prep	05	930680
Checker Laundry	03	950580
Chef Assistant	07	941300
Classifier Laundry	03	950680
Cleaner Duct	07	970860
Cleaner Kitchen	03	940880
Cleaner Fixture & Wali	04	970980
Cleaner Venetian Blind	04	971080
Clerk Postal 1	04	980180
Clerk Postal II	06	980280
Clerk Postal 11)	07	980380
Cook 1	03	940980
Cook 11	05	941080
Cook III	07	941180
Cook IV	08	941280
Cook Hospital 1	03	941000
Cook Hospital II	05	941100
Cook Hospital III	08	941200
Cook Metabolic	08	941380
Custodian 1	01	971180
Custodian Unit	02	971200
Custodian II	03	971280
Custodian III	04	971380
Cutter Meat 1	08	941480
Cutter Meat II	10	941580
Cutter Meat III	12	941680
Deckhand	03	931280
Dispatcher 1	04	971960
Dispatcher II	06	971980
Dispatcher 111	07	971940
Feeder Folder Laundry	01	950780
Gardener 1	05	930780
Gardener II	07	930880
Groundskeeper 1	05	972080
Groundskeeper <1	07	972180
Housekeeper	04	971480
Housekeeper Chancellors		
House	05	971500
Housekeeper President's		
House	07	971490
Classification Title
Pay Grade
Classification Code
Housekeeper President's
House	07	971490
Helper Mail Svc Auto Equip	07	980000
Helper Refuse Truck	04	972060
Loader Incinerator	04	971250
Locksmith	12	971600
Machinist 1	08	972580
Machinist II	11	972680
Mechanic Auto 1	09	970480
Mechanic Auto II	11	970580
Mechanic Elevator Maintenance	12	972780
Mechanic Heavy Equip	14	970600
Mechanic Laundry Plant	13	972900
Mechanic Maintenance 1	07	972880
Mechanic Maintenance II	09	972980
Mechanic Maintenance III	11	973080
Meter & Gate Repairperson	12	970280
Messenger	01	961080
Millwright	14	972720
Mounter Plant 1	03	930580
Mounter Plant II	04	930600
Mover 1	06	973180
Mover II	10	973280
M-Store Room Delivery Driver	07	970790
Offset Press Second Operator	11	952910
Operator Bus	08	970680
Operator Camera 11	11	951700
Operator Finish Machine 1	08	952180
Operator Finish Machine II	10	952280
Operator Hospital		
Communications 1	07	972000
‘Operator Hospital		
i Communications II	09	972040
^Operator Laundry Machine	05	950880
^Operator Laundry Motor Vehicle	07	950890
Operator Letterpress	10	952480
jpperator Mail Svc Auto Equip	09	980010
|Dperator Microfilm 1	04	980580
jbperator Microfilm If	09	980480
Ibperator Microfilm III	10	980680
jbperator Motor Vehicle	06	970780
operator Refuse Truck	07	972200
Operator Transit Coach	09	970800
Operator Offset Press 1	08	952680
Classification Title Pay Grade
Classification Code
Operator Offset Press it	10	952780
Operator Offset Press III	11	952880
Operator Offset Press IV	12	952900
Operator Offset Press V	13	952920
Operator Offset Press VI	14	952930
Operator Offset Press Feeder	09	952700
Operator Press	09	954780
Presser Laundry	02	950980
Processor Film 1	03	961480
Processor Film II	05	961580
Processor OR Instrument 1	05	961980
Processor OR Instrument 11	06	961960
Processor Instrument/Sterilizer	05	961380
Repairer/Refinisher Auto Body	13	970650
Seaman Able Bodied	09	931080
Service Extinguisher	06	973780
Ship Steward Specialist Ambulance	09	931180
Communications	09	972020
Stockkeeper 1	04	954280
Stockkeeper II	06	954380
Stockkeeper ill	08	954480
Stripper 1	09	953480
Stripper 11	11	953580
Trainee Maintenance Mechanic	07	972870
Trainee Meter & Gate Mechanic	10	970270
Trainee Tree Trimmer	10	972370
Transporter Patient	02	961180
Trimmer Tree I	10	972380
Trimmer Tree II	12	972480
Upholsterer 1	08	973380
Upholsterer II	10	973480
Upholsterer III	13	973580
Waste Handier 1	04	972330
Waster Handler II	05	972340
Washer Window	06	971780
Weigher Loader Laundry	05	951280
Worker Athletic Facility 1	04	972160
Worker Athletic Facility II	07	973040
Worker Finishing	03	953980
Worker Food Service	01	941880
Worker Garment 1	02	951080
Worker Garment II	04	951180
Worker Parking Maintenance	07	972140
Worker Psych Care	07	961780
96
CLASSIFICATION TITLES
BY PAY GRADE
377	PAY GRADE 01	
	Custodian I Feeder Folder Laundry Messenger Worker Food Service	
378	PAY GRADE 02	
	Aide Galley Food Service Attendant Laboratory Custodian Unit Presser Laundry Transporter Patient Worker Garment I	
379	PAY GRADE 03	
	Aide Audio-Visual Aide Nurse I Aide Psychiatric Aide Teacher Attendant Animal Attendant Entrance Attendant Linen Attendant Locker Room Attendant Parking Baker I Binder Book I	Checker Laundry Classifier Laundry Cleaner Kitchen Cook I Cook Hospital I Custodian II Deckhand Mounter Plant I Processor Film I Worker Finishing
97
380 PAY GRADE 04
Aide Anesthetist
Aide Animal
Aide Laboratory
Aide Medical Procedures
Aide Nurse II
Aide Operating Room Aide X-Ray Attendant Patient
Visitor Entrance Baker Production I Cleaner Fixture & Wall Cleaner Venetian Blind
Clerk Postal 1
381 PAY GRADE 05
Aide Nurse III Burn Care Aide Nurse 111 Intensive Care Aide Nurse III Orthoped Care Attendant Linen Service Attendant Patient Equipment Baker II Botanical Prep Cook II
Cook Hospital 11
382 PAY GRADE 06
Attendant Service Station
Clerk Postal II Dispatcher II Mover I Operator Motor
Vehicle
Custodian 111 Dispatcher I Housekeeper Helper Refuse Truck Loader Incinerator Mounter Plant II Operator Microfilm I Stockkeeper I Waste Handler I Worker Athletic Facility I Worker Garment II
Gardener I
Groundskeeper I
Housekeeper
Chancellors House
Keymaker
Operator Laundry
Machine
Processor Film ll
Processor Instrument/
Sterilizer
Processor OR Instrument I
Waste Handler II
Weigher Loader Laundry
Processor OR Instrument Service Extinguisher Stockkeeper II Window Washed
98
383	PAY GRADE 07	
	Assistant Locksmith Baker ill Baker Hospital 1 Baker Production 11 Binder Book II Chef Assistant Clerk Postal III Cook III Duct Cleaner Dispatcher III Gardener II Groundskeeper II Housekeeper Presidents House Mail Svc Auto Equip Helper Mechanic Maintenance 1	M-Stores Room Delivery Driver Operator Hospital Communications 1 Operator Laundry Motor Vehicle Operator Refuse Truck Trainee Maintenance Mechanic Worker Athletic Facility 11 Worker Parking Maintenance Worker Psych Care
384	PAY GRADE 08	
	Baker IV Baker Hospital II Baker Production ill Cook IV Cook Hospital III Cook Metabolic Cutter Meat 1 Machinist 1 Operator Finish Machine 1	Operator Bus Operator Offset Press 1 Stockkeeper III Upholster 1
385	PAY GRADE 09	
	Attendant Ambulance Binder Book III Mechanic Auto 1 Mechanic Maintenance 11 Operator Hospital Communications II Operator Mail Svs Auto Equip Operator Microfilm 11 Operator Offset Press Feeder	Operator Press Operator Transit Coach Seaman Able Bodied Ship Steward Specialist Ambulance Communications Stripper I
1	99	
386 PAY GRADE 10
Cutter Meat II
Mover II
Operator Finish
Machine II •
Operator Letter Press
Operator Microfilm III
Operator Offset Press II
Trainee Meter & Gate Mechanic
Trainee Tree Trimmer
Trimmer Tree I Upholsterer II
387	PAY GRADE 11	
	Machinist II Maintenance Mechanic 111 Mechanic Auto II Operator Camera II	Operator Offset Press III Offset Press Second Operator Stripper II
388	PAY GRADE 12	
	Cutter Meat III Locksmith Press IV Maintenance Elevator Mechanic	Meter & Gate Repairperson Operator Offset Trimmer Tree II
388a PAY GRADE 13
Operator Offset Press V
Repairer/Refmisher
Auto Body
Upholsterer III
388b PAY GRADE 14
Mechanic Heavy Equip.
Millwright
Operator Offset Press VI
100
APPENDIX C STEWARD DISTRICTS AND CHIEF STEWARD CLASSIFICATION GROUPING
STEWARD DISTRICTS
389 Area A - North Campus
A-1 North Campus Commons, Chrysler Center, Bursley Hall, School of Music, Vera Baits Houses, Northwood Apartments I, II, III, IV, V; Architecture and Design, North Campus Intramural Building, 1ST Building, University Printing, Library Storage and Bindery, Bentley Library,
A2 - Laundry, Property Control, Incinerator, North Campus Grounds, Highway Safety Research institute, and all other North Campus Buildings,
A3 - Radrick Farms, Radrick Golf Course, Botanical Gardens.
*One afternoon steward for A1 through A3.
390 Area B - Medical Campus
B1 - Main Hospital Floors B2, B1,1.
B2 - Main Hospital Floors 2, 3, 4, 5,
B3 - Main Hospital Floors 6, 7, 8, 9.
B4 - Taubman Cntr, MPOB, CPH, CFOB, Mott/Women's/ Holden, Simpson, Towsley, Med Cntr Parking Struc & Lot, SPH I and II.
B5 - Buhl Research Center, Catherine Street Parking Structure, Kresge Med Research, MHRI, Radiation Ther Lab (special projects bldg), Speech Clinic, Victor Vaughn, Kresge Med Research II, Kresge Hearing Research, Neuro-Science, Taubman Med Library, Med Sci I and II, Lab Animal Med Unit, Nursing School.
B6- Kellogg Eye Center, Turner, Riverview, University Hospital Education Center, and all other buildings on the Medical Campus.
I	* One afternoon steward for (B1 through B4 and B6)
*	**One night steward for (B1 through B6)
Or 391 Area C - Central Campus
101
Cu M
O
386 PAY
J
je Lloyd, Observatory, Couzens, Mosher ell, CCRB, Women's Athletic Building, /Pool, Oxford Housing, Arboretum.
Jing, Health Service, Fletcher Street Parking /, Power Center, Plant Service Building, Heating North University Building, North Hall, Museums Jx, Museum Building, Michigan League, Frieze aiding, Rackham Building, Modern Languages Building, /Social Work Annex, Thayer Street Parking Structure, Burton Tower, Hill Auditorium, Lane Hall.
Area bounded by State Street, North University, Washtenaw, Forest, and South University; East Quadrangle; Area Bounded by State Street, South University, Forest, and Hill; South Quadrangle; Michigan Union; West Quadrangle; Area bounded by State Street, Liberty, Fifth Avenue, and Madison, including Fourth Street and Williams Street Buildings; All other Central Campus Buildings.
391a Area D - Stadium Area

D1 -
D2-
D3-
Transportation, Plant Bldg, and Annex, Old General Stores Bldg., University Press Warehouse, Administrative Services Bldg., Data Systems Center, Heavy Equipment Garage.
All Stadium Area Athletic Bldgs., Fletcher Hall, Revelli Hall, Intramural Bldg., Coliseum, Hospital Stores Warehouse (Dock 3).
Food Stores, General Stores, Chemical Stores.
391b Area E * Dearborn Campus
E1 - Dearborn Campus
391c
Area F - Flint Campus
F1 - Flint Campus

* One afternoon steward for (C1 through C3 and B5), “One night steward for (C1 through C3), (E1).
392 Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 39 and in the event that a grievance arises in any district not set forth above, Union representation shall be as follows:
102
393 The aggrieved employee may have an employee, if any at his/her work location, represent him/her at Step One.
394 Thereafter, if he/she reduces his/her grievance to writing, he/she shall send one copy to the attention of the Bargaining Chairperson and another copy to the University Review Committee and at the request of the Union a hearing shall be scheduled as provided at Step Two of the Grievance Procedure.
395 If both the University and the Union agree it advisable, arrangements will be made to have the aggrieved employee present at the hearing.
CHIEF STEWARD CLASSIFICATION GROUPING
396	Chief Steward I - Maintenance
Aide Audio-Visual Assistant Locksmith Auto Body Repair/
Refinisher
Keymaker Locksmith Machinist I Machinist II Mechanic Auto I Mechanic Auto II Mechanic Elevator
Maintenance
Mechanic Heavy Equip Mechanic Laudry Plant Mechanic Maintenance I
Mechanic Maintenance II
Mechanic Maintenance 111 Mechanic Maintenance III Meter & Gate Repairperson Millwright
Mover I
Mover II
Service Extinguisher
Trainee Meter & Gate Mechanic
Upholsterer I
Upholsterer II
Upholsterer III
Worker Parking Maintenance
397	Chief Steward II - Food & Nutrition & Printing
Aide Galley Food Serv Baker I Baker Hospital I Baker II Baker Hospital I) Baker HI Baker IV Baker Production I Baker Production II
Offset Press Second Operator
Operator Letterpress
Operator Camera II
Operator Finish
Machine I
Operator Finish
Machine It
Operator Offset
103
398
399
Baker Production III Binder Book 1 Binder Book II Binder Book III Chef Assistant Cleaner Kitchen
Cook I
Cook Hospital I Cook II
Cook Hospital II Cook III
Cook Hospital III Cook IV
Cook Metabolic Cutter Meat I Cutter Meat II Cutter Meat III
Press Feeder
Operator Mail Svcs Auto Equip
Operator Microfilm I
Operator Microfilm II
Operator Microfilm 111 Operator Offset Press I Operator Offset Press II Operator Offset Press III Operator Offset Press IV Operator Offset Press V Operator Offset Press VI
Operator Press
Stripper I
Stripper II
Worker Finishing
Worker Food Service
Helper Mail Svc Auto Equip
Chief Steward III - Aides & Attendants
Aide Anesthetist
Aide Anima)
Aide Laboratory
Aide Medical Proc
Aide Nurse I Attendant Patient
Visitor Entrance
Aide Nurse II
Aide Nurse Ill-
Burn Care
Aide Nurse Ill-Intensive Care
Aide Nurse Ill-Orthopedic Care
Aide Operating Room Aide Teacher
Aide X-Ray
Attendant Ambulance Attendant Animal Attendant Entrance Attendant Laboratory Messenger
OR Instrument Proc I OR Instrument Proc II Processor Film I Processor Film II Processor Instrument
Sterilizer
Psychiatric Aide
Specialist Ambulance Communications
Transporter Patient Worker Psych Care
Chief Steward IV - Service & Cleaning
Attendant Linen
Attendant Linen Service
Checker Laundry Classifier Laundry
Cleaner Duct
Housekeeper
Housekeeper Chancellors
House
Housekeeper Pres House
Loader Incinerator
104
Cleaner Fixture & Wall Cleaner Venetian Blind Custodian I Custodian II Custodian III Custodian Unit Duct Cleaner
Feeder Folder Laundry
Operator Laundry Machine Presser Laundry Waste Handler I Waste Handler II Weigher Loader Laundry Window Washer Worker Garment I Worker Garment II
400 Chief Steward V - Grounds, Gardeners,
Transportation & Stores	
Attendant Locker Room	Mounter Plant I
Attendant Parking	Mounter Plant II
Attendant Patient	Operator Bus
Equipment	Operator Hospital
Ablebodied Seaman	Communications I
Attendant Service	Operator Hospital
Station	Communications II
Clerk Postal I	Operator Laundry Motor
Clerk Postal II	Vehicle
Clerk Postal II)	Operator Motor Vehicle
Deckhand	Operator T ransic Coach
Dispatcher I	Preparator Botanical
Dispatcher II	Ship Steward
Dispatcher 111	Stockkeeper I
Gardener I	Stockkeeper II
Gardener II	Stockkeeper III
Groundskeeper I	Trimmer Tree I
Groundskeeper II	Trimmer Tree II
Helper Refuse Truck	T ree T rimmer T rainee
M-Stores Room	Worker Athletic Facility I
Delivery Driver	Worker Athletic Facility II
401	Chief Steward VI - All Areas Midnights
401a	Chief Steward VII - Hospital Afternoons
401b	Chief Steward VIII - Central Campus Afternoons
402	Deleted
105
APPENDIX E
403
CLASSIFICATION SERIES
Classification Title	Pay Grade
Attendant Animal	03
Aide Animal	04
Attendant Laboratory	02
Aide Laboratory	04
Aide Nurse I	03
Aide Nurse II	04
Aide Nurse III	05
Baker I	03
Baker II	05
Baker III	07
Baker IV	08
Baker Hospital I	07
Baker Hospital II	08
Baker Production I	04
Baker Production II	07
Baker Production III	08
Binder Book I	03
Binder Book II	07
Binder Book III	09
Custodian 1	01
Custodian Unit	02
Custodian 11	03
Custodian III	04
Cleaner Kitchen	03
Cleaner Fixture & Wall	04
Cleaner Venetian Blind	04
Washer Window	06
Worker Food Service	01
106
Classification Title	Pay Grade
Aide Galley Food Service Cook I Cook II Cook III Cook IV	02 03 05 07 08
Cook Hospital I Cook Hospital II Cook Hospital III	03 05 08
Cutter Meat I Cutter Meat II Cutter Meat III	08 10 12
Clerk Postal I Clerk Postal II Clerk Postal III	04 06 07
Dispatcher I Dispatcher II Dispatcher III	04 06 07
Feeder Folder Laundry Worker Garment I Worker Garment II Presser Laundry Checker Laundry Classifier Laundry Attendant Linen Service Operator Laundry Machine Weigher Loader Laundry	01 02 04 02 03 03 05 05 05
Gardener 1 ;	Gardener II	05 07
5	Groundskeeper 1 Groundskeeper II 1	Assistant Locksmith Locksmith	05 07 07 12
BK	Machinist 1 BK'	Machinist II	08 11
107
Classification	Pay
Title	Grade
Mechanic Auto I	09
Mechanic Auto II	11
Mechanic Heavy Equip	14
Mechanic Maintenance I	07
Mechanic Maintenance II	09
Mechanic Maintenance 111	11
Mounter Plant I	03
Mounter Plant II	04
Mover I	06
Mover II	10
Operator Finish Machine I	08
Operator Finish Machine II	10
Operator Hospital Communications I	07
Operator Hospital Communications II	09
Offset Press Second Operator	11
Operator Offset Press	Feeder	09
Operator Press	09
Operator Offset Press I	08
Operator Offset Press II	10
Operator Offset Press III	11
Operator Offset Press IV	12
Operator Offset Press V	13
Operator Offset Press VI	14
Operator Microfilm I	04
Operator Microfilm II	09
Operator Microfilm III	10
Operator Camera	11
Processor Film I	03
Processor Film II	05
Processor OR Instrument	I	05
Processor OR Instrument	II	06
Stripper I	09
Stripperil	11
108
Classification	Pay
Title	Grade
Stockkeeper I	04
Stockkeeper II	06
Stockkeeper III	08
Trimmer Tree I	10
Trimmer Tree II	12
Upholsterer I	08
Upholsterer II	10
Upholsterer III	13
Worker Athletic Facility I	04
Worker Athletic Facility II	07
APPENDIX F
Grievance Procedure
404 The forms illustrated in this Appendix are provided by the University and, after discussion with the Union, may be subject to change.
109
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
MISCELLANEOUS
405 This confirms our agreement that:
406 Notwithstanding the provisions of Article X, Overtime, and at the option of the majority of employees in each group, the University may provide compensatory time off rather than pay for employees assigned to Great Lakes Research and Student Publications.
407 Where currently in effect for an employee, a uniform and/or maintenance, if any, will continue to be provided.
408 Where an employee is required to take meals provided during his/her assigned schedule of work, he/she will not be charged for meals when he/she is absent from work.
409 No employee will be required to furnish his/her own tools or equipment.
410 If there is a pay shortage in an employee’s check of four (4) hours or more, at the request of the employee the correct payment will be made by the University not later than the end of the first working day of the University’s payroll department following the day the employee’s immediate supervisor is notified of the shortage. Pay shortages for less than four (4) hours will be corrected and paid on the next regular payday.
411 While rules, regulations, and requirements may vary within the University, no such rule, regulation or requirement shall be contrary to terms of this agreement nor shall any such rule, regulation or requirement be administered in an arbitrary or capricious manner.
412 In the event that the application of a rule, regulation or requirement results in disciplinary action, the reasonableness of such rule, regulation or requirement shall be subject to review in the grievance and arbitration procedures as it relates to just cause.
110
413 In addition, the arbitrary or capricious administration of a rule, regulation or requirement, including the use of non-relevant personal factors, as distinguished from employment related factors, shall be subject to review in the grievance and arbitration procedure.
For the Regents of the
For Local 1583,
Date: May 10, 2002
111
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
WORK SCHEDULES
414 During the term of this Agreement, the parties at the initiative of either party will endeavor to develop a mutually agreeable method to study alternative work schedules with the intent, if mutually agreeable, that in applying the terms of Paragraph 41 to employees in Hospital Housekeeping who are currently scheduled to work every weekend, any other combination of eight hours each excluding the lunch period provided in Section B. if not paid, which permits a Saturday and Sunday off every other weekend will be considered a regular schedule.
For the Regents of the
Date: May 10, 2002
By:
By:
By:
For Local 1583,

112
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
APPLICATION OF ARTICLE 19
415	This confirms our agreement that the application of the
provisions of Article 19 shall not be on a bargaining unit wide basis but that the application shall be separate for each of the following areas:
1.	Ann Arbor Campus
2.	Dearborn Campus
3.	Flint Campus
4.	Each other separate geographic area
For the Regents of the University of Michigan
For Local 1583, AFSCME
Date: May 10,2002
113
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BARGAINING COMMITTEE-PAY
416 If the Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee elects to take a full-time excused absence from work rather than a leave of absence, the Chairperson nevertheless will be paid for 80 hours in a bi-weekly pay period for 26 bi-weekly pay periods per annum. It is understood that such time paid is for time spent investigating grievances at Step Two, Step Two hearings, disciplinary hearings, conferences, and the preparation for hearings, conference, and arbitration. It is furtherunderstood that the hours of pay referred to above shall be neither increased nor decreased during the term of this Agreement, even though hours spent in the foregoing areas are more or less than the hours for which paid.
417 It is further understood that, in the event of such full-time execused absence, the University shall pay fringe benefit premiums to the same extent as a full-time employee.
418 The chairperson of the Bargaining Committee shall be paid at the job rate of pay grade fourteen (14).
419 In the event, however, the Chairperson ceases to perform the functions set fort in this Memorandum or designates a representative when otherwise available (sickness, vacation, other short term absences and overlapping commitments covered by the Memorandum excepted), after notice to the Union and a reasonable opportunity to remedy the situation, the pay shall cease until the situation is remedied.
For the Regents of the University of Michigan
For Local 1583, AFSCME
Date: May 10, 2002
114
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
SPECIAL INDIVIDUAL RATES AS A RESULT OF CHANGES IN CLASSIFICATIONS AND PAY GRADE ASSIGNMENTS UNDER PRIOR AGREEMENTS
421 This confirms our agreement that:
422
Employees assigned to a classification in Appendix B. of this Agreement which has a lower pay grade than that of the classification to which they were last assigned under the agreement executed on March 7,1974, will remain in the higher pay grade despite the fact that these classifications are now assigned to a lower pay grade or they are assigned to a new or different classification which has a lower pay grade. Such employees will remain in the higher pay grade as long as they remain in the classification to which they were assigned on the execution date (March 24,1977) of the prior agreement or until they are offered assignment to a classification for which they have the necessary qualifications as defined in Article 20, and which is within their classification series, or for Custodian Il's to the Maintenance Mechanic classification series and the Offset Press Attendant to the Finishing Machine Operator classification series, and which classification has the same or higher pay grade than the pay grade in which they have remained. Such an offer of assignment must be in the employee’s same geographic area (Ann Arbor, Flint, or Dearborn).
The offering of an assignment to a classification which has the same or higher pay grade shall not violate a provision of Article 20.
423
Tr
The employees who remain affected by the application of the March 24,1977, Memorandum and this Memorandum shall be set forth in a separate memorandum.
115
424 In addition, the remaining employee, now classified as Dispatcher I, covered by the Memorandum of March 7,1974, shall continue to be covered by the provision of that Memorandum.
i
For the Regents of the
Date: May 10,2002
For Local 1583,
11R
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
EXPERIMENTAL TRAINING PROGRAM
425 The University and the Union agree that it is in the best interest of the parties and the employees represented by the Union to undertake an experimental on-the-job training program as a means of providing employees with the requisite skills in order to qualify them for promotions which become available. In this connection, the parties agree that any training classification established will be consistent with the needs of the University.
426 Whenever a training classification is established, the position will be posted in accordance with the provisions of Article 20, Sections D. and E. The posting will set forth the purpose of the training program, the classification for which employees are to be trained, the rate of pay during the training program, and the department in which the training is to take place. Following the posting, selection will be based on the seniority of the employees who have the basic qualifications to perform the work of the classification for which they are to be trained. For the purposes of this training program, basic qualifications means that the records of the University or other knowledge made known to the University indicates the reasonable certainty that the employee will be able to perform competently the full range of duties of the classification upon completion of the training provided by this program. The Union will be sent a listing of the bidders and their seniority dates and the name of the employee selected.
427 In the event that some or all of the training is provided outside the employee's regular schedule of work, his/her schedule of work may be adjusted so that the training takes
E	place during hours paid at the regular hourly rate, in any event,
|	time spent in training, including classroom time, shall be paid
1 time.
117
428 An- employee in the training program shall be paid initially $1.00 per hour less than the job rate of the classification for which he/she is to be trained, or his/her current hourly rate of pay, whichever is the higher. Three months thereafter the employee shall receive an additional 10 cents per hour and 15 cents per hour at the next two (2) three- (3) month intervals and 20 cents per hour at the next two (2) three- (3) month intervals, until his/her hourly rate reaches 20 cents per hour less than the job rate for the classification for which he/she is being trained, He/she shall remain at that rate until completion of the training program, when he/she shall receive the job rate.
429 Upon successful completion of training, the employee will be assigned to the classification for which he/she has been trained, Article 20 notwithstanding.
430 If it is decided that the employee’s progress in developing the requisite skills is unsatisfactory, he/she shall be assigned, consistent with his/her seniority, to the classification to which he/she was assigned immediately preceding assignment to the training classification, or to one of comparable status and hourly rate of pay.
431 The supervisor responsible for the training will prepare reports every three (3) months, and more often if needed, on the employee's progress. A copy of this report will be sent to the University Personnel Office and the Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee.
432
The University and the Union will meet quarterly in special conference to evaluate this program and explore possibilities of further development unless mutually agreed that no conference is necessary. In this connection, a discussion of the University's projection of needs, together with an analysis of promotions and new hires, will take place semi-annually. In every case, a conference will be held prior to establishing a training classification under this program. The Union will be provided a current listing of employees assigned to training classification, notification of successful completion, and subsequent assignment and notification of any removal from the training program.
433 In addition and apart from this program, the University and the Union agree that another method of qualifying employees for promotion is to permit periodic, but controlled, performance of duties of classifications assigned to higher pay grades. In such a case, and provided die name of the employee who is periodically so assigned is made known to the Union in advance of the performance, the provision of Article 15 shall not be applicable nor shall a misclassification result.
434 In the event that the University establishes a training
program for classifications not covered by the collective bargaining agreement and an employee in this collective bargaining unrt is selected for training, he/she shall be assigned, consistent with his/her seniority, to the classification in the bargaining unit to which he/she was assigned immediately preceding assignment to the training program, or one of comparable status and hourly rate of pay, if the University decides that the employee’s progress in developing requisite skills is unsatisfactory.
For Local 1583,
AFSCME ,
By:
Date: May 10,2002
119
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
UNION ORIENTATION

If :

435 The University will allow the Local Union President, or his/her designee who will be the Bargaining Chairperson, an Officer or Chief Steward, to participate in the University’s New Employee Orientation Program, if the orientation is attended by new employees hired into positions at the University which are represented by AFSCME, Local 1583. The Union will be allowed a reasonable time period to discuss such items as, but not limited to (1) the signing of Voluntary Authorization For Deduction Of Initiation For Or Processing Fee And Union Dues Or Service Charge (2) providing the names and telephone numbers of union representatives (3) discussing the employee’s rights and responsibilities as well as provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, Where applicable, the Union Official participating in the orientation will do so without loss of time or pay from their assigned schedule of work.

For Local 1583,
Date: May 10,2002
120
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
PTO ACCRUAL
436 Unless otherwise provided, an employee may request from their supervisor or other designated University representative, their PTO balance. In addition, the University agrees not to post employee vacation and PTO time balances.
By:
For Local 1583, AFSCME z
By:
Date: May 10,2002
121
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
PRE-ARBITRATION GRIEVANCE INVESTIGATIONS
437 During the term of this Agreement, both parties agree to an experimental procedure for the investigation of grievances prior to submission to arbitration, the intent of which is to reduce the number of grievances submitted to arbitration.
The Chief Stewards, not to exceed six (6) will be granted time off from their assigned schedule of work without loss of time or pay for a maximum of four (4) hours per week, for the sole purpose of investigating grievances subsequent to receipt of a written answer at Step Three of the Grievance Procedure and prior to submission of such grievances to arbitration.
Either the Union or the University may cancel this procedure on seven (7) days notice to the other party.
For the Regents of the
Date: May 10,2002
122
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
SAFETY SHOES
Note: Paragraph 438 deleted.
439 The University shall reimburse employee(s) for the actual costs of safety shoes provided by the employee(s), not to exceed $45.00 per employee, only when required to be worn by the University and upon receipt of satisfactory evidence of purchase. Such safety shoes provided by the employeefs) must meet University specifications as to style and material and/or applicable safety standards established by federal or state laws or regulations.
For the Regents of the
For Local 1583, AFSCME
Date: May 10,2002
123
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
ALLEGED MISCLASSIFICATION OF AN EMPLOYEE
440 The University and the Union agree to the following experimental procedure:
If the Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee disagrees with a determination that an employee is not misclassified, an on-site visit to the job will be arranged for the Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee upon the Chairperson’s request to a designated representative of the University Personnel Office. A representative of the University, at its option, may accompany the Chairperson.
Either the University or the Union may cancel this procedure on seven (7) days' notice to the other party.
For the Regents of the
For Local 1583,
By:
By:
By:
Date; May 10,2002
124
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
441 In order for the parties to be informed concerning matters of mutual interest regarding technological change, the Union and the University agree to establish a Technological Change Information Committee, to be comprised of five representatives from each party. The Committee will schedule meetings on a monthly basis. At least one calendar week prior to the meeting, the University and/or the Union shall submit an agenda of matters to be discussed to the other party. These matters may include concerns regarding the utilization and reorientation of employees affected by such changes. If no such agenda is submitted, there shall be no meeting.
For the Regents of the
For Local 1583,
Date: May 10, 2002
125
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
CHILD CARE
442 In the event the University conducts a study of Child Care Programs, the Union will be given an opportunity to provide input. Upon completion of any such study, the University will hold a Special Conference with the Union to report the findings and results.
For the Regents of the
For Local 1583, AFSCME
Date: May 10,2002
126
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
HEALTH INSURANCE
443 In addition to the current health care programs offered by the University, the University will offer a Blue Cross/Blue Shield Comprehensive Major Medical program where the full family coverage premium does not exceed the University’s contribution.
It is understood that to accomplish this, the offered program may change from time to time.
Date: May 10,2002
177
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
WORK SCHEDULE OPTION AND OVERTIME PAY
444 It is understood and agreed that upon arrangements acceptable to the Union and the University and notwithstanding the provisions of Section A of Article 8 and Section A of Article 10, a normal schedule of work can consist of ten (10) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week.
In such a case, any employee or employees involved shall not be eligible for the daily overtime premium provided in Section A of Article 10 until such time as the hour calculation exceeds ten (10) hours in a day.
For Local 1583,
Date: May 10, 2002
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
HOSPITALS AND HEALTH CENTERS TRAINING INITIATIVE
445 During the life of this Agreement, the Hospitals and Health Centers agrees to invest up to $450,000 to create training opportunities for employees to qualify for positions at the Hospitals and Health Centers. It is understood that the training initiatives will be focused on classifications for which there are current or anticipated recruitment needs. A Special Conference will be convened prior to the initiation of training to receive input on the planned training.
For the Regents of the
Date: May 10, 2002
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
PRESIDENT’S PAY

446 At the request of the Bargaining Chairperson the President of AFSCME Local 1583 may elect to take a full-time excused absence from work rather than a leave of absence, the President nevertheless will be paid for 48 hours in a bi-weekly pay period for 26 bi-weekly pay periods per annum., it is understood that such time paid is for time spent representing employees in the Grievance Procedure when there is a Chief Steward vacancy or a Chief Steward not available, conducting Union Orientation (per paragraph 435), filling in for the Bargaining Chairperson for a short duration and may represent the Union on Committees. It is further understood that the hours of pay referred to above shall be neither increased nor decreased during the term of this agreement, even though hours spent in the foregoing areas are more or less than the hours for which paid. Hours designated will be set by the University following consultation with the President.
447 It is further understood that, in the event of such part-time excused absence, the University shall pay fringe benefit premiums to the same extent as a full-time employee.
448 The President shall be paid at the job rate of pay grade fourteen (14) or the top rate as the case may be.
449 In the event, however, the President ceases to perform the functions set forth in this Memorandum after notice to the Union and a reasonable opportunity to remedy the situation, the pay shall cease until the situation is remedied.
449a This memorandum may be revoked by the Bargaining Chairperson with fourteen (14) days notice. At such time the President would be placed on an unpaid Leave of Absence.
For the Regents of the
Date: May 10,2002
130
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
ARTICLE 20, SECTION D, POSTING PROCEDURES
450 The parties recognize that the current and past practice of posting regular job openings is to distribute hard copy postings throughout the University for placement on approximately seventy-five (75) different posting boards. The parties also recognize that this is a very labor intensive process that does not optimize efficiency. It is agreed that during the term of this Agreement the University will continue to post hard copy postings, but that as other more efficient technological processes may become available the University will discuss them with the Union and implement upon mutual agreement.
For the Regents of the
For Local 1583, AFSCME
Date: May 10, 2002
131
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
RETROACTIVE PAYMENTS
451 Each employee who was an employee on August 5, 2001, or who was hired after 8/5/01 and who has remained an employee up to and including the execution date of this agreement, will receive a retroactive payment on the hours worked or paid based upon the employees' pay grade in Wage Schedule A, except that there will be no retroactive wage payments to probationary employees. However, if a probationary period is completed on or after August 5,2001, the employee will be entitled to a retroactive payment based upon their pay grade. The effective date of the retroactive payment will be the beginning of the first pay period following completion of their probationary period.
For the Regents of the
For Local 1583,
Date: May 10, 2002
132

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
INSTRUMENT PROCESSOR/STERILIZER
452 The pay grade adjustment for Instrument Sterilizer/Processor from pay grade 04 to pay grade 05 is made with the following understanding:
1.	Additional responsibilities, including but not limited to additional instrument sets, may be introduced without moving this classification to a higher pay grade. In any event, the pay grade for Instrument Sterilizer/Processor will not exceed that of OR Instrument Processor I.
2.	The Instrument Processor/Sterilizer classification is distinct from the OR Instrument Processor I, pay grade 05, each having distinct necessary qualifications and not included in the same classification series.
For the Regents of the
For Local 1583, AFSCME >
Bv: /k
Bv:
Date: May 10, 2002
133
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
ARBITRATION BACK LOG & EXPEDITED ARBITRATION (XARB)
453 The following procedure has been agreed to by the parties in an effort to reduce the number of grievances pending at arbitration. It is understood that the following is a one time pilot program that ends with the expiration of the current agreement (insert date) and will proceed as follows;
1.	Within 60 days following execution of this agreement a meeting will be held with representatives of the University, AFSCME Council 25 and AFSCME Local 1583 to review their records and determine the number of cases of pending grievances appealed to arbitration (backlog). Only grievances appealed to arbitration prior to the execution date of this agreement will be considered for this process.
2.	After the backlog has been agreed to by the parties, a meeting will be held within 60 days to decide which cases will be submitted to expedited arbitration (Xarb). Unless there is mutual agreement to proceed to Xarb, pending cases will proceed under the provisions of Article 40 of the agreement. Provided the conditions of 1 and 2 above are satisfied, arbitrators will be contacted to hear cases no later than 120 days from the execution of the agreement.
3.
The University and the Union will agree upon the arbitrators) to hear Xarb cases. It is understood that the arbitrator will hear multiple cases in a day. The hearing will involve, unless agreed to otherwise by the parties, an opening statement, submission of documentary evidence and a closing argument. The parties will meet and agree on additional specific process for the hearing. The arbitrator will submit a brief written decision following the hearing. All Xarb decisions are final and binding and without precedent. All fees and expenses of the arbitrator are shared by the parties.
134
4.	Nothing in the Xarb procedure will prevent the parties from arriving at settlement of pending arbitrations prior to hearing.
At the request of either party, the parties will meet in Special Conference for the purpose of evaluating the process.
For the Regents of the
Date: May 10, 2002
135
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
SEASONAL LEAVE OF ABSENCE
454 In addition to the 80 seasonal leave of absence positions allowed under Section L of Article 29, it is understood and agreed that at such time that 80 positions are established and filled, the Housing Division may utilize an additional 20 newly created seasonal leave positions. In such a situation, the provisions of Sections L shall apply.
For the Regents of the ligan
For Local 1583,
By:
Date: May 10,2002
136
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
PAPER DISCIPLINARY LAYOFF
455 It is understood and agreed that "disciplinary action" referenced in Article 38 - Discipline- may include a written reprimand in lieu of a disciplinary layoff (paper DLO). A paper DLO will be clearly identified as such, and used as disciplinary action for unexcused absenteeism. It is further understood that a paper DLO would still be considered a disciplinary layoff for progressive discipline purposes, and would be subject to processing through the grievance procedure in the same manner as a disciplinary layoff.
A paper DLO appealed to arbitration would be held in abeyance at the Union's option, and without prejudice to the Union until such a time that the grievance is either heard at arbitration or withdrawn by the Union because the time limits of Section B of Article 38 have expired, or for any other reason by the Union.
Further, when the University issues a paper DLO, the employee’s steward shall be notified by the University, and without loss of time or pay be afforded the opportunity to be present and hear the reasons for the discipline. It is understood that the steward is present as an observer only and that the grievance procedure is the appropriate procedure to review the merits of the discipline.
For Local 1583,
Date: May 10, 2002
137
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
ONE-TIME WAGE PAYMENTS
456 In addition to the job rate on the appropriate wage schedule in Appendix A, an individual employee may be granted a one-time, lump-sum gross wage payment under the following conditions;
1.	Any department wishing to make such a payment must establish criteria and share those with the appropriate University Human Resources Office and AFSCME Local 1583 for input, in advance of the payment,
2.	Such payment to an employee will not exceed $250.00, and can occur no more than once per year for any individual employee.
It is understood that this is a pilot program for the duration of this Agreement, during which the Union may request a review through Special Conference.
For the Regents of the University of Michigan
For Local 1583, AFSCME ,
Date; May 10,2002
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
RECLASSIFICATION
457 Effective the beginning of the first pay period following execution of the agreement, the following classifications will change accordingly:
Classification Pay Grade
Classification Code New
Instrument Sterilizer Processor	96138	05
Locksmith	97160	12
Mechanic Heavy Equipment	97060	14
Repairer/Refinisher Auto Body	97065	13
Millwright	97272	14
Meter & Gate Repairperson	97028	12
Operator Bus	97068	08
Those employees classified as Motor Vehicle Operators at the Laundry Services will be assigned to a new classification (to be determined) at a pay grade 07, effective the beginning of the first pay period following the execution of the agreement.

For the Regents of the
Date: May 10, 2002
139
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
PTO ACCRUAL
458 During the term of the Collective Bargaining Agreement the accrual and recording of PTO per paragraph 229b, number 5, may be changed from the beginning of the calendar month to the end of a calendar month. AFSCME will be notified six months prior to the effective date of such a change.
For the Regents of the	For Local 1583,
University of Mkpigan	AFSCME

Date: May 10, 2002
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
LABOR/MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE ON STANDARDIZATION OF QUALIFICATIONS FOR SELECTED CLASSIFICATIONS
459 The Union and the University agree to the formation of a joint committee to review the possibility of standardizing qualifications for selected pay grade 2-6 classifications for the purpose of defining minimum necessary qualifications. The committee will consist of three representatives for the Union and three representatives for the University. These three representatives for each party may change based on the specific classifications being reviewed at any given time. At the mutual agreement of both parties, additional representatives for both parties may be invited to meet with the committee to provide input on specific classifications being reviewed at any given time. Any person who loses time from his/her assigned schedule of work participating on this committee will do so without loss of time or pay. Mutual agreement must be obtained by the parties on standardized qualifications for any specific classification. If mutual agreement is not reached no standardized qualifications will be established for that specific classification. The classifications to be reviewed by the committee are as follows:
Pay Grade 01:
Custodian I, Laundry Feeder Folder, Food Service Worker
Pay Grade 02:
Unit Custodian, Laundry Presser, Patient Transporter
Pay Grade 03:
Nurse Aide I, Locker Room Attendant, Parking Attendant, Baker I, Laundry Checker, Laundry Classifier, Kitchen Cleaner, Cook I, Hospital Cook I, Custodian II
Pay Grade 04:
Nurse Aide II, Patient Visitor Entrance Attendant, Fixture & Wali Cleaner, Venetian Blind Cleaner, Postal Clerk I, Dispatcher I Stockkeeper I
Pay Grade 05:
Nurse Aide Ilk Bum Care, Nurse Aide III- Intensive Care, Nurse Aide III- Orthopedic Care, Patient Equipment Attendant, Baker II, Cook II, Hospital Cook II, Groundskeeper I, Processor Instrument/Sterilizer, OR Instrument Processor I, Laundry Weigher Loader, Laundry Machine Operator
Pay Grade 06:
Service Station Attendant, Dispatcher II, OR Instrument Processor II
This committee will be in effect for as tong as it takes to review the above referenced classifications. Scheduling of meetings will be at the mutual consent and availability of the respective representatives.
Forth© Regents of the
For Local 1583,
Date: May 10,2002
142
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
IMPLEMENTATION OF CHANGES TO ARTICLE 20, SECTION B, POSITION AND SHIFT CHANGES WITHIN A DEPARTMENT
460 Upon ratification and approval by the parties of the Agreement expiring August 4, 2001, which the parties have extended, the changes to Article 20, Section B will be implemented as follows:
1.	If this ratification and approval occurs on or before November 30,2001, the changed provisions of Article 20, Section B will be effective December 1,2001. For any openings that occur from the ratification and approval date through December 31,2001 current Transfer Request forms will be honored through that month of December only. All cument Transfer Request forms will then be disposed of by the departments. During December 2001, up to two (2) new Request for Transfer forms may be submitted by employees to be considered in accordance with the new provisions of this Section B.
2.	if ratification and approval occurs after November 30, 2001, the following implementation provisions will apply. Between whatever the ratification and approval date of the Agreement by the parties, and the first of the month that is at least four (4) weeks subsequent to that ratification and approval date, employees will have the opportunity to complete up to two (2) Request for Transfer forms to submit to their department. These requests will be valid effective on the first of whatever month is applicable as referenced above, and through December 31,2002. Up to whatever that first of the month date is, current Transfer Request forms will be honored. After that first of the month date all current Transfer Request forms will be invalid and will be disposed of by the departments. Thereafter, all the provisions of the new Section B will be applicable.
For Local 1583,
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
PERSONAL DISCRETION TIME (PDT) RENEWAL CHANGE AND PTO SELLBACK TRANSITION PERIOD
461
In order to provide for proper personal discretion time
renewals caused by the change in those renewals from January to June, and the changes to the PTO Sell Back provision of our Agreement as an incentive not to use personal discretion time, the following provisions apply:
•	On January 1,2003 employees wilt renew 1.5 days of PDT.
•	On June 1,2003 employees will renew 3 days of PDT.
(employees working half time or less will receive one half of the above PDT renewal amounts)
•	An employee who uses no personal discretion time from June 1, 2003 through May 31, 2004, may sell back up to 72 hours of PTO time in October, 2004 in accordance with Article 24, Section F of our Agreement.
For the Regents of the University of Midjigan
For Local 1583, AFSCME
Date: May 10, 2002
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
TRAINING
462 In support of employee development and of units in accomplishing their missions, the University and AFSCME agree to the following:
•	A joint committee will compile a Resource Training Booklet, identifying existing employee development opportunities, both internal and external, that may assist employees in attaining necessary and desired qualifications for future open positions. The committee will also create a communication plan to facilitate the dissemination of this information throughout the bargaining unit.
•	Individual departments may create training programs in order to provide opportunities for employees to become qualified for future openings. In such a case, when.an opening occurs in one of these classifications, the department may select from among those employees who have been trained, prior to posting. Departments may seek advice from the Joint Committee on the creation of the training program. An AFSCME member of the committee may participate in the selection process in an advisory capacity.
•	Any training initiative will include an assessment of institutional needs, employee interests, a process to identify employees who will be part of training or mentoring employees, and a joint evaluation process.
•	Plant Operations will maintain its current program of training employees, currently known as “Employees Working Out of Classification’ (EWOC).
•	An individual supervisor may identify the potential for on-the-job training for an employee who has bid on an open position. If the supervisor believes that the employee could meet the necessary or desired qualifications within thirty days, that employee will be transferred to the new position, and paid at a training rate for the thirty (30) day period of training, which is 50% of the difference between current rate and new pay grade job rate. Employee will move to job rate upon successful completion of the 30 day training period.
For the Regents of the	For Local 1583,
Date: May 10,2002
I
I
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
PRESCRIPTION DRUG RIDER
463 The University agrees to provide and maintain a $4.00 copay prescription drug rider through December 31,2002, that is no less than the Michigan Blue Cross/Blue Shield plan. The following schedule of co-pays will be in effect for a prescription drug rider that is no less than the Michigan Blue Cross/Shieid
Non Preferred
Not applicable Not applicable $15.00
plan for the duration of the agreement.
Date	Generic	Preferred
1/1/03	$4.00	$8.00
1/1/04	$5.00	$10.00
1/1/05	$5.00	$10.00
The Non Preferred co-pay will only be in effect if such co-pay is in effect for other University of Michigan employees.
Index
Subiect	Paragraph No.	Page No.
Agreement Statement	1	1
Arbitration	339a-351	80-82
Arbitrator Authority	293-295	71
Authorization for Check Off	27-29	8-9
Back Wages	336-338	79
Bargaining Unit	2-3	2
Bidding Procedure	145-161	32-36
Blue Crass-Blue Shield	259-261	58-59
Bulletin Boards	36-39	10-11
Call Back Pay	84	20
Classifications, Changed or New	59	15
Classification Series	403	106-109
Classification Titles and Pay Grades	376-388b	93-100
Definitions		
Afternoon Shift	79	19
Calendar Week	77	18
Day	76	18
Employees	4	2
Evening Shift	80	19
Full Time Employee	6	3
Grievance	315	74
Necessary Qualifications	137	29
Overtime Premium	64-66	16-17
Part-time Employee	7	3
Employee, Probationary	108-111	24-25
Promotion	.	135	29
Regular Job Opening	136	29
Seniority	93	22
Split Shift	82	19
Student Employee	8-9	3
Temporary Employee	5-5b	2-3
Time Paid, Overtime	66	16-17
Unit of Distribution	78	18
Disability Plan	268-271	62-63
Discipline	287a-296	68-71
Discrimination	13-16	5
Dues or Service Charge		
and Initiation or Processing Fee	18-35	6-10
Funeral Leave	230-232	50
Grievance Procedure	297-339	71-80
Health and Safety	285-287	66-68

Subject	Paragraph No.	Page No.
Holidays	189-197	37-39
Injury, On-the-Job	287	68
Insurance	256-271	68-72
Investigation of Grievances by Council		
and International	328-330	78
Job Posting	145-146	32-33
Jury Duty Service	233-235a	50-51
Leader Pay	445	145
Leaves of Absence	237-255a	52-57
Longevity Pay	275-280	64-65
Lunch Periods	44	12
Management Rights	10	4
Memorandums of Understanding	405-463	110-147
Military Duty	236	51-52
Miscellaneous	357-365	84-85
Necessary Qualifications	137	29
No Interference Guarantee	11	4
No Lockout Guarantee	12	5
Non-Discrimination	13-15	5
Notice of Disciplinary Layoff or Discharge	287C-289	69-70
Notice, Holiday Work	197	39
Notice, Work Schedule Change	45-54	12-14
On-Call Pay	86	20-21
Overtime Provisions	64-78	16-18
PTO	229b-229m	42-50
Pay Grades	373-388b	89-100
Personal Discretion Time	229a	41
Preference, Seniority for Reduction of the		
Working Force and Recalls	130-133	27-28
Prescription Drug Rider	463	147
Promotions and Transfers	135-162	29-37
Nepotism	146	33
Recall Procedure	129	27
Recognition	2-3	2
Reduction of Hours Procedure	134	28-29
Reduction of the Working Force and Recall	112-134	26-29
Reinstatement	101a	23
Reporting Pay	85	20
Reports	102-107	23-24
Rest Periods	55	14
Retirement Plan	272-274	63
Return to Unit	162	37
Review with Union of Discharge or	288	69-70
Disciplinary Layoff	290-291	70
Schedule Changes	45-54	12-14
Season Days	198-205	39-41
149
148
Subject______________________
Seniority, Acquiring
Seniority, Loss of
Seniority Preference
Shift
Afternoon
Evening
Split
Shift Change Request
Shift Premium
Sick Pay (see PTO)
Special Conference
Special Schedule Defined Steward Districts
Steward Schedule Changes Stewards and Chief Stewards
Paragraph No.
Student Employee, Use of Subcontracting Supervisors Working Temporary Help, Use of Temporary Layoff Term of Agreement Transfer, Rates of Pay Transfer, Request Trial Period After Promotion or Transfer Tuition Support Program
Union Conferences - Excused Absence Union Representation Union Security
University Representation University Review Committee
Vacation (see PTO) Wage Schedule and Implementation Waiver
Wash-Up Time
Witness Service Work Schedules Workers Compensation
111 94-101
130
79
30 82
138 79-83
352-356
43
389-395
52
130,250a 297-326, 396-402 359-363 357-358 364-365 359-363
131 367 87-91 138-140 153-154 281-284
244
297-311,313 17-25
312
312-314
325-327, 334
369-375a 366
56 233-235a 40-56
229k
150
Page No.
25 22-23
27
19
19
19 29-30
19
82-83 11-12 101-103
14
27, 56, 10!
105	’
84-85
84
85 s
84-85	(
27-28	?
87	!
21	j
29-31	|
34-35
65-66 53-54
71-73
6-7
73
73-74
87-88 76-77, 79 88-92 85-86
14
50-51
11-14
49
2003
January S	M	T	W	Th	F	S 12 3 4 5	6	7	8	9	10	11 12	13	14	15	16	17	18 19	20	21	22	23	24	25 26	27	28	29	30	31	February S	M	T	W	Th	F	S 1 2	3	4	5	6	7	8 9	10	11	12	13	14	15 16	17	18	19	20	21	22 23	24	25	26	27	28	March S	M	T	W	Th	F	S 1 2	3	4	5	6	7	8 9	10	11	12	13	14	15 16	17	1B	19	20	21	22 23	24	25	26	27	28	29 30 31
April S	M	T	W	Th	F	S 1 2 3 4 5 6	7	8	9	10	11	12 13	14	15	16	17	18	19 20	21	22	23	24	25	26 27	28	29	30	May S	M	T	W	Th	F	S 1 2 3 4	5	6	7	8	9	10 11	12	13	14	15	16	17 18	19	20	21	22	23	24 25	26	27	28	29	30	31	June S	M	T	W	Th	F	S 1	2	3	4	5	6	7 6	9	10	11	12	13	14 15	16	17	16	19	20	21 22	23	24	25	26	27	28 29 30
July S	M	T	W	Th	F	S 1	2	3	4	5 6	7	8	9	10	11	12 13	14	15	16	17	18	19 20	21	22	23	24	25	26 27	28	29	30	31	August S	M	T	W	Th	F	S 1 2 3	4	5	6	7	8	9 10	11	12	13	14	15	16 17	18	19	20	21	22	23 24	25	26	27	28	29	30 31	September S	M	T	W	Th	F	S 1	2	3	4	5	6 7	8	9	10	11	12	13 14	15	16	17	18	19	20 21	22	23	24	25	26	27 28 29 30
October S M	T	W	Th	F	S 12 3 4 5 6	7	8	9	10	11 12 13	14	15	16	17	18 19 20	21	22	23	24	25 26 27	28	29	30	31	November S	M	T	W	Th	F	S 1 2	3	4	5	6	7	8 9	10	11	12	13	14	15 16	17	18	19	20	21	22 23	24	25	26	27	28	29 30	December S	M	T	W	Th	F	S 1	2	3	4	5	6 7	8	9	10	11	12	13 14	15	16	17	18	19	20 21	22	23	24	25	26	27 28	29	30	31