Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection - Metadata Header
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/)
Title: Michigan, University of and University of Michigan House Officers Association (UMHOA) (2001)
K#: 800065
Employer Name: Michigan, University of
Location: MI Ann Arbor
Union: University of Michigan House Officers Association (UMHOA)
Local:
SIC: 8062	NAICS: 622
Sector: S	Number of Workers: 900
Effective Date: 11/01/01	Expiration Date: 10/31/04
Number of Pages: 112	Other Years Available: N
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School, http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
'SJ

Appendix C Office/Sleep Rooms. Appendix D Shower/Toilet Rooms
\ ... 63
-. 64-65


Memoranda of Understanding
66
Diversity
Non-Discrimination and Sexual Harassment.... 67-68
Veteran's Administration Deans Committee.... 76-79
80-81
82-83
Employee Information.....................
Female On-Call Rooms.....................
Information to Prospective House Officers JCAHO Surveys............................
On-Call Parking..........................
Prescription Drug Rider..................
. . . 69
. . . 70
. . . 71
. . . 72 73-74 . . . 75
Work Schedules.................. Ancillary Services..............
(IV/Blood Draw/Blood Cultures) Problem Resolution.............. Dispute Resolution.............. Additional Service Requirements. Contract Compliance............. Information Technology.......... Exerc i se Faci1i ty............ On-line Data Services........... Investment Workshops............ Financial Aid Office Counseling. Impact on Pre-Tax Benefits...... Operational Improvement Effort.. In-State Residency Status....... HOA Lounge Refrigerator.........
... 84 85-88 ... 89 ... 90 91-92 93-94 ... 95 ... 96 ... 97 ....98 99-100 ...101 ...102
Para-
124
222
179
98
157a
187
Page » 40
85
66'
33
52
69
Dispute Resolution
Methods
Diversity
Domestic Partners,
Benefits
Education on Terms
of
Agreement and Mutual Gains
Employee Information
Employer Rights
Subject Discipline
O-
5
2
77a	23	Executive Director's Hous Officer Advisory Commit
234	93	Exercise Facility (gym access)
121	39	Extracurricular Medical Practice
97b	31	Family Medical Leave
237	97	Financial Aid Office Counseling
128	42	Grievance, See Complaint
112e	37	Group Legal Plan
112a	35	Group Life Insurance
112e	37	Group Long-Term Care Plan
100	33	Health Insurance
Paragraph	Pane #	Subject
245	102	HOA Lounge Refrigerator
89	26	Holiday Pay
92a	27	Holiday Substitution and Religious observance
238	98	Impact on Pre-Tax Benefits
244	101	In-State Residency Status
68	19	Incident Reports
53	16	Information Systems
233	91	Information Technology
189	71	Information to Prospective House Officers
236	96	Investment Workshops
193	72	JCAHO Surveys
93a	28	Jury Duty
94	28	Leaves of Absence
112a	35	Life Insurance
70	20	Lounge
118	38	Malpractice Insurance, See Professional Liability
153	49	Meal Allowance

Paragraph	Page »				Para-grapk
151	48	Medical Staff By-Laws			33
155	51	Mileage Reimbursement			62
94	28	Military Leave of Absence	A..		164a
121	39	Moonlighting, See Extracurricular Practice			74c
74b	22	Needle sticks Protocols			95
183	67	Non-Discrimination and Sexual Harassment	, I		97a
9	3	Non-Discrimination			34
6	2	Non-Interference	I		198
154	51	Off-Campus Assignments	L		218
171a	63	Office/Sleep Rooms Locations			118
195	73	On-Call Parking			
188	70	On-Call Rooms, Female			32
171	61	On-Call Rooms, Locations			69
72	20	On-Call Space			2
240	99	Operational Improvement Effort			212
157	52	Orientation For House Officers			165b
33a	10	Outside Business Calls			156
					
					
		viii			
	, ■.iWt.-h.S.UA i	•■■:. ■■ '■-'JmW<V<MMItU Paragraph		
		Page #	Sub-i ect
	74a	22	Safe Environment/Safe
			Practice
	123	40	Safety
	74c	22	Safety and Security Training
	158	52	Salaries
	163a	54	Salary Advance
	168	59	Salary Schedule
	171b	64	Shower/Toilet Rooms
tr'	44	13	Staff Reduction
	65	18	Supporting Staff
j-w	76	23	Supportive and Ancillary
			Services and Other Matters
8	126	41	Suspension, Termination or
			Non-Reappointment
3? 'i	166	57	Term of Agreement
s?	113	37	Travel Accident Insurance
1	155	51	Travel Reimbursement
	152	49	Uniforms
	84	25	Vacation Assignment
	78	24	Vacation Length
€
a * e s
€ €
t C €
nuuuuiuuuuiiumu
1
The Regents of The University of Michigan,
hereinafter called the
of
called
the
into
agreement executed on
ARTICLE I
RECOGNITION AND DEFINITIONS
The employer
recognizes the Association as
the
sole
exclusive
and
employees in the following bargaining unit:
SECTION B
PEFINI.TI.QNfi
representative bargaining in
for the purposes of respect to wages,
anesthetist trainees, all other employees.
University Association,
therapy trainees, nurse chaplaincy interns, and
and The Officers
Michigan hereinafter
benefits, conditions agreement:
enter 22nd the
and hours and other terms and of employment for the term of the
bargaining collective hours and for all
The terms "employee
and "employees" used
SECTION A. DESCRIPTION OF UNIT
the following
"Association", agreement this which amends
employer'1, House
other conditions of employment
in this Agreement (except where the context indicates otherwise) shall mean a House
day of August, 2002, collective bargaining November 18, 1998, and
tif
which collective bargaining agreement, as amended and fully bargained, settles and contains all matters with respect to wages,
2
All House Officers employed by the Regents of The University of Michigan possessing the equivalent of a minimum of an M.D., D.O., or D.D.S. degree, EXCLUDING pharmacy interns, dietetic interns, physical and occupational
3


th
Bev?


Officer or House Officers and only identifies those individuals within the bargaining unit described in Section A.
4 A House Officer shall be a physician or dentist who is in a recognized training program and whose normal duties, under the direction of either the attending, courtesy, and/or honorary staff, are to admit patients to the hospital, diagnose or treat patients, and assume all the functions and responsibilities of the House Officer staff including, when appropriate, emergency case service and consultation assignments. House Officers, collectively, shall be known as the House Officer Staff.
ARTICLE II
EMPLOYER RIGHTS
5 All employer rights, powers, discretion, authority, and prerogatives are retained by and shall remain exclusively vested in the employer, except as clearly and specifically limited by this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
NON-INTERFERENCE
6 The Association and its officials will not cause, support, encourage, or condone, nor shall any employee or employees take part in any concerted action against or any concerted interference with the operations of the employer, such as the failure to report for duty, the absence from one's position, the stoppage of work, or the failure, in whole or in part, to fully, faithfully, and properly perform the duties of employment. Nothing in
2
? ? P P ? ? ? 1 1 5 T 1 T T T T T ? T T T P1* P /» l» 1
P <! <1 <1 «l
this paragraph shall be construed to limit individual participation in an activity that is unrelated to the employment relationship.

S’
■»-
7
In the event of any such action interference, and on notice from employer, the Association, through officials, will immediately disavow
or the its such
-
8
9
10
action or interference and act affirmatively to prevent or bring about the termination of
such action or
any and misconduct misconduct subjecting
all i and is a them
including discharge.
interference by instructing employees to cease their informing them that this violation of the Agreement, । to disciplinary action,

t
If the performs Article, file or against Nothing
Association, through its officials, its obligations as set forth in this the employer agrees that it will not
prosecute any the Association herein, however,
employer from proceeding
action or its shall against
for damages officials, preclude the any employee
involved in such action or interference.
ARTICLE IV
NON-DISCRIMINATION
The employer and the Association agree that
there will application race, creed,
be no
of this color,
discrimination in Agreement because national origin.
disability, sex or sexual orientation.
the i of age, Also
see Memorandum of Understanding, paragraph 183.
Nothing in this Article shall be construed to prevent an employee alleging discrimina-
3
■S'
lUJ! *
V;1
-J*;
fr-
it
a
,!

tion from exercising constitutional or statutory rights which may be available.
ARTICLE V
ASSOCIATION DUES AND REPRESENTATION-SERVICE FEES
SECTION A,
11
The parties recognize that the proper negotiation and administration of collective bargaining agreements and the fulfillment by the Association of its statutory duty of representation entail expenses which are appropriately shared by all employees who are beneficiaries of such agreements. To this end, in the event an employee shall not join the Association, the employee nevertheless shall tender to the Association a representation-service fee, which fee shall be in an amount not to exceed the employee's pro rata share of the Association's cost of negotiating and administering the collective bargaining agreement. Tender of membership dues or the representation-service fee shall be a condition of employment for employees hired on or after June 1,	1975. If the
amount of the representation-service fee is formally challenged by a House Officer, the Association shall have the sole burden of establishing the legal validity of the fee. The University shall not be obligated to terminate such employee's employment until the formal challenge has been resolved as long as the formal challenge is being pursued through a procedure provided by the Association or through such other procedure as may be available to either the House Officer or the Association. Such membership dues or the representation-service fee can be
4
tendered or paid to the Association either as
12
Section A of this Article unless:
Association first has notified the
13
delinquent
14
.has
The Association certifies that
15
shall terminate the employee.
5
representation-service condition of continued
by is
reported to as provided
the the has
or a
the in
the that
the
failed to uniformly
days, the employee will be University for termination this Article, and
provided in Article
Association Dues or Fee, or by direct cash
employment under agreement and the Agreement,
be terminated under
No employee shall
bargaining terms of
collective under the University
that the tendering required
tender either the periodic and
in not uniformly
letter, explaining
fee required as
furnished proof that this Article
Association dues or fees, and specifying the current amount of such delinquency, and warning the employee that unless such dues or fees are tendered within thirty (30) calendar
required Association dues
periodic and
VI, Check-Off of Representation-Service to the Association.
1. The employee employee either
2. The Association has University with written procedure of Section Bl. of


been followed or has supplied the University with a copy of the letter sent to the employee and notice that the employee has not complied with the request. The Association must specify further, when requesting the University to terminate the employee, the following written notice:
16 Provided that the requirements of one (1) and two (2) above are met, the University shall terminate any employee who is still delinquent on the thirtieth (30th) calendar day following receipt by the University of the satisfactory written proofs or letters and notices required by this Article unless the Association agrees otherwise. Sending the appropriate notification to the employee at their last known address shall satisfy requirement one (1).
SECTION C.__INDEMNIFICATION

27 The Association shall indemnify and save the employer harmless from any and all claims, demands, suits or any other action arising from this Article.
ARTICLE VI
CHECK OFF OF ASSOCIATION DUES OR REPRESENTATION-SERVICE FEE
During the term of this Agreement, and as provided in this Article, the employer will deduct Association dues or the representation-service fee from the salary, if any, of each employee who voluntarily executes and delivers to the employer the following deduction authorization form on a form provided by the employer only:
VOLUNTARY AUTHORIZATION FOR DEDUCTION OF ASSOCIATION DUES OR REPRESENTATION-SERVICE FEE
I,au thor i z e the University to deduct from salary earned or to be earned by me, membership dues 
6

& A A AAA A A A AiA i A A A A A A A A A A A A A
(check
or representation-service fee
20
Soc. Sec. #
Address
Home Phone
Signature of Employee
Date of Signing
21
CERTIFICATION OF TREASURER OF ASSOCIATION
22
for
7
employees in the bargaining unit is $, the period of July 1 through June 30.
Date Delivered, to Employer
Date____ Signature_______________________
Treasurer of Association
one) as certified to the University by the Treasurer of the Association at such time and in such manner as may be agreed upon between the University and the Association.
I certify that the membership dues for employees in the bargaining unit are $_______
and that the representation-service fee for
The following certification form shall be used by the Association when certifying membership dues or representation-service fee:
*	44 f
This authorization and direction shall remain in effect from year to year during the period of my employment in the bargaining unit, unless revoked by written notice by me to both the University and the HOA during the month of June in any year. Such revocation to be effective with the month of July.
Date of Delivery to University____________
23 Such written certification must be delivered to the University no later than June in any year to become effective in the following July through June period.
24 Payroll deductions shall be one-fourth (1/4) of the certified dues or representation-service fee and shall be taken from each of the first four (4) monthly paychecks received after July 1 and before July 1 of the next succeeding year, provided, however, the initial deduction for any employee shall begin with the calendar month following the calendar month both (1) a properly executed "Voluntary Authorization for Deduction of Association Dues or Representation-Service Fee" and (2)	the
amount of the membership dues	or
representation-service fee certified by the Treasurer of the Association have been delivered to the University at a place designated by the University,
25
26
In the event that there are not sufficient months to take four (4) deductions, the amount deducted for each remaining month nevertheless shall be one-fourth (1/4) of the certified amount.
Remittance of amounts deducted shall be made to the Treasurer of the Association and at an address given to the employer by the Association by the fifteenth (15th) of the month following the month of deduction, together with a list of names and the amount deducted for each employee for whom a deduction was made.
27
constituting actual
indemnify and save
28
liability
29
30
31
9
any sum other than that deductions from salary.
The employer shall not be liable to the Association for the remittance or payment of
The Association shall the employer harmless
from any
resulting from any and all claims, demands, suits, or any other action arising from compliance with this Article, or in reliance on any notice or authorization furnished under this Article.
The Association specifically agrees to make whatever adjustments are necessary directly with any employee who may, as a result of this deduction procedure, pay more or less than the Association's annual dues or representation-service fee requirements.
Notwithstanding the execution and delivery of the Voluntary Authorization for Deduction of Association Dues or Representation-Service Fee form set forth above prior to the execution date of this agreement, an employee may execute and deliver a new voluntary authorization changing the authorization from membership dues to representation-service fee, provided such new authorization is delivered to the employer within the sixty day period following the execution date of this agreement.
The employer shall provide a "Voluntary Authorization for Deduction of Association Dues or Representation-Service Fee" form to each new employee at the time of orientation or at any other time when orientation materials are provided.
QUARTERLY LISTINGS
32
33
33a
ARTICLE VII
34
classification
35
36
appropriate
In no case,
10
required to the written
telephone numbers that are employees to the employer and
titles, and the full-
In the event of such a
thereafter shall telephone number shall retain such and disclose it
The employer shall furnish the Association a quarterly list, beginning with information available from computer files as of August 31, of the names, social security numbers,
addresses.
departments, dates of birth,
time equivalent salary rate of all employees paid by the employer. The employer annually shall furnish the Association a copy of the
names and home provided by the at quarterly
furnish changes.
any
intervals reported
The Association
information in confidence
only to those whose Association duties, or duties on behalf of the Association, require them to have such information.
The University Hospital Paging Service, upon the individual written request of an employee, will not disclose the home address or the phone number of the employee to anyone other than those who need the information to carry out the duties and responsibilities of
the employer.
request, calls received during an employee's off duty hours, other than those set forth
above, will be referred to the medical service.
Upon the request of an employee have and use a pager, and with
approval of the employee's Department Chair, or designee, the employer will provide a pager with a range capacity sufficient to
meet the needs of the employee.
however, need the pager exceed a forty-five
business calls from outside the Hospitals.
employee and to all present employees.
ARTICLE
VIII
BOARDS
BULLETIN
provide the Association
The employer shall
paging House with
The to
a copy available upon request.
employer shall make prospective employees
addition, the request from a
House Officer
The employer and the Association agree to be equally responsible for the cost of printing and the distribution of this agreement to employees. The employer shall provide a copy of this booklet to each new
(45) mile range. In service will, upon Officer, connect a
J
i.'	1 „
The University and the Association will collaborate on a mutually agreeable mechanism to reimburse House Officers for long distance phone calls made to patients from home, and will address the issue of long distance phone call capability in the Operating Rooms. This mechanism will be effective no later than six (6) months from the execution date of this Agreement.
with bulletin board space designated for its exclusive use in not less than twelve (12) mutually agreeable areas for the purpose of posting Association notices. Such space in each location shall be sufficient to hold four <4) , eight (8) inch by eleven (11) inch notices. Such notices shall be signed by a responsible officer of the Association, and although not limited to the following notices, they shall be of that type:
37	a.	Association meetings;
38	b.	Association elections and appointments;
39	c.	Results of Association elections;
40	d.	Recreational and social events	of	the
Association;
41	e.	General communication relevant to	the
Association's role as a collective bargaining agent.
42	These bulletin boards are the exclusive means for communicating written materials to the employees by the Association. As such, the employer's internal information and mail distribution system is not available for use by the Association, except that the Association may hand-deliver and place its newsletter or similar communication in a House Officer's in-basket.
43	In the event of a dispute concerning the appropriateness of material posted, the President of the Association will be advised of the nature of the dispute. If the dispute is not resolved within forty-eight (48) hours, the notices will be removed until the dispute is resolved.

ARTICLE IX
STAFF REDUCTION
as provided by
Article XX.
during the course of his/her training program
It is agreed
there
shall
be
that
November 1, prior to a July 1 reduction.
In
13
Association committees
The Employer commitment not
intends to make a good-faith to terminate a House Officer
because of economic issues.
representatives on institutional
After commencing work, an employee shall not be laid off or terminated during the employee's current appointment year, except
considering residency number decreases. In the event of a reduction of employees or an elimination of bargaining unit positions that may affect an employee in any future appointment year, the employer shall notify the Association and employees who could be affected as soon as practicable after the employer has reason to believe the change may be implemented. In the event of application of this paragraph, the employer would make every effort to provide notification by
this regard, the University, through the Office of Clinical Affairs, shall provide annual reports to the Association, giving any changes in the number of House Officer positions in each department or section. In the event of a House Officer being terminated because of external forces, out-placement (career counseling and support) services will be offered by the employer. The Association shall have the opportunity to advise the employer of its position in regard to any such reduction of employees or elimination of positions prior to its implementation when this is possible.
ARTICLE X
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIPS
46	The following committees or their respective substitutes, as long as such committees shall exist, shall include one employee member designated by the Association or as designated pursuant to the Bylaws of the Medical Staff:
47	1. Accreditation and Regulatory Compliance
Work Team
2.	Ambulatory Care Executive Committee
3.	Ambulatory Formulary Committee
4.	Bylaws Committee
5.	CPR Committee
6.	CareWeb Clinical Advisory Committee
7.	Cerebral Death Determination Committee
8.	Credentialing and Privileging Committee
9.	Compliance Committee for Professional
Billing
10.	Compliance Committee fox Facility Billing
11.	Continuous Quality Improvement Program -Lead Team
12.	CIS Steering Committee
13.	Disaster Committee
14.	Employee Safety Committee
15.	Ethics Committee
16.	Ethics Committee - Mott
17.	Executive Committee on Clinical Affairs
18.	Executive Committee for M/W/H
19.	Graduate Medical Education Review Board
20.	Infection Control Committee
21.	Information Technology Strategic Advisory Committee (ITSAC)
22.	Medical Information Committee
14

W"
23 .
24.
48
At
49
the
by
If, by
50
15
committee, designated Association
House House
The shall
designated to each One additional House if mutually agreed Additional employee may be included at
Officer input on issues of concern to Officers shall be mutually agreed upon.
least one
Association, through its President, furnish the employer with the names of
mutual agreement, it is decided that it is not necessary to appoint an employee to a committee, alternative means for soliciting
selection for each committee when the House Officer committee member will, in general, serve as an Association representative.
In the event that a new committee is established, the employer and the Association, by mutual agreement, may include
an employee member designated .Association on the new committee.
committee chair who will have input on House
Officer selection to his/her specific
Such additional members may be by the Association. The reserves the right for final
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
Operating Room, Anesthesiology, and Delivery Room Policy Committee
Operating Room, Post Anesthesiology, and Recovery Room Committee - Mott Operations Committee
Pain Management Committee
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Technology Liaison Person
Tissue and Invasive Procedures Committee Transfusion Committee
TSI Technical Work Group
VA Dean's Committee
House Officer shall be committee listed above, t Officer may be appointed upon by both parties.
members of a committee : the discretion of the
the employee member or members of each committee and shall promptly notify the employer of any changes,
51 It is understood that when a committee agenda includes a subject concerning the employer's relationship (existing or potential) with any union, or involves the administration of any collective bargaining agreement or wages or benefits for employees, whether or not members of this bargaining unit, House Officers in attendance may be excused from that portion of the committee meeting by the Chair of the Committee.
52 Minutes and communications of listed standing Committees will be forwarded to the Association Administrator.
SECTION B. INFORMATION SYSTEMS
53 There will be House Officer involvement in the design, implementation, and future modification of the Patient Care Information System and other information systems that affect House Officers. Concerns over workload concerns (e.g. verbal orders) that may arise as a result of implementation or modification of information systems shall be addressed jointly within the House Officer Executive Director's Advisory Committee.
ARTICLE XI
CONFERENCES
6C At the request of either the Association or the employer, conferences shall be held for the purpose of considering matters of mutual interest, other than complaints or grievances
16


under consideration in the Complaint, Grievance and Arbitration Procedure.
61 All such conferences shall be arranged on a timely basis through the President of the Association, and his/her designated representative, and a designated' representative of the University Human Resources Department. It is understood that any matters discussed, or any action taken pursuant to such conferences, shall in no way change or alter any of the provisions of the collective bargaining agreement, or the rights of either the employer or the Association under the terms of the Agreement unless otherwise mutually agreed.
6ia The University and Association bargaining teams agree to meet quarterly during the term of this Agreement to address issues of mutual concern related to the Agreement.	The
President of the	Association and	the
employer's representative will meet as often as necessary and will develop jointly the agenda for the quarterly meetings.
ARTICLE XII
PATIENT CARE AND WORK ENVIRONMENT
62 The employer has the authority and obligation to make available high quality medical and dental care for patients and to provide and maintain a suitable environment for the practice of medicine for the employees covered by this Agreement. In this regard,	the employer agrees	to make
reasonable efforts to continue to improve that care and environment.
17
63 The employees covered by this Agreement have the responsibility and obligation to provide high quality medical and dental care for patients within the resources and environment made available by the employer.
64 In implementation of the above, the parties agree as follows:
SECTION A. SUPPORTING STAFF
65 High quality medical and dental care requires the combined, coordinated and interdisciplinary efforts and services of a variety of personnel and the specific identification and assignment of tasks required for proper patient care to certain categories of personnel, to the exclusion of other categories, is not practical nor in the best interest of good patient care. It is understood, however, that House Officers, as employees are not normally required to function as clerks, messengers, transporters or custodians. However, House Officers may occasionally be required to perform these functions when no other employees responsible for these services are available. But in no event shall a House Officer be required to perform such functions on a regular and recurring basis for substantial periods of time. The question of whether an individual House Officer is being required to function to this extent as a clerk, messenger, transporter or custodian may be the proper subject of the Complaint, Grievance, and Arbitration Procedure.
66 In addition and when a House Officer is required or decides, on the basis of direct assignment or in the exercise of professional judgment and in the best interest of good

18
Following completion of
the task.
67
make a decision on the appropriateness of the
at the option of the
House Officer,
or.
b. Immediately complete
the Incident Report
68
For
is alleged and
confirmed that an individual has failed to
the employer will take corrective
conference will be arranged as
A
Article XI if requested
69
care units to enforce the prohibition
19
perform, action.
provided in Association Chairperson Committee.
the House Officer's or designee, who will
by the by the Review
those patient against
or is of
direct assignment or
exercise of professional
House Officers form provided by the
deemed necessary the	Employer's
will instruct activities on the
the Association. Where
the House Officer's j udgment,
c. The employer responsible for the
a. Immediately contact Department Chairperson,
patient care, to perform the principal duties of hospital-related job classifications, whether professional or non-professional, but the House Officer believes the task should be performed by another category of personnel because the time involved in the performance of the task prevents the House Officer from delivering other important medical care on a timely basis, the following procedure should be utilized by the House Officer.
employer and submit to the Chairperson of the Employer's Review Committee. Such report will summarize the nature of the problem. The Chairperson will promptly investigate the problem and respond in writing to the House Officer with a copy also being forwarded to

the use of televisions or radios not equipped with pillow speakers or ear jacks.
70	1. The House Officer lounge currently-
provided, or one of comparable size and with comparable furnishings, will be maintained by the employer. The lounge will be cleaned daily.
71	2. On the 4A wing of University Hospital,
within existing space currently assigned to medical records, two desks, two telephones with long distance lines and dictating equipment will be maintained. In the event of space reassignment, the Association will be advised of the change.
72	3. The University shall make a bed
available (not on the ground) for every House Officer needing to remain overnight. To this end, not less than sixty (60) on-call rooms, with telephones and lockable doors, which accommodate not more than two (2) individuals per room, except that one room will accommodate not more than three (3), will be provided. The number of beds per room can be modified by mutual agreement between the employer and the Association. Bunk beds may be added in specified on-call rooms by mutual agreement between the Association and the employer at Association request. Ladders for bunk beds shall be provided. A phone for each bed shall be provided. Lockable bins with built-in locks shall be provided in the on-call rooms to protect the personal property of the House Officers. A computer with access to the Health System information system shall be installed in each call room,
with all call rooms equipped by, October 31, 2004.
72a All rooms shall be cleaned daily between the hours of 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. with sheets, blankets, towels, wash cloths and soap provided. It is recognized as a joint responsibility to develop and implement a mechanism for House Officers and management to maintain neatness so that Environmental Services can clean each on-call room daily. To this end, a list of contact information will be posted in each room to facilitate problem resolution. It is understood that these rooms are for the priority use of House Officers at all times. Other staff will be restricted from using on-call rooms except for cleaning and maintenance work. Bath and shower facilities, not shared with patients or families shall be made easily available to on-call rooms. Access to shower/toilet rooms shall be made available to House Officers within a reasonable distance from the on-call room, (see Appendix D). House Officers shall be granted access to the shower/locker room located on Bl Taubman Center, A list of these rooms and any changes, will be provided to the Association by the employer. All changes made to the current list of on-call rooms will be reasonably comparable and by mutual agreement through HOEDAC (House Officer/Executive Director's Advisory Committee).
7 2b A current list of on-call room assignments is attached to this Agreement as Appendices B and C.
73	4. The employer will continue to clearly
identify a partitioned space in the Hospital cafeteria as reserved for medical staff.
21
74	5, The employer will place equipment and
supplies in a consistent manner in each "clean room". Shelves will be labeled and an index available identifying the location of the equipment and supplies available in each "clean room".
SECTION C, SAFE ENVIRONMENT/SAFE PRACTICE
74a The University is committed to providing state of the art safety equipment in the Operating Rooms and Emergency Department. Education will be provided annually to House Officers on the availability and use of equipment through departmental teaching programs. House Officers commit to using the safety equipment provided.
7 4b The University will post protocols for needle sticks and other exposures on the Nursing units, the operating rooms, the emergency room, angiography suites, and in other hazard areas.
74c The University will provide available safety and security information and training, as requested by the Association or as deemed appropriate by the University. Hospital Security Services will offer personal safety and violence management training, as requested by the Association.
75 Recognizing that the improvement of patient care, work environment, and education often involve complex interactions, the appropriate committee(s) and the conferences provided in Article XI are the proper, but non-exclusive, forums for consideration of these matters.
ARTICLE XII-A
SUPPORTIVE AND ANCILLARY SERVICES AND OTHER MATTERS
76 The University Hospitals and Health Centers (UHHC) recognizes that its physicians provide care for patients having some of the most difficult medical problems in the State. UHHC recognizes that the bulk of this care is delivered by the House Officers, along with the attending staff, who are licensed physicians. UHHC also recognizes that the quality of patient care is directly related to the supportive and ancillary services.
77 Supportive and ancillary services are those services commonly provided by hospitals, which free physicians from non-physician tasks and permit them to devote the bulk of ■ their time to providing patient care. (See Memorandum of Understanding, paragraph 215.)
77a in this connection, the Executive Director's House Officer Advisory Committee, comprised	of at least the Hospitals'
Executive Director, the Senior Associate Director, the Chief of Staff, the Executive Associate Dean, the Chief Resident from each service and three HOA representatives, has been established. This Committee provides an important avenue for exchange of ideas and a forum for discussion of concerns between the Association and the UHHC Executive Director.
Included within the charge of this committee are such matters as (1} ancillary services; (2) issues related to work and work environment of the House Officer; and (3) new issues related to cost containment specifically as they have an impact on
23
patient
—---
additional
work
care
responsibilities
The
ARTICLE XIII
VACATIONS
person,
is into
and for
not two
Committee will meet monthly or as often as the agenda requires.
provided, taken as
or more
House Officers.
Presentation of proposed major Health System budgetary changes will be a standing agenda item. The Executive Director and Association
President shall prepare the agenda.
SECTION A. LENGTH OF VACATION
78
1.	Except as provided in 2 and 3 of this Section, employees shall be entitled to one (1) month of vacation, during each vacation period, including vacation or pay in lieu of vacation received from an affiliated hospital
or other facility or however, if a full month vacation but is divided
vacations, the total number of calendar days of vacation shall be no less than twentyeight (28) nor more than thirty-one (31) .
79
2.	A House Officer I shall be entitled to three (3) calendar weeks of vacation to be used from the date of hire as a House Officer through June 3O'" of the following calendar year.
80
3.	An employee whose national accrediting body training program requirements or nonUniversity sponsor prescribe the amount of time off for vacation shall be entitled to that amount of vacation.


81
the option of:
facility or person has
82
83
pay
84
employer
entitlement as outlined in this Article under
Vacation.
Section A., Length of
purposes
212,
the
shall apply:
25
time off without to the number of lieu of vacation
the a
meet on
days' pay he/she received in or
SECTION P.,_DEFINITIONS
Vacation shall be scheduled to
of vacation from Section A, in an
Article and definitions
of this following
amount equal to the number of days' he/she received in lieu of vacation.
due consideration
SECTION B. VACATION PAY
i.e. , equal
Nothing herein limit vacation
SECTION C. ASSIGNMENT OF VACATION
Time off for vacation shall be without loss of pay, except for the following option. An employee who has received pay in lieu of vacation from an affiliated hospital or other
requirements of the
departmental basis with
current vacation period.
shall be interpreted to
85 For the
Paragraph
1. Taking vacation, pay from the employer
2. Reducing his/her length the employer, as provided in
p's '
given to the employee's wishes as to time and duration. The actual scheduling of vacations shall be the responsibility of the department chairman or equivalent level of supervision. Such vacations will be scheduled as a regular and routine part of service assignments over the course of the year. Vacations are not cumulative and can only be taken during the
86	1. A month is defined as either a calendar
month or a period of time running from any date in a calendar month through the next preceding date in the next calendar month (e.g, January 15 through February 14).
87	2. A day shall be a calendar day. When
necessary to compute a day's pay, it shall be 1/364 of the employee's annual salary rate at the time a deduction is taken.
88	3. Vacation period is from July 1 through
June 30.
ARTICLE XIV
HOLIDAY PAY
89	In the event that a House Officer works for a four (4) hour period on a holiday, he/she will receive an additional 1/364 of annual salary for each holiday worked or, at the discretion of the Service Chief, be scheduled off work on an alternate day within thirty (30) days of the holiday. For purposes of this provision only, the holiday period will commence at 12:00 a.m. on the calendar date of the holiday and will continue for the twenty-four(24) hour consecutive period until 12:00 a.m. the day after the holiday. Work is defined as performing any patient care or assigned job-related duties, and includes being on-call, whether in-house, at-home, back-up, or jeopardy, in the hospital or approved Health System site.
90	For the purposes of this Article, the holidays are as follows:
91	1. New Years Day (January 1)
2.	Memorial Day (Last Monday in May)

3,	Independence Day (July 4)
4.	Labor Day (First Monday in September)
5.	Thanksgiving Day (Fourth Thursday in November)
6	, Day after Thanksgiving
7.	Christmas Eve (December 24)
8.	Christmas Day (December 25)
9.	New Year's Eve (December 31)
10.	Employee Birthday
If the birthday falls on another holiday, it shall be observed on another day mutually agreeable to the employee and his/her department chairperson or equivalent level of supervision.
Any employee may substitute up to two (2) holidays of the employee's own choice for any of the holidays designated above, within any July 1 to June 30 period. The Program Directors will establish deadlines by which substitution requests must be submitted. In such a case, the provisions of this Article shall apply to the substituted holiday and not the holiday designated above.
Every effort shall be made to honor the requests for the religious requirements by House Officers for observances of religious holidays.
ARTICLE XV
BEREAVEMENT PAY
In the event of the death of an employee's spouse, or the son, daughter, parent, grandparent, brother, sister, grandchild (or spouse of any of them) , of either the employee or his/her spouse, any other related person living in the employee's household, or
27

ARTICLE XV-A
JURY DUTY
for jury
ARTICLE XVI
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
employee vacation
SECTION A.__MILITARY
a significant other non-related person living in the employee's household, an employee shall be granted time off work without loss of pay. The amount'of time off work with pay shall be only that which is required to attend the funeral and/or make arrangements necessitated by the death, but in no event shall it exceed three (3) work days. If
additional time off is needed, the may request the use of available time.
93a Whenever a House Officer is called
duty, he/she will not experience any loss in salary or benefits. At the House Officer's request, the department will provide a letter requesting deferral. It is recognized that jury duty service may require an extension of the House Officer's training program, depending on the time away from work.
94 A House Officer, who is in good standing and who informs his department chairperson (or equivalent level of supervision) that he intends to continue his current residency program at the University, shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for the period of required active duty when he (1) is inducted for active duty military service through the selective service system or (2) volunteers for active duty military service


*>•
rather than being inducted or (3) is assigned to alternate service through the selective service system in lieu of being inducted.
Following such a leave of absence, the House Officer, who receives a certificate of satisfactory completion of service, applies for reinstatement within ninety (90) days after release from active duty, and is still qualified to perform as a House Officer, shall be returned to House Officer responsibilities and duties at the appropriate House Officer level. Such return Shall be at substantially the same point in time as the date of departure and continue at least until the following June 30, provided performance during this period is satisfactory.
K/--'
95
96
and
necessary.
96a
We recognize that six (6)
childbirth/adoption
is
29
for and
It is understood by both parties that under circumstances of adoption and/or childbirth,
weeks total standard
At his/her request, a House Officer may be granted a leave of absence without pay at the discretion of his/her department chairperson (or equivalent level of supervision).
call will not be be limited to twelve Exceptions may be
SECTION g,__fERSOm
post-partum, overnight scheduled and duty will {12) consecutive hours.
time off is indicated, appropriate.
customary, regardless of mode of delivery.
The nature of House Officer scheduling permits scheduling of this time off using non-vacation, paid time within the regular allocation of time worked. During the last trimester of pregnancy and for two (2) months
approved by the House Officer's Ob/Gyn physician only. A good faith effort will be made by the employer to accommodate any other health care needs, including scheduling, that may arise during the course of the pregnancy. This six {6) week' period of paid time, if requested by the House Officer, is to be used during the period immediately preceding delivery or immediately following the delivery of the child. Regardless of when the time is used, it is to be taken for a consecutive period of time. Absences caused by medical complications of pregnancy will not reduce the {6) week period of paid time.
Further, for new fathers or domestic partners, the practice of providing at least three (3) days off after delivery/adoption is appropriate. These days may be supplemented with up to four (4) days of vacation.
96b It is in our mutual interest that House Officers are both encouraged and supported by their programs and colleagues to not work when acutely ill (e.g., contagious, dehydrated, vomiting, diarrhea) . Vie acknowledge that there is a shared responsibility of both Faculty and House Officers to assure coverage of this absence.
SECTION C. CHILD CARE LEAVE
97 Following the birth of an employee's child or following adoption or foster placement of a child under age eighteen (18) , or over age eighteen (18) and incapable of self-care because of a mental or physical disability, a House Officer shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for not more than twelve (12) calendar weeks. A House Officer who is in good standing and informs his/her department chairperson (or equivalent level
? P P P !> $ 1> T T 1 1 T 1 T 1 T 1 T t t T 1> ft ft ft ff ft ft
30
»O « ii • * e 1 o'i'i'ii i i i i j* *>» » * J i
of supervision) that he/she intends to continue his/her residency program at the University shall be granted an extension of this leave of absence without pay for an additional two (2) months. The initial leave and extension cannot exceed five (5) months, and may be at any point within the first year of birth, adoption or placement, but must be completed by the end of that period.
SECTION PERSONAL MEDICAL LEAVE
97a A House Officer with a serious health condition, including complications from pregnancy, will receive paid leave up to six (6) months, or until qualified for LTD. The University may require verification of the serious health condition by a physician or other authorized health care practitioner.
In no case shall the University be required to pay for sick leave for greater than six (6) months in any continuous twelve (12) month period.
SECTION E, FAMILY MEDICAL LEAVE
97b A House Officer who is unable to work because he/she is needed to care for a seriously ill family member will be granted an unpaid leave of absence for up to twelve (12) weeks every twelve (12) months. The twelve (12) weeks is reduced by any Personal Medical or Child Care leaves of absence taken in the previous twelve (12) months. For this purpose, "family member" is defined as the House Officer's spouse or domestic partner with whom the House Officer shares living accommodations and expenses; and, without regard to their place of residence, the child, sibling, parent, grandparent, or other related individual whose care is the
31

responsibility of the House Officer, spouse or domestic partner.
SECTION F. BENEFIT CONTINUATION
97c Subject to and consistent with the Group Health insurance Plan and Group Dental Assistance Plan, coverage, including University contributions, will be continued for up to twelve (12) weeks in each twelve (12) month period for House Officers during Child Care, Personal Medical and Family Medical leaves of absence.
SECTION-G. GENERAL CONDITIONS
97d Unless mutually agreed otherwise by the parties, the twelve (12) month period referenced in Paragraphs 97a, 97b and 97c will be the period beginning each July 1 and continuing through the following June 30.
97e A house Officer may request and be granted paid vacation time in lieu of or prior to a Child Care, Personal Medical or Family Medical leave of absence.
97f When medically necessary, Personal Medical and Family Medical leaves of absence may be taken on an intermittent or reduced effort basis, provided, however, the House Officer shall: a) make all reasonable efforts to schedule any required treatment(s) so as not to unduly disrupt the department's operations and, b) notify the Department as far in advance as possible. The total time off shall not exceed the limits described in Paragraphs 97a and 97b.
97g House Officers taking leaves on a reduced or intermittent basis my be reassigned to
13: : u n hhhhhhwh
32

other assignments similar to the ones held before the leave which better accommodate leave taken on a reduced or intermittent basis. No reassignment shall result in a reduction of wages or benefit(s) levels which were in place prior to the leave.
97h Upon return from, or completion of, the first twelve (12} weeks of a Child Care, Personal Medical, or Family Medical leave of absence, the House Officer will immediately resume his/her assignment at the level prior to the leave.
ARTICLE XVII
BENEFIT PLANS
98 Each plan shall be as provided by the employer and may be amended, but not eliminated. In the event of changes in benefits, the Association will be notified prior to the effective date of the change. Same sex domestic partner benefits have been extended to this bargaining unit.
99 During the term of this Agreement and consistent with the terms of each plan, the following University Group Benefit Plans shall be available to the extent provided in this Article:

SECTION A.	HEALTH INSURANCE
100 During the term of this Agreement no less than the Michigan Blue Cross/Blue Shield and the United of Omaha Major Medical Schedule of hospital and medical benefits in effect at the execution date of this Agreement will be provided and maintained.
33
100a The Group Health Insurance Plan shall be as provided by the University within the Flexible Benefits Program in the same manner and to the same extent as provided to nonbargained for employees with the following exception:
101 The employer will contribute up to $489.57 per month toward the cost of the group health care programs offered by the University and the employee's contribution will not exceed $268.59 per month for full family coverage if the total premium for full family coverage does not exceed $758.16 per month. If the total health insurance premium exceeds or is less than $758.16, the $489.57 and the $268.59 shall change to reflect one-half the increase or decrease. However, the University contribution toward any group health care program selected shall not exceed the contribution toward premiums of the Blue Cross/Blue Shield and United of Omaha Major Medical plans for one person, two persons, or full family coverage.
102 If, during the term of this Agreement, a federal or state law is enacted which requires the payment of taxes or premiums to either the federal or state government or another entity for hospital or medical benefits for employees, the University may make such adjustments in the schedules of benefits provided by this Article to avoid duplication of benefits. In addition, any such taxes or premiums paid by the University shall be included in the total dollar limitation provided in this Article.
same manner
34
102b
The Employer will provide a monthly "opt-out" credit to those employees who elect no
health insurance coverage in the
and to the same extent as provided to non-
bargained for employees.
102c Employees who do not elect to "opt out" or enroll in a health insurance plan within sixty (60) days of the eligibility date will be automatically enrolled in the M-Care HMO Plan.
SECTION B.	GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
112a The Enhanced Group Life Insurance Plan shall be as provided by the University within the Flexible Benefits Program in the same manner and to the same extent as provided to non-bargained for employees. The amount of life insurance coverage selected by an employee may range from five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) at the minimum to an amount equal to six (6) times the employee's salary. For those covered by the University's Group Life Insurance as of December 31, 1999, no proof of good health will be required to join the Enhanced Group Life Insurance program if the amount of coverage is equal to or less than their coverage on December 31, 1999.
112b The cost of the Enhanced Group Life Insurance Plan is determined by the amount of coverage selected, current age, smoking status and current salary. The amount of coverage chosen and its cost will increase when salary is increased. The cost will also increase when moving into the next higher age bracket. An employee may receive "opt-out" or "opt-down" credits based on the option selected. The University pays a portion of the cost and the employee pays any remaining portion, in the same manner and to the same extent as provided to the non-bargained for employees.
35
•J:-’

112c The Dependent Life Insurance plan shall be as provided by the University within Flexible Benefits Program in the same manner and to the same extent . as provided to the non-bargained for employees.
DENTAL ASSISTMICE PLAN
112d During the term of this Agreement, the Employer shall provide a dental assistance plan to employees who qualify.
The Dental Plan shall be as provided by the University within the Flexible Benefits Program. Employees have a choice of three (3) dental plan options. During the term of this Agreement, no less than the University of Michigan Dental Plan, Option 1 (one) schedule of benefits in effect at the execution of this Agreement will be provided and maintained. In the event of any changes in the benefits, the Association will be notified prior to the effective date of changes.
The University contribution toward dental plan coverage will be provided in the same manner and to the same extent as provided to the non-bargained for employees. The University will provide a monthly "opt-out" credit to those employees who elect no dental coverage and have at least one (1) year of continuous service. The "opt-out" credit will be provided in the same manner and to the same extent as provided to the nonbargained for employees. The University will automatically enroll employees in the University of Michigan Dental Plan, Option 1 (one) after one (1) year of continuous
36

HitttitiiiiiiunuiUttiH
service as provided to the non-bargained for employees.
112e The Group Legal Plan, Group Long-term Care Insurance, and a Vision Plan shall be as provided under the Flexible Benefits Plan in the same manner and to the same extent as is provided to the non-bargained for employees.
No matter concerning the above benefits will be subject to the Complaint, Grievance, and Arbitration Procedures of this Agreement, except for questions concerning compliance with the specific provisions of this Article and whether or not the employees have coverage in accordance with the terms of the Flexible Benefits Plan.
113 During the term of this Agreement, the Plan shall be without cost to the employee and no less than the following will be provided and maintained:
113a In addition to the Travel Accident Insurance described above, any House Officer who is injured or killed while working on a Critical Care Transport shall be eligible for travel insurance at the same level that is provided to the regular instructional
physicians.
114 1. The amount of the principal sum of insurance for full-time employees shall be fifty thousand dollars {$50,000) or five (5) times full-time annual salary, whichever is more, with a ceiling of $200,000, except as
115 2. The principal sum will be paid for loss of life or any two members (hand, foot, or sight of one eye).
116	3. One half the principal sum for loss of
any one member.
117	4, Disability benefits.
SECTION D.__PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE
118 Professional liability insurance will be provided and maintained throughout the statute of limitations for claims filed for professional activities undertaken in the scope of employment, assigned by the employer.
SECTION E.__DISABILITY PLAN
119 1. Bost_____House Officer___Appointment
employee, who becomes immediately following
a regular staff member
in this continued
bargaining training
training grant (e.g., continuous years of bargaining unit and the count toward the
completion unit, or
under a
N.I.H.), service
period of training, continuous service
requirement of the University's Disability
Plan,
provided,
recommendation to
however, become a
member approved
following
the
in writing
An
that
a
the an unit
of service following recognized will have in this
regular staff
training has been by the appropriate
department chairperson or equivalent level of supervision prior to the beginning of the
continued training.
In addition, the period
of such training will count towards continuous service requirement for employee who returns to the bargaining
38

immediately following completion of the training.
119a 2. House Officer Plan - Effective July 1, 1993 and continuing during the term of this Agreement, the University will provide Long Term Disability coverage for House Officers consistent with the Provident Accident & Life Plan discussed by the parties. In addition, if during House Officer's employment, he/she is determined to be qualified for coverage under this Plan, any waiting period will be funded by the University.	Any remaining
legal	issues will be	resolved by
representatives of the Provident and the University.
SECTION F.
120 No matter concerning the terms of any of these plans with the exception of the House Officer Long Term Disability Plan, shall be subject to the Complaint, Grievance, and Arbitration Procedure of this Agreement, except for questions concerning the specific provisions of this Article.
ARTICLE XVIII
EXTRACURRICULAR MEDICAL PRACTICE
121 A House Officer shall be permitted to engage in outside medical practice which is not part of a University-approved program, provided such practice does not interfere in any way with the responsibilities, duties and assignments of the training program of the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers. Extracurricular medical practice, which requires that the House Officer assume continuing responsibility for patients, will
39
interfere with his/her responsibilities at The University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers and is therefore not permissible. It is understood that House Officers engaged in an outside medical practice, which is not a part of a University-approved program, are not covered by the employer's professional liability insurance.
122 Whenever approval of a University-approved program is withdrawn, the Association will be given written notice of the withdrawal as soon as possible after the decision is made, but in any event, prior to the effective date.
122a With Department Chair permission, a House Officer may be allowed to engage in extracurricular medical practice in University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers facilities.
ARTICLE XIX
SAFETY
123 The employer will continue to provide for the safety of employees during the periods of employment. In the event that an employee or the Association has a grievance concerning this provision, the grievance procedure should be utilized as soon as possible.
ARTICLE XX
f J > 5 5 H! J H -HHH
DISCIPLINE
124 The employer shall not discharge or take other disciplinary action without just cause.

A grievance which concerns this Article shall begin at Step Three of the Complaint, Grievance, and Arbitration Procedure, provided it is submitted in writing at Step Three within thirty (30) calendar days after receipt by the employee of the employer's written notification of the disciplinary action.
Notwithstanding anything in this Article, whenever a House Officer is suspended, terminated or not reappointed to a residency training program, the House Officer will be promptly informed of the specific reasons for the action. Matters of suspension or termination from, or appointment or nonreappointment to, a residency training program shall remain within the exclusive discretion of the University and shall not be subject to the Complaint, Grievance, and Arbitration Procedure Article. Matters of professional conduct shall be subject to the
provisions of the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Medical Staff Bylaws and Bylaws Supplement and as they may be amended from time to time, in the event proceedings are instituted under Article VIII of the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Medical Staff Bylaws and
Bylaws Supplement, the Association shall be notified. No matter concerning professional conduct shall be subject to the Complaint, Grievance, and Arbitration Procedure Article, except for a question as to whether the procedure set forth in the Bylaws was followed. Also see Dispute Resolution Memorandum of Understanding.
Whenever practicable, House Officers will receive notice of non-reappointment in accordance with the following: In his/her
41
first year of training by March 1 of the current appointment year, and in subsequent years of training by January 1 of the current appointment year.
127a It is the employer's intent through the appropriate responsible individual(s) , to discuss unsatisfactory work performance and expectation with an affected House Officer whenever such performance becomes known to the responsible individual(s). If deficiencies in the progress of a House Officer are sufficient to warrant concern to the Program Director about the continuation of his/her residency program, the House Officer shall be informed of the deficiencies in writing and shall be given a reasonable opportunity, e.g.,	30-180 days, for
remediation. The remediation plan shall be discussed with the House Officer at the time that the deficiencies are identified and shall include the designation of a mentor, with House Officer input, and a written plan including the time frame specified for the remediation. The University, however, retains the right to immediate termination of a House Officer without remediation in order to ensure the safety of either patients or staff.
ARTICLE XXI
COMPLAINT, GRIEVANCE, AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
SECTION A,__DEFINITION OF GRIEVANCE
128 A grievance is a disagreement, arising under and during the term of this Agreement, between either (1) the employer and any employee concerning (a) his/her employment
and (b) the interpretation or application of the provisions of this Agreement or (2) the Association and the employer concerning the interpretation and application of this Agreement on a question which is not an employee grievance or which concerns more than one employee, and involves a common fact situation and the same provision (s) of the Agreement.
SECTION B.__DEFINITION OF COMPLAINT
129 A complaint includes a grievance as defined in Section A, but is also any other disagreement, arising under and during the term of this Agreement, between the employer and an employee or the Association concerning employment.
130 In the event that the Association has a complaint, it shall begin at Step Three of the grievance procedure, provided the written complaint is received by the employer's Review Committee within twenty (20) calendar days following knowledge of the facts giving rise to the complaint. Such a complaint shall be submitted by the Association President, or the president's designated representative, on behalf of the Association or on behalf of more than one employee involving a common fact situation and the same provision(s) of the Agreement,
SECTION D.__REPRESENTATION
131 For the purpose of this Article, an Association representative may represent an aggrieved employee as provided in Section E. The Association will provide the employer
r
with a list of representatives appointed for this purpose.
SECTION E, PROCEDURE
132 The following procedure shall be the sole and exclusive means for resolving complaints or grievances:
132a Upon written request from the Association, the employer shall provide available and relevant information which is necessary to properly process a grievance.
133 STEP ONE
An employee may bring a complaint concerning his/her employment to the attention of his/her department chairperson (or equivalent level of supervision) or his/her designee and may attempt to resolve his/her cornplaint with or without the assistance of an association representative. However there shall be no resolution which is inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.
134 STEP TWO
In order to be further processed under this Agreement, a complaint must be filed in writing within thirty (30) calendar days following knowledge of the facts giving rise to the complaint. A written complaint must be filed with the employee's department chairperson (or equivalent level of supervision), or his/her designee by an employee or by the Association on behalf of a named employee. The Department Chairperson shall provide the Association with a written response within fourteen (14) calendar days
44

ItlTlFli ii i 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 b b b 4 4
of filing, or the discussion, whichever is the later.
135 STEP THREE
A written complaint which is not resolved at Step Two within fourteen (14) calendar days of filing or the discussion, whichever is the later, may be referred to the Employer's Review Committee by the Association. The Association may timely refer a written complaint to Step Three at any time within ten (10) calendar days after either the expiration of the fourteen (14) day time limit or receipt by the Association of the department chairperson's written response, if later. Any party may request discussion. The Review Committee shall provide the Association with a written response within thirty (30) calendar days of filing, or the discussion, whichever is the later.
136 STEP FOUR
A complaint which constitutes a grievance as defined in Section A and which is not resolved at. Step Three within thirty (30) calendar days of referral or the discussion, if any, may be submitted to arbitration. The Association may timely submit a grievance to arbitration any time within ten (10) calendar days after receipt by the Association of the Review Committee’s written answer, if later.
137 In order	to	submit a	grievance to
arbitration, the Association shall file a written notice of intent to arbitrate with the Review Committee. Such notice shall identify the grievance and the issue, set forth the provisions of the Agreement
45
involved, and set forth the rationale explaining how the Agreement has been violated and the remedy desired. If no such notice is given within the prescribed time limit, the grievance shall not be arbitrable.
138 Thereafter, the employer and the Association may attempt to select an arbitrator. If there is no mutual selection of an arbitrator within seven (7) calendar days after notice of intent to arbitrate, selection of an arbitrator will be from a panel of seven arbitrators secured from the FMCS. No later than seven (7) calendar days after receipt of the panel, the parties will select an arbitrator by alternately striking names. The order of striking will be determined by a coin toss. The remaining name will serve as arbitrator.
139 Every grievance submitted to an arbitrator for decision shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
140 1.	Either the employer or the Association
or both shall notify the arbitrator of his/her selection and upon his/her acceptance shall forward to the arbitrator a copy of the grievance, the employer's answer at Step Three, the Association's notice to the Review Committee as provided for in this section, and a copy of the Agreement. A copy of this communication, except a	copy of	the
Agreement, shall be sent to either the employer or the Association as the case may be. In the event the arbitrator does not accept his/her selection, the selection process shall be repeated until an arbitrator has accepted selection.
46



u b b u * b *
141 2. Upon receipt of this communication, the arbitrator shall fix the time for hearing the issue or issues submitted for decision.
142	3. At the time of the arbitration hearing
both the employer and the Association shall have the right to examine and cross-examine witnesses.
143	4. Upon the request of either the employer
or the Association, or both, a transcript of the hearing shall be made and furnished to the arbitrator, if he/she so requests, with the employer and the Association having an opportunity to purchase their own copy. The party requesting the transcript shall bear the full cost of the arbitrator's copy, unless it is mutually requested. In such a case, the cost shall be shared equally.
144	5. At the close of the hearing, the
arbitrator shall afford the employer and the Association a reasonable opportunity to furnish briefs if either party requests the opportunity.
145	6. The jurisdictional authority of the
arbitrator is defined as, and limited to, the determination of any grievance as defined in Section A. submitted to him/her consistent with this Agreement and considered by him/her in accordance with this Agreement.
r
146 7. The arbitrator shall not have any authority to add to, subtract from, or otherwise modify any of the terms, clauses, or provisions of the Agreement.
147	8. The fees and expenses of the arbitrator
shall be shared equally by the employer and the Association. The expenses of, and the
47


compensation for, each and every witness and representative for either the employer or the Association shall be paid by the party producing the witness or having the representative.
148 9. The arbitrator shall render his/her decision in writing as soon as possible.
149 10. The arbitrator's decision, when made in accordance with his/her jurisdiction and authority established by this Agreement, shall be final and binding upon the employer, the Association, and the employee or employees involved.
SECTION F, TIME LIMITS
150 The time limits set forth in this Article may be extended only by mutual agreement of the parties. Whenever time limits are used in this Article actual receipt or a postmark, if mailed, will control.
ARTICLE XXII
MISCELLANEOUS
151 1. Medical Staff Bylaws and Bylaws Supplement - Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement, a House Officer shall be subject to the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Medical Staff Bylaws and Bylaws Supplement, and as they may be amended from time to time. No matter concerning or arising under these Bylaws, Rules and Regulations shall be subject to the Complaint, Grievance, and Arbitration Procedure Article of this Agreement, except for those matters specifically provided in this Agreement.
48
Each House Officer, at the time of employment, will be provided with a copy of the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Medical Staff Bylaws and Bylaws Supplement.
152 2. Uniforms - The employer will provide five (5) white coats to each employee upon employment. Thereafter, a soiled or worn out coat may be exchanged by the employee on a one for one basis, for a clean coat which is in good repair.
V"innr¥irir4 £ a ana#
153	3 . Meal Allowance - On-call Criteria: A
House Officer who works in the hospital eighteen (18) hours out of a twenty-four (24) hour period, beginning at 6:00 a.m. , because he/she is required to do so will be reimbursed by the University through procedures established by the employer (meal tickets), for the evening and the following morning meal weekdays. In addition, the noon meal will be provided on Saturday and Sunday.
This provision will only apply when the House Officer is on assignment at University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers. Reimbursement effective November 1,	2001,
shall be for the following amounts:
Breakfast:	$5.75
Lunch:	$6.75
Dinner:	$10.50
Not On-Call .Criteria: When patient care requires a House Officer to be in the hospital past 7:00 p.m., the House Officer will receive reimbursement for the evening meal. When a House Officer has remained inhouse for 12 hours or more during the night and into the next morning for continuity of
49
• -.-J * V WV.V1UAH MRRt*W*Vft", ■*: r'.
care, s/he will be reimbursed for the evening and breakfast meals.
153a During the term of this Agreement, meal reimbursement amounts will be evaluated within 30 days of the University being made aware of proposed cafeteria price increases, If the cafeteria prices increase during the term of this Agreement, then meal reimbursement will increase by the same overall percentage as the overall cafeteria price increases (average price increase is calculated based on the volume adjusted weighted average) within one (1) month of the effective increase.
153b The Departments of Neurosurgery, Orthopedic Surgery, Surgery and Urology will distribute meal tickets, prior to the start of each month, to qualifying House Officers based on the number of qualified House Officers. The calculation to determine the amount of the meal tickets will be based on the monthly budget divided by the total number of qualifying House Officers. This resulting amount will be given to each qualifying House Officer rounded to the nearest meal ticket amount. This procedure eliminates the need for retrospective meal tickets to be distributed. The annual budget for 2001/2002 for the four (4) departments listed above is $247,885. This amount will change based on the weighted average price change determined by the Cafeteria, or the number of House Officers added with a new program or expansion of an existing program at UMHS as approved by the GME Office.
153c A qualifying House Officer must be a member of the HOA on a clinical rotation at a University of Michigan Hospitals and Health
50


Centers location, and working on an in-house service within the Departments of Surgery, Neurosurgery, Urology, or Orthopedic Surgery for a minimum of 12 hours and until 8 p.m.
This meal ticket plan will be evaluated on an annual basis.
rinnid£_iF4-4""44444444444 i
154 4. Off-Campus Assignments - Attendance at medical conferences, or research or training at an off-campus site, shall be subject to the approval of the employee's Service Chief as to the relevance of the subject matter and the service needs of the department. It is understood that when such an assignment is made, it shall not be counted as vacation time.
k: ik-
155	5. If a House Officer is assigned to a
facility that is more than fifteen (15) miles from the University, he/she shall receive reimbursement for the total mileage, at the University's standard rate at the time of assignment. The University Hospital shall be considered	the point	of origin.
Reimbursement will be made by the House Officer's Department upon request of the House Officer.
. Reimbursement shall not be required when a House Officer requests assignment, or when an opportunity is made available to a volunteer. Neither shall this additional salary amount be required if transportation is provided or made available by the employer.
156	6. Revised Armointment Year - House Officer
I's will be appointed for a period other than July 1 to June 30 in all departments. This period shall start	approximately one (1)
week prior to July 1. Exceptions to this provision may be	made based on the
51
availability of individual House Officer I's or in departments where direct inpatient care is not provided. In the event that any House Officer I is- assigned to remain on duty for one or more days following the end of the appointment year to assist in the orientation of new House Officer I's, equivalent time off will be provided at some other time, either before or after the assignment.
157 7 . Orientation____for__House_. Officers - The
employer will provide an orientation for new House Officers at the beginning of employment. A representative of the House Officers Association will be provided the opportunity to make a presentation.	All
House Officers will be paid for every day they are required to be in service to the employer. This includes, but is not limited to, orientation, ACLS/ATLS, BLS, NALS, PALS, and other required service such as check-in or administrative sessions scheduled prior to the official start date.
157a 8. Upon request, departmental personnel, Association representatives and spokespersons, Chief residents and other appropriate employees shall be provided the opportunity to be educated on the terms and content of this Agreement and the principles of mutual gains.
ARTICLE XXIII
SALARIES
SECTION A.__HOUSE .OFFICERS
158 House Officers shall be paid a monthly salary in accordance with the salary schedule
52
mmnnnnHnnHHJW
as set forth in Appendix A, subject to the following requirements and limitations:
1.	A House Officer paid directly from outside sources for services rendered for the employer also may be paid, but is not required to be paid by the employer, unless confirmed in writing to the employee. In such a case, the combined payments may exceed the appropriate salary level set forth in Appendix A.
In the event that pay directly from an outside source increases, an employee, who is also paid by the employer, may have his/her pay from the employer adjusted. In no case, however, shall such an adjustment result in a combined payment, which is less than that which the employee received prior to the adjustment.
2.	A House Officer paid directly by an affiliated hospital or any other facility or person, as a result of assignment by the employer, shall be paid by the employer for any portion of the time covered by the assignment. When such assignments include periods of time of less than a full calendar month, pay from the employer for the balance of the calendar month will be 1/364 of the House Officer's annual rate, as set forth in Appendix A, for each day covered by the assignment. Assignments will begin with the first day of work for the affiliated hospital or other facility or person and end with the first day of work for the employer following the assignment.
3	. Initial assignment of a House Officer to a salary level, as set forth in Appendix A, including assignments when a House Officer
53
has changed from one residency program to another, shall be determined by his/her department chairperson, or equal level of supervision. In making this determination, factors considered will include relevant and satisfactory training and experience.
Subsequent assignments to a salary level in a given residency program shall be to the next higher level and shall be determined by the department chairperson, or equivalent level of supervision, on the basis of satisfactory experience, level of performance and acceptance of responsibility.
163 When a House Officer is changing from one residency program to another, the department chairperson, or equivalent level of supervision, will discuss the appropriate salary level with the House Officer prior to assignment to a salary	level.	This
assignment will be confirmed in writing.
163a No later than the end of the second full week of employment, an employee may request an advance on the salary which will be due for the first full month's employment. In the event of such an advance, the advance will be offset against either that month's salary or the next month's salary. Employees will be provided with information regarding this option prior to or during orientation.
SECTION B,__CHIEF RESIDENTS
164 A House Officer who is appointed a Chief Resident may receive additional salary during the appointment period in an amount determined by the employer.

.......-•..-■^.■■^T.
, U b 1» i> 4 4 Uiu itli it 4 i i	l» if
ARTICLE XXIV
PAYMENT TO ENCOURAGE SAVINGS
164a In order to encourage and support the establishment of a voluntary savings plan, all House Officers will receive a lump sum payment, equivalent to seven percent (7%) of base salary on the following pay dates: the November pay date each year. This provision is intended to be an on-going and recurring program.
ARTICLE XXV
WAIVER
165 The University and the Association acknowledge that during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement each had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or matter not removed by law from the area of collective bargaining, and that the understanding and agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement. Therefore, the University and the Association for the life of this Agreement each voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right, and agrees the other shall not be obliged, to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter referred to or covered in this Agreement, or with respect to any subject or matter referred to in the negotiation of this Agreement.
55

ARTICLE XXVI
RESTRICTIVE COVENANT
165b In accordance with the American Council on Graduate Medical Education, no House Officer will be required to sign a non-competition guarantee. Additionally, no House Officer will be bound by such covenants signed prior to or during tenure as House Officer. House Officers may be asked to sign a noncompetition agreement for future employment as faculty at the University of Michigan.
56
*
ARTICLE XXVII
TERM OF AGREEMENT
166 This Agreement shall become effective on November 1, 2001 and shall remain in force and effect until and including October 31, 2004. It is understood that both parties agree to begin negotiations of a successor Agreement no later than sixty (60) calendar days prior to the expiration of this agreement, unless mutually agreed otherwise.
167 Executed this 22nd day of August, 2002.
57

167a There will be a Management/Association meeting no later than October 31, 2002, to review the implementation status of this Agreement.
56
Hl S 3 HHHfHH IH ! IHJ 3 Jffli

APPENDIX A
HOUSE OFFICER SALARY SCHEDULE
168 Subject to the provisions of Article XXIII, House Officers shall receive compensation at the following full-time annual salary.
169 Effective November 1, 2001;
Level	Full-Time Annual Rate
HO I	$36,180
HO II	$38,673
HO III	$41,135
HO IV	$42,940
HO V	$44,746
HO VI	$46,545
HO VII	$48,354
HO VIII	$50,159
169a in addition to the above salary, a lump sum payment, based on appointment fraction, will be made in accordance with the following
chart for those employees who are	regular
employees as of November 1, 2001.	This
payment will be made in the May, paycheck. lifiysl	Lump Sum Payment HO I	$351 HO II	$375 HO III	$399 HO IV	$417 HO V	$434 HO VI	$452 HO VII	$469 HO VIII	$487	2002,
59
170 Effective November 1, 2002:
Level	Full-Time Annual Rate
HO I	$37,265
HO II	$39,834
HO III	$42,369
HO IV	$44,228
HO V	$46,089
HO VI	$47,941
HO VII	$49,805
HO VIII	$51,664
170b Effective November 1, 2003:
Level	
HO	I
HO	II
HO	III
HO	IV
HO	V
HO	VI
HO	VII
HO	VIII
Full-Time Annual Rate $38,383
$41,029 $43,640 $45,555 $47,471
$49,379 $51,299 $53,214
h j hh n n i H!
60

APPENDIX B
ON-CALL ROOMS
171 Room Humber	Building	Number of Beds	Service
F3064	MCHC	2	Anes
1H333	UH	2	Anes
1H331A	UH	2	Anes
482 5A	UH	2	Anes
F4012F	MCHC	2	Anes
F4831	MCHC	2	Family Medicine
8331	UH	2	Family Medicine
F4012D	MCHC	2	Family Medicine
8009	UH	2	Med
682 5A	UH	2	Med
6008	UH	2	Med
7829A	UH	2	Med
6815A	UH	2	Med
7418	UH	2	Med
6419	UH	2	Med
6332	UH	1	Med
7218	UH	1	Med
7333	UH	1	Med- Cardiology
4419	UH	2	Neurology
F4012H	MCHC	2	OB
F4012G	MCHC	2	OB
8419	UH	2	OB/Gyn
F5004	MCHC	2	Peds
F5132	MCHC	2	Peds
F4313	MCHC	2	Peds
F4315	MCHC	2	Peds
F4860	MCHC	1	Maternal Fetal
F4012A	MCHC	1	FOGG/CNM Fac
F4012B	MCHC	2	Super Call
61
APPENDIX D
SHOWER/TOILET
ROOMS
171b Room
Number
Building
4808 (4809/4910)	UH	Toilet
4155	UH	Toilet
4122	UH	Toilet
4119	UH	Toilet
5808 (5809/5810)	UH	Toilet
5155	UH	Toilet
5122	UH	Toilet
5119	UH	Toilet
6806 (6807/6808)	UH	Toilet
6155	UH	Toilet
6122	UH	Toilet
6119	UH	Toilet
7610 (7611/7612)	UH	Toilet
7155	UH	Toilet
7122	UH	Toilet
7304	UH	Toilet
8155	UH	Toilet
8122	UH	Toilet
8119	UH	Toilet
9521	UH	Female Toilet
9522	UH	Male Toilet
9507	UH	Female Shower
9509	UH	Male Shower
IC444	UH	Male Shower
IC440	UH	Female Shower
B1393	TC	Female Shower
B1395	TC	Male Shower
F7670	Mott	Shower/Toilet
F7506	Mott	Female Shower
F7513	Mott	Shower/Toilet
F6764	Mott	Female Shower
F5667	Mott	Female Shower
F5214A	Mott	Male Shower/Toilet
F5214	Mott	Female Shower/Toilet
64
t
I
I-


F4663	Mott	Toilet
F4210	Mott	Male Shower/Toilet
F4205	Mott	Female Shower/Toilet
F4166	Mott	Male Shower/Toilet
F4164	Mott	Female Shower/Toilet
65
179
180
181
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
DIVERSITY
The employer and the Association recognize the need for increased female and under-represented minority representation in all areas of medicine. We support efforts to increase representation at The University of Michigan Hospital and Health Centers.
In addition, the University agrees to provide the Association with data annually of the female and minority representation of the House Staff.
The University and the Association will continue to support mutually agreeable programs to promote the diversity of the House Staff.

For The Regents of The University of Michigan
The University of Michigan House Officers Association

Date: 8-22-02
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
NON-DISCRIMINATION AND SEXUAL HARASSMENT
183 The University and HOA are committed to preventing and eliminating discrimination and sexual harassment of all staff. To that end, all House Officers will be informed of the University's guidelines regarding harassment and discrimination issues. Further, all House Officers will be educated on the appropriate reporting and complaint resolution process. A summary of the process is provided below.
184 House Officers will receive the University's pamphlet on Sexual Harassment upon their hire to the Health System during their orientation.
185 House Officers will have access to the online interactive tutorial "Preventing Sexual Harassment at the University of Michigan" available through the web site www.umich,edu/~braa/harassment.
186 A House Officer also has the right to pursue a legal remedy for sexual harassment in addition to, or instead of, using internal reporting procedures.
186a Confidential counseling is available to House Officers through the M-Works Employee Assistance Program (763-5409), Faculty and Staff Assistance Program (936-8660),	the
Office of Equity and Diversity Services (763-0235), Sexual Assault	Prevention	and
Awareness Center (763-5865), Counseling and Psychological Services (764-8312).
186b Informal Resolution Process
67


A complaint or report can be made to the Human Resources Department, the Office of Diversity and Equity, the Dean of the Medical School, the Program Director, the Chair of the Department, the Executive Vice President for Medical Affairs, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, or the Chief of Clinical Affairs, or their designee. The person who receives such a complaint will advise the House Officer about the informal and formal resolution alternatives available as outlined in the University's policy on Sexual Harassment.
186c Formal Investigation
A formal charge of harassment will be pursued through the Medical Staff By-Laws. The person accused of sexual harassment must be notified of the charge and given an opportunity to respond to any allegations. Investigations will be prompt, thorough and fair, affording both the complainant and the accused a full opportunity to participate.
The Office of Diversity and Equity must be notified of all reported incidents of sexual harassment and their resolution.
For The Regents The University of Michigan
of
By |l^
The University of Michigan House Officers Association
Date: 8-221U2
68
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
EMPLOYEE INFORMATION
187 This confirms the University's policy of not providing employee information (names, addresses, telephone number) for political or commercial purposes.
For the Regents of The University of Michigan
The University of Michigan House Officers Association
69
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
FEMALE ON-CALL ROOMS
188 The House Officers Association shall have the right to designate, subject to approval by the employer, as many as three (3) on-call rooms in University Hospital and one (1) each at the Mott and Women's Hospitals for female use exclusively. These designations may be changed by the House Officers Association, subject to approval by the employer.
For The Regents of The University of Michigan
Date:
The University of Michigan House Officers Association
By-

70
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING

INFORMATION TO PROSPECTIVE HOUSE OFFICERS
189
applies to
all House Officers:
Officers may be assigned
duties in
190
other similar institutions.
191
192
3.
Association Dues or a Representation-Service
Fee as a condition
of employment.
By.
Date: 8
71
For The Regents of The University of Michigan
2.
will
Assignment to prison or jail facilities be only on a voluntary basis.
The University of Michigan House Officers Association
that the following given to following
care and outreach clinics, or
1. House ambulatory
This confirms our understanding employer will include the statements in program descriptions prospective House Officers. The
House Officers must pay either
WliSt ..4


. "? J'..r

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
JCAHO SURVEYS
193 This confirms our understanding that the House Officers Association will be notified in advance of accreditation surveys conducted by the Joint Commission of Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO), Such notice will be provided in writing on a timely basis.
For The Regents of The University of Michigan
By.
Date:
2
The University of Michigan House Officers Association


MEMORANDUM OF
UNDERSTANDING
ON-CALL
PARKING
This University designated parking
agrees to for an employee
specifically designated as on-call.
will be designated
provide who is Spaces
provided in M-18, currently for patient/visitor parking.
adjacent to the Taubman Center between 8:00
*	I
5	4
• JU	,
p.m. and 9:00 a.m.
It is understood that
employees who are required to remain in the parking structure after 9:00a.m. will not be required to pay the fee generated from 9:00
a.m.
until time of departure, provided the
parking ticket is validated department prior to leaving If an employee is unable parking ticket that day,
in the employee's the parking area.
to validate the he/she will be
reimbursed through his/her departmental office in a timely manner upon presentation
of a receipt for
the cost of
parking.
Reimbursement employee for
shall be expenses
provided to an incurred for
transportation to off-site parking lots when no shuttle service is available. A mechanism shall be devised for this reimbursement within 90 days of the contract ratification.
Employees who must return to the Hospital after 6:00 p.m. may use the Radiation Oncology lot for parking and will vacate the lot by 7:00 a.m.
Employees who are called to the Hospital for an emergency consult, whether in the Emergency Department or on a service, may use valet parking at the Emergency Entrance at no expense. Employees must provide the valet attendant with proper identification and
E
}



73

indicate which service to.
195a An employee who has off-site location and
the consult is related
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
RIDER
PRESCRIPTION DRUG
health
See
of
By.
Date: 9-22-02
been assigned to an is required to return
provided insurance
under i plans.
details.
For The Regents The University of Michigan
The University of Michigan House Officers Association
Your Benefits
booklet for
Prescription drug coverage
April 18, 2002. No additional House Officers will be allowed to enroll in the two dollar ($2,00) Co-Pay Prescription Drug Rider.
to provide and of this Agreement
($2.00) Co-Pay
only for House in this plan as of
The University agrees maintain during the term only, a two dollar Prescript!on Drug Rider Officers who are enrolled
the University's
to the Hospital between the hours of 7:00 a.m, and 4:00 p.m. will not have to pay for parking fees incurred in the Patient/Visitor parking area during the required return period, provided the parking ticket is validated in the employee's department prior to leaving the parking area. If an employee is unable to validate the parking ticket that day, he/she will be reimbursed through his/her departmental office in a timely' manner upon presentation of a receipt for the cost of parking.
196 The University reserves the right to modify this arrangement upon two weeks notice to the Association; provided, however that no such notice will be given until the Association has had an opportunity to discuss the matter with the employer in an effort to solve the problem. While the employer cannot foresee every reason for modification, modification will not be unreasonably exercised, i.e., will not be exercised without good reason. It is understood that impact on Patient/Visitor parking needs would be reason for modification. In any case, however, abuse of this arrangement shall always be reason for modifying the current arrangement.
For The Regents of The University of Michigan
By
Date: 8-22-02
The University of Michigan House
Officers Associ By /C £
74

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
VETERAN'S ADMINISTRATION DEANS COMMITTEE
200 This confirms our understanding and support of the following letter from Eric Young, M.D., Chief of Staff. The Veteran's. Administration Dean's Committee will monitor the conditions outlined in the letter to assure compliance.
Medical Center 2215 Fuller Road
Ann Arbor, MI 48105
May 13, 2002
Vikas Parekh, MD
President, House Officers Association
UH 2F20S/0052
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
Dear Dr, Parekh:
201 This letter is written to update the Memorandum of Understanding for the Agreement between the Regents of the University of Michigan and the University of Michigan House Officers Association. House Officers rotating at the Ann Arbor VA are viewed by veterans and VA employees as VA physicians and should assume the responsibilities of that role. Limited resources create differences in policies and procedures for the care of patients,- during their rotations at the VA, House Officers are subject to the rules and regulations of the VA.
202 The VA Residency Review Committee will hear House Officer issues related to patient care,
76
department-specific.
A
in
Committee.
The
Committee meets quarterly; either party may
Department
arrest equipment and supplies
House Officers
service to be in-house overnight shall have
Officers.
available to House
77
request specific attention
Associate VA and/or Michigan
installed volunteer
continue Review
that House the the
cardi ©pulmonary available.
further discussion is needed, the Chief of Staff for Education at the the Chairman of the University of department may be involved.
who are required by their
A key card access on the entrance
to participate
all times.
oxygen, an
the RRC ancillary
are not
Officer HOA will Residency
box will also be door, near the
work and work environment
The employer agrees to abide by guidelines as they apply to services at the VA Hospital.
Lockers or will be
Residency Review
additional meetings.
suitable and secure call rooms.
secured areas for belongings
The Walk-in Clinic will have electrocardiogram machine,
representative selected by
issues should be brought to the of the VA Service Chief. If
The House Officers assigned to Walk-in Clinic will be assigned from the Internal Medicine Service by the Chief, VA Medical Service.
Reference texts will be located in the Walk-In Clinic area and will be reviewed on a regular basis by the Associate Chief of Staff or Ambulatory Care and be updated as appropriate. The Ambulatory Care/Emergency Room procedure/instructional manual will be available in the Emergency Treatment Room at
parking lot. All House Officers who rotate at the VA, should report to security to program their name into the key card system,
207 House Officers rotating at the VA Hospital will be provided with meals consistent to the qualification guidelines followed by the House Officers rotating at UMHS. Qualifying House Officers will receive a $2.50 voucher to be used for a canteen breakfast. Dinner will be served in the kitchen from 5PM - 7PM daily. If a house officer requires dinner after 7 PM, a $5.00 dinner voucher will be given to be used for a canteen meal on a different day. A mechanism for lunch distribution for weekends will be agreed upon by June 30, 2002.
Sincerely,
Eric W. Young, MD Chief of Staff
James W. Roseborough Director
210 It is understood that disagreements or needs for clarification which may arise over
conditions discussed Committee discussion
mu
outlined in this letter may be at the V.A, Residency Review and may be referred after at the Residency Review Committee
to the VA Dean's Committee.
78

--.KtwsiHwstsrezi
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
WORK SCHEDULES
212 This confirms our understanding that, with respect to assigned release time for House Officers:
All House Officers shall be released from patient care responsibilities for a minimum of four (4) . twenty-four (24) hour days per month, A month is defined in paragraph 86. It is understood that a "release day" is defined as a twenty-four (24) hour period that is free from all responsibilities of patient care and all other job related duties, including home-call, jeopardy, and back-up call. In the event that the release time does not occur within a given month, that House Officer shall receive additional compensation equivalent to 1/364 of his/her salary for each release period that is not provided.
As release days, House Officers will be given the greater of 1 day off for every seven calendar days that the resident is not on vacation or days off as mandated by RRC guidelines. Days taken as vacation days will not be counted as release days. For example, if a resident works the first two weeks in a month and takes the latter two weeks as vacation, the resident shall still be entitled to two release days for the first two weeks in that month.
213 In recognition of current standards established by the American Board of Emergency Room Physicians, all House Officers working in the University of Michigan Emergency Department shall be limited to
80
working no more than twelve {12) hours in a
(24) hour period.
given twenty-four
the
of
By__
Date: 8-22-0'2
the the the In
For The Regents The University of Michigan
The university of Michigan House Officers Association
such a case, will be final.
by the Program Director, and, at either HOA's or House Officer's request, have Program Director's decision reviewed by Graduate Medical Education Review Board.
decision of the reviewer
If a House inconsistent with House Officer may
Officer's schedule is the above, the HOA or the have the matter explained
:n n u n h it s n e m «


MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
ANCILLARY SERVICES {IV/BLOOD DRAW/BLOOD CULTURES)
215 The Employer agrees to provide timely phlebotomy service 24 hours a day everyday. This service shall include, but not be limited to, blood cultures and all other laboratory draws in all units including all ICU's.	However, in extraordinary
circumstances only, the regular blood drawing service will not be required to draw blood.
For purposes of this section. House Officers are not considered part of the regular blood drawing service.	Extraordinary
circumstances are defined to be, and limited to, life threatening situations in which a patient is "coding” or "about to code”, Whether extraordinary circumstances exist will be determined by a House Officer’s assessment of the patient's condition.
216 The Employer also agrees to provide timely IV services, which shall include, but not be limited to, placement and maintenance of IV catheters. This service shall be provided 24 hours a day everyday in all units including all ICU's.
The Employer agree that no less than the current level of IV service will be maintained on an around-the-clock basis during the term of this agreement.
217 Reporting problems/concerns with designated ancillary services:
Incidents will be reported on standard forms to the Association. As trends are recorded, the Association liaison will be
82
MHLP-WJ'TTILTJIT.HH>P_PJLPPjLIL£
JMk fl fl	ft 9 ft
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
PROBLEM RESOLUTION
218 The parties are committed to continuing the collaborative .problem-solving efforts begun during the 1992-93 negotiations and to enhancing communication and the prompt resolution of issues, which may arise during the term of this Agreement.

To this end, the University will create a departmental problem-solving mechanism(s) and communicate it to the House Officers and the Association. Further, the University will designate an administrative liaison to work with the Association and Departments to assist in resolving issues that are not resolved at the Departmental level.
For The Regents of The University
of Michigan
The University of Michigan House
By k<*fi
Officers Association
Date: 8-22/02
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
DISPUTE RESOLUTION

The Agreement contains a number of different procedures for resolving disputes and problems. This memorandum provides a brief description of these procedures, indicates the types of issues each procedure is designed to address and cites the location of the complete procedure in the Agreement.
ARTICLE XI, CONFERENCES
Either the Association or the University may request a Conference to discuss matters of mutual interest or to share information. Issues raised under this procedure generally do not involve the concerns of a single House Officer. Any issues under consideration in the Complaint, Grievance and Arbitration Procedure (Article XXI, described below) may not be discussed in the Conference format.
224 ARTICLE XII. PATIENT CARE AND WORK ENVIRONMENT
This Article describes two procedures which a House Officer may follow if, in the interest of patient care, he/she decides to perform the work of another professional or non-professional employee (clerk, messenger, etc.) when he/she believes that doing so will prevent him/her from delivering other important medical care.
225 ARTICLE____XII-A.__SUPPORTIVE___Alffi_ANCILLARY SERVICES AND OTHER MATTERS
This Article describes the membership and functions of the Executive Director's House Officer Advisory Committee. The Committee is
85
employment
training program)
a
unsatisfactory
different procedures,
its own resolution process.
2.
unsatisfactory
this
through
86
disciplined performance
and for
appeal process
Officer discharge
for may due each
the by
may from
from or
performance each with
Advisory described titled: Decisions
Officer academic discipline
specifically charged with reviewing issues related to ancillary services, work and work environment and cost containment proposals
Including Suspension or Termination from, or Non-Reappointment to, a UMMC Graduate Medical Education Program."
which may affect patient Officer workload.
226 ARTICLE XX, DISCIPLINE
care and House
Committee on Clinical Officer may appeal this procedures described in
Affairs, a House action through the Article IX of the
A House (including termination misconduct under three
Department. In addition, A House Officer may appeal a departmental academic decision to the University of Michigan Hospitals and
mechanism maintained
be disciplined
Health Centers Graduate Education Committee. This appeal process is in the Joint Staff document "Procedure for Appeal of Academic
described in Article
Grievance and Arbitration
A House
1. A House Officer disciplined for misconduct in the employment relationship may appeal this discipline through the process
XXI, Complaint, Procedure.
3. If action is taken as a result of a formal complaint received by the Executive

» i it i» 4 irirlrlsirk
227
228
229
230
87
by to is
University of Michigan Medical Staff Bylaws and Bylaws Supplement.
ARTICLE XXI—COMPLAINT. GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING:__VETERAN'S
ADMINISTRATION DEAN'S COMMITTEE
MEMORANDUM QF UNDERSTANDING:___WORK SCHEDULES
MEMORANDUM OIL UNDERSTANDING;__EEQELEM
RESOLUTION
In this
mediation prior to arbitration.
This article describes the grievance procedure, a formal mechanism for resolution of disagreements between a House Officer and the University or between the Association and the University involving interpretation or application of the terms of the Agreement. The University and the Association may mutually agree to add a process for dispute
event, the parties will agree on a list of mediators to use and will share the costs of mediation equally.
Paragraph 210 of this Memorandum describes the mechanism used to ensure compliance with the specific provisions of the Memorandum regarding certain conditions at the Veterans' Administration Hospital.
This Memorandum addresses the creation each Clinical Department of a process solve intra-departmental problems. There
also a provision for referral of unresolved issues to an Administrative Liaison to be designated by the University.



IM
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
ADDITIONAL SERVICE REQUIREMENTS
schedule is inconsistent with the Memorandum.
B!
is the intent of
education
Planning
Residency
groups,
committees, and scheduling groups.
Director's Advisory Committee).
of
Ensure that each department/section has
By _ L
work
to
assignments,
By.
Date: 8-22-02
of
By
Director. Graduate
of this Memorandum review of a House This review may be
Paragraph 214 the process for work schedule.
For the Regents The University of Michigan
The final level Medical Education
2. ing
For the Regents The University of Michigan
3. a
with plan
The University of Michigan House Officers Association
which procedure to use to address an issue of concern may obtain additional clarification from either the House Officers Association or
The University of Michigan House Officers Association
uncertain about
Changes in the health care industry impact The University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers and the House Officers who are
The first level Officer's Program of review is the Review Board.
representation on
the Medical Resources.
schedules, and discuss
A House Officer who is
House officer
of review is the House
Campus Department of Human
House Officer's workload experience. Therefore, it the employer to:
through the House
representation, review clinical workloads.
employed under this agreement. The employer recognizes that these changes may impact the and educational
Officers Executive
by either the House Officer Association when either believes
describes Officer's requested or the that the
joint committee,
Continue on-going communication regard-House Officer workload changes {i.e..
1. Ensure House Officer
Rv
Date: 8-
E





MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
CONTRACT COMPLIANCE
232 1, Orientation to the HOA contract shall be provided by the employer to the following groups:
Program Directors
Department Administrators
Program Administrators
Chairpersons
House Officers
2.	"How to Handbook" for the departments will be developed within 6 months following contract ratification. The Handbook shall be distributed to: Program Administrators, Program Directors, Department Administrators
3.	A "Contract Highlights" document will be developed and distributed to all House Officers.
4.	The HOA will report any contract compliance problems to the Program Director's Meeting on a quarterly basis.
5.
When an issue cannot be resolved between
the House Officer and the University, the
House Officer may use
the University
Mediation and Conciliation Services,
For the Regents of The University of Michigan
The University of Michigan House Officers Association

Date; 8
90

JR
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY
233
and to provide,
and other applications
networking
and
91
House Officers' performance of their clinical and educational responsibilities.
- including but not limited to computers, clinical information systems, pagers, E-mail
to facilitate the
hardware, software, capabilities necessary
within available resources, the support, which includes but is not limited to: the
The University of need to train appropriately on its
Michigan recognizes the its House Officers information technology -
Representation
There will be House Officer participation in the design, testing, implementation and training of information systems, which affect House Officers. To facilitate this effort, the HOA shall appoint an Information Technology liaison. This individual shall be recognized by the University as the primary House Officer spokesperson for information technology. He/she may either sit on or appoint representatives to serve on committees and will coordinate House Officer participation within the Medical Center.
For the Regents of The University of Michigan
The University of Michigan House Officers Association
Date: 8-22-53/
w JF nm 7 7.?.?.???«J J
MEMORANDUM OF
UNDERSTANDING
EXERCISE
FACILITY
for the exclusive to 'the House Officers.
not
The Psychiatry Department retains the right
efforts to find alternate
space,
93
for on
exclusive use of the gym for patient care a case-by-case basis, and the employer
the interests of the
University in making an
If, over the term of exercise facility is
the Agreement an identified, the
retains the right to reallocate the space at any time. If reallocation of space occurs, the employer agrees to make reasonable
exercise facility' available, the University will provide access to the UH 9th floor gym to House Officers from 3 p.m. to 9 a.m. daily. It is understood that the use of the gym is
234 To better meet
Association and the
r-
Association will have access to it. If the Association identifies exercise space within its allotted rooms, the University will furnish the equipment mutually agreed upon. Maintenance of this equipment will be the responsibility of the Association, whose members would have exclusive use of the room.
Further, the University agrees to explore the feasibility of including an employee exercise facility in any new building replacement discussions. Existing space committees will be identified so that time lines for long and short terms options of identifying alternate exercise facility space can be established.

For the Regents of The University of Michigan By	 Date: 8-22-02 ii ii ■ i ' 11! i ■j:	The University of Michigan House Officers Association 94 ;&£S ; •	’ hi "W
m tt a 3-Mtm 33333-3 3	f IM J
Date: 8-22-02
workshops the House advisement TIAA/CREF, University

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
INVESTMENT WORKSHOPS
236 The Staff Benefits Office will schedule
regarding investment options for
Officer savings plan, sessions may be
Individual arranged.
Fidelity and MidWest Financial and of Michigan Credit Unions will be
the preferred providers.
For the Regents of The University of Michigan
The University of Michigan House Officers Association


MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
FINANCIAL AID OFFICE COUNSELING
Effective May 1, 1999, the Medical School Financial Aid Office will begin a program of
financial and debt management
House Officers. Hours will be during designated hours or individually. Until the
counseling for by appointment as arranged program is
implemented. House Officers in need of such assistance are able to contact that office individually.
For the Regents The University of Michigan
Of
The University of Michigan House Officers Association

Date: 8-22
97
memorandum of understanding
By
For the Regents of The University of Michigan
The University of Michigan House Officers Association
issues.
IMPACT ON PRE-TAX BENEFITS
238 During an employee's period of employment, they may be funded' from a grant from which no income taxes are withheld. In this situation, the employee may not be able to enroll in, or continue to participate in, some Flex Benefits, which are provided on a pre-tax basis. Without income tax being withheld, there is no basis for providing a pre-tax benefit.
239 The employer will communicate the implications of the training grant funding on the employee's tax liability and benefit eligibility during their initial orientation. Further, all House Officers will receive information regarding this situation annually with their Open Enrollment materials.
Date:
240
241
242
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
OPERATIONAL IMPROVEMENT EFFORT
The parties agree to pursue their mutual improving UMHS operational e:ieLLiveuooo. The Health System recognizes that House Officers are an integral part of the provision of quality health care to our patients. The House Officers Association acknowledges their responsibility to support
interests of
effectiveness.
the goals of the Health
During the 2001-02 parties agreed to operational improvement not limited to,
documentation of medical commodities, with all requirements.
System.
practices, tests,
negotiations, the actively address issues including, but
improved medical , cost effective use
and institutional
regulatory and
procedures, and compliance
statutory
on a joint to address goals and
The parties agree to participate committee that will meet regularly these issues, develop specific appropriate measures, and monitor progress in accomplishing these goals. The Officers to serve
HOA will
on this
appoint House ------
committee. The HOA also_agrees to ^ourage
actively
individual House Officers undertake the improvement of operational effectiveness in the identified activities. The Health System agrees to provide education and training in conjunction with the HOA to increase House Officer awareness of these
all
to
The parties agree to convene this committee within 90 days following the ratification and
approval of this agreement.

For the Regents of . The University of
The University	’
Michigan House
Officers Association
of Michigan
By_Jj
Date: 8-22-02
100
n.
nn

*244
In
of
By.
Date: 8-22
101
For the Regents The University of Michigan
with the HOA University of requirements.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
IN-STATE RESIDENCY STATUS
an effort to obtain in-state tuition at
the University of Michigan for House Officers and their dependents, the employer will work
to pursue a change in the Michigan policy on residency
The University of Michigan House Officers Association
... vr><iKWi
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
HOA LOUNGE REFRIGERATOR
House Officers will use their meal
to
a periodic
in
to
Date: 8-22-02
Lounge. tickets
On be
the
an
from basis,
For the Regents of The University of Michigan
The University of Michigan House Officers Association
sufficient meal tickets have been turned to pay for the food in the refrigerator.
refrigerator.
evaluation will
made to determine
mutually agreeable corrective action plan will be developed and implemented if this
arrangement is found to be unsatisfactory either party.
purchase items
By
245 In an effort to provide healthy food choices when the ' cafeteria is closed, the University Health System will provide and stock a refrigerator in the House Officer