H
u[
I \
Cornell University ILR School

BLS Contract Collection - Metadata Header
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@comell.edu
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/)
Title: Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey (Faculty Agreement) and Rutgers Council, American Association of University Professors Chapters (AAUP), (2003) (MOA)
K#: 800096
Employer Name: Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey (Faculty Agreement)
Location: NJ New Brunswick
Union: Rutgers Council, American Association of University Professors Chapters (AAUP)
Local:
SIC: 8221
Sector: S
NAICS: 611310
Number of Workers: 2500
Effective Date: 07/01/03
Expiration Date: 06/30/07
Number of Pages: 157
Other Years Available: Y
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School, http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW JERSEY
and
RUTGERS COUNCIL of the AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS CHAPTERS
July 1,2003-June 30,2007
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
I	Purpose.......................................... 2
II	Academic Freedom................................. 3
III	Recognition...................................... 4
IV	Nondiscrimination................................ 5
V	Deduction of Professional Dues................... 6
VI	Representation Fee............................... 7
VII	Designation of AALIP Representatives and Their
Privileges...................................... 9
VIII	Salary Provisions and Health Insurance Benefits..	10
IX	Grievance Procedure.......................................... 16
X	Faculty Personnel Grievance Procedure........................ 23
XI	Teaching Assistant/Graduate Assistant Personnel
Grievance Procedure......................................... 38
XII	Teaching Assistants/Graduate Assistants...................... 40
XIII	THERE IS NO ARTICLE XIII
XIV	Faculty Reappointment/Promotion.............................. 42
XV	Professional Duties.......................................... 45
XVI	Family Leave and Disability Resulting from
Pregnancy................................................... 46
XVII	Leave of Absence Without Pay................................. 48
XVIII	Personnel Files.............................................. 49
XIX	Miscellaneous................................................ 51
XX	Health and Safety............................................ 54
XXI	University Procedures........................................ 56
XXII	Conditions of Employment..................................... 57
i
TABLE OF CONTENTS Continued
Page
XXIII	Out-of-Cycle Salary Adjustments............................ 58
XXIV	Notice of Change of Promotional Criteria and Standards.............................................................. 59
XXV	Sabbatical Program......................................... 60
XXVI	Committee on Professional Relations........................ 61
XXVII	Term of Agreement.......................................... 62
Appendix A	 63
Academic Titles Covered by AALIP Agreement
Appendix B	 65
Faculty Academic Service Increment Program
Appendix C	 70
Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1,2003 -
June 30, 2004
Appendix D................................................ 71
Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1,2004 -
June 30, 2005
Appendix E-1.............................................. 86
Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1,2005 -
December 31, 2005
Appendix E-2............................................. 101
Academic Salary Schedule Effective January 1, 2006 -
June 30, 2006
Appendix F-1............................................. 116
Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1,2006 -
December 31, 2006
Appendix F-2............................................. 131
Academic Salary Schedule Effective January 1, 2007 -
June 30, 2007
Appendix G	 146
Sidebar Agreement Regarding Faculty Dismissal
Procedures
ii
Page
TABLE OF CONTENTS Continued
Appendix H	 147
Sidebar Agreement - Faculty Suspensions at Less
Than Full Pay
Appendix 1	 149
Memorandum of Agreement
(concerning Article X)
Appendix J	 150
Memorandum of Agreement
(concerning 3 separate committees)
Appendix K	 151
Agreement Regarding Competitiveness Pool Funds
Appendix L	 152
Memorandum of Agreement (10/14/03)
iii
AGREEMENT
This Agreement between Rutgers, The State University (hereinafter called the "University") and the Rutgers Faculty, represented by the RUTGERS COUNCIL OF THE AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS CHAPTERS (hereinafter called the "AAUP") is made and entered into on this 2nd day of August, 2004.
1
I - PURPOSE
The parties recognize and declare that it is their mutual goal to maintain a harmonious relationship in determining conditions of employment. To this end they mutually enter into this agreement intended to state the employment relations between the University and the AAUP.
2
II - ACADEMIC FREEDOM
The parties hereto recognize the principles of academic freedom as adopted by the University's Board of Governors on January 13, 1967.
3
Ill - RECOGNITION
1.	The University recognizes AAUP as the sole and exclusive bargaining representative of
all Rutgers University faculty members, teaching assistants and graduate assistants as hereinafter defined. Groups of employees may be added or deleted by mutual consent of the parties.
2.	The terms "faculty member" and "faculty members" shall include all of the following
academic personnel currently employed or to be employed by Rutgers to discharge at least one-half (50%) of a full-time academic job assignment:
(a)	All faculty members with the rank of professor, associate professor, assistant professor, instructor, assistant instructor, lecturer, research associate and adjunct faculty who are engaged in instruction, research, or other academic service; and
(b)	Members of the research, library, general extension, and cooperative extension staffs and those others, who, by virtue of University regulations hold equivalent rank (see Appendix A) to the faculty categories enumerated in (a) above.
(c)	Faculty members who are engaged in instruction and/or research for fifty percent or more of their time during the academic year and who hold the title of associate dean, assistant dean, assistant to dean or academic director.
3.	The terms "graduate assistant" and "graduate assistants" and "teaching assistant" and
"teaching assistants" shall include all University personnel holding the titles of graduate assistant and teaching assistant.
4.	Excluded are all officers of administration including deans, associate deans, assistant
deans, assistants to deans, academic directors who are not engaged in instruction or research for fifty percent or more of their time during the academic year, visiting professors, honorary professors, fellows, all members of the coadjutant staff, all those persons who administer or help to administer a major academic unit or program of the University, and all other employees of the University.
5.	Teaching assistants and graduate assistants shall be covered by this Agreement
except to the extent specifically provided for herein.
4
IV- NONDISCRIMINATION
In the application of provisions of this Agreement or University regulations and policies affecting terms and conditions of employment, there shall be no discrimination by the University or the AAUP against any member of the bargaining unit because of race, creed, color, sex, religion, national origin, marital status, age, disability, status as a Vietnam-era or disabled veteran, sexual orientation, membership or non-membership in or activity on behalf of or in opposition to the AAUP.
Grievances in respect to this provision applicable to Article IX shall be heard as Category Two grievances.
5
V - DEDUCTION OF PROFESSIONAL DUES
The University agrees to deduct on a pro-rata basis from each biweekly paycheck the annual AAUP professional dues of each member of the bargaining unit as defined herein, for whom the AAUP furnishes to the University a voluntary written authorization for such deduction, on a form acceptable to the University. Bargaining unit members must submit written withdrawals of their authorization to the AAUP. It is the AAUP's responsibility to transmit such withdrawals of authorization to the University. The University will continue to deduct dues until it receives the withdrawal of authorization from the AAUP. The amount of AAUP professional dues shall be such amount as may be certified to the University by the AAUP at least 30 days prior to the date on which deduction of AAUP professional dues is to be made. The University shall remit to the AAUP all professional dues deducted pursuant hereto every two weeks together with a list of names of members of the bargaining unit from whose pay such deductions were made.
6
VI - REPRESENTATION FEE
1.	Representation Fee Deduction
The parties agree that as of the effective date of this Agreement all employees in the bargaining unit who are not, and do not become, members of the Rutgers Council of AAUP Chapters, authorizing dues deduction, shall have deducted from their salaries and forwarded to the Rutgers Council of AAUP Chapters a representation fee in a manner and in an amount as provided below, provided that more than 50% of the faculty members of the bargaining unit have authorized the deduction of dues in accordance with Article V of this Agreement. Therefore, as of the second payroll date in July of each year of this Agreement, or any extension thereof, if more than 50% of the faculty members of the bargaining unit who receive paychecks on that date have authorized the deduction of dues in accordance with Article V of this Agreement, then, for the twelve-month period, commencing as of the first payroll date in September of the same year of this Agreement, representation fees shall be deducted from the salaries of members of the bargaining unit who have not authorized the deduction of dues. If on the second payroll date in July of any year of this Agreement, or any extension thereof, less than or equal to 50% of the faculty members of the bargaining unit have authorized the deduction of dues in accordance with Article V of the Agreement, then, for the twelve-month period commencing as of the first payroll date in September of the same year of the Agreement, no representation fees shall be deducted from the salary of any member of the bargaining unit.
Deduction of representation fees in accordance with the provisions of this Article shall continue during any extension of this Agreement. Each party reserves its rights concerning continuation and/or discontinuation of deduction of representation fees at the expiration of this Agreement, any extension of this Agreement, or during the interim period between Agreements.
2.	Representation Fee Amount
At least 30 days before the effective date of the representation fee, or any subsequent modification thereof, the AAUP shall notify the University of the representation fee sum to be deducted from non members' salaries. Any change in the representation fee shall be made upon written notification to the University.
3.	The representation fee shall be deducted from non members' salaries in
biweekly installments only in accordance with Section 1. above and as provided herein. Representation fee deductions from the salaries of all nonmember employees shall commence on or after but in no case sooner than the 30th day following the beginning of an employee's employment in a bargaining unit position or the 10th day following reentry into the bargaining unit for employees who previously served in bargaining-unit positions and who continued in the employ of the University in a non-bargaining-unit position. For the purpose of this Article, academic year employees shall be considered to be in continuous employment.
If, during the course of the year, the bargaining-unit member authorizes deduction of dues, the University shall cease deducting the representation fee and commence deducting the AAUP dues after the AAUP furnishes to the University a voluntary written authorization for such deduction in accordance with Article V of this Agreement. Conversely, if, during the course of the year, the AAUP member directs the University to cease AAUP dues deductions, the University shall commence deduction of the representation fee in accordance with Article V of this Agreement.
7
After deduction, representation fees shall be transmitted to the AAUP in the same manner and in the same time as AAUP dues.
4.	Indemnification
The AAUP shall indemnify and save harmless the University against any and all claims, demands, suits, judgments, settlements, or any other forms of liability including reasonable counsel fees and other costs of defense, that shall arise out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the University for the purpose of complying with any of the provisions of this Article, including but not limited to, any actions in connection with defending the legality of this indemnification provision.
a.	The liability of the AAUP to indemnify the University for costs of defense shall not exceed in any year of this Agreement the total amount received as representation fees by the AAUP during said year. This limitation of liability shall not apply to any orders, judgments, or settlements which require restitution of funds forwarded to the AAUP.
b.	Neither the University nor the AAUP will challenge the legality of indemnification provisions of this Article. In the event this indemnification of the University by the AAUP is challenged in any forum by any person or entity, the University and the AAUP agree to defend the legality of the indemnification provision. In the event that this indemnification provision is deemed to be illegal or against public policy by any court or administrative agency or competent jurisdiction, then effective the date on which the AAUP no longer remits payments to the University as provided hereinabove, the AAUP agrees it will eliminate the representation fee in effect at that time.
c.	The University shall retain its right to determine its course of conduct, including but not limited to, the right to select counsel and determine strategy, in any action arising out of or by reason of the provisions of this Article.
d.	The University shall not challenge the legality of the representation fees provided for in this Article in any forum.
e.	A detailed statement of services rendered in connection with counsel fees referred to hereinabove shall be provided to the AAUP on a quarterly basis. The AAUP shall remit payment to the University within 30 days after receipt of each such statement.
f.	The indemnification provisions of this Article shall continue during any extension of this Agreement or during any period in which the AAUP is collecting representation fees in accordance with this Article.
8
VII - DESIGNATION OF AAUP REPRESENTATIVES AND THEIR PRIVILEGES
1.	The University and the AAUP agree to recognize the designated representatives of each for the purposes of collective negotiations, such designation to be made in writing by each party to the other. This designation shall not preclude others, in reasonable numbers, from attending collective negotiations at the invitation of either party for the purpose of providing factual knowledge or expertise with respect to a particular subject for collective negotiations.
2.	The University agrees that faculty members designated by the AAUP may be released from a portion of their instructional responsibilities to attend to official AAUP business. The AAUP will reimburse the University for such release at the rate of $1,500 per credit hour of instruction. For non-instructional faculty, the percentage of release time will be based on the normal assignment for all duties, and the percentage of salary reimbursed by the AAUP to the University will be equal to the percentage of release time, up to a maximum amount of $9,000. The AAUP shall be entitled to utilize six (6) courses of release time per year; no more than four (4) courses shall be released in one semester. In lieu of a course, the AAUP may designate a non-instructional faculty member for release time.
The AAUP shall in writing notify the designated University office of those individuals whom the AAUP wishes to designate for such release time as provided above. Such notice for instructional faculty shall indicate the specific instructional duties from which the faculty member requests release and shall be provided at least six (6) weeks prior to the end of the fall semester for spring semester release, and by June 1 for fall semester release in order to permit the University to determine whether the release is consonant with the needs of the academic program. Such notice for non-instructional faculty shall specify the percentage of the faculty member's professional time and the specific duties from which release is sought and shall be provided as set forth immediately above in order to permit the University to determine whether the release is consonant with the needs of the academic program. Such requests for release may not be unreasonably denied, and a written statement of the reasons for denial shall be given to the AAUP upon request within ten (10) working days of that request.
The AAUP shall each year in writing inform the designated University office of the identity and terms of office of the AAUP officers and the nature of their responsibilities. In addition, the designated University office shall in writing inform appropriate deans and other academic officers serving as superiors to the duly elected officers of the AAUP of the identity of these officers and the nature of their responsibilities.
3.	Representatives of the AAUP shall be permitted to transact official business on University property at all reasonable times, provided that this shall not interfere with or interrupt normal University operations.
4.	The AAUP and its representatives shall have the right to use University buildings at all reasonable hours for meetings provided they follow regular University procedures.
5.	The AAUP shall have the right to make reasonable use of the University facilities and equipment, including duplicating, computing and office equipment, and available audiovisual equipment, all in accordance with University procedures. The AAUP shall pay reasonable costs for the use of facilities and equipment.
6.	The AAUP shall have the right to post bulletins and notices to the employees it represents, relevant to official AAUP business, without seeking permission or approval.
9
VIII - SALARY PROVISIONS AND
HEALTH INSURANCE BENEFITS
Subject to the appropriation of and allocation to the University by the State of adequate funding for the specific purposes identified for the full period covered by this Agreement, the following economic provisions shall apply:
FACULTY SALARY PROVISIONS
I.	Fiscal Year 2003-2004
None
II.	Fiscal Year 2004-2005
A.	For all persons who are members of the faculty on June 30, 2004 and who continue to be employed as faculty members on July 1,2004, there shall be, effective July 1, 2004, a 2.4% increase across-the-board based on the July 1, 2002 - June 30, 2003 salary schedule.
B.	In addition, all persons who are members of the faculty on June 30, 2004 and whose employment as faculty members continues beyond that date shall, effective July 1, 2004, be eligible to receive academic service increments which shall be distributed in accordance with a program established and administered by the University, as specified in the Faculty Academic Service Increment Program, in Appendix B. The annualized amount to be distributed pursuant to this program will be determined by applying the across-the-board percentage increase set forth in II. A. above to the state-funded faculty salary base of June 30, 2004, and shall not be less than $4,597,000. University Human Resources will calculate this salary base and inform the AAUP. Faculty members at or above the top range and step of their respective ranks may receive an academic service increment pursuant to this program. Steps shall be added to the top range of each rank for this purpose.
III.	Fiscal Year 2005-2006
A.1. For all persons who are members of the faculty on June 30, 2005 and who continue to be employed as faculty members on July 1,2005, there shall be, effective July 1, 2005, a 1.2% increase across-the-board based on the July 1, 2004 - June 30, 2005 salary schedule.
2. For all persons who are members of the faculty on December 31, 2005 and who continue to be employed as faculty members on January 1, 2006, there shall be, effective January 1,2006, a 1.2% increase across-the-board based upon the July 1, 2005 - December 31, 2005 salary schedule.
B. In addition, all persons who are members of the faculty on June 30, 2005 and whose employment as faculty members continues beyond that date, shall, effective July 1, 2005, be eligible to receive academic service increments which shall be distributed in accordance with a program established and administered by the University, as specified in the Faculty Academic Service Increment
10
Program, in Appendix B. The annualized amount to be distributed pursuant to this program will be determined by applying the across-the-board percentage increases set forth in III. A. 1 and III. A. 2. above to the state-funded faculty salary base of June 30, 2005 and of the last payroll date in October 2005, respectively, and combining the two resulting amounts which shall not be less than $2,414,000 and $2,472,000, respectively. University Human Resources will calculate this salary base and inform the AAUP. The academic service increment amounts awarded to the faculty in 2005-2006 shall be implemented in two phases, the first effective July 1, 2005 and the second effective January 1, 2006. Faculty members at or above the top range and step of their respective ranks may receive an academic service increment pursuant to this program. Steps shall be added to the top range of each rank for this purpose.
IV.	Fiscal Year 2006-2007
A.1. For all persons who are members of the faculty on June 30, 2006 and who continue to be employed as faculty members on July 1, 2006, there shall be, effective July 1, 2006, a 1.90% increase across-the-board based on the January 1, 2006 - June 30, 2006 salary schedule.
2. For all persons who are members of the faculty on December 31,2006 and who continue to be employed as faculty members on January 1, 2007, there shall be, effective January 1,2007, a 1.89% increase across-the-board based on the July 1, 2006 - December 31, 2006 salary schedule.
B. In addition, all persons who are members of the faculty on June 30, 2006 and whose employment as faculty members continues beyond that date shall, effective July 1, 2006, be eligible to receive academic service increments which shall be distributed in accordance with a program established and administered by the University, as specified in the Faculty Academic Service Increment Program, in Appendix B. The annualized amount to be distributed pursuant to this program will be determined by applying the across-the-board percentage increases set forth in IV. A. 1 and IV. A. 2. above to the state-funded faculty salary base of June 30, 2006 and of the last payroll date in October 2006, respectively, and combining the two resulting amounts which shall not be less than $4,018,000 and $4,148,000, respectively. University Human Resources will calculate this salary base and inform the AAUP. The academic service increment amounts awarded to the faculty in 2006-2007 shall be implemented in two phases, the first effective July 1, 2006 and the second effective January 1,2007. Faculty members at or above the top range and step of their respective ranks may receive an academic service increment pursuant to this program. Steps shall be added to the top range of each rank for this purpose.
V.	Faculty Promotional Salary Adjustments
A.	For promotions effective July 1, 2003:
1.	The faculty member will receive a promotional increment equal to 10% of his/her salary in effect on July 1,2003 for his/her 2002-2003 rank.
11
2.	The faculty member will then be placed at the appropriate dollar amount, as derived from 1. above, on the salary schedule in effect on July 1, 2003 for his/her new rank at the lowest range that will permit his/her placement at a point not higher than step 16 of a range. If the required dollar amount has not been reached by step 16 of the highest range for the rank, then the faculty member will be placed on that range (extended, if necessary) at the appropriate dollar amount above step 16.
B.	For promotions effective July 1,2004:
1.	The faculty member will receive the salary increase effective July 1, 2004 appropriate for his/her 2003-2004 rank, range, and salary as provided in 11. A. above.
2.	The faculty member will then receive a promotional increment equal to 10% of his/her salary in effect on July 1,2004 for his/her 2003-2004 rank.
3.	The faculty member will then be placed at the appropriate dollar amount, derived from 1. and 2. above, on the salary schedule effective on July 1, 2004 for his/her new rank at the lowest range that will permit his/her placement at a point not higher than step 16 of a range. If the required dollar amount has not been reached by step 16 of the highest range for the rank, then the faculty member will be placed on that range (extended, if necessary) at the appropriate dollar amount above step 16.
C.	For promotions effective July 1,2005:
1.	The faculty member will receive the salary increase effective July 1, 2005 appropriate for his/her 2004-2005 rank, range, and salary as provided in III.A. above.
2.	The faculty member will then receive a promotional increment equal to 10% of his/her salary in effect on July 1,2005 for his/her 2004-2005 rank.
3.	The faculty member will then be placed at the appropriate dollar amount, derived from 1. and 2. above, on the salary schedule effective July 1, 2005 for his/her new rank at the lowest range that will permit his/her placement at a point not higher than step 16 of a range. If the required dollar amount has not been reached by step 16 of the highest range for the rank, then the faculty member will be placed on that range (extended, if necessary) at the appropriate dollar amount above step 16.
D.	For promotions effective July 1, 2006:
1.	The faculty member will receive the salary increase effective July 1, 2006 appropriate to his/her 2005-2006 rank, range, and salary as provided in IV.A. above.
2.	The faculty member will then receive a promotional increment equal to 10% of his/her salary in effect on July 1,2006 for his/her 2005-2006 rank.
3.	The faculty member will then be placed at the appropriate dollar amount, derived from 1. and 2. above, on the salary schedule effective July 1, 2006
12
for his/her new rank at the lowest range that will permit his/her placement at a point not higher than step 16 of a range. If the required dollar amount has not been reached by step 16 of the highest range for the rank, then the faculty member will be placed on that range (extended, if necessary) at the appropriate dollar amount above step 16.
VI.	Special Professorial Titles
Members of the faculty with special professorial titles (Named Professors, University Professors, incumbents of Endowed Chairs) can be placed, at the discretion of the University, on the salary range for special professorial titles. Faculty members placed on the salary range for special professorial titles shall continue to be eligible for all the provisions of Article XXIII and of this Article for which they otherwise would have been eligible, including academic service increments under provisions II.B. III.B. and IV.B. of Article VIII.
VII.	Special Negotiations
At the request of the University at any time during the period of this Agreement, the AAUP and the University shall negotiate special salary schedules applicable to specific disciplines and ranks for a specified period.1 Faculty members placed in accordance with this provision at a special salary above the maximum salary for their rank, as set forth in Appendices C, D, E-1, E-2, F-1 and F-2 to this Agreement, shall continue to be eligible for all the provisions of Article XXIII and of this Article for which they would otherwise have been eligible, including academic service increments under provisions II.B., III.B. and IV.B. of Article VIII.1 2
VIII.	Placement on Salary Schedules
Every faculty member will be placed on a range and step of the regular, special, or extended salary schedules.
TEACHING AND GRADUATE ASSISTANTS - SALARY PROVISIONS
IX.	Fiscal Year 2003-2004
None; except that there is a competitiveness pool of $600,000. An award to a TA/GA from the competitiveness pool shall be treated as a permanent part of her/his salary and the salary for any subsequent reappointment shall be based on that salary.3
1 The University and the AAUP have agreed to the following special schedules for the period of this Agreement: for faculty in the business disciplines, an extended schedule, the top of which is 35% higher for each rank than the highest salary for that rank on the regular schedules in Appendices C, D, E-1, E-2, F-1 and F-2; for faculty in engineering and computer science, an extended schedule, the top step of which is 25% higher for each rank than the highest salary for that rank on the regular schedules in Appendices C, D, E-1, E-2, F-1, and F-2; for law faculty, special schedules as set forth in Appendices C, D, E-1, E-2, F-1, and F-2.
Individuals at the maximum step of the regular schedules are eligible for academic service increments and may move to the extended schedules through the application of academic service increments.
3 Nothing herein precludes teaching/graduate assistants supported by grants from receiving grant-funded competitiveness supplements.
13
X.	Fiscal Year 2004-2005
A.	For all persons who held appointments as teaching or graduate assistants during the 2003-2004 fiscal year and who received appointments as teaching or graduate assistants during the 2004-2005 fiscal year, there shall be a 10% across-the-board increase in salary.
B.	Effective July 1, 2004, the starting salary for full-time teaching and graduate assistants shall be $15,730 for an academic year appointment and $17,932 for a calendar year appointment.
C.	In addition to the above increase in salaries, the competitiveness pool shall be increased by 10% such that the total salary base for Teaching and Graduate Assistants in 2004-2005 will include a $660,000 competitiveness pool.4
XI.	Fiscal Year 2005-2006
A.	For all persons who held appointments as teaching or graduate assistants during the 2004-2005 fiscal year and who received appointments as teaching or graduate assistants during the 2005-2006 fiscal year, there shall be an 8% across-the-board increase in salary.
B.	Effective July 1, 2005, the starting salary for full-time teaching and graduate assistants also shall be increased 8%.
C.	In addition to the above increase in salaries, the competitiveness pool shall be increased by 10%.5
XII.	Fiscal Year 2006-2007
A.	For all persons who held appointments as teaching or graduate assistants during the 2005-2006 fiscal year and who received appointments as teaching or graduate assistants during the 2006-2007 fiscal year, there shall be an 8% across-the-board increase in salary.
B.	Effective July 1, 2006, the starting salary for full-time teaching and graduate assistants also shall be increased 8%.
C.	In addition to the above increase in salaries, the competitiveness pool shall be increased by 10%.6
XIII.	In addition, all Teaching and Graduate Assistants who hold less than a full-time appointment in 2004-2005, 2005-2006 and 2006-2007 shall receive a one time cash bonus of $75 in the third pay period after the start of the semester during which they hold such a part-time appointment.
The total of these bonus payments shall not exceed $15,000 in any year. In the event there are so many part-time Teaching and Graduate Assistants eligible to receive this bonus payment, that more than $15,000 would have to be expended in any year, the amount of the bonus
4 See footnote 3.
5 See footnote 3.
6 See footnote 3.
14
paid to each Teaching and Graduate Assistant shall be reduced on a pro rata basis. The University shall promulgate advice discouraging the appointment of part-time Teaching and Graduate Assistants.
HEALTH INSURANCE BENEFITS
XIV.	All members of the unit who are eligible for health insurance benefits coverage under P.L. 1961, c. 49 (NJSA 52:14-17.25 et seq.) shall pay premiums or periodic charges therefor on the same basis and to the same extent as established by the State Health Benefits Commission for employees for whom there is no majority representative.
Members of the bargaining unit who are eligible for health insurance benefits coverage and who are hired on or after July 1,2004 shall not be eligible for enrollment in the Traditional Plan.
15
IX- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
The purpose of this Article is to provide a fair and effective procedure for identifying issues, articulating and resolving problems, and disputes.
A. Grievances under this Procedure.
A. 1. A grievance under this Article IX is defined as:
Category One:
An allegation that, with respect only to those provisions of this Agreement which affect mandatorily negotiable terms and conditions of employment, there has been a violation of such a provision or provisions of this Agreement which has affected mandatorily negotiable terms and conditions of employment of a member or members of the bargaining unit. Excluded from Category One are all allegations concerning provisions of this Agreement when those provisions specify that grievances concerning them shall be considered as a Category Two grievance.
or
Category Two:
An allegation that, with respect only to those University policies, agreements, administrative decisions, or Regulations which affect mandatorily negotiable terms and conditions of employment, there has been a misrepresentation, misapplication or violation of such a University policy, agreement, administrative decision, or Regulation which has affected mandatorily negotiable terms and conditions of employment of a member or members of the bargaining unit.
An allegation that, with respect only to those University policies, agreements, administrative decisions, or Regulations which are not mandatorily negotiable but which intimately and directly affect the work and welfare of members of the bargaining unit, there has been a misrepresentation, misapplication or violation of such a University policy, agreement, administrative decision, or Regulation which has intimately, directly, and negatively affected the work and welfare of members of the bargaining unit.
Also included in Category Two are allegations concerning any matter which is mandated by law to be a subject of a grievance procedure of the Agreement, such as grievances concerning allegations of unjust discipline,7 and which has not been provided for under Category One.
Also included in Category Two are allegations of harassment of a member of the bargaining unit. Harassment is intentional persistent or repeated differential treatment, without reasonable cause, that negatively and directly affects the work and welfare of a member of the bargaining unit.
7 Discipline is the formal imposition of a penalty in response to alleged wrongdoing by a member of the bargaining unit.
16
A.	2.	Excluded from this grievance procedure are:
A.	2.	a. All matters defined grievable under the terms of other grievance procedures
between the University and the AAUP;
A.	2.	b. An allegation regarding the evaluation of a grievant for reappointment, promotion
and/or tenure, as provided in Article X of this Agreement;
A. 2. c. An allegation regarding a violation of the University Regulations or this Agreement or established policy or practice regarding reappointment of Teaching Assistants/Graduate Assistants, as provided in Article XI of this Agreement.
A.	3. A grievance under this Article may be filed by a bargaining-unit member or members, if more than one member has been affected, or by the AAUP. A grievance filed by a member or members of the bargaining unit may only be filed with the AAUP and will be promptly transmitted to the Office of Academic Labor Relations by the AAUP.
B.	Requirements for Filing.
B.	1. A grievance must be filed in writing with the Office of Academic Labor Relations within six months of the date on which the grievant should reasonably have known of the occurrence of the alleged violation, or within 30 working days of the occurrence of the alleged violation if the grievant is requesting an accelerated schedule. The written statement of the grievance shall specify which allegations in the grievance are being filed as Category One or Two; shall contain a statement of the facts surrounding the grievance; shall specify the provision or provisions of the Agreement, Regulations, policies, agreements, or administrative decisions which allegedly have been violated, misapplied, or misinterpreted; and shall specify the relief sought. In addition, where the substance of the grievance concerns a dispute between bargaining-unit members, the grievance filing shall show evidence of an effort to resolve the matter with the appropriate dean. Such efforts at informal resolution of grievances shall not affect the timeliness requirements of this procedure.
B.	2. The timeliness of a grievance submitted from the New Brunswick campuses shall be determined by the date on which the AAUP delivers it to the Office of Academic Labor Relations. Grievances submitted from the Camden, Newark, or other program locations beyond the New Brunswick campuses may be mailed to the AAUP by United States Postal Service, in which case the timeliness of such a grievance shall be determined by the postmark. The AAUP shall deliver such grievances to the Office of Academic Labor Relations within one day of receipt.
B. 3. Information, material, and documents relevant to a grievance shall be provided, if available, by either party upon written request of the other party within 15 working days after the conclusion of mediation. If either party is unable to meet the 15 working day time limit, it shall so notify the other party in writing, explaining the reason. Limited requests for specific information essential for an understanding of the grievance shall not unreasonably be denied prior to the scheduling of mediation.
C. Mediation
C. 1. The goal of mediation is to resolve grievances informally.
17
C. 2. A grievant may submit any grievance that the parties agree is properly raised under this Article to non-binding mediation prior to proceeding to Step One. Disputes between the parties as to grievability shall not be submitted to mediation. Notice of the desire to participate in non-binding mediation shall be given to the University with the grievance filing.
C. 3. The mediation process will be completed within 30 working days of the University's receipt of the grievance filing, where possible.
C. 4. A pool of six professional arbitrator/mediators, jointly agreed to by the University and the AAUP, shall be established for the duration of this Agreement except that twelve months after the establishment of the pool either of the parties may reopen negotiations about the membership of the pool. The AAUP and the University shall utilize a selection procedure that insures both rotation in the use of the mediators and random assignment of grievances to mediators.
C.	5.	No more than a total of six hours’ service by the mediator shall be permitted for each
grievance unless additional time is agreed to by the University and the AAUP.
C.	6.	Unless the parties agree otherwise, participants in mediation shall be limited to the
mediator, the grievant, no more than two AAUP representatives, no more than two University representatives, and an individual, designated by the University, who is closely concerned in the grievance. The University representative may be the appropriate dean/director or the provost unless (a) he or she is alleged to have committed one or more of the violations that form the subject matter of the grievance or (b) the grievant, through the AAUP, notifies the University that he/she believes mediation with that individual as University representative would be pointless. In such cases, the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs or his/her designee shall be the University representative. With the sole exception of the mediator, all participants in the mediation must be employees of the University or of the AAUP but shall not be individuals who bear the title of Counsel or Assistant Counsel. Unless the mediator objects, the AAUP and the University may jointly agree that each may have one nonparticipant observer present at a mediation session. Such observers shall not participate in the mediation meeting in any manner.
C. 7. The format for mediation shall be face-to-face discussions between the parties, with the assistance of the mediator. However, the parties may, during the mediation session, jointly agree to meet separately with the mediator, provided that at the request of the parties, they again meet face-to-face before mediation is concluded. The mediator shall be provided by the University with the grievance filing in advance of the mediation session. The mediator shall decide whether other documents are needed to advise the parties. Provision of such documents by either of the parties shall be voluntary in response to requests from the mediator. No official record of the mediation process shall be kept. The names of individuals attending the mediation shall be provided to either side by the other if requested.
C. 8. The mediator shall attempt to resolve the grievance. If a resolution is reached, it shall be reduced to writing. No resolution of a grievance shall be a precedent in any other grievance.
C. 9. If no resolution is reached through mediation, the mediator shall present advice orally at the end of the mediation. This advice shall not be introduced at any subsequent grievance hearing or in any other proceeding.
18
C.	10.	The costs of the mediator shall be borne equally by the University and the AAUP.
C.	11. If no resolution is reached through mediation, the grievance may be pursued at Step
One of this grievance procedure.
D.	STEP ONE
D. 1. The Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs or his/her designee(s) may conduct such investigation as he or she may require in order to render a written response, including meeting(s) with the grievant and other individuals who are determined by the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs or his/her designee or the AAUP to be concerned in or to have knowledge of the matter. If the grievant believes it necessary to meet with the Executive Vice President or his/her designee without other individuals concerned in the matter being present, the grievant shall be afforded the opportunity to do so.
D. 2. The grievant will have the opportunity to meet with the Executive Vice President or his/ her designee if the grievant requests such a meeting within 10 working days of the filing of the grievance. The meeting, whether requested by the grievant or by the Executive Vice President or his/her designee, shall be scheduled within 10 working days of the request or within 10 working days of the conclusion of mediation.
D. 3. In instances where the parties agree that the problem requires an accelerated schedule, if a meeting is requested at the time the grievance is filed, it shall be scheduled within five working days of the receipt of the grievance or the completion of the mediation.
D. 4. Should the grievant fail, without valid reason, or refuse to meet with the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs or his/her designee when such a meeting has been requested either by the grievant or by the Executive Vice President or his/her designee, the AAUP shall not be permitted to invoke Step Two of the grievance procedure and the decision of the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs or his/her designee at Step One shall be final.
D. 5. Where the grievant alleges that the grievance concerns an immediate health or safety problem, the grievance shall be heard on an accelerated schedule.
D. 6. The grievant may be assisted by up to two representatives approved by the AAUP. The University shall have the right to assume that any representative who appears with the grievant is approved by the AAUP. The grievant's representatives shall be members of the bargaining unit and/or AAUP staff. Although the University may request members of the bargaining unit to participate in the investigation of, and meetings about, a grievance, a member of the bargaining unit may not be a designee of the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs or a formally designated representative of the University.
D. 7. Within 45 working days of the conclusion of the mediation or within 45 working days of the notification of a waiver of the mediation step by the AAUP, or within 15 working days if the parties agree that the problem requires an accelerated schedule, the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs or his/her designee shall render a written response, except that, in all events, the Executive Vice President or his/her designee shall have no fewer than 15 working days subsequent to the Step 1 meeting(s) concerning the grievance to render a written response.
19
D.	8. The Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs or his/her designee shall simultaneously submit his/her written response to the grievant and to the AAUP.
E.	STEP TWO - ARBITRATION
E. 1. If the AAUP is not satisfied with the disposition of the grievance at Step One, the AAUP--upon written notification to the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs within 30 working days of receipt of the Step One decision, or within 15 working days if the grievance has been heard on an accelerated schedule at Step One-may appeal a Category One or a Category Two grievance to arbitration.
E. 2. The written notice shall set forth the issue or issues to be arbitrated and shall specify, as to each issue, whether the AAUP presents it as a Category One or a Category Two grievance.
E. 3. For the purpose of arbitration, a pool of six professional arbitrators jointly agreed to by the University and the AAUP shall be established for the duration of this agreement except that twelve months after the establishment of the pool either of the parties may reopen negotiations about the membership of the pool. The list of arbitrators may include individuals identified as mediators in C.4. but an individual used as a mediator in a grievance shall not also be used as the arbitrator in the same grievance.
E. 4. If the AAUP determines that either it or an individual bargaining unit member(s) cannot arrive at a decision on whether to proceed to arbitration within the 30 working days provided herein, it will so notify the Executive Vice Presidentfor Academic Affairs during this period. This notice will extend the period for invoking arbitration for a period of 30 additional working days. Additional extensions may be agreed to by the parties, and if such an agreement is made it shall be set forth in writing. No extensions beyond the original 15 working days provided for filing of an appeal to arbitration shall be available in instances where the grievance has been heard on an accelerated schedule at Step One except by written mutual agreement of the parties.
E. 5. If no Step One decision is rendered, the AAUP may appeal the grievance to arbitration within five months of the last day on which the Step One decision would have been timely rendered.
E. 6. Where a grievance concerning a health or safety problem has been heard on an accelerated schedule at Step One and has been timely appealed to arbitration, the AAUP and the University will each make an effort to obtain a prompt hearing of the grievance at arbitration.
E.	7.	The arbitrator shall conduct a hearing and:
E.	7.	a. Binding Arbitration
In the case of Category One grievances, render a decision which shall be final and binding on the AAUP, the grievant(s), and the University;
or
20
E. 7. b. Advisory Arbitration
In the case of Category Two grievances, render a recommendation to the Office of the President. The President's decision will be final and binding for all internal University purposes. Such decision will be rendered within 15 working days of receipt of the arbitrator's report. If the President modifies or rejects the recommendations of the arbitrator, he/she will set forth in writing the reasons for such modification or rejection.
E. 8. The arbitrator's decision or recommendation shall be rendered in accordance with law and not later than 30 calendar days after receiving final submissions from the parties unless the parties agree that more time is needed. The arbitrator shall not have the authority to amend, alter, or in any way change a University policy, Regulation, established practice, or provision of this Agreement.
E.	9. Any party may request a stenographic record. If such transcript is agreed upon by the parties, or in appropriate cases determined by the neutral arbitrator, to be the official record of the proceeding, it must be made available to the arbitrator and to the other party for inspection at a time and place determined by the arbitrator. The total cost of such a record shall be shared equally by those parties that order copies. Either party may tape the arbitration proceeding, but the tape shall not constitute the official record. The tape may be used only for the purpose of preparing the case and may not be used for any other purpose or in any other forum.
E. 10. The costs and expenses incurred by each party shall be paid by the party incurring the costs, except that the fees of the neutral arbitrator and the fee, if any, of the administering agency shall be borne equally by the University and the AAUP.
F. Miscellaneous
F. 1. "Working Days" are all days on which the administrative offices of the University are open for business as specified in the administrative calendar. "Months" are calendar months, and they are unaffected by any of the University's working calendars.
F. 2. The time limits in this Article may be extended at any time by written agreement of the parties to this Agreement. Upon advance written notice to the AAUP and the University, a grievant who is on an academic year appointment may request that some or all of the period between Commencement and September 1 be excluded from the time limits in this procedure. Such requests shall not be made unreasonably and shall include the reasons for the request.
If the AAUP contends that the University is in error in deciding that a grievance was not timely filed, that contention shall be expeditiously submitted to binding arbitration unless the parties to this Agreement mutually agree otherwise. Until the timeliness matter is resolved, the grievance filed shall remain in abeyance. However, if the University also has addressed the merits of the grievance in its Step One response, a contention by the AAUP that the University's decision on timeliness is in error shall be submitted as a threshold question to the arbitrator selected pursuant to this Article. The arbitrator's decision with regard to timeliness shall be binding. Similarly, if the University has determined that a grievance is not timely filed and has not addressed the merits, and if the arbitrator has found the grievance to be timely and has referred it back to Step One for a consideration of the merits, and if the AAUP appeals the subsequent Step One decision, and if less than a year has elapsed since the arbitrator's decision on timeliness, the appeal shall be heard by the same arbitrator who heard the timeliness issue.
21
F. 3. In order to assist the AAUP in its determination as to whether or not the grievance should be pursued beyond Step One, the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs or his/her designee, upon request of the AAUP, shall make available to the AAUP a copy of any written policy, Regulation, agreement, or administrative decision cited in his/her written response as a basis of the answer to the grievance.
F. 4. Whether or not pursued, this procedure shall constitute the sole and exclusive right and remedy of bargaining-unit members and the AAUP for any and all claims cognizable under this procedure. A written response at Step One which is not appealed to Step Two by written notification to the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs in accordance with Section E.1. above shall be considered a binding and final settlement of the grievance. If there is no written response at Step One and the AAUP does not timely appeal to arbitration, the grievance shall be considered as having been withdrawn.
F. 5. Exception as to Category Two Grievances. If the AAUP does not timely invoke Step Two in accordance with Section E.1. above, and the AAUP and/or the grievant(s) commence a court proceeding pertaining to the grievance within 45 working days of the last date upon which the AAUP could have timely invoked Step Two, the defenses of exhaustion of remedies or exclusivity of the grievance procedure will not be available to the University in such court proceeding. Nothing contained herein shall be construed or implied as a recognition by the University that the AAUP and/or grievant has any enforceable right against the University with respect to any misinterpretation, misapplication, or violation of University policy, agreement, administrative decision, or Regulation.
F.	6. The exclusivity of remedies and exhaustion of procedures provided for in this Article are not intended nor shall they apply to rights of individual bargaining-unit members that arise from sources independent of this Agreement, University policies, agreements, administrative decisions, or regulations.
22
X- FACULTY PERSONNEL GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
The purpose of this Article is to help ensure the integrity of the reappointment, promotion, and tenure procedures; to provide a process for determining whether evaluations resulting in negative personnel actions were flawed (as defined in A.1.) and to provide remedies in cases where defects are found. A defect does not encompass disagreement with the academic judgment of any evaluator or evaluative body. For purposes of this Article X grievance procedure, writers of external confidential letters are not “evaluators.”
A. Definitions of a Grievance and Grievant
A. 1. A grievance under Article X is an allegation that, in the course of an evaluation which resulted in failure to award reappointment, promotion, and/or tenure:
A. 1. a. there occurred a material procedural violation of (i) the Academic Reappointment/Promotion Instructions and/or their appendices applicable in the year in which the grievant was evaluated, and/or (ii) Article XIV of this Agreement, and/or (iii) a University regulation or an established practice of the University related to reappointment or promotion. An established practice within the meaning of this Article is one which is not inconsistent with either a University Regulation or a provision of this Agreement. A violation is material if it has an important influence or effect upon the evaluation.
or
A. 1. b. the evaluation was based on (i) discrimination by an evaluator against the grievant because of race, creed, color, sex, religion, national origin, marital status, age, disability, status as a Vietnam-era or disabled veteran, sexual orientation, membership or nonmembership in or activity on behalf of or in opposition to the AAUP, or (ii) enmity by an evaluator against the grievant.
or
A. 1. c. the narrative of an evaluator or evaluative body contains a material factual inconsistency with the record as presented in the candidate's reappointment/promotion packet.
or
1.	d. the evaluation was not in accord with the criteria as set forth in the University Policy with Respect to Academic Appointments and Promotions.
A. 2. A grievant within the meaning of this Article is a faculty member in the bargaining unit who files a grievance under this Article. A grievant shall retain the right to process a grievance to completion regardless of his/her employment status.
A. 3. The statement of grievance shall be presented on a form mutually acceptable to the AAUP and the University and must:
A.	3.	a.	identify the person(s) and/or bodies who allegedly committed the alleged
violations;
A.	3.	b.	explain what alleged actions were committed or omitted and by whom;
23
A.	3.	c.	identify the level(s) of evaluation affected by the alleged violations;
A.	3.	d.	identify and fully explain the alleged violations in the evaluation of the grievant
as specified in A.1. above;
A.	3.	e.	to the extent possible, set forth the evidence in support of the allegations and
identify and attach, if possible, any documents pertinent to the allegations;
A.	3.	f.	identify, to the extent possible at the time of filing, potential
witnesses and explain the nature and the relevance of their testimony to the allegations; and
A. 3. g. request any documents and/or other information needed to complete the presentation of the grievance, explaining the relevance of the requested material to the alleged violations. Additional requests for information may be made after the grievance statement has been filed.
A. 4. A grievance may be resolved informally by the grievant and the University at any time. The informal resolution of a grievance shall not constitute precedent for the formal or informal resolution of any grievance or for any other purpose. A grievance filing shall normally provide evidence of an attempt to reach informal resolution.
A.	5. Grievances concerning original evaluations shall be brought before Grievance Committees as specified in B. below. Grievances concerning remanded evaluations shall be brought before the Faculty Appeals Board as specified in E. below.
B.	Grievances Concerning Original Evaluations
B.	1. Pre-Hearing Procedures
B.	1. a. An individual who intends to file a grievance under this procedure must so notify the Office of Academic Labor Relations in writing within 30 working days of the date on which the AAUP receives notice of the negative personnel action.
B. 1. b. Within 60 working days, for candidates for reappointment or tenure, and 90 working days for candidates for promotion to Professor or Professor II, of the date of receipt of the letter of intent to file, as specified in a. above, the grievance statement, as defined in A.3. above, shall be filed with the Office of Academic Labor Relations according to the rules specified below. Such grievances shall be logged in as to date of receipt and a copy forwarded within one working day to the AAUP and to the Reviewing Officer.
B. 1. c. Such grievances shall be reviewed by the Reviewing Officer who shall determine if the grievance filing complies with Section A.1. above and Section H. below. The Reviewing Officer shall not address the substance of the grievance. He/she shall confine his/her review to two questions:
B.	1.	c.	[1]	Do the allegations contained in the grievance statement conform to the
definitions of an Article X grievance as set forth in A. 1. above?
B.	1.	c.	[2]	Are the letter of intent to file and/or the grievance statement timely filed	in
accord with B.1.a. and B.1.b. above?
24
B. 1. d. The Reviewing Officer shall forward to the designated University Representative each grievance statement that meets the filing requirements within ten working days of the Reviewing Officer's receipt of the grievance. At the same time, a copy of the grievance statement with confirmation of acceptance shall be sent to the grievant and to the AAUP.
B. 1. e. If the Reviewing Officer finds that a grievance statement does not meet the filing requirements, he/she shall return it to the grievant within 13 working days with a written statement specifying the defects leading to its rejection. A copy of such statement shall at the same time be sent to the AAUP. If the Reviewing Officer is unable to meet the deadlines specified herein, he/she shall so notify the AAUP in writing.
B. 1. f. Unless the Reviewing Officer has held the grievance to be untimely, the grievant may resubmit a revised statement within ten working days of receipt of the letter rejecting the grievance. Such resubmission to the Reviewing Officer shall be handled according to the above procedure. Failure to resubmit a revised statement within ten working days or to appeal the Reviewing Officer's action as provided below shall constitute withdrawal of the grievance.
B. 1. g. If the Reviewing Officer finds the grievance to be untimely, the grievant may appeal this finding to the Permanent Referee, as provided below.
B.	1.	h.	In the event the grievant does not accept the action taken by the Reviewing
Officer:
B.	1.	h.	[1] The grievant may submit the issue in writing to the Permanent Referee.
Such submission must be accompanied by the Reviewing Officer's finding and be made within ten working days of receipt of the Reviewing Officer's action. A copy of the submission shall be at the same time sent to the Reviewing Officer.
Within ten working days of the University’s receipt of the grievant’s submission to the Permanent Referee, the University may submit a response to the Permanent Referee. A copy of the response shall, at the same time, be forwarded to the grievant and to the AAUP.
B. 1. h. [2] The Permanent Referee shall not address the substance of the grievance. He or she shall confine his or her review to two questions:
B.	1.	h.	[2]	[a]	Do the allegations contained in the grievance statement conform to
the definitions of an Article X grievance as set forth in A. 1. above?
B.	1.	h.	[2]	[b]	Are the letter of intent to file and/or the grievance statement timely
filed in accord with B.1.a. and B.1.b. above?
B.	1.	h.	[3]	The	Permanent Referee shall review the submissions and render a
decision in writing within ten working days of receipt of the submission. No hearings will be conducted before the Permanent Referee unless the Permanent Referee requests a hearing after receipt of written submissions by the parties. If a hearing is conducted, neither party may be represented by an attorney. The Permanent Referee shall make a judgment on the
25
question(s) presented and the decision shall be final and binding on the grievant, the AAUP and the University.
B. 1. h. [4] If the Permanent Referee sustains the claim that the grievance filing meets the filing requirements, or should be accepted as timely filed, he or she shall forward notice of acceptance to the grievant, the AAUP, and the Reviewing Officer.
B. 1. h. [5] If the Permanent Referee rejects the claim that the grievance statement meets the filing requirements, he or she shall notify the grievant, the AAUP and the Reviewing Officer of his/her decision in writing. If the grievance has been rejected for reasons other than timeliness, the grievance may be revised and resubmitted according to the provisions of B.1.f. above. The decision of the Permanent Referee shall explain the reasons for rejecting the grievant's claim. Copies of the decision shall be sent to the AAUP and the Reviewing Officer.
B.	1.	h. [6] The decision of the Permanent Referee shall be binding on the grievant, the
University, and the AAUP.
B.	1.	i.	Within 25 working days of receipt of the grievance statement, the University shall
forward the grievance statement to the Grievance Committee, with copies to the grievant and the AAUP, and shall at the same time, forward a written response to the particulars of the grievance, and the grievant's reappointment/promotion packet, excluding the supplementary materials and the external confidential letters of evaluation. The University's response shall address each allegation, shall identify and attach, if possible, any documents pertinent to the grievance, and identify potential witnesses and explain the nature and the relevance of their testimony to the allegations.
B. 1. j. Within 20 working days of a request for documents and/or information (See A.3.g. above.), the University shall, insofar as it is possible for it to do so, make available to the grievant all relevant requested documents and information, other than outside confidential letters and the promotion packets of other faculty.
B. 1. k. Outside confidential letters of evaluation are those letters received in response to solicitation pursuant to the Academic Reappointment/Promotion Instructions. Outside confidential letters of evaluation shall not be made available to the grievant or to his/her advisors, or to the University Representative for the purpose of the grievance.
In those cases in which the outside confidential letters of evaluation are a factor in a grievance, evidence respecting the contents of the letters may be introduced only by the grievant or the University Representative through a written report by two neutral readers of the letters through the following procedure:
B. 1. k. [1] If the grievant asserts that the outside confidential letters are a factor in a grievance, the AAUP shall so notify the University when filing the grievance statement or earlier if possible. At the same time the AAUP shall inform the University of the name of the neutral reader selected by
26
the grievant and shall indicate what questions the grievant wishes the neutral readers to answer in regard to the outside confidential letters.
B.	1.	k.	[2]	Upon receipt of the AALIP's notice concerning the letters, the University
shall name a second neutral reader.
B.	1.	k.	[3]	The grievant and the University may select as a neutral reader any current
member of the faculty at the rank of professor or above who has served within the past 7 years as a member of the Promotion Review Committee, an Advisory Committee on Appointments and Promotion, or as a dean, and who has not participated in the evaluation.
B. 1. k. [4] The grievant may request that one or both of the following questions be addressed by the neutral readers: (1) In the opinion of the neutral readers, is the content of the letters inaccurately characterized or distorted in the narratives of the evaluators? If so, explain. (2) In the opinion of the neutral readers, have the evaluators relied in their assessments on letters that are not in accord with the criteria as set forth in the University Policy with Respect to Academic Appointments and Promotions, or that exhibit discrimination and/or enmity, as defined in Section A.1.b. above? If so, explain.
In addition to answering the questions specified above, the neutral readers will also be permitted to provide additional comments if the readers wish to do so.
B. 1. k. [5] The letters and the questions shall be provided to the neutral readers in the office of the provost or the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs or the appropriate dean. The neutral readers shall meet to review the letters and prepare their report at a time mutually convenient to them within 20 working days of their selection. During their review session, the neutral readers shall review the letters and the promotion packet and shall jointly draft a written response to the questions. If the neutral readers have a significant difference of view, they may express that difference in their written report. The neutral readers shall not take the letters into their own possession, shall not copy the letters, and shall take every precaution to protect at all times the confidentiality of the contents of the letters and the identity of the writers.
Neither the grievant, the AAUP, nor the University shall take any action that compromises the neutrality of the readers.
B. 1. k. [6] The signed and dated report of the neutral readers shall be forwarded to the AAUP by the University within two working days of its receipt by the University.
B. 1. k. [7] After receipt of the report of the neutral readers, either the grievant or the University Representative may request that the Grievance Committee review the external confidential letters. Once the Grievance Committee receives the letters, the Committee shall not make them available to the University Representative, the grievant, his/her advisors, or to the AAUP
27
and shall take every precaution to protect the confidentiality of the contents of the letters and the identity of the writers. The Grievance Committee members shall return all copies of the promotion packet and the external confidential letters to the University Representative once the Committee has rendered its decision.
B. 2. Hearing Procedures
B. 2. a. The Grievance Committee shall make a good faith effort to meet to hear the grievance within 10 working days of receipt of the material specified in B.1.i. above, and may request at the time of scheduling that the grievant and/or the University be prepared at that meeting to present the testimony of witnesses on specific issues raised in the grievance statement, to further explain specific issues raised in the grievance statement, to present additional documentation, and/or generally to present their case.
B.
B.
B.
B.
B.
B.
2. b. The chair of the Grievance Committee is responsible for the conduct of the hearing. The total time allotted to the hearing of a grievance ordinarily shall not exceed two working days, generally equally apportioned to the grievant's presentation and the University's response, unless the Committee approves a request by either side for additional time. The Grievance Committee may pose any questions it deems appropriate to the grievant, the grievant's representative, the University Representative, or to any individual whose testimony is presented by the University or the grievant.
2. c. The University Representative shall be the person designated by the University to present its case. The University Representative shall be identified in the University's response. If the University changes its Representative, it will notify the AAUP. The University Representative may be assisted by two advisors who shall also be identified in the University's response.
2. d. The grievant may be represented and assisted by two advisors approved by the AAUP. The grievant's advisors shall be named in the grievance statement. The University has the right to assume that any advisor who appears with the grievant is approved by the AAUP. If the grievant changes his/her advisors, the grievant will notify the University Representative.
2. e. The University Representative, the University Representative's advisors, and the grievant's advisors shall be employees of the University or of the AAUP, unless the parties agree to waive this requirement in individual instances.
2. f. If the grievant, the grievant's adviser(s), the University Representative or the University Representative's advisors offer(s) testimony, he/she may be questioned by the other party or by the Grievance Committee.
2. g. All of the grievant's allegations shall have been specified in the grievance statement. However, where information relevant to an alleged violation becomes known subsequent to the filing of the Grievance Statement, the grievant may file an amendment to the Grievance Statement. In such instance, the proposed amendment should be in writing in the form of a memorandum addressed to the grievance committee, with a copy to the University Representative, which provides full information about the new allegation in
28
accordance with Section A.3 of this procedure, and which explains the reasons why the grievance statement is being amended at that time. The University shall have 5 working days within which to respond to the amendment. If the University Representative agrees that the new allegation is properly within the definition of a grievance in accordance with Section A.1. above, the amendment shall be accepted.
If the University Representative does not accept the new allegation as appropriate to this procedure, the grievant may forward his/her proposed amendment to the Reviewing Officer immediately, and it will be processed in accordance with Section B.1.c. above.
B. 2. h.
Within five working days of the final hearing session, the Committee shall make a good faith effort to render a decision in writing. The decision shall address all allegations raised in the grievance. For each allegation, the Grievance Committee shall determine if the alleged violation has been proven. For each allegation sustained by the Grievance Committee, the Committee shall identify who committed the specific violation and which level of evaluation was affected by the violation. The Committee shall not make judgments as to whether the grievant should receive reappointment, promotion, and/or tenure. Further, the Committee will address and make findings about only those allegations set forth either in the grievance statement or an amendment to it and pursued by the grievant. The Committee's decision, recorded on a form agreed to by the AAUP and the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs or his/her designee, shall be binding on the University, the grievant, and the AAUP. The Grievance Committee shall send its decision to the grievant, the AAUP, the University Representative, the appropriate provost, the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs, the Office of Academic Labor Relations, and to each evaluator or evaluating body concerned in a violation sustained by the Grievance Committee. It is University practice to exclude from remanded evaluations, evaluators against whom charges of discrimination or enmity have been sustained.
B. 2. i. The grievant has the burden of proof. The burden of proof shall be met when the preponderance of evidence about an alleged fact and/or alleged violation is sufficient to sustain the allegation.
B. 2. j. If the Grievance Committee sustains the grievance, it shall order a remand, which is the sole and exclusive remedy under this procedure.
B.
2. k. When a remand is ordered by a Grievance Committee, the University Representative or other appropriate officer of the University shall convene a remand meeting. The Committee, the grievant, up to two grievance counselor(s), the appropriate officer of the University and up to two advisor(s) shall meet as soon as possible, but no later than within 10 working days of receipt of the decision by the AAUP and the University, to discuss the Committee's findings and its recommendations to correct the identified defects.
B. 2.
If the University and the grievant reach agreement concerning the remand, it will be reduced to writing and signed by the University Representative and the grievant. Such remedy shall be implemented promptly.
29
B. 2. m. If no agreement is reached within 10 working days of the meeting referred to in B.2.k. above, the University Representative shall issue instructions for the remanded evaluation with copies to the grievant and the AAUP. Such remand shall be implemented promptly and shall be fashioned to remedy identified defects. The instructions shall constitute the 30-day notice, pursuant to Article XIV of this Agreement.
B.
B.
B.
2. n. If the grievant alleges that the University Representative’s instructions for the remand procedure do not correct the defects found by the Grievance Committee, the grievant may request in writing, within five working days of receipt of the instructions, that the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs or his/her designee meet with the grievant and the grievance committee to discuss the remand instructions, after which he/she will provide a binding decision to the University as to whether or not the instructions eliminate the defects found by the Grievance Committee. The remand shall then be implemented promptly. The remand procedure may not be challenged in any other way until it has been implemented by the University and a decision on the re-evaluation has been made.
2. o. In a remanded evaluation, items listed on the original Form 1 may be updated by an addendum to Form 1 to reflect changes in status in those items. No changes may be made in the original Form 1.
2. p. Any individual or any representative of a body against whom allegations are brought may be present at the hearing, unless the grievant objects. If, however, the grievant is represented or assisted by a member of his/her own department, he/she may not object to the presence of a department member or any other member of the bargaining unit against whom an allegation has been made. In addition, other observers of the hearing are permitted with the consent of the grievant and the University representative.
B. 2. q. Either party may tape record the proceedings of the hearings, but the tape shall not constitute an official record. The tape may be used only in the grievance hearing or for the purpose of preparing the case and may not be used for any other purpose or in any other forum.
B. 2. r. Each grievance shall be considered de novo, and no decision or finding from one grievance may be introduced or referred to as precedent in any other grievance. However, a grievant shall be permitted to introduce as evidence in a grievance proceeding the decision in a prior grievance filed by him/herself.
C. Confidentiality
The University and the AAUP have a vital interest in confidentiality in order to preserve the impartiality of the process, the reputation of the institution, and the peace of the academic environment. Therefore, all participants in a grievance proceeding have an obligation to maintain strictly the confidentiality of that proceeding.
C. 1. The grievance statement, University response, associated documents, identities of witnesses, and evidence presented at the hearing shall be kept confidential by all concerned, except that the grievant or the University may make disclosure only to the extent necessary and only to potential witnesses and/or persons against whom
30
allegations have been made and/or persons the party has reason to believe may be able to assist in the preparation and/or presentation of that party's case. Such disclosure shall be limited in scope to those aspects of the case the party has reason to believe are relevant to disclosee's potential testimony or other assistance. The form and content of such disclosure shall be sensitive to the concerns outlined above, and shall in no case include providing tape recordings or transcripts of the proceedings to persons other than the Grievance Committee members, grievant, counselor, cocounselor, university representative, and his/her designated assistant.
Each witness to whom disclosure is made shall be identified to the other party before that witness's testimony is given.
Each person to whom disclosure is made shall be provided, prior to disclosure, a copy of this confidentiality provision and the no reprisals provision (G.2.), and shall not use the information about the grievance for any other purpose.
C. 2. The grievance proceeding shall be conducted in confidence, including only those agreed to by the participants in the process specified in the procedures set forth in this Article and such observers as may be mutually grievant and the University Representative.
C. 3. During the course of the grievance (from the filing of the letter of intent through the Appeals Board decision) there shall not be exerted or caused to be exerted, pressure on any individuals involved in the grievance.
An allegation of a violation of confidentiality shall be made to the Grievance Committee which shall render a binding decision concerning the propriety of the breach and continuing participation of any participant, except the grievant, who, in the judgment of the committee, has violated confidentiality.
D. Settlement of Procedural Questions Arising During a Grievance Committee Hearing
D. 1. A guestion arising during the processing of a grievance under this procedure concerning the interpretation and/or application of this procedure may be raised by the grievant or the University Representative as a matter for determination by the Grievance Committee.
D. 1. a. In the event the Grievance Committee declines to determine the matter or the grievant or the University Representative is not satisfied with the soundness of its interpretation and/or application, that procedural issue shall be referred to the Permanent Referee, in accordance with Section D.3. below.
D. 1. b. If such issue is referred to the Permanent Referee, the grievant and/or the University Representative may reguest that the hearing be suspended pending his/her review.
D.	1.	c.	If suspension is not reguested, the hearing may proceed to consider matters on
which no issue of interpretation or application of this procedure has been raised.
D.	1.	d.	A ruling made by the Grievance Committee on the interpretation or application of
this procedure that is not referred by the grievant or the University Representative to the Permanent Referee at the time of such ruling shall be binding for this and only this case.
31
D. 2. A question concerning a matter of procedure not specifically addressed by this procedure shall be referred within two working days of the date the issue arose to the parties to this Agreement (AAUP and the University) for a joint determination that shall amend the procedure on this question.
Should the AAUP and the University fail to reach such agreement within five working days of submission to them, the question may be submitted to the Grievance Committee by either party for an ad hoc procedure to be implemented in the instant case as a reasonable solution to the issue at hand. Any such ad hoc procedure shall not be a precedent in any other case. The Grievance Committee shall render a decision within seven working days of the date the matter was submitted to it.
D. 3. The Permanent Referee shall have the authority to make binding decisions on the interpretation and/or the application of provisions of this procedure where such issues are referred to it under the provision of D.1. Matters so referred shall be handled as follows:
D. 3. a. The grievant and/or University Representative shall submit their respective claims in writing to the parties to the Agreement (AAUP and the University) within two working days of the date the issue arose. The parties shall each prepare a written position on the issue to be forwarded to the Permanent Referee, with each party copying the other, within five working days of receipt of the statement of claim.
D. 3. b. Either the AAUP or the University may request a hearing on the matter before the Permanent Referee. Such request shall be made at the time of the party's submission of its position to the Permanent Referee.
D. 3. c. If no hearing is requested, the Permanent Referee may request a meeting with the parties to this Agreement to discuss the matter. Any hearing or meeting shall take place within five working days of the Permanent Referee's receipt of the parties' submissions.
D. 3. d. The Permanent Referee shall render his/her decision on the matter within seven working days of the receipt of the parties' submissions. A ruling by the Permanent Referee on the interpretation and/or application of this Agreement shall be binding on the grievant, the University and the AAUP.
D. 3. e. The decision of the Permanent Referee shall be rendered in accordance with law and shall be within the scope of his or her authority as provided in this procedure.
E. Appeals of Remanded Evaluations
E. 1. Letters of intent to grieve and grievance statements, as defined in B. above, shall be filed with the Office of Academic Labor Relations in accordance with the schedule and provisions therein.
E. 2. Within 25 working days of receipt of the grievance statement, the Office of Academic Labor Relations shall forward the grievance statement to the Faculty Appeals Board
32
and shall, at the same time, forward a written response to the particulars of the grievance, with copies to the grievant and the AAUP. The University's response shall address each allegation and shall identify and attach, if possible, any documents pertinent to the grievance. The University shall also forward, at the same time, the grievant's reappointment/promotion packet, and make available to the Appeals Board, the external confidential letters of evaluation, and, if the Faculty Appeals Board so requests, shall also make available the supplementary materials to the reappointment/promotion packet.
E. 3. If the grievant intends to request documents and/or other information from the University, he/she shall do so in writing at the earliest possible time, preferably prior to filing the grievance statement. All such requests shall explain the relevance of the requested information or documents to the alleged violations.
E. 4. External confidential letters of evaluation shall not be made available to the grievant or to his/her advisors, or to the University Representative for the purpose of this proceeding. The Faculty Appeals Board shall exercise all due diligence in protecting the confidentiality of the external letters and shall return all copies of the promotion packet and the external confidential letters to the University Representative once the Board has rendered its decision.
E. 5. The Faculty Appeals Board shall make a good faith effort to meet to hear the appeal no later than within one month of receipt of the material specified in E.2. above. If there is more than one grievance before the Appeals Board, priority shall be given to hearing and deciding grievances in which the grievant's employment is due to terminate. If the Faculty Appeals Board deems the caseload to warrant it, the Board may constitute, from among its members, two or more three-member panels. Generally, the Faculty Appeals Board will review only the written record, except that the grievant, at his/her request, shall have the right to appear before the Board for up to one hour for the purpose of presenting his/her case and answering any questions the Board might have. The grievant may be accompanied by his/her AAUP representative. The University Representative shall be present and shall have the opportunity to respond. At its sole discretion, the Board may request from the grievant or the University Representative additional materials or oral or written explanations.
E. 6. The Faculty Appeals Board shall render a decision in writing on a form appropriate to its finding. Such form shall be agreed upon by the AAUP and the University.
33
E. 6. a. The Board may deny the grievance. A denial of the grievance is final and binding on the grievant, the AAUP, and the University, and no further grievance or appeal may be made by the faculty member. This finding shall be forwarded immediately to the AAUP by the University.
E. 6. b. The Board may order a remanded evaluation. An order for a remanded evaluation is binding on the grievant, the AAUP, and the University, and, if a remand is ordered, the Faculty Appeals Board shall provide advice to the University in structuring the remand. This finding shall be forwarded immediately to the AAUP by the University.
E. 6. c. The Board may recommend to the Promotion Review Committee that the faculty member receive reappointment, promotion, and/or tenure. This recommendation must be considered by the President along with all other recommendations of the Promotion Review Committee. Such recommendation, made on the appropriate form, shall evaluate the candidate’s performance in each of the applicable criteria and shall include the Faculty Appeals Board’s rationale for the recommendation. Notification that such recommendation has been made shall be forwarded immediately to the AAUP by the University. The recommendation of the PRC, subject only to recommendation by the President and action by the Board of Governors, shall be final and binding on the grievant and the AAUP, and no further grievance or appeal may be made by the faculty member.
F. Composition and Selection of Permanent Referee, Grievance Committees and Faculty Appeals Board
F. 1. Permanent Referee
The University and the AAUP shall jointly select a professional arbitrator who shall serve as the Permanent Referee for a period of 12 months, beginning in the month of April of each year. The Permanent Referee shall be jointly briefed by the University and the AAUP at the beginning of his/her appointment.
The fees of the Permanent Referee shall be borne equally by the University and the AAUP.
F.	2.	Grievance Committees
F.	2.	a. Grievance Committees shall be composed of 3 tenured faculty bargaining unit
members at the rank of Associate Professor or above, who are 100% in bargaining unit titles, selected at random from the pool that includes the unit in which the grievance arose, except that no person shall serve on a Grievance Committee for a case in which he/she has participated in the evaluation process, nor shall any person be obligated to serve on a grievance committee more than once every three years. A faculty member who holds a 100% bargaining unit title while performing the duties of an assistant or associate dean shall be removed from a grievance committee at any time before the grievance committee has rendered a written decision unless the grievant chooses to go forward. The AAUP shall notify the grievant of the committee's membership.
The University and the AAUP shall jointly agree to the units comprising each of the grievance pools.
F. 2. b. Each Grievance Committee shall be constituted no later than October 15. Within ten working days of constitution of the Committee, the grievant may
34
challenge, in writing and stating the reason, the participation of any Grievance Committee member for cause. Such a challenge shall be directed to the University Representative by the AAUP. If the University and the AAUP cannot resolve the matter, it shall be referred to a faculty member selected jointly each year by the AAUP and the University. This individual shall receive only the grievant's written challenge and the University's written response, a copy of which shall be provided to the AAUP. The grievant may, within ten working days, provide a written rebuttal limited to points raised in the University response. The jointly selected faculty member shall render a final and binding decision within eight working days and shall notify the faculty member in case of removal.
F.	2.	c.	The members of each Grievance Committee shall designate one of their
members as chairperson of the Committee.
F.	2.	d.	Faculty members selected to serve on a Grievance Committee shall participate
in a joint University-AAUP briefing before being empaneled. The purpose of the briefing is to ensure that the Committee members understand the procedure and their role in the grievance process. Only persons who have participated in a briefing may serve on a Grievance Committee.
F.	3. Faculty Appeals Board
The Faculty Appeals Board shall consist of nine members from among the tenured faculty of the University, appointed by the President in the spring of each year for the following academic year. The AAUP may provide advice to the President on membership of the Faculty Appeals Board prior to March 1. The members of the Faculty Appeals Board shall select their own chair and a vice-chair. Decisions of the Faculty Appeals Board shall be by majority vote of the members participating in the particular proceeding. At least three of its members must participate in any proceeding. No person shall serve on the Faculty Appeals Board for a case in which he/she has participated in the evaluation process.
The AAUP shall notify the grievant of the Board's members. If a grievant wishes to challenge for cause the participation of any member of the Faculty Appeals Board, he/she shall do so in writing within ten working days of the constitution of his/her Board, explaining the reason at the time of filing the grievance statement. The parties shall attempt to resolve the challenge informally. If the matter cannot be resolved informally, the chair of the Faculty Appeals Board shall make a final and binding determination as to whether or not to accept the challenge. If the challenge is directed against the chair, the vice-chair shall make a determination about the challenge and shall act as chair for that particular proceeding.
F. 4. There shall be no ex parte communication with the members of the Faculty Appeals Board under any circumstances.
Scheduling of the Faculty Appeals Board hearings shall be done by the Office of Academic Labor Relations. The Office of Academic Labor Relations shall also perform word processing and related tasks for the Faculty Appeals Board with respect to the production and distribution of their written decision. If any panel of the Faculty Appeals Board needs support services beyond those specified above, the request shall be presented at the same time to the Office of Academic Labor Relations and the AAUP’s Grievance Administrator, and the parties shall forthwith jointly address the request.
G. Miscellaneous
35
G. 1. Grievance Committees do not have the authority to substitute their judgment for the academic judgment of persons charged with the responsibility for making such judgment. Further, neither the Grievance Committees nor the Faculty Appeals Board shall have the authority to amend, alter, or in any way change a provision of this Agreement, a University Regulation, or an established practice of the University.
G. 2. No reprisals shall be taken against any grievant, advisor, witness, or member of a Grievance Committee or the Faculty Appeals Board for participation in the grievance process. Claims of any such reprisals shall be grievable under Article IX, Category One.
G. 3. If a Grievance Committee finds for the grievant, the grievant shall receive a twelvemonth extension of employment beginning July 1 following the decision.
If the Faculty Appeals Board either orders a remand for the grievant or recommends to the Promotion Review Committee that the faculty member receive
reappointment, promotion and/or tenure, the grievant shall receive a twelve-month extension of employment beginning July 1 following the decision.
G.	4.	A grievant shall not be evaluated while an Article X grievance is pending.
G.	5.	It is the understanding of the AAUP and the University that all parties to the grievance
procedure, including the Grievance Committee, the grievant, the grievant's representatives, the University's Representatives, and witnesses presented by the grievant and the University, are charged with the responsibility for cooperating in the scheduling and hearing of the grievance in an expeditious manner.
G. 6. There shall be no ex parte communication regarding the substance of the grievance with the Grievance Committee or with the Faculty Appeals Board by the grievant, the University Representative, or their advisors, the AAUP, or the University administration.
G.	7. This Article X grievance procedure, whether or not pursued, shall constitute the sole and exclusive right and remedy of bargaining-unit members for all claims cognizable under this procedure. Decisions by a Grievance Committee or the Faculty Appeals Board as provided for in this Article X grievance procedure shall be considered a binding and final settlement of the grievance. The exclusivity of remedies and exhaustion of procedures provided for above are not intended nor shall they apply to rights of individual bargaining-unit members that arise from sources independent of this Agreement, University policies, agreements, administrative decisions, or regulations. Nothing in this provision shall be construed or implied as a waiver by the University of the defenses of exhaustion of remedies or exclusivity of the grievance procedure.
H.	Time Limits
H. 1. For the purpose of this procedure, "working days" are all days on which the administrative offices of the University are officially open for business as specified in the administrative calendar.
H. 2. Grievances submitted from New Brunswick shall be delivered to the Office of Academic Labor Relations, in which case the delivery date will establish the timeliness of the filing. Grievances submitted from the Camden and Newark campuses as well as other locations outside New Brunswick shall be sent by United States mail to the
36
Office of Academic Labor Relations, in which case the postmark date will establish the timeliness of filing.
H.	3.	Requests for extensions of any of the time limits specified in this grievance procedure
may be granted only by mutual agreement of the University and the AAUP.
H.	4.	If a member of the bargaining unit intends to file an appeal to the Faculty Appeals
Board and it is likely that his/her employment with the University would terminate prior to the date of a decision by the Faculty Appeals Board if the normal time schedule set forth in these procedures were followed, the grievant shall have the opportunity to utilize an accelerated schedule, as set forth below:
H. 4. a. The grievant must notify the Office of Academic Labor Relations in writing of his/her intent to file a grievance within ten working days of the date on which the AAUP receives notification of the negative personnel action and must indicate that he/she is utilizing the accelerated schedule.
H. 4. b. Within 20 working days of the date of the letter of intent to file, as specified in H.4.a. above, but no later than ten working days prior to June 21, the grievance statement, as defined in A. 3. above, shall be filed with the Office of Academic Labor Relations.
H. 4. c. Within ten working days of receipt of the grievance statement, but no later than June 21, the University shall forward the materials specified in section E.2. above.
H. 4. d. The Faculty Appeals Board shall meet to hear the appeal within five working days of receipt of the material specified in E.2. above. If possible, the Faculty Appeals Board will render its written decision within five working days of its meeting. If that is not possible, the Faculty Appeals Board will render an oral decision within five working days and will render its written decision within ten working days, but no later than June 30.
H. 4. e. If the grievant fails to meet any deadline set forth in this accelerated procedure, he/she shall lose all right to utilize it, and the grievance shall be heard in accordance with the regular time schedule set forth in this Article X grievance procedure.
37
XI - TEACHING ASSISTANT/GRADUATE ASSISTANT PERSONNEL GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
A.	This procedure is designed to expedite the resolution of problems that arise in connection with the reappointment of Graduate Assistants and Teaching Assistants at the University. The graduate student should first attempt to resolve informally any problem that arises as expeditiously as possible, in the case of Teaching Assistants, with the faculty administrator who oversees the undergraduate/graduate program in which the Teaching Assistant is employed or, in the case of Graduate Assistants, with the Director of the Center, Bureau or Institute, or the chairperson of that department in which the Graduate Assistant is employed. The dean of each academic unit that enrolls graduate students will designate an individual on his/her staff to assist graduate students in achieving informal resolution of problems and the University will notify the AAUP of the identity of this individual. The graduate student is encouraged to seek such assistance as part of his/her attempt to reach informal resolution.
B.	If the problem cannot be resolved through the informal means described above, the graduate student shall have access to the grievance procedure described below.
1.	A grievance under this Article XI is defined as any claimed violation of University Regulations, this Agreement, or established policy or practice regarding non-reappointment of Teaching Assistants/ Graduate Assistants where non-reappointment is based upon the individual’s work performance as a TA/GA. All other grievable matters shall be heard under Article IX.
2.	At any step in the grievance procedure, the grievant may request participation of an AAUP-appointed representative. A maximum of two such representatives may be active at any one time.
3.	In each of the steps described in d. below, the following conditions shall be understood:
a.	The grievant may be accompanied by an observer and may be assisted by a representative in presenting the case.
b.	The time limits prescribed for decision-making may be extended at any time as may be mutually agreed upon in writing by the grievant and the university.
c.	The substance of all proceedings will be confidential.
d.	Step 1 - The grievant shall address the matter in writing to the appropriate faculty administrator designated in paragraph A. above. Five working days from initial presentation will be allowed for effective resolution.
38
Step 2 - If resolution is not achieved at Step 1, the grievant shall submit an appeal, in writing, to a committee charged for this purpose on the campus on which the grievant is employed and concurrently to the AAUP and the Office of Academic Labor Relations. The campus committees shall be appointed by the Provost in Newark and Camden and the EVPAA in New Brunswick. Each committee shall be made up of three faculty members and two TA/GAs. In addition, one or more replacement pools shall be appointed on each campus by the Provost in Newark and Camden and the EVPAA in New Brunswick. The replacement pools shall be made up of three faculty members and two TA/GAs. The replacement shall be the same status as the committee member being replaced. A list of these committees and replacement pools shall be compiled annually and shall be on file in the Office of Academic Labor Relations and sent to the AAUP no later than September 30 of each year.
The grievant may submit concurrently to the AAUP and the Office of Academic Labor Relations a challenge for cause of any members of the committee within 5 working days of submission of the appeal, but before the day of the first meeting of the committee. The committee shall rule on the challenge within 5 working days of submission of the challenge. The Office of Academic Labor Relations may also challenge for cause any members of the committee and notify the grievant and the AAUP of such action following the same schedule. Cause shall be defined as the inability of a committee member to make a fair and independent decision because of bias or personal relationship to the parties or the controversy. The unchallenged members of the committee shall make the determination of whether cause exists. Such a determination shall require the assent of two or more members of the committee. In the event that a member of the committee is excused for cause, or recuses himself/herself, or is unavailable when the appeal is to be considered by the committee, another committee member shall be randomly selected jointly by the parties from the appropriate replacement pool. No member of the program in which the grievant is either a student or TA/GA may serve on the committee.
The committee shall be allowed 20 working days from the date of its receipt of the grievant’s written appeal, or 20 working days from the resolution of a challenge for cause, to meet with the grievant, should the grievant request such a meeting, and render a decision to recommend or not recommend reappointment.
Step 3 - The committee shall present its recommendation in writing to the Dean of the Graduate School (in New Brunswick), the Associate Provost for Research and Dean of the Graduate School (in Newark), or the Dean of the Graduate School (in Camden), or a designee of that officer, and to the grievant, the AAUP and the Office of Academic Labor Relations. The provost or dean shall have 20 working days following receipt of the committee's recommendation to accept, to reject, or to modify the recommendation and to notify the grievant, the AAUP and the Office of Academic Labor Relations of his/her decision within five working days of the decision or as soon thereafter as practicable. The recommendation of the committee shall be deemed to have been accepted if no action is taken on it within the 20 working days following his/her receipt of the recommendation.
39
XII - TEACHING ASSISTANTS/GRADUATE ASSISTANTS
A.	Notification of Criteria for Appointment and Reappointment
Academic departments that have employed Teaching Assistants and Graduate Assistants in each of the previous three semesters shall provide notice in writing of the departmental criteria for such appointments or reappointments. Individual contract letters shall be issued to Teaching Assistants and Graduate Assistants upon appointment and reappointment and, pursuant to the above provision, where written criteria for appointment or reappointment exist, they shall be included with the appointment letter.
The University shall continue to encourage all departments and programs when appropriate to appoint full-time graduate students as full-time teaching and graduate assistants. The administration shall provide to the AAUP by August 15 of each year evidence of how this encouragement has been carried out during the previous academic year.
B.	Notice of Reappointment
All currently employed Teaching Assistants and Graduate Assistants shall be notified by the University in writing of their status for the coming academic year on or before April 30 for Fall semester appointments and October 31 for Spring semester appointments. Notification shall be either a) reappointment, or b) non-reappointment, or c) waiting list, with reappointment contingent upon the availability of funding or the meeting of other previously established and announced criteria. Departments shall be encouraged to minimize the use of the waiting list option, where academically feasible. Notification of non-reappointment shall include written explanation of the reasons. Notification of waiting-list status shall indicate if reappointment is contingent upon the availability of funding or the meeting of other previously established and announced criteria that shall be specified in the notice, or both. If notification is of waiting-list status, a graduate student shall be further notified of the number of Teaching Assistants and Graduate Assistants employed in the department in the current year and the number of appointments already offered in the department for the coming year. The names of those individuals who receive notification of nonreappointment shall be forwarded to the AAUP within 20 working days of the notice of nonreappointment.
A graduate student who is placed on a waiting list shall be notified as soon as possible of a change in his/her status. Upon request by a graduate student on the waiting list he/she shall receive a second notification in writing from the department, on or before June 30, of the number of appointments already offered in the department for the coming year.
C.	Workload
Teaching Assistants who have responsibility for a course shall normally be notified in writing at least four weeks prior to the beginning of the semester of their assignment for the coming year. All other Teaching Assistants and all Graduate Assistants normally shall be notified of their assignments at least five working days before the first day of classes. It is understood that unexpected circumstances may require modification of assignments. If a Teaching or Graduate Assistant's assignment is changed substantially subsequent to notification, the appropriate unit will provide notification in writing of the change. Graduate students may, at the time of their application for a Teaching Assistant position, indicate any preference they have with regard to teaching assignments.
40
The individual assignment of a Teaching Assistant or Graduate Assistant shall be consistent with the current practice of the department or program. Because of the student status of the Teaching Assistant and Graduate Assistant, and because of the variety of duties that may be assigned, consistency with the practice within a given department or program is a more reliable guide to the propriety of individual workload assignments than any strict quantitative measure or comparison with assignments in other departments or programs. Nevertheless, except for special academic circumstances--for example, an emergent situation in regard to laboratory research or intensive preparation for a performance--a Teaching Assistant or Graduate Assistant with a standard appointment works normally at the maximum rate of fifteen clock hours per week, or a prorated portion thereof if the appointment is less than standard. Individual claims that workload assignments are inconsistent with the practices of the department or program shall be brought to the attention of a designated individual in the appropriate dean's office, who shall be responsible for investigating the claims and responding to them.
D.	Term of Appointment
The term of the work year for Teaching Assistants and Graduate Assistants with academic year appointments is from August 25 to Commencement, or an equivalent period. However, the terms of appointment for such Teaching and Graduate Assistants shall be set forth as September 1 to June 30 for payroll purposes only. The period of the work year prior to September 1 shall be used solely for orientation, training, and preparation related to the Teaching or Graduate Assistant's assignment.
The term of the work year for Teaching Assistants and Graduate Assistants with calendar year appointments is the entire year, with the exception of a vacation of one month.
E.	Training
All Teaching Assistants shall be required, as appropriate, to participate in a teachingeffectiveness workshop or workshops. Such workshops shall be designed and conducted by the Graduate Schools and, when appropriate, by individual departments and programs that utilize teaching assistants, or by groups of related departments and programs. Such programs shall be offered at a time that is within the term of the work year.
F.	Notification
The University will provide to the AAUP a list of all Teaching Assistants and Graduate Assistants who are on the payroll as of September 30 and February 1 of each year. Such list shall be provided within ten working days after September 30 and February 1.
41
XIV- FACULTY REAPPOINTMENT/PROMOTION
The University will furnish to the AAUP each year, at least 15 working days prior to distribution, a copy of all material contained in the promotion and reappointment packet forms. All candidates shall be provided by the chair with a copy of the current academic reappointment/promotion instructions and shall certify that they have received the instructions. Upon request, a department chair will provide a member of the faculty with a copy of the current academic reappointment/promotion instructions.
1.	a. Each faculty member who is to be considered for reappointment or promotion shall be notified by the department chairperson at least 30 days in advance that said consideration shall take place.
b.	A tenured faculty member may request of the department chairperson that he/she be evaluated for promotion. The request shall be granted for tenured members of the faculty who have been at least six years in rank and have not been evaluated for promotion for at least four years. Such evaluation shall be carried through each level of review, including the Promotion Review Committee, unless withdrawn by the candidate. Withdrawal after the candidate signs Form 2 constitutes an evaluation for the purpose of this paragraph 1.b.
c.	The department chairperson shall provide the faculty member with a signed and completed Recommendation Information Form. Within five working days of its receipt, the faculty member will sign and return the Form to indicate concurrence with its content, or, if there is a dispute between the faculty member and the chairperson as to the content of the Form which they are unable to resolve, the faculty member shall so indicate by marking "dissent" next to his/her signature and attaching an explanation to the Form.
d.	The faculty member may submit to the department chairperson any documents or materials he/she wishes to have considered. The faculty member shall provide at least two copies of such materials. A list, compiled by the faculty member, of the documents submitted to the chairperson shall be attached to the promotion packet. It shall be the responsibility of the chairperson to circulate that list and all documents or materials submitted by the candidate, together with any other relevant material, subject to 1.e. below, to the appropriate reviewing bodies.
If the faculty member wishes to include a lengthy unpublished manuscript and requires copying services, he/she may contact the Graphic Design and Publications Center, Newark; the Associate Dean for Student Life, Camden; or the Office of the Director of Business Affairs and Administration, Faculty of Arts and Sciences, New Brunswick at least 30 days prior to the date on which copies are needed. The faculty member will be charged the prevailing rate for services so provided. If the service cannot be provided, the candidate will be notified promptly.
e.	If any document or documents, other than confidential outside letters of evaluation, the official reappointment/promotion forms, continuation pages added to these forms, reports of reading committees, supplements to confidential letters as provided in 1.h. below, and materials submitted by the candidate, are added to the promotion packet by an evaluative body, a copy of said document(s) shall be transmitted immediately to the
42
candidate; the candidate shall have the right to submit a response or rebuttal within six working days. The response shall be directed to that level of the evaluation at which the added document was received and shall become a part of the promotion packet. Any documents that are (1) physically present during the evaluation and (2) specifically referred to during the deliberations of the evaluative body and (3) which a majority of the evaluative body agrees have a direct bearing on the evaluation must be added to the packet, in accordance with this procedure.
f.	Subsequent to the commencement of the evaluation and prior to final recommendation of the Promotion Review Committee, the department chairperson shall, upon request of the candidate, add to the packet evidence of a significant change in the status of materials originally submitted by the candidate if 1) the Dean concurs that a significant change has occurred and 2) such change has occurred since the initiation of the evaluation. If there is a dispute between the candidate and the Dean as to whether a significant change has occurred in the status of materials originally submitted by the candidate, the Office of the Provost or in New Brunswick, the Office of the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs, shall make the final determination as to whether evidence of the change shall be added to the packet.
Such additions to the packet, as provided above, shall in all instances be submitted to the level of review at which the candidate is then being evaluated. However, if the addition occurs on or before December 1, the addition to the packet shall also be circulated to each earlier level of review so that each earlier level may revise its evaluation should it deem such revision warranted by the addition. If the addition occurs after December 1, but on or before January 25, it shall be circulated only to the dean and the Promotion Review Committee, unless the department has made a negative recommendation concerning the candidacy in question, in which case it shall also be circulated to the department. The department, the dean, and/or the Promotion Review Committee may revise the evaluation made at that level should such revision be deemed by the department, the dean, or the Promotion Review Committee to be warranted by the addition.
Except as provided in 1.e. and 1 .f., no other materials or documents may be introduced by the candidate after the review process has commenced.
g.	With the exception of confidential outside letters of evaluation solicited in accordance with University Regulations and those documents that are generally public knowledge such as published student evaluations, published articles and other similar documents, only those materials in the official personnel file (Article XVIII), or those materials added to the packet in 1.e. and 1.f. may be used in conducting the review.
h.	Outside letters of evaluation shall be held in confidence and their use restricted to evaluation of the faculty member.
A candidate may suggest potential outside evaluators and may discuss with his/her department chairperson qualified persons from whom letters may be solicited.
The candidate may prepare a list of persons in his/her field from whom he/she prefers letters of evaluation not be solicited. The candidate shall provide a written explanation for the inclusion of each person on that list. If a letter of evaluation is solicited from an individual on the candidate's list, the candidate's written explanation shall be attached to the individual's letter of evaluation. A department chair or dean may, at his/her discretion, also attach an explanation for his/her decision to solicit a letter from the individual. Such attachments,
43
whether prepared by the candidate, the department chairperson, or the dean, shall be held, like the letters to which they refer, in confidence.
2.	The candidate shall be notified of the departmental decision by the departmental chairperson in writing within five days from the date such decision is made. The candidate will be notified in writing by the dean or his designee of the final decision in the particular personnel action within ten days of receipt of the knowledge that the final decision by the appropriate person or committee has been made.
3.	Each faculty member who is appointed shall be given written notice of the criteria that will be applicable in future reappointment or promotion evaluations, and those criteria shall form the basis of future evaluations. If the applicable criteria change, the University will provide written notice to the faculty member of the newly applicable criteria. A faculty member who is evaluated for and who fails to receive reappointment and/or promotion shall be so notified. At the request of a faculty member, a written explanation of the reasons for his/her non-reappointment or non-promotion shall be provided by the dean.
4.	Faculty members who hold temporary titles may be considered for other appointments in accordance with regular University practices and policies.
5.	For candidates in the first year of service requiring recommendation for reappointment, the departmental process shall be initiated no later than the last week of the first semester of service and shall be completed in time to conform to the appropriate date of notification as specified in University Regulations.
6.	For candidates beyond the first year of service, the departmental recommendation shall be forwarded at least one month prior to the required date of notification.
7.	The University shall transmit to the AAUP written notice of each positive or negative final decision concerning promotion, tenure, or reappointment of faculty members in the bargaining unit, within ten working days of final decision when action by the Board of Governors is required and within 20 working days of final decision when action by the Board of Governors is not required.
44
XV - PROFESSIONAL DUTIES
The parties recognize that the University accomplishes a variety of academic and professional services including undergraduate, graduate, and professional instruction, research and community service. The professional duties required of the faculty shall be in accordance with the mission of the University.
Individual workload assignments of members of the bargaining unit shall be consistent with the practice of their department, program, or unit.
Claims of inconsistency with such practices by members of the bargaining unit shall be grievable as a Category Two grievance under the contract grievance procedure (Article IX).
45
XVI - FAMILY LEAVE AND DISABILITY RESULTING FROM PREGNANCY
This provision deals with family leave and shall include leaves for pregnancy, postpregnancy, disability resulting from pregnancy, disability, parenting, and caregiving.
The AAUP and the University shall jointly designate a member of the University community to assist members of the bargaining unit in securing the benefits of this article.
The individual's department shall be responsible for closing ranks. The close ranks practice must be applied in an equitable and consistent manner. Claims that it is not being applied equitably or consistently or that an individual is being inappropriately denied his or her benefit shall be brought to the attention of that individual designated above who shall investigate and respond.
A.	Short-term disabilities caused or contributed to by pregnancy, miscarriage, abortion,
childbirth, and recovery therefrom are, for all job-related purposes, treated like other short-term disabilities. After pregnancy, a member of the bargaining unit is entitled to a recuperative paid leave of up to six weeks, or a longer period if the bargaining unit member continues to be disabled. All employment policies and practices involving commencement and duration of leave, availability of extensions, accrual of seniority and other benefits and privileges, and reinstatement and payment, shall be applied to short-term disabilities due to the above causes as they are applied to other short-term disabilities of members of the bargaining unit.
B.	Requests by a member of the bargaining unit (faculty or TA/GA) for a leave of absence
without pay to provide care made necessary by reason of the birth or adoption of the bargaining unit member's child or the serious health condition of a family member or same sex sole domestic partner, as determined in accordance with University policy, shall be granted in accordance with the provisions of the State of New Jersey Family Leave Act and in accordance with the provisions set forth below. Upon request by a member of the bargaining unit, a written explanation will be provided by the University for a denial of such a leave:
1.	A request for such leave shall be made as far in advance as is reasonably practicable.
2.	A bargaining unit member who requests a family leave shall endeavor, in the timing of
such a leave, to accommodate the needs of the academic program and the provision of instruction to students.
3.	In the event that such a leave is taken for a full semester, the faculty bargaining unit member may, at his/her option, have the entire year excluded from the probationary period. A written statement requesting exclusion of the entire year shall ordinarily be submitted by the faculty bargaining unit member to the dean or director at the time the leave is requested and shall be part of the official personnel file. This provision is not applicable to faculty bargaining unit members in their terminal year.
4.	A first year's leave of absence without pay shall automatically extend the term of appointment by a period equal to the time excluded from the probationary period. No extension applicable to the final year of the faculty member's probationary period may be requested or granted.
5.	A second year's leave of absence without pay shall not automatically extend the term of appointment. When the second year's leave of absence is requested, a faculty member may request an extension of his/her appointment for a period of time equal to the amount of the leave. If the University grants the leave, it shall at the same time respond to the
46
faculty member's request for an extension of the appointment. No extension applicable to the final year of the faculty member's probationary period may be requested or granted.
C.	A faculty bargaining unit member who continues to fulfill the duties and responsibilities of his/her faculty appointment may request an exclusion of one year from the probationary period when he/she becomes a parent during the first five years of the probationary period, or became a parent within one year prior to appointment at the University, when the faculty bargaining unit member serves as the principal or co-equal care-giver.
A request for an exclusion of one year from the probationary period under this provision shall be made in writing and requires the approval of the department chair and the dean. Such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. No faculty member of the bargaining unit is entitled to more than one such exclusion. Exclusion of a year from the probationary period under this provision shall automatically extend the term of appointment by a period equal to the time excluded from the probationary period.
Grievances in respect to this article applicable to Article IX shall be heard as Category 2 grievances (except as set forth in D below).
D.	For the purposes of faculty reappointment and promotion consideration, University evaluators, evaluative bodies, and writers of confidential outside letters of evaluation shall be informed, only upon the candidate’s written request, that the record of a faculty member who has had time excluded from the probationary period is to be reviewed in the same manner as the record of a faculty member with the normal probationary period. Faculty members shall be informed of this option via the 30-day letter (Appendix F-1 of the University Academic Reappointment/ Promotion Instructions). An alleged violation of this provision shall not be the basis of a grievance under Article IX or under Article X, except as set forth in Article X. A. 1 .a.
47
XVII - LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY
A.	Leaves of absence without pay are for the purpose of professional development, personal convenience, or completion of a terminal degree. Such leaves may be for a period up to two consecutive years.
B.	The granting of a leave of absence without pay to members of the faculty is subject to the needs of the academic program and requires the approval of the department chairperson and the dean. Such approval may not be unreasonably withheld, and a written statement of the reasons for withholding approval shall be given to the faculty member upon request within ten working days of that request.
C.	A request for a leave of absence without pay shall normally be made one year in advance and will specify the requested dates of commencement and termination of the leave. The date for the commencement and termination of such leave shall be at the discretion of the University, but normally such leave shall commence on July 1 or on January 1 and shall terminate on December 31 or June 30.
D.	A leave of absence without pay shall not count in the probationary period for tenure. In the event a leave of absence without pay is taken for one semester, the faculty member, only once during his/her probationary period, may request to have the entire year excluded from the probationary period for tenure. A request for a full year's exclusion normally shall be made by the faculty member at the time the leave of absence is requested, and, if the University grants the leave, it shall at the same time respond to the faculty member's request for a full year's exclusion.
E.	A first year's leave of absence without pay shall automatically extend the term of appointment by a period equal to the time excluded from the probationary period. No extension applicable to the final year of the faculty member's probationary period may be requested or granted.
F.	A second year's leave of absence without pay shall not automatically extend the term of appointment. When the second year's leave of absence is requested, a faculty member may request an extension of his/her appointment for a period of time equal to the amount of the leave, except that no extension applicable to the final year of the faculty member's probationary period may be requested or granted. If the University grants the leave, it shall at the same time respond to the faculty member's request for an extension of the appointment. Denial by the University of a faculty member's request for an extension of the appointment shall be grievable under Article IX, Category 2.
G.	A faculty member who has been on a leave shall receive on return any salary improvements he/she would have received had he/she been serving at Rutgers during the leave period. Normal University policy regarding benefits during a period of leave without pay shall apply. The University shall provide to faculty members who are beginning a leave of absence without pay the forms and instructions necessary to re-enrolling in those benefit plans for which they are eligible upon their return to paid employment.
48
XVIII - PERSONNEL FILES
A.	The official personnel file for each faculty member shall be maintained in the office of the appropriate dean or director. The contents of this file, at the sole discretion of the University except as otherwise provided in this Article, may include the types of material listed below, as well as other materials:
1.	Documents submitted by the faculty member or placed in his/her file at his/her request.
2.	Documents concerning the individual's employment history at the University and all records of personnel decisions affecting his/her compensation or employment status.
3.	Materials assembled in accordance with University Regulations, practices and policies, or the terms of this Agreement concerning the evaluation, reappointment, promotion, or tenure of each faculty member, with the exception of outside confidential letters of recommendation.
B.	The official personnel file for each teaching/graduate assistant shall be maintained in the office of the appropriate dean or director.
C.	Any member of the bargaining unit may have access to all documents in his/her official personnel file, including internal evaluations related to the individual, and may add to those records such materials as the individual believes necessary to give a reasonable representation of the individual’s record.
D.	The official personnel file shall be available for examination by the bargaining unit member who shall be entitled to review it at reasonable hours upon written request and to purchase copies of any or all materials contained therein.
E.	When a personnel action has been initiated by a department or other appropriate body, access to the promotion forms related to that action will not be available to the faculty member until that personnel action has been completed.
F.	No material may be added to the official personnel file more than one year after its receipt by the academic officer to whom the material is originally directed except according to the procedure outlined below:
1.	The academic officer who wishes to add material more than one year after its receipt shall provide an accompanying written explanation for the addition of the material.
2.	The faculty member shall have the opportunity to appeal to the dean the addition of material added to his/her official personnel file more than one year after its receipt.
3.	The faculty member may appeal the decision of the dean to the appropriate provost.
G.	If a bargaining unit member believes that material necessary to give a reasonable representation of his/her record exists elsewhere, the bargaining unit member may apply in writing to his/her Provost, or in New Brunswick to the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs, requesting access to the material. This request must specify, to the best of the faculty member's knowledge, the nature of the material and its location within the University.
49
Within 15 working days of such request, the Provost or the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs, or his/her designee shall respond by either:
1.	Producing the material requested, or
2.	Certifying in writing that to the best of his/her knowledge the alleged material does not exist, or that it exists but does not belong in the faculty member's official personnel file. Such certification shall be placed in the official personnel file and shall serve to preclude the use of such material in any personnel action.
H.	The bargaining unit member shall have the right to prepare a written response to any document in the official personnel file which the bargaining unit member believes reflects negatively on his/her abilities or performance. The written response will be placed in the official personnel file if the response is provided to the dean with the explicit request that it be placed in the official personnel file.
50
XIX- MISCELLANEOUS
A.	Agenda materials for the regular monthly public meeting of the Board of Governors will be forwarded to the AAUP at the time they are distributed to the members of the Board of Governors with the following exceptions:
1.	All items related to personnel actions;
2.	Advisory, consultative or deliberative materials as defined by the Open Public Records Act;
3.	Confidential or privileged materials relating to items that involve matters that may be discussed in closed session under the Open Public Meetings Act.
Disputes about A.2. and A.3. shall be grievable only through Step One of Article IX. Nothing herein shall preclude a challenge to a University determination made pursuant to A.2. or A.3. being brought before an appropriate governmental or judicial forum.
B.	1. Before being presented to the Board of Governors, proposed changes in University Regulations, policies, and/or practices affecting the terms and conditions of employment of the members of the bargaining unit shall first be submitted to the AAUP for negotiation.
2.	Section B.1. above shall be construed to require negotiations only as to those aspects of such proposed changes that constitute mandatory subjects of negotiation. Disputes concerning the application of section B.1. and B.2. shall be resolved by submission to the Public Employment Relations Commission under its scope-of-negotiation processes.
C.	The parties agree to share the cost of the initial printing and distribution of copies of this Agreement. The initial printing shall include 400 copies for each party and a sufficient number for current and future bargaining unit members.
The parties agree that this Agreement will be distributed to members of the bargaining unit as soon as practical after ratification and to new members of the bargaining unit at the time of the second paycheck after commencement of employment.
After the initial printing, the AAUP agrees to pay the printing and distribution costs for additional copies of this Agreement that it orders for its own use, and the University agrees to pay the printing and distribution costs for additional copies of this Agreement that it orders for its own use. Said Agreement shall be printed by the University’s Mail and Document Services and shall bear the AAUP logo on the cover of the contract.
Paragraph C shall be reviewed by the parties in the next negotiations to evaluate the feasibility of providing access to the Agreement electronically.
D.	1. The annual motor vehicle registration fee for employees wishing to register their vehicles for the use of campus parking facilities shall be based on the employee's annual salary at the time of billing. Collection of the motor vehicle registration fee shall be in January of each academic year.
2.	The annual motor vehicle registration fee for employees wishing to register their vehicles for the use of surface campus parking facilities shall be 1/10 of one (1) percent of the employee's annual salary for employees earning less than $25,000. For salaries from $25,000 to $29,999 the rate shall be 11/100th of one (1) percent (.0011). For salaries from $30,000 to $34,999, the rate shall be 12/100th of one (1) percent (.0012). For salaries from $35,000 to $39,999 the rate shall be
51
14/100th of one (1) percent (.0014). For salaries from $40,000 to $44,999, the rate shall be 16/100th of one (1) percent (.0016). For salaries from $45,000 to $49,999 the rate shall be 18/100th of one (1) percent (.0018). Thereafter, the rate shall increase 2/100th of one (1) percent (.0002) for each additional $10,000 of salary or portion thereof, the new rate to be applied to the entire salary. Thus, the rate for $50,000 - $59,999 is .002, $60,000 - $69,999 is .0022, $70,000 -$79,999 is .0024, etc.
3.	To the extent permitted by law, effective January 1,2000, employees who pay the motor vehicle registration fee for the use of campus parking facilities by way of payroll deduction shall be given the option of paying said fee by way of a pretax payroll deduction.
E.	Effective 2004-2005, there shall be an Educational Assistance Program pursuant to Section 127 of the Internal Revenue Code that provides educational assistance to Teaching and Graduate Assistants covered by this agreement as follows. There shall be no required college fee or computer fee, except that in the case of a part-time TA/GA who is a full-time student, the educational assistance shall be limited to the amount of the applicable full-time college fee less the amount of the part-time college fee applicable to the student’s school or college, plus the computer fee.
The educational assistance provided for herein shall continue in perpetuity and the University agrees that, unless the AAUP agrees to a modification, this provision will survive the expiration of the collective negotiations agreement and continue in all succeeding collective negotiations agreements.
Required student fees paid by part-time teaching assistants and graduate assistants may be paid by way of bi-weekly payroll deduction.
F.	Campus Mail
1.	To the extent permitted by law, upon the effective date of this Agreement, the University will carry without charge by University campus mail up to three times per semester the AAUP newsletter to its bargaining unit members. The AAUP will not send, and the University will not carry, by campus mail any other matter except upon payment of appropriate United States Postal charges.
2.	a. The AAUP shall indemnify and save harmless the University against any and all claims, demands, suits, judgments, settlements, or any other forms of liability, including reasonable counsel fees and other costs of defense, that shall arise out of or by reason of any action taken by the University to comply with Section F.1. above, including liability for United States Postal charges for carriage of AAUP mail at any time and also including but not limited to, any actions in connection with defending the legality of this indemnification provision. The AAUP shall remit payment for said fees and costs to the University within 30 days after receipt of a detailed statement of services rendered in connection with said defense. If full payment is not remitted within 30 days, the University’s obligation pursuant to Section F.1. shall be suspended for so long as this statement of services remains unpaid.
b.	In the event this indemnification provision is found by any court or administrative agency of competent jurisdiction to be illegal or against public policy, then effective the date on which the AAUP no longer remits payments to the University as provided in Section F.2.a. above, the University’s obligation under Section F.1. above shall terminate.
52
c.	The University shall retain its right to determine the course of conduct, including but not limited to, the right to select counsel and determine strategy, in any action arising out of or by reason of the provisions of Section F.
G.	University Website
As soon as practical after the effective date of this Agreement, the University shall put this Agreement on the University’s Website and shall list on the Website the name, address and telephone number and Website of the Rutgers Council of AAUP Chapters.
53
XX - HEALTH AND SAFETY
A.	The University will meet with the AAUP at regular intervals five times during the course of the year to discuss employment-related health and safety problems. The University’s representatives shall be administrative officers of the University.
The AAUP may request the attendance of any administrative officer whom it believes can provide detailed information on a subject related to the health and safety of bargaining unit members. Such request shall not be unreasonably denied.
B.	Bargaining-unit members are responsible for reporting health and safety problems to their dean or director and to the Rutgers Environmental Health & Safety Department. Such reports shall be filed on the Health and Safety Report Form. The University is responsible for promptly forwarding a copy of each Health and Safety Report Form filed by members of the bargaining unit to the AAUP. The University is responsible for maintaining a supply of Health and Safety Report Forms in every University department where bargaining unit members are employed.
C.	The AAUP and the University shall jointly appoint faculty bargaining unit members to the Unit Safety Committees for academic departments.
D.	The AAUP and the University shall jointly appoint faculty bargaining unit members to the Campus Safety Committees. At least one faculty bargaining unit member shall be appointed to each Campus Safety Committee.
E.	No bargaining unit member shall be required to work under conditions where there has been a determination, on a reasonable basis in fact, that those conditions pose an immediate danger to health and safety. It shall be the responsibility of the University to make such determinations as rapidly as possible.
F.	Information
1.	The AAUP may request from the University information concerning health and safety matters affecting bargaining unit members, and the University shall provide the information requested.
2.	In the event that the requested information is directly involved in pending litigation between the parties, the AAUP will not request the information under the procedure set forth in this Article but may rely only on any rights it has pursuant to the pending litigation.
3.	In the event that the requested information is directly involved in pending litigation between the University and any other party, then the AAUP and the University agree to limit access to the information to a designated official of the AAUP. Such official may not be a party to or involved in the pending litigation. The designated official of the AAUP shall not disclose such information, either directly or indirectly, except in discussions with appropriate University officials and in arbitration procedures arising under Article IX of the Agreement. In the event it becomes necessary for the AAUP to disclose such information in an arbitration proceeding, the parties agree that such arbitration shall be closed and the record thereof sealed. This provision shall not prevent the AAUP from discussing the information with its counsel.
54
4.	When the AAUP requests health and safety information, it agrees to cooperate fully with the University in the acquisition of such information.
5.	The University and the AAUP agree that when such a request for information will require significant expenditure of time and/or funds, the parties shall bear such costs equally.
G.	When the University determines to remove asbestos from a building or a portion of a building in which members of the AAUP bargaining unit work (and usually prior to the development of specifications for the removal project), the University shall inform the AAUP and, if the AAUP so requests, the University shall meet with the AAUP to discuss the effect, if any, of such removal on bargaining-unit members. Except for minor asbestos projects, the University shall notify the AAUP no later than ten working days after a contract is awarded for asbestos removal and identify the contractor; the AAUP will notify the University within one (1) working day of its receipt of notification of its desire to meet with the University prior to the beginning of the work.
When asbestos is being removed from a portion of a building and members of the AAUP bargaining unit continue to work in other portions of that building, the University shall forward to the AAUP promptly upon receipt all reports made by the independent safety monitor. Whenever an air test result exceeds the standard for PCM and TEM outside a containment barrier, the AAUP shall be simultaneously informed of the corrective steps being taken. Follow-up test results will be reported as soon as they are available. In addition, the University will make available to the AAUP promptly the results and descriptions of air sample tests,1 if any, made by the Rutgers Environmental Health & Safety Department to monitor building conditions while the removal is in progress.
When a timetable has been established by the University for reopening a building in which members of the AAUP bargaining unit work, the University shall so inform the AAUP. Results and descriptions of all test procedures carried out to determine that the building is safe to reoccupy and a copy of the Certificate of Occupancy shall be provided to the AAUP. Prior to the reoccupation of the building by members of the bargaining unit, the AAUP will be informed by telephone of the receipt by the University of the Certificate of Occupancy.
1 When air sample tests are made, the descriptions of testing procedures shall include the number of tests, the location of tests, and, for each sample, the type of microscopic analysis, the type of filter, the airflow, and the duration of the test.
55
XXI - UNIVERSITY PROCEDURES
Rutgers and the AAUP agree that all members of the bargaining unit shall be entitled to enjoy, and shall be subject to, all terms and conditions of employment applicable to the bargaining unit provided for in the University Regulations and Procedures Manual and not provided for herein. During the life of the Agreement or any extension thereof, any change in the University Regulations and Procedures Manual that constitutes a change in a mandatorily negotiable term and condition of employment of members of the bargaining unit shall be negotiated.
Grievances arising under this Article, applicable to Article IX, shall be heard as Category Two grievances.
56
XXII - CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
A.	Academic Year Appointments
Appointment for the academic year requires that the appointee be in attendance at the University from September 1 to Commencement, or an equivalent period, within each academic year unless excused by the appropriate academic officer.
B.	Calendar Year Appointments
Appointment for the calendar year (July 1 - June 30) requires that the appointee be in attendance at the University for the entire year unless excused by the appropriate academic officer, with the exception of a vacation of one month.
Grievances arising under this Article, applicable to Article IX, shall be heard as Category Two grievances.
57
XXIII - OUT-OF-CYCLE SALARY ADJUSTMENTS
A.	The University may, at its discretion, increase the salary of an individual member of the bargaining unit to respond to a bona fide outside offer or to provide immediate recognition for an unusual professional achievement. The University may also, at its discretion, increase the salary of a member of the bargaining unit when it believes that an outside offer is imminent because of recent distinguished professional achievements and other evidence.
When the University considers offering such an increase, notice shall be given in writing to the available tenured members of the individual's department who shall be polled about the proposed increase and their recommendation shall be forwarded in writing to the dean. The department's recommendation shall include a description of the process by which its relevant members were polled. The results of the poll shall also be communicated by the chair to the tenured members of the department.
When the University has determined to make such an increase, it shall inform the AAUP in writing and shall include a copy of the outside offer, or evidence of the imminence of an outside offer, or evidence of the unusual professional achievement. It shall also include the written recommendation from the department, with relevant documentation; the dean's recommendation, with relevant documentation; and the current and adjusted salary. The relevant documentation from the department shall include the results of the poll and any motion or report that accompanies the recommendation. If the University determines to make such an increase in the absence of a positive recommendation from the department poll, the University will provide the AAUP with a written explanation of its reason.
B.	The University may, at its discretion, increase the salary of a member or members of the bargaining unit in response to market conditions in a particular discipline or subdiscipline for which it has negotiated a special schedule. The University will inform the AAUP in writing of the name, rank, and current and adjusted salaries of each individual for whom an increase is to be made.
C.	During each year of this Agreement, or any extension thereof, the University may, without further negotiation, make up to three out-of-cycle salary adjustments which remove tenured bargaining unit members from the appropriate negotiated salary tables and an unlimited number of out-of-cycle salary adjustments which remove untenured bargaining unit members from the appropriate negotiated salary tables.
D.	This article is in effect only during the period of this Agreement and any extension thereof.
E.	During the effective term of this Agreement, all out-of-cycle salary adjustments to an individual recipient, beyond the first, which is at University discretion under section A. above, shall be subject to negotiation with the AAUP.
F.	The University shall not implement any salary adjustment until 15 working days after it has informed the AAUP of its determination, as specified above, or until such time as the AAUP and the University have agreed in writing that the requirements of this Article have been fulfilled, whichever is sooner.
58
XXIV - NOTICE OF CHANGE OF PROMOTIONAL CRITERIA AND STANDARDS
When the University changes the promotional criteria and standards as embodied in Appendix D ("Policy with Respect to Academic Appointments and Promotions") and Appendix E ("Weightings and their Assignment in Reappointment and Promotion Evaluation"), University Regulations, or written policies promulgated by the President or a Vice President of the University it shall notify the AAUP of the changes when they are promulgated.
59
XXV - SABBATICAL PROGRAM
Tenure track assistant professors shall be eligible for a one-semester sabbatical at 100% salary after 6 semesters. All other sabbaticals, whether one-semester or two semesters, shall be at 80% salary, except that a one-semester sabbatical at 100% salary shall be available after 12 semesters.
Individuals in the last year of the probationary period, or in a terminal year, are not eligible for a sabbatical.
Sabbaticals at 80% salary shall be by way of salary reduction.
All other rules governing Sabbatical Program - formerly known as Faculty Academic Study Program - continue in effect.
60
XXVI - COMMITTEE ON PROFESSIONAL RELATIONS
A.	The parties acknowledge the mutual benefits to be derived from joint consultation, improved communication and joint problem solving. Therefore, the parties hereby establish a Committee on Professional Relations. The purpose of this Committee is to facilitate communication between the parties during the term of the contract whenever a significant problem arises. Although this Committee will be available for such problem solving utilizing a mutual gains approach to the extent possible, nothing prohibits the parties from using other means of problem solving.
B.	The Committee shall be comprised of up to three (3) members of the AAUP and up to three (3) members of the Administration.
C.	The Committee shall meet as often as the parties deem necessary.
D.	Alleged violations of this Article shall not be grievable, but rather may be presented by either party to the Committee for discussion.
61
XXVII - TERM OF AGREEMENT
This agreement shall be effective from August 2, 2004 to June 30, 2007.
The parties may by mutual agreement continue the terms of the existing agreement beyond June 30, 2007. In this event, either party may terminate such agreement by thirty (30) days written notice to the other.
Edward S. Boylan /
FOR RUTGERS UNIVERSITY
Kenneth D. Carlson
Martha A. Cotter
Lisa C. Klein
John B. Wolf, Esq.
62
APPENDIX A
ACADEMIC TITLES COVERED BY AAUP AGREEMENT
JOB CLASS CODE
A.Y.
C.Y.
Professor II (range/step)	89000	89010
Professor II (T-code)	99704	99700
Professor II Dept. Chair (range/step)	89001	89011
Professor II Dept. Chair (T-code)	99701	99698
Special Professorial Title (range/step)	99056	99057
Special Professor Title (T-code)	99836	99834
Special Professor Title Chair (range/step)	99059	99058
University Professor (range/step)		98207
University Professor (T-code)	99825	99826
Research Professor II	99000	99010
Professor Law II	99040	99050
Law Librarian 1	99140	99150
Lecturer (Professor II)	99060	99070
Extension Specialist (Professor II)	99100	99110
Professor 1 (range/step)	88000	88010
Professor 1 (T-code)	99705	99699
Professor 1 Dept. Chair (range/step)	88001	88011
Professor 1 Dept. Chair (T-code)	99857	99697
Clinical Professor	88002	88009
Research Professor 1	98000	98010
Research Professor 1 (T-code)	99707	99760
Research Professor 1 Dept. Chair		98011
Professor Law 1	98160	98170
Clinical Professor Law 1	98161	98171
Librarian 1	98120	98130
Law Librarian II	98140	98150
Lecturer (Professor 1)	98040	98050
Extension Specialist (Professor 1)	98060	98070
Extension Specialist (Professor 1) Dept. Chair	98061	98071
County Agent 1 (Professor 1)	98180	98190
Physical Education Specialist (Professor 1)	98200	98210
Associate Professor (range/step)	87000	87010
Associate Professor (T-code)	99840	99838
Associate Professor Dept. Chair (range/step)	87001	87011
Associate Professor Dept. Chair (T-code)	99839	99864
Clinical Associate Professor	87002	87009
Associate Research Professor	97020	97030
Associate Research Professor Dept. Chair		97031
Associate Professor Law	97140	97150
Clinical Associate Professor Law	97141	97151
Librarian II	97100	97110
Law Librarian III	97120	97130
Lecturer (Associate Professor)	97160	97170
Associate Extension Specialist	97040	97050
Associate Extension Specialist Dept. Chair		97051
Adjunct Associate Professor	97080	
63
CODE TITLE	A.Y.	C.Y.
County Agent II	97180	97190
County Agent II Dept. Chair	97167	97166
Physical Education Specialist II	97200	97210
Assistant Professor (range/step)	86000	86010
Assistant Professor (T-code)	99843	99842
Assistant Professor Dept. Chair (range/step)	86001	86011
Assistant Professor Non Tenure Track	86002	86012
Clinical Assistant Professor	86003	86004
Assistant Research Professor	96000	96010
Assistant Professor Law	96140	96150
Clinical Assistant Professor Law	96141	96151
Librarian III	96100	96110
Law Librarian IV	96120	96130
Lecturer (Assistant Professor)	96160	96170
Assistant Extension Specialist	96040	96050
Adjunct Assistant Professor	96080	96090
County Agent III	96180	96190
Adjunct County Agent III	96240	96250
Adjunct Lecturer (Assistant Professor)	96280	96290
Physical Education Specialist III	96200	96210
Instructor	85000	85010
Instructor Law	96112	96113
Extension Associate	95000	95010
Research Associate	95040	95050
Lecturer (Instructor)	95060	95070
Librarian IV	95080	95090
Physical Education Instructor	95120	95130
County Agent IV	95140	95150
Clinical Instructor	85001	85011
Clinical Instructor Law	96116	96117
Adjunct Instructor	95220	95230
Adjunct Lecturer (Instructor)	95240	95250
Adjunct County Agent IV	95260	95270
Assistant Instructor (range/step)	84000	84010
Assistant Instructor (T-code)	99845	
County Agent V	94000	94010
Librarian V	94020	94030
Extension Assistant	94120	94130
Research Assistant	94160	94170
Lecturer (Assistant Instructor)	94180	94190
OTHER TITLES COVERED BY AAUP AGREEMENT		
Teaching Assistant	99722	99723
Teaching Assistant CP1	99724	99725
Graduate Assistant	99752	99753
Graduate Assistant CP1	99754	99755
1 CP designation indicates TA/GA receives a supplement from the competitiveness pool referenced in Article VIII.
64
Appendix B
Faculty Academic Service Increment Program
A.	Criteria
To the extent of funds available, academic service increments may be awarded to faculty members who have demonstrated recent and continuing excellence based on any one or more of the criteria of teaching, scholarship, and service (or other criteria set forth in the University Policy with Respect to Academic Appointments and Promotions applicable to faculty members being considered). In addition, academic service increments may be awarded to faculty members whose current compensation warrants special consideration on the basis of academic or professional contributions in comparison with compensation of colleagues of similar achievement in the department or discipline at large.
B.	Eligibility
Consistent with the provisions of Article VIII of the Agreement between the University and the AAUP, faculty members who meet all the requirements listed below are eligible for consideration for academic service increments:
1.	The faculty member has an appointment at Rutgers at the time of consideration for an academic service increment and during the year for which the award is made; and
2.	The faculty member has completed at least one year of full-time service at the University at the time of consideration for an academic service increment or at least three years of part-time service; and
3.	The faculty member will not be in his or her terminal year at Rutgers during the effective date of the award.
C.	Allocation of Funds
Funds available for academic service increments will be allocated to the three geographic areas of the University (Camden, Newark and New Brunswick) based on the proportion of the total faculty in each of the three areas, except that 5% of the total funds available shall be allocated to the President's reserve for distribution as specified in F.9. below.
D.	Size of Increment
An academic service increment under this program will be awarded in an amount equivalent to from one to ten steps on the salary range applicable to the faculty member.
An adjustment may be implemented by an advance to a higher step on the faculty member's current salary range or an advance to a step on a higher salary range appropriate to the individual's academic rank.
E.	Announcement of Application of the Criteria
To ensure equitable treatment for their members, departments must formulate a statement of their own specific criteria and the application of them within the framework of the general criteria set forth in section A. above. The tenured faculty of the department shall formulate and promulgate to the department such a statement prior to the commencement of the process for consideration for award of academic service increments specified below.
65
F.
Consideration for Award of an Academic Service Increment
1.	Consideration for awards of academic service increments shall be conducted in accordance with the following schedule:
a.	for awards effective retroactive to July 1, 2004, consideration will begin during the fall 2004 academic term;
b.	for awards with effective implementation dates of July 1, 2005 and January 1, 2006, consideration will begin during the fall 2005 academic term;
c.	for awards with effective implementation dates of July 1,2006 and January 1, 2007, consideration will begin during the fall 2006 academic term.
2.	Eligible faculty members who do not wish to be considered for an academic service increment shall so notify the department chairperson in writing by the date set for that purpose by the departmental chairperson. The department chairperson shall announce that date 20 working days in advance.
3.	Departments with four or more tenured members shall elect a Peer Evaluation Committee of at least three members, composed of tenured members of the department. In departments with fewer than four tenured members, all the tenured members shall constitute the Peer Evaluation Committee. In departments without tenured members, there shall be no Peer Evaluation Committee.
Nominations for the committee may be made by any tenured member of the department. Elections to the committee shall be by secret ballot of all full-time members of the department holding the rank of Assistant Professor or above who are not in their terminal year. The department chairperson shall convene, be a non-voting member of, and participate in the deliberations of the Committee.
4.	The Peer Evaluation Committee shall meet to evaluate all members of the department who are not members of the Committee, who are eligible for consideration for an academic service increment, and who have not notified the chairperson that they do not wish to be considered for an academic service increment. The Committee shall determine, from among those faculty members considered, those who it will recommend for an academic service increment, in accordance with the criteria set forth in A. above. The Committee shall prepare a summary statement of its evaluation for each member of the department it recommends, shall indicate which one or more of those criteria is the basis for its recommendation, and shall rank the individuals recommended.
5.	Subsequent to completing the evaluation process set forth in 4. above, the Peer Evaluation Committee, at its option, may make recommendations to the department chairperson, within the guidelines set forth in section D. above, concerning the size of the academic service increment for those individuals whom the Committee has recommended for receipt of such an increment. If the committee chooses to make such recommendations, the chairperson shall provide to the Committee, in
66
confidence, the salary for each individual recommended by the Committee for an academic service increment.
6.	After the deliberations of the Peer Evaluation Committee are complete, the chairperson may either (a) endorse the Committee's recommendations and ranking, incorporating the names of the members of the Committee whom the chairperson judges meet the criteria for an academic service increment, or (b) prepare an independent ranked list of all of those faculty members in the department who, in the judgment of the chairperson, should receive an academic service increment. In addition, the chairperson shall review the salaries of members of the department and shall make recommendations, within the guidelines set forth in section D. above, as to the size of the academic service increment for individuals on his/her list. For each faculty member the chairperson recommends, he/she shall indicate which one or more of the criteria set forth in A. above is the basis for his/her recommendation. The chairperson will then forward his/her recommendations and those of the Peer Evaluation Committee to the dean with justification and appropriate documentation. The chairperson will also forward with these recommendations the statement of the department, as specified in E. above, although the statement shall not be binding on the dean in his/her deliberations.
7.	Upon receipt of the nominees from each of the department chairpersons within the unit, the dean shall formulate a ranked list of nominees from among those proposed by the departments and including such department chairpersons and other faculty members not proposed by the departments who, in the judgment of the dean, are qualified, according to the criteria specified in A. above, for an academic service increment. The dean's list shall include the dean's recommendation as to the size of the academic service increment for each individual on the list. For each faculty member the dean recommends, he/she shall indicate which one or more of the criteria set forth in A. above is the basis for his/her recommendation.
Should the dean wish to include on his/her list an individual who the chairperson has not recommended for an academic service increment or should the dean wish to increase the size of an academic service increment over the amount recommended by the chairperson, the dean shall first discuss the matter with the chairperson. The dean will forward his/her recommendations to the provost or, in the case of New Brunswick units, to the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs (EVPAA) with justification and appropriate documentation. The dean will, at the same time, forward to the provost or EVPAA the recommendations of the Peer Evaluation Committees and department chairs.
8.	The provost or EVPAA shall review the recommendations from the several deans, directors, chairpersons, and departmental committees and, from among the eligible faculty members and to the extent of funds allocated to his/her campus, shall make a final determination as to which faculty members on the campus shall receive academic service increments and as to the size of each increment. The Provost or EVPAA shall indicate which one or more of the criteria is the basis for his/her decision to grant the award.
9.	The President will receive from each of the campus provosts and the EVPAA the list of the provost's/EVPAA’s actions and a list of remaining faculty members recommended by the dean, the department chair, and/or the departmental Peer Evaluation Committee for an academic service increment, plus a list of those eligible but not
67
recommended at any level. The President may select from these lists a number of additional academic service increment recipients, who, in the President's judgment, best meet the criteria specified in A. above. The President may also supplement awards. Such additional Presidential awards shall be limited to 5% of the total funds available under this program.
10.	In order to assist the deans, provosts and EVPAA in recommending or awarding, as the case may be, academic service increments to department chairs, or to faculty members whose assignments or activities occur outside the confines of the standard departmental or decanal unit or who, in the judgment of the dean, provosts or EVPAA, otherwise warrant academic service increments, deans, provosts and EVPAA may set aside a portion of program funds with which to make recommendations (or, in the case of the provosts and EVPAA, decisions) to award academic service increments so long as the percentage of program funds set aside does not exceed the following:
a.	in the case of deans: 10% of the unit allocation.
b.	in case of provosts and EVPAA: 5% of the campus allocation prescribed by Section C.
G.	Implementation
The University will notify individual faculty members who have been recommended for consideration for an academic service increment of the action taken in regard to that recommendation. For each such faculty member, the University will inform the AAUP of the faculty member's department, campus, academic rank, and range and step before and after award of the academic service increment, if any; the level of the initial recommendation for award; the reason for the recommendation, specified in A. above, and whether the faculty member was a member of the department Peer Evaluation Committee and/or a department chairperson.
Subsequent to the conclusion of the award process, the evaluation packets will be returned to the office of the dean. The dean will notify the department chairpersons of the results of the academic service increment process for their department, that the material is available for review by them, and the dean will indicate his/her availability to discuss the academic service increment process with the department chairperson. The chairperson shall inform the Peer Evaluation Committee of the substance of such a discussion. Individual members of the faculty may review their own packets in accordance with the usual procedures for review of personnel files and may discuss their packets and review their professional progress with their chairperson and/or dean.
H.	Grievability
The academic judgment that forms the basis of the granting or failure to grant an academic service increment, including the size of the increment, and the decision to implement the award through a range or step change are not grievable. Allegations of a violation of the procedures set forth in this Faculty Academic Service Increment Program which results in the failure to grant an academic service increment shall be brought under Article IX, Category 2 of the Agreement between the AAUP and the University.
I.	Information
1.	The University will inform the AAUP as to the amount of funds allocated to the three geographic areas of the University pursuant to Section C. above.
68
2.	At the conclusion of the process, the University will inform the AAUP as to each faculty member nominated at any level of the process the number of steps, if any, recommended at each level, and the number of steps, if any, awarded, along with identification of recommended faculty members and awardees, as the case may be, from amounts set aside as described in Section F. 10.
69
Appendix C
For Academic Salary Schedule applicable to July 1,2003-June 30, 2004, see July 1,2002-June 30, 2003 salary schedule published in July 1, 1999-June 30, 2003 collective negotiations agreement. This salary schedule also may be found online at:
http://uhr.rutgers.edu/AAUP-Sal-Schedule.html
and at
www.rutqersaaup.com/contract.htm
70
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2004 - June 30, 2005
Assistant Instructor AY 84000
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
14	28349	28596	28839	29083	29328	29572	29815	30058	30303	30547	30793	31035	31281	31525	31768	32012	32257	32500	32745	32989	33233	33478	33720
15	29501	29759	30014	30271	30527	30785	31039	31299	31553	31810	32065	32322	32577	32836	33090	33347	33605	33860	34117	34372	34630	34884	35141
16	30713	30980	31249	31520	31789	32056	32327	32595	32864	33134	33402	33671	33940	34211	34481	34747	35019	35287	35555	35825	36094	36364	36633
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
14	33965	34211	34454	34699	34941	35187	35430	35673	35917	36163	36407	36651	36895	37138	37383	37627	37870	38116	38360	38603	38849	39090	39337
15	35398	35656	35909	36168	36422	36680	36935	37193	37446	37704	37963	38218	38474	38731	38987	39241	39499	39755	40012	40266	40525	40779	41037
16	36901	37172	37438	37708	37978	38247	38516	38786	39055	39324	39593	39862	40131	40400	40670	40940	41206	41477	41745	42014	42284	42553	42823
Assistant Instructor CY 84010
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
17	32557	32841	33123	33406	33689	33970	34252	34535	34819	35101	35385	35667	35950	36232	36515	36798	37078	37363	37644	37926	38210	38492	38774
18	33892	34188	34485	34782	35079	35373	35671	35967	36264	36562	36858	37154	37451	37749	38047	38344	38639	38935	39231	39527	39825	40122	40416
19	35290	35602	35913	36225	36536	36848	37160	37472	37783	38093	38406	38716	39029	39341	39651	39964	40274	40587	40898	41208	41523	41834	42144
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
17	39057	39340	39622	39906	40187	40471	40754	41036	41318	41601	41885	42166	42447	42729	43013	43295	43578	43861	44143	44427	44711	44991	45273
18	40716	41011	41310	41606	41902	42199	42495	42792	43089	43385	43682	43977	44277	44573	44871	45166	45462	45759	46054	46353	46648	46945	47241
19	42459	42767	43080	43390	43702	44016	44325	44637	44948	45259	45571	45883	46195	46506	46818	47130	47441	47753	48063	48376	48686	48999	49310
71 (APPENDIX D)
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2004 - June 30, 2005
Instructor AY 85000
Range	Step 01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
17	32449	32732	33013	33295	33578	33862	34143	34427	34708	34991	35274	35556	35838	36121	36405	36687	36970	37253	37536	37818	38098	38381	38663
18	33780	34078	34374	34671	34968	35263	35562	35858	36155	36452	36747	37045	37341	37638	37935	38230	38528	38823	39124	39419	39716	40013	40309
19	35181	35493	35804	36114	36425	36739	37049	37363	37674	37983	38296	38606	38919	39230	39542	39855	40165	40476	40789	41100	41410	41723	42035
20	36651	36979	37305	37631	37961	38285	38613	38940	39269	39595	39923	40248	40576	40903	41230	41557	41886	42210	42539	42866	43192	43520	43848
21	38194	38538	38879	39224	39567	39910	40253	40599	40942	41283	41628	41971	42316	42658	43002	43345	43690	44032	44376	44719	45062	45405	45749
22	39813	40175	40534	40894	41257	41617	41977	42336	42700	43059	43420	43781	44141	44502	44863	45224	45584	45945	46305	46667	47024	47387	47747
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
17	38947	39229	39513	39794	40078	40361	40644	40925	41207	41490	41774	42057	42337	42622	42904	43186	43468	43749	44033	44315	44599	44881	45164
18	40606	40902	41198	41495	41790	42088	42385	42682	42978	43276	43572	43869	44166	44462	44758	45055	45352	45651	45946	46243	46540	46836	47133
19	42346	42657	42968	43281	43592	43903	44216	44526	44837	45150	45460	45773	46085	46396	46707	47017	47331	47642	47952	48266	48577	48888	49198
20	44174	44502	44828	45155	45481	45811	46137	46464	46790	47118	47445	47772	48099	48427	48754	49081	49407	49736	50060	50390	50717	51043	51369
21	46093	46435	46779	47124	47468	47809	48154	48498	48842	49183	49527	49872	50212	50558	50901	51247	51587	51932	52276	52620	52962	53305	53649
22	48106	48468	48827	49188	49550	49911	50271	50633	50992	51354	51715	52073	52436	52797	53157	53517	53878	54239	54601	54961	55322	55681	56042
Instructor CY 85010
Range	Step 01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
20	37344	37673	38000	38326	38653	38982	39307	39634	39962	40290	40615	40944	41270	41597	41925	42253	42578	42906	43233	43560	43887	44215	44540
21	38886	39231	39575	39920	40261	40606	40949	41292	41635	41979	42323	42665	43010	43352	43696	44039	44383	44726	45071	45413	45757	46099	46442
22	40509	40870	41229	41590	41951	42313	42673	43033	43392	43752	44114	44473	44834	45196	45557	45917	46278	46638	47000	47361	47719	48081	48440
23	42208	42586	42966	43345	43724	44101	44481	44861	45239	45617	45995	46376	46755	47132	47512	47887	48268	48646	49024	49403	49781	50161	50540
24	43995	44391	44791	45189	45586	45984	46381	46778	47177	47573	47972	48371	48766	49165	49561	49960	50355	50753	51151	51549	51946	52345	52741
25	45871	46287	46705	47123	47541	47957	48376	48793	49209	49626	50045	50464	50882	51297	51715	52132	52550	52966	53384	53803	54221	54636	55053
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
20	44870	45195	45522	45849	46176	46504	46832	47158	47485	47811	48140	48465	48794	49120	49448	49774	50102	50428	50757	51082	51412	51738	52064
21	46787	47131	47475	47816	48161	48504	48850	49191	49536	49880	50223	50565	50908	51254	51594	51938	52283	52627	52968	53313	53658	54002	54343
22	48803	49164	49523	49885	50247	50605	50967	51327	51688	52049	52410	52770	53130	53491	53852	54213	54574	54932	55293	55653	56014	56374	56736
23	50918	51297	51676	52055	52434	52812	53190	53570	53947	54326	54703	55084	55463	55841	56220	56596	56977	57357	57734	58113	58493	58871	59250
24	53139	53537	53935	54332	54730	55129	55527	55924	56322	56718	57117	57514	57909	58309	58706	59103	59501	59900	60296	60695	61091	61489	61886
25	55472	55890	56307	56726	57142	57560	57975	58395	58811	59230	59647	60065	60481	60899	61316	61733	62152	62570	62986	63403	63821	64240	64655
72
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2004 - June 30, 2005
Assistant Professor AY 86000
Range	Step 01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
21	38778	39124	39464	39808	40153	40497	40838	41183	41527	41868	42211	42556	42900	43242	43587	43930	44275	44616	44962	45304	45649	45991	46334
22	40399	40759	41119	41481	41842	42201	42563	42923	43283	43645	44005	44365	44726	45087	45448	45810	46169	46531	46890	47251	47612	47972	48334
23	42100	42479	42857	43235	43613	43993	44372	44751	45128	45509	45886	46265	46642	47020	47401	47780	48158	48537	48916	49295	49673	50051	50429
24	43885	44284	44679	45079	45475	45874	46271	46670	47066	47464	47861	48258	48656	49054	49453	49849	50249	50643	51042	51440	51838	52234	52634
25	45762	46179	46597	47013	47432	47849	48267	48684	49102	49519	49937	50352	50771	51189	51608	52023	52441	52859	53277	53693	54110	54528	54947
26	47731	48169	48607	49044	49483	49922	50358	50797	51238	51676	52114	52552	52991	53430	53868	54305	54744	55183	55621	56058	56497	56936	57374
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
21	46678	47019	47365	47708	48051	48394	48738	49082	49425	49768	50111	50456	50798	51142	51486	51831	52173	52517	52860	53206	53546	53890	54235
22	48692	49053	49413	49774	50135	50495	50857	51216	51577	51938	52299	52659	53021	53381	53743	54102	54462	54824	55184	55546	55904	56266	56628
23	50810	51188	51567	51944	52324	52701	53080	53459	53837	54218	54597	54975	55353	55730	56111	56488	56866	57246	57626	58003	58381	58759	59138
24	53030	53429	53825	54224	54621	55020	55416	55815	56210	56611	57005	57401	57802	58197	58596	58993	59391	59787	60187	60584	60983	61380	61779
25	55364	55780	56198	56617	57033	57448	57869	58287	58702	59121	59538	59956	60371	60790	61209	61626	62041	62461	62877	63295	63712	64130	64549
26	57812	58249	58690	59128	59565	60002	60444	60881	61318	61758	62198	62635	63072	63511	63951	64388	64825	65265	65704	66141	66579	67017	67456
Assistant Professor CY 86010
Range	Step 01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	44820	45218	45615	46014	46411	46806	47206	47602	48001	48397	48796	49193	49592	49988	50388	50784	51183	51579	51976	52375	52773	53170	53567
25	46695	47114	47531	47948	48368	48783	49199	49618	50036	50454	50870	51288	51705	52123	52539	52958	53376	53794	54210	54627	55044	55464	55881
26	48664	49104	49542	49979	50419	50857	51295	51732	52170	52609	53047	53488	53926	54364	54802	55242	55679	56117	56558	56995	57432	57872	58310
27	50733	51193	51653	52114	52574	53034	53496	53956	54413	54875	55336	55795	56257	56716	57176	57638	58100	58557	59020	59478	59937	60400	60858
28	52903	53386	53871	54354	54837	55322	55803	56287	56772	57253	57737	58221	58704	59187	59672	60152	60637	61121	61603	62087	62572	63053	63538
29	55184	55691	56198	56706	57214	57722	58228	58738	59245	59750	60258	60766	61275	61782	62289	62798	63303	63812	64319	64825	65335	65841	66350
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
24	53966	54363	54760	55160	55556	55954	56352	56747	57146	57544	57942	58339	58739	59134	59533	59930	60326	60723	61124	61520	61918	62314	62713
25	56298	56715	57134	57552	57968	58386	58804	59222	59639	60057	60473	60892	61308	61726	62143	62561	62977	63396	63814	64232	64648	65065	65483
26	58748	59186	59624	60063	60502	60939	61378	61816	62254	62693	63130	63569	64011	64447	64885	65324	65762	66201	66639	67077	67516	67954	68391
27	61319	61781	62240	62700	63162	63621	64083	64543	65000	65462	65923	66382	66844	67304	67762	68226	68685	69145	69606	70065	70525	70987	71447
28	64022	64503	64987	65470	65953	66436	66920	67402	67888	68371	68854	69337	69820	70304	70787	71270	71753	72237	72721	73203	73688	74170	74654
29	66856	67364	67872	68379	68886	69395	69900	70408	70916	71424	71932	72439	72948	73454	73961	74467	74977	75483	75992	76499	77006	77514	78022
73
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2004 - June 30, 2005
Associate Professor AY 87000
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
25	46839	47257	47673	48091	48509	48927	49343	49760	50179	50597	51013	51431	51850	52268	52684	53102	53519	53937	54354	54773	55190	55608	56025
26	48808	49246	49687	50124	50562	50999	51438	51877	52314	52752	53192	53632	54070	54509	54947	55385	55823	56261	56700	57139	57576	58015	58453
27	50878	51336	51797	52259	52719	53177	53639	54098	54559	55021	55479	55940	56401	56860	57320	57782	58241	58701	59162	59622	60081	60544	61003
28	53046	53531	54015	54496	54982	55465	55947	56430	56914	57396	57881	58365	58847	59332	59817	60297	60781	61264	61746	62231	62714	63197	63679
29	55328	55835	56344	56850	57359	57866	58372	58881	59387	59895	60404	60911	61418	61924	62432	62940	63448	63956	64464	64971	65478	65986	66492
30	57722	58254	58788	59320	59853	60385	60919	61451	61986	62518	63050	63584	64117	64648	65183	65715	66247	66780	67313	67846	68380	68912	69445
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
25	56441	56859	57277	57696	58112	58530	58948	59365	59780	60199	60619	61037	61452	61869	62288	62706	63120	63541	63959	64376	64792	65209	65628
26	58891	59331	59768	60207	60644	61084	61522	61959	62398	62837	63275	63713	64151	64592	65030	65466	65907	66346	66782	67220	67660	68098	68536
27	61464	61923	62383	62844	63304	63767	64227	64685	65146	65608	66066	66527	66988	67449	67908	68369	68829	69289	69751	70209	70669	71130	71591
28	64166	64647	65132	65615	66097	66582	67065	67547	68030	68515	68997	69480	69965	70447	70931	71416	71896	72381	72865	73348	73829	74315	74796
29	67000	67508	68014	68524	69030	69539	70045	70553	71060	71568	72075	72583	73090	73598	74106	74613	75122	75628	76136	76643	77150	77658	78166
30	69977	70510	71042	71577	72108	72641	73176	73708	74241	74774	75306	75839	76372	76904	77438	77969	78503	79037	79569	80101	80636	81166	81699
Associate Professor CY 87010
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
28	54153	54633	55119	55603	56084	56569	57051	57534	58018	58503	58984	59468	59953	60433	60919	61402	61884	62370	62853	63335	63818	64302	64784
29	56431	56940	57444	57954	58461	58970	59476	59983	60493	60999	61507	62014	62522	63029	63538	64043	64552	65058	65567	66075	66582	67090	67596
30	58825	59357	59892	60424	60955	61489	62022	62556	63089	63621	64156	64686	65219	65753	66286	66817	67352	67885	68418	68951	69484	70016	70550
31	61339	61898	62459	63017	63578	64136	64697	65255	65815	66374	66935	67496	68053	68613	69172	69730	70291	70851	71412	71969	72529	73089	73648
32	63977	64565	65152	65740	66328	66915	67504	68091	68678	69264	69854	70440	71028	71617	72202	72792	73378	73967	74553	75140	75727	76316	76902
33	66749	67366	67982	68600	69217	69835	70450	71068	71684	72301	72917	73535	74151	74769	75385	76002	76618	77237	77853	78469	79087	79705	80318
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
28	65268	65752	66234	66720	67202	67685	68169	68653	69134	69619	70100	70584	71069	71551	72035	72519	73000	73484	73970	74450	74934	75418	75901
29	68103	68612	69119	69626	70135	70642	71150	71655	72164	72672	73179	73687	74195	74702	75209	75717	76223	76731	77239	77747	78254	78760	79270
30	71082	71613	72148	72679	73212	73747	74279	74811	75346	75877	76409	76942	77476	78008	78542	79075	79607	80139	80673	81207	81739	82271	82805
31	74207	74768	75324	75888	76447	77006	77563	78123	78684	79243	79803	80362	80922	81480	82041	82601	83159	83719	84279	84840	85398	85957	86518
32	77489	78077	78664	79254	79840	80427	81015	81603	82189	82776	83366	83952	84539	85127	85717	86304	86890	87478	88066	88653	89240	89827	90414
33	80938	81552	82171	82788	83404	84020	84638	85255	85873	86488	87107	87722	88339	88957	89573	90190	90806	91422	92041	92657	93275	93891	94508
74
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2004 - June 30, 2005
Professor I AY 88000
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
30	59190	59722	60255	60788	61320	61854	62386	62921	63453	63985	64520	65052	65584	66120	66650	67182	67715	68249	68780	69315	69848	70381	70914
31	61702	62261	62821	63384	63943	64500	65060	65621	66179	66738	67298	67859	68419	68977	69538	70096	70657	71216	71776	72334	72894	73455	74012
32	64343	64931	65517	66104	66694	67281	67868	68456	69043	69631	70219	70804	71393	71981	72568	73157	73745	74331	74919	75507	76094	76681	77268
33	67114	67732	68347	68964	69580	70199	70816	71431	72049	72666	73283	73901	74515	75135	75750	76367	76984	77602	78217	78836	79450	80070	80685
34	70024	70670	71319	71967	72614	73263	73911	74557	75207	75854	76501	77150	77797	78444	79092	79738	80388	81036	81682	82331	82980	83626	84274
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
30	71447	71979	72514	73045	73577	74112	74643	75176	75710	76243	76775	77310	77841	78372	78907	79440	79974	80506	81038	81573	82105	82637	83170
31	74573	75134	75694	76251	76809	77371	77929	78491	79049	79610	80169	80729	81287	81845	82405	82968	83526	84085	84646	85204	85764	86323	86883
32	77856	78442	79032	79620	80206	80795	81381	81968	82555	83144	83729	84317	84904	85495	86083	86669	87257	87844	88432	89017	89606	90194	90781
33	81303	81919	82537	83153	83771	84386	85003	85622	86239	86856	87471	88087	88706	89320	89939	90556	91173	91789	92406	93022	93643	94257	94876
34	84923	85571	86218	86865	87511	88160	88809	89456	90102	90753	91400	92046	92696	93344	93990	94639	95287	95932	96582	97229	97875	98524	99173
Professor ICY 88010
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
33	68280	68899	69513	70132	70745	71366	71982	72599	73215	73831	74448	75068	75683	76301	76917	77534	78152	78767	79384	80002	80617	81235	81851
34	71190	71837	72486	73133	73779	74430	75078	75724	76373	77021	77667	78317	78964	79612	80258	80905	81552	82203	82850	83497	84145	84793	85442
35	74245	74926	75606	76287	76966	77647	78327	79008	79687	80367	81047	81730	82407	83087	83769	84449	85129	85806	86487	87169	87848	88528	89210
36	77454	78169	78881	79596	80309	81026	81740	82454	83167	83881	84596	85310	86024	86737	87453	88165	88880	89595	90308	91022	91738	92449	93166
37	80822	81574	82322	83070	83824	84572	85321	86072	86821	87570	88322	89071	89820	90571	91320	92071	92820	93570	94319	95071	95821	96570	97320
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
33	82469	83086	83704	84318	84938	85553	86171	86786	87405	88022	88639	89253	89872	90487	91106	91722	92339	92957	93573	94190	94808	95423	96042
34	86090	86736	87385	88033	88677	89326	89976	90622	91269	91918	92566	93214	93863	94509	95156	95806	96454	97100	97749	98395	99042	99692	100340
35	89888	90570	91250	91929	92611	93289	93968	94651	95329	96010	96690	97371	98052	98731	99411	100093	100771	101453	102131	102811	103494	104172	104851
36	93878	94594	95308	96022	96737	97449	98165	98877	99592	100308	101022	101734	102449	103162	103879	104593	105306	106019	106734	107447	108163	108876	109592
37	98070	98818	99570	100319	101069	101819	102568	103319	104069	104819	105568	106318	107067	107816	108569	109317	110067	110818	111566	112316	113068	113816	114566
75
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2004 - June 30, 2005
Professor II AY 89000
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
37	81392	82142	82895	83641	84392	85145	85892	86642	87393	88142	88890	89643	90393	91142	91893	92642	93393	94142	94892	95643	96392	97141	97892
38	84931	85720	86506	87292	88079	88868	89655	90444	91230	92017	92804	93593	94380	95167	95955	96743	97529	98317	99104	99892	100681	101469	102257
39	88646	89470	90299	91125	91952	92778	93604	94434	95260	96088	96913	97741	98567	99394	100221	101047	101874	102701	103528	104356	105182	106009	106836
Range Step
	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41
37	98642	99391	100141	100894	101641	102391	103142	103891	104641	105393	106143	106890	107642	108391	109141	109893	110642	111390
38	103041	103830	104617	105404	106192	106979	107769	108554	109342	110130	110917	111704	112492	113278	114065	114853	115641	116430
39	107661	108489	109316	110142	110969	111795	112622	113451	114276	115105	115931	116755	117585	118409	119240	120065		
Professor II CY 89010
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
40	93372	94242	95110	95978	96846	97712	98582	99449	100318	101186	102055	102921	103789	104659	105526	106395	107262	108130	108996	109865	110732	111600	112470
41	97469	98380	99290	100200	101113	102023	102936	103849	104758	105672	106581	107493	108405	109316	110225	111138	112051	112961	113873	114784	115697	116606	117519
42	101766	102723	103680	104636	105596	106552	107508	108465	109421	110380	111336	112294	113250	114206	115164	116122	117078	118035	118991	119948	120907	121864	122820
Range Step
24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32
40 113336 114205 115074 115942 116808 117678 118545 119413 120280
41 118430 119341 120253
76
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2004 - June 30, 2005
Special Professorial Titles
Range Step 01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
43 116065 117024 117979 118937 119896 120852 121809 122764 123722 124679 125636 126594 127549 128507 129465 130422 131378 132336 133292 134247 135206 136163 137120
Range Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36
43 138076 139034 139992 140948 141905 142861 143818 144777 145734 146690 147646 148604 149559
77
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2004 - June 30, 2005
Assistant Professor Law 96140, 96150
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
33	65918	66532	67151	67765	68384	68999	69619	70234	70851	71468	72086	72700	73319	73935	74552	75169	75785	76402	77021	77637	78253	78871	79488
34	68827	69473	70121	70772	71418	72064	72712	73359	74007	74655	75304	75950	76597	77247	77895	78542	79190	79837	80485	81135	81780	82427	83076
35	71882	72561	73241	73922	74600	75283	75960	76642	77322	78002	78682	79363	80041	80722	81402	82082	82763	83442	84124	84804	85482	86163	86842
36	75089	75803	76517	77233	77947	78658	79373	80087	80802	81518	82230	82943	83657	84371	85088	85800	86516	87229	87943	88657	89371	90085	90798
37	78459	79206	79957	80707	81456	82207	82956	83707	84456	85206	85955	86705	87455	88204	88956	89704	90454	91204	91955	92704	93453	94204	94952
38	81994	82781	83569	84356	85145	85932	86717	87504	88292	89079	89866	90656	91443	92228	93016	93804	94591	95377	96165	96950	97741	98528	99315
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
33	80103	80721	81337	81956	82571	83189	83803	84422	85039	85657	86272	86890	87505	88124	88739	89357	89975	90591	91207	91824	92440	93059	93674
34	83723	84370	85018	85667	86315	86961	87609	88259	88906	89554	90200	90846	91495	92144	92791	93438	94087	94734	95380	96031	96679	97325	97974
35	87524	88203	88882	89564	90243	90924	91604	92283	92965	93646	94325	95005	95684	96362	97046	97722	98405	99084	99765	100446	101125	101804	102487
36	91515	92227	92941	93656	94370	95084	95800	96511	97226	97942	98653	99369	100084	100795	101510	102224	102938	103653	104367	105083	105794	106509	107223
37	95702	96454	97203	97952	98702	99451	100200	100953	101702	102451	103201	103949	104700	105452	106199	106950	107700	108448	109199	109950	110698	111448	112200
38	100103	100890	101677	102463	103250	104037	104826	105613	106402	107188	107974	108762	109550	110337	111124	111912	112697	113486	114273	115060	115848	116636	117423
Associate Professor Law 97140, 97150
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
36	76104	76816	77533	78247	78961	79673	80389	81102	81818	82531	83244	83959	84673	85388	86101	86816	87530	88242	88958	89672	90385	91101	91814
37	79474	80221	80973	81724	82471	83222	83971	84721	85471	86221	86970	87720	88471	89220	89971	90721	91469	92219	92969	93719	94467	95220	95968
38	83007	83796	84582	85370	86159	86947	87732	88520	89306	90094	90882	91670	92457	93243	94032	94820	95607	96393	97182	97966	98755	99543	100329
39	86724	87549	88376	89205	90029	90854	91685	92508	93337	94162	94987	95818	96642	97470	98296	99123	99951	100777	101602	102430	103256	104083	104910
40	90622	91489	92358	93226	94094	94963	95830	96697	97566	98436	99303	100171	101039	101906	102773	103643	104511	105380	106247	107114	107981	108849	109719
41	94718	95627	96540	97450	98362	99273	100184	101097	102007	102919	103831	104743	105652	106567	107477	108387	109300	110210	111122	112033	112945	113855	114769
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
36	92531	93241	93956	94671	95384	96099	96813	97527	98241	98955	99669	100385	101098	101811	102525	103241	103954	104668	105384	106097	106809	107525	108239
37	96718	97469	98218	98968	99719	100467	101216	101967	102716	103465	104218	104967	105716	106467	107215	107965	108716	109465	110214	110965	111713	112465	113217
38	101117	101905	102693	103479	104266	105053	105842	106629	107416	108203	108989	109777	110565	111353	112139	112928	113712	114501	115288	116074	116864	117651	118439
39	105736	106565	107390	108216	109043	109872	110696	111522	112349	113176	114002	114830	115656	116484	117310	118137	118964	119788	120618	121442	122270	123096	123922
40	110586	111454	112322	113189	114056	114927	115795	116661	117531	118398	119266	120135	121004	121870	122739	123606	124473	125344	126211	127079	127948	128816	129683
41	115679	116591	117503	118411	119325	120236	121147	122058	122970	123882	124794	125705	126616	127528	128437	129350	130263	131173	132085	132994	133908	134818	135730
78
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2004 - June 30, 2005
Professor I Law 98160, 98170
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
39	88252	89077	89903	90732	91559	92385	93211	94038	94866	95692	96518	97343	98171	98998	99825	100649	101479	102305	103133	103960	104784	105612	106437
40	92151	93018	93886	94754	95623	96492	97360	98226	99094	99963	100830	101699	102567	103436	104304	105171	106039	106908	107777	108644	109512	110379	111246
41	96246	97157	98068	98979	99890	100803	101714	102626	103537	104450	105360	106270	107181	108092	109005	109917	110829	111740	112651	113561	114474	115382	116296
42	100545	101500	102457	103418	104371	105329	106285	107242	108198	109157	110116	111071	112028	112985	113943	114898	115856	116813	117769	118728	119685	120642	121597
43	105057	106064	107067	108073	109079	110082	111088	112092	113098	114101	115108	116112	117117	118121	119127	120132	121136	122141	123143	124151	125154	126161	127165
44	109799	110853	111909	112963	114019	115074	116129	117183	118238	119294	120349	121404	122458	123515	124570	125625	126680	127736	128787	129845	130899	131957	133009
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
39	107266	108090	108918	109745	110573	111399	112225	113053	113879	114705	115533	116359	117185	118012	118838	119668	120492	121318	122147	122973	123798	124625	125451
40	112113	112983	113851	114719	115586	116454	117323	118192	119059	119928	120795	121662	122530	123399	124268	125137	126004	126872	127740	128608	129477	130345	131213
41	117209	118119	119031	119942	120854	121764	122675	123590	124500	125411	126322	127234	128143	129056	129967	130879	131793	132702	133615	134526	135434	136346	137260
42	122554	123513	124469	125427	126382	127340	128296	129255	130212	131169	132125	133080	134040	134996	135953	136910	137867	138826	139781	140740	141694	142650	143609
43	128171	129176	130179	131184	132189	133195	134198	135204	136207	137213	138218	139224	140228	141233	142239	143241	144247	145253	146258	147263	148267	149270	150275
44	134066	135119	136176	137231	138286	139342	140396	141450	142505	143562	144614	145672	146726	147782	148834	149891	150948	152002	153058	154111	155167	156222	157277
Professor II Law 99040, 99050
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
43	106226	107231	108236	109240	110245	111251	112254	113258	114263	115269	116274	117280	118284	119289	120294	121299	122302	123307	124313	125316	126322	127327	128333
44	110966	112022	113076	114131	115187	116240	117296	118350	119407	120460	121517	122573	123626	124681	125737	126793	127847	128902	129955	131012	132066	133123	134177
45	115942	117049	118159	119265	120373	121482	122590	123696	124804	125914	127020	128128	129236	130345	131452	132559	133667	134776	135884	136990	138100	139208	140314
46	121167	122330	123493	124657	125821	126983	128145	129310	130473	131636	132798	133964	135127	136289	137454	138616	139779	140943	142106	143269	144430	145594	146758
47	126653	127877	129097	130318	131539	132763	133984	135204	136424	137647	138869	140090	141312	142535	143753	144975	146196	147419	148640	149860	151081	152302	153523
Range Step
	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41
43	129337	130343	131344	132351	133357	134361	135366	136371	137376	138379	139385	140389	141395	142399	143405	144408	145414	146419
44	135233	136287	137342	138398	139453	140508	141561	142618	143671	144728	145781	146840	147891	148948	150004	151057	152115	153168
45	141422	142532	143639	144745	145851	146962	148069	149176	150282	151393	152500	153607	154717	155824	156931	158038	159147	160256
46	147921	149085	150247	151411	152574	153737	154900	156064	157227	158391	159556	160718	161880	163042	164207	165370	166531	167695
47	154746	155966	157189	158410	159631	160851	162074	163296	164517	165736	166960	168182	169402	170624	171847	173065	174288	175510
79
	Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey																			
	Extended Salary Schedule for Engineering and Computer Science Effective July 1																, 2004 - June 30,			2005
Assistant Instructor AY			84000																	
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
16	43091	43360	43632	43898	44168	44438	44707	44976	45244	45514	45783	46051	46321	46589	46858	47129	47398	47665	47937	48205
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	
16	48474	48742	49013	49283	49550	49819	50090	50356	50627	50896	51167	51433	51703	51973	52240	52511	52782	53050	53318	
Assistant Instructor CY			84010																	
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
19	49621	49934	50245	50556	50867	51178	51491	51802	52114	52427	52736	53047	53360	53671	53983	54295	54607	54917	55229	55541
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	
19	55851	56163	56475	56787	57098	57412	57722	58031	58343	58657	58967	59278	59592	59902	60214	60526	60837	61148	61458	
Instructor AY 85000																				
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
22	56404	56763	57125	57486	57846	58206	58568	58928	59287	59649	60007	60368	60731	61091	61451	61811	62173	62533	62893	63255
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84		
22	63616	63975	64337	64698	65057	65418	65781	66140	66503	66862	67222	67584	67943	68304	68665	69026	69387	69748		
Instructor CY 85010																				
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
25	65072	65493	65909	66326	66743	67161	67580	67995	68412	68831	69249	69664	70084	70500	70919	71334	71753	72173	72590	73008
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84		
25	73424	73841	74259	74678	75093	75513	75930	76347	76762	77181	77600	78018	78434	78852	79270	79686	80103	80520		
80
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Extended Salary Schedule for Engineering and Computer Science Effective July 1, 2004 - June 30, 2005
Assistant Professor AY			86000																	
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
26	67895	68332	68771	69210	69647	70086	70524	70962	71401	71838	72277	72718	73156	73594	74033	74469	74909	75347	75784	76222
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84		
26	76661	77099	77538	77976	78414	78853	79290	79729	80168	80605	81044	81482	81920	82359	82798	83235	83676	84115		
Assistant Professor CY			86010																	
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
29	78529	79036	79544	80052	80560	81065	81575	82080	82590	83097	83604	84112	84618	85126	85634	86141	86650	87154	87662	88169
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84		
29	88676	89184	89691	90200	90708	91215	91722	92230	92737	93245	93752	94259	94767	95274	95781	96289	96797	97306		
Associate Professor AY 87000
Range Step
	47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
30	82233	82766	83298	83833	84365	84896	85431	85963	86494	87030	87561	88094	88627	89161	89692	90226	90760	91295	91824	92358
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84		
30	92892	93424	93956	94492	95024	95554	96089	96622	97153	97688	98220	98753	99285	99818	100351	100884	101417	101949		
Associate Professor CY 87010
Range Step
	47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
33	95124	95743	96357	96976	97592	98211	98825	99443	100058	100678	101294	101911	102526	103144	103761	104377	104995	105612	106228	106846
Range Step
67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84
33 107461 108079 108697 109313 109928 110546 111162 111781 112396 113015 113629 114249 114864 115481 116097 116717 117331 117948
81
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Extended Salary Schedule for Engineering and Computer Science Effective July 1, 2004 - June 30, 2005
Professor I AY 88000
Range Step 47	48	40	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66	67	68
34 99820 100468 101115 101763 102412 103059 103707 104356 105001 105648 106297 106946 107592 108241 108888 109535 110185 110832 111479 112129 112775 113421
Range Step 69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84
34 114071 114718 115365 116013 116660 117309 117958 118605 119252 119901 120548 121197 121845 122491 123137 123786
Professor ICY 88010
Range Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
37 115317 116064 116815 117566 118316 119067 119815 120565 121314 122065 122814 123564 124314 125062 125814 126565 127314 128065 128813 129563
Range Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84
37 130313 131063 131812 132562 133313 134063 134812 135563 136313 137061 137813 138561 139310 140062 140810 141560 142312 143060
Professor II AY 89000
Range Step 40	41	42	43	44	45	46	47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59
39 120890 121718 122544 123374 124199 125026 125852 126680 127506 128334 129159 129987 130813 131641 132468 133293 134122 134947 135773 136601
Range Step 60	61	62	63	64	65	66	67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75
39 137428 138256 139082 139907 140735 141561 142390 143216 144041 144870 145696 146524 147350 148177 149004 149831
Professor II CY 89010
Range Step 22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40
42 121864 122820 123776 124734 125692 126648 127605 128562 129518 130475 131434 132390 133347 134304 135259 136218 137175 138132 139088
Range Step 41	42	43	44	45	46	47	48	49	50	51	52
42 140045 141004 141960 142917 143874 144829 145787 146745 147702 148658 149615 150572
82
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Extended Salary Schedule for Business Disciplines Effective July 1, 2004 - June 30, 2005
Assistant Instructor AY 84000
Range 16	Step 47 43091	48 43360	49 43632	50 43898	51 44168	52 44438	53 44707	54 44976	55 45244	56 45514	57 45783	58 46051	59 46321	60 46589	61 46858	62 47129	63 47398	64 47665	65 47937	66 48205
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
16	48474	48742	49013	49283	49550	49819	50090	50356	50627	50896	51167	51433	51703	51973	52240	52511	52782	53050	53318	53588
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99	100	101					
16	53858	54125	54395	54665	54932	55201	55472	55740	56009	56278	56549	56815	57087	57357	57626					
Assistant Instructor CY			84010																	
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
19	49621	49934	50245	50556	50867	51178	51491	51802	52114	52427	52736	53047	53360	53671	53983	54295	54607	54917	55229	55541
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
19	55851	56163	56475	56787	57098	57412	57722	58031	58343	58657	58967	59278	59592	59902	60214	60526	60837	61148	61458	61773
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99	100	101					
19	62082	62394	62707	63017	63328	63640	63953	64263	64574	64887	65199	65509	65822	66134	66442					
Instructor AY 85000																				
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
22	56404	56763	57125	57486	57846	58206	58568	58928	59287	59649	60007	60368	60731	61091	61451	61811	62173	62533	62893	63255
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
22	63616	63975	64337	64698	65057	65418	65781	66140	66503	66862	67222	67584	67943	68304	68665	69026	69387	69748	70107	70469
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99	100						
22	70829	71188	71549	71908	72271	72631	72992	73353	73714	74072	74435	74794	75155	75517						
Instructor CY 85010																				
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
25	65072	65493	65909	66326	66743	67161	67580	67995	68412	68831	69249	69664	70084	70500	70919	71334	71753	72173	72590	73008
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
25	73424	73841	74259	74678	75093	75513	75930	76347	76762	77181	77600	78018	78434	78852	79270	79686	80103	80520	80939	81358
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99	100						
25	81774	82190	82608	83027	83443	83862	84279	84698	85112	85531	85948	86366	86782	87202						
83
Assistant Professor AY 86000
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Extended Salary Schedule for Business Disciplines Effective July 1, 2004 - June 30, 2005
Range 26	Step 47 67895	48 68332	49 68771	50 69210	51 69647	52 70086	53 70524	54 70962	55 71401	56 71838	57 72277	58 72718	59 73156	60 73594	61 74033	62 74469	63 74909	64 75347	65 75784	66 76222
Range	Step																			
	67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
26	76661	77099	77538	77976	78414	78853	79290	79729	80168	80605	81044	81482	81920	82359	82798	83235	83676	84115	84553	84991
Range	Step																			
	87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99							
26	85429	85869	86307	86744	87181	87621	88059	88496	88933	89373	89812	90249	90686							
Assistant Professor CY			86010																	
Range	Step																			
	47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
29	78529	79036	79544	80052	80560	81065	81575	82080	82590	83097	83604	84112	84618	85126	85634	86141	86650	87154	87662	88169
Range	Step																			
	67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
29	88676	89184	89691	90200	90708	91215	91722	92230	92737	93245	93752	94259	94767	95274	95781	96289	96797	97306	97811	98319
Range	Step																			
	87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99							
29	98828	99334	99841	100350	100856	101365	101873	102380	102886	103393	103903	104409	104917							
Associate Professor AY			87000																	
Range	Step																			
	47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
30	82233	82766	83298	83833	84365	84896	85431	85963	86494	87030	87561	88094	88627	89161	89692	90226	90760	91295	91824	92358
Range	Step																			
	67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
30	92892	93424	93956	94492	95024	95554	96089	96622	97153	97688	98220	98753	99285	99818	100351	100884	101417	101949	102483	103015
Range	Step																			
	87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99							
30	103547	104081	104615	105146	105681	106212	106745	107278	107810	108343	108877	109409	109945							
Associate Professor CY			87010																	
Range	Step																			
	47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
33	95124	95743	96357	96976	97592	98211	98825	99443	100058	100678	101294	101911	102526	103144	103761	104377	104995	105612	106228	106846
Range	Step																			
	67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
33	107461	108079	108697	109313	109928	110546	111162	111781	112396	113015	113629	114249	114864	115481	116097	116717	117331	117948	118564	119182
Range	Step																			
	87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99							
33	119798	120416	121033	121649	122267	122883	123498	124118	124734	125351	125967	126585	127200							
84
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Extended Salary Schedule for Business Disciplines Effective July 1, 2004 - June 30, 2005
Professor I AY 88000
Range 34	Step 47 99820	48 100468	49 101115	50 101763	51 102412	52 103059	53 103707	54 104356	55 105001	56 105648	57 106297	58 106946	59 107592	60 108241	61 108888	62 109535	63 110185	64 110832	65 111479	66 112129
Range	Step																			
	67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
34	112775	113421	114071	114718	115365	116013	116660	117309	117958	118605	119252	119901	120548	121197	121845	122491	123137	123786	124433	125082
Range	Step																			
	87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99							
34	125731	126377	127024	127674	128322	128969	129618	130265	130910	131559	132207	132854	133503							
Professor I CY		88010																		
Range	Step																			
	47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
37	115317	116064	116815	117566	118316	119067	119815	120565	121314	122065	122814	123564	124314	125062	125814	126565	127314	128065	128813	129563
Range	Step																			
	67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
37	130313	131063	131812	132562	133313	134063	134812	135563	136313	137061	137813	138561	139310	140062	140810	141560	142312	143060	143811	144561
Range	Step																			
	87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99							
37	145310	146059	146811	147558	148308	149060	149809	150559	151311	152058	152808	153559	154308							
Professor II AY		89000																		
Range	Step																			
	40	41	42	43	44	45	46	47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59
39	120890	121718	122544	123374	124199	125026	125852	126680	127506	128334	129159	129987	130813	131641	132468	133293	134122	134947	135773	136601
Range	Step																			
	60	61	62	63	64	65	66	67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79
39	137428	138256	139082	139907	140735	141561	142390	143216	144041	144870	145696	146524	147350	148177	149004	149831	150657	151484	152311	153137
Range	Step																			
	80	81	82	83	84	85	86	87	88	89										
39	153965	154791	155619	156445	157273	158098	158929	159752	160579	161407										
Professor II CY		89010																		
Range	Step																			
	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	
42	121864	122820	123776	124734	125692	126648	127605	128562	129518	130475	131434	132390	133347	134304	135259	136218	137175	138132	139088	
Range	Step																			
	41	42	43	44	45	46	47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	
42	140045	141004	141960	142917	143874	144829	145787	146745	147702	148658	149615	150572	151530	152487	153444	154400	155356	156315	157272	
Range	Step																			
	60	61	62	63	64	65														
42	158230	159185	160142	161098	162057	163013														
85
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2005 - December 31, 2005
Assistant Instructor AY 84000
Range	Step									
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10
14	28689	28939	29185	29432	29680	29927	30173	30419	30667	30914
15	29855	30116	30374	30634	30893	31154	31411	31675	31932	32192
16	31082	31352	31624	31898	32170	32441	32715	32986	33258	33532
Range	Step									
	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33
14	34373	34622	34867	35115	35360	35609	35855	36101	36348	36597
15	35823	36084	36340	36602	36859	37120	37378	37639	37895	38156
16	37344	37618	37887	38160	38434	38706	38978	39251	39524	39796
Assistant Instructor CY 84010
Range	Step 01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10
17	32948	33235	33520	33807	34093	34378	34663	34949	35237	35522
18	34299	34598	34899	35199	35500	35797	36099	36399	36699	37001
19	35713	36029	36344	36660	36974	37290	37606	37922	38236	38550
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33
17	39526	39812	40097	40385	40669	40957	41243	41528	41814	42100
18	41205	41503	41806	42105	42405	42705	43005	43306	43606	43906
19	42969	43280	43597	43911	44226	44544	44857	45173	45487	45802
11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
31163	31407	31656	31903	32149	32396	32644	32890	33138	33385	33632	33880	34125
32450	32710	32968	33230	33487	33747	34008	34266	34526	34784	35046	35303	35563
33803	34075	34347	34622	34895	35164	35439	35710	35982	36255	36527	36800	37073
34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
36844	37091	37338	37584	37832	38079	38324	38573	38820	39066	39315	39559	39809
38419	38677	38936	39196	39455	39712	39973	40232	40492	40749	41011	41268	41529
40068	40340	40613	40885	41158	41431	41700	41975	42246	42518	42791	43064	43337
11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
35810	36095	36381	36667	36953	37240	37523	37811	38096	38381	38669	38954	39239
37300	37600	37900	38202	38504	38804	39103	39402	39702	40001	40303	40603	40901
38867	39181	39497	39813	40127	40444	40757	41074	41389	41702	42021	42336	42650
34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
42388	42672	42956	43242	43529	43815	44101	44387	44673	44960	45248	45531	45816
44206	44505	44808	45108	45409	45708	46008	46308	46607	46909	47208	47508	47808
46118	46434	46749	47064	47380	47696	48010	48326	48640	48957	49270	49587	49902
86 (APPENDIX E-1)
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2005 - December 31, 2005
Instructor AY 85000
Range	Step 01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
17	32838	33125	33409	33695	33981	34268	34553	34840	35124	35411	35697	35983	36268	36554	36842	37127	37414	37700	37986	38272	38555	38842	39127
18	34185	34487	34786	35087	35388	35686	35989	36288	36589	36889	37188	37490	37789	38090	38390	38689	38990	39289	39593	39892	40193	40493	40793
19	35603	35919	36234	36547	36862	37180	37494	37811	38126	38439	38756	39069	39386	39701	40017	40333	40647	40962	41278	41593	41907	42224	42539
20	37091	37423	37753	38083	38417	38744	39076	39407	39740	40070	40402	40731	41063	41394	41725	42056	42389	42717	43049	43380	43710	44042	44374
21	38652	39000	39346	39695	40042	40389	40736	41086	41433	41778	42128	42475	42824	43170	43518	43865	44214	44560	44909	45256	45603	45950	46298
22	40291	40657	41020	41385	41752	42116	42481	42844	43212	43576	43941	44306	44671	45036	45401	45767	46131	46496	46861	47227	47588	47956	48320
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
17	39414	39700	39987	40272	40559	40845	41132	41416	41701	41988	42275	42562	42845	43133	43419	43704	43990	44274	44561	44847	45134	45420	45706
18	41093	41393	41692	41993	42291	42593	42894	43194	43494	43795	44095	44395	44696	44996	45295	45596	45896	46199	46497	46798	47098	47398	47699
19	42854	43169	43484	43800	44115	44430	44747	45060	45375	45692	46006	46322	46638	46953	47267	47581	47899	48214	48527	48845	49160	49475	49788
20	44704	45036	45366	45697	46027	46361	46691	47022	47351	47683	48014	48345	48676	49008	49339	49670	50000	50333	50661	50995	51326	51656	51985
21	46646	46992	47340	47689	48038	48383	48732	49080	49428	49773	50121	50470	50815	51165	51512	51862	52206	52555	52903	53251	53598	53945	54293
22	48683	49050	49413	49778	50145	50510	50874	51241	51604	51970	52336	52698	53065	53431	53795	54159	54525	54890	55256	55621	55986	56349	56715
Instructor CY 85010
Range	Step 01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
20	37792	38125	38456	38786	39117	39450	39779	40110	40442	40773	41102	41435	41765	42096	42428	42760	43089	43421	43752	44083	44414	44746	45074
21	39353	39702	40050	40399	40744	41093	41440	41788	42135	42483	42831	43177	43526	43872	44220	44567	44916	45263	45612	45958	46306	46652	46999
22	40995	41360	41724	42089	42454	42821	43185	43549	43913	44277	44643	45007	45372	45738	46104	46468	46833	47198	47564	47929	48292	48658	49021
23	42714	43097	43482	43865	44249	44630	45015	45399	45782	46164	46547	46933	47316	47698	48082	48462	48847	49230	49612	49996	50378	50763	51146
24	44523	44924	45328	45731	46133	46536	46938	47339	47743	48144	48548	48951	49351	49755	50156	50560	50959	51362	51765	52168	52569	52973	53374
25	46421	46842	47265	47688	48111	48532	48957	49379	49800	50222	50646	51070	51493	51913	52336	52758	53181	53602	54025	54449	54872	55292	55714
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
20	45408	45737	46068	46399	46730	47062	47394	47724	48055	48385	48718	49047	49380	49709	50041	50371	50703	51033	51366	51695	52029	52359	52689
21	47348	47697	48045	48390	48739	49086	49436	49781	50130	50479	50826	51172	51519	51869	52213	52561	52910	53259	53604	53953	54302	54650	54995
22	49389	49754	50117	50484	50850	51212	51579	51943	52308	52674	53039	53403	53768	54133	54498	54864	55229	55591	55957	56321	56686	57050	57417
23	51529	51913	52296	52680	53063	53446	53828	54213	54594	54978	55359	55745	56129	56511	56895	57275	57661	58045	58427	58810	59195	59577	59961
24	53777	54179	54582	54984	55387	55791	56193	56595	56998	57399	57802	58204	58604	59009	59410	59812	60215	60619	61020	61423	61824	62227	62629
25	56138	56561	56983	57407	57828	58251	58671	59096	59517	59941	60363	60786	61207	61630	62052	62474	62898	63321	63742	64164	64587	65011	65431
87
Assistant Professor AY 86000
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2005 - December 31, 2005
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
21	39243	39593	39938	40286	40635	40983	41328	41677	42025	42370	42718	43067	43415	43761	44110	44457	44806	45151	45502	45848	46197	46543	46890
22	40884	41248	41612	41979	42344	42707	43074	43438	43802	44169	44533	44897	45263	45628	45993	46360	46723	47089	47453	47818	48183	48548	48914
23	42605	42989	43371	43754	44136	44521	44904	45288	45670	46055	46437	46820	47202	47584	47970	48353	48736	49119	49503	49887	50269	50652	51034
24	44412	44815	45215	45620	46021	46424	46826	47230	47631	48034	48435	48837	49240	49643	50046	50447	50852	51251	51655	52057	52460	52861	53266
25	46311	46733	47156	47577	48001	48423	48846	49268	49691	50113	50536	50956	51380	51803	52227	52647	53070	53493	53916	54337	54759	55182	55606
26	48304	48747	49190	49633	50077	50521	50962	51407	51853	52296	52739	53183	53627	54071	54514	54957	55401	55845	56288	56731	57175	57619	58062
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
21	47238	47583	47933	48280	48628	48975	49323	49671	50018	50365	50712	51061	51408	51756	52104	52453	52799	53147	53494	53844	54189	54537	54886
22	49276	49642	50006	50371	50737	51101	51467	51831	52196	52561	52927	53291	53657	54022	54388	54751	55116	55482	55846	56213	56575	56941	57308
23	51420	51802	52186	52567	52952	53333	53717	54101	54483	54869	55252	55635	56017	56399	56784	57166	57548	57933	58318	58699	59082	59464	59848
24	53666	54070	54471	54875	55276	55680	56081	56485	56885	57290	57689	58090	58496	58895	59299	59701	60104	60504	60909	61311	61715	62117	62520
25	56028	56449	56872	57296	57717	58137	58563	58986	59406	59830	60252	60675	61095	61519	61944	62366	62785	63211	63632	64055	64477	64900	65324
26	58506	58948	59394	59838	60280	60722	61169	61612	62054	62499	62944	63387	63829	64273	64718	65161	65603	66048	66492	66935	67378	67821	68265
Assistant Professor CY 86010
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	45358	45761	46162	46566	46968	47368	47772	48173	48577	48978	49382	49783	50187	50588	50993	51393	51797	52198	52600	53004	53406	53808	54210
25	47255	47679	48101	48523	48948	49368	49789	50213	50636	51059	51480	51903	52325	52748	53169	53593	54017	54440	54861	55283	55705	56130	56552
26	49248	49693	50137	50579	51024	51467	51911	52353	52796	53240	53684	54130	54573	55016	55460	55905	56347	56790	57237	57679	58121	58566	59010
27	51342	51807	52273	52739	53205	53670	54138	54603	55066	55534	56000	56465	56932	57397	57862	58330	58797	59260	59728	60192	60656	61125	61588
28	53538	54027	54517	55006	55495	55986	56473	56962	57453	57940	58430	58920	59408	59897	60388	60874	61365	61854	62342	62832	63323	63810	64300
29	55846	56359	56872	57386	57901	58415	58927	59443	59956	60467	60981	61495	62010	62523	63036	63552	64063	64578	65091	65603	66119	66631	67146
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
24	54614	55015	55417	55822	56223	56625	57028	57428	57832	58235	58637	59039	59444	59844	60247	60649	61050	61452	61857	62258	62661	63062	63466
25	56974	57396	57820	58243	58664	59087	59510	59933	60355	60778	61199	61623	62044	62467	62889	63312	63733	64157	64580	65003	65424	65846	66269
26	59453	59896	60339	60784	61228	61670	62115	62558	63001	63445	63888	64332	64779	65220	65664	66108	66551	66995	67439	67882	68326	68769	69212
27	62055	62522	62987	63452	63920	64384	64852	65318	65780	66248	66714	67179	67646	68112	68575	69045	69509	69975	70441	70906	71371	71839	72304
28	64790	65277	65767	66256	66744	67233	67723	68211	68703	69191	69680	70169	70658	71148	71636	72125	72614	73104	73594	74081	74572	75060	75550
29	67658	68172	68686	69200	69713	70228	70739	71253	71767	72281	72795	73308	73823	74335	74849	75361	75877	76389	76904	77417	77930	78444	78958
88
Associate Professor AY 87000
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2005 - December 31, 2005
Range	Step 01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
25	47401	47824	48245	48668	49091	49514	49935	50357	50781	51204	51625	52048	52472	52895	53316	53739	54161	54584	55006	55430	55852	56275	56697
26	49394	49837	50283	50725	51169	51611	52055	52500	52942	53385	53830	54276	54719	55163	55606	56050	56493	56936	57380	57825	58267	58711	59154
27	51489	51952	52419	52886	53352	53815	54283	54747	55214	55681	56145	56611	57078	57542	58008	58475	58940	59405	59872	60337	60802	61271	61735
28	53683	54173	54663	55150	55642	56131	56618	57107	57597	58085	58576	59065	59553	60044	60535	61021	61510	61999	62487	62978	63467	63955	64443
29	55992	56505	57020	57532	58047	58560	59072	59588	60100	60614	61129	61642	62155	62667	63181	63695	64209	64723	65238	65751	66264	66778	67290
30	58415	58953	59493	60032	60571	61110	61650	62188	62730	63268	63807	64347	64886	65424	65965	66504	67042	67581	68121	68660	69201	69739	70278
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
25	57118	57541	57964	58388	58809	59232	59655	60077	60497	60921	61346	61769	62189	62611	63035	63458	63877	64303	64727	65149	65570	65992	66416
26	59598	60043	60485	60929	61372	61817	62260	62703	63147	63591	64034	64478	64921	65367	65810	66252	66698	67142	67583	68027	68472	68915	69358
27	62202	62666	63132	63598	64064	64532	64998	65461	65928	66395	66859	67325	67792	68258	68723	69189	69655	70120	70588	71052	71517	71984	72450
28	64936	65423	65914	66402	66890	67381	67870	68358	68846	69337	69825	70314	70805	71292	71782	72273	72759	73250	73739	74228	74715	75207	75694
29	67804	68318	68830	69346	69858	70373	70886	71400	71913	72427	72940	73454	73967	74481	74995	75508	76023	76536	77050	77563	78076	78590	79104
30	70817	71356	71895	72436	72973	73513	74054	74592	75132	75671	76210	76749	77288	77827	78367	78905	79445	79985	80524	81062	81604	82140	82679
Associate Professor CY 87010
Range	Step 01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
28	54803	55289	55780	56270	56757	57248	57736	58224	58714	59205	59692	60182	60672	61158	61650	62139	62627	63118	63607	64095	64584	65074	65561
29	57108	57623	58133	58649	59163	59678	60190	60703	61219	61731	62245	62758	63272	63785	64300	64812	65327	65839	66354	66868	67381	67895	68407
30	59531	60069	60611	61149	61686	62227	62766	63307	63846	64384	64926	65462	66002	66542	67081	67619	68160	68700	69239	69778	70318	70856	71397
31	62075	62641	63209	63773	64341	64906	65473	66038	66605	67170	67738	68306	68870	69436	70002	70567	71134	71701	72269	72833	73399	73966	74532
32	64745	65340	65934	66529	67124	67718	68314	68908	69502	70095	70692	71285	71880	72476	73068	73666	74259	74855	75448	76042	76636	77232	77825
33	67550	68174	68798	69423	70048	70673	71295	71921	72544	73169	73792	74417	75041	75666	76290	76914	77537	78164	78787	79411	80036	80661	81282
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
28	66051	66541	67029	67521	68008	68497	68987	69477	69964	70454	70941	71431	71922	72410	72899	73389	73876	74366	74858	75343	75833	76323	76812
29	68920	69435	69948	70462	70977	71490	72004	72515	73030	73544	74057	74571	75085	75598	76112	76626	77138	77652	78166	78680	79193	79705	80221
30	71935	72472	73014	73551	74091	74632	75170	75709	76250	76788	77326	77865	78406	78944	79485	80024	80562	81101	81641	82181	82720	83258	83799
31	75097	75665	76228	76799	77364	77930	78494	79060	79628	80194	80761	81326	81893	82458	83025	83592	84157	84724	85290	85858	86423	86988	87556
32	78419	79014	79608	80205	80798	81392	81987	82582	83175	83769	84366	84959	85553	86149	86746	87340	87933	88528	89123	89717	90311	90905	91499
33	81909	82531	83157	83781	84405	85028	85654	86278	86903	87526	88152	88775	89399	90024	90648	91272	91896	92519	93145	93769	94394	95018	95642
89
Professor I AY 88000
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2005 - December 31, 2005
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
30	59900	60439	60978	61517	62056	62596	63135	63676	64214	64753	65294	65833	66371	66913	67450	67988	68528	69068	69605	70147	70686	71226	71765
31	62442	63008	63575	64145	64710	65274	65841	66408	66973	67539	68106	68673	69240	69805	70372	70937	71505	72071	72637	73202	73769	74336	74900
32	65115	65710	66303	66897	67494	68088	68682	69277	69872	70467	71062	71654	72250	72845	73439	74035	74630	75223	75818	76413	77007	77601	78195
33	67919	68545	69167	69792	70415	71041	71666	72288	72914	73538	74162	74788	75409	76037	76659	77283	77908	78533	79156	79782	80403	81031	81653
34	70864	71518	72175	72831	73485	74142	74798	75452	76109	76764	77419	78076	78731	79385	80041	80695	81353	82008	82662	83319	83976	84630	85285
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
30	72304	72843	73384	73922	74460	75001	75539	76078	76619	77158	77696	78238	78775	79312	79854	80393	80934	81472	82010	82552	83090	83629	84168
31	75468	76036	76602	77166	77731	78299	78864	79433	79998	80565	81131	81698	82262	82827	83394	83964	84528	85094	85662	86226	86793	87359	87926
32	78790	79383	79980	80575	81168	81765	82358	82952	83546	84142	84734	85329	85923	86521	87116	87709	88304	88898	89493	90085	90681	91276	91870
33	82279	82902	83527	84151	84776	85399	86023	86649	87274	87898	88521	89144	89770	90392	91018	91643	92267	92890	93515	94138	94767	95388	96015
34	85942	86598	87253	87907	88561	89218	89875	90529	91183	91842	92497	93151	93808	94464	95118	95775	96430	97083	97741	98396	99050	99706	100363
Professor ICY 88010
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
33	69099	69726	70347	70974	71594	72222	72846	73470	74094	74717	75341	75969	76591	77217	77840	78464	79090	79712	80337	80962	81584	82210	82833
34	72044	72699	73356	74011	74664	75323	75979	76633	77289	77945	78599	79257	79912	80567	81221	81876	82531	83189	83844	84499	85155	85811	86467
35	75136	75825	76513	77202	77890	78579	79267	79956	80643	81331	82020	82711	83396	84084	84774	85462	86151	86836	87525	88215	88902	89590	90281
36	78383	79107	79828	80551	81273	81998	82721	83443	84165	84888	85611	86334	87056	87778	88502	89223	89947	90670	91392	92114	92839	93558	94284
37	81792	82553	83310	84067	84830	85587	86345	87105	87863	88621	89382	90140	90898	91658	92416	93176	93934	94693	95451	96212	96971	97729	98488
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
33	83459	84083	84708	85330	85957	86580	87205	87827	88454	89078	89703	90324	90950	91573	92199	92823	93447	94072	94696	95320	95946	96568	97195
34	87123	87777	88434	89089	89741	90398	91056	91709	92364	93021	93677	94333	94989	95643	96298	96956	97611	98265	98922	99576	100231	100888	101544
35	90967	91657	92345	93032	93722	94408	95096	95787	96473	97162	97850	98539	99229	99916	100604	101294	101980	102670	103357	104045	104736	105422	106109
36	95005	95729	96452	97174	97898	98618	99343	100064	100787	101512	102234	102955	103678	104400	105126	105848	106570	107291	108015	108736	109461	110183	110907
37	99247	100004	100765	101523	102282	103041	103799	104559	105318	106077	106835	107594	108352	109110	109872	110629	111388	112148	112905	113664	114425	115182	115941
90
Professor II AY 89000
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2005 - December 31, 2005
Range Step
01		02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11
37	82369	83128	83890	84645	85405	86167	86923	87682	88442	89200	89957
38	85950	86749	87544	88340	89136	89934	90731	91529	92325	93121	93918
39	89710	90544	91383	92219	93055	93891	94727	95567	96403	97241	98076
12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
90719	91478	92236	92996	93754	94514	95272	96031	96791	97549	98307	99067
94716	95513	96309	97106	97904	98699	99497	100293	101091	101889	102687	103484
98914	99750	100587	101424	102260	103096	103933	104770	105608	106444	107281	108118
Range Step 24 37 99826 38 104277 39 108953
25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41
100584	101343	102105	102861	103620	104380	105138	105897	106658	107417	108173	108934	109692	110451	111212	111970	112727
105076	105872	106669	107466	108263	109062	109857	110654	111452	112248	113044	113842	114637	115434	116231	117029	117827
109791	110628	111464	112301	113137	113973	114812	115647	116486	117322	118156	118996	119830	120671	121506		
Professor II CY 89010
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
40	94492	95373	96251	97130	98008	98885	99765	100642	101522	102400	103280	104156	105034	105915	106792	107672	108549	109428	110304	111183	112061	112939	113820
41	98639	99561	100481	101402	102326	103247	104171	105095	106015	106940	107860	108783	109706	110628	111548	112472	113396	114317	115239	116161	117085	118005	118929
42	102987	103956	104924	105892	106863	107831	108798	109767	110734	111705	112672	113642	114609	115576	116546	117515	118483	119451	120419	121387	122358		
Range Step
24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32
40 114696 115575 116455 117333 118210 119090 119968 120846 121723
41 119851 120773 121696
91
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2005 - December 31, 2005
Special Professorial Titles
Range Step 01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
43 117458 118428 119395 120364 121335 122302 123271 124237 125207 126175 127144 128113 129080 130049 131019 131987 132955 133924 134892 135858 136828 137797 138765
Range Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36
43 139733 140702 141672 142639 143608 144575 145544 146514 147483 148450 149418 150387 151354
92
Assistant Professor Law 96140, 96150
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2005 - December 31, 2005
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
33	66709	67330	67957	68578	69205	69827	70454	71077	71701	72326	72951	73572	74199	74822	75447	76071	76694	77319	77945	78569	79192	79817	80442
34	69653	70307	70962	71621	72275	72929	73585	74239	74895	75551	76208	76861	77516	78174	78830	79485	80140	80795	81451	82109	82761	83416	84073
35	72745	73432	74120	74809	75495	76186	76872	77562	78250	78938	79626	80315	81001	81691	82379	83067	83756	84443	85133	85822	86508	87197	87884
36	75990	76713	77435	78160	78882	79602	80325	81048	81772	82496	83217	83938	84661	85383	86109	86830	87554	88276	88998	89721	90443	91166	91888
37	79401	80156	80916	81675	82433	83193	83951	84711	85469	86228	86986	87745	88504	89262	90023	90780	91539	92298	93058	93816	94574	95334	96091
38	82978	83774	84572	85368	86167	86963	87758	88554	89352	90148	90944	91744	92540	93335	94132	94930	95726	96522	97319	98113	98914	99710	100507
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
33	81064	81690	82313	82939	83562	84187	84809	85435	86059	86685	87307	87933	88555	89181	89804	90429	91055	91678	92301	92926	93549	94176	94798
34	84728	85382	86038	86695	87351	88005	88660	89318	89973	90629	91282	91936	92593	93250	93904	94559	95216	95871	96525	97183	97839	98493	99150
35	88574	89261	89949	90639	91326	92015	92703	93390	94081	94770	95457	96145	96832	97518	98211	98895	99586	100273	100962	101651	102339	103026	103717
36	92613	93334	94056	94780	95502	96225	96950	97669	98393	99117	99837	100561	101285	102005	102728	103451	104173	104897	105619	106344	107064	107787	108510
37	96850	97611	98369	99127	99886	100644	101402	102164	102922	103680	104439	105196	105956	106717	107473	108233	108992	109749	110509	111269	112026	112785	113546
38	101304	102101	102897	103693	104489	105285	106084	106880	107679	108474	109270	110067	110865	111661	112457	113255	114049	114848	115644	116441	117238	118036	118832
Associate Professor Law 97140, 97150
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
36	77017	77738	78463	79186	79909	80629	81354	82075	82800	83521	84243	84967	85689	86413	87134	87858	88580	89301	90025	90748	91470	92194	92916
37	80428	81184	81945	82705	83461	84221	84979	85738	86497	87256	88014	88773	89533	90291	91051	91810	92567	93326	94085	94844	95601	96363	97120
38	84003	84802	85597	86394	87193	87990	88785	89582	90378	91175	91973	92770	93566	94362	95160	95958	96754	97550	98348	99142	99940	100738	101533
39	87765	88600	89437	90275	91109	91944	92785	93618	94457	95292	96127	96968	97802	98640	99476	100312	101150	101986	102821	103659	104495	105332	106169
40	91709	92587	93466	94345	95223	96103	96980	97857	98737	99617	100495	101373	102251	103129	104006	104887	105765	106645	107522	108399	109277	110155	111036
41	95855	96775	97698	98619	99542	100464	101386	102310	103231	104154	105077	106000	106920	107846	108767	109688	110612	111533	112455	113377	114300	115221	116146
Range Step
	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
36	93641	94360	95083	95807	96529	97252	97975	98697	99420	100142	100865	101590	102311	103033	103755	104480	105201	105924	106649	107370	108091	108815	109538
37	97879	98639	99397	100156	100916	101673	102431	103191	103949	104707	105469	106227	106985	107745	108502	109261	110021	110779	111537	112297	113054	113815	114576
38	102330	103128	103925	104721	105517	106314	107112	107909	108705	109501	110297	111094	111892	112689	113485	114283	115077	115875	116671	117467	118266	119063	119860
39	107005	107844	108679	109515	110352	111190	112024	112860	113697	114534	115370	116208	117044	117882	118718	119555	120392	121225	122065	122899	123737	124573	125409
40	111913	112791	113670	114547	115425	116306	117185	118061	118941	119819	120697	121577	122456	123332	124212	125089	125967	126848	127726	128604	129483	130362	131239
41	117067	117990	118913	119832	120757	121679	122601	123523	124446	125369	126292	127213	128135	129058	129978	130902	131826	132747	133670	134590	135515	136436	137359
93
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2005 - December 31, 2005
Professor I Law 98160, 98170
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
39	89311	90146	90982	91821	92658	93494	94330	95166	96004	96840	97676	98511	99349	100186	101023	101857	102697	103533	104371	105208	106041	106879	107714
40	93257	94134	95013	95891	96770	97650	98528	99405	100283	101163	102040	102919	103798	104677	105556	106433	107311	108191	109070	109948	110826	111704	112581
41	97401	98323	99245	100167	101089	102013	102935	103858	104779	105703	106624	107545	108467	109389	110313	111236	112159	113081	114003	114924	115848	116767	117692
42	101752	102718	103686	104659	105623	106593	107560	108529	109496	110467	111437	112404	113372	114341	115310	116277	117246	118215	119182	120153	121121	122090	123056
43	106318	107337	108352	109370	110388	111403	112421	113437	114455	115470	116489	117505	118522	119538	120557	121574	122590	123607	124621	125641	126656	127675	128691
44	111117	112183	113252	114319	115387	116455	117523	118589	119657	120726	121793	122861	123927	124997	126065	127133	128200	129269	130332	131403	132470	133540	134605
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
39	108553	109387	110225	111062	111900	112736	113572	114410	115246	116081	116919	117755	118591	119428	120264	121104	121938	122774	123613	124449	125284	126121	126956
40	113458	114339	115217	116096	116973	117851	118731	119610	120488	121367	122245	123122	124000	124880	125759	126639	127516	128394	129273	130151	131031	131909	132788
41	118616	119536	120459	121381	122304	123225	124147	125073	125994	126916	127838	128761	129681	130605	131527	132450	133375	134294	135218	136140	137059	137982	138907
42	124025	124995	125963	126932	127899	128868	129836	130806	131775	132743	133711	134677	135648	136616	137584	138553	139521	140492	141458	142429	143394	144362	145332
43	129709	130726	131741	132758	133775	134793	135808	136826	137841	138860	139877	140895	141911	142928	143946	144960	145978	146996	148013	149030	150046	151061	152078
44	135675	136740	137810	138878	139945	141014	142081	143147	144215	145285	146349	147420	148487	149555	150620	151690	152759	153826	154895	155960	157029	158097	159164
Professor II Law 99040, 99050
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
43	107501	108518	109535	110551	111568	112586	113601	114617	115634	116652	117669	118687	119703	120720	121738	122755	123770	124787	125805	126820	127838	128855	129873
44	112298	113366	114433	115501	116569	117635	118704	119770	120840	121906	122975	124044	125110	126177	127246	128315	129381	130449	131514	132584	133651	134720	135787
45	117333	118454	119577	120696	121817	122940	124061	125180	126302	127425	128544	129666	130787	131909	133029	134150	135271	136393	137515	138634	139757	140878	141998
46	122621	123798	124975	126153	127331	128507	129683	130862	132039	133216	134392	135572	136749	137924	139103	140279	141456	142634	143811	144988	146163	147341	148519
47	128173	129412	130646	131882	133117	134356	135592	136826	138061	139299	140535	141771	143008	144245	145478	146715	147950	149188	150424	151658	152894	154130	155365
Range Step
	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41
43	130889	131907	132920	133939	134957	135973	136990	138007	139025	140040	141058	142074	143092	144108	145126	146141	147159	148176
44	136856	137922	138990	140059	141126	142194	143260	144329	145395	146465	147530	148602	149666	150735	151804	152870	153940	155006
45	143119	144242	145363	146482	147601	148726	149846	150966	152085	153210	154330	155450	156574	157694	158814	159934	161057	162179
46	149696	150874	152050	153228	154405	155582	156759	157937	159114	160292	161471	162647	163823	164999	166177	167354	168529	169707
47	156603	157838	159075	160311	161547	162781	164019	165256	166491	167725	168964	170200	171435	172671	173909	175142	176379	177616
94
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Extended Salary Schedule for Engineering and Computer Science Effective July 1, 2005 - December 31, 2005
Assistant Instructor AY 84000
Range Step
16	47 43608	48 43880	49 44156	50 44425	51 44698	52 44971	53 45243	54 45516	55 45787	56 46060	57 46332	58 46604	59 46877	60 47148	61 47420	62 47695	63 47967	64 48237	65 48512	66 48783
Range 16	Step 67 49056	68 49327	69 49601	70 49874	71 50145	72 50417	73 50691	74 50960	75 51235	76 51507	77 51781	78 52050	79 52323	80 52597	81 52867	82 53141	83 53415	84 53687	85 53958	
Assistant Instructor CY Range Step 47	48			84010 49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
19	50216	50533	50848	51163	51477	51792	52109	52424	52739	53056	53369	53684	54000	54315	54631	54947	55262	55576	55892	56207
Range 19	Step 67 56521	68 56837	69 57153	70 57468	71 57783	72 58101	73 58415	74 58727	75 59043	76 59361	77 59675	78 59989	79 60307	80 60621	81 60937	82 61252	83 61567	84 61882	85 62195	
Instructor AY 85000
Range 22	Step 47 57081	48 57444	49 57811	50 58176	51 58540	52 58904	53 59271	54 59635	55 59998	56 60365	57 60727	58 61092	59 61460	60 61824	61 62188	62 62553	63 62919	64 63283	65 63648	66 64014
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84		
22	64379	64743	65109	65474	65838	66203	66570	66934	67301	67664	68029	68395	68758	69124	69489	69854	70220	70585		
Instructor CY 85010																				
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
25	65853	66279	66700	67122	67544	67967	68391	68811	69233	69657	70080	70500	70925	71346	71770	72190	72614	73039	73461	73884
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84		
25	74305	74727	75150	75574	75994	76419	76841	77263	77683	78107	78531	78954	79375	79798	80221	80642	81064	81486		
95
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Extended Salary Schedule for Engineering and Computer Science Effective July 1, 2005 - December 31, 2005
Assistant Professor AY			86000						
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55
26	68710	69152	69596	70041	70483	70927	71370	71814	72258
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75
26	77581	78024	78468	78912	79355	79799	80241	80686	81130
Assistant Professor CY			86010						
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55
29	79471	79984	80499	81013	81527	82038	82554	83065	83581
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75
29	89740	90254	90767	91282	91796	92310	92823	93337	93850
Associate Professor AY			87000						
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55
30	83220	83759	84298	84839	85377	85915	86456	86995	87532
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75
30	94007	94545	95083	95626	96164	96701	97242	97781	98319
Associate Professor CY			87010						
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55
33	96265	96892	97513	98140	98763	99390	100011	100636	101259
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75
33	108751	109376	110001	110625	111247	111873	112496	113122	113745
56 72700	57 73144	58 73591	59 74034	60 74477	61 74921	62 75363	63 75808	64 76251	65 76693	66 77137
76 81572	77 82017	78 82460	79 82903	80 83347	81 83792	82 84234	83 84680	84 85124		
56 84094	57 84607	58 85121	59 85633	60 86148	61 86662	62 87175	63 87690	64 88200	65 88714	66 89227
76 94364	77 94877	78 95390	79 95904	80 96417	81 96930	82 97444	83 97959	84 98474		
56 88074	57 88612	58 89151	59 89691	60 90231	61 90768	62 91309	63 91849	64 92391	65 92926	66 93466
76 98860	77 99399	78 99938	79 100476	80 101016	81 101555	82 102095	83 102634	84 103172		
56 101886	57 102510	58 103134	59 103756	60 104382	61 105006	62 105630	63 106255	64 106879	65 107503	66 108128
76 114371	77 114993	78 115620	79 116242	80 116867	81 117490	82 118118	83 118739	84 119363		
96
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Extended Salary Schedule for Engineering and Computer Science Effective July 1, 2005 - December 31, 2005
Professor I AY 88000
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
34	101018	101674	102328	102984	103641	104296	104951	105608	106261	106916	107573	108229	108883	109540	110195	110849	111507	112162	112817	113475
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84		
34	114128	114782	115440	116095	116749	117405	118060	118717	119373	120028	120683	121340	121995	122651	123307	123961	124615	125271		
Professor I CY		88010																		
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
37	116701	117457	118217	118977	119736	120496	121253	122012	122770	123530	124288	125047	125806	126563	127324	128084	128842	129602	130359	131118
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84		
37	131877	132636	133394	134153	134913	135672	136430	137190	137949	138706	139467	140224	140982	141743	142500	143259	144020	144777		
Professor II AY		89000																		
Range	Step 40	41	42	43	44	45	46	47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59
39	122341	123179	124015	124854	125689	126526	127362	128200	129036	129874	130709	131547	132383	133221	134058	134893	135731	136566	137402	138240
Range	Step 60	61	62	63	64	65	66	67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75				
39	139077	139915	140751	141586	142424	143260	144099	144935	145769	146608	147444	148282	149118	149955	150792	151629				
Professor II CY		89010																		
Range	Step 22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	
42	123326	124294	125261	126231	127200	128168	129136	130105	131072	132041	133011	133979	134947	135916	136882	137853	138821	139790	140757	
Range	41	42	43	44	45	46	47	48	49	50	51	52								
42	141726	142696	143664	144632	145600	146567	147536	148506	149474	150442	151410	152379								
97
	Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey																			
	Extended Salary Schedule for Business Disciplines Effective July														1, 2005 - December 31,				2005	
Assistant Instructor AY			84000																	
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
16	43608	43880	44156	44425	44698	44971	45243	45516	45787	46060	46332	46604	46877	47148	47420	47695	47967	48237	48512	48783
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
16	49056	49327	49601	49874	50145	50417	50691	50960	51235	51507	51781	52050	52323	52597	52867	53141	53415	53687	53958	54231
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99	100	101					
16	54504	54775	55048	55321	55591	55863	56138	56409	56681	56953	57228	57497	57772	58045	58318					
Assistant Instructor CY			84010																	
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
19	50216	50533	50848	51163	51477	51792	52109	52424	52739	53056	53369	53684	54000	54315	54631	54947	55262	55576	55892	56207
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
19	56521	56837	57153	57468	57783	58101	58415	58727	59043	59361	59675	59989	60307	60621	60937	61252	61567	61882	62195	62514
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99	100	101					
19	62827	63143	63459	63773	64088	64404	64720	65034	65349	65666	65981	66295	66612	66928	67239					
Instructor AY 85000																				
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
22	57081	57444	57811	58176	58540	58904	59271	59635	59998	60365	60727	61092	61460	61824	62188	62553	62919	63283	63648	64014
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
22	64379	64743	65109	65474	65838	66203	66570	66934	67301	67664	68029	68395	68758	69124	69489	69854	70220	70585	70948	71315
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99	100						
22	71679	72042	72408	72771	73138	73503	73868	74233	74599	74961	75328	75692	76057	76423						
Instructor CY 85010																				
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
25	65853	66279	66700	67122	67544	67967	68391	68811	69233	69657	70080	70500	70925	71346	71770	72190	72614	73039	73461	73884
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
25	74305	74727	75150	75574	75994	76419	76841	77263	77683	78107	78531	78954	79375	79798	80221	80642	81064	81486	81910	82334
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99	100						
25	82755	83176	83599	84023	84444	84868	85290	85714	86133	86557	86979	87402	87823	88248						
98
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Extended Salary Schedule for Business Disciplines Effective July 1, 2005 - December 31, 2005
Assistant Professor AY			86000																	
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
26	68710	69152	69596	70041	70483	70927	71370	71814	72258	72700	73144	73591	74034	74477	74921	75363	75808	76251	76693	77137
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
26	77581	78024	78468	78912	79355	79799	80241	80686	81130	81572	82017	82460	82903	83347	83792	84234	84680	85124	85568	86011
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99							
26	86454	86899	87343	87785	88227	88672	89116	89558	90000	90445	90890	91332	91774							
Assistant Professor CY			86010																	
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
29	79471	79984	80499	81013	81527	82038	82554	83065	83581	84094	84607	85121	85633	86148	86662	87175	87690	88200	88714	89227
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
29	89740	90254	90767	91282	91796	92310	92823	93337	93850	94364	94877	95390	95904	96417	96930	97444	97959	98474	98985	99499
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99							
29	100014	100526	101039	101554	102066	102581	103095	103609	104121	104634	105150	105662	106176							
Associate Professor AY			87000																	
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
30	83220	83759	84298	84839	85377	85915	86456	86995	87532	88074	88612	89151	89691	90231	90768	91309	91849	92391	92926	93466
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
30	94007	94545	95083	95626	96164	96701	97242	97781	98319	98860	99399	99938	100476	101016	101555	102095	102634	103172	103713	104251
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99							
30	104790	105330	105870	106408	106949	107487	108026	108565	109104	109643	110184	110722	111264							
Associate Professor CY			87010																	
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
33	96265	96892	97513	98140	98763	99390	100011	100636	101259	101886	102510	103134	103756	104382	105006	105630	106255	106879	107503	108128
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
33	108751	109376	110001	110625	111247	111873	112496	113122	113745	114371	114993	115620	116242	116867	117490	118118	118739	119363	119987	120612
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99							
33	121236	121861	122485	123109	123734	124358	124980	125607	126231	126855	127479	128104	128726							
99
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Extended Salary Schedule for Business Disciplines Effective July 1, 2005 - December 31, 2005
Professor I AY 88000
Range 34	Step 47 101018	48 101674	49 102328	50 102984	51 103641	52 104296	53 104951	54 105608	55 106261	56 106916	57 107573	58 108229	59 108883	60 109540	61 110195	62 110849	63 111507	64 112162	65 112817	66 113475
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
34	114128	114782	115440	116095	116749	117405	118060	118717	119373	120028	120683	121340	121995	122651	123307	123961	124615	125271	125926	126583
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99							
34	127240	127894	128548	129206	129862	130517	131173	131828	132481	133138	133793	134448	135105							
Professor I CY		88010																		
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
37	116701	117457	118217	118977	119736	120496	121253	122012	122770	123530	124288	125047	125806	126563	127324	128084	128842	129602	130359	131118
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
37	131877	132636	133394	134153	134913	135672	136430	137190	137949	138706	139467	140224	140982	141743	142500	143259	144020	144777	145537	146296
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99							
37	147054	147812	148573	149329	150088	150849	151607	152366	153127	153883	154642	155402	156160							
Professor II AY		89000																		
Range	Step 40	41	42	43	44	45	46	47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59
39	122341	123179	124015	124854	125689	126526	127362	128200	129036	129874	130709	131547	132383	133221	134058	134893	135731	136566	137402	138240
Range	Step 60	61	62	63	64	65	66	67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79
39	139077	139915	140751	141586	142424	143260	144099	144935	145769	146608	147444	148282	149118	149955	150792	151629	152465	153302	154139	154975
Range	Step 80	81	82	83	84	85	86	87	88	89										
39	155813	156648	157486	158322	159160	159995	160836	161669	162506	163344										
Professor II CY		89010																		
Range	Step 22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	
42	123326	124294	125261	126231	127200	128168	129136	130105	131072	132041	133011	133979	134947	135916	136882	137853	138821	139790	140757	
Range	Step 41	42	43	44	45	46	47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	
42	141726	142696	143664	144632	145600	146567	147536	148506	149474	150442	151410	152379	153348	154317	155285	156253	157220	158191	159159	
Range	Step 60	61	62	63	64	65														
42	160129	161095	162064	163031	164002	164969														
100
Assistant Instructor AY 84000
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey Academic Salary Schedule Effective January 1, 2006 - June 30, 2006
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
14	29033	29286	29535	29785	30036	30286	30535	30784	31035	31285	31537	31784	32036	32286	32535	32785	33036	33285	33536	33786	34036	34287	34535
15	30213	30477	30738	31002	31264	31528	31788	32055	32315	32578	32839	33103	33364	33629	33889	34152	34416	34677	34940	35201	35467	35727	35990
16	31455	31728	32003	32281	32556	32830	33108	33382	33657	33934	34209	34484	34759	35037	35314	35586	35864	36139	36414	36690	36965	37242	37518
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
14	34785	35037	35285	35536	35784	36036	36285	36534	36784	37036	37286	37536	37786	38035	38286	38536	38784	39036	39286	39535	39787	40034	40287
15	36253	36517	36776	37041	37301	37565	37827	38091	38350	38614	38880	39141	39403	39666	39928	40189	40453	40715	40978	41238	41503	41763	42027
16	37792	38069	38342	38618	38895	39170	39446	39722	39998	40274	40549	40824	41100	41376	41652	41928	42200	42479	42753	43028	43304	43581	43857
Assistant Instructor CY 84010
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
17	33343	33634	33922	34213	34502	34791	35079	35368	35660	35948	36240	36528	36818	37107	37396	37687	37973	38265	38553	38842	39133	39421	39710
18	34711	35013	35318	35621	35926	36227	36532	36836	37139	37445	37748	38051	38355	38660	38966	39270	39572	39875	40178	40481	40787	41090	41392
19	36142	36461	36780	37100	37418	37737	38057	38377	38695	39013	39333	39651	39971	40291	40609	40929	41246	41567	41886	42202	42525	42844	43162
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
17	40000	40290	40578	40870	41157	41448	41738	42026	42316	42605	42897	43184	43471	43761	44051	44341	44630	44920	45209	45500	45791	46077	46366
18	41699	42001	42308	42610	42914	43217	43521	43826	44129	44433	44736	45039	45346	45649	45954	46256	46560	46864	47166	47472	47774	48078	48382
19	43485	43799	44120	44438	44757	45079	45395	45715	46033	46352	46671	46991	47310	47629	47949	48268	48586	48906	49224	49544	49861	50182	50501
101 (APPENDIX E-2)
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective January 1, 2006 - June 30, 2006
Instructor AY 85000
Range	Step 01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
17	33232	33523	33810	34099	34389	34679	34968	35258	35545	35836	36125	36415	36703	36993	37284	37573	37863	38152	38442	38731	39018	39308	39597
18	34595	34901	35203	35508	35813	36114	36421	36723	37028	37332	37634	37940	38242	38547	38851	39153	39458	39760	40068	40371	40675	40979	41283
19	36030	36350	36669	36986	37304	37626	37944	38265	38584	38900	39221	39538	39859	40177	40497	40817	41135	41454	41773	42092	42410	42731	43049
20	37536	37872	38206	38540	38878	39209	39545	39880	40217	40551	40887	41220	41556	41891	42226	42561	42898	43230	43566	43901	44235	44571	44906
21	39116	39468	39818	40171	40523	40874	41225	41579	41930	42279	42634	42985	43338	43688	44040	44391	44745	45095	45448	45799	46150	46501	46854
22	40774	41145	41512	41882	42253	42621	42991	43358	43731	44099	44468	44838	45207	45576	45946	46316	46685	47054	47423	47794	48159	48531	48900
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
17	39887	40176	40467	40755	41046	41335	41626	41913	42201	42492	42782	43073	43359	43651	43940	44228	44518	44805	45096	45385	45676	45965	46254
18	41586	41890	42192	42497	42798	43104	43409	43712	44016	44321	44624	44928	45232	45536	45839	46143	46447	46753	47055	47360	47663	47967	48271
19	43368	43687	44006	44326	44644	44963	45284	45601	45920	46240	46558	46878	47198	47516	47834	48152	48474	48793	49109	49431	49750	50069	50385
20	45240	45576	45910	46245	46579	46917	47251	47586	47919	48255	48590	48925	49260	49596	49931	50266	50600	50937	51269	51607	51942	52276	52609
21	47206	47556	47908	48261	48614	48964	49317	49669	50021	50370	50722	51076	51425	51779	52130	52484	52832	53186	53538	53890	54241	54592	54945
22	49267	49639	50006	50375	50747	51116	51484	51856	52223	52594	52964	53330	53702	54072	54441	54809	55179	55549	55919	56288	56658	57025	57396
Instructor CY 85010
Range	Step 01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
20	38246	38583	38917	39251	39586	39923	40256	40591	40927	41262	41595	41932	42266	42601	42937	43273	43606	43942	44277	44612	44947	45283	45615
21	39825	40178	40531	40884	41233	41586	41937	42289	42641	42993	43345	43695	44048	44398	44751	45102	45455	45806	46159	46509	46862	47212	47563
22	41487	41856	42225	42594	42963	43335	43703	44072	44440	44808	45179	45547	45916	46287	46657	47026	47395	47764	48135	48504	48872	49242	49609
23	43227	43614	44004	44391	44780	45166	45555	45944	46331	46718	47106	47496	47884	48270	48659	49044	49433	49821	50207	50596	50983	51372	51760
24	45057	45463	45872	46280	46687	47094	47501	47907	48316	48722	49131	49538	49943	50352	50758	51167	51571	51978	52386	52794	53200	53609	54014
25	46978	47404	47832	48260	48688	49114	49544	49972	50398	50825	51254	51683	52111	52536	52964	53391	53819	54245	54673	55102	55530	55956	56383
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
20	45953	46286	46621	46956	47291	47627	47963	48297	48632	48966	49303	49636	49973	50306	50641	50975	51311	51645	51982	52315	52653	52987	53321
21	47916	48269	48622	48971	49324	49675	50029	50378	50732	51085	51436	51786	52137	52491	52840	53192	53545	53898	54247	54600	54954	55306	55655
22	49982	50351	50718	51090	51460	51827	52198	52566	52936	53306	53675	54044	54413	54783	55152	55522	55892	56258	56628	56997	57366	57735	58106
23	52147	52536	52924	53312	53700	54087	54474	54864	55249	55638	56023	56414	56803	57189	57578	57962	58353	58742	59128	59516	59905	60292	60681
24	54422	54829	55237	55644	56052	56460	56867	57274	57682	58088	58496	58902	59307	59717	60123	60530	60938	61346	61752	62160	62566	62974	63381
25	56812	57240	57667	58096	58522	58950	59375	59805	60231	60660	61087	61515	61941	62370	62797	63224	63653	64081	64507	64934	65362	65791	66216
102
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective January 1, 2006 - June 30, 2006
Assistant Professor AY 86000
Range	Step 01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
21	39714	40068	40417	40769	41123	41475	41824	42177	42529	42878	43231	43584	43936	44286	44639	44990	45344	45693	46048	46398	46751	47102	47453
22	41375	41743	42111	42483	42852	43219	43591	43959	44328	44699	45067	45436	45806	46176	46545	46916	47284	47654	48022	48392	48761	49131	49501
23	43116	43505	43891	44279	44666	45055	45443	45831	46218	46608	46994	47382	47768	48155	48546	48933	49321	49708	50097	50486	50872	51260	51646
24	44945	45353	45758	46167	46573	46981	47388	47797	48203	48610	49016	49423	49831	50239	50647	51052	51462	51866	52275	52682	53090	53495	53905
25	46867	47294	47722	48148	48577	49004	49432	49859	50287	50714	51142	51567	51997	52425	52854	53279	53707	54135	54563	54989	55416	55844	56273
26	48884	49332	49780	50229	50678	51127	51574	52024	52475	52924	53372	53821	54271	54720	55168	55616	56066	56515	56963	57412	57861	58310	58759
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
21	47805	48154	48508	48859	49212	49563	49915	50267	50618	50969	51321	51674	52025	52377	52729	53082	53433	53785	54136	54490	54839	55191	55545
22	49867	50238	50606	50975	51346	51714	52085	52453	52822	53192	53562	53930	54301	54670	55041	55408	55777	56148	56516	56888	57254	57624	57996
23	52037	52424	52812	53198	53587	53973	54362	54750	55137	55527	55915	56303	56689	57076	57465	57852	58239	58628	59018	59403	59791	60178	60566
24	54310	54719	55125	55534	55939	56348	56754	57163	57568	57977	58381	58787	59198	59602	60011	60417	60825	61230	61640	62047	62456	62862	63270
25	56700	57126	57554	57984	58410	58835	59266	59694	60119	60548	60975	61403	61828	62257	62687	63114	63538	63970	64396	64824	65251	65679	66108
26	59208	59655	60107	60556	61003	61451	61903	62351	62799	63249	63699	64148	64595	65044	65495	65943	66390	66841	67290	67738	68187	68635	69084
Assistant Professor CY 86010
Range	Step 01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	45902	46310	46716	47125	47532	47936	48345	48751	49160	49566	49975	50380	50789	51195	51605	52010	52419	52824	53231	53640	54047	54454	54861
25	47822	48251	48678	49105	49535	49960	50386	50816	51244	51672	52098	52526	52953	53381	53807	54236	54665	55093	55519	55946	56373	56804	57231
26	49839	50289	50739	51186	51636	52085	52534	52981	53430	53879	54328	54780	55228	55676	56126	56576	57023	57471	57924	58371	58818	59269	59718
27	51958	52429	52900	53372	53843	54314	54788	55258	55727	56200	56672	57143	57615	58086	58556	59030	59503	59971	60445	60914	61384	61859	62327
28	54180	54675	55171	55666	56161	56658	57151	57646	58142	58635	59131	59627	60121	60616	61113	61604	62101	62596	63090	63586	64083	64576	65072
29	56516	57035	57554	58075	58596	59116	59634	60156	60675	61193	61713	62233	62754	63273	63792	64315	64832	65353	65872	66390	66912	67431	67952
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
24	55269	55675	56082	56492	56898	57305	57712	58117	58526	58934	59341	59747	60157	60562	60970	61377	61783	62189	62599	63005	63413	63819	64228
25	57658	58085	58514	58942	59368	59796	60224	60652	61079	61507	61933	62362	62789	63217	63644	64072	64498	64927	65355	65783	66209	66636	67064
26	60166	60615	61063	61513	61963	62410	62860	63309	63757	64206	64655	65104	65556	66003	66452	66901	67350	67799	68248	68697	69146	69594	70043
27	62800	63272	63743	64213	64687	65157	65630	66102	66569	67043	67515	67985	68458	68929	69398	69874	70343	70815	71286	71757	72227	72701	73172
28	65567	66060	66556	67051	67545	68040	68536	69030	69527	70021	70516	71011	71506	72002	72496	72991	73485	73981	74477	74970	75467	75961	76457
29	68470	68990	69510	70030	70550	71071	71588	72108	72628	73148	73669	74188	74709	75227	75747	76265	76788	77306	77827	78346	78865	79385	79905
103
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective January 1, 2006 - June 30, 2006
Associate Professor AY 87000
Range	Step 01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
25	47970	48398	48824	49252	49680	50108	50534	50961	51390	51818	52245	52673	53102	53530	53956	54384	54811	55239	55666	56095	56522	56950	57377
26	49987	50435	50886	51334	51783	52230	52680	53130	53577	54026	54476	54927	55376	55825	56273	56723	57171	57619	58069	58519	58966	59416	59864
27	52107	52575	53048	53521	53992	54461	54934	55404	55877	56349	56819	57290	57763	58233	58704	59177	59647	60118	60590	61061	61532	62006	62476
28	54327	54823	55319	55812	56310	56805	57297	57792	58288	58782	59279	59774	60268	60765	61261	61753	62248	62743	63237	63734	64229	64722	65216
29	56664	57183	57704	58222	58744	59263	59781	60303	60821	61341	61863	62382	62901	63419	63939	64459	64980	65500	66021	66540	67059	67579	68097
30	59116	59660	60207	60752	61298	61843	62390	62934	63483	64027	64573	65119	65665	66209	66757	67302	67847	68392	68938	69484	70031	70576	71121
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
25	57803	58231	58660	59089	59515	59943	60371	60798	61223	61652	62082	62510	62935	63362	63791	64219	64644	65075	65504	65931	66357	66784	67213
26	60313	60764	61211	61660	62108	62559	63007	63455	63905	64354	64802	65252	65700	66151	66600	67047	67498	67948	68394	68843	69294	69742	70190
27	62948	63418	63890	64361	64833	65306	65778	66247	66719	67192	67661	68133	68606	69077	69548	70019	70491	70961	71435	71905	72375	72848	73319
28	65715	66208	66705	67199	67693	68190	68684	69178	69672	70169	70663	71158	71655	72148	72643	73140	73632	74129	74624	75119	75612	76109	76602
29	68618	69138	69656	70178	70696	71217	71737	72257	72776	73296	73815	74335	74855	75375	75895	76414	76935	77454	77975	78494	79013	79533	80053
30	71667	72212	72758	73305	73849	74395	74943	75487	76034	76579	77125	77670	78215	78761	79307	79852	80398	80945	81490	82035	82583	83126	83671
Associate Professor CY 87010
Range	Step 01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
28	55461	55952	56449	56945	57438	57935	58429	58923	59419	59915	60408	60904	61400	61892	62390	62885	63379	63875	64370	64864	65359	65855	66348
29	57793	58314	58831	59353	59873	60394	60912	61431	61954	62472	62992	63511	64031	64550	65072	65590	66111	66629	67150	67670	68190	68710	69228
30	60245	60790	61338	61883	62426	62974	63519	64067	64612	65157	65705	66248	66794	67341	67886	68430	68978	69524	70070	70615	71162	71706	72254
31	62820	63393	63968	64538	65113	65685	66259	66830	67404	67976	68551	69126	69696	70269	70842	71414	71988	72561	73136	73707	74280	74854	75426
32	65522	66124	66725	67327	67929	68531	69134	69735	70336	70936	71540	72140	72743	73346	73945	74550	75150	75753	76353	76955	77556	78159	78759
33	68361	68992	69624	70256	70889	71521	72151	72784	73415	74047	74678	75310	75941	76574	77205	77837	78467	79102	79732	80364	80996	81629	82257
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
28	66844	67339	67833	68331	68824	69319	69815	70311	70804	71299	71792	72288	72785	73279	73774	74270	74763	75258	75756	76247	76743	77239	77734
29	69747	70268	70787	71308	71829	72348	72868	73385	73906	74427	74946	75466	75986	76505	77025	77546	78064	78584	79104	79624	80143	80661	81184
30	72798	73342	73890	74434	74980	75528	76072	76618	77165	77709	78254	78799	79347	79891	80439	80984	81529	82074	82621	83167	83713	84257	84805
31	75998	76573	77143	77721	78292	78865	79436	80009	80584	81156	81730	82302	82876	83447	84021	84595	85167	85741	86313	86888	87460	88032	88607
32	79360	79962	80563	81167	81768	82369	82971	83573	84173	84774	85378	85979	86580	87183	87787	88388	88988	89590	90192	90794	91395	91996	92597
33	82892	83521	84155	84786	85418	86048	86682	87313	87946	88576	89210	89840	90472	91104	91736	92367	92999	93629	94263	94894	95527	96158	96790
104
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective January 1, 2006 - June 30, 2006
Professor I AY 88000
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
30	60619	61164	61710	62255	62801	63347	63893	64440	64985	65530	66078	66623	67167	67716	68259	68804	69350	69897	70440	70989	71534	72081	72626
31	63191	63764	64338	64915	65487	66057	66631	67205	67777	68349	68923	69497	70071	70643	71216	71788	72363	72936	73509	74080	74654	75228	75799
32	65896	66499	67099	67700	68304	68905	69506	70108	70710	71313	71915	72514	73117	73719	74320	74923	75526	76126	76728	77330	77931	78532	79133
33	68734	69368	69997	70630	71260	71893	72526	73155	73789	74420	75052	75685	76314	76949	77579	78210	78843	79475	80106	80739	81368	82003	82633
34	71714	72376	73041	73705	74367	75032	75696	76357	77022	77685	78348	79013	79676	80338	81001	81663	82329	82992	83654	84319	84984	85646	86308
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
30	73172	73717	74265	74809	75354	75901	76445	76991	77538	78084	78628	79177	79720	80264	80812	81358	81905	82450	82994	83543	84087	84633	85178
31	76374	76948	77521	78092	78664	79239	79810	80386	80958	81532	82105	82678	83249	83821	84395	84972	85542	86115	86690	87261	87835	88407	88981
32	79735	80336	80940	81542	82142	82746	83346	83947	84549	85152	85751	86353	86954	87559	88161	88762	89364	89965	90567	91166	91769	92371	92972
33	83266	83897	84529	85161	85793	86424	87055	87689	88321	88953	89583	90214	90847	91477	92110	92743	93374	94005	94637	95268	95904	96533	97167
34	86973	87637	88300	88962	89624	90289	90954	91615	92277	92944	93607	94269	94934	95598	96259	96924	97587	98248	98914	99577	100239	100902	101567
Professor ICY 88010
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
33	69928	70563	71191	71826	72453	73089	73720	74352	74983	75614	76245	76881	77510	78144	78774	79406	80039	80669	81301	81934	82563	83197	83827
34	72909	73571	74236	74899	75560	76227	76891	77553	78216	78880	79542	80208	80871	81534	82196	82859	83521	84187	84850	85513	86177	86841	87505
35	76038	76735	77431	78128	78825	79522	80218	80915	81611	82307	83004	83704	84397	85093	85791	86488	87185	87878	88575	89274	89969	90665	91364
36	79324	80056	80786	81518	82248	82982	83714	84444	85175	85907	86638	87370	88101	88831	89564	90294	91026	91758	92489	93219	93953	94681	95415
37	82774	83544	84310	85076	85848	86614	87381	88150	88917	89684	90455	91222	91989	92758	93525	94294	95061	95829	96596	97367	98135	98902	99670
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
33	84461	85092	85724	86354	86988	87619	88251	88881	89515	90147	90779	91408	92041	92672	93305	93937	94568	95201	95832	96464	97097	97727	98361
34	88168	88830	89495	90158	90818	91483	92149	92810	93472	94137	94801	95465	96129	96791	97454	98119	98782	99444	100109	100771	101434	102099	102763
35	92059	92757	93453	94148	94847	95541	96237	96936	97631	98328	99024	99721	100420	101115	101811	102510	103204	103902	104597	105294	105993	106687	107382
36	96145	96878	97609	98340	99073	99801	100535	101265	101996	102730	103461	104190	104922	105653	106388	107118	107849	108578	109311	110041	110775	111505	112238
37	100438	101204	101974	102741	103509	104277	105045	105814	106582	107350	108117	108885	109652	110419	111190	111957	112725	113494	114260	115028	115798	116564	117332
105
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective January 1, 2006 - June 30, 2006
Professor II AY 89000
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
37	83357	84126	84897	85661	86430	87201	87966	88734	89503	90270	91036	91808	92576	93343	94112	94879	95648	96415	97183	97952	98720	99487	100256
38	86981	87790	88595	89400	90206	91013	91820	92627	93433	94238	95045	95853	96659	97465	98271	99079	99883	100691	101497	102304	103112	103919	104726
39	90787	91631	92480	93326	94172	95018	95864	96714	97560	98408	99253	100101	100947	101794	102641	103487	104333	105180	106027	106875	107721	108568	109415
Range	Step																						
	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41					
37	101024	101791	102559	103330	104095	104863	105633	106400	107168	107938	108706	109471	110241	111008	111776	112547	113314	114080					
38	105528	106337	107142	107949	108756	109562	110371	111175	111982	112789	113595	114401	115208	116013	116819	117626	118433	119241					
39	110260	111108	111956	112802	113649	114495	115341	116190	117035	117884	118730	119574	120424	121268	122119	122964							
Professor II CY 89010
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
40	95626	96517	97406	98296	99184	100072	100962	101850	102740	103629	104519	105406	106294	107186	108074	108964	109852	110741	111628	112517	113406	114294	115186
41	99823	100756	101687	102619	103554	104486	105421	106356	107287	108223	109154	110088	111022	111956	112887	113822	114757	115689	116622	117555	118490	119421	120356
42	104223	105203	106183	107163	108145	109125	110104	111084	112063	113045	114024	115006	115984	116963	117945	118925	119905	120884	121864	122844	123826		
Range Step
24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32
40 116072 116962 117852 118741 119629 120519 121408 122296 123184
41 121289 122222 123156
106
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey Academic Salary Schedule Effective January 1, 2006 - June 30, 2006 Special Professorial Titles Range Step 01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
43 118867 119849 120828 121808 122791 123770 124750 125728 126709 127689 128670 129650 130629 131610 132591 133571 134550 135531 136511 137488 138470 139451 140430
Range Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36
43 141410 142390 143372 144351 145331 146310 147291 148272 149253 150231 151211 152192 153170
107
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective January 1, 2006 - June 30, 2006
Assistant Professor Law 96140, 96150
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
33	67510	68138	68772	69401	70035	70665	71299	71930	72561	73194	73826	74455	75089	75720	76352	76984	77614	78247	78880	79512	80142	80775	81407
34	70489	71151	71814	72480	73142	73804	74468	75130	75794	76458	77122	77783	78446	79112	79776	80439	81102	81765	82428	83094	83754	84417	85082
35	73618	74313	75009	75707	76401	77100	77794	78493	79189	79885	80582	81279	81973	82671	83368	84064	84761	85456	86155	86852	87546	88243	88939
36	76902	77634	78364	79098	79829	80557	81289	82021	82753	83486	84216	84945	85677	86408	87142	87872	88605	89335	90066	90798	91528	92260	92991
37	80354	81118	81887	82655	83422	84191	84958	85728	86495	87263	88030	88798	89566	90333	91103	91869	92637	93406	94175	94942	95709	96478	97244
38	83974	84779	85587	86392	87201	88007	88811	89617	90424	91230	92035	92845	93650	94455	95262	96069	96875	97680	98487	99290	100101	100907	101713
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
33	82037	82670	83301	83934	84565	85197	85827	86460	87092	87725	88355	88988	89618	90251	90882	91514	92148	92778	93409	94041	94672	95306	95936
34	85745	86407	87070	87735	88399	89061	89724	90390	91053	91717	92377	93039	93704	94369	95031	95694	96359	97021	97683	98349	99013	99675	100340
35	89637	90332	91028	91727	92422	93119	93815	94511	95210	95907	96602	97299	97994	98688	99390	100082	100781	101476	102174	102871	103567	104262	104962
36	93724	94454	95185	95917	96648	97380	98113	98841	99574	100306	101035	101768	102500	103229	103961	104692	105423	106156	106886	107620	108349	109080	109812
37	98012	98782	99549	100317	101085	101852	102619	103390	104157	104924	105692	106458	107227	107998	108763	109532	110300	111066	111835	112604	113370	114138	114909
38	102520	103326	104132	104937	105743	106548	107357	108163	108971	109776	110581	111388	112195	113001	113806	114614	115418	116226	117032	117838	118645	119452	120258
Associate Professor Law 97140, 97150
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
36	77941	78671	79405	80136	80868	81597	82330	83060	83794	84523	85254	85987	86717	87450	88180	88912	89643	90373	91105	91837	92568	93300	94031
37	81393	82158	82928	83697	84463	85232	85999	86767	87535	88303	89070	89838	90607	91374	92144	92912	93678	94446	95214	95982	96748	97519	98285
38	85011	85820	86624	87431	88239	89046	89850	90657	91463	92269	93077	93883	94689	95494	96302	97109	97915	98721	99528	100332	101139	101947	102751
39	88818	89663	90510	91358	92202	93047	93898	94741	95590	96436	97281	98132	98976	99824	100670	101516	102364	103210	104055	104903	105749	106596	107443
40	92810	93698	94588	95477	96366	97256	98144	99031	99922	100812	101701	102589	103478	104367	105254	106146	107034	107925	108812	109700	110588	111477	112368
41	97005	97936	98870	99802	100737	101670	102603	103538	104470	105404	106338	107272	108203	109140	110072	111004	111939	112871	113804	114738	115672	116604	117540
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
36	94765	95492	96224	96957	97687	98419	99151	99881	100613	101344	102075	102809	103539	104269	105000	105734	106463	107195	107929	108658	109388	110121	110852
37	99054	99823	100590	101358	102127	102893	103660	104429	105196	105963	106735	107502	108269	109038	109804	110572	111341	112108	112875	113645	114411	115181	115951
38	103558	104366	105172	105978	106783	107590	108397	109204	110009	110815	111621	112427	113235	114041	114847	115654	116458	117266	118071	118877	119685	120492	121298
39	108289	109138	109983	110829	111676	112524	113368	114214	115061	115908	116754	117602	118449	119297	120143	120990	121837	122680	123530	124374	125222	126068	126914
40	113256	114144	115034	115922	116810	117702	118591	119478	120368	121257	122145	123036	123925	124812	125703	126590	127479	128370	129259	130147	131037	131926	132814
41	118472	119406	120340	121270	122206	123139	124072	125005	125939	126873	127808	128740	129673	130607	131538	132473	133408	134340	135274	136205	137141	138073	139007
108
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective January 1, 2006 - June 30, 2006
Professor I Law 98160, 98170
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
39	90383	91228	92074	92923	93770	94616	95462	96308	97156	98002	98848	99693	100541	101388	102235	103079	103929	104775	105623	106470	107313	108162	109007
40	94376	95264	96153	97042	97931	98822	99710	100598	101486	102377	103264	104154	105044	105933	106823	107710	108599	109489	110379	111267	112156	113044	113932
41	98570	99503	100436	101369	102302	103237	104170	105104	106036	106971	107903	108836	109769	110702	111637	112571	113505	114438	115371	116303	117238	118168	119104
42	102973	103951	104930	105915	106890	107872	108851	109831	110810	111793	112774	113753	114732	115713	116694	117672	118653	119634	120612	121595	122574	123555	124533
43	107594	108625	109652	110682	111713	112740	113770	114798	115828	116856	117887	118915	119944	120972	122004	123033	124061	125090	126116	127149	128176	129207	130235
44	112450	113529	114611	115691	116772	117852	118933	120012	121093	122175	123255	124335	125414	126497	127578	128659	129738	130820	131896	132980	134060	135142	136220
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
39	109856	110700	111548	112395	113243	114089	114935	115783	116629	117474	118322	119168	120014	120861	121707	122557	123401	124247	125096	125942	126787	127634	128479
40	114819	115711	116600	117489	118377	119265	120156	121045	121934	122823	123712	124599	125488	126379	127268	128159	129046	129935	130824	131713	132603	133492	134381
41	120039	120970	121905	122838	123772	124704	125637	126574	127506	128439	129372	130306	131237	132172	133105	134039	134976	135906	136841	137774	138704	139638	140574
42	125513	126495	127475	128455	129434	130414	131394	132376	133356	134336	135316	136293	137276	138255	139235	140216	141195	142178	143155	144138	145115	146094	147076
43	131266	132295	133322	134351	135380	136411	137438	138468	139495	140526	141556	142586	143614	144643	145673	146700	147730	148760	149789	150818	151847	152874	153903
44	137303	138381	139464	140545	141624	142706	143786	144865	145946	147028	148105	149189	150269	151350	152427	153510	154592	155672	156754	157832	158913	159994	161074
Professor II Law 99040, 99050
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
43	108791	109820	110849	111878	112907	113937	114964	115992	117022	118052	119081	120111	121139	122169	123199	124228	125255	126284	127315	128342	129372	130401	131431
44	113646	114726	115806	116887	117968	119047	120128	121207	122290	123369	124451	125533	126611	127691	128773	129855	130934	132014	133092	134175	135255	136337	137416
45	118741	119875	121012	122144	123279	124415	125550	126682	127818	128954	130087	131222	132356	133492	134625	135760	136894	138030	139165	140298	141434	142569	143702
46	124092	125284	126475	127667	128859	130049	131239	132432	133623	134815	136005	137199	138390	139579	140772	141962	143153	144346	145537	146728	147917	149109	150301
47	129711	130965	132214	133465	134714	135968	137219	138468	139718	140971	142221	143472	144724	145976	147224	148476	149725	150978	152229	153478	154729	155980	157229
Range Step
	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41
43	132460	133490	134515	135546	136576	137605	138634	139663	140693	141720	142751	143779	144809	145837	146868	147895	148925	149954
44	138498	139577	140658	141740	142820	143900	144979	146061	147140	148223	149300	150385	151462	152544	153626	154704	155787	156866
45	144836	145973	147107	148240	149372	150511	151644	152778	153910	155049	156182	157315	158453	159586	160720	161853	162990	164125
46	151492	152684	153875	155067	156258	157449	158640	159832	161023	162216	163409	164599	165789	166979	168171	169362	170551	171743
47	158482	159732	160984	162235	163486	164734	165987	167239	168489	169738	170992	172242	173492	174743	175996	177244	178496	179747
109
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Extended Salary Schedule for Engineering and Computer Science Effective January 1, 2006 - June 30, 2006
Assistant Instructor AY 84000
Range 16	Step 47 44131	48 44407	49 44686	50 44958	51 45234	52 45511	53 45786	54 46062	55 46336	56 46613	57 46888	58 47163	59 47440	60 47714	61 47989	62 48267	63 48543	64 48816	65 49094	66 49368
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	
16	49645	49919	50196	50472	50747	51022	51299	51572	51850	52125	52402	52675	52951	53228	53501	53779	54056	54331	54605	
Assistant Instructor CY			84010																	
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
19	50819	51139	51458	51777	52095	52414	52734	53053	53372	53693	54009	54328	54648	54967	55287	55606	55925	56243	56563	56881
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	
19	57199	57519	57839	58158	58476	58798	59116	59432	59752	60073	60391	60709	61031	61348	61668	61987	62306	62625	62941	
Instructor AY 85000																				
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
22	57766	58133	58505	58874	59242	59611	59982	60351	60718	61089	61456	61825	62198	62566	62934	63304	63674	64042	64412	64782
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84		
22	65152	65520	65890	66260	66628	66997	67369	67737	68109	68476	68845	69216	69583	69953	70323	70692	71063	71432		
Instructor CY 85010																				
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
25	66643	67074	67500	67927	68355	68783	69212	69637	70064	70493	70921	71346	71776	72202	72631	73056	73485	73915	74343	74771
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84		
25	75197	75624	76052	76481	76906	77336	77763	78190	78615	79044	79473	79901	80328	80756	81184	81610	82037	82464		
110
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Extended Salary Schedule for Engineering and Computer Science Effective January 1, 2006 - June 30, 2006
Assistant Professor AY 86000
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52
26	69535	69982	70431	70881	71329	71778
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72
26	78512	78960	79410	79859	80307	80757
Assistant Professor CY			86010			
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52
29	80425	80944	81465	81985	82505	83022
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72
29	90817	91337	91856	92377	92898	93418
Associate Professor AY			87000			
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52
30	84219	84764	85310	85857	86402	86946
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72
30	95135	95680	96224	96774	97318	97861
Associate Professor CY 87010
Range 33	Step 47 97420	48 98055	49 98683	50 99318	51 99948	52 100583
Range	Step					
	67	68	69	70	71	72
33	110056	110689	111321	111953	112582	113215
53	54	55	56	57	58	59
72226	72676	73125	73572	74022	74474	74922
73	74	75	76	77	78	79
81204	81654	82104	82551	83001	83450	83898
53	54	55	56	57	58	59
83545	84062	84584	85103	85622	86142	86661
73	74	75	76	77	78	79
93937	94457	94976	95496	96016	96535	97055
53	54	55	56	57	58	59
87493	88039	88582	89131	89675	90221	90767
73	74	75	76	77	78	79
98409	98954	99499	100046	100592	101137	101682
53	54	55	56	57	58	59
101211	101844	102474	103109	103740	104372	105001
73	74	75	76	77	78	79
113846	114479	115110	115743	116373	117007	117637
60 75371	61 75820	62 76267	63 76718	64 77166	65 77613	66 78063
80 84347	81 84798	82 85245	83 85696	84 86145		
60 87182	61 87702	62 88221	63 88742	64 89258	65 89779	66 90298
80 97574	81 98093	82 98613	83 99135	84 99656		
60 91314	61 91857	62 92405	63 92951	64 93500	65 94041	66 94588
80 102228	81 102774	82 103320	83 103866	84 104410		
60 105635	61 106266	62 106898	63 107530	64 108162	65 108793	66 109426
80 118269	81 118900	82 119535	83 120164	84 120795		
111
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Extended Salary Schedule for Engineering and Computer Science Effective January 1, 2006 - June 30, 2006
Professor I AY 88000
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
34	102230	102894	103556	104220	104885	105548	106210	106875	107536	108199	108864	109528	110190	110854	111517	112179	112845	113508	114171	114837
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84		
34	115498	116159	116825	117488	118150	118814	119477	120142	120805	121468	122131	122796	123459	124123	124787	125449	126110	126774		
Professor I CY		88010																		
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
37	118101	118866	119636	120405	121173	121942	122708	123476	124243	125012	125779	126548	127316	128082	128852	129621	130388	131157	131923	132691
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84		
37	133460	134228	134995	135763	136532	137300	138067	138836	139604	140370	141141	141907	142674	143444	144210	144978	145748	146514		
Professor II AY		89000																		
Range	Step 40	41	42	43	44	45	46	47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59
39	123809	124657	125503	126352	127197	128044	128890	129738	130584	131432	132278	133126	133972	134820	135667	136512	137360	138205	139051	139899
Range	Step 60	61	62	63	64	65	66	67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75				
39	140746	141594	142440	143285	144133	144979	145828	146674	147518	148367	149213	150061	150907	151754	152602	153449				
Professor II CY		89010																		
Range	Step 22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	
42	124806	125786	126764	127746	128726	129706	130686	131666	132645	133625	134607	135587	136566	137547	138525	139507	140487	141467	142446	
Range	Step 41	42	43	44	45	46	47	48	49	50	51	52								
42	143427	144408	145388	146368	147347	148326	149306	150288	151268	152247	153227	154208								
112
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Extended Salary Schedule for Business Disciplines Effective January 1, 2006 - June 30, 2006
Assistant Instructor AY			84000						
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55
16	44131	44407	44686	44958	45234	45511	45786	46062	46336
Range	Step 68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76
16	49919	50196	50472	50747	51022	51299	51572	51850	52125
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95
16	55158	55432	55709	55985	56258	56533	56812	57086	57361
Assistant Instructor CY			84010						
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55
19	50819	51139	51458	51777	52095	52414	52734	53053	53372
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75
19	57199	57519	57839	58158	58476	58798	59116	59432	59752
Range 19	Step 87 63581	88 63901	89 64221	90 64538	91 64857	92 65177	93 65497	94 65814	95 66133
Instructor AY 85000									
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55
22	57766	58133	58505	58874	59242	59611	59982	60351	60718
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75
22	65152	65520	65890	66260	66628	66997	67369	67737	68109
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95
22	72539	72907	73277	73644	74016	74385	74754	75124	75494
Instructor CY 85010									
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55
25	66643	67074	67500	67927	68355	68783	69212	69637	70064
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75
25	75197	75624	76052	76481	76906	77336	77763	78190	78615
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95
25	83748	84174	84602	85031	85457	85886	86313	86743	87167
56 46613	57 46888	58 47163	59 47440	60 47714	61 47989	62 48267	63 48543	64 48816	65 49094	66 49368	67 49645
77 52402	78 52675	79 52951	80 53228	81 53501	82 53779	83 54056	84 54331	85 54605	86 54882		
96 57636	97 57915	98 58187	99 58465	100 58741	101 59018						
56 53693	57 54009	58 54328	59 54648	60 54967	61 55287	62 55606	63 55925	64 56243	65 56563	66 56881	
76 60073	77 60391	78 60709	79 61031	80 61348	81 61668	82 61987	83 62306	84 62625	85 62941	86 63264	
96 66454	97 66773	98 67091	99 67411	100 67731	101 68046						
56 61089	57 61456	58 61825	59 62198	60 62566	61 62934	62 63304	63 63674	64 64042	65 64412	66 64782	
76 68476	77 68845	78 69216	79 69583	80 69953	81 70323	82 70692	83 71063	84 71432	85 71799	86 72171	
96 75861	97 76232	98 76600	99 76970	100 77340							
56 70493	57 70921	58 71346	59 71776	60 72202	61 72631	62 73056	63 73485	64 73915	65 74343	66 74771	
76 79044	77 79473	78 79901	79 80328	80 80756	81 81184	82 81610	83 82037	84 82464	85 82893	86 83322	
96 87596	97 88023	98 88451	99 88877	100 89307							
113
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Extended Salary Schedule for Business Disciplines Effective January 1, 2006 - June 30, 2006
Assistant Professor AY 86000
Range 26	Step 47 69535	48 69982	49 70431	50 70881	51 71329	52 71778	53 72226	54 72676	55 73125	56 73572	57 74022	58 74474	59 74922	60 75371	61 75820	62 76267	63 76718	64 77166	65 77613	66 78063
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
26	78512	78960	79410	79859	80307	80757	81204	81654	82104	82551	83001	83450	83898	84347	84798	85245	85696	86145	86595	87043
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99							
26	87491	87942	88391	88838	89286	89736	90185	90633	91080	91530	91981	92428	92875							
Assistant Professor CY			86010																	
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
29	80425	80944	81465	81985	82505	83022	83545	84062	84584	85103	85622	86142	86661	87182	87702	88221	88742	89258	89779	90298
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
29	90817	91337	91856	92377	92898	93418	93937	94457	94976	95496	96016	96535	97055	97574	98093	98613	99135	99656	100173	100693
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99							
29	101214	101732	102251	102773	103291	103812	104332	104852	105370	105890	106412	106930	107450							
Associate Professor AY			87000																	
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
30	84219	84764	85310	85857	86402	86946	87493	88039	88582	89131	89675	90221	90767	91314	91857	92405	92951	93500	94041	94588
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
30	95135	95680	96224	96774	97318	97861	98409	98954	99499	100046	100592	101137	101682	102228	102774	103320	103866	104410	104958	105502
Range Step 87		88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99							
30	106047	106594	107140	107685	108232	108777	109322	109868	110413	110959	111506	112051	112599							
Associate Professor CY			87010																	
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
33	97420	98055	98683	99318	99948	100583	101211	101844	102474	103109	103740	104372	105001	105635	106266	106898	107530	108162	108793	109426
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
33	110056	110689	111321	111953	112582	113215	113846	114479	115110	115743	116373	117007	117637	118269	118900	119535	120164	120795	121427	122059
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99							
33	122691	123323	123955	124586	125219	125850	126480	127114	127746	128377	129009	129641	130271							
114
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Extended Salary Schedule for Business Disciplines Effective January 1, 2006 - June 30, 2006
Professor I AY 88000
Range 34	Step 47 102230	48 102894	49 103556	50 104220	51 104885	52 105548	53 106210	54 106875	55 107536	56 108199	57 108864	58 109528	59 110190	60 110854	61 111517	62 112179	63 112845	64 113508	65 114171	66 114837
Range 34	Step 67 115498	68 116159	69 116825	70 117488	71 118150	72 118814	73 119477	74 120142	75 120805	76 121468	77 122131	78 122796	79 123459	80 124123	81 124787	82 125449	83 126110	84 126774	85 127437	86 128102
Range 34	Step 87 128767	88 129429	89 130091	90 130756	91 131420	92 132083	93 132747	94 133410	95 134071	96 134736	97 135399	98 136061	99 136726							
Professor I CY Range Step 47 37 118101		88010 48 118866	49 119636	50 120405	51 121173	52 121942	53 122708	54 123476	55 124243	56 125012	57 125779	58 126548	59 127316	60 128082	61 128852	62 129621	63 130388	64 131157	65 131923	66 132691
Range 37	Step 67 133460	68 134228	69 134995	70 135763	71 136532	72 137300	73 138067	74 138836	75 139604	76 140370	77 141141	78 141907	79 142674	80 143444	81 144210	82 144978	83 145748	84 146514	85 147283	86 148052
Range 37	Step 87 148819	88 149586	89 150356	90 151121	91 151889	92 152659	93 153426	94 154194	95 154965	96 155730	97 156498	98 157267	99 158034							
Professor II AY		89000																		
Range 39	Step 40 123809	41 124657	42 125503	43 126352	44 127197	45 128044	46 128890	47 129738	48 130584	49 131432	50 132278	51 133126	52 133972	53 134820	54 135667	55 136512	56 137360	57 138205	58 139051	59 139899
Range 39	Step 60 140746	61 141594	62 142440	63 143285	64 144133	65 144979	66 145828	67 146674	68 147518	69 148367	70 149213	71 150061	72 150907	73 151754	74 152602	75 153449	76 154295	77 155142	78 155989	79 156835
Range 39	Step 80 157683	81 158528	82 159376	83 160222	84 161070	85 161915	86 162766	87 163609	88 164456	89 165304										
Professor II CY		89010																		
Range 42	Step 22 124806	23 125786	24 126764	25 127746	26 128726	27 129706	28 130686	29 131666	30 132645	31 133625	32 134607	33 135587	34 136566	35 137547	36 138525	37 139507	38 140487	39 141467	40 142446	
Range 42	Step 41 143427	42 144408	43 145388	44 146368	45 147347	46 148326	47 149306	48 150288	49 151268	50 152247	51 153227	52 154208	53 155188	54 156169	55 157148	56 158128	57 159107	58 160089	59 161069	
Range 42	Step 60 162051	61 163028	62 164009	63 164987	64 165970	65 166949														
115
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Ejffg($$ppE|y|l)(x1 f3906 - December 31, 2006
Assistant Instructor AY 84000
Range	Step 01	02	03	04	05	06	07
14	29585	29842	30096	30351	30607	30861	31115
15	30787	31056	31322	31591	31858	32127	32392
16	32053	32331	32611	32894	33175	33454	33737
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30
14	35446	35703	35955	36211	36464	36721	36974
15	36942	37211	37475	37745	38010	38279	38546
16	38510	38792	39070	39352	39634	39914	40195
Assistant Instructor CY 84010
08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15
31369	31625	31879	32136	32388	32645	32899	33153
32664	32929	33197	33463	33732	33998	34268	34533
34016	34296	34579	34859	35139	35419	35703	35985
31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38
37228	37483	37740	37994	38249	38504	38758	39013
38815	39079	39348	39619	39885	40152	40420	40687
40477	40758	41039	41319	41600	41881	42162	42443
16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
33408	33664	33917	34173	34428	34683	34938	35191
34801	35070	35336	35604	35870	36141	36406	36674
36262	36545	36826	37106	37387	37667	37950	38231
39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
39268	39521	39778	40032	40286	40543	40795	41052
40953	41222	41489	41757	42022	42292	42556	42826
42725	43002	43286	43565	43846	44127	44409	44690
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
17	33977	34273	34567	34863	35158	35452	35746	36040	36338	36631	36929	37222	37518	37812	38107	38403	38694	38992	39286	39580	39877	40170	40464
18	35371	35678	35989	36298	36609	36915	37226	37536	37845	38156	38465	38774	39084	39395	39706	40016	40324	40633	40941	41250	41562	41871	42178
19	36829	37154	37479	37805	38129	38454	38780	39106	39430	39754	40080	40404	40730	41057	41381	41707	42030	42357	42682	43004	43333	43658	43982
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
17	40760	41056	41349	41647	41939	42236	42531	42824	43120	43414	43712	44004	44297	44592	44888	45183	45478	45773	46068	46365	46661	46952	47247
18	42491	42799	43112	43420	43729	44038	44348	44659	44967	45277	45586	45895	46208	46516	46827	47135	47445	47754	48062	48374	48682	48991	49301
19	44311	44631	44958	45282	45607	45936	46258	46584	46908	47233	47558	47884	48209	48534	48860	49185	49509	49835	50159	50485	50808	51135	51461
116 (APPENDIX F-1)
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2006 - December 31, 2006
Instructor AY 85000
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
17	33863	34160	34452	34747	35042	35338	35632	35928	36220	36517	36811	37107	37400	37696	37992	38287	38582	38877	39172	39467	39759	40055	40349
18	35252	35564	35872	36183	36493	36800	37113	37421	37732	38041	38349	38661	38969	39279	39589	39897	40208	40515	40829	41138	41448	41758	42067
19	36715	37041	37366	37689	38013	38341	38665	38992	39317	39639	39966	40289	40616	40940	41266	41593	41917	42242	42567	42892	43216	43543	43867
20	38249	38592	38932	39272	39617	39954	40296	40638	40981	41321	41664	42003	42346	42687	43028	43370	43713	44051	44394	44735	45075	45418	45759
21	39859	40218	40575	40934	41293	41651	42008	42369	42727	43082	43444	43802	44161	44518	44877	45234	45595	45952	46312	46669	47027	47385	47744
22	41549	41927	42301	42678	43056	43431	43808	44182	44562	44937	45313	45690	46066	46442	46819	47196	47572	47948	48324	48702	49074	49453	49829
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
17	40645	40939	41236	41529	41826	42120	42417	42709	43003	43299	43595	43891	44183	44480	44775	45068	45364	45656	45953	46247	46544	46838	47133
18	42376	42686	42994	43304	43611	43923	44234	44543	44852	45163	45472	45782	46091	46401	46710	47020	47329	47641	47949	48260	48569	48878	49188
19	44192	44517	44842	45168	45492	45817	46144	46467	46792	47119	47443	47769	48095	48419	48743	49067	49395	49720	50042	50370	50695	51020	51342
20	46100	46442	46782	47124	47464	47808	48149	48490	48829	49172	49513	49855	50196	50538	50880	51221	51561	51905	52243	52588	52929	53269	53609
21	48103	48460	48818	49178	49538	49894	50254	50613	50971	51327	51686	52046	52402	52763	53120	53481	53836	54197	54555	54914	55272	55629	55989
22	50203	50582	50956	51332	51711	52087	52462	52841	53215	53593	53970	54343	54722	55099	55475	55850	56227	56604	56981	57357	57735	58108	58487
Instructor CY 85010
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
20	38973	39316	39656	39997	40338	40682	41021	41362	41705	42046	42385	42729	43069	43410	43753	44095	44435	44777	45118	45460	45801	46143	46482
21	40582	40941	41301	41661	42016	42376	42734	43092	43451	43810	44169	44525	44885	45242	45601	45959	46319	46676	47036	47393	47752	48109	48467
22	42275	42651	43027	43403	43779	44158	44533	44909	45284	45659	46037	46412	46788	47166	47543	47919	48296	48672	49050	49426	49801	50178	50552
23	44048	44443	44840	45234	45631	46024	46421	46817	47211	47606	48001	48398	48794	49187	49584	49976	50372	50768	51161	51557	51952	52348	52743
24	45913	46327	46744	47159	47574	47989	48404	48817	49234	49648	50064	50479	50892	51309	51722	52139	52551	52966	53381	53797	54211	54628	55040
25	47871	48305	48741	49177	49613	50047	50485	50921	51356	51791	52228	52665	53101	53534	53970	54405	54842	55276	55712	56149	56585	57019	57454
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
20	46826	47165	47507	47848	48190	48532	48874	49215	49556	49896	50240	50579	50922	51262	51603	51944	52286	52626	52970	53309	53653	53994	54334
21	48826	49186	49546	49901	50261	50619	50980	51335	51696	52056	52413	52770	53128	53488	53844	54203	54562	54922	55278	55637	55998	56357	56712
22	50932	51308	51682	52061	52438	52812	53190	53565	53942	54319	54695	55071	55447	55824	56200	56577	56954	57327	57704	58080	58456	58832	59210
23	53138	53534	53930	54325	54720	55115	55509	55906	56299	56695	57087	57486	57882	58276	58672	59063	59462	59858	60251	60647	61043	61438	61834
24	55456	55871	56287	56701	57117	57533	57947	58362	58778	59192	59607	60021	60434	60852	61265	61680	62096	62512	62925	63341	63755	64171	64585
25	57891	58328	58763	59200	59634	60070	60503	60941	61375	61813	62248	62684	63118	63555	63990	64425	64862	65299	65733	66168	66604	67041	67474
117
Assistant Professor AY 86000
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2006 - December 31, 2006
Range Step 01		02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
21	40469	40829	41185	41544	41904	42263	42619	42978	43337	43693	44052	44412	44771	45127	45487	45845	46206	46561	46923	47280	47639	47997	48355
22	42161	42536	42911	43290	43666	44040	44419	44794	45170	45548	45923	46299	46676	47053	47429	47807	48182	48559	48934	49311	49687	50064	50442
23	43935	44332	44725	45120	45515	45911	46306	46702	47096	47494	47887	48282	48676	49070	49468	49863	50258	50652	51049	51445	51839	52234	52627
24	45799	46215	46627	47044	47458	47874	48288	48705	49119	49534	49947	50362	50778	51194	51609	52022	52440	52851	53268	53683	54099	54511	54929
25	47757	48193	48629	49063	49500	49935	50371	50806	51242	51678	52114	52547	52985	53421	53858	54291	54727	55164	55600	56034	56469	56905	57342
26	49813	50269	50726	51183	51641	52098	52554	53012	53472	53930	54386	54844	55302	55760	56216	56673	57131	57589	58045	58503	58960	59418	59875
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
21	48713	49069	49430	49787	50147	50505	50863	51222	51580	51937	52296	52656	53013	53372	53731	54091	54448	54807	55165	55525	55881	56240	56600
22	50814	51193	51568	51944	52322	52697	53075	53450	53826	54203	54580	54955	55333	55709	56087	56461	56837	57215	57590	57969	58342	58719	59098
23	53026	53420	53815	54209	54605	54998	55395	55790	56185	56582	56977	57373	57766	58160	58557	58951	59346	59742	60139	60532	60927	61321	61717
24	55342	55759	56172	56589	57002	57419	57832	58249	58662	59079	59490	59904	60323	60734	61151	61565	61981	62393	62811	63226	63643	64056	64472
25	57777	58211	58648	59086	59520	59953	60392	60828	61261	61698	62134	62570	63003	63440	63878	64313	64745	65185	65620	66056	66491	66927	67364
26	60333	60788	61249	61707	62162	62619	63079	63536	63992	64451	64909	65367	65822	66280	66739	67196	67651	68111	68569	69025	69483	69939	70397
Assistant Professor CY 86010
Range	Step 01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	46774	47190	47604	48020	48435	48847	49264	49677	50094	50508	50925	51337	51754	52168	52585	52998	53415	53828	54242	54659	55074	55489	55903
25	48731	49168	49603	50038	50476	50909	51343	51782	52218	52654	53088	53524	53959	54395	54829	55266	55704	56140	56574	57009	57444	57883	58318
26	50786	51244	51703	52159	52617	53075	53532	53988	54445	54903	55360	55821	56277	56734	57192	57651	58106	58563	59025	59480	59936	60395	60853
27	52945	53425	53905	54386	54866	55346	55829	56308	56786	57268	57749	58229	58710	59190	59669	60152	60634	61110	61593	62071	62550	63034	63511
28	55209	55714	56219	56724	57228	57735	58237	58741	59247	59749	60254	60760	61263	61768	62274	62774	63281	63785	64289	64794	65301	65803	66308
29	57590	58119	58648	59178	59709	60239	60767	61299	61828	62356	62886	63415	63946	64475	65004	65537	66064	66595	67124	67651	68183	68712	69243
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
24	56319	56733	57148	57565	57979	58394	58809	59221	59638	60054	60468	60882	61300	61713	62128	62543	62957	63371	63788	64202	64618	65032	65448
25	58754	59189	59626	60062	60496	60932	61368	61804	62240	62676	63110	63547	63982	64418	64853	65289	65723	66161	66597	67033	67467	67902	68338
26	61309	61767	62223	62682	63140	63596	64054	64512	64968	65426	65883	66341	66802	67257	67715	68172	68630	69087	69545	70002	70460	70916	71374
27	63993	64474	64954	65433	65916	66395	66877	67358	67834	68317	68798	69277	69759	70239	70717	71202	71680	72160	72640	73120	73599	74082	74562
28	66813	67315	67821	68325	68828	69333	69838	70342	70848	71351	71856	72360	72865	73370	73873	74378	74881	75387	75892	76394	76901	77404	77910
29	69771	70301	70831	71361	71890	72421	72948	73478	74008	74538	75069	75598	76128	76656	77186	77714	78247	78775	79306	79835	80363	80893	81423
118
Associate Professor AY 87000
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2006 - December 31, 2006
Range	Step 01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
25	48881	49318	49752	50188	50624	51060	51494	51929	52366	52803	53238	53674	54111	54547	54981	55417	55852	56289	56724	57161	57596	58032	58467
26	50937	51393	51853	52309	52767	53222	53681	54139	54595	55052	55511	55971	56428	56886	57342	57801	58257	58714	59172	59631	60086	60545	61001
27	53097	53574	54056	54538	55018	55496	55978	56457	56939	57420	57899	58379	58860	59339	59819	60301	60780	61260	61741	62221	62701	63184	63663
28	55359	55865	56370	56872	57380	57884	58386	58890	59395	59899	60405	60910	61413	61920	62425	62926	63431	63935	64439	64945	65449	65952	66455
29	57741	58269	58800	59328	59860	60389	60917	61449	61977	62506	63038	63567	64096	64624	65154	65684	66215	66745	67275	67804	68333	68863	69391
30	60239	60794	61351	61906	62463	63018	63575	64130	64689	65244	65800	66356	66913	67467	68025	68581	69136	69691	70248	70804	71362	71917	72472
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
25	58901	59337	59775	60212	60646	61082	61518	61953	62386	62823	63262	63698	64131	64566	65003	65439	65872	66311	66749	67184	67618	68053	68490
26	61459	61919	62374	62832	63288	63748	64204	64661	65119	65577	66033	66492	66948	67408	67865	68321	68780	69239	69693	70151	70611	71067	71524
27	64144	64623	65104	65584	66065	66547	67028	67506	67987	68469	68947	69428	69910	70389	70869	71349	71830	72309	72792	73271	73750	74232	74712
28	66964	67466	67972	68476	68979	69486	69989	70492	70996	71502	72006	72510	73016	73519	74023	74530	75031	75537	76042	76546	77049	77555	78057
29	69922	70452	70979	71511	72039	72570	73100	73630	74159	74689	75217	75747	76277	76807	77337	77866	78397	78926	79457	79985	80514	81044	81574
30	73029	73584	74140	74698	75252	75809	76367	76921	77479	78034	78590	79146	79701	80257	80814	81369	81926	82483	83038	83594	84152	84705	85261
Associate Professor CY 87010
Range	Step 01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
28	56515	57015	57522	58027	58529	59036	59539	60043	60548	61053	61556	62061	62567	63068	63575	64080	64583	65089	65593	66096	66601	67106	67609
29	58891	59422	59949	60481	61011	61541	62069	62598	63131	63659	64189	64718	65248	65776	66308	66836	67367	67895	68426	68956	69486	70015	70543
30	61390	61945	62503	63059	63612	64171	64726	65284	65840	66395	66953	67507	68063	68620	69176	69730	70289	70845	71401	71957	72514	73068	73627
31	64014	64597	65183	65764	66350	66933	67518	68100	68685	69268	69853	70439	71020	71604	72188	72771	73356	73940	74526	75107	75691	76276	76859
32	66767	67380	67993	68606	69220	69833	70448	71060	71672	72284	72899	73511	74125	74740	75350	75966	76578	77192	77804	78417	79030	79644	80255
33	69660	70303	70947	71591	72236	72880	73522	74167	74810	75454	76097	76741	77384	78029	78672	79316	79958	80605	81247	81891	82535	83180	83820
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
28	68114	68618	69122	69629	70132	70636	71141	71647	72149	72654	73156	73661	74168	74671	75176	75681	76183	76688	77195	77696	78201	78707	79211
29	71072	71603	72132	72663	73194	73723	74252	74779	75310	75841	76370	76900	77430	77959	78488	79019	79547	80077	80607	81137	81666	82194	82726
30	74181	74735	75294	75848	76405	76963	77517	78074	78631	79185	79741	80296	80855	81409	81967	82523	83078	83633	84191	84747	85304	85858	86416
31	77442	78028	78609	79198	79780	80363	80945	81529	82115	82698	83283	83866	84451	85032	85617	86202	86785	87370	87953	88539	89122	89705	90291
32	80868	81481	82094	82709	83322	83934	84547	85161	85772	86385	87000	87613	88225	88839	89455	90067	90679	91292	91906	92519	93132	93744	94356
33	84467	85108	85754	86397	87041	87683	88329	88972	89617	90259	90905	91547	92191	92835	93479	94122	94766	95408	96054	96697	97342	97985	98629
119
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2006 - December 31, 2006
Professor I AY 88000
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
30	61771	62326	62882	63438	63994	64551	65107	65664	66220	66775	67333	67889	68443	69003	69556	70111	70668	71225	71778	72338	72893	73451	74006
31	64392	64976	65560	66148	66731	67312	67897	68482	69065	69648	70233	70817	71402	71985	72569	73152	73738	74322	74906	75488	76072	76657	77239
32	67148	67762	68374	68986	69602	70214	70827	71440	72053	72668	73281	73892	74506	75120	75732	76347	76961	77572	78186	78799	79412	80024	80637
33	70040	70686	71327	71972	72614	73259	73904	74545	75191	75834	76478	77123	77764	78411	79053	79696	80341	80985	81628	82273	82914	83561	84203
34	73077	73751	74429	75105	75780	76458	77134	77808	78485	79161	79837	80514	81190	81864	82540	83215	83893	84569	85243	85921	86599	87273	87948
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
30	74562	75118	75676	76230	76786	77343	77897	78454	79011	79568	80122	80681	81235	81789	82347	82904	83461	84017	84571	85130	85685	86241	86796
31	77825	78410	78994	79576	80159	80745	81326	81913	82496	83081	83665	84249	84831	85414	85999	86586	87167	87751	88337	88919	89504	90087	90672
32	81250	81862	82478	83091	83703	84318	84930	85542	86155	86770	87380	87994	88606	89223	89836	90448	91062	91674	92288	92898	93513	94126	94738
33	84848	85491	86135	86779	87423	88066	88709	89355	89999	90643	91285	91928	92573	93215	93860	94505	95148	95791	96435	97078	97726	98367	99013
34	88625	89302	89978	90652	91327	92004	92682	93356	94030	94710	95386	96060	96738	97414	98088	98766	99441	100115	100793	101469	102144	102819	103497
Professor ICY 88010
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
33	71257	71904	72544	73191	73830	74478	75121	75765	76408	77051	77694	78342	78983	79629	80271	80915	81560	82202	82846	83491	84132	84778	85420
34	74294	74969	75646	76322	76996	77675	78352	79027	79702	80379	81053	81732	82408	83083	83758	84433	85108	85787	86462	87138	87814	88491	89168
35	77483	78193	78902	79612	80323	81033	81742	82452	83162	83871	84581	85294	86001	86710	87421	88131	88842	89548	90258	90970	91678	92388	93100
36	80831	81577	82321	83067	83811	84559	85305	86048	86793	87539	88284	89030	89775	90519	91266	92010	92755	93501	94246	94990	95738	96480	97228
37	84347	85131	85912	86692	87479	88260	89041	89825	90606	91388	92174	92955	93737	94520	95302	96086	96867	97650	98431	99217	100000	100781	101564
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
33	86066	86709	87353	87995	88641	89284	89928	90570	91216	91860	92504	93145	93790	94433	95078	95722	96365	97010	97653	98297	98942	99584	100230
34	89843	90518	91195	91871	92544	93221	93900	94573	95248	95926	96602	97279	97955	98630	99306	99983	100659	101333	102011	102686	103361	104039	104715
35	93808	94519	95229	95937	96649	97356	98066	98778	99486	100196	100905	101616	102328	103036	103745	104458	105165	105876	106584	107295	108007	108714	109422
36	97972	98719	99464	100208	100955	101697	102445	103189	103934	104682	105427	106170	106916	107660	108409	109153	109898	110641	111388	112132	112880	113624	114371
37	102346	103127	103912	104693	105476	106258	107041	107824	108607	109390	110171	110954	111735	112517	113303	114084	114867	115650	116431	117214	117998	118779	119561
120
Professor II AY 89000
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2006 - December 31, 2006
Range	Step																						
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
37	84941	85724	86510	87289	88072	88858	89637	90420	91204	91985	92766	93552	94335	95117	95900	96682	97465	98247	99029	99813	100596	101377	102161
38	88634	89458	90278	91099	91920	92742	93565	94387	95208	96029	96851	97674	98496	99317	100138	100962	101781	102604	103425	104248	105071	105893	106716
39	92512	93372	94237	95099	95961	96823	97685	98552	99414	100278	101139	102003	102865	103728	104591	105453	106315	107178	108042	108906	109768	110631	111494
Range	Step																						
	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41					
37	102943	103725	104508	105293	106073	106855	107640	108422	109204	109989	110771	111551	112336	113117	113900	114685	115467	116248					
38	107533	108357	109178	110000	110822	111644	112468	113287	114110	114932	115753	116575	117397	118217	119039	119861	120683	121507					
39	112355	113219	114083	114945	115808	116670	117532	118398	119259	120124	120986	121846	122712	123572	124439	125300							
Professor II CY		89010																					
Range	Step																						
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
40	97443	98351	99257	100164	101068	101973	102880	103785	104692	105598	106505	107409	108314	109223	110127	111034	111939	112845	113749	114655	115561	116466	117375
41	101720	102670	103619	104569	105522	106471	107424	108377	109325	110279	111228	112180	113131	114083	115032	115985	116937	117887	118838	119789	120741	121690	122643
42	106203	107202	108200	109199	110200	111198	112196	113195	114192	115193	116190	117191	118188	119185	120186	121185	122183	123181	124179	125178	126179		
Range	Step																						
	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32														
40	118277	119184	120091	120997	121902	122809	123715	124620	125524														
41	123593	124544	125496																				
121
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2006 - December 31, 2006
Special Professorial Titles
Range Step 01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
43 121125 122126 123124 124122 125124 126122 127120 128117 129116 130115 131115 132113 133111 134111 135110 136109 137106 138106 139105 140100 141101 142101 143098
Range Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36
43 144097 145095 146096 147094 148092 149090 150090 151089 152089 153085 154084 155084 156080
122
Assistant Professor Law 96140, 96150
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2006 - December 31, 2006
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
33	68793	69433	70079	70720	71366	72008	72654	73297	73940	74585	75229	75870	76516	77159	77803	78447	79089	79734	80379	81023	81665	82310	82954
34	71828	72503	73178	73857	74532	75206	75883	76557	77234	77911	78587	79261	79936	80615	81292	81967	82643	83319	83994	84673	85345	86021	86699
35	75017	75725	76434	77145	77853	78565	79272	79984	80694	81403	82113	82823	83530	84242	84952	85661	86371	87080	87792	88502	89209	89920	90629
36	78363	79109	79853	80601	81346	82088	82833	83579	84325	85072	85816	86559	87305	88050	88798	89542	90288	91032	91777	92523	93267	94013	94758
37	81881	82659	83443	84225	85007	85791	86572	87357	88138	88921	89703	90485	91268	92049	92834	93615	94397	95181	95964	96746	97527	98311	99092
38	85570	86390	87213	88033	88858	89679	90498	91320	92142	92963	93784	94609	95429	96250	97072	97894	98716	99536	100358	101177	102003	102824	103646
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
33	83596	84241	84884	85529	86172	86816	87458	88103	88747	89392	90034	90679	91321	91966	92609	93253	93899	94541	95184	95828	96471	97117	97759
34	87374	88049	88724	89402	90079	90753	91429	92107	92783	93460	94132	94807	95484	96162	96837	97512	98190	98864	99539	100218	100894	101569	102246
35	91340	92048	92758	93470	94178	94888	95597	96307	97019	97729	98437	99148	99856	100563	101278	101984	102696	103404	104115	104826	105535	106243	106956
36	95505	96249	96994	97739	98484	99230	99977	100719	101466	102212	102955	103702	104448	105190	105936	106681	107426	108173	108917	109665	110408	111153	111898
37	99874	100659	101440	102223	103006	103787	104569	105354	106136	106918	107700	108481	109264	110050	110829	111613	112396	113176	113960	114743	115524	116307	117092
38	104468	105289	106111	106931	107752	108572	109397	110218	111041	111862	112682	113504	114327	115148	115968	116792	117611	118434	119256	120077	120899	121722	122543
Associate Professor Law 97140, 97150
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
36	79422	80166	80914	81659	82404	83147	83894	84638	85386	86129	86874	87621	88365	89112	89855	90601	91346	92090	92836	93582	94327	95073	95818
37	82939	83719	84504	85287	86068	86851	87633	88416	89198	89981	90762	91545	92329	93110	93895	94677	95458	96240	97023	97806	98586	99372	100152
38	86626	87451	88270	89092	89916	90738	91557	92379	93201	94022	94845	95667	96488	97308	98132	98954	99775	100597	101419	102238	103061	103884	104703
39	90506	91367	92230	93094	93954	94815	95682	96541	97406	98268	99129	99997	100857	101721	102583	103445	104309	105171	106032	106896	107758	108621	109484
40	94573	95478	96385	97291	98197	99104	100009	100913	101821	102727	103633	104538	105444	106350	107254	108163	109068	109976	110879	111784	112689	113595	114503
41	98848	99797	100749	101698	102651	103602	104552	105505	106455	107407	108358	109310	110259	111214	112163	113113	114066	115016	115966	116918	117870	118819	119773
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
36	96566	97306	98052	98799	99543	100289	101035	101779	102525	103270	104014	104762	105506	106250	106995	107743	108486	109232	109980	110723	111466	112213	112958
37	100936	101720	102501	103284	104067	104848	105630	106413	107195	107976	108763	109545	110326	111110	111890	112673	113456	114238	115020	115804	116585	117369	118154
38	105526	106349	107170	107992	108812	109634	110457	111279	112099	112920	113742	114563	115386	116208	117029	117851	118671	119494	120314	121136	121959	122781	123603
39	110346	111212	112073	112935	113798	114662	115522	116384	117247	118110	118972	119836	120700	121564	122426	123289	124152	125011	125877	126737	127601	128463	129325
40	115408	116313	117220	118125	119029	119938	120844	121748	122655	123561	124466	125374	126280	127183	128091	128995	129901	130809	131715	132620	133527	134433	135337
41	120723	121675	122626	123574	124528	125479	126429	127380	128332	129284	130236	131186	132137	133089	134037	134990	135943	136892	137844	138793	139747	140696	141648
123
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2006 - December 31, 2006
Professor I Law 98160, 98170
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
39	92100	92961	93823	94689	95552	96414	97276	98138	99002	99864	100726	101587	102451	103314	104177	105038	105904	106766	107630	108493	109352	110217	111078
40	96169	97074	97980	98886	99792	100700	101604	102509	103414	104322	105226	106133	107040	107946	108853	109756	110662	111569	112476	113381	114287	115192	116097
41	100443	101394	102344	103295	104246	105199	106149	107101	108051	109003	109953	110904	111855	112805	113758	114710	115662	116612	117563	118513	119466	120413	121367
42	104929	105926	106924	107927	108921	109922	110919	111918	112915	113917	114917	115914	116912	117912	118911	119908	120907	121907	122904	123905	124903	125903	126899
43	109638	110689	111735	112785	113836	114882	115932	116979	118029	119076	120127	121174	122223	123270	124322	125371	126418	127467	128512	129565	130611	131662	132709
44	114587	115686	116789	117889	118991	120091	121193	122292	123394	124496	125597	126697	127797	128900	130002	131104	132203	133306	134402	135507	136607	137710	138808
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
39	111943	112803	113667	114531	115395	116257	117119	117983	118845	119706	120570	121432	122294	123157	124019	124886	125746	126608	127473	128335	129196	130059	130920
40	117001	117910	118815	119721	120626	121531	122439	123345	124251	125157	126063	126966	127872	128780	129686	130594	131498	132404	133310	134216	135122	136028	136934
41	122320	123268	124221	125172	126124	127073	128024	128979	129929	130879	131830	132782	133731	134683	135634	136586	137541	138488	139441	140392	141339	142291	143245
42	127898	128898	129897	130896	131893	132892	133890	134891	135890	136888	137887	138883	139884	140882	141880	142880	143878	144879	145875	146877	147872	148870	149870
43	133760	134809	135855	136904	137952	139003	140049	141099	142145	143196	144246	145295	146343	147391	148441	149487	150537	151586	152635	153684	154732	155779	156827
44	139912	141010	142114	143215	144315	145417	146518	147617	148719	149822	150919	152024	153124	154226	155323	156427	157529	158630	159732	160831	161932	163034	164134
Professor II Law 99040,			99050																				
Range	Step																						
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
43	110858	111907	112955	114004	115052	116102	117148	118196	119245	120295	121344	122393	123441	124490	125540	126588	127635	128683	129734	130780	131830	132879	133928
44	115805	116906	118006	119108	120209	121309	122410	123510	124614	125713	126816	127918	129017	130117	131220	132322	133422	134522	135621	136724	137825	138927	140027
45	120997	122153	123311	124465	125621	126779	127935	129089	130247	131404	132559	133715	134871	136028	137183	138339	139495	140653	141809	142964	144121	145278	146432
46	126450	127664	128878	130093	131307	132520	133733	134948	136162	137376	138589	139806	141019	142231	143447	144659	145873	147089	148302	149516	150727	151942	153157
47	132176	133453	134726	136001	137274	138551	139826	141099	142373	143649	144923	146198	147474	148750	150021	151297	152570	153847	155121	156394	157669	158944	160216
Range	Step																						
	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41					
43	134977	136026	137071	138121	139171	140219	141268	142317	143366	144413	145463	146511	147560	148608	149658	150705	151755	152803					
44	141129	142229	143331	144433	145534	146634	147734	148836	149936	151039	152137	153242	154340	155442	156545	157643	158747	159846					
45	147588	148746	149902	151057	152210	153371	154525	155681	156834	157995	159149	160304	161464	162618	163774	164928	166087	167243					
46	154370	155585	156799	158013	159227	160441	161654	162869	164082	165298	166514	167726	168939	170152	171366	172580	173791	175006					
47	161493	162767	164043	165317	166592	167864	169141	170417	171690	172963	174241	175515	176788	178063	179340	180612	181887	183162					
124
	Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey Extended Salary Schedule for Engineering and Computer Science Effective July 1, 2006 - December 31, 2006																			
Assistant Instructor AY			84000																	
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
16	44969	45251	45535	45812	46093	46376	46656	46937	47216	47499	47779	48059	48341	48621	48901	49184	49465	49744	50027	50306
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	
16	50588	50867	51150	51431	51711	51991	52274	52552	52835	53115	53398	53676	53957	54239	54518	54801	55083	55363	55642	
Assistant Instructor CY			84010																	
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
19	51785	52111	52436	52761	53085	53410	53736	54061	54386	54713	55035	55360	55686	56011	56337	56663	56988	57312	57638	57962
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	
19	58286	58612	58938	59263	59587	59915	60239	60561	60887	61214	61538	61862	62191	62514	62840	63165	63490	63815	64137	
Instructor AY 85000																				
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
22	58864	59238	59617	59993	60368	60744	61122	61498	61872	62250	62624	63000	63380	63755	64130	64507	64884	65259	65636	66013
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84		
22	66390	66765	67142	67519	67894	68270	68649	69024	69403	69777	70153	70531	70905	71282	71659	72035	72413	72789		
Instructor CY 85010																				
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
25	67909	68348	68783	69218	69654	70090	70527	70960	71395	71832	72268	72702	73140	73574	74011	74444	74881	75319	75756	76192
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84		
25	76626	77061	77497	77934	78367	78805	79240	79676	80109	80546	80983	81419	81854	82290	82726	83161	83596	84031		
125
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Extended Salary Schedule for Engineering and Computer Science Effective July 1, 2006 - December 31, 2006
Assistant Professor AY 86000
Range 26	Step 47 70856	48 71312	49 71769	50 72228	51 72684	52 73142
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72
26	80004	80460	80919	81376	81833	82291
Assistant Professor CY			86010			
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52
29	81953	82482	83013	83543	84073	84599
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72
29	92543	93072	93601	94132	94663	95193
Associate Professor AY			87000			
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52
30	85819	86375	86931	87488	88044	88598
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72
30	96943	97498	98052	98613	99167	99720
Associate Professor CY			87010			
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52
33	99271	99918	100558	101205	101847	102494
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72
33	112147	112792	113436	114080	114721	115366
53	54	55	56	57	58	59
73598	74057	74514	74970	75428	75889	76346
73	74	75	76	77	78	79
82747	83205	83664	84119	84578	85036	85492
53	54	55	56	57	58	59
85132	85659	86191	86720	87249	87779	88308
73	74	75	76	77	78	79
95722	96252	96781	97310	97840	98369	98899
53	54	55	56	57	58	59
89155	89712	90265	90824	91379	91935	92492
73	74	75	76	77	78	79
100279	100834	101389	101947	102503	103059	103614
53	54	55	56	57	58	59
103134	103779	104421	105068	105711	106355	106996
73	74	75	76	77	78	79
116009	116654	117297	117942	118584	119230	119872
60 76803	61 77261	62 77716	63 78176	64 78632	65 79088	66 79546
80 85950	81 86409	82 86865	83 87324	84 87782		
60 88838	61 89368	62 89897	63 90428	64 90954	65 91485	66 92014
80 99428	81 99957	82 100487	83 101019	84 101549		
60 93049	61 93602	62 94161	63 94717	64 95277	65 95828	66 96385
80 104170	81 104727	82 105283	83 105839	84 106394		
60 107642	61 108285	62 108929	63 109573	64 110217	65 110860	66 111505
80 120516	81 121159	82 121806	83 122447	84 123090		
126
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Extended Salary Schedule for Engineering and Computer Science Effective July 1, 2006 - December 31, 2006
Professor I AY 88000
Range Step
47	48	40	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65
34 104172 104849 105524 106200 106878 107553 108228 108906 109579 110255 110932 111609 112284 112960 113636 114310 114989 115665 116340
Range Step
67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84
34 117692 118366 119045 119720 120395 121071 121747 122425 123100 123776 124451 125129 125805 126481 127158 127833 128506 129183
Professor ICY 88010
Range Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65
37 120345 121124 121909 122693 123475 124259 125039 125822 126604 127387 128169 128952 129735 130516 131300 132084 132865 133649 134430
Range Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84
37 135996 136778 137560 138342 139126 139909 140690 141474 142256 143037 143823 144603 145385 146169 146950 147733 148517 149298
Professor II AY 89000
Range Step 40	41	42	43	44	45	46	47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58
39 126161 127025 127888 128753 129614 130477 131339 132203 133065 133929 134791 135655 136517 137382 138245 139106 139970 140831 141693
Range Step 60	61	62	63	64	65	66	67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75
39 143420 144284 145146 146007 146872 147734 148599 149461 150321 151186 152048 152912 153774 154637 155501 156365
Professor II CY 89010
Range Step
66
117019
66
135212
59
142557
	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40
42	127177	128176	129173	130173	131172	132170	133169	134168	135165	136164	137165	138163	139161	140160	141157	142158	143156	144155	145152
Range Step
41	42	43	44	45	46	47	48	49	50	51	52
42 146152 147152 148150 149149 150147 151144 152143 153143 154142 155140 156138 157138
127
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Extended Salary Schedule for Business Disciplines Effective July 1, 2006 - December 31, 2006
Assistant Instructor AY 84000
Range 16	Step 47 44969	48 45251	49 45535	50 45812	51 46093	52 46376	53 46656	54 46937	55 47216	56 47499	57 47779	58 48059	59 48341	60 48621	61 48901	62 49184	63 49465	64 49744	65 50027	66 50306
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
16	50588	50867	51150	51431	51711	51991	52274	52552	52835	53115	53398	53676	53957	54239	54518	54801	55083	55363	55642	55925
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99	100	101					
16	56206	56485	56767	57049	57327	57607	57891	58171	58451	58731	59015	59293	59576	59857	60139					
Assistant Instructor CY			84010																	
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
19	51785	52111	52436	52761	53085	53410	53736	54061	54386	54713	55035	55360	55686	56011	56337	56663	56988	57312	57638	57962
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
19	58286	58612	58938	59263	59587	59915	60239	60561	60887	61214	61538	61862	62191	62514	62840	63165	63490	63815	64137	64466
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99	100	101					
19	64789	65115	65441	65764	66089	66415	66741	67064	67390	67717	68042	68366	68692	69018	69339					
Instructor AY 85000																				
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
22	58864	59238	59617	59993	60368	60744	61122	61498	61872	62250	62624	63000	63380	63755	64130	64507	64884	65259	65636	66013
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
22	66390	66765	67142	67519	67894	68270	68649	69024	69403	69777	70153	70531	70905	71282	71659	72035	72413	72789	73163	73542
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99	100						
22	73917	74292	74669	75043	75422	75798	76174	76551	76928	77302	77680	78055	78432	78809						
Instructor CY 85010																				
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
25	67909	68348	68783	69218	69654	70090	70527	70960	71395	71832	72268	72702	73140	73574	74011	74444	74881	75319	75756	76192
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
25	76626	77061	77497	77934	78367	78805	79240	79676	80109	80546	80983	81419	81854	82290	82726	83161	83596	84031	84468	84905
Range Step 87		88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99	100						
25	85339	85773	86209	86647	87081	87518	87953	88391	88823	89260	89695	90132	90566	91004						
128
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Extended Salary Schedule for Business Disciplines Effective July 1, 2006 - December 31, 2006
Assistant Professor AY			86000																	
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
26	70856	71312	71769	72228	72684	73142	73598	74057	74514	74970	75428	75889	76346	76803	77261	77716	78176	78632	79088	79546
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
26	80004	80460	80919	81376	81833	82291	82747	83205	83664	84119	84578	85036	85492	85950	86409	86865	87324	87782	88240	88697
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99							
26	89153	89613	90070	90526	90982	91441	91899	92355	92811	93269	93729	94184	94640							
Assistant Professor CY			86010																	
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
29	81953	82482	83013	83543	84073	84599	85132	85659	86191	86720	87249	87779	88308	88838	89368	89897	90428	90954	91485	92014
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
29	92543	93072	93601	94132	94663	95193	95722	96252	96781	97310	97840	98369	98899	99428	99957	100487	101019	101549	102076	102606
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99							
29	103137	103665	104194	104726	105254	105784	106314	106844	107372	107902	108434	108962	109492							
Associate Professor AY			87000																	
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
30	85819	86375	86931	87488	88044	88598	89155	89712	90265	90824	91379	91935	92492	93049	93602	94161	94717	95277	95828	96385
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
30	96943	97498	98052	98613	99167	99720	100279	100834	101389	101947	102503	103059	103614	104170	104727	105283	105839	106394	106952	107507
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99							
30	108062	108619	109176	109731	110288	110844	111399	111955	112511	113067	113625	114180	114738							
Associate Professor CY			87010																	
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
33	99271	99918	100558	101205	101847	102494	103134	103779	104421	105068	105711	106355	106996	107642	108285	108929	109573	110217	110860	111505
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
33	112147	112792	113436	114080	114721	115366	116009	116654	117297	117942	118584	119230	119872	120516	121159	121806	122447	123090	123734	124378
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99							
33	125022	125666	126310	126953	127598	128241	128883	129529	130173	130816	131460	132104	132746							
129
Professor I AY 88000
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Extended Salary Schedule for Business Disciplines Effective July 1, 2006 - December 31, 2006
Range 34	Step 47 104172	48 104849	49 105524	50 106200	51 106878	52 107553	53 108228	54 108906	55 109579	56 110255	57 110932	58 111609	59 112284	60 112960	61 113636	62 114310	63 114989	64 115665	65 116340	66 117019
Range	Step																			
	67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
34	117692	118366	119045	119720	120395	121071	121747	122425	123100	123776	124451	125129	125805	126481	127158	127833	128506	129183	129858	130536
Range	Step																			
	87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99							
34	131214	131888	132563	133240	133917	134593	135269	135945	136618	137296	137972	138646	139324							
Professor I CY		88010																		
Range	Step																			
	47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
37	120345	121124	121909	122693	123475	124259	125039	125822	126604	127387	128169	128952	129735	130516	131300	132084	132865	133649	134430	135212
Range	Step																			
	67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
37	135996	136778	137560	138342	139126	139909	140690	141474	142256	143037	143823	144603	145385	146169	146950	147733	148517	149298	150081	150865
Range	Step																			
	87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99							
37	151647	152428	153213	153992	154775	155560	156341	157124	157909	158689	159471	160255	161037							
Professor II AY		89000																		
Range	Step																			
	40	41	42	43	44	45	46	47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59
39	126161	127025	127888	128753	129614	130477	131339	132203	133065	133929	134791	135655	136517	137382	138245	139106	139970	140831	141693	142557
Range	Step																			
	60	61	62	63	64	65	66	67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79
39	143420	144284	145146	146007	146872	147734	148599	149461	150321	151186	152048	152912	153774	154637	155501	156365	157227	158090	158953	159815
Range	Step																			
	80	81	82	83	84	85	86	87	88	89										
39	160679	161540	162404	163266	164130	164991	165859	166718	167581	168445										
Professor II CY		89010																		
Range	Step																			
	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	
42	127177	128176	129173	130173	131172	132170	133169	134168	135165	136164	137165	138163	139161	140160	141157	142158	143156	144155	145152	
Range	Step																			
	41	42	43	44	45	46	47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	
42	146152	147152	148150	149149	150147	151144	152143	153143	154142	155140	156138	157138	158137	159136	160134	161132	162130	163131	164129	
Range	Step																			
	60	61	62	63	64	65														
42	165130	166126	167125	168122	169123	170121														
130
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective January 1, 2007 - June 30, 2007
Assistant Instructor AY 84000
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
14	30144	30406	30665	30925	31185	31444	31703	31962	32223	32482	32743	33000	33262	33521	33780	34039	34300	34558	34819	35079	35339	35598	35856
15	31369	31643	31914	32188	32460	32734	33004	33281	33551	33824	34095	34370	34641	34916	35186	35459	35733	36004	36277	36548	36824	37094	37367
16	32659	32942	33227	33516	33802	34086	34375	34659	34944	35233	35518	35803	36088	36378	36665	36947	37236	37522	37807	38094	38379	38667	38954
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
14	36116	36378	36635	36895	37153	37415	37673	37932	38191	38453	38712	38972	39232	39491	39750	40010	40268	40530	40789	41047	41309	41566	41828
15	37640	37914	38183	38458	38728	39002	39275	39549	39818	40092	40368	40639	40911	41184	41456	41727	42001	42273	42546	42816	43091	43360	43635
16	39238	39525	39808	40096	40383	40668	40955	41242	41528	41815	42100	42386	42673	42959	43245	43533	43815	44104	44388	44675	44961	45248	45535
Assistant Instructor CY 84010
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
17	34619	34921	35220	35522	35822	36122	36422	36721	37025	37323	37627	37925	38227	38527	38827	39129	39425	39729	40029	40328	40631	40929	41229
18	36040	36352	36669	36984	37301	37613	37930	38245	38560	38877	39192	39507	39823	40140	40456	40772	41086	41401	41715	42030	42348	42662	42975
19	37525	37856	38187	38520	38850	39181	39513	39845	40175	40505	40838	41168	41500	41833	42163	42495	42824	43158	43489	43817	44152	44483	44813
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
17	41530	41832	42130	42434	42732	43034	43335	43633	43935	44235	44538	44836	45134	45435	45736	46037	46338	46638	46939	47241	47543	47839	48140
18	43294	43608	43927	44241	44555	44870	45186	45503	45817	46133	46448	46762	47081	47395	47712	48026	48342	48657	48970	49288	49602	49917	50233
19	45148	45475	45808	46138	46469	46804	47132	47464	47795	48126	48457	48789	49120	49451	49783	50115	50445	50777	51107	51439	51768	52101	52434
131 (APPENDIX F-2)
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective January 1, 2007 - June 30, 2007
Instructor AY 85000
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
17	34503	34806	35103	35404	35704	36006	36305	36607	36905	37207	37507	37808	38107	38408	38710	39011	39311	39612	39912	40213	40510	40812	41112
18	35918	36236	36550	36867	37183	37496	37814	38128	38445	38760	39074	39392	39706	40021	40337	40651	40968	41281	41601	41916	42231	42547	42862
19	37409	37741	38072	38401	38731	39066	39396	39729	40060	40388	40721	41050	41384	41714	42046	42379	42709	43040	43372	43703	44033	44366	44696
20	38972	39321	39668	40014	40366	40709	41058	41406	41756	42102	42451	42797	43146	43494	43841	44190	44539	44884	45233	45580	45927	46276	46624
21	40612	40978	41342	41708	42073	42438	42802	43170	43535	43896	44265	44630	44996	45359	45725	46089	46457	46820	47187	47551	47916	48281	48646
22	42334	42719	43100	43485	43870	44252	44636	45017	45404	45786	46169	46554	46937	47320	47704	48088	48471	48854	49237	49622	50001	50388	50771
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
17	41413	41713	42015	42314	42617	42916	43219	43516	43816	44117	44419	44721	45018	45321	45621	45920	46221	46519	46822	47121	47424	47723	48024
18	43177	43493	43807	44122	44435	44753	45070	45385	45700	46017	46331	46647	46962	47278	47593	47909	48224	48541	48855	49172	49487	49802	50118
19	45027	45358	45690	46022	46352	46683	47016	47345	47676	48010	48340	48672	49004	49334	49664	49994	50329	50660	50988	51322	51653	51984	52312
20	46971	47320	47666	48015	48361	48712	49059	49406	49752	50101	50449	50797	51145	51493	51842	52189	52536	52886	53230	53582	53929	54276	54622
21	49012	49376	49741	50107	50474	50837	51204	51570	51934	52297	52663	53030	53392	53760	54124	54492	54854	55221	55586	55952	56317	56680	57047
22	51152	51538	51919	52302	52688	53071	53454	53840	54221	54606	54990	55370	55756	56140	56523	56906	57290	57674	58058	58441	58826	59206	59592
Instructor CY 85010
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
20	39710	40059	40405	40753	41100	41451	41796	42144	42493	42841	43186	43537	43883	44230	44580	44928	45275	45623	45971	46319	46667	47015	47361
21	41349	41715	42082	42448	42810	43177	43542	43906	44272	44638	45004	45367	45733	46097	46463	46828	47194	47558	47925	48289	48655	49018	49383
22	43074	43457	43840	44223	44606	44993	45375	45758	46140	46522	46907	47289	47672	48057	48442	48825	49209	49592	49977	50360	50742	51126	51507
23	44881	45283	45687	46089	46493	46894	47298	47702	48103	48506	48908	49313	49716	50117	50521	50921	51324	51728	52128	52531	52934	53337	53740
24	46781	47203	47627	48050	48473	48896	49319	49740	50165	50586	51010	51433	51854	52279	52700	53124	53544	53967	54390	54814	55236	55660	56080
25	48776	49218	49662	50106	50551	50993	51439	51883	52327	52770	53215	53660	54105	54546	54990	55433	55879	56321	56765	57210	57654	58097	58540
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
20	47711	48056	48405	48752	49101	49449	49798	50145	50493	50839	51190	51535	51884	52231	52578	52926	53274	53621	53971	54317	54667	55014	55361
21	49749	50116	50482	50844	51211	51576	51944	52305	52673	53040	53404	53767	54132	54499	54862	55227	55593	55960	56323	56689	57056	57422	57784
22	51895	52278	52659	53045	53429	53810	54195	54577	54962	55346	55729	56112	56495	56879	57262	57646	58030	58410	58795	59178	59561	59944	60329
23	54142	54546	54949	55352	55754	56157	56558	56963	57363	57767	58166	58572	58976	59377	59781	60179	60586	60989	61390	61793	62197	62599	63003
24	56504	56927	57351	57773	58197	58620	59042	59465	59889	60311	60734	61155	61576	62002	62423	62846	63270	63693	64114	64538	64960	65384	65806
25	58985	59430	59874	60319	60761	61205	61647	62093	62535	62981	63424	63869	64311	64756	65199	65643	66088	66533	66975	67419	67863	68308	68749
132
Assistant Professor AY 86000
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective January 1, 2007 - June 30, 2007
Range	Step 01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
21	41234	41601	41963	42329	42696	43062	43424	43790	44156	44519	44885	45251	45617	45980	46347	46711	47079	47441	47810	48174	48539	48904	49269
22	42958	43340	43722	44108	44491	44872	45259	45641	46024	46409	46791	47174	47558	47942	48325	48711	49093	49477	49859	50243	50626	51010	51395
23	44765	45170	45570	45973	46375	46779	47181	47585	47986	48392	48792	49195	49596	49997	50403	50805	51208	51609	52014	52417	52819	53221	53622
24	46665	47088	47508	47933	48355	48779	49201	49626	50047	50470	50891	51314	51738	52162	52584	53005	53431	53850	54275	54698	55121	55541	55967
25	48660	49104	49548	49990	50436	50879	51323	51766	52210	52655	53099	53540	53986	54431	54876	55317	55761	56207	56651	57093	57536	57981	58426
26	50754	51219	51685	52150	52617	53083	53547	54014	54483	54949	55414	55881	56347	56814	57278	57744	58211	58677	59142	59609	60074	60541	61007
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
21	49634	49996	50364	50728	51095	51460	51824	52190	52555	52919	53284	53651	54015	54381	54747	55113	55477	55843	56208	56574	56937	57303	57670
22	51774	52161	52543	52926	53311	53693	54078	54460	54843	55227	55612	55994	56379	56762	57147	57528	57911	58296	58678	59065	59445	59829	60215
23	54028	54430	54832	55234	55637	56037	56442	56844	57247	57651	58054	58457	58858	59259	59664	60065	60468	60871	61276	61676	62079	62480	62883
24	56388	56813	57234	57659	58079	58504	58925	59350	59771	60196	60614	61036	61463	61882	62307	62729	63152	63572	63998	64421	64846	65267	65691
25	58869	59311	59756	60203	60645	61086	61533	61978	62419	62864	63308	63753	64194	64639	65085	65529	65969	66417	66860	67304	67748	68192	68637
26	61473	61937	62407	62873	63337	63802	64271	64737	65201	65669	66136	66602	67066	67533	68000	68466	68930	69398	69865	70330	70796	71261	71728
Assistant Professor CY 86010
Range	Step 01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	47658	48082	48504	48928	49350	49770	50195	50616	51041	51463	51887	52307	52732	53154	53579	54000	54425	54845	55267	55692	56115	56538	56960
25	49652	50097	50540	50984	51430	51871	52313	52761	53205	53649	54091	54536	54979	55423	55865	56311	56757	57201	57643	58086	58530	58977	59420
26	51746	52213	52680	53145	53611	54078	54544	55008	55474	55941	56406	56876	57341	57806	58273	58741	59204	59670	60141	60604	61069	61536	62003
27	53946	54435	54924	55414	55903	56392	56884	57372	57859	58350	58840	59330	59820	60309	60797	61289	61780	62265	62757	63244	63732	64225	64711
28	56252	56767	57282	57796	58310	58826	59338	59851	60367	60878	61393	61908	62421	62935	63451	63960	64477	64991	65504	66019	66535	67047	67561
29	58678	59217	59756	60296	60838	61378	61915	62458	62997	63535	64075	64614	65155	65694	66233	66776	67313	67854	68393	68930	69472	70011	70552
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
24	57383	57805	58228	58653	59075	59498	59920	60340	60765	61189	61611	62033	62459	62879	63302	63725	64147	64569	64994	65415	65839	66261	66685
25	59864	60308	60753	61197	61639	62084	62528	62972	63416	63861	64303	64748	65191	65636	66079	66523	66965	67411	67856	68300	68742	69185	69630
26	62468	62934	63399	63867	64333	64798	65265	65731	66196	66663	67128	67595	68065	68528	68995	69460	69927	70393	70859	71325	71792	72256	72723
27	65202	65693	66182	66670	67162	67650	68141	68631	69116	69608	70098	70586	71077	71567	72054	72548	73035	73524	74013	74502	74990	75482	75971
28	68076	68587	69103	69616	70129	70643	71158	71671	72187	72700	73214	73728	74242	74757	75269	75784	76296	76812	77326	77838	78354	78867	79382
29	71090	71630	72170	72710	73249	73790	74327	74867	75407	75947	76488	77027	77567	78105	78645	79183	79726	80264	80805	81344	81882	82422	82962
133
Associate Professor AY 87000
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective January 1, 2007 - June 30, 2007
Range	Step 01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
25	49805	50250	50692	51137	51581	52025	52467	52910	53356	53801	54244	54688	55134	55578	56020	56464	56908	57353	57796	58241	58685	59129	59572
26	51900	52364	52833	53298	53764	54228	54696	55162	55627	56092	56560	57029	57494	57961	58426	58893	59358	59824	60290	60758	61222	61689	62154
27	54101	54587	55078	55569	56058	56545	57036	57524	58015	58505	58993	59482	59972	60461	60950	61441	61929	62418	62908	63397	63886	64378	64866
28	56405	56921	57435	57947	58464	58978	59489	60003	60518	61031	61547	62061	62574	63090	63605	64115	64630	65143	65657	66172	66686	67198	67711
29	58832	59370	59911	60449	60991	61530	62068	62610	63148	63687	64229	64768	65307	65845	66385	66925	67466	68006	68546	69085	69624	70165	70702
30	61378	61943	62511	63076	63644	64209	64777	65342	65912	66477	67044	67610	68178	68742	69311	69877	70443	71008	71576	72142	72711	73276	73842
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
25	60014	60458	60905	61350	61792	62236	62681	63124	63565	64010	64458	64902	65343	65786	66232	66676	67117	67564	68011	68454	68896	69339	69784
26	62621	63089	63553	64020	64484	64953	65417	65883	66350	66816	67281	67749	68213	68682	69148	69612	70080	70548	71010	71477	71946	72410	72876
27	65356	65844	66334	66824	67314	67805	68295	68782	69272	69763	70250	70740	71231	71719	72208	72697	73188	73676	74168	74656	75144	75635	76124
28	68230	68741	69257	69770	70283	70799	71312	71824	72338	72853	73367	73880	74396	74909	75422	75939	76449	76965	77479	77993	78505	79021	79532
29	71244	71784	72321	72863	73401	73942	74482	75022	75561	76101	76639	77179	77719	78259	78799	79338	79879	80418	80959	81497	82036	82576	83116
30	74409	74975	75541	76110	76674	77242	77810	78375	78943	79509	80075	80642	81207	81774	82341	82907	83474	84042	84607	85174	85742	86306	86872
Associate Professor CY 87010
Range	Step 01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
28	57583	58093	58609	59124	59635	60152	60664	61178	61692	62207	62719	63234	63750	64260	64777	65291	65804	66319	66833	67345	67860	68374	68887
29	60004	60545	61082	61624	62164	62704	63242	63781	64324	64862	65402	65941	66481	67019	67561	68099	68640	69178	69719	70259	70799	71338	71876
30	62550	63116	63684	64251	64814	65384	65949	66518	67084	67650	68218	68783	69349	69917	70483	71048	71617	72184	72750	73317	73885	74449	75019
31	65224	65818	66415	67007	67604	68198	68794	69387	69983	70577	71173	71770	72362	72957	73552	74146	74742	75337	75935	76527	77122	77718	78312
32	68029	68653	69278	69903	70528	71153	71779	72403	73027	73650	74277	74900	75526	76153	76774	77402	78025	78651	79274	79899	80524	81149	81772
33	70977	71632	72288	72944	73601	74257	74912	75569	76224	76880	77535	78191	78847	79504	80159	80815	81469	82128	82783	83439	84095	84752	85404
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
28	69401	69915	70428	70945	71457	71971	72486	73001	73513	74027	74539	75053	75570	76082	76597	77111	77623	78137	78654	79164	79679	80195	80708
29	72415	72956	73495	74036	74577	75116	75655	76192	76733	77274	77813	78353	78893	79432	79971	80512	81050	81590	82130	82670	83209	83747	84290
30	75583	76147	76717	77282	77849	78418	78982	79550	80117	80682	81248	81814	82383	82948	83516	84083	84648	85214	85782	86349	86916	87481	88049
31	78906	79503	80095	80695	81288	81882	82475	83070	83667	84261	84857	85451	86047	86639	87235	87831	88425	89021	89615	90212	90806	91400	91997
32	82396	83021	83646	84272	84897	85520	86145	86771	87393	88018	88644	89269	89892	90518	91146	91769	92393	93017	93643	94268	94892	95516	96139
33	86063	86717	87375	88030	88686	89340	89998	90654	91311	91965	92623	93277	93933	94590	95246	95901	96557	97211	97869	98525	99182	99837	100493
134
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective January 1, 2007 - June 30, 2007
Professor I AY 88000
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
30	62938	63504	64070	64637	65203	65771	66338	66905	67472	68037	68606	69172	69737	70307	70871	71436	72004	72571	73135	73705	74271	74839	75405
31	65609	66204	66799	67398	67992	68584	69180	69776	70370	70964	71560	72155	72751	73346	73941	74535	75132	75727	76322	76915	77510	78106	78699
32	68417	69043	69666	70290	70917	71541	72166	72790	73415	74041	74666	75289	75914	76540	77163	77790	78416	79038	79664	80288	80913	81536	82161
33	71364	72022	72675	73332	73986	74644	75301	75954	76612	77267	77923	78581	79234	79893	80547	81202	81859	82516	83171	83828	84481	85140	85794
34	74458	75145	75836	76524	77212	77903	78592	79279	79968	80657	81346	82036	82724	83411	84100	84788	85479	86167	86854	87545	88236	88922	89610
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
30	75971	76538	77106	77671	78237	78805	79369	79937	80504	81072	81636	82206	82770	83335	83903	84471	85038	85605	86169	86739	87304	87871	88436
31	79296	79892	80487	81080	81674	82271	82863	83461	84055	84651	85246	85841	86434	87028	87624	88222	88814	89409	90007	90600	91196	91790	92386
32	82786	83409	84037	84661	85285	85912	86535	87159	87783	88410	89031	89657	90281	90909	91534	92157	92783	93407	94032	94654	95280	95905	96529
33	86452	87107	87763	88419	89075	89730	90386	91044	91700	92356	93010	93665	94323	94977	95634	96291	96946	97601	98258	98913	99573	100226	100884
34	90300	90990	91679	92365	93053	93743	94434	95120	95807	96500	97189	97876	98566	99255	99942	100633	101320	102007	102698	103387	104075	104762	105453
Professor ICY 88010
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
33	72604	73263	73915	74574	75225	75886	76541	77197	77852	78507	79162	79823	80476	81134	81788	82444	83101	83756	84412	85069	85722	86380	87034
34	75698	76386	77076	77764	78451	79143	79833	80521	81208	81898	82585	83277	83966	84653	85341	86029	86717	87408	88096	88785	89474	90163	90853
35	78947	79671	80393	81117	81841	82565	83287	84010	84734	85456	86180	86906	87626	88349	89073	89797	90521	91240	91964	92689	93411	94134	94860
36	82359	83119	83877	84637	85395	86157	86917	87674	88433	89193	89953	90713	91472	92230	92991	93749	94508	95268	96027	96785	97547	98303	99066
37	85941	86740	87536	88330	89132	89928	90724	91523	92318	93115	93916	94712	95509	96306	97103	97902	98698	99496	100291	101092	101890	102686	103484
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
33	87693	88348	89004	89658	90316	90971	91628	92282	92940	93596	94252	94905	95563	96218	96875	97531	98186	98843	99499	100155	100812	101466	102124
34	91541	92229	92919	93607	94293	94983	95675	96360	97048	97739	98428	99118	99806	100494	101183	101873	102561	103248	103939	104627	105315	106005	106694
35	95581	96305	97029	97750	98476	99196	99919	100645	101366	102090	102812	103537	104262	104983	105706	106432	107153	107877	108598	109323	110048	110769	111490
36	99824	100585	101344	102102	102863	103619	104381	105139	105898	106660	107420	108177	108937	109695	110458	111216	111975	112732	113493	114251	115013	115771	116533
37	104280	105076	105876	106672	107469	108266	109064	109862	110660	111457	112253	113051	113847	114644	115444	116240	117038	117836	118632	119429	120228	121024	121821
135
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective January 1, 2007 - June 30, 2007
Professor II AY 89000
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
37	86546	87344	88145	88939	89737	90537	91331	92129	92928	93724	94519	95320	96118	96915	97713	98509	99307	100104	100901	101699	102497	103293	104092
38	90309	91149	91984	92821	93657	94495	95333	96171	97007	97844	98681	99520	100358	101194	102031	102870	103705	104543	105380	106218	107057	107894	108733
39	94260	95137	96018	96896	97775	98653	99531	100415	101293	102173	103051	103931	104809	105688	106568	107446	108324	109204	110084	110964	111843	112722	113601
Range	Step																						
	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41					
37	104889	105685	106483	107283	108078	108875	109674	110471	111268	112068	112865	113659	114459	115255	116053	116853	117649	118445					
38	109565	110405	111241	112079	112917	113754	114594	115428	116267	117104	117941	118778	119616	120451	121289	122126	122964	123803					
39	114479	115359	116239	117117	117997	118875	119753	120636	121513	122394	123273	124149	125031	125908	126791	127668							
Professor II CY 89010
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
40	99285	100210	101133	102057	102978	103900	104824	105747	106671	107594	108518	109439	110361	111287	112208	113133	114055	114978	115899	116822	117745	118667	119593
41	103643	104610	105577	106545	107516	108483	109454	110425	111391	112363	113330	114300	115269	116239	117206	118177	119147	120115	121084	122053	123023	123990	124961
42	108210	109228	110245	111263	112283	113300	114317	115334	116350	117370	118386	119406	120422	121438	122458	123475	124492	125509	126526	127544	128564		
Range Step
24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32
40 120512 121437 122361 123284 124206 125130 126053 126975 127896
41 125929 126898 127868
136
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective January 1, 2007 - June 30, 2007
Special	Professorial Titles				
Range	Step 01	02	03	04	05
43	123414	124434	125451	126468	127489
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28
43	146820	147837	148857	149874	150891
06	07	08	09	10	11
128506	129523	130538	131556	132574	133593
29	30	31	32	33	34
151908	152927	153945	154963	155978	156996
12	13	14	15	16	17
134610 135627 136646 137664 138681 139697
35	36
158015 159030
18	19	20	21	22	23
140716 141734 142748 143768 144787 145803
137
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective January 1, 2007 - June 30, 2007
Assistant Professor Law 96140, 96150
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
33	70093	70745	71403	72057	72715	73369	74027	74682	75337	75995	76651	77304	77962	78617	79273	79930	80584	81241	81898	82554	83208	83866	84522
34	73186	73873	74561	75253	75941	76627	77317	78004	78694	79384	80072	80759	81447	82139	82828	83516	84205	84894	85581	86273	86958	87647	88338
35	76435	77156	77879	78603	79324	80050	80770	81496	82219	82942	83665	84388	85109	85834	86558	87280	88003	88726	89451	90175	90895	91619	92342
36	79844	80604	81362	82124	82883	83639	84399	85159	85919	86680	87438	88195	88955	89714	90476	91234	91994	92753	93512	94272	95030	95790	96549
37	83429	84221	85020	85817	86614	87412	88208	89008	89804	90602	91398	92195	92993	93789	94589	95384	96181	96980	97778	98574	99370	100169	100965
38	87187	88023	88861	89697	90537	91374	92208	93046	93883	94720	95557	96397	97233	98069	98907	99744	100582	101417	102255	103089	103931	104767	105605
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
33	85176	85833	86488	87145	87801	88457	89111	89768	90424	91082	91736	92393	93047	93704	94359	95015	95674	96328	96983	97639	98294	98953	99607
34	89025	89713	90401	91092	91781	92468	93157	93848	94537	95226	95911	96599	97289	97979	98667	99355	100046	100733	101420	102112	102801	103489	104178
35	93066	93788	94511	95237	95958	96681	97404	98127	98853	99576	100297	101022	101743	102464	103192	103911	104637	105358	106083	106807	107530	108251	108977
36	97310	98068	98827	99586	100345	101105	101867	102623	103384	104144	104901	105662	106422	107178	107938	108697	109456	110217	110976	111738	112495	113254	114013
37	101762	102561	103357	104155	104953	105749	106545	107345	108142	108939	109736	110531	111329	112130	112924	113722	114520	115315	116114	116912	117707	118505	119305
38	106442	107279	108116	108952	109789	110624	111465	112301	113140	113976	114812	115649	116488	117324	118160	118999	119834	120672	121510	122346	123184	124023	124859
Associate Professor Law 97140, 97150
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
36	80923	81681	82443	83202	83961	84718	85480	86238	87000	87757	88516	89277	90035	90796	91553	92313	93072	93831	94591	95351	96110	96870	97629
37	84507	85301	86101	86899	87695	88492	89289	90087	90884	91682	92477	93275	94074	94870	95670	96466	97262	98059	98857	99655	100449	101250	102045
38	88263	89104	89938	90776	91615	92453	93287	94125	94962	95799	96638	97475	98312	99147	99987	100824	101661	102498	103336	104170	105009	105847	106682
39	92217	93094	93973	94853	95730	96607	97490	98366	99247	100125	101003	101887	102763	103644	104522	105400	106280	107159	108036	108916	109795	110674	111553
40	96360	97283	98207	99130	100053	100977	101899	102820	103745	104669	105592	106514	107437	108360	109281	110207	111129	112055	112975	113897	114819	115742	116667
41	100716	101683	102653	103620	104591	105560	106528	107499	108467	109437	110406	111376	112343	113316	114283	115251	116222	117190	118158	119128	120098	121065	122037
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
36	98391	99145	99905	100666	101424	102184	102945	103703	104463	105222	105980	106742	107500	108258	109017	109779	110536	111296	112059	112816	113573	114334	115093
37	102844	103643	104438	105236	106034	106830	107626	108424	109221	110017	110819	111615	112411	113210	114005	114803	115600	116397	117194	117993	118788	119587	120387
38	107520	108359	109196	110033	110869	111706	112545	113382	114218	115054	115892	116728	117567	118404	119241	120078	120914	121752	122588	123425	124264	125102	125939
39	112432	113314	114191	115069	115949	116829	117705	118584	119463	120342	121221	122101	122981	123862	124740	125619	126498	127374	128256	129132	130013	130891	131769
40	117589	118511	119435	120358	121279	122205	123128	124049	124973	125896	126818	127744	128667	129587	130512	131433	132356	133281	134204	135127	136051	136974	137895
41	123005	123975	124944	125910	126882	127851	128819	129787	130757	131727	132697	133665	134634	135604	136570	137541	138512	139479	140449	141416	142388	143355	144325
138
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Academic Salary Schedule Effective January 1, 2007 - June 30, 2007
Professor I Law 98160, 98170
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
39	93841	94718	95596	96479	97358	98236	99115	99993	100873	101751	102630	103507	104387	105267	106146	107023	107906	108784	109664	110544	111419	112300	113177
40	97987	98909	99832	100755	101678	102603	103524	104446	105369	106294	107215	108139	109063	109986	110910	111830	112754	113678	114602	115524	116447	117369	118291
41	102341	103310	104278	105247	106216	107187	108155	109125	110093	111063	112031	113000	113969	114937	115908	116878	117848	118816	119785	120753	121724	122689	123661
42	106912	107928	108945	109967	110980	112000	113015	114033	115049	116070	117089	118105	119122	120141	121158	122174	123192	124211	125227	126247	127264	128283	129297
43	111710	112781	113847	114917	115988	117053	118123	119190	120260	121327	122397	123464	124533	125600	126672	127741	128807	129876	130941	132014	133080	134150	135217
44	116753	117872	118996	120117	121240	122361	123484	124603	125726	126849	127971	129092	130212	131336	132459	133582	134702	135825	136942	138068	139189	140313	141431
Range	Step 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41	42	43	44	45	46
39	114059	114935	115815	116696	117576	118454	119333	120213	121091	121968	122849	123727	124605	125485	126363	127246	128123	129001	129882	130761	131638	132517	133394
40	119212	120138	121061	121984	122906	123828	124753	125676	126599	127522	128446	129366	130289	131214	132137	133062	133983	134906	135830	136753	137676	138599	139522
41	124632	125598	126569	127538	128508	129475	130444	131417	132385	133353	134322	135292	136259	137229	138197	139167	140141	141105	142076	143045	144010	144980	145952
42	130315	131334	132352	133370	134386	135404	136421	137440	138458	139475	140493	141508	142528	143545	144562	145580	146597	147617	148632	149653	150667	151684	152703
43	136288	137357	138423	139491	140559	141630	142696	143766	144832	145902	146972	148041	149109	150177	151247	152312	153382	154451	155520	156589	157656	158723	159791
44	142556	143675	144800	145922	147043	148165	149287	150407	151530	152654	153771	154897	156018	157141	158259	159383	160506	161628	162751	163871	164993	166115	167236
Professor II Law 99040, 99050
Range Step
	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
43	112953	114022	115090	116159	117226	118296	119362	120430	121499	122569	123637	124706	125774	126843	127913	128981	130047	131115	132186	133252	134322	135390	136459
44	117994	119116	120236	121359	122481	123602	124724	125844	126969	128089	129213	130336	131455	132576	133700	134823	135944	137064	138184	139308	140430	141553	142674
45	123284	124462	125642	126817	127995	129175	130353	131529	132709	133888	135064	136242	137420	138599	139776	140954	142131	143311	144489	145666	146845	148024	149200
46	128840	130077	131314	132552	133789	135025	136261	137499	138735	139972	141208	142448	143684	144919	146158	147393	148630	149869	151105	152342	153576	154814	156052
47	134674	135975	137272	138571	139868	141170	142469	143766	145064	146364	147662	148961	150261	151561	152856	154157	155454	156755	158053	159350	160649	161948	163244
Range Step
	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	41
43	137528	138597	139662	140731	141801	142869	143938	145007	146076	147142	148212	149280	150349	151417	152487	153553	154623	155691
44	143796	144917	146040	147163	148285	149405	150526	151649	152770	153894	155012	156138	157257	158380	159504	160622	161747	162867
45	150377	151557	152735	153912	155087	156270	157446	158623	159798	160981	162157	163334	164516	165691	166869	168045	169226	170404
46	157288	158526	159763	160999	162236	163473	164709	165947	167183	168422	169661	170896	172132	173368	174605	175842	177076	178314
47	164545	165843	167143	168441	169741	171037	172338	173638	174935	176232	177534	178832	180129	181428	182730	184026	185325	186624
139
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Extended Salary Schedule for Engineering and Computer Science Effective January 1, 2007 - June 30, 2007
Assistant Instructor AY		84000		51 46964	52 47253	53 47538	54 47824	55 48108
Range Step	48 46106	49 46396	50 46678					
47								
16 45819								
Range Step								
67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75
16 51544 51828 Assistant Instructor CY		52117 84010	52403	52688	52974	53262	53545	53834
Range Step								
47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55
19 52764	53096	53427	53758	54088	54419	54752	55083	55414
Range Step								
67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75
19 59388	59720	60052	60383	60713	61047	61378	61706	62038
56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
48397	48682	48967	49255	49540	49825	50114	50400	50684	50973	51257
76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	
54119	54407	54690	54977	55264	55548	55837	56124	56409	56694	
56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
55747	56075	56406	56738	57070	57402	57734	58065	58395	58727	59057
76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	
62371	62701	63031	63366	63696	64028	64359	64690	65021	65349	
Instructor AY 85000
Range 22	Step 47 59977	48 60358	49 60744	50 61127	51 61509	52 61892	53 62277	54 62660	55 63041	56 63427	57 63808	58 64191	59 64578	60 64960	61 65342	62 65726	63 66110	64 66492	65 66877	66 67261
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84		
22	67645	68027	68411	68795	69177	69560	69946	70329	70715	71096	71479	71864	72245	72629	73013	73396	73782	74165		
Instructor CY 85010																				
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
25	69192	69640	70083	70526	70970	71415	71860	72301	72744	73190	73634	74076	74522	74965	75410	75851	76296	76743	77188	77632
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84		
25	78074	78517	78962	79407	79848	80294	80738	81182	81623	82068	82514	82958	83401	83845	84290	84733	85176	85619		
140
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Extended Salary Schedule for Engineering and Computer Science Effective January 1, 2007 - June 30, 2007
Assistant Professor AY 86000
Range Step
47	48	40	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
26	72195	72660	73125	73593	74058	74524	74989	75457	75922	76387	76854	77323	77789	78255	78721	79185	79654	80118	80583 81049
Range Step
67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84
26	81516	81981	82448	82914	83380	83846	84311	84778	85245	85709	86177	86643	87108	87574	88042	88507	88974	89441
Assistant Professor CY 86010
Range Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
29	83502	84041	84582	85122	85662	86198	86741	87278	87820	88359	88898	89438	89977	90517	91057	91596	92137	92673	93214	93753
Range Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84
29 94292 94831	95370 95911	96452 96992 97531 98071	98610 99149 99689 100228 100768 101307 101846 102386 102928 103468
Associate Professor AY 87000
Range Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
30	87441	88007	88574	89142	89708	90273	90840	91408	91971	92541	93106	93673	94240	94808	95371	95941	96507	97078	97639	98207
Range Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84
30 98775 99341	99905 100477 101041 101605 102174 102740 103305 103874 104440 105007 105572 106139 106706 107273 107839 108405
Associate Professor CY 87010
Range Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
33 101147 101806 102459 103118 103772 104431 105083 105740 106395 107054 107709 108365 109018 109676 110332 110988 111644 112300 112955 113612
Range Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84
33 114267 114924 115580 116236 116889 117546 118202 118859 119514 120171 120825 121483 122138 122794 123449 124108 124761 125416
141
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Extended Salary Schedule for Engineering and Computer Science Effective January 1, 2007 - June 30, 2007
Professor I AY 88000
Range Step 47	48	40	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
34 106141 106831 107518 108207 108898 109586 110274 110964 111650 112339 113029 113718 114406 115095 115784 116470 117162 117851 118539 119231
Range Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84
34 119916 120603 121295 121983 122670 123359 124048 124739 125427 126115 126803 127494 128183 128871 129561 130249 130935 131625
Professor ICY 88010
Range Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
37 122620 123413 124213 125012 125809 126607 127402 128200 128997 129795 130591 131389 132187 132983 133782 134580 135376 136175 136971 137768
Range Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84
37 138566 139363 140160 140957 141755 142553 143349 144148 144945 145740 146541 147336 148133 148932 149727 150525 151324 152120
Professor II AY 89000
Range Step 40	41	42	43	44	45	46	47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59
39 128545 129426 130305 131186 132064 132943 133821 134702 135580 136460 137339 138219 139097 139979 140858 141735 142615 143493 144371 145251
Range Step 60	61	62	63	64	65	66	67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75
39 146131 147011 147889 148767 149648 150526 151408 152286 153162 154043 154922 155802 156680 157560 158440 159320
Professor II CY 89010
Range Step
	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40
42	129581	130599	131614	132633	133651	134668	135686	136704	137720	138737	139757	140774	141791	142809	143825	144845	145862	146880	147895
Range Step
41	42	43	44	45	46	47	48	49	50	51	52
42 148914 149933 150950 151968 152985 154001 155019 156037 157055 158072 159089 160108
142
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Extended Salary Schedule for Business Disciplines Effective January 1, 2007 - June 30, 2007
Assistant Instructor AY			84000									58 48967	59 49255	60 49540	61 49825	62 50114	63 50400	64 50684	65 50973	66 51257
Range 16	Step 47 45819	48 46106	49 46396	50 46678	51 46964	52 47253	53 47538	54 47824	55 48108	56 48397	57 48682									
Range	Step																			
	67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
16	51544	51828	52117	52403	52688	52974	53262	53545	53834	54119	54407	54690	54977	55264	55548	55837	56124	56409	56694	56982
Range	Step																			
	87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99	100	101					
16	57268	57553	57840	58127	58410	58696	58985	59270	59556	59841	60130	60414	60702	60988	61276					
Assistant Instructor CY			84010																	
Range	Step																			
	47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
19	52764	53096	53427	53758	54088	54419	54752	55083	55414	55747	56075	56406	56738	57070	57402	57734	58065	58395	58727	59057
Range	Step																			
	67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
19	59388	59720	60052	60383	60713	61047	61378	61706	62038	62371	62701	63031	63366	63696	64028	64359	64690	65021	65349	65684
Range	Step																			
	87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99	100	101					
19	66014	66346	66678	67007	67338	67670	68002	68332	68664	68997	69328	69658	69990	70322	70650					
Instructor AY 85000																				
Range	Step																			
	47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
22	59977	60358	60744	61127	61509	61892	62277	62660	63041	63427	63808	64191	64578	64960	65342	65726	66110	66492	66877	67261
Range	Step																			
	67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
22	67645	68027	68411	68795	69177	69560	69946	70329	70715	71096	71479	71864	72245	72629	73013	73396	73782	74165	74546	74932
Range	Step																			
	87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99	100						
22	75314	75696	76080	76461	76847	77231	77614	77998	78382	78763	79148	79530	79914	80298						
Instructor CY 85010																				
Range	Step																			
	47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
25	69192	69640	70083	70526	70970	71415	71860	72301	72744	73190	73634	74076	74522	74965	75410	75851	76296	76743	77188	77632
Range	Step																			
	67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
25	78074	78517	78962	79407	79848	80294	80738	81182	81623	82068	82514	82958	83401	83845	84290	84733	85176	85619	86064	86510
Range	Step																			
	87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99	100						
25	86952	87394	87838	88285	88727	89172	89615	90062	90502	90947	91390	91835	92278	92724						
143
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Extended Salary Schedule for Business Disciplines Effective January 1, 2007 - June 30, 2007
Assistant Professor AY 86000
Range 26	Step 47 72195	48 72660	49 73125	50 73593	51 74058	52 74524	53 74989	54 75457	55 75922	56 76387	57 76854	58 77323	59 77789	60 78255	61 78721	62 79185	63 79654	64 80118	65 80583	66 81049
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
26	81516	81981	82448	82914	83380	83846	84311	84778	85245	85709	86177	86643	87108	87574	88042	88507	88974	89441	89908	90373
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99							
26	90838	91307	91772	92237	92702	93169	93636	94101	94565	95032	95500	95964	96429							
Assistant Professor CY			86010																	
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
29	83502	84041	84582	85122	85662	86198	86741	87278	87820	88359	88898	89438	89977	90517	91057	91596	92137	92673	93214	93753
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
29	94292	94831	95370	95911	96452	96992	97531	98071	98610	99149	99689	100228	100768	101307	101846	102386	102928	103468	104005	104545
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99							
29	105086	105624	106163	106705	107243	107783	108323	108863	109401	109941	110483	111021	111561							
Associate Professor AY			87000																	
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
30	87441	88007	88574	89142	89708	90273	90840	91408	91971	92541	93106	93673	94240	94808	95371	95941	96507	97078	97639	98207
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
30	98775	99341	99905	100477	101041	101605	102174	102740	103305	103874	104440	105007	105572	106139	106706	107273	107839	108405	108973	109539
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99							
30	110104	110672	111239	111805	112372	112939	113504	114071	114637	115204	115773	116338	116907							
Associate Professor CY			87010																	
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
33	101147	101806	102459	103118	103772	104431	105083	105740	106395	107054	107709	108365	109018	109676	110332	110988	111644	112300	112955	113612
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
33	114267	114924	115580	116236	116889	117546	118202	118859	119514	120171	120825	121483	122138	122794	123449	124108	124761	125416	126073	126729
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99							
33	127385	128041	128697	129352	130010	130665	131319	131977	132633	133288	133945	134601	135255							
144
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Extended Salary Schedule for Business Disciplines Effective January 1, 2007 - June 30, 2007
Professor I AY 88000
Range 34	Step 47 106141	48 106831	49 107518	50 108207	51 108898	52 109586	53 110274	54 110964	55 111650	56 112339	57 113029	58 113718	59 114406	60 115095	61 115784	62 116470	63 117162	64 117851	65 118539	66 119231
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
34	119916	120603	121295	121983	122670	123359	124048	124739	125427	126115	126803	127494	128183	128871	129561	130249	130935	131625	132312	133003
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99							
34	133694	134381	135068	135758	136448	137137	137826	138514	139200	139891	140580	141266	141957							
Professor I CY		88010																		
Range	Step 47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	60	61	62	63	64	65	66
37	122620	123413	124213	125012	125809	126607	127402	128200	128997	129795	130591	131389	132187	132983	133782	134580	135376	136175	136971	137768
Range	Step 67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	80	81	82	83	84	85	86
37	138566	139363	140160	140957	141755	142553	143349	144148	144945	145740	146541	147336	148133	148932	149727	150525	151324	152120	152918	153716
Range	Step 87	88	89	90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99							
37	154513	155309	156109	156902	157700	158500	159296	160094	160893	161688	162485	163284	164081							
Professor II AY		89000																		
Range	Step 40	41	42	43	44	45	46	47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59
39	128545	129426	130305	131186	132064	132943	133821	134702	135580	136460	137339	138219	139097	139979	140858	141735	142615	143493	144371	145251
Range	Step 60	61	62	63	64	65	66	67	68	69	70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79
39	146131	147011	147889	148767	149648	150526	151408	152286	153162	154043	154922	155802	156680	157560	158440	159320	160199	161078	161957	162836
Range	Step 80	81	82	83	84	85	86	87	88	89										
39	163716	164593	165473	166352	167232	168109	168994	169869	170748	171629										
Professor II CY		89010																		
Range	Step 22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39	40	
42	129581	130599	131614	132633	133651	134668	135686	136704	137720	138737	139757	140774	141791	142809	143825	144845	145862	146880	147895	
Range	Step 41	42	43	44	45	46	47	48	49	50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59	
42	148914	149933	150950	151968	152985	154001	155019	156037	157055	158072	159089	160108	161126	162144	163161	164177	165194	166214	167231	
Range	Step 60	61	62	63	64	65														
42	168251	169266	170284	171300	172319	173336														
145
Appendix G
Sidebar Agreement Regarding Faculty Dismissal Procedures
1.	A pool of 8-12 professional arbitrators jointly agreed to by the University and the AAUP shall be established on an annual basis. A selection method jointly developed by the parties that insures both rotation in the use of arbitrators and random assignment shall be utilized by the University to designate an arbitrator as presiding officer for hearings conducted pursuant to University regulations. The arbitrator shall not participate in deliberations of the panel or in preparation of its report, but shall be responsible for conducting the hearings consistent with University regulations and ruling on all procedural issues that arise. The cost of arbitrators shall be borne by the University.
2.	The University’s obligation prescribed by University Regulation 3.98 to pay the reasonable expense of the faculty member shall not exceed $90,000.
146
APPENDIX H
SIDEBAR AGREEMENT
FACULTY SUSPENSIONS AT LESS THAN FULL PAY
1.	A faculty member of the bargaining unit may be suspended at less than full pay for a period of up to one semester. By no later than the termination of the semester, the faculty member shall be reinstated unless a proceeding is instituted in conformity with University Regulations 3.93 through 3.99a.
2.	When the University believes that suspension of a faculty member at less than full pay may be warranted, the following shall apply.
a.	The faculty member shall be given a written notice setting forth the reasons why a suspension at less than full pay is being considered, and the time and place of a meeting with the dean to give the faculty member, who may be accompanied by an advisor, an opportunity to state why the suspension at less than full pay is not warranted. The meeting shall be held within 14 days of receipt of the written notice.
b.	If the faculty member avails him/herself of the opportunity to be heard, the faculty member will be permitted to respond to the reasons set forth in 2.a. and to make any other statement regarding the appropriateness of the suspension.
c.	After the dean meets with the faculty member, and before a final determination of wrongdoing or penalty is made, the dean shall consult with a committee of not less than three department chairs and/or members of an Appointments and Promotions Committee (if there are no chairs or an insufficient number of chairs available) concerning the alleged wrongdoing and any proposed penalty of suspension at less than full pay. The members of the committee shall be selected at random from among the eligible faculty members from the decanal unit and/or from other units on the dean’s campus if there are an insufficient number within the decanal unit. The faculty member and the dean each shall have one peremptory challenge, which shall be exercised simultaneously within 48 hours of committee selection and prior to notification of committee members. The dean shall make available to the committee the notice to the faculty member setting forth why a suspension at less than full pay is being considered, any written responses from the faculty member, and any documents provided by the faculty member to the dean. Upon request of the faculty member, the committee shall hear a short oral presentation by the faculty member or his/her advisor. The committee shall provide the dean with non-binding advice regarding the alleged wrongdoing and the proposed penalties.
d.	After the meeting, within 14 days, the faculty member shall be informed in writing by the dean whether the suspension at less than full pay, or some lesser penalty, is being imposed and whether the committee agreed with the action taken by the dean. The imposition of discipline may be grieved as provided for in Article IX.
e.	Within five working days of receipt of the dean’s decision, the faculty member may appeal this decision to the EVPAA (New Brunswick) or the provost (Camden and Newark). The EVPAA or provost shall render a decision on the appeal within seven working days. No penalties may be implemented until either the deadline for appeal has passed with no appeal filed or the EVPAA/provost has rendered a decision on the appeal.
147
3.	In a case where the University reasonably believes that the faculty member poses an immediate and serious threat such that the imposition of a suspension should not be delayed, a suspension with pay may be imposed immediately. Thereafter, the University shall provide notice to the faculty member, in accordance with Section 2.a. above, setting forth the reasons why a suspension at less than full pay is being considered; and the University shall provide the faculty member, who may be accompanied by an advisor, an opportunity to be heard within 14 days in accordance with the provisions in Sections 2.b. through 2.e. above. The imposition of discipline in these circumstances also may be grieved as provided for in Article IX.
148
Appendix I
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
It is hereby agreed between Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey (the “University”) and the Rutgers Council of AAUP Chapters (the “AAUP”) that, as long as the Article X definitions of a cognizable grievance exclude the allegation of “arbitrary and capricious,” the Academic Reappointment/Promotion Instructions, Sections on the Responsibilities of the Department Chair and Responsibilities of the Dean shall continue to begin with the language set forth below:
Academic Reappointment/Promotion Instructions:
Section J. Responsibilities of the Department Chair
“The department chair is responsible for ensuring that a thorough, rigorous and appropriately informed process of evaluation take place for each candidate. ”
Section L. Responsibilities of the Dean
“It is the responsibility of the dean to ensure that a thorough, rigorous and appropriately informed process of evaluation take place for each candidate. ”
149
APPENDIX J
Memorandum of Agreement
1.	Upon ratification of the collective negotiations agreement, the parties agree to establish 3 separate committees to discuss further the following contract provisions:
X (Faculty Personnel Grievance Procedure)
XIX D (motor vehicle registration fee)
Appendix B (Faculty Academic Service Increment Program).
Each committee shall discuss one of the provisions.
The parties will confer in advance of each committee meeting to formulate an agenda for the purpose of assuring that appropriate representatives of the parties attend the meetings.
2.	Within 30 days of ratification of the 2003-2007 collective negotiations agreement, the AAUP shall commence these discussions by indicating to the University the specific aspects of these issues that it wishes to discuss. The parties agree to meet at mutually agreed upon reasonable times and places and with reasonable frequency to discuss the issues identified by the AAUP as well as any aspects of these issues that the University wishes to discuss.
3.	The parties agree that each committee will meet up to 7 times, more if the parties agree, to discuss these issues. If there is agreement by the parties to make changes in any of these areas, they will memorialize the agreement in writing and will implement any changes per their agreement. The current contract provisions concerning these subjects remain in effect unless and until the parties mutually agree to make changes.
4.	The parties agree that after the committee meetings identified in paragraph 3, either side may enlist the assistance of a mutually agreed upon third-party neutral, the costs of which will be divided equally by the parties. The parties agree to meet with the third-party neutral (together or separately, as the neutral recommends) for no more than three (3) meetings, unless the parties mutually agree to have more meetings. The third-party neutral shall have no authority to make either oral or written recommendations.
5.	The parties agree that there shall be no further third party process or impasse procedures in connection with the discussions described in this Memorandum of Agreement. Alleged violations of this Memorandum of Agreement shall not be subject to the parties’ grievance-arbitration procedure, but may be brought to the Committee on Professional Relations for discussion.
150
APPENDIX K
AGREEMENT REGARDING COMPETITIVENESS POOL FUNDS
In allocation of funds under the Competitiveness Pool the following principles and procedures shall apply:
1.	By December 15 and May 15 of each year, the administration shall report to the AAUP the names of all members of the AAUP bargaining unit who have received funds from the Competitiveness Pool in that semester. For each recipient the amount of funds received and their program affiliation shall also be provided.
2.	By March 1 of each year the EVPAA shall provide a report to the AAUP of the expenditure of funds from the Competitiveness Pool to each program. Included in the report shall be the reason or reasons for the expenditure of these funds to each program.
3.	On or before October 1, 2004, the AAUP shall be given an opportunity to meet with the EVPAA for the purpose of sharing its ideas regarding appropriate faculty involvement in the allocation and administration of the Competitiveness Pool funds.
151
APPENDIX L

Memorandum of Agreement
r ofry/cz.
1.	Upon ratification of the collective negotiations agreement, the parties agree to
negotiate concerning the following subjects: Distance Learning, Winter Session, Computer Policies, and Retirement Transition and Incentives, subject to the following:
2.	The parties will confer in advance of each meeting to formulate an agenda for the purpose of assuring that appropriate representatives of the parties attend the meeting.
3.	Within 60 days of ratification of the successor to the 1999-2003 collective negotiations agreement, the AAUP shall commence these negotiations on all 4 subjects by delivering to the University specific proposals on the subjects listed above.
4.	The parties agree to negotiate in good faith at reasonable times and at reasonable places over these proposals and over counterproposals that the parties may make thereafter.
5.	In the event there is disagreement between the parties as to whether any specific proposal is within the scope of collective negotiations or whether the AAUP appropriately represents members of the bargaining unit with respect to negotiations over these subjects, either party may file a scope of negotiations or other appropriate petition with PERC. Notwithstanding any assertions of the parties with respect to any such disagreements or the pendency of a scope of negotiations or other petition, the parties shall discuss such proposal unless one party objects, and such discussions shall not be a waiver of either parties’ position.
6.	The parties agree that after at least 10 negotiations sessions have been held concerning a subject, either side may enlist the assistance of a mutually agreed upon third-party neutral, the costs of which shall be divided equally by the parties. The parties agree to meet with the third party neutral (together or separately, as the neutral recommends) for no more than three (3) meetings, unless the parties mutually agree to have more meetings. At the end of this third party process, the neutral may make oral or written recommendations for settlement to the parties. Subsequent to the recommendations of the mediator, the parties shall reconvene to attempt to reach agreement taking into account the recommendations. The parties agree that there shall be no further third party process or impasse procedures in connection with the negotiations over these subjects.
152
7.	Upon execution of this Memorandum of Agreement, the AAUP will withdraw with prejudice the pending Unfair Practice Charges, Docket No. CO-2000-263, that concerns Winter Session, Computer Policies, Distance Learning, and other matters.
8.	Alleged violations of this Memorandum of Agreement shall not be subject to the parties’ grievance-arbitration procedure, but may be brought, consistent with applicable law and PERC procedures, to PERC. In such event, the University retains all available defenses, except that the University agrees not to assert a defense based upon untimeliness of an AAUP demand for negotiations that occurred prior to the execution of this Memorandum of Agreement.
FOR THE RUTGERS COUNCIL OF AAUP CHAPTERS
FOR RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW JERSEY
John B. Wolf
/a /
Date
Rudolph M. Bell
!p\ (O /sQ?_______
Date' '	——————
153