Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection - Metadata Header
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/)
Title: Vancouver School District #37 (Teachers Agreement) and Vancouver
Education Association, National Education Association (NEA), (2003)
K#: 800118
Employer Name: Vancouver School District #37 (Teachers Agreement)
Location: WA Vancouver
Union: Vancouver Education Association, National Education Association (NEA)
Local:
SIC: 8211	NAICS: 611110
Sector: L	Number of Workers: 1150
Effective Date: 08/16/03	Expiration Date: 08/15/05
Number of Pages: 177	Other Years Available: N
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School, http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
11 £
COMPREHENSIVE PROFESSIONAL AGREEMENT
BETWEEN VANCOUVER EDUCATION ASSOCIATION AND VANCOUVER SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 37
2003-05
COMPREHENSIVE PROFESSIONAL AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
VANCOUVER SCHOOL DISTRICT NO, 37
AND
VANCOUVER EDUCATION ASSOCIATION
PREAMBLE
This Agreement is made and entered into by and between the Board of Directors of the Vancouver School District No, 37, County of Clark, Vancouver, Washington, and the Vancouver Education Association, and includes ail of the following articles and provisions.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized representatives this _22 day of September, 2003.
AU provisions of this Agreement will be in full force and effect from August 16, 2003, to and including August 15, 2005.
WITNESSETH:
VANCOUVER SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 37	VANCOUVER EDUCATION ASSOCIATION
Mari Greves
President of the Board of Directors
John W, Erickson, PhD, Secretary to the Board of Directors
Leland Goeke
Deputy Superintendent
Ann Giles
Chief Negotiator
Roy Maier
Executive Officer
Philip Harding VEA President
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapto 1
Chapter 2
Chapter 3
Chapter 4
Chapter 5
Chapter 6
Chapter 7
Chapter 8
Chapter 9
Chapter 10
Chapter LL
Chapter 12
Chapter 13
Chapter 14
Chapter 15
Chapter 16
General Provisions of Agreement
Management Rights, Prerogatives and Responsibilities Association Rights, Prerogatives and Responsibilities Procedures of Communications and Negotiations
Grievance Processing Procedures
Leaves
Professional Placement
Evaluation of the Professional Performance of Certificated Staff
Employee Rights, Prerogatives and Responsibilities
General Conditions of Employment
Professional Compensation, Economic Benefits and Security TRI Activities and Professional Development Program Special Assignments Under Supplemental Contracts Layoff, Leave, and Recall Procedures
Site-Based Decision Making
Professional Development Program.
APPENDICES
A B C D E F
G H
Basic Contract — Certificated Staff
School Year Calendar
Salary Schedules)
Supplemental Contract
Enhancement TRI Program Hours/Rates and Extended Day Salary Schedule(s)
Dues and Assessment Check-off Authorization
Direct Deposit Information
Group Insurance Programs
Alternative Dispute Resolution Process
2«W-'iS
WHEREAS, the Board and the Association recognize and declare that providing a quality education for the children of the Vancouver School District is their mutual aim and that the character of such education depends upon the quthty arid morale of the teaching service, and
WHEREAS, the members of the teaching profession are particularly qualified to advise the formulation of policies and programs designed to improve educational standards, and
WHEREAS, the Aimctatfon recogfoies that the Board of Directovs holds the responsibility for carrying cat the federal laws and court decisions, the provisions of the Washington constitution, the laws of the state legislature, and the rules and regulations of the state board of education, and has been selected by the electorate of the community to provide public, common school education for the District, and
WHEREAST the Board has an obligation, pursuant to RCW 41,59, the Educational Employment Relations Act, to negotiate with the Association as the representative of employees hereinafter designated, and
WHEREAS, the parties have reached certain understandings which they desire to conform in this Agreement,
In consideration of the following mutual covenants, it is hereby agreed as follows:
	CHAPTER L GENERAL PRO VISIONS OF AGREEMENT Article 1.1
Definitions	Unless the contrite in which they are used clearly requires otherwise, when used hereinafter:
Association.	L .1 A Ths term" Association1' means the Vancouver Education Association,-
District	LIB The term "District" means the Vancouver School Board, the employer, or the Vancouver School District IS umber Thirty-Seven (37), (rtieir Superintendent and any person serving as their agent in an assigned administrative capacity in an area of supervisory responsibility}.
Commission	1.1 C The term "Commission" means the Public Employee Relations Commission established by tht Washington Legislature's Acts of 1975.
Collective bargaining	1.1 D The term "collective bargaining1' or "bargaining" means the performance of the mutual obligation of the representatives of the District and the Association to meet at reasonable times in fight of the time limitations of the budget-making process, and to bargain in good faith fo act effort to reach agreement with respect to the wages, hours, terms, arid conditions of employment; provided that prior law, practice, or interpretation shall be neither restrictive, expansive, nor determinative with respect to the scope of bargaining. A written contract incorporating any agreements reached shall be executed if requested by either party. The obligation to bargain does not compel either party to agree to a proposal or to make a concession.
Certificated employee terms	LIE The term “educator,'’ "certificated employee," or "teacher" shall refer to all certificated employees represented in the bargaining unit, LIE "Days" shah refer to working days, unless otherwise designated. 1.1 G "Agreement" means this agreement, signed between the Board add the Association.
Employee contract	1.1 H "Employee contract'' shah refer to the Basic Contract; Certificated Staff, signed between an individual certificated employee and the District.
Gender, number	1.1 I Words in this Agreement denoting gender shall include both the masculine and the
Chapter 1. Genera! Provisions of Agreement
2003-05
	feminine; and words denoting numbers shall include both the singular and plural.
Board	1.1J The term ’’Board’1 refers to the elected Board of Directors of the Vancouver School District.
Superintended	UK The term "Superintendent" reftrs to the chief admmisirari ve officer of rhe Vancouver School District.
Reasonable effort	1.1 L The term "reasonable effort’1 is deemed to mean a discernible effort to act in a fair, just, and appropriate way to meet the end in view. 1,1 M Each year the Superintendent will inform the Association in writing of the name of the individual he/she has designated to serve as the chief negotiator for the District responsible for agreement administration and Di strict-Association liaison discussions. (Article U I) UN Hourly .mte(s) shall refer to the current) y negotiated hourly natefs) for participation and for instructional services which are utilised in making supplemental contract payments. Such rates are stipulated in Appendix C, Certificated Teaching Salary Rates. Article 1.2
Association representation recognition	The District recognizes the Association, pursuant to RCW 41-59, the representation Educational Employment Relations Act, the 1975 act, as the exclusive recognition negotiating representative of all non-supervisory certificated employees. The District will not negotiate with any “ernpfoyee organization" other titan die Association as representing rite nott-supcrrisory employees. Article 1.3
Association representation parameters	The Association will confine its representations in negotiations and grievances to matters pertaining to non-supervisory educational employees as provided for in RCW 41.59, and exclude those positions designated as confidential employees set forth in RCW 41,59-
Positions excluded from unit	1.3 A Positions that are designated as "confidential employees" or other certificated educational employees of the District specifically excluded from participation in a "collective bargamiiig unit’1 are the Superintendent, members of his/her admmistrati vie cabinet, and Other administrative positions that involve assigned responsibility for the formulation and enforcement of labor relations policies and regulations and smnmmive evaluation ofnon-supervisory personnel. (RCW 41.59} 1.3 B Principals, associate principals, and half-time teacher/half-time associate principal positions are excluded from this non-supervisory educational employees unit- Article 1.4
Duration years C'D JSxyority of Agreement	1.4 A Ail provisions of this agreement will be in full force and effect from August 1 ti, 2003, to and Including August 15,2005. The Agreement will be reopened tach year within the specific majority limitations as discussed below:
Chapter 1. General Provisions of Agreement
2
20Q3-05
Economic openm for distribution of legislative appropriated salary monies
Special event of alterations in salary lid legislation
Openers
Three, one-psity topics '
Provisions for continuance
Alterations of provisions during course of Agreement
1,4 B i. The District agrees that at anytime during the lifetime of this contract should the legislature appropriate funds for the specific purpose of adjustments of certificated employee salaries and/or insurance program premiuins/benefits, the District will meet in a timely manner with the Association to determine the full distribution of ■ such funds among the members of the bargaining unit.
ii The District agrees that duriiig the lifetime of this Agreement, if legislation is enacted and/or a decision is made by the state supreme court and/or rules or regulations of the Office of the Superintendent of Public Instruction that will allow salary adjustments for certificated staff from local budget funds in addition to those provided in the appropriations act in effect at that time, the District will in a timely manner, negotiate as allowed and consistent with the amount of local funds that may be available for that purpose.
1.4 C In the spring there will be limited openers. Each year the economic benefit package will be subject to negotiation consistent with the current letter of agreement.
1,4 D fo addition, ba the revisions. provided in "C above, each party may fotrodu.ee to the
. negotiations table a maximum of three (3) other proposals on discrete topics. If mutually agreeable, additional discussion topics beyond the basic limit of three (3) proposals of each party may be brought to the table for consideration and possible incorporation into the CPA for an ensuing school year-
1.4 E	This Agreement incorporates the entire understanding of the parties and supersedes prior
agreements.
1.4 F The provisions herein shall be incorporated into and considered part of the established resolutions, rules, policies, or regulations of the District and pursuant io RC W 41.59, the terms of the Agreement will prevail in any case of conflict of language.
1,4 G During the term of this Agreement, neither party shall be required to negotiate with respect to any matter whether or not covered by this Agreement except as provided in Articles 1.7, 1.10,4.3, and 4.4.
i.4 H The Agreement may not be modified in whole or in part by the parti es, except by ari instrument in writing duly executed by both parties.
Article 1.5
On or before the expiration date of this Agreement, the District and the Association may mutually agree to have this Agreement, or sections thereof, remain in force for additional periods Of up to ninety (90) days each until changed, modified, or replaced by a new Agreement established through procedures prescribed in RCW 41.59, the 1975 act, and pursuant to the provisions governing the Procedures of Communications and Negotiations, Chapter 4, of this Agreement.	■	.
Article 1-6
It is recognised that circumstances change and situations develop that may warrant the immediate consideration for making changes in a particular provision(s) of the Agreement prior ■ to the duration date provided in Article 1.4 A. Dramatic changes in the economy of the nation or our region; dramatic changes in the economic status, fuel supply, and similar essential factors affecting the operation of the schools and District; or other identified manifest problems of
Chapter 1. Genera] Provisions of Agreement
3
2003-05
	implementation of any of the provisions of the Agreement shall justify proposals by either the District or the Association for the purpose of proposing changes. District'Association consultation meetings will be held without unreasonable delay on the request of either party to the other to discuss identified concents which may result in the fofhnrwrng'r	■ 1.6 A Additional chapters, articles, and sections may be added, provided there is mutual agreement for making such new inclusions. 1,6 B	Segments may be deleted, provided there is mutual agreement for such deletion. j .6 C	Segments may be amended, provided there is mutual agreement for such amendment. Article 1.7
Agreement limited to recognized bargaining agent	This Comprehensive Professional Agreement contains understandings reached between the District and the Vancouver Education Association leadership for the employees they represent working in the schools of Vancouver, If any other employee group shall irin the right to represent all certificated employees as allowed by statute CRCW 41.59, The Educational Employment Relations Act of 1975), or through the merger of the Vancouver Education Association into an organization with a membership different from its present composition, then this Agreement shall be automatically canceled on the date the other group legally succeeds the Vancouver Education Association as the recognized representative of all the certificated staff. The rights granted herein to the Association shall not be granted or extended to any competing labor organization. The District will not merge with any multi-employer organization foe purposes of collective bargaining. Article JLS
Personal service contracts to conform with Comprehensive Agreement	The individual Basic Contract: Certificated Staff between the District and an individual certificated employee shall be subject to and consistent with the terms and conditions of this Agreement. The Basic Contract: Certificated Staff hereinafter executed shall be in the form provided in Appendix A. Basic Contract: Certificated Staff. If any individual employee contract contains any language inconsistent with provisions of this Agreement, the language of this Agreement shall be controlling. Article 1-9
Conformity to law "savings" provisions	The provisions included in this Agreement are intended to be in addition and consistent with the rights and responsibilities of the parlies provided in the constitutions and statutes of the United States and the state of Washington. If any provision of this Agreement is held to he invalid by operation of law by any tribunal of competent jurisdiction or if compliance with or enforcement of any provision is restrained by any such tribunal, the remainder of the Agreement shall not be affected thereby, and upon the request of either the District or the Association, the parties shall enter into negotiations for the purpose of attempting to arrive at a mutually satisfactory replacement for the invalidated provision. Article l.LG
Printing & distribution of Agreement	Upon ratification, the District and the Association shah jointly revise the Comprehensive Professional Agreement (CPA). Within thirty (30j days of an agreed upon revision, the District shall post the revised CPA to the District's website. The District will make available a sufficient number of hard copies for distribution by the Association to building representatives, board members, and key association staff. The cost of maintaining the website copy and of reproducing bard copies of the CPA shall be borne by the District.
Chapter 1- General Provisions of Agreement
4
2003-05
Article Lil
	Regular Channel of Associatlon-AdrrtirustrBtion Consultation & Communication At District & Building Levels
Day-to-day liaison function	1.11 A The Superintendent/dtsignee tor die District and the executive director for the Association are assigned the responsibility for liaison, discussion, and input between their respective organizations. Furthermore, rhb Superintendent/designee and the executive director will continue procedures to provide for input and information between the two (2) organizations, discussions on any topic of concern co either organization, and investigation of problems or concerns to either organization. The Siiperintendetit/designee and the executive director will use their best endeavors to provide and promote a positive and harmonious atmosphere between die Di strict and the Association. Nothing in these provisions shall limit the executive director or VEA President from exercising full citizenship rights in communicating with principals and District administrators in the resolution of member concerns or in the inquiry regarding policies, practices, and procedures at that site. This shall also include the right to conduct investigations relative to allegations from internal and/or external sources regarding a member of the Association.
Periodic meetings executive board and Superintendent consultation	1.11 B The Superintendent and Executive Board will meet periodically through the year at the request of either party at mutually convenient times to discuss matters of concern to either party.
Orientation meetings of building principals & faculty reps	.1.11 C The District and the Association will periodically, at the request of either party, schedule a joint meeting of building principals and Association faculty representatives to discuss the proper interpretation and implementation of specific provisions of the Agreement. The contract orientation meetings will be jointly chaired by a representative of the District and a representative of the Association.
Building principals & faculty rips	1.11 D i The Association faculty representative shall meet with individual school principals periodically at mutually arrived times tri discuss the administration of this Agreement as it relates to that particular school and other matters of concern to either party, provided that neither the principal nor the Association’s representative have the authnriVy to reach any decision which changes Agreement. ii If the building principal and a majority of the teachers in a building approve, the faculty representative shall not be assigned extra duties. (See Article 13.3 B ii)
Chapter i. General Provisions of Agreement
5
2003-05
CHAPTER X MANAGEMENT RIGHTS, PREROGATIVES. AND RESPONSIBILITIES
Article 2.1
Rights abridged only via negotiatiors
It is the intention of the parties hereto that all rights, powers, prerogatives, duties, and authority which the said Board now has or had prior to the signing of this Agreement are retained by the Board, except for those which are specifically set forth in the Agreement, and such abridgments ami modifications are to be strictly construed.
Article 2.2
□lustration of When not in conflict with any other provision of law and this Agreement, such inherent management management rights shall include, by way of illustration but not by limitation, the right of the rights	Board and its designated administrative agents to:
2.2 A Manage and control the District, its facilities, and its operations, and direct the working forces and affairs of the District.
2,2 B C£wrinue its rights and past practice, of selection, assignment, training, and direction of work to all of its personnel; and hours of work, and starting times, and the right to establish, modify, or change any work or business or school hours or days with the scheduling <?f the faregoing,
2-2 C Determine the services, supplies and their source, equipment and its design; and determine the methods, schedules, end standards perfarmafice, the means, methods, and processes in carrying out the operation of the schools.
2,2 D Determine die qualifications of employees, including apprerpriaie and neecsiary physical condition requirement for specific positions.
2-2 E Determine the number, design, location and/or relocation of buildings, offices, and facilities, the layout and the equipment, and the work areas.
2,2 F Adopt, put into effect, and enforce regulations relating to and not inconsistent witfl an adopted District policy or this Agreement.
Article 23
Board’s delegation of responsibility & authority
Review of admin, decisions & rights allowed
The Board has charged the Superintendent with the responsibility and the authority for the administration of the District, as directed by state statute and State Board of Education rules and regulations and, through him/her, to administrative personnel- Administrative personnel shall be those persons assigned decision-making authority, such as the associate superintendent, administrators, principals, and other persons designated by tbe Superintendent.
The Association^ recognition of these management rights does not preclude any employee from filing a grievance or seeking a review of the exercise of administrative decisions and application of these management rights.
Chapter 2- Management Rights. Prerogatives, and Responsibilities
1
2003^05
CHAPTER 3. ASSOCIATION RIGHTS, PREROGATIVES. AND RESPONSIBILITIES
	Article 3,1
Spokesperson role identified	The District arid the Association acknowledge that the Association has an important role in the operation of the District serving as the official agency recognized by the employees and the District as the responsible spokesperson for the employees represented by the Association io the Board and their airainistiativC. agents on those {natters specified by law. District Board members, or assigned administrative agents, will be recognized by the Association as spokespersons of die community and the Association^ representatives. recogniwd as spokespersons of the professional certificated staff they represent. It is a joint responsibility of these spokespersons to work closely and cooperatively together to develop the bast possible education program with the resources available for the children and youth of the community. Article 3.2
Association rights specifics!	To assist the Association in effecting its responsibilities as the agency exclusively recognized to represent certificated staff, the following rights are provided;
Use of "build Lugs & equipment	3.2 A The right to peaceful entry and use of District buildings and equipment at reasonable times and for reasonable purposes when necessary, with appropriate reimbursement, to transact Association business with the usage to be scheduled through the proper administrative channels.
Bulletin board use	3.2 B	The right to post notices of activities and matters of Association concerns on bulletin boinds in the faculty loungE and in otYiet places, as authorized by the Superintendent?designee, frequented by certificated staff in each school building in the District.
Use of Di strict communications service	3.2 C	1 The Association shall have the right to use District communication services (e.g, mail service, email, teacher mailboxes, etc.) for cominumcations purposes. The Association, will utilize the mailbox. provided m the central office area to deliver and pick up communication materials. (See also VSD Policy 2530) ii Materials distributed through the District’s communication services for delivery in the work place should be designed to provide objective information relative to the (a) effective development and administration of the Comprehensive Professional Agreement and (b) noninflammatory clarification of other working conditions and policy issues under discussion between the leaders of the Association and the District officials. The Association and the District will use the District communication services to distribute materials witbin the work place in a mannei1 that is factual, fair, and respectful. The Association will not use the District’s communications services to communicate information that addresses job actions such as work stoppage, work disruption, or strike activity. ill The president and/or executive board shall be responsible and accountable for authorizing the distribution of materials in the District communication services. The Association will defend and hold the District harmless from any alltgalion or suit arising out of the Association's use of the District's communication services.
Chapter 3. Associ ation Rj gtits. Pt'Crogini ves, and Respons Lb LLiti bs
2003-05
3.2 C iv It is understood that Association leaders will not release a D i strict staff directory or set of mailing labels to any political party, an individual candidate for political office, an individual business to permit their making direct contact with employees, Ct a person acting in an individual capacity. The mailing labels (directory) are intended for the exclusive use of the Association leadership in conducting official Association business, generally in the summer. The distribution of a newsletter announcing a collective bargaining settlement and/or meeting, or information about Association sponsored and endorsed products or services, or the voting record tabulations and similar information about the performance of an elected official, listing the qualifications of a candidatc(s) for office, assessing the merits of specified ballot issues as may pertain to teacher welfare are all topics anticipated for inclusion in such mailings.
v Any concern regarding the Association^ use of the District's communication services and bulletin boards shall be a matter for early discussion between the Association president (or executive board) and the Super inttndent/designee. A violation of this Article may result in the suspension of the Association's use of the District's mail or e-mail service for an appropriate and specified period of time following such an Administration-Association conference.
District information availability
Scheduling meetings
3.2 D The Association siiail be furnished monthly and annual financial statements and (lie preliminary and adopted budgets and financial reports. Board agendas, and supporting materials in a timely manner. Nothing herein shall require the central administrative staff to research and assemble information that has not been routinely prepared in the iiGtitifli operation of the District.
The Association will furnish copies of information pertinent to employ w-ernpfoyee relations topics as reasonably requested by the Superintendent or the Board.
3.2 E It is mutually understood that effective communication among all parties to the Agreement provides for a Jnorr effective labor relations ecvirenmenr. Toward Umi end, building administrators will, upon request of building representatives, schedule Association meetingx before or after the ejghr-boiir, on-site faculty meeting day, When the agenda permits, and subject to mutual agreement, the Association meeting may begin within the on-rite day. Administrators and building representatives will assure that Association and faculty meetings begin and/or end on schedule so as not to interfere with One another. The faculty representative shall privately inform the super visor(s) prior to the staff meeting if the supervisors) are invited to remain at the meeting for the Association portion of foe meeting. If the supervisqr(s) are not invited to stay, they should leave the staff meeting prior to the Association portion of the meeting- The faculty representative may schedule additional Association meetings before and after the student attendance day.
Office supplies	3.2 F	The Association will have the right to purchase expendable office supplies regularly stocked in the warehouse. A handling charge will be established for purchased items.
Staff lists & directories	3.2 G	The Association will be provided with the names and addresses of all new teachers and all retiring teachers and with at least four (4) staff directories as soon as they are printed and available each year. These staff directories are tq be used for Association business and are not to be used for private purposes or for partisan political reasons.
Orientation letter	3.2 H	The Association wifi ha vs the right to inc Judie a letter prepared by the Association informing newly-employed certificated staff about VEA programs and that the
Associfltiori is tite recagnizeti negotiating organization in District mailings and orientation meeting packets.
Chapter 3. Association Rights, Prerogatives, and Responsibilities
2003-05
Orientation program	3,2 I The Association will be provided an opportunity during the District’s orientation program (twenty (TO) minutes) for newly-employed certificated employees to explain the programs and operation of the Association and the rights and responsibilities of staff under the Comprehensive Professional Agreement The agenda or format for this pre^nlatibn will be provided to tot District prior to toe orientation.
Released dm* fa: officers business
3.2 J An officer designated by the Association will be released from a substantia] portion, or may be.releasei from all assigned duties as may be mutually agreed to by the District and the Association for the purpose of carrying out Association activities. The District agrees to fund .5 FTE of base pay for release time and to fund 1,0 of benefits to include atty applicable TRI benefits. The Assoc iatiou agrees to fund arty base pay cost in excess of .5 ME and will do so by reimbursing the District in a single payment in the fall. Compensation beyond base pay (e.g-, TRI and administrative essential days) will be aggregated and paid in equal payments over ten (10) student attendance months of the school year. (This provision is subject to annual review as to its fiscal and operational feasibility.) Partisan political activities during release time are prohibited. The portion of time requited for release from assigned duties will be mutually determined annually and according to the specific needs and circumstances of the professional assignment in the District and the needs of the Association. Every reasonable effort will be exerted by the District and the Association to work out specific arrangements early enough for a pending school to minimally inconvenience the Association officer and his/her immediate supervisor in the development of plans for covering his/her duties during the periods of absence.
Released time 3.2 K
for Association
Requests by the Association for District staff members to be released as participants or special consultants to work on joint District-Association commitlees; consultants to collective bargaining activities; attendance as delegates Or representatives to local, state, and national association committee meetings; workshops and conventions; attendance at the Legislature; or other and sufficient just causes, 'will normally be made in writing at least five (5) working days prior to the activity to both the educator's immediate supervisor and the Superintendent/designee, specifying the purpose and dates of release requested. When released time is authorized, it shall be subject to reimbutsfinient to the District by the Association for the actual cost of any necessary substitute, except where the District has indicated in other provisions of this Agreement Or by administrative decision that the cost of the substitute will be borne by the District. It is understood chat decisions for approval of these requests rest with the District. An administrative decision is not subject to appeal beyond Step 2 of the grievance procedure.
Released time	ii	An Association member elected to serve as an officer to a state or national
for		organization with which the Association is affiliated may be granted released time
Association's		to carry out duties and responsibilities not possible to carry out on days when
affiliate		she/he is not contracted for service to the District. As early in a school year as
business		information is available, the officer of the affiliate will present to the District,
through the Superintendent/designee, a list of the dates and the events that will require absence from her/his assigned duties. The scheduled dates allowed for released time will be established by consultation between the Association and the District. Necessary alterations may be allowed during the school year as can be justified on the merits of each request for a deviation from the initially approved schedule. It is understood that the District reserves the right to normally place a ten-day (10) firfiitottorn fas 5ptri fired and valid rearons or. the tute1. number efi days authorized for release of an individual for these purposes. The affiliate association utilizing die services of the Vancouver educator will reimburse the District for the actual salary cost of the released educator. Administrative decisions relating to this provision are not appealable beyond Step 2 of the grievance procedure.
Chap Lei 3. Assoc iarion Rights, Prerogatives, and. Responsibilities
2003-05
Building access	3.2 L	One (1) named Association officer, the employed executive director and the administrative assistant to the executive director of the Association shall have access to all District buildings and to certificated employees at such limes as will not interfere with the instructional responsibilities of the staff to carry out their assigned responsibilities in the development and administration of the Comprehensive Professional Agreement and for general improvement of teacher-administrative communications and relationships for school district operation. Members of the Association ^ executive board shall have reasonable rights of visitation among the buildings of the District to carry out the responsibilities of their offices, outside of the regular student attendance hours, with faculty representatives and Professional Rights and Responsibilities Committee representatives. (Article 5.12) Visiting state and national affiliate officers and staff and local association members without (he assigned responsibility of development and administration of (fie Comprehensive Professional Agreement (see Article 3,2 E and 5.12 for authorized local exempt persons in each budding) do not have access to employees in the bargaining unit cm school district premises during the regular student attendanceteacher duty hours inclusive of the one-half(I/2j hour before and one-half (1/2) hour after the student instructional day, except as may be al lowed by specific written permission of the Superintendent/designee, Upon entering a school facility, an authorized Association representative shall inform the principal or principal's designee (in their absence the building secretary) of his/her presence in the building. These visitations shall not interfere with any employees assigned duties and responsibilities. Article 33 Association Membership and Agency Representation Provisions
Membership an individual choice	Pursuant toRCW 41.59, Sections 7, 10,11, and 15 (c): Membership in the Association is not compulsory. Employees have the right to join, not to join, maintain, or drop their membership in the Association as they see fit. The District shall not exert any pressure on or discriminate against any employee as regards such matters. Article 3.4
Members hip enrollment procedure	Any individual now employed Or to be employed in the bargaining unit, exclusive of part-time building administrators, may sign and deliver to the District or Association a Dues and Assessment Check-Off Authorization and Assignment of Wages Form (Appendix F) within ten (10) days of their commencement of employment, which form shall authorize deductions and assessments of the Association. Such authorization shall be submitted to the District's payroll office and shall continue in effect from year to year unless a request of revocation is submitted to the District and the Association, signed by (he educator, and received be(wcen August 1 and August 31, preceding the designated school year for which revocation is to take effect. Article 33
Agency representation fees	Any individual now employed or to be employed in the future in a position in the bargaining unit who faits to sign and deliver to the District or the Association a Dues and Assessment Check-Off Authorization and Assignment of Wages Form within ten (10) days of commencement of employment will have a fee, equal to (he dues required by (he Association ^Bylaws and Rules, to maintain membership, deducted by (he District at (be next payroll and forwarded to the Association as a representation fee.
C h upt’Sr 3. Associat ion R ights. Prerogatives, and Res pomib i liti es
4
2003-05
Article 3.6
Equivalent dues & assignment to a charity	An employee who, far bona fide religious tenets or teaching of a church ar religious body of which the employee is a member, elects the right of non-association with the bargaining unit, shall pay aw amount equivatewt to the dues and. fees as would. be required. of him/her in subsections b and d of Article 3.7 to a non-religious charity or to another charitable organization mutually agreed upon by the employee and the Association. The employee shall furnish written proof that such payment has been made. If the employee and the Association do not reach agreement on such matter, the Commission shall designate the charitable organization.
Article 3.7
Miscellaneous deductions	3.7 A The District agrees to deduct from the salaries of educators represented by the Association such dues and assessments as are provided for in Article 3.4, 3.7 B The total for these deductions for each individual shall not be subject to change during a school year. 3.7 C The Association will indemnify, defend, and hold the District harmless against any claims made and against suit instituted against the District cm account of any payroll deduction, for the Association. The Association agrees to refund to the District any amounts paid to it in error. 3.7 D The deductions authorized will be made monthly in twelve (12) approximately equal amounts. 37 E The District will remit monthly, directly to the Association, all monies deducted, accompanied by a list of educators from whom the deduction has been made. 37 F Each month during the school year, the Association will provide the District with the names trf those educators who have joined the Association and paid dues and assessments by means other than through payroll deduction.
Chapter 3. Association Rights. Prerogatives, and Responsibilities

2003-05
CHAPTER 4, PROCEDURES OF COMMUMCA TlfWS AND NEGQTIA TfrMS
	Article 4.1
Purpose of procedures	The purpose: of these procedures is to achieve the mutual goal of establishing equitable employment conditions and an orderly system of employee-employer relations which will facilitate jcitit discussion j berween rhe parries and cooperative solutions of group concerns relating to the employment relationship. Article 42
Scope of negotiations topics requited by statute	The parties agree to negotiate at the request of either party on those subjects provided for in RCW 41.39. A dispute about the ’’negotiability” of any specific proposal that falls within the scope of ''wages, hours, and terms and conditions of employment" will be promptly submitted to the Commission for a decision at the request of either parly. Article 43
Negotiation of a successor	4.3 A	On or before April 15, each party will submit to the other party a preliminary written draft of any and all proposals it may desire to have
Comprehensive	included in a successor agreement During the year when the Comprehensive
Professional Agreement	Professional Agreement is subject tn renewal, the parties agree to enter into negotiations in accordance with the procedures set forth herein a good faith effort to reach earliest possible settlement on a successor agreement not later than April 30, 4.3 B	Negotiations by the District and the Association will include sharing relevant data, exchanging points of view, and making written proposals and counterproposals. 4.3 C	Both the April 15 date and the April 30 date may be changed if mutually agreed to by rhe District and die Association. Each party, however, is required to submit proposals to the other party no later than May 15 and commence bargaining no later than June 1. Article 4.4
Right of review, consultation & negotiation of changes in policy of negotiable topics	Before rhe District enacts or changes a polity andfor regulation dealfog with a ippicfs) declared a mandatory area for negotiations by the Commission and which is not covered by the terms of this Agreement, the District will notify the Association that it is considering such a change, The Association has the right to discuss and/or negotiate mandatory areas of negotiation with Che District, provided that it files such a request with the Superititendent/designce, within seven (7) days after receipt of the notice. (Notice may be made by letter to the Association or by first reading at a Board meeting.) Article 4.5
Association proposals for the local special levy	The Association has the right to present, meet, and confer on economic proposals it may desire to have included in an annual local special levy. These discussions will be independent of those called for under Articles 1.7, 4.3, and 4.4. The Association’s economic proposals will be prioritized and submitted in writing, not later than November 15.
Chapter 4. Procedures of Communications and Negotiations
1
200305
Article 3.6
Requests for meetings	foequtsto for meetings from the Aisocietfon will be wcade directly to the Superintendent/designee. Requests from the District will be made by the Stiperinttndent/designee to the Association president care of the Association office. Such requests for meetings will contain the reasons for the request. A mutually convenient meeting date shall be set within fourteen (14) days of the request- Article 4.7
Association & Board admin, representation	The Association will designate a committee of its members to represent the Association in negotiations. The District shah designate a committee of its representatives and give full authority to the Superintendent/designee to represent the District in negotiations-
Selection & authority of negotiators	Neither party shah have any control over the selection of the negotiating or bargaining representatives of the other party. The parties mutually pledge that representatives selected have the necessary power and authority to make proposals, consider proposals, make concessions in the course of negotiations or bargaining, and effect table settlement subject only to ultimate ratification by the Association and then by the Board.
Article 4.S
School director level negotiations
Proposals not resolved at the administrative level to the satisfaction of both parties may, at the mutual request of both parties, become the subject of consultation between a Committee of the Board designated as the negotiation ccunmittee, accompanied by the Super! nterident/designec, and of the representatives of the Association accompanied by the executive director.
Article 4.9
Meeting Procedures Both Levels
Designated 4.9 A spokesperson
One (1) person shaft be designated by each party as the spokesperson for the party in meetings, either at the administrative level or the school director level Discussions shall be conducted by the two (2) spokespersons, except when another person is brought into the discussion at the invitation of his/her spokesperson.
Team size hmitabons	4.9 B	The negotiating team of each party will be limited to five (5) persons unless prior approval has been given by the other party k designated spokesperson for any additional person to be in attendance at a particular session.
Consultants	4.9 C	The parties may call upon competent professional and lay representatives to consider matters under discussion and (o make suggestions. Consultants maybe used in ail deliberations. The presence of consultants should be made known to both parties in advance of any meeting for inclusion on the agenda.
Caucus	4.9 D	Tn all negotiation sessions, cither party shall have the right to call a caucus during the process of negotiations for reasonable periods of time.
Chapter 4. Procedures of Communications and Negotiations
2
2003-05
Minutes £ records of negotiations sessions	4,9 £	If the parties agree, summary minutes may be taken at any negotiation ■session and subsequently typed anil presented for review regarding the accuracy of either party s position on a particular topic and when initiated by the spokesperson. When summary minutes are not being taken, either party may deliver to the other for the present and future record a written statement as to its position on any topic(s) under discussion. The District will provide routine and necessary clerical assistance. The Association shall share in excess costs of clerical assistance as may be mutually agreed upon at the beginning of negotiations each year.
Settlement	4.9 £	Tentative agreement on a new Comprehensive Professional Agreement will be stipulated in a written memorandum and promptly submitted to the governing board of each party for ratification. It is understood that only the governing body of the Association and the District have the legal right to approve and ratify the Agreements), Upon ratification by the Association, the Comprehensive Professional Agreement will be promptly presented to the Board for ratification and adoption at an official Board meeting.
Sessions closed 4.9 G Both parties agree (hat ah negotiation sessions are closed meetings limited to
	representatives of both parties, as outlined in Article 4.9 B. Negotiations will take place at a mutually agreed upon site. If an impasse is declared by either party, all negotiations will take place at a mutually agreed upon neutral site.
News conferences	4.9 H	News conferences may be convened during negotiations by either party upon reasonable prior notice and invitation to the other to be in attendance. Participation in the conference shall be optional for the invited party, if an impasse is declared by either party, the Association or District ia free to issue such news releases and schedule conferences as it deems proper in the advocacy of its position without prior notice to the other.
Scheduling of negotiation sessions	4,91	Every reasonable effort will be made to schedule negotiation sessions to accommodate the work schedules of the participants. When necessary, however, members of the Association^ team may be released from school duties, with the approval of the District, for such participation-
Exchange of information	4.9 J	Recognizing that the ebb and flow of information is essential to decision- making, it is necessary that there be a mutual exchange of information relating to topics under discussion which will assist in developing intelligent, accurate, and constructive programs on behalf of the teachers, the students, and the educational program. (Sec Article 3,2 D) Ariicte 4.10
Defined procedures for appealing negotiation impasse	The parties to this Agreement agree to negotiate in good taith with regard to matters to be considered for inclusion in a Comprehensive Professional Agreement and future policy adoption or revision, and will use the process prescribed by this Agreement and by statute for appeal in the event of impasse. Zf an impasse is reached during negotiations, the matter will, if mutually agreed, be submitted to the provisions outlined in the Alternative Dispute Resolution Process (Appendix Ij.
Chapter 4. Procedures of Cotumuriicaticins and Negotiations
3
2003’05
Purpose <fc limits of use of grievance procedure
Association representation responsibilities
Adjustment of complaints outside the negotiated grievance procedure
Definitions
CHAPTER 5, GRIEVANCE PROCESSING PROCEDURES
Article 5.1
The purpose of this Chapter is to provide the procedures which will secure, at the lowest possible administrative level, solutions to complaints of employees in an expeditious end. eoauxunkal rtsarmet. These procedures are net intended to be, and may not be, utilized by an employee or the Association as an avenue to obtain a right, privilege, or advantage in the conditions of employment that was not previously provided by the Board in the Comprehensive Professional Agreement, Board policy, administrative regulation, or other administrative directive or past practice.
Article 5,2
Pursuant toRCW 41.59, Section 10, the Association shall be required to represent all the employees wifnin the bargaining unit in th? processing of their grievances without regard to their membership in the Association, provided that any employee at any time may present a complaint through regular administrative channels outside of the negotiated grievance processing procedure and have such complaint adjusted without the intervention of the Association. However, the Association must receive written notice and statement of the nature of the complaint, be afforded an opportunity io be present at adjustment conferences to make its view known, and to receive a written copy of the adjustment made, which adjustment shall not be inconsistent with any of the terms of the Comprehensive Professional Agreement then in effect.
Article 53
5,3 A A 'grievance'' shall mean a written claim by a grievant that a dispute or disagreement of any kind exists involving interpretation or application of the terms of the regulation, rule, or practice; or that an employee has been treated inequitably, or that there exists a condition which jeopardizes employee health or safety.
5,3 B A "grievant'' shall mean one or more named educators of the bargaining unit or the Association,
5.3 C "Days" shall mean working days within the official calendar for certificated staff. Days shall mean every week day, legal holidays excepted, when a grievance is filed after lure 1.
5,3 D "Appropriate supervisor" is the administrative officer with the assigned authority to tear and settle the complaint of the grievant. Whenever there is doubt regarding the person with the assigned administrative discretionary authority to Settle a particular complaint, the Superintendent/designee will, within two (2j days df a request, designate tilt "appropriate supervisor " H a grievance involves more than one (1) school, the grievance will be filed with one (1) appropriate supervisor at Level I, us designated by the Super! ntendentidesignee, or filed directly al the office of the Superintendent, at Level 11.
Chapter 5. Grievance Processing Procedures
t
2003-05
	Article 54
Appropriate informal efforts to resolve complaints	Within a reasonable period of time, and not morn than twenty (20) days, after a grievant knew or should reasonably ha ve known of an action or lack of action which might become the basis of filing a grievance, the educator either personally or accompanied by hlsfoer Association representative shall meet and discuss the curnplairtt with his/her budding principal or other "appropriate supervisor.’1 The initial twenty (20) day period is intended to allow time for informal efforts toward the resolution of a complaint prior to the filing of a written grievance. If reasonable efforts for resolution of a complaint have been made, (fie exhaustion of foe foil twenty (20) day time period is not necessary for invoking the formal grievance procedure. Level I Step 1
Written referral to appropriate supervisor	If a certificated employee has not been able to resolve his/her complaint to his/her satisfaction with iiisfoer appropriate supervisor by inforinal means, he/she may submit his/her complaint in writing on forms provided to be processed through foe established grievance procedure The appropriate supervisor shall, within five (5) days of foe day the grievance was delivered to him/her, render a written decision in the matter with a brief rationale for his/her decision based oti foe record of his/her findings in foe investigation of the complaint- Level I Complaint Settlement A setdement reached to a complaint at Level 1 by an individual teacher and administrator without the formal m vcrlvemerit of the Association and foe District will not constitute precedence that the Association or the District concur that the settlement decision is the proper interpretation of foe language of the Comprehensive Professional Agreement. Article 5.5 Level II Step 2
Written referral to offion of the Superintendent	5.5 A If foe action taken at Step 1 is not satisfactory to the Association, or no written decision has been rendered, foe Association may, wifoin ten (10) days after the decision or the date the decision should have been rendered, refer the grievance is foe Superinfondem/designee at Level IL The written notice shall include a statement as to why foe decision, if any, was not satisfactory.
Griff vanes adjustment conference	5.5 B	Wlfofo ten (1G} days of the dare the grievance was appealed, the Superinierident/designee shall arrange for a grievance adjustment conference wifo the xAssociation. The District and foe Association have the right to include in the representations at the conference such individuals and Counselors as they deem ttecessary to de vol op the facts and information pertinent to the grievance.
Time period for decision	5.5 C	Upon the conclusion of the conference, the office tjf the fojperinierJdent/designee shall have five (5) days to provide & written decision, together with foe reasons for the decision, to the Association.
Chapter 5. Grievance Processing Procedures
7
2003-05
Board consultation time period	5.5 D The Superintendent/designee may, at his/her option, notify the Association and be afforded an additional five (5) days before publishing the decision to the Association to confer with a committee of the Board, or the Board in executive session, regarding the decision. The Board may request, and the Association will appoint, a representative(s) to meet with them in the review of the decision. Article 5.6 Level HI Step 3
Arbitration	5.6 A	If the Association is not satisfied with the disposition of the grievance at Level II because it has determined that the grievance involves the interpretation, meaning, or applfendoc of any of the provisions, of the Comprehensive Professional Agreement, it may, by written notice to the office of the Superintendent within fifteen (15) days after receipt of the decision, submit the grievance to arbitration.
Procedures for selection of an arbitrator	5.6 B Within ten (10) days after written notice of submission to arbitration, the office Of the Superintendent/designec, and the Association will attempt to agree upon a mutually acceptable arbitrator and to obtain a commitment from such arbitrator to serve. If the parties are unable to agree upon an arbitrator or to obtain such a commitment within the ten (10) day period, a request for a list of arbitrators may be made to the American Arbitration Association by either party. The parties will be bound by the rules and procedures of the American Arbitration Association.
Power &. authority of arbitrator	5.6 C	The arbitrator will be without power or authority to make any decision which requires the commission of an act prohibited by law or which violates, alters, adds to, or subtracts from the terms of the Comprehensive Professional Agreement. The arbitrator shall have no power to substitute his/her discretion for that of the Board in any manner not specifically contracted away by the Board- If any question arises as to "arbitrability," such question will be ruled on first by the arbitrator selected to hear the dispute- The arbitrator^ decision will be in writing and will set forth his/her findings of fact, reasoning, and conclusions oa the issues submitted. The decision of the arbitrator will be submitted to the Board and the Association and will be binding on rhe District, the Association, and/or the aggrieved employee.
Limits on evidence on Level ill hearings	5.6 D Neither party shall. be permitted to assert in the arbitration proceedings any evidence which was not submitted to the other party before the completion of Level II meetings.
Arbitrator's hearings &. time limiis	5.6 E	The arbitrator selected will confer with the representatives of the Office of the Superintendent and the Associadom will hold hearings promptly, and will issue his/her decision not later than twenty (20) days from the date of the close of the hearings, or if oral hearings have been waived, from the date the final statements and proofs are submitted to him/her.
Arbitration costs	5.6 F	The costs of the services of the arbitrator including per diem expenses, if any, and his/her travel, subsistence expenses, and the cost of any hearing room, will be borne equally by the Board and the Association. All other costs will be borne by the party incurring them.
Chapter 5- Grievance Processing ProcedLines
£003-03
	Article 5.7
Information rights	The District and the Association will fully cooperate with each other in the investigation of any grievance and either party will promptly furnish the other such information as is requested for the prompt and effective processing of a grievance. Article 53
No reprisals	No reprisal of any kind will be taken by the District against any educator because of bisfoer participation in the grievance procedure. Article 5,9
Released time	Every reasonable effort will be made fo schedule grievance investigation and hearings in such a way as to not conflict with the norma) duty schedules of foe participants. However, should the investigation or processing of any grievance require that an educator or an Association representative be released from his/her regular assignment, he/she may be released without loss of pay or benefits. Article S.10
Filing of grievance documents	AU documents, communications, and records dealing with the processing of a grievance shall be filed separately from the personnel files of foe participants. Copies of decisions made in the adjustment of a complaint as per Article 5.2 and those made at any step of the grievance procedure shall be promptly delivered to the Association. Article 5.11
Time limits	5.11 A Grievances shall be processed as rapidly as possible, the number of days indicated at each step shall be considered a maximum, and every reasonable effort shall be made to expedite foe process.
Appeals	5.11 B A complaint not appealed to the Association by a grievant at Level 1 or by the Association appealed to the District at Levels I, II, or HI within specified time limits shall be presumed to have been dropped.
Responses	5,11 C A grievance not responded to in writing within time limits may be appealed to the next step of the grievance procedure by the Association without further notice.
Extensions	5.11 D Time limits under unusual circumstances may be extended by mutual consent. By mutual consent of both the VEA and VSD, the parties may set aside Levels II and TH of the grievance process for a predetermined amount of time and m volte provisions set forth fo foe A1 ferns five Dispute ResoJution Process (Appendix I). Article 5,12
Association representation at complaint adjustment <£. grievance hearing	The District shall recognise the Association as the designated representative to participate in complaint adjustment and grievance proceeding hearings. A grievant may be represented at all stages of the grievance procedure by him/herself or, at his/her option, by an Association representative selected by the Association. The Association shall have the right to have representatives present and state its views at all stages of the grievance procedure or complaint adjustment meeting. In no case shall a grievant in grievance proceedings be represented by a representative of another employee organisation or any other person not approved by the Association.
Chapter b. Grievance Processing Procedures
4
2003-05
	Article 5.13
Issue/rights appeals	In matter? dealing with alleged violations of Association rights, the grievance shall be initiated at Level H. Article 5.14
Grievance forms	Following are forms for filing grievances, serving notices, taking appeals, reports, and recommendations, and other necessary documents.
Chapter 5, Grievance Processing Procedures
3
2003-05
VANCOUVER EDUCATION ASSOCIATION and
'	VANCOUVER SCHOOL DISTRICT
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE FORM
Initiation Step (Level I - Step 1-A)
A.	Name of Gfievantfs)__________________ ____________________ _
School(s)_______________________________ ____________________
Postticm(s)__	_ _________„_____________________
B,	Appropriate Supervisor (Authority to settle complaint);. (See Article 5-3 D and 5,14)._____________________________
C.	Statement of Complainds); (Grievance defined- Article 5-3 Al Cite appropriate article, district policy, administrative regulations violated, or other alleged inequitable treatment, etc. Use additional pages, if necessary.
D.	Statement of Remedy: State remedy desired by the grievant to adjust his/her complaint. Use additional pages, if necessary.
E.
Describe tht^background of the complaint and efforts made to resolve the dispute prior to filing written grievance; rationale for adjustment desired, (Article 5.4) Use additional pages, if necessary.
F. Signature of Grie vant(s):.,______________________________
Signature of VEA PR&R Representative Assisting
in Preparation of Grievance:__ ._ ,,, ,_________________
G- Date of Grievance (Article 5.4)___________________________
Date grievance-was submitted to Supervisor for written response;... 
Last date written response due to grievant (five full working days after date grievance was delivered to supervisor):__._____________„____
Copies to: Grievant, VEA, Superintendent/Designee
Chapter 5. Grievance Processing Procedures
6
20D3-05
VANCOUVER EDUCATION ASSOCIATION and
VANCOUVER SCHOOL DISTRICT
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE FORM
First Administrative Response toGrievance (Level I - Step I-B)
Filed by
Name of Grievantf 5) Date of Decision:
School(s):...,Delivered to Grievant:
I have reviewed the written grievance filed with me on, .. and make the following findings of fact relevant to the complaint and of the adjustment desired.
A- Statement of Findings of Fact: (Use additional pages, as required.)
B. My conclusions based on the record of my findings, and my rationale for proper disposition of this complaint arid the remedy to be. provided. ait as folk/as'.
An appeal from 'ibis decision must be filed through the Association (Articles 5-5 and 5.13) within ten days of its delivery to you.
Signature of Appropriate Supervisor	Date of Decision
Copies to: Grievant, VEA, Superintendent/Designee
Chapter 5- Grievance Processing Procedures	7
2003-05
VANCOUVER EDUCATION ASSOCIATION and
VANCOUVER SCHOOL DISTRICT
Appeal to Office of Superintendent (Level II, Step 2-A)
Appeal by the Association of the administrative decision at Level I - Step I to Level II - Step 2, the office of the SuperintEndeUt, in the matter of the grievance filed by:
Date of Appeal______________„_________............................. „...........  _
The Association PR&R Commission grievance committee has reviewed the administrative decision provided at Level I - Step 1 and finds that decision is not satisfactory to the Association because:
A Grievance Adjustment Conference must be scheduled on or before (Ten full working days following date appeal was delivered to Superintendetit/Designee [Article 5.5 B])
Signature of Association Grievance Committee	Date of Decision
Chairperson or Designer
Copies to: Grievatit, VEA, Superintendent/Designee
Chapter 0- Grievance Processing Procedures
8
2003-05
VANCOUVER EDUCATION ASSOCIATION and
VANCOUVER. SCHOOL DISTRICT
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE FORM
Second Administrative Response (Level II - Step 2-B)
Second administrative response to grievance initially filed by:	„
Date decision delivered to Association:  „	...
The office of the SuperirtendenVDesignee conducted a Grievance Adjustment Conference on;
(Date of Conference)
My conclusions, based on the record of my findings and my rationale for the proper disposition of this grievance and the remedy to be provided, are as follows;
Signature of SupcrmtendentfDesignee
Date of Decision
Copies to: Grievant, VTA, Superintendent/Designee
Chapter 5. Grievance Processing Procedures
9
2003-05
General purposes of leaves &. provisions
Procedure for leaves
Immediate supervisor level initial processing considerations
Seniority rights
CHAPTER 6. LEAVES
Article 6.1	"
The District and the Association recognize that situations arise that are of an emergency nature or such other identified value to both the District and the employee as to warrant ■ authorized periods of absence from assigned duties and responsibilities. High morale and sustained employment of an experienced and competent staff are primary objectives in the establishment of a comprehensive system of granting leaves. It is mutually agreed that a certificated staff member should not be serving students when Wsht is not physically fit, mentally alert, may be in a contagious condition, or is preoccupied with personal concerns that distract from full attention to duties. In addition, the staff member needs to have opportunity to improve professionally, and if a budget crisis situation arose in the District, it would need to be accommodated.
6.1	A Applications for leaves or reimbursements for leaves must be made within time limits, in writing on proper forms, and submitted through the immediate supervisor-
6.1	B The building principal, supervisor, or Human Resources Office must expeditiously act on the request, taking into account the validity of the request, the circumstances prompting the request, the employee’s ability to have avoided taking leave during a student attendance day, (he expected availability of a substitute, and any adverse effects or advantages to the school or District. The employee should generally receive a response within five (5) workdays of a complete and documented request unless school board action is required,
i Building principals, or supervisors of non-building based employees, will approve or disapprove leave under Articles 63 (Employee Illness, Injury and Emergency Leave), 6.3 (Bereavement), 6.6 (Adoption and Paternity), and 6.11 (Personal).
ii Building principals, or supervisors of non-building based employees, have the authority to disapprove leave under Articles 6.9 (Educational Leave - Short Term), 6.10 (Sabbatical), and 6.12 (Uncompensated -Short Term).
iii Recommendations to approve leave under these articles as well as leave ■ requests under Articles 6,4 (Jury Duty), 6.5 (Subpoena), 6.7 (Military), 6.8 (Religious), and 6.12 (Uncompensated - Long Term), will be forwarded to foeHumanResources Office for approval or disapproval.
6.1	C Seniority rights will be retained while on a sabbatical or authorized uncompensated long-term leave of four-fifths (4/5ths) or more of a year (see Article 14.7, seniority defined), but will not accumulate during the leave for
■ purposes of advancement on the salary schedule (Chapter 11) or retention of positions (Chapter 14).
6,1 D Leaves will conform to law, District policy, and regulations with collective bargaining agreement provisions taking precedent when a conflict exists between the Agreement and the policy or regulation. See also Article 1,9 concerning conformity to law,
6.1	E Family Medical Leave Act: Nothing in this chapter restricts an employee’s entitlements under the Federal Family Medical Leave Act
Chapter 6. Leaves
2003-05
Artfoie
Employee Ifttress, Injury, and Emergency Leave
Basic formula full & part-time	6.2 A	Illness, injury., and emergency leave will be earned by each employee at the rale of eight (8) hours for each calendar month of contracted employment, September through August (twelve 112] days per year for a full contract). Part-day contracted employees will accrue leave days proportionate to the time they work each day.
	6.2 B	Illness, injury, and emergency leave will accrue through the employee b contracted work year. Illness, injury, and emergency leave will accrue from year to year with a maximum accumulation of one hundred eighty (180) days.
Former employees	6.2 C	An employee returning to employment in the District will be entitled to reclaim all illness, injury, and emergency leave benefits recorded to his/her credit at the time of his/her earlier termination.
Transfer of benefits
6-2 D Employees entering the employment of this school district who have a sick Leave balance from another Washington school district or public school jurisdiction are entitled to transfer to this school district such sick leave balance that the ecnpfoyiec may have accumulated in dtac former employment- The employee is responsible for notifying this District of such entitlement within thirty (30) days of initial employment and providing proof of such balance within ninety (50) days of initial employment. Failure to meet these requirements may disqualify the employee from making such transfer. These notification periods may be extended by the administrator responsible for human resources if this District fails to notify the employee of their entitlement at the time of hire or if the former District requires additional time to provide the necessary verification.
Extensions of 6.2 E benefits
An employee suffering extended illness or physical incapacity compelling continuous absence beyond the term of the individual b accumulated illness, injury, and emergency leave benefits, may apply for a limited extension of benefits not yet earned. Upon recommends fl m of the Superintendent and upon approval of the Board of Directors, such extended illness, injury, and emergency leave may be granted at the rate of forty (40) hours during each prior contracted year of service to the District, not to exceed two hundred (200) hours. Extended leave, when combined with accumulated earned leave, may not exceed a total of one hundred eighty (ISO) days of total accumulatcd/extended leave. These days are to be charged against future illness, injury, and emergency leave allowance or reimbursement made to the District if future employment does not provide illness, injury, and emergency leave enfirlement- Extensiw of this leave is ar the discretion of the District and is based on a reasonable expectation that the employee will return to work for a sufficient period to liquidate the extended leave through normal leave accrual.
Chapter 6. Leaves
2
2003-05
(6.2 E) Employees in their first year in the District, and others without an
accumulation of sick leave days, may be advanced up to twelve (12) sick leave days in a school year noty streamed to be utilized as neededr-The ■ number of days to be advanced is limited to twelve (12), the annual Comprehensive Professional Agreement entitlement. Advanced leave will be immediately offset against future accruals until such time as it is paid back- If the employee leaves District employment prior to earning such advanced leave, the cost of any taken but unearned leave will be offset against any final compensation due. Advanced leave which is neither earned nor offset against final compensation will be subject to an individual decision to pursue collection of the unearned amount or to determine that sufficient circumstances exist to warrant forgiveness of the unearned amount (e.g., serious illness and or death).
6.2 F
Attendance incentive program
Attendance Incentive Program
Annual Conversion of Illness, Injury', and Emergency Leave Commencing in January 1981, and on each January thereafter, any eligible employee who at the end of the immediately previous calendar
year Shall have accumulated in excess of sixty (60) days (480 hours) of unused illness, injury, and emergency leave may elect to receive remuneration for unused illness, injury, and emergency leave earned the previous year at the rate of twenty-five percent (25%) of the employee^ current fulL-time daily rate of compensation for each full day (8 hours) of eligible illness, injury, and emergency leave (a maximum of three (3) days or twenty-four (24) hours in any one (I) calendar year). Any such election shall be made by written notice to the payroll office during the month of January on forms provided by the District. All illness, injury, and emergency leave days converted pursuant to this section shall be deducted from the employee’s accumulated illness, injury, and emergency leave balance. Any such annual conversion of accumulated illness, injury, and emergency leave shall be subject to the terms and limitations of the Washington Administrative Code.
Chapter 6. Leaves
3
2003-05
6.2 F
Notification &	6.2 G
verification procedure
ii Conversion of Illness, Injury, and Emergency Leave upon Retirement or Death
Any employee-whopon or after June 12, 1980, shali retirt-or-who shall die while employed by the District may elect (personally or by his/her personal representative, as appropriate) to convert accumulated unused illness, injury and emergency leave days to monetary compensation at the rate of twenty-five percent (25%) of the employee's full-time daily rate of compensation at the time of termination from employment for each full day (8 hours) of eligible illness, injury, and emergency leave, up to a maximum of one hundred eighty (180) days (1,440 hours). In addition, to be eligible an employee shall inform the District cm or before April 1 of his/her intent to retire (beginning in 1984). If the employee does not inform the District by this date, he/she will not be eligible for the compensation. If compelling circumstances develop for an individual employee after April 1 that necessitates the employee retire, the District will honor the terms of the conversion of retirement as outlined in this paragraph. The District, at its sole discretion, reserves the right to waive the April J dare in particular situations without setting precedent- An employee separating from employment for purposes of retirement must be eligible to immediately commence receiving retirement benefits from a state retirement system to be eligible for conversion of illness, injury, and emergency leave for compensation. Any such conversion of illness, injury, and emergency leave upon retirement or death shall be subject to the terms and (imitations of tfte Washington Administrative Code,
iii Conversion of Illness, Injury, and Emergency Leave upon Resignation
TRS Plan 2 and Plan 3 employees who resign from the District before becoming eligible for an immediate annuity will be allowed to convert unused sick leave to monetary compensation consistent with WAC 392136-020-
i v The District and the Association agree to comply with ail current Revised Codes of Washington and Washington Administrative Codes regarding the annual option for eligible employees to convert the annual cash out into a VEE A III plan for the payment of medical expenses and/or premiums.
Employees, upon finding it necessary to be absent from their assigned duties by reason of illness, injury, or emergency, will report their absence through the District's automated substitute system. When the absence is expected tn last more than one (1) day. or ultimately extends beyond one (1) day, the employee will notify his/her building principal or other immediate supervisor si the earliest possible time, staring the reason so that effective planning can take place for the longer period of absence. Upon return to duty, an employee will be required to sign an absence report stating thereon the reason for the reported absence. In cases of absence for reasons of illness, injury, or emergency for a continuing period of more than five (5) working days, or in cases where the supervisor has cautioned the employee on excessive use of leave, the reason for the absence must be certified to by an attendittg physician or other competent authority as determined by the District.
Chapter 6. Leaves
4
2003-05
Reporting & recording of leave benefits	6.2 H	Building principals and program supervisors will regularly report to the payroll office, on forms provided, each and every case of employee absence, indicating the number of hours of such absences and certification as to reason by the employee, and, if required, by an attending physician or other afahcnty, The payreAl office shall maintain ths official record of rtsed and unused benefits for illness, injury, and emergency leave. The information will be reported each pay period in hours.
Pregnancy & childbirth disablement	62 1	For purposes of this Article pregnancy, childbirth, and any disabling effects of that condition will be treated in the same manner as any other injury and illness.
Emergency	6.2 J	Emergency. Emergencies are defined as those situations that have dear and present elements of risk to health, life, and property of an employee and/or his/her family. It is a situation that cannot be dealt with outside of working hours and requires the individual to absent him/herself from his/her duties for matters of bona fide necessity and not mere convenience. An emergency includes the care of a child of an employee under the age of eighteen (18) with a health condition that requires treatment or supervision.
	6-2 K	Leave Sharing for Tragic Situations
		i An employee may, of his/her own choice, donate portions of his/her accumulated sick [cave to come to the aid of another named employee Suffering from an extraordinary or severe illness, injury, impairment, or physical or mental condition, which has caused or is likely to cause the employee to take an extended leave without pay or to terminate his/her employment. The determination of whether or not the Illness, injury, or impairment is extraordinary and/or severe will be made by the Superintendent and/or designee and recommended to the Board of Directors for formal approval.
		The Superintendent and/or designee may, if appropriate, require a healthcare provider’s statement confirming the extent and/or severity of the illness, injury, or impairment.
		ii A contributing employee must have an accrued sick leave balance of more than sixty (60) days to assign his/her sick leave to another named employee as specified in 6-2 K i).
		ill An employee may donate up to six (6) days from his/her sixty (66) days during any twelve (12) month period- The donation from the employee's leave balance must be taken from the earliest days earned.
		iv An employee cannot donate sick leave days that would result in his/her sick leave account balance going below sixty (60) days.
		v Sick leave includes leave accrued pursuant to the RCWs with compensation for illness, injury, and emergencies. (See Article 6.2 A and B)
		vi An employee, as recipient of leave transferred under this section, shall be classified as an employee and receive the same treatment in respect to salary, wages, and employee benefits as the employee would normally receive if using accrued annual leave or sick leave.
Chapter 6. Leaves
2003-05
Scape of leaves allo wed-24 hour limit
Leave approval procedure state & cnuTity jury service
6.2	K vii The provisions of Article 6.2 E that allow an advance of sick leave days from future service may be utilized in connection with this circumstance and assigned within the paramefers of 5.2 B-
viii In the event the donated sick leave is not fully utilized by the receiving employee, unused sick leave advanced to the respective donating employee(a) will be returned equitably among all donors.
Article 6.3
Bereavement Leave-Shorf-Term-Compensated
6.3	A Approval must normally be sought at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the anticipated absence except in cases where this is not possible within that time limitation, in which case the individual is obligated to contact his/her building or unit administrator, or other appropriate authority, at the earliest possible moment.
6-3 B	The total number of hours of short-term leave without loss of pay may not
normally exceed the sum total of twenty-four (24) hours (3 days) for any one (1) individual in any one (1) school year for bereavement occasioned by the imminent or actual loss of a member of the individual's family or a close personal friend-
6.3	C Bereavement leave is a separate paid leave category and is not subject to offset against sick leave or personal leave.
Article 6,4
Jury Duty Leave-Compensated
School teachers are bo longer exempt from serving as jurors (except in extenuating circumstances). Upon receipt of a jury summons, the educator will notify his/her principal or unit administrator to contact the administrator of Human Resources. The educator should provide the name of the court, the judge's name, and the date of the summons.
The sdministralor of Human Resources will, if requested by a teacher, attempt to have the educator excused from jury duty. In cases where the educator is required to serve, this will be compensated leave but with the jury fee (except for mileage or other reimbursement of actual expenses) refunded to the District in partial reimbursement of the cost of supplying substitutes. Reimbursement ttj the District of jury duty fees shall be made as a payroll deduction and the amount to be deducted will be so acknowledged by the employee as part of (fie jury duty leave request,
Article 6.5
Subpoena Leave-Compensated
A certificated employee will be granted subpoena leave as may be required by the subpoena, and shall be paid his/her regular salary, up to and including fifteen (15) days, less any compensation received for his/her services, excluding transportation, EXCEPT when the employee is the plaintiff or defendant tn such action.
This exception shall not apply when the employee is named as plaintiff or defendant for events or actions arising out of the performance of his/her duties for the District.
Chapter 6. Leaves
6-
2003-05
Where officially documented written statcment(S) are acceptable as testimony by the court, the employee should make Such arrangements.
In serving as a witness, the employee will make a maximum effort to minimize the amount of time spent away from his/her employment.
The office of the Superintendent may extend the definition and intent of the subpoena leave policy on an individual basis.
Article 6.6
Adoption and Paternity Leave-Compensated
6.6 A Adoption leave shall be granted with pay, upon timely application to the administrator of Human Resources, to a parent in order to complete the adoption process, providing such leave does not exceed an aggregate of five (5) days in any given year, (If both parents are District employees, a total of five (5) days will be provided for a family.) Such leave may be used for court and legal procedures, home study and evaluation, and required home visitations by the adoption agency not possible to schedule outside of regular school hours.
6.6 B Paternity leave. One (1) day of paternity leave will be allowed for the birth of a child. Additional days will be allowed under the emergency leave provision of this Agreement if any emergency exists.
6.6 C The above provisions are in addition to any benefit For adoption or paternity leave contained in the Federal Family Medical Leave Act or the Washington State Family Leave Act,
Article 6.7
Military ReserveZNationat Guard Active Training Duty—Compensated
Military Reserve or National Guard active training duty, whenever possible should be scheduled during authorized vacation periods to prevent conflict with the employee^ contractual or work obligation to the District.
When compulsory military educational or military circumstances do not allow training during authorized vacation periods, the following guidelines shall apply;
6.7 A The employee shall provide a copy of orders and proof that such duty is mandatory and is their annual active duty training.
6.7 B	Absence for active training duty shall not exceed fifteen (15) days per year,
6.7 C	The employee shall experience no loss of pay or benefits for the authorized
fifteen (15) days. Legal reference; R.CW 38.40.060
Article 6-8
Religious Observance Days-Compensated
Employees whose religious affiliation requires observation of mandatory holy days on a day when schools are in session will be granted leave without loss of pay for up to two (2) days.
Chapter 6. Leaves
2003-05
A request for such leave shall include a statement describing what holy day is to be observed and attesting and providing documentary evidence that the basic tenets of the educator b religious affiliation unequivocally require observance of the holy days in such a manner that he/she cannot perform the contracted educational responsibility on that day. The educator must submit his/her request to the building or unit administrator as far in advance as possible.
An educator taking religious leave may be required to make up missed days prior to opening of school, winter or spring holiday, or after the dose of school, as may be mutually determined by the educator and his/her immediate supervisor.
Article 6,9
Educational Leave-Short-Term—Compensated
t/p to five (5) days compensated leave wifi be granted to allow attendance at an educational meeting, conference. District curriculum meeting, or activity when it can be mutually determined by the District and the employee that such attendance would be to the benefit of the District and the individual in advancing his/her professional knowledge and competence. The arrangements for providing a substitute, i.e., costs to be borne by the District or the employee, will be determined at the time the leave is approved. Approval of this leave is at the discretion of the District.
Article 6.10
Sabbatical Leave-Compensated
Purposes allowed	6.10 A	"When funds are available, a sabbatical leave of absence will be provided for a member of the bargaining unit for the purpose of advanced study, educational research, and for planned travel-study programs when the plan is fully documented as to its merits to assist in the improvement of educational program^) of the District.
Timely application	6.10B	Requests for sabbatical leave grants must be submitted not later than March 1 annually to be eligible for a grant during the next year. Application should be made on forms available in the human resources office.
	6.IOC	A person may apply for sabbatical leave after establishing seven (7) years of creditable service to the District.
Proportionate distribution of leaves	6.10 D	In consideration of applications received for each contract year, the total number of awards granted shall not exceed one-half of one percent (.05%) of the certificated staff. Due regard shall be given to equivalent distribution among classroom personnel at the elementary, middle school, and high school levels. Priority to individual applicants may be recognized on the basis of verified professional contributions and length of service to the District-
Service credit	6.I0E	Time consumed in pursuit of approved sabbatical leaves shall be credited to the individual as service to the District.
Payment formula	6.10F	Persons granted a sabbatical leave will be awarded a stipend equal to two-thirds (2/3) of the individualb base contract salary at the time of application
for the grant, provided that a combination of the sabbatical stipend and any other fellowship grant to stipend shall not exceed the individual^ base contract salary at the time of applicatIon-
Chapter 6. Leaves
8
2OOU05
Consideration offered by employee	6.10 G	Persons accepting a sabbatical leave grant must agree to return to service with the District for a service period equal to at least twice (2) the period of service for which the leave was granted or, upon failure to so return, agree to repay the District the entire amount of the stipend received- Should the individual’s leave be terminated by death, the repayment liability will be forgiven. Should the individual become disabled to the extent that he/she is unable to resume his/her duties or to fulfill the return obligation in its entirety, the repayment obligation will be forgiven.
Application process	6.10 H	All applications for sabbatical leave must be approved by the building principal or supervisor. AU applications are subject to review by the Superintendent of Schools. Applicants may be requested to present themselves for interview by the Superintendent.
Final determination	6 101	Awards will be granted only after final approval by the Board of Directors and upon recommendation of the Superintendent of Schools. Decisions on the granting of sabbatical leaves rest with the District-
Placement on return	6.10 J	The District will make a reasonable effort to place a teacher returning from a sabbatical leave in a position which Will permit the District to derive maximum benefits for his/her sabbatical experience.
Replacement personnel	6-10 K	An accordance with provisions of RCW 2&A.405.960, certificated personnel employed to fill a vacancy created by a sabbatical leave of absence may be employed for the period of time designated for the employee on leave of absence.
Compensated Short-Term Leaves
Article 6.11
	Personal Business Leave Day, Compensated
Basic rationale for lcave(s)	The parties recognize that an employee may need to absent him/herself from assigned duties during the regular school day and school year to handle matters of personal business, to carry out leadership roles in non-school connected community organizations, to attend special family events, and other similar matters of significance. The District affirms that its employees should pJay an active role in the community without unusual personal penalties or sacrifices.
Basic restraints	6.11 A A personal business leave will be afforded to an employee to attend to matters of bona fide importance not easily feasible to handle outside regular
Situations of urgency not emergency	hours. The nature of the problem should be an urgent need, but lack the clear elements of the imminent risk to health, life, and property and is of a lesser magnitude than would qualify for emergency leave. The business should be a matter of bona fide necessity and importance and not mere
Scheduling not solely controlled by employee	convenience. The scheduling of the activity should be beyond the control of the employee. It is not intended to be used as a free-floating personal holiday and/or for the Intentional extension of a holiday peri nd or weekend for social and recreational purposes.
Supervisor leave decision	6.11 B Approval or disapproval of personal leave requests will be made by the immediate supervisor. Personal leave requests will be decided on their merits as outlined above and not based on whether the District or the employee bears the cost of the substitute. The basis for disapproving personal leave will be provided in writing by the supervisor to the employee.
Chapter 6. Leaves
9
2003-05
Examples of 6.11 C urgent personal	Personal business is deemed to be of the nature or similar to one (1) or more of the following:
	i Attend a meeting with an attorney, reading of a will, close escrow, etc. ii Meet or assist in the departure of a guest by plane or train- iii Attend a wedding, baptism, family reunion, graduation, etc. iv Obtain a second physician^ opinion in a health matter, v Attend a political convention/meehng, or organization meeting in another city. vi Attend a 'playoff in an athletic competition involving self, child, spouse, etc. vii Receive an honor or attend a gathering honoring a spouse, child, parent, etc. viii Attend small claims court, divorce, hearing, etc. ix Accompany a spouse on a business trip or prize trip to Hawaii, Europe, etc. x A marriage anniversary trip, xi Visit with a seriously ill family member. xii Assist in the first few days with a newborn grandchild, etc. xiii Other urgent business similar to those listed in iTA ” above.
6.11 D	The supervisor’s decision to deny the leave request may be brought forward by the Executive Director, VEA, and the administrator responsible for Human Resources for review by the Superintendent. The decision of the reviewing official is considered final.
Basic allocation
6.11 E The District will make available, as needed, a total of two (2) days of personal business leave each school year for an employee, in addition to any awthonzeti carryover from a prior year (see below). The DiiCnct will bear the substitute cost for the first two days of personal leave plus any authorized Carryover leave.
6.11 F 1 The District will automatically carry forward up to three (3) days of personal leave into subsequent leave years. Employees will be allowed to have a maximum personal leave accrual of five (5) days inclusive of up to three (3) days carryover and the current year’s two (2) day entitlement. Leave in excess of three (3) days at the end of the leave year will automatically be cashed out at the substitute rate.
ii An employee may request up to five (5) additional personal leave days with the employee bearing the cost of the substitute for the reasons outlined above. Reimbursement for substitute cost shall be made as a payroll deduction and will be so acknowledged by the employee as part of the leave request. Tt is anticipated that such request will be made under exceptional circumstances. Approval of such leave is at the District’s discretion.
Chapter 6- Leaves
10
2003-05
Substitute	6.11 G	The parties acknowledge that the District's first and foremost responsibility
supply &		is to provide an effective instructional program for the students. Nou-
demand		emergency personal business leaves of teaching staff may need to be
considerations		proportionately curtailed within the number of qualified substitute teachers available at various times during the school year and on certain days of a school week. The District and Association will make every reasonable effort to recruit qualified personnel to expand the substitute list to reduct rhe number of limitations that will need to be made for people applying for
leaves.
Critical periods opening & closing a school year	i It is essentia] that a school year opens and closes in an effective and businesslike manner, which requires the presence of the regular teacher. Personal business leave will not normal]y be granted during the first five (5) days and last ten (10) days of a school year; exceptions allowed only for clearly stated and compelling reasons.
District discretion of 2% limitation of persona! business leaves on a particular day	ii The parties recognize that the demand for substitutes does vary at different time periods for □ variety of reasons: flu epidemics; Fridays and Mondays; Just prior or following a scheduled holiday; special meetings; Association meetings and conventions, etc. The District will give first priority to the assignment of available substitutes to replace a teacher who is ill or injured. The District may limit the number of personal business leaves allowed on any one (1) day to 2% of the total District certificated staff. The District may further restrict the 2% limit
Normally, first come, first served scheduling	in compelling situations where it is reasonable to conclude that substitute demands will exceed substitute availability. Such limitation is in addition to the specific authority of principals and supervisors to approve or disapprove individual leave requests. Within the Districtwide limitation, personal business leaves will normally be approved in the order in which the leave was approved by the supervisor, then submitted to the automated substitute System nr as appropriate. 6.11 H Application for personal business leave should be made as far in advance as
Minimum of 24 hours advance request required	possible and not less than twenty-four (24) hours tn allow the District ample opportunity to determine if a qualified substitute is available and the teacher can be released.
Individual Days	6.11 I An employee will not be required to provide a verba] or written explanation of the reasons for personal business leave, providing the employee is not under a verbal or written caution for excessive or unauthorized absences or tardiness, and providing the absence would not compromise significant prescheduled academic or site-based activities as determined by the employee and the immediate Supervisor- Article 6.12 Uncompensated Leaves - Short-Term and Long-Term
Genera] provisions	6.12 A Authorized uncompensated leaves of absence may be allowed for any one (1) of the following reasons with approval of each request to be based on rational basis in fact and approved or disapproved on the individual merits of each case. An administrative decision to deny authorized uncompensated leave to an individual will not be made in an arbitrary, capricious manner invidious to one f1} individual or group of employees.
Chapter 6. Leaves
tl
2003-05
Recognized purposes for granting short&. long-term leaves	6.12 A i a. Absence due to government service or obligation b- Rest and recuperation or emergency family illness advanced education c.	Family care (long-term family member illness, injury, disability) travel d.	Sick leave beyond accumulated days e.	Exchange teacher, Peace Corps or Volunteers in Service to America f,	To facilitate professional and personal growth of benefit to the individual and to the District. g.	0ther significandy important reasons
Adequate replacement personnel a requirement for discretionary leaves	ii All applications for leave, shprt-term or long-term, shall be subject to evaluation on the basis of the possibility of any adverse effects to the school or District program that might result from granting the leave and the availability of replacement personnel.
Application information	iii Application is timely, states the purpose for which the leave is desired, the date it should begin and date of return, and any necessary available documents to support the validity of the request.
Continuation of group insurance benefits	iv Employee benefits (group insurance programs) which an individual desires and for which he/she may be eligible, may be continued at the employee^ expense, if necessary, by his/her direct payment to the business office during a period of authorized leave and when consistent with the regulations of the insurance carrier.
Uncompensated - Short-Term
5-12 B Authorized uncompensated short-term leave (i.e., leave for less than two Weeks) will be allowed to an employee, in accordance with the provision above and the following guidelines:
Timely application minimum of 24 hours
Valid purpose
Extension of holidays limit
Elected public official leave
i Approval for short-term leave must normally be sought in writing as far in advance as possible and at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the anticipated absence, except in cases where a situation actually arises within that time limitation, in which case the individual is obligated to contact his/her building or unit administrator, or other appropriate authority, at the earliest possible moment.
ii For purposes which could not reasonably have been accomplished outside the contracted school day and/or year.
iii When the days requested would extend a vacation period, it must be ducumenfed and will be allowed only for significantly important personal reasons. Decision on granting of extension rest with the District.
iv Short-term elected public official leave will be granted without loss of pay for the time required to be absent from duty. Such leave is restricted to leave on those days of required service as a public official that art not discretionary for the individual educator to schedule after school hours or on a non-school day and the request has been submitted in a timely matter.
Chapter 6. Leaves
12
2003-05
Timely applic abon
April 1 -discretionary leaves
Minimum application information
Contents of long-term leave contracts
Purpose, date & position, assignment on return
Legal considerations
Provisions of termination of long-term [eave
Provisions to request extension of long-term leave
Superintendent & Board approval required
Uncompensated - Long-Term
6, i 2 C An authorized uncompensated leave may be allowed to an employee within the following guidelines:
i Approval for a long-term uncompensated leave, e.g., leave for two weeks or more, must normally be presented in writing as far in advance as possible, and prior to April I of a school year, if it is of a discretionary nature and will require a "delegate assignment1' for a substantial period of time, during an ensuing school contract year.
ii The total number of long-term leaves of four-fifths (4/5ths) or more of the days of an ensuing school year which are of a discretionary nature may be limited by the District to three percent (3%) of the staff employed for the current year, exclusive of those granted full year sabbatical leaves.
iii The application for a long-term leave shall include the information cited in Article 6,12 A iii and iv above, and a statement of the positions in the District in which the individual would desire to be placed on his/her return from the leave. Tt must be noted, however, that the District's only obligation is to assign an individual to a position for which he/she is qualified.
iv The employee will submit a long-term leave form to the District for approval. The leave form will stipulate the purpose for which the leave is requested, the period covered by the leave, the requirements for the employee to notify the district of his/her intent to return, and a conditional resignation in the event the employee fails to notify the district and!or return to duty fc.Utfowj the end of the leave period- fo leave situations covered by statute (i.e., military leave and FMLA) the employee's return placement will be in accordance with the applicable statute. In all other cases, the employee’s return placement will be to an available position for which qualified (Chapter 7, Position Interest Register) unless a position is specifically agreed to on the leave form.
v. An employee on long-term leave of absence must indicate in writing to the Super! ntendeni/designee by March 1 (preceding the school year when he/she is to return from leave or another specific notification date as may have been provided in the leave form) that he/she will be returning to the District on the date he/she is obligated to return to duty. Failure to do so will constitute an implied resignation from the District. Should the employes subsequently reapply, he/she may be placed in an available vacancy if one exists, but will have otherwise forfeited his/her right to re-employment.
vi Requests for an extension of a long-term leave must be received by the District's Super in t end ent/dcsignee at least thirty (30) days in advance of the authorized termination date, or no later than March I in the case of leaves fora full contract year, except when such compliance is beyond the control of the employee. Lx tensions of up to one (1) year may be granted. Requests for extensions of a leave of absence must be endorsed by the Superintendent of Schools, presented to the Board for action, and expressed by an addendum to the existing leave contract. Decisions on leave rest with the District.
Chapter 6. leaves
13
2003-05
Delegate replacement personnel for employees on leave
Seniority rights insurance St privileges
Purpose of leave
Usual application dates
Nature of consideration offered for a leave
Immediate availability during crisis year not required
Leave extensions for a continuing crisis sittiafion
Partial year reinstatements in crisis years
6-12 C vii A 'delegate assignment’' may be made of a certificated person employed in accordance with provisions of RCW 28A.405.900, to fill an opening on tbe District^ staff for the period of time the employee is on leave, which may or may not be the position vacated by the individual takirig leave.
viii Employee benefits and seniority rights (seniority rights will remain constant and not accumulate) held by an employee at the time of application for a leave shall be retained during the period of authorized leave.
Participation in insurance programs, and such other services for which payroll deduction is authorized, may continue at the employee's option and with the carrierls approval, provided prepayment of amounts due are directly transmitted by the Individual to the School District business office,	■
Article 6.13
District Budget Crisis Leave—Uncompebsated (See Chapter 14)
6.13 A During a period of a District budget crisis such as a double levy failure, substantial reductions of state or federal funding, a significant drop in student enrollment, or a similar substantial change in projected funding of the District, a District budget crisis leave will be granted to each certificated employee named for uCm-rcnewal or dismissal as may apply for such leave.
6.13 B These leaves will be provided without regard to the normal March 1 application date for the stated reason of District convenience because of a budget crisis. An employee named for non-renewal/dismissal will offer as consideration for the granting of such leave the waiver and abandonment of such appeal rights provided him/her under law for a non-renewal/dismissal notice and a promise to return to employment to the District when a vacancy occurs for a regular assignment. The employee will file an appeal from the non-renewal/dismissal notice simultaneously with a request for a District budget crisis leave. Upon approval of the leave, the appeal will be dropped.
6.13 C Individuals taking leave during a period of District budget crisis will not be prohibited from accepting gainful employment, enrolling in advanced education programs, Or traveling during the leave period and shah not be terminated for that reason except on written request of the employee.
6. J 3 D Leaves granted because of such crisis situations will normally be renewed annually upon a timely request if crisis circumstances continue to prevail beyond the initial year for which the leave was granted. Application for renewal of budget crisis leaves must be submitter! by May 15 of each year
6-13 E Individuals accepting leave during a period of District crisis and desiring reinstatement to a partial year active assignment, should a vacancy appear for which they are qualified, will request continuing active application status for those positions and will be reasonably placed according to Chapter 7, the Professional Placement provisions of this Agreement
Chapter 6. Leaves
14
2003-05
Preferential	6.13F	Qualified employees seeking reinstatement shall have preference over
placement of		current employees in filling of any vacancy in the year(s) of a budget crisis.
individuals on		
leave		
Reinstatement 6,13 G	Eligibility for the reinstatement of an employee on leave during and at the
criteria same as	conclusion of the time of a budget crisis year shall be set on the basis of
non-renewal	prioritized lists developed by applying the criteria used to determine the
criteria	probable cause for non-renewal or dismissal in the layoff and recall procedure. Employees determined most eligible for retention will be the fust to be reinstated.
District employment pool, source for filling partial &. full-year vacancies	6-13 H i All certificated employees who receive notice of probable cause of nonrenewal or discharge of their teaching contracts will he placed in a District employment pool and will be considered for any vacancy in the District which thereafter occurs. Any vacancy (partial or full-year) in the District will be filled by an available, qualified individual from rhe pool, consistent with reduction in force procedures. The term "vacancy'' shall be liberally construed and shall include all positions that may become vacant for any reason(s). ii Employment of an individual from outside the employment pool will be allowed only if there is no individual voluntarily available in the pool and reasonably qualified for a specific vacancy.
Duration in employment pool substitute service	6.131 Certificated employees will be retained in the District employment pool until reemployed, or resigned, or by allowing their economic leave to lapse by not making a timely annual application for an extension. (See Article 6.13 D) Any individual in the pool will, on request, be placed on the substitute teachers’ list for rhe following year.
Procedure for creating a voluntary "vacancy"in economic crisis year	6.13 J Any individual in the bargaining unit who may not have been named for non-renewal or discharge by operation of the layoff and recall criteria and procedures may, of his/her own volition, without regard for normal application deadlines and prior to the opening of a school year or semester, apply for and receive a budget crisis leave under the provisions of RCW 2fiA.4D5.900 to allow an individual from the employment pool to serve in his/her regular assignment for a stipulated half or full school year.
Employment status continuation of group insurance programs	6,13 K Any employee on District budget crisis leave will be considered to have continuing employment status with rhe District for the purposes of the maintenance of seniority status (reinstatement, salary schedules, etc.) and for group insurance programs. He/she shall be provided full opportunity to make mutually satisfactory and necessary arrangements to provide direct payments through the District business office for the continuation of such insurance programs during the period(s) of the leave.
Chapter 6. Leaves
15
2003-05
Fundamental concepts of placement
Basic placement decisions consideration
Personal preference considerations an objective not a mandate
Definitions
CHAPTER?. PROFESSIONAL PLACEMENT
Article 7,1
The District and the Association acknowledge that the single most critical factor determining the quality of instruction in a school district is its professional staff, as that quality derives from effective procedures of recruitment, selection, and assignment in adjusting to the continuous changes in enrollment patterns, new instructional techniques, and programs as they emerge to meet the needs of the students and community, it shall be the policy of the District to recruit, hire, and promote qualified persons without regard to race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, marital status, or because of a handicap, as will best iaeef l!?“ requirements' of a speciftc position opening in a District program.
Article 7 J
7.2	A Educators will normally be assigned, reassigned, or transferred with due recognition to professional qualifications, experience, personal interest, and within the scope of their teaching certificate, as well as their major and minor fields of study, as these factors relate to the identified duties and responsibilities of a specific position opening. AU professional placement decisions will be reached on a rational basis of fact, and in a thoughtful and judicious manner. Assignments Outside the scope of certification, experience, or of major or minor fields of study, shall be temporary and for emergency reasons only.
7-2 B It is an objective of the District to try to place each certificated staff member into an assignment of his/her preference whenever this can be done consistent with providing a high quality instructional program for the students of the community. However, the District is not required and will not reassign an individual to an open position of preference for which he/she may qualify by preparation and seniority when it cannot reasonably foresee finding a qualified replacement from within the District, or when financially feasible from outside the District, to fill the position he/$he would leave.
Article 7,3
In the interest of common understanding of terms used in the placement of personnel, the following terms are hereby defined;
7,3	A Position: A defined set of particular duties and responsibilities for implementation Of a District program within one (1) or more administrative Units usually with particular entry qualifications as provided by statute or District job description. Positions are classified as:
i Permanent Position; An established position that has existed for one (1) or more years and is anticipated to be continued indefinitely subject to possible substantive changes in stodenr enrollment or in the Districts curriculum program(s). Most positions are presumed permanent.
ii Temporary Position: A position established to meet (an) identified transitional need(s) of a particular program, or to meet a potentially short-term expansion in student enrollment or a new pilot program in a school. A position anticipated to be phased out in one (1) or two (2) years.
Chapter 7- Professional Placement
1
2003-05
7.3 A iii Head TeacherZProgram Coordinator Position: A position that requires administrative and supervisory responsibilities (exclusive of summative evaluation) and that is filled from the teacher bargaining unit. (See Article 7.15)
7.3 B Assignment; Assignment is the placement of an individual in an open position. Assignments are classified as:
i Standard Assignment: The placement of an employee serving on a continuing or pro visional basic contract of employment into a permanent position opening.
ii Acting Assignment: The placement of a teacher into a position—usually permanent position-for not more than one (i) school year. Permanent positions and/or newly created position openings are filled on an "acting assignment" basis if they occur after the first fifteen (15) school days of the school year. As an exception, an employee hired into a position during the first fifteen (15) school days which was a known vacancy at the end of the previous school year and for which PIR candidates were available will be in an acting assignment. An "acting assignment" expires at the close of the current school year and the position becomes subject to the normal PIR or recruiting process. Experience in an acting assignment shall not be used as a qualification requirement.
iii Replacement Teacher-Time Certain Assignment: The placement of a contracted employee into a permanent or a temporary position as a replacement for a continuing contract teacher on a sabbatical, regular, or other leave (RCW 28A-405.900). The replacement may not necessarily serve in the same position vacated by the individual on leave. (This classification was previously referred to as delegate assignment. Replacement teachers will receive the same benefits as all other teachers.)
iv Casual day substitute assignment. The daily on-call employment of an employee in a variety of different positions, or die placement of an employee in a specific position for a period of not more than twenty (20) days. Such employment does not confer benefits, and will be paid at the Board approved daily rate regardless of rhe aggregate rate of employment (i.e., less than, equal to, or greater than 30 days in a given year.) Exceptions to place the employee at a scheduled rate may be made by the Administrator of Human Resources when necessary to meet the needs of the District.
v Term Substitute Assignment
v.a, The placement of a substitute into a position for a period of time that is contemplated to be potentially more than twenty (20) work days but less than ninety-one (91) days.
Chapter 7. Professional Placement
7
2003-05
7.3 B v.b. The assignment will terminate upon the return of the standard assignment teacher, a drop in student enrollment, or the end of the school year, whichever comes first. However, if the individual is not replacing a teacher on indeterminate sick or other similar leave, he/she should be offered a contract for the remainder of the year or a provisional contract if: he/she has served ninety (90) days or more, been evaluated as performing satisfactory service, and is likely to complete the student attendance year in the assigned position. A term substitute replacement is treated like an acting assignment, and the position will be subject to PIR placement for the ensuing school year. If qualified and registered PER candidates are not available, the District may permanently assign the position to the former term substitute or another candidate.
v.c- The first twenty (20) days of service will normally be paid at the minimum daily rate of the first step of the salary schedule. Exceptions to place the employee at the scheduled rate may be made by the Administrator of Human Resources when necessary to meet the needs of the District On the twenty-first (21) day of service the teacher will be placed on the salary schedule according to his/her qualificationsand becomes a member of the teachers’ bargaining unit, subject to representation fees, and eligible for membership in the Association. Similarly, an employee initially placed at the Board approved, daily substitute rate for a period of time expected to be not more than twenty (20) days whose placement subsequently exceeds twenty (20) days, will be placed on the scheduled rate and become a member of the teachers’ bargaining unit, subject to representation fees, and eligible for membership in the Association on the twenty-first (21) day. The placement on payroll in each case will become effective at the next cutoff date following the twenty-first (21) day. A term substitute will be eligible for enrollment in the group insurance plans of the District following their twenty-first (21) working day of employment in the same assignment. An employee who:
I is assigned to a term substitute appointment that meets the requirements of Article 7.3, and
2 who completes the 211' working day qualifying period, and 3 whose term sub appointment subsequently terminates, and 4 who is again assigned as a term sub under Article 7.3 in the same school year,
5 will not be required to complete a second qualifying period, and 6 will be eligible to subscribe to health benefits <m the first day of the month following the first month in which they work a majority of the working days.
v.d. Re-employed Annuitants; When a retired employee is placed on a one-year contract or as a term substitute, the employee will be entitled to the following compensation and benefits:
1	Payment from the first day of the term substitute or one-year appointment at the appropriate per diem rate based on education and years of experience.
2	Coverage under the dental, vision, and prescription insurance program if employed as a -36 or greater FTE.
3	Entitlement to TRI cm the same basis as ail other employees if employed tor .5 or greater FTE.
Chapter 7. Professional Placement
3
2003-05
7.3 B v.e. Position Definition. The District will normally define positions at a minimum of forty percent (40%). This will qualify an individual for the opportunity to obtain health insurance benefits. (Example: Two (2) individuals sharing a position of five (5) teaching periods would be computed as one (1) sixty percent (60%) teacher with benefits and one (1) teacher with forty percent (40%) of the benefits.)
vi Protected Positions. The Association has reluctantly acknowledged that the District must assign qualified personnel to certain co- and extracurricular student programs to ensure they will be of good quality. Consequently, an individual of little District seniority that has the necessary qualifications to handle both a co- and extracurricular assignment as well as a regular curriculum assignment can obtain a preferential treatment in the staffing Of a school. A person with much District seniority in a curriculum assignment without qualifications and/or desire to serve in a co-Zextracuiricular activity assignment is at risk to be reassigned- The administrative prerogative to assign individuals of little seniority in protected co-/extracurricular "protected" positions should be kept to a critical few situations. Certificated staff members placed into the three (3) classes of positions in a building as identified below are protected from an involuntary reassignment caused by the reduction of Staff in a building.
vi.a.	Staff assigned because of established affirmative action program
staffing objectives, ethnic-minority, etc.
vi.b. Staff assigned to co-curricular extended-day activities by virtue of their curriculum teaching assignment, which are middle school and high school vocal and instrumental, high school journalism and yearbook, high school drama and stage.
vi.e. Intramural director in middle schools.
Transfers Administrative unit defined	7.3 C	Transfer refers essentially to a change in place (e.g., building or administrative unit) where services are performed. An administrative unit exists when all like certificated employees are managed and supervised under a central administrator (e.g,, counselors, psychologists, visual and performing arts, ELL teachers, and special services teachers for high needs students). Designation of additional employe* groups as administrative units is subject to mutual agreement of the. Association and the District, Employees in an administrative utilt are considered as being assigned to the unit and not to a specific location. However, prior to reassignment of employees within an administrative unit, the employees will be given notice of the basis for the proposed reassignment and provided an opportunity to have their input considered as part of a final decision
Reassignment	7.3 D	Reassignment: Reassignment refers to a change in a "position," i.e., new grade level, subject matter, administrative position (with or without transfer to another place).
Opening	7.3 E	Opening: An opening in a position exists when no currently employed certificated person has been formally assigned to fill it.
Chapter?. Professional Placement
4
2003-05
Vacancy 7-3 F Vacancy: A vacancy refer* to an opening in an existing or newly-created position in which no currently employed qualified member of the bargaining unit has expressed an interest through the Position Interest Register; or no Currently interested employee possesses the qualifications and is selected to fill the position (Article 7.7). A vacancy may be filled by employment of an individual from outside the District. An opening in existence or occurring between July 15 and October 15 may be considered a vacancy subject to the PIR provisions of this chapter.
Position	7-3 G Interest Register defined & described	A Position Interest Register procedure will be maintained by the Human Resources Office to provide an employee the opportunity to officially register his/her interest and willingness to be considered and assigned to a position opening(s) when it appears.
Specific position(s) interest	i An employee may file far a specific position opemng(s). A request for assignment to a specific position will constitute an employee b authorization for him/her to be placed in the position at any time it becomes available without the necessity of additional consultation with the Human Resources Office.
General transfer & reassignment interest	jj An employee may file a general transfer and/or reassignment interest request indicating that he/she is interested and will accept any open position for which he/sbe maybe qualified by certification and college preparation, i.e,, major* and minors and/or prior experience, after basic consultation with the Hitman Resources Office. Employees will be restricted in their selection of sites for which they wish to be considered to three (3) sites for secondary employees and four (4) sites for elementary employees.
Summer service on the Position Interest Register	iii The Human Resources Office will maintain, in conjunction with the regular Position Interest Register, an opportunity for employees to provide specific and accurate information of addresses and phone numbers where they may be contacted during the summer, to be notified when there is an opening in a position of interest to them. Unless the employee files a summer service request, the Human Resources Office will not attempt, except in an involuntary assignment situation, to notify the employee of openings of interest to him/her as listed in the regular Position Interest Register between the last duty day of one (1) school year and August 15.
Duration of interest listings
iv.a. An employee's position listing(s) in the Position Interest Register will expire automatically August 15 of each year. Employees may register between January 1 and March 14 for the ensuing year-
iv.b. A position interest request for a position may be withdrawn by the employee at any time prior to the time a reassignment has actually been made.
iv ,c. Employees are responsible for investigating the sitc(s) for which they register and will be deleted from the register if they receive and decline a compatible position offer. An employee may subsequently decline a previously accepted assignment if significant circumstances warrant and conditions permit.
Chapter 7. Professional Placement
5
2003-05
Posting
Seniority
Establishment of positions
Position classification
7.3 G iv.d. When an employee has upgraded his/her qualifications for a particular position after March 15, the employee may contact the Human Resources Office to make notation that hc/she has become eligible for additional assignments. Employees who are surplus or who are otherwise unassigned by May 1 (i.e., returning from year long leave of absence) will he provided a list of all current openings and be given preference by seniority for any of those identified openings prior to new employee placement.
iv.e. New or additional listings by an employee not covered by the above circumstances may be allowed at any time at the discretion of the Human Resources Office.
v The Association and the District agree that it is in the District's and the employee's interests to have reasonable stability within an elementary building and to avoid excessive reassignments. Excess employees who are involuntarily placed in a new building will be exempt from displacement for a period of two (2) years.
vi The District will provide for the return of teachers on special assignment to the classroom by granting them a placement choice from any available vacancy for which they are qualified prior to making the FIR listing available to buildings for placement. Seniority will apply within the TOSA grouping,
73 H Posting! The procedure by which the District provides information about openings and vacancies to employees and to individuals interested in becoming employees with the District. (See also Article 7.7)
731 Seniority: For the purposes of Chapter 7 seniority is defined as the total number of most recent continuous full years of service under a regular contract in the Vancouver School District.
Article 7.4
An individual, to be assured full consideration in obtaining desired placements, is responsible to regularly inspect and update his/her personnel file by submitting current, official transcripts, certificates, credentials, evaluations of experience, and other pertinent documents regarding his/her qualifications.	’
Article 7,5
Within the parameters prescribed by state statute and District policy, the District will consult with the Association on request but shall solely determine, except as limited by provisions of this Agreement, the number of positions and the specific duties it deems necessary for the effective operation of the District's program of curriculum and instruction and extended-day programs.
Article 7.6
A position posting will provide the following information:
7.6	A The District will specify the tenure of the position.
Chapter 7, Professional Placement
6
2003-05
Minimum & desirable qualifications	7.6 B The basic qualifications necessary for an applicant to be considered for placement in it and supporting desirable qualifications that may be considered in selecting an applicant for a specific position. Qualifications may be identified in the position description in lieu of the position posting providing such description is referenced in the postipg and is available to the employee through the internet or through the Human Resource Office.
Extended duties & responsibilities requirement	7.6 C A specific position posting may include a statement of extended-day or extended-year duties and responsibilities that may be appended to the basic contract assignment and basic and desirable qualifications necessary for such a supplementary contract service-
Affirmative action weightings	7,6 D A specific position posting shall include a statement, when appropriate, of any special considerations under the affirmative action plan established for the District. 7.6E The probable location of the posi tion (when known) - 7,6 F The District official to be contacted for an application. Article 7.7
Posting guidelines	It shall be a basic policy and practice of the District to provide means for the broadest possible distribution of information of and about all certificated position openings to assure that all interested and qualified persons have an opportunity to be considered.
Position Opening posting
Primary means of notification	7.7 A The primary means of notifying the in-district candidates of openings shall be the Position Interest Register procedure and the District web site and email (see 7.7 C).
Posting time 7,7 B limits period Oct. 15-July 15 5 days	i During the period October 15 to July 15, an opening will be kept open for a minimum of five (5) working days to allow maximum opportunity for in-district and out-of-district candidates to make application.
Period July 16-Oct. 14 summary decisions	ii During the period July 16 to October 14, the Association acknowledges that the District may be required to reduce the five (5) day open time period and to make summary employment of out-of-district candidates and/or transfers and reassignments of employee teachers from school to school or class to class to meet problems of changing and unanticipated enrollment patterns toward the goal of equalizing class sizes between schools and among classes. In-district candidates will be considered prior to employment of out-of-district candidates in filling an opening during this time period, providing they have requested summer service in the Position Interest Register.
Time limit newly created	iii Newly-created positions must be posted for a minimum of five (5) days and every reasonable effort made to inform and provide in-district candidates the opportunity to be considered before the positions are filled.
Chapter 7. Professional Placement
7
2OQ3-O5
	7.7 B	iv District employees, other than special services, who are on 1.0 FTE assignments that are split between buildings and who have made themselves available for placement on the current PER, will be afforded the opportunity to be placed in a single location (1,0 FTE) prior to placing a twn-district employee in the position.
Bulletin procedures, posted positions	7.7 C	1 All position openings will be posted on the VSD's web sire. Immediately after the position is posted, all certificated employees will be notified through the District's email that a position has been posted to the web inviting them to view the posting if interested.
Schools without technology		ii For schools that are not current with technology, the posting(s) wilt be faxed to the secretary for posting in the building in a location where all employees will have the opportunity to view all posted positions.
		iii The Association acknowledges that when there is an expanding student enrollment and a decline in the number of high quality candidates in short supply for certain kinds of positions, the District may have a need to offer "letters of intent" to applicants as early as a year in advance to persons from outside the District. This recognition is intended to assure that well-qualified persons are obtained for the ensuing school year. However, the Human Resources Office will make the specific placement of the new employee consistent with PIR requirements. In especially difficult recruiting situations, and with the Association’s consent, the district may commit to and specify the placement in the letter of intent and not subject it to the PIR. process
		It is further acknowledged that when a building (administrative unit) staff has participated in the extensive planning and organizing of a program employees may be retained in the positions for the ensuing school year.
7.7	D The outgoing Association president will have first seniority in P1R placement.
Article 7.8
Annual Timeline and Procedures for Staff Deployment to Staff District Programs
Position	7.8 A Interest Register enrollment period	Professional staff are invited to register their interest through the District's web site or in the Human Resources Office (January 1—March 14) to be considered for openings.
Student population & program forecasting needs	7.8 B	i The District will normally determine the anticipated student enrollment and will forecast the instructional program needs of students for the ensuing school year to determine the number and kind of teaching and other curriculum positions required for each school (administrative unit) in the District.
Curriculum staffing needs	7.8 B	ii Secondary principals will define positions (Article 7.5) into terms of teaching sections in the program subjects to be taught; elementary principals in terms of grade level classes to be taught.
Chapter 7. Profess! otial Placement
8
2003-05
Extracurricular-	iii curricular staffing needs	Each principal will also determine the positions needed in paid co-curricular and extracurricular programs for the effective operation of the school. (Article 7-3 B vi)
Discussion with 7.8 C i building faculty reps of curriculum program & staff assignments ii	Each principal will review the qualifications of the staff currently assigned to the school to try to properly place each resident staff member into identified positions in the programs. The principal will meet with the building faculty advisory council (faculty representatives) to discuss program and staffing plans as soon as information is available for discussion purposes, but not later than the first week of May. The principal will call for volunteers for identified building assignments or placement in the unassigned pool.
Tentative	iii placement plans formulated	The principal will tentatively place individual educators of the building staff according to the qualifications and will consider personal preferences of each educator to carry out the identified position assignments.
Human	7.8 D i resources jnvtJvcnrcnr ii	The principal will identify to the Human Resources Office the specific nature (responsibilities and duties) of any position not filled by current staff because of (a) increased enrolIment of students, (b) presently assigned building staff lacks qualifications to fill an identified position, (c) the names of resident staff believed excess because of (1) decline in enrollment, (2) individual qualifications do not match an identified position opening, (3) student program needs. Each principal will review with the Human Resources Office the individuals tentatively assigned as excess pursuant to established criteria followed (Article 7.9) and the specific rationale for each decision.
Employee	7.8 E	i notification of placement to '’unassigned staff1 pool conference	An individual not assigned in the principal^ initial staff placement plan (Article 7.8 C i)) will be notified in writing by Human Resources that he/she is tentatively placed in an unsssigned staff pool. The building principal will, simultaneously to the written notice, meet and confer with each teacher identified for the unassigned pool to review the' rationale followed in making that decision.
Unassigned	ii staff pool considerations	Individuals placed in an unassigned pool may complete a Position Interest Register form. The District will attempt to place individuals in areas of preference, but the District may place them in openings for which they are qualified by certification, education, or experience.
Displaced	iii person consideration	An individual involuntarily placed will be given priority consideration for assignment into District openings in accordance with his/her qualifications, preference, and total cumulative seniority as a certificated staff person in the District.
Reinstatement 7-8 E	iv provision (District determination}	An employee reassigned involuntarily because of a reduction of staff will be given priority to return to the original building to a specific vacancy if qualified (as determined by the District) that may occur following his/her displacement providing he/she has the same or greater District seniority than another candidate vying for placement in the opening.
Chapter 7. Professional Placement
9
2003-05
v When the District becomes overstaffed District-wide (more staff than funded for), they may place staff members involuntarily into positions for which they are qualified to meet the urgent needs of the District in an attempt to prevent layoff of staff.
Article 7.9
Criteria for the placement of an individual in a position (existing or newly-created, curricular or extracurricular program) are in priority order as follows:
Final placement considerations in displacement	7.9 A	A candidate is deemed qualified for a defined position by virtue of documented qualifications to handle all of the responsibilities of the position. Relevant qualifications are;
Fully		i Proper certification
qualified		ii Formal training: i.e.t a major or minor or a comparable equivalent
consideration		number and pattern of course units that would qualify an individual as determined by the District. iii Experience: Written verification of prior successful experience in teaching a subject, etc., or in the case of extracurricular activities adequate experience or education as determined by the District except as limited in Article 73 B ii, Acting Assignment. iv Performance: Demonstration of successful performance based on documented evaluations and/or disciplinary actions. All such evaluations of internal employees will give full and fair consideration to employee comments thereto, and will only consider evaluation or behavior data that is documented in compliance with this Agreement. v Interviews: The purpose of the interview for in-district candidates shall be exclusively for the purpose of verification and validation of the qualifications stated in i, ii, and iii above. The interview process and/or performance of the interviewee shall not be used to determine the capability of the candidates) for a position which has been opened pursuant to the provisions in the Position Interest Register. The composition of the interview team, if used, shall consist of the building principal and no more than two (2) other staff members from within the building for which the open position exists. It is understood that the principal shall determine the recommendation for the posit ion.
Protected	7.9 B	Any applicable affirmative action program objectives, considerations, and
assignment considered		Other protected assignments that may apply will be considered-
Involuntary	7.9 C	involuntary displacement considerations, i.e. reinstatement to original
prior displacement placement		building assignment. (See Article 7-8 E iv)
	7.9 D	The sequence for making staffing decisions within the District is;
Staffing		i Candidates in the building.
sequence		ii Candidates in the District. iii C and idates from outs i de of the District.
Seniority	7.9 E	Seniority is as defined in Article 7.3 I.
Chapter Professional Placement
10
2003-05
Self-renewal opportunity considerations	7.9 F	Seniority being equal among candidates, an employee with five (5) or more years of service in his/her current assignment, Le., school grade level subject, etc., will be given preference. Artlde 7.10
Information to building administrators	7.10 A The Human Resources Office will utilize the Position Interest Register to provide building (unit) administrators the names of the in-district, leave return, and excess employees who are interested and qualified to fill an opening in a position under their supervision.
Applicant selection assignment responsibilities	7,10 B The Human Resources Office is responsible for the Position Interest Register, the posting procedures for positions, and determination of the recommendation for a position assignment. The recommendation to the Board for an assignment will be made by the Human Resources Office, 7,10 C The District will make every reasonable effort to fill all known open positions (existing and newly-created) for an ensuing school year prior to the last all-faculty duty day of the current school year. Article 7.11
June 1 notification	An educator may reasonably assume that his/her assignment in a specific position will continue through the next school year without alteration if he/sbc has not been given written notification prior to Tune 1 that circumstances exist and there is a probability that his/her position may be abolished or substantially altered, or he/she may lie transferred or reassigned to another position. Any alteration that may be required because of unforeseen circumstances that arise during the summer that may or will alter an educators assignment will be brought immediately to his/her attention at his/her last known phone or mailing address. He/she will be given every reasonable assistance in being placed in an open position of his/her choice of those available up to the opening day of school. He/she may request that such a placement be recorded as an involuntary placement in his/her personnel file. Article 7.12
Prompt notification of status of application to all candidates	An employee who is interviewed for the possible appointment to a listed vacancy under these procedures will be promptly notified as soon as it is determined that the individual will, or will not, be recommended for appointment.
Review of deficiencies provided	If not selected, an employee applicant may request a conference through the Human Resources Office to meet with an appropriate administrator for the purpose of obtaining counsel as to what specific steps, if any, he/she should take to become better qualified for appointment to similar vacancies in the future and why the successful candidate was recommended for appointment. At the employee^ request, a record of the conference may be included in his/her personnel hit;.
Chapter 7. Professional Placement
11
2003-05
	Article 7-13
Requirements for filling openings	An opening occurring after the first fifteen (15) school days of the school year and the end of the school year will normally be filled by an "acting" assignment (Article 7.3 B ii) in reorganization of the building staff or employment of an individual on a delegate assignment basis (Article 7,3 B Hi)), In special and unusual situations, and when necessary to secure qualified candidates, the District may make a continuing (nonacting) appointment during the school year. However, normal procedures of notification and interviewing to assure that all interested and qualified employees are considered will be utilized prior to conclusively filling the position on a continuing basis during a current year or for the ensuing year. In addition, the Association must be notified in advance of the recruitment action of the special and unusual situation. The Association reserves the right to grieve such action if not in agreement that special and unusual circumstances exist- Mid-year reassignments will be allowed whenever such action can be reasonably construed as not excessively disruptive of present assignments, consistent with sound instructional procedures and programs for students, and/or to fill an opening in a position for which few current employees hold the required qualifications. Article 7. Id Involuntary and Special Situation Placements
Involuntary placements	7.14A	In vol untary changes i n placement of professional educators - transfers or reassignments - will be effected only to accommodate urgent needs of the District. Such involuntary changes, when required, shall be accomplished in compliance with the following procedures:
Volunteers	i No opening will be filled or created by means of involuntary change, if there is a qualified employee volunteer available in the same building.
Considerations required	ii Whenever an involuntary change in placement is necessary, proper consideration will be given to any alternative action to fulfill the urgent needs of the District, all aspects of the individual’s professional qualifications, the individual’s expressed preference for placement, and the effect on his/her total compensation.
Explanation conference	Hi Such involuntary changes in placement will occur only after a conference between the individual and the administrator of Human Resources and/or his/her designee, at which time the individual will be given an explanation a$ tn why the change is essential to the urgent needs of the District, which explanation will establish a rational basis of fact.
Representation allowed	iv At the time of scheduling any such explanatory conference, the ■	individual employee may, ar his/her option, be accompanied by a representative of his/her own chopsing from the Association.
Alternate vacancies provided	v At the lime of any proposed involuntary change in placement, the individual employee shall have access to a complete listing of currently reported openings for which he/she is qualified in the District, and shall be afforded an alternative opportunity to apply for any vacancy so listed.
Chapter 7. Professional Placement
12
2003-05
Statutory rights protected	7.14 A vi No involuntary change in placements will be effected that may compromise in any way the employee’s rights under the statutory provisions. 7.14 B It is recognized that compelling, special situations may exist whereby a change of position assignments within the District is necessary to serve the interest of the employee. Such situations may be initiated by the District, the Association, or the employer; concerned, and in all cases will be based on collaboration between the Association and the District, When such situations exist, the District may identify a reassignment/tiansfer and offer such change to the employee outside of the normal placement procedures. Typically, such options would be based on existing vacancies. However, in the most compelling situations, such reassignment/transfer may be used concurrent with the above “urgent" need authority of the District. Examples □f appropriate situations include but are not Limited to; j Transfer or reassignment of employees who have served successfully in an especially challenging and demanding assignment. ii Transfer or reassignment of a successfully performing employee who has been unsuccessful for a number of years in gaining a reassignment through normal reassignment procedures. iii Transfer or reassignment of an employee due to a compelling personal situation that is beyond the control of the employse. Article 7.15
Promotional positions	7.15 A Any opening in the District which offers a "promotion" as defined in this statement of procedures will be posted in the same manner as other openings. Every reasonable effort will be made to post openings for these positions prior to the beginning of the summer holiday. Recommendations for appointment to a promotional position will not normally be initiated until an opportunity has been provided for all qualified employees to be interviewed ibr the position. Qualifications shall not be altered substantially after publication of such notice of the opening, unless the notification procedure is reinstituted, along with a statement of the rationale for such changes.
Temporary &. permanent promotional positions defined	7 15 B The Superintendent and Board may make ad hoc "acting" assignments of certificated personnel to fill a regular promotional position. However, such assignees shall have the basic requirements for the position and shall not serve beyond the current school year.
Explanation conference	7.15 C The two (2) previous Articles (7.15 A and B) do not apply to positions created in reorganization/cotisolidatian of administrative positions or lateral transfers of current administrative employees. Article 7.16
Teacher exchange	Teachers may, when qualified, with consent of their immediate supervisors, exchange their regularly assigned teacher positions for a duration of time mutually agreed to by the participating teachers and respective building administrators. The purpose of this exchange shall be for the expansion of teacher experiences in other buildings, in other grade levels, and/or subject areas. Exchange of positions on a permanent basis are subject to review and final approval by the Human Resources Office.
Chapter 7- Professional Placement
J 3
2003-05
Article 7,17
Relocation of	Relocation of a teacher and/or his/her class to another building shall be accomplished:
teachers	with the greatest possible prior notice; with possible assistance in packing, transporting,
and unpacking materials from the one site to the other to eliminate or reduce the necessity of a vertime by the teacher. The District will determine if extra paid work day(s) will be provided in making the transition.
When a building is closed or opened due to remodeling, construction, etc., and a certificated staff member is required to relocate to another site, the VSD will provide two (2) eight (8) hour days per affected staff member. Adjustments may be made by mutual agreement of the principal and the staff member(s).
When a temporary disruption due to remodeling, construction, etc., of the workplace requires a staff member to move to another area within the same building (site), the sixteen (id) hours may be utilized to accomplish the move(s). Distribution of hours worked will be applied in a flexible manner to accomplish the needs of the individual and the District, However, it is recognized that construction contracts may restrict the flexibility requested.
The District shall transport the supplies, materials, and equipment to the designated site or classroom.
In the event that a certificated staff member is required to relocate after the beginning of the school year to a reassignment or is required to change an entire grade level or subject matter, the District will provide a minimum of two (2) days without students for preparation in the new assignment.
Article 7,18
TOSAs and	Teachers on Special Assignment (TOSA): The District is encouraged to use teachers
Mentors	on special assignment to perform functions that can best be fulfilled with classroom
teacher knowledge, and that are appropriately rotated among teachers to maintain a contemporary knowledge of classroom needs, issues, and challenges. Activities included in this category include, but are not limited to, mentoring, curriculum review and development, special program operations, and development of extended learning programs. In making such assignments, the fol lowing provisions apply:
7-18 A i The District will post the position in accordance with normal posting requirements of this contract and subject to any qualification criteria otherwise specified (i.e., QSPI or RCW requirements). Qualifications will be based on job analysis of the position/function to be performed. Additionally, the District will encourage building administrators to consult with their site-based team and recommend well-qualified teachers for consideration. An annual reminder of this will be made by VEA when teachers and administrators are completing the selfassessment process. The District retains the final decision regarding selection.
ii TOSA assignments in mentoring and curriculum will normally be for a two-year period. A lesser period may be stipulated in the job posting based on the specific need. The District may extend the TOSA assignment for a third year without further consideration of other members when it is necessary for completion of a project. The District will inform the Association of such situations and the reason therefore. Chapter 7. Professional Placement	14
2003-05
7.18 A ill To the extent practical, TOSAs will represent the full spectrum of classroom teachers (grade level categories), and will be provided with experience across the spectrum of TOSA responsibilities (i.e,, mentoring, curriculum, etc.).
iv The District will provide TOSAs with professional development and leadership development opportunities while on special assignment.
v The District will aggregate extended day$/year (Appendix E), TRI, and any other agreed upon, additional, compensation and provide fur payment of the aggregate amount over the ten (10) student attendance months. In no case will the District reduce the extended day amount below any state authorized and funded stipend,
vi TOSAs on part-time release will be paid proportionately to full-time TOSAs.
vii Extended-day compensation and duties are in addition to the basic contract and are based on an eight (8) hour on-site duty day.
viii TOSAs completing the special assignment will return to the classroom via the PIR provisions for TOSAs (7.3 G vi),
7.18 B Mentors. Certificated staff who have been selected to serve as mentors on an as-needed basis will be granted substitute release time for mentoring or will be compensated for hours outside the normal on-site day at the hourly rate specified in this agreement for supplemental contracts.
Chapter 7. Professional Placement
15
2003-05
CHAPTER 8. EVALUATION OF THE PROFESSIONAL PERFORMANCE OF CERTIFICATED STAFF
	■Article 8.1			
Annual systematic evaluations	The District and the Association acknowledge that state statute and sound principles of school administration require systematic objective evaluation, at least annually, of each certificated staff member's professional performance. Equally important, the District and the Association are committed to the principle that the most effective educators are lifelong learners and that an effective and professional evaluation system is inextricably tied to the professional development process. The evaluation, self-assessment, and observation process is designed to maintain and advance this linkage between evaluation and professional development- Articte 8.2
Priorities of purpose of evaluation	The purposes of evaluation of professional performance in order of priority are deemed to	he: 8.2 A	To	improve the professional performance of the employee. 8.2 B	To	provide the employee with regular feedback about his/her performance. 8.2 C	To	specifically inform the employee of ways tn which he/she can improve- 8.2 D	To	identify specific training needs of an employee. 8 2 E	To	establish a basis for contract renewal or non-renewal, dismissal, or any other disciplinary action against an employee whenever such an action may become necessary. Article 83
Evaluation responsibility	Evaluation is the basic and primary responsibility of the building principal or his/her counterpart in administrative units to whom a certificated person has been assigned. Any principal or other supervisor may request other certificated staff members to assist in the remedy of such identified deficiencies and in strict accordance with written improvement plans as have been specifically designed for a teacher placed on probation. Every certificated employee will be notified of the name of his/her primary evaluator within thirty (30) days of the beginning date of the school year. The summative evaluation responsibility is restricted to persons holding an administrative certificate and serving in that capacity with the District- Article 8.4
Delegation of evaluation authority	An associate principal and/or another appropriate designated administrator may be assigned by the building principal to perform the evaluative process for designated members of the school's staff. Article 8.5
Program supervisor evaluation responsibility	For certificated employees assigned to specialized areas of instruction where program supervisors are provided, the program supervisor will assist in the evaluative process giving special attention to the specialized knowledge and technique of the teacher in his/her assigned area of instruction.
Chapter 8. Evaluation of the Proi'cssiyna! Performance of Certificated Staff
2003-05
	Article 8.6
Evaluation process yearlong cycle	Evaluation and professional development are conceived as processes that are continuous, normally planned, and conducted throughout an employee’s career with the District. Although yearly evaluations are required by statute and critical points of accountability may become prominent in the cycle, these will not be viewed as isolated incidents, but rather as integral functions in the continuous cycle. Article 8.7
Pre-school preps for evaluation	Building principals, associate principals, and other responsible supervisors will plan and schedule as part of the annual pre-school staff activities an explanatory presentation and appropriate discussion of the evaluation process, including quality time for reviewing and providing feedback on the certificated employee’^ self-assessment. Certificated employees will take initiative in evaluation and professional
Designation of evaluators	development both in the self-assessment process and in providing evaluation input. Mutual assessment and input to identify developmental needs and opportunities ate essential ingredients of the process. The scheduling of observations should be discussed, i.e., teacher initiated and/or administrator initiated, to
Review of evaluation criteria	provide for the most effective development of the evaluation process. Information obtained through scheduled observations should be supplemented by other methods of evaluation and through the use of input that the employee may choose to provide. Article 8.8
Annual evaluation reports due	Every certificated employee will be evaluated annually and an official report of that evaluation on the appropriate form shall be filed in the Human Resources Office. Evaluation reports on all certificated employees must be filed in the Human Resources Office no later than twenty (20) school days before the end of the year. Article 8.9
New employee evaluation time dimensions	The 1992 Legislature established an initial two-year (2) period of time for teachers new to teaching in Washington State as a "provisional contract” status to demonstrate a satisfactory performance period prior to attainment of “continuing contract” status. During the initial two-year (2) period each provisional employee will be evaluated at least once, for thirty (30) minutes, within ninety (90) days of the beginning date of the employee’s service (first day of employment) and preliminary reports arc due in the Human Resources Office no later than one hundred and five (105) calendar days from the employee’s beginning date of service. In the event the employee does not make sufficient progress toward improvement during an established probationary period, hc/shc will be separated from service with the District as is provided in statute. ArtideflJG
Preliminary report	For all continuing employees whose performance is judged to be unsatisfactory, a report stating the probable causes or reasons for probation will be submitted to the Superintendent and a copy provided to the employee. The principal or designated evaluation supervisor and the employee shall immediately attempt to develop a mutually agreeable written plan designed to improve the employee’s effectiveness in the identified deficient areas. If the supervisor and employee are unable to agree upon a mutually acceptable plan for improvement, the supervisor shall prepare and deliver such plan to the employee. Such reports will include a recommended, specific, and reasonable program designed to assist the employee in improving his/her performance.
Chapter 8. Evil]nation of the Professional Performance of Certificated Staff
2
2003-05
If the Superintendent concurs with the supervisor's judgment that the performance of the employee is unsatisfactory, the Superintendent shall place the employee in a probationary status at any time after October 15 and ending after sixty (60) school days. Prior to the Superintendent’s decision to invoke probationary status, the employee may request a conference meeting to review the principal's report and the proposed improvement plan with the Supcrintendent/designee for the District. The employee may, at his/her option, have a representative from the Association accompany him/her to the review conference meeting. On or before the beginning of the probation period, the employee shall be given written notice of the action of the Superintendent, which notice shall contain the following information:
8.10 A i. Specific areas of performance deficiencies.
8.10 B i. Suggested specific and reasonable program for improvement.
8.10 C i. A statement indicating the duration of the probationary period and that the purpose of the probationary period is to give the employee the opportunity to demonstrate improvement in his/her area(s) of deficiency-
provisional employees shall be afforded procedures and safeguards simitar to the above except that the requirement for a probable cause determination by the Superintendent and a sixty (60) school-day probation period does not apply Such employees will be;
8.10 A ii. Provided with written notice of their deficiencies by the Superintendent/designee at any time that performance is deemed to be unsatisfactory.
8.10 B ii. Provided with a suggested specific and reasonable plan for improvement,
8.10 C it. Provided an opportunity to meet with the Superintendent/designee and with an Association representative, at their option, to review the principal's report and the proposed improvement plan, and to provide input to the plan of improvement.
Article 8.11
Evaluation An "evaluation" is a comprehensive conclusion based On a series of events and activities. An evaluation defined	as submitted on the appropriate forms, shall be based on the recorded observations in the classroom or
other instructional setting, as well as any number of documented critical incidents, supervisory reports, consultations, and input from the employee and the employee’s professional development plan. In the spirit of joint involvement of employees and supervisors in the evaluation and professional development process, all information used in the evaluation should have been shared and discussed during the course of the year os It became available and consistent with other provisions of this Agreement.
Article 8.12
Evaluation during the probationary period:
Evaluation during probationary period	8,12 A	At or about the time of the delivery of a probationary letter, the principal or designated evaluation supervisor shall hold a personal conference with the probationary employee to discuss performance deficiencies and the remedial measure to be taken. When appropriate, the supervisor may designate a certificated employee to assist the employee in improving his/her areas of deficiency, as is provided in the written improvement plan of the probation notice. The peer mentor will provide formative assistance only and will be free of any evaluation responsibility for continuation of the probationer's employment.
	8.12 B	During the probationary period, the principal or other designated evaluator shall meet with the probationary employee at least twice (2) monthly to supervise and make a written
Chapter 8. Evaluation of the Professional Performance of Certificated Staff
3
2003-05
	evaluation of the progress, if any, made by the employee. The written evaluation of progress will be provided to the employee at the end of each month. Beginning with the probationary period, an employee may have an Association representative present during the twice-monthly conferences concerning evaluation reports. 8.12 C	The probationary employee may be removed from probation at any time if he/she has demonstrated improvement to the satisfaction of the principal or designated evaluation supervisor in those areas specifically detailed in the improvement program evaluation meetings. Article 8,13
Recommendation for nonrenewal	In cases where recommendations for improvement are not effected and deficiencies are not corrected during the prescribed probationary period, the supervisor will advise tbe employee of such a conclusion and of the fact that the supervisor must recommend that the employee's service contract not be renewed for the following year. A r tide 8.14 Immediately following the completion of a probationary period that does not produce performance changes detailed in the initial notice of deficiencies and improvement program, the employee may be removed from his or her assignment and placed into an alternative assignment for the remainder of the school year. This reassignment may not displace another employee nor may it adversely affect the probationary employee's compensation or benefits for the remainder of the employee’s contract year. If such reassignment is not possible, the District may, at its option, place the employee on paid leave for the balance of the contract term. Article 8.15
Forms required lor use in evaluation process	8.15 A	The observation form is designed and intended for use as an instrument of detailed and immediate communication between the employee and the supervisor in their ongoing relationship. It is mandated for use in evaluation conferences and such conferences shall be scheduled promptly after each significant classroom observation or at such time as the supervisor or employee deems a performance discussion to be appropriate. Not fewer than two (2) visits, a total of sixty (60) minutes, will be scheduled each year. At the conclusion
Function of Professional Activities Observation Forms	of each conference where the ^Jassrpom/Professional Activities Observation Notes form has been used, both the employee and the evaluator will sign the form, indicating that the form represents a report of the information communicated at the conference. It does not necessarily denote the employee's full concurrence in the evaluator’s conclusions. Signed copies of each form will be retained by both the employee and tbe evaluator and will not be placed in the employee’s personnel file. Observation notes are intended as working notes of the evaluator and the teacher for their exclusive use and should generally only be provided to the Human Resources Office when that office is providing assistance to the supervisor or the employee in performance improvement nr professional development planning.
Employee's signature acknowledges supervisor’s comments	8.15 B	The Summative Evaluation Report is a formal and official summary evaluation based on a series of documented observations, critical incidents, supervisory reports, and consultations, which arise out of contracted performance. This report should reflect the previous discussions recorded on the appropriate forms. It is signed by both the employee and the evaluator. A copy will be provided to the employee. Signature docs not denote concurrence, but rather that the report is an adequate statement of the substance of the final
Interview notes not sent to human resources	evaluation conference. Each Summativc Evaluation Report shall be forwarded to the Human Resources Office for filing in the employee's personnel file. The employee will have the right to append to this form a pertinent rebuttal statement for the record. Such supplementary statements will be submitted to the Human Resources Office within ten (10)
Chapter 8- Evaluation of the Profess ion a] Pcribrmance of Certificated Staff
4
2003-05
Function of Summative Eval. Report
working days of the final evaluation conference, with a copy to be transmitted to Che evaluator. The administrator of Human Resources may contact the parties in an effort to conciliate any differences toward establishing a more harmonious working relationship between the two (2) parties.
Article 8. 16
8.16 A The certificated employee should complete an annual self-asiscssment/evaluation, including the setting of individual professional goals and outlining a plan for the accomplishment ot such goals. The plan may include observations and comments by one or more peers of the employee’s choice (see Article 8.15), comments by students and/or parents, and the use of District or building goals, personal records, and/or District evaluations.
8-16 B During September and October, teacher participants and their supervisors will meet to thoroughly discuss the employee’s self-assessment and for the administrator to provide his/her input to the self-assessment result and professional development plans. Participants should have in mind their professional goals.
8,16 C The employee may identify to his/her evaluator two (2) or more peer teachers, specialists, or clinicians in a like job assignment, that have agreed to serve as a designated peer consultant to work with the requesting teacher toward the improvement of his/her skills and knowledge of teaching. The District will designate one (1) of the candidates as the peer consultant and authorize the payment of released time costs. The District will allocate at least one (1) day of released time substitute costs for the peer consultant to provide tn-class visitation for observations and/or demonstrations, etc. The final decision on a denial for stipulated and reasonable cause utilizing this service rests with the Human Resources Office.
8.16 D When funds are available, the District will annually establish and allocate funds not to exceed $12,000 to allow release-time substitute costs for approximately one-third (1/3) of the teaching staff to participate in a peer consultant supervision/experiment project.
8.16 E Consistent with the tenets of evaluation procedures, the peer consultant may provide positive input, regarding his/her observation to the employee's primary evaluator to validate the individuals participation in the process.
8-16 F The administrator for Human Resources will be responsible for working with building administrators For coordinating and scheduling of a peer consultant, obtaining a substitute, etc., and providing notification to all parties of interest when all arrangements have been formalized.
Article 8.17
8.17 A The grievance procedure may be utilized through Step 3, Level III, Arbitration, to resolve a dispute that pertains to proper adherence to the procedures and timelines followed in the process of evaluating an employee,
8.17 B A dispute pertaining to the veracity of a conclusion, a recommendation, or an observation of an evaluator indicating an exception which is noted on the final Summative Evaluation Report will be limited to appeal through Level II, Step 2, the Grievance Adjustment Conference. *See footnote.
8.17 C This provision does not alter Che opportunity for an employee to seek, through administrative channels, a review and/or a change of the contents of his/her Observation Notes form or Summative Evaluation Report by a District level administiator/s). The
Chapter 8. Evaluation of the Professional Performance of Certificated Staff
2003-05
review will be based on incomplete, inadequate information, or otherwise unsound ba&js of evaluation, he., personal prejudice, lack of knowledge about a specific area, etc. The employee may request a change in the individual designated as evaluator on same grounds stated above-
Article 8.18
The Evaluation System Resource Manual is hereby made a part of this chapter by reference-
♦Footnote; RCW 28A.405.310. The discharge and non-rencwal statute procedures provide the procedures that will finally be utilized by a designated neutral attorney/hearing officer to resolve any disputes should the District determine to pursue that course of action-
Chapter 8. Evaluation of the Professional Performance of Certificated Staff
6
2003-05
CHAPTER 9. EMPLOYEE RIGHTS, PREROGATIVES. AND RESPONSIBILITIES
	Article 9.1 The Right tn Personal Freedom
Private lives exempt from District scrutiny	The District and the Association recognize that the private life of an educator is not within the appropriate concern or attention of the District for purposes of judging his/her professional performance and competency and continued employment status, except as it may directly prevent the educator from properly performing his/her assigned functions during the workday. Article 9.2
Full citizenship rights	Educators will be entitled to full rights of citizenship, and no religious or political activities of any educator or the lack thereof will be grounds for adverse action with respect to the professional employment of the educator, providing such activities are not violative of law. Article 9.3 The Right to Academic Freedom & Controversial Issues
Parameters defined	Academic freedom shall be guaranteed to teachers, and no special limitations shall be placed upon study, administrative inquiry, presentation and interpretation of facts and ideas concerning man, human society, the physical and biological world, and other branches of learning, subject to accepted standards of professional responsibility and School District policies F6122 and P6123. Article 9.4 These responsibilities include a commitment to democratic tradition, a concern for the welfare, growth, and development of children, and an insistence upon objective scholarship.
Responsibility	9.4 A	In discussing controversial issues, the teacher will encourage courteous expression of all individual viewpoints and will try to ensure fair and equitable consideration of conflicting points of view. 9.4 B	Students will be encouraged to withhold judgment until viewpoints and available information have been considered. 9.4 C	Tn the presentation of all controversial issues, the teacher will make every effort to effect a balance of biases, to ensure fair representation of divergent points of view, and opportunity for students to research. 9.4 D	The teacher will respect positions other than his/her own. Tlie teacher will stale his/her position, biases, or beliefs when requested by students, but should make every effort to identify statements of opinion and statements of fact.
Chapter 9. Employee Rights, Prerogatives, and Raxpuns Utilities
2003-05
9.4 E Outside speakers on controversial topics may be used when available instructional materials or media resources are inadequate. Administrative approval must be obtained prior to scheduling any guest speaker. Such approval will be exercised in a manner consistent with the principles of free inquiry and expression. If, in the opinion of the administrator, the . prestige or rhetoric of the speaker will result in unwarranted persuasion to one viewpoint, he/she may require that proponents of other viewpoints have a similar opportunity to be heard. The administrator may withhold approval when he/she has reason to believe that a speaker or his/her message would hinder or disrupt the orderly functioning of the school. The teacher may request a written statement from the administrator specifying the reasons for withholding approval. It is recognized that tlie decision for denial of outside speaker requests rests with the SuperfriLendent/designee and appeals from the decision are limited to step 2 of the grievance procedure, i.e., not subject to the arbitration procedure.
Article 9.5
"Hidden bugs" No mechanical or electronic device shall be installed in any classroom or brought in on prohibited a temporary basis by. which records are made of the procedures, activities, conversations, and events in any class without the full knowledge of its presence and specific intended purpose of the record and the written consent by the educator responsible for conducting the class.
Article 9,6
Public Expression
The District and the Association recognize that educators are usually well-informed regarding the curricula, the general operation of the schools, and the way the funds available to the District are being spent. Citizens in the educator group should feel free to speak out on such matters to their fellow citizens without fear of District censorship or discipline. However, an educator should take into account both the content and the method of presentation of any public criticisms as to their potential for improving the educational system and the long-range benefits they may have for students. An educator should not knowingly distort or misrepresent facts concerning educational matters directly or indirectly, or use personal invective in his/her public expressions of opinion. Each educator should clearly distinguish in his/her public statements between personal opinions and when he/she may be serving as a spokesperson for the District or rhe Association-
Public expression as defined by U.S. Supreme Court decisions provide the following guidelines;
9-6 A While public employees have the right to self-expression on matters of public concern, their speech may not be disruptive to the workplace.
9.6 B The employee’s interest in public expression on an issue of public concern must not be outweighed by any injury the speech could cause to the interest of the District, as an employer, in promoting the efficiency of the public services it performs.
9 6 C An employee has the right to criticize policies or practices in his/her school system in remarks communicated privately to his/her supervisor without fear of being disciplined for that.
Chapter 9. Employee Rights, Prerogatives, and Responsibilities
2
2003-05
	9.6 D	An employee’s public expression must be free of false and recklessly made statements. Employees will use the District’s communication services in a manner that is factual, fair, and respectful. 9,6 E	The District has a duty to investigate prior to any disciplinary action of an employee. The Association and the District agree that these guidelines should not be considered as absolutes. They are based on specific court decisions, and the courts continue to define First Amendment Rights as they relate to the public concern. Whether any given speech is protected or how much protection will be afforded an individual depends on the unique circumstances of each case. Article 9.7 Freedom of Association for Purposes of Employee-Employer Relations
Individual's right ti» participate in employee organizations	The District and the Association recognize that every certificated employee shall have the right to freely organize, join, and support an employee organization of his/her choice for the purpose of professional improvement, engaging in negotiations and other concerted activities for mutual aid and protection except as may be specifically limited by this Agreement, under rights of the Association as the officially recognized bargaining agency. The District will not directly or indirectly discourage, deprive, or
Association membership activities protected	coerce any certificated employee in the enjoyment of any rights conferred or protected by the statutes and constitutions of the state of Washington and the United States: that it will not discriminate against any certificated employee with respect to any terms or conditions of employment by reason of his/her membership in the Association, his/her participation in any grievance complaint or proceeding under this Agreement, or otherwise with respect to any terms or conditions of employment. Article 9.8 Right of Nondiscrimination
District responsibilities	The District shall adhere to a policy of not discriminating against any certificated employee in his/her employment relationships on the basis of race, creed, color, national origin, sex, family, domicile, marital status, age, physical or sensory handicap,
Association responsibilities	or membership in an employee organisation. The Association shall adhere to a policy of admitting to its membership all certificated employees without discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color, physical and sensory handicap. Article 9,9 Responding to Parent/Community Complaints
Prompt participation in supervisor ■ parent conferences questioning competency required	An educator in normal circumstances will be informed within three (3) working days of conferences or contacts, including anonymous complaints, between parents or citizens and his/her supervisors when there are discussions of events or circumstances that are relative to an evaluation of his/her professional performance and competency. The teacher and the administrator will meet and consult on how best to address the complaint. It is recognized that teacher initiative and direct parent/citizen and teacher communication is most typically the best means of resolving differences. Different approaches will he considered consistent with the nature of the complaint, level of emotion, or overall atmosphere. No written reference to an alleged complaint from a citizen shall be included in the educator's personnel file unless it is verified through investigation and becomes part of a disciplinary action and the teacher is notified in the prescribed manner.
Chapter 9, Employer Rights, Prijugali vfts, and Responsibilities
3
2003-05
A District level administrator will refer a citizen-parent complainant initiating a complaint at the District level in normal circumstances within three (3) working days of the receipt of said complaint to the level of building administration and/or teacher where the problem originated for full discussion and definition of the issues involved.
Article 9.10
Administrative Discipline Procedures
Discipline procedures are intended to be constructive procedures to avoid the necessity of dismissal. Conversely, the supervisor or District administrator in appropriate situations may issue a verbal or written caution for incidents not meriting formal disciplinary action without regard to the discipline procedures. When a verbal caution is issued, the administrator will follow up within ten (10) working days and provide the employee with written confirmation of the caution and the expected behavior. Such documentation will be retained in the administrator's building file and will not become part of the personnel hie.
The parties affirm that the general principles of "progressive discipline" will be applied in correcting employee behavior. The normal sequence of progression is (1) admonishment, (2) letter of reprimand, and (3) suspension. Serious and compelling circumstances may warrant the omission of steps 1-3.
It is in everyone’s interest to be both thorough and timely when investigating allegations of misconduct and in communicating the expected, corrected behavior to the employee. It is therefore miticrpated that fetters of admonishment and reprimand will normally be issued within ten (10) working days of when the misconduct becomes known except when District and/or Association representatives require additional time to properly complete the investigation and review process.
9.10 A Admonishment The employee's supervisor, or a District level administrator in appropriate situations, shall have the option to admonish verbally or in writing by identifying the behavior that needs correction. Admonishments are to be issued for minor incidents.
Written letter of admonition procedure	i An administrator may admonish an employee for misconduct that, if continued, may result in progressive discipline. Attendance at an admonishment conference is normally limited to the administrator and the employee. However, the employee must be informed prior to or at the start of the conference that it is for the purpose ol an admonishment. The employee, on his/her initiative, may request a delay of not more than one workday to arrange to have a representative present. When an employee representative is to be present, a District office representative may also participate.
Distribution of letters of admonishment
ii A letter of admonition will be retained in the administrator’s file. The letter shall be signed by the recipient, indicating only that he/shc has seen it and does not necessarily indicate he/she agrees with the content. A copy of the letter will be provided to the educator.
Chapter 9- Employee Rights, Prerogatives, and Responsibilities
4
2003-05
Written reprimand for the record procedure
Causes for a reprimand
Recorded reprimand procedure
Prior notice representation required
Employee's representation witness
9.10 B A Letter of Reprimand
9,10 B i An administrator with the assigned responsibility far the evaluation of a specified certificated person may, far just cause, present a letter of reprimand fortlie record to an individual citing the reasons far the reprimand, the behavior required in the future, and the probable consequences if there is a repetition of the behavior cited. Such a letter may also be issued by a District level administrator in appropriate situations.
ii A letter of reprimand may be issued for an incident when an error of judgment or negligence that may reasonably be construed to have placed in jeopardy the mental and physical health and safety of a person entrusted to his/her care; an act of moral turpitude; an overt refusal to carry cut a lawful administrative directive; or refusal to abide by District policies, District regulations, or this Agreement. A reprimand will be placed on file in the Human Resources Office within two (2) days following its issue. The reprimand will remain in the individual^ District personnel record until such time as it may be removed at the direction of the Superintcndent/designce, or the office of the Superintendent.
iii Any educator whose behavior may be subject to reprimand shall be allowed to know all of the facts then known supporting an allegation that there is probable, just, and strfficienf cause for such an action. A conference date for the employee to review the evidence and the reprimand contemplated will be established by the immediate supervisor with no less than two (2) days prior notice to the employee. The employee will be informed of the purpose of the conference, the nature of the complaint, his/her right to representation, and given an opportunity to defend him/herself. The two-day {2} prior notice requirement may be waived only by agreement of a! I parties. Within five (5) working days fallowing the conference, the employee will be provided with a final text of the reprimand or notified that it will be dropped or that another action is to be taken. A copy of the reprimand will be placed on file in the Human Resources Office and a copy sent to the employee The employee will have the opportunity to draft a rebuttal statement for attachment to the reprimand within ten (10) working days of its issue with a copy to his/her supervisor.
iv An employee will always be given the right to include another person of his/her choosing. The employee or the District may tape record the proceedings of a meeting scheduled for the presentation of a letter of reprimand for the record. Whenever other District administratot(s) are to be included in a discipline meeting or conference, prior notice will he provided to the employee and the employee will have the right to add an equal number of representatives.
9.10 C Suspension for just and sufficient cause as allowed by state statute and District policy.
9.10 D Separation for just and sufficient cause as allowed by state statute and District policy.
Chapier 9. Employee Rights, Prerogatives, and Responsibilities
5
2003-05
	Article 9.11
Procedure for review & removal of derogatory material	Discipline letters placed in an employee’s personnel file in accordance with this chapter, will be removed from the personnel file after two full years of satisfactory service. The record may be maintained in a separate master grievance nr discipline file in accordance with Article 9.13. Additionally, an educator who has had a reprimand or other derogatory material placed in his/her file in the Human Resources Office may request a hearing by the Superintendent/designee each ten (10) month time period from the date it was filed to determine the necessary and lawful purposes that remain for its continued retention in the personnel file in the Human Resources Office. The materials will be removed if it can be established that the individual has remedied the fault(s) cited and/or no necessary and lawful purpose remains for continued retention of the materials in the file. It is recognized that the decision for removal or non-removal of material rests with the Superintendent/designee and appeals from the decision are limited to step 2 of the grievance procedure, i.e.T not subject to the arbitration procedure. Article 9-12 Administrative Inquiry /Investigation. A semi-formal administrative inquiry is a procedure normally curried out by a District level administrator or a building administrator other than an employee's assigned evaluator/supervisur.
Administrative inquiry conference	An administrative inquiry conference may be scheduled by a District or building administrator for the purpose of discussing an alleged incidcnt(s) involving a member of the bargaining unit The incident^) to he discussed should be of substantial gravity that, if confirmed, would lead to disciplinary action or dismissal. The scheduling and conduct of the meeting is subject to the same conditions as apply to letters of reprimand. Copies of any written materials used at the conference will be provided to the employee. A written record that such a meeting was held shall not become a part of the permanent personnel record of the employee unless the inquiry results in a letter of reprimand or more serious disciplinary action. Article 9.13 Right of Knowledge & Access to Personnel Files, Materials, & Information
Rights of access to all materials & information in personnel file	Certificated employees or former certificated employees shall, upon request, have the right during regular District business hours to inspect all contents of their complete personnel file kept within the District- Upon request, a copy at District expense of any documents contained therein shall bn provided to the employee No secret, alternate, or other personnel file shall be kept anywhere in the District, except that all records of grievance and discipline will be maintained in a separate master grievance or discipline file specifically organized for that purpose. Supervisors may retain pertinent records about events that involve employees, providing that the employees shall have access to such a file. Article 9.14
Right of counsel in making file reviews	At the request of the individual educator, other persons of his/her own choosing may be present with him/her in reviewing his/her personnel file. If an educator is unable to be present, a notarized written permission and authorization for a designee to review the contents of the file irmy be made.
Chapter 9. Employee Rights, Prerogatives, and Responsibiiiries
6
2003-05
Article 9.15
Usual minimum contents of personnel file	Each certificated employee's personnel file shall contain the following minimum items of information; i Professional certification for positions held or desired. ii All formal evaluation reports with rebuttal statements attached, if any. (Classroam/Professional Activities ObservatipTi_Nptes may not be included in the personnel file). iii Basic and supplementary contracts. iv Transcripts of academic records. v Copies of all letters, if any, sent to other districts, persons, or agencies regarding the employee. vi Letters of commendation, honors, etc, vii Most recently filed home and forwarding address(es). Article 9.16
Derogatory' materials	No evaluation, correspondence, or other material making derogatory reference to an employee^ or former employee's competence, character, or manner shall be kept or placed in the personnel file without the employeeIi knowledge and the opportunity to attach his/her own comments or the right to have it reviewed at a fair hearing and removed if warranted.
Notification required & rebuttal allowed proper receipt procedure	Derogatory material must be shown to a certificated employee within ten (10) days after receipt, or composition (if originating within the District office), and must be certified as seen via a dated employee signature or documented as to the employee's refusal to sign. Any derogatory material Lacking proper receipt of employee notification shall not be allowed as evidence in any non-rcncwal proceeding er other District hearings. Any derogatory statement from a nonprofessional source will routinely be removed and
Annual clearing of derogatory materials	destroyed twelve (12) months following date of receipt in the Human Resources Office unless it is a current, relevant, and important part of an immediate or possible nonrenewal or other discipline hearing proceedings. Article 9.17 Standards for a Fair Inquiry Hearing & Due Process in the Examination of Allegations made from External Sources
Investigatory hearings	The District and the Association agree that every employee will always have the right to due process regarding an official District action that may be taken that can affect the educator's professional reputation and continued employment. Chapter 28A.405 RCW is deemed to be the official and exclusive channel and procedure for resolution of problems arising from notices of dismissal, non-renewat, and/or adverse effect of an employee's contractual rights. The grievance procedure provided in Chapter 5 of this Agreement is deemed to be the official and sole channel and procedure for resolution of problems arising in the interpretation and application of this Agreement.
Chapter 9. E'mpJ&vee RjgJi/s, Prerogatives. and Responsibdiftes
2G03-05
When an allegation is generated against an employee from a sourcefs), i,e,, students, parents, other employees, or citizens not normally a part of the Districts personnel procedures as established in state statute and/or the Comprehensive Professional Agreement for the evaluation and general supervision of its employees, the District has the discretion to conduct a semiformal hearing of inquiry (see also informal administrative inquiry Article 9-10 B). The purpose of this semiformal hearing is to determine whether the allegation^):
9-17 A i- Is not valid and to clear the employee, or
9-17 B L That the allegaticnfs) has merit and to establish a factual basis for another administrative action as may be needed to correct the identified and validated problem(s).
The semiformal hearing of inquiry will be conducted with the following minimal assurance to the employee:
9.17 A ii. A reasonable impartial hearing officer and decision-maker chosen by the District to conduct the proceedings in a judicious manner.
9.17 B ii. Timely and adequate notice detailing the reasons for the hearing or impending action or other possible judgments to be made.
9,17 C ii- The right to have a representative of his/her choice accompany and assist him/her in making representations in the hearing(s).
9.17 D ii. The opportunity for rhe educator to be heard,
9,17 E ii. The opportunity to confront and cross-examine witnesses and to present witnesses on his/her own behalf.
9.17 Fii, The opportunity to present arguments and evidence orally as well as in writing.
9.17 G ii. The hearing officer's recommendation will rest ’’solely on the information and evidence adduced at the hearing(s)."
9-17 H it The hearing officer^ recommendations will provide a statement supporting any decision reached that provides the reasons for the determination and the evidence relied on.
9.17 I ii. The employee may choose if the proceedings will be open or closed to the public.
9.17 J ii. The hearing oflicer\ decision and recommendations are strictly advisory.
The due process rights and hearing set forth in this section do not preclude the District from initiating and/or processing disciplinary action against an employee including action for non-rencwal, dismissal, or adverse effect of an employee's contractual status.
Chapter 9. Employee Rights, Prerogatives, and Responsibilities
8
2003-05
Article 9.18	.
Mutual Respect & Courtesy Conferences of Employees, Especially Privacy & Dignity Concerns
Private conference sessions	918 A	The parties agree that when employees have strong differences of opinion between and among themsefves it is expected (hat such differences should be approached through rational discussions held among and limited to Only the "parties of interest" held in a private place. All employees are expected to refrain from use of critical and invective expression of each other in the presence of the public (students, other employees, and citizens) in semi-public places such as faculty lounges, hallways, etc.
Administrators critical of employees	9,18 B	Administrators will discuss problems of the employees performance and verbally admonish or reprimand employees in private with only those Association representatives and other witnesses as requested or necessary to the process to be in attendance. A written admonishment, censure, reprimand, or other evaluative memoranda of a teacher^ performance is not to be made available to a parent or other general citizenry except as may be required by the law of the state of Washington or by procedures of a formal bearing conducted by the District or by a court order. Whenever a building administrator requests a conference with a member of the Association's bargaining unit, management will have no more persons present than the Association. If additional administrators are included, the subordinate will be granted enough time to obtain a representative of his/her choosing, if so desired, to be included in the conference.
Employees critical of administrators	9-L8C	A teacher with a personal complaint or grievancc(s) with an individual administrator's decision or action will apprise this supervisor in the forum, the private grievance procedure conference situation; which has been established for dealing with that kind of problem with only a faculty and/or Professional Rights and Responsibilities representative and other persons in attendance that may have information of importance necessary to the resolution of the problem.
Employees critical of employees	9.1BD	A teacher with a complaint about another employcc(s) (teacher, supervisor, aide, etc.) should first try to resolve the difference between and among themselves in a private conversation. Tf that does not resolve the problem any employee may request an appropriate building administrator to conduct a private conference with al] parlies of concern to facilitate a solution before the administrator takes any necessary administrative summary action to finally resolve the dispute tn assure the orderly operation of the school.
Concern for dignity of others	9.18 E	Any employee may be subject to an appropriate disciplinary action for failing to exercise reasonable, good judgment in handling interpersonal disputes and is expected to exercise respect, courtesy, and concern for the dignity of other employees.
	9.18 F	The District agrees not to issue press releases regarding the disciplinary action of a member of the Association’s bargaining unit.
Refer to Appendix I. Alternative Dispute Resolution Process
Chapter 9. Employee Rights, Prerogatives, anti Responsibilities
2003-05
Article 9,19
As a condition of employment the teacher assumes the shared responsibility with the total building staff for supervision and maintenance of order.
Article 9.20
9.20	A When suspected criminal activity of an employee is under investigation by law enforcement authorities the provisions of Articles 9.9,9.10 B and 9.19 will be suspended until the date the District receives notification from the office of the law enforcement agency involved that the investigation has been completed and whether or nut charges will be initiated.
9.20	B The employee will be informed in strictest confidence by the District at the earliest reasonable time when notified that an investigation is or will soon be under way by a law enforcement agency and that the employee should retain the services of an attorney and/or contact the Association office.
Cha],ter 9. Employee Rights. Prerogatives, and Responsibilities
L0
2003-05
Calendar of service days
Emergency adjustment of calendar for weather & make-up days
Snow make-up guidelines
Delayed day reporting time
CHAPTER 10. GENERAL CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
Article 10.1	■	.................
The calendars) of service days covered by this Agreement is set forth in Appendix B and/or Regulation 6111, and made a part hereof.
Article 10.2
10,2 A The calendar of service days will not be altered without prior notice and consultation with the Association, except in emergency situations. "Whenever, in the opinion of the Siiperintendent/destgnee, the conditions of inclement weather or other conditions exist which may constitute a real and present hazard to the health and safety of students or employees because of their required attendance at a school on a tegular school day or teacher duty day, the Superintendent may suspend the day is service or alter the hours of a service day until such time as the hazardous conditions cease to exist.
10.2 B The make-up days for snow closure will be provided for in the calendar to be adopted each year for the succeeding year, normally prior to March 15-The following priorities will be utilized: (1) days at the end of the school year, (2) spring in-service day, if available, (3) mid-semester workday, (4) spring holiday days only in extreme situations.
10 2 C Whenever the Superintendent delays the reporting time of students to keep school buses out of the morning rush hour traffic during especially inclement weather, employees will be expected to report to their assigned buildings at their usual starting times (Article 10.5 D) or as reasonably near thereto as is consistent with their safety and in no case later than thirty (30) minutes prior to the opening of school for students as required in WAC 180-44-050.
10.2 D Emergency situations will also include provision for early departure when the District has determined that students must be dismissed early due to an emergent crisis Such early departure may be authorized by the Superintendent, All students must have departed the school prior to the release of the staff.
Article 103
The following guidelines should be utilized in developing a calendar of service days for certificated staff covered by tbc Agreement:
10.3 A The first student day should normally be scheduled not later than September 5, However, the first student day may be scheduled after September 5 because of construction delays.
10.3 B One (1) contracted duty day (option of two (2) for each elementary and middle school teacher) immediately prior to the first student day.
Chapter 10. General Conditions of Employment
I
20Q3-05
10,3 C Mid-semester workday. One (1) contracted non-student attendance day (89
or 90 actual student attendance days) separating the first semester from the -second semester, will be designated fursenior high teachers-to prepare their ■ ■■ ■ room(s) and plans for the next semester and to finalize student work evaluations from the first semester. Every reasonable effort will be made to schedule the day on a Friday or a Monday, snow make'up day and course hour requirements permitting. (This is an optional workday for elementary and middle school teachers as per Article 10.3 B)
103 D There will be a three-day (3) Thanksgiving vacation period.
10.3 E A winter holiday between December 25 and January 1 inclusive with additional days before or after that period.
10,3 F There will be a President^ Holiday Break scheduled (one (1) or two (2) days).
10,3 G A spring holiday of five (5) consecutive weekdays, approximately halfway
between the winter holiday and the last day of school, the last week of March or the first week of April receiving first consideration.
10.3 H One-half (1/2) contracted workday following the last student attendance day for teachers to close out their student records and their rooms.
10.3 I Participation in statewide in-service days will be provided on a noncontracted day basis if the calendar permits.
10.3 J Periodic non-student days may be scheduled during the school year for Site-Based Decision-Making Team planning.
10.3 K. All reasonable efforts will be made to coordinate the Vancouver student attendance calendar with those of other Clark County districts.
10,3 L No Di strict wide meeting will be scheduled on the teacher workdays that
precede the start of the school year, the day between semesters, and the one-half (1/2) day following student attendance at the end of the year.
10,3 M In calendar formulation a three-day (3) school week is to be preferred and nothing less than a two-day (2) week should be scheduled.
10.3 N The last student attendance day should be scheduled as early in June as
possible and preferably not later than the end of the second week. Two to three (2-3) days will be routinely scheduled for snow make-up days at the end of the year when the calendar is adopted.
10.3 O Calendars for each year of the negotiated CPA will be adopted.
10.3 P The last day of the school year wail be a two (2) hour early release.
Chapter 10. General Conditions of Employment
2
2003-05
Clocking in & out
State rttjnjitmefiis
Equivalent workdays
On-site school day
Wednesday for required meetings
......	General Provisions - All Teaelrers "
Article 10.4
Teaching Bay and Hours - All Teachers
Certificated employees shall not be required to ’’clock" in at the beginning of their duty day or out at the conclusion of their duty day by hours and minutes, but may be required by a supervisor to indicate their presence or departure from the school premises by placing a checkmark in the appropriate column of a faculty 'check in/out" roster. If an employee is authorized (Article 10.5 £) by his/her principal or designee to arrive late or leave early, he/she must sign his/her name and destination on the "check in/outlr roster.
Article 10.5
The parties acknowledge the fact that RCW 28A.O1.O1O provides that a school day shall mean each day of the school year on which pupils enrolled in the common schools of a school district are engaged in educational activity planned by and under rhe Board of Drrect&rs of the Dhsrrfol. (1571 1st ex.s. c 161 & 1; 1969 ex 3. c 223 & 28A,01.010. Prior: (i) 1909 c 97 p 262 & 3, part; RRS & 4687, part; prior; 1903 c 104 & 22,part; 1897 c L18 &. 66,1890 p. 371 &46. Formerly RCW 28.01 010 part, (ii) 1917 c 127 7 1, part; RRS & 5098, part. GF. 1911 c 82 & I, part; 1909 c 97 p 371 sub-chaptsr L9,paW. 1897 c 118 & 181,part. Forrtierty RCW 2g.35B3O,part.) The parties also acknowledge that WAC 180-44-050 requires certificated employees to be at their respective school for the benefit of the pupils and patrons at least thirty (30) minutes before the opening of school in the morning and St least thirty (30) minutes after closing of school in the afternoon and RCW 28A.4O5.46D requires a duty-free lunch period of not less than thirty (30) continuous ini mites
10.5 A The length of the assigned workday shall be substantially equivalent for all certificated employees.
10,5 0 No educator will be required, except in an emergency circumstance and for Special assignments covered in Chapter 13, to provide his/her services "on Site" for more than eight (8) continuous hours in one (1) contracted day. The "routine on-site day” (e.g. days not scheduled for meetings will be seven and one-half (7 A) continuous hours. One-half (1/2) hour of service is allowed to be performed "off site” in a “routine on-site” day. Professional development activities scheduled tn begin thirty (30) minutes after student departure, may be compensated beginning at that time in accordance with the provisions in Chapter 16, with the understanding that employees will still perform the ’A hour off site before the workday begins or alter the professional development is completed. These services will be deemed done without tlie need of an individual to maintain a written record to document eight (8) hours of service each day.
10.5 C The District will generally schedule required building and District meetings for teacher?;, before or after nctf mil school student altaTifomce. hours on Wednesdays. Meetings will be based on agendas designed for the time allowed. Meetfo^s will nfo routinely continue beyond foe full workday other than to bring orderly conclusion to a discussion item or to conclude discussion ott a critical Lterti that cannot he defected Io ihe next tneethtg.
Chapter 10. General CfonfotfouS of Employ merrt
3
2003-05
Variable
arrival <Sr
_ - ■ departure font
Provisions governing alterations in daily work schedule
Alteration iti daily duty day allowed in parent conferencing
Elementary teacher Unassigned time periods before &. after student day
Elementary relief break
Weekly average minimum 160 min of unassigtied time
10.5 D The immediate supervisor will, at his/her discretion, assign staff and each individual certificated employee under his/her direction an appropriate ■	- regular daily starting and departure time as-will best meet-lhe-particular ■
nature, duties, mid responsibilities of the particular assignment and within the parameters <jf Article 10,5 B and WAC 180-44-050.
10-5 E Consistent with the requirement of being available for a specific student or parent conference (WAC IS0-44-05G), an individual ecWafoc may, apart specific approval of his/her principal, or designee, arrive late or leave directly after the close of school in order to attend a class, professional meeting, or activity; or for valid personal business reasons not possible to complete at a different time that require his/her attendance or for those voluntary extended day program services he/she has, or will provide, to the students and/or District which would substantially extend the routine onsite day of seven and one-half (7 1/2) hours. Emergency situations which require an educator to leave school before the end Of the regular jnslmctiouaJ day may be allowed upon makirijf arrangement with the principal or his/her designee- Educators will be allowed to leave their assigned duty sit* immediately after the close of day prior io the beginning of a scheduled holiday period, on Fridays and on days they have been requested to return fo school ar another site to attend a setoaduted evening meeting event, i.e,, FT A, holiday programs, etc.
10.5 F To the extent that TRI resources are available in the amounts specified in Chapter 12, time will be scheduled for parent-teacher conferences to occur outside the normal school day. Release time will be used in elementary and secondary schools only when TRI resources have been reduced due to funding limitations. Building principals may require an accounting of parent-teaeher conferences and may otherwise allow necessary alterations in the usual starting and departure times for staff io best accommodate parent-feacber Conferencing-
Article 10.6
Specific Provisions for Elementary Teachers
10.6 A	Elementary teachers need periods of unassigned time "on site” for
preparation and evaluation of their instructional activities and should generally be able to count on this time being available on a regular basis. Building principals will make every reasonable effort to limit administrative encroachments on a teachers "on-site" unassigned lime periods before the student day, generally when a special subject teacher is working with the class and after the close of the Student day.
10 6 B Certificated employees teaching in an elementary school shaft be. provided a daily mid-morning and/or mid-afternoon fifteen (15) minute relief period unless jrther suilabJc arrangements ar* mutually developed by a building principal and faculty. This provision shall also On an equitable basis apply te teachers of self-coMaiiteti classes of the special education program.
10,6 C i The District agrees to provide each grade 15 classroom (eacher a weekly average of one hundred and sixty (160) minutes of unassigned time in four, forty (40) minute blocks of teacher release time. There are times when the classroom teacher may be asked to remain with his/her class when a specialist teacher is instructing the class. When this situation occurs the classroom teacher should still be afforded the average of one hundred sixty (160) minutes unaisigned time per week.
Chapter 10. General Conditions of Em ploy men!
4
2003-05
ii The District agrees to provide kindergarten teachers with a total of two - fiundred-aiid tefi(210) minutes of planning lime per week-composed of foiny (30) minutes per day of planning time tri adjoin the lunch period, and two, thirty (30) minute media release periods per week to adjoin, where possible, a recess period.
ii i Normal circumstances are deemed to be days when specialist teachers are riftt sbstnt from duty. The District will make every reasonable effort to provide substitute teachers for absent specialist teachers.
iv Specialist educators shall have an equivalent total amount of planning time as the rest of the teaching staff in that building. Scheduling permitting, planning time for specialist teachers will include four, thirty (30) minute blocks. A specialist teacher who does not receive the four, thirty minute blocks in One year will be afforded the opportunity for a schedule change for the subsequent year either within or outside of the building.
v When substitute teachers are unavailable the provisions in Article 10.7 B apply.
School day student supervision to be minimal	10.6D	Every reasonable effort will be made to not require an elementary teacher to be responsible for the traffic safety patrol or the supervision of cafeteria and playground. The District will attempt to relieve or severely limit the elementary teacherk responsibility for supervising children whenever such responsibilities can, within funding limitations, legally be assigned to nou-certificated persons, hired or volunteer.
Elementary parent conferencing, shortened days	LOG E	If TRI resreirees are not available as specified in Chapter 12, ntj less than 780 minutes per year of release time for elementary teacher-parent conferences shall be scheduled by the principal and his/her staff. This minimum will be proportionately adjusted for any reduction in TRI resources due to funding limitations.
		A teacher shall not be required to have a face-to-face conference with parents) of each child enrolled in a class during the first scheduled parentteacher conference period. The teacher may, however, be required to document efforts to communicate with parents (by phone log or letter) not conferenced. Al I parents, if possible, should be afforded a face-to-face conference once a year. The District will make every reasonable effort to provide telephone lines and instruments available al times and places to facilitate convenient and private conwaurucattons with, parents.
Kindergarten conferencing	10.6 F	Each kindergarten teacher will be allowed four and One-half (4.5) days of substitute teacher service Bor parent conferencing. Half-time (.5) kindergarten teachers will he allowed five (5), half-days of substitute service,
Chapter 10. General Conditions of Employment
5
•2003-05
Dai ly prep period
Secondary preemption of prep periods
Open campus
Course preps considerations
Article 10.7
Specific provisions for Secondary Teachers	'
1	0 7 A	Rj J hrimE secondary elassrocun teachers wj J J be pro vi ded one (J) teaching
period each day for a preparation and evaluation period.
1	0.7 B Teachers need a period for the preparation and evaluation of their instructional activities and must be able to count on this time being available on a regular basis. When substitute teachem are unavailable the following provisions apply.
i The principal may preempt a teacher’s planning period which will be cOiBpcnsaJad at the approved hourly rate prorated to the length of the planning period. This provision does not apply to building-based Structured learning program teachers who receive benefits under Appendix E for loss of planning periods,
ii	Teachers who are employed -5 or leas may be requested to substitute the remainder of the day at the substitute rate of pay.
iii	Teachers who ate employed more than .5 and less than 1,0 may substitute for no more than one hour at the approved hourly rate or the prorated portion thereof. Teachers in this category who choose to substitute for laore than one hour can only do jo al foe substitute rate of pay for the entire period (i.e.t they may not combine one hour at the approved hourly rate and additional hours at the substitute rale).
iv There is no additional compensation for situations in which teachers must “double up1' to cover an absent teacher’s class. The District and building principal have an obligation to make every possible effort to employ a substitute teacher or take other action to avoid the need for doubling up.
10 7 C A teacher shall be permitted to leave the "work site" during his/her lunch period, subject io reasonable reqinrcntenis for notifying the office no his/her departure and return- A teacher may be permitted to leave the work site during his/her preparation period with permission from the building principal nr his/her designee.
10.7 D Every reasonable effort will be made to keep the number of subject fields and different curr iculum course preparations for a secondary (9-12) teacher's assignment at a minirnum. Generally, the normal teaching assignment is deemed to be not more than three (3) preparations and two (2) different object fields, When involuntary expanded assignments are necessary, the building principal will discuss the circumstances and reasons for expanded assignments with the staff members invol vtd-
Chapter 10. General Conditions of Employment.
6

Secondary recording &. - submitting grade
Middle schools
Camp-in
(Sixth Grade)
10.7 E For formal grade reporting, high school teacher? will not be required to make written evaluations more than four (4) times each semester and ..........-middle school teachers-williiot be-required to make written evaluations - ■■ more than two (2) times each trimester. Secondary teachers, or any teacher utilizing data processing procedures for reporting to parents, will be allowed up to a rota! of five (5) working days following the end of each designated report period to record and to submit report sheets to the building administrators office, excluding the mid-year and the final report period where a full or One-half (1(2) non-student attendance duty day has been provided for that purpose. Ail grade reporting procedures prescribed by the District shall be designed to avoid requiring teachers to work weekends to complete the task to meet the District-set deadlines.
To foe extent that TRI resources are available in the amounts specified in Chapter 13, high school teachers are expected to be available outside the formal school day for purposes of
J 0.7 F To the extent that TRI resources are available in die amounts specified in Chapter 12, middle school parent-teacher conferences will occur outside the normal school day, Release time will be used only when the amount of TRI resources ha? been reduced due to funding limitations.
10.1 <j Teachers shall not be required to utilize a pep period for making student attendance Supervision telephone calls. (Teachers may make calls on a voluntary basis.)
10.7 H The District shall establish the camp experiences for all middle school students which shall be uniform for all schools. All camps will be scheduled on student-attendance days. Compensation shall be at the approved hourly rate. During the regular norma) student attendance day, compensation shall begin after the seven and one-luilf (7 1/2) hour work day. Staff merafam who, would eKperiewee personal headship shall not be. requited to attend camp-in programs that require being away from home overnight. Teachers participating in the camp experience are entitled to compensation for up to ten (10) hours of student supervision outside the normftl teaching day and an additional five (5) hours of advance preparatory time at the approved hourly rate.
Chapter 10. Genera t Cond i ti ons u I' EmpJoymeni
7
2003-05
	Article 10.8 Kesponsibilitks of All Class loom Teachers During & After School
Job description review	I0.8 A Each year employees in tbe bargaining unit will be given the opportunity to meet with his/her immediate supervisor to review the responsibilities and duties of his/her job description. They will discuss the degree of accuracy the written job description has with the actual activities as required by the supervisor and carried Out by the individual during the prior work year. Any significant disparities in (he fisted and actual basic year duties wifi be identified and should be brought to the attention of the Human Resources Office for review and possible revision- The responsibilities and duties necessary beyond the ont hundred eighty (180) day basic teacher year should also be reviewed. The review should determine how many of the extended year duties must, how many should, and how many could be done (funding available). The review will identify the varying Levels of quality of service possible in accordance with extra days available to do tbe work.
Major responsibility instruction	The major responsibility of the teaching staff is in the area of classroom instruction. However, to assure the success of the total school program, other related responsibilities dealing with school wide supervision and control are, of necessity, a part of the teacher’s position.
Staff assistant assistance	Where deemed feasible by the administration and the staff and within the budget Irntitatcons, staff assistants will be provided to assist in the performance of non-instructioual duties.
Equal sharing of extra duties	The remaining non-instructiotial responsibilities which are normal to the day-to-day operation of the school day program shall be assigned equitably among the certificated staff.
Student body activities voluntary	IG.8 E The Board and (he Association agree that the certificated staff should share the responsibilities involved in student body activities. It is recognized that certificated employee participation in Mudete body activities will be voluntary.
Hours of student body Service	Early in each year a building administrator will identify for the building faculty assembled the student activities planned for the ensuing year and the number of adults that will be required to be in attendance tn assure adequate supervision. Adults from the community should be recruited by the building administration by all reasonable methods to fill as many assignments as ate prudent from that source. The preferences of teachers must be considered in making duty assignments. Individuals may volunteer for as many hours of student body service as they choose.
Fiirent nighte	10.8 C A teacher may be required to meet with parents at one (I) eitnirtg meeting each year to explain the curriculum program and/or the Instructional procedures to be followed in class. (Note; The date of such meeting will be communicated to teachers not later than the first week of school.)
Chapter 10. General Cmdifimn of Employment	8
2003-05
Article 10.9
Professional The District will schedule ntm-studcnt attendance days before or during the school improvement year for the purpose of delivering in-str vice programs. Scheduling of such chyfs) will shortened days be consistent with the TRI time specifically set aside for this purpose in Chapter 12.
When TRI resources arc not available and there is a clearly identified need, the Di strict will schedule not fewer than five (5) hours (Wednesdays) of early released Lime per year, with a shortened student day, far the purpose of conducting building or District meetings nr other activities specifically designed as in-service programs to improve instruction and curriculum within a building or the District. When applicable, the teachers will be surveyed far input as tu the nature of topics to be included in these meetings
Artick IfVJO
Traveling	Teachers assigned to two (2) or more buildings Shall be scheduled in such a manner as
teachers	to provide a thirty (30) minute, duty-free lunch period, plus necessary travel time
between buildings. The District will make every reasonable effort to avoid fractionalized assignments (i.e., scheduling an employee in multiple buildings when the schedule from the start of the day to the end of the day exceeds a normal day, or when the assignment is not consecutive time), When such situations cannot be avoided the District will consult with the Association to determine the appropriate b J E/cumpensation level-
Article 10.11
Alleviate	The unique problems of "floating teachers" will become a matter of discussion
floating	between the building, administrator and. the floating teacher before, or early in, the
teacher	school year. The principal will attempt to develop reasonable procedures and
problems arrangements to eliminate or alleviate problems inherent in having to teach in several different roormi dwring the school day, ft shall be an administrative goal far each building to attempt to have a two (2) station limit for each teacher. There are times, however, because of enrollment and classroom facilities limitation that some teachers will need "to teach at more than two (2) locations-
Article 10.12
Paraprofessionals
Staff assistants 10.12 A The Association and District recognize the importance and advantages of utilizing paraprofessiOnaJ staff (staff assistants) in the schools and classrooms in those activities which may properly be assigned to noncertificated staff. The Association and the District also recognize that funding must be available to provide this assistance from noncerti heated staff.
Chapter 10. Gene ra I Cond i lions of Employ ment
5
2003-05
Number of	The legislature funds through the Basic Education Act (BEA) one (1) FTE
state & local funded positions in District budget	classified position for each three (3) FEE BEA certificated positions. This ratio of one-to-lhree (L;3) includes all classified positions, j c.b clerical, custodial, maintenance, and the professional-technical staff, at both the building and District levels (transportation and food service positions are not included) as are determined necessary for the basic operation of the District's BEA programs. Staff assistants are Employed primarily from those funds that are generated by the regular passage of the local special school levy and that ate not being Utilized for the employment of additional certificated staff to lower class size or for other specified purpose in the enhancement of the BEA program.
Program	10.12 B responsibility	Certificated employees shall be responsible for the instructional program and a staff assistant shall not be employed to replace a teacher except as provided by the waiver process in Chapter 15.
Staff assistant 10.12C	Paraprofcssional (staff assistant) employees utilized within the classroom, or other instructional areas, will be under the supervision of a certificated employee who is responsible for the instruction of the swdems. Staff assistants assigned to classrooms shall not be preempted to other assignments without prior notice to the certificated person or persons regularly supervising during that time period so as to allow adequate arrangements to be made to cover the absence.
Staff assis taut 10.12D assignment guidelines	The following priority guidelines shall generally govern the allotment of available elementary staff assistant lime by rhe District among the elementary schools and within a school by the principal, i.e., exclusive of categorically funded state arid federal programs.
i	1 st priority-safely patrol activities.
ii 2nd priority—playground and cafeteria supervision.
iii 3rd priority-assignment of staff assistants to classrooms and other instructional antas to assist in clerical and instructional activities with teachers and students.
iii.a. Excessive enrollment in a room. It is agreed that, in instances where it is not possible to curtail elementary classloads, staff assistant time Mill be provided, if available, tn offer a m&rtsnre of relief.
ili-b. Basic school program - instructional activities area.
Staff assistant utilization
10.12 E The specific manner of staff assistant utilization within an elementary school will be delet'mined by the school principal after consultation with the certificated staff in the school.
10.12 F The intent is to staff certificated positions with qualified certificated personnel- When it is not possible to recruit a qualified certificated employee or if it is not practical due to other limitations, the certificated al/ocatiot? rnjty be converted to classified rime. Conversion of time will be based on the district's average certificated salary plus accompanying classified support in the case of special education (e.g,, sis (6) hours of classified support per 1-0 certificated FTE at the elementary and secondary level). Upon the assignment of the converted hours to a staff assistant, the principal win notify Human Resources and VEA simultaneously via e-mail-The conversion formula will be published in each annual letter of agreemcnt-
Chaptcr 10. General Conditions of Employment
10
2003-05
Conversion Factors: The annual value of one (1} hour of staff assistant time will be computed using the applicable school year hourly rate multiplied times 188 workdays. The certificated conversion value will be the average salary based on the state budgeted staff mi* factor multiplied by the FTE amount. In the case of learning support, the certificate conversion value will include the value of accompanying staff assistant time.
Example: For school year 2002-03, the staff mix average rate for a teacher is $45,952 (based On. the 1801 report), and the hourly rate for a staff assistant is $13-35 (Professional Step plus certification stipend). The yearly cost for one (1) hour of staff assistant time is $2,510 ($13.35 x 188 days). Convessicm of a Ml 1.0 FTE w&uld therefore equate to IS,3. hotrns ($45,952/$2,510)This amount is in addition to the six (6) hours of staff assistant time that accompany a full 1.0 FTE learning support teacher.
Consequently, the total allocation for a 1 ,u conversion would be 243 hours (18.3 plus 6). All conversions are rounded to the nearest quarter hour. Both the conversion and the accompanying staff assistant time is prorated for less than Full PTE.
	Article 10.13
Easy access to buildings at all times	In order to permit freedorn of access both during and after regular school hours, all teachers should have access to keys to the faculty lounge, work areas, and interior hallways of their school. Subject to reasonable regulations to ensure security of the building, all teachers will be provided, upon request, with a key or other means of access through an outside door to their area of the building during nonschool hours. Article 10,1 4
Safety promptly pfoceesed	The District will, without delay, investigate situations or conditions that are considered to be unsafe or unhealthy. The District safety officer will investigate allegations of WASt.fc. siwifttfoat or coYiditfons and make recotrtfwerYdaritJws for cottecrinw to the. Washington Industrial Safety and Health Act agency's standards if they are warranted. Staff members should outline the unsafe situation or condition in writing and process it through their building principal or supervisor to the District safely officer for action. Article 1D.15
Requests for instructional equipment	10.15 A Instructional personnel will be invited to submit requests for the nonconsumable equipment and work orders that each teacher may identify as important and necessary for effective instruction in the curriculum for which hc/she is responsible. These requests will be responded to by the appropriate administrator as quickly as information is available regarding the disposition of the request (generally thirty (30) days after the original request) regarding tht; level of priority which has been assigned to each at the building and the District level and the date it may be accomplished if known-
Priority use of instructional equipment	10.15 B The needs of classroom teachers for use of copy machines and access to telephone lines and instruments will enjoy a priority fully equal to that of administrators and other employees.
Chapter 10, General Conditions of Emplovmerit
11
2003-05
Article 10.16
The parties acknowledge that the legislature has allocated funds to staff the Basic Education Act, Il is the intent of the District to provide the greatest possible number of staff at the classroom level with a high degree of equity in the number of staff assigned to the various grade levels. The District will, whenever local funds are available, supplement the number of staff funded by the legislature's Basic Education Act appropriation by employing additional certificated and classified staff.
Article 10.17
Guidelines: Basic Education Class Size
Number of students
10.17 A
The number of students in a class and the kinds of students in a class ace major factors that heavily impact the workload of a teacher. Every
reasonable effort will be made to equalize the work load among the teachers of a school as early in the year as possible and at certain specified limes during the year.
10.17 B Specific class sizes within a school may need to vary to meet the identified
goals and to best alleviate demands on time and energy of each teacher due to subject content, materials and facilities, learning problems of student groups, unique grade level enrollment patterns in a building, and other pertinent factors a$ determined by the principal in consultation with his/her staff.
10,17 C A principal will make every reasonable effort to obtain inpul from all
interested teachers (o help him/her make final determinationfs) of how classes are to be initially organized (reorganized daring the year} as is necessary because of an increase or decrease in the number of instructional staff (teachtrs/paraprofessiona Is) as is required by changes in student enrollment in the building.
10.17 D A brief summary account of the conditions existing and the rationale
utilized in making a final determination as to the best deployment of a buildipg staff and of the various class sizes in a building will he made by the principal with a copy to the teachers that participated in, or will be impacted by. those discussions. The staffing plan must be as educationally sound and in the best interest of students as file macber/psr^-professional resources available to the building will allow. AU individuals are expected to support a group’s decision until such time as the conditions are substantially different when die original decision may be brought up for reconsideration.
10.17 E Music (band and choral groups) and PE classes may be scheduled with
larger class sizes as may be appropriate nt the middle or high school level, Administrators at both the building and district level will review such class sizes consistent with the provisions of Article 10.19 giving consideration to the following:
i Instructional iriipact
ii Safety
iii Supervision
h1 Scheduling
v Sdtool program
vi Class demographics
fii Other factors diac may be impacted by class size.
Chapter 10. General Conditions of Employment
12
2003-05
IQ A? F	Teachers im such classes may request. an overltxid conference, consistent
with Article 10.19, when they feel that the above factors need to be addressed.
Article 10.18
Class Size Determinations
10.18 A The number of students in a class is impacted by the number of certificated staff assigned into positions other than classroom teaching, i.e., released time periods allowed to teachers such as department heads, cafeteria control, and the number of professionals in support positions such as media specialists, reading specialists, traveling teachers, counselors, nurses, drug and alcohol program facilitators, etc.
10.18 B	Elemen fury Individ rial Classroom Maximuni and Secondary Sinden i-
Teacher Maximum Daily Contacts:
i Grades K-3-A maximuni of twenty-four (24) students is established.
ii Grades 4-5—A maximum of twenty-seven (27) Students is established,
10.18 C Middle School—The middle school staffing levels shall be 24.16 (students/teacher) for basic education students,
i This ratio is intended to result in maximum class sizes of 28:1 id a seven (7) period day and 29:1 in a six (6) period day.
ii	Any classes, other than music (band and choral groups) and physical
education, that exceed these sizes will require review by the principals, VEA, and District administration.
iii Overload situations shall be addressed as provided in Article 10.22,
L0.18 D	High School— The maximum number of student-teacher daily contacts
is based on thirty (30) times the number of classes a teacher is required to teach in his/her duty day. No teacher will be assigned more than w (A) InstrwttlowaJ period per stmester in excess of thirty-two (32> student?.
Special education students sinill be figured in calculating die basic education class sizes when those students are receiving instruction from the basic education teacher.
10.J 8 E The first option to meeting the provisions of Article 10.18 is to balance the class sizes in ell buildings in accordance with Article 10.18 B. To meet the unique needs of students in a School, deviations from the class size provisions tn B ii may occur. For example, K-3 elementary teachers agree to have more than twenty-four (24) students in their classroom in order to avoid a combination classroom arrangement. When a deviation occurs, the reasons for the deviation shal I be agreed to in writing by the affected teacherf.s) and principal. The form provided at the end of this chapter must be completed and copies sent to the Association and the administrator for elementary or secondary education within three (3) days of the decision to deviate.
Chapter 10, General Conditions of Employment
13
2OOM5
NOTE: A middle school staff may convert certificated classroom teacher positionfs) into a certificated teacher tor specialized classroom program positionfs) on an annual basis- The maximum class sizes in Article 10-18 C will he recalculated and presented to the impacted staff for discussions. The building principal must communicate in writing to the staff how the doi’ision will specifically impact the maximums ami when o wrtotd provisions will begin. The impacted classrooms shall not be increased by more than one student as a result of this action.
Ab elementary school staff, with the in vol vemenr of the director of elementary education, may convert certificated classroom teacher positionfa) into a certificated specialist positjon(s) on an annual basis at the rate of One ,5 specialist only for every seven (7) classroom teachers. The maximum class sizes in Article 10-18 B will be recalculated and presented to the staff for Site Based Decision-Making Team (SBDlvlT) discussions. The building principal must communicate in writing to the staff how the decision will specifically impact the maximums and whan overload provisions will begin.
All decisions shall be made by consensus of only those impacted by the decision.
The specialist poslriorr shall be in effect for one year and not qualify as a permanent position as defined in Article 7.3 Ai).
10.18 F Specialist educators will not be required to double up from existing basic education classes. The class composition shall be comparable to that of the basic education teacher sending the students.
Article 10.19
Ctassrootn Overload Relief Guidelines:
The provisions in Chapter 12 permit teachers to draw against TRI resources when an overload situation exists as a form of compensation or to engage the services of a staff assistant. It is recognized that these TRI provisions are minimal in terms of alleviating the impact of overloads on effective instruction, and that such use of TRI resources limits their availability for other uses. The principal will consider the aetfons listed in Article 10-22 and will involve the administrator for elementary or secondary education and other central office administrators as appropriate.
Overload guidelines shall not be in effect during the first fifteen (j 5) student attendance days of the school year, and at the beginning of each trimester/semester at the middle/high school levels, During the first ten (10) days, and on the earliest day possible, the building administrator will initiate a meeting with each teacher in an overload situation and the building representative to resolve the overload- If the overload cannot be resolved, or an accommodation cannot be reached, the administrator will report the outcome of the meeting to the director of secondary or elementary education with any recommendationfs) for further relief. The building representative will concurrently provide a copy ol tile report to the Association. 2’he report will be made E/sittg the sample format at the end of this chapter.
NOTE: Any staffing enhance-mra: for grades K-12 for classroom overJoa d rol icf is based on stability of state and local funding, A decrease in funding will alter the staffing enhancement for grades K-12.
Chapter 10. Genera! Conditions of Employ mtn!
14
2003-05
Article UW
Checkpoints in School Calendar for Reviewing Building Class Sizes
Listed below are designated points of time when class sizes will be reviewed in each schook
10.20 A During the first week of May, the building principal will meet with Association faculty representatives and/or building staff to review and discuss projected student enrollments and faculty and student deployment plans for the next school year,
10.20 B Five (5) working days after the opening of school, the building principal will meet with Association faculty representatives and/or building staff to review and discuss the reorganization of the building tn alleviate areas of overload to equalize workload among the staff. Action is to be taken immediately or postponed until a definite time when more or better information may become available to avoid making changes that will soon result in other overload situations,
10-20 C Five (5) days prior to the end of each grading period, the building principal will meet with the Associaticfn faculty representatives and/or building staff to discuss action to be taken if an overload exists.
10.20 D At any time during the school year that it becomes evident that a state of overload exists within a school, the principal will contact the appropriate admirdstratoj to work with km/her awd with the h'jddw.g faculty in in attempt to alleviate the problem. Unresolved situations will become a topic for the executive director of die VEA and the Superinlendent/dcsignee.
Article 10,21
The Human Resources Office will provide a copy of the Actual Enrollment By Class in Elementary Schools and for Middle and High Schools (reports V407 and V411) to the Association’a riffict immediately following the completion of each monthly report.
Article 10.22
Administrative Actions for Mitigation of Overload Situations Due to Enrollment Increases
One or more of rhe following options should be considered as mutually determined by the deputy ?uperintendcnt/designee, principal, and impacted teacherfs), to alleviate or mitigate the overload situation. (Article 10-18 C ii for exception)
Reassign students into different classrooms within the school or, where feasible, create combination classes, bus students to another school, or rescind boundary exceptions fur certain stodetoE,.-
Employ an additional certificated teacher.
Employ a new staff assistant, redirect the use of a current staff assistant, or increase the hours of a currently employed staff assistant to be utilized in duties or during hours as will best alleviate the condition of overload.
Identify times wr events during tlit year wbere the teacher will have an especially heavy workload and allow for additional support dining that period.
Chapter 10. General Conditions of Employment
15
2003-05
When the above options cannot be accomplished within available resources, the District will continue to monitor the overload situation and take action at the first opportunity to eliminate the overload. The principal is responsible for assuring that teachers are treated equitably with regard to overload situations (i.e, the teacher will not be subjected to repeated overloads in successive years when other teachers have no overload}.
Additional boundary exception? will not generally be approved for a budding with an overload situation if the additional boundary exceplfoiV would aggravate the ex istfog overload situation within the building or would eliminate an opportunity to reduce the overload. However, the District and the Association recognise that increased enrollment through boundary exceptions may be the best solution to enrollment and overload issues.
An additional full or part-time teacher will be employed whenever the aggregate Overload within a building equals a normal class size or student-teacher contact level.
Article 10.23
Guidelines for Elementary1 Combination Class Formation & Operation
The parties acknowledge that the age patterns of students enrolling in each of the elementary Schools of the District are sometimes distorted at specific levels, Consaqticfltly, ccrittbrnafian classes <tre uftea necessary, Ccinbina/ioii classes do create some particular problems that should be recognized and dealt with toward the goal <jf creating the best teaching/leaming enviroiiment possible.
il is expected that all the teachets-adj scent instructional regular classroom teachers and instructional traveling classroom teachers-will be invited by building administrators to fully participate in discussions regarding the initial formulation and subsequent operation Of a combination class particularly as that class may pertain to their work duties and responsibilities and having a reasonable "manageable task" After all input is gathered, the final decision will remain with the principal to ensure the best leaming/teaching environment possible.
10.23 A Ln the selection of a teacher for a combination class, it is very desirable that the teacher is:
i A vofofjteer for the assignment, if possible.
ii Preferably a teacher with prior Experience niih the currjcultw of st least one (1) of the grades included in the combination class, and
iii Not tbe same teacher utilized as a combination grade teacher for two (2) or more successive years unless that is a desired assignment of the specific teacher, and/or if no other teacher is available per grade level.
10.23 B In the evaluation of a teacher in a combination class, the evaluator should;
i Take into account the particular difficulties of the assignment, and
ti foci ude recxjgfli don of successful management of (te assig nmeert itr the "commendations" portion of the evaluation form.
Cbapter 30. General Conditio™ of Employment
16
2003’05
10,23 C In the selection of students La be included in a combination class;
10,23 C i The student should be free from special learning andfor behavior problems relative to other students available for assignment into class,
ii The student should have the skills and attitudes needed for independent work and the ability to relate to more than one teacher each day if required,
iii The span of reading and math operation levels of students should be Limited as much as possibly allowed by the group being structured,
i v To the greatest extent possible, the parents of the students assigned to combination classes should be those with a track record of working cooperatively with teachers and the school. The principal and teacher will work cooperatively in the handling of home-school concerns-
v To the extent possible, students will not be placed in combination classes. in consecutive. years and whert wut possible to avoid such placement, the principal will relate the rationale to the parent prior to or very early in the school year or when the class is formed during the school year.
vi Teachers and the principal of each building should work cooperatively to decide the best grouping for combination classrooms. One (1) or more of these guidelines may be waived if mutually agreeable to all parties and it is in the best interest of students involved. An attempt should be made to avoid combination classes in grades one and two.
IO-13 IT The principal will carefully work with the teacher to resolve the problems of obtaining ail necessary equipment and materials needed to effectively teach the curriculum assigned to two grade levels in one room; resolve administrative problems of different grade levels, authorized field trips, participation in swim program, outdoor school, etc.; and assist in arranging for teachers in adjacent grade levels to work cooperatively with a combination class teacher.
10.23 E Class Size. The class size of a ctfrribinatjon class should, be smaller than that of regular single grade classes.
Article 10.24
Guidelines for Certificated Staff Allocation: Special Services
Preamble
Staff allocation varies by program bused upon student need (severity of disability}, nature of the program model, number of students in the program, ottier support available in a given setting, ability to hire appropriately qualified staff or contract for ■services, task demands for a <iivea jdb, available pro, grim revenue, atul requirements.
Chapter 10. General Conditions of Employment
17
2003-05
There are Washington Administrative Coties (Education and mental health), Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, Americans with Disabilities Act, case law requirements, and other special circumstances that may influence staff configuration and allocation. In these situations the Association and the District in consultation and written agreement with the impacted certificated staff and building principal, may agree to an alternative delivery model different from those provided in the remainder of this Article (10.24). The EMstrict will only act in the absence of such agreement, when essential for legal compliance or equally compelling circumstances. The District will inform the Association in advance of any such action and the Association reserves tbe right to challenge such action. These provisions are not intended to circumvent the staffing model. In some special education programs, particularly at the secondary level, student attendance can be very sporadic. Consequently, the program enrollment will be determined on a daily average attendance basis across each month.
10-24 A Structured Learning. Structured learning staff allocations are based upon Lite severity of the papulation served, the staffing ratios required by mental health WACs for day treatment, available program revenue, and the availability of non-district controlled resources as follows:
i All-day treatment programs must be staffed at one (1) mental health provider for every five (5) students. A menlul health provider may be either a mental health specialist or a person under the clinical supervision of a mental health specialist.
ii Building-Based Programs - usually one (1) teacher, two (2) staff assistants, one (J) mental health specialist (subject to available Tide XIX Day Treatment Funds) for ten to twelve (10-12) Fl'E students distributed on an equitable basis as is reasonably possible.
Every effort will be made to keep enrollment between ten to twelve (10-12) b’l’B students.
Additional staff assistant time will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Building-based structured learning program teachers shall have an equivalent planning time which will be provided by scheduling Students into other special or regular education classes as determined appropriate by the aavlli-discipliaary team, or by haviag staff assistants work with students in the classroom while the teacher is planning in another part of the building as allowed by WAC 392-172G74, The principal will meet with the teacher to develop an acceptable solution when, due to unforeseen circumstances, the above options cannot be implemented -
Building-based structured learning program teachers are compensated for lost planning periods on a lined basis in accordance with the structured learning stipend it. Appendix E.
iii Fir Grove is staffed consistent with mental health WACs - usually one (1) teacher and one (1) staff assistant for seven to nine (7-9) FTE students. Every effort will be made to keep enrollment between seven to nine (7-9) ITE students. In addition, there will be one (1) mental health specialist (subject to available Title XIX Day Treatment Funds for each twelve to fifteen (12-15) FTE students and three (3)" floating" staff assistants who help out with trouble spots. A psychologist, secretary, oustcdiam and an admiwirslor art also on sire.
Chapter 10. General Conditions of Employment
18
2003-05
10.24 B Life Skills. Life Skills staff allocation is based upon foe severity of the served population and numbers as follows; usually ope {1} teacher and two (2) staff assistants for ten to twelve (10-12) FTE students,
i	Every effort will be made to keep enrollment between eight to ten (8-10) Fl’E Students.
ii	Additional staff assistant time will be considered on a case-by-case basis
10.24 C Work StudyZBasic Skills. Work study/basic skills staff allocation is based upon the severity of the served population and numbers as follows: typically one (1) teacher and four (4) hours of aide time for twelve to fifteen (12-15) FTE students, A job facilitator at each high school also works with these students for job placements Job coaching, and other job related skills.
t Every effort will be made to keep enrollment between twelve to fifteen (12- (5) FTE students.
it Additional staff assistant time, will be considered on a case-by-case basis,
10.24 D	Multi-handicappad, Staff allocation is based upon the severity of the
served population anti numbers as follows; typically one (1) teacher and four (4) hours of aide time for twelve to fifteen (12-15) FTE students. A job facilitator at each high school also works wfo fosse students for job placements, job coaching, and other job related skills,
i	Every effort will be made to keep enrollment between seven to nine (7-9) FTE students.
ii	Additional staff assistant lime will be considered cm a case-by-case basis.
10-24 E Hard of Hearing/Deuf. Staff allocation for the hard of hcaring/deaf pro gram is based upon the severity of the served population and number as follows: usually one (1) teacher, one (1) staff assistant for seven to nine (7-9) FTE students.
i	Every effort will be made to keep enrollment between seven to nine (7-9) FTE students.
ii	Additional staff assistant time will be considered on a cuse-hy-case basis.
iii	Sign language interpreters will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
10.24 F Developmentally Handicapped. Developmentally handicapped program staff allocation is based upon the severity of the served population and numbers as follows; usually one (1) teacher and one (I) staff assistant for ten to twelve (10-12) FTE students per One-half (1/2) day session-
i Every effort will be made to keep enrollment between ten to twelve (10-12) students.
Chapter 10. General Conditions of Employment
19
2003-05
Staff
Conversion (see also JOJ2F?
10.24 F ii Additional Staff assistant time will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
10,24 G Elementary Learning Support. Elementary learning support teacher allocation is based upon student needs and numbers in the following way:
i One (1) teacher and one {1) six-hour (6) staff assistant for approximately every twenty-three to twenty-eight (23’25) 1£P students. As the number of students varies at the upper and lower ends, staff assistant time is added or subtracted.
ii Every effort will be made to keep enrollment within the above range-
ill Additional staff assistant timt will be considered on a case-by-casc basis.
iv Application: Elementary certificated staffing is determined by dividing the number of students on the official count by 23. Each full-time teacher is allocated six (6) hours of aide time. When a teacher has over twenty-eight (28) students, one (1) hour of aide time for every three (3) Students is added until the number of students reaches thirty-nine (39) students. At that time, a .5 teacher is allocated. The building has the option to convert this to staff assistant time on a case-by-case basis. The conversion requires approval of the Executive Director of the Association, the District administrator for special education, and the Administrator of Human Resources.
10.24 H Secondary Learning Support- Secondary learning support teacher allocation is based upon the severity of the served population and numbers as follows:
i Gne (1) teacher and one (1) six hour (6) staff assistant for approximately every twenty-eight to thirty-three (28-33) IEF students.
ii Every effort will be made to keep enrollment within the above range.
iii Additional staff assistant time will be considered on a case-by-casc basis.
iv Application:
iv.a. Certificated teachers will be allocated as follows;
1 One (1) certificated teacher for 28 to 33 students.
2 Two (2) certificated teachers for 56 to 66 students.
3 Two and one-half (2,5) certificated teachers when enrollment equals 75.
4 Three (3) certificated teachers for 84 to 99 students.
5 Three and one-hall' (3.5) certificated teachers when enrollment equals 106.
6 Four (4) certificated teachers for U2 to 132 students, 7 Five (5) certificated teachers fur 140 to 165 students.
iv.b. The building has the option to convert certificated time to staff assistant time on a case-by-casc basis. The conversion requires e-maii approval of the District administrator for special education and confirmation of the Executive Director of foe Association and the Uumart Resouices Administegfor,
Chapter iO. General Conditions of Employment
20
2003-05
iv.c. Staff Assistant time wil! be added between ranges before seventy-five (75) or one hundred and six (106) is reached at the rate of one (1) hour for every three (3) students over the top of the previous range. For example, if a school has sixty-nine (69) students, the school would be allocated one (1) additional hour of aide time,
iL; d. Certifksrted and clarified staff time will be adjusted after a pattern has been established over two (2) official counts (i.c. two monthly count dates).
10.241 Administrative Actions for Alleviation of Overload Situations Due to Enrollment Increases, One (J) or more of the following actions will be utilized ns is mutually determined through the consultation of the appropriate District adEiini^atot, building adreioistr-sfor, and appropriate building multidisciplinary team. The Options arc not necessarily listed in a mandated order of priority and each is subject to the availability of funds at the time the decision is made, ability to hire appropriately qualified staff, and the imposition of any legal requirements beyond this Agreement. Overload situations must exist across one complete reporting period, in order to assure a stable population requiring action,
i	Employment Of an additional (a) certificated teacher or (b) a new staff
assistant or (c) increase the hours of a currently employed staff assistant to be utilized in duties or during hours as will best alleviate the condition of overload and meet the needs of students as determined by District administration and the multidisciplinary team in the impacted site.
ii Following the next repotting period, reassign students into different classrooms within the school or, where feasible, create a new class, bus students to another school, or rescind boundary exceptions for certain Students, if feasible,
iii Postpone action to a specified time when the overload situation will be considered again and action taken at that time.
10.24 J Support Services Stuff. Due to the widely varying range of roles and responsibilities of support services staff (psychologists, nurses, SLP, motor team, and counsrfojs), it is diffiefe. to establish a'teiage or typical workloads and conditions. Therefore, it is agreed that the review process to resolve concerns in a timely manner is as follows:
i The district administrator for special services will have the primary administrator for each special services certificated category conduct an analysis of each employee’s caseload by October 1 of each school year and again by February 1 of each school year. The review will have as its primary objective the balancing of caseloads among employees with consideration to such things as students assigned, severity of cases, geographic dispersion, number of buildings assigned, etc. The results of the analysis and caseload changes will be shared with all employees of the respective group.
ii At any time during the year that an employee believes his/her caseload is disproportionate to other employees, the employee may initiate a discussion with his/her supervisor and appropriate building administrator(s) to problem solve the concern- The employee has the option of VEA. TBprese.n'ralion during fee discussion.
Chapter [0. Genera! Conditions of Employment
21
2003-03
Teacher regulation of student behavior & learning environment
Classroom visitors
Approval requited
Patron conference
Young visitors
10.24 J iii Unresolved situations will become a topic for resolution between the executive director of the YEA and the District administrator for special services,
iv Every effort will be made to assure an equitable distribution of the workload. The VSD administration will meet with the Association the first week of October and the first week of February to review caseloads.
10,24 K IEP conferences shall not eliminate the duty free lunch period.
10.24 L The District will use and continue to use improved procedures and management strategies to move SEP caseloads to a 55-60 student range per fiifl'time FTE (with an objective of the lower end of the ratigcj. Objective? will also include heightened efforts to ensure compliance while offering efficient and effective services to students.
Article 10,25
The District will support and uphold an employee in his/her efforts to maintain a ‘learning environment in the classroom, the school, and activities of the school campus." District Regulation 5159.5 and the procedures of a school^ student handbook, if one exists, provide direction for employee action. A student whose conduct is detrimental to the learning process or contrary to good behavior may be sent to the principal'$ office and &roltided from ciass (room) activity, Other authorised corrective actions are counseling and conferences, detention, and school probation. Corporal punishment is not a disciplinary option for teachers and administrators. For purposes of this Agreement the term corporal punishment means the infliction by an employee of physical pain upon a student either by spanking or striking as an actual or alleged misbehavior.
Article 10.26
The District and the Association acknowledge that it is desirable for patrons of the District to be familiar with the total education program and instructional practices in rhe schools. Jt further recognizes that frequent rind unannounced interruptions to the classroom can be detrimental to the educational process. To provide patrons the opportunity to visit classrooms with the least interruption to the teaching process, the fol Jo wing guideJines are suf forth:
10.26 A All visitors to a sthool and/or a classroom shall obtain the approval of a building administrator or designee, and if the visit is to a classroom, the time will be arranged only after the building administrator, or designee, has conferred with the certificated employee.
10-26 B The certificated employee shall have the opportunity to confer with the classroom observer before and/or after the observation.
10.26 C Young visitors (student age or less) will be admitted to classrooms only; (1) when satisfactory arrangements are made with the classroom teacher, (?) when (in the case of preschool youngster?) they are accompanied by an adult who will assume total responsibility for the young visitor.
Chapter 10. General Conditions uf Employment
22
2003-05
	Article 10,27
S’lU'Atm $radts & reporting to parents	10.27 A The District and the Association rectigmze the importance of regular periodic evaluations of the developmental progress oF a student in the courses of curriculum to which he/she has been exposed and that these professional conclusions of progress should be justly, efficiently, and effectively communicated to parents, guardians, and other individuals and institutions with a legitimate interest in, and need to know of, a student’s welfare. (See R5127, WAC 180-44-010)
District & practitioner standards	1027 B A teacher^ professional conclusion of a student^ performance shall be based on established District grading philosophy, practices, and procedures, as well as the teacher's own standards and procedures.
Cliange in evaluation of student	10.27 C A teacher^ grade or other evaluation of a student may not be altered or changed without consultation by the administrator with the teacher. A proposal for change will be based on an allegation by the administrator that tht teacher h original evaluation waa based on incomplete, inadequate information, or otherwise unsound professional procedure or practice.
Co-curricular awards guidelines	10-27 D In the absence of District guidelines for awards programs for co-curricular activities, the teacher supervisor of a particular co-currietilar activity will submit plans for an awards program for the activity to his/her building principal for approval. These guidelines will serve as the framework for the awards program for that particular co-curricular activity in that building, until changed or superseded by District guidelines. Article 10.2S
Proper use of counselors & media speciilfas	The District and the Association acknowledge that counselors and media specialists have been employed and assigned to schools on the basis of their specialized training to carry out specified responsibilities in adopted District programs. Every reasonable effort will be made by building, admimstcators to utilize thaw apecialiste within their preparation and job descriptions. They may be called to share emergency substitute services and other tasks outside their normal assigned duties on the same basis as members of [he certificated staff.	' Article 10-29
Substitute teacher services	The District shall maintain a computerized substitute calling system. For absences requiring prior approval, employees will call the automated system after their administrator has approved the leave. Employees may call the automated system up to ninety (90) days in advance of an anticipated, pre-approved absenec. Article 1030
Mainstreaming	Whenever a special education student is mainstreamed the District will orient the classrtKim teacher to the particular identified i.nstiuctintvil needs of each such student and within the funds available provide the necessary support to the teacher so he/she can reasonably manage the task of meeting the instructional needs of both his/her regular class and the student being "mainstreamed-H The District will design in-service programs and take, other VtectssriTy action in an attempt to assure each student being mainstreamed is a success.
Chapter 10. Genera! Conditions of Employment
2003-05
Curriculum development & installation fund
The Disti'ict/building PG and IEP teams v^ill consider four (4) factors in considering placement for mainstreaming/inclusion of a special education student into a tegular education program-
10-30 A The educational benefits available to the student in a regular classroom, supplemented with appropriate aids and services, as compared with die educational benefits of a special education classroom;
10.30 B The ncwi-academm benefits of interaction with children who are not disabled;
10.30 C The positive/negative effect of the student's presence on the teacher and other students tn the classroom; and
10.30 D The cost of mainstreaming/inclusion into a regular classroom.
For students with disabilities the Professional Group (PG) is responsible tor determining appropriate Supplemental aides and services to address instructional needs. Distribuilcjn <jf staff assistant time assigned by the PG far a student shall be communicated to all teachers assigned for instruction of that student.
Jf the student with disabilities is seriously disruptive, distracting, or unruly, and there is a detriment to other students’ learning, or if the student with disabilities takes a substantially inordinate portion of the teachtr’s time, such that other students’ learning is negatively impacted, the PG shall be reconvened to discuss alternative strategies or placements.
Each building SitoBased Decision-Making Team (SBDMT) shall develop a written site plan stipulating the procedures to be followed in placing a student with significantly unique needs into a regular classroom for mainstreaming ar inclusion purposes. The plan shall be reviewed for legal compliance by the District. This plan will be conMnimicdied to the staff.il ihe beginning of each academic year.
Each building administrator with the assigned responsibility of supervision of the PG shall assure an equitable distribution of special education students among regular classrooms deemed appropriate by the PG- In doing so, items one through tour (M) above must be addressed.
When a student who has a life-threatening health condition which may require emergency procedures is placed in any program, all staff involved will be tolly informed in writing of said emergency procedures.
Article 10> 31
10.31 A Student learning and program support services will annually provide a fund (subject to funds available) to establish special curriculum development study committees and/or curriculum installation activities that will utilize a certain measure of non-supervisory certificated employees uf the District. These fund committees will operate during the summer, Saturdays, and late afternoons, and compensation will be provided as per Article 12.5 B ii,
Chapter 10. Genera] Conditions of Employment
24
3003-05
Information provided
Committee member selection
10.31 B Information about the specific nature of a special curriculum development study planned for a summer committee will be made generally available to nonsupervisoiy certificated employees at the appropriate school level and/or in the specific cnrtunilueea proposing a study as these persons ate most likely to have the special expertise needed to carry out the assignment. Employees will have the opportunity to express an interest and availability to the District administration to serve on these committees. The selection of iMivi toils will be the pitiogative of the District adimrnslratiori with decisions made on factual basis in fact regarding qualifications of applicants. (See Article 7-12)
Article 10.32
Use of Tobacco on Campus
The District will employ an ample number of employees to enforce the restriction of use of tobacco by anyone on school premises. Teachers will not be requested to interrupt their instruction activities with classes or their unassigned time periods to enforce no smoking restrictions. A teacher will generally not be required to perform student or student locker searches for tobacco or other contraband substances except in an emergency situation when assistance is requested by an administrator.
Article 10.33
Itinerants Serving Multiple Sites-
Program supervisors and principals shall annually meet with ail itinerants assigned to serve students at multiple work sites. The purpose shall be to provide itinerants with adequate facilities and work spaces to carry out the goals of the District programs. Every reasonable effort shall be made to have this completed prior to the last day of school. At the conclusion of this process, the supervisor of facilities will develop alternatives and recommendations that will address the short-term and long-term needs of those itinerants with inadequate workspace- An annual survey of all itinerants shall be conducted by the facilities manager to determine which specific individuals and sites are inadequate tn perform the duties assigned. Thu results of the survey shall be submitted to the Association office by April 1 of each year.
Chapter 10. Gc ne ra I Cond itions o f Emp loymtn t
25
2003-05
Basic Ed Overload Resolution Form
CPA Chapter 10, Article 10.22
Teacher Name
School
Date of overload	School & grade level or subject Total # of students
Secondary class load p. 1, , P 2------------------------------------------—-------------
P- 3-------------------------------
P- 4_________________________________
P‘5--------------------------------
P 6________________-________-
P- ?_______________________________
P 3----—-----------------_---------
VSD Consideration: Zb be completed by Principal, Chief of Elementary or
Secondary Education, Director of HR, Deputy Superintendent,
□ creating combination classes?
!□Rescinding boundary exception students in overload classes?
Employing an additional certificated teacher?
□ Checking your building aggregate overload to determine if you qualify for an additional full or part-time teacher?
□Maintain a space-available list for potentially overloaded classes.
Teacher Recommendation: (If not resolved above) To be completed by teacher.
Release time during the year when the workload is especially heavy.
□Relief from extra duties and expectations.
□Provide additional staff assistant time to rhe building for the overloaded educator that is convenient for relief of the workload.
Assurance that an overload will not happen in successive years for the impacted educator.
£□ Other
Chapter 10. General Conditions of limploytrtent
26
2003-05
Please indicate option that was used to solve the problem and any additional adjustments that will be made.
If a resolution still has not been reached, please state after your signature which of the above options you prefer.
Impacted Teacher
Building Representative
Administrator
Date sent to District Office & VEA
Forward all uniesclved situations to (lie Chief of Elementary or Secondary Education. Please include any recommendations appropriate for consideration at the district level.
VEA/VSD Decision:
VEA Exec Director or President
Date
Chief of Elementary or Secondary Ed
Date
Chapter 10- General Conditions of Employ meat
27
2003^05
CHAPTER 11. PROFESSIONAL COMPENSATION, ECONOMIC BENEFITS, & SECURITY
. 		Article 1L1-—	■■-	    -	-		 	 	
Individual contract required	There shall be a certificated contract for all initial/ptovisional and standard/ennti truing staff, in conformity with Washington state law and the rules and regulations of the state Board of Education in the mutually developed contract format set forth in the appendices of this Agreement and made a part of this Chapter by reference. Article tl.2
Equitable application of placement provisions	The provisions of salary schedule placement will be applied equally to all certificated personnel and every person will be given his/her proper place on the salary schedule consistent with his/her verified qualifications of academic preparation and verified professional experience. Article 1L3
Salary schedules in appendices	11.3 A The salary schedules for all personnel included in the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement shall be set forth in the appendices of this Agreement and made a part of this Chapter by reference- (See Appendix C.)
Salary siepllane provisions	11.3 B	The state allocation mode) (SAM) is adopted as the District salary schedule for certificated employees (seeRCW 2RA-150.410). Placement of certificated staff on the salary schedule wall be in compliance with the provisions of WAC 392-121-2Q0 through WAC 292-121-299. Article 11.4
General provisions for clock hours and oc.’jrse- sve-rk placement on salary schedule	11.4 A ft is expected that course work taken for placement on salary lanes will be normally applicable or transferable for a Bachelor’s Degree. The units must have been completed subsequent to receipt of the BacheTorb Degree. Graduate level cmirae wort doe? rid generally weed prior approval. Clock hours, in-service credits, continuation credits, LEAP credits that may relate to both certification and compensation fof advancement on the salary schedule will be recognized by the District as is allowed by the Washington Administrative Code, The costs of registration and record keeping will be borne by tbit individual subject to potential reimbursement when submitted in accordance with professional development procedures.
Additional provisions governing placement on lanes including other academic training including clock hours	11.4 B Courses and clock hours not a part of a planned program leading to an advanced degree or for other certification requirements, or individual professional development objective, must normally receive prior written approval from the educator’s immediate supervisor or become subject to processing as reasonably relevant to his/her professional assignment if they are to be allowed for salary schedule advancement. Clock hours and/or lower division undergraduate courses (generally listed as 100-200 level) clearly relevant to the professional assignment of the teacher, acceptable i'or reporting on the S-275 form, with approval from the immediate supervisor, appropriate administrative assistant, and administrator of Human Resources will be allowed toward the requirement for placement on salary lanes. The clock hour type of credit, to be acceptable, must be established by the appropriate agency and individual at the time that the course is offered and verified as earned by the individual immediately upon its completion to the District and through the Educational Service District (ESD) 112 assistant superintendents office assigned that responsibility.
Chapter 11, professional Compensation, Economic Benefits, & Security
2003-05
Special procedures for - — ■ approval irrelevant course cred;/not covered in the articles in this chapter.	£ 1.4 C in the event of extenuating circumstances wherein an individual educator has earned college creditfs) which appears to be relevant to his/her professional — assignment with-the District but does-not-qualify u nder the -articles- in. this chapter, the Superintendent or designee will approve advancement on the udacaliotia! lattes of the salary schedule. Procedures for cotistd^ration of college credits are as follows; i The individual educator will make a written application on forms provided to his/her immediate supervisor. The immediate supervisor will review, approve, or disapprove, the application, forward it to the Human Resources Office for review and forward it to the appropriate administrator. The Human Resources Office will determine if the courses are acceptable for recognition by OSPI regulations in the determining of the staff characteristics index figure for the District- ii If the application is disapproved by both the immediate supervisor and the appropriate administrator, the application wifi be returned to the applicant as the final disposition of the request. If the immediate supervisor and/or the appropriate administrator approves the application, the application will be submitted to the SuperintcndeaMesigntt. iii The Superintendetit/designee will review the application with the commentary of the supervisor, Human Resources Office, and administrator and make a final determination on the application to grant or reject the coursc(s) for purposes of District salary schedule placement. Artlde 11J
Vocational education teacher placement	11.5 A Persons to be employed in vocationally-accredited assignments will have a proper certificate with appropriate apprenticeship training and work experience computed at two (2) years of apprenticeship for one (1) year of academic credit and evaluated as being equivalent to a year of undergraduate academic education up to and including the Bachelor's Degree. Years of experience utilized for academic credit for placement on the schedule may not also be utilized for years of experience credit to advance down the schedule.
11-5 B Advancement in salary lanes for a non-degreed vocational education teacher may be recommended in writing by the Superintendent/designee, with a favorable endorsement by the Superintendent, for submission to the Board of Di rec ton; for action to ptace him/her on the higher salary lane. Normally, such placement will be based on appropriate training and/or experience granted in lieu of college credit as may meet the development of special qualifications for a particular assignment. Placement is further governed by the provisions of WAC iSO-77 and Basic Education Reporting criteria (S275).
Chapter 11, Professional Compensation, Economic Benefits, & Security
2
2003-05
Education staff associate CKtlificaflton and placement
Course work evaluation for transfers into District for salary schedule placement
Definition of basic 'workday & work year for purposes of salary schedule placement, ad’jJiTiCcjTieVLL &. compensation
Article 11,6
Professional staff holding a Bachelor's Degree and to be employed in a position requiring an initial Education Staff Associate Certificate will be placed on the appropriate experience step of lane i of the professional salary schetltilt. Advancement in pay lanes will.necessitate meeting the same requirements specified in the guidelines adopted for other professional staff, except that persons holding the Continuing Education Staff Associate Certificate are considered to have the Continuing Teacher Certificate. Such persons must have appropriate experience and meet the course work and/or degree requirements for advancement in lanes. The District reserves the right To evaluate the suitability of any non-public school teacher or social agency experience as to its equivalent value for experience placement on the salary schedule. The provisions for occupational experience in WAC 180-77 and 292-121-145 also apply.
Article 11.7
Course work for educators transferring into the District from other school districts will be evaluated and credited for salary advancement in the same manner as for educators who have been employed in the District all of their professional careers.
Article 11.8
Salary Schedule Experience Credit.
11	.8 A The standards established by the legislature and the OSPI for reporting employment (cwrratrtiy the S275 fora] and generation of funding, for compensation, will be utilized for the placement of an individual on the salary schedule. Consistent with the Basic Education Act a work week/workday is defined as an average weekly period of twenty-five (25) hours and an average of three hundred (300) minutes per day cif teacher-sVutlc.Tit formal and informal contact ii™. A rnfoimum of one-half schual year of credit (90 student days) is required for one (1) year of advancement on the salary schedule. No more than 1.0 school year of experience may be counted Ibr any twelve (12) month period.
1	l.S B Part-time employment (partial day or year) will be proportionately computed in tenths (lOths) of an instructional year. Employment of ninety (90) days full-time or one hundred eighty (180) days half-time shall be counted as .5 years of service (see Article 14.7 A), A routine "on-site" duty day is seven and one-half (7 1/2) continuous hours (Article 10.5 B). Part-time service may be aecuimfratetl over several year* to qualify for advancement on foe schedule. (See Article (4.7 A, Seniority Defined)
ll	.SC Experience as a substitute teacher may be utilized for salary schedule placement (advancement) when;
i	It can be documented.
ii	It will qualify for placement on the state LEAP schedule and will generate salary funds from the state to the District on the S275 annual personnel report, (Article 14.7 A, Seniority Defined)
Chapter 11. Professional Compensation, Economic Benefits, & Security
2003-05
Washington experience
Out-of-state experience
11.8 D It is mandatory that all eligible employees participate in the Washington State Teachers’ Retirement System (TRS). Employees who established membership prior to October 1,1977, will be on Plan 1. Those who. established membership between October 1, 1977, and June 30, 1996, will be on Plan 2, except those who choose to transfer to Plan 3. Employees who became eligible for membership on or after July 1, 1996, will be on Plan 3. All full-time employees are eligibly for membership; eligibility for part-time employees varies by plan. Handbooks are available in the payroll office.
Article 11.9
AU prior public school Leaching experience in the state of Washington (RCW 28A.400.300) is transferable and will be credited to the individual for the purpose of salary schedule placement.
Article 11.10
Out-of-state teaching or professional experience in accredited public or private schools Or social service agencies will be allowed year-fbr-year credit advancement on the Salary schedule when it can be documented by the employee and verified through the administrator of Human Resources as equivalent and/or appropriate to the position fur which the individual is being employed with the District. (See WAC 180-77}
Article 11.11
A maximum of two (2} years of active military service. Peace Corps, or VisLa will be allowed for the purposes of experience placement on the salary schedule if it is interrupted professional education employment. Eleven (11) months of active service shall be computed as one (1) year.
Article 11.12
Provisions For Job Sharing And Other Pail-Time And Overtime Situations That Fractionalize Certificated Instructional Personnel F-TE, (Full-Time Equivalent) Position
11.12 A Compensation - Computations
i Each individual on a part-time assignment, i.e., teaching less or more than the normal average FIT- daily teacher assignment, will be compensated pursuant to the following; A normal PTE is a daily average of 260-275 minutes of formal and twenty-five to forty (25-40) minutes of informal teacher/student contact time. A teacher is paid an amount proportionate (computed to the nearest .00 of formal teaching time) of actual time served with students and based on his/her placement on the basic salary schedule. A preparation period during a teaching day is not recognized for purposes of compensation.
Examples: The normal load is five (5) classes computed at 100% FTE (full-time equivalent). A high school teacher with three (3) classes is computed at 60% of FTE, another teacher with two (2) classes at 40% □fl'TE- A high school teacher with six (6) classes is 120% FTE of his/her salary schedule placement- A middle school teacher with two (2) classes is computed at ,34 of FTE, another teacher with three (3) classes at -51 of FTE.
Chapter 11- Professional Compensation, Economic Benefits, & Security
4
2003-05
11.12 A ii	Advancement of one (I) step on the salary schedule wi 11 require a
minimum of 80% of FTE year of service. Not more than one (1) year of service can be earned in one (1) school year. Part-day and.part-year (regular contracted and substitute) service may be accumulated over several school years to qualify for advancement on the Schedule-Multiple years of part-time service should be computed each year to determine each individual’s specific salary schedule placement. Example: Three (3) ye’afs'bf 80% service is equal to only 274 years, i.e.," two (2) steps, not three (3) steps on the salary schedule. Pour (4) years of 80% is equal to 3.2 years, three (3) steps- Five (5) years of 80% is four (4) steps. Two (2) years of 50% service is required for advancement of one (1) step on the salary schedule and the computation of seniority of an individual for other purposes of the contract, i.e.h RIF, placement, etc. Advancement on the Vancouver Salary Schedule is contingent for each individual case on the District being able to generate funds through the stated LEAP funding regulations to reasonably fund a change in placement-
iii Group insurance benefits will be offered in direct proportion to the time spent teaching, with a minimum of 40% FTE to participate in the program.
iv Emergency/sick leave, staff development funds, personal business leave, and similar other economic benefits will be computed in proportion to the individual's pencent of the FTE computation, i.e., 40% minimum.
I M2 B Position Determination
i	The District will arrange the sharing of one FTE position by two (2)
individuals or some other fractionalization of a limited number of teacher FTE positions when:
i	.a. The District can identify some clear advantages to the District for utilizing such an arrangement, and/or
i.	b. The Distr let does not identi fy any clear di sad vantages o f substance from a proposed fractionalization of an FTE unit.
The fractionalization of an FT E position must not result in substantially increasing the costs to the district for salary and benefits in excess of its average cost of funding an FTE. It will not be accomplished solely to accommodate the ’'preferred life style" of the employees. There must be some- value being accrued by tine District fbr the splitting of an FTE and the expansion in administrative load inherent in the increase of the number of employees to be supervised and accounting records to be maintained.
ii	A job sharing or other FTE fractionalization will normally be accomplished for not, more than one (1) year.
It may be abolished without prior notice;
ii.a. At the end of each school year.
Chapter 11. Prel'csiitorjal Compensation, Economic Benefns, &. Security
J?
2003-05
1J. J 2 B j Lb,	Ji is necessary that a fraction of an FIT- employee jtniisl be
increased during a school year because a change in circumstances occurs; - ■ ■
ii,c.	One-half of a job sharing pair departs the scene and another
suitable replacement cannot be immediately located,
ii d. The job sharing partners find they are incompatible and one (1} leaves the District or takes unpaid leave and it is not convenient Ibr the District to make other suitable arrangements.
ihe. The District has need to discipline or terminate the sharing arrangement because one or both persons are not complying with (heir prior written agreement as tn frovr they will irantiie responsibilities of attendance at staff meetings, equitable sharing of student control duties during the school day, evening extra/co-curricular supervision of students, or to attend seminars or other special training as necessary at the established compensation rates.
ii-f. If the job share employee is a current full-time equivalent status, the portion that is being vacated for the job share must either be an approved leave of absence or resignation subject to the approval of the District,
ii g- In the event a job share employee desires to return to full-time status, the employee must notify the Human Resources Office that he/she desires to return to liilf-rime employment (See Article 6.12 C). If the person has a fractionalized continuing contract, the District must employ that person as a full-time equivalency prior to applying for full time status positions. The employee must use the Position Interest Register for any open position in the building or District, NOTE- The job share cannot be used to lock up a full-time position in the same building.
ii.h.	lob share positions are reduced to the person in the job share with
the least seniority for the duration of the job share, NOTE: In the event that there is a decline in enrollment or funding and the building must excess one FTE and one of the job share educators has the lowest building seniority, both of the persons involved in the job share shall be excessed, regardless of the seniority of the other job share employee.
ii.i.	If the job share position becomes a partriime position without the
provisions of the job share, then the employee shall resume full seniority rights as other members of the bargaining unit.
ii.j. Employees must notify rhe Human Resources Office by March 1 of the preceding school year with a proposal to enter or terminate a job share assignment.
Chapter 11. Professional Compensation, Economic Benefits. & Security
6
2003-05
U.H C Job SWt CteftMd-.
A jab share and a part-time position are both considered fractionalized. The difference in the two (2) positions are that job shares involve two (2) persons for one (1) full-time position. A part-time position does not involve another employee in fulfilling the duties and obligations of the position. Job share teachers teach at different times of the school day or calendar days and have responsibility for the same students. Employees who are eligible for job sharing must:
i Have continuing contract status.
ii Currently be in the same building or have expressed an interest on the Position Interest Register far consideration in a proposed job share position.
iii Employee Orientation
The district will provide to the employee a checklist of potential adverse effects from job sharing or otherwise accepting a part-time position and the employee willingly accepts those limitations by initialing each area.
iii.a. An individual’s advancement on the salary schedule steps may be at least biannual and often more years apart depending on the proportion of teaching performed- (Article 11.12 A ii)
iii.b. Eligibility for retirement credit may be limited or nonexistent during those years pursuant to state teachers’retirement system provisions.
iii.c. An individual b "continuing contract rights" for the following year are reduced to the proportion of the day actually worked for a following year. The District is not legally bound to reinstate the individual into a full-time position. Reinstatement to a full-time position will be at the District's convenience.
iii.d. An individual may be required to return to Full time any time for "urgent needs" of the District, is., student enrollment change, space situations, etc.
iii.e. Individuals proposing to enter into a job sharing arrangement will prepare a signed, written agreement. It will stipulate how each individual will handle each and all of the dudes and responsibilities of the position being divided. These will include, but not be limited to, the following: attendance at building and District staff meetings, back-to-school night for parents, student supervision duties both during school hours and evening student body activities, individual parent conferencing, equipment inventory, and similar kinds of activities normal to those of a full-rime teacher as may be identified by the building administrator. The building administrator will sign after reviewing and commenting in writing his/her approval or disapproval of any aspect of the proposed plan. The plan is to be presented to the Human Resources Office for a prior final review before the proposal can be approved.
Legal Reference RCW 2BA.400.300
Chapter 11. Professional Compensation, Economic Benefits, & Security
7
2003-05
	Article HJ3
Vocational experience credit	A minimum of twelve {12} months of apprenticeship training and/or work experience and/or service in a vocationally-accredited assignment may he credited as one (1) year of prior "teaching" experience, providing such experience has not been previously evaluated and allowed for salary placement credit as being equivalent to undergraduate academic training, (Articles 11,7 and 11-8} Miscellaneous Provisions of Salary Schedule Placement and Other Matters of Payment Article 11.14
Quarter unit measure	Units for salary schedule placement will be recorded in quarter hours. Semester hours will be multiplied by the factor 1,5, to arrive at (heir equivalent in quarter hours. Article 11,15
Prior approval for undergrad or randomly selected courses	To assure acceptance of undergraduate courses lower division, subsequent to 9/1/82, a teacher must first obtain written verification from the Human Resources Office that the credit will be acceptable for indu'd on in the S-275 annual personnel report to !he office of the SPL The applicants must then obtain a positive written endorsement from his/her immediate supervisor and appropriate administrator that the course is relevant and acceptable. Article 11,16
Initial salary schedule placement	Evaluation of academic preparation and any prior professional experience for purposes of salary schedule placement will be initially done in the Human Resources Office, Questions regarding appropriateness of an interpretation and/or the application of a salary placement provision in an individual case may be referred by the administrator of Human Resources, or by the applicant for a salary advancement, to the appropriate administrator for review and written recommendation. Article 11.17
Immediate supervisor^ assessment of value	The appropriate administrator or the applicant ibr advancement on the salary schedule may request the applicant’s immediate supervisor to provide a written assessment of the value of a particular undergraduate course, conference, or workshop completed or proposed regarding its relative value past, immediate, and/or potential in providing better professional services in his/her assigned responsibilities. Article 11.18
Application forms & dates	Certificated staff desiring salary lane advancement on the salary schedule should make application on forms provided in the Human Resour ces Office not later than April 15, if the individual anticipates- having ail of the outstanding requirements completed and the new placement put into effect for the ensuing school year. Individuals filing
Application deadline	applications for new placement after April 15 may not have placement implemented until the year following if there are insufficient funds provided in the budget category established for that purpose.
Chapter 11. Professional Compensation, Economic Benefits, & Security
8
2003-05
Article 1149
Documentation deadline for salary adjustment	11.19 A	Documents verifying the completion of outstanding requirements for advancement on the salary schedule must be submitted to the Human Resources Office on or before September 15, to qualify for a salary adjustment lor an ensuing school year. Exceptions to the submission date will be permitted only in extreme situations when documentation has not been possible because of delays clearly beyond the control of the employee. All course work must be documented on official transcripts or verified copies thereof.
Salary advancement implementation date	11.19 B	The District will make every reasonable effort to implement the advancement of all individuals on the salary schedule at one time. Every effort will be made to make the adjustment on or before the November 1 payroll.
	U.19C	An employee must document all college units completed within six (6) weeks of employment and within six (6) weeks of completion if employed, or by September 15 th of each year, whichever comes sooner, if they are to be utilized for advancement on the salary schedule in the future. The employee may present a grade slip as tentative documentation but must order an official transcript when requested by the District The District will bear the cost of the transcript.
Article 11.20
Days of service & payment timeline	11.20 A	Each individual’s annual professional services contract will be written for the school year with the required number of duty days and dates to be served as provided in the calendar established for that time period for his/her position classification.
Payday	11.20 R	The District payroll for all employees will be disbursed on or before die last day of the month. When the last day of the month falls on Saturday nr Sunday, the payroll will be disbursed on the preceding Friday.
	11.20 C	The salary for each employee will be paid in twelve (12} approximately equal installments of each school year with no more than twelve (12) monthly payments during one (1) tax year. The first payment of each school budget year will be made on or before September 30, the last on or before Augtist 31, and according to the salary schedule and days of scheduled duty established through negotiations for his/her position classification for that academic year, provided that pursuant to RCW 41.59.170 salary schedules and economic benefits may be adjusted at any time funds arc available for that purpose. (See Article 11.25).
NBPTS	11.19 D	The District will take necessary action to secure any additional compensation allowed in the state budget for NBPTS certified teachers.
Chapter 1 1. Professional Compensation, Economic Benefits, & Security
9
2003-05
Direct payroll deposit	11.20 D Upon written authorization uf employees, the salary of each employee in the bargaining unit may be deposited directly into his/her personal account of any bank or credit union that is a member of the Automated Clearing House.
Written statement provided to the employee	Funds will be available ott the regularly scheduled pay date. The employee will be provided with a written statement of the amount being deposited and of ail the deductions made, and the cumulative number of sick leave days he/she has on the District's records. The statement will be delivered to the employee’s school mailbox not later than the last school day (or placed in the U.S - mail not later than the last business day of the month when school is not in session) immediately prior to the first day of the month- Beginning with September 1,2001, all employees, current and future, will be required to establish a direct payroll deposit by providing the district with information regarding a personal account of any bank or credit union that is a member of the Automated Clearing House. The District will provide affected employees (e.g., those without direct deposit arrangements) with advance notice of this change prior to the June 30 pay date. New employees will be required to provide the District with direct deposit arrangements by the end of the second pay period after beginning employment.
Summer arrangements	11.20 E During summer months, salary payments will be mailed in the U.S - mail to the employee's home address or deposited directly into the bank account authorized by the employee
Salary adjustments timeline	Changes in contract status, special assignment payment, and payroll deductions will be made on the next succeeding salary warrant when the authorization (or approved time sheets in the case of summer work special assignments) have been properly submitted to the business office on or before the payroll cut-off day each month- An authorization submitted after the payroll cut-off date of each month will be processed with the next following payroll. Artide 11.21
Individual per diem defined	The basic contract term of service for all certificated staff is one hundred eighty (180) days as specified in the adopted school calendar. Payroll computations for paying for days of service or making deductions will be related to that term of service as the individual "per diem” rate for a certificated staff member. Certificated staff employed
180 clays	after the beginning date of the school year to complete the school year will be paid at their individual per diem rate on the salary schedule for days actually worked. Services provided outside of the Basic Education Act work year and day will be paid as provided in Article 13.5 Article 11.22
Replacement for leave	Certificated employees hired by the District to replace educators who have been granted official District leaves shall be employed in accordance with state statute R.CW 28A.405.900 and shall receive full fringe benefits and, upon application for regular contract status, shall receive appropriate consideration, subject to other provisions of this Agreement and law, for regular assignment vacancies, provided that their services have been evaluated as satisfactory. Individuals serving as replacement contract teachers will be placed on the salary schedule according tri their qualifications.
Chapter 11. Professional Compensation, Economic Bene Lils,	Security
10
200^05
	Article 11.23 Reimbursement of Automobile & Other Necessary Authorized Expenses Incurred In Performing Service for the District
Automobile a condition of employment	11.2.3 A Certain District employees may be required to have an automobile available during regular working hours as a condition of continued employment in a particular position to carry put assigned responsibilities requiring mobility within the District or available to make emergency trips on behalf of the health and safety of children with whom they work, and they wilt be reimbursed at the established mileage rate.
Mileage - split assignments	11.23 B	Employees whose assignment is split between buildings, will be reimbursed at the approved mileage rate lor travel from one school building location to the other within the duty day. Employees will not be reimbursed for travel from and to their private residence. Article 11.24
Mileage rate authorization procedure	An employee required to use a personal car on District business shall be compensated at the rate per mile established by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) as appropriate for business use of a private vehicle. The rate will be timely adjusted whenever needed to keep it contemporary with the latest IRS regulations. Mileage will be authorized and validated by the proper administrator in. accordance with the budget and the established policies and regulations of the District. Article 11.25
Other expenses	Reimbursement and/or advances for authorized expenses incurred in performing services to and for the District will be made in accordance with the policies and regulations of the District. Article 11-2,6 Insurance & Employee Protection
General liability insurance	11.26 A i The District shall provide liability insurance protection (Article 11.26 A ii) for each employee covered by this Agreement in case of suit, actions, or claims against the employee and/or the District arising from or out of the employee's performance or failure of performance of duties as agent for the District, provided that the District shah not be obligated to provide liability insurance protection or defend employees in connection with an employee’s gross negligence, intentional or wanton misconduct or knowing violation of law or criminal act; further, provided that the employee agrees to give notice as soon as possible to the Human Resources Office of any such suit, claim, or action brought against said employee. ii Policy limits are one million dollars combined single limit bodily injury and property damage liability protection. The Association may request and will be provided information of District coverage year.
Chapter ! 1. Professional Compensation, Economic Benefits, &. Security	11
2003-05
Authorized level of force by employees	11.26 B	i An employee is authorized to use force, but no more force than shall be necessary, upon or toward a student or other person on or around school premises whenever such employee is about to be injured, or when the employee lawfully comes to the aid of another about to be injured, or to prevent a malicious trespass, or other malicious interference with that real or personal property which lawfully is in his/lrer possession, in the possession of another employee or student, or upon school premises.
Legal counsel provided by the District	ii The District shall provide legal counsel to an employee against whom a lawsuit is instituted and which suit arises out of his/her proper exercise of that force authorized in this article, or in other District regulations. Furthermore, the District shall assist an employee in obtaining counsel to represent him/her when he/she has been assaulted in or around the school premises or as a result of his4ier performing his/her professional duty.
Teacher transportation of students not required	11,26 C i	A member of the bargaining unit shall not be required to transport a student in his/her personal vehicle, except in a medical or emergency situation or as an identified component of a paid extracurricular program activity assignment. (See Chapter 13)
Voluntary nature of transportation of students to sponsored/-sanctioned activities District auto policy provided	ii An employee may of his/her own volition choose to transport a student to a sponsored or sanctioned activity away from a school that is an extension of the District’s curriculum program(s), a school building's operations, or the Districts extracurricular programfs). During such expeditions the employee will be covered by an excess business automobile liability insurance policy maintained by the District for the protection of employees and volunteers as may provide transportation in their personal vehicles for the students of the District-
Informed consent of employees transporting students	iii District and building administrators shall be responsible Io advise each employee verbally and in writing at least once each year of the nature of the liability they assume in transporting students. Specifically:
Identified statutory minimum requirements	iii.a. Current minimum financial responsibility limits required of every citizen by Washington State Law (RCW 46.29,490) are 525,000/50,000 bodily injury and $10,000 property damage and that each passenger transported in a private vehicle is provided a seat and a proper safety restraint (seat belt). Any employee transporting a student should comply with the law.
Employees policy is primary coverage	iii-b- The employee^ personal automobile insurance is the primary insurance coverage in the event of an accident and a claim/judgmenl made against the employee.
Limits of District’s liability coverage	iii.c. The District's business automobile liability insurance of one miIIion dollars is utilized after the maximum limits of the employee’s personal vehicle liability coverage is exceeded. The District’s coverage does nut include restoration of damages incurred to die employees vehicle.
Chapter 11, Professional Compensation, Economic Benefits, & Security	1
20034)5
Requirements of paid extracurricular program student transportation situations
11.26 C iv If tbe District plans to require an employee specifically employed to sponsor/supervise an extracuiTiculair/co-curricular activity, to provide a certain measure of transportation of students as a necessary component of the assignment, this information will be communicated in writing on the supplementary contract and brought verbally to his/her attention at the time the contract is to be signed. The District will clearly stipulate the amount of transportation required and any specific conditions that need to be observed by the employee in that specific portion of his/her assignment.
Personal 11.26 D The District or its insurer(s) will reimburse the member, as obligated by property loss &	statute, for loss or damage of not less than ten ($10) or more Chau two-
damage	hundred and fifty ($250) dollars to personal property caused while such
employees are engaged in (I) the maintenance of order and discipline, or (2) the protection of school personnel, school property, or students.
The District agrees to budget $5000 per year for the purpose of reimbursing employees whose personal property, including clothing and automobile, is lost or damaged as a result of theft and vandalism.
The District shall promulgate reasonable rules and regulations outlining the procedures and documentation needed for payment of a reimbursement claim. Those rules shall be governed by the following provisions;
i The use of an employee's personal equipment for instructional purposes must have the prior written approval of the employee’s supervisor.
ii	Loss or theft of cash is not covered.
iii	Theft or vandalism must have occurred while the employee was performing assigned duties/respOnsibilitics.
iv The employee must report the theft or vandalism to the appropriate law enforcement agency within forty-eight (48) hours of knowledge of the incident, and a copy of said report must be provided Lo the employee’s supervisor.
v The employee must complete a Proof of Loss and Claim Reimbursement form and attach any receipts or cost estimates that explain the amount of theft or vandalism. The claim for reimbursement must be made to the employee’s supervisor within ten (10) days of the theft or vandalism, or the claim is deemed waived by the employee.
vi The employee must exhaust his/her own insurance recovery possibilities before being eligible for reimbursement from the District. Upon District approval of an employee’s claim, the employee may be reimbursed up tn $250-
vit Reimbursement claims shall be filed for amounts not less than ten dollars ($10) but not more than two hundred and fifty dollars ($250) for each loss.
viii Repair and replacement costs shall be based on the most current and available estimate of current value, rates, and/or prices.
Chapter 1 i. Professional Compensation, Economic Benefits, & Security
13
2003-05
	11.26 D	ix	Reimbursement of employee claims will occur in June. 'The amount of reimbursement, up to a maximum of $250, depends on the number of claims fifed with the District. The District will make every effort to see that each employee receives an equitable share of the $5000. For example: If there were forty (40) claims for $250, each employee would receive $125
Industrial accident	11.26 E	1	It is recognized that the payments received as compensation by an employee injured on the job under circumstances bringing him/her with in the coverage of the Workmen^ Compensation Act of the state of Washington are less than the regular wage payments received by the employee.
		ii	In case of any on-the-job disability which is covered by State Industrial Insurance under the Workmen’s Compensation Act of the state of Washington, the employer will pay to such disabled employee, out of his/her accumulated side leave, an allowance equal to the difference between the State Workmen’s Compensation benefits and the employee's regular gross pay, less statutory deductions, beginning at the time of disability and continuing until the accumulated sick leave entitlement is completely expended. If the employee is still disabled after his/her earned sick leave allowance is expended, the employee will revert to only the pay coverage afforded by State Workmen's Compensation Insurance.
		iii	In order to receive benefits under this Article, employees may be required at the discretion of the employer to submit evidence, in writing, from a duly licensed medical examiner that, in the opinion of the examiner, the employee was physically unable to return to work on the day for which benefits arc claimed.
Emergency procedures	11.26F	i	Each site staff, under the leadership of the principal, shall establish emergency procedures in which staff are able to communicate with the principsl/supervisor about a situation that is potentially volatile. These emergency procedures will also include methods for providing rapid assistance in emergency situations when a potential for physical harm to an employee is evident. These provisions shall be communicated to all staff members and published in a staff handbook or similar document by the opening day of school.
Assault upon ernplcjycc.
ii Any case of assault upon an employee by a student, parent, or guardian shall promptly be reported to the employee’s supervisor or designee. The employee's supervisor shall immediately report the situation to the administrator of Hitman Resources. The District will counsel with tlie employee on those legal rights and alternative courses of action available to the employee. If there appears to be a conflict of interest, the conflict will be identified, the District will advise the employee, and the employee has the option to seek legal counsel elsewhere.
iii The principal/designee shall inform "on a nced-to-know basis" any staff member who may have consistent contact with a student if that student in the principal's judgment poses a threat to the staff member.
Chapter 11. Professional Compensation, Economic Benefits, & Security
14
2003-05
Assault, reporting & legal------ ■
District's contribution
11.26 F i v In those situations where criminal charges arising out of employment have been filed against an employee where it is mutually determined ...........— appropri ate, and there is- no-conflict of interest-,-the- District agrees to----- reimburse aft legal fees as deemed reasonable by the court to the employee if he/she is found innocent of the charges.
J1.26 G Student Personal Property. Each teacher is expected to maintain a positive instructional environment in his/her classroom/activity area. In order to maintain a positive instructional environment, it may be necessary from time to time for a teacher to assume transitive possession of a student’s personal property. When assuming transitive possession, the teacher shall take reasonable precautions to protect the student’s personal property until it can be returned to the student. If, in the judgment of the super visor/principal, the teacher takes reasonable precautions to protect the student’s personal property, and after consultation with the Superintendent/designee, the District will defend the teacher from being financially liable (culpable) for the loss or damage of a student^ personal property held in transitive possession. This defense is not applicable if, in the super visor b/principal^ and/or Superintendent’sAiesignee’s judgment, the teacher is negligent, or acted for conversion, or acted in a malicious manner.
The supervisor/principal will make every reasonable effort to discourage students from bringing personal property to school that is not pertinent to their instructional assignments. Each supervisor/principal shall establish procedures that teachers will follow when assuming transitive possession of student's personal property until such property is returned.
Article 11,27
IL27 A The District will utilize on behalf of part-time employees payroll deduction procedures for the purpose of making direct payment of premiums of group insurance and other programs as are mutually determined by the Association and the District. Deductions will be made according to the provisions of this Agreement and the specific instruction of each employee where such individual discretion is allowed.
11.27 B The District will provide the stated contribution for each calendar month for each full-time employee covered by this Agreement for the full or partial payment of the programs mutually determined by the Association and the District to be made available for employees. Part-time employees’ benefits (Article 11.27 E) will be proportionate to the time served. (Specific dollar amounts are set forth in Appendix H.)
Note:. Pursuant to legislation of 1990, residual amounts will first be applied to individuals within the bargaining unit pool as are required to reduce out-of-pocket payments for family medical coverage. Any remaining residual will be assigned to the sell-insurance reserve (full family dental-visionprescription-auditory, etc.).
Chapter 11- Professional Compensation, Economic Benefits, & Seemly
15
2003-05
Mutual	11.27 C
determination of programs for all employees
The District will pay the premium for all employees for any specific insurance plan(s) as may be mutually determined by the Association and the District-within the limits of Article 11.31 B above. The specific plan ~ ........
bencfiti; and rates of any such plants) to cover all employees of the bargaining unit shall become the subject of study by District and Association representatives. The final plan selected-or any proposal for an alteration in benefits or rates during the life of the Agrcement-shall be a subject for bargaining between the District and the Association pursuant to Chapter 41.59 RCW. Any portion of the District’s contribution not utilized for the mandatory District comprehensive composite rate insurance program may be utilized as authorized by each employee for a health medical plan that he/she has individually selected from those made available to employees. It is understood by the District and the Association that any costs incurred for any insurance program(s) in excess of the total basic contribution afforded each employee by the District will be assumed by the employee.
11.27 D The sequence of these deductions will be made in a uniform manner, with the health-medical plan selected by the employee to be the last deduction made Enrollment in a group insurance plan will be normally allowed only within the established "open period" (normally September) or within thirty (30) days of employment.
Part-time insurance eligibility
11,27 E Eligibility for participation in an insurance program shall be based on services provided at no less than forty percent (40%) of a full lime equivalent (FTE) employee position.
11.27 P Pursuant to legislation of 1990 consolidation of the state’s insurance FLE allotment of husband and wife employees in the same bargaining unit or between bargaining units is no longer permitted. One partner will be a single subscriber; the other will assume the costs of any dependents.
11.27 G i Group medical insurance programs immediately available through the employer contribution are open panel medical/hospital plans, Prcincra Blue Cross PP01 and PP02, and a closed panel health maintenance organization medical/hospital plan, currently Kaiser Foundation Health Plan.
ii Group term life insurance (all premiums for life insurance must quality for tax-exempt status, as directed by the United States Internal Revenue Service), accidental death and dismemberment, vision, prescription, and prepaid dental group programs may be made available by the mutual agreement of the District and the Association (see Appendix H.).
Article 11.24
Statutory	Funds shall be withheld from the earnings of employees in accordance with federal or
payroll	state laws and regulations for the purpose of income tax provision. Medicare taxes,
deductions	social security taxes, retirement, and industrial accident medical premiums. Funds so
withheld will be transmitted to the appropriate governmental agency in accordance with agency datelines.
Chapter 11. Professional Compensation. Economic Benefits, &. Security
Id
2003-05
Range of authorizations & timeline
Open period in voluntary program
Specific programs
Hospital medical
Salary insurance
Tax-sheltered annuities
Supplemental life
Charitable contributions
Article 11.29“.... “	. .... ------------- . .. - -------------- ..
Voluntary Payroll Deductions
Employees may authorize the District through written authorization to assign funds from the employer Is contribution to group insurance programs or to deduct funds from their earnings amounts for the payment of insurance premiums, dues and assessments, annuities, and other appropriate group deductions* The signed authorization form must be processed through the appropriate department prior to the payroll cut-off date each month, unless otherwise provided, for the deduction to be made from the current monthly earnings*
The open period for enrollment in voluntary group insurance program(s) is subject to the particular rules and regulations of each carrier An employee^ participation in such a program shall be subject to such limitations and neither the District nor Association will be liable for obtaining an alteration from the carrier in their regulations for the benefit of an employee.
The Association acknowledges that the District incurs costs from the data processing procedures and labor costs necessary in providing payroll deductions. To place Jimi is on the costs incurred in the processing of authorizations for which payroll deductions can be made, the following autliorizations have been mutually selected by the parties:
11.29 A i Kaiser Foundation Health Plan:
•New employees may join within thirty (30) days of employment.
•Current employees may join during the annual open period, September '	1 through October 12.
ii The Premera Blue Cross Plan:
•New employees may join within thirty (30) days of employment. •Current employees may join during the annual open period, normally September 1 through October 12.
11.29 B Standard Short-Term Salary Insurance (paid premiums entirely by the employee).
11.29 C Salary reduction agreements for tax sheltered annuities will be made available under the provisions of Section 403(b) of the Internal Revenue Code and RCW 28A.4OO.250. Insurance companies must be authorized by the Insurance Commissioner of the state of Washington to transact business in the state of Washington. Agents representing rhe insurance companies must be licensed under Washington state law. Refer to Appendix H.
11.29 D Authorization in favor of the Clark County Schoo! Employees' Credit Union for savings and loan payments.
11.29 E Guardian Life Insurance, John Hancock Premium Pay-Back Term Life Insurance, Standard Supplemental Life, and Standard AD&D (paid entirely by the employee).
11.29 F Contributions to United Way and the Vancouver School District Foundation may be made in each of the twelve (12) months oi the year.
Chapter 11. Professional Compensation. Economic Benefits, &. Security
17
2003-05
Annual	11.2? G The District reserves the right to permit additional payroll deductions as may
deductions	be requested by written petition of at least ten percent (Wife) of the
-	-	- -------------employees to-warrant-thecost-Bf-providing such .service,and on specific
approval of the Board of Directors. (See Appendix G for a summary listing of group insurance program benefits.)
Article 11.30
The Basic Contract Certificated Staff (Appendix A) shall specify one hundred eighty {ISO) days of service to be compensated as provided in the Vancouver Professional Salary Schedule (Appendix C). The number of days in the basic contract will be increased for any additional state funded in-service days.
An additional two and one-half (2 1/2) days of mandatory service is provided to teachers for administrative essential activities to open and close the school year or semester. The building administrators will schedule the days of service. These hours of service will be compensated at the approved hourly rate. (Chapter 12.5 A ii and iv) Teachers wilt be paid by the time sheet procedure.
Exception: Certain employee classifications with several days of mandatory extended year service are normally provided by a supplemental contract. Any administrative essential days to be allowed for opening or closing school will be incorporated into the total days of supplementary contract
No Districtwide meeting will be scheduled on the work days immediately preceding the first student attendance day, the day between semesters, and rhe one-half (1/2) day following the last student attendance day. These days are provided for the specific purpose of opening school, changing semesters, and closing a school year-
Chapter i i. Professional Compensation. Economic benefits. r£ Security
ly
2003^05
CHAPTER 12. TRI ACTIVITIES & PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Article 12.1
Concept
The TRI program of the Vancouver School District has ns its primary objective the
enhancement of basic education programs for students.
Article 111
The primary intent of TRI is to improve the quality of educational services available for students through the performance of compensated additional responsibilities provided by certificated staff. These TRI responsibilities will go beyond those levels possible within the basic education programs as funded by the state legislature. The legislature^ enactment ofRCW 2SA.4DD.200 authorizes the District to participate in supplemental contract payments of salaries and benefits to employees who meet certain specific provisions;
12.2 A The payment is not for services included in rhe mandatory daily average
hours of instruction offered students within the one hundred eighty (180) day school year as is required and funded by the Basic Education Act (RCW 28A J50.220), or within any state funded in-service days.
12 2 B The supplemental contracts will normally be for one year and not subject to
the continuing contract provisions (RCW 28A.4O5.240).
12-2 C The funding of the TRI responsibilities is subject to funds available from local sources and other funds allocated outside of the BEA program.
J 2.2 D The nature of the supplemental services and level of compensation is negotiable with the Vancouver Education Association.
Three major 12.2 E TRI, other than for in-service training, is payable in three (3) increments in
elements
accordance with Appendix E and provides full compensation ior the responsibilities listed in Article 12.5.
12.2 F The Association and the District recognize that the responsibilities listed in
Article 12.5 may involve, due to circumstances, excessive amounts of time. In this regard, the District wil! exercise reasonable discretion in its expectations of employees, and the Association has the right to meet with the principal and/or central office administrators to resolve unreasonable situations, special events, etc.
12.2 G Building administrators and program managers shall meet with staff to
jointly prepare a yearly TRI plan that will identify mandatory and flexible responsibilities that will guide the staff in the implementation ol'TRI responsibilities. To the extent possible, the plan will provide a schedule of mandatory meetingfi/t vents that is balanced relative to individual, flexible responsibilities and responsibilities that cannot be scheduled. Copies of the plan will be provided to the VEA building representative and the Human Resources Office.
12.2 H When an employee is in an unavoidable overload situation, the building
administrator will minimize demands on the employee’s time for TRI responsibilities.
Chapter 12. TRI Activities &. Professional Development Program
1
2003-05
Article 12.3
Time	12.3 A	A TRI activity may occur (1) prior to and/or following the one hundred eighty (180) day basic education school year, OR (2) outside of the normal on-site seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours provided by the Basic Education Act (Article 10-5 B) or any state funded in-service days.
Location	12-3 B	A TRI activity may be carried out "on site" or "off site” as is reasonably appropriate for a particular activity.
Signed statements	12-3 C The procedure to validate the actual performance of time and/or responsibility of a contractual commitment will normally be made by submission pf signed documentation from the employee. The employee^ wrfrten affinnatitjit of his/Tier presence oti site at specified times and/or time documentation associated with the creation of a work product as confirmed in writing by the employee^ supervisor are the two (2) recognized methods to validate the services performed and responsibilities completed. Article 12,4	
TRI activities	Activities included in the TRI program are: 12.4 A	Admini strati ve meetings called by bu tiding or District administrators necessary to open and/or close the school year. See Appendix E, Administrative Essential Days. 12 4 B The District’s administration may direct up to 16 hours of mandatory inservice training, See Appendix E. Mandatory In-service Days. 12.4 C Parent conferencing by scheduled blocks of time or other special arrangements. Up to two (2) non-student days may be scheduled for parent conferencing within the TRI flexible responsibilities compensation discussed below, 12.4 D Individual preparation responsibilities when they occur outside the normal	
work day;
i ii	Curriculum development/! nd! vidually designed special projects. Counseling.
iii iv V vi vii viii	Media center activities. District authorized professional level activities. Tutoring of students. Grade level meetings. Curriculum meetings. Building projects (after school activities, science Lair, culture fair, etc.)
ix X xi xii xiii xiv XV	IEP committee meetings. MlXf meetings, Rcmcdial/cnrichmcnt classes, students/parents. Department and magnet school strategic planning. Report writing for compliance with IDEA requirements. Development and implementation of technology. Testing and assessment requirements tor regular education and special education including statewide, mandatory, and Woodcock-Johnson, etc.
Chapter 1Z- I'KI Activities & Professional Development Program
2
2OTT05
Mandatory responsibilities
Flexible responsibilities
12.4 D xvi Progress reports for related services.
xvii Targeted schools planning.
xviii- -Classroom-overloads. ------------------------------- - —
xix Other District-authorized activities.
Note: TRI may be used for SBDMT activities. However, it is expected that SIJG funds will be the primary funding source for School Improvement Planning and training when such funds are available.
Article 12.5
TRI set aside tor special responsibilities:
12-5 A Mandatory Responsibilities (see Appendix E.) comprised of two and one-half days (2 14) per year of Essential Administrative Activities (i.e. 20 hours) for which the District may require the presence of an employee on the work site or at another designated location. Activities as determined by tile District, or principal with input from his/her Site-Based Decision-Making Team are conducted during hours of service not already compensated within the District-established one hundred eighty (ISO) day school year and routine on-site day. The following are illustrative of activities that may be included in mandatory responsibilities.
i Administrative or school site or other authorized District meetings called to open and/or close the school year.
ii Qn-site preparation of classroom/instructional environment including preparation of bulletin boards, display tables, lesson planning and scheduling, assembly of texts, audio-visual materials, student work sheets, grade books, and similar kinds of tasks to open/close a school year.
iii Evaluating and recording of student progress reports for parents at midyear or end of year and meet ing/consul tai ion with other faculty to plan and/or prepare presentation of programs.
iv A workshop, class, or special meeting that has been scheduled and deemed critical that designated staff members must be in attendance to participate in discussion and decision making of matters of concern to a specific site or the District, or to be oriented in a new concept that is to be implemented.
v Employees are compensated at the approved hourly rate tor responsibilities actually performed without regard to part-time or fulltime work schedules. Employees who do not perform the full two-and-one-half days (e.g., late start or early departure} will receive a proportionate amount of TRI compensated.
12.5 B Flexible Responsibilities - Appendix E
Flexible responsibilities arc duties carried out on an individual basis by employees to provide direct and/or indirect service to students. See Article 12.5 A iii for individual preparation activiries.
Chaptcr 12. TRI Activities & Professional Development Program
2003-05
12,5 B i Employees will be compensated at the rate of 53,08S for employees in steps D through 15 and $3,488 for employees at step 16 for the
.......	............performance of TRI flexible responsibilities..-Employees-who. are-part time or who do not work the full school year will be compensated proportionately,
it Certificated employees who are part time or who are hired for a portion of the school year will receive a pro-rated ittuoutic of TRI flexible compensation (e.g., a ,8 FTE receives -8 of the TRI flexible compensation; an employee hired on the 90111 school day receives one half (90/180) of the TRI flexible compensation. An employee's flexible TRI entitlement is fixed for the first half of the year based on his/her FTE on October 1, and the second half of the year based on his/her FTE on February 1, and will only be changed prospectively at mid-year for changes in FTE level. Employees who enter pay status after the first student day of the year, or who depart prior to the last student day of the year, are entitled to flexible TRI time for each month in which they work a majority of the scheduled work days. Unique circumstances will be referred to the Human Resources Office for resolution.
iii Employees who are on long-term, compensated leave, for twelve (12) weeks or less, will continue to receive their TRI payment providing they continue to perform TRI activities in association with the leave. In such case, the term substitute will not receive TRI payments.
iv Employees who are on long-term, uncompensated leave, compensated leave in excess of twelve (12) weeks, or compensated leave of twelve (12) months or less but who do not continue to perform TRI activities, will not receive TRI compensation during the period of the long-term absence. Instead, the TRI responsibility and compensation will transfer to the term substitute The employee or term substitute who works the majority of the scheduled work days in the beginning and ending month of the long-term leave will receive the TRI compensation for that month.
In-service 12.5 C In-service Days (Hours) - Appendix E
i The District may schedule up to sixteen hours (16) per school year for District in-service. Participation in such in-service is considered a mandatory TRI responsibility.
ii All employees, part time and full time, will participate in such inservice and are compensated at the approved hourly rate for such inservice.
Chapter 12. TRI Activities <5t Professional DeveinpruErrt Program:
4
2003-05
CHAPTER 13. SPECIAL ASSIGNMENTS UNDER SUPPLEMENTAL CONTRACTS
	Article 13.1
Noncompen-sated basic responsibility tor student activities	All educators, as professional staff members of a faculty, are expected to provide a certain measure of professional services that will contribute to the activities program, to the guidance program, and to the good climate and efficient operation of their school without additional compensation beyond that provided in their Basic Contract: Certificated Staff on the Professional Salary Schedule. Article 13.2
Supplemental contracts required	The District and the Association acknowledge that state statute RCW 2 8 A.57-074 provides that, "No certificated employee shall be required to perform duties not described in the contract unless a new or supplemental contract is made, except that in an unexpected emergency the Board of Directors or School District administration may require the employee to perform other reasonable duties on a temporary basis," and further that, “no supplemental contract shall be subject to the continuing contract provision of Titles 28A or 28B-" Article 13.3
Supplemental contracts issued for special assignments	133 A Therefore, annually, any teacher requested to perform a duty not normally assigned to teachers. will be issued a supplementary contract stipulating the duties to be performed in that special assignment and the compensation to be paid, and which the educator has agreed to accept for the coming year. The contract form is attached in Appendix D, and made a part of this Article by reference.
Guidelines for selection & assignment of personnel to special activities	13.3 B District and building administrators responsible for selecting staff for special assignments (both paid and unpaid) must make every reasonable effort to see: i That the duties of non-paid special assignments parallel the responsibilities as outlined in WAC 180-44-010. ii That the special assignments are equitably distributed among the staff so tach faculty member carries his/her fair share. If the building principal atid a majority of the teachers in a building approve, the Association faculty representative shall not be assigned extra duties. iii That equal opportunities are to be extended to staff to obtain compensated special assignments requiring a teaching certificate. The order of consideration for the selection of individuals to obtain the services of the best-qualified people for paid special assignments shall be first within the building, second within the District, and third outside of the District. The Human Resources Office shall provide the opportunity for each certificated staff member to declare his/her interest in assignments. A list of interested candidates from the District will be provided to each principal to be utilized in filling positions when no quiditied certificated staff member is available from the building. iv That the preferences of the certificated staff members for particular assignments are considered in making assignments.
Chapter 13. Spechd Assignments Under Su.pplerrwntftl Contracts
1
2003-05
13.3 H v That the procedures for the selection and assignment of individuals to special assignment vacancies art made known in writing,
13-3 C The District will provide Association members with the opportunity to be
considered for coaching assignments. The Human Resources Office will post such assignments for a period of five (5) working days and will refer available qualified candidates to the building principal either in advance of or along with ncm-Association candidates.
Article 13.4
Consideration Special assignments cannot always be equal. Certain extended assignments make time in determining demands beyond the usual requirements of all teachers. To compensate for the inherent compensation imbalances in special assignments, factors such as those that follow will be considered
for special assignments
in determining whether (1) compensation shall be paid and (2) the level of payment to be made for an activity. The factors ait not necessarily listed in order of importance
and priority;
13.4 A The estimated median number of hours beyond the regular and required "on
site"' schooi-day hours required of all teachers and necessary for an educator to reasonably meet the demands of his/her specific special assignment; or the additional duty days beyond the basic contractual school year.
13.4 B Numbers of teams, student participants, and adult assistants supervised.
13.4 C Degree of specialized knowledge and experience necessary for the assignment.
13.4 D Equipment and facilities supervision and maintenance responsibilities,
13.4 H Health and safety liability factors inherent in the activity.
13.4 F External public pressures immediate and/or potential,
13.4 G Environmental factors, out in weather, etc.
13 4 H The level of payment made for a specific activity should be relevant and
competitive with the ’ prevailing rates of payh in effect for the same or similar activity in other comparable school districts.
Article 13.5
Rates of compensation lor services provided through £ supplemental contract:
13.5 A Extra and Co-Curricular Programs. Services will be compensated as
provided in the salary schedule of Appendix E which is made a part of this Article by reference.
13.5 B The salary level indicated for each activity is based on the level of
responsibility as identified within each of the factors in Article 13.4 through a full-scale study conducted in school year 1988-89. If a substantial change is made in the time and/or responsibilities, the District and the Association will promptly reevaluate the level of compensation scheduled for that activity and make whatever adjustments are necessary in compensation as are fair and equitable within that overall program.
Chapter 13. Special Assignments Under Supplemental Contracts
2
2003-05
13.5 C Servites are tti be provided and salary payments will be made as are scheduled for each activity (Appendix E). The first payment for an activity should be paid at Che end of the starting month, if the starting date is before the regular payroll cut-off date for that month as established by the business office.
Nonscheduled 13.5 D	Periodically, the District is required to mandate an employee to provide
& emergency mandatory hours of service	hours of services that are not and cannot be scheduled ahead of time. i The inventory of the loss or damages of equipment, etc. ii To provide tutorial services to a home-bound student. iii Attendance at school board meeting or similar kind of meeting or hearing to provide a quality of information not possible to obtain from other sources. i v School review activities and meetings and similar kinds of meetings scheduled outside normal working hours. v To serve as an assigned mentor in formative supervision by an experienced teacher of a teacher at risk in his/her employment performance. vi Saturday school supervision. vii The preemption of planning period when substitute teachers are unavailable for absent teachers. viii These assignments will normally be compensated at the approved hourly rate for the number of hours stipulated by the supervisor at the time the request for service is made to the employee. When assignments require the employee to provide instruction to other employees, the employee will be compensated at the approved instructional rate for the number of hours stipulated by the supervisor. Reimbursement for transportation costs will be allowed when needed at the established rate.
13.5 E Subsidiary Program Pay Rates,
i Associated Student Body Activities: Certain A-SB programs require the employment of officials and others to administer their operation. The rates of pay are determined in the budget established for the ASB program. Employment of a certificated employee in these programs is optional with the employee.
ii Special Sport or Music Clinics, Camps, Workshops for Students. From time to time the District provides quasi-sponsorship for student activities entirely funded at the cost of the participants. Employment in these programs is optional with an employee. Tine level of compensation is entirely a matter to be determined by the director of each Such program with input from the employee participants and not a concern to the Association.
13.5 F Categorically Funded Special Purpose Programs Rates of Pay. From time to time the District may obtain a grant of money for a special purpose program (from the state and federal government or a foundation). The level of compensation may be stipulated within the parameters of the program as determined by the agency making the grant. When the outside agency does not establish the rate of pay, an appropriate rate established in the enhancement program will be utilized.
Chapter 13. Special Assignments Under Supplenvmisl Cunlructs
2003*05
Article 13.6
Placement cm special assignments salary schedule
Each individual serving on a supplementary contract for compensation will be given his/her proper placement on the salary schedule adopted for his/her specific special assignment activity. Where increment steps are provided, placement on the special assignments salary schedule will be based on the number of verified seasons or years in the activity at a commensurate level of responsibility for which the individual is issued a supplemental contract with the District.
Article 13.7
Genera]	13.7 A supervision of extended programs & personnel Building administrator's misponsibiliries	The extended programs offered in each building will be directly administered by the building principal or a specifically designated associate principal for each extended program. Administrative responsibility will include the selection of the educator to be recommended to the Human Resources Office to operate an extended day program; approval of hours and dates for activities; and the regular appraisal of the program and personnel carrying it out. The building level administrator may call upon the appropriate District program supervisor to assist him/her in carrying out adminislraii ve responsibility,?.
13.7 B	The building administrator assigned to supervise a particular paid supplementary contract assignment will, each year, prior to the commencement of the activity, verbally inform the employee contracted for the activity what is expected of the employee in the assignment.
Article 13.8
General	13,8 A	Supplementary contracts are issued on a one-year (1) basis and expire at the
provisions of	end of each school year. June 30, (RCW 28A-405.24O)
supplementary	
contract: Term	
13.8 B Payment for extended day services will normally be paid as provided in the "Payment Schedule'1 as attached in Appendix E and as revised in subsequent years.
Payment	13.8C	The administrator designated to supervise a special assignment program will
schedule		make every reasonable effort to meet with each supplementary contracted staff member as early as possible after the completion of a season for
May 10		appraisal of services, and will decide whether a recommendation will be
notice(s} of		made to continue the staff in the special assignment for the subsequent
recommenda-		school year. Normally, the designated administrator and individual(s)
tion and		serving in paid special assignments will inform the other not later than May
contractual		10 of each year if there is a reasonably strong reason or possibility that
status for		either desires to make a change in the special assignment contractual
subsequent years		relationship from the previous year.
Datefs) of issue 13-8 D	Every reasonable effort will be made to issue paid supplementary contracts
of	in advance of tlie first student attendance day of the school year. Paid
supplementary	supplementary contracts for special assignments will be issued as far in
contracts	advance of the date when service will begin as is administratively feasible, i.e., conclusion of negotiations, etc.
Chapter 13. Special Assignments Under Supplemental Contracts
4
2W3-05
Voluntary	13.8 E	Individual educators will have the right to accept or reject the offer to
nature of paid		provide services under a supplementary contract without fear of reprisals.
special		i.e., poor attitude tn evaluation of basic contract services, assignment to least
assignment		desirable non-paid special assignments, etc. It is acknowledged by the District and Association that a qualified person must be made available in a school to serve the needs of students in the special assignment activities. The District and/or building administrator may initiate transfers and/or reaasignments within the building and/or District teaching staffs, or make other suitable arrangements to meet the needs of staffing the supplementary contract's programs. The provisions of Article 7.14 will apply in making seed involuntary transfers or reassignments.
Distribution of 13.8 F supplementary contracts
Two (2) copies of each supplementary contract shall be executed with each edudo.tor assigned to an extended, program, with one; (I) copy to the educator and one (1) copy to the personnel file maintained for each educator in the District Human Resources Office.
Article 13.9
"Extended Season Compensation & Off-Site Expenses:
Off-site travel and other necessary expenses incurred by an employee responsible for a Student group will be reimbursed according to established District regulation for such costs.
Chapter 13. Special Assignments Under Supplemental Contract!:
3
2003-05
CHAPTER 14. LAYOFF, LEAVE, AND RECALL PROCEDURES
Article 14.1
Purpose of	Prior to May 1 of each year, the Board of Directors shall determine die necessity of
layoff & recall	adopting a reduced educational program by reason of financial necessity, including, but
not limited to, levy failure or decreased state support, if it is determined that such financial resources are not reasonably assured for the following school year, the Board, upon recommendation of the Superintendent, shall adopt a reduced educational program which shall take into consideration the provisions set forth in this Agreement. The layoff, leave, and recall procedure is to be utilized only when it is necessary to reduce the program through abolishment of certificated staff positions and (he number of employees in active service.
The layoff and recall procedures are designed to effect a program and staff reduction in an orderly manner with the least hardship to individuals and with a minimum disruption of employee-employer relationships and the delivery of best possible educational services to the students of the District,
District representatives will consult with Association representatives within a reasonable time prior to or immediately following a decision to review and discuss the documents utilized in establishing the basis for anticipating a loss in revenues and consequent necessity of the decision for a reduction in program for the ensuing year. Subsequent to any final decision by the District that a reduction in program is necessary, timely, periodic meetings with representatives of the Association, normally the President and Executive Director, will be scheduled to ensure full communications regarding the review of budget documents.
Determination of the reduction in force shall be at the District level, not at each individual building.
Article 14.2
Boards	14-2 A Priority shall be given to retention of positions in those programs and
responsibility	services in those areas which relate to instruction and safety of students.
14.2 B The District has the legal responsibility to establish the educational programs, services, and staffing patterns in accordance with the District’s ' basic educational goals and program continuity, consistent with the financial resources available. The District has the authority to make necessary
.	.	adjustments in the Districts educational programs, services, and other
responsibilities as defined in statute.
Article 14,3
Precipitating Conditions which may cause utilization of the layoff and recall procedure arc; conditions
14.3 A Failure of a special levy election or other events resulting in a significant reduction in anticipated revenues from any source for a following school year,
14.3 B Termination or reduction by state and national sources of categorically funded projects.
14.3 C A student enrollment decline requiring a proportionate staff reduction.
Chapter 14. Layoff, Leave, and Recall Procedures
2003-05
Article 14.4
Reduction of The District will reasonably attempt to minimize the number of positions to be expenditures abolished by reducing expenditures in areas of capital outlay, travel, contractual services, cash reserves, books, and supplies.
Article 14.5
Employment The following general classifications and specific categories and specialties in classifications, certificated positions within each are established to ensure the qualifications Of categories & personnel assigned to retained positions for the reduced and remaining programs and specialties for the purposes of this Chapter.
14.5 A Elementary classroom teachers, K-5, with K-8 endorsements and other teachers who possess the Washington State Standard/Contirtuing Teaching Certificate.
14.5 B Middle school classroom teachers, 6-8, with K-8 endorsements, and other teachers who possess secondary endorsements necessary to teach specialty areas at the middle school level (t.g-, language arts, English, social studies, science, mathematics, physical education, etc.), including those individuals who possess the Washington State Standard/Continuing Teaching Certificate.
14.5 C High school classroom teachers, 9-12, who possess secondary endorsements necessary to teach specialty areas at the high school level (e.g,, language arts, English, social studies, science, mathematics, physical education, etc.), including those individuals who possess the Washington State Standard/Continuing Teaching Certificate.
14.5 D Other norr-supervisory certificated positions;
i Specialist by field of specialty, (c.g., art, music, dance, reading, etc.) ii Special education personnel (by field of specialty) iii Vocational teachers (by Field of specialty) iv Nurses v Psychologists
vi Other educational staff associates (e.g., SEP, OT, PT, etc.)
vii Secondary counselors
viii Elementary counselors
ix Elementary media specialists x Secondary media specialists
(Staff members who, by part-time assignments, have accumulated the equivalent of one (1) year of full-time experience in an additional position classification satisfy the requirement of this paragraph with respect to an additional position classification.)
Chapter 14. Layoff. Leave, and Recall Procedures
?.
2003-05
Article 14.6
14.6 A Each certificated staff member who possesses either an initial er continuing teaching certificate will, in accordance with his/her seniority, be considered for retention iti his/her position and vacancies of the same kind in the classification, category, or specialty position based upon the individual^ certificated cndorsementsfsj as registered in the Human Resources Office.
14,6 B	A certificated staff member who possesses the standard teaching certificate
will, in accordance with his/her seniority, be considered for retention in his/her position ami vacancies of the same kind based upon the foifowing criteria:
i	Possess a major in the category (45 quarter hours), or
ii	Possess a minor in the category (24 quarter hours), or
iii	Have at least .80 FTE of teaching experience in one (1) school year in rhe chosen category within the previous four (4) years of reaching for a full-time teacher, or have at least .40 FTE of teaching experience in one (1) school year in the chosen category within the previous four (4) years of teaching for half-time (.5) teachers.
14.6 C When a reduction in force is anticipated due to levy loss, state financial crisis, enrollment decline, or other foreseeable budget reductions, the Human Resources Office shall provide every member of the bargaining unit the opportunity to review his/her individual Employment Qualifications Status Sheet, affix his/her signature certifying as to the accuracy of the information listed, and return the sheet to the Human Resources Office.
If the information is inaccurate, the member should contact the Human Resources Office immediately to correct his/her file. No new information may be presented fur inclusion in the Employment Qualifications Status Sheet after the information Ou the document has been certified with a signature as accurate New information will be incorporated into the official record in the following year.
The Employment Qualification Status Sheet will include the following information:
i The Washington certificate held-
ii	His/her total years of documented service (in District files) in the state of Washington.
iii	I Ii s/htr co liege maj or(s). mi no r( s) -
jy Successful experience in teaching subjects outside die niajnrfrninut of preparation within the last ten (10) years.
v The classifications, categories, and/or specialties be/shc feels qualified for as per Article 14.5 and his/her order of preference for each in addition to the present assignment.
Chapter 14. I.ayolf. Leave, and Recall Procedures
3
2003-05
14.6 D Staff members will be considered for additional classifications, categories, and/or specialties only if they do not qualify for retention in the
--- -c lassification, category, or spuci alty posi tion he Id a6the time of the implementation of these procedures.
Article 14.7
Criteria & order of selection of employees to be retained or recalled to vacancies
Certi Ficated staff members shall be considered for retention or recall to vacancies in positions within the classifications, categories, or specialties for which they qualify under Article 14.6 hereof. The individual must possess a valid Washington State Certificate authorizing service in any position for which he/she is being considered or assigned. In the event that there are more qualified employees than available positions in a given classification, category, or specialty, the following criteria shall be used to determine the order in which staff members shall be recommended for retention or recalled from the employment pool.
Seniority consideration	14,7 A	Total seniority as a certificated staff member shall be the basis for retention and recall in classifications in those categories and specialties identified in Article 14.5 above.
Seniority defined		Within each such classification, category, of specialty, the staff mgmberfs) having the greater seniority shall be recommended for retention. Seniority for the purposes of this Chapter should mean the total number of most recent continuous foil year? of documented non-supervisory service within the state of Washington as defined in RCW 28A.400.30Q. The traditional nine (9) month academic year shall be considered a 1.0 school year. Part-time (partial year or day) service under a regular contract will be proportionately computed in tenths (1 Qths) of the basic school year (ISO day, on-site day, 7.5 hours). However, no more than 1.0 school year shall be counted for any twelve (12) month period, ATI experience to be computed for seniority must have been documented by February 1 and claimed on or before February 15 of each year (see Article 14,6 C), Professional education experience shall mean total years of experience eligible for submission to OSP1 on the annual personnel report (S-275). (See Articles 11 11, 11,12, and 11.13)
Total number of units, second consideration	14.7 B	In the event equal seniority exists among two (2) or more staff members qualified for a position to be retained, the staff member having the highest number of credits shall be assigned to the position retained.
Drawing lots in "ties"	14.7 C	In the event a tie exists in both total years of seniority and total number of credits, the tie will be broken by drawing lots among the staff members in the Lie.
Assoc. Pres, super-seniority	14.7 D	The president of the Association for the year of the reduced program shall be equal in seniority to rhe most senior certificated employee in the District.
Secondary counselors assignment seniority computation	14.7 E	A secondary counselor will be assigned to a retained secondary counseling position on the basis of his/her total seniority of service In secondary counseling. For purposes of this paragraph, a staff member has performed in the secondary counseling position if a .4 FTE or more of such staff member's assignment was devoted to secondary counseling for a foil semester in any given year.
Chapter 14. Layoff Leave, and Recall Procedures
4
2003-05
Objectivity required in ■ separatums 		14,7 F The layoff and recall procedure will not be used to separate an individual from active service whose performance is rated "satisfactory" according to -- - the procedures-established in-Ghapter 8 of this Agreement. Any-separation .. for less than satisfactory service will be accomplished according to the provisions of that Chapter. Article 14.41
Determination of vacant positions	The District will determine, as accurately as possible, the total number of certificated staff members known as of May 1 who are leaving active service in the District for reasons of retirement, family transfer, normal resignations, (eaves, discharges, or nonrenewals, etc., and these separations will be taken into consideration in determining the number of available certificated positions being retained for the following school year. Vacant positions will be filled by transferring currently employed staff members within the District unless, by reason of certification, training, and/or experience, no qualified person is available. Article 14.9
institution of layoff & recall procedure	14-9 A On or before May I, the District will determine the program to be carried out during the year of anticipated reduced funding, and the probable number of positions in each classification to be retained and probable number of positions in each classification to be abolished. At least one (1) copy of these two (2) lists will be provided to each school building and tbe Association,
Twirafive assignment	14.9 B On or before May 1, rhe District will publish the Hat of "tentative assignments of employees" to classifications, categories, or specialties of retained positions in strict accord with the criteria utilized in the layoff and recall procedures.
Five-day tentative assignment question period	14.9 C An employee will be provided the opportunity of not less than five (5) days following receipt of his/her "tentative assignment" to a classification, category, or specialty to ask questions and discuss it with District officials, before it becomes a firm assignment. Article 14 JO
Procedure fur assigning persons to positions to be retained	14.10 A Each individual will first be considered for continued assignment to his/her present, or duplicate of his/her present, assignment according to procedures contained in this Chapter.
Limits of uses of seniority	14.10 B If he/she does not qualify to retain his/her present position, he/she will be considered for positions in other classifications, categories, or specialties in the District according to the criteria and procedures in this Chapter. Seniority shall be used solely to entitle an individual to a retained position— not necessarily assignment to the retained position of his/her preference.
Chapter 14, I.ayoJT, Leave, and Recall Procedures
2003-05
Article 14.11
Notification of separation	On or before May 15, the Superintendent shall take such action as may be necessary under state statute to notify individuals that have not been placed in the retained positions that their contracts will not be renewed, or that their contractual status may be adversely affected because of the conditions that arc requiring the District to make a reduction in its program and the abolishment of certain positions. Article 14,12
Options of individuals receiving notice of separation because of layoff procedures	The options available to individuals with more than one (1} successful year of teaching in the District and receiving written notice of probable cause for separation from active service with the District because of layoff procedures arc: 14.12 A Submit a written appeal for a hearing with the Board within ten (10) days, as provided in RCW 2$ A.€7 ,<J70, or direct appeal to Superior Court.. 14.12 B	Submit a written appeal of the separation notice and simultaneously submit a request for a District budget crisis leave. (Article 6.13) 14.12 C Allow his/her employee status with the District to be terminated at the end of his/her present contract. Article 14.13
District budget crisis leave	14. J 3 A A request Ibr a District budget crisis leave as provided in Article 14.12 B above will be implemented pursuant to Article 6.13 of this Agreement. Reference is hereby made to Article 6-13 and by this reference made a part of this Article.
Employment pool	14.13 B	All certificated employees, whether exercising Option A or B of Article 14.12 and having one (I) Or more years "satisfactory service," will automatically be placed in a District employment pool- Article 6.13 of the Comprehensive Professional Agreement will govern the application and implementation of those people placed in the District employment pool-Refcrence is hereby made to Article 6.13 and by this reference made a part of this Article. The District will establish and adhere to reasonable and adequate procedures to notify an individual in the pool when vacancies occur for which he/shc is qualified. Article 14,14
Affirmative Action	14.14 A	If the layoff and recall can be accomplished under the normal procedures set forth above without causing or aggravating an imbalance in the certificated staffs ethnic and/or mate/female representation within any of the two (2) employment areas as defined below, the standard procedures shall pertain and the special provisions of this paragraph shall not apply.
Chapter 14. Layoff, Leave; and Recall Procedures
6
2003-05
14.14 B If the layoff and recall under the normal procedures would result in causing or aggravating an imbalance in the certificated staffs ethnic
—	■ -and/or rnale/femaie rcpres&ntatian-withip..a-giyen Employment-area, then. _
in each such area where underrepresentation would occur or be aggravated by reason of the implementation of the normal procedures, the number of persons within the underrepresented group shall be reduced by the same percentage (as closely as may be practicable) as the number of persons within the area as a whole is reduced- The layoff and recall within each underrepresented group shall be accomplished by applying to the members of rhe underrepresented group itself the normal selection rules set forth above.
Chapter 14. Layoff, Leave, and Recall Procedures
7
2003-05
CHAPTER 15, SITE-BASED DECISION-MAKING TEAM
Article 154
The VEA and VSD affirms principle of modern management that recognizes that decisions id the operation of an organization are best made by the individuals who actually provide the service. The Site-Based Decision-Making Team philosophy is comprised of three (3) main elements;
15.1 A The decentralization and democratization of appropriate building level decisions (i.e., those not governed by District policy, regulation, or State or Federal statute);
15.1 B Delegation of authority to the building principal and his/her staff to identify decisions regarding the delivery of instructional programs of a school that will improve the education being provided for the students; and
15.1 C Development of responsibility among site staff for the determination, exscutirm, and evaluation of the revised instructional progrtrvs.
Article 15.2
The Site-Based Decision-Making Team is suitable only for topics and actions that impact instruction in a specific school which will be limited to their site. The building principal will continue to be responsible for school operations. The District will continue to deter rmne salaries, staffing formulas, testing, busing ached nits, and all other such topics that uniformly impact each and ail of the various classifications of schools in the District. The Board will continue to exercise its authority and responsibilities.
Article 15.3
The parties agree that each party will equally strive in good faith to make the SBDMT philosophy a reality in al! schools in the District.
Artkte ISA
Site-Based Decision-Making for the purposes of this Chapter is defined as the decisions of the staff relative to the instructional program and delivery gt that sitc-
The certificated staff shall constitute the Site-Based Decision-Making Team (SBDMT). Leadership responsibilities shall be shared by co-chairs made up of the budding principal or assistant and a member of tbt certificated instTuctioual faculty (may be the faculty representative) who is annually selected by a majority vote of the certificated staff at that site who arc members of the Association's bargaining unittach faculty may select more than one co-chair to carry out the diverse instructional decisions within a large staff. The co-chairs will jointly establish the agendas and other aspects of governing meetings and customary duties and responsibilities of a democratic organisation.
Chapter 15- Site Based Decision Making
I
2003-05
	Article 1S.S Each SBDMT will be comprised of two (2) kinds of members:
Active	An active member is an individual who personally chooses to become involved in all of the processes necessary in the study and planning as well as the implementation aspects of all the activities involved in the identification and achievement of an instructional goal. These persons are willing to remain on site beyond the routine l‘on-siie” seven and one-half hour (7 !0 day, Jo utilize the Enhancement Activities program, following approved program guidelines. Active members have by self-dclermi nation and declaration identified themselves as active participants. The principal and co-chair will organise these persons into committees, the number and size of committees as is appropriate to meet the needs of the instructional issues of the site they serve. The number, time, and places of team meetings will be determined /Mutually by the co^chaks and the participants. Every reasonable effort will he made to provide equitable opportunity for involvement of each member of the group- Subcommittee chairs will schedule meetings as mutually determined by members of the committee. Disputes over whether a proposed decision is subject to site-based decision-making will be referred to the Association and the District for resolution.
Passive	A passive member ii an individual who chooses to play no significant role in the study and planning of a school improvement planning process. Passive members .shall be included in the review of proposed plans and in ail consensus building activities relative to the approval and implementation of the plan. Article J 5.6
Levels of agreement	The decision-making process shall include open dialogue in which issues are presented, defined, discussed, and resolved. This shall be a process in which those affected by a decision participate directly or through a representative process. The following levels of agreement are in the order of priority.
Consensus	15-6 A Every reasonable effort will be made to reach instructional decisions of the team by consensus. Consensus is when a decision has been agreed to by all members, active and passive, All members have an understanding of the reasoning leading to the decision and will support die decision. Example.-Fist-to-five method, all participants show five’s. This would be the same as a 100% agreement.
Sufficient consensus	15 6 B Each member, active and passive, may not completely agree with the decision, but all should feel that they have had their information and opinions heard, [hat their views have been considered, and that now all will abide by the .group decision and support its impJejnaniaticv;, E.r ample: Fist-to-five method, participant range in agreement from 1-5, but no fists are indicated.
Voting	15.6 C When it has been determined by the co-chairs that consensus cannot be achieved, proposals may be submitted for a vote to only those members of the faculty who art impacted by the vote. If a dispute arises regarding who should have voting privileges relative to who A impacted by the decision the issue will be submitted to the co-chairs and VGA building representatives for resolution by consensus. When votes are taken, B0% approval is required by all sites. Each Site-Based Decision-Making Team may increase the percentage necessary for approval due to die unique
Chapter 15. Site Based Decision Making	2
2003-05
	circumstances of the proposal. The vote to determine a higher rate of approval shall be based on a simple majority. The decision regarding ballot procedures Shall be exclusive to ettoh site or admtoiKWive unit. The VEA building reprcsenfative(s) shall be responsible for all balloting. Article 15,7
Minority reports	Any member of the Site-Based Decision-Making Team shall have the right to make a minority report to the team. Sufficient time shall be granted for the member to compose and present his/her report prior to any approval process. Article 15-8
Agendas and Minutes	The principal and his/her team will determine the mechanism for determining the meeting agendas. The principal will arrange to have notes taken on topics discussed and action taken at the meeting- The principal will see that any recommendations and/or decisions are prepared for publication and distribution made to all members of the team in a timely manncr. Article 15.9
Use of TRI funds	Decision-making activities may require additional time beyond regularly scheduled faculty meetings. CDtisequerdly, all Flexible Days available to each EVE may be used by members for instructional program planning beyond the regularly scheduled school day, and one hundred eighty (180) day school year. Article 15-10
Budget oversight committee	Each school, site, or administrative unit shall form a mandatory budget oversight committee. The makeup of this committee shall be the principal/designee, co-chairfs), VEA faculty representative(s), secretary or clerk responsible for budgets, representatives from departments, media specialists, and any other individuals necessary to the development of the budget. The function of the eommittee will be to oversee tbe planning and distribution of the budget and to monitor at least once a month all expenditures, balances, transfers, etc. Frill disclosure of budget information stsa.ll be available to each faculty member by the {ttectibcn. of the budget oversight committee. ***AL1 references to SB LT contained in other chapters of the CPA shall be considered SBDMT pursuant to this revision of Chapter 15.
Chapter 15, Sita Based Decision Making
2003-05
CHAPTER 16 -PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Article 16.1
Professional General Administration of the Professional Development Funds.
development
Concept	J 6.1 A The District and the Afsociai ion recognize the imparaii ve that toachera and educaii anal
support personnel be life-long learners. To meet this need, each employee must have access to a continuous cycle of professional development, strategically planned to embrace subject matter knowledge, essential learnings, pedagogical practices, personal and professional growth, continuous certification, and District goals and priorities.
16,1B A continuous cycle of professional development will begin with the employee’s seif-as^essmeut- Professional development needs identified through this process will be reviewed by the employee’s supervisor and form the basis for a plan tailored to individual needs and goals. Individual professional development needs will be made available to the Uuman Resources Office. The Human Resources Office mill use die informatiewi to assist in identifying specific opportunities to satisfy the needs of employees across the District, and to determine whether the plan complies with the District's professional development guidelines. Funding of professional development needs may, consistent with Article 16.4 B and 16-5, be from the employee's individual professional development funds, or from other funds made available by the District-
Article 16-2
Optional Professional Development Funds - Appendix E
16.2 A The District will allocate $725 for professional development activities for each FTE- This amount, subject to the availability of funds, is in addition to funding for other TRI categories listed above.
16.2 B Professional development funds will be made available to assist each employee in professional growth activities, such as but not limited to the following;
i Unique individual development needs by the selection of specific course work, attendance at workshops, conferences, and/or,
ii By obtaining training/mstructioti in a specific instructional skill or knowledge of a curriculum area through merging of his/her funds with other employees’ funds in order to provide for a bm/drng staff cooperative wurl'sltop.
16-2 C The District will provide the Association with an annual written program performance report summarizing the professional development fund to include total participants, residual funding percentage, and amount of funds remaining (if any) after the residual pay out.
16.2 D The program year for professional development is July I ‘-June 30. The District will provide written notice to all certificated employees that claims for professional development that will be completed by June 30 are to be submitted by July 10 for payment against the S725 entitlement and any residual amount.
Chapter 16. Professional Development Program
1
2003’05
General provisions
Basic nndcrsta riding
Article 16-3
Courses/Seniinars Applicable To Extended Day Activities:
16.3 A Directors and advisors assigned to extended day activities may apply for professional development ftrndfo g of courses and seminars ar cl foies related to their extended day assignment listed in Appendix E. Approval by the employee^ immediate supervisor and the Supcrfntendent/designee will be conditional on whether the requesting staff member has, in the judgment of the District, met his/her professional growth obligation relative to his/her present assignment for the cnrrtrii school year.
16.3 B Funding for a course or seminar is further restricted as follows:
i,	A maximum reimbursement of $725 is imposed.
ii.	Attendance at one course or seminar per year Duly 1—1 line 301 shaft be reimtrnrsed-iii. Travel to a course or seminar is restricted within die states of Washington and Oregon, iv. Attendance at a course or seminar is limited to after the employee's work day and nonduty days.
Article 16*4
16.4 A The Board of Directors will continue to hold the right and responsibility to exercise full control over the formulation of basic policy decisions that pertain to the study, maintenance, and alteration of all curriculum and instructional matters, including overall plans for staff inservice development goals and programs in the District. The District and the Association also recognize that changes in student enrollment patterns and the community's expectations for alterations in the kind and quality of the educational programs will require the acquisition of new knowledge and skills by the teaching staff and by their certificated support staff.
16.4 B Because the Individually Designed Professional Development Program receives tax-free status, it is important that certain guidelines and restrictions are adhered to in order to maintain such status.
l.	Individuals must pay for their participation and be reimbursed after completion.
ii.	Verificati ons of part i cipation must be subm i tied and ma intained.
iii.	Individustls may only ufow.e fowl's. in such a way at to receive diced benefit.
iv.	Funds cannot be donated to another individual for participation-
.16.4 C The District will make every reasonable effort to identify in official publications the areas of the District's curriculum arfo fostnsfowal program that will require flt'w knowledge and skills, and positions where personnel shortages are contemplated. This information will assist an individual in formulating his/her individual professional development proposal for presentation to his/her evaluator and the Superintendent/designec.
Article 16.5
16.5 A The parties acres that in addition to career growth, and new and emerging skills and knowledge, the professional development program should also support:
i.	Retraining of currently employed staff to enable them to continue employment with the. District if a program is being phased out and/or a teacher is working outside his/her area of academic preparation.
Chapter 16. Professional Development Program
7
2003-05
ii.	Updating teachers to provide effective service to students in the present or in a revised curriculum program as may be adopted by the District
iii.	Maintaining certi fication.
Teacher assistance	16 5 B An individual may be required to participate in a particular professional development opportunity if there is abundant evidence that such involvement is critical to improvement of the professional performance of his/her current assignment nnd/or he/she is placed on formal probation or is at "high risk” for probation. These costs may be charged to the individual professional development funds.
Mandatory Training	16.5 C The District may direct up to sixteen (16) hours per year of professional development training for which the employee will be reimbursed at the approved hourly rate from the $725 allocation. Such mandatory training will be communicated not later than the close of the prior school year so that employees may appropriately plan for their remaining expenses. Any additional, mandatory training would be subject to payment from other sources and would be scheduled in coordination with the Association and with alternative provisions to accommodate employees who cannot attend at the scheduled time. Article 16-6
Individual	The District will allocate individual professional development funds in the described amounts.
professional Certificated employees may participate on a voluntary basis, and may access these funds in development accordance with the provisions in this chapter.
funds
Lb.6 A Reimbursement levels:
i Bach fill 1 “time teacher on provisional or continuing contract may receive upto $725oF professional development funds per school year. These teachers are also eligible to be reimbursed for expenses beyond 5725, but not to exceed Si ,600 from any residual funds not encumbered after the last day of June, Such residual funds will be distributed proportionately after all initial claims have been processed with any amount over the base of $725 restricted to district-approved college and university programs and coursework. An exception to the use of residual funds for reimbursement of workshops and conferences may be made for education staff associates who require such professional development (in lieu of credit hours) for required re-certification, which cannot be accomplished through university course work- The formula will be a percentage based on total residual funds relative to total approved expenses beyond £725, The District will have the discretion to make payouts beyond the $1,600 limit when residual funds are available.
ii Part-time teachers, and full-time teachers who have not worked the full year, may receive an amount equal to their FTE percentage (e.g. a half-time teacher, or a foil-time teacher1 hired at midyear, may receive $362.50 of the basic amount and 50 percent of any authorized residual amount.)
iii.	Teachers on one-year appointments may receive up to $725 for activities taken and completed by the last student day of the school year,
iv.	Teachers employed less than 0-4 FTE, and teachers on terminable substitute appointments, do not receive professional development funds.
16.6 B EspcnseSy wbjch qualify for rfimbjirsemCDt, include;
i Registration fees, credit fees, textbooks, and materials for approved courses, workshops, conferences, and seminars.
Chapter 16- Professional Development Program
3
2003-05
16.6 B ji Mileage, housing, and meals that involve travel outside of Multnomah and Clark counties.
Hi Payment of a substitute teacher in order to observe another classroom, of to attend approved conferences, workshops, and seminars that can only be taken dttring student attendance days. Such activities should occur during mid-week days when substitute demands are at lower levels,
jv Payment to oneself to attend courses and workshops that are contracted for and presented by the District. Such payment is at the approved hourly rate and may only be applied to hours outside the eight-hour workday. Residual funds may not be used for this purpose.
v Offsetting approved costs under a meritorious activity proposal.
16.6 C Restrictions on tint: use of professional development funds*.
i The District wilt not routinely approve activities that involve absences during student attendance days. However, at the District’s discretion, requests will he considered when the value of the training merits such consideration, and the training is not otherwise possible on a non-student attendance day.
ii Applications should be submitted at least ten (10) working days in advance of the professional development opportunity to allow for processing stud, prior approval by the Human Resources Office. Applications involving travel outside of Oregon and Washington should be submitted at least thirty (30) working days in advance to allow time for Board action. Exceptions to the Lime may be granted at the discretion of the Human Resources Office. Professional development requests for a given schaol/contract year, must be submitted ten (10) working days prior to the last day of school to allow time tn process the request and to return it to the teacher by the last day of school.
iii Requests that involve travel outside Oregon and Washington will be considered based on special circumstances and for special needs. Approval will give consideration to situations where comparable training Is not available locally and in which: a. the employee is involved in a conference presentation, b.	the employee is a national officer in the sponsoring organization,
c.	the conference is part of a larger special program or grant, or
d.	other special situations.
iv Reimbursements are subject to presentation of original receipts for al! expenses. The claim for expenses should be submitted within ten (10) working days of completion of the professional deveLopment opportunity and rto Infer than, fowl 30 of the present school year. The District will generally process the reimbursement no later than the financial cycle following submission of a properly completed expense claim.
v Ttachers art responsible for tanctling professional rfevefepitteot applic-atiows feat vrert approved but not subsequently completed by the teacher. Because die first $725 of approved professional development is considered to be funded, any approved application for additional expenses is computed at the residual rate. Therefore, if an approved application is on fife, subsequent 'applications will be subject to residual funding unless the earlier application is canceled on or before the last day of June of the contract year.
Chapter 16. Professional Development Program
4
2003-05
16,6 C vi In the event that the District elects ta cancel an employee’s participation in a professional development opportunity for which the District had previously given approval to the employee, the District will reimburse the employee for any expenses, which cannot be otherwise recovered,
vii A teacher may not be reimbursed from the $725 professional development fund for both an hourly stipend and college tuition. This reslricrion does not apply to clock hour or college credits paid for by a block process (i.e., clock hours purchased from the ESD by the District, credits funded by grants applicable to special programs such as LEP and Title, etc.).
viii Teachers are responsible for ail professional development expenses not approved by the District, or which exceed the $725 allocation (unless covered by residual funds). This restriction does not apply to professional development funded out of sources other than the $725 individual professional development funds.
ix Professional development requests that arc initially disapproved by a building admiiwjrtralof may be appealed to ths administrator of Human Resources. The administrator of Human Resources will consult with other appropriate staff directors and make a final decision on the request. Requests that arc approved by the building administrator but disapproved by the Administrator of Human Resources may be appealed to (fie Superintendent who wifi make a final decision.
Article 16.7
Induction training for new certificated staff
Professional development program review
The District will develop a specific (raining program (dates, topics, instructors, etc.) for all certiheated staff who arc new to the District in a given year.
16-7 A The Association will have the opportunity to provide input on all aspects of the training program, and the District will give full and responsive consideration to the Association's input.	■
16,7	B The District and the Association agree that student contact time is critical to the development and transition of new certificated staff. Therefore, the District will attempt to schedule training for non-student times (e,g., pre-school year, Saturdays, or evenings)-
16-7 C Participation in new certificated staff training is mandatory. In unique or hardship situations, the Di strict may excuse an individual from a scheduled training session, providing alternate arrangements can be made for delivery of the teaming.
16.7	D Certificated staff members in their first contract year with the District will be compensated for such training which occurs outside the student attendance time at the per diem rate for the first level and step of the pay schedule.
Article 16,8
In the second half of each school year, the Association will have the opportunity to participate in a review of professional development program planning for the subsequent school year and to make recommendations regarding the content of the program
Chapter 16. Professional Development Program
APPENDIX A - 2003-05
Vancouver School District No* 37
Certificated Employee - Basic Contract
Name:
Date:
SSN:
Location:
Contract:
L Leave Replacement 2* First Year Provisional
3.	Second Year Provisional
4.	Continuing Employee
This contract is made by and between the Board of Directors of Vancouver School District No. 37 (“District”), and the above named employee (“'Employee”). The contract period is
 „ _ through	. and includes 13D student teaching days and two (2) in-service
days. The contract period is automatically adjusted for any days cancelled and rescheduled because of inclement weather. Employee’s assignment and salary schedule placement are as follows:
FfE:	Position:
Pay Lane/Step:	Salary:
Salary will be paid in twelve (12) equal installments with the first payment on the last duty day of September. Each subsequent payment will be made on ths last duty day of the month. In the event that this agreetoent is terminated before due end of the contracted period, any monies paid and/or due will be adjusted based on the amount of the contract that was completed.
Tbe contract does not become effective until the employee delivers to the Office of Human Resources within fifteen (15) days of the above date: (1) a valid Washington State professional certificate required for the position identified above; and (2) this contract bearing the employee’s signature. In the event that the employee fails to sign and return this contract within the time specified, the employee shall be deemed to have waived any right to employment with the District. For new employees to the District, this contract is also contingent upon satisfactory completion of federal and slate criminal history review. By accepting this contract, the employee certifies that he/she is not bound by another contract that might interfere with the employee's performance of duties hereunder.
Employment under this etmirotet is subject to rhe provisions of the Comprehensive Professional Agreement (CPA) between the District and the Vancouver Education Association as well as applicable District policies, procedures and regulations. The employee agrees to perform the duties and responsibilities of the position described for the applicable position, the CPA, and State of Washington statutes and regulations. Part-time employees may be required to go to fulltime status on a ten (10) working day notice.
By order of the Board of Directors of the Vancouver School District No. 37, Clark County, Washington.
By:, Signed: .  
John W, Erickson, Superintendent	Employee
APPENDIX B - 2003-05
Jul 2003
6789101112 13141516171819 >0 21023242526 >7 28293031
Vancouver School District No. 37 2003-2004 Official Dietriot Calendar
Jan 2004 S M T W S
Revised: 04/14/03
18
25
10 1314151617 021222324 2728293031
Auq 2003
10111213141516
1718
242
31
12223
2930
Jndejjendencs Pay Labor Day Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break ML King Day Presidents' Day Spring Break Memorial Day
Joly 4
September 1
November 11
November 2S-2S
December 22-Jan. 2
January 10
February 13 & 16
April 5-9
May 31
Feb 2004
s
1 8
22
29
10111213)14 1718192021 2425262728
Sep 2003 S M
282
14
1213 1617181920 2324252627 30
Oct 2003
12|l3fl415 19
26I27I2829
1
18
25
Administrators’ Retreat New Teachers In-Service District In-Service Administrative Essentiai(ES/MS) Administrative Essential (ALL) Building/State In-Service (ALL) Farent Conference (ES/MS Only) Parent Conferences (ALL) Semester Break
Parent Conferences (HS Only) Evenings/Dy Appointment
Last Contracted Teacher Day
August 12 August 16-22 August 20-26 September 2 September 3
October 10 October 23 October 24
February 2 March 12
June 21
Nov 2003
First Day of School
HS Only
ES/MS Onjy
Last Day of School
September 4
October 23
March 12
June]$>
2-hour La& Start Day&
October 2, December IL January 29, March 16
9 TOI1)12131415
16T71	2122
8129

Juns 21
30
Dec 2003
7I8I 9 10111213
20
21
28
Student Attendance Required Only if Necessary
Student Non- Attends nee Days/Holidays
Teacher In-SerMce/Work Day (No
Board oh Directed’ .Meeting
^4 First & Last Day of School
Sa&e Pays: l&O
Approval: 03/24/03
Mar 2004
S M	TWT	F 8
7 [8	,2 3 4 }9 1011	jx 6 ©13
1415	161718	1920
210	2324252627	
2829	3031	
Apr 2004
11
3
10
25
222324
May 2004
9 [W]1112131415 161Z1819202122 23242526272829
Ju 8 M 1	n2004 r W T F S
	[ 2 3“4 5
S®8
27282930
Vancouver School District No. 37 Certificated Teaching Salary Rates (182 Days) 2003-2004
Years of	BA + 0	BA+ 15	BA+ 30	BA+ 45	BA+ 90 BA + 135 MA + 0	MA+ 45	MA+ 90
Service		•			**		Ph.D
							
0	29,149	29,936	30,752	31,568	34,192	35,881	34,947	h 37,570	39,262
1	29,540	30,339	31,165	32,019	34,669	36,350	35,335	37,985	39,665
2	30,060	30,870	31,709'	32,633	35,289	36,995	35,901	38,55?	40,262
3	30,747	31,574	32,429	33,392	36,069	37,833	36,630	39,306	41,071
4	31,285	32,151	33,017	34,018	36,724	38,510	37,208	39,914	41,701
5	31,840	32,716	33,594	34,655	37,365	39,196	37,798	40,509	42,340
6	32,251	33,108	34,016	35,131	37,827	39,667	38,213	40,910	42,750
~ 7	33,139	34,012	34,937	36,1^8	38,868	40,769	39,185	41,934	43,836
8	34,202	35,122	36,069	37,348	40,135	42,106	40,414	43,202	45,172
9		36,272	37,266|	38,591	41,443	43.481	41,656	44,510	46,548
10			38,4771	39,898	42,788	44,894	42,964	45,855	47,960
11		41,243			44,196	46,344	44,309,	, 47,263	49,410
12				42,545	45,642	47,854	45,707	48,708	50,921
13					47,123	49,401	47,154	50,189	52,467
14 ;					48,611	51,006	48,644	51,775	54,073
15					49,876	52,333	49,908	53,121	55,479
16 -q		 J	j			50,873	53,379	50,906		l 54J83(	56,588
1				I			
					I		
						.. r		
Hourly Rates for Supplemental Contracts are set at $32 par hour					t$37 per hour when providing instruction to other employees)		
APPENDIX C - 2003-05
BA-135 Pay Lane only applies to employees who were being paid on this lane prior to January 1, 1992.
APPENDIX V - 2003-05
Vancouver School District No. 37
Certificated Employee Time, Responsibility, and Incentive Supplemental Contract
Name:	School Year:
SSN:	Location:
FTE:
This contract is made by and between the Board of Directors of Vancouver School District No. 37 (“District”), and the above named employee ( ‘Employee") pursuant to RCW 2SA.400.200(4).
Parti
Time and Responsibility; Employee agrees to perform two (2) additional days of parent conferencing and the additional extended day responsibilities as outlined in Chapter 12 of the Comprehensive Professional Agreement (CPA) between the District and the Vancouver Education Association, and will be provided additional compensation of $3,600 (insert $4,000 for an employee in step 16) for a full-time employee and prorated for less than full-time employee, working the full school year.
$512 of this amount is for District in-service training time and will be paid in the first pay period after completion of the in-service training. $3,088 (insert $3,488 for an employee in step 16) is for additional responsibilities and will be paid in three equal installments in the payroll for the months of November, March, and June.
An employee not completing the scheduled in-service training will not receive this portion of the additional compensation. An employee working less than full-time or less than a full school year, will have his/her compensation for additional responsibilities, $3,08$ (insert $3,488 for an employee in step 16) adjusted proportionately based on the percentage of FTE and/or percentage of the school year worked. If employee fails to perform all or part of the duties required hereunder, any overpayment of additional compensation shall be withheld from the June paycheck.
Performance hereunder shall be verified under the direction of the Office of Human Resources by submission of the certification in Part II on June 1, 200_.
Signature of Employee:„Date: 
By order of the Board of Directors of the Vancouver School District No. 37, Clark County, Washington.
By;__________________________________________
Part II
1 hereby confinn that the requirements as outlined above liave been performed.
Signature of Employee:	Date: „ 
Signature of Supervisor:  Date:	„______________
ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM TIME-RESPONSIBILlTY-INCENTiVE ACTIVITIES EXTENDED YEAR/DAY/HOURS AUTHORIZED
Job Classification	Extended	Administrative	Mandatory	Total	Flexible	Flexible	Professional
	Year	Essential Days	In-Service Days	Days	Time	Time	Development
	pays)				{Dollars)	(Dollars)	(Optional)
					Step 0-15	Step IB	
■’							
Teacher	0	2.5	2	4.5	$3,088	$3,488	$725
Schoo Ho-Wark Specialists	6	2.5	2	10.5	$3,008	$3,483	$725
Career Guidance	10	2.5	2	14.5	$3,008	$3,408	$725
Horticulture (Footnote 1)	17	2.5	2	21 5	$3,008	$3,4881	$725
Technology Education Learning Lab	3	2.5	2	7.5	$3,088	I- $3r488	$725
(Footnote 2)							
Elementary Library Media (Footnote 3)	9	2.5	2	13.5	$8,088	$3,488	$725
Middle School Library Media (Footnote 3)	15	2.5	2	19.5	$3,088	$3,488	$725
High School Library Media (Footnote 3)	14	2.5	2	13.5	$3,088 j $3,488		r $725
Traffic Safety Education Project Director	15	2.5	2	19.5	$3,088	$3,488	$725
Facilitator, Chapter 1/LAP Math	7.5	2.51 2 3	2	12	$3,088	$3,488	$725
Juvenile Court Classroom Teacher	40	2.5	2	44.5	$3,088	$3,408	$725
Elementary Counselor	0	2.5	2	4.5	$3,088	$3,488	$725
Lewis & Clark counselor	7.5	2.5	2	12	$3,088	$3,488	$725
Middle School Counselor	16 5	2.5	T	r 21	$3,088	$3,488	$725
High School Counselor	16.5	2.5	2	21	$3,088	$3,488	$725
School Psychologist	7.5	2.5	2	12	$3,088	$3,4 B0	$725
Facilitator, Preschool Ass ess ./Placement	7.5	2.5	2	12	$3,088	$3,488	$725
Fir Grove Classroom Teacher	15	2.5	2	19.5	$3,088	$3,488	$725
Fir Grove Psychologist	15	,	5	2	22	$3,088	$3,488	$725
School Nurse	2	2.5	2	6.5	$3,088	$3,488	$725
1. Extended year for Lewis and Clark High School Is four (4) days.
2. Includes maintenance of computer and industrial equipment
3. Minimum is 1 day:66 students ES/MS, 1 day:60 students HS
APPENDIX E - 2003-05
Page 2 of 3
Extended Day Salary Schedule Professional Education Certificate Required School Year 2003-04
Activity Level/Area	Step a	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4
					
Senior High					
InEtrumehtal Music	5230	5401	5753	6014	6276
Vacal Music	4198	4407	4617	4827	5037
String/Orchestra	4198	4407	4617	4827	5037
District’wide Music Presentation	1500	1575	1650	1725	1800
Jo urnalism/Ne wspaper	2654	2818	2953	3086	3220
Drama Di st. Program	3074	3227	3380	3535	3688
ASB Coordinator	1500	1575	1650	1725	1800
Stage	1078	1132	1186	1240	1294
Yearbook	2019	2119	2220	2322	2422
National Honor Society	1330	1397	1464	1530	1596
Knowledge Bowl	1330	1397	1464	1530	1596
Head Mock Trial Advisor	2306	2464	2531	2597	2665
Assistant Head Mock Trial Advisor	1863	1030	1997	2064	2131
Mock Trial Advisor	1330	1397	1464	1530	1596
Renaissance Advisor (HS)	1330	1397	1464	1530	1596
Renaissance Advisor (L&C)	802	843	883	923	963
Math Tscirn	458	482	505	52?’	551
Science Olmpiad	458	482	505	527	551
Key Club Advisor	918	963	1009	1055	1141
Saturday School Supervisor (S32 per hour)					
					
Career Development Leadership Programs					
Student Leadership					
Future Business Leaders of America	688	722	757	792	826
Health Occupations Students of America	668	722	757	792	826
Technology Student Association	688	722	757	792	826
Family, Career & Community Leaders of America	688	722	757	792	826
Vocational Industrial Clubs of America	688	722	757	792	826
Distributive Education Clubs of America	918	963	1009	1055	1101
Future Farmers of America	918	963	1009	1055	1101
Career Development Learning Labs					
Marketing Learning Lab	2064	2167	2271	2375	2477
Horticulture Learning Lab	2064	2167	2271	2375	2477
Cui Unary Arts Learning Lab	2064	2167	2271	2375	2477
Metal/Welding Learning Lab	2084	2167	2271	2375	2477
Technical Education Learning Lab	2064	2167	2271	2375	2477
Work Based Learning	1836	1927	2019	2110	2203
					
Middle School					
instrumental Music	3028	3179	3331	3482	3633
Vocal Music	1744	1830	1918	2005	2092
Si ring/Orchestra	1422	1494	1564	1636	1707
intramural Director ($3750 Stipend)					
Math Team	456	482	505	527	551
Science Olympiad	458	482’	505	527	551
Saturday School Supervisor ($33 per hour)					
APPENDIX E - 2003-05
Extended Day Salary Schedule page 3 Of 3 Professional Education Certificate Required
School Year 2003-04
					
Elementary School					
Extended Day Coordinator (Full Year)	3922	4118	4315	4511	4708
Music Ensemble	1514	1589	1665	1740	1817
					
Special Education					
Structured Learning Building Based ($1152 Stipend)					
					
School of Arts & Academics					
Nations) Honor Society	1330	1397	1464	1530	1596
Instrumental Repertory Ensembles	4198	4407	4617	4827	5037
Symphony	4198	4407	4617	4827	5037
Vocal Repertory Ensembles	4198	4407	4617	4827	5037
Dance Repertory Ensembles	4198	4407	4617	4827	5037
Theater Repertory Ensembles	4198	4407	4617	4827	5037
Theater Technical Production Lab	4198	4407	4617	4827	5037
Costume Production Lab	4198	4407	4617	4827	5037
Visual Arts Lab	4198	4407	4617	4827	5037
Moving Image Arts	4198	4407	4617	4827	5037
Literary Publications Lab	4198	4407	4617	4827	5037
Arts Marketing Lab	4198	4407	4617	4827	5037
					
Site Based Decision Making					
Team CoChair ($37 per hour)					
Note; Employees who perform the full responsibility for an extended day activity will be paid the full stipend tor such activity regardless of their FTE assignment (o.g,T part-time versus lull-time). Employees who share the responsibility with one or more employees will receive a proportionate stipend.
APPENDIX?-2003-05
VANCOUVER EDUCATION ASSOCIATION
DUES AND ASSESSMENT CHECK OFF AUTHORIZATION AND ASSIGNMENT OF WAGES FORM
Name_____________________ __________ ____________
Address___________________	________________
City/State/Zip___________________________________
Social Security Number___________________________
To: „ School District
I, the undersigned, acknowledge that I am a member of the Vancouver Education Association, I hereby authorize you as my employer to deduct each month from my salary, and pay to the Association, membership dues and assessments in such amounts as the Association may certify as due and owing by me in accordance with its bylaws and adopted rules.
I agree that this authorization and assignment shall be irrevocable for the current school year and shall be automatically renewed each year thereafter, unless written notice of revocation is given by me to the District and the Association between August 1 and August 31 of any calendar year (to be effective for the forthcoming year), and further agree that my revocation shall be effective on August 31 of the year in which notice of revocation is given.
Signature:__________________w________________
Date:________________________
APPENDIX G-2003-05
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS UTILIZED BY
VANCOUVER SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 37 IN THEIR DIRECT PAYROLL DEPOSIT SYSTEM
Vancouver School District can direct deposit net pay to any financial institution in the United States that is a member of the Automated Clearing House. This includes virtually all banks and savings and loans and most credit unions.
APPENDIX H- 2003-05
Page 1 of 5
SUMMARY STATEMENT OF GROUP INSURANCE PROGRAMS AND BENEFITS 2003-04
Pursuant to Article 11,31 and Article 11.32/11.33, the programs and benefits determined by the District and the Association, effective October 1, 2003 for all members of the bargaining unit are deemed to be the following for the full-time employees and proportionally prorated for part-time employees (details of each program’s benefits are outlined in the policy statements on file in the District office of fiscal services and the information booklets issued to each employee):
The District will contribute a maximum of $493.31 for the months of September 2003 through August 2004, per FTE towards the mandatory and voluntary insurance programs. The cost of the mandatory “John Hancock/UniCare” insurance programs is the first deduction from the District contribution.
Mandatory Insurance Programs
The John Hancock/UniCare insurance programs arc self-insured. The Vancouver School District administers this program with all employee group representatives serving as an advisory committee. This committee, The Insurance Oversight Committee, monitors the assets and liabilities on a monthly basis and recommends any necessary changes in premiums or benefits to maintain the solvency of the program. The deductions for the monthly premium paid by the individual employee are subject to adjustment during the contract year. Beginning in September of 2003, the mandatory rates are as follows:
Blue Cross partic ipants:	$151.04
Kaiserparticipants:	$153.42
Participants not enrolled in a medical plan: $153.42
Less than full-time employees may exempt themselves from the mandatory package if the employer contribution is not sufficient to cover cost of benefits.
General Summary of Benefits
1,	Standard Life Insurance (employee only):
Blue Cross Participants - $10,000
Kaiser Participants - $20,000
Members not participating in a medical plan - $20,000
Standard Insurance Accidental Death/Dismemberment (employee only):
Blue Cross participants - $10,000
Kaiser participants - $20,000
Members not participating in a medical plan - $20,000
APPENDIX H - 2003-05
Page 2 of 5
The following dental, orthodontic, vision, prescription drug, and hearing benefits may be modified during the contract year depending on the solvency of the self-insured program.
2.	Dental Plan (full family J:
Maximum benefit is $1,500 per individual per calendar year.
Deductible: None.
The dental plan will pay 100 percent of the Usual, Customary, and Reasonable Charges for diagnostic and preventive dental work. New employee percentages of benefits payable are incrementally increased over four years starting at 70/80/90/100 percent.
a.	Diagnostic and therapeutic - 100 percent coverage
b.	Restorative -100 percent coverage
c.	Prosthodontic service and supplies - GO percent coverage
3.	Orthodontic Services and Supplies (full family): Diagnostic procedures and treatment consisting of surgical therapy, appliance therapy (including related oral examinations, surgery, and extractions). Benefit payment of 50 percent of Reasonable, Customary charges made by a dentist with a $1,500 lifetime maximum (as outlined in the policy).
4.
Vision Care Insurance (full family):
Annual Eye Examination	100%
Lenses (Pair)	Single $117
(2 yrs. normal, 1 yr. If Bifocal $168 prescript: c rt changes)	Tri focal $200
Bifocal Blend $200
Required Contacts	100%
Normal Contacts	$200
Frames (every 2 years)	$ 90
Usual and Customary Usual and Customary Usual and Customary Usual and Customary Usual and Customary Usual and Customary Usual and Customary Usual and Customary
5. Prescription Drugs (full family): A co-payment of $ 15 for generic and $30 for name brands is applicable for each prescription or refill at the retail level. Maintenance drugs can be ordered through tht mail order program for $20 generic and $40 brand name for a 90-day supply.
6. Hearing:
Audiometric Exam:
Evaluation Test:
Hearing Aids:
1 per 3 years - 100% - Usual and Customary 2 per 3 years - 100% - Usual and Customary' 2 per 3 years - $1000 for one; $2000 for two.
B. Standard Insurance Company Long-Tenn Disability Plan.
The long-term disability coverage in effect during the 2003-04 school year, with a 30-day elimination period, will assure maintenance of a minimum of 60/70 percent of salary at the time of disability, 5 percent annual COLA adjustment, two-year survivor benefit and Age Discrimination Employment Act, Schedule 2, own occupation disability - 5 years; maximum monthly benefit $5000; minimum monthly benefit $100 or 10 percent, whichever is greater; menial and nervous, 36 months.
APPENDIX H- 2003 05
Page 3 of 5
Death Benefit Insurance
As provided by the state for employee(s) loss of life while in the course of employment.
Voluntary Medical Insurance Program Deductions
A. The balance of the District’s contribution after the mandatory “John Hancock/UniCare” and Standard Insurance life and LTD deductions may be used only toward the cost of voluntary participation in either of the three medical plans described below. The employee win assume that portion of the cost of health insurance programs in excess of the total District contribution toward health care benefits. Employees may sign up for the IRS “Section 125 Premium Conversion Plan” designed so that out-of-pocket medical premiums can be paid with before-tax dollars. All unused District medical contribution will be pooled as per RCW 28A.400.270-280.
Health Plans Available
{Programs paid completely or partially by employer)
Blue Cross PPO 1 and PPO 2 and PPO 3: District Contribution: $342.27
1.	The District will make available to each bargaining unit member for school year 2003-04 an open panel medical/health and hospitalization plan. The benefits of that plan will be the same as those included in the specifications of the Premcra Blue Cross Select PPO 1, PPO 2, or PPO 3.
Kaiser: District Contribution: $339.89
2.	The District will make available a closed panel health plan offered by Kaiser Health Plan of Oregon, benefit Level C-2. Kaiser plan benefits and premium levels are developed for the school district employee group and adjusted in October of each calendar year.
Voluntary Life Insurance (Funded entirely by employee)
I.	Jolin Hancock Premium Pay Back Term Life Insurance
2,	Standard additional Tenn Life Insurance
3.	Standard Group Voluntary Accidental Death & Dismemberment
Voluntary Salary Insurance (Funded entirely by employee)
1.	Standard In s urance Short-Term Saiarylnsurance
2.	American Fidelity Cancer Insurance
Other Voluntary Deductions
1,	United Way: 12 deductions beginning November 30 of each year,
2.	Vancouver School District Foundation: 12 deductions beginning November 30 of each year.
3.	Clark County School Employees Credit Union Savings Deductions
4.	De pendent Care As s i stance PI an,
5.	JPC Health Club
APPENDIX H- 2003-05
Page 4 of 5
VANCOUVER SCHOOL DISTRICT APPROVED TAX SHELTER ANNUITY PROVIDERS
The following insurance companies presently participate in the district’s tax sheltered annuity program and have at least five participants. Any insurance company may be represented if it has five or more applicants. If participation falls below five, additional applications will not be accepted until the minimum number is met.
American United Life www.aul.com
Anchor National1 Life www.sunametica.corn
Equitable Life Assurance Soc. w ww. equit able. com
Great American Life www.galic.com
Horace Mann www.horacemnn.com
IDS
www.americanexpress.com
Kemper
www.kcmperinsurance.com
Lincoln National Life www.Jincolnlife.com
Nationwide
www.nationwide.com
Northern Life www .northemljfets a .com
Safeco www .safeco. com
Security Benefit Life www.securitybenefit.com
Standard www .standard .com
Sun Life Assurance www, sun li feofcan acta. com
Sunset Life www.sun set life.com
Thrivent Financial for Lutherans www.thtiyent.com
Travelers w w w. travelers. com
United Investors Life www.uilic.com
New York Life Insurance Co. w w w. ne wy orkli fe. com
VALIC www.valic.com
APPENDIX H-2003-05
Page 5 of 5
Deferred Compensation Program (Funded Entirely by Employee)
Deferred compensation is an agreement between the employee and the Vancouver School District to postpone (i.e., defer) part of the employee’s income until the employee separates from service. Employees are eligible to participate in the Deferred Compensation Program providing they are regularly scheduled to work twenty (20) hours or more per week.
Deferred Compensation is offered through the Washington State Retirement System (DRS) (https://dcp.csplans.com). Tbe following investment options are available through DRS:
Calvert Social Investment Fund-Balanced
Fidelity Equity Income Fund
Fidelity Independence Fund
Fidelity Growth Company Fund
Fidelity Overseas Fund
Portfolio
The Savings Pool
Washington State Long-Horizon Fund
Washington State U.S. Stock Market Index Fund
Washington State Short-Horizon Fund
Washington State Bond Fund
Washington State Mid-Horizon Fund
Washington State Socially Responsible Balanced Fund
Washington. State U.S. Small Stock Index Fund
APPENDIX I - 2003-05
Page 1 of 6
ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROCESS FOR
VANCOUVER SCHOOL DISTRICT AND VANCOUVER EDUCATION ASSOCIATION
Introduction: The Vancouver School District and the Vancouver Education Association are long-term partners in the delivery of quality education. In carrying out their joint mission, there are occasions when disagreements arise. The Comprehensive Professional Agreement provides a grievance procedure for resolving disagreements regarding matters covered by the Agreement including:
1)	Interpretation or application of the terms of a regulation, rule, or practice;
2)	Inequitable treatment of an employee;
3)	Existence of a condition that jeopardizes employee health or safety.
The District also has regular administrative channels that Association members may use for resolving certain other disagreements.
However, both the District and the Association have recently realized that disputes may arise that fall outside the Agreement and are not sufficiently covered by other resolution processes. It is their desire to develop an efficient and cost-effective process for jointly attempting to resolve these disputes locally, while still protecting their rights to take the dispute to the Public Employment Relations Commission, or to any other body having jurisdiction, if the local process is unsuccessful in resolving the dispute. The report analyzes all of the options and recommends such a process.
Recommendation; In reviewing the available options, assisted negotiation using a neutral third party acceptable to both sides seems to be the best choice for all disputes, regardless of the subject and regardless of the setdement attempts up to that point. Assisted negotiation involves the parties in solving their own dispute, is less fonnal and less costly, and is generally better accepted than a decision rendered by an outside third party. Tlie recommended process is explained in detail in the Recommended Process section of this appendix.
The recommendation protects the rights of the parties to refer the dispute to other authorities if this local resolution process is unsuccessful. It also provides that the parties may mutually agree to stop the process at any point, but may not unilaterally proceed to the next legal option without first exhausting all efforts in assisted negotiation.
The recommendation recognizes that the District and the Association are long-term partners in the provision of quality education, and that they need a flexible process to resolve disputes falling outside of the Agreement and the administrative processes. It provides an amicable dispute resolution process that is critical to the parties’ long-term relationship. It also recognizes that no two disputes are the same, and that it is important to make every effort to help the parties reach their own solution and to keep the process as informal as possible.
The process might also be appropriate for either party to use in resolving other disputes.
APPENDIX [ - 2003-05
Page 2 of 6
Recommended Process
1.	To use this process to resolve a dispute, both parties must agree that:
a)	They have been unable to resolve the dispute themselves using unassisted negotiation.
b)	The dispute does not fall under any other contractual or administrative dispute resolution process.
c)	They desire to use this process.
d)	This process is an interim step to seek local resolution of the dispute through assisted negotiation.
e)	If this process is not successful tn resolving the dispute, the parties do not give up any of their legal rights to take the dispute to the Public Employment Relations Commission or any other body having jurisdiction, or to pursue any other legal remedy,
0	Information obtained during this resolution process may not be used later in a trial.
2.	Once agreement to use this process is reached:
a)	The parties must agree on a neutral party to provide facilitation and mediation efforts.
b)	The neutral party will be called a mediator, but will be entitled to use al! aspects of conciliation, facilitation, and mediation in attempting to assist the parties in resolving the dispute.
c)	If the parties are unable to agree initially on a mediator
1)	Each party will prepare a list of at least three mediators acceptable to them.
2)	Any mediator appearing on both lists may be selected by the parties.
3)	If there are no common mediators on both lists, the lists will have to be
expanded until the parties are able to agree on one
d)	Contact with the agreed-upon mediator can be made by either party.
e)	The mediator will initially meet with the parties individually to learn their views and interests regarding the dispute.
f)	The mediator will provide ground rules to be followed by ail parties during the resolution process.
3.	In all of the dispute resolutions, the mediator will:
a)	Keep the process as informal as possible:
I)	No witnesses present at joint meetings.
2)	No evidence presented at joint meetings.
3)	No written positions or brief! ngs unless requested by the mediator.
b)	Help the parties define the issues and their own interests.
c}	Try to eliminate obstat I es to c om mun icat ion between the parties.
d)	Keep confidential the information that each party shares with the med inter, and not reveal it to the other party without the consent of the party that disclosed it
e)	Help the parties resolve their own problem:
1)	They will feel better about the solution if it were imposed by an outsider.
2)	They will take greater ownership of the decision and will support it
better.
f)	Help the parties focus on the solutions that will prevent future recurrence of the problem rather than focus on punishment or revenge for an event in the past.
g)	Help the parties arrive at a proactive, win-win resolution of the dispute.
APPENDIX I-2003-05
Page 3 of (5
4.	The parties should agree on time frames for resolution of the dispute:
a)	If the parties cannot agree, the recommendation of the mediator will be used.
b)	The parties jointly, or the mediator, have the flexibility to adjust the time frames if progress warrants it.
5.	The mediator will use conciliation, facilitation, and mediation in attempting to help the parties resolve the dispute;
a)	The mediator will meet with the parties individually and together as progress warrants.
b)	The mediator will advise the parties honestly and make suggestions as appropriate to assist in the resolution process.
c)	The mediator may consult with outside experts in the subject area of the dispute and may call in an outside expert to assist the process with neutral evaluation or fact finding.
d)	If the parties are unable to reach agreement, the mediator may:
1)	Privately analyze with each party the strengths and weaknesses of its case.
2)	Recommend a solution and work to move the parties toward acceptance of the solution, but the recommendation is not binding on the parties.
e)	Negotiations will continue until the dispute is resolved or until all parties agree that further negotiations are fruitless.
6.	If the parties reach agreement, they must also agree on whether the decision is precedent setting for all similar future disputes, or is a one-time solution.
7.	If appropriate, the agreement may include provisions for monitoring the progress of the solution over time, with the mediator acting as the monitor at agreed upon intervals and reporting back to the parties. If the mediator finds the solution is not working, he or she may recommend to the parties that they reconvene and attempt to improve the solution.
8.	If the parties are unable to resolve the dispute despite the best efforts of assisted negotiation, the mediator will discuss with both parties the ramifications of not reaching agreement and the options available to them to resolve the dispute.
9.	The parties may mutually agree to stop this process at any point, but they may not unilaterally stop the process and move directly to the Public Employment Relations Commission, or any other outside body, without first exhausting all efforts in assisted negotiation.
10.	Both parties will bear their own costs through all steps of the process and will share equally in the cost of the mediator and all cuts ide costs of the resolution process.
APPENDIX 1 -2003-05
Page 4 of 6
Types of Alternative Dispute Resolution
Unassisted Negotiation: Unassisted negotiation involves only the people enmeshed in the dispute and no third parties. There arc two types:
1.	Competitive:
Negotiators seek to maximize their own gain at the expense of the other party;
Most effective for one-shot, single issue situations in which there will be no long-term relationship.
2.	Collaborative:
Negotiators seek to find solutions that satisfy everyone's interest;
Search for joint gains rather than compromising or splitting the difference;
Appropriate where creative solutions are possible;
Best where parties will have ongoing relationship;
Builds trust and credibility.
Assisted Negotiations: These are attempts to encourage and assist the parties to jointly develop their own solution to the dispute. These processes have been shown to be favored by most parties because the parties are involved in developing their own solution, they lake greater ownership of the solution than in one proscribed by a third party, and the process is generally less formal and Jess costly than other processes*
Concilia tion/Coovening:
Conciliator acts to:
Bring the parties together;
Carry messages between parties;
Provide diplomacy and expedite the process.
Facilitation:
Facilitator does everything the Conciliator does, plus:
Acts as moderator;
Makes certain all parties are heard.
Facilitator does not:
Volunteer own ideas;
Actively participate in moving parties toward agreement.
Mediation:
Mediator does everything the Facilitator does, plus:
Helps parties to reach their own settlement;
Meets with both parties separately and together;
Helps the parties focus on remedies for the future rather than responsibility for the past;
Does not judge right or wrong, guilt or innocence.
Negotiated Rule Making:
Mediator invites representatives of competing interest groups to participate in mediation to reach agreement on new rules or regulations.
APPENDIX I - 2003-05
Page 5 of 6
Outcome Prediction: If agreement cannot be reached using assisted negotiation, the next best step may be some form of outcome predication. These processes are attempts to show rhe parties what might happen if negotiations fail and the parties proceed to litigation. They are generally used to encourage the parties to continue attempting to reach a negotiated settlement and avoid litigation.
Neutral Evaluation:
Neutral third party, who is knowledgeable in the substantive area of the dispute, listens to the facts and legal arguments and attempts to predict the probable range of outcomes before the parties go to more formal proceedings.
Fact Finding:
Neutral third party gives the disputants or the decision-maker findings of fact, possibly with a recommended solution.
Similar to non-binding arbitration.
Ombuds and Complaint Programs:
Supposedly independent person who investigates problems and complaints and attempts to resolve them through mediation or recommended solutions.
Generally seen in government and corporate organizations.
Mini-trial:
Meetings chaired by neutral advisor.
Lawyers present summaries of their cases to chief executives or decision makers representing both sides.
Chief executives or decision makers attempt to settle the case.
If they are unable to reach agreement, the neutral advisor may mediate or recommend a Settlement.
Summary Jury Trial:
Involves a judge and summary jury participating in an abbreviated hearing and rendering a non-binding verdict, explaining it to participants and answering questions.
Attempts to predict the outcome of a full trial.
Nwvbindmg Arbitration.
Generally part of the litigation process, just before going to trial.
Attempts to settle smaller civil Litigation cases
Arbitrator’s decision is non-binding and ca$e can proceed to court if not settled by the parties.
Mediation/Arbitration:
Neutral third party mediates, but if the parties are unable to reach a settlement, will act as arbitrator and impose a decision.
Mediator is not supposed to use any confidential information obtained during mediation in deciding the arbitration.
APPENDIX. I -2003-05
Page 6 of 6
Adjudication: If outcome prediction does not result in a negotiated settlement, the remaining processes involve placing the matter completely iu the hands of a third party who will render a binding decision on the parties. These processes generally require more time and effort, and are generally more costly than the processes in which the parties attempt to resolve their own dispute. Therefore, parties should make every effort to use assisted negotiation and outcome prediction before placing the dispute entirely in the hands of a third party for a decision.
Arbitration:
Neutral third party listens to both parlies and renders a binding decision. Generally follows more formal processes than assistednegotiation.
Courtroom Arbitration:
Arbitration involving the use of a private court and judge who listens to both parties and renders a binding decision.
Litigation:
Binding decision rendered by a judge or jury. Formal, lengthy, and expensive.
Articles in CPA Dealing with Dispute Resolution
The Comprehensive Professional Agreement articles listed below deal with dispute resolution and may or may not need to be reviewed and modified to accommodate the recommended process.
Article 4.2:	Scope of Negotiations Topics Required by Statute
Article 4,4: Right of Review, Consultation, and Negotiation of Changes in Policy of Negotiable Topics
Article 5.2:	Adjustment of Complaints Outside the Negotiated Grievance Procedure
Article 5.3:	Definitions
Article 5.6:	Arbitration
Sources of Information
Center for Dispute Settlement 1666 Connecticut Avenue, NW Washington D,C, 20009 202-265-9572	Confluence Northwest 342 Union Station 800 NW Sixth Avenue Portland OR 97209 503-243-2663
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service ! 2100 K Street NW : Washington D.C. 20427 202-653-5300	Judicial Arbitration and Mediation Services/En dispute, Inc. KXli SW Fifth Avenue, Suite I UM Portland OR 97204 800-626-5267
Oregon Mediation Association POBox 2952 Portland OR 97208-2952 503-294-1017	Settling Disputes, Linda Singer Westview Press
Washington State Bar Association Seattle WA 206-727-8200	Willamette University Center for Dispute Resolution 245 Winter Street $E Salem OR 97301 503-370-6046