AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
THE BOARD OF HIGHER EDUCATION
AND
THE MASSACHUSETTS TEACHERS ASSOCIATION/NEA
MASSACHUSETTS STATE COLLEGE ASSOCIATION
DIVISION OF GRADUATE AND CONTINUING EDUCATION
September 1, 2003 - August 31, 2006
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREAMBLE	1
ARTICLE I	- RECOGNITION	2
A.	Recognition	2
B.	Jurisdiction	2
C.	Designation of Administration	2
D.	Entitlement Under This Agreement	3
E.	Statutory Responsibilities of the Boards	3
F.	Successors and Assigns	3
G.	Definitions	3
ARTICLE II	- RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE BOARD
AND THE ASSOCIATION	5
A.	Fair Practices	5
B.	Individual Contracts	6
C.	Consultation	6
D.	Information	7
ARTICLE III	- ASSOCIATION SECURITY	8
A.	Dues Check-Off	8
B.	Agency Service Fee	8
C.	Contract Courses	9
D.	Association Use of Facilities	9
E.	Reduced Workload	9
F.	Access to College	9
G.	Bulletin Boards	10
ARTICLE IV - ACADEMIC FREEDOM AND RESPONSIBILITY
11
A.	Academic Freedom	11
B.	Academic Responsibilities	11
ARTICLE V	- USE OF COLLEGE FACILITIES	13
A.	Facilities in General	13
B.	Facility Use and Services	13
C.	Parking	14
D.	Consultation	14
E.	Safety Procedures	14
F.	Rights to Intellectual Property	15
G.	Monitoring of Electronic Communications	15
ARTICLE VI	- APPOINTMENT AND TERMINATION	17
A.	Eligibility for Appointment	17
B.	Inclusion in the Continuing Education Pool	19
C.	Appointment	20
D.	Evaluations	21
E.	Termination for Cause During an Instructional
Period	21
F.	Appointments and Reappointments	21
ARTICLE VII	- SALARY	22
A.	Rank Minima Adjustments: General	22
B.	Rank Minima Adjustments: Framingham State College	23
C.	Teaching of Graduate Courses	25
D.	Time of Payment	25
E.	Payroll Deductions	25
ii
F.
Joint Study Committee
25
ARTICLE VIII	- WORKLOAD, SCHEDULING AND COURSE ASSIGNMENTS	27
A.	Workload of Members of the Bargaining Unit	27
1.	General Provisions	27
2.	Teaching Workload	27
3.	Course Advising and Student Assistance	28
4.	Scheduling	28
5.	Syllabus	30
B.	Make-Up	30
C.	Emergency Cancellations	31
D.	Compensatory Adjustment for Extraordinary
Workload	31
ARTICLE IX	- EVALUATIONS	32
A.	Criteria for Evaluations	32
1.	Criteria for the Evaluation of
Members of the Bargaining Unit	32
2.	Application of the Criteria	32
B.	Frequency of Evaluations	32
C.	Review Periods	33
D.	Materials to be Used in the Conduct
of Evaluations	33
1.	Student Evaluations	33
2.	Classroom Visitations	34
3.	Comprehensive Resume	34
4.	Course Documents	34
iii
5.	Other Relevant Materials	34
E.	Procedures for the Conduct of Evaluations	34
1.	Submission of Materials	35
2.	Evaluation by the DGCE Chair	35
3.	Role of the Dean	35
F.	Anonymous Complaints	35
G.	Effectiveness of Prior Evaluations	35
ARTICLE X	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	36
A.	Introduction	36
B.	Definitions	36
C.	Procedures for Filing a Grievance	36
1.	Extension of Certain Time Periods	36
2.	Inspection of Record	37
3.	Introduction of Evidence	37
4.	Request for Evidence	37
5.	Notice to Association	38
6.	Determination to be Made Pursuant
to Resolution of Grievance	38
Step 1: The Vice President (Informal)	38
Step 2: The President (Formal)	39
Step 3: Arbitration	39
a.	Initiation of Arbitration	39
b.	Jurisdiction of Arbitrator	40
c.	Authority of Arbitrator	40
iv
d.
Award of Arbitrator
41
e. Expense of Arbitration	41
D.	Association Representation	41
E.	Waiver, Admission, Termination and
Grounds of Appeal	41
F.	Collateral Consequences of a Grievance	42
G.	Consolidated Grievances	42
H.	Application	42
ARTICLE XI	- ACCESS TO OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FILES	44
ARTICLE XII	- COMPLIANCE WITH BOARD TIME SCHEDULES	46
ARTICLE XIII	- NO STRIKE OR LOCK OUT PLEDGE	47
ARTICLE XIV	- SAVINGS CLAUSE	48
ARTICLE XV	- DURATION	49
APPENDICES
Appendix A:	Payroll Dues Deduction Authorization
Appendix B:	Agency Service Fee Deduction Authorization
Appendix C:	Contract Form - Letter of Appointment
Appendix D-1: Student Evaluation Form
Appendix D-2(a): Classroom Visitation Form
Appendix D-2(b): Distance Education Instruction Observation Form
Appendix D-3: Comprehensive Resume Form
Appendix D-4: DGCE Chair
Appendix E:	Contract Courses: Limits by College
Appendix F:	Policy on Handling Anonymous Complaints
v
PREAMBLE
This Agreement is entered into by and between the Board of Higher Education and the Massachusetts Teachers Association/NEA as the exclusive collective bargaining agent for members of the bargaining unit described in Article I, Section A.
ARTICLE I - RECOGNITION
A.	RECOGNITION
The Board of Higher Education (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”) recognizes the Massachusetts Teachers Association/NEA (hereinafter referred to as the “Association”) as the exclusive collective bargaining representative with respect to the conditions of employment of a unit which comprises:
All persons who hold appointments during the academic year to teach one or more credit courses in the Division of Graduate and Continuing Education (hereinafter referred to as “DGCE”) at any State College, excluding supervisory and managerial personnel, all persons who teach contract courses (but only with respect to their teaching of such courses) and all other persons.
The parties recognize and agree that the Association may, in the discharge of its responsibilities hereunder, act through its affiliate, the Massachusetts State College Association, and that the Association and its affiliate are jointly and severally liable for the discharge of such responsibilities. The parties also recognize and agree that the Board may, in the discharge of its responsibilities hereunder, act through the Council of Presidents.
B.	JURISDICTION
During the term of this Agreement, the jurisdiction of the Association shall extend to those persons who now or hereafter hold appointments to a position included in the bargaining unit.
C.	DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATION
Whenever any provision of this Agreement shall require that any act be done by the Board of Trustees, by the Board, by the Chancellor, by the President of a College or by any member of the administration of a College, such act may be done by the designee of the Board of Trustees, the Board, the Chancellor, the President or such member of the administration, respectively. Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever, by reason of any emergency or other exigency, the Chancellor, any President, or any such member of the administration of a College is unable to do any act required to be done by said administrator, such act may be done by any person designated to do the same by the Board of Trustees, the Board or the President.
2
D.
ENTITLEMENT UNDER THIS AGREEMENT
Every member of the bargaining unit described in Article I, Section A, of this Agreement shall be entitled to the applicable benefits set forth in this Agreement.
E.	STATUTORY RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE, BOARD
All management rights and functions, except those which are clearly and expressly abridged by this Agreement, shall remain vested exclusively in the Board or the several Boards of Trustees as may be provided by any applicable provision of law. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed or construed to impair or limit the powers and duties of the Board or of any Board of Trustees under the Laws of the Commonwealth, which powers include the power to adopt and establish policies to the extent that such policies do not contravene any express provision of this Agreement.
F.	SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS
To the extent the same is permitted by law, any successor in interest to the Board or any Board of Trustees shall be bound by and shall assume all the rights, duties and obligations of its predecessor in interest as if such successor were a named party and signatory to this Agreement.
G.	DEFINITIONS
As used in this Agreement, the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings:
1.	Academic Year “Academic year” shall mean the twelve (12)-month period commencing on September 1 and ending on the ensuing August 31.
2.	Contract Course “Contract course” shall mean any course which is offered by or through an entity other than a College, and/or which is initiated and funded in whole or in part by an entity other than a College, and the criteria for admission to which are established by agreement between a College and an entity other than a College. Regular tuition reimbursement programs shall not, as such, cause a course to be a contract course.
3.	Course “Course” or “credit course” shall mean a course that is offered by a College and for which any of those who enroll in it earn academic credit.
4.	Course Materials “Course materials” shall mean lectures, exercises designed for on-line collaboration, multi-media developed for web distribution, notes, outlines, syllabi, bibliographies, tests, instructional handouts, videotaped presentations and any like materials and documents (whether in an electronic or other medium) that a member of the bargaining unit authors or creates in connection with the preparation or teaching of a course at a College.
5.	DGCE Chair “DGCE Chair” shall mean that person, whether styled DGCE chair,
3
program coordinator, program manager or otherwise, who manages, within or in conjunction with a department or program area at a College, either an undergraduate program in continuing education, a program of graduate education, or both.
6.	Graduate Course “Graduate course” shall mean a course offered for graduate academic credit and approved as a graduate course by the appropriate Dean and by the President in accordance with general College procedures for approving such courses; provided only that when a course so offered and approved is described in any official bulletin or other such publication of the Division of Graduate and Continuing Education as a course that is offered for both graduate and undergraduate academic credit, it shall be deemed to be a graduate course if not fewer than fifty percent (50%) of the students enrolled in the course are enrolled in it for graduate academic credit. For purposes of the preceding proviso, the enrollment in a course shall be determined at the end of the period during which students are permitted to enroll in courses at a College. Whenever any course so offered and approved is described in any official bulletin or other such publication of the Division of Graduate and Continuing Education as a course that is offered only for graduate academic credit, it shall, notwithstanding the proviso in the first sentence of this paragraph, be deemed to be a graduate course even if undergraduate students have been permitted, in any one or more instances, to enroll in it for undergraduate academic credit; and, further, whenever any course is described in any official bulletin or other such publication of the Division of Graduate and Continuing Education as a course that is offered only for undergraduate academic credit, it shall, notwithstanding the proviso in the first sentence of this paragraph, not be deemed to be a graduate course even if graduate students have been permitted, in any one or more instances, to enroll in it for graduate credit.
7.	Intellectual Property “Intellectual property” shall mean a legally cognizable
interest in a work or creation of whatever kind, including a copyright or patent.
4
ARTICLE II	- RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE BOARD AND THE ASSOCIATION
A.	FAIR PRACTICES
1.	As sole bargaining agent the Association shall continue its policy of accepting into membership all eligible persons in the unit without regard to age, race, color, creed and religious creed, national origin, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, veteran's status or handicap. The Association shall represent equally all members of the bargaining unit without regard to membership or participation in the activities of any employee organization.
2.	The Board and the Boards of Trustees agree to continue their policy of nondiscrimination against any person on the basis of age, race, color, creed and religious creed, national origin, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, veteran's status, handicap or participation in or association with the activities of any employee organization.
3.	Moreover, the Association agrees to cooperate with the Board in the implementation of the Affirmative Action Program for the State Colleges in effect on the date of execution of this Agreement; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be deemed to prohibit the Board from amending such Program from time to time for the purpose of causing it to conform with any applicable state or federal law, any applicable rule or regulation made thereunder, or any applicable order or directive issued by any agency, including any court, having authority therein.
4.	The parties to this Agreement are committed to a policy of affirmative action and non-discrimination. One purpose of the policy is to provide for equal access and equal opportunity through the recruitment and hiring of minorities, women and the handicapped.
5.	The parties support a policy of non-discrimination in all personnel actions.
6.	The parties mutually condemn any conduct that inflicts sexual harassment upon
any member of the College community. Unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature constitute sexual harassment for this purpose when (1) submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a term or condition of an individual's employment or of his/her academic status or entitlements, (2) submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used as the basis for employment decisions or academic decisions that affect such individual, or (3) such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual's academic or work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive academic or working environment.
7.	The parties agree that no provision of this Section A shall be deemed to create, or to confer on any person, any right enforceable under the terms of this Agreement, it being the common and agreed understanding of the parties that the public
5
policies to which they hereby pledge themselves are properly established and enforced through mechanisms other than those pursuant to which the terms of this Agreement have been entered into and pursuant to which they may be enforced.
B.	INDIVIDUAL CONTRACTS
All rights, benefits, duties and obligations of members of the bargaining unit as set forth in this Agreement shall, during the term of this Agreement, be expressly incorporated by reference into, and made a part of, any contract of employment that has been or shall hereafter be entered into between a Board of Trustees and any person who is or shall hereafter become a member of the bargaining unit; and no such contract shall be contrary, in whole or in part, to the terms and conditions set forth herein.
C.	CONSULTATION
1.	Continuing Education Committee on Employee Relations
The parties agree to establish and maintain a joint Continuing Education Committee on Employee Relations, which shall consist of three (3) unit members appointed by the Association, acting by the MSCA, and three (3) management representatives appointed by the Board, acting by the Council of Presidents. The representatives of the parties may be accompanied by advisors of their choosing at any meeting of the Committee on Employee Relations.
The purpose of this committee shall be
a.	to foster good labor-management relations through the implementation of the terms of this Agreement;
b.	to seek to resolve, consistent with this Agreement, problems or disputes arising under this Agreement;
c.	where appropriate, to seek the resolution of grievances consistent with the terms of this Agreement; and
d.	where appropriate, but subject to the provisions of this section, to enter into mutual agreements to effectuate the terms of this Agreement.
Anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding, no person or body referenced in this Section C shall have the authority to alter, amend, extend or revise any term of this Agreement.
The Association (acting by the MSCA) and the Board (acting by the Council of Presidents) shall each designate a spokesperson who shall be the authorized agent of each party in the discharge of its responsibilities under this section.
Meetings of the Employee Relations Committee will be conducted four (4) times annually and, otherwise, at the call of either party acting by its spokesperson. Special
6
meetings shall be scheduled at mutually agreeable times, but not later than five working days from the date of receipt of a request therefor. Requests for special meetings may be made orally or in writing by the spokesperson of either party to the other and shall specify the reasons for which such special meeting is requested.
The spokesperson of the Association shall serve and preside as Chair at the first meeting; thereafter, the chair will alternate between the spokesperson of the Association and the spokesperson of the Board. The Chair will designate an individual to take minutes of the meeting.
The parties agree that their representatives shall have the authority and power to reach agreements, settlements and adjustments on their behalf.
Copies of the minutes of each meeting will be reviewed and initialed by the spokespersons of the Association and the Board before distribution. Such minutes are to be signed within five (5) working days after a meeting and, within ten (10) working days after a meeting, copies of the approved minutes will be furnished to each member of the Committee.
The Committee shall sponsor and arrange for a contract-orientation meeting to be held at one of the Colleges no later than May 31, 2004. Each Chapter President and a person appointed by him or her and two persons from and designated by the President of each College shall be invited to attend as the representatives of each College.
2.	Consultation
The President of each College and representative of the Association shall meet at least once in each of the fall and spring semesters if requested by the President of the College or by the Chapter President for the purpose of maintaining and improving relationships. Each such meeting shall be held within ten (10) days of such a request having been made in writing by one party to the other, which request shall state the reason or reasons for which such a meeting is to be held.
The President of the College and representatives of the Association may meet at such other times and for such other purposes as they may mutually agree upon.
D.	INFORMATION
The Board (acting by the Council of Presidents) shall make available to the Association, upon the written request of the Association or of the Board of Directors of the MSCA and within a reasonable time thereafter, such statistics and information related to the collective bargaining unit in its possession as are necessary for the implementation of this Agreement. It is understood that this shall not require the Board to compile information and statistics in the form requested unless already compiled in that form, or to supply any information deemed by the Board to be confidential.
7
ARTICLE III	- ASSOCIATION SECURITY
A.	DUES CHECK-OFF
The Association shall be permitted authorization for payroll dues deductions as set forth in Appendix A.
B.	AGENCY SERVICE FEE
1.	General
As a condition of employment during the term of this Agreement, every member of the bargaining unit who is not also a member of the Association shall pay, or, by payroll deduction, shall have paid to the Association an agency service fee that shall be in an amount no greater than such amount as is permitted by law; provided, however, that no such payment or deduction shall include any amount that represents a cost not related to collective bargaining and contract administration, all as is required by the provisions of Section 3 of Article IX of the Rules and Regulations Relating to the Administration of Chapter 150E of the General Laws as such Rules and Regulations have been promulgated, and as they may be amended from time to time, by the Labor Relations Commission. Such fee so required to be paid shall be payable on or before the thirtieth (30th) day next following the beginning of employment of such member of the bargaining unit or on or before the thirtieth (30th) day next following the effective date of this Agreement, whichever shall be later.
In the alternative, such fee may be paid by payroll deduction if so authorized pursuant to an Agency Service Fee Deduction Authorization as set forth in Appendix B of this Agreement; provided, however, that such authorization shall be deemed to have effect only with respect to such sum as is herein provided.
Whenever the Association, acting by the President or the Treasurer of the Massachusetts State College Association, shall have informed the President of any College that any person who is a member of the bargaining unit has, with respect to any instructional period, failed to fulfill the condition of employment herein prescribed, the College shall not thereafter offer to reappoint such person to perform services as a member of the bargaining unit unless and until he or she shall have first fulfilled such condition; provided only that the Association shall in every such case first give written certification to the President of the College that the Association has, with respect to such person, complied with the applicable rules and regulations promulgated by the Massachusetts Labor Relations Commission for the payment of an agency service fee.
A copy of all notices required to be given to the President of the College hereunder shall be sent to the Dean of Graduate and Continuing Education.
Copies of all correspondence between the Board or its agents and such unit member shall be simultaneously forwarded to the President of the MSCA.
Any Board of Trustees and any person or body authorized to act on behalf thereof
8
shall, when complying with the provisions of this Article, be indemnified by the Association from any action which may arise therefrom when such person or body so authorized relies upon the written certification of the President of the Association that it has complied with the applicable regulations of the Labor Relations Commission governing the payment of an agency service fee.
C.	CONTRACT COURSES
From and after September 1, 2003, the number of contract courses offered by any College in any academic year shall not, as a percentage of the total number of DGCE courses (including all contract courses) that such College offers, exceed the percentage of contract courses that is depicted on Appendix E of this Agreement. At the request of the Chapter President at any College, the College shall, on or before November 1 of an academic year, provide to the Chapter President a complete list of all contract courses offered during the preceding academic year.
If a proposal to offer a contract course is received at any College, the Dean will instruct the DGCE chair of the relevant department to inform the members of the departmental pool whenever an instructor is required for such course.
D.	ASSOCIATION USE OF FACILITIES
The Association shall be provided on each campus with a desk, chair and filing cabinet, reasonable use of an intra-College telephone, and access to the intra-College mail system, to include a separate campus mailbox, for the purpose of contract administration.
E.	REDUCED WORKLO AD
After having received a recommendation from the President of the Association, the President of any College may reduce the workload of any official of such Association who is employed at such College and in respect of whom such recommendation is made; provided, however, that the total number of all such reductions in effect at any time within the State Colleges collectively shall not exceed six (6) semester hours of credit of instruction per semester; and provided further that the Association shall reimburse the affected State College for the cost of any such reduction in workload.
F.	ACCESS TO THE, COLLEGE
Upon written request to the President of a College, the Association or any College-based chapter thereof shall have the right to meet at such College if appropriate facilities are available. All such requests must be received at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the time requested for the meeting. The Association shall be charged for the use of the facility at the prevailing rate that each College charges other groups. The parties intend that this provision shall not be deemed to prevent the reasonable scheduling of Association meetings or to permit interference with normal College affairs.
9
G.
BULLETINBOARDS
The President of each College shall assign at least one (1) bulletin board for the exclusive use and responsibility of the Association for the purpose of posting Association notices concerning the administration of the provisions of this Agreement. The cost of any and all additional bulletin boards required to fulfill each College's obligation under this provision shall be borne by the Association.
10
ARTICLE IV	- ACADEMIC FREEDOM AND RESPONSIBILITY
The parties endorse the principles and standards of academic freedom and academic responsibility as generally and traditionally accepted in institutions of higher education. The parties agree to promote public understanding and support of academic freedom and agreement upon procedures to assure academic freedom in colleges and universities. Institutions of higher education are conducted for the common good and not to further the interests of either the individual teacher or the institution as a whole. The common good depends upon the free search for truth and its free exposition. Academic freedom is essential to these purposes and applies to both teaching and research.
A.	ACADEMIC FREEDOM
Academic freedom is the right of scholars in institutions of higher education freely to study, discuss, investigate, teach, exhibit, perform and publish. Freedom in research is fundamental to the advancement of truth. Academic freedom in its teaching aspect is fundamental for the protection of the rights of the teacher in teaching and of the student in learning.
Teachers are entitled to full freedom in research and in the exhibition, performance, and publication of the results of their research, and to full freedom in the classroom in discussing subject matter, most specifically in the selection of his or her course materials and in the selection of texts. The teacher is entitled to discuss controversial issues. It is recognized that a professional's obligation, as both teacher and scholar, is to present various scholarly opinions and to avoid presenting totally unrelated materials, that being fundamental to the advancement of truth.
Each member of the bargaining unit has the right to determine the amount and character of the work and other activities pursued outside the College provided that such work and other activities do not interfere with the discharge of responsibilities under the terms of this Agreement.
B.	ACADEMIC RESPONSIBILITIES
Academic freedom carries with it correlative responsibilities.
Members of the bargaining unit have the responsibility to their colleagues and the College community to preserve intellectual honesty in their teaching and research. Each member respects the free inquiry of associates and avoids interference in their work.
The parties recognize that adherence to the complementary concepts of academic freedom and academic responsibility will most nearly ensure that the greatest contributions to the several colleges will be made by their most valuable resource, the faculty. The college or university teacher is a citizen and a member of a learned profession affiliated with an educational institution. When speaking, writing or expressing themselves in any other fashion as a citizen, faculty should be free from institutional censorship or discipline, but this special position in the community imposes special obligations. As persons of learning affiliated with an educational institution,
11
faculty should remember that the public may judge their profession and institution by their utterances. Hence, faculty should at all times be accurate, should exercise appropriate restraint, should show respect for the opinions of others, and should make every effort to indicate when they are not an institutional spokesperson.
Institutions of higher education are committed to the search for truth and knowledge and to contribution to the solution of problems and controversies.
12
ARTICLE V	- USE OF COLLEGE FACILITIES
A.	FACILITIES IN GENERAL
Recognizing the fact that many activities of the various Divisions of Graduate and Continuing Education occur away from the College campuses and will continue to do so because of the nature of the services these operations provide, the parties agree that the following provisions apply only to the actual College campuses and not to any area or building which is leased or otherwise available to the College but not under the complete control of the College.
B.	FACILITY USE AND SERVICES
The Board shall make reasonable efforts to provide for members of the bargaining unit at each College:
1.	Existing furnished employee lounges, restrooms and eating facilities;
2.	Existing assigned space and equipment necessary to carry out unit members' assigned duties; each College shall establish the means by which unit members are afforded opportunities either to make or to have made copies of documentary materials needed in connection with the performance of their duties as such; provided only that nothing in this provision shall be deemed to require a College to keep its own copying facilities open or available during any particular hours of the day. The Dean shall inform the Chapter President concerning such means within sixty (60) days following the date of execution of this Agreement and from time to time thereafter whenever any change is made therein;
3.	Existing telephones where currently operating;
4.	Existing custodial, secretarial and technical assistance;
5.	Access to the intra-college mail system; and each College, at a central or departmental location (as the College may determine), shall provide a mailbox to any unit member who requests one;
The College shall make such arrangements as it thinks appropriate from time to time to cause departmental or other academic communications that pertain to members of the bargaining unit to be published or otherwise communicated to them.
Each College shall provide College e-mail addresses and access for members of the bargaining unit during instructional periods when they are teaching at the College.
In addition to the aforementioned, the Board agrees to make available to unit members access to their work areas on the same basis and to the same extent as such access is made available to other College employees, subject, however, to applicable Board policy, rules and regulations governing access to College facilities.
13
C.
PARKING
The Board shall provide and maintain at each College properly surfaced parking facilities without cost for members of the bargaining unit, such parking facilities to be located as close as is practicable to the appropriate teaching and/or work areas of bargaining unit members. The Board further agrees that the number of designated unit member parking spaces shall be at least equal to the number of parking spaces presently used by bargaining unit members.
New, secured, and specified parking facilities may be established where they do not now exist upon the agreement of the President of the College and the local Chapter President, and subject to the prior approval of the Chair of the Council of Presidents and the President of the Association.
At those Colleges where on the date of execution of this Agreement there exist secured parking facilities for the use of bargaining unit members, rules and regulations pertaining to such facilities in effect on the date of execution of this Agreement shall not be altered or amended without the prior agreement of the Association.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, there shall be reserved at each College preferred parking spaces for those unit members who are handicapped or otherwise disabled, in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 151B of the General Laws of the Commonwealth.
In addition, each College shall maintain a system of parking stickers which shall be issued upon request to bargaining unit members annually at a cost for the sticker of not more than $1.00. No additional sticker charge shall be made at secured facilities. Bargaining unit members shall maintain parking stickers on vehicles used by them in all parking facilities.
The College agrees to cause to be towed unauthorized vehicles parked in such designated facilities.
In addition, if the designated areas are filled or otherwise unavailable, a bargaining unit member shall be permitted to park in spaces other than those so designated for unit members whenever such unit member's vehicle has a parking sticker affixed thereto.
D.	CONSULTATION
The President of the College shall consult with the Chapter President of the Association, or the latter's designee, prior to making any significant alterations to the level of existing facilities or services listed herein and currently in use by unit members.
E.	S AFETY PROCEDURES
In accordance with applicable state or federal law, unit members shall not be
14
required to work under unsafe conditions whenever reasonable attempts by both parties have failed to redress the complaint.
Consistently with the preservation of rights of privacy and the effective conduct of investigations by law enforcement personnel, the College shall, if the same are known to it, inform members of the bargaining unit of any threats made against their persons or property by any other member of the academic community.
F.	RIGHTS TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
Unless a member of the bargaining unit and a College otherwise agree, a unit member who creates intellectual property in any book, monograph, academic paper, article, course materials, musical composition, work of art, dissertation, thesis, software program, or like material, shall own and hold all rights to such intellectual property; provided, however, as follows:
(a)	that the ownership of any such right in any work whose creation was sponsored by a grant from a source external to Massachusetts public higher education shall be assigned by the terms of the grant;
(b)	that nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to vest in any member of the bargaining unit any property right in or to any committee report, the content of any catalogue or any like material produced or created within the scope of his or her employment as a member of the bargaining unit; and
(c)	that nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to permit any member of the bargaining unit to charge to the College or to any student a fee in connection with the use of such unit member’s course materials in connection with the performance of his or her own responsibilities as a member of the bargaining unit.
G.	MONITORING OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS
1.	The parties recognize that a substantial portion of any information (including email and other communications and records of account usage) that is stored on a computer legally constitutes public records and is accessible as such to any person at any time. The Board and the Colleges therefore agree to treat such information as confidential only if and to the extent that it does not constitute a public record, provided always that the Board and the Colleges need not treat any information as confidential if the person whose confidential information it is (including any person to whom a communication has been transmitted) discloses it or otherwise disclaims its confidential nature. The Board and the Colleges shall not, in an arbitrary manner, selectively record or monitor the information transmitted or stored by unit members. Nothing in this undertaking shall:
(a)	constitute the Board or any College the guarantor of the privacy of any such information;
(b)	prohibit a College from having access to such information in order, in
15
accordance with an acceptable use policy, to (i) back up and maintain the functionality of its electronic communications systems, (ii) enforce any lawful prohibition against the use of such systems for personal or commercial purposes, (iii) prevent or investigate unauthorized access to such systems, (iv) enforce any requirements of law, and (v) enforce any software or other licensing agreements or copyrights;
(c)	prohibit the College from having access to such information in order to comply with a subpoena lawfully issued and enforceable, to comply with a request for public records under the Public Records Act, or to comply with any like order or requirement of law;
(d)	prohibit the College from installing “spam” filters, firewalls, virus detectors or any like software or equipment that limits the use of or access to its electronic communications systems;
(e)	prohibit the College from monitoring and logging usage data on a routine basis, including network session connection times and end points, CPU and disk utilization for individual users, security audit trails, and network loading, pursuant to an acceptable use policy or as an incident of the troubleshooting, repair or maintenance of its electronic communications systems or the preservation or enhancement of their functionality;
(f)	prohibit any person who is the lawful recipient of any electronic transmission or communication from making such disclosure of it as he or she chooses; or
(g)	permit any member of the bargaining unit to alter any College’s electronic communications system (by altering, adding or deleting any software or equipment) or any College’s website or its associated links without the College’s prior written approval.
2.	The provisions of acceptable use policies shall not conflict with the provisions of this Agreement; in the event, therefore, that any provision of an acceptable use policy does conflict with any provision of this Agreement, the latter provision shall prevail. Nothing in the preceding sentence shall be deemed to limit or amend the preceding paragraph of this Section G.
16
ARTICLE VI - APPOINTMENT AND TERMINATION
A.	ELIGIBILITY FOR APPOINTMENT
Subject to the terms of this Agreement but otherwise at its or their sole discretion, the Board of Trustees or the President of each State College may grant appointments hereunder and terminate such appointments.
A person may be granted an appointment at any rank in keeping with the following requirements. These requirements apply to persons engaged to teach in the individual Programs of Graduate and Continuing Education at the State Colleges. Exceptions to these requirements may be made for sound academic reasons in certain specialized areas and under other special circumstances with the approval of the Board of Trustees or the President as its designee. Nothing in these requirements should be construed to prohibit the appointment of an individual of exceptional talent or accomplishment who does not meet all the stated criteria. In considering candidates for exceptional appointments, the Board of Trustees or the President shall pay due regard in the alternative to: (a) evidence of the ability of the candidate to render a unique academic contribution to the College, or (b) evidence of a candidate's extraordinary competence in the area of the candidate's discipline or specialty, or (c) evidence that the discipline or specialty of the candidate does not customarily demand fulfillment of those academic degree requirements set forth by the Board as minimum criteria for appointment to each rank.
For the purposes of this article a year of college teaching shall be defined as:
a.	time rendered, holding a full time faculty appointment at the rank of Instructor, Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, or Professor at a regionally accredited institution of higher education; or
b.	teaching experience equivalent to twenty-four (24) credit hours at a regionally accredited institution of higher education.
Visiting Instructor	A Master's Degree from an accredited college or
university in a field or discipline to be taught.
Demonstrated potential to fulfill the applicable evaluation criteria.
Understanding of the teaching and advising process and the application of teaching and advising strategies to adult learners.
For instructors appointed to teach courses in a professional area, two years of appropriate professional experience is an additional requisite.
17
Visiting Senior Instructor	A Master’s Degree from an accredited institution in the academic or professional discipline to be taught.
(This rank first came into being on January 1, 2001)	Demonstrated potential to fulfill the applicable evaluation criteria. Understanding of the teaching and advising process and the application of teaching and advising strategies to adult learners. Three years of appropriate professional experience in the discipline to be taught, including two years of college teaching in the discipline to be taught.
Visiting Assistant Professor	A terminal degree from an accredited institution in the academic or professional discipline to be taught. Demonstrated potential to fulfill the applicable evaluation criteria. Understanding of the teaching and advising process and the application of teaching and advising strategies to adult learners. Three years of appropriate professional experience in the discipline to be taught, including two years of college teaching in the discipline to be taught.
Visiting Associate Professor	A terminal degree from an accredited institution in the academic or professional discipline to be taught. Demonstrated potential to fulfill the applicable evaluation criteria. Understanding of the teaching and advising process and the application of teaching and advising strategies to adult learners. Six years of appropriate professional experience in the discipline to be taught including four years of college teaching in the discipline to be taught. Demonstrated professional advancement.
Visiting Professor	A terminal degree from an accredited institution in the
18
academic or professional discipline to be taught.
Demonstrated potential to fulfill the applicable evaluation criteria.
Understanding of the teaching and advising process and the application of teaching and advising strategies to adult learners.
Eight years of appropriate professional experience in the discipline to be taught including six years of college teaching in the discipline to be taught.
Additional professional advancement.
The application of the foregoing criteria shall not result in a reduction in the rank of any unit member who, having taught in the Program of Continuing Education in any semester or session during the Academic Year 1988-89, shall be appointed to teach in any semester or session subsequent to the execution date.
Nothing in the foregoing criteria shall be deemed to prohibit the College from considering an individual's demonstrated continuing scholarship, including contributions to the content and pedagogy of the discipline as evidenced by participation in and contributions to the improvement and development of academic programs or academic services at an institution of higher education, or, where applicable, by artistic or other creative activities; membership or participation in or contributions to professional organizations and societies, research as demonstrated by published or unpublished work or relevant graduate study, including work toward the terminal degree for those without the terminal degree; or relevant post graduate study for those with the terminal degree, or, for the professional, continuing study or current knowledge of said unit member's professional field.
The College may also consider other professional activities which by way of example shall include contributions to the professional growth and development of the Program of Graduate and Continuing Education, or, in the case of the professional hired to teach who is not a full-time college faculty member, evidence of continued growth and development in the candidate's professional field.
B.	INCLUSION IN THE CONTINUING EDUC ATION POOL
1.	In order to be eligible for appointment, an individual shall have been included in the Continuing Education Pool. On or before November 1of each academic year, the College, upon request of the local Chapter President, will provide a list of all persons then included in the continuing education pool.
2.	In accordance with College procedures, an individual may apply for inclusion in the Continuing Education Pool by submitting an application therefor to the Dean or designee thereof.
19
3.	Upon receipt of such application, the Dean or designee thereof shall determine whether or not to include the name of the applicant in the Continuing Education Pool.
4.	An individual shall be included in the Continuing Education Pool for a period not exceeding three (3) years from the date initially appointed to the pool.
5.	After three (3) or more years, individuals who indicate a desire to be readmitted to the pool shall be so admitted subject to the provisions of Sections E and F of this Article.
C.	APPOINTMENT
1.	Prior to the commencement of each instructional period, the DGCE Chair, or designee thereof, shall submit to the Dean all recommendations for the appointment of persons to teach courses that are offered through the department in the Program of Graduate and Continuing Education. Except in an emergency, all such recommendations shall be made only in respect of persons whose names are included in the Continuing Education Pool.
2.	Upon receipt of the DGCE Chair's recommendation, the Dean shall submit to the Vice-President or designee thereof the DGCE Chair’s recommendation and his or her comments thereon.
3.	The Vice-President or designee shall forward all comments together with the recommendation of the DGCE Chair and the comments of the Dean to the President for final approval.
4.	Members of the bargaining unit shall be appointed at the appropriate rank in accordance with the minimum standards set forth in the criteria for that rank. Whenever a unit member shall be appointed who currently holds a full-time faculty position at an accredited four (4) year college or university, said unit member shall be appointed at the rank currently held in such position.
5.	The terms and conditions of employment shall be stated in writing and a copy of the Uniform Letter of Appointment (Appendix C) shall be provided to the appointee. Where an appointment has been made and the doing so is otherwise feasible, efforts shall be made to issue letters of appointment at least fourteen (14) days in advance of the commencement of the instructional period; provided only that nothing in this requirement shall be deemed to impair the right of a College to cancel any appointment.
6.	The term of every appointment shall be for no more than one (1) instructional period. However, the employment contract may contain a clause which in effect contracts with the unit member to work during the next instructional period, provided that it shall be subject to cancellation by either party at or before the commencement of such instructional period.
7.	As promptly as is possible following the final add/drop date in each
20
instructional period, the College shall transmit to the Chapter President either a copy of each letter of appointment issued for such period or a printout (or like compilation) on which the equivalent information is recorded with respect to all persons to whom letters of appointment have issued for such period.
D.	EVALUATIONS
In making decisions to appoint, the DGCE Chair, the Dean, the Academic Vice President, the President and the designee of any of them may consider any available evaluations conducted in accordance with this Agreement.
E.	TERMINATION FOR CAUSE DURING AN INSTRUCTIONAL PERIOD
a)	No unit member shall be disciplined or suspended without cause or terminated without just cause.
b)	Whenever any unit member is suspended, terminated or otherwise disciplined, said member shall first be accorded the following rights:
1.	The President or his/her designee shall give notice to such person of such recommended discipline; such notice shall set forth the reasons for which the discipline has been recommended, and a copy of thereof shall be sent simultaneously to the Chapter President.
2.	Thereafter, at the written request of the person so notified, an informal hearing shall be conducted not sooner than five (5) days following the date on which such notice shall have been received by such person. Any such informal hearing shall be conducted by and before a hearing officer designated by the President or his/her designee. The person whose discipline has been recommended may be represented by a representative of the Association.
3.	Thereafter, the hearing officer shall submit a written report to the President setting forth any finding of fact and recommendations, together with the reasons therefor, regarding the disposition of the recommendation of discipline.
4.	As soon as may be practicable thereafter, the President shall make such final decision in respect thereof as he or she deems appropriate.
c)	Whenever a unit member shall have been terminated, that member shall be removed from the Continuing Education Pool at each State College upon written notice.
F.	APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS
Nothing in section E of this Article VI shall be of any application to any College’s decision not to appoint (or to reappoint) any member of the bargaining unit to teach a course.
21
ARTICLE VII - SALARY
The provisions of this Article shall be of no application to any person except insofar as such person is a member of the bargaining unit on and/or after the date of execution of this Agreement.
A.	RANK MINIMA ADJUSTMENTS: GENERAL
1.	Except as provided in Section B, effective upon the commencement of the spring instructional period of 2004, each College shall make such salary adjustments as are required to implement the following rank minima:
Visiting Instructor	$942 per credit hour of instruction
Visiting Senior Instructor	$958 per credit hour of instruction
Visiting Assistant Professor	$992 per credit hour of instruction
Visiting Associate Professor	$1,041 per credit hour of instruction
Visiting Professor	$1090 per credit hour of instruction
2.	Except as provided in Section B, effective upon the commencement of the first summer instructional period of 2004, each College shall make such salary adjustments as are required to implement the following rank minima:
Visiting Instructor	$956 per credit hour of instruction
Visiting Senior Instructor	$972 per credit hour of instruction
Visiting Assistant Professor	$1,007 per credit hour of instruction
Visiting Associate Professor	$1,057 per credit hour of instruction
Visiting Professor	$1,106 per credit hour of instruction
22
3.	Except as provided in Section B, effective upon the commencement of the spring instructional period of 2005, each College shall make such salary adjustments as are required to implement the following rank minima:
Visiting Instructor	$985 per credit hour of instruction
Visiting Senior Instructor	$1001 per credit hour of instruction
Visiting Assistant Professor	$1037 per credit hour of instruction
Visiting Associate Professor	$1089 per credit hour of instruction
Visiting Professor	$1139 per credit hour of instruction
4.	Except as provided in Section B, effective upon the commencement of the spring instructional period of 2006, each College shall make such salary adjustments as are required to implement the following rank minima:
Visiting Instructor	$1015 per credit hour of instruction
Visiting Senior Instructor	$1031 per credit hour of instruction
Visiting Assistant Professor	$1068 per credit hour of instruction
Visiting Associate Professor	$1122 per credit hour of instruction
Visiting Professor	$1173 per credit hour of instruction
B.	RANK MINIMA ADJUSTMENTS: Framingham state COLLEGE
1.	Effective upon the commencement of the spring instructional period of 2004, Framingham State College shall make such salary adjustments as are required to implement the following rank minima for the teaching of four-credit courses:
Visiting Instructor	$918 per credit hour of instruction
Visiting Senior Instructor	$934 per credit hour of instruction
Visiting Assistant Professor	$966 per credit hour of instruction
23
Visiting Associate Professor	$1017 per credit hour of instruction
Visiting Professor	$1067 per credit hour of instruction
2.	Effective upon the commencement of the first summer instructional period of 2004, Framingham State College shall make such salary adjustments as are required to implement the following rank minima for the teaching of four-credit courses:
Visiting Instructor	$932 per credit hour of instruction
Visiting Senior Instructor	$948 per credit hour of instruction
Visiting Assistant Professor	$980 per credit hour of instruction
Visiting Associate Professor	$1032 per credit hour of instruction
Visiting Professor	$1083 per credit hour of instruction
3.	Effective upon the commencement of the spring instructional period of 2005, Framingham State College shall make such salary adjustments as are required to implement the following rank minima for the teaching of four-credit courses:
Visiting Instructor	$960 per credit hour of instruction
Visiting Senior Instructor	$976 per credit hour of instruction
Visiting Assistant Professor	$1009 per credit hour of instruction
Visiting Associate Professor	$1063 per credit hour of instruction
Visiting Professor	$1115 per credit hour of instruction
4.	Effective upon the commencement of the spring instructional period of 2006, Framingham State College shall make such salary adjustments as are required to implement the following rank minima for the teaching of four-credit courses:
Visiting Instructor	$989 per credit hour of instruction
Visiting Senior Instructor	$1005 per credit hour of instruction
24
Visiting Assistant
Professor
Visiting Associate
Professor
Visiting Professor
$1039 per credit hour of instruction
$1095 per credit hour of instruction
$1148 per credit hour of instruction
C.	TEACHING OF GRADUATE COURSES
Effective at the beginning of the spring semester commencing in January of 1998, any member of the bargaining unit who teaches a graduate course shall, for the teaching of such course, be paid a stipend equal to one hundred seven percent (107%) of the stipend otherwise payable under the preceding Section A or B.
D.	TIME, OF PAYMENT
Unit members shall be paid not less frequently than twice during the fall instructional period and twice during the spring instructional period, and, in all other cases, in a single installment at the conclusion of each course; provided, however, as follows: whenever the stipend for any course is payable in more than a single installment, the first such installment shall not be payable until the unit member shall first have submitted to the Dean a countersigned copy of his or her letter of appointment and a copy of his or her course syllabus, and the last such installment shall not be payable until all course requirements, including the submission of grades, have been fulfilled; whenever the stipend for any course is payable in only a single installment, no payment of it shall be made until the unit member shall have submitted to the Dean a countersigned copy of his or her letter of appointment and a copy of his or her course syllabus and until all course requirements, including the submission of grades, have been fulfilled. All payments shall be made in accordance with the College’s then-applicable payroll schedule. Nothing in this provision shall be deemed to prohibit a College from paying compensation more frequently than is here prescribed.
E.	PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS
Subject to the requirements and limitations of its payroll system, each College shall permit members of the bargaining unit, by authorized payroll deduction, to cause payments to be made for and transmitted to providers of health insurance and/or retirement plans in which the Board shall have authorized members of the bargaining unit to participate.
Each College will provide to each member of the bargaining unit, at the time of his or her first appointment as such, the forms and information that are needed to make withdrawals, as permitted by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, from any retirement plan to which he or she must thereafter make contributions.
F.	JOINT STUDY COMMITTEE
Each party shall appoint three (3) members to a joint study committee, which committee shall have it as its purpose to study the following:
25
1.	Whether and how the compensation paid hereunder to those members of the bargaining unit who are also, in any other capacity, employees of the Commonwealth might be treated as compensation creditable as such for purposes of the Commonwealth’s retirement plan;
2.	Whether it is feasible for members of the bargaining unit to participate as such in a plan of health insurance; and
3.	The feasibility, and issues related thereto, of paying compensation to faculty as frequently as three (3) times during the fall and spring semesters.
The Committee shall first convene within sixty (60) days following the date of execution of this Agreement, and its meetings shall be chaired by each of the parties on a rotating basis.
26
ARTICLE VIII - WORKLOAD, SCHEDULING AND COURSE ASSIGNMENTS
A. WORKLOAD OF MEMBERS OF THE, BARGAINING UNIT
1.	General Provisions
Each member of the bargaining unit engaged in undergraduate or graduate teaching shall:
i.	Carry out assigned teaching workload;
ii.	Prepare for classroom and/or laboratory instruction;
iii.	Be available to advise students at least one-half (1/2) hour prior to and following class as necessary or appropriate;
iv.	Provide a syllabus for each course to the DGCE Chair, the Dean of Graduate and Continuing Education, and each student not later than the first class meeting;
v.	Order books for each course in accordance with College procedure;
vi.	Upon request, submit exam samples and/or other appropriate materials to the Dean;
vii.	Participate in the evaluation process;
viii.	Abide by the written academic policies of the College; and
ix.	Attend an orientation program (if a new member of the bargaining unit), which an Association representative shall be invited to attend, and a reasonable number of other meetings as scheduled by the DGCE Chair, the Dean of Graduate and Continuing Education, or the Vice President.
Subject to the foregoing provisions, unit members may participate voluntarily in DGCE-related co-curricular activities, student orientation periods and registration periods.
2.	Teaching Workload
a.	Limitation
The President, at the President's sole discretion and without constraint of any prior practice, shall determine whether and to what extent the College shall place limits on the number of courses permitted to be taught by any person or class of persons who are or may be engaged to teach in DGCE.
b.	Calendar
27
Effective upon the execution of this Agreement, the academic year shall commence on September 1 and end on the August 31 following. At each College, the teaching workload of unit members shall be assigned on the basis of an academic calendar that shall be divided into instructional periods, two of which shall generally coincide with the fall and spring semesters at such College and a third of which shall be one or more summer sessions. Other instructional periods may be established from time to time by the College.
c.	Additional Contributions
As professionals, members of the bargaining unit may make additional contributions for the benefit of students and the College community. Nothing in this paragraph shall be deemed to prohibit the scheduling of student registration on instructional days during which classes are regularly scheduled.
3.	Course Advising and Student Assistance
During the instructional period, every unit member shall provide course advising and assistance to students enrolled in the unit member's own courses.
4.	Scheduling
a.	General
The assignment of specific courses, times, sites and schedules shall be recommended to the Dean by the DGCE Chair or the designee thereof and shall be subject to the approval of the Vice President or the designee thereof; the DGCE Chair or the designee thereof may also make recommendations to the Dean concerning class sizes. Whenever possible, the unit member shall be consulted prior to the making of any such recommendation.
The DGCE Chair or the designee thereof shall inform each unit member of the preliminary schedule in writing. Once established, each unit member is to be given a written copy of the schedule by the Dean.
b.	Prior Scheduling and Cancellation of Classes
If the Dean has determined that a course or section shall be cancelled, the Dean shall promptly notify the unit member assigned to teach such course or section.
Notice of the cancellation of the course or section shall be given by the Dean to the unit member by telephone where feasible and
28
shall be posted on the bulletin board no later than the commencement of the first class.
In the event that a course is cancelled after the first class meeting, the unit member assigned to the class shall be paid an amount equal to the proportion of the unit member’s rate of compensation (as fixed by Article VII) that the number of classes actually taught represents in relation to the number of classes scheduled for the entire session.
c.	Equivalencies
For the purpose of assigning teaching workload to members of the bargaining unit pursuant to the provisions of this Article, a "semester hour of credit of instruction" shall mean not more than a fifty (50)-minute period nor less than a forty-five (45)-minute period of classroom instruction for one (1) fifteen (15)- or sixteen (16)-week semester or the equivalent (inclusive of weeks during which examinations are given) by a member of the bargaining unit in a lecture, recitation or seminar or such number of contact hours as is the equivalent of the same, as is hereinafter provided, in modes of instruction that require longer periods of time. (Whenever multiples, including fractional multiples, of such fifty (50)-minute periods are used at any College, a "semester hour of credit of instruction" shall, in any event, mean a forty-five (45)- to fifty (50)-minute component of such multiple or fractional multiple. (Lecture, recitation and seminar courses at Framingham State College shall be deemed to carry four (4) semester hours of credit of instruction.) For the purposes of this Article, a "contact hour" shall mean a sixty (60)-minute period; provided, however, that when two (2) or more contact hours are scheduled consecutively for any mode of instruction that is measured with reference to contact hours, then the last contact hour so scheduled shall be a fifty (50)-minute period. Such equivalent modes shall be computed as follows:
MODE OF INSTRUCTION	CONTACT HOURS	RATIO TO	SEMESTER HOURS OF CREDIT OF INSTRUCTION
Laboratory Instruction	3		2
Physical Education: Activities Courses	2		1
Shop Instruction	3		2
Studio Instruction	3		2
29
Critique	1
Nursing/Allied
Health Clinical	3
1
2
NUMBER OF STUDENTS PER COURSE
Cooperative Education	6	1
Field Work Supervision and Internships (6 credits)	3	1
Field Work Supervision (3 credits)	6	1
Independent and Directed Study (3 or 4 credits)	4	1
Independent and Directed Study (1 credit)	12	1
Course by Arrangement (3 or 4 credits)	4	1
Course by Arrangement (1 credit)	12	1
Teacher Education Practicum/Internship Supervision	2	1
Whenever at any College there exists, on the date of the execution of this Agreement, a practice of permitting an instructor (but solely by mutual agreement between the College and such instructor) to teach, for a pro-rated stipend, a course that the College would have cancelled by reason of under-enrollment, such practice may continue, and nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to prohibit or negate it.
5 Syllabus
The syllabus for each course shall contain a description of the use, if any, that the instructor intends to make of e-mail and other forms of electronic communications/resources in the course.
B.	MAKE-UP
In the event it is necessary for a unit member to cancel a scheduled class meeting, he
30
or she shall reschedule the class or provide an alternative method of instruction to fully compensate for the instruction missed.
C.	EMER GENC Y C ANCELL A TIONS
In the case of an emergency, including inclement weather, no unit member shall cancel a class without the prior approval of the Dean. In the event a class is cancelled, Section B of this Article VIII shall be implemented.
D.	COMPENSATORY ADJUSTMENT FOR EXTRAORDINARY WORKLOAD
When a member of the bargaining unit volunteers to perform additional unit work to assist the department or College due to another member's sickness, injury or emergency leave, then the unit member performing the work will be compensated in the following manner during the term of this Agreement:
TIME, ASSIGNED
COMPENSATION
1.
Three-Credit Courses
Five (5) weeks or fewer
One (1) credit of instruction
Six (6) to ten (10) weeks
Two (2) credits of instruction
Eleven (11) weeks or more
Three (3) credits of instruction
2.
Four-Credit Courses
Four (4) weeks or fewer
One (1) credit of instruction
Five (5) to eight (8) weeks
Two (2) credits of instruction
Nine (9) to eleven (11) weeks
Three (3) credits of instruction
Twelve (12) weeks or more
Four (4) credits of instruction
31
ARTICLE IX	- EVALUATIONS
Evaluations are conducted for the purposes of making personnel decisions, encouraging and assessing professional and pedagogical experimentation, and assisting members of the academic community in the improvement of performance and programs.
No written materials shall be used in the conduct of any evaluation pursuant to the provisions of this Article IX except such materials as shall have been submitted at the commencement of the evaluation in accordance with the provisions of Section E hereof. Every member of the bargaining unit who is the subject of any such evaluation shall be entitled to copies of all such materials. Under no circumstances shall an incidental observation of any unit member be used in whole or in part in conducting an evaluation pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement.
A.	CRITERIA FOR EVALUATIONS
1.	Criteria, for the Evaluation of Members of the Bargaining Unit
The following criteria shall be used in the evaluation of all members of the bargaining unit:
a.	teaching effectiveness in lectures, seminars, internships, independent studies and otherwise;
b.	course advising, as it is prescribed in Section A(3) of Article VIII; and
c.	other instructional obligations, as they are prescribed in Section A(1) of Article VIII.
2.	Application of the Criteria.
The foregoing criteria are to be used as a measure with reference to each instructional period in respect of which an evaluation is being conducted. The overall evaluation of each member of the bargaining unit will be based upon the entire professional performance of the unit member, as it pertains to the foregoing criteria, during each such instructional period and, in the conduct of any such evaluation, regard may properly be had to evaluations conducted in respect of any prior review period or periods.
The basis for every evaluation shall be professional quality demonstrated with reference to each of the applicable criteria.
B.	FREQUENCY OF EVALUATIONS
Every unit member shall be evaluated during the first instructional period of teaching in the Program of Graduate and Continuing Education. Thereafter, each member of the bargaining unit shall be evaluated during the instructional period in which the unit member is teaching any fourth subsequent course in the Program of Graduate and Continuing
32
Education. Nothing in this paragraph shall require the evaluation of a member of the bargaining unit more frequently than once in any academic year unless the Vice President shall require one or more frequent evaluations in the case of any such member of the bargaining unit.
Every member of the bargaining unit shall have the right to be evaluated upon written request to the President, or designee thereof; provided, however, that this right shall not be exercised more than once in any academic year.
C.	REVIEW PERIODS
For the purpose of this Article IX, the phrase "review period" shall mean the instructional period or periods during which occurred the performance that is the subject of an evaluation.
D.	MATERIALS TO BE USED IN THE, CONDUCT OF EVALUATIONS
The following written materials shall be used in the conduct of evaluations. Any member of the bargaining unit who is subject of any evaluation shall be entitled to copies of all written materials used in the conduct of such evaluation.
1.	Student Evaluation
Student evaluations shall be completed in accordance with procedures specified in Appendix D-1. Student evaluations shall be used giving due consideration to the number of courses and sections taught during the review period and for which student evaluations are available, as well as the number of students by which such evaluations have been completed. The parties recognize and agree that student evaluations should be used, to the extent possible, to discern the pattern or patterns evidenced with reference to teaching effectiveness; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be deemed to prohibit the making of any recommendation or the taking of any personnel decision merely by reason of the short duration of any unit member's service at a College.
The parties agree that no student evaluation conducted pursuant to the provisions of this Article shall be published or conveyed to any person save in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
During each instructional period the DGCE Chair or the designee thereof shall obtain student evaluations of the classroom effectiveness of every course taught by each member of the bargaining unit through such department. Before the end of each instructional period, such evaluations shall be obtained in respect of every section taught by each unit member.
Student evaluations shall be obtained for all sections of each type of course taught by each unit member.
Nothing in this subsection (1) shall be deemed to prohibit the use of student
33
evaluation forms that have been rendered in a computer-readable (opscan) format; nor shall it be deemed to prohibit the compilation, whether by computer or otherwise, of summaries of student evaluations and the results thereof in respect of each unit member; provided, however, that no member of the bargaining unit shall be given any negative evaluation by sole reason of the fact that student evaluations, as revealed by any such summary, are less favorable than those of some other member or members of the bargaining unit; nor shall it be deemed to prohibit the electronic distribution and retrieval (through secure sites) of student evaluation forms; provided only that prior to implementing any form of electronic distribution and retrieval of student evaluation forms at any College, representatives of the College and the Association shall meet to ensure that the electronic distribution and retrieval format possesses the appropriate security measures, including passwords and authentication.
2.	Classroom Visitations
Whenever deemed appropriate the DGCE Chair and/or the Dean may visit the class or classes of any unit member for the purpose of evaluating teaching effectiveness. Said evaluation shall be conducted in accordance with the procedure set forth in Appendix D-2 (a) or D-2 (b). Prior to the conduct of any such visit, the member of the bargaining unit shall meet with the DGCE Chair or Dean in order to provide the Chair or Dean with a plan of the class to be observed and any materials intended to be used in class.
3.	Comprehensive Resume
Each bargaining unit member shall use the resume form set forth in Appendix D-3 and shall ensure that there are, in the Official Personnel File, current official transcripts of the unit member's course work.
4.	Course Documents
For each course taught by the unit member during the review period, there shall be submitted by the unit member a course outline, including a syllabus and, where used, a bibliography.
5.	Other Relevant Materials
In addition to the foregoing, there shall be considered in the conduct of an evaluation any other relevant materials and information submitted by the unit member being evaluated, by the DGCE Chair of any department through which the unit member is teaching any course, by the Dean and/or by the Vice President. Such information and/or material shall include any written self-evaluation submitted by the unit member.
E.	PROCEDURES FOR THE, CONDUCT OF EVALUATIONS
Whenever a unit member is evaluated, said evaluation shall be conducted by the DGCE Chair of each department or program area through which the course is being taught.
34
1.
Submission of Materials
Prior to the commencement of an evaluation, every unit member shall submit to the Chair all those materials intended to be considered in the conduct of such evaluation. Included among those materials shall be the unit member's current comprehensive resume and course documents.
2.	Evaluation by DGCE Chair
The DGCE Chair shall conduct an evaluation of the unit member on the basis of the criteria set forth in subsection 1 of Section A, using the form set forth in Appendix D-4.
After completion of the evaluation, the DGCE Chair, or the designee thereof, shall transmit a copy to the unit member, who shall have the right to submit a written response thereto within ten (10) calendar days after its receipt.
Thereafter, the DGCE Chair shall submit to the Dean a written report of the evaluation together with all written materials used in the evaluation and any written response submitted by the unit member. This report, signed by the DGCE Chair, shall state that the procedures herein prescribed have been complied with.
3.	Role of the Dean
The Dean shall thereafter take such action with respect to the evaluation as the Dean deems appropriate.
F.	ANONYMOUS COMPLAINTS
The parties agree that the Policy on Handling Anonymous Complaints, which Policy, with the attached Memorandum of Agreement made the 3rd day of December of 1996, is annexed to this Agreement as its Appendix F, shall be of full force and effect as a part of this Agreement from and after the date of execution thereof.
G.	EFFECTIVENESS OF PRIOR EVALUATIONS
Nothing contained in this Article shall be deemed to affect the validity of any evaluation commenced or completed prior to the date of execution of this Agreement or be deemed to affect the validity of any personnel action taken on the basis of such evaluation.
35
ARTICLE X	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
A.	INTRODUCTION
The Board and the Association recognize that Chapter 150E Section 8 of the General Laws provides a mechanism for arbitration of disputes between the parties to a collective bargaining agreement and further provides that the parties to an agreement may establish an independent grievance procedure culminating in final and binding arbitration. It is the intent of the parties to this Agreement to use their best efforts to encourage the informal and prompt settlement of grievances which may arise between the Association or a member or members of the bargaining unit and the Board. Therefore, the parties agree, for themselves and for all those whom they represent, that they shall use the procedures set forth in this Article, and no other procedures, for the resolution, strictly pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, of all disputes involving the interpretation of this Agreement and of any other matter that is or may become the subject of a grievance as hereinafter defined.
B.	DEFINITIONS
1.	Complaint A complaint is a written statement, which shall be expressly denominated "complaint", setting forth a grievance as hereinafter defined. A complaint shall aver all the known facts material to the alleged breach on which the grievance is based, including the date when such breach is alleged to have occurred and the specific contractual provisions alleged to have been breached, and shall set forth the remedy requested.
2.	Grievant Grievant shall mean the Association or any member or members of the bargaining unit, as the case may be, who, pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, seeks resolution of a grievance.
3.	Grievance A grievance is an allegation by the Association or by a member or members of the bargaining unit that an express provision of this Agreement has been breached in its application to it, a member or members. The Association may seek resolution of a grievance only if initiation of the procedure for such resolution has been duly authorized by the Association and so certified by its President or expressed designee.
4.	Day For the purposes of this Article, day shall mean a working day.
C.	PROCEDURES FOR FIT .ING A GRIEVANCE,
The Association or any member or members of the bargaining unit having a grievance shall seek its resolution only in accordance with the grievance procedures set forth in this Article.
1.	Extension of Certain Time Periods
Whenever there shall have been initiated procedures for the resolution of any
36
grievance that arises out of or relates to a decision or determination, the making of which requires an exercise of academic judgment, whether such grievance alleges breach of a substantive or procedural term of this Agreement, such initiation shall be deemed to extend the limits of time prescribed by this Agreement for the giving of any notice required to be given in respect of the decision or determination that is the subject matter of such grievance. Such extension of time shall expire sixty (60) days from the date on which the procedures prescribed herein for the resolution of such grievance shall have been concluded.
2.	Inspection of Record
At any reasonable time during any step of these procedures the grievant shall be permitted to inspect all or any part of the grievance record, and, where appropriate, shall be permitted to make copies of all or any parts of such record.
3.	Introduction of Evidence
a.	Within the time limits hereinafter prescribed for the initiation of Step 2 of these procedures, the grievant shall introduce all evidence in the grievant's possession and on which the grievant relies or intends to rely as supporting the grievant's claim for relief;
b.	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the grievant may introduce additional evidence for the sole purpose of rebutting any finding of fact or any determination as set forth in any decision rendered pursuant to the provisions of this Article; provided, however, that such additional evidence, if any, shall be introduced within the time period allowed for the initiation of the Step next following such decision;
c.	The President shall introduce at Step 2 all evidence in the President's possession and on which the President relied in making any finding of fact and any determination as set forth in the decision rendered pursuant to the provisions of this Article; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be deemed to require the President to introduce any evidence otherwise introduced by the grievant pursuant to the foregoing provisions;
d.	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the grievant, the President, or the Chair of the Council of Presidents may introduce any evidence material and relevant to the grievance the existence of which he/she did not and should not have known at the times otherwise provided herein for the introduction of evidence.
All evidence introduced pursuant to the foregoing provisions shall form a part of the grievance record.
4.	Request for Evidence
Whenever the grievant wishes to introduce evidence pursuant to the
37
provisions of this Article, and such evidence is or may be in the possession of the administration, the grievant may, within the time period allowed for the initiation of the Step at which such evidence is permitted to be introduced, file with the President a written request for such evidence. Whenever such request shall have been so filed, the President shall, within seven (7) days after the filing of such request, convey to the grievant any and all such evidence in the President's possession so requested; provided, however, that notwithstanding the foregoing, the President may refuse to convey any such evidence not deemed material and relevant to the grievance set forth in the complaint; and provided, further that whenever the President shall have refused to convey any such evidence, such refusal and the reasons therefor shall be communicated in writing to the grievant and shall thereafter form a part of the grievance record. Such request when so filed and such evidence when so conveyed shall form a part of the grievance record.
5.	Notice to Association
Whenever any grievant shall have initiated the grievance procedures of this Article, or shall have proceeded to Step 2, notice thereof shall be given to the President of the Association by the person charged at such Step with resolution of the grievance.
6.	Determination to be Made Pursuant to Resolution of Grievance
At Step 2 of these procedures, the President shall, within the time limits prescribed, determine:
a.	Whether the grievant has complied with the procedures for seeking resolution of a grievance as set forth in this Article;
b.	Whether the complaint alleges a breach of an express provision of this Agreement;
c.	Whether an express provision of this Agreement has been breached in its application to the grievant as claimed.
Step 1: The Vice President (Informal)
Save as is provided in Section G, a grievant shall initiate the grievance procedures of this Article by filing with the Vice President during the term of this Agreement or an extension thereof, a written notice that a grievance exists.
The notice need not be in the form of a complaint, but need only briefly describe the subject of the grievance. No such notice may be filed more than ten (10) days from the date of occurrence of the event upon which the grievance is based or from the date when the grievant had or should have had knowledge of the event upon which the grievance is based. The filing date required hereunder shall be deemed to have been complied with by a postmark dated within the specified time limit. Within five (5) days after the receipt of such notice, the Vice President shall meet with the grievant and attempt to resolve the grievance.
38
If within five (5) days after such meeting, the grievant and the Vice President shall have failed to agree upon a resolution of the grievance, the grievant may elect to proceed to Step 2; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be deemed to permit the making of any such election in respect of any claim to which this Article X, by the provisions of its Section H or otherwise, is of no application.
Step 2: The President (Formal)
If the grievant elects to proceed to this Step, then within seven (7) days after the expiration of the period provided under Step 1 for informal resolution of the grievance, the grievant shall file with the President:
a.	a complaint; and
b.	all documents and evidence in the grievant's possession and upon which the grievant replies or intends to rely as supporting the grievant's claim for relief.
All such documents and evidence so filed shall form a part of the grievance record.
The President shall transmit a copy of the complaint to the Employee Relations Committee, to the Chair of the Council of Presidents and, unless the Association or the Chapter President, personally, is the grievant, to the Chapter President.
The President shall meet with the grievant to discuss the grievance within fourteen (14) days after the filing of the complaint. The President shall consider any grievance the resolution of which shall have been sought, pursuant to the terms set forth herein, through the prior Step of the grievance procedure; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be deemed to confer on the President jurisdiction to consider or remedy any claim that may not be processed as a grievance pursuant to this Article X.
Within thirty (30) days after the filing of the complaint, the President shall make such determination as is prescribed in Section C(6) of this Article. The President shall render a written decision and shall set forth therein the President's determinations and the reasons therefor and the President's findings of fact, and shall provide a copy of such decision to the grievant, the Employee Relations Committee, the Chapter President and the Chair of the Council of Presidents. Such decision shall thereafter form a part of the grievance record.
If the President shall have determined that an express provision of this Agreement has been breached in its application to the grievant as claimed, the President may, consistent with the terms of this Agreement, provide any appropriate remedy for such breach. Whenever the President shall have provided any remedy deemed appropriate, such remedy shall be set forth in writing in the President's decision. Such determination when so set forth in writing shall thereafter form a part of the grievance record.
Step 3: Arbitration
a.	Initiation of Arbitration
39
The Association shall have the exclusive right to initiate arbitration of a grievance. Whenever the Association shall initiate arbitration of a grievance, the resolution of which has theretofore been sought by a member or members of the bargaining unit, then such member or members shall be bound in all respects by the decision of the arbitrator to the same extent as the Board and the Association.
The Association shall, upon its determination so to do, initiate arbitration by filing a demand for arbitration with the American Arbitration Association and with the President of the College and the Chair of the Council of Presidents, with a copy to the Employee Relations Committee, within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the decision of the President or, where no decision has been rendered, within fourteen (14) days after it was due.
Such arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with the rules and regulations of the American Arbitration Association in effect on the date of such filing, unless otherwise provided herein; provided, however, that the jurisdiction of the arbitrator to inquire into any issue or to render any award shall be governed solely by the provisions of this Agreement.
By mutual agreement, the parties may extend the period for the filing of a demand for arbitration to allow for discussion and possible resolution of the grievance by the Employee Relations Committee.
b.	Jurisdiction of the Arbitrator
Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the arbitrator shall have no authority or jurisdiction to:
1.	Arbitrate the portion of any grievance that is removed from the jurisdiction of the President by the express terms of this Agreement;
2.	Add to, alter or amend any term or condition of this Agreement; or
3.	Enquire into or arbitrate any issue not presented by the original complaint.
c.	Authority of the Arbitrator
Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, the arbitrator shall have the authority to make a final and binding award on any dispute concerning the interpretation or application of this Agreement. The arbitrator's authority in matters that are arbitrable is limited to determining whether the provisions set forth in this Agreement were violated. The arbitrator shall be without power, right or authority to make a decision or to substitute his/her judgment for that of the Board or its representatives.
The arbitrator shall have no authority to arbitrate any event which occurred or failed to occur prior to the ratification date of this Agreement.
Notwithstanding any rule of the American Arbitration Association to the contrary, in making said decision, the arbitrator shall apply the express provisions of this Agreement and
40
shall not alter, amend, extend or revise any term or condition hereof.
d.	Award of the Arbitrator
If the arbitrator determines no express provision of this Agreement has been breached in its application to the grievant as claimed the grievance shall be dismissed. If the arbitrator determines that this Agreement has been so breached, the arbitrator may, subject to the provisions of this Article and except as hereinafter provided, provide an appropriate remedy for the breach; provided, however, that in making any monetary award, the arbitrator shall only provide compensation for actual damages directly attributable to such breach, and shall in no event make any award by way of penal damages.
e.	Expense of Arbitration
All fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be divided equally between the parties. Each party shall bear the cost of preparing and presenting its own case.
D.	ASSOCIATION REPRESENTATION
Any member or members of the bargaining unit may initiate and pursue a grievance without intervention of the exclusive representative of the Association, provided that the Association shall be afforded the opportunity to be present at any conferences held and that any adjustment made shall not be inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.
Any member or members of the bargaining unit may request that the Association represent them at any Step of the grievance procedure. The Association shall notify in writing the College Personnel Officer, the President of the College, and the Chair of the Council of Presidents, as the case may be, of the name and address of such Association representative upon being authorized to represent the grievant.
E.	WAIVER, ADMISSION, TERMINATION AND GROUNDS OF APPEAL
1.	Waiver Failure of a grievant to comply with any of the provisions of this Article shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to seek resolution of the grievance under the terms of this Agreement. In determining whether there has been any such failure to comply with any of the provisions of this Article, time shall be deemed to be of the essence, and any failure of the grievant to comply with any of the time limits prescribed herein shall be deemed to be such failure to comply with the provisions of this Article; provided, however, that the time limits prescribed herein may be extended in any specific instance by mutual written agreement of the parties.
2.	Admission The resolution of a grievance by the College Personnel Officer, the President of the College, the Council of Presidents, or any of their designees shall not be deemed to be an admission by any Board of Trustees or the Board that the grievance has, for any other purpose or proceeding, standing as a grievance, or be an admission by any Board of Trustees or by the Board that such grievance is cognizable or justiciable according to any applicable provisions of this Agreement or of the laws of the Commonwealth.
41
3.	Termination If any member or members of the bargaining unit shall initiate any administrative, judicial or like proceeding (other than a proceeding in the Labor Relations Commission) that relates to any matter that is the subject of a grievance in respect of which such member or members is or are the grievant while any proceeding in respect of such grievance is pending under any provision of Section C of this Article, such proceeding under Section C shall terminate as of the date of the initiation of such other administrative or judicial proceeding, and the grievance procedures aforesaid shall be inapplicable to such grievance.
4.	Grounds for Appeal The Board and the Association shall have the right to appeal any final decision of the arbitrator pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 150E, Section 8, and Chapter 150C, Sections 10, 11 and 12 of the General Laws.
F.	COLLATERAL CONSEQUENCES OF A GRIEVANCE
The fact that a grievance is alleged by a member of the bargaining unit, regardless of the ultimate disposition thereof, shall not be recorded in the Official Personnel File of such member or in any file or record utilized in the taking of any personnel action in respect of such member; nor shall such fact be used in the making of any recommendation for the job placement of such member; nor shall such member or any other member or members who participate in any way in the grievance procedure be subjected to any action, whether disciplinary or other, for having processed such grievance; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall derogate or be deemed to derogate from the right to take any action that might be authorized or required to be taken to give effect to the resolution of any grievance.
G.	CONSOLIDATED GRIEVANCES
Anything in the foregoing provisions to the contrary notwithstanding, the Association may, within the ten (10)-day period during which a grievance may otherwise be filed, file such grievance with the Chair of the Council of Presidents in the form of a complaint, specifying therein the reasons why the grievance should be treated as a consolidated grievance. The Chair shall, within ten (10) days, determine whether to treat the grievance as a consolidated grievance. If the Chair accepts the complaint as a consolidated grievance, the procedures and time limits of Step 2 shall thereupon apply, provided only that the response rendered at such Step shall be rendered by the Chair in such capacity, rather than by the President of a College. If the Chair declines to accept the grievance as a consolidated grievance, the Association or any unit member or members may, within ten (10) days following the date of the Chair's decision, file the grievance at Step 1 at the College at which such grievance is alleged to have occurred.
H.	APPLICATION
The parties hereby agree that the provisions of Section 53 of Chapter 30 of the General Laws are, in their entirety, hereby rendered of no force and effect in their application to members of the bargaining unit.
42
Save as is otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, no claim, however set forth, whether in the form of a complaint or otherwise, alleging a breach, or arising out of an alleged breach, of any of the following provisions shall be the subject of any proceeding, adjudication, determination or remedy pursuant to any provision of this Article X:
1.	Article II, Section A, Relationship Between the Board and the Association, as is therein provided;
2.	Article III, Section E, Use of College Facilities, provided that grievances involving the interpretation of this section may be processed through Step 2 of the Grievance Procedure.
43
ARTICLE XI	- ACCESS TO OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FILES
Each College shall maintain an Official Personnel File for each member of the bargaining unit, which shall be kept in a secure place in the custody of the President. Such file shall contain a continuous record of the unit member's status as an employee of the College. For the purposes of this Agreement, Official Personnel Correspondence shall mean correspondence from the Board of Trustees or from the Administration of any College to or concerning a member of the bargaining unit which is stamped Official Personnel Correspondence and which gives notice of any personnel action taken or proposed to be taken or of any official commendation, reprimand or disciplinary action.
The Official Personnel File shall contain the following:
a.	Copies of Official Personnel Correspondence and personnel actions concerning the unit member;
b.	Except as is hereinafter provided, all evaluations of the performance of the unit member made prior to the effective date of this Agreement and made thereafter pursuant to the provisions of Article IX hereof; provided only that the record of any student evaluations may be kept in the form of summaries thereof; and
c.	An updated official transcript submitted pursuant to the provisions of Article IX hereof.
Except as is hereinafter provided, no other materials shall be included therein.
1.	All materials placed in the Official Personnel File of a unit member shall be stamped Official Personnel Correspondence, dated when received and numbered sequentially, and all materials contained in each Official Personnel File shall be logged sequentially and a copy of each document forwarded to the respective unit member.
2.	Unit members shall have the right without undue delay to examine their Official Personnel File. Under no circumstances shall the Official Personnel File be removed from its place of safekeeping by the unit member, and access to the Official Personnel File shall, where feasible, be only in the presence of someone in authority.
3.	Unit members shall have the right to place in their Official Personnel File a written statement made in response to materials that are contained in the File or that may affect their employment status.
4.	Upon written request of the individual member of the bargaining unit, the College administration shall reproduce, without undue delay, one (1) copy of such materials.
5.	Within sixty (60) days following the conduct of the seventh (7th) evaluation of the unit member at the College, there shall be removed from the Official
44
Personnel File of such unit member the earliest of such evaluations. Thereafter, no more than six (6) evaluations of the unit member shall remain in the Official Personnel File.
The evaluations to be removed from the Official Personnel File shall be returned to the unit member.
6.	The Official Personnel File shall be available for inspection by the DGCE Chair, the Dean, the Vice President, the President of the College, the Board of Trustees and the Board and, when so authorized in writing by the unit member, by a representative of the Association. An inspection sheet shall be maintained for each unit member's Official Personnel File. Whenever any person or body inspects the Official Personnel File of a unit member, the name of the individual or individuals conducting such inspection and the date and time thereof shall be noted on the inspection sheet.
7.	Unless required by law, no other person or agency shall be given access to an Official Personnel File without the express written permission of the unit member concerned.
45
ARTICLE XII	- COMPLIANCE WITH BOARD TIME SCHEDULES
The parties agree that any assignment, report, recommendation, or other action of any committee, DGCE Chair, or member of the bargaining unit provided for in this Agreement shall be completed in compliance with such time schedules as may be established from time to time by the Board or President of a College who shall first consult with the Chapter President regarding such schedule.
Reasonable written notice of time schedules shall be provided by the President of the College to the Chapter President. Such notice shall be deemed to be notice to any committee established in this Agreement, to DGCE Chairs and to the members of the bargaining unit. In the event that any committee, DGCE Chair, or member of the bargaining unit, having received such written notice, shall not have so completed its or their work, the President or the Board, as the case may be, may, in their discretion, make such recommendations or take such actions as either deems appropriate, and the making of such recommendations or the taking of such actions shall not be in violation of the procedures set forth in any provision of this Agreement.
46
ARTICLE XIII	- NO STRIKE OR LOCKOUT PLEDGE
The Board agrees that it will not lock out any or all of its employees for any cause during the term of this Agreement, and the Association and its agents agree that they will not engage in, induce, or encourage any strike, work stoppage, slow down, or withholding of services by any member or members of the bargaining unit.
Nothing contained in this article shall be deemed to waive, impair or restrict the right of the Board to seek or pursue any remedy at law or in equity provided by the Laws of the Commonwealth.
47
ARTICLE XIV	- SAVINGS CLAUSE
If it shall have been adjudicated that any of the provisions of this Agreement in any manner conflict with or contravene any Federal Law or Statute, any Law or Statute of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, or any rules or regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, such provisions shall be considered null and void and shall not be binding on the parties hereto; in such event, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
Upon the request of either party, the parties shall meet not later than ten (10) days following such adjudication for the purpose of negotiating with respect to the provision or provisions so deemed invalid.
48
ARTICLE XV	- DURATION
This Agreement shall be for the three (3)-year period from September 1, 2003, to August 31, 2006. At the written request of either party, negotiations for a successor agreement shall be commenced on or before February 1, 2006; provided only that nothing herein contained shall be deemed to obligate either party to commence such negotiations on any date earlier than January 1, 2006.
This Agreement will remain in full force and effect until a new agreement is executed or an impasse in negotiations is reached.
Nothing herein shall derogate from the legal rights and duties of the respective parties relative to matters that impact mandatory subjects of collective bargaining.
This Agreement executed this ________day of ____________, 2004.
BOARD OF HIGHER EDUCATION
MASSACHUSETTS TEACHERS
ASSOCIATION/NEA
MASSACHUSETTS STATE COLLEGE ASSOCIATION
By:------------------------------------
Chair,
Board of Higher Education
Negotiations Committee
By: -----------------------------------
Chancellor,
Board of Higher Education
By:------------------------------------
Director of Employee Relations, Board of Higher Education
By:--------------------------------------
Chair,
MSCA/DGCE Negotiations
Committee
By:--------------------------------------
Massachusetts Teachers
Association/NEA
By:--------------------------------------
Massachusetts State College
Association
By:-------------------------------------
Chair, Council of Presidents
49
APPENDIX A
(ARTICLE III - ASSOCIATION SECURITY - A, P.9)
PAYROLL DUES DEDUCTION AUTHORIZATION
To the Board of Higher Education:
I hereby authorize and direct the Board of Higher Education, through its officers, agents and employees, to deduct from the portion of my salary due me each semester the amount certified in the Agreement between the Massachusetts Teachers Association/NEA and the Board of Higher Education at the current rate of dues. Such deduction is to start immediately after the date of this authorization.
I further authorize and direct you to transfer and pay the sum so deducted to the Treasurer of the Massachusetts Teachers Association/NEA.
In consideration of the above-described service rendered by the Board of Higher Education, its members, officers, agents and employees, the undersigned hereby releases and discharges the Board of Higher Education, its members, officers, agents and employees, of and from any and all liability whatsoever arising as a result of the authorization herein given.
This authorization is revocable by me upon sixty (60) days' written notice to the Massachusetts Teachers Association/NEA and the Board of Higher Education, and the revocation will become effective upon the sixtieth (60th) day or upon termination of my employment. It is understood that this service shall be limited to a deduction for one employee organization for any individual employee and that no partial deduction will be made.
EMPLOYEE SIGNATURE
Date of Notice:___________________________
Social Security Number:
Position Title:___________________________
Annual Salary: $__________________________
Last Name
First Name
Middle Initial (Print)
Address:_________________________________________________________________________________
APPENDIX B
(ARTICLE III - ASSOCIATION SECURITY - B, P.9)
AGENCY SERVICE FEE DEDUCTION AUTHORIZATION
To the Board of Higher Education:
I hereby authorize and direct the Board of Higher Education, through its officers, agents and employees, to deduct from the portion of my salary due me each semester the amount certified in the Agreement between the Massachusetts Teachers Association/NEA and the Board of Higher Education at the rate of agency service fee. Such deduction is to start immediately after the date of this authorization.
I further authorize and direct you to transfer and pay the sum so deducted to the Treasurer of the Massachusetts Teachers Association/NEA.
In consideration of the above-described service rendered by the Board of Higher Education, its members, officers, agents and employees, the undersigned hereby releases and discharges the Board of Higher Education, its members, officers, agents and employees, of and from any and all liability whatsoever arising as a result of the authorization herein given.
This authorization is revocable by me upon sixty (60) days' written notice to the Massachusetts Teachers Association/NEA and the Board of Higher Education, and the revocation will become effective upon the sixtieth (60th) day or upon termination of my employment. It is understood that this service shall be limited to a deduction for one employee organization for any individual employee and that no partial deduction will be made.
EMPLOYEE SIGNATURE
Date of Notice:____________________________
Social Security Number:
Position Title:____________________________
Annual Salary: $___________________________
Last Name
First Name
Middle Initial (Print)
Address:_____________________________________________________________________________________
This form is null and void for any member of the Association.
68562
APPENDIX C
(ARTICLE VI - APPOINTMENT - C(5), P.21)
DIVISION OF GRADUATE AND CONTINUING EDUCATION FACULTY CONTRACT FORM
LETTER OF APPOINTMENT
I, agree to teach the following course at ________State College at the rank of
___________, during the semester of 20_________in accordance with the officially established academic schedule:
COURSE NUMBER/COURSE TITLE	CREDIT HOURS
Compensation for this course shall be: $
I understand that this course may be cancelled prior to its first session if enrollment is insufficient. It is further agreed that I will be available at least one half (1/2) hour prior to and following classes as necessary or appropriate for consultation with students.
This appointment is governed, as are all conditions of employment, by a collective bargaining agreement between the Board of Higher Education and the Massachusetts State College Association. That Agreement requires, in Article III, the payment of dues or an agency service fee as a condition of employment. A copy of the collective bargaining agreement may be obtained by contacting the MSCA-DGCE office on campus.
Academic Vice President or Other Appropriate Administrator
Unit Member
Please indicate the following for withholding purposes:
Date
Date
------------------------------------------------------ ( )	( )
Social Security Number
Married Single
[Exemptions
Claimed Federal State]*
* To be included in Letter of Appointment only option.
at College’s
In order to release your salary check for this semester, please sign and return the original (top) copy, along with other forms to within five (5) working days from the date posted on this letter
of appointment. You may retain the second copy.
68553
APPENDIX D-1
(ARTICLE IX - EVALUATION - D(1), P.29)
STUDENT EVALUATION FORM INSTRUCTIONS
THIS IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY TO EVALUATE THIS CLASS AND ITS INSTRUCTOR. PLEASE BEAR IN MIND THAT THIS IS A SERIOUS MATTER WHICH GIVES EACH OF YOU A CHANCE TO EXPRESS A THOUGHTFUL OPINION. THE RESULTS OF THE QUESTIONNAIRE WILL BECOME A PART OF THE TOTAL EVALUATION PROCESS FOR THE FACULTY OF YOUR COLLEGE AND WILL BE PLACED IN THE PERSONNEL FILE OF THIS FACULTY MEMBER. YOUR FAIR-MINDED RESPONSE WILL BE APPRECIATED. INDIVIDUAL WRITTEN STUDENT COMMENTS ARE PROHIBTED ON STUDENT EVALUATION FORMS.
The following procedures shall be followed in administering the evaluation form for purposes of obtaining student evaluations:
a.	No unit member shall administer forms to their own class. They shall be administered by the DGCE Chair or designee thereof at a time arranged with the faculty member concerned.
b.	The individual administering the evaluation forms shall distribute the forms to the students, explain their use, indicate that written comments are not appropriate, and collect them when the forms are returned. The faculty member shall not see them until grades have been submitted.
c.	The individual administering the evaluation forms shall, at the time of their administration, note (1) the class enrollment, and (2) the number of evaluation forms returned by students.
d.	The faculty member shall not be present during the evaluation process.
e.	The individual administering the evaluation forms shall deliver them to the Office of Continuing and Graduate Education, where they will be stored until after the faculty has submitted final grades for the respective class.
29858
APPENDIX D-1
(ARTICLE IX - EVALUATION - D(1), P.34)
STUDENT EVALUATION
Very Mod- Very Not
Poor Poor erate Good Good Applicable
1.	Learning: You found this course intellectually challenging and stimulating.
2.	You learned something which you consider valuable.
3.	Your interest in the subject has increased as a consequence of this course.
4.	You have learned and understood the subject materials in this course.
5.	Enthusiasm: Instructor was enthusiastic about teaching this course.
6.	Instructor was dynamic and energetic in conducting this course.
7.	Instructor’s style of presentation held your interest.
8.	Organization: Instructor’s explanations were clear.
9.	Course materials were well prepared and carefully explained.
10.	Proposed objectives agree with those actually taught so you knew where the course was going.
11.	Instructor gave presentations that were organized.
12.	Group Interaction: Students were encouraged to participate in class and/or group discussions.
13.	Students were invited to share their ideas and knowledge.
14.	Students were encouraged to ask questions and were given meaningful answers.
15.	Students were encouraged to express their own ideas and/or question the instructor.
16.	Individual Rapport: Instructor was friendly towards individual students.
17.	Instructor made students feel welcome in seeking help/advice in or outside of class.
18.	Instructor had a genuine interest in individual students.
19.	Instructor was adequately accessible to students.
20.	Breadth: Instructor contrasted the implications of various theories/concepts when appropriate.
21.	Instructor presented the background or origin of ideas/concepts developed in the course.
22.	Instructor presented points of view other than his/her own when appropriate.
23.	Instructor adequately presented current developments in field.
24.	Examinations: Feedback on examinations/graded materials was valuable.
25.	Methods of evaluating student work were fair and appropriate.
26.	Examinations/graded materials tested course content as emphasized by the instructor.
27.	Assignments: Required readings/texts were valuable.
28.	Readings, homework, etc., contributed to appreciation and understanding of the subject.
29.	Overall: How did this course compare with other courses you have had at the College?
30. How did this instructor compare with other instructors you have had at the College?
68576
APPENDIX D-2 (a)
(ARTICLE IX - EVALUATION - D(2), P.35)
CLASSROOM VISITATION FORM
Faculty Member’s Name__________________________________________________
College:  Department: 
Date of Visitation: ____________________________________
Using the following key, indicate the degree to which you agree with the statements listed below by circling the appropriate category. Mark your response in INK
SA - Strongly Agree D - Disagree	A - Agree	N - Neither Agree Nor Disagree SD - Strongly Disagree	NA—Not Applicable
1.	The instructor seemed to be concerned with whether the students learned the material.	SA	A	N	D	SD	NA
2.	The instructor encouraged students to express opinions.	SA	A	N	D	SD	NA
3.	The instructor appeared receptive to new ideas and others’ viewpoints.	SA	A	N	D	SD	NA
4.	The student had an opportunity to ask questions. SA	A	N	D	SD	NA
5.	The instructor generally stimulated class discussion.	SA	A	N	D	SD	NA
6.	The instructor covered appropriate amount of material.	SA	A	N	D	SD	NA
7.	The instructor appeared to relate the course concepts in a systematic manner.	SA	A	N	D	SD	NA
8.	The class was well-organized.	SA	A	N	D	SD	NA
ADDITIONAL REMARKS (OPTIONAL)
This is to certify that I have read this document.
DGCE Chair
Faculty Member’s Signature
Date
Date
APPENDIX D-2(b)
DISTANCE EDUCATION INSTRUCTION OBSERVATION FORM
Background Information:
Instructor evaluated_____________________________ Department_______________________________
Course	Elective/required__________________
Date_______________________________Number of Students participating________________________
Type of class______________________Level of class__________________________________________
Type(s) of technology used_________________________________________________________________
Did technology function appropriately? (This question is not about the instructor’s performance.) __________________________________________________________________________________
Number of times the instructor has taught this course
What portion(s) of the course did you observe (e.g., instructor’s content, student discussion)?
Date of pre-observation conference and discussion
Evaluator___________________________________
Observation:
The purpose of this observation is (1) to provide a database for more accurate and equitable decision on reappointment and (2) to improve faculty performance.
Please consider each item carefully. Write the rating in ink for each item according to the scale below.
68577
Highest	Satisfactory	Lowest	Not	Unable Applicable	to Comment
5	4	321	NA	U
The instructor:
___ 1. Organized materials and learning activities well.
___ 2. Encouraged relevant student participation.
___ 3. Related course concepts in a systematic manner.
___ 4. Demonstrated engagement with the subject matter.
___ 5. Communicated appropriately to all levels of students.
___ 6. Explained ideas clearly.
___ 7. Demonstrated command of subject matter.
___ 8. Responded appropriately to student questions and comments.
___ 9. Encouraged student engagement with the material.
___ 10. Overall rating.
Additional comments:
Date of post-observation conference and discussion
Signature of Evaluator
I certify that I have read this document.
Signature of Instructor
Date
Date
68577
APPENDIX D-3
(ARTICLE IX - EVALUATION - D(3), P.35)
COMPREHENSIVE RESUME FORM
Faculty Member’s Name__________________________________________________
College:  Date: 
Use this checklist to indicate what materials are included with this resume.
1.	Official transcripts of additional course work completed since last evaluation.
2.	Progress reports from authorities supervising or directing advanced study (where appropriate).
3.	Bibliography of published works.
4.	Documentation of other professional activities.
This form must be attached to an updated comprehensive resume.
APPENDIX D-4
(ARTICLE IX - EVALUATION - §E(2), p.36)
DGCE CHAIR
Faculty Member’s Name:_____________________________________________________
College: Department:
Date of Last Evaluation:___________________________________________________
Date of This Evaluation:___________________________________________________
DIRECTIONS:
Evaluate each faculty member on Items A through C.
CRITERIA:
A.	Teaching Effectiveness (Article IX, p 33)
B.	Course Advising (Article IX, p 33)
C.	Other Instructional Obligations (Article IX, p33)
This is to certify that I have read this document
Signature of DCGE Chair
Signature of Faculty Member
Date
Date
APPENDIX E
(ARTICLE III, P.10)
CONTRACT COURSES: LIMITS BY COLLEGE
The limit on contract courses that is imposed on each College by Article III, §B, of the Agreement is the following:
Peri od
	ending 6/30/04	commencing 7/1/04	commencing 7/1/05
Bridgewater State College	10.0%*	30%	40%
Fitchburg State College	50.0%	50%	50%
Framingham State College	30.0%	30%	40%
Massachusetts College of Art 10.0%		30%	40%
Massachusetts College of Liberal Arts	10.0%	30%	40%
Massachusetts Maritime Academy	10.0%	30%	40%
Salem State College	15.0%	30%	40%
Westfield State College	10.0%	30%	40%
Worcester State College	10.0%	30%	40%
* All percentages are calculated using the formula (number of contract courses) + (number of contract courses + number of courses) = .xx = xx%
APPENDIX F
Policy on Handling Anonymous Complaints
The Board of Higher Education, acting by the Council of State College Presidents (“the Board”), and the Massachusetts Teachers Association, acting by the Massachusetts State College Association (“the Association”), agree as follows:
1.	The administration of each College shall not take adverse action against any unit member on the basis of anonymous complaints, including complaints where the complaining individual is known but does not want his or her identity disclosed, whether such complaints are made orally or in writing, unless the unit member agrees to the action; no record of any action so taken shall be placed in the unit member’s personnel file or used in connection with the making of any decision under Article VI, §E, or Article IX, of the parties’ collective bargaining agreement.
2.	Adverse action means any administrative action based on a suspicion, belief or conclusion of inappropriate conduct or wrongdoing by a unit member.
3.	This agreement does not prohibit the administration from orally informing the unit member of the fact that such a complaint has been made and disclosing the nature and substance of the complaint; nor does it prohibit the administration from informing any member of the bargaining unit concerning his or her legal obligations.
4.	This policy is consistent with and not limited by the attached Memorandum of Agreement made the 3rd day of December 1996.
5.	Nothing in this Policy governs the manner in which complaints that are not anonymous may be used or dealt with.
For the MSCA/MTA
For the Board of Higher Education,
Attachment: 12/3/96 Memorandum of Agreement
68555