AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, PA. STATE STORE ORGANIZING COMMITTEE, AFL-CIO
Effective: July 1, 2003 through June 30, 2007
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Article 1, Purpose and Intent of the Agreement	5
Article 2, Union Recognition and Jurisdiction	5
Article 3, Preservation of Full-Time Status	6
Article 4, Maintenance of Membership and Dues Checkoff	6
Article 5, Credit Union	7
Article 6, Union Activities	8
Article 7, Grievance and Arbitration Procedure	8
Article 8, Seniority	10
Article 9, Furloughs, Hiring, Promotions, Demotions, Rehiring and Transfers	12
Article 10, Management Rights	17
Article 11, Salaries and Wages	17
Article 12, Hours and Overtime	20
Article 13, Leaves of Absence Without Pay	26
Article 14, Leaves of Absence With Pay	27
Article 15, Holidays	28
Article 16, Personal Leave	29
Article 17, Vacations	31
Article 18, Sick Leave	34
Article 19, Health and Welfare	36
Article 20, Health Benefits	39
Article 21, Life Insurance	46
Article 22, Work-Related Injuries	47
Article 23, Miscellaneous Working Conditions	50
Article 24, Union Stewards, Enforcement of Standards and Union Store Emblem	52
Article 25, Strikes and Lockouts	53
Article 26, Miscellaneous Provisions	53
Article 27, Store Closing	53
Article 28, Equal Employment Opportunity	54
Article 29, Store Security	54
Article 30, Preservation of Bargaining Unit Work	55
Article 31, Political Action Committee Deductions	55
Article 32, Family Care Leave	56
Article 33, Leave Donation Program	57
Article 34, Term of Agreement	60
Addendum A	62
Addendum B	63
Addendum C	67
Addendum D	68
Addendum E	69
Addendum F	70
Addendum G	71
Addendum H	72
Addendum I	74
Addendum J	75
Addendum K	76
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered in this 24th day of March, 2004 by and between the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, with principal offices and place of business at the Main Capitol Building, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, (hereinafter referred to as Employer) on sole behalf of the Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board, and United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Pennsylvania State Store Organizing Committee, on behalf of United Food and Commercial Workers Unions, Local 1776, Local 23 and Local 27, affiliated with United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, AFL-CIO, with its principal office and place of business at 3031 Walton Road, Suite 201, Plymouth Meeting, PA 19462 (hereinafter referred to as Union).
W I T N E S S E T H:
The parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE AND INTENT OF THE AGREEMENT
It is the intent and purpose of the parties hereto pursuant to the declaration of public policy contained in Act 195 of 1970 that this Agreement will promote orderly and good faith relationships between the Employer and its employees toward the end that the public at large is served as intended, and establish harmonious relationships between the Union and the Employer by setting forth herein the basic agreement covering rates of pay, hours of work, and terms and conditions of employment to be complied with between the parties hereto.
ARTICLE 2 UNION RECOGNITION AND JURISDICTION
A.	The parties hereto desire to comply with the provisions of the "Public Employe Relations Act", Act of July 23, 1970, #195. Employer recognizes Union as the sole collective bargaining agent, as authorized by law, for all non-supervisory full-time Liquor Store Clerks 1, Liquor Store Clerks 2, Liquor Store Sales Cashiers and Liquor Stock Clerks; and Intermittent Liquor Store Clerks and Liquor Store Sales Cashiers (regular parttime employees). Employees hired expressly as vacation replacements from the beginning of the pay period in which June 15 falls to the end of the second full pay period in September each year and employees hired expressly for the increase in holiday business between the beginning of the pay period in which November 1 falls to the end of the pay period in which January 1 falls (seasonal employees) may be represented by the Union but no benefits shall accrue to such employees unless hereinafter specifically provided for in this Agreement.
B.	A regular part-time employee is one who regularly works less than the normal work week established in Article 12, and who is employed by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in any of the Employer's liquor store retail establishments, wholesale stores, or PLCB-operated warehouses or sub-warehouses.
C.	All new employees shall serve a probationary period of 45 working days, during which time they shall accumulate seniority; however, they shall be subject to discharge for any reason whatsoever, without any recourse on the part of the employee or Union. The probationary period for a regular part-time employee shall not exceed three months duration regardless of the number of days worked.
D.	For purposes of Civil Service Law, the probationary period shall be six months for full-time employees and 975 hours for regular part-time employees.
ARTICLE 3 PRESERVATION OF FULL-TIME STATUS
Before any furloughs are made, the Union shall be notified in writing of the Employer's intent to furlough and the scope and details of the furlough. Upon such notification, the Union shall have the right within five days to require a meeting to discuss such furloughs.
A committee comprised of an equal number of representatives of the Union and the Employer will meet and discuss concerning the feasibility of combining existing part-time positions into full-time positions.
ARTICLE 4
MAINTENANCE OF MEMBERSHIP AND DUES CHECKOFF
A.	Each employee who is or becomes a member of the Union shall maintain such membership for the duration of this Agreement provided that such employee may resign from the employee organization within the 15 days prior to the expiration of this Agreement upon written notice by certified mail, (return receipt requested) to the Employer and the Union.
B.	The Employer agrees to deduct dues and initiation fees, as defined in Article III, Section 301, Paragraph 11 of Act 195. Said deductions shall be made from the wages upon proper written authorization from the employee. The Union shall certify to the Employer the amount of Union dues to be deducted biweekly, and dues at this rate shall be deducted for each biweekly pay period for which the member is paid. Dues shall also be deducted from back pay awards and from pay received to supplement workers' compensation to the extent monies are available after appropriate deductions are made.
C.	The Employer further agrees to deduct from the wages of employees having executed the authorization in Section B of this Article an annual assessment, if any, upon certification of the assessment by the Union to the Employer.
D.	The Employer and the Union hereby agree that all non-members of the Union shall be subject to a fair share fee as provided for in Act 84 of 1988 (S.B. 291) and any amendments thereto. The fair share fee shall be deducted biweekly from all employees in the bargaining unit who are not members of the Union.
Authorization from non-members to deduct fair share fees shall not be required. The amounts to be deducted shall be certified to the Employer by the Union, and the aggregate deductions of all employees shall be remitted together with an itemized statement to the Union by the last day of the succeeding month, after such deductions are made.
E.	The Union shall indemnify and hold the Commonwealth harmless against any and all claims, suits, orders, or judgments brought or issued against the Commonwealth as a result of any action taken or not taken by the Commonwealth under the provisions of this Article.
F.	The above authorization shall be irrevocable during the term of this Agreement.
G.	The Employer shall furnish each new employee with a copy of this Agreement together with an authorization for dues payroll deduction, provided the Union has furnished the Employer with sufficient copies of the Agreement containing the authorization for dues payroll deduction.
ARTICLE 5
CREDIT UNION
A.	The Employer agrees to make payroll deductions available to employees who wish to participate in either one of the credit unions as designated in Section B below.
B.	The Union shall designate to the Employer, in addition to the Pennsylvania State Employees Credit Union, a single depository credit union duly chartered under State or Federal statutes in which employees may participate through payroll deductions.
C.	The Employer shall remit the deductions of employees together with an itemized statement to the applicable credit unions designated under Section B above within 30 days following the end of the calendar month in which deductions were made.
D.	The Union shall supply the appropriate authorization forms to the Employer.
E.	The Union shall indemnify and hold the Commonwealth harmless against any and all claims, suits, orders or judgments brought or issued against the Commonwealth as a result of any action taken or not taken by the Commonwealth under the provisions of this Article.
ARTICLE 6 UNION ACTIVITIES
A.	There shall be no discrimination against any employee because of Union membership or activities. There shall be no discrimination against any employee because of race, color, religious creed, sex, age, national origin, ancestry, marital status, political affiliation, AIDS or HIV status or sexual orientation. Bona fide Union officials may enter the Employer's establishments to satisfy themselves that this Agreement is being observed.
B.	It is further agreed that complaints and grievances will be discussed with officials of the Employer and that such matters will not be discussed by the Union with store employees during hours of work, except where an alleged violation of this Agreement is in question.
C.	The Union may post all official notices in any of the Employer's establishments relative to the affairs of the Union.
ARTICLE 7
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
A.	A Civil Service employee may file his/her grievance under either the Civil Service appeal procedure or the contract grievance procedure. If an appeal is filed under the Civil Service appeal procedure, then the contract grievance procedure shall cease and shall not be permitted to be reinstituted. If an appeal is filed under the Civil Service appeal procedure, the employee shall not be entitled to institute proceedings under the contract grievance procedure, all rights to so do being waived by the exercise of an option by the employee to utilize the Civil Service procedure.
B.	All grievances or disputes arising during the term of this Agreement concerning the interpretation or application of the provisions of this Agreement shall be handled by the following procedure.
C.	Any time limits herein may be extended by mutual agreement between the Employer and the Union.
D.	Grievances which can be adjusted only at a given level of management may be initially presented at the appropriate step of the Grievance Procedure. (This provision shall not be construed to permit the presentation of grievances at a step other than the proper step of the Grievance Procedure.)
Step One: Within seven days of the alleged grievance the employee and/or the Union representative will present the grievance to the appropriate Regional Manager. The Regional Manager shall investigate the grievance and shall reply to the employee and Union within seven days.
Step Two: If the disposition at the first step is deemed unfavorable within seven days, the local Union chief executive or his representative shall appeal in writing to the Human Resource Director of the Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board. The Human Resource Director or his representative will meet with the appropriate local Union chief executive officer or his representative within seven days of receipt of the appeal in an attempt to resolve the grievance. The Human Resource Director or his representative shall then reply to the Union within seven days, in writing.
Step Three: If the disposition at the second step is unfavorable, within seven days, the executive officer of the State Store Organizing Committee or his representative shall appeal in writing to the Bureau of Labor Relations, Office of Administration. The Bureau of Labor Relations, Office of Administration shall review the grievance and shall reply to the Union within 12 days of receipt of the appeal, in writing.
Step Four: If the disposition at the third step is unfavorable, within seven days, the executive officer of the Union shall notify the Employer (Bureau of Labor Relations, Office of Administration), of the Union's intent to submit the grievance to arbitration. The arbitrator will be selected mutually within seven days. In the event no agreement can be reached as to the selection of the arbitrator, either party may request the American Arbitration Association to submit a list of seven possible arbitrators.
The parties shall communicate within five working days of the receipt of said list for the purpose of selecting the arbitrator by alternately striking one name from the list until one name remains. The Employer shall strike the first name.
The cost of arbitration shall be shared equally by the parties. Where one of the parties to this Agreement requests a postponement of a previously scheduled arbitration meeting which results in a postponement charge, the postponing party shall pay such charge unless such postponement results in a settlement of the grievance in which event the postponement charge shall be divided equally between the parties. A postponement charge resulting from a joint postponement request shall be shared equally by the parties.
The arbitrator may not add to, delete from or alter any of the provisions of this Agreement.
The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding in all cases submitted to him except where the decision would require an enactment of legislation in which case it shall be binding only if such legislation is enacted. The Arbitrator shall be requested to issue his decision within 30 days after the hearing or receipt of the transcript of the hearing.
A reasonable number of witnesses, when required, shall be permitted to participate in this grievance and arbitration procedure.
The United Food and Commercial Workers-Commonwealth Expedited Arbitration Procedure shall continue in effect during the term of this Agreement.
A Union representative, if an employee of the Employer, upon request to his immediate supervisor, shall be granted reasonable time during working hours, if required, to process grievances in accordance with this Agreement without loss of pay or leave time.
E.	The Employer shall not demote, suspend, discharge, or take any disciplinary action against an employee without just cause. An employee may appeal a demotion, suspension or discharge beginning at the second step of the grievance procedure, within seven days of its occurrence. The Union shall be notified within five days by the Employer of any demotion, suspension or discharge.
Any action instituted under this Section shall be implemented within a reasonable period of time after the event giving rise to such disciplinary action or knowledge thereof.
The provisions of this Section shall not be applicable during the contractual probationary period in Article 2, Section C.
F.	The Employer and the Union agree to continue the alternative forms of discipline in lieu of suspension actions program in accordance with the side letter dated August 10, 1999.
G.	The Employer will attempt to discipline employees in such a way so as not to embarrass the employee before the public or other employees. It is understood that where insubordination or flouting of authority by an employee in public and/or in the presence of other employees occurs, the Employer will not be restricted by this Section.
ARTICLE 8 SENIORITY
A.	Seniority for the purpose of this contract shall be defined as the length of continuous service with the Employer (PLCB) in the job classifications in the bargaining unit.
1.	Continuous service shall be calculated from the most recent date of appointment (hire).
2.	An employee's continuous service record shall be broken for the following reasons:
a.	Voluntary resignation
b.	Discharge or separation	for just cause
c.	Retirement
d.	AWOL for five working days
e.	Failure to report within five working days of recall from furlough
f.	Failure to report upon expiration of leave
g.	Acceptance of other employment while on leave of absence
h.
(excluding leave of absence granted to work for the Union) Promotion out of the bargaining unit after July 1, 1973.
However, if an employee returns to work in any capacity within two years after such break in service under a. through g. above he shall be entitled to credit for seniority purposes, the time accrued up to the time the break in service occurred, but shall not be entitled to any credit for the time represented by such break in service.
Under Subsection h. above, if an employee returns to the bargaining unit within any period of time, he shall be entitled to credit for seniority purposes, the time accrued up to the time the promotion occurred, but shall not be entitled to any credit for the time represented by such break in service.
An employee who returns to employment at the time of or prior to the expiration of military leave, shall be given such status in employment as would have been enjoyed if employment had been continuous from the time of entrance into the armed forces.
B.	Seniority credit for each employee is maintained as a total number of days. Full-time employees will accrue seniority in accordance with the following procedure: The number of regular hours paid each biweekly pay period plus the number of hours of military leave without pay, leave without pay for illness and union business in accordance with Article 13 and family care leave without pay in accordance with Article 32 will be accumulated. This total number of hours will be divided by 7.5 and rounded up to the next higher day. The result will be added to the employee's accumulated total.
Regular part-time employees will accrue full seniority credit for each pay period (10 days) provided they work at least eight hours in the pay period.
C.	Seniority lists, by county, shall be established by classification and shall include the store number of each full-time employee.
Seniority lists shall be prepared and furnished to the individual Union local upon its request, but not more than twice in any calendar year.
D.	At the beginning of each month, the Employer will provide the Union with a
list of employees who, during the preceding month, were hired, promoted, separated or on leave without pay for more than one month.
E.	Employees who served in the Armed Forces of the United States during periods of time listed below shall be responsible for providing proof of military service to their Human Resource Director within 60 days of their first day of work in order to receive seniority credit in accordance with the Veterans’ Preference Act, 51 Pa. C.S. 7101 et seq. Failure to provide the required proof of service during the time period shall bar the employee or Union from claiming credit for such service at a later date.
Applicable periods are as follows:
1.	World War I - April 6, 1917 - November 11, 1918
2.	World War II - December 7, 1941 - September 2, 1945
3.	Korea - June 25, 1950 - July 27, 1953
4.	Vietnam - August 5, 1964 - January 28, 1973
ARTICLE 9
FURLOUGHS, HIRING, PROMOTIONS, DEMOTIONS, REHIRING AND TRANSFERS
A. Should the Employer determine that furloughs are necessary in a classification in a county, all employees occupying part-time positions in the county shall be furloughed before any employee occupying a full-time position, except for a furlough arising from the elimination of a position.
When the Employer determines that a full-time position is to be eliminated in a county, at the Employer's option, the preceding paragraph shall be applicable or the least senior full-time Liquor Store Clerk 1 or Liquor Store Sales Cashier in that particular county shall be offered a choice of a full-time itinerant position in the county or the nearest full-time vacant position outside the county. If the employee refuses both positions, the employee shall be immediately furloughed and the bumping provisions set forth below shall not be applicable.
Furloughs shall be made by classification in the inverse order of seniority by county in the manner outlined below:
A full-time employee in the Liquor Store Clerk 1 classification who is affected by furlough shall bump within the county, into the full-time Liquor Store Sales Cashier classification provided the employee has more seniority than the employee with the least seniority in that classification. If such a bump is not available, the affected employee shall bump the least senior regular part-time employee in the Intermittent Liquor Store Clerk classification. If such a bump is not available, the affected employee shall bump the least senior regular part-time employee in the Liquor Store Sales Cashier classification. If such a bump is not available, the employee shall be furloughed.
A full-time employee in the Liquor Store Sales Cashier classification who is affected by furlough shall bump the least senior regular part-time employee in that classification within the county. If such a bump is not available, the employee shall be furloughed.
An employee in the Liquor Store Clerk 2 classification who is affected by furlough shall bump within the county, into the full-time Liquor Store Clerk 1 classification provided the employee has more seniority than the employee with the least seniority in that classification. If such a bump is not available, the affected employee shall bump into the full-time Liquor Store Sales Cashier classification provided the employee has more seniority
than the employee with the least seniority in that classification. If such a bump is not available, the affected employee shall bump the least senior regular part-time employee in the Intermittent Liquor Store Clerk classification. If such a bump is not available, the affected employee shall bump the least senior regular part-time employee in the Liquor Store Sales Cashier classification. If such a bump is not available, the employee shall be furloughed.
An employee in the Liquor Stock Clerk classification who is affected by furlough shall bump within the county, into the full-time Liquor Store Clerk 1 classification provided the employee has more seniority than the employee with the least seniority in that classification. If such a bump is not available, the affected employee shall bump into the full-time Liquor Store Sales Cashier classification provided the employee has more seniority than the employee with the least seniority in that classification. If such a bump is not available, the affected employee shall bump the least senior regular part-time employee in the Intermittent Liquor Store Clerk classification. If such a bump is not available, the affected employee shall bump the least senior regular part-time employee in the Liquor Store Sales Cashier classification. If such a bump is not available, the employee shall be furloughed.
An employee who declines a bump as outlined above shall be furloughed.
1.	Work location is defined as the geographic limits of each county.
2.	The Employer shall establish a preference list for those persons who have been furloughed under the above provisions of this Section in the inverse order of such furlough. This list shall remain in effect for two years and shall be used in the order of seniority to fill vacancies in a classification from which the persons on the preference list may have been furloughed.
In the event a person refuses an offer of a position under this Section, he shall be dropped from the list. During the period that employees are on a recall list, they shall keep the Employer informed of any changes in address. The Employer shall not be held liable if an employee is not offered recall because of failure to notify the Employer of a change of address. An employee who is not offered recall because of failure to notify the Employer of a change of address and who subsequently informs the Employer of his current address shall be restored to the recall list and shall be offered the next opportunity for recall for which the employee is eligible.
3.	Permanent employees who are reached for furlough shall be given preferred consideration on seniority basis to fill vacancies in other counties within the Local Union's jurisdiction providing that such employees give timely notice of their interest in such vacancies.
An employee who fails to report within five working days of recall shall forfeit all recall rights and shall be terminated.
B.
Hiring and promotions shall be governed by appropriate Civil Service Law.
C.	Intermittent Liquor Store Clerks within a county may provide written notice to the Regional Manager of their desire to be reassigned to a Liquor Store Clerk 1 position within the county after they have successfully completed thirteen pay periods. These requests for reassignment from Intermittent Liquor Store Clerks to Liquor Store Clerks 1 shall not preclude the use of the Liquor Store Clerk 1 certification list of eligibles nor require the Employer to fill a vacant Liquor Store Clerk 1 position, which it does not intend to fill. However, when the Employer decides to fill a Liquor Store Clerk 1 position by the reassignment of current Intermittent Liquor Store Clerks within the county, the selection shall be based upon seniority, provided the employee has not been suspended or demoted within the previous twelve months, or has not received a letter of reprimand within the previous six months. Employees selected by this reassignment process will be required to serve a thirty working day probationary period. Failure to successfully complete the probationary period will result in employees being returned to their former Intermittent Liquor Store Clerk position, without any recourse on the part of the employee or Union.
D.	The term demotion means the movement of an employee to a classification having a lower maximum salary. Demotions may be made to avoid furloughing employees and, as necessary, to remove an employee who cannot satisfactorily perform the duties of the position. In the event a demotion is a result of a reduction in work force, the employee involved shall have the right to elect the demotion or furlough.
E.	Employer will give one week notice, except in an emergency caused by an Act of God, to the Union and the employee of any intended furlough or reduction in status of a full-time employee. For regular part-time employees, except in an emergency caused by an Act of God, exclusion from the weekly work schedule will be considered proper notice to the employee.
F.	When a Liquor Store Clerk 1 vacancy occurs, employees within the same classification within the county shall be given the opportunity of bidding for the position. Preference will be given to the employee having the longest seniority within the county in which the vacancy exists if said employee is qualified for the position, and if not, to the employee having the next longest seniority, etc. If no full-time employee within the county in which the vacancy exists bids on the position, full-time employees involuntarily transferred out of the county shall be entitled to bid on the vacancy. If there are no such bidding employees, full-time employees in other counties who were previously regular parttime in the county in which the vacancy exists shall be entitled to bid on the vacancy. If there are no such bidding employees, the Employer may fill the position in accordance with Section C above. If the Employer is unable to fill the position in accordance with Section C, full-time employees within the applicable Union local shall be entitled to bid on the vacancy. If no such employees bid on the vacancy, any full-time employee shall be entitled to bid on the vacancy. In addition, Liquor Store Clerks 1 and Liquor Stock Clerks may bid interchangeably between positions within the same county. Where skill and ability are equal, preference shall be given to the most senior bidding employee in the county in which the vacancy exists. An employee shall not be eligible to bid for any position in another store
if he has been in his present store for less than three months.
Where the Employer finds it necessary to temporarily transfer a regular part-time employee to another store to work a schedule similar to the one the employee would have worked in his regular store, regular part-time employees in the store will be offered those hours in order of seniority where practicable. If all regular part-time employees refuse, the least senior qualified regular part-time employee will be transferred.
The Union recognizes that certain stores represent significant problems in operational efficiency as reflected in the inventory losses experienced and that control of these losses may be achieved through a complete restaffing of the store. When management decides to exercise this control option, the parties shall meet in an attempt to agree on the method of selection of personnel to restaff the store and the new location of the employees transferred from the store. Seniority preference will be granted where vacancies exist. Employees who are transferred shall not bid back into the store for a period of one year from the date of their transfer.
The assignment and retention of staff to specialty selection stores will not be based on seniority but on individual ability to serve in this type store. The parties shall meet in an attempt to agree on the selection and retention of individual employees to be assigned to these stores.
In effecting the permanent transfer of a Liquor Store Clerk 2 between stores within a county, the Employer shall consider seniority in conjunction with ability and operational efficiency considerations. An employee shall not be eligible for voluntary transfer to another store if he has been in his present store for less than six months.
Liquor Store Clerks 2 desiring to transfer to another store may submit a list of five preferred stores to the appropriate Regional Manager between June 1 and June 30 and between December 1 and December 31 of each year. Requests must be postmarked no later than June 30 and December 31. Prior to filling a vacancy, preference requests will be reviewed and considered. All requests will be purged at the end of each six month period when new requests are submitted.
G.	When a full-time employee is temporarily transferred from one store to another, other than within city limits, the Employer will pay the current mileage allowance established by Commonwealth Travel Expense Regulations for each mile in excess of the number of miles which the employee normally travels from his residence to his permanent work location. Within city limits, the Employer will pay the current mileage allowance for travel in excess of l0 miles beyond that traveled to the store of regular assignment. The mileage allowance shall be the General Services Administration rate. If the General Services Administration of the Federal Government increases or decreases the mileage allowance for employees under its jurisdiction, the mileage allowance for employees under this Agreement will be increased or decreased on the effective date of the General Services Administration change.
H.	1. An Intermittent Liquor Store Clerk (regular part-time) or Liquor Store Clerk 1 temporarily assigned to a higher rated job classification in the Liquor Store Clerk 2 or Liquor Store Manager 1, 2, or 3 classification will be paid at a rate equal to the rate the employee would receive if the employee were promoted to the Liquor Store Clerk 2 classification for all hours worked up to 40 per week. Employees will receive time and one-half of the higher rate for hours worked in excess of 40.
2.	An Intermittent Liquor Store Clerk (regular part-time) or Liquor Store Clerk 1 temporarily assigned to a higher rated job classification in a non-exempt Liquor Store General Manager classification will be paid at a rate equal to the rate the employee would receive if the employee were promoted to the Liquor Store General Manager classification for all hours worked up to 40 per week. Employees will receive time and one-half of the higher rate for hours worked in excess of 40.
3.	An Intermittent Liquor Store Clerk (regular part-time) or Liquor Store Clerk 1 temporarily assigned to a higher rated job classification in an exempt Liquor Store General Manager classification will be paid at a rate equal to the rate the employee would receive if the employee were promoted to the Liquor Store General Manager classification for all hours worked up to 40 per week. Employees will receive time and one-half of the higher rate for those hours worked in excess of 40 for the first 10 consecutive working days of the temporary assignment. Beginning with the 11th consecutive day worked in temporary assignment, employees will be compensated for hours worked in excess of 40 at straight time.
4.	A Liquor Store Clerk 2 temporarily assigned to a higher rated job classification will be paid their regular rate for the first 10 consecutive working days of the temporary assignment. Beginning with the 11th consecutive day worked in temporary assignment, if the higher rated job classification is exempt, the employee will be paid at a rate equal to the rate the employee would receive if the employee were promoted to the Liquor Store General Manager classification for all hours worked. If the higher rated job classification is non-exempt, the employee will be paid at the higher rate for hours worked up to 40 and time and one-half of the higher rate for hours worked over 40.
5.	Payment for work in a higher classification during a calendar quarter shall be made no later than one calendar month following the end of each quarter.
6.	For purposes of this Section, an exempt Liquor Store General Manager is one who supervises the equivalent of two full-time employees.
7.	If the Employer fills a Liquor Store Clerk 2 position through temporary assignment for a period of five or more consecutive work days, the assignment will be offered first to a qualified Liquor Store Clerk 1 who has notified the District Manager in writing of an interest in accepting temporary assignment. If there is no qualified Liquor Store Clerk 1 available, the temporary assignment will be given to a qualified Intermittent Liquor Store Clerk. Availability lists from which assignments will be made will be maintained by supervisory district.
I.	Employees who are promoted shall serve a 60 working day promotional probationary period. Upon mutual agreement between the Employer and the Union, this probationary period may be extended for an additional 60 working days. The provisions of Section E of Article 7 shall not be applicable if an employee is demoted within that time for failure to successfully complete the probationary period. In such case the employee shall have the right to return to his former classification during this period.
J.	Where an employee has resigned for medical reasons only, the employee may request reinstatement upon presentation of medical verification. The Employer, upon proper evaluation of the employee's condition and prior work history will determine whether the employee will be reinstated. However, where such requests for reinstatement are refused by the Employer, the Union may, if it considers an injustice has been done, submit such matter to the grievance procedure for resolution.
ARTICLE 10 MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
It is understood and agreed that the Employer at its sound discretion, possesses the right, in accordance with applicable laws, to manage all operations including the direction of the working force and the right to plan, direct, and control the operation of all equipment and other property of the Employer except as modified by the Agreement.
ARTICLE 11
SALARIES AND WAGES
A.	1. Liquor Store Clerk 1, Liquor Stock Clerk and Intermittent Liquor Store Clerk will continue to be paid in accordance with the following pay schedule:
	July 1, 2003	July 1, 2005
Step A	$9.97	$10.27
Step B	$10.65	$10.97
Step C	$11.32	$11.66
Step D	$12.26	$12.63
Step E	$13.20	$13.60
Step F	$13.90	$14.32
Step G	$14.64	$15.08
Step H	$15.42	$15.88
Step I	$16.23	$16.72*
*$17.31 effective January 1, 2007
Employees will be hired at Step A and will move to the next step as outlined in Sections B, D, and E below.
2.	Liquor Store Clerk 2 will continue be paid in accordance with the following pay schedule:
	July 1, 2003	July 1, 2005
Step A	$11.32	$11.66
Step B	$12.26	$12.63
Step C	$13.20	$13.60
Step D	$13.95	$14.37
Step E	$14.70	$15.14
Step F	$15.48	$15.94
Step G	$16.30	$16.79
Step H	$17.16	$17.67
Step I	$18.08	$18.62*
*$19.27 effective January 1, 2007
3.	Liquor Store Sales Cashier will continue to be paid in accordance with the following pay schedule:
July 1, 2003	$14.02
July 1, 2005	$14.44
B.	July 2004. Employees below the maximum step shall be eligible to move to the next step effective the beginning of the first full pay period in July 2004, provided they have been employed continuously by the Commonwealth since July 31, 2003. Employees who were scheduled to skip Steps B and/or D under the prior agreement (August 5, 2002 - June 30, 2003) will continue to skip Steps B and/or D under this Agreement).
Full-time employees who have been at Step I since July 31, 2003 shall receive the annual amount of a 2.25% increase in the form of a one-time cash payment rounded to the nearest dollar ($724 for Liquor Store Clerk 1 and Liquor Stock Clerk; $802 for Liquor Store Clerk 2). Intermittent Liquor Store Clerks who have been at the maximum step since July 31, 2003 and Liquor Store Sales Cashiers shall receive a pro rata share of the one-time cash payment of 2.25% based on the number of hours worked in the prior fiscal year.
C.	July 2005.	Effective July 1, 2005, the pay rates on the July 1, 2003 pay
schedules shall be increased by three percent (3 %) as shown in Sections A.1., 2., and 3.
D.	July 2006.	Employees below the maximum step shall be eligible to
move to the next step effective the beginning of the first full pay period in July 2006, provided they have been employed continuously by the Commonwealth since July 31, 2005. Employees who were scheduled to skip Steps B and/or D under the prior agreement (August 5, 2002 - June 30, 2003) will continue to skip Steps B and/or D under this Agreement).
Full-time employees who have been at Step I since July 31, 2005 shall receive the
annual amount of a 2.25% increase in the form of a one-time cash payment rounded to the nearest dollar ($744 for Liquor Store Clerk 1 and Liquor Stock Clerk; $821 for Liquor Store Clerk 2)—Intermittent Liquor Store Clerks who have been at the maximum step since July 31, 2005 and Liquor Store Sales Cashiers shall receive a pro rata share of the one-time cash payment of 2.25% based on the number of hours worked in the prior fiscal year.
E.	January 2007. Employees below the maximum step shall be eligible to
move to the next step effective the beginning of the first full pay period in January 2007, provided they have been employed continuously by the Commonwealth since January 31, 2006. Employees who were scheduled to skip Steps B and/or D under the prior agreement (August 5, 2002 - June 30, 2003) will continue to skip Steps B and/or D under this Agreement).
Full-time employees who have been at Step I since July 31, 2006 and who have been employed continuously by the Commonwealth since January 31, 2006 shall receive the annual amount of a 2.25% increase in the form of a one-time cash payment rounded to the nearest dollar ($763 for Liquor Store Clerk 1 and Liquor Stock Clerk; $841 for Liquor Store Clerk 2). Intermittent Liquor Store Clerks who have been at the maximum step since July 31, 2006 and who have been employed continuously by the Commonwealth since January 31, 2006 and Liquor Store Sales Cashiers shall receive a pro rata share of the one-time cash payment of 2.25% based on the number of hours worked in the prior fiscal year.
Effective January 1, 2007, Step I of the Liquor Store Clerk 1, Liquor Stock Clerk and Intermittent Liquor Store Clerk pay schedule and the Liquor Store Clerk 2 pay schedule shall be increased by three and one-half percent (3.5%) as shown in Sections A.1. and 2.
F.	When a Liquor Store Clerk 1, Intermittent Liquor Store Clerk or Liquor Stock Clerk is promoted to a Liquor Store Clerk 2 on or after July 6, 2002, the employee will be placed at the same step in the Liquor Store Clerk 2 pay range. Employees who would have skipped steps as a Liquor Store Clerk 1, Intermittent Liquor Store Clerk or Liquor Stock Clerk will also skip Steps B and D after promotion to Liquor Store Clerk 2.
G.	The Employer will be able to appoint above the minimum rate. Employees
who are appointed above the minimum will be frozen at that rate until they have the service required to move to the next step.
H.	The cash payments provided for in this Article shall not be added to the
employee's base rate. The cash payments will be subject to dues and fair share fee deductions where applicable.
I.	An employee in an inactive pay status shall, upon return to active status, be entitled to the above general pay increases outlined in Sections C and E; the cash payments outlined in Sections B, D and E; and the step increases outlined in Sections B, D and E, where applicable.
J.
Length of service is defined as continuous service with the Employer in
the job classifications in the bargaining unit and/or service with the Employer as a Liquor Store Manager. Continuous service shall be calculated from the most recent date of hire. Employees who have resigned or retired for reasons other than a work-related injury and are reinstated within one year or are furloughed and subsequently rehired by the Employer shall retain their prior accumulated length of service. Employees who have resigned or retired as a result of a work-related injury and are reinstated within two years shall retain their prior accumulated length of service. However, length of service credit will not accrue during periods of retirement, resignation, furlough, unauthorized leave, suspension, or leave of absence without pay for other than authorized military or union business purposes.
This Section will not be applicable during the term of this Agreement.
K.	Seasonal employees hired expressly as vacation replacements from the
beginning of the pay period in which June 15 falls to the end of the second full pay period in September each year and/or for the increase in holiday business between the beginning of the pay period in which November 1 falls to the end of the pay period in which January 1 falls will be paid at Step A of the pay schedule in Section A.1. above.
Such employees will not receive step increases as outlined in Sections B, D or E.
L.	Salaries and wages shall be paid biweekly. In the event pay day is a holiday, employees shall be paid on the preceding day.
M.	Effective October 1, 2003, all employees will be required to sign-up for direct deposit of paychecks. Effective February 1, 2004, travel expense reimbursement will be paid by direct deposit.
ARTICLE 12 HOURS AND OVERTIME
A.	Work Week
1.	The basic straight time work week for a full-time employee hired
prior to July 1, 2003 shall consist of 37 ^ hours to be worked in five days within a calendar week, excluding Sundays. The basic straight time work week for a full-time employee hired on or after July 1, 2003 shall consist of 37 ^ hours to be worked in five days within a calendar week, including Sunday, except for the week in which Easter Sunday falls.
2.	The basic straight time work week for a full-time employee in a SubWarehouse shall consist of 37 ^ hours to be worked in five days within a calendar week, excluding Saturday and Sunday.
3.	a. Regular part-time employees shall work a minimum of 13 hours weekly, if available for work at the times scheduled, but not more than 32 hours. The
minimum and maximum hours shall include all hours worked on Sunday.
b.	All regular part-time employees, after completion of the contractual probationary period (as defined by Article 2, Section C), will be required to indicate on a form provided by the PLCB whether they are available to work a minimum of twenty (20) hours per week. Regular part-time employees choosing this option will be required to maintain full availability and work in any store in the supervisory district or county (whichever is smaller.) In counties with three (3) or fewer stores, the requirement will be the supervisory district. The assignment of stores and shifts will not be done in a capricious or arbitrary manner.
c.	Once the 20 hour minimum has been met, additional hours will be assigned as follows:
(1)	All regular part-time employees will be given the opportunity
to maximize their hours up to 32 per week by seniority within their store.
(2)	Regular part-time employees will be required to indicate on a
form provided by the PLCB whether they are available to work any additional hours outside their store. For those regular part-time employees who have indicated their full availability, a list will be created by supervisory district or county (whichever is smaller.) This list, in seniority order, will be used where additional hours are available for assignment up to 32 hours per week.
(3)	If a regular part-time employee is not regularly available when scheduled, they will be removed from the fullavailability list.	Removal from the list can be grieved
through the contract grievance procedure. Regular part-time employees who are removed from the full-availability list may request to be placed back on the list after six months if their availability changes. An employee who is removed involuntarily from the list twice will not be placed back on the list.
d.	No employee will be eligible to receive a mileage allowance for travel under this Section.
B.	Work Day
1.	The basic work day for full-time employees will consist of not less than five nor more than eight hours, exclusive of lunch. Regular part-time employees shall be scheduled for not less than four hours per day.
2.	The scheduling of shifts within a store shall be done on a fair and equitable basis as to individual employees within that store.
3.	The basic work day for Sub-Warehouses will consist of seven and one-half hours, exclusive of lunch.
4.	There shall be no split shifts worked by an employee. A split shift is defined as two or more separate and distinct work periods within the same day.
C.	Work Schedules
1.	Work schedules for Liquor Store Clerks 1, Liquor Store Sales Cashiers and regular part-time employees will be posted in ink no later than 3:00 p.m. Friday of the week preceding the week for which the schedule is effective. The Employer will not be able to change schedules to avoid overtime, but will be permitted to change the schedules in case of emergency. A monthly planning calendar will be posted for employees to indicate scheduling requests.
2.	Work schedules for Liquor Store Clerks 2 will be posted in ink no later than 3:00 p.m. Friday of the week preceding the week for which the schedule is effective. In the event an employee is required to work in excess of eight hours on a given day, his work schedule may be adjusted to avoid having the employee work in excess of 37 ^ hours within the work week. However, the employee's work schedule will be adjusted only one time to accommodate this situation. A monthly planning calendar will be posted for employees to indicate scheduling requests.
3.	Work schedules for Sub-Warehouse employees will be posted in the work location in a conspicuous place no later than l:00 p.m. of the Friday of the week preceding the week in which the schedule is effective. The Employer will be entitled to change work schedules in case of emergency but not in order to avoid overtime.
D.	Days Off
1.	Each Liquor Store Clerk 1 will have two days off per week. For employees hired prior to July 1, 2003, one of those days shall be Sunday. The other day will be Monday through Saturday at management's discretion, consistent with operational considerations. For employees hired on or after July 1, 2003, the two days off shall be any two days at management's discretion, consistent with operational considerations. Employees shall have one Monday and one Saturday off per month during each of the months from January through October. If during a particular month a holiday should fall on a Monday or a Saturday, that will be considered as the employee's guaranteed Monday or Saturday for that month.
In addition, if an employee is absent for any reason on a Saturday during a given month, he shall not be entitled to any other Saturday off during that month. However, if an employee receives more than one Saturday off during a month (except for the prime summer
vacation guarantee as provided in Article 17, Section E, or an extended illness), his right to a Saturday off during the ensuing months shall be forfeited on the basis of one month for each Saturday off in excess of one.
The guaranteed Monday and Saturday off does not apply for the months of November and December.
2.	Each Liquor Store Clerk 2 will have two days off per week. For employees hired prior to July 1, 2003, one of those days shall be Sunday. The other day will be determined by the Employer. For employees hired on or after July 1, 2003, both days off shall be determined by the Employer. Each employee will be guaranteed two Mondays off per month, excluding the month of December. Where practicable and operationally feasible, Regional Managers will permit employees to be granted a Saturday off.
3.	The granting of days off shall be done on a fair and equitable basis as to individual employees.
4.	When a full-time employee's scheduled day off is a holiday, as defined in Article 15 of this contract, he will be granted another day off within the period either four weeks prior to or four weeks following the date of the holiday. The alternate day will be selected by mutual agreement between the store manager and the employee. In the event mutual agreement is not reached, the District Manager and the appropriate Union representative will endeavor to resolve the problem. If it is not operationally feasible to grant another day off, employees will be compensated at their regular rate of pay in lieu of the day off.
E.	Overtime
1.	Overtime is defined as work required by the Employer, in excess of eight hours in any work day (excluding Liquor Store Clerk 2), as hours worked in excess of 37 ^ hours per week or as hours worked on the sixth day of the work week (excluding Sundays), when required by the Employer to work, exclusive of any lunch period. Overtime pay shall be at the rate of one and one-half times the employee's regular hourly rate of pay.
2.	For hours worked on Sunday, the following premium pay shall be applicable:
Employees hired prior to July 1, 2003 shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half times the employee’s regular hourly rate of pay.
Effective October 26, 2003, employees hired on or after July 1, 2003 shall be paid, in addition to their regular hourly rate, $1.00 per hour in their first and second years of employment, $2.00 per hour in their third and fourth years of employment and $3.00 per hour in their fifth year of employment. For the period July 1, 2003 through October 25, 2003, such employees will be paid at the rate of one and one-half times the employee’s regular
hourly rate.
3.	Overtime hours worked by an employee in the Liquor Store Manager or General Manager class series shall be paid in accordance with Section H of Article 9.
4.	By mutual agreement between the Employer and employee involved, compensatory time at the appropriate rate may be granted in lieu of overtime pay. If agreement cannot be reached, the employee will be paid. Compensatory time is to be granted within a 90 calendar day period succeeding the date on which the overtime is worked. If a written request is received within 45 days after the date on which overtime is worked, the compensatory time off shall, subject to management’s responsibility to maintain efficient operations, be scheduled and granted as requested by the employee. If the Employer does not schedule the compensatory time in accordance with the employee’s request, or at some other time, prior to the completion of the 90 calendar day period succeeding the date on which the overtime is worked, the employee shall be compensated at the appropriate rate of pay in lieu of paid time off.
5.	For work performed before 7:00 a.m. and after 10:00 p.m. or one hour after the store closing, whichever is later, employees shall receive, in addition to their regular hourly rate, 10% (20% for Liquor Store Clerk 2) of their regular hourly rate for each hour worked. The additional 10% (20% for Liquor Store Clerk 2) shall not be considered part of the employee's regular straight time hourly rate for the purpose of calculating overtime pay.
6.	The following items will be regarded as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime pay under Section E.1. of this Article:
a.	Hours worked.
b.	Holidays - Except for holiday payment to eligible regular part-time employees in accordance with Article 15, Holidays, Section F.
c.	Annual Leave - Except for annual leave payment to regular part-time employees in accordance with Article 17, Vacations, Section G.
d.	Compensatory leave; to be included in the period of occurrence for the purpose of computing overtime.
7.	Payment for overtime will be made thirty days after the end of the pay period in which the overtime is worked.
8.	There shall be no pyramiding of overtime (i.e., payment of overtime on overtime).
F.	Except as provided in Article 29, meal periods will be scheduled as close to the middle of the work shift as possible and will be 30 minutes in length. However, a Liquor Store Clerk 2 may elect not to be scheduled for a meal period if requested in writing by the employee and approved in writing by the District Manager. Requests to vary temporarily from the approved option will be handled on an individual basis.
G.	An employee who is called to the liquor store whenever the store is closed shall be paid at the appropriate rate for the hours worked or a minimum of three hours' pay at the employee's regular straight time hourly rate, whichever is greater; provided however, there shall be no duplication of pay for any part of the minimum hours which occurs during the employee's scheduled shift. Employees receiving call time shall be credited for beginning work when they arrive at the store.
H.	Effective January 1, 2004, or as soon as practically possible thereafter, the
Commonwealth will adopt a tax-qualified Leave Payout Plan. All employees who attain age 55 before or during the calendar year they separate from service after adoption of the Leave Payout Plan shall have the leave payouts otherwise payable for accumulated and unused Annual Leave, Personal Leave, Compensatory Leave, Holiday Leave and Sick Leave, up to the maximum allowable by law, deposited in an account in the employee’s name, provided however that if the total amount of leave payout is $5000 or less, this amount shall be paid to the employee in cash. Amounts in excess of the maximum allowable amount will be paid to the employee in cash.
I.	Sunday Sales - Staffing
1.	All Liquor Store Clerks 1 and regular part-time employees in a store that will be open on Sundays will be canvassed to determine Sunday availability.
a.	If there are enough volunteers, Sunday work will be rotated among the volunteers. If there are not enough volunteers, employees outside of the Sunday stores within each supervisory district or county, whichever is smaller, will be canvassed. Additional employees will be assigned in seniority order from the availability list.
b.	If an employee on the volunteer list refuses Sunday work twice, they will be removed from the list.
c.	If there are not enough volunteers, employees will be mandated to work in inverse order of seniority within each supervisory district or county, whichever is smaller.
2.	All Liquor Store Clerks 2 will be canvassed to determine Sunday availability. If there are enough volunteers, they will rotate within their stores. If there are not enough volunteers, the parties will meet to discuss scheduling options.
3.	No meal periods will be scheduled on Sunday.
4.	No travel expenses will be paid for travel on Sunday.
5.
Additional staffing issues:
a.	As long as staffing matters stay relatively status quo, the present Sunday staffing system will continue.
b.	At that point in time where management reasonably anticipates Sunday staffing problems using the present system, whether on a state-wide or a district/county basis, management shall so inform the Union. The parties shall meet and discuss the procedure to be used to require employees to perform Sunday work for which there are no volunteers. Until the parties have resolved this procedure issue, it is understood that management has the right to operate its stores in an efficient and business-like manner to accomplish the work which needs to be accomplished subject to an obligation not to be arbitrary or capricious.
c.	Notwithstanding the above, it is understood that employees hired on or after July 1, 2003 may be mandated to work on Sunday.
d.	When the number of stores open on Sunday expands, if changes to work schedules become necessary for operational efficiency reasons, the Commonwealth and the Union will meet to discuss scheduling options, including making Sunday part of the regular work week (current premium payment for hours worked would not be affected). The Union will not arbitrarily withhold its agreement to such scheduling changes.
ARTICLE 13
LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY
A.	Any employee who is elected or appointed as a representative of the Union in any activity necessitating absence shall be granted a leave without pay upon adequate advance notice thereof to the Employer in writing for a period not to exceed his term of office.
B.	Such leaves of absence shall be renewed and extended for additional periods of office terms.
C.	Employees shall be eligible for parental leave as provided by the Personnel Rules, Chapter 8, Sections 8.101 to 8.105.
D.	Employees with more than one year of service shall be entitled to written leaves of absence for the following reasons, for a period not to exceed one year:
1.	Illness or injury of the employee which requires absence from work. After the employee has used an aggregate of six months of leave without pay under this Section, the Employer is not required to grant subsequent leave without pay for this purpose unless 6 months in an active pay status have elapsed from the termination of the last date of approved leave under this Section.
If requested and properly documented as medically necessary, leave under this Section shall be approved on an intermittent or reduced-time basis.
2.	Any other reason mutually acceptable to the Union and Employer. This request shall be made by the employee in writing and shall be confirmed by the Employer in writing with a copy to the Union.
By written mutual agreement between the Employer and employee, such leaves may be extended.
Upon the expiration of a leave of absence of six months or less, the employee shall have a right to return to a position in the same or equivalent classification, subject to the furlough and recall provisions of Article 9. Upon the expiration of a leave of absence of more than six months, the employee shall have a right to return to a vacant position, which the Employer intends to fill, in the same or equivalent classification, subject to the furlough and recall provisions of Article 9.
E.	It is understood by both parties that the provisions of Sections C and D are consistent with the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, 29 USC Section 2601 et seq. and that leave granted in accordance with Sections C and D shall be designated as leave under the provisions of the Act.
ARTICLE 14
LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITH PAY
A.	Employees who have not volunteered for jury duty and are called for jury duty or are not a party in a civil or criminal court proceeding but are subpoenaed as a witness to attend such a court proceeding, shall be granted leave with pay while attending court. Evidence of such duty in the form of a subpoena or other written notification shall be presented to the employee's immediate supervisor as far in advance as practicable.
B.	The Employer shall grant up to 40 hours leave with pay during each year of this Agreement to all Shop Stewards in order that they may attend Local Stewards' meetings and/or the annual Shop Stewards' conference in the event the Union participates in such
meetings and/or conference. The Union agrees to avoid requests for such leave on Friday, Saturday or an inventory day whenever possible. Requests for such leave must be submitted at least one week in advance.
C.	All requests for leave under this Article must be submitted in writing to the employee's immediate supervisor and shall be answered in writing promptly. Requests for emergency type leaves shall be answered before the end of the shift on which the request is made. Except for such emergency type leaves, the time when leave is taken is within the discretion of the Employer.
Requests for any type of leave to which an employee is entitled under this Agreement and which is not to exceed one month shall be answered by the Employer within five days. If the requested leave is in excess of one month, the request shall be answered within 10 days.
D.	For the purpose of this Article, the calendar year shall be defined as beginning with the employee's first full pay period commencing on or after January 1 and continuing through the end of the employee's pay period that includes December 31.
ARTICLE 15 HOLIDAYS
A.	The following days shall be recognized as holidays:
New Year's Day
Martin Luther King, Jr.’s Birthday
President’s Day
Primary Election Day
Memorial Day
Independence Day
Labor Day
Columbus Day
Veterans' Day
General Election Day
Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Day
Monday shall be recognized as a holiday for all holidays occurring on a Sunday.
B.	A full-time employee shall be paid for any holiday listed in Section A of this Article, provided he was in an active pay status the last half of his scheduled work day immediately prior and the first half of his scheduled work day immediately subsequent to the holiday.
When a full-time employee's scheduled day off is a holiday, the employee will be granted another day off in accordance with Article 12, Section D.4. If it is not operationally feasible to grant another day off, employees will be compensated at their regular rate of pay in lieu of the day off.
C.	If a holiday is observed while a full-time employee is on any paid leave status, he will receive his holiday pay and the day will not be charged against such paid
leave.
D.	If an employee works on any of the holidays set forth in Section A of this Article, he shall be compensated at one and one-half times his regular rate of pay for all hours worked on said holiday. In addition, a full-time employee shall, at the discretion of the Employer, either receive compensatory time off for all hours worked up to a full shift or be paid at his regular rate of pay in lieu of such compensatory time.
E.	For the purpose of computing overtime, all holiday hours unworked for which an employee is compensated shall be regarded as hours worked, except for holiday hours paid to regular part-time employees in accordance with Section F of this Article. However, there shall be no pyramiding of overtime and holiday work time.
F.	Regular part-time employees who are paid for 1450 hours or more during a
fiscal year shall be granted four hours holiday pay for each of the holidays listed in Section A above in the next fiscal year. Regular part-time employees who are paid for between 650 and 999 hours during a fiscal year shall be granted four hours holiday pay for New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Labor Day and Christmas Day during the next fiscal year. Regular part-time employees who are paid for between 1000 and 1449 hours during a fiscal year shall be granted four hours holiday pay for New Year's Day, Presidents' Day, Memorial Day, Labor Day, Veterans' Day and Christmas Day during the next fiscal year.
Regular part-time employees must work at least one day during the pay period in which the holiday falls, to qualify for the holiday payment outlined above.
Regular part-time employees will not receive benefits under this Section until they have completed two years of service.
G.	Effective January 1, 2004, or as soon as practically possible thereafter, the
Commonwealth will adopt a tax-qualified Leave Payout Plan. All employees who attain age 55 before or during the calendar year they separate from service after adoption of the Leave Payout Plan shall have the leave payouts otherwise payable for accumulated and unused Annual Leave, Personal Leave, Compensatory Leave, Holiday Leave and Sick Leave, up to the maximum allowable by law, deposited in an account in the employee’s name, provided however that if the total amount of leave payout is $5000 or less, this amount shall be paid to the employee in cash. Amounts in excess of the maximum allowable amount will be paid to the employee in cash.
ARTICLE 16
PERSONAL LEAVE
A.	Each full-time employee will be eligible for paid personal leave days as follows:
1.
One paid personal leave day will be earned in the employee's first calendar year of employment provided the employee has 300 hours in an active pay status in the calendar year.
2.	One paid personal leave day per one-half calendar year will be earned in the employee's second calendar year of employment, provided the employee has 300 hours in an active pay status in each one-half calendar year.
3.	Two paid personal leave days in the first one-half calendar year and one paid personal leave day in the second half calendar year will be earned in the employees third and subsequent years of employment provided the employee has 300 hours in an active pay status in each one-half calendar year.
4.	Leave service credit earned during all periods of Commonwealth employment will be used to determine whether, for purposes of this Section, an employee is in the first calendar year of employment, the second calendar year of employment or the third and subsequent years of employment.
B.	Personal leave shall be scheduled by mutual agreement of the employee and the Employer. Every effort shall be made to accommodate employees in case of emergencies. Full-time employees will be permitted to request and be scheduled for personal leave on an hourly basis where operationally feasible.
C.	Full-time employees may anticipate personal leave to which they may
become entitled during the calendar year. All personal leave must be used by October 31 of each year and at employees are encouraged to use at least one personal leave day by June 30. Personal leave may not be carried over from one calendar year to the next and may not be used during the months of November and December. However, employees will be permitted to carry over personal leave into the first seven (7) pay periods of the next calendar year. Any days carried over in accordance with this Section which are not scheduled and used during the first seven (7) pay periods of the next calendar year will be lost.
D.	Regular part-time employees who have two or more years of service as of June 30, will be paid for personal leave based upon the number of regular hours paid during the previous fiscal year in accordance with the following schedule:
Regular hours paid	Personal leave
650 to 999	4 hours
1000 to 1449
1450 or more
8 hours
12 hours
Such employees will receive a cash payment, as soon as practicable after July 1 of the applicable year, for the number of hours indicated above at their rate of pay in effect at the time the payment is processed.
The cash payments provided for in this Section shall not be added to the employee's base rate. They will require neither employee nor Employer retirement contributions, nor will these payments be considered compensation for the calculation of retirement benefits. The cash payments will be subject to dues and fair share fee deductions where applicable.
E.	For purposes of this Article, the calendar year shall be defined as beginning with the employee’s first full pay period commencing on or after January 1 and continuing through the end of the employee’s pay period that includes December 31. For the purpose of this Article, the half calendar years shall be defined as beginning with the employee’s first full pay period commencing on or after January 1 through June 30 and July 1 through the end of the pay period that includes December 31.
F.	Effective January 1, 2004, or as soon as practically possible thereafter, the
Commonwealth will adopt a tax-qualified Leave Payout Plan. All employees who attain age 55 before or during the calendar year they separate from service after adoption of the Leave Payout Plan shall have the leave payouts otherwise payable for accumulated and unused Annual Leave, Personal Leave, Compensatory Leave, Holiday Leave and Sick Leave, up to the maximum allowable by law, deposited in an account in the employee’s name, provided however that if the total amount of leave payout is $5000 or less, this amount shall be paid to the employee in cash. Amounts in excess of the maximum allowable amount will be paid to the employee in cash.
ARTICLE 17
VACATIONS
A.	Employees shall be eligible for annual leave after 30 calendar days of service with the Employer in accordance with the following schedule:
Leave Service Credit (includes all periods of Commonwealth Service where Leave Service Credit is earned)
Maximum Annual Leave Entitlement Per Year
Up to 3 Years:
Annual Leave will be earned at the rate of 2.70% of all Regular Hours Paid
52.5 Hours
(7 days)
Over 3 Years to 15 Years Inclusive:
Annual Leave will	112.5 Hours
be earned at the	(15 days)
rate of 5.77% of all
Regular Hours Paid
Over 15 Years to 25 Years Inclusive:
Annual Leave will	150 Hours
be earned at the	(20 days)
rate of 7.70% of all
Regular Hours Paid
Over 25 Years:
Annual Leave will	195 Hours
be earned at the	(26 days)
rate of 10% of all
Regular Hours Paid
Regular Hours Paid as used in this Article include all hours paid except overtime, call time and full-time out-service training.
Employees shall be credited with a year of service for each 26 pay periods completed in an active pay status, provided they were paid a minimum of one hour in each pay period.
B.	Vacations shall be granted on a seniority basis to employees at the time requested subject to management's responsibility to maintain efficient operations. Requests for vacation periods shall not be unreasonably denied.
C.	If a holiday occurs during the calendar week in which vacation is taken by an employee, the holiday shall not be charged to annual leave.
D.	Any employee separated from the service of the Employer for any reason shall be compensated in a lump sum for the unused vacation he has accumulated up to the time of separation.
Effective January 1, 2004, or as soon as practically possible thereafter, the Commonwealth will adopt a tax-qualified Leave Payout Plan. All employees who attain age 55 before or during the calendar year they separate from service after adoption of the Leave Payout Plan shall have the leave payouts otherwise payable for accumulated and unused Annual Leave, Personal Leave, Compensatory Leave, Holiday Leave and Sick Leave, up to the maximum allowable by law, deposited in an account in the employee’s name, provided however that if the total amount of leave payout is $5000 or less, this amount shall be paid to the employee in cash. Amounts in excess of the maximum allowable amount will be paid to the employee in cash.
E.	Full-time employees who are entitled to two weeks shall be permitted to take
them consecutively during the prime summer months (June 15-Labor Day).
F.	Unused vacation leave shall be carried over from one calendar year to the next provided that in no case shall the amount thus carried over exceed 45 days (337.5 hours). However, employees will be permitted to carry over vacation leave in excess of the forty-five day limit into the first seven (7) pay periods of the next calendar year. Any vacation days carried over in accordance with this Section which are not scheduled and used during the first seven (7) pay periods of the next calendar year will be converted to sick leave subject to the 300 day limitation contained in Article 18, Section B. Scheduling of those days carried over shall be in accordance with Section B above.
G.	The present practice relating to the usage of and payment for annual leave for regular part-time employees shall continue in effect. Annual leave hours paid to regular part-time employees shall not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
H.	Full-time employees who have one or more years of service since their last
date of hire may anticipate annual leave to which they become entitled during the then current calendar year unless the Employer has reason to believe that the employee has been abusing his leave privileges. Full-time employees with less than one year of service since their last day of hire may not anticipate annual leave.
I.	None of the provisions of this Article shall be applicable to regular part-time employees until they have completed two years of service.
J.	For the purpose of this Article, the calendar year shall be defined as beginning with the first full pay period commencing on or after January 1 and continuing through the end of the pay period that includes December 31.
ARTICLE 18
SICK LEAVE
A.	Employees shall be eligible to use sick leave after 30 calendar days of service with the Employer. Employees shall earn sick leave as of their date of hire in accordance with the following schedule:
Maximum Sick Leave
Entitlement Per Year
Sick leave will be earned at 97.5 Hours the rate of 5% of all	(13 days)
Regular Hours Paid
Regular Hours Paid as used in this Article include all hours paid except overtime, call time and full-time out-service training.
B.	Employees may accumulate sick leave up to a maximum of 300 days (2250 hours).
C.	A doctor's certificate is required for an absence from work due to sickness for three or more consecutive days. For absences of less than three days, a doctor's certificate may be required where in the opinion of the Employer, the employee has been abusing his sick leave privileges.
D.	Employees may not use more than five days of sick leave in any calendar year, where sickness in the immediate family requires the employee's absence from work. Immediate family is defined as husband, wife, parent, child or step-child of the employee residing in the employee's household. The Employer may require proof of such family sickness.
E.	Where a family member’s serious health condition requires the employee’s absence from work beyond 20 days (150 hours) in a calendar year, employees with at least one year of service may use accrued sick leave, in addition to that provided by Section D above.
1.	Employees who meet the eligibility criteria in 2. through 5. below may use accrued sick leave in accordance with the following schedule:
Leave Service Credit	Sick Family Allowance
Over 1 year to 3 years	Up to 52.5 additional hours (7 days)
Over 3 years to 15 years	Up to 112.5 additional hours (15
days)
Over 15 years to 25 years	Up to 150 additional hours (20 days)
Over 25 years	Up to 195 additional hours (26 days)
2.	During the initial 20 days (150 hours) of absence, paid annual and personal leave and/or unpaid leave shall be used and may include leave provided under Section D. above. The additional sick family leave allowance must be used prospectively, and may not be retroactively charged for any of the initial 20 days (150 hours). A separate 20 day (150 hour) requirement must be met for each different serious health condition and/or family member and for each calendar year, even if not all of the additional days were used during the previous calendar year.
3.	The initial 20 days (150 hours) of absence may be accumulated and the additional leave may be used on an intermittent basis.
4.	Proof of the family member’s serious health condition as defined by the Family and Medical Leave Act must be provided on the Commonwealth’s Serious Health Condition Certification form. Proof may be required for each absence during the 20 day (150 hour) period and subsequent additional sick family leave period.
5.	Family member for the purposes of this Section is defined as the following persons: husband, wife, child, step-child, or parent of the employee or any other person qualifying as a dependent under IRS eligibility criteria.
F.	Employees may use up to five days of sick leave for the death of a spouse, parent, stepparent, child or step-child, and up to three days of such leave may be used for the death of a brother, sister, grandparent, step-grandparent, grandchild, step-grandchild, son or daughter-in-law, brother or sister-in-law, parent-in-law, grandparent-in-law, aunt, uncle, or any relative residing in the employee's household.
G.	1. Employees who retire shall be paid for their accumulated unused sick leave in accordance with the schedule below if they retire under the conditions set forth in Subsections a. through d.:
Days Available at Retirement	Percentage Buy-Out	Maximum Days
0 - 100	30%	30
101 - 200	40%	80
201 - 300	50%	150
over 300 (in last year	100% of days	13
of employment)	over 300	
a. Superannuation retirement with at least five years of credited service in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems,
b.
Disability retirement,
c.	Other retirement with at least 25 years of credited service in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems, or
d.	After 7 years of service, death prior to retirement or separation of service except as provided in Section H.
2.	Such payments shall not be made for part days of accumulated sick leave.
3.	No payments under this Section shall be construed to add to the credited service of the retiring member or to the retirement covered compensation of the member.
4.	Effective January 1, 2004, or as soon as practically possible thereafter, the Commonwealth will adopt a tax-qualified Leave Payout Plan. All employees who attain age 55 before or during the calendar year they separate from service after adoption of the Leave Payout Plan shall have the leave payouts otherwise payable for accumulated and unused Annual Leave, Personal Leave, Compensatory Leave, Holiday Leave and Sick Leave, up to the maximum allowable by law, deposited in an account in the employee’s name, provided however that if the total amount of leave payout is $5000 or less, this amount shall be paid to the employee in cash. Amounts in excess of the maximum allowable amount will be paid to the employee in cash.
H.	When an employee dies as a result of a work-related accident, the Commonwealth will pay 100% of the employee's unused sick leave. Such payments shall not be made for part days of accumulated sick leave.
I.	Full-time employees who have one or more years of service since their last
date of hire may anticipate sick leave to which they become entitled during the then current calendar year unless the Employer has reason to believe that the employee has been abusing his leave privileges. Full-time employees with less than one year of service since their last date of hire may not anticipate sick leave.
J.	None of the provisions of this Article shall be applicable to regular part-time employees until they have completed two years of service.
K.	For the purpose of this Article, the calendar year shall be defined as beginning with the employee’s first full pay period commencing on or after January 1 and continuing through the end of the employee’s pay period that includes December 31.
ARTICLE 19
HEALTH AND WELFARE
A.	This Article will be applicable only to those employees in Local 1776, Local 27 and former Local 72 who were in this bargaining unit on August 30, 2002 and to those employees in Local 23 who were in this bargaining unit on March, 30, 2001. No contributions will be made for employees hired on or after August 31, 2002 and March 31, 2001, respectively.
B.	The Employer shall contribute to the following jointly administered Taft-Hartley Health and Welfare Funds as designated by the Union. The contribution period for regular part-time employees who work 978 hours or more in the prior fiscal year will begin in September and will continue through August. For the purpose of this Article, the following items will be regarded as hours worked: regular hours worked, holiday pay under Article 15, Section F, paid sick leave and injury leave without pay. The monthly contribution rates shall be as follows:
UFCW Local 1776 and Participating Employers Health and Welfare Fund
Full-time employees and regular part-time employees who worked 978 hours or more in the prior fiscal year:
July 1,	2003 - June 30,	2004	$48.38
July 1,	2004 - June 30,	2005	$53.22
July 1,	2005 - June 30,	2006	$58.54
July 1,	2006 - June 30,	2007	$64.39
Regular part-time employees who worked less than 978 hours in the prior fiscal year:
July 1,	2003 - June 30,	2004	$150.87
July 1,	2004 - June 30,	2005	$165.96
July 1,	2005 - June 30,	2006	$182.56
July 1,	2006 - June 30,	2007	$200.82
UFCW Local 1776 Central PA and Regional Health and Welfare Fund
Full-time employees and regular part-time employees who worked 978 hours or more in the prior fiscal year:
July 1,	2003 - June 30,	2004	$37.37
July 1,	2004 - June 30,	2005	$41.11
July 1,	2005 - June 30,	2006	$45.22
July 1,	2006 - June 30,	2007	$49.74
Regular part-time employees who worked less than 978 hours in the prior fiscal year:
July 1, 2003 - June 30, 2004
$117.76
July 1,	2004 - June	30,	2005	$129.54
July 1,	2005 - June	30,	2006	$142.49
July 1,	2006 - June	30,	2007	$156.74
UFCW Local 23 and Employers Health Fund
Full-time employees and regular part-time employees who worked 978 hours or more in the prior fiscal year:
July 1,	2003 - June	30,	2004	$9.44
July 1,	2004 - June	30,	2005	$10.38
July 1,	2005 - June	30,	2006	$11.42
July 1,	2006 - June	30,	2007	$12.56
Regular part-time employees who worked less than 978 hours in the prior fiscal
year:
July	1, 2003 - June 30, 2004	$125.68
July	1, 2004 - June 30, 2005	$138.25
July	1, 2005 - June 30, 2006	$152.08
July	1, 2006 - June 30, 2007	$167.29
UFCW Local 27
Full-time employees and regular part-time employees who worked 978 hours or more in the prior fiscal year:
July 1,	2003 - June	30,	2004	$13.01
July 1,	2004 - June	30,	2005	$14.31
July 1,	2005 - June	30,	2006	$15.74
July 1,	2006 - June	30,	2007	$17.31
Regular part-time employees who worked less than 978 hours in the prior fiscal
year:
July 1, 2003 - June 30, 2004
July 1, 2004 - June 30, 2005
July 1, 2005 - June 30, 2006
July 1, 2006 - June 30, 2007
$115.04
$126.54
$139.19
$153.11
UFCW Health and Welfare Fund of Northeastern PA (Includes employees formerly covered by Local 72)
Regular part-time employees who worked less than 978 hours in the prior fiscal year:
July 1,	2003- June 30,	2004	$92.07
July 1,	2004 - June 30,	2005	$101.28
July 1,	2005 - June 30,	2006	$111.41
July 1,	2006 - June 30,	2007	$122.55
The parties have not reached agreement on the effect of a merger of local unions should one occur during the life of this agreement.
C.	The Union shall indemnify and hold the Commonwealth harmless against any and all claims, suits, orders or judgments brought or issued against the Commonwealth as a result of any action taken or not taken by the Commonwealth under the provisions of this Article.
D.	None of provisions of this Article shall be applicable to regular part-time employees until they have completed four months (eight pay periods) of service.
E.	The Employer shall continue to make full contributions to the Funds for employees who are granted sick leave without pay or parental leave without pay for up to six months, for employees who are granted family care leave without pay for up to 12 weeks and for employees who are granted injury leave (paid and unpaid) for up to twelve months or, if only paid leave is used, beyond 12 months until the paid leave is exhausted.
F.	The Employer shall make aggregate payments of contributions together with an itemized statement to the Funds within 30 days from the end of the month in which the monthly contributions were collected.
ARTICLE 20
HEALTH BENEFITS
A.	Pennsylvania Employees Benefit Trust Fund
1.	A jointly administered, multi-union, health and welfare Fund has been established under the provisions of an Agreement and Declaration of Trust executed by and between Council 13, American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees and the Employer.
This jointly administered Fund is known as the Pennsylvania Employees Benefit Trust Fund (hereinafter Fund or PEBTF). The Fund shall conform to all existing and future Federal and Commonwealth statutes applicable to and controlling such Health and Welfare
Fund.
Said Agreement and Declaration of Trust shall provide for equal representation on the Board of Trustees appointed by the Unions and the Employer. In addition, the Agreement and Declaration of Trust will allow the Fund to provide benefits to management level and retired employees, as well as employees represented by other unions and other employers in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
2.	The Board of Trustees of the Fund shall determine in their discretion and within the terms of this Agreement and the Agreement and Declaration of Trust the extent and level of medical plan benefits, supplemental benefits and other benefits to be extended by the Fund.
3.	a. The Employer shall contribute to the Fund the amounts indicated below on behalf of each permanent full-time employee eligible for benefits and covered by this Agreement:
July 1, 2003 -	June 30,	2004	-	$235.00 biweekly per employee
July 1, 2004 -	June 30,	2005	-	$270.00 biweekly per employee
July 1, 2005 -	June 30,	2006	-	$275.00 biweekly per employee
July 1, 2006 -	June 30,	2007	-	$300.00 biweekly per employee
The contributions for regular part-time employees who work 978 hours or more in the prior fiscal year and who elect coverage will be 50% of the above referenced rates. Required employee contributions for coverage are set forth in Section C below. The coverage period will begin on September 1 and will end on August 31. For the purpose of this Section, the following items will be regarded as hours worked: regular hours worked, holiday pay under Article 15, Section F, paid sick leave and injury leave without pay.
Over and above the Employer’s biweekly contribution, the Employer shall contribute to the PEBTF an additional sixty million dollars ($60,000,000) on behalf of all Fund participants during the first three months of fiscal year 2003/04. The additional funds shall be used to ensure that there is no interruption of Fund health coverage to eligible employees and dependents.
b. Regular part-time employees who become full-time during a fiscal year will receive the same benefits as full-time employees effective on the date they become full-time. Full-time employees who become regular part-time employees during a fiscal year will receive benefits in accordance with the number of hours worked in the prior fiscal year effective on the date they become part-time.
4.	The Employer shall make aggregate payments of Employer contributions together with an itemized statement to the Fund within one month from the end of the month in which the biweekly contributions were collected.
5.	All benefits extended by the Fund must be designed to be excludable from the "regular rate" definition of the Fair Labor Standards Act, unless hereinafter required by Federal law to be included.
6.	No dispute over eligibility for benefits or over a claim for any benefits extended by the Fund shall be subject to the grievance procedure established in any collective bargaining agreement.
7.	It is expressly agreed and understood that the Employer does not accept, nor is the Employer to be charged with hereby, any responsibility in any manner connected with the determination of liability to any employee claiming under any of the benefits extended by the Fund. It is expressly agreed that the Employer's liability, in any and every event, with respect to benefits extended by the Fund shall be limited to the contributions indicated under Subsection 3. above.
B.	The provisions of Sections C through G shall be modified to the extent the medical plan benefits, supplemental benefits and other benefits as determined and extended by the Fund and/or the Retired Employees Health Program are modified for current and/or future employees and annuitants as provided for in Section A (employees) and/or Section F (annuitants) of this Article, respectively.
C.	The Fund shall continue to provide each permanent, full-time active employee medical plan benefits, supplemental benefits and other benefits as determined and extended by the Fund. In addition, it shall provide dependency coverage where the dependents of the employee qualify. The Fund shall provide part-time employees who qualify under Section A.3. above with medical plan benefits, supplemental benefits and other benefits as determined and extended by the Fund. In addition, the Fund shall provide dependency coverage where the dependents of the employee qualify. Such employees shall contribute an amount determined by the Fund’s trustees toward the cost of coverage. However, part-time employees in Local 1776, Local 27 and former Local 72 hired prior to August 31, 2002 and part-time employees in Local 23 hired prior to March 31, 2001 will not pay employee contributions for single coverage, except as provided in Subsections 1., 2., and 3. below. Enrollment and continued coverage in Fund benefits is further subject to the following conditions:
1.	Employees hired before August 1, 2003 - Subject to the provisions of Section C.2., effective at the beginning of the first full pay period in July 2005, employees will contribute one-half percent (0.5%) of their biweekly gross salary. Biweekly gross salary as used throughout this Article excludes premium or supplemental payments such as overtime, shift differentials, higher class pay, etc. Effective at the beginning of the first full pay period in January 2007, the contribution rate will be one percent (1.0%) of the employee’s biweekly gross salary.
2.	The parties agreed to an evaluation process with respect to the reserve levels of the Fund to determine if an employee contribution is necessary. Under this process, if the Fund’s actuary certifies that a three (3) month reserve of projected claims and
expenses has been achieved and will be maintained for at least six (6) months, the Trustees will evaluate whether employee cost sharing for employees hired before August 1, 2003, can be reduced or eliminated, provided that at no time shall any such reduction or elimination of cost sharing result in the reserve being reduced below the three (3) months of total projected claims and expenses. Should the Trustees, after evaluating the employee cost sharing, decide that contributions by employees hired before August 1, 2003 will be reduced or eliminated, the reserve will be reviewed on a six (6) month basis by the Fund’s actuary. If the actuary certifies that the amount of the reserve has dropped below the three (3) month level, such contributions will resume immediately at the levels established in this Agreement, without any action on the part of the parties or the PEBTF Board of Trustees.
3.	Employees hired on or after August 1, 2003 - Employees will contribute one percent (1%) of their biweekly gross salary.
a.	For the first six (6) months of employment, the employee will be offered single coverage in the least costly medical plan offered and available in his/her area, with no supplemental benefits. The employee may opt to purchase medical coverage for the employee’s qualifying dependents in the same medical plan as the employee, and/or may opt to purchase a more costly plan in the area by paying the difference in cost between the least costly and the more costly plan, in addition to the one percent (1%) employee contribution.
b.	After completing six (6) months of employment, the employee and his/her qualifying dependents will be eligible for coverage under the Fund’s supplemental benefits, and the employee will be permitted to cover his/her qualifying dependents under the least costly medical plan at no additional cost. If a more costly medical plan is selected, the employee will be required to pay the cost difference between the least costly and more costly plan, in addition to the one percent (1%) employee contribution.
4.	Only employees who elect to enroll for PEBTF coverage, including those who enroll only for supplemental benefits, are subject to the employee contributions in this Article. An employee who is only enrolled as a spouse of another PEBTF covered employee is not subject to any required employee contributions.
5.	Employee contributions under this Article will be paid to the Fund on a biweekly basis as soon as is practicable using the Employer’s standard methods for transferring money. The parties intend that these contributions will be submitted in a more accelerated manner than the Employer contributions. Any employee contributions made pursuant to this Article for the first full pay period in July 2004 and thereafter will be made on a pre-tax basis.
D.	1. Full-time employees and eligible part-time employees who are granted sick leave without pay or parental leave without pay may continue to receive benefits as determined and extended by the Fund for up to six months. Full-time employees and eligible part-time employees who are granted family care leave may continue to receive benefits as determined and extended by the Fund for up to 12 weeks. Full-time employees and eligible part-time employees who are granted injury leave (paid and unpaid) may continue to receive benefits as determined and extended by the Fund for up to 12 months or, if only paid leave is used, beyond 12 months until the paid leave is exhausted. Those employees who are granted leave without pay for any reason other than sickness, parental leave, family care leave or injury leave or who remain on sick leave without pay, parental leave without pay, family care leave without pay or injury leave for longer than the applicable period specified above or individuals placed on suspension for longer than one full pay period will be permitted to continue coverage on a direct pay basis at a rate to be determined by the Fund, but no greater than the COBRA rate.
2.	The Employer shall continue to make full contributions to the Fund for full-time employees for the period of time they are entitled to benefits under Section D.1. and 50% contributions, as applicable, for eligible part-time employees for the period of time for which they are entitled to benefits under Section D.1.
3.	The continuation of benefits under this Section is subject to the employee’s payment of any required employee contribution under Section C.
E.	Spousal Eligibility
1.	For employees hired on or after August 1, 2003: If the spouse of an employee is covered by any PEBTF health care plan, and he/she is eligible for coverage under another employer’s plan(s), the spouse shall be required to enroll in each such plan, which shall be the spouse’s primary coverage, as a condition of the spouse’s eligibility for coverage by the PEBTF plan(s), without regard to whether the spouse’s plan requires cost sharing or to whether the spouse’s employer offers an incentive to the spouse not to enroll.
2.	For employees hired before August 1, 2003: Effective October 1, 2003, if the spouse of an employee covered by any PEBTF health plan also is eligible for coverage under another employer’s plan(s), the spouse shall be required to enroll in each such plan, provided that the plan in question does not require an employee contribution by the spouse or the spouse’s employer does not offer an incentive to the spouse not to enroll. Once covered by another employer’s plan, that plan will be the spouse’s primary coverage, and the PEBTF plan will be secondary.
3.	Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the authority of the Board of Trustees to modify or adopt these or other spousal eligibility rules.
F.	1. The Employer shall allow each individual who was eligible as an
active full-time employee under the Fund’s health benefits plan to elect coverage upon retirement under the Retired Employees Health Program (hereinafter REHP). In addition, dependency coverage shall be allowed where the dependents of the annuitant qualify under such Program.
2.	Employees who retire prior to July 1, 2004 shall be eligible to elect coverage in the REHP plan of benefits in effect on June 30, 2003, as modified by the Employer from time-to-time. Effective July 1, 2004, the Employer will modify the REHP plan of benefits to conform to the medical and prescription benefits in effect for the active employees. Employees retiring on or after July 1, 2004, shall be eligible to elect coverage in the modified REHP plan of benefits. Annuitants who are eligible for Medicare will participate in Medicare supplemental medical plans, and those annuitants who are eligible to enroll in Medicare Part B will not receive benefits through the Retired Employees Health Program for benefits which are provided by Medicare Part B. It is understood that the REHP plan of benefits may be amended or modified by the Employer from time-to-time.
3.	For those who retire prior to July 1, 2005 and elect REHP coverage, the Employer shall continue to pay the full cost of coverage under the REHP. Those who retire on or after July 1, 2005, and elect REHP coverage shall be required to contribute to the cost of coverage. The annual contribution rate shall be one percent (1.0%) of the employee’s final annual gross salary at the time of retirement from State service, and will be payable monthly at the rate of one-twelfth of the annual contribution rate.
The REHP is developed and administered in a cost effective and beneficial manner by the Fund, subject only to the prior approval of the Office of Administration and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the REHP Participation Agreement between the Employer and the Fund.
4.	The Employer shall continue to pay the cost of coverage, subject to the required annuitant shares, for annuitants who retire under a., b. or c. below and who have elected REHP coverage.
a.	Superannuation retirement with at least 15 years of credited service (20 years of credited service if retired on or after July 1, 2008) in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems, except that
(1)	an employee who leaves State employment prior to superannuation age and subsequently retires at or after superannuation age must have 25 years of credited service in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems,
(2)	an employee who is furloughed prior to superannuation age and subsequently retires at or after superannuation age during the recall period must have 15 or more years of credited service (20 or more years of credited service if retired on or after July 1, 2008) in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems,
(3)	an employee who leaves State employment prior to superannuation age and is subsequently rehired and then retires at or after superannuation age must have 15 or more years of credited service (20 or more years of credited service if retired on or after July 1, 2008) in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems with at least three years of credited service from the most recent date of reemployment. However, if the departure from State employment was due to furlough and the employee returns during the recall period, this three year requirement will not apply. If the employee had qualified, other than through disability retirement, for Employer paid coverage in the REHP prior to the most recent rehire period, this three year requirement will not apply.
(4)	an employee who leaves State employment subsequent to superannuation age and is subsequently rehired and then retires must have 15 or more years of credited service (20 or more years of credited service if retired on or after July 1, 2008) in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems with at least three years of credited service from the most recent date of reemployment. However, if the departure from State employment was due to furlough and the employee returns during the recall period, this three year requirement will not apply. If the employee had qualified, other than through disability retirement, for Employer paid coverage in the REHP prior to the most recent rehire period, this three year requirement will not apply.
b.	Disability retirement, which requires at least five years of credited service in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems, except that, if an employee had previously qualified based on an approved disability retirement, then returns and retires under a normal or early retirement, he or she must retire at or after superannuation age with 15 or more years of credited service (20 or more years of credited service if retired on or after July 1, 2008) in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems or 25 years of credited service in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems or
c.	Other retirement with at least 25 years of credited service in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems, except that an employee who leaves State employment, is subsequently rehired and retires must have at least 25 years of credited service in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems with at least three years of credited service from the most recent date of reemployment. However, if the departure from State employment was due to furlough and the employee returns during the recall period, this three year requirement will not apply. If the employee had qualified, other than through disability retirement, for Employer paid coverage in the REHP prior to the most recent rehire period, this three year requirement will not apply.
G.	When an employee dies as a result of a work-related accident, the Fund shall
continue to provide medical plan benefits and supplemental benefits, as determined and extended by the Fund, to the spouse and eligible dependents of the employee until the spouse remarries or becomes eligible for coverage under another employer's health plan. Annual certification of non-coverage will be required.
The medical plan benefits and supplemental benefits will be converted to the REHP at the time when the employee would have reached age 60.
ARTICLE 21
LIFE INSURANCE
A.	The Employer shall continue to pay the entire cost of insurance coverage for eligible employees as set forth in the currently existing life insurance plan as modified by Section B. The amount of the life insurance coverage shall be equivalent to the employee's annual salary (nearest $1,000) as of January 1 each year but not to exceed $40,000. The adjustment to the proper amount shall be accomplished effective on January l of each year.
An employee who attains age 70 while insured will have the amount of his insurance reduced to 65% effective the date he turns age 70. The amount of insurance will be reduced to 50% on the date the insured individual reaches age 75.
B.	Full-time employees who are granted sick leave without pay or parental
leave without pay will continue to receive l00% State-paid coverage under the current life insurance plan for up to six months. Full-time employees who remain on sick or parental leave without pay for longer than six months may remain in the program for an additional six month period by paying the entire premium. Full-time employees who are granted family care leave will continue to receive 100% State-paid coverage under the current life insurance plan for up to 12 weeks. Full-time employees who are granted injury leave (paid and unpaid) will continue to receive 100% State-paid coverage under the current life insurance plan for up to 12 months or, if only paid leave is used, beyond 12 months until the paid leave is exhausted. Those full-time employees who are placed on suspension or who
are granted leave without pay for any reason other than sickness, parental, family care or injury leave for longer than one full pay period may remain in the program for up to one year by paying the entire premium.
C.	The Employer shall provide each employee who is covered under the currently existing life insurance plan with fully paid accidental death benefits for work-related accidental deaths. The amount of coverage will be $10,000.
ARTICLE 22
WORK-RELATED INJURIES
A.	An employee who sustains a work-related injury during the period of this Agreement as a result of which he/she is disabled, if so determined by a decision issued under the operation of the Workers' Compensation Program, shall be entitled to use accumulated sick, annual, or personal leave or injury leave without pay. While using accumulated leave, the employee will be paid a supplement to workers' compensation of full pay reduced by an amount that yields a net pay, including workers' compensation and social security disability benefits, that is equal to the employee's net pay immediately prior to the injury. Net pay prior to the injury is defined as gross base pay minus federal, state and local withholding, unemployment compensation tax, social security and retirement contributions. One full day of accumulated leave (7.5 hours) will be charged for each day the supplement is paid. Accumulated leave and injury leave without pay may be used for an aggregate of 12 months or for the duration of the disability, whichever is the lesser, except that, if only accumulated leave is used, it may be used beyond 12 months until exhausted or until the disability ceases, whichever occurs sooner. In no case will the aggregate of 12 months extend beyond three years from the date the injury occurred. If no leave is available under this Section, the provisions of Section L may apply.
The employee election to use or not use accumulated leave under this Section cannot be changed more than once.
B.	An employee who works a reduced number of hours (part-time) due to partial disability may use leave in accordance with Section A. Pay for accumulated leave used will be calculated in accordance with Section A, based on the net amount of lost earnings.
C.	Retirement credited service for the period of time that the employee is using leave under this Article shall be determined in accordance with the State Employees' Retirement Code.
D.	At the expiration of the leave under Section A, if an employee continues to receive workers' compensation, the employee will be placed on leave without pay in accordance with Section G below and will not be entitled to receive state-paid coverage for life insurance and state payments toward coverage for health benefits.
E.	An employee is required to refund to the Employer the amount of any overpayment. In no case shall an employee be entitled to full pay and workers' compensation and/or social security for the same period. The Employer shall recover any amount in excess of the paid supplement to workers' compensation as described in Section A. Failure to apply for or report social security or other applicable disability benefits to the Employer will result in the termination of the leave under Section A.
F.	State-paid coverage for life insurance and state payments toward coverage
for health benefits as provided in Articles 20 and 21 and contributions to the Health and Welfare Fund in accordance with Article 19 will continue for the period of time that the employee is on leave under Sections A and L.
G.	An employee has the right to return to a position in the same or equivalent classification held before being disabled, for a period of up to three years from the date the injury occurred provided the employee is fully capable of performing the duties of that position, subject to the furlough provisions of Article 9, Furloughs, Hiring, Promotions, Demotions, Rehiring and Transfers. This guarantee expires if the disability ceases prior to the expiration of the three year period and the employee does not return to work immediately or if the employee retires or otherwise terminates employment. During the period of time between the end of the leave under Section A or Sections K or L where applicable, and the end of the guarantee in this Section, the employee will be on leave without pay.
During the three-year period, employees who are not fully capable of performing the duties of their position shall have, upon request, a right to return to an available position in a lower classification to which there are no seniority claims and which the agency intends to fill, provided the employee meets the minimum requirements and qualifications essential to the work of the classification and the employee is fully capable of performing the duties of the position. If an employee returns to a position in a lower classification, the employee will be demoted in accordance with the Commonwealth's Personnel Rules, but shall maintain the right to return to a position in the same or equivalent classification held before being disabled, for a period of up to three years from the date the injury occurred, provided the employee is fully capable of performing the duties of that position, subject to the furlough provisions of Article 9, Furloughs, Hiring, Promotions, Demotions, Rehiring and Transfers.
Disabled employees receiving workers' compensation will be notified 90 days prior to the expiration of the three year period. The notification will include information concerning the employee's right to apply for disability retirement, if eligible. If the employee does not receive 90 days notice, the employee's right to return will not be extended. However, the leave without pay will be extended for 90 days from the date of notification to enable the employee, if eligible, to apply for disability retirement.
H.	The compensation for disability retirement arising out of work-related injuries shall be in accordance with the State Employees' Retirement Code.
I.	The Commonwealth agrees to the use of modified duty where the employee is able to work only in a limited capacity and the prognosis for the injury indicates that the employee will be able to resume all of the duties of the employee's classification in a reasonable period of time. The Employer may terminate a modified duty assignment when it becomes apparent that the employee will not be able to resume the full duties of the employee's classification within a reasonable period of time.
Under the modified duty concept, the employee will be retained without loss of pay or status. The Employer may assign the employee duties outside their classification and bargaining unit. To facilitate the implementation of modified duty assignments, schedule and assignment changes may be implemented as soon as practicable. If the employee is unable to resume all of the duties of the employee's classification within a reasonable period of time, the Employer may demote or laterally reclassify the employee to an appropriate classification, taking into account the duties and responsibilities the employee is capable of performing and subject to the protections afforded by Federal and State Statutes.
J.	An employee who sustains a work-related injury, during the period of this Agreement, if so determined by a decision issued under the operation of the Workers' Compensation Program, may use sick, annual, or personal leave for the purpose of continued medical treatment of the work-related injury in accordance with Articles 16, 17, and 18. If no paid leave is available, an employee may use leave without pay. Each absence shall not exceed the minimum amount of time necessary to obtain the medical treatment. Employees shall make reasonable efforts to schedule medical appointments during nonwork hours or at times that will minimize absence from work. Verification of the length of the medical appointment may be required. This Section is not applicable to any absence for which workers' compensation is payable. When workers' compensation is payable, the provisions of Section A shall apply.
K.	An employee who sustained a work-related injury prior to August 5, 2002 shall be covered by the provisions of Article 22, Work-Related Injuries, of the Agreement between the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and UFCW effective July 1, 1993 through June 30, 1996. An employee who is disabled and unable to work due to a recurrence of such injury on or after August 5, 2002, but within 3 years from the date the injury occurred shall be entitled to use accumulated leave and injury leave without pay while disabled for a period of up to 12 months in accordance with Section A of this Agreement. The 12 month period shall be reduced by any work-related disability leave used in accordance with Section A of Article 22, Work-Related Injuries of the Agreement effective July 1, 1993 to June 30, 1996. If no leave is available under this Section, the provisions of Section L may apply.
L.	An employee who is disabled due to a recurrence of a work-related injury after three years from the date the injury occurred, or before three years if the leave entitlement in Section A or K has been depleted, shall be entitled to use accumulated leave and injury leave without pay while disabled for a period of up to 12 weeks. To be eligible to use injury leave without pay, the employee must have been at work at least 1250 hours within the previous 12 months. The 12 week period will be reduced by any other leave used
within the previous 12 months that was designated as leave under the provisions of the Family and Medical Leave Act. If only accumulated leave is used, it may be used beyond 12 weeks until exhausted or until the disability ceases, whichever occurs sooner. While using accumulated leave, the leave will be charged and paid in accordance with Section A. This Section applies to injuries sustained before, on, or after the date of signing of this Agreement.
M.	It is understood by both parties that the provisions of this Article are consistent with the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, USC Section 2601 et seq. and that leave granted in accordance with Sections A, K, and L shall be designated as leave under the provisions of the Act.
N.	It is understood by both parties that the provisions of this Article are consistent with the Americans with Disabilities Act.
ARTICLE 23
MISCELLANEOUS WORKING CONDITIONS
A.	Employer agrees to furnish bib-style aprons to be worn by employees when performing required maintenance and janitorial type duties for which normal street wear is not appropriate.
B.	Any employee handling cash shall be held responsible for any shortage (cash
or cash equivalent) provided:
1.	The employee is given his own register till.
2.	The employee must be given the opportunity to count his own cash at the beginning and close of his shift, and given the register readings that are taken at the beginning and close of his shift.
3.	Only the employee is empowered to ring up on the cash drawer for which the employee is responsible.
4.	The employee is provided with a means of locking the cash drawer when the register is unattended.
C.	All time during which an employee is required by the Employer to be on duty or present on Employer's premises shall be considered hours worked and will be properly recorded on time sheets.
D.	In cases regarding alleged theft of cash or merchandise, local union representatives shall be afforded the opportunity to be present when a bargaining unit member is accused of involvement.
E.	No employee shall be held financially responsible for unexplained losses or breakage to Employer's inventory. Employees in subwarehouses shall not be held responsible for accidental losses due to damaged equipment. The Employer shall not hold any employee responsible for losses resulting from robberies unless the employee is implicated therein or unless the employee's actions are in violation of established cash handling procedures and/or established store procedures.
Nothing herein shall be construed to require employees to jeopardize their own safety or the safety of other employees.
F.	A signature on any form shall not constitute an admission against any employee's interest in connection with disciplinary action. Disciplinary action must be for just cause.
G.	Meetings between representatives of the Union and the Employer will be held at the agency and/or appropriate local level to discuss problems of mutual concern dealing with the implementation of this Agreement or other labor-management problems that may arise. A meeting may be scheduled if either party submits a proper agenda for discussion and the parties agree as to the need for a meeting and the appropriate individuals to attend. When these individuals are Commonwealth employees who are required to attend the meeting during working hours, they shall be granted time off with pay.
H.	In the event the Public Employe Relations Act is amended during the term of this Agreement, the parties agree to negotiate concerning the Amendments to determine whether or not this Agreement should be amended to incorporate changes permitted by the amendments to the Act. It is clearly understood that the provisions of Article 25, Strikes and Lockouts shall remain in full force and effect during the time that this Agreement is reopened for negotiations under this Section.
I.	Employees shall be eligible for Military Leave as provided by Title 38, U. S. Code and the Personnel Rules, Sections 8.71, 8.72 and 8.131-8.138 as set forth in Addendum B.
J.	A statewide safety committee comprised of three (3) employee representatives and three (3) representatives of the Employer shall be established to meet at the request of the Union, for the purpose of discussing issues affecting the safety of employees.
K.	A statewide committee comprised of one representative each from the Office of Administration, the Liquor Control Board and the Union shall be established to discuss pay problems or employees' pay checks. This committee will meet at the request of either the Liquor Control Board or the Union.
ARTICLE 24
UNION STEWARDS, ENFORCEMENT OF STANDARDS AND UNION STORE EMBLEM
A.	The Union will use its best efforts to secure as stewards a high caliber of employee. The Union will furnish the Employer a complete list of stewards, and will notify the Employer of any changes.
B.	Union stewards will have superseniority for purposes of furlough, transfer, and vacation selection under this Agreement. The steward will not be transferred without agreement of the local union.
C.	The Union, through advice, instruction and example will attempt to maintain the highest standard of work.
D.	The Union will furnish to the Employer at least one official Union emblem for each of the Employer's stores and/or sub-warehouses to be displayed in the customer area or in a predominant place in the warehouse. Such emblem shall remain the property of and shall be surrendered to the Union on demand.
E.	Each member of the Union covered under this Agreement shall be entitled to wear prominently upon his person an official Union button designating his affiliation with his union. The button shall not be detrimental to the labor management relationship nor of a political or controversial nature.
F.	The stewards and/or other individuals covered hereby shall not be presumed to be agents of the Union for the purpose of calling strikes or slowdowns.
G.	The term "Steward" and advantages derived thereof shall apply to Field Stewards, Shop Stewards and Executive Board members of each participating local Union covered under this Collective Bargaining Agreement up to a statewide maximum of 75 people, of whom no more than five shall be regular part-time employees.
H.	The Employer shall not discriminate against a Steward or any other member because of his or her Union membership.
ARTICLE 25
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
A.	During the term of this Agreement, the grievance and arbitration procedures of this Agreement shall be the means of resolving any dispute or claim raised by an employee or the Union over the application or administration of this Agreement; and administrative and judicial remedies shall be the means of resolving any other dispute or claim raised by an employee or the Union. Accordingly, there shall not be any strike, slowdown, suspension of work, limitation on or curtailment of production; and there shall be no lockout of employees over a labor dispute with the Union.
B.	Both the Employer and the Union recognize the serious detriment to operations and employment which would result from a violation of the no-strike provisions of this Agreement, and accordingly, there shall be cooperation between the parties to end any such activity and then to determine the cause of it.
ARTICLE 26
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
A.	In the event that any provisions of this Agreement are found to be inconsistent with existing statutes or ordinances, the provisions of such statutes or ordinances shall prevail, and if any provision herein shall be found to be invalid and unenforceable by a court or other authority having jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered void, but all other valid provisions shall remain in full force and effect.
B.	The Commonwealth and the Union acknowledge that this Agreement represents the results of collective negotiations between said parties conducted under and in accordance with the provisions of the Public Employe Relations Act and constitutes the entire Agreement between the parties for the duration of the life of said Agreement.
C.	In the event that any provision of this Agreement requires legislative action to become effective, including but not limited to the amendment of existing statutes, the adoption of new legislation, or the granting of appropriations, it shall become effective only if such legislative action is taken. The parties, however, mutually agree to make recommendations to the Legislature which may be necessary to give force and effect to the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 27
STORE CLOSING
A.	The Employer shall give the Union twenty (20) working days notice in advance in writing in the event it intends to close permanently or dispose of any store, except for the permanent closing of a store that is to be replaced by a new store or the permanent closing of a store due to fire or natural disaster.
The parties agree to meet after the notice has been given to discuss the effect of the store closing on employees.
B.	This Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto and the heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns of each.
C.	This Agreement shall be binding upon any person, firm or corporation, whether it is a successor to the Employer or not, and whether or not it conducts its business under the same name or a different name (whether through purchase of assets or stock, or otherwise) if it is operating essentially or substantially the same business or a part or subdivision thereof, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, using the same or similar premises and/or working force.
D.	It is understood and agreed that the Commonwealth shall, in the event of the disposition of all or part of the State Store operations as defined in any fashion in this clause, advise prospective buyers that this contract is binding in its entirety upon them for the duration of its term.
ARTICLE 28
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
If any provision of this Agreement is in conflict with Federal Executive Orders 11246 and 11375, as amended, and the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and all laws and rules relating to the Commonwealth's Equal Employment Opportunity program, the provisions of such orders, laws and rules shall prevail.
ARTICLE 29 STORE SECURITY
A.	The Employer agrees to provide such security (including the employment of armed guards) as may be necessary to minimize the exposure of employees to bodily harm in stores where armed robbery and violence are presently or in the future become a continuing problem. The provisions of this Article shall be implemented as soon as practicable. It is understood that disputes under this Section shall go directly to final binding arbitration.
B.	In stores where security concerns are present, the Employer may choose not to schedule employees for a meal period as provided in Article 12. Where this option is exercised, it will apply to all employees in the store.
ARTICLE 30 PRESERVATION OF BARGAINING UNIT WORK
A.	Managerial and supervisory employees will not be assigned to perform bargaining unit work so as to cause the layoff, downgrading, or prevention of the return to work of an available competent employee. This Article will not be construed to prevent managerial and supervisory employees from performing bargaining unit work for the purpose of assisting in emergency situations or lending an occasional hand. This Article shall not apply to any store or situation where operational requirements demand that there be a co-mingling of Liquor Store Manager and Liquor Store Clerk duties in order to operate and provide adequate services to the public.
B.	Definition of Bargaining Unit Work: The following definition specifically excludes all matters set forth in the "Management Rights Article" of this Agreement.
All work and services connected with or incidental to the handling or selling of merchandise offered for sale to the public in the Employer's retail or wholesale establishments covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 31
POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE DEDUCTIONS
A.	The Employer agrees to deduct from the paycheck of employees covered by this Agreement voluntary contributions to the Union's Political Action Committee. The Employer shall make such deductions only in accordance with the written authorization of respective employees which shall specify the amount and frequency of the deductions.
B.	The Employer shall transmit the monies deducted in accordance with this Article to the Union's Political Action Committee in accordance with the procedures agreed to by the Employer and the Union.
C.	The Union shall reimburse the Employer for the Employer's actual cost for the expenses incurred in administering this Article.
D.	The Union shall indemnify and hold the Commonwealth harmless against any and all claims, suits, orders, or judgments brought or issued against the Employer as a result of the action taken or not taken by the Employer under the provisions of this Article.
ARTICLE 32
FAMILY CARE LEAVE
A.	After completing one year of service, employees shall be granted, upon written request, up to 12 weeks of leave without pay in a calendar year for the purpose of attending to the medical needs of a spouse, parent, son or daughter or other person qualifying as a dependent. If employees have not completed one year of service since their most recent date of hire, they shall be eligible for the benefit if they have worked at least 1250 hours within the last twelve months.
Leave for this purpose may be taken one day at a time if necessary. Leave shall be approved for less than one day at a time when medically necessary due to a serious health condition as defined in the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993.
The request, which shall be submitted at least two weeks in advance if circumstances permit, must include documentation supporting the need for family care leave.
B.	State-paid coverage for life insurance and state payments toward coverage
for health benefits as provided in Articles 20 and 21 will continue for the period of time the employee is on family care leave under Section A of this Article.
C.	It is understood that the twelve week entitlement under Section A above may not be extended.
D.	Employees will not be required to use accumulated annual and/or personal leave prior to taking family care leave without pay.
E.	An employee shall have the right to return to the same position in the same classification held before going on family care elave, or to an equivalent position with regard to pay and skill.
F.	For the purpose of this Article, parent shall be defined as the biological parent of the employee or an individual who stood in loco parentis to an employee when the employee was a son or daughter.
For the purpose of this Article, son or daughter shall be defined as a biological, adopted, or foster child, a step-child, a legal ward, or a child of a person standing in loco parentis who is
1.	under 18 years of age; or
2.	18 years of age or older and incapable of self-care because of a
mental or physical disability.
G.	It is understood by both parties that the provisions of this Article are consistent with the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, 29 USC Section 2601 et seq. and that leave granted in accordance with this Article shall be designated as leave under the
provisions of the Act.
H.	For the purpose of this Article, the calendar year shall be defined as beginning with the employee's first full pay period commencing on or after January 1 and continuing through the end of the employee's pay period that includes December 31.
ARTICLE 33
LEAVE DONATION PROGRAM
A.	Effective January 1, 2004, the Commonwealth will implement and administer a Leave Donation Program. Permanent employees may donate annual and personal leave to a designated permanent employee in the employee’s agency who has used all accrued and anticipated paid leave for the current leave calendar year. The leave is to be used for the recipient’s own catastrophic injury or illness or for the catastrophic injury or illness of a family member. The leave also may be used as bereavement leave if the employee’s family member dies and the employee has no accrued or anticipated sick leave available, subject to the limitations of Article 18, Section F.
B.	Recipients
1.	Recipients must be permanent employees in bargaining units that have agreed to participate in this program.
2.	Family member is defined as a husband, wife, child, step-child, or parent of the employee or any other person qualifying as a dependent under IRS eligibility criteria.
3.	A catastrophic illness or injury that poses a direct threat to life or to the vital function of major bodily systems or organs, and would cause the employee to take leave without pay or terminate employment, must be documented on a Family and Medical Leave Act Serious Health Condition Certification form. Donated leave may not be used for work-related injuries or illnesses, minor illnesses, injuries, or impairments, sporadic, short-term recurrences of chronic, non-life threatening conditions, short-term absences due to contagious diseases, or short-term recurring medical or therapeutic treatments, except for conditions such as those listed above.
4.	The absence due to the catastrophic illness or injury of the employee or a family member must be for more than 20 workdays in the current leave calendar year. The 20-workday absence may be accumulated on an intermittent basis if properly documented as related to the same catastrophic illness or injury. Annual, personal, sick (for employee’s own serious health condition), sick family (for the serious health condition of a family member), holiday, compensatory, or unpaid leave may be used during the accumulation period. A separate accumulation period must be met for each catastrophic illness or injury and for each leave calendar year in which donated leave is used. Donated leave may not be applied to the required 20-workday
accumulation period.
5.	All accrued leave must be used as follows before any donation may be received:
a.	For an employee’s own catastrophic injury or illness, all accrued annual, sick, personal, holiday, and compensatory leave and all anticipated annual and sick leave for the current leave calendar year must be used.
b.	For the catastrophic injury or illness of a family member, all accrued annual, personal, holiday, and compensatory leave and all anticipated annual leave for the current leave calendar year must be used. All five days of sick family leave and any additional sick family leave for which the employee is eligible must be used.
6.	Up to 12 weeks of donated leave per leave calendar year may be received for all conditions of the employee and family members cumulatively, but donations may not be received in more than two consecutive leave calendar years. Donated leave is added to the recipient’s sick leave balance on a biweekly basis. Recipients do not repay the donor for donated leave. Leave usage is monitored closely to ensure that donated leave is used only for absences related to the catastrophic illness or injury.
7.	The recipient’s entitlement to leave under the Family and Medical Leave Act will be reduced by donated leave that is used. Entitlements to sick leave without pay (for an employee’s own illness) or family care leave without pay (for a family member’s illness) will also be reduced.
8.	Donated leave may be used on an intermittent basis. However, each absence may be required to be medically documented as due to the same catastrophic illness or injury.
9.	An employee is not eligible to receive donations of leave if, during the previous six months, the employee has been placed on a written leave restriction, or has received a written reprimand or suspension related to attendance.
10.	Donated leave that remains unused once the employee is released by the physician for full-time work, when the family member’s condition no longer requires the employee’s absence, or at the end of the leave calendar year, must be returned to the donors in inverse order of donation. However, if at the end of the year, the absence is expected to continue beyond the greater of 20 workdays or the amount of annual and sick leave that could be earned and used in the following leave calendar year, donated leave may be carried into the next year.
C.
Donors
1.	A donor may voluntarily donate annual and personal leave to an employee within the donor’s agency who meets the requirements of the Leave Donation Program. Donations may be made to multiple employees, as long as the minimum donation is made to each employee.
2.	Donations must be made in increments of one day (7.5 hours), but not more than five days can be donated to any one employee in the same leave calendar year. The donor’s annual leave balance after donation cannot be less than the equivalent of five workdays of leave (37 ^ hours). Anticipated personal leave may not be donated.
3.	The donation is effected by the completion and submission of a Request to Donate Leave to the agency Human Resource Office. Leave is deducted from the donor’s annual and/or personal leave balance at the time of donation and transferred to the recipient in order by the date and time the Request to Donate Leave form is received.
4.	Unused donations are returned to the donor if: the recipient or family member recovers, dies, or separates before the donor’s leave is used; or if the recipient does not use the leave by the end of the leave calendar year, and is expected to either return to work within 20 workdays or to have sufficient anticipated leave available in the new year to cover the absence. In accordance with Section 1 above, an employee whose family member dies and who does not have accrued or anticipated sick leave available, may use donated leave as bereavement leave, subject to the limitations in Article 18, Section F.
D. The provisions of this Article are not grievable under Article 7 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 34
TERM OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall be effective July 1, 2003, except as otherwise specified and shall continue in full force and effect up to and including June 30, 2007. Either party may terminate the Agreement at its expiration date or thereafter by a letter dispatched in such a manner as to permit the parties to comply with the collective bargaining schedule established under the Public Employe Relations Act.
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL
Edward G. Rendell, Governor
Jonathan Newman, Chairman
P/Vtietfor Control Board
WORKERS UNION
Ronald Lenhart. President Local 23
Patrick J. Stapleton. Board Member PA Liquor Control Board
Thoma^F Goldsmith, Board Member PA Liquor Control Board
60
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION
61
ADDENDUM A
LOCAL UNION COUNTY JURISDICTION
LOCAL 1776
1.	ADAMS	16.	DELAWARE *	31.	MONTOUR
2.	BEDFORD	17.	FRANKLIN	32.	NORTHAMPTON
3.	BERKS	18.	FULTON	33.	NORTHUMBERLAND
4.	BLAIR	19.	HUNTINGDON	34.	PERRY
5.	BRADFORD	20.	JEFFERSON	35.	PHILADELPHIA
6.	BUCKS	21.	JUNIATA	36.	PIKE
7.	CAMBRIA	22.	LACKAWANNA	37.	SCHUYLKILL
8.	CARBON	23.	LANCASTER	38.	SNYDER
9.	CHESTER *	24.	LEBANON	39.	SULLIVAN
10.	CENTRE	25.	LEHIGH	40.	SUSQUEHANNA
11.	CLEARFIELD	26.	LUZERNE	41.	TIOGA
12.	CLINTON	27.	LYCOMING	42.	UNION
13.	COLUMBIA	28.	MIFFLIN	43.	WAYNE
14.	CUMBERLAND	29.	MONROE	44.	WYOMING
15.	DAUPHIN	30.	MONTGOMERY	45.	YORK
VOCAL 23					
1.	ALLEGHENY	9.	ERIE	17.	POTTER
2.	ARMSTRONG	10.	FAYETTE	18.	SOMERSET
3.	BEAVER	11.	FORREST	19.	VENANGO
4.	BUTLER	12.	GREEN	20.	WARREN
5.	CAMERON	13.	INDIANA	21.	WASHINGTON
6.	CLARION	14.	LAWRENCE	22.	WESTMORELAND
7.	CRAWFORD	15.	MCKEAN		
8.	ELK	16.	MERCER		
LOCAL 27					
I.	CHESTER ♦				
2.	DELAWARE^*				
Jurisdiction in this county is divided among two locals.
62
ADDENDUM B
PERSONNEL RULES, CHAPTER i MILITARY LEAVE
MILITARY LEAVE WITH PAY
8.71.	Military Reserve.
(a)	Under Section 1 of the act of July 12, 1935 (P.L. 677, No. 255) (65 P.S. 114), a permanent employee of the Commonwealth who is a member of Reserve Components of the Armed Forces of the United States is entitled to military leave with compensation for all types of training duty ordered or authorized by the Armed Forces of the United States. Such training duty may either be active or inactive duty training and shall include but is not limited to the following:
(1)	Annual active duty for training.
(2)	Attendance at service schools.
(3)	Basic training.
(4)	Short tours of active duty for special projects.
(5)	Attendance at military conferences and participation in any command post
exercise or maneuver which is separate from annual active duty for training or inactive duty training.
(b)	For military training duty as provided under Subsection (a), the maximum military leave with compensation shall be 15 working days per calendar year.
(c)	The rate of compensation for a military leave day is the employee's regular compensation for the employee's regular classification, subject to conditions established by the Secretary of Administration through the Directives Management System relating to temporary assignments in higher classifications.
(d)	For purposes of entitlement and use of military leave, the calendar year shall begin with the first full pay period in January and continue through the end of the pay period in which December 31 falls.
8.72.	Pennsylvania National Guard.
(a)	Under 51 Pa. C.S. 4102 (relating to leaves of absence for certain government employees) a permanent employee of the Commonwealth who is a member of the Pennsylvania National Guard is entitled to military leave with compensation for all types of training duty (active and inactive) or other military duty ordered or authorized by the Armed Forces of the United States. Such duty shall include, but is not limited to, the following:
63
(1)	Annual active duty for training
(2)	Attendance at service schools.
(3)	Basic training.
(4)	Short tours of active duty for special projects.
(5)	Attendance at military conferences and participation in a command post exercise or maneuver which is separate from annual active duty for training or inactive duty training.
(6)	Other military duty.
(b)	For military training duty or other military duty as provided in Subsection (a), the maximum military' leave with compensation is 15 working days per calendar year.
(c)	Military leave with compensation shall also be granted to a member of the Pennsylvania National Guard on a working day during which, as a member of the Pennsylvania National Guard, the member is engaged in the active service of the Commonwealth as ordered by the Governor.
(d)	The rate of compensation for a military leave day is the employee's regular compensation for the employee's regular classification, subject to conditions established by the Secretary of Administration through the Directives Management System relating to temporary assignment in higher classifications.
(e)	For purposes of entitlement and use of military leave, the calendar year shall begin with the first full pay period in January and continue through the end of the pay period in which December 31 falls.
MILITARY LI ,AY E VVITHOl I PAY
8.131.	General.
(a)	Employees of the Commonwealth who leave their jobs for the performance of duty, voluntarily or involuntarily, in any branch of the Armed Forces of the United States, any of its Reserve components, any of its National Guard components, or the commissioned corps of the Public Health Service for the purpose of training or service must be granted military leave without pay. The provisions of §§8.131 through 8.137 are consistent with Chapter 43, Part HI, of Title 38 United States Code and Military Code; 51 Pa.C.S. §7301 et seq.
(b)	Employees who are on military leave without pay shall have their duties performed either by remaining employees and their posimms kept vacant or by temporary substitutes.
64
8.132.	Granting, Duration, and Expiration.
(a)	Military leave without pay must be granted for the following military service:
(1)	For all active duty (including full-time National Guard duty).
(2)	For initial active duty for training.
(3)	For other active or inactive military training duty. Employees who volunteer for additional duty not required as part of routine training shall provide four weeks notice if possible to their immediate supervisor prior to the commencement of such duty.
(b)	Military leave without pay is available for five years plus any involuntary service during wartime or national emergency. The five years is cumulative throughout employment with the Commonwealth.
(c)	Military leave without pay shall expire:
(1)	For periods of more than 180 days, no more than 90 days after the completion of the service.
(2)	For periods of service of more than 30 days but less than 181 days, no more than 14 days after the completion of the service.
(3)	For periods of service that were less than 31 days, the first full regularly scheduled work period following the period of service or up to eight hours after an opportunity to return from the place of service to the employee's home.
(4)	For periods of hospitalization or convalescence from illness or injury incurred during the period of service, up to two years after the period of service or when recovered, whichever occurs sooner.
(5)	For circumstances beyond an employee's control, the above periods may be extended upon demonstration of such circumstance.
8.133.	Reemployment.
Employees have the right to return to employment at the time of or prior to the expiration of military leave upon notifying the agency head of the desire and availability to return to Commonwealth service, provided the following are met:
(1)	The employee is capable of performing the essential functions of the position,
65
(2)	For temporary employees, the temporary position has not yet expired.
(3)	For periods of service delineated in §8.132 (c)(1), (2) and (4), written application for reemployment is provided to the agency head.
8.134.	Retirement rights.
Employees who are granted military leaves may, under conditions provided in the Military Code (51 P.S. 7306) and Chapter 43, Part ID, of Title 38 United States Code, and in accordance with procedures prescribed by the State Employees’ Retirement System and the Public School Employees' Retirement System, choose either to continue or discontinue making regular payments into their retirement accounts.
8.135.	Loss of benefits.
Employees who are separated from the service by a discharge under other than honorable conditions, bad conduct, or dishonorable discharge shall not be entitled to any of the benefits of Sections 8.131-8.136 of this Chapter (relating to military leaves with pay) except such vested rights Ssrthey may have acquired thereto by virtue of payments into retirement accounts.
8.136.	Annual, Sick, and Personal Leave.
Employees who are granted military leaves for active duty may be paid for annual and personal leave, or may have annual and personal leave frozen. Sick leave earned and not used at the time of entry into the Armed Forces will be available to employees upon return to work. Employees shall not earn annual, sick, or personal leave while on military leave without pay.
8.137.	Physical Examination.
Employees shall be granted one day of administrative leave with pay to take any physical examination required in connection with entering the Armed Forces. An extension of such paid leave, not to exceed two additional days, may be approved by the agency if the employee certifies in writing that more than one day is required to complete the examination.
8.138.	Guidelines for Benefits Continuation.
Guidelines established by the Secretary of Administration regarding state-paid benefits while on military leave without pay and continuation of state-provided benefits at employees' expense are published through the Directives Management System. (Reference Management Directive 530.26, Benefit Entitlements for Employees on Military Leave.)
66
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA EXECUTIVE OFFICE OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATION (717) 787-5514
ADDENDUM C
BUREAU OF LABOR RELATIONS 404 Finance Building Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 17120 FAX » 783-0430
November 8, 1993
Wendell Young III, President United Food and Commercial Workers 3031 Walton Road
Norristown, Pa. 19401
Dear Mr. Young:
The parties agree that the provision contained in Article 11 , Salaries and Wages which states, "The Employer will be able to appoint above the minimum rate. Employes who are appointed above the minimum will be frozen at that rate until they have the service required to move to the next step" will be implemented as follows:
The Liquor Control Board will request approval from the Office of Administration to establish an above the minimum hiring rate in a county for a specific period of time not to exceed one year. If the above minimum rate is approved, the Office of Administration will notify the Union.
The Union may grieve alleged abuse of the Employer's decision to implement an above the minimum rate in a county.
No employe who was hired prior to the establishment of an above the minimum hiring rate will receive a pay increase based upon the implementation of an above the minimum hiring rate. No grievance may be filed on behalf of any employe over the employe's rate of pay based upon hiring above the minimum rate in any county.
Sincerely,
Robert J. Bray, Jr., Esq.
Special Labor Relations Counsel
cc: Secretary Joseph L. Zazyczny Gerald A. LeClaire Charles T. Sciotto Ron Rowe
67
ADDENDUM D
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA GOVERNOR’S OFFICE OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATION P.O. Box IJ2J Harmburg, Pa. 17120
August 25, 1978
Mr. Wendell W. Young President Retail Clerks Union Local 1357 210 E. Courtland Street Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19120
Dear Mr. Young:
This is to advise you of the Commonwealth's position in regard
to breaks.
It is recognized that the ability to have a break from con-
tinuous counter services may not be uniformly applied in all scores. When this poses a significant problem, it is agreed to jointly investigate and attempt resolution of the problems on a store-by-store basis.
neerely
J. W. McMullen
Bureau of Labor Relations
68
ADDENDUM E
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
EXECUTIVE OFFICES
HARRISBURG
NANCY OERING MARTIN DEPUTY SECRETARY FOR human RESOURCES ANO MANAGEMENT
August 1,2002
Wendell Young, III
President
United Food and Commercial Workers 3031-A Walton Road, Suite 201
Plymouth Meeting, PA 19462
Dear Mr. Young:
The following represents an agreement between the Liquor Control Board and the United Food and Commercial Workers Union regarding the Board’s policy on disciplining probationary employees:
It is agreed that, for the sole purpose of progressive discipline, probationary employees will not be treated under the accelerated discipline policy after they have completed six (6) months of service from their date of hire, unless adjusted for non-compensable time off work.
If you concur with this understanding, please sign the enclosed copy and return it to the Bureau of Labor Relations.
copy: Secretary Fritz Bittenbender Donald O. Adams
Carol S. Scott
Sheryl Saxe-Dow ling
Larry Toth
Robert Koch
69
ADDENDUM F
NANCY BERING MARTIN
DEPUTY SECRETARY FOR
HUMAN RESOURCES ANO MANAGEMENT
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA EXECUTIVE OFFICES HARRISBURG
March 24, 2004
Mr. Wendell W. Young. Ill
President
United Food and Commercial Workers
3031 A Walton Road, Suite 201
Plymouth Meeting, PA 19462
Dear Mr. Young:
If the PLCB experiences retention difficulties during the term of this Agreement, the parties will meet and discuss solutions that will insure the equitable treatment of current employees.
If you are in agreement with the above understanding, please sign below.
copy: Secretary' Robert Barnett
Donald O. Adams
Sheryl Saxe-Dowling
Robert Molin
Lori Bomman
70
ADDENDUM G
EXECUTIVE OFFICES HARRISBURG
nancy dering martin DEPUTY SECRETARY FOR HUMAN RESOURCES AND MANAGEMENT
March 24,2004
Mr. Wendell W'. Young. Ill
President
United Food and Commercial Workers
3031 A Walton Road, Suite 201
Plymouth Meeting, PA 19462
Dear Mr. Young:
The parties agree that the language in Article 12, Section B. 3. a. and b. and Article 9. Section F, second paragraph, shall not be construed to prevent the assignment of Intermittent Liquor Store Clerks to different stores within the supervisory district or county whichever is smaller for operational reasons, which are not arbitrary or capricious.
If you arc in agreement with the above understanding, please sign below.
wcndell
UFCW
copy: Secretary' Robert Barnett Donald O. Adams Sheryl Saxe-Dowling Robert Molin Lori Bomman
71
ADDENDUM H
NANCY DERING MARTIN
DEPUTY SECRETARY FOR
HUMAN RESOURCES AND MANAGEMENT
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA I EXECUTIVE OFFICES HARRISBURG
March 24. 2004
Mr. Wendell W. Young, III
President
United Food and Commercial Workers
3031 A Walton Road, Suite 201
Plymouth Meeting, PA 19462
Dear Mr. Young:
This letter reflects the agreement between the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the UFCW. PA State Store Organizing Committee, AFL-CIO concerning Article 30, Preservation of Bargaining Unit Work, Section B. of the collective bargaining agreement between the parties.
Act 212 allows the Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board (PLCB) to expand the flow of business through its Stores by offering to the public, goods that are accessory' to the use of wine. To accomplish this objective the PLCB will likely be required to give some vendors of these goods access to its Stores to do one or more of the following: set up displays; stock and re-stock the displays; "lay in" inventory; place a sample bottle of wine made or distributed by the vendor upon the display of its wine accessories; etc.
Sales of wine accessories would be made by and through PLCB employees. The PLCB will attempt to minimize the in-Store activity' of employee representatives or agents of these vendors. This agreement recognizes, however, that some vendors will not permit display of their merchandise unless the display is set up and maintained by vendor employees or agents.
The intent of this agreement is to enhance the viability and competitiveness of State Store operations to the benefit of both Parties and the Public.
In the event legislation is passed to allow the sale of spirits accessories, the parties will meet and discuss the applicability of this letter to the sale of those accessories.
72
If you are in agreement with the above understanding, please sign below .
Nancy De
am
Deputy Secretary for Human Resources and Management
Wendell W.
LJFCW
obert Barnett
copy: Secretary
Donald O. Adams Sheryl Saxe-Dowling Robert Mohn
Lori Bornman
73
ADDENDUM I
NANCY OERING MARTIN
DEPUTY SECRETARY FOR
HUMAN RESOURCES AND MANAGEMENT
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA EXECUTIVE OFFICES
HARRISBURG
March 24. 2004
Mr. Wendell W. Young, III
President
United Food and Commercial Workers
3031 A Walton Road, Suite 201
Plymouth Meeting, PA 19462
Dear Mr. Young:
District Manager secretaries are not to be assigned the work of the UFCW-represented bargaining unit. UFCW-represented employees are not to be assigned the duties of the District Manager secretaries except for occasional duties such as answering the phone. The parties recognize that the work of the District Managers secretaries is properly classified, and as such, is not appropriate to the UFCW bargaining unit.
If you are in agreement with the above understanding, please sign below.
Donald 0. Adams Sheryl Saxe-Dowling Robert Molin Lori Bomman
74|
ADDENDUM J
NANCY DERING MARTIN
DEPUTY SECRETARY TOR
HUMAN RESOURCES ANO MANAGEMENT
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA EXECUTIVE OFFICES
HARRISBURG
March 24. 2004
Mr. Wendell W. Young. Ill
President
United Food and Commercial Workers
3031 A Walton Road, Suite 201
Plymouth Meeting, PA 19462
Dear Mr. Young:
It is agreed that the Employer shall not appoint above the minimum during the period July 1. 2003 through June 30. 2004, except by agreement between the parties.
If you are in agreement with the above understanding^ please sign below .
copy: Secretary Robert Barnett
Donald O. Adams
Sheryl Saxe-Dowling
Robert Mohn
Lori Bornman
75
ADDENDUM K
NANCY OERING MARTIN
DEPUTY SECRETARY FOR
HUMAN RESOURCES ANO MANAGEMENT
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA EXECUTIVE OFFICES
HARRISBURG
March 24. 2004
Mr. Wendell W. Young, III
President
United Food and Commercial Workers
3031 A Walton Road, Suite 201
Plymouth Meeting. PA 19462
Dear Mr. Young:
It is agreed that full time employees may request vacation on an hourly basis. Such requests will be approved at the sole discretion of the Employer, subject to management's responsibility to maintain efficient operations
If you are in agreement with the above understanding, please sign below.
Sincerely.
copy: Secretary Robert Barnett Donald O. Adams
Sheryl Saxe-Dowling
Robert Molin Lori Bornman
76,