CONTRACT
between
CWA
Communications Workers of America
•	AFL-CIO
The State of New Jersey [0^4^
Primary Level Supervisory Unit July 1,1999 through June 30,2003


ARTICLE
[
n
]ej
IV
V vt
VII
VID
LX
PRIMARY LEVEL SUPERVISORS UNIT AGREEMENT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
TITLE	PAGE Na
Preamble.................................................. !
RccogtiilionofRightsandDcfinitiotis ...................... I
A.	Recognition of Uninn and Unit ....................... I
B.	Mana^cnjeuf Rights .................................. 2
C.	Definitions .................................... 2
D.	Special CircunusUinces .............................. 2
Policy Agreements ........................................ 2
A.	Ncm-Tijscriitiillation .............................. 2
B.	Dues Deduction and. Membership Information...........	3
C.	Policy Agreements, Strikes and Lockouts ............. 5
D.	Administration of Agreement ......................... $
Department of Pwstmncl Rules ............................. 6
(irievanee PfiKwhire ..................................... 6
Discipline ............................................... 13
Compensation Plan and Progri'iti ......................... 1R
A. Special Salary Program July 1, 1W9 to June 30, 2GO3..	18
R. Clotlung Mitmlenitnce Allowance ....................... 19
C.	Dental < ?arc Plan .................................. 2d
D.	Rye Cfre Program.................... ................ 2d
li. Deferred Compensation Plan ........................... 21
F. Spacial Tr:iinid<T, ................................... 2t
C. Salary Program Administration ......................... 21
IL Bonus Payincsit few Second and Third Shift ............ 22
T. Salary Adjustment for Nurses and Tcacticni''lnstntcl<3ni •	22
I.	Cooperative Effort ................................... 22
Position Reel rissi fit-til iuu and Ree valuation Reviews.	22
Hours and Overtime ....................................... 23
A. Hours of Work ......................................... 23
R. Rwl Jictd Lunch Period ................................ 2i
C Overtime ............................................... 23
D.	Policy on [.aleire*; ............... ................ 25
E.	Ol her benefits ..................................... 25
1'. Policy on Uncxcirecit Absence ........................ 25
Compensatory Time Balances ............................... 25
!
x
xi
XTT
XIII
xrv
XV
XVI xvn xvm
XTX
XX
XXI
XXII
XXlll
XXIV xxv
XXVI xxvn XXVU1
Anniversary Dates ............................................ 26
OuLof-Titic; Wort .........................................   2-6
Prvroctioii .................................................  26
Job Vesting and Ajiimunceutaita - Career Secvicc ............. 27
A- Job Posting ..............................................  27
B-	AnnounciaiienLs.........................................  27
Job Vacancy Altiiouncenents far Unclassified Employees • -	28
Department of Personnel Examinations.......................... 28
Performance Assessment Review .......................... • .	28
Holidays ....................................................  30
Special Time Off .........................   -................ 31
Retirement Benefit ..........................................  3!
Lfeohh Benefits Prograin and Prescription Drug Program ... SI
A.	Slate Health Benefits Program ........................... 31
B.	Prescription Drug Program ..............................  32
Health Insurance in Retirement ..............................  32
I.caves of Absence .........................................   33
A.	Administrative Leave-Career Service Program ............. 33
B.	Jury Duty and Witness Leave ............................  34
C.	Leave of Absence Due io Injniy (SLD ..................... 34
D.	Pregnancy-Disability Leave ..........................     34
E.	Military Ln we .........................................  35
f. Sick Leave ................................................ 36
<t. Vocation 1 <avo-C'ict*r Service Program .................  37
H. Continued Benefits- ....................................... 38
Vacation Ijcave arid Administrative Leave fur Unclassified Employees ..............................   •	-	38
Lsivcr of Absence Without Pay ..............................   3?
Union Rights nnd Representatives ............................  39
A.	Access to Picmises ...................................    39
B.	Leave of Absence for Union Activity ...................   39
G. Bulletin Boards  ...........-.............................. 40
D.	Reprcsejilufion Lisis ................................... 41
E.	Union Stewards ........•	• • -......................... 4!
F.	Union Privileges .......................................  41
(j. Inlbrmalional Poslcitfds ................................. 42
H. Membership Packets .......................................  42
Access to Personnel File ...................................   43
Seniority ..................................................   43
I ayoft'and Rccall-Caroer St'vice ............................ 44
J T .V it -
%
XXIX
XXX XXXI xxxn xxxm XXXIV
XXXV XXXVI XXXVTT XXXVIII XXXIX XL
Xlt xlh
XLIil
XLD’
Layoff and Recall fur Unclassified and Provisional Employees ................................................. 46
Uabihly Claims Indemnification............................. 47
Travel RegultHiftiw .....................................   49
Ilealfti and Safely ...................................	5£l
Claims Adjustment ........................-................ 52
Tuition Aid and EraployvcTrainrag ......................... 52
Emergency Work (New Program) .............................. 51
\^dcn Display Tenniital Operators ......................... 55
Transfer add Rcasaignmem .................................  55
Presentation of Agreerneot to Employees ................... 57
Unecnploymelit Compensation ai>d Disability...... ......... 57
Maintenance of BraeRts, EtTecI of Agreement and
Complete Agreement ........................................ 5S
A.	Maintenance of Benefits .............................. 58
B.	Effect of Agreement .................................. 58
C.	Complete Agreement ..................................  58
Preservation of Rights .................................... 5$
Effect of T.3W ............................................ 58
A.	Legislulive Action ..................................  58
B.	Savings Clause ....................................... 59
Notices ................................................... 59
Tenn of A^wcincnt and Negoli-itionsPiDL^ure ............... 59
A. Term of Agreement ...................................... 59
U. Negotiations Procedure ................................. 59
Memoriinduni ofUndcrsianduig I ........................... til
Memorandum of UnderrUnding 11 ............................ TSI
Appendix f- State Colleges Tuition Waiver Program........	62
Appendix Ik Unit Eligibility tor Intermittent Employees ....	63
Appendix UI - Side Ixttcss of Agreement .................. ti4
Appendix IV - Titles
Appendix V - Titles Eligible for Clothing AHwwc Salary Schedules
CW A i-ocal Jurisdictions
PREAMBLE
This Agreement iuaJe between the Stale of New fescy, boanufter rctoraJ to as the "State" and the CommunlcatioiK Workers of America, Primary Level Supervisors, hercinafler referred to at the ’’Union", covering employees in the Primfuy Txvei Supervisor* Unit, hi* as its purpose the improvement and promotion ot’hnrmOilie|US employee iclaiions: between the Stale and its employees repieseufod by the Union, the establishment of equitable and peaceful proccduius- [or the amicable resolution of all disrates and giicvances, and 1lie tlctctimnation of the waa.es, hours of work and other terms and conditions ofemptoymcnL
Now, therefore, in consideration of the mutual promises of tills Agreement, the parties ogrey » follows:
ARTICLE1 RECOGNITION OR EIGHTS AND DEFINITIONS A- Recognition of L'ninn auri Unit
I.	The State by the Office Of Employee Relations in foe Governor's Office hereby recognizes the Union as the exclusive representative for collective negotiations for wages, hours of writ and Other terms and conditions of employment for all its employees in the statewide Primary level Supervisors Unit. The Stale will not negotiate with nor grant rights afforded under terms Of provisions of (his Agreement to any other employee cwgaiuzation in connection with tike-employees in this unit.
2.	a. Included are all full-time permanent, career service, unclassified and provisional employees and al! permanent full-tinic ton (10) month employees (carver service. uiiclasRificd and provisionals) and pcrmanait part-time etuptayees (career service, unclassified and provisionals) who are employed <i minimum of twenty (2d) hours per week for tody (40) hour fixed workweek tides and seventeen and one half (171^) hours per week for thirty-five (35) Ijout fixed w&ilcwcek titles and who art inchided in the classifications listed in Appendix (V and Intermittent employees whose titles are listed in Appendix IV and who meet the hourly requirements as put forward in Appendix n.
b- Vii'hcfKvrT ittwclassificaticias of employees arc created, ti» State st tall assign to such clasaficaliw a unit designation, if jjppfopriate, The State will notify Ibe Union in writing of such dcsignaiian to or elimination of title tivm thia negotiations unit thirty (30) days prior to the effective dale 0 f amending such listing. 1 f requested in writing, the State wi 11 tbscus; any such desigi laituu with the Union, tn 1ltc event the parties cannot reach agreement following such discussions, the dilute may only be submitted to Ube Public Employment Relations Commission for resolution consistent with its rules and regulations.
3,	Excluded ;ire:
a.	Managerial Executives
b.	Non Primary Level Supervisors
c.	Confidential employees
d- Policemen
e. Craft and (nun-primary level supennsory) Professional employees
£ Classifications designated within uiher recognised and appropriate units
g.	Classifications •* ifoin foe Stare Colleges and UnivctsUien except those
in the Slate (follegtl Jnivereily System which are included.
1
h.	ALL other empfoyses of the State of New Jersey.
i,	AH Trit erm iuetil employees not performing primary level supervisory work and LnleniiiUent employees perfumiitlg primary level supervisory work who do not meet the hourly requirements set forth in Appendix IL.
Br Management Rights
L. Tlie State, its several Departments and subordinate functions retain and may exorcist uh rights, powers, duties, authority mkJ responsibilities conferred upon and vested inlbem by the Laws and constitutions of 11k# State of New Jwscy and of Ihe United States of America.
2.	Except as specifically abridged, limited nr modified by the terms of itri-v Agreement befw’eeiltw State and the Ut»mn, all stick rights, puu'ax, authority, pn^atrnsofraawgewteOtand responsibility 10 promulgate find enforce reasonable rules and regulations governing die conducl itod the activities of employees arc retained hy the State.
C- Definitions
1.	All references to empbcivccs in this Agreement designate belli sexes, and wherever fite main gender is used, H shall be construed te include mate and female employees.
2.	The term "holiday" recans any day SO designated under Article XVII oi a diiy specifically designated as siKh hy the Governor.
3.	The term “wotk iurit" refers ta a group of employees whose activities arc closely rehiled and vdmsc conditions of work hit governed by a single element of managerial activity. ’’Orgaoiauliorif I Unit11 is an iretiturion or a fimdiwial activity of one of the departments of State government as from lune to time nny he designated by 11k State. Lach enqilfiycc will be intinijed by his appropriate depactmoital authorities of the work unil and cwganLcdtiwijiI unit in which he is employed.
4.	NF (Non-cxempt, tm limit) employee - Employees who work at least a 35 ItOiir workweek with occasional requireroemts for a longer workweek tn comptefe project* or assignments. These employees are covered by tbe provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act which mandates Lime and one-half (pay or compensatory time off) for hours in a weak worked over 40 linura.
5.	An unfair pra id fee is any action of either party so defined in Ameodmei'ts to Chapter 303, Laws of 196R.
D. Special Circumstances
I.	Employees who arc within lie?elxssifications included in this unit but appointed under 1]*e CUTAProgram UI utlret tviUparahly iimded <;trip!oymsrtipreiy^dbt!i are ccusid'?n*l John qnhjer!t let alt provisions of this Agreement as provisional crapjoyucs except that the Federal legislation and regulations concerning Ihis program and any agreement bet ween the Shite and any local government prime sponsor which is involved shall be in effect and modify tl>c provisions of tliis Agreement which would otlierwisc be operable.
2.	Any grievum-e as tn whether or not the provisions of the Agreaiwmt ccnfl ict with federal legislation or regulations or any agreement with a local government prime sponsor shall be considered |y be governed under A.2. ofthcGritvnnec Procedure or if relating to any matter within Paragraph U, Section I., of the Grievance Procedure, (hen directly to lhe Department of Per$i>nrict.
ARTICLE II
POLICE agreements
A.	Non-Discrimination
2
The State An<J (he Uninn agree there shall be no discrirnioulion against any employee because of Age, ses, alFettiOoul Of sexual orientation, marital status, race, COl'-xr, religion, national origin, physical handicap, political affiliation nr Union membership, or fofc.il Union activity permitted herein.
B.	Dus Dednclioa and Membership Informaticn
1.	Chics Deduction
a.	The State agrees to deduct from (he regular paydteck of any employee dues of (he Union provided the employee submits an authorization fur dues deductions i n writing apd in proper Jenn to (he responsible payroll clerk. On receipt of (he form, (he payroll clerk shall forward it within two (2) working days to Lbe cenlrulized payroll section, Department of (he Treasury. Ducs deduction will be reflected in (he paycheck fur the current pay period, provided the form is revived in central ized payroll at least seven (7) calendar days prior to Lbe end of the pay period otherwise to be reflected in the next pay period. If violation# of these time frames are trough! to (he attention of the State, the Slate will review die matter and solve (he problem prospectively forthwith.
b.	Dues deductions far Any cinptoyee in (his Degotiiding unit shall be limited to the Union. Employees shall be eligible to withdraw such aulhorizaiKmanly asofJuly I of each year provided the malice of withdrawal is filed after May IS timely with the responsible pay roll deck.
c.	Dues so deducted by the State shall be transmitted to the Secretary/Tretcurer of tiw Union together with a listing of lire employees included.
d.	Pte Union shall certify lu Ihe Slate the amount of Union due* and shall notity the Stale of any uliadige i n dues structure thirty (3d) days in advance of the requealnd date of such change. 1'he chan pt! shall b<? reflected in payroll dcducltuu al Ute earliest time after receipt of the request
e.	Whenever an <s up bo ye e’s dues deduction is discontinued, the Union shall be provided with the Stele’s reason for lie discuwlirtiaatiiwi on a quarterly basis.
2,	Representation Fee (Agency Sbup)
a.	Subject [o the conditions sei forth in the paragraphs below, all eligible iienmcmhcr employees in this unit will be required to pay Lo the ttrajorily representative a represenl:i1ioo fee in lien of dues far services rendered by foe inajnrity representative until Jone .JO, 2003. Nothing herein shall be deemed to require any employee 10 become a member of lbe majority representative.
Il is understood that the implementation and/or continuation of the agency foe pi ci pjra.no is predicated on the dnncmslralion by 1lte Un ion that more (him 50% of the eligible employees tn Ute itegotiatiog. Udit are duen paying member* of the t_Tni»n
In each year of the Contract on January J, an assessment shall be made to itelciwinc if the minimum percentage has been emweded. If it Ims. lbe agency fee shall oontimie unlil Lhe fbllnwi ng annual assessment Jfithasnol, ihe «!gejK:y fee will be discontinued and eligibility for rerastidenKtd shall be on A quarterly basis as provided below
If the agency foe ri discontinued, an assessment shall he made on each quarterly date; t.c.. January 1, April L, Inly 3 or Odobcr I, m determine if Lbe itunijliwn percentage is exetttded If the miniiituni percentage is exceeded Ure agency fix ptan shall be reinstated, with proper notice to affected employees.
b.	Amounl ofl’ee
Prior to the beginning of e*ch contract year, the Union will notity the Slate in writing of lbe umourit of regular membership dues, initiation tees and iissesSiiicoLs charged by'the Union Io its own members for that contract year, and line amount of the represeotAlioti fac for that contract year.
Any m the representation lftj structure during [he contract year shat! be in ammlanccwith R.l.d. above.
The. representation fee in lioi of dues shall be tn an ,'unuunt oquivAlm to the regular inmberahip dues, initiation fees and asscRsmeals charged hy the majority representative t) its own members less lhe east of benefits financed through the dues, fees and assessments and Available to of benefiling only its members, hut ill no event shall such fee exceed 85% of the rcgulux manbccshiji dues, fees and Assessments.
0. Deduction and Transmission t>fFee
After verification by lbe State that an employee must pay the representation fee, the Slate will deduct fee fee for all eligible employcea in accordance with this article.
Tile mechanics of the deduction of representation foes And (he transmission of such fees to the Union will, as neatly as possible, he the same as those used for fecdeditdion and transmission of regular memha^Fiip dues to the Union.
The Stale shall deduct the representation fet aa sooii as possible after Ute tenth day following reentry into this imil for employees who previously served in a position identified as excluded or confidential for individuals reemploycd is this unit from a reemployment kisi, for employees rctiinting from leave wilitoul pay, and for previous employee members who become eligible for the nprcficntalion fee because of uotl-tnember status.
The State shall deduct the rcprcxculatfeD fee from a itew employee as soon aa possible after thirty (30) days from the bcgjnni ng date of employment in » position i n l|us tunL
<1. Demand and Return System
The reprcRCfltatiuiL fee in lieu of dues only shall he available lo the Union if the procedures hereafter arc maintained by the Union.
The burden of proof under lliis system is mi rhe Union.
Tlw Union shall rcntm any part of the representation fee paid by the employee which represents the employee's additions! pro rata shim; of expenditures by (he Union that is either m aid of activities or causes «i f u. partisan pol tlicul or ideological nature only incidentally related to fee (cents and condition of employment., or applied toward the oust cf other benefits available only lo members of the majority representative.
Ure employee shall be entitled to a review of the aniomU of the representation fee hy requesting the Union to substantiate fee anwunl charged lew fee representation fee. Thia review shall be in wnfonnancc with (he internal stepy and procedures established by the Union.
The Union shall submit fl copy of the Union review system to (lie Office of Employee Relations. The deduction of (he representation fee shall be available tmly if the I (nton establishes And muiiitsinR this review system.
rriire employee is dissatisfied with the Union's decision, he may jippeuJ to a feroe-utember board established by the Coventor.
e.	State Held Harmless
The Union hereby agrees lha( it will inrfenuufy and hold the Stele harmless* froro tmy claims, Actions or proceedings brought by any employee in the negotiations unit which arises from an agreement to deduct made by the State id accordance with (his provision. Neitlier Ure State nor tile employee sltall be responsible for any buck payment of Hie representation fey fef any cause upon tire entry or leunlry of (he employee into the Union from iin excluded position or another unit. The term excluded position shall tnclvde but not he limited Lo confidential, managerial and exempted
4
positions.
If violations of any time frame occur regarding rcpreneutiitinn fee deduction, and llusy Are brought lu die attentioEi of the State, the Stale sliaR review die matter arid solve the problem on a prospective biisis.
f.	Legal Requirements
Provisions in this clause are further conditiijned upon all other requirements set by statute.
3. Mcniltership information
The Statu agrees to provide Io iJie designated representative of the Union on a sesni -annual basis a complete up-lo-date listing of all employees covered by this: Agreement together will' their addresses and job tilles as they appear on Ihe iwds of the State. Such. list shall also include the coded payroll location and dues deduction status of earh employee. Ihe Union shall disclose such information only to its officials and representatives whose duties require access to such information. C. Policy Agreements, Strikes and Lockouts
L. During the term of this Agreement, tilt Union agrees not fo aigagc in or supped wi>' strike, work Stoppage, slowdown, or other similar action by employees covered by this Agreement
2.	No lockout of employees shall be instituted or siippottcd hy the State during the term of this Agreement.
3.	The Union recognizes ils responsibility as exclusive collective negotiations agent and agrees to represent all employees in the unit witboul discrimination.
4,	These agreements are not intended to limit the freedom of speech or demonstration of the Union or Ila nieinbei's.
5.	It is agreed liv'd the State and the Union shall refaiiti from the commilctient of any unfair practice and it is further agreed that the requirtments ofnegoliabilicy as set forth tn Chapter 303, Laws of ! 9fifi and as amended, shall guide die conduct of the patlies during the lemiS of this Agreement.
6.	Ihe Slate qmi the Union ttgree that the working environment shall be characterized by mutual respect for the common dignity Io which all individuals am entitled. U is agreed that verbal and/or physical harassment of an employee is inappropriate.
B. Adaiaisfratina nl Agreement
I.	A committee consisting of Slate and Union representatives may meat for the purpose of reviewing the sdminislralitir'i of the Agreement and to discuss problems which may arise therefrom.
2,	Said committee meetings shall be scheduled some lime during the second week of March, June, September futd December, for ihe purpose of this Agreement, these cncctingn are nol itileisdcd to bypass the grievance procedure nor fo be considered collective negotiation meetings but ralliei' are intended as a means of fostering. good and sound cmfrioyirusd relations through eununniiicatioBS between Ihe parties.
3.	Either party muy request a meeting and shall Submit a written agenda of topics Io he discussed Seven (7} days prior CO such meeting.
4.	A maximum of five (5} wiployre representatives of ihe Union, exclusive of Uu ion staff or Attorney representative, may'attend Such quarterly meeting and, it’held during regular work hours, (hey sliall bo granted lime fo attend without loss of pay,
5.	Status of Pending Department of Personnel Mailers
During the meeting Lhe Union may in addition present up to four (4) specific matters of particular importance pending before Ihe Department of Personnel which the State will investigate
5
and respond tin Nji? Union wi(li regard to the current status of meh pending matters. SiHrhreqmnse will be made wciJain a reasonable perinef of lime.
ARTICTT Ui
DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL RULES
the adnitiii.Jrative and procedural provi$i«B and controls cfMnitSysieni Law and (tie Rides arid Regulations promulgatcxt thereunder, are lu be observed in. the administration of this Agreement, except and lo lhe extent flirt this Agreement pertains to subjects mL therein contained orwhere this Agreement is contrary fo, or in conflict wiih such pmviautis and crmlrvls. Where (he Lenna of this Agij'eernmt specifically indicate an underntandin&eonftary to, or in conflict with «iy such provisions And controls, (he parties agree, if necessary under law, to jointly seek ntodifkation or amendment of toe particular rule or statute Co be then consistent wilt (he terms of Lhe Agreement by appeal to the Merit System Hoard or Ehc I.-egistufurc. Nothing herein diail be construed (o deny any individual employee his rights under Merit System Caw or Regulations.
ARTICLE IV
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
A.	A "Grievance" 1st
I.	A claimed breadt, misinterpretation or improper application of (he terms of (hie Agreement (conlractuaf grievance); or
2.	A claimed violation, rni&inletpretatioii or misapplication of rules or regulations, existing policies, onJera, letters of memoranda or agreement, administrative decisions, or laws, applicable lo the agency or dcpaitinertl which employs toe gricvaait which establish (erms and conditions of employment and which me not included in A.J. above foun-contracluji! grievance).
B.	Purpose and Employee amb'or Union Rights
1.	n» purpose of this procedure is to resolve grievances and to assure prompt and equitable solutions of problems arising from (he Mministration of the Agreement, or other crmdiliuns of employment by pitividiog the exclusive vehicle set forth in this Article for tlie settlement of employee giicvtoices, except tiuai a gievant may request tharflic Modi System Board agree-to review any matter to defined in A.2. above which by (he tcm» of this grievance procedure may not be pmecswri beyond Step Two, provided (hat such mallei is within toe j urisdiclion of the Merit System Board. Nothing herein can be construed to require the Board 1o review such matter hut any declination will be made iij writing to the grjevanl and to die Union if a request to toe Dcp^ltotnl of PctfKnmel is made hy the- grievanL
2,	IL is agreed thut the individnfiJ employee is entitled Lo use tilts grievance proeetj ure and to tie represented by (Ite Union upon his request in accordance with the provisions hereof ] Le shall not be coerced, intimidated or suffer any reprisal *S a direct or indl reel result of such use.
3,	Nothing in tlii.s Agreement shall be construed as ccmpeLlirg the Union to subritil a grievance to athitialionor to TCpnesenl an employee before toe Merit System Board. The Union’s decision to i cqitreX the movement of any grievance at any step or U> tmninutc tiic grievance at any step shall be final as to the inlecesCs of (fee gritvant and the Union.
d. No grievance selilement readied under die tenos of lhe Agreement shall add cry, sublracl frcmi or modi fy any terms of this Agreement.
5.	Where jin individual grievimE Initiates tin A.L grievance, such gricvaJKre shall only be
6
processed through Union rcprcsiiiitaiiMi.
6.	The Slate will upon request, make available lo lie Union inromiaiioii in ns possession to whidi the Union is entitled, to properly represent the grievant Such rciptefi fen irifemudi'm by Ibe Huron shall be made to tite appropriate management official within five (5) working days after tbe grievance is filed or appealed to Step Twl>. MjU^ment shall provide the Union with the shove ntentrooed infonnaljQn no later tlifm 72 hours prior Io the hearing or meeting.
C.	Scope of Grievance
i.	Unless-specifically provided for clMwhsc tn thia AftP^rrwatl. wiwre Ute-gnevance involves an alleged violation of individual rigltte Specified Hi Merit System's law and rules for which a RpCCiSc appeal to the DcpartnujtH: ulPmomd is available, Iheindhiduai) mast present hrs complain} to the-Department of Personnel directly, provided however, where allegaiiCKIS of violations ofoftiCr ouptaycc rights which derive from this Agreement occur, it is Lutfttded |}ul the provisions of this grievance procedure are to he utilized.
2.	A claim of improper and taij uSt discipline against an employee Ehall be processed tn Bcconiaiicewith Article V Of this Agreement
3.	The inclusiunofor reference by name or title or otherwise in this A^reeiriait Co laws, rotes, regulations, formal policies or orders of the Stale,shall, not be Construed te bringing any allegation Concerning the mlaprciatfofl or applicirioai of such mullers within lite scope of aihrtrabi I ity as set forth in this Agreement
D- Geienl kites, and Pracedares
1.	Any member of tjjc collective negotiating uni{ may orally present and discuss his complaint with his i mmedlate supervisor on an informal basi r.
2,	Where the subject of a grievance, nr its emergent wilure, suggests it is appropriate, and when the parties mutually M,ree, which agreement shall not be unreasonably withheld, such grievance may be initialed at orrnuvedio any step of (he procedure without hearing at a Inwa step.
3-	a- Where u grievance directly concerns aitd is shared by mewethrm one (L) grievuoi, such group grievance may properly bo initiated at the first level of Supervision cununun Io the several grievmls. The initiation of such gr«yt*p grievance truly be by appropriate- Union representative's) or One (I) of the grievants or both, A group grievance will only be processed by (he Union and one (I) of the gricvaiics daiimjfed by the Union. Nothing hereto shall be construed as requiring Ute TJninw to process Ihe group grievance.
t>. Where individual gjicvaiKcsccwiacming the same matter a« tiled by SCvertd grievanls, il shall be the option of (he State to consolidate such grievances for liearing us a group grievance provided the time lint'dadOns expressed elsewhere herein are understood to remain unaffected and the ffnirMi shall be notified of this action.
c. Where agroup grievance affecting, employees in one (I) or more departments results from the application of au enter ur policy imposed by n level higher than 1he departments affected and results in an alleged violation of this Agreement, tbc Union may submit such grievance in writing to the Office of Employee Relation* instead rvf initiating it at another le<rei ns though swdj Buhmiasmn were being filed at Step Two and with all procedural conditions set forth herein pertaining, except that rhe ten (1(1) days for hearing draft be twenty-five (25) days. A rcfuRa] to hear (he grievance by the Office of Employee Relations shall not affect the timelines? of Ure lifktg-
4.	In the event that (he grievance has not been satisfactorily rcaolvcd on mi infonmd bash, then an appeal may he made cm the grievance form specified hckitf.
7
S.	All grievances shall be prescirfed in wilting to the designated representative of each of tfie ptirtigs against ■whom it is made on "Grievance Fenns" to be provided by the State. Such fonns shall make udcqutile provisiDn for lhe representative of each of tier parties hereto to maintain a written record of ;i J J action taken in handling acid disposing of the grievance M each step of lhe Grievance Procedure, lhe form duill ccmhun « general description of lhe relevant (hets from which the grievance derives and references to die sections of lhe Agreement, i f any, which the gilevant ckinns have been violated. The grievance fbnn must be cotnpicWj in its entirety. A group grievance initiated by employees and/or the Union may be presented on ific above futm, tx in another foimsJ provided ttiar lhe grievance is fiilty set forth hi writing and contains all the tnforjnstwn called for by Said form. ReanoJtablc supplier: of grievance fonns sbal I be available al local offices of ttie State to employees or rcpreacnhJilivcs of the Union.
■5. Should the grievant cievt to process hi.$ noD-troniracLual grievance without Union representation, he shall so jnd’rcate on the grievance form: at Step Une. Flip Union shall be sent a copy of arch grievance upon receipt of the foum by the personnel office of (he involved opposing authority, Jo exception ii> D.7., below, [he appointing authority shall be required to send to the Union a copy of tire final disposition of grievances presctlfled without Union: represetitatfon iipcm request of the Union.
7.	Ihc-Union shall be given a copyof the finai disposition of all grievances. A copy of the decision of the State at each step ahail be provided (o thegrievant and to the Union representative involved.
®. The Union may ufuJertake Lo amend tlie gricvuncc during lhe initial step at which Such grievance is filed. It is understood that such aruendimmt ts only for the purpose of clarification and sliall nut be uf.tltZiCtt lo change the nature of die grievance or to include addrttonaL issues.
9.	Grievance resolutions ordOGsiohsi nt Steps One and Two shall not cunstitiUe a precedent in any artulnition or oilier proceeding unites a specific agreement to Chat effect is toadc in writing by the Office a f Employee Relations and (be aulhorizia I repi'fexsitative af Ute I inion.
10,	if a grievance is appealed to lhe Second Step ,md a determination is made hy (ho Department Head or his designee itisrtu resoluliw of lhe grievance is iw wifltiji the aitlborjly of die department, lhe grievance may bo forwarded to (he Office of Employee Relations wherein a dcterrtULlalicn shall be tnadci relaiiiv to al^ appropriate disposition of such grievance.
a.	in lheevent the Department Head orliis designee deLamines that the grievance is not within the smLhcirify of rlic dufrurunciit, and decides not to bear lhe grievance, the Union only may submit such grievance lo the Office of Employee Relations within teci(lCI) days from the receipt of Such departrritotal decision. Xltuuld the department decide to hold a benring and in live course of such bearing the department dci«mines that u rcso-lulion of lhe grievance is nol witfl in its authority, the Uriimi only may submit the grievance to the Office of Employee Rdatioiis w ithin ici> (10) tifiys ^TDm the receipt of su-rh defenwiiuition. A dctHruinalicwi by (he Union nnt Lo pursue the grievance shall lw final,
b.	Within twenty (2U) days front lhe receipt of lhe grievance, die Office of Employee Relation?,, or its designee wilt respond relative tn lhe appropriate disposition of Hie grievance, buch disposition may involve:
(I I Assignment of tin? matra- to a dcfijgjujicd DijpartJifent or Agency,
(2)	Hearing uf the grievance by lhe Office of Employee Rdotions.
(.3) A determination by the Office of Employee Rckilions without hearing.
(4)	Redirection lo the Department 5n which the grievance was initiated requiring a substantive answer tn the grievance cw,
(5)	Other disposition determined by the Office of Employee Rebitinns to be appropriate.
Tfthc Office ofEmployce Relutious determines, a hearing is necessary, such hearing will he scheduled within twenty (20) days trom the receipt of the grievance. Decisions dull be rendered as provided in section E.3. If the grievance involves a nuo-contractual matter as defined in A. 2- 1iK dmsiow of the Office of Employee Relations, nr its designee, shah he final. If the grievuppe involves a mailer as defined in A.1. above, such grievance may be appealed to Step i'hiee-ATfutraticm, provided all of the conditions and time limits detailed in Step Three are OKt. Time limits referred to in Step Three arc applicable to the ciicumstancea in 10.h., 1-5, above. Where the Union makes no timet)' and appropriate request tn utilize litis procedure, it is understood the conditions concerning Lhe arbitration procedure Lep Three) shrill he unchanged.
11.	For purposes of this Article, a nd»op steward* is an employee in the active employ of the Slate serving as Ibe recognized imiwi representative in Lhe grievance district. A "Union stiff representative" or "local Union officer11 shall be a person in the active employ of the Uiakui and not the Stale.
12.	When un employee formally elects to undertake the resolution at' a contractual grievance through any avai labie procedure established by aoi agency of proper authority outside of those provided herein, such election shall constitute an absolute waiver of the option Lu appeal lhe grievance to arbiliulion unless the parties mutually agree otiterwise E, Grievance Time Limits and Management Responses
I.	A grievance roust be filed initially within llufty (3(J) calendar days from any dam on which the act which is the subject of the grrovanre oeeured or thirty (.10) calendar days from the dale on which the grievanl slioulri rcasonalily have known of its occurrence- Other references lo duys in this Article are working duys of the party to which they apply,
2.	Hearings orroeeiirqjs shall be scheduled us set fortlj below and decisions yftcr a scheduled hearing shall be rendered m writing within established time Limits as set forth herein. A decision will be considered timely if rendered within the following Lime limits or within len (10) days iiftcr the conclusion of a scheduled meeting al Step One and twenty (20) days after the conclusion of a scheduled hearing at Step Two, whichever is later.
a.	at Step Ch'e within seven (7) d^y* of ihv receipt of lb* ........
b.	;it Step Two, within Len (JO) days of the receipt of the appeal from Che Step One decision.
3.	Should a grievance not be satisfactorily resolved, nr should the employer not respond within (be prescribed Hine periods, cither afler initial receipt of (he grievance or after a scheduled h.^yri ng or grievance meeting, the grievance may he appealed williiil seven (1) walking days te (he tread step. The luck of response hy the Slarc within ihepret^ribed limeperiods. unless time limits have been extended by mutual agrreniccrl, t-Jwuld be construed az a negal i vc response-
4.	When a grievance appeal is to be Clod, the State representative fit the last bearing or meeting shall inform the grievfint of (he name and. position of the next higher level ofmunfigcmait to whom (lie appeal should be presented,
5.	Time Limits under (his Article may be changed by mutual agrccmenl and request for extensions of(hue litnils will not be unreasonably withheld.
9
6,	If, at any step in tire grievance proc^diue, die State's decision is nul appealed within (he appropriate rwestribed time, such grievance will be considered closed and faerc slutll Ek no (iiriher Appeal or review.
7.	Nu adjustm.eal ofany grievance stvatl impost retroactivity beyond the dale on which the grievance was rniriutedor the thirty (.10) days provided in EJ. above except (hat payroll errors and telitled matters -shall h; collected to the dare ofaror.
A, Meetings andW bearings shall be scheduled hy the Depaitmenl after czmsultaticin with the Union as lo availability of imilually convenient dates within the time liinjfe set forth herein. Accummodatkm of a short period heyottd these limits way' be made far sutEcent reason.
9.	Alt tn an age mail dectsinos shall rncTikie u written explanation of the reason far the decision, t. Time OR for Cricvanct Investigation
1.	When a grievance lias been fommlly submitted in writing and the Union represents the gfievant, and where the Union Steward requires (ime to investigate Mich grievance (o achieve nn understanding of Ilie -specific work problem during working hours, the Steward will be grauled permission and reasonable time, lo a limit of one (I) liour, to invest(gale without Loss of pay. U is Linders I ood th nl ifu? supervisor shall schedule such litoe release, providing the work respcoisibililics of the Steward and of any involved employee are adequately covered, and providing, further there no disniption of work. Such tune release shall not be unreasonably withheld and upon rcqiiesl OToJd. he extended beyond the one (I) hour limit for specified reasons, if in the judgment of the supervisor, tile circumstances warrant ati exception 1o fata limit. Where a Union Steward serves a mutually agreed upon grievance disti i.c( encompassing two (2) or more fleogjuphkally separate work, kxatkiris, and where Lhe circnjnscajices require it, a snpervisor may aulltorize a maximum oftwo (2) hours, far any appropriate invesligatton of grievances,
2.	Such lime release shall no! be construed lo include preparation of paperwork, record keeping, conferences iiiiwng I Jnirut Officials uor preparation for presenedion at a grievance hearing or meeting.
Time Off
I.	An employee and his designated eruploya? representative shall be allowed lime offwithout loss of pay:
■>. as may be required for appcaratice at shearing or meeting of the employee's grievance scheduled during work hours;
h Snr neccBRaiy travel time Jurin£’*rs>ikjLi^,ljiJ|Jis.
If the hearing c* meeting extends beyond Hie employee's normal wcn king hours, L'ompenaatory (imc equal to IhcarMilional time spent at die lieuring or meeting shall be gnmCcdhut 5iich rime shall not be considered time worked for the cncciputstlott of overtime.
2.	Wlici e fae employee or the Union requests employee wiltiesscs, pcitnisrion far a reasonable number of witnesses required duritig the grievance proceedings will he granted. A witness ar such proceedings will he permitted (u appear without Eorr of pay far the Time of ap|>ear<uice and ti avel time as required if during his normal $cliedulcd working hours.
3.	AT grievance meetings, resource: people may he heard and pertinent records received in accordance: wilh paragraph H., below. At grievance hearings, witneasys may be beard and pertineur records received in accordance with paragraph H.,l«luw.
FT. f^rievauce Steps and Parties Therein
The Slate and the Union agiee lo meet Ute last week of every monfa to tiy (o resolve
10
grievances that arc being appealed to arbitration. The parties shnEL mutually agree on A day in the last week ofev ery monlh. Tbs Union may bring a local union otticerw a union staff representative to the modings, itre Slate naay bring representatives jjun> the Departments to themeetings-
1,	It is understood by ihe partres Unit (hcgricvsru shall receive a hearing on the grievance prior to Step Three unless the grievance is satisfactorily resolved.
2.	Step One
a In (be event tile matter ia not resolved informally, the gricvanl may submit Ids grievance in writrag to ihe office or individual denialiUmI by the. Department to process ihe matter. Management shall schedule a grieviuice irifcting pursuant Io paragraph E, section 2. At the fir.4 step grievance meeting the grievant may be represented hy the steward, or the Union's designated local officer or local Union slalT representative who is nul an employee. In a meeting, one person shall ad as spokesperson for lite grievant and one person shall act as spokesperson for management-
Ij. A reasonable number of resource people skill be allowed to attend a grievance meeting if mutually agreed Io by Die parties. A resource person is an individual in the active employ oflhe State who possesses direct information important Io the clarificaliOP of the rruLL-er and shall be treated iu aecoirtance with Cf.2„ above, for purposes of time off.
At ihe meeting ihe TJokm will present rts side of the grievance through the grievunl and its resource people. Management will then proceed to presenl lbs responses Io ihe Union's presentation.
c, IC 11 te parties reach a resolution Ori tlic grievance submitted, a suaenrent .setting forth the terms of the agreement shall be written and ri^mad off hy the psirties- If no resolution is reached management shall put forth a statement stating the issuefs) grieved, the contract articles cited in the grievance, a sunuitary of eanh party's presentation, andutonC-lusion that no agreement between the parties have been readied and why such resolution has Mt been reached. Such witten stulemoit shall be rendered within lite Hmc frameworks outlined in section E(2) of this article- The statement issued at Step (Inc shall be cunsliucd as management's Step One decision.
3,	Slep Two
a.	(C (be grievant is not satisfied with the dispusil iiwt of the grievance at Step Chie, he may appeal to (he Department Head or his designee. The appeal sliall he aDcompiuiiad by the decisions, if any, at the preceding levels and any wrillen record that bus been made a part of the earfret proceeding. The grievant may be represented by the Steward atid/or the designated IJnicni representative uodfot the designated k*al Union officer. Ooe person shall act as spokesperson for the griovont anil ™ p«r$u» shall w?t as spuke«p<win for management. Either party may make a verbatim record through a certified shorthand reporter- Such record is to he made at tile expense of the party who ituikeS it. However, if both parties want a copy of the transcript, the co&t of the transcript and the reporter shall be shared equally.
b.	If foe decision involves a OOri-crmtraclual gri cvance as deJjiucd in A_2.,the decision ol the Department Head or his designee shall be final except that the provisions of B.l pertaining to Merit System Board review shall not be denied-
4.	Ihe Union representative slrail have the right directly Lo examine or crossexaminc witnesses who appear at stop of this procedure.
5.	Slep Three - Arbitration
a.	In the event that the grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved st Step Two, and the grievance involves an alleged violation of the Agreement as described in tlvc definition of u grievance in A. J above, iheai arbitration may be brought only by the Union, through its designee
within thirty (30) calendar days from tfie day the tfnicwi received the Step Two decision or fiom die date on which the Step Two dcciium was due, by mailing a written rwpwsf fbr atbilnition to the Public Employment Relations ClommiSsion and sending a copy to the Office of Employee ReladcirifL III Ibe event the Union deems it necessary to use an additional period beyond the Ihirly (30} days provided ticre-in Lhe time to appeal may he extended by die Union Io not more Ilian twenty (20) additional calendar days. Should lhe Union use any of these Mditional day?., it is undmtrod tiwl the time used in computing lhe extent ofHie Stale's liability ihaJI not exceed twenty (20) days Oom die day the Uni.<.ia received the Step Two decision or Jjvm the date nn which the Step Two decision was due. ]f mutually agreed, a pre-arbitratiful conference maybe scheduled to frame the issue or issues, Ail common iefiliijnii concerning appeals and decisions at this Step dial! be made in writing. The request fbr itrbifration shall contain the names of the department or agency and employee involved, a copy of the grievarica furmanddic Step Two decision, if available.
b.	With in thirty (30) days of the CKtxulion of this Agreement, the paities shall mutual |y agree upon a panel of out less than five (5) arbitrators. Each member of die pawl shall serve hi. Cum as the sole arbilruior fbr a given case. Where a mftuber of the panel is unable to serve, the next member its sequence stiall then serve. Jn 1lie event the parties are unable to agree upon a panel of ariitraiori withiw thirty (30) days, arbilridvrs shall Ik -sateded on a casc-Yjy-case basis under Ute selection procedure of the Public Employment Relations Commission until such frmcas lhe parlies agree upon n panel.
it. The arbitrator shall conduct a hearing lo determine the facts and render a decision in writing Io the parties. The arbitrator shall uol huve lhe power to add lo, subtract liotn, or modify the provisions of this Agreement or laws of (he Slate, or any written policy of the Stale or subdivision titrieofnot irtcnoisislenL with this Agreement, or to deimnineany dispute involving the exercise of a management function which is within the authority of the Stale as set forth in Article LB., Management Rights, ajid du i JI confine his decision solely to Ilie inlerpretaikin and Sppticafron of this Agreement- He shall confine himself 1o lhe precise issue submitted for arbitration and sisalL have no authority hj determine any oHna issues not so submitted Lo tiim, nor sLwll be submit <ibsetv<iUons tw declaration of opinint)$ which arc not essential in reaching Ilie determination. The decision or award of the arbitrator shall be final and binding censistail wilh qjplicahlc law and this Agreement, In no event sLuill lhe same question or issue be the subject of arbitration more than oiico. The arbitrate' may prescribe an appropriate hack pay remedy when Ite finds a violation of this Agritement, provided »n<Ji jeujody is permitted Dy law and Is consistent witti (he terms of this Agreement. The fettf and expenses of the arbitrator shall be divided equally between the parties. Any other ixjsI of this proceeding including the cosl of recording siifill be borne hy (he party incurring the cost.
d. l he arbitra1ijrsjhii.il hold die hearing al a (otic and place oonvetiicnt lo lhe parties within lliirty (30) calendar days of bls acceptiuwe Lo act as athitral nr and stuaJl issue Ills decision within (flirty (30) days after the ctosc of lhe bearing. In (lie event a disagreement exists regarding the arbitrability of an issue, the adulralor shall make a preliminary dctcsmiiuiliou as to wtidher 1he issue is arbitrable under the express terms of this Agreement Once a determination is made that such a dispute is arbitrable, Lhe arbitrator sJmU then proceed to dedamme the merits of (he dispute.
c.	Wlieuever a gricvyixe which is £o lie i tatolved at Step Tliree, Arbitration, Ls based on a provision of (his Agreement in which the power or authority of the arbitrator is specifically hrnited to an advisory award, (lint limit shall be observed and all die provistons of paragraphs b, c and d
I2
above stull be up$pible except that the award and opinion shall be advisory and not bi uding co the parties. However, uhsoiL a p-jrlicular exception Has provisions of the grievtuKB procisdure: above shall be operable.
ARTICLE V
DISCIPLINE
A.	The Wmts of Illis Arikis apply 10 perjuanent career service empEoyees. Other employees shall be Covered only us specifically provided.
B.	Discipline of an employee shall be imposed only fur jusl cause. Discipline under this Artiste mean? official written repiimajki, fait, suspension -Without pay, reduction iii g/adn or dismissal frum Service. Dismissal from service or reduction id grade liased upon a layoff or other operational judgment of the State shall not be construed to be discipline.
C- Disciplitiaiy aoticih nwy be butiated far any of the reasons specified in Department of Personnel Rules Or for my cireumslariw mnuunliJigto sufficient cause.
D. lhe burden of proof in disciplinary procedures sltall he upon the Stale, except a$ otherwise provided in J.2.
E, Geaend Procedures
L Where an appointing authority or Ills dssigticc imposes or intends to impose discipline, written notice of such discipline shall be given lo the employee. Such notice shall contain a reasobafcle SpeCiCcaliou Of the nature of the charge, a general description of ihc alleged ucls andfar conduct upon which lhe charge is bused tuui Use nature of the discipline.
2.	The name of any employee who is notified of Ad official written reprimand, suspension, fine, or dismissal or intended suspension, tine, or dismissal, sliall be transmitted 1o tin Union Wpteseitlnlivo as wuu as is feasible hut not to exceed scvenly-two (72) bourr. after sorb nolioe,
3.	Any appeal relating lo the involved disciplinary matter must be filed by the employee within fourteen (14) calendar days of delivery of notice of discipline. The Department nr Agency Head, or' his designee, wlrn was not personally involved in (he facts of the dilute, will convene a hearing within Lwemy (20) calendar <tay$ alter receipt of such disciplinary appeal and shall render a written decision withm twenty (20) calendar days after the completion of (Ite (tearing. The Union may tile exceptions, however such tiling does nut change tiro time Limits fur appeals as described herein. The employee may he represented at (he hearing by (he Steward atufor a Union r«pre vsn l a live ciol in llu- uctive H-cnplrry rifthc Star,’ hnwm'er rnrly nntt (I) person dial! serve SA (he spokesperson tor (hs employee and one (1) prison afaM serve as spokesperson for the Slate.
4.	Minor Discipline
Hearings shall b-e ^btdultd by the Department afier consultation with (he UiuOii as to availability of mutually converueul dates within the time limits sd forth herein. Accommodation of a short period beyond these limits may be mtsde far sufficient reason.
5.	Major Discipline
Provided a nolice of appeal is filed within seven (7) ctdendar days of the employee's receipt of the preliminary notice, the Department shall cnnsullwith the Union as lu Availability and schedule a hearing On A mutually convenient date within (he 20 day period sei forth in Section F.3. In Lhe event an appeal is not filed willti n the s*ivcn (7) calendar day period, or the parties are unable to agree on a mutually convenient dale within the 20 day period, Lhe Department shall go forward and schedule the hearing.
13
<5. Coviiiig O1T Period
Tbe (Jniriti recognises Qw Stale's right {did cbtigaikmfci impose and implement disciplinary Suspensions and the parties agree that prior W implementation of su^nshIoqs of sot more ihm five (5) days as o matter of general practice and intent and, where in th* judgment cf tho State such suspension is not (firecled at the immediate need to mamiain safety, order or effective direction of work assigjuneulss, such suspassions will not be implemented until after a three 0) day period of notification within which lime, flic Union, representing lhe involved employee, may imderiakc informal discusftjoii with an appropriate level of nvuLagemcnL Reasonable advance notice will be given to the employee.
F, I. Major disciplinary perutitivs are:
a.	Suspension or fine of more than five (5) days atone time;
b.	Suspensions or fines more than Ihree (3) times in one calendar ye®- or suspensions or fines which in lire aggregate are more limn fifteen (15) days pay in one calendar, year;
c.	Demotion;
d,	Discharge.
2. Mint* disciplinary pcftalliiss are:
a. Suspension of one (1) through five (5) days;
h- fines of up lo Jive (5) days pay;
c. Official Written Reprimands.
<?. Procedure* for Major Discipline
PcrniiUsent career service employees (includingprovisional dr probationaiy employees with permaumt status), may only appeal major disciplinary |tcu;i](ies to the Merit System Board, purxiiSEil to DepiirtmaitofpasonneL Rules. Such appeal tnusl be received by die Merit System Board within twenty (20) days after lhe date of receipt of ttw decision rendered in paragraph R.3. The Merit System Board's Law and rhe Rules and Regulations promulgated thereunder shall govern the disposition of such a request or petition.
H. Procedures for Minor Discipline
1.	ALL pcruvtnenL career service employees and nticlussified andpimrisionat employees snay elect lo utilise Illis procodurc.
2.	Official written reprimands shall pot be appealable beyond Lhe departmental hearmg. Nothing herein shall preclude Merit System Board from reviewing min nr discipline mattcra, if timely presented, tn accordance with it* discretionary jurisdiction.
3.	There is hereby established, a Joint Uoioni'Managaiicnt Panel consisting of Iwo (2) individuals selected hy the Slate and two (2) individuals selected by the Union acid a third party ueulraE mutually selected by the parties. Tbe purpose of Ihis panel is to review appeals from Departmental Jelerminalicmanf disciplinary suspensions of one (I) through five (5) days, anil DelcS of up to five (5) days pay.
4.	When a Department or Agency Head or designee issues a decision upholding the disciplinary action of Lhe Department, Lhe employee titen bus twenty (20) calendar days after tiic receipt of stieli decision to elect 10 appeal lhe decision lo either tfic Joint UtUOnfManagcniciit Panel or the Merit System Retard- Trie employee may not appeal the decision lo both fcwuttis If Ilie employee elects to appeil lo the panel tlieu lhe employee, through the Union, shall mail lhe notice ofappeal within twenty (20)calendar days lt> the Office of Employee Relation* with a copy to the Department. rn Agency Head or designee involved. Intruded with the notice of appeal shall he a
copy of the decision find any other doe t ijiwn!5 which have been nude part of the record.
5.	The puind shah meet cnee cacti month provided there arc a£ least eight (8) eases to he cunsidcfcd. If, in any month there i$ no meeting because there are fewer than eight (R) eases on tius agenda, there will be a meeting, the following month if there arc any eases to he hcant. Tbe parties may mutually agree to .vJtedule additional meetings i f necessary. Hie agenda of each monthly meeting shall consist of all cases as to which the Union lias requested panel consideraJion provided th# (he notification is received al least ffauwd (14) calendar days prior to the scheduled date ofthc panel meeting.
6-	Tbs panel considerations shill be based i^joo the Dcjiartinuii or Agency Head 0VdeAiytee?3 decision and anydocummte that have been made a patlcftlte record, The State tori Union panel members shall discuss each case on the agenda and with the assistance of lhe neutral panel manbet, attempt to jointly resolve the appeal, Where the Slate and Union panel monbos agree, the appeal shall be dismissed er upheld, or the involved penalty may be itiOdilied. Where the Shite and Union panel members do nut agree as to the disposition of Lhe appeal, the neutral panel member will detennine whether the case raises issues which may warrant .submission to .uhitration- Is* lite e^enl the neutral determines that the case does not raise issues which may warrant submission to arbitration, such detomifiatiou stull be final and the ease closcd.
?. The neutral shall maintain a written record of Che disposition of each case width shall be Stapled by each panel member. Unless mutually agreed to lite contrary, the whiten disposition of such ease dial! be nude at the panel meeting at wiiictiil is considered, and a copy shull be provided toeacli panel manber.
S, In the event the noulraldetermines that a ease raises issues which may warrant subinissioci to Arbitration, the Union may elect to appeal to disciplinary Arbitration ;is piwided herein. The neutral panel nxmber may not scive as IljtrrtrbilralurfjTany rruller which has been submitted to the panel.
9- The feesofthc utulml panel member shall be shared equally'by the parties.
lb. Only minor disciplinary cases determined by the ncirtrel panel ineitibe? 1o wrirraril submission to arbitration, may he appealed to aibilration-
1.	Arbitration
1.	An appeal to disciplinary arbitration may he brought only by a designated Union official, by mailing a wrilten request for disciplinary arhilraiionby certified or registered mail io (he Director ot the OUice ot'EmpIoyce Relations, which must be postmarked within eighteen (IS) calendar days hum the decision reentered in paragraph H.'J. A request for disciplinary aibihatioii shall couwlii the name of Ute department or agency and the employee involved, a copy of 1he original appeal, Lhe notice of discipline and any written decisions raidered concerning (he matter.
2.	a. The sola determination lo be made by 1he iirbilralor shall be tbe guilt or innocence of the employee and tie shall, therefore, sustain the penally unposed or vacate it by bis opinion, however, the arbitration decision rendered shall lie complete. He shall neither add to, subtract Jjum. nor modify any of the provisions of this Agreement by fury award.
b. The arbitrator's opinion shall contadn a short statement of the nature of Ihepruceedings, the positions of the parties and specific findings and conclusions based an the facts. Ln addition, the arbitrator's unfa* shall discuss any of the testimony, evidence m position fifths parties which merit special analysis or explanation.
1. lhe fees and expenses of (he arbitrator and lhe recording of the procedure shall be divided
15
«q<iully between (tie parties, Ary otlicr cost of this ptweeding shall be home by lhe party incurring (he cost
4.	Within thirty (Jb) days of (tie execution of this Agreenieol, the pmties shall mutually agree upon 3 panel of rtcX teas than G ve (3) discfplininy arbitrators, Each member of the panel shall asrvt in linn as die sole arbitrator £ur a given case. Where a member of the panel is unable to serve, lhe next member in sequence shall then serve. In h ie event the parties are anaNe to agree upon a panel of art>iIzaIcraWtliiji thirty (30) dt>ya,arbilia£ciTS shall be adsetod, on acase-by-cascbasis undo-the selection procedure ofthc Public LmpLoymetil Relation* Commission Until such time as (he parties agree upon a panel. TIk disciplinary artuliatur shall bold a hearing at a place cosivcnicnt to Lhe parties as soon a$ possible alia* the request for ariiitralion but not [filer than thirty (30) days After the arbitrator aqccpls tbe case.
J. Unclfpftiljrd, Proeislobnl and Spedat Services Employee DiscipHne Procedures
I,	The frllfrwiug shall constitute Lhcdiscipliitfity appeal procedure rights for unclassified taxi provisional employees who have beat employed in such capacity for s minimum of six (6) months. Upon request of the employee, Lhe employee may be reprewoted by the Steward, Of a uon-Statc employee representative □( the Union as follows:
In all dlaceplijjacy mattem, except dismissal from service. such aiqsiuyccs stall be aititledto utilrm the provisions of this Article through the departmental hearing level.
2.	In the event an unci»s$L&ed or provisional employee is dismissed from State employment without receiving specific written rcasmis md such dismissal is not related to fiscal problems or programmatic changes tindbi the judgment ofthc State such dismissal is not of a nature whemby (he employee fnusl be immediately removed (rum the work location, (he Stale stall provide the employee wi1 h at least tea (10) talendar days notice i n advance of the dismissal.
Unless there are exceptional ciivumstanccs, when such employees arc disttdssed from State employment due to misconduct, awnugcmait shall serve the employee with lhe specific written reasons rclati ii£ to lhe ni iscoudnct. The ctnpfoyee ntay request and shall be granted a hearing by the department or agency head or hi* designee, whose decision shall bo fiend. I mre limits in E.3. Asli apply. Hie burden of proof for unclassified employees shall he Qn lhe employee.
3,	It is understood that ncrtiiing herein stall be construed as limiting the Slate from exercising it* inherent discretion to tcriuimile unclassified empioyttj who serve a| the pleasure of the depjirtment re ugency head, without statine tbe reasons iherctbrc. Dixmisqsl related io job performance shall not full within lhe purview of this article. Grievances cdnceiJtiug the irrtcrpretulluu of th i?. article shall be processed in uccordancc with Article IV a* mm-contracUial (A-2.) grievances.
4.	In no e^eutshaEltta provisions of this Article apply where tbc employes is being removed as a result of the ccrti flection of a Department of Personnel eligible list •
5.	Unclassified employees uol covered by ;i slalulory discijili ite procedure, who have served in Unclassified lilies for a minimum of six {6) consecutive ycsar* may appeal a Dtparttueul level decision involving major discipline, for just cause, as defined under Section F. 1. (a through d) of this article, io (he Office of Employee Relations.
An app&il Lu lhe Office of Employee Relations may be brought hy the employee through the Union by mailing a written request fur review of the Department decision to the Office of Employee Relations by certified or registered mail, Such request for review must be postmarked within fifteen (13) calendar days from receipt of lhe decision rendered by the Department Tlie
request shall contain Ihs nmite the Department vc ng/oicy and the employee involved, a copy of the original appeal, the notice of discipline and tbe mitten decision rendw^i.
Tbc Office of Employee Relations wiCL meet with Ute Union to review the rcconl of lhe discipline within Jfl eijys of receipt of the upped frr»m the Union. If the discipline appeal is net reach ed at ihatrneeting it shall be so ivetcd in writing. The Union, may elect to appeal tbe discipline to binding arbitration. The appeal shall be sent to ihe Office of Employee Relations (by registered Of certified liiail) and postmarked within eighteen (18) calendar days from the ORRtTInion written determination.
The arbitrators (tearing these appeals sltftll come from lhe pand selected to bear minor discipline appeals from Lhe Joint Urion Management Panel. The arbilrator shall hold a hearing at a pk'utc convenient to the parties as soon as possible after tlK request tor arbitration but not Iftter then thirty (30) days after lite arbitrator accepts titeca.se.
The arbitrators shall confine themselves to dctwmlnalions of guilt or innocesKc and Lhe appropriateness of penalties and shall neitlte* add to, subtract front, nor modi fy any of lhe provisions of this Agreement by any award. The arbitrator's decision with lespcct to guilt, innocence or penalty shall he final and binding upontitepartics. In the event tbc arbitrator finds the employee guilty, the arbitrator may approve the penally sought or imposed, or modify such penalty as appropriate to the circum£tatee&1 in accord with discipline as set forth in paragraph B of this article. Removal from service shall not be substituted for a lesser penalty. In the event the arbitrator find* the employee innocent or iiKidifics a penalty, he may order rcinslatetoent with betdc pay for all or part Of a period of an imposed suspension or reduction tit grade or period that the employee was dismissed from service. The arbitrator may cunsadcr any period of Suspension served or the period that the employee was dismissed from service in determining the penally to he iraposw.1-
Shonld the arbitrator's award provide tor rednslatomcnt with bnck pay for all ui part of a period of suspension, toiwination of-service or reduction bi grade, the employee may be paid for the hours he would have worked in his normally scheduled workweek at his jxinnal rate of pay hut not decoding tarty (40) hours per week or eight (8) hours per day, less any deductions required by law or other offsetting income for lite back pay period Specified by the arbitrator.
The arbitrator's decision shall contain a rirorl statement of the nfdurc of the proceedings, ihe positions of lhe parties and specific findings and conchtsofus on the facta, hi rufdition, the arbiteatoi's dec ision shall discuss any uf flip trsftmrmy evutei'iCC or positions ofthc parties which mcnl special analysis or explanation. The arbitrator shall not substitute a mure severe penally Hom has been Imposed by the Stale
The tees and expenses ofthc arbitrator shall he divided equally between the parties Any ittber coni of this proceeding sliftll he home by the jtfjty incurring lb* cosL
IC General Provisions
I.	Tn the event a formal charge of misciesditot is made by the State against an employee and if s/he-so reqircsts, s/he shall be entitled to a representative of the Union only as ft witness or as an advisor during any subsequent interrogation of die en*ploycc concerning such charge- No recording of such procedure shall he made without untitication to the employee. The employee and/or Ihe Union, if present, may request and receiv* a copy of such recording, if made. There slrftll be nu presumption of guilt.
Wh*re an employee is interrogated during tlvc course of a formal investigation and when there is a reasonable likelihood Ihal ilte individual being questioned cnay have; fbnrui] charges preferred
against her.'lin, lhe ualureof those contemplated charges shall be marie known to Che anpluy«r who shall then, if I'he requests, be entitled to a representative of die Union, only *s a wibirss er as an advisor. during subsequent intetrogatfon, «nteeriiii>£ tlie charge provided that the interrogation process shall not he delayed ftutlfix Ute requirement 10 expedite any official duty not be impaired.
2.	A permtuusil career service employee must be served with a Preliminary Notice of Disciplinary Action selling forth lhe charges and afforded lhe opportunity' for a hearing prior to imposition of major discipline, except
A- Ait employee may be suspended immediately and prior to a hntririg where il is determined that lhe employs?is <#altt for dtHy uris<l Jrflzani to any person if permitted to remain on the job, or that an immediate suspension is necessary to mihrUuin the health, safety, order or effective direction of public services.
b.	A it employee may be suspended i mmcdiaicly when the employee is forrnal ly charged with a crime oflhttfiish second orlhird degree Or fl Crime ulllie fourth degree on lhe job or diredly relflltd to the job.
c.	Whet* a suspension is immediate under (a) or (h) above, and 15 witlwiyt pay, (he employee must Ursi be apprised either orally or in writing, of why un immediate suspension is sought, the charges and general evidence in support of lhe charges and provided with sufficimt opportunity to review tlie charges and the evidence in order to rcapnnd lo the charges before a repitset it alive of lhe appointing, flUlliOrily. The employe? may be represniled by an authorized union representative.
3.	Where criminal charges are initiated, the right of lhe employee lo representation by his attorney jEifll] m>1 tie denied.
4.	An employee sJkiJI not be disciplined for ai ls which occurred mure llu*o one (I) yeur prior lo the service of lhe notice of discipline, excepl those which would constitute a crime, lhe employee’s whole record of employment, however, may be considered with respect, to the appropriateness nflh.e jwiialty to be imposed.
5-	Nothing iu ibis Article or Agreairait shall be wusfoieil u> liinir lhe right of I be State lo implement any disciplinary action nutwilhslanding the pendency of any grievance proceeding.
fi. When a tinal determination of innocence is rendered through a decision arising out of a departmental hcarijig, or 3 Merit System Hoard hearing, nr discipline arititraticin hearing, the employee iniluilly disciplined shall not be recharged wilh discipline, on oullers arising uul uf lhe same facta that the initial discipline was based upon.
7.	The State will, upon request, make available to the Union intbrmation in its possession to which lhe Union is entilled, lo properly represenl the employee.
B.	At Departmental hearings either party may make a vobatim record through a certified shorthand reporter. Such record is to he made al the expense of the party who requests the reporter. However, if hotti parties want a copy of die ttnnsci ipt the cost of the transcri pt and the reporter shall be sEwred equally.
ARTICLE VI
COMPENSATION HAN AND PROGRAM
A. SpwiRl Salary f rugrum July k 1999 lu June 30, 2*103
It is agreed that during the term of this Agreement for (he period of July L, 1999 - June^SO, 2U03, the following sahiy and fringe benefit improvements shall Im provided to eligible employees in (he
IS
unit within tire applicable policiea and practices uflbe State and in keeping with ihe eundiliona set forth herein.
Subject to the Stale Legislature enacting frjfjnjprialions of fimds for these specific purposes, the State agrees to provide the fnlkiwingbeuefils effective at the time stated here or, if later, with in a reieouablc time affer eRactmsut.of (he appropriation.
L a. Effective July 1,1999, each employee covered by litis agreement sltall be entitled to a Iwo and one-balf (2.5%) percent aouBR-thc-IxiiUd increase applied to the cnrpfcyrt>s current base salary.
b.	Effective for F Y 2001 (which commences on July 1,2000), (here rfull be a three and one-half (3.5%) percent across-file-board increase applied Io each negotiation unit amployoe\ base salary in effect oh June 30,2000. Two (2%) percent of the increase shall be paid effective July 1,2000. Oneand ijne-balf(l .5%) percent of (ha increase shall be paid on or about January 1,2001.
c.	Effective for FY 2002 (which commences on July 1,2001) (here shall he a four (4%) percort across-the-board increase applied to each negotiation unit employee’* base salary in effect oa June 30b 2<Ml. Two (2$b) percent af (be increase shall be paid effective July 1,2001. Twa(2%) percent of the i uensase shall be paid on or about January I, 2002.
d.	Effective tor FY 2003 (which commences un July 1,2002) there nitail be ft four and uue-half(4,5%) percent acruss-the-board increase applied to cacti negotiation unit en^sloyee’s base salary tii effect on June 30,2002. Two (2%) percent of the increase shall be paid effective July 1, 2002. Two and ntie-balf (2.5%) perveut of file increase shall be paid on or about January 1,2003.
2.	a. For ten (10) month empfoyees, the foregoing increases that are effective July 1 of 1999, 2000,2003, and 2002 for twelve (12) month employees, dial! bt applied to the base salary often (10) month employees effective Septcmlicr 1, 1999, September 1, 2000, September I, Z0U1, and September 1,2003.
t. For fen (1 <J) nwniji employees, the fhrqgocng increases Chat are effective <tit or about January 1,2001, January I, 2002 and January 1, 2003 Urc twelve (12) month. employees, shall be applied to Ihe base salary often (I fl) DiunUi employees effective On or about February I, 2001, February 1, 2002, and Fcbruaiy 1, 2003.
3.	The State (.lompritisalion Plan salary schedule shall be adjusted id accordance with established procedures Jo incorporate Che itiCreustsaet ferth tn I. aod 2. above for each step of each salary range. Each employee sliAll receive the increase by remaining at the step ill die range occupied prior to the adjustments,
•4. Normal increments shall be paid tn all Employer* eligible for ™ji-Fi irw.ieiiients wiihrn ihr-policies of (he Sr.-Ue Compensation Plan during the term, of this Contract.
5. Employees who have been at (he eighth strp of (he same range far 18 counlhs or longer shall be eligible for moveiEient to the uitKti Step providing their performance warrants this salary adjustment
R. OothfBg Maiotcnance AUuwasce
1.	The clothing maiiHeuwice allowiutce shall be paid to those full-time employees serving i h titles in which the employees arc required to wear special clolhirig or a uni form and which title received a ca$ti clothing allowance in fiscal year 1998-1999.
2.	a. Each fid) time cmpivyne serving ii> n title under ihe conditions described in B.k above, and who will have contpMed one (1) tiill year of service on or before July 1.1999 shall receive a cash clcrthingmaiiueniinceallawancccf S550. Eachcligjhlc fjkll lime employee who will Etavt completed
19
sir (6) months of «*vi« on or before July 1.1999 -shaJ] receive $275,
b- Each fall limo employee sciving in a tilte under Ute eoirdilions described, in 8.1. above, tad who will have completed one (I) Gill year of service on or More July 1,2000 shall recetvo a cash clothing main testa nee allowance of $550. Each eligible full time employee who will have completed six (6) months of service on or before July E, 2W0 shad receive $275.
c. Each full time employee serving in a title under the conditions described in R.l. above, tad who wilt have oompteted one (1) full year of service oh or before July 1,2001 shall receive a cash clatTiiagmainfecuirKC allowance of 555*1 Each eligible: fjM|[ time employee who will have completed six (6) mentis of service on or before July 1,2(K» I shall rxcrvtj $275.
ti, Lach faEt lime employee serving in a title under the conditions described m B. I, above, and who will have completed one (J’j fill! year of savicc on or before July 1,20U2 shall receive a cash clothing mmntenaivce allciwatKt of $550, Each eligible fall lime cnipfoytc who will have completed six {6) uwnlhsof service on or before July L, 2002 shall receive $275,
3.	Permaneid part-time employees in a 40 l>unr workweek bile who arc regularly scheduled to woiif twenty fjfjj or more hours per week, and pcrimuient part-lime employees in a 35 hour workweek Iide wlto arc regularly scheduled to work seventeen and one-half {17’/j) or mot* hours per week, who are included in the classifications listed in Appendix H and who meet lhe service and eligibility requitcntedls oet faith above will receive cuuj-half' of the ncnual clothing allowance.
4.	r.cjves of absence without pay or suspension up re thirty (30) days duration shall not affect lhe eligibility requircmetils as to one (I) year of service In order fo be eligible tn rewive this payment the employee must be on Ilie payroll as of the date of payment.
5.	It is understood between the parties Lhut the clothing maintenance allowance applicable m eligible unit employees shall be a subject for rc cegotisrion for the cunlraet (tuil succeeds Ulis Agreement terminating JttiK? 30,2003 C. Rental Care Plaa
1.	Full - lime employees and eligible dependenis shall he eligible fix the sState-iulruitiistcied Dental Case Program which shall be conlinucd during the li ft of thin Agreement.
2,	Participation in tbe Program shall be voluntary with a condllion of participation being that each participqiling employee aulliorize a biweekly salary deduction nut tn exceed 56 percent of the vost of the type of cmvcrape elected, c.g,. individual ttnp loyce only, husband and wife, parent and child or family coverage.
3.	Each employee ifouJi be provided with a brochure deserthtug the details of the Program aj>d enrollment LoformaJjon and the required forms.
4.	Parted paling employees shall be provided with an identification card ti> be utilized when coveted ttontu I care is required.
5.	An optional Group Denial prognira which will provide services Ihrough specific dentuf clinics will be made available to employees in 1his unit Parfidpaiion in this program shall be voluntary with a conditicnLhaicoahparticip^ingMnployw uwdwmea biweekly salary deduction nut to exceed 50 percent of thcross of the coverage for a one year period. Employees will be able lo enroll in only one of the two programs or in ni> program at all.
D. Eye Cue Pr-vgrara
I.	It is Agreed thal ibc S-taftj shall continue the Eye Care Program during the period of this Contract, lhe covemge shall provide ii>r u $35.60 payment for regular prescription lais or $40.00
20
for tifbcaJ lens or more complex prescriptions. Included are sT eligible foll-lin>c employees and (heir eligible dependenis (spouse flitd uijusajricd children under 23 years of age *1w live with lhe employee in a regular parcnl-dnld rtdaliunshlp). “The extension of benefits to dependents shall be efibctiveoaly after the employee has been continuously employed for 9 minimum of silly (60) days.
2.	Full-lime employees and eligible dcpmdeuls as defined, above shall be eligible for a maximum payment of 135.00 or llrt cost, whichever is less, of an eye examination by an Ophthalmologist or an Optometrist
3-	Each eligible employee and dependent may receive only one payment for glasses and one payment for eKitniflalions during die period July 1,1999 to June 30, 2XJ01 and one payment for glares and one payment for eMninalion during. the period of July 1,2001 Lu June 30, 2003. Proper affidavit and submission of receipts are required of the employee in order to receive payments.
E- Ikfened Compensation Plan
ft is understood llifil (he Stole shall continue fae program which will petroil eligible employees rnthts negotiating unit lo voluntarily authorize deferment ofapOition oftheir earned base salary m> diat (he fuilds deferred can ho plrad in an Internal Revenue Service approved Federal IncotneTax exempt investment plan. The deterred income so invested and the Interest or other income return on the investment arc intended to be exempt Item current Federal Income Taxation until the individual employee withdraws ur otherwise receives such funds as provided in the plan.
It is understood that the Stale shall be solely responsible for lhe adtuinifftraticn of the plan and (be determination of policies conditions and regulations governing its implementation and use.
The State shall provide literature describing the plan as well as a required enrollment or other forms to Lill employees when the plan has been established-
U is further understood (fat the uiaximuiji amount of deferrable income undo- Ihia plan shaft be twenty-five percent (25%) or $7500 whichever is less.
F- Special Training
The Slate will join wilh lhe UnioO to provide a special Iraitiing program which will he available to employees in the Professional Unit, lhe fermijlaticin and cental of the special training program shall ba decided by muPial agrcancel between lhe Office of Employee Relations and the Union. G. Satiny Program Administration
The parties acknowledge the existence and amtinuulwn during the term of (his Agreement of the State Compensation Plan which incorponilvs in particular, but without specific limit, the following basic concepts:
I.	A system ofpad dan cLassiffailiutis wilh appropriate position descriptions. CopiesOf current position descriptions will bo made available to the Union.
2.	A salary range with specific mitoitoim and maximum fates and intermediate merit incronjtmlal steps [farcin feu each position.
3.	Regulations governing the administration of the plan including the Pcrformftnce Assessment Review System.
4.	The uulhorily, method and procedures to effect modification as sudi are required. However, if the State makes major changes ui Ilie Compensation Plan or changes which have a negative effect Oil die earnings of employees it is understood that the impact of tliase changes will be uegtftiatal wilh lhe Onion and such negotiations shall conunaice within thirty (30) days ofthe date upon which the Union requests negotiations of the niattei-
5.	No employee covered by this Agreanenl shall suffer a f eduction in rate of pay as aresuit of a reduction of salary range for (he joh class in which he in employed and any such change in salary range shall be negotiated with the Uiifoti prior to implemenlatirm. This is not intended to reducetfa
21
right of appeal ufany individual.
Hu RfiB.us Payment furSccond and Third tikift
1.	Ibere shatt be a bonus payment of $240 in December of fiscal years 1 TOfl.^OOO; 2000Z2001; 2001/2002; 2002/2003 to ail Gill-lime employees who WUtktd al least one hundred and oinely-five (] 95) shifts on citliet Ilie -second (2nd) and/or lhe ihinl (J-rd) shift, (which arc cotnnwnly known as the afternoon or evening shift and the night or midnight shift), for tlie eligibility period of twelve (12) months preceding the December payment (November 1 through October 31).
2.	Full-time employees; who are in positkurs that require relation nf shifts and w|« work rotating shifts during the eligibility period(November I through October 31), One hundred seventy (170) of which fire OH the second (2nd) and third (3rd) sliifti, (which are connocnly known as the afternoon or evening shift and the night or midnight shift), shall also be eligible 10 receive the bonuses.
3.	Paid l&ve lime is considered to be time worked for eligibility fur this payment
4.	Employees must be in pay status on the dale uf payment in order to receive this payment.
5,	Permanent part-time employees who work at Least half time and wl>o meet lhe eligibility retpiiremcntf! &e( Girth above and work a 5 day week and work al least 195 shifts during the above period will receive a pro rata share.
]< Salary Adjustmaat for Nnrse* and Teaditra/Laslnieton
The two-range increase negoluileil in lhe I MW (992 contract Gv Nurses and Classroom Teachesa/fnsttvdurs and the two-range increase nagot'iated in Uk 1992/1995 contract for teachers who supervise other teachers shaft continue in effect under tins contract
J. Cooperative Effort
lhe parties 1<J Ihe Agreement undersold that tlie public services provided to the citizenry of Ilie State of New J mey require a continuing, cooperative effort particularly ditri ng tills period of severe fiscal constraints. They hereby pledge themselves to achieve dte highest Level of service by jointly endorsing a coitCepi of intensive productivity iiriprOvwneriL which may assist in realizing Lhitl objective.
ARTICLE VU
POSITION RECLASSIFICATION AND REE VALUATION REVIEWS A Reclawiflcatloa
Etnployees in the negotiation unit may initiate requests far position rcclassificaliori in acconlonce with the applicable Merit System Rules and Regulation!; and in keeping with the coalitions and procedures established by the Department of Personnel. A request for reclassification shall be acted upon and a determination rendered within one (I) year of the submission of such requests, unless the time period may be extended by mutual agreement.
K Reevaiuatinn
The Union may request (he rccvaluatiob of a job classification in accordance with applicable Merit System Rulesand Regulations, on Lhe basis of job content change only. Hu? Stole will review such a request and will reevaluate Lhe job class!ficaiiOJl, provide <Ui opportunity for the (Inion to present its views, and present its position tn tire Union as provided in (he Merit System Rules and llegulalions, in writing if requested.
C. Implementation
Implementation of any changes resulting from reclassification or rrcvaluation shall be mafic consistent with normal procedures and Ihe availability of funds.
22
ARTICLE VHI
HOURS AND OVERTIME
A. Hours of Work
I.	lire numbc! of hcnais in Ute wcricweek for each job tlas&ificstion within the unit shaft be consiElcnt with its present dcRignalfon i n the State Compensation Plati-
2-	Houri; uf work for HNL" atiploy&es may be adjusted by the responsible agency ufticial in keeping with existing regulahuox and procedures.
3.	Where practicable the nermal workweek shall consist of five (5) consecutive work days.
For fixed workweek employees, when schedule changes are made (he rtuaimutn possible notice, which shall not be less than seven (7) working (Uys except for unforeseen circumstances, shall be given to the atRctcd employee.
5. Far fixed workweek employees, when such employees’ shift is changed, adequate advance notice which normally wilt be ill least seven (7) working days and which shall not Iw less than seveuly-lwo (72) hours, except in (he case of an emergency, will he given (o lhe affected employee-B. Rest and Lunch Period
I.	The work schedule shall provide for a fifteen (15) rainulereSt period during each one-half (WjshiO.
2.	For the purpose of this provision adrift shall constitute the onployee’s normally scheduled work day. For example, mi employee working from 9 a.m. Io 5 p.m. wilt he entitled to a rest period hi (be forenoon and in the aftomwn usdetwmiricd by the appointing aulhurity,
3.	Ilie normal schedule shall include a provision for an unpaid lunch period during tbs tn id-portion of the work day. There shall be a minimum of orie-liiilf ('/’) Eiour provided for the lutich period- TliLs is riol itilended to suggest (liar existing lunch periods of longer Urao onc-hslfCA) hour must be changed.
C.	Overtime
I-	Enipkiypra wvwed by Ibis Agreement will hccorapensaled al (lie rarcoftimc and one-hidf (IVt) for lhe overtime hours accrued in excess ofthc normal hours of (he established workweek. These compensation credits shall be taken in wnipeosatoiy time or in cash al the discretion of management. Employees may request compensation credits in compensatory time or in cash.
2.	When a wk slritl extends from one (1) day to (he next it is.considered to be on the day in which (he Larger portion of (he hours are scheduled and all hours of 1he scheduled shill are considered io be on that day.
3.	All holiday hours and hemre of leave not worked for which an employee is conrptnsatcd shall be rcgaided cis hours worked for the computation of overtime iti ths workweek.
4.	[fours worked rm a holiday are nut considtn ed tu.vu.ra worked for lhe compulation of regular overtime in the workweek hut shall be compensated a( tirri^ and one-half (J 'Su) in addition £o the lioliday credit.
5.	"Scheduled overtime" means overtime assigned prior Lu (he day cm which il is to be worked. Ordinarily scheduled overtime is pLinned Und assigned in advance.
6.	’Non-.schcdulcd overtime’ means assigned overtime marie cm the day on which it Ir to be worked.
7.	'Incidenlal overtime" is n period of asaigned non-sched uled overtime work of less than fifteen (IS) minutes.
S.	Overtime shall be scheduled and distributed by seniority on a rotational basis by
23
occupational classificafitSis within cadi fintetional work unit without discrimination provided it docs nut impair operations, liroployeca willtin Iheir functional work unit who arc qualified and capable of performing the work without additional training sliall be called upon, to perform .such overtime work, lo lhe extent that it is practical and icajciutible lo foresee, the Stale shall give foe employee ?s much advance notice us possible relative |i>(te scheduling of overtime work. The State shall Dot ordinarity assign more than sixteen (ItT) consecutive hour? of work.
9,	[| is agreed that overtime work shall be diarcd by all employees in an occupational classification within any work llltil ^ilbuut discrimination. The opportunity to work overtime shall he extended to each employee on a rotational basis provided foe Employee is capable of performing the work.
10.	Each employee is expected to be avaihible for a reasonable amount of overtime work An employee who refuses ;itd overtime Or on-call assignment wilh a reasonable excuse will not be subjected to disciplinary action. The assignment of on-uaEl" or "stand-by" time shall be equitably d islributed among the employees concerned.
II.	a. On a Rcmi-aiiJiual basis cunimencing with the irapJrmenhition of this provision, lhe distil bidion of overtime shall be evaluated and alignments of overtime made tiKfreafier shall reflect Lhe approxi mate equalization of overtime for each employee in the work unit by job classification.
b.	For the purpose of determining approximate equalization of overtime, any overtime assignment offered, whether worked or nolwortced will be considered as if it were worked.
c.	To Lhe extent- that a disproportionate distribution of Overtime exists because o f special ahili ty or inability io pci form I he work assignments, tlwsc Ixiurs will no! be considcitd in (lie semiannual equalization, This provision will not be abused,
12.	A I is I showing the rotational order and foe overtime call status of eaoh employee and a record of the lirfdl overtime worked and refused by each employee shall be maintained in the wort unit. Such records shaft be made available for inspection on request tu Union officers, stewards ami employees concerned.
13.	The State wiU give advance notice of all A'licduled overtime to each employee concerned. Such scheduled overtime will be assigned inutimiilly in units of one (1) Imur and in hourly or half hourly increments thereafter when siK-'li overtime is to tic performed contiguous to the employee's scheduled work shift. When overtime is scheduled not contiguous to the employee's work shill, il will be assigned minimally in units of two (2) bones md in hourly or half hourly increments thrrmsfti'i'
14.	An employee who is assigned non-schcdulcd overtime in excess of ii ftccn (1,1) ruiimtes well be guaranteed a mitiimun] ct'onc {1} Iwur's work and will be assigned overtime {hereafter io onc-hal f(!■$) hour incremcntR. Ati employee who is called in for non1 SClieduled overtime shall be guaranteed a minimum of Iwo (2.) hours of compensation whether or not the two (2) hours are worked except w]k» lhe end of the call in period coincides with the beginning ot"his regularly scheduled shift.
1S.	Where incidental overtime assignments arc made, rccon,|j; of such time worked shall he kepi and accumulated at straight lime in exception of die provisions of C.L Such accumulations limy be scheduled on an hmir-for-hoLU basis as eompensiilory lime.
I<5- C®b paid overtime will he reflected in regular biweekly payroll checks, lhe State will make a good faith effort to try to issue taah paid overtime paymetils in biweekly chocks which relied cash paid overtime earned during the preceding overt ink reporting period.
24
D.	Policy qd Lateness
J • 2. Whoever an ctnplayix if dcisynd in rvpt/iH>>R for a scheihiteA week ^ra^nujejst, he shall ernledVtir |i> contact l iis supervisor iu advance, if possible. An employee who has u reasonable excuse and is less lluui fifteen (15) minutes late is not 14 he reduced in salary or denied tin? opportunity to work Ihe balance of his scheduled shift and he shall not be disciplined cxcepl where then: is cvMLancc of repetition or neglect. A record of such lateness slialJ be ruainlfitncff and may be charged against any compensatory tu.'irc accrual or vai^tton balances. Ad employee may choose to use either of 1he$$ balances or alternatively tube reduced in Hilary.
b. Lateness beyond the fifteen (IS) minute period above shall be treated on a discretionary baaia. However, this provision is not intended to mean that all Lateness or each incidence of lateness beyond fifteen (15) minutes shall incur disciplinary uctiOLl or loss of opportunity to cvitiplctc a work shift or reduction of Sulaty.
2.	lateness or absence due to weathercotuficmns
a. Wltcn an employee is utioblc to get to his assigned work btjeauRC ofw-ealbcr conditions, his absence may be compciisstKl if he lias a aufticiem: compensatory time balance or i r none is available a charge may be made against vacattob balance or administrative leAvc balance if requested by the employee. Such absence will alternatively be without pay.
b- Employees late for duty due to delays caused by wtatitor conditions and who made a reasonable effort to report on time may he given credit for such late time at the discretion of the appointing authority.
E.	Other Benefits
Employees who arc required to work beyond Lheir regular quilling time to Ihe next shift, shall receive a fifteen (15) minute rest period when the period of scheduled work beyond their regular shift exceeds two (2) hours. Swell employees shall also he entitled to meal allowance* as provided try the tegulaticniR of the State.
b". Policy qu Uttevcused Absence.
Absence withold notice and approval Gw five (5) days or failure to return from any leave of absence shall he considered ii resignation.
ARTICLE (X
COMPENSATORY TIME RALANCtS
A- When employees raciunulato compensatory time balances, Ibc appointing mjthotlty will provide administrative procedures to assure the employee thru such cotnpeiwalfiry baJumt^S will not he taken away traL wi 11 be scheduled as lime u (f or alternatively paid in cash,
B, Employee requests for use of compensatory Lime balances ahull be honored. Priorities in Iwnoring rcqucsls for wfci of compensaLory time balances will lie given to employees:
1,	Where an emergency exists;
2.	Wliere scheduled one (L) month in advance,
3.	Where shelter notice of request is made.
Requests for use i>f such time under 2 and 3 will be honored except where emergency condiltoiis ex ist or where Ihe dates requested ciMifl ict with holiday or vacation schedules.
C Ctrdiniirily, n maximum of sixty (60) hoars of compensatory rime may be craned hy an eruploj'ce Where, the balance exceeds sixty (60) IsOitrs, the employes and the supervisor will meet co amicably Bclrtdulc such oompesisatury time off
25
D. 1. An cmjiltwee may be required to tafce ctimpoisuKxy time off in keeping with flit needs within (he unit
2,	An employee may request the use of this compensatory lime oft'wh icli filiall be scheduled with die immediate supervisor in keeping with the o«ds within the work unit,
3.	‘Wljijiiiera-compensatory time ofT is fo be scheduled, rcasoriabte advance notice for the rcquesl yr requirement will he given.
ARTICLE X
ANNIVERSARY DATES
The first full pay period t*>]li>i*iiig an employee's original itfile of hire shall constitutB hi? aftuivenary date Holes the employee's actual date of hire Coimides with the first day of (lie pay period in whieh case that pay period shall serve a« (he employee's anniversary date. In (Le event a personnel action occurs which, pursuant to Mehl System Rides and RegitLafiijcls, .would result in a change of the employee's anniversary dale, lhe Department of Pcreeunel shall establish the next appropriate pay period as Lhe new anniversary date.
ARTICLE XI
GU1'-OF-TITI.E WORK
A Lite State and lhe Union agree that employees should be assigned work appropriate to and within their jobehissiCcotion.
B- Tlie practice of regularly assigning oul-of-title work to employees- shall be discontinued. Instiinces of oiit-ofUlle work identified by the Union and focituUly brought to (he attention of the State shall be corrected immediately or hy phaxiit&out such teiignments at the earliest time which shall, in any case be no later than three (3) monlhs from the time of notiilcaliim by tbe Union Subsequent to notifyi up the appropriate managerial official. Any dispute to io whether the work is within the fob classiticalion uf lhe employees) involved shall be resolved by Lkiion or employee appeal tn the fJep-artmenl of frnonnel where the matter will be heard within twenty -one (21) days and a decision rendered within ten (id) days oflhul hearing. Any dispute concerning t]w phasing out period will be resolved through the grievance procedure.
C, Where out-of-titic work assigiuneols are made tor longer (han th irty (3ft) -dreys, pernranaU (career service) employees in the work unit from the next lower pitjmnCpJciul title in Ihe aeries, deemed capable of perfes ruing lhe work, and where avai labte, slui U be given ihe opportunity to ax-urn* sutli hitter oui-of-lille work in (he work iiiiil and shall have the right to refuse such assigruuenLs bused on job classification seruOrily. Where such assignments are readily identifiable by the State, the eligible: employees concerned shall ho noli (red and fi copy of lhe notification shall he given (t> (he Union
ARTICLE XII PROMOTION
Prornolion qualifications and pruceduns for permanent career service employees are governed by' the Department of Personnel pursuant to Statute and Rules and Regulations promulgated thereunder.
A Promotion mems (he advancement of an employer (o ti job classification within the unit at a higliCT salary ninge.
2ft
Rt Upon promotion of a permanent employee, all Rick leave, afftrnisti'ati ve leave and vacation balances riiall be retained by the employee.
C.	Upon promotion, an employee stall be iofconeduftiis or her ncwratecfccmpemiutiunitl least one(l)weelrin advanueoflhe electivedate.
D.	Provisional promotional appointments sluill be nuxle only in cases of emergency or when no complete employment list exists, Wliere such appointments ®s made, ths Department of Personnel will take Ihe necessary steps Io promulgate a list appropriate to tbc position in keeping with its rules and regulations as soon as possible.
If requested by lhe Union but not more bequenUy Uian quarterly, Ute Stale agrees to provide a list of then cunent provisional appointments^
E.	Whan an employee is given an opportunity on a trial or provisional basis to qualify far promotion by serving in a new classification, his nr her permanency in htR or her regular permanent job classification slrall be tootiuuerf during such trial or provisional period and he stall tave Hr opportunity to return io such permanenL ctiimifaation in lhe event lhe promotional opportunity shall not become permanent provided there is no discharge action for cause.
AfciiCLE Kill
JOB POSTING AND ANNOUNCEMENTS - CAREER SERVICE
A,	Job Pasting
I.	To provide promotional opportunities for employees within a department -or organizational unit, existing or planned job vacancies shall bo prominently posted within tlic promotional examination scope established by tire Ttepartitienl of Personnel for fourteen (14) days. Broader posting may be undertaken by Hie department al ils option. When provisionul proniutions are Io be made within a work ucul, employees who meet tbe minimum qualifications and are cttpuble ol performing Ute work as determined by management, and file purnuant to thia article shall be given co n sWera Lion for such appointment. The |sosti ng shaft. include a description ofthc job, any required Qualifications, the location uf lhe ntcietcies; the salary range, lhe huvis vf work am! Ilie procadurts k> be fallowed by employees interested in malting application.
2.	Copies of each notice posted will be forwarded to the appropriate local Union office.
3,	Postings of promertbonal opportunities foi existing or planned job vacancies shall he Undertaken prior to any notices of such vaesmeies being published in newspapers or olbsiwise advertin cd outride I Ik; at go tuitions unii.
4.	Where a provisional or permanent promotion or a rcasHignmcut is consummated as a result of (he job posting procedure, tiie appointing itoifiorily will post the iMmeuf lite itidividuttl apprunced on the bulletin board. In the event a provisional promotion is made, the appointing authority will notify lhe Department. of Personnel ofsudi action so that Ute Department of Personnel can activate its process leading to pa maneut appoinlmenl
5.	TIk Union may inquire as io Ihe status (provisional or permanent) of a position incumbent and $utb Inquiry will be ans'wtral by the appointing authority involved.
B,	AtibOuiteniuls
Unless a good reason to the eontrnry exists, anoounccineritA which describe available educational programs Or Slate scholarship's, shall be posted promuRittiy at approximately the same time til order Ihal inimsted employees may have an equivalent opportunity to be informed and apply fur suck educational programs and State jsehntaships. Copies of those items ■will be sent io the
21
UjUurt.
ARTICLE XIV
JOB VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENTS FOR UNCLASSIFIED EMPLOYEES
A. In situations where a vacancy in a specific job classification series arises, job vacancy aniwunccm^ils ahouM be posted in order fo inform unit employers serving in iippropriale titles of * promotional possibility. Such job vacancy anjwuocetncnt shall he prominently posted within an Organi«(iona! scope as determined by management fbr five (5) days. The announcement a Full include a description of 1be job, any required qualifications, die location of the vacancy, die salary range, the Ituurs of work and the procedure to be followed by employees intcreaicd in making an application.
B.	Copies of each notice pasted will be forwarded Ui lhe appropriate local Union ofiicc.
C.	[1 is understood that the job vacancy aiuaounccaiient [mx*is-s dcsciibed above shall not hinder the appointing authority in filling the vacancy at ttw parties time and is far informational purposes only,
ARTICLE XV
DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL EXAMINATIONS
Employees who schodui^l tn take open compositive examinations for (he position in which lhe employee is provisional or promotional examinations administered by the Department of Personnel of Hie SLifo of New Jersey fbr positions in lhe State service shall be granted time i>(T with pay including necessary travel Lime to lake such tKaoilnatioas if they are scheduled during The work •Shift of the employee. Such priviicg&s may nr>1 be abused.
ARTICLE XVI
PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REVIEW
I.	Section* A through H bcliw shall apply only li> employees in th? tqireer sorviee covered by this Agrccnlenl.
A 1 • The State will maintain a performance assessment review system for jift employees, except those on trainee status, covered by tins Agreement Thesyttcm will include a formal process whereby (he eurploycc sad his designated supervisor mutually formulaic performance and improvemenr goals ajvJ work standards appropriate ti > lhe job performed, wiiich shall be a basis for mccuuj any, dtv employee's pej 10rman co J uring a rating period.
2.	During the noucuil probationary period of four (4J mouths, the employee will he informed of the stiindardts of performance to be achieved and will be advised of the specific deficieticieR in bis progress, immediately hl writing, s( the: end vf the sccoud and ttiinJ mnndis. Slwtild the Slate extend Che probulionsry period to ;i maximum. of sx ffi) months, th* employee will be sim i larly advised at the cibd of the fifth month.
JJ, V There shall be a fomiiil written evaluation and rating of each employee completed arunmlly which shall be lite basis far granting a normal roerit iiKsanml to eligible employees. More frequent cvalmitwns ituiy be made where circumstances such as promotion, assignment clmnge, Cninsfor, etiauge of Supervisor or other reason i»wy wanan! Id such casts the annual rating shall be a function of all such evaluations.
2.	Employees wtiv arc eligible aJ>d whose perfonnanct: is above Ilie 'Signifii.'.iintly Bcfow Standard’ level shall be granted « normal merit i ncremeort.
26
It is undent end that work load should be a relevant conaidcratian in delefDiining fin eniploync's overall performance evaluaiirm.
C, Perfornnace Evaluation Cotifevncc
At least every six (6) months Lhe employer shall have a conference with the employee tn oaniKctnn wife performance evaluation and injpf^mmait goals and work sittndardf. Ratings aid conferences iMdioarily stall be given hy or conducted by (be immediate sqrtrvisor. A written (scor'd of such conference shall be provided Io the employees within lliree (3) weeks of the conference.
1>. Less than ’’Standard'’ Rating
1.	a. Where the pcrfbnnance of an employee is less than "Staatad", the designated supervisor will confer With such employee al least once every three (3) months and shall set forth (he deficiencies and improvement goals required Lo achieve a "Standard" level of performance Or better.
b.	A record of such conferences shall he made and a copy given to fee employee within Iwo (2) weeks of the cenfcrcnoc.
c.	Grievances wludt evolve from lhe inability of the employee and designated supervisor to reach agreement onperfonmHKC and rmprovernenl goals andwerir standards stall be treated as ari A.2 grievance.
2.	Where a normal merit increment has nol beat earned due to a ’Significantly Below Slaorimd" rating and the psfenniiKt of lhe employee improves to the point, which wamutls granting oftfic normal merit increment, such increment may he granted effective OD any payroll period following SKJ days turn (he anniversary date.
3.	lhe: normal anniversary date of such employee ahull not he affected by this aclion.
4.	Where a normal merit increment tas been denied, Ute performance ratings concerned with (ta issue of restoration, fiA provided in D.2. stall not ta gricvahlc.
£. lhe required sigrultire of 11 ie employee on the annual evaluation term, or on any other related tbnn. shall be aeJcnowledgmenl b«t shall not be couslrued to mean agrecrnenl with the content unless such agreement is stated Lhenaotiby (he employee.
F.	Orkntatiott Material
The Stiife will use a variety of communications media, which may include booklets, pamphlets, publications, tellers and amtounccmenls, lo keep employees informed OU (fie current status of the Performance Assessment Review'System. All new employees at the time of hire shall receive an ch icntstion hooklct deacnbmg the objectives of the evalutition system. Such material will be dislribultxl to employees through their appropriate perwoiitid function. Additional copies of such com m i m read on a shall be supplied to the Union at its request.
G.	In the event of a proposed modification or change in part or all of the Performance Assessment Review System, the State agrees lo discuss such changes with lhe Union prior fo Its introduction and''or adoption.
H.	Employees receiving rulings above feat of'SigniGctuitly Below Standard" stall be gi anted tin imjetneiiL
[I. Sections A through B below shall apply only lo employees m the miclassificd service covered by this Agreement.
A- Tire performance evaluation systems for unclassified employees covered by tftis Agreement tita are operative on the effective jlafe of thia Agreement shall remain operative for the duration of Lhe Agreetnent picivicfcd fest if a departiiKot changes its sysl«h,the employees affected
29
will he given reasonable notice Lo prevent any hardship and (he department will cither adopt the system described in 1his Article under Section I, A. through H. above, tv ifanotlrer s.ysL«n is lo be adopted, the change shall he subject to negotiations if requested by 1 be Union.
B. Where grievances pertaining to pecfofttJUJlce evaluation mdfor denial of nonnal merit L£H,iemeul based upon lhe above mentioned departmetilul policies arc pursued to Step Three, Arbitration, the award ofthc mbitrator shah be advisory and non-binding as provided in Article TV, Grievance Procedure, Step 3, Paragraph c.
ARTKXT. XW
HOLIDAYS
Holidays
1.	The official paid Jtnlidays which arc recognized holidays for the purposes of this
Agreement, are i*s follows:
New Year's Day
Martin Luther Kind's Birthday
(3rd Monday in January)
Lincoln's Birthday
Washington's Birthday
(3rd Monday in February)
Good Friday
Memorial Day
(Last Monday rii May)
In dependence Day
t jhor Day
Colwnbus Day
(2nd Monday in October)
Election Day
Veteran's Day
(November II) Thanksgivuig Day (Christmas Day
In the event any of (he above statutory holidays fall on a Sunday, they shall he cctcbiatod on the followiiii» Monthly, Should any of tbe aforementioned foul ittays fall Ou a Saturday, lliey shall ba celebrated on (lie preceding Friday.
2.	In add Ilion Lo {he aforementioned holidays, lhe Stale will grant a holiday when lhe Governor, in hts role as Chief Executive of (he State of New Jersey, declares a holiday by Proclamation.
R. ftmial T'referooce Days
t. During (he month of March, employees may submit requests for alternative holidays to those specified to be celebrated within the calendar year which shall bo dates of personal preference such as religious holidays, employee birthday, etupluyev aojuvcrsary or hkc days ol celebration provided:
a. the agency employing the individual agrees and schedules the alternative date otTin lieu of the holiday Specified and Ilie employing ageucy is scheduled Co ojieratc on (he altenialivc dates selected;
h.	the employee shall be paid on the hoi iday worked and deterred al his regular daily rate ofpy,
o.	i lie commit tnettl to sdiolule (lie peraoniil preference day o ffshal I he iron -revokahlc;
d.	and provided further thal if, due Lo an ouergency, (he employee is i cqui i eJ |i> work on the selected persona] prefer uu rec day he shall be paid on tbe same basis us if i1 were u holiday worked including the premium pay.
2.	Wl icre more requests for pcrticmal preference days arc made than can he accommodated with a work unil, lhe Stille seniority of employees in Lhe work unit sluill be tlw basis for scheduling
the personal preference days which can he aceornmndatcd. Requests received after March may be considered if the scheduling needs of the work uui1 are StfiSLiel,
3.	RcqiscsU for personal preference days in Heu of holidays (hal hill between January |. ami March 31 rosy be submitted on December I of the preceding year.
4.	The provisions of section B apply only In employees who participate in a seven-day-a-waek, 1wenty-four-bour-a-day operation work schedule and whose job reqjonsibilitica require that the employee is involved bl Ilie 4iforemetlUOtied work schedule.
ARTICLE XVMI
SPECI AL TIME OFF
A.	Emergency ar Special Obstti atijES
Whenever lite Governor may declare a special emergency or ubaetvafion of Oli event of State Of national concern and authorises ti me off to employees of (he State for lhe observation of such event, those employee? covered by Lhi$ Agreement who arc required tn vmrk during die period of (he authorized Lime off shall ba compensated for such hours worked as outlined in this Agreement, or as odHawise authorized hy the Governor.
B.	Other
Whenever Hie Governor may declare time off far all employees (such as a day preceding or following iui existing holiday} those who are required to work chi that day shall be compensated for such hours worked hy being granted equivalent time off at other times in accordance with the Governor's prnclanialion, or As provided by Lhe appointing nuthoiity and, if operationally feasible, as requested by Lhe employee. If lhe lime off occurs on a seven (7) day operation eniploywfs regular day off, fae/sbe shall be granted equivalent time off in accordance with the above provision.
C, inclement Weather
The release of tanpfoyeej by executive order Or otlis wise froni (he workplace due to inclement weather sludl tn>1 result in a Loss of earnings for Lhe hours of release ti mt, however employees on leave al (he lime shall not have their Leave credit adjusted.
ARTICLE XIX
RETIREMENT BENEFITS
The Lit ate ia s participant in the Public Rniployccs Retirement System. lilijjibility' JX1" participation hy employees and reliremenl benefits see governed hy statute and rules and regulations promulgated rlusreunder and administered exclusively by die New Jersey Division of Pensions. Upon request Io Lhe uppoinling authority, the Union and any employee in tills negi>1iati iig unit shall be provided with a written description of the PERS Program as outlined by lhe Division of Paejions. Employees within (his unit shall he given itifoimadon regarding (heir reliiement beneGls in aocQnh'uK,-? wi1l| (he Department of Pei?o,ine| guidelines and regulations and/or departmental policies through their department personnel officer.
ARTICLE XX
HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM and PRESCRIPTION DRUG PROGRAM
A. Stale Health Benefits Program
1.	The State Health Benefits Program is applicable to employees covered by tikis txmtiacL Such employees will have tire option on (he open enrollments dates of selectmg oik of lhe following
plana: Traditional Indemnity, Managed Care/Pewni of Service (New Jersey Pius), or unllMO approved by foe State Health Benefits Commission. If luMti spouses are active Stale employees and eligible lo participate in the Stale Health Benefits Program, Ilie couple may choose only one HMO family policy.
2.	a. The Managed Carc/Point of Service Plan (New Jersey Plus) shall remain without <Uiy premium cost to eligible employees Hud their eligible dependents during lhe terra of (his Agreement.
b. Effective July 1, 2000, employees who elect coverage in the Traditional Plan shall pay 25% of the cost of the pram him of that Plan as catahiidied by the State Health Benefits Commission. The premium coSt provisions set forth in (lie 1995 •1999 Agrccn wit for the Tredilimwil Plan sltall remain in.cffccluntil June 39, 2UOU.
C. Effective July 1,2000, employees who elect covmgc tn an approved HMD Plan shaJi pay 5% of Lhe coal of Lhe premium of (toil Pltu) as eslabfeJkid by foe Stale Health Bendits CotUrnissjon. The approved HMO Plans shall remain without any premium curt Horn July L (999 (hiuugh June 30, 2000.
3.	Active employees will be able fo use pre-tax dollars to pay contributions to health benefits under a Section 125 premium conversion option. All contributions will be by derfiKtions frotn pay.
4.	Effective January 1,1996, consistent with law, lhe Stare will no lunger reimburse active employccs or focir spouses for Medicare Part B premium payments.
R. Prescription Drug Progrfttii
I. It is agreed (hat the Stale ahull cwilinue lhe PrtSCriptrou Drug Benefit Program diui ng foe period of this Agreement. The program shatt be funded and iidminislered by the Stale. Il shall provide benefits to all eligible unit employees and that eligible dependents. Each prescription required by competent medical authority for Fedeml legend drugs shall he paid for hy the State from funds provided tor the Program subject Lo a deductible provision which shall not eaceed $5-00 per prescription or renewal of such prescription and further subject to specific procedure! rurd adfo lliisli tili'- e rules and i egulations. which are part of the Program.
ARTICLE XXI
HEALTH INSCRANCE IN RETIREMENT
A, Hie Stale agrees to usawite upon letii'emciit (he tall cost of the Health Bcnctils coverage for Stale employees and (heir dependents including the curt ufdtaTges WKlei PartB of the Federal Medicare Program tor eligible employees and their spouses, but not including survivors, for employees who accrue 25 years of pension credit service, as provided under the State plan, by July I, 1997, and those employees who retire for disability Oil (he basis of fewer years of pension credit in foe State plan by July 1, 1997.
B.	Those employees who accrue 25 years of pension credit service or retire on a disability retirement during die period from July 1,1997 through June 3(1,2000 are eligible to receive Ihe folfowing wlieu they retire:
I.	Employees in this group who elect to enroll in the Managed CfirefffoiiU of Service (NJ Plus) ar any of foe approved HMO Plans shall not have to contribute to (he cost of any' premium (or lieiilth insurant e co v e ra ge.
2.	Employees in this group who elect to enroll io tbeTraJKwial Plan and cam $40,000 or more in base salary in the year they retire shall pay the difference between the cost of (he Traditional Plan and foe average of the cost to lhe State of the Managed Ciir&Toint uf Service (Ni Plus) and the
32
approved HMD Flans for llealth insurance cavera&e.
J- Employee!' in' (his group who elect lo enroll in (he TraditionaJ Plan and [«s than $40,000 in base salary in the year they retire shall pay 1% of their annual base pay al retirement but no( l®s than £20,00 a month fur health insurance coverage.
4. Employees in CEiis. group shall f«eire Medicare Part B reimbursement after rotireulwU. mi to a cap of $46. 1 0 per month per eligible employee and the employee's spouse.
1?. Those empliyyees who accrue 25 years of pension credit scivica Or retire on a disability telirancnt during the period firm July J, 2000 through June 30, 200J are etigible to receive (lie following when they retire:
1.	Employes inlftjs group who elect tn enroll inthcMnawgedCare/l’ciiDl oFScrviccfNJ Plus) or any of the approved HMO Plans in tati reuieiU Shull nul have lo contribute to the vOs( of any premium for lieallh insurance coverage.
2-	Employees in this group who elect to enroll in tlic Traditional Plan shall pay 2S% of die premium cost of ftie Traditional Plan for health insurance coverage.
3.	Employe® in this jiwJp sltall rereive Medicare Part B rcinihurscniei'it alter relirenieni up fo a cap of $46.1 (1 per ntunlh per eligible employee and the employee's spuuse.
D. Those employe® who accrue 25 years of pension credit yr retire on a disability retirement oil or after July j, 2QO3 will hc subject to Ilie pevviskm of paragraph C. above, unless superseded by collective tregotiahotK or law.
E- All retirees w]»u elect approved HMQ$ nliiy diouse uoly one family policy, regard loss of retirement dale.
F. Employees hired mi ur after July 1,1995, will not receive any reimbursement torMcdicarc Part B after ret rem ent.
G, Employees w-ltu elect deferred retirement are not entitled to hcaldi benefits under this prevision
ARTICLE XXJI
LEAVES Oh' ABSENCE
A. Administrative I^avp-Curccr Service Program
I.	Employees covered by this Agreement shall be entitled to throe (3) days ofadminislrdlive leave of absence with pay in each calendar year.
2.	Administrative leave t nay be used for (a) emergencies, (b) ulwwvaliun of religious or other days ofceLcbraiion I.U11 ikK holidays as dchned hereto, (c) pcrauual business or (d) other personal a (Farrs.
3.	Newly hired employees shall be granted eric-half (14) day of admitiislralive Leave after each full calendar iiionfti of employment to a inaxitilUi11 of three (3) days during the rernai ndcr of (he Calendar year in which he 1s employed,
4,	a. Administi alive leave shall be granted hy the appointing atilhurily upon request of (he employee and, ewepl in emergencies, leave shall be scheduled in advance provided the request may be granted without Interference with the proper cunducl of the government function Involved.
b. Priority in granting sucti requests shall be (1) emergencies, (2) ohseivarion of religious or other days of ceiebraliuo but not holidays, (3) personal business, (4) ocher personal affairs. Where, within a work timl, there are more requests tJiaii eat] be granted for use of this leave for one of the purposes above, the conflict will then be resolved on the basis of State seniority and the maxi mu m number of such requests shall be granted in accordance with the first paragraph of 4.
33
Administrative leave may bosclieduled in imila uf one-half (14) day, er multiples Ihercctfartd may betaken in cenjuiKtitm with other types efpsdd leave.
5,	Sudi leave credit shall not accumulate. Unused balances in any year $tuJll be canceUttf, B- Jury Duly and Witness Leave
L An employee shall be granted necessary time off without loss ofpaywhtn be is summoned and performs jury duty as prescribed by applicable lireq Or when required Lu perform emciEcncy civilian duty in relation Lu nalioiul defense or other emergency when so ordered hy thc<jnvcrncw or (he President of the United States. When Ids appearance is required during a shift period which is immediately contiguous to tiis scheduled shift aM wholly withi a the day of Sttch duly, he shall be excused from such shift witlwut loss of pay, [ffais shift hours exledd bum one day to the next, and the required appearance is during a shift period not immediately contiguous lo the scheduled shift, the employee shall have the option of choosing to be excused from the scheduled shift prior CO Or after lhe required appearance provided the shift from which 1)0 is excused is partly within the day of such duly. In nu event is an employee lo be excused fora his work schedule for more dm.'s than the number ofdays of such duty performed.
-2. When an employee is summoned 1o appear SS 9 witness before a court, legislative committee ur judicial ur quasi-judicial body, unless the appearance is as u party to the litigation in A matter unrelated to bis capacity as an employee or officer of his agency, he shall he granted nee essary time off without loss of pay if such appearance is during his scheduled work shift- Wlberc bis appearance is during a shift pafod iuifltediafely crailig,ii<ius lo his scheduled sltift, he slud] be granted eoriipcrisfdriry (itne equal lo die hours required fur such duly.
3-	bi no ciise will this speciid leave be granted ur credited fur more than eight (8) hours in any duy or forty (4CL) houra in any week.
4.	The employee shall notify management immediately of his requirement for this leave, and subsequently furnish evidence that he performed Ilie duly for wliich Hie leave was requested-C. l eave of Absence Due (0 Injury (SL1)
I.	ALL employees covered by this Agreement who arc disabled because of job related injury or disease may. If it is rcoomnicndoi by the appoi utbig authority and approved by die Department of Personnel, he granted a leave of absence with pay' fora funds appropriated fur this purpose and as provided in Slate regulations.
2.	Any part of the salary or wages paid or payable fo an employee for disability leave shall be reduced hy Ilse amount of worker's compensation awtwd under the Nw Jersey Worker's Compensation Act for temporary disability.
3.	Such Leave may be granted for up to one (1} year from the date of rnjury or illness and shall be based on medical or other proof of (tic injury or illness and the continuing disalvility of the employee.
4.	When $udb leave is granted, the employee shall nuL be charged ordinary sick leave ur vacaliun. f lowever, if this leave (SL1) expires, the employee may utilize sick leave or vacation if required to remain off duty.
5.	If an application fbrSLl is rejected hy the appointing authority, the employee concerned may appeal such determination in accordance with Dqxtrtmml uf Personnel Rules find Regulatluns. D- Pregnaktcy-Disabllity Leave
I.	Ferruanenl employees covered hy this Agreement, upon the submission of acceptable medical evidence, shall he entitled fo pregnancy-disability leave as hereinafter set foflli. Request
54
for such leave will be made in writing to the Peraounel Department. Notrficaliou of (he pregnancy AaU be given to (he Feraanncl Department not Later (han tbc end of tins fourth month of (he pregnancy. Except for reasons of heallh and safety or inarbility (o perforin her job, the pregnant employee shall be permitted Io work provided the attending physician approves and so advises m writing. The utilization of earned and accrued sick leave ahull be limited only by tbc length of (he anployw'a approved disability due to pregnancy.
2.	During pregnancy-diadjiiity leave, permanent employees may utilise earned leave lime (sick, vacation, administrative or compensatory) but dull not he required lu exltausl accrued leave before taking a leave without pay for pregnancy-disability, Tlte employee must exhaust all accrued Sick Leave prior Io being eligible fof New Jersey Temporary Disability Insurance.
3.	Subject to approval by lhe appointing authority, employees covered by this Agreement who arc eidiiled to pregnancy-disability leave who arc without or have exhausted accrued sick leave, vacation or compensatory time wi 11 he granted a leave of absence without pay to the end. of (he period of pregnsncy-driibility prescribed above. Leaves of absence may be granted by lhe appointing authority with the approval of the Department of PcrRonJwd fora period or periods not to exceed a total of one (1) year from the initial date of pregnancy-disability Leave, upon written requcA when accompanied by a doctor's certificate selling forth the need therefor.
4.	Childcare leave may be grunted tiy the appointing aitthnrity for a maximum of one (l)ycar under lhe aanic terms and conditions applicable to ah erther persona! Leaves without pay.
E.	MUTtary Leave
1.	A permanent employee wLio enters upon active duty with the niilicvy or naval service in time of war or emergency shall be granted a leave of absence for flip period of such service and three (?) months thcreafler.
a hi iraseofscrricc-coniicctcd illness or wound which prevents him from returning to his employment, such leave shall be extended until three (3) months after recovery, but nut beyond 1he expiration of two (2) veins after the date of discharge,
b. An employee who voluntarily continues in lhe military service beyond the time when he may be released or who voluntarily re-enters the Armed Forces or who accepts a regular commission shall be eoq&jdered as having abandoned hia employment and resigned.
1.	A permanent employee who enlists in a reserve component of 1he Armed Forces of the United Slates or is otherwise required to perform &i initial period of active duly for training pursuant Io lhe Reserve Furues Aclof IM5 (Reserve Enlistment Program) shall be granted leave of absence for such period of (raining. Smh leave is nul considered military leave.
3.	An employee wi(|i provisional or temporary statu?, who enters upon active duty with (Ite Armed Forces or '*■ Iio, pursuant to the Reserve Fortes Ad of 1955 (Reserve Enlistment Program} either enlists in a reserve component of the Aimed Forces ofthc United States cw is otherwise required to perform an initial period of active duty for training, shall lie roerwdedas having resigned-
4.	A perttUiitenl employee who lr a member of Hie National Guard ur naval raitilia or of a reserve Component of any of (he A rmed Forces of Lhe United States who is required to undergo annual field (raining or aimuat active duly for training shall be granted a leave of absence with pay for such period as provided by regulation. Such leave shall he in addition tn regulu-vacation leave.
5.	A full-time provisional employee wlw is a member of Lhe National Guard or naval militia or of a reserve component of the Armed Forces of Lhe United States who is required to endergu annual field (raining or annual tw live duly for (raining shall be granted a leave of absence with pay
35
or without pay is provided by regulation.
a.	Employees who arc membere of Lhe National Guard must be given lime oft'with fall pay to attend required drills. Such, time off shall be in addition to vacation, sick and adrumisttafiva leave,
b.	Alt Appointing authority may, however, resdiedule an employee's hours ittld day? of work inorder to enable an cmpktj.ee fo attend drills and still fulfill all onpbynKnt responsibilities without the need fbr aildiliOnul time off.
F.	Sick Leave
L All emjiktyccj: covered by this Agreemml and eligible tor sick leave with pay shall be entitled to the use of sick leave as previded herein.
2.	Sick Leave may be utilised by employees when they arc unable to perform (heir work by reason of personal illness, accident nr exposure to contagious disease. Sick leave may also bo used for short periods because of death in the employee's muutdiaLe family or fbr the attendance of the employee upon a member ortho Lminediole family who is seriously ill, but such sick leave shall act include any extended period where lhe employee srvci as nurse or housekeeper during rhia. period of illness.
3.	a. [hiring the remainder of the calendar year in which un employee is first appointed, he wifi accumulate sick teuve privileges as earned on the basis of one(l) day per month of service or major fraction (hereof
b. In each full calendar year thereafter, he studl be entitled Lo fifteen (15) days sick leave, lhe leave is credited in AdvuHce al lhe beginning of the year in anticipation of continued employment for the fill! year and may tn used on that hans and in aceoi dance with established Stale policy. Such Leave not utilized shall lie accumulated.
4.	a. Tn all eases of tlhiess, wJiether of struct or Long term, the employee is required to notify his superior of tire reason for absence al the earliest possible time but in no event less (han his usual reporting Lime, or other time as required each working day as iwccssiLHed by lhe circumstances. Failure lo report absences or abuse of sick leave privileges uti Uk part of any employee may because fur disciplinary' action.
b. When it i$ known thill rick leave will be required fbr more than tai {J 0) days, sneh Leave must be requested by the employee in writing to his immediate supervisor. This reqwtsrt must be anornpanied by a written and signed statement by a physician prescribing Lhe sick leave and giving the reasons for the sick leave and die anticipated duration of the incapacity.
5.	a. Tho Ki "Lillig aullumly trniy require proof of illness of an employee mi sic.k ItAVC,, whenever such requirement appears reasonable. Such rcquirecricr-it shall be comsislenL with lhe Department of Personnel Rules and Regulations.
h. An employee wtio has been absent on sick leave for periods totaling fifteen (15) days in oue (1) calendar ywir consisting of periods oflcss titan five (5) days, siiall submit acceptable mtriic-al evidence, but where reasonable and appropriate ctn aflidii vil of I he employee shall be acceptable us medical evidence, for any additional sick leave in that year unless such illness is of a chronic or recurring IBtore requiring recurring absences of one (I) day or less in which case only one ccrti ficaic shall be necessary for a period of six f<5} months.
6.	When an employee is on vaefuion and requires sick leave for any portion of that vacation leave, he must immediately request Lhe use of accumulated sick leave, m accordance with State regulations, tlireugh the designated authority. Such rapicals may be made hy telephone, telegram Or teller but, if by phone, should be confirmed hy tclec/ain ijf letter to clemly establish time of
36
request Nr>sfek leave will be credited unless Supporting medical evidence verifying the-iltnesa at injury wbkii would have precluded working is presented.
7.	Death in Family
If there is a death in tiie family us defined in the State Sick Leave Program and an employee has exhausted his sick leuve bulnnce, he shall be granted leave without pay or may charge leave against vacation Or administrative leave or compensatory rime halaitces for up to thtos (3) days upon his request to the appointing authority. In cxcepttanal siojalicios, Ilie tune Ulhil may be extended at the discretion of the appointing authority.
8.	Employees shall not be charged for sick leave on a rum-working dity.
9.	An employee may apply for use of sick leave for periods of leas than his full workday for any appropriate and approved reason auch as becoming ill white working during die assigned sl ijfl or in order li> keep a medical appointment which could not be arranged during UOti-WOrk time. The en^kjyee must charge such sick leuve against bis accumuEaled sick leave balance, or, if such employee has no sick Leuve balance, he may charge such time against other accrued paid leave tinre if available, or, alternatively, leave without pay. Utilization of any sick leave lor less Hum a full work day shall be On an hourly basis; one hour of aide leave charged tor each hour, or portion thereof, excused from tbs work shift. Forpuipoass of this clause, only, seven (7) hours id equal to one (1) day of nick leave for employees serving in a No Limit (NL) category and eight (8) hours is equal to one (1.) day of sick leave for those employees serving in a NL4 category. Where an NL or NL4 employee ulilizes sick leave for a period of less than his cstahlidwd wort schedule for the day, such employee shall be charged -side leave on a pro fata basis in accordance with Nie work schedule established on the day of utilization.
10.	Unused Side Leave - Retirement
a.	A pomuuient employee who enters retirement pursuant to the provisions of a Stale administered or approved retirement system and has tn his credit any earned and unused accumulated sick leave .shall be entitled m receive siippltqiumfel compensation fur sudi earned and unused accumulated sick leave.
b.	The supplemental cumpeasalion lo be paid shall be computed al (he rate of one-half (’/s) of the eligible employee's daily rate of pay for mA day of earned and unused accumulated sick Leave based Upon Lhe average annual compensation received during the last year ofhis employment prior to (he effective date of his reiirettieat, provided, however, 1hul no such supplemental cumpetisficioci pnymont sijall t-xreed $15,000. This .supplemental compensation Asli he paid in a lump sum after the effective date of retirement or it maybe elected by the employee deferred for OtUC (I) year. C. Vacation Leave - Carter Service Program
L. All carter service employees covered by ibis Agreement and eligible for vacation leave with pay shall be entitled to the use of vacation leave as provided herein:
a.	One (I) working day of vacation for each month of employment dining Ure first calendar year of employment.
b.	Twelve (12) working days of vacation front one (I) (u years oC service.
c.	Fifteen (15.) working days of vacation from six (6) lo twelve (12) years of service.
d.	Twenty'(20) working days of vacation from thirteen (13) tn twenty (20) yuan of service, c. Twenty-five (25) working, days of viKstion after die [w«i|ticth (20) year of service.
ft is understood (Liat the current program Lo schedule vacation time itt effect at well institution or ageiicy will be continued. Conflicts concerning (he choice of dales when scheduling vacations
37
will ta resolved witfiin'tlie work unit mi the buds ofStatc seniority. Specific request forvacation Uliltzalicrn which do ikji. conflict with cfieralionul considerations sAinll not he unreasonably denied.
2.	a. Vacation leave is credited iji advance at the begi i« ung ofthc calendar year in anticipation of continued employment for the fu[[ year and may be used on that basis add in accordance willi established Slate policy. Vaculion allowance must be taken during tite current calendar ye vat such time us permitted Of directed by the DcjinrtmeDl Head unless the Department Head determines it cannot be Caked because of pressure of work; except that an employee may tcquesl a muxtmtun of one (1) year of earned vaejliou uilowonoc he carried forward into the irexl succeeding year. Tire request shall he made in writing to die appropriate appointing authority and may he approved for good reason and providing the cniployee mil his supervisor tave scheduled tbc use of such vacation allowance. Such approval jutd sdteduting shall not be imreasooabEy withheld,
b. Where ait employee has an carried vacutiun balance which has not been previously scheduled sr oC October 1, the supervisor will meet with the employee tv determine a schedule tif such vacation lime so that no accrued vacation time will be lost.
3.	Upon separation Iruni lhe State or upon retirement, an employee stall be entitled to vacation allowance fjr the current year prorated upon lhe number of months worked in the calendar yew in which the reparation or rciiremetil becunes effective and any VMtton leave which may have been carried over from the preceding culendar year.
4,	If a pcmiancnt employee dies having vacation credits, a sum of money equal lo the compensation figni ed on his salary rate at the time of death shall be calculated nnd paid to his estate.
5.	In tiic event the State of New Jersey enacts legislation granting mMiltaial vacation benefits Lo employees of lhe State, such additional vacation benefit will be made available to members of the Unit prorated as ofthc first full month following the effective date of such Icgislnl ion.
6.	When the vacation allowance for employee ctangea based on Ins years of service during any calendar year, the additional annual allowance wi!F he given for lhe entire year.
H. Cottliaacd Beiefta
Lhiri ng any leave of absence with pay employee fringe benefits slifil.1 be continued and leave allowances shall continue to accrue for uny employee affected.
ARTICLE XXTTT
VACATION LEAVE AND ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE LOR UNCLASSIFIED EMPI .OVFFR
A In accordnoce with applicable Mis, regulations, and policies, employees serving in die unclivisiifed service shall have an option of selecting a policy of vacation leave and administrative leave us prescribed hy the State for employees i n the career service or the policy nf vacidion leave und administrative [<mve for unclassified employees as determined to he AfgiropriiLte by the Department Head. This option may be exercised not more than oitce <m forms fitmisbcd by the respective employee's Personnel pffiew. i'be department policy hi effect on the dale ofthc signing of (Eis Agreement shall nc>t be changed without prior notice to ami negotiations with tta Union. The provisions offta above paragraph shall out apply to employees whose woi k SCtadu fes are governed hy the academic calendar.
B, A program to schedule vauiition time at each institution or agency will be established by the appropriate manaa,emei]L official. Conflicts wncernmg the choice of dates when Scheduling vacation will be resolved within the work unit on the basis of State seniority. For purposes of this Article,
33
an unclassified employee sludl begin Io accumulate State seniority from the date of initial lure with the State of New Jersey until there is a break, in Service, Thu provision does not apply to let! (I fl) month employees whose wort schedules are governed by an ac^isiniecaJcTidar.
ARTICLE XXIV
LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY
A. All employees coveted by this Agreanaii, upon written application setting forth Lhe reason, may be granted a leave of absence without pay for a maximum period of Otte fl) year by the appointing authority w'lUl the approval ofibe Department of PctsonneL further leave in exceptional situations may be granted by the appointing authority With the approval of the DepurlmeiU of Personnel, where it is in Lhe public interest.
B, The appointing authority shall request approval Com (he Department of Personnel lot a leave of absence without pay up to a maximum period of one (I} year furan employee elected or appointed to a fill!-time position with the Union Such leaves may he renewed on an annual basis. Employees holding full-lime elected or appointed positions with (he Union shall ho permitted Io remain on leaves of absences without pay tec the duration of this collective negotiations agreement. Each annual renewal is subject to approval by (he Department of Personnel.
€- The granting ofa request fof leave of absence without pay will net he unreasonably withheld.
ARTICLE XXV
UNION RIGHTS AND REPRESENTATIVES
A.	Access (u Premises
1.	Union officials and duly authorized Union representatives, whose ntuitoS and identification have been previously suhmitted to and acknowledged by (Ite State, aliall be admitted to tfic premises of the Stele on Union businass. Requests for such visits shall ba directed with reasonable advance notice to Slate officials who skill be designated by the Slate and include the purpose of the visit, proposed time and dale and specific worfr areas involved. FermissiiXi ter .such visits slwll nciL be unreasonably withheld. Provided ihal requests have been made pursuant to th in paragraph, such Union Officiate shall have the opportunity to consult with employees in lhe unit before the start of tire work shift, during lunch or breaks, or after ccmpielioii of the work shift. Tlie State will designate appropriate places for such meetings at its facilities. Access Io Che premises as set forth In Ulis juiaj£iapli sliaH ihjL be given by tirr Gtele Io Any employee orgtmi still OU other dun io the Uition set forth lierein or to any officer or representative of $l»ch other employee organiiatkrn for the purpose of communicating with employees in this unit
2.	The Union Mull he allowed to cunduct normal business meetings on State properties, provided LbaL -space is available during hours when the facilities are open; requests arc made and approved at least one (I j week in advance of the proposed date of uro and that liability for the dtiiia&es, earc and maintenance, and any cot^s which are attendant (hereto are borne by the Union. Employees muy alteriJ such meetings only during off duty hours. Less notice may he acceptable to the State.
3.	The above is not inlmded to restrict Union Officials and Representatives fivra eXCtd&ing tire it ordinary right as citizens as regards access to the public premises of the State.
B,	Leave Of Absence for Union Activity
1.	The Slate agrees lo provide leaves of absence with pay for designees of the I fnion Io attend
39
I Inion adivitiea. A to lai of 725 days of such leave cf absence limy be used during lhe period July 1,1999 through June 30,200D, and 72$ days ofsiieft leaves of absence duringHie period. July 1,2000 through June 30, 2001; and 725 days cf such leaves C*f absence during the period July I, 2001 through June 30,2002 and 725 days ofsuch leaves cf absence during tile period July 1,2002 (trough Jone 30,2003.
2.	a. This leave is lo beusedfar pocticrpailiuniti regutarfy xhedufcdnicctings.«raKr»entinn?. cf labor organizations with nt ich the Union is affili ated and for training prcigf inns or other Union activity for which appropriate approval by the State 1$ required and which approval diall not be unreasonably Withheld.
b. Application far the u» of such leave on behalf of the designer of (he Union shall be made in writing or orally eighteen (IS) days in advance or lesser period if appropriate by the Union President or olher duly authorized represenlatrvn to die Office of Employee Relations.
3.	Ltsivea will he granted individuate autltorized by the Ehrsrdciit or Other duly authorised representative. Authorized leaves granted to an individual shall not exceed arnatximunj of twenty (20) days in a year period and soveu (7) days of paid leave fur any single activity for any individual employee except where special approval of an exception may be granted by the Stale.
4.	Any' leave not utilized in a yearly period shall not be aocutmilaled except where a written request of the Union far cany-over of such leave; far a particular purpose is made i»t later than thirty (30) days prior to the end of tlie year period. ThEs wqiwst may be approved in whole or in part hy the State.
5.	In addition, lhe Stale agrees to provide Leave of absence without puy for designees of (he Union to attend Union activities approved by the State. A lolid of 725 days of such leave of absence without pay may be used during the period July 1, 1999 Co J une 30, 2000; and 725 days during the year July L, 2000 to June 30, 2001; and 725 days during lhe period July 1, 2001 through June 30. 20(J2, and 725 days during the period of July 1,2002 through Jniie 30,2003.
Cl This additional leave of absence without pay is fa 1» used under the same conditions and restrictions expressed in connection with leaves ofalwcruie with pay.
7.	The lime provided licrrin is in addition fa time provided elsewhere fo this Agreement far liegotiiriions meetings acid, contract administration cneelinga.
S. En exceptional circumstances (he Union may request, tlirvugh the Office of Employee Relations, a day off without pay for u local Union officer who is in the active employ of the State hl Order (or such officer lo represent a gricvnnf in his negotiating unit and lotral ut Steps I and 2 pursuant fa die .Article. Grievance Procedure, l be request far release must be made m accordance with the Article, Union Rights aod Representatives, subsection B. Leave of Absence for Union Activity and approval shall be at the discretion of detrimental management based upon operational considerations and/or the exceptional nature o f IEue grievance.
9. In addition to the twenty (20) days of unpaid leave of alssence for Union activity prnvjiied far in die Union Rights and Rqiresentalives Articles currently found in (he various Agreements upon proper application the Slate agrees to grant to the (bur (4) negotiating unite a combined total of Up Co twelve (12) Union officers named by the Union and recognized i u ad Kin<;e by (he State, a maximum of ten (10) additional days of unpaid leave of absence per individual far Union activity far which Appropriate approval by the Slate is required.
C. Bulletin Boards
L In central Incations and in work areas wliere there are large numbers o f employees covered
40
by Ibis Agreement, ihe Stale will make space wailaMc oji exiuiiift bulletin bctfnb which spmv will be for the exclusive use of the I Tn ion. The rq>ace provided on ejich bu Ltefiu bourd will rainintally approximate 30" by 3tF or an equivalent, [f the Union desires bulletin boards al other locations, Ibeti it may rcqinsl. pentiission to provide its own bulletin boards. Approval of such requests shtil conform lo Slate standards trad will not be imfeascnably withheld by the State.
2. Appropriate material on such bulletin hoards diall he posted and removed by representatives of the Union. The material shall (tot contain anythin# profeno, obscene or defamatory of (he .State or its representatives and employees, nor anything consliliiliitg election campaign material, Materials which violate provisions of this Article shall no( be posted. Material to be posted will consist of the following;
fc. Union elections and results thereof;
b. Union appoint rue tils;
C- Union meetings;
d.	Social and recreational events of the Union;
e.	Reptorts of ollkial Union business and achievements.
3.	Ihe Union will be permitted to post notices on designated bulletin boards where; available in Held locations not wi th in, in«<ttntjnn& or offices of the. State provided such postings arc consistent with (be condition* agreed fo above. Requests fa-permission for such postings shall he granted by the department?! or appropriate subordinate level of management.
4.	The State may, upon request of the Union undertake to make specific postings of authorized materials on behalf of the Union.
5.	The State will provide space in central louuliuus and areas freqiieiitcd by employees in the unit where Union newspqrpers, circulars and literature may be placed so Ihal employees may pick up copies during tton-work time provided that such material for distribution is consisleni with Itou 2 of this provision, tt is further agreed that the Union will assure (hat all undistributed literature is removed tram tlie rfistribitlinn ptjitili ufler a ressoiiabJe tinie-1>, RcpmenTatioo Lists
1.	Tlie Union agrees to tumtsh the State with complete written lists of Union representatives including Shop Stewards or alternates and their appropriate and mutually agreed upon grievance districts. The 1 Inion forlher agrees lo inform the State through Hies Office of Employee Relations of any changes mid lo keep such hslscumn! and correct at all times.
2,	The Stale will appoint appropriate representatives ofmanacecncnt at each location who will respond to the t Jnkm in Gi icviUtoe Procedure or otliw designated functions. The State will provide a list of such martagemeal representatives to Ihe Union.
E, Unioi Stewards
The Union has the sole right and discretion to designate Stewards or alternates and specify I heir respective responsibilities and authority io act foi tire Union. The parties agree that Lbe privileges afforded lo Steward^ elsewltere provided, are applicable t<> a rcasoiwliic number of Stewards reasunutily rcotptabte fo the State, Should conflict arise in Ilie admintaln'tioci of Ulis clause, tfie parties agree lo resolve the conflicts) through further discussion.
F.	Union Privileges
I.	Where tire State tuis a newsletter Or hotit# Organ which is published periodically for (he information of employees, announcements of Union meetings of unit jepresentativesor affairs may be included if requested by the unit representative.
41
2.	Where (be Union has mail to Ek delivered Lo its otHcei'S or other reprcsenlutivus, the inter-ufGee mail system will be made available (i> deliver Ruch mOiiL within any institution or building provided that priority is rdamed tor the business of the Stale.
3.	Where tltere are public address lystcfns in the work areas, the unit rcpfeucnljtivc may Submit notices of meetings or -ciClier urnl matters which will be announced except wljere the hraadcosl system is open lo the public or to persons in the care and Custody of the Slate, where such arwKUUiceiiietils maybe inappropriate.
4.	When telephone messages for unit rcprtSailalivM arc received by the employer, the message will be delivered tn the representative at the earliest possible lime.
5.	The Pnsiftent uf a local may request use of available Space for storage uf papers and ftte^ of the local council or chapter pertaining to Slate employees, Provisions of sjech space shall not be unreasonably witldieEd, when available; however, the provision of apace shall not take priority over esse tU ialu pc rational uses and ths Stale shall incur tto responsibility for lhe security w safety of any Union matci Lijs nor any liability fur loss or damages which may occur, Further, the Union may be permitted to furnish file Citbinela nr other equipment related to the commitment above under the same conditions. The permission to utilise the facilities oflEie Slate may he withdrawn at anytime, but will not be □( treason ably withdrawn.
6.	Whan a managerial or consultant investigating ar implementing oommittae Seeks views of employes affected, lite Union shall be notified and one of lhe employees whi> wifi be allowed to Speak shall be a person selected by the Union. Wltcre such an investigation procedure i& uriderlakai without die solicitation of views of employees, lhe Union may prewnl a written stulemenl of its view's to Lhe investigating agent
7.	Regulations or documents specified in this Agreement shalI he available for reference al the Personnel Oftke-of the employee seeking tire information.
G.	InforihHluiaal Posteanls
The Union wilt [mike available to lhe Departments self-addressed stamped postcards. Tlie postcard will sonlain space for Uic following mfbivnarfon: employee name, employee address, liorue phono number, job tide. hiring dale, department which hired employee, eruployee’s work foicalion, and the payroll number where lhe employee works.
Upon receipt of sucJt cards from the Union, the dcpartuWEil's personnel offices) will distribute the Curd to new hires what the new hire comes in to fill o<j1 lhe necessary paperwork needed to iniliule rtiopayin][ precess ml TViv flrd can bo tilled ntil by the new hire- C-dids jlUcd uulliy l]ie CKiV hire will he forwarded to the Union via the mail, H. Membership Packets
The Union representative may supply membership packets which coiuain information for distribution (u employees in die unit, including 1lte role of the Union representative, the membership appl icalfon and a copy of this Agreement uts well as other material mutually agreed (o by the Stale and Lhe Union representative. The Slate agrees |» distribute such membership packets to all employees in lhe unit al the time such employees receive the copies uf this Agreement atid to new employees during the initial phases of employment which sliall nut ordmarily exceed hvenly (2(1) days from the date id?employment
42
ARTICLE XXVI
ACCESS TO PERSONNEL FILE
A.	Upon request and with reasonable notice, an Cmplciyoc shall have the oppoitunily lo review Ji'd examine pertinent documents including those related Lo performance evaluation and conduct in his or Iter personnel history file or in any pcnnaneaL supplementary personnel file. The Slate shall honor lhe request of such employee for copies of documents m Ute Hie. The State shall hare tbe tight lohave such review and CKarntnation take place tn the presence of an appropriate official of the agency or department in question. Tha emplnycc may file a written response of reasonable length to anymcmocaibda or documents which aredtsogatcuy or adverse tn him or her. Such respNlSC wilt be included in Lhe relevant permanent posunnel history hie Or pentiiutcnt supplementary personnel file and will he attached to and retained with the document in question. LT any material, derogatory or adverse to tlie employee is placed in lhe file in question, a copy of such material shall be sent to the employee.
B.	No document of anonymous origin shall be used against any employee.
C.	Copies o f any written documents specifically related to discipline or lhe work performance of ail employee which are relied igxm by lhe Stalo during any disciplinary proceedings, grievance teeing, or in any final evaluation report rendered under the PARS Program will be given Lu the employee upJn his request,
[>, A copy of specific written material which is derogatory or adverse to an employee and ii Lil the possession of the State or its representatives, and which has nol been previously transmitted to the employ*, sEudE be provided to the employ# when such written material is lo be relied upon in any adverse personnel action resulting in disciplinary proceedings, or in any evaluation repent rendered Linder the PARS program, and a reasonable lime provided for response.
ARTICLE XXVU
SENIORITY
I	. DeGtiilfon
A.	State seniority' is the accumulated period ot’ service of a permanent employee of lite State.
B.	Job classi Hcatimi seniority is tl>c accumulated period of service, of a pcrmamsit employee of the Slate in a particular job classification
IL	Pcrmucnt Employee
A_ Rnsploycca ghall bcaonsidcnsd to have Staletenioriiy upwL siM'j-ftwfiil rrrmpletion of 1liC probationary period (working lest pcriodf) for any permanent position, effective on the first day worked following such successful completion but computed from the dale of initial ttire. Such State seniority isaccuniijJahle unless there is or has been a break in service as set forth below.
B.	Employees shall be considered to have job ciassificatton seniority upon successful completion of the probationary perioil (working test period), for (he job classification cilcctiveott lhe first day worked following such suoxssfiiJ completion hut computed from the dale of initial hire or promotion to the particular job classification 5-itch job classification seniority ul the job classification (n which tl'U employee is assigned is aixuttuilahlc unless (here is or has been n break as sei forth below oc where lhe employee is appointed to unollier fob classification or during such lime an employee serves a disciplinary suspension.
CL A break in continuous service occurs wlien an employee resigns, is disclunged for cause, retires or is laid otlj however, employee Stale and job classification seniority accrued priur (0 layoff
43
shall be continued upon recall ctnd reemployment tod (he provision of Article XJXVIJI filial! apply.
£>. in tbc case where an employee is promoted but docs no1 successfully complete lhe probationary period (working test period), be may Ek returned to his previous job cLtTsilicutioiiin his moi recent knalion orhts thetlctinenL location if practicable, without less of job classification seniority and such job cla.isifica(iun seniority shall cohSttited Lu have coiitiimml uccumulsttou in thepomaMnt position provided the positions are in the same or appropriately relaledjob class series as determined by tbc Tteparinrait of Personnel.
El Tbe Slate agrees lo supply current seniority lists to the Union oo a acmi-aimiial b;sSbS.
F. Titis Article shall not apply (u [he computation Ot application of seniority indelerminution of individual rights arfiniiiislcred by the Department uf Personnel, such as layoff and promotional rights. In Bitch circumslaiKCS, seniority determinations and applications shall be determined hy the Department oCPersuoneL The terms J3*J conditions of seniority pertaining to layoff and prOhwliuns arc fully sei forth in statutes and in (he Merit System Regulattuns and arc intatded to be observed ill the administration of this Agreement, The provisions above arc nul intended to vary the application of lhe seniority provisions under rule or law as they pertain to layoff and promotional matters.
HL Provsianil and Frtibutioaary Employe**
A. Provisional and probationary employees (serving working test period), who have accrued State ajxl job classification seniority under Section T above in another permanent position shall t»e considered to have die Slate and job classification security previously accumulated and shall continue to accumulate such State and job Classification seniority as Inug as such previous permanent stilus is maintained, subject lo tiny break in service and provided (but with reference to job classification seniority the conrimialrcin of accumulation is predicated on the dctermcnaiirui of ill* Department of Personnel lhu.1 lhe poritiona arc in tlte same or appropriately related job class series.
E. Fxe-cpl as provided in paingrapli A. above, provisional aihI probationary cmptnyces (serving working test period) shall be considered lo be without seniority in their provisrfmal or probationary job claRslfitialiun. The absence of seniority shall not be construed lo diminish lhe assignability of auy employees to overtime or emergency work.
C.	Provisional appointments will nol be made except in the case of an emergency as provided iu NJ. S.A. JI A:4-13b. Wlrere an examination is requited, such win be scheduled at the earliest possible trmc.
ARTICLE XXVtn LAYOFF AAD RECALL - CAREER SERVICE
A. When it is ncccssaiy to lay off employees, the Union sliall be notified at once arid as far in advance as posslbte of the notice referred to io D. below and be supplied with relevant data concerning the layoff and procedures discussed and the conditions outlined below and the established protections administered by IfreDcpartiiicirt of Personnel shall be observed. Die Slate si mil provide the Union with seniority lists and grids fur directly affected employees in advance uf tbe final option selection interviews. al the lime these materials ar* received by the affected department.
B,	In lhe event of a layoff, lhe Union shall be allowed tu have one (1) representative r*ot in The active employ of die State attend lhe preliminary layoff conference tor all affected unit employees when
44
conducted by the dcpanitteiit and one (1) representative not in lhe active employ of the State allend tlja individual employee's 6n;il options selection interview. It is understood that (he purpose of the Union representative's tiUeudance at lhe meetings is to observe and advise employees with respect to queslions arising out of the process, however, the representative shall not disrupt or delay the proceeding in any way'. A shop steward may attend sndi mmiinw without pay' in order tv act as representative in Llotl of the won-ainpteycc Union representative if acceptable to the State.
C.	Permanent employees within a department will not be laid off before any emergency appointments, temporary appointments to temporary extra po$llii>n$, provisional uppoinitiocrrtB to pfttmarWtlt potations wabpfoytes serving in working test period wdtimi Ilie classification affected.
1). The Slate will provide a minimum of forty’five (45) calendar days notice of layoff lo any permanent c m pl oyee to he affect cd.
E,	Job classification seniority shall be a determining factor to be considered when identifying which penmine nt employ era are Lo be hid off.
F.	Whenever possible, the State will try to identity all employment opportunities and tv Avoid layoff by transferring, reassigning m offering to demote employees to available vacancies within (tie Authority of the appointing antlioriticsconccmed.
t. Permanent emptoyera affected by layoff roquiranenia may exercise bumping rights within their job classification or to equated or lower rated job classifications as provided,
If, Employees finally determined to he laid off and wlio leave the payroll shall be given ten (10) working days notice, this provisiuti Is subject to the DepartmaitorPcrsoiinel adjusting ils rites and regulations as arc required to accamrnudiile Illis program.
I.	The name of the permanent employee who is lidd offshall he placed on a special reemployment list. Persuns Oo such n list will be given preferential considaatirm over any other type ofappitcanl for appointment to the job cJsssiCcutionor equated job classification <trtd no new employee diall he Hired until all employees on layoff status desiring to return to work shall Itavc been recalled, provided such employees on hyofT status are capable of retard mg to work, lhe employee must provide the employer w ith any address than e,c whi lo waiting for recall.
J.	Permanent employees will be recalled to work in the reverse order ic> which they were hid off by tlte appointing authority, subject to the limitation flcot those penrranaii employees who were laid off hist for reason of an unsatisftetary performance rating sliali be placed on a special iccmploymenl list in accordance wilh their seniority credits. Notice of recall will be made in writing by mail to (he employee's Itomc- addrem of reeved.
K,	I. An employee wltO is recalled musl respond wjthi n five (5) oalendur days of the date of receipt of the notice of certification for recall or within ten (10) days Of the date of mailing tf be considered to have abandoned his recall rights,
2.	An employee recalled to his former or equated job classification must report for reinstatement or be considered to have abandoned his recall rights.
3.	An employee recalled lo a job classification with a towei salary rate Ihan his previous job classification may refuse such position and remain eligible for recall-
4.	An employee who is demoted in accordance with the regulations of the Dcpuriniait of Personnel during a layoff shall be CCtoti nued on a previously established promotional Ilrc. during its existence.
L. Amai^foyec on layoff accrues no additional s-ick leave or vucurion credits. When an employee is recalled from luyvff and rcinstaTcd, he is considered to have cwtinuous service credit for
45
computation of future earned v^ations.
M. Except for the cotrutdlments concern! ng "notice", "Layoff and procedures discussed" and the supply of "relevant dala" set forth in paragraph A. Hid except for paragraph F., it is rccp^iized that the provisions of paragraph A. thrrmgh K, above are illustrative portions of d» layoff and recall rights established under Dqiarlmtnl of Personnel Statutes and Regulations and (hill the overall system is administered by lhe Department of Pci-sonacF. The Utiiuit reserves the right under applicable law lo challenge changes to any of the foregoing.
N. 1. The Siale will discuss with the Union any decision lo subcontract work hated ou solely fiscal reasons when it Is apparent dial employees will be laid of}' as a direct result of the Subcontracting.
2.	If, during the term of this Contract, the State contracts out or subcontracts work rionnally performed hy employees covered by this Coutracl and such adion results in layoff or demotion, employees uffected will be given every priority available lo continue their employment within their classification or any other position available fa-which they arc qualified, prior to layoff or dtrnoliou. Any employee thus alTeeled will be protected hy lhe layoff and recall provisions of (be (Contract and hy any relevant lows, rules and regulations.
3.	When: employees in Lilies covered under thia centrad are to be either iransfnred or reassigned due lo work being phased out, the State will meet and discuss with the Union any contracting out of (hat spoci ftc work, if such contracting uul is tn occur within ninety (90) days, th 1. A icnrganiinjIjoD is the abolition or consolidation of a State office.
2.	WIkti ?i delermination is made to reorgani^ an entire Local Stale office ar a larger Departmental entity, the 1 Inion shall be notified of such reorganization prior to in implementation. Upon request, the Union and tire Department shall meet to discuss matters relating to Ilie reorganization. The Rdicdiiliitgof such meeting shall not serve to delay Che ic^rg^ttiationprocir-ss.
ARTICLE XXTX
LAYOFF AND RECALL FOR UNCIA55TFTED AND PROVISIONAL EMPLOYEES
A, In (he event management decermines thal a department-wide layoff-doc to financial exigencies or programmatic changes tube place which will affect unclassified or provisional enipfoyees (he fbfiowitig ptiKmlure shall be observed:
I - The Union shall be notified of the layoff as. |>r hi nd v,mce us possible.
2	Affected emplovucR shall he divert a generalised notice of layoff' at least ferry-five ('J5') calendar days, prior to the leduclion in force.
3.	The State will supply Lhe Union with relevant data concerning the Layoff
4.	Employees serving in the xanre job classifications within (he wnrk unit affected who, in the judgment of management, luive performed unsatisfactorily, or are lacking with reaped 1o having achieved nr mjiinluined necessary and/or expected ccrtificatinns, ckgrevs-, or like qualifications; or arc Jacking lhe abilities and'or skillR necessary 1o perfordi Current or future work assignments shall at the option of management he laid off fust. Due consideration shall he given to the concepts 0 f affirmative action.
5.	Where, in tlic j udgroail of management, the elements set forth in paragraph 4. ubove do not distinguish employee jtffecled by Lhe reduction in force such etnpluyees serving in lhe same job claasificaiidu within the work unit shall he laid olTiu in'rtcsc order of job classification seniority. For purposes of this article, an employee shal I begin to accrue job classification seniority ax of six
(6) months Subsequent ti> lhe effective date of die employee's initial appointin«cLt Io the particular job classification to ’Miict he is assigned. Employees who are appointed to anew job title (.due to promotion, for example) subsequent to having served the initial six (6) numlh period shall begin to wXCVCjob classification seniority three (3) months subsequent to die effective date of the employee's appointment to such new job title, provided that there has been no break, in service. An cmpkiyes's job classification aeniutity accrued prior to a laycifTsMtl be continued and again begin to accrue immediately upon the employee's return to full employment status in die same job tide in which be had been serving piiur to the Layoff. Job classification seniority shall continue Io accumulate until there is a break in service. Employees oh unpaid leaves of shseacc ur layoff shall not accrue joh classification seniority during (be leave or during die period of layoff. Employees who are csitistated due to improper application of this Article sliall irot suffer any loss of seniority accrual.
6.	Nothing herein riistl convey any bumping rights tn employees covered by this article. Failure tn comply with any element of this article shall not result in delaying the effectuation of the layofT, and any errors identified with respect to the application of thia procedure sltall be corrected on a prospective basis only. Back pay shall not be awarded.
7.	T|k various appointing aiuhoriues shall create and madnlam a recall list by title composed nf those employees who were laid off The list shall conlinuein existence for nine (9) nmnllcS following the date of layoff except fix teaching personnel covoud hyihis article in which case the list shall contfoue until the beginning of lhe next full academic year ttnitwdiately following the expiration date of the recall list. Employees who arc fully qualified, possessing credentials deemed necessary, whose pcrfiu mance has been satisfachny mid who are capable of performing the work 1o be assigned shall be recalled in inverse order of layoff. The appoint! ng xtitiwrily shall not be required to iccuH employees who were Laid off pursuant to paragraph 4, of (his article, however, such employees tnay be recalled at lhe option of the appointing authority when the list of eligible employes is exhausted
8.	The term job classificalirms as u$od in this article shall encompass nil titles within a title series. Hence, layoff will be based upon total seniority witlii n a 1 i1 Le series when applicable.
B. Procedure
The appointing authority shall Rjiciultitneously notify by regular mail rirpltone ut least three 13) eligible employees of & vacancy in their particular title and a copy of such notice shall be forwarded io the Union The most senior employee affirmatively and timely rcspondi ng tn If ie notice shall fill tire position. lhe employee must respond wilhui five (5) wodring days of tiie receipt of (be notice or withjn ten (10) working days utter Lhe malting. The letter of recall riial I specify Lhe hiLesl date by which Lhe employee may limely contact tire appointing authority- Employees who do not reqwnd in a timely rtijuner may be permanently removed from the list. Lach employee shall be responsible for keeping the appointing audrtrity advised of their current address and phone number. The employee tnusl report to work within* rrasotiahly prompt period nf time which in no case shall exceed twenty (20) calendar days. failure to report within lite tittie frame sei forth above may result in forfeiture of the jwi$irioti 1o which the employee Itsd been recalled and elimination from the recall list.
ARTICLE XXX
LIABILITY CLAIMS INDEMNIFICATION
A, Employees covered by (his Agreement sliall bt coliUtd to defence and indcmnificatiiMI as
47
provided tn N.J.S.A. 5S: 10-1 et seq. and N-J.S-A. 59; 10A-1 et seq.
B.	For 'usforitu'iliouai purposes only, lhe following paragraphs generally describe the provisions presently contained in tite aforesaid ntatiitps
I.	RcCchm of Employees
a.	Except as provided in pnragnqjh 2. below, Ilie Allocuey General dnili, upon a request of an employe* provide for ihe defense of any azlion brought against the employee on sccouul of an act or ottrissiun in the scope uf his employment The Attorney General's duty to defend shall extend to a cross-action, ixuinterclaim nr truss-complaint against dn employee.
b.	The- Attorney General may refuse to pjovije for Che defense of an wlion referred tn in paragraph I. above if he determines thal:
1.	the act or omission was not wilfon lhe scope of cmpkiyineut; or
2.	the act or failure to act w;us because of actual fraud, willful raiscondutji; or nclual malice; or
5-	The defense of the action or proceeding by the Attorney General would create a conflict of interest between the State and the employee.
c.	In any other action or proceeding, including criminal ptoceedings, the Attorney General may provide- for Lhe defense of an ernptoytt i f he concludes that such representation is in the best interest of the State.
d.	Whenever the Attorney General provides for the defense of jin employee, the Art-oruey General may assume exclusive coiittq] over lhe rqircscntaiion of such employee and $ucli employee shall conpende fully w ith the Adorney General's defease,
e.	l he Attorney General may provide for a defense by an attorney £rom his own staff or by employing other counsel for this pnipose or by asserting tlie Stale's tight under any apprupiiule insurance policy which requires the insurer to provide Ute defense.
2.	hid emu iii cation
a_ Ifthc Artunwy General provides for lhe defease of an employee, the State shall provide indemniiicarirrJi for (lie employee. Nothing in this section atidrorizes the State to pay for pwdrivu or excruplajy iliimuges or damages resulting front the cnmrnissioji of a crime.
b.	Il the Attorney General refuses to provide for lhe defense of a State wiipluyee, the employee shall bo entitled to indemruticatlori if he establishes that, the act or omission upon which 1 he claim or judgment was based occurred within lhe scope ofhiR cmpfoymenl as an employee of the Wfstr. aivi rh^ Si u te fails to CRtahlifJi GauJ he acted or tailed tn fn-d b^usuac of actual fraud, Ataal malice Or willful misconduct, [f the employee cRtahljRliHslEial he was entitled le a defaise, lhe Slate shall pay or reimburse hun for any bona fide settfemoil agreements entered into by (he employee, rmd stull pay nr reimburse him for any judgments entered against [he emptoyee, and shall pay or reimburse Idm for all casta of defending lhe action, tticludiflg reasonable counsel fees, tutd expenses, together tvith oasts of appeal, if any.
Nadiing in this section aullwrises lhe State to pay for punitive or exemplary damages or damages resulting from the wraraissian ofa crime,
c.	An employee shall not be entitled to inderanEllcation unless willfoi tax (IQ) calendar days of the time h< is served wrth any summons, complaint, process, nolice, demand or pleading, he delivers lite original or a copy thereof lo (he Attorney General or his designee. Upon such delivery lhe Attorney Gaicial. may assume exclusive cunlrol of (he employee's rcjieeoenlaLion and such entpJoyee shall cooperate folly with the Attorney General's defense.
48
C.	lhe provisions of Uns Article -sEiali mj| be subject fo tins Grievance Procedure us set forth in Article IV.
ARTICLE XXXI
TRAVEL REGULATIONS
A_ Transportation Allowance
L Whenever an ii bdi vid Li al employee: is authorized and required to uschis privately owned-vehicle or as a condition of hra employment use* such vehicle, flte State will he responsible for m dem ni float ion pursuant to appropriate legislation for such SfuKlfotied use and shall reimburse the employees at the applicable rate provided by law for each mile of such use Aulhorizalioii forSUCh U$e is predicated on the individual nurintaiumg basic automobile insurance as specified in the New Josey Travel Regulations and current legion ation and Itccnsure.
2,	During such authorized use of hla privately Owned ruhkie, the Slate cequi its each iodlridual accepting such JuilLorLiatton Lo maintain insurance for personal liubilily in the miiuitUun amounts of $23,000 for each person and $50,000 for each accident and $10,000 property for each accident, 'the State will provide insurance coverage where such privately owned vehicles Ute used in the authorized business of the Stale covering the excess over the valid and collectible private inRtirAJwe in (he amount of $150,000 for each person and 5500,000 for each accident for personal liability and $50,000 property damage for each accident liuIcrr and until legislation is passed which requires du; State Lo indemnify and hold h armlet their employees for personal injuries and property ilatnage caused by (he negligence of said employees white operating ihcir privulely owned vehicles on lhe authorized huRincRR ofthc State.
3-	The requirement to utilize a privntdy owned vehicle shall unt he i mposed where it causes uifoile hardship on the employees.
B.	Keimbarsament
I ■ Employ era shall be reimbursed for travel expenses while on the authorized business of the State in Itetping with the conditionR net forth in the Travel Regulations ofthc State.
2.	a. Expense; incurred for [necessary parking and (oiks dirftliy related |i> Ilie aulhorizcti use of a vehicle on official Slate business are allowed and reimbursable by lhe Stale. All such expense* require itocuntenluLion and may require advanced authorization. An exception to the requirement of cfocumenlation of an expense may be authorized for Ruch circumstances where receipts for payments arc not available; for example, tire piiyitient o f parki ilg tneter expenses.
b. Vouchers, inclusive of required supplemental documentation, shall be submitted on a monthly basis when travel expenses are incurred. Such vouchers presented tor reimbursement on Or prior to the last day of 1he month slttli be pmccRscd prerriptly tlirough foc-al authorization procedures acid, if approved, submitted lo Lhe Division of Budget and Accounting lo assure receipt prior to the lenlh (10) day ofthc following month.
3.	Payment where warranted under the Travel Regulations Rhall he mafr promptly providing the voucher is complete mid axuijrfite received within tire lime sdicdulc outlined herein.
4.	In exception lo these conditions, whatever an employee accumulates Aullforizid expenses of one hiuMired dollars ($ I OO.tXJ) or more, that employee may exercise an uplfon to submit an appropriate voucher with documentation for payment without regard to the ordinary munddy schedule, further, where authorized monthly expenses ere Icrr than ten dollars ($10.00), the 3>late may exercise an option 1<i aixumulale such expense* to include other montiily periods until there is
49
an amount in excess often dollars (JltfXJO) but such accniuiiJatlou shall not be continued beyond three (3) successive months
C.	An employee who is authorized tn use a privately erwtsed vehicle for State business, nu'iy elect not lo transport other emptoyccaofthc State except lljai this slalion must he coimnimitaled in advaruie of any travel alignment thus providing sufliciaiL lime notice for planning purposes.
D- When the State requites an tfiiployw te be medically examined by a Slate designated doctor or medical facility, travel expenses, not inconsistent with lhe Travel Regulations oftheStatc, shall be paid in (he same manner and under the same conditions as other travel expenses. An employee u [tending such examination shall do so without loss of pay for necessary time of arch attciidnnec and necessary travel time appropriate thereto if during normal working time-
E,	1, III Order lo provide cunlinuily of scheduled work by at employee who is regularly authorized Eo use a privately owned vehicle for State business and in the event such vehicle Is damaged or otherwise inoperable and undetgoing liiajur repairs such anployoe may request temporary use ofa Slate owned vehicle from (hose vehicles in the motor pool servicing (he particular function. The request if endorsed by the appropriate supervisor shall he presented to the StarcofFidal in charge of those vehicles for approval and atifhori'talion. Such vehicles may be assigned for up lo three (5} days and such period maybe extended if required.
2.	ALL such use of Stale vehicles muni conform to the regulations pertaining (hereto.
3.	Employees authorized to utilize State owned vehicles shall obtain gasoline and related sciviccs and products nt State facilities,
4.	Employees may request the issuance of Slate credit curds wlien tirturrvstances seem to wjiratil. Such requests if endorsed by appropriate management and approved by tbc State official at the Local motor pool will be forwarded to the Central Motor Pool for authorization. The issuance of credit cards shall be within conditions and ci irciia cstabl ished hy the supervisor a F the Central Motor Pool.
F,	Gi eonccniuig these matters shall be considered nixi-conlnicluuL
ARTICLE xxxrr
JTE ALTn AND SAFETY
A The Slide shall continue to make reasonable provisions for the safely and health of its employees during the hours of their employment. The State will discharge its rcsjMnsibiliEy for the development and enforcement of iKieiiprftonal safety and health standards to provide a safe and healthful eiiviroiuiieiil in accordance wilhPEQSlIA mid any other applicable statutes, regulations Or guidelines published in lhe New Jersey Register w hich pertains Lo health and safely matters. T he State will set up necessary job safety and health programs for all employees covered by this Agreement and shall provide a reasonably safe and lieulCbfol place of employment for all employees. R. Tlte parties agree to cooperate in maintaining and improving safe working conditions and health protection fur Lhe employees consistent with established safety standards and in (he promotion of safely, safe working habits and good housekeeping throughout the work environment. Where reasonably possible each employee will comply with all safety rules and regulations.
C_ Employee complaints of unsafe or nnfusalthful Cunililiuns shall be repurled to lhe iraraediiife suptjrvisot arid stiall be promptly investigated. Collective action shall be initialed as soon as practicable Lu remedy the condition within safety guidelines.
D. Employees shall not be required to work under condition* of work which arc unsafe or
SO
unfuSalllifuL An employee whose work is tcmporariiy dim inatcd as a result of llr foregoing tday be promptly assigned on an intcriin basis Lu Other Cumpanibfe work for which (he employee is qual i fieri lo perform.
E- If an employee bx-Tirs no oo-lhe-job injury during regular hours of employment requiring professional medical attention, the State will expedite such Uforfical Ireattneiil by filling for an ambulance, if required, or providing transportation lo a recognized medical Emi lily when Ihe injured employee can be moved.
F, 1. a. The Stale and the Union shall establish a Joint Safety and Health Committee fortiic purpose of discussing .safety and health problems, hazards ilndfor programs hi an effort lo develop retOHunendaXionA covteetrung improvemenls or mudificationa of conditfons regarding health and safety. Il is appropriate for Ihe committee to handle isareg of a Suite-wide and focal nature. The committee shall be attended by one (1) unit member typoinled by LheUiuOttfuid representative from Hie Stale and the appropriate opemting dcpsir1maK(s). Al the request of either party, Lhe committee shall be scheduled to meel <d a muLuahy convcraeet time and place bamomhly. In emergent situations, additional meetings may be convened upon the mutnal agreement of the parties. Where there is a mirtuii! agreement to do so, special safety iiwetbigs tuny be scheduled al work locations. Ncuw- of these meetings arc intended 10 bypass lhe grievance procedure nor be considered collective tiegwliutions sessions, Any program instituted as the result of any meeting shall be considered experimental and not constitute a binding practice uukssthe panics specifically agrce in writing.
b. Ute party roquesti ng the meeting stall SubnLLl u written agenda of the suggested tupic($) to be discussed, at least f(.ft«n (15) wk days prior to convening die meeting except where an emergent situation warrants a waiver of this period. There must he mutual agreement upon topics to he placed on the agenda for the meeting.
C. l he State and [he Union agree Lu sei up a subcommittee of lhe Slate Health and Safety Committee to discuss Lhe use of VDT machines in State Departments. Included in the discussions will be the Department ofHcalth (Sutdclincs on the uo; of VDT madiurs. The Sulnfotuitiillee will consist of four management i-qjitseaLlat iv$$ mid four Union representatives. lhe subcommittee may make recommendations, to lhe Commissioner of the Department of Labor as to future PEOSHA rrtgiilflliritui The ffubwmmillee will meet quarterly. The committee dial] meet withen 00 days after the contract j$ signed.
d, lhe committee shall ontisider lecoiimwiKkilions for new or revised health and safety standards devefopert by cither the Union or the Stille.
This piogrniu stall expire on June 311. 2003 unless extended in whole or in part by mutual agreement belween the Slate and the Union.
2.	Hie State and the Union shall establish Dopai (inertia! Health and Safely Commilfens. These Committees shall consist of representatives from (he Department and representatives from Lhe Load Union whom are out in lhe active employment of the State. The I Lafon may also have one (i) unit employee representative attend such meetings. Such employee representative stall be released only for lhe purpose of attending hialiei department's scheduled meeting, l he purpose of lhe Joint Committee meetings i$ Lu provide Ihe parties the opportunity to raise and discuss important Departmental hertHh and safely matters, and to make recommendations COheeming iiUprlivements or modifications of conditions regarding health acid safety. Department committee rneelings may ho scheduled al lhe request of citlw pnrty. Theparty requesting lhe meeting shall submil a written agenda uf Ihe meeting not less than fourteen (14} working days prior lo the meeting along with any
51
ducuiuents or report; feai art reltveml io ths topiefs) lifted on tiie agenda, Complaints of unsafe or unhcaitliy crtuhriocis shall be accompanied hy written documwilalfou when available.
3.	Wliere reasonably possible, ail txururullee meetings shall take place during working hums and employees shall fUitTe, no loss ofpay us a result ofartcndancc st such meetings.
4.	This provision tdni.ll not be construed as conveying any ailriitional liabilities open either party with respect to health or safety.
<L I. References lo safety are intended to include uumcepl of reasonable personal security acid protections which shat! be maintained to assure employees against physical harm.
2.	11 is undctfttwl diet references lo safety and health hazards and CQitditiotis of work lefennl to in this Article are riot iotendtsl to racCudc those liazards and risks which art an ordinary characteristic of lhe work or arc reasonably associated wife lhe perftmnsnoc of an. employee's responsibilities and duties, However, this is not intended to eliminate the State's general obligations for the safety and heollh of such employees as set forth i u oilier provisions of this Article.
3.	Notice of proposed work site relocations or renovations shall be provided to the Ifniori. lhe State agrees Go meet with Ube Union concCTiung the impact of such relocations and renovaliotB upon health and snfely conditions and other term* and ermdititjns of employment.
4.	Pursuant to the State's ctwrtrijteaL Health and Safety Committee, the State agrees Eo set up meetings with die Union to discuss security concerns of field workers and to recommend safeguard; as to field Wijiksra. Additionally, meetings will also beheld tn discus? wixkplacesecurity issues.
ARTICLE XXX111 Cl AIMS ADJUSTMENT
Where a or damage lo personal property'is sustained as a result of an action lakCu) Ju fee pcrRinriauce of ihr assigned duty'of an employes* such loss will he adjusted. Acltuni for such lues mus! be Hied within thirty (30) days ortho time wlteu Ilie luss occurred. The claim must be tilled out on lhe forms provided, including tbe reqinsled adjustment, and submitted to the State for this action. Tlie Stale stall provide Lhe forms end any instructions which may he necessary for the completion Or processing of lhe forms.
article xxxiv
TUITION AID AND EMPLOYEE 1RAIN1TSO
A, Tuition Aid Program
t. Wlicrc a department or appointing authority of the Slate has established a tuition aid proginm, Hk Union shall be provided with a published description of fee program, if available. Applications tor tuition aid and determinations eoncertiiug (be f^yuuval md conditions for payment shall be in accordance with the Merit System Rules.
2.	Employees of a Stale College who take approved courses at tbc College where they are employed under the program outlined in Appendix I shall have tuition waived U]Hin enrolliCierit.
Waiver of (uition is predicated on satisfactory completion of suc31 irourees and Other conditions sei forth in the program dcscri ption.
3.	In at! departments where tuition aid programs ore in effect, those programs will be made available to employees in lhi$ unit,
B. Employee Training
1.	Tlie Slate sliah continue to offer training programs of proven worth which are ainted at
52
skills development and improvement in order to afford employees greater opportunity for performance unproveuxuL and promotional growth. Snob offering may be regulated Of limited by availability of funds or other fartura.
2.	What in-service nr ont-acrvice training programs ine available to a group cf employees, the selection of the empioyeefs) to be trained stall be predicated on the needs of the State, the potential of an employee to benefit by the training Slid to contribute to the operational program in which he or she is employed, and With due regard to a principle of fair opportunity for all eligible employees within the group.
ARTICLE XXXV
EMERGENCY WORK (NEW PROGRAM)
A Unit employees shall be eligible for the Special emergency rates or the employee's regular overtime rale, when entitled to overtime under the fair Labor Standards Act, whichever IS greater, if called in to work under the following specific circumstances:
I.	Employees in the unit must be called in outside of scheduled WOft Ai fte; and
2,	The wort: involved must tie for emergency maintenance, icplanenwnl or repair of equipment or mechanical devices which are vital lo the opsahon of an institution, agency or other fmctlOLI of the State; and.
3.	Such work must be necessitated by damage or foilure resulting from storm, flood, explosion, sudden unexpected catastrophe or tike causes; and
4.	Such conditions must constitute unreasonable safely hazard to Itto public employes, other persons or property of the State.
5.	In winter weather conditions, codes C, D and E are to be used exclusively for emergency work performed io excess of normal work hours related lo winter weather cauditicma such as snow removal and icc control.
B. It is clearly understood (Itai all of the foregoing elements or criteria must be met for an employee to besrtitlcd t& payment at lhe emergency rate. The following special projeetpay rates shall apply:
L Employees who are engaged in msraal or unskilled wort as by use cf shovels, picks, axes, choppers, etc., the rate of $18.80 per hour is authorized and known as a Group VI Emergency Rate (Code 6).
2.	Employees who perform semi-skilled work including the Operation of mechanized equipment such as trucks, plows, light-graders, back-hoes. etc.. a late cf $24.07 per hour is authorized and known as a Group V Emergency Rate (Code 5}.
3-	Employees who pei form skilled work including (he operation of heavy equipment ar tbdSC employees who are assigned to he in charge of or supervise either semi-skilled nr unskilled workers or both, the rate of $29.26 per hour is authorized and known as a Group IV Emergency Rate (Code 4).
4.	Employees who supervise skilled workers or mixed teams of skilled, $emt-&illed and/or unskilled employees, lhe talc of $31 ,y4 per hour is authorized and known aa a Group UI Emergency Rate (Code 3).
3.	Supervisors who arc m charge of a focal area Of district emergency operations, the rate of $36,95 per hour is authorized and known aa a Group 11 Emergency Rato (Code 2).
6.	Supervisors who are in charge of emergency operations on a Statewide er regional Level within a depart merit wi(h Operations going on in several areas throughout the Stale, the rato of $42.80
53
per hour is aulhorizcd and known as £ Group [ Emergency Rate (<lode I J.
7,	Employees who supervise and/or assist in the eupeTvisiottofswtioual or arsa crews will have an hourly rate of $32.00 an hour and such wort abaft be knowjj as Code Role C
3,	Employees who operate heavy duty equipment, such as tradoFfrunt end loader mounted snow blowers; peifbim mecbunical repair work; supervise lhe distribution of inveototy pacts for emergency operations; perform skilled labor involved in the repair of equipment; or sot as Department represmtativO assigned to snow removal activities shall have an hourly rate oCJ3J .15 an hour and such work shall be known as Code Rate D.
9, Employees who operate "walk behind" snow blowers, graders, front end loaders, trucks, enow plows, material spreiKlers, compressors, and ottw mechanized equipment; make Of assist iti making occasional mechanical or electrical repairs; distribute or asdat in the distribution of inventory ports for emergency operations; handle radio communications consoles at base radio Stations or assist in State or district control center operations shall have an hourly rate of $29.22 an hour uni Such workshall be known as Code Rate E.
C- The emergency rates described in 0,1-9 above, shall be adjusted by two and one-half (2.5%) percent, effective Cd July 1,1999. The emergency rates in effect on June 30,2000 shall be adjusted by two (2%) percent on July lT 2000. The rauergency rates in effect on December 31,2000 shall be adjusted by one and one-half (1,5%) percent on or about January 1,2001. The emogmey rates in effect June 30, 2001 shall be adjusted by two (2%) percent on July l, 2001. Ute emergency rates in effect on December 31, 2001 shalE be adjusted by two (2%) percent on Ctf about January ], 2002. lhe cmergotcy rates iri effect June Oh 30, 2(KK2 shall be adjusted by two (2%) percent on July L 2002. Hie emergency rates in effect on December 31,2002 shall be adjusted by two and one-half (2.5%) percent on or about Jiinutuy 1, 2003.
D. The requirement of each employee lo respond, if called when such emergency conditions are present, constitutes u ccmdltiorl of State employment. An employee who refuses an assignment because of a reasonable excuse will not be subjected to disciplinary adiotl- However, any absence or repealed fllisafce or refusal lo respond wilhuul good and sufficient reason, may because for such action.
£. When an employee is called in and reports for an emergency work assignment, he shall he paid fbr all hours actually worked outside his normally scheduled work shift and shall be entitled to a minimum of two (2) hours pay al the appropriate special project rule whether or ttet such two (2) hours are auluatly worked, putviiliu^ die cjupluycc lcluJiTiS Available for any work aasiyrfXl, K. I ias showing lite rotational order of each employee and lhe total hours worked and refused by each employee Shalt be maintained in the work, uiut, Such lists shall be made available fbr inspection on request to Union Officers.
G.	An emergency overtime assignment is;subject to all appropriate rules and regulations of the State and lhe Department.
H.	In exception to the requirement that employees be called in outside of regular work shifts, employees assigned to Snow and Ice Control Emergency Overtime will receive the appropriate qxxjaJ project rate after lhe end of the employee1!, regular work shift during Ilie time prior to the neat regular work shift.
54
ARTICLE XXXVT
VIDEO DISPLAY TERMINAL OPERATORS
A, Fnll’tifneemployais who operate VDT machines on a full lime basis dtall be eligible lor annual eye QXima. Sud( employees shall also be dtgfbEc for namburaoncni fw dtecosl of glasses, should there Ew a change in the employee's lais presai^lkm. KermbumcmciK rules are those established in Article VI, Section D.
H, A fuil-time VDT operator who is pregnant and experioiciiig significant discomfort at licr work station may lequcd reassignment tn iXtwr work allowing greater flexibility as to poaiton posture, Sueta requests will be given cnnkderalion and may he granted in bill or in part vdteii, Uwre is comparable work available. If a reassignment is not a^uiLabfe, the employee may be given other rtijties during (Eie workday, based upon availability of lhe work and the cnipktyee's ability to perform il, These aecommodatiCBis are, aatn their degree ur continuity, subject to lhe overriding needs ofthc employing agency, Grievances lioruxaning the: determinaflun Lo grant or refuse such requests or otherwise directly related to those detamioutions are Don-contractual and processed exclusively under Article IV, A.2., of lhe Grievance Procedure.
ARTICLE XXXVII
Tlte following pfQvrdiuojjs) are set fbrftl herein for informational purposes only. These matters as they apply to individual on^hyeea affected shall be	within the pnwiriWS of the
Grievance Procedure in the Agreement as defined in Article iV, Section A.2. except for the provisions below that are undcrirnod width ere grievablc undtr Article fV, Section A.I. transfer and reassignment
A, Transfer
I.	Transfer is the Jncvemenl of an employe? horn one job assignment to ;mullwr within hrs job c lassi {ku I ion in anotlier organizational unit or department
2.	An employe? shall not be transferred without the approval and consent ofthc appointing authority from and to whose unit the ttstrsfer is sought, nor without lire consent of the employee, or the approval ofthc Department oCPeraonnel, except that;
a.	The consent of t[it tmplnycca shall not be required when tfic employee movement is the result of a transfer or combining of functions of one unit to or with anulher,
b.	When a temporary trans fer is made, the consent of lhe employee shall not he i equired; hut if lhe employee objects, he shall have the right w have the transfer reviewed by the Department Of Personnel;
u. Any spacial hardship that may result will be given due consideration;
d.	The rights of an employee who has voluntarily transferred shall doc be adversely affected cxcetri that he shall not retain any rights in the unit from which he has lransf«re±
e.	The rights of an cmnloy&e who has involimtarilv transferred shalLnot be adYHHCly affected but he ski 11 retain no rights in lhe unit from which he lias been transferred except that i file is on a promotional List, his name shall he retained on Ue; promotional cl iaible list for the unit from which he has been ttansferreci until he-has had Mi opportunity to take a promotional examination in his new unit and the restilliml list has beat DnJmulqpted. Nothing herein is intmded to diminish the riglits of employees resulting from a layoff;
£	Transfer dm 11 not affect tile accumulation of an employee's State or job ctaaifiealkiri seniority.
55
3.	Upon anyjunsfer of a pcfiitanart employee. fill sick ltMW-aj>d vac J Lon twLmccs dtall be transferred *ith the employee. cxcml that:
a,	Upon voliuilaryjtraruder. all accrued compensulory time will, at the diacicttca of the State, be Lranafciretf with flic employee, taken as time off prior to I runs for or n;nri in cadi ai the employees current rate of any.
b.	Upon inyolunkiry transfer of a Permanent employee, al! accrued compensatory rime MiiaStt shall be transferred with the employee.
c.	ATcn Keep ted for Inmate? hy m orgsmicaiionaL unit or department Lhe request for transfer shall not be unrcasDuubly withheld by die organizational unit or department where Lhe mdividual is employed.
4.	An. employee may request a transfa ihronnh hi* neisonncl ofTicw.
H. Reasaigaraenl
1.	Reassignment isthemovonetf of an employee from one jobassi^nJKnl to ancitlter within his joh classification and within Hie work unit, organizational unit of department.
2.	Realignments of employees m.ay he made in jccordajwe wilh the fiscal responsibilities Ct f the appctiiilingairtficmly, to improve ur maintain operational atfetlrverKSR, or lo provide employee development and job homing ora balance of employee experience in any work area. Where such reassipjuMTita are ad mutually agreed to, the appointing authority will make reassjgnmmts in the inverse order of the joh eks&ification seoionty of the employees affected, given the above condition*, providing the employee? lire capable of doing the work and it is agreed that special qualiiicatiOiis of a personal nature ur special hardships wliioh may icsult will Ik given doc consideration.
3.	When temporary reassignmcntR fordinarily nf less than Rix ({ft months1 dumlioni are ruMi ta achieve aw* Ihfcsbiedivw vr. ft. 1, aIom sropfoyees to be affected -will be given nrnimirm possible notice. ITk? cojcideraiton of seniority otherwise applicable in rcassigrimcnts will not apply. The util iZillion of the concept o f temporary reassignment® will not be used unreasoiifibly.
4.	When peraonnel cliaijges in a work iiniinrovlde opportunities fur shift or sche<lute chanpje&. interested employees may apply tor dasi ml mri?mount to flu; work unit supervisor. Such diaoges in assignment will he nude on the basis of the job daaRifiuuliort seniority uConptayees requesting the change, except (hat priority is given fe lhe BSEignnwnl of indivtdilal employees as provided in B ,2. above.
5.	Whwi q vocniHy is Hllul by an employee from outside <j work und, lhe employee joining that work unit shall be aaai^nai (fie open (Knalion on tile shift and work schedule which were appropriate to the opening.
6.	a. Wliere lhe principles in B. 2. above arc cibtsrved, requests for I'oluntiiry resssiRnuwjit w ithin the ciigatuzational unit or department shall be given consideration.
b, An emplovge dearina rejiKsynnieati to any job tn has oremiraiujaat unit eg department may submit an application through his supervisor in writing lo his Personnel Officer slating the reasons for the leimest. Employees who are capable of performing the work and wlio apply for such reassignment® will be considered and reasaignniculs will be inteje on the basis of those requests. Where more (han iKte request for reassignment from qualified employees deemed capable of performing (he work in such a job is on record, any aRsi^iUireojlfa) will be made on ths basis of the joh class tication seniority of employee® having recorded such a request.
7.	An employee may have on lecord no more than two (2) requests for reassignment in 6. b.
%
above.
8.	Wlien an employee is granted avoluntaiy reassignment ualerpiuvisionsofdjS ord above, he shall then be eligible for only one (I) additional voluntary reassignment in the succccdi ng twelve (ISj-ntonih period. CcukSideradon witt bo given to u request lor additional reassignment where special ararmstance, exist.
9.	Salary steps, seniority or tike substantive rights shall oot be aikeraely affected bv reHMignmenf unless sunclfically set forth herein.
EO, Permanent employees shall ho given preference for consideration for voluntary reassignment as Cftntrasled to provisional or probationary employees.
C, Special Requests
Requests for transfer or reassignment predicated on extreme personal hardship will be given priority consideration where positions are available which Lhe employee is capable of performing. D. Reassign meat for Union Officers add Stewards
L The State and the Union rempiize that Union Ofticcrsand Shop Stewards have in Ihetr rdarionshin io their jobs a need for continuity in die, assigned shift and ilirisdiuliim whlfh fiWntdfr that of other fellow employ cos. ft is agreed. therefore. Lhui i hr.^ Union Officers and Stewards will SOI beroudnt-lymamtnvd	jiirMdirawn.
2,	The State: and lhe Union recognize die to utilge all eersontid Io meet opnadaoal ■wpiHxnwtn effectively md notwifetandint the commitment in Paragraph L. shave. mPvaniaLpf such Untpn Officers and Shoo Stewards outside of iheir established iurisdictboti may be necessary and appropriate fpcncrally On a temporary basis) jll exception to the guidelines aureed lo in. EBragrJph I.
3.	Thc exeepfioai used in Paragraph 2. will nut be used unreasonably.
ARTICLE XXXVTII
PRESENTATION Oh' AGREEMENT TO F,MPIX>YEE8
Printing of Agreement
After the signing of this Agreement, the Stale, at its expense will reproduce this Agreement in sufficietu quantities so that each employee in (he unit may receive a citpy, and w dial (here are suffrcfeol additional copies for distribution to employees hired during lhe terra of this Agreement and for additional copies lo foe Union. The Stats sliall distribute such copies of the Agreement to all employees tn (he limit and to the Union withiti u rwisiui.nhle period of time after the Agn-ritmrrit has been executed. The cover of foe Agreement shall include foe seal of the State of New Jersey and the insignia or other appropriate designation of foe unit rcpresenlaiive.
ARTICLE XXX1X
UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION AND DISABILITY
A.	All eligible employees in this unit arc covered under the State Unemployment Compensation Plan under The current Laws of foe State of New Jersey.
B-	Tlte Slate agrees to include eligible onployees in this unit in foe State of New Jersey T emporary Disability Plan. That is a shared cost plan which provide* payments to employees who are unable to wort as dfe result of non-woric connected iikiess or injury ami who have exhausted their accumulated sick leave.
57
ARTICLE XL MAINTENANCE OF BENEFITS, EFFECT OF AGREEMENT AND COMPLETE AGREEMENT
A, Maintenance of Benefits
The fringe benefits, which arc substantially uniform in their application ti> employees in the unit, and which are currently provided to tim$e employee!;, sucli the Health Rewifita Program, the Life Insurance Program and their lilcc, sliall remain in effecl without diminulion during tlus t^mof Hus Agreement unless modified herein or by subsequent agreement of Hie patties.
B.	Effect of Agreement
Regulatory policies. initiated by lhe various institutions mid agencies whore Ihese employees are world ng which have (tie effect of wink rules governing Ute conditions o f employment within the it jr ri hi I ion or agency and which eotdJitl with any' provision of this Agreement shat! he considered to be modified eunsistait with |[ie terms of this Agreement, provided that if the Slate changes or intends to make changes which have the effect of dimination in part or in whole such terms and conditions ofemplnyrrtenl, the State wil( notify fee Union and, if requested by like Union within ten (10) days of such notice or of sudi change or of the dale on which tlie cflDwge would reasonably have become ktujwn to (ho e.rnployws. affected, tile Slate shall wltlvin Iweniy (20) days of such request enter negotiations with the Union on lire matter involved, providing the matter is within the scope of issues which are nraridsforily negotiable under the Eniployer-Emplciyci: Rdationa AeiasaniSided and farther, if a dispute misci as to the negotiability of such I'natler.s, that the ptcwredures of the Politic Employment R elations (Tonitn is$ion shall be util iwd lo resolve such d impute.
C.	Complete Agreement
lhe State and the Union ^knowledge this arid any Memoranda of Understanding atladied hereto to he 1heir complete Agreement inclusi *e of all negotiable issues whether or not discussed and hereby waive any rigid (o further ncgnfiulicou except as may otherwise be piovided herein or spccificnlly reserved for continued uegoriution by ftarticular reference bi memorandum of uixierslandinp pre -dating the date of signing of the Agreement and except (lull proposed new' tides uc modificaliiHis i>£ existing rules governing woildngionditions sltall be presented to (he Union and negotiated upon the request of the Union a* may be required pursuanl to Chapter 303 of the Laws of New Jersey, at amended.
ARTICLE XI I PRESERVATION OF RIGHTS
Notwithstanding any other provision of this AjpccnicriC, lhe parties hereto recognize and agree that they separately maintain and reserve all rights In utilize the proceai of the Public F.i»plyyinenl Retarireis Commission and lo seek judicial review oft'orinlcipose any and alt claims oc defenses in legal ;<ctions surround ing such procecrlijigs us untai r practices, scope of negotiations, enforcement Or modification of tubitration awards, issues of aihitcability, and specific peiLutntancc of tlie Agreement.
ARTICLEXI.il EFFECT OF LAW
A.	Legislative Action
1.	Tf any provisions of this Agreement require legislative action, or require adoption or
58
modification of the rules and regulations of the Department of Personnel to become effective, or require the <qjproprialioxi of fitnds far (heir wnptemeirtaiton, it is hereby understood and agreed ttnd Such provisions shall become effective only after (he ficcosstty legislative action or rule mofti Qca1ion is enacted, and that the parlies shall Jointly seek the awclnient of such legislative action or rule modification.
2,	In the event thd legislation becomes effective during the (etm of (his Agreement which has the effect of improvi ng Ihe wages and fringe benefits otherwise available to ctigihie employees in this unit, thia Agreement shall not be construed as a [initiation on their eligibility tor such improvements.
B,	Saving Clause
1.	If any provision of this Agreement shall cotdlicl with any Federal or State law or have the eSfectcf eliminating or making (be Sisto ineligible for federal funding, that qsccific provision of this Agreement dial] be deemed amended or nullified Eo conform to such law. The other provisrons of the Agreement Shall nut be affecled (hereby and sbiirtl continue ia full f.nue and effect, Where a conflict of a provision oftilis Agreement with Fcdnal or State [aw would result in Ure amendment or ruiUificaiiotLofthc language of tlijs Agreement as provided above, the modifies! »n sliall be [nude Ohly to the extent required to preclude any unlawful provisoes.
2,	Upon, request of either party the Slate and (he Union agree to meet aad renegotiate any prevision so affected.
ARTICIE XL111
NOTICES
For the purpose of giving notice ji$ provided in Article XLfV, Term of Agreement and Negotiations Procedures, (he Stalo may be notified tlsrough (he director, Office of Employee ReEdnna, Govetnoi's Office, State House, 4th flow, PO Box 228, Ttetituti, New Jersey, OR62.S; and lhe Union through tite Commnnicxdions Workers of America, ID Ruttgers Place, Trctiton, New Jersey UESJ 8,
ARTICLE XLIV
TERM OF AGREEMENT AND NEGOTIATIONS PROCEDURE
A,	Tenn af Agreement
1.	This Agreeiuent shall remain in full force and effect (hrouph June 30,2003.
2,	I be Agreement slixll be renewed from year lo year thereafter unless either party shall give written notice of its dc*i re 1o terminate, modify or amend the Agreement. Such tiwlice shall be by certified mad prior to October 1,2002 or October 1 of ajiy succeeding year for which the Agreement baa beat renewed.
B.	Negotiation* Procedure
I.	The piuties agree to enler into colIcelive negotiations concerning a suoce&sor Agreement to become effective on oi after July 1, 2003, subject to the provisions of pamgr,-iph A. above.
2,	The parties also agree to nc^uluie in good failh on all matters presented for negotiations. Should an impasse develop, the procedures avaiiabte under law shall be utilized exclusively in fin orderly manner iti an effort to resolve such impflsse.
59
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Slate and Hit Uqiod have caused tills Agrccrruiiil to be Rigfted by their duly authorized rcpresenlatms as of due 22" day of Odobcr, 1999.
FOR THE S TATE OF NEW JERSEY:
FOR THE COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA/ PRIMARY LEV EL IPERViSO UNIT:
6U
memorandum of understanding 1
The following contractual provisions do not apply Cd the nnctassified service: Department of Personnel Rules ProitKjlion
Job Posting and Announcemenls - Career Service
Department of Personnel iixams
Leaves ofAbscnca-fPiEBgraph A in theProfeaaonaE, Primary l^vel Supervisors ajwl Higher !<wtsi Supervisors Contra#; and Paragraph F in Adiuinistralive and Clerical Son'ices Con Irani)
Seniority
Layoff and Recall - Career Service
MEMORANDUM OP UNDERSTANDING II
A, The inchisiou of certain part-time employees within the negotiating unit diail not be construed to expand the coverage of any State program relating lo terms and conditions of employment for which such part-time employees were not previously deemed to he eligible, or to include Such pari-tinte employee* under tfic coverage of any prevision of this Agreement unless the subsUmce of the provision describes a type of program far which Such part-time employees wo? generally eligible prior to inclusion under lhe Agreement Where such part-time employees arc eligible for State programs or coverage under provisions of this Agreement, appropriate pro-ralknis will be made io cHxordwiih their part-time Stilus.
0, Disputes concerning whether part-uiue anployees arc eligible for coverage under any provision of the Agreement between the parties, ur Lhe terms and eonilitions of Lhe coverage, shah be Jecnwd to be an A.2. (cion-contracaial) grievance and shall not be eligible for Step Three arbitration.
APPENDIX E
STABS COT.LEG ES TUITION WAIVER PROGRAM
A, The tuition waiver program provides, (uitisn assistance trv entpluyeca who take approved wtiraca at 1he college where they are employed on fljeir own time. The intent <jf the punjmm ls to fulfill tlie needs of (tie State college sponsoring the aid, Slate govcmnxnt as a whole and lo enhance employee development Rauh college shall determine its needs and waive tuition for employees engaged in an Approved course of study.
R. Each Stale College shall pcepuro a turtfon aid plan at (he beginning of each fiscal year with consideration given to aftinnariveaction rejporujihilitiej, the plan ahull specify;
I.	Employee eligibility which is limited to full-time, permanenL employees in the classified and unclassified services with excqrtiuns granted on a case hy case basis by (he college;
2.	Internal application procedure;
3.	Maxumini jtmountcCaid available pCTfrarentinol to exceed $[,(KX).OD cw (be cost of twelve credits, whichever is greater, per scJhft>1er or education program;
4.	Acceptable acjtdemic jyadea tor waiver of tuEtion,
5.	Eligible costs; and
<i. A procedure to notify employees of approval ccdisapprovaL
C.	Employees who do not sati^f&lority complete couraos for which tuition waiver fan! been granted, shall be required to reimburse ttic College for all waived costs. UeeLlI such ncimburscttJctit has been made, Jtc further waivers will be available to (fait employee,
D.	E. It is uiideratood (fail major programmatic cluing® shall nut be made wilhout negotiating with the Union whenever that obligation would exist
2. Addrtwnal criteria fat determining eligibility within lhe program may be established by the College.
E, When art employee is on an approved program uf study under the tuition Waiver program, (lull employee may elect lo take courses under that $ticdy program eilher at the State College where Lhe employee works, or ul wothet State Collet,e if such course is available there. Coatses tatkflu at anotlier State College are subject to flic same cMiCractiwl Teqirircmcnls as the emm-ses taken si the College where the employee works.
62
APPENDIX !I
UNIT ELIGIBILITY FOR INTERMITTENT EMPLOYEES PERFORMING ADMINISTRATIVE AND CLERICAL WORK, PROFESSIONAL WORK. OR PRIMARY LEVEL SUPERVISORY WORK
A- Employee* Votittg in the Elediofl
IntoniiMent employees $bid! be in die unit if the eirtployee works at least the ntipuldfed number of hours during Each payroll quarto- within the caltridurytar. An employee triusl work 20S hours during the payroll quarters beginning itwrest January I and Joly 1 and 242 Itoitrs during the payroll quarters beginning nearest April I and October I.
1.	If an employee tails to woffr Efic required b>irra within 3 calendar year qutirler, that employee shall he removed from the unit at the beginning (he next quarter, unless lhe provisions of C are applicable.
2.	An employee removed from the unit due tn not rneeliog Lbe quarterly hours requirement, aiudl be reinstated to (he unit hy working 69 hours during a period consisting of (wo consecutive biweekly pay periods and continuing (o work 69 hours in cacti suhscquenl (wo biweekly payroll periods Until the next quarter begins, lhe employee would lx readmided into the unit the first biweekly pay period Subsequent io qualifying as above. 'Ulieib the employee reenter* lbe qiwiteriy rotation, Iha employee shall be expected tn cotlluiue Lu work the required hours to remain in the unit B. New Employee*
I.	New employees shall enter tbc unit after barring; worked 209 hours during six conwcutive pay periods and must continue to wnik <it least 69 hours for each subsequent (wo biweekly payroll periods preceding the atari of a calendar year quarter.
2.	After entering, the quarterly calendar cycle, employees must work the required liouns n quarter.
3.	Fftihire W work the required horns fl quarter would trigger the provision outlined in A.L. and?,, unless the provisions of Cure applicable.
C. Furloughed Employees
I.	Employees who were in the unit but vmr furloughed due to operational requirements shall autoiiuclittilly be placed bfw.lc in lhe unit upon their return from Furlough-
2.	Hitch employees would be expected Co work 69 hones for each two consecutive biweekly pay periods during (he time an employee woitrs prior to Lhe start of a quarterly cycle.
,3	. The employee must ooiitiiuie to wurk. (lie required hours a calendar year quarter to continue in tfus uxul.
4.	Employees wlu> work. Less (han the required hows a catetidiir year quarter would trigger the proviainn outlined in A.I. and 2.
5.	The period of furlnugl) shall be removed from the computation ofTiours worked in any' period and the rcquiretueul prerated. As an example -- if an employee is tiirloughcd during a calendar quarter lhe required hours tor the quaito would be reduced by 35 hours for cadi biweekly pay period the employee is fiirliutghed.
63
appendix nr SIDE LETTER op AGREEMENT M Acee*s Iq Premises
The Slate and die Union agree that hcgli parties will abide by the access to premises provision in the Union Rights and Representative?; contract article. If problems develop ua to access to premises a rcprcsenlirtivc trem (fie Office oC'EmpkiyeeRdatianfl and theComnuinicationR Workers of America wil] meet to mjek an amicable reaotution to the problems, If no resolution 1$ achieved both parties reserve their rights to SAweise legal tind contractual options available.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #2
Acres sta I* remises
During the time prior to the ratification of this Agreement the Union may request access io premises in accDrJanoc wjdi (he Access (o Premises provision of the applicable Agreement in order to cnplalu the- ncftoAvatol AfttcciwcBt A* a <ms time per RiWtiion per unit exception lo lhe-Oorwai ciivuntsrancc regarding Union meetings, Lhe meetings may be conducted fbr up (o 3(1 minutes. Employees may attend such meetings by combining their fore and afternoon breaks. Reougpdzing its responsibility' to maintain necessary coverage, management shall attempt Lu Kcummodale employeea who wish Lo attend snd> meetings. Employees who are unable (o attend such meetings due lo the need In maintain coverage sbaQ be allowed tn combine their breaks should Subsequent pre-ratifical ton meetings be conducted by (he Union. No rmptoy^ may attend a 3ft-trunum meeting mnr< than once.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #1
Additional Thies lo the Clfrfkiag Allowance
The parties agree lha( ranptoytses serving in the list of titles sat forth below and who med the eligibility requirements otherwise set forth io Article VT» Seclion B, Clothing Mainfcnimix Allowance, («• i(|i the exoeptton of the requirement of receiving the clotlihig mnintcnaJKe allowance In fiscal year 191 * 3 4 * 6 7 8 9 * 11 12 13'.JU/1999), shall be entitled Lo receive a clothing al Lowance as ccmriuoluiilty act forth in die above menttoned article effective: m fiscal year 1999/2000. These titles i-hull be added 1o lhe 1 isl of titles already eligible lo restive (he ctolhmg maiotaniHKC allcvwftjtce:
1) Assistant Supervisor 2, Administrative Services Facilities (R-826S8)
2J Assistant Supervisor 3, Admin istratrve Services Fadlilies (P-826S5)
3) Assistant Supervisor 3, Adjuimslrativc Services Publ ic Safety (P-112655)
4) Assistant S upervisnr 4, Administrative Services Public Safety' (P-82652}
5} Assistant Supervisor ot'RcRiilatitial Living (R-04213}
6) Assistant Supervisor of Professional and Residential Scrvb. es (’R-6D634)
7) Assoei:ii p Supervisor 2, Facilities (S -82675)
8) Auri in Visual Technician (A-74 762)
9) Tljild Care Quality Assurance Inspector(P-62226)
10} Child Care Qualdy Assurance Inspector 2 (R-62227)
11) Vmgcjprinl Operator Trainee (A-451110}
12) Fi n;j,e[print Technician, State Police (A-45012}
13) Criiphic Artist [ (A-54593)
(4
I*) Graptifc Artist 1 (A-54603)
I5)	Graphic Artist 2 (A-54609)
16)	Graphic Artist 2 (A-54601
17)	Graphic Artist 3 (A-54598}
1 8) Graphic Artist 3 (A-54594)
19)	Grccnskcepcr (R-02671)
20)	Museum Registrar (P-74593)
21)	Occupational Health Consultant 1 (P-03914}
22)	Occupational Health Consultant 2 (P-03913}
23)	Occupational Health Consultant 3 (P-03912}
24)	Occupational Health Consultant 4 (P-03114}
25)	Principal Audio visual Technician (R-74764)
26)	Principal Fingerprint Technician, Slate Police (R-4S011}
27)	Priitclpal Forensic PlKjfographcr(R-44924)
28)	Principal Safety Inspector Mining (R-17244 -C)
29)	Principal Sanitarian (R-03154)
30)	Senior Audio VisWi'echnicttW (A-74762)
31} SeHkrf Fngmeer, htasridB (£-13093)
32} Senior Engineer, Structural Bridge Desgn (P-10473)
33} Senior Engineer,Transportation (P-30273)
34} Senior Engineer, Slruclura! Evaluation (P-10468)
35} Sen ior Fingerprint Technician. Slate Police (A-45013)
36} Senior Forensic- Photographer (A-44923}
37} Senior Geotechnical Engineer (P-10453)
38)	Studio Coordinator Art Service (A-82434)
39)	Supervising Engineering Aide (S-14055)
40)	Supervising Graphic Artist, State Police (R-54956)
41)	Supervising Laboratory Service W twicer (S-01936)
42)	Supervisor, Aide to Navigator (S-32418)
43)	Supervisor Forensic Photography Unit (R-44945)
44)	Supervisor oCPuslal Services (S-202O5)
45)	Teacher 1 (P-75293) 4
4 ft) TcmIkw 2 (P-752Q2} 4
47)	Teacher 3 (P-75291) 4
48)	Radio Chemist 1 (P-180S4T-59979}
49)	Radio Chemist I! (P-1WJ83)
50)	Reseanth Scientist 3, Radiological Health (P-18073)
4 Tn the falLuvimr P/RS; CCO, $11, rpi>, 62L, 641, 641, Bid, atiB
65
SWE LEITER. OF AGREEMENT #4
Agency F«
The State und the Union ore contracting parties id an agreement COuirezning wages and terms and conditions of employmenifur &k period July |, 1999 HirOugh June 30,2003. One article of that agreement embodies a condition whereby employees are required fo pay a representation fee to Hie Union. As a condition of Ute continuance of that requirement, it is understood that d»e Union will provide relevant financial information Lo employees and maintain its demand atid reLum system in Such maniw as to be in accord with the then current law and delenuiiuitious by the U.S. Supreme Court ro all related matters hut specifically witii regard lo expeditious response, provision of required information find the preservation of individual's constitutionaE rights; and further, it is iinJerStOOd lluil any rules or regulations promulgated hy the New Jersey Public EmploymetU Relations Commission concerning this matter will be abided by in the administration of Ibe program.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #S
Alternate Workweek
When an Alternate Workweek Program is put forward by a DepArtinenl or requested by lhe Union, the State, UlTuugli 1he Governor's Office of Employee Relations and the Union, shall moot (O discuss the parameters of such a program.
If the parties agree to proceed with an alternate wotfcweek program in a particular Department or division within aDepartBKnl, lhe Stair recognizes its obligation under the New Jersey Empkrycr-Employee Rclaliutis Act lo negotiate on negotiable terms and condition!) of employment The parties equally recognize that certain subject": within an alternate wmkwuck progWu are preempted by Statute and''or regulations from negotialiouS.
Ajiy agreement I1k parties may reach as to an alternate workweek program must be approved by Ihe Department of Personnel as per (heir jurisdiction under N-J-S-A- 11 A, er sag.
SIDE LE'ITKR OF AGREEMENT #6
Corapatw Tapes
The State will provide Ute Union with the following informal ion on tape provided by the Union: I) employee's name, 2) address, J}social security number, 4} check distribution number, 5} payroll number, 6) dues or agency shop fee amount, 7) negotiations unit, H) sex, 9) title, 1U) anniversary date, 11) range and step, and 12) pay period.
Such information a hall be provided «vviy payinll jwrirtd. The UllKiri at-kno'•'lodtitt arid
Agrees to iill prior understandings regarding disclosure of information contained on these tapes.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #7 Lkparltneal ofHiiniAa Services
I.	lhe Union may request use of available space at an institution m die Department of Human Services tor use as an office or for tlie storage of papers aiul Hies. Pi-nvisiiwis of such -Space shall not Ik unreasonably witljheld wlieti available; however, Lhe provision of space shall not take priority over essential uses and may be on a shared basis. I he State dial] incur no responsibility tor security or safety of any Union materials nor any liability for kiss or damages Miictiwcur, Further, the Union may be permitted Lo furnish file cabinets or other equipment fo the commitment above and under the same conditions, lhe permission lo utilize facilities of the State may be withdrawn by the
Stale at any tiitic,
2,	At Stale institutions of the Department of Human Services, I be Stille will provide a thirty (30) minute period during the new euipk>ye?'s urienkition period to allow a non-State employee representative of the Union to ukcC and explain the Union's responribilities. [f the nnn-Staic employee representative of the Union cannot be present duringsuch orientation period, one (I) unit employee of tlte institution, designated fry thcUiuaii pray be allowed to iuake such presentation ta a maximum of twelve (12) times per year. Any employee fcksBed pursuant to ibis paragraph tor the purpose of addressing employe® during orientation shall only addrcsR employees wlw$eti.tfe$ are contained in lhe steme negotiating un it as the employee making the presenUilksn
3.	Upon (he request of the Union al an Lnsliluliun in the Departmcnl of Human Services, a Labor/Managcsncftt meeting shall be scheduled by management sometime during the second week of March, June, September and December. The quarterly meetings arc to discuss local contract administration problems and improve ccimjnuidejitions. Tlie Union shall designate one (I) employee from the Administrative and Clerical Services, Professional, Primary Level Supervisors and Higher Level Supervisors Units in order to attend such meetings. Meetings shall be up !ci one-half (’.£} day in d [(ration. Litticr party may request a meeting and shall submit a written agenda of the topics to be discussed al feasl seven (7) duys prior to such nieeling. Employee representatives who attend .meh meetings during their scheduled work shill shall be granted trine off to attend without loss of pay. If any employee representative who attends the meeting is scheduled tn work on another shift on the data of said meeting or attends Lhe meeting unhisflier normal day off, he/she-shall be granted hour-for-hour compensatory time for the time spent at (he meeting.
This letter shall expire on June 30, 2003 unless the parties mutually agree |l> an extension.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #S
Department nf Military and Veterans Affairs AJtemale Workweek fur Employees Pcrfonninx Fire-fighting Duties
The Alternate Woikwcek Program currently in place ar lite Deportmenl of Military and Veterans A ff-alrs, which uflecl anpiuyws in the titles Stuff OCfiter 3. Staff Assistant I, and Staff Assistant 2, lhu.1 perform tire-tighliog services at tbe Atlantic (,'ity Air Base shall, tor (he duration of this contract, remain in place as ir, as per the November I ti, I993 a^ixxincut between 1he Slate nfNew Jersey,OfticeofEmplDyw Relations, and ftwConimunitatiuB'.i Workers of America. lhe July 19, 1994 letter from (he Department of Military and Veterans Attain to the CcmtinunicarionR Workers of America shall also corrtijjuc far (he duration o f th i$ contract as is.
This side letter of agreeinenl expires on June 3U, 20<J3.
SIRE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #9
Dtfinily
In order to resolve an outstanding dispute concerning Article TI, section. C-ti, cuicununly referred to as the dignity clause, it is agreed Hist where an issue or i Rsucs in, a dignity grievance may be covered by Sndher article in lhe conlrocl, or by direct appeal lo lhe Department of Personnel, those issues shall be severed from the dignity grievance and appealed under the appropriate coutmcf provision, or by appeal to tltc Department of Personnel as a means of resolving flwse aspects of the grievance.
67
'lire dignity grievance, i f still viable, shall then proceed under Article II, section C.-ti «C 1he contract.
SIDE 1 ETTER OF AGREEMENT #10
DOT Mileage
After execution of the COwlwl ths parties will mee< tv discuss the DOT standard mileage deduction. The Union cap select up to two (2)DOf Employees to attend lhe meeting. The meeting will be conducted st a cnulually agreeable time,
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #11
Grievance Procedure
The State and the Communications Workers of America hereby agree to establish a pilot program involving the collective negotiation agreement Grievance Procedure fa vill units whereby the parties will substitute a second step grievance moling instead of a second Step grievance healing iiixd a first step grievance meeting.
The time frame for filing, a grievance that dial] go to ft grievance meeting shall be lhe time frames Sei Ibrth under Ajticle 1V, section E(l}. The lime frames tor scheduling a meeting and rendering a decision shall be tire same a Step 2 hearing.
PureuanttD this pilst program at the meeting, r^tecrilatives ofthc participating DepEtmcnt or Agency and the Union shall meet to discuss tire resolulicn of the grievance. At the meeting, in addition to lhe grievant. the Union may be represented hy » local union officer antTor Iwai union represCTitilivc. Tlie Department or Agency shall designate a representative m riltend lhe meeting.
I	The Union and 11 w Department shall also allowed one resource person who is familiar with the
:	dispute to attend (he meeting. Additional resource people may altemJ based upon die mutual consent
।	of the parties.
•	At the grievance irieeliug, one person sliall act as spok-Mpcmon foi'rlin Union etnd one person
I	shall act as spoket-person tor the Dcpfu (merit.
i	Aliy resulutioo of tlie grievance will be reduced to writing. If there is no resolution. Hie
1	Department will issue a dec iyion explaining the ha.$i$ Gjc denying the grievance. If lhe grievance is
an A(l) contractual, grievance, management's derision may be appealed to arbitration pursuant to the time frames sei forth under Article IV, Section (H) f5}.
Tlie Susie anti tire Union agree lo meet cnee a year to disinrss how thia pilot project is working and lo determine wlttdirer any party may wish lo continue or discontinue rhe project in any Department. Tlie pilot project shall expire on lune 30, 2003-
The following Departments or Agencies have agreed (0 participate in this pilot project:
I.	Agriculture
2,	Banking &: Insurance
3.	Board of Public Utilities
4.	Community Affairs
5.	Ldncaticm
6.	EnvinpurriHiljil Protection
7.	Health
8,	Labor
9.	< IfTicc of lufoniuilion Technology
68
10.
11.
Public Defender Transportation
SIDE 1 -ETTER OF AGREEMENT St 2 Health Ore Coinaiameal C'emmitlee
l.	The STATE and Hie CWA agree to continue (he labor/maoagemcnt cost containment committee. Ah wsfci associated with implementing the committal's objectives tbrt fire mutually agreed M hy union uad management shall he home by the State. TbeWrra heiilth insurance carrier shall include id I providers of heaHJi services fir rtpresenled employees, including HMDs and plan administrators. The Joiid UnfonfManagemeni: Committee with equal representation of management and the Union shall be established. Tbc committee shall:
a.	Conduct an ongoing study of ticlivities v,hidi have lhe potential of linuting health plan costs willioul shifting costs Lo workers or otherwise reducing levels of benefits or quality of Care. The study shall develop rccomincrsdaaiotis far measures to hold insurance carriers, administrators aM lurapiluls and physicians more accountable for eoritrtjUuig Lettllh cure costs.
b,	Conduct an ongoing review of any cost control programs agreed upon in the hcaith Care benefit contract. In performance of it; duties, the (lommirtcc may have direct access m representatives i>f ji]J h&dlh plan cuniert providing plans to employees when and as deemed appropriate by msnagemcnl and the union. The ConuniUee shall receive copies of public document reports on the health plan (including hcaith plan cost and utilization tnforrnaiion) and shall have tbc ability to request ftddilionul reports mutually agrwt nynci hy management and the nruon.
2.	The Committee shall have the ability to request regular reports on cost control programs mutually agreed upon hy management and the union. Such reports shall address costs of operating the program, aeriv it ie$, savings (iiii:|niliug assujuptri ms) and future jftfuiA''ineorTutieudalii>n$.
3.	The Committee may also recommend uddilionul measures or ulleniidivffs, consisl-istL with lhe goals set forth above, and the report prepared by the CW A entitled "<food Medicine”.
SIDE LE I TER OE AGREEMENT «13
Jah Security
This aide letter will oouliim lhe uoderaLiitding, between lEie parties regarding some of the efforts the State of New Jersey (State) will undertake to lessen tbe unpitcl of future privatization initiatives or the closing of State facilities that occur during the period from ratification of this contract tiLo>u(Ji June 30, nod wliidi iitipflct on employees id CW A uegotialjoii unite. This letter refers lo negotiations unit employees who are ultimately laid off at (he conclusion of the Stale's layoff procedures, but the layoff would have to he the result ofthc State’s decision to privatize a function. t>j to close a Jjicilily
In the event the State seriously considers privatizalion of a foalily or function for purely fiscal or economic rcawins impacting bargaining unit employees, the State agrees to give the Union rcascritabfe rujvnuce nollce, hm nol less Ibiui 90 dsys pi icw m actual closure or pc ivarijalimi and, upon request, Lo meet wilh the Union Co give the Union an opportunity lo presenl its position on the economic issues. The Union shall be given the opportunity Lo demonstrate (hat unit employee* will do the same work more efficiently tlisu a private contractor. The Slate agrees tn provide Iliff Union with relevant cost information necessary lo enable the L'oiinl (o develop its economic position, including public documents involving the RFP, once issued and shall meel wilh Lhe Union within
69
30 days of (tie issuance of lhe RFP.
Wlien Lhe privalisiiion decision is based upon policy reasons, and wilt result in. layoff or job dEsplaoument ofbargiijiung unit employeea, the Slate will give the Union rewsonahfe advance notice of ife decisicrti ni h.1, upon request, meet with tite Union to explain its rationale and discuss the itripficl On affected employees. tt is sujderatood that in any event, the derision to privatize is a managerial prerogative Lhal may nor be subject to tire negotiation plUcss.
The efforts the Slate will undertake to alleviate the impact on employees laid off as a result of such actions shitll mclude one or more of Ute following as appropriate Under tfic existing Circumstances md shall be subject to discussfoms between (he State and (lie CWA:
I,	Establishing preferential hiring lists with the private employer;
2,	EsCahlisluug Bering freezes for positions determined hy the Department of Personnel to have the same or similar duties and rcspfiiisibttitfes at other State locations within, the department effected to a wdc openings which will be filled by qual i fled load off employees and, i f predicable. by employees targeted for layoff, a]j in accordance with DOE and SAC Riles and regulations;
3.	Continuing health ouvenigc under COItftA which the Stale will pay for ti certain limited Iransition pci ukI but nnt less than tfuae monlha in duration; and
4	Providing training tor qualified employees to the extent there me openings and laid off employees require training to fill them.
The Slpte agrees to make good forth efforts which shall include complimce with all DOP regulations to lessen (he possibility of lite layoff cw ctenjolkm-m-licti-cf lay off of employ tes in the hnr^timing unit. Where praclicabte, these efforts will be made whenever workers are placed at risk through pri validation, or program reductions urdiminarions fur reasons ofaxmomy. cfiici£nuy,or other nsiacm. The efforts die State may take to lessen lhe possibility of layoff ar demotion may include, wherever practicable, voluntary reduced work time and vohintisy layoff or demotion which shall he offered to craptoyws before the, em.pfoy« wfccsiwKdui&sy KtvMS to reduct iht'wcrtkfnre'e.
Cnusistcnt with POP regulations, Tlte State will consider ihe following pre-leyoff'actions prior to any permanent employees bcinp, hid off or demoted:
L Hi ring and promotion freezes;
2.	Separation nf non-perraanent employees;
.1. Retumi ng provisional employees to their permanent titles
4.	Sccuringuf transfers and reassignment tn other anploymerd; and
5.	Filling ofextsttng vanindes.
CnXiii failh •afrrrmi'iti will be nude to fill pusitienri.dctir'rcurwd'by tfic DcptHliuciil ui'Personnel to have substantially the same or sirrjjjar duties ukI respunsibi I itiefl at other State locations by qu;i bfied laid off or demoted employees and, i f practicable, hy employees targeted (j>r layoff As practicably, tlie State shall (rain "at risk’ employees to allow movement ironi the "Lit nsk" location to work locations within or outside tlu? appointing authority w here petitions arc available. It is imderetooct dial all such actions must be consistent with operative law and DOP regulations.
srnr letter of agreeme nt #14
Lahrtr/Managcmedt Health Care Advisory Committee
1,	there shall be established a Labor.rManagctneul Health Cue Advisory Comiuirtw to expedite, on a vnlujihuy basis, the tretcrilion of ncgtXiatioas unit employees from the Tnidilional Plan «nd Health Maintenance Organizations to New Jersey Plus Jrom July I, 1999 through
70
December 31, 2000. lhe ConuniHee stull consist of four derigi ices of (he Division of Pensions and Bmefili And four designees to be selected by (he CWA. The Loramitice shall decide: on what advice and recommeutlaiiojis will be marie in determining the following issues;
a.	Counly-by-CuunLy problem solving [n-Ndworfc cstablishruenJ. wi1h a standard of two doctors within a five mile radius of (he covered employee where sufficient providers exist; and at least 75% of die hospitals tn New Jersey under conlract.
b.	E'ur currwit employees in rural areas wliere access is less than two primary tare physicians within 20 miles, the urinunutn solution shall be ihe design of the Tradilfonal Plan.
c.	All problems concerning transtLiuci cases aiwi	conditions shall be resolved
by having as Lhe mininium snlution the design of the Traditional Plan.
2- The Committee decisions shall be by majority vote. Tics shall be broken hy the State Health Benefits Comiriission. The Committee shall endeavor to make the benefits of NJ Plus, available to a maximum number of employees in the aegofo/(mg w»it% discuss prohlons of substance aJuisc, and shall create conditions lo facilitate (he movement of Stale employees and their dependents fivtti the Traditkuul Plan and Health Maintenance Organisations bo NJ Plus.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #15
Lateness Due tn Dependent Care
When an employee is late for wort due tv dependent care problem*!, it is foe position of the Stale that the employee and (he SupCtvisor/Manager al (he employee’s wort site, wilt meet lo fry to resolve the lateness probk-m. The employee will have the right to Union repnspptatlcm during this meeting. This meeting will be held prior to my disciplinary action being taken against 1l>e employee as a reSull of the lateness. However, once such a meeting is held, (lie State reserves its right to implement fosciplii'iary action if the employee continues to conic in late for woilc.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #16 [.caves of Ahseicc Less Than <■ Mouths
The State agrees lo consider requests mudc hy the Union in accordance wilh the Leaves of Absence Without Pay Article tn the various Agreements tor periods of loss than 6 niOOlhs. In aDconlitnce with formal practice, such request for an unpaid leave of absence will he macle directly tn the Office of Employee Relations wtueh wilt investigate in an attempt to aceommodale the requested leave with (he understanding foal foe requested period of leave shall be definite and requests by' lhe Union tor Leave oxuatsmn* sludl be mode in only cxcc-plicmal nrtuationc.
SI DE LETTER OF AG REEMENT #11 Oriedfatious Sesfiwtf
A.	The following understanding stiatt apply to all State Departments except 1he institutional facilities al Department of Correcliocix, the Depsttmatt of Military and Veterans Affairs ami foe Department of Human Services.
When a Department or Division plana to bold an orientation session for new employees, Ihe Union shall be so aotitied in iujvanoc if a reasonable number of foe new employees attending foe session are in titles covered by Lhe Contract, lhe Department or Division bolding (he Orientation will provide the Imiori with a thirty (30) itutiirtc: period in which to meel with new employees whose
71
titles arc covered under tiii$ tontract, ifsu requesiert hy the Union. The tiurty (30) minute period shall be within the employees weekday hut muy not be during lunch <x break time. Tlie representative of db« Union shall be u local Union representative. Tfn non-Sta£e employee Union representative carijtut be present during an orientation session, a unit employee designated by (be Union will be allowed to make sneh presentation.
B.	At SWe institution in the □qjarttnenl of Human. Services. Department of Corrections and the Department of Military and Veterans Affairs, [he State will provide a thirty (-VJ) minute period during the new employee's orientation period Lo allow anon-State employee representative of tlie Union to meet and explain the Union's responsibilities. if the notvStale employee representative of the t Jn ion cttranol be present during sinh orientation pei iod, One (1) unit onp]i>yee oftiie iisslilution designated by the Union may he allowed to make such presentation to anuixitnuJuaC twelve (12) tunes per year. Any employee released pursuant lo this paragraph fur Ute purpose of addressing employees dunng oricutalion shall only address employees whose titles are contained in the same Hfcgotialing unit as lhe employee making the prsysnUtion.
SIDE Lt l lER OF AGREEMENT #l«
Pofsaticl Changes hi Titles
Now Reaving Ibe Ckrthfng AHowJtue
In recognition Lhatt during (he lenn of this oWrad tides (hai arc ainenlly eligible to receive (he clothing allowance may be abolished or substantially changed $o thut they arc no lunger eligible to receive the clothing allowance under tlie criteria Rd forth in Lhe contract, tlie parties agree rbn.1, in the event this incurs, the Union retains lhe right, during Lhe term of this Agreement, to reopen Lhe clothing allowance contractiuiJ provision to address Lhis specific issue.
It Is understood by Ute parties that, in the evait the Union invokes this provision, Lhe State’s only ob ligation i r to negotiate for an equal number of cmplo vets who will he eligible lo receive the clolhing allowance payments in a different title. Tlie number of new tmipluyees the Uniim sctiiy nsgetiate as to receiving the ctolhing allowance is lhe same is the ttuiuber of employees who were in tlie title eligible hi receive the ckuhlng allowance prior iu ila uhulLRhmcnt dr change to a title ineligible to receive the clothing allowance.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #19
Prcmolkin - Undajurinad Employees
Where it rille scmcR exists in lhe unclassified service, employees wilhin the title scrips sltall be considered tor promotion prior to the fil Ung of a vacancy.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT ff20
Rest Periods
The current practice of requiring certai n employees lo remain at llieir work places during rest periods Re suiety reasons or operational requirements dull he continued. However, if die employee is required to work during (he rest period tl ahull be rescheduled or, if this la not feasible, the loat rest period shall lie wxumulatcd at straight time and sclieduled in accordance with the regulations concerning use ofcompciisalwy time oft
72
SIDE I .ETTER OK AGREEMENT #21
Status of Part-Time, Intcnniltfmt, Temporary and
Spedul Services Employees
Within sixty (60) days of the cxccuiicn ol-lhe collective negotiations agreements the Slate and the Union wifi constitute a laboi-itWuiagcmail wtcUtWttiw for tho purpose of reviewing the status of non-uegoliaLiunS unit employees performing the same or similar duties as employees represented hy lite C WA. A representative from the Department of Personnel will participate Oh the oominitlee. The committee shall he eornprised of equal numbers of Union and managcnieBL representatives and will develop slamJatds to determine which part-lune, inlermiltenl. temporary and special services employees, not presently included in C.’WA's unite, should be included.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #22
Tool Ailowaue
The State wi 11 maintain a list of tools required for the performance of work assignments by each of the employees li-Starf in the lilies hclow.
Each of those employees who provides and la required to use Ilia ircrsonally owned IooIr aa a condition of employment shall, on or about December 15 of tach year of this contract, he gninled a tool allowance, if Lhe employee oomplctea a calendar year of employment in has. ciurcnt capacity and Is cm the payroll as of the date of payment.
Subjed to any canditmtis set forth in lhe applicable ixntract the tool allowance shall lx S1(X) for the fiscal years beginning July 1999. July 2000, July 2001 and July 2002-
Eligible employees includes only those employees working for the Department of Treasury, Central Motor Pont, in the follow! ng titles;
1)	Assistant Crew Supervisor, Mechau ic
2)	(,’rew Supervisor, Garage Operations
3)	Ciew Supervisor, Mcdwnin
4)	Crew Supervisor, Mechanics (body and fender $liop)
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #23 Training St Education Fund
The Stale and the Union agree lo jointly fund special training and education programs for employees in the Administrative and Clerical Services, Professional, Fnmnry i,cvc3 Supervisfiiy am] Higher Level Supeivisory negoliaiinns unite, Such training and educutiyO programs must he mutually agreed to by (he Office of Employee RtluliOiiR and the Union and may ioclurtc, but uol be Limited lo, areas at' specialised tcchnicu.1 training, job skills refresher courses, and professional or career development, which are related lo lhe employee's job, or which muy Ex necessary or directly beneficial to career advancement within Stale service.
Employees eligible 1c participate in a program must he employed in a G'WA negotiations unit and must be on 1hc payroll id 1be beginning and at the end of the program. Additional eligibi I ity requirements shall be mutually agreed to by tiie State and lhe Union.
The program shall bo handed equally hy the Slate and the CW A, with each party paying up (o a maximum of $25,000 in e*ch year of lbe Agreement The parties may on a one lime basis, elec! lo <=ury over money not utilized during a one year pence! (u the next year.
73
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #24
Tnrinisg Tor Lower Paid Employees
ll is unricnsluod that special attention siiaU be given to tlie needs or Jwiat skitlcii lower paid cmptoyccR rn enhance their job jwfomuincc and potential for -jdvanocuiwii inclusive of alternate tiirecr pnlb cJxuccs. Thtt Training Division of the Department of Personnel wjjt provide tliese trai ning upportun ities and wiil develop a praccdim: io identity eligible employaw within ctpeiattng departments.
A conirriillee inchKling two representatives of tfic Union, Iwo from OliR, and hvo from the Tnrinin g Division n C Ihe Ucpanrneul of Personnel shall meet with tlie objective of assisting tn lhe development of this pro&afH, Li shall be the responsibility of Ute Deparnneul of Personnel to determine die program am] ihe rosoumns lo be made available flflerrcvicwinp, recammemlaiionB of this committee.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #2S Departmental Skk T.envc policy'
The State mid the f’oiuinutucation?. Worker?, of America agree lo establish a committee lo review and discuss Stale Dcparttitenis' sick leave- policy. The ccmhliflw shall (wsisl of a nsprcSfflUiu'vc from the Office of Employee Rclmfiona and representatives from the Stale Departments. The Comruisaoncr of Sialo Departments attending the ccinMtiill-ee meeting stall designate representatives lo attend swth meeting. lhe Univa shall he rcpnjsenled by a peraon from the CoinmimicatiiJiis Worker? of America, AFL-CIO, and reprcscnL'iliv^s) from tlie CWA Locals.
The corn mil lee shall mgel at mutually convenient limcR and pEuces and the Union can requel a meeting by sending srich request w-ilh an aiicumpanyir'ig agenda to tlx? Office of Employee RclstHiiLs. l he cortiiniuec will e.cuttiinc die policies as il pertains tn oinpluyecs' ilgiily under die FMLA, pHotccriijoiiJid prcscrvjiuon of employees’ rigtus ofconficiimfuilily. Uk cniiunittee will 4w make TcciMnttwrulations tu evaluate ami improve upon sick leave policies.
74
APPENDIX IV
Listed below ate all titles included in the Contract. If your title is not listed here it. may be included in another CWA Unit- Aino lisir.ed is Lhe title code numbccr pay range, and workweek designation.
The pny range can be used to help determine ati individual's [sniper pay by referring to Appendix II.
The explanation of the symbols used far workweek designation isz
.75 - 35 hour fixed workweek worker, Overt line compensation is regulated by the Overtime Article of this contract r.nd PefwjrLmrrit,. <□(.’ Personnel Overtime rules. Additionally, the FLSA {Fair Labcr standards Ad:) mandaten overtime compensation fcr tberse workers for hours over 40 worked in a workweek.
40 - 40 hour fixed workweek worker. Overtime compensation is; regulated by the Ovcriiiiie Article of this cunt-ract, Department of Dci'iionnel Overtime rules, and the Federal FLSA-
NE - Nor.-exeinpt, non-limited • The-u- wor kers work nt Least .1 3 hour workweek wit.Si intermittent requirement* for a longer workweek warranted to complete projects or assignments. These workers are cr.ivesrwl by the Provisions of Fcsder.il FT .SA mandated t imu-und-one half (pay or compdioatnry time) for hours; jn a week worked over 40 hours-
Hour for hour hourly compensation {if any) for hours worked in, a wi.sr.ik between 3b hours and 4C- hours is': determined by Department of Personnel Over l.hr-.e rules ar.d Departmental policy.
NL - Non-limited workers- These, workers shall work at Icur.d. .1 75 hour wr.nkwi.sek with intermittent requirunicii'.j: for a longer workweek as warranted to r.irurpI et.e projects or assignments . The iitate of New .fer'iey believes that these t lets; are. exempt from f,:pv«r ,ice by the overtime uunipi.uiiial. ion provisions of l.he federal FLbiA. (Workers in i.hcfie titles who believe they should be covurvd by the FLSA may appeal to I ho TJ.S. Department oi Labor.)
Hour-for-hour compcnwal. inn (if any) for NL workers tor hour.''; ever IE worked in a week ie determined by Department of Prri>r.i11rm'i Overtime rules and Dupurl.mental policy.
NL4 Non Limited tit l.e which involve direct and continuous supervision of workers in 40 hour workweek titles. The State of New Jersey believes thuuv workers are exempt from coverage by the federal Fs.SA.
Any “ompctisut j.on for hours beyond the no final workweek is r-egulal.ed by Department of Per uiumel Overtime rules and Departmental policy.
IE - (exempt bb hour! ?S Ihtjv fixed workweek worker, Overtime compensation Jv regulated by the Overt nue Ar I. ide pf Uris cotil and Department of Pension ne i Overtime Rules. The State of New Jersey believer these workers are exempt irrmi coverage by the FLSA.
■ts - {exempt 4 0 hour) 40 hour fixed workweek worker. Overtime cumpurisJ-i1:.i-.m is regulated by t.he Overtime Article of this contract and DcpurLment n( Personnel Overtime Rule*. The State of Now Jersey believes thn*e workers are exempt from cr.iver-age by the FLSA.
The above information ia supplies by the Union for information purposes only. It is ne>t part of the contract but ween the .State and the CHA.
The infermation listed in Appendix 11 is effective as oi
September 1S86 acid ia subject change.
Primary Deval Suj^ervisora Unit
fjP&K-T' '
RJUK3B CODE TITLE
HOTTER
26	50443	Acccunt.unt 1	4E
24	50454	A<:r.:cuntanl. 1	3E
29	bD07b	Admi ji i strati vr.i Analyst 1	Ml
33	SO 10 6	Adrainisr. rjitive Analyst. 1	4F.
3 s	73345	AdirJnistral. i vc ’nst.njctor Audiolca-isc school for Lhy Heat	NL 34L
18	D417J	Adfliiniac.rdVi.ve supv, RerjidentiA: Service;-; 10 Mo*.	N4
29	M.72S	Agr I cjuLtural Market ing Specialist. 1	NL
29	00244	Rnalyftl. I Heal 1.h Care Facilities	NL
22	3.3005	Analyst 7 Trade Practices ABC	NE
23	U24T4	Apiarist	NL
26	'.7€54	Archil.-wt	4E
2b	74224	Archivist 1	NL
1 2	1244 4	Aiea Supervisor of Traffic Enumer.il urs	4G
21	62346	Area Supervisor Veceranw Services	NT.
16	341.24	jlrrnorer 1	40
IS	5'5123	Armorer 2	4U
26	506U5	Assistant Business Manager Tnstitut i utis	NL
22	20444	A-'iwistanl. Chief Capital Post Qttice	43
18	12243	Asftiytant. Chief Security Officer	4G
1 7	41U39	Asst. Crew Supervisor Highway Ccnsil.ruct. 4 Bridges	4C
17	42244	Assistant. Crew supervisor Highway Drill. -Jperal. i :.ms	40
17	42124	Aeeintjdt Crt.-.-w supervisor Highway Mninte;i.iri<;c	40
• T	4:?0i4	Assistant Crew Supervifior Itiuhway Marking	40
Y J	4.3944	Assistant Crew supervise/ Machine Shop	43
1 7	4 5144	Aa Bi.‘slant Crew Supervisor Md intend nee PIP	40
17	437J4	Awsiatan’v Crew Supervisor Mechanic	4G
17	41/344	As.c i.vtant Crew 6'unervisor Sign sh<ip m/w	40
24	6B074	Ass i o 1. unt Di fiw b i 1 i t y T ns ura: u: c supe r-v i sor	3E
2b	0390's	Aj:r.;istanl. Executive Jirer;tor NJ Bd. of Nursing	NT.
! 3	42746	Assistant Head Grounds Worker	d, n
13	44214	Juisiatant Hou*«rfccpini Supervisor 2	4-3
lb	44 23 5	As.iiytant Housekeeping Supervisor- i	4G
2 1	6 00 72	Assisi..trit Social work Superv>.&or	NL
20	32€02	Assistant Supervising Medical Security Officer	413
26	B2601	Assistant Supervisor 1, Ailninistr.it ive Ser vices	35
1 7	4bG54	Assistant Supervisor Criminal Inforirjat ion Unit	3b
17	267Q4.	A.'ssiacant Supervisor Dal.a Reduction Unit	3 5
17	43014	AS.'ilstanr. Supen'iimr r’inperfrint 'T^ahni-etJil UjiIc	0 5
.lb	U2G4S	Assiv.iu.nt Kups,'. i’CYOJjt firft Equic-ruec-t Hait'J'.tioance	4C
]7	4 504 6-	Assistant Supervisor TJcnti: icu t ion Records [T:iit	35
11	74231	P>j;:.;Lstarjt. Supervisor Minrr.ifilc. Services State	NE
2b	44624	AseiJitur.t Supervier:r of llak^c-y operations	N'l
22	52b&2	AsEisr.nrit ISuprtc-visor ill Businms Br.te r prise*	NE
13	5209J	Assist ant. Super? iy or of Con st rue l. i on Records	40
2^	72744	Ass i:;L tint Supervisor of sducational Prograir.u 1	NL
25	72752	Assistant iiupftrvisor ol Educatiujial Programs 2	NG
27	72756	P.!;r,;istanr. Supervisor of Educational Procryms 1	N4
26	7275J	Assistant S-jpcrvisor of Edurrutional E'rograai.s 2	N4
1 A	03552	As a is cant Supervisor oi Recruit ion	4G
2-3	74213	Assistant. Suoftrvisor Records Storage	NT.
24	C44J0	A*j; ist. iiufjv , Room i rm and Hoarding Home Rv.< Luat i un.g	Nii
13	21643	Assifil.rint Supervisor State ofl.ice Cwntrex SywteTns	3 b
23	50054	Ayrjcciaf-e Editor 0AL Publ icationr.i	NE
25	509^4	Aud iI or 1	J JZ
2-7	51D74	Auditor i	ML
27	50S17	Auditor 3 Taxation	3F
2d	5G51&	Andieor I Taxation	NL
90	bDRlS	Auditor Tax .it ion Gut.-of stat«	NL
26	>0094	Budget. Analyst I	Nl.
24	52576	Building Management Serviceii Speci.-jList 2 Building i'etviccs Ccor-rJinatoi- ?■	NL
17	4D204		S5
1?	4O2U7	Bui Iding Service;-; Coordinateir 2	40
20	025G3	Camp Director Comic., for- Blind Vis. Handicapped	NL
17	4 3 304	Capl.uj.n State Bout	40
in	F9926	Captain state Br.iyi,	35
20	0267 3	Cartogruf-her	35
3.7	OO1G2	Certificate of Need Av.ilyf’.t 1	NL
LB	4D351	chief Bridge Operator	40
22	0104h	Chletl Dental Laboratory T«rJtiiician	NE
19	5993B	Chief of Survey p<>rty	35
23	40444	Chief Opcryb1 ng Engineer 1	40
21	40*49	Chie.f Operating Knginvcr 2	40
19	40442	Chief Operating Engineer 3	40
23	61063	Chief Tcchniciyn Environment a ?• Systems	40
24	62227	■Ctillci C-are. Quality Asyurwrioe Inspector 2	NN.
22	70493	Child Center Progr-aai Evaluator 1	N'.
22	61972	Child Support. and Paternity Specialist 2	NL
	649!>4	C1m icifs Adjudicator 1 Disability Determine 1.itins	NL
27	64043	Claims Adjudir.Ml.or Specialist 1	NL
21	947&2	Ciinicy I Dietician	ML
2^	01 7/?4	Clinieal Laboratory Evaluator 1	NT,
30	60321	Clinical Psychologist 2	NL
13	02262	Coding Clerk 1 Cancer Registry	35
27	5290C-	Coii'Kiun i cation Jiclwurk Super visor	NT.
20	4364ft	Ci.iirniun i cations Sv-^enift Technician 3	in
22	43649	Caifflunicatiori!: Systems 'L'echnicien ft	4C
23	64164	Uornmuniiy Programs Any 1.yi.d. I	Jib'
7.£	64175	Ct;r.wwunity Ser^’ict*. Officer 1	NL
26	63154	Community Service Officer 1 Narcotic and Drug Ahu/iH	NL
21	63153	Community service 01 finer 2 Narcotic and Drug Abuse	NE
27	34695	Community Shelter Planning Officer	NT.
2b	Iblll	Compliant* Office 1 Code Enlurcement	NL
29	51319	Confr.iTnA 2, Taxatiosi	NL
29	ftOftDft	■Ou:! struct ion Management Specialist 2	N4
19	10131	•Construction & Maintenance Tcchnidar. 2	4G
2c	•>0376	Uonr.;ij 1 i.ant. •curriculum .inti 7nzit.ruction 1	ML
2-3	54524	Coordinator Agricultural Nairs, Shew?; * Exhibits	NT
19	64603	CcordiTiiil.nr, Interpreter RmFwrral Service	KI.
1 9	24615	Coordinator, Sc<: rrl.a rial Support Scrv.i (:«?•,- Laps	Nh'
26	56B26	Cc-ordinut r.i r- State 6. Local Plyrup.ng CATV	NT,
14	04144	CoM. jqtt Training Svpcrv i nor	4 0
L5	36201	Coujt. Clerk rjrr-	□ IZ
1 9	42405	Crew bupervi nor Suilding Mciiru «nance Programs	40
17	by 947	Crew Supervisor Building Maintenance Brogromr;	3b
1 V	44135	Crew Supervisor Building Maintenance Workers M/W	4-;
19	41124	Crew Supcrviyot Carpenter	40
13	32406	Crew Supervisor Channel Marking	40
19	43645	Crew Supervisor Electrical Operation?;	40
19	4134b	Crew Supervisor Electrician	•to
in	43755	Cfhw Supervisor Equipment inspectors	4 0
19	4 30^5	Crew Supervisor Rguipraeut Operator^ K/W	40
1 9	43005	Crew supervi ?ujr Garage Oporal, ionft	40
ig	42936	Crew .Supervisor Highway Con struct ion 4 Bridge;;	40
19	42245	Crew Supervisor Highway Drilling Opcrul. i cns M/W	40
19	421 25	Crew Superv.i.?.;<.>?• Highway Maim «n.i:n:e	40
19	4203b	Crew Supervisor Highway Marking	4C
10	42494	"r«w Capervisor Laborer w/K	40
I?	42115	Crew Supervisor Landscape Highway Maintenance	40
19	41636	Crew Super visor Locksmith	40
19	43945	Crwii Supervisor Machine shop	a j
19	*3 145	Crew Supervisor Ma ir.tenanec PTP	40
1 9	4 1545	Crew Super, visor Mason nnd Plasterer	40
10	43735	Cmw Supervisor Mechanics	40
19	4 j 515	Crew SuprrvLeor Painters	40
1 9	4131b	Crew Supervisor Plumber and Steaiuf itter	40
19	43b3S	Crew Supervisor Radio Technician	40
16	412*4	Crew Supervisor Repairers	40
19	41645	Crew Supervisor Sheet Md al Norkar	40
19	41645	Crttw Supervisor Sign SJtop Crew Supervisor Wildlife Hnnagwir/tril. Area, Operations	40
ia	42024		*0
14	4561b	Crow Supervisor "Wikdlii^ Worker	4D
] 5	42255	Crew Supervisor Yard Operation	40
24	££735	Customci- Representative lr Public utilities	ftE
L0	>C77b	Customer Service Representative, OAL Publication?,	NL
29	532*6	Data ProcessiTig Analyst 1	V4
2A	5324S	Data Processing Analyst 1	NL
14	531153	[Tata Processing Librarian 1	35
1.3	53'154	Outa Process! Machine operator 1	39
213	532toS	Data Processing Prog rammer 1	4E
27	53264	Data Pro-cessing Programmer i	ND
a?	£3'335	Dal.n I'roceasing Supervisor fiaheiluting and Control	UI.
1G	GO945	Day Carti Center Supervisor	4D
36	01050	Dentist 1	NL
25	55904	District. Supervisor Wage and Hour Compliance	NL
2E	02663	Division PoretsL Firewarden	ND
24	319?13	Dt i ver ImprcvenYenl. Analyst 1	NT.
25	5A40O	Driver Improvement Analyst 1	Ni
30	55565	Economic Development Representative 1	NL
2?	15064	Emergency Response Specie J 1st- 2	4R
24	64613	EmploytnftT’.t Services Specialist 1	3E
i /	64754	Rrnployment Supervisor 1	NT.
25	64763	Employment Supervisor 2	NL
2b	59950	Engineer a Hazardous Site Mitigation	NL
19	10120	Engineering Technician 2	4 0
17	59955	Engineering Technician 2	3b
22	02474	Entonolog i :;l, 1	NL
22	16200	Environmental Cuinpl lance Investigator 1	40
20	•79958	Environmental Compliance mveul igut-or 1	3b
30	15A74	Environment al Scientist 1	NL
25	70134	Examiner 3r Credentials	NT.
23	62164	Field Service Supervisor 3	NL
2b	54B64	Financial Examiner 2	NL
24	74229	Forms Analyst 1	nc.
15	41354	Fornix Dr; sign Technician 1	3b
2c	03177	Ocographii; Tnlormation Systems Speci.i 1 i ut. 1	NT..
2?	03210	Ge<xjrnphic Inforci.il ion Sysr.wmc Specialist 1	N4
2G	54444	Goverrunental Relation'; Special ;rn. 1	NL
211	02671	C-rcenskeepe r	40
26	60602	Guardianship Serviuus Special iwt 1	NL
2G	•03274	dazardiiir.; Site Mitigat.ion Special i ci. 2	4S
2b	59903	Hazardous sil.e Mitigatior: Specialist 2	NT-
1 9	21635	[lead Audit Account Clerk	35
16	•14G25	Head Baker	40
1	40944	Head Barber	40
12	201 4 7	Head Bus; Driver	4U
16	44635	Head Butcher	40
IS	2O04S	Head Clerk	3b
15	21535	Head Clerk Bookkeeper	35
16	20043	Hoad Clerk. Evidence Handl in4	35
1 h	44646	Head Cook 1	43
13	4 46-54	Head Cook 1 10 Months	40
L4	4 a b 4 5	Head Cook 2	40
1 1	44647	[lead Cook 2 10 Months	40
12	44644	Head Cook 3	40
09	44640	Head Cook 1 10 Months	-IC
17	44ibb	Head Cook, Regional Food service	40
16	0414c	Head Cottage Trail'd-'-4 Supervisor	40
17	4574S	Head Dairy Worker	40
10	53205	Witnd Data Entry Ku citine operator	3b
21	14025	Head Drafting Techni 1:iart Elead Drat Ling Technician	40
19	14075		35
16	45325	Head Farmer	40
1 5	20725	[lead File Clerk	36
16	45135	Head Gardener	4G
16	45515	Head Greenhoiifsts Worker	40
16	42745	Head Grounds Work str	40
T5	40922	Head Hairdresser	40
10	44104	Head Housekeeper	43
10	44424	Head Laundry Worker	40
1 5	2202b	Sead Microfilm Machine Operator	35
IB	03062	Head Nurse 10 Months	4E
19	59966	Head Nurse, 12 K:;ul.h9	3B
2 I	033b3	Kemi Nurse 12 Months	4E
	5264b	Head Procuseiiient Clerk	3b
£ 3	40044	He.ad Sewing Ncrkej	40
15	20926	Head StatiwLlew 1 Clerk	3b
27	00374	HeaSt.h Data Special i«i. 1	NL
23	ooim	Health ticotiomics Research spacial 1 si. 1	NL
39	00296	Health J>y!il.«-.Tns Specialist 1	NT.
30	G1754	Hearing Officer 1 State Fatal Board	NL
29	S553'?	Hispanit; Aliulrs Officer 1,commerce & Ecanoraic Dev	el .NT,
24	557TA	Industrial Manager 2 SI,ale Hsu Industries	N4
20	53703	In.'ipr-utor 1 New Jersey Racing Cotnndft/ij mi	48
19	32195	insci t'.jl. jyn Pirc Chief	NL
22	4372G	I ng t i t ut Iona 1 T r.v r' rq >:j t1. j i-1 on S up«A rvisor	N4
2 9	55260	7 tin u rance Analyst 1	NL
26	55064	Insuranue Examiner 1	NL
11	57161	Intermitterjl. Principal clerk	35
25	$6774	invftnl.igator 1	NE
22	3D567	Investigator 1, CjCizevi Tri 1 nrrniition and CocnpJalnl.n	35
22	6bHb4	Investigator 1, Division on Civil Rights	NL
25	65048	invest 1 qcitcur 1, Ixibor	NT.
26	54996	Investigat/.ie 1 , Re.al Eni.ale Ccmtaisaion	NL
2b	51594	investigator 1, Taxation	NL
24	52465	rnvasl.-inent Analyst 1	NT
19	50060	Investment. T-clinician	35
2b	54144	Labor Market Analyst 2	NL
?.€■	10694	Landrt<:tipu Designer 1	4R
27	363176	Legal Assistant 2 OAT,	NL
2b	74064	Librarian 1	NL
•?	isiio	Lj cer:.-;« Ex;>m j. rte r 1	NL
13	52472	Licenae Processor 1	35
26	BGD13	Management Compliance Officer 1	NL
29	93125	Manager q! Film Services PhA	N4
2a	9310B	Manager of Graphic Art.c PAA	N4
iy	43324	Marina Superintendent 2	K4
27	55244	Markel. Conduct Examiner 1	NL
22	tn Q4S	Master Well Driller	40
27	649G6	Medical Relations Specialist 1	fc’L
2ri	02004	Miciobiolyq >.■;!. 3	NL
24	41144	Model Maker 1	4G
1 C	21034	Mftrl.al ll.v O.iding Clerk 1	35
25	75394	Municipal Fijianos Audi 1.pc 1	KT.
2b	53154	ciri.ee Automation Specialist 1	NL
22	4319J	offi:;e KutvJMcr Palisades interstate Park	LL
20	IC-462	Para-Legal Tfti'.hn i <: i.Di 1, Tups	35
13	43044	Parks Maintenance Supervisor 2.	4G
24	5J654	Per,j;ir.!r-..j Benefits Specialiat 1	35
20	65364	Permit COL/diiial. ir.v; pl f ircr 1	NL
23	01294	Pharmacist 2	NL
25	0129b	Pharmani m. 3	NL
27	54942	Planned Heal Estate Dsvelnjirwil. Analyst 1	4R
JO	72625	Planning Associate 1	NL
2.1	02 3 i&	Px"iixiipa3 Ai.:<:vuiit Adjuut-ar Stat5 Lottery' Principal Area Coi;r;31 nulor Community Involvement	NC
25	54349		4P.
23	59972	Principal Area Coordinator Comir.un l '.y Involvement	3D
14	34764	Pr i-.K-.i pul Audio visual Technician	35
1 2	21634	Principal Audit Account Clerk	3$
21	02254	Principal Uact e r inlogiftt. Pr j :i<: i pul Biologist Principal Biciijg i.'.;f.	3R
26	01744		4E
25	01754		NL
2b	01554	Principal Chemiat	3R
27	01569	Pr in-si pa i Chemist	4E
2?	56374	Principal Claims Tn-vc.-jl igPtor	NL
11	20Q44	Principal Clerk	3r>
12	21534	Princip.t! Clerk BookJceeper	35
13	33824	Principal Clerk St-Anugrajdusr	36
1-0	23875	Principal Clerk stenographer TO Months	3r>
12	23334	Pttncipul CJcrk Transcriber	35
12	22214	Principal Clerk Tyvist	3b
09	232J6	Principal Clerk Typist ID Mont.:)':	35
JO	013S6	Pr i nc ipa t C1 i ri i cal psycbolog i st	NL
25	60623	Principal Community Prr>ur.3m specialist	NT.
14	573294	Principal Data Entry Machine operator	
IS	14020	Principal Draft.i ng Technician	46
16	14034	Principal Drafting Technician	35
25	64694	Principal Employment Test Technician	Nii
26	10444	Principal Eugine.ur Arctiitvr;i.ural Bridge UaatgiT	4R
26	1-1094	Principal Engineer Civil	4E
26	15294	Principal	Engineer Construction	4E
24	59973	Principal	Eng i rice r Const r ue 1: i on	3£
26	LG694	Pt' i ticip-a 1	Engineer Electrical	4E
26	Lb 00 3	Principal	Engineer Energy	4E
26	10464	Principal	Engjever Geology	4R
56	10454	Principal	Enginear Geotechnical	4E
26	16094	Principal	Engineer Hydraulic	4E
26	17094	Pr incipal	Engineer industrial	4E
26	L3O94	Principal	Engineer Materials	4E
26	1S894	Principal	EngStiecr Mechanical	■IE
24	59974	Fr i Ticipai	Engineer Meefianical	3E
26	12694	Principal	Engineer Planning	4E
26	14004	Principal	Engi n.ec r Structural	4E
26	10474	Pr i ncipal	Engineer structural Bridge Design	4E
26	1U471	Principal	Engineer Structural Evaiuatiriri	4E
26	1 1284	Principal	Engineer Traffic	4R
26	10274	Pr i ncipal	Eng inert r Traj ispo r t.a t. i r.m	4E
26	12294	Principal	Engineer Tran.4jnrtatiori Researgti	4E
26	14S94	Principa I	Engineer Utilities	4E
1 4	53975	Principal	Engineering Aide	35
y H	16304	Prine i.pal	EnvironmenLal Engineer	NT.
26	16314	Principal	Snvi r rmmenta i Eng tneer	4£
26	22524	Pr1ncipal	Environmental Specialist	4E
25	15554	Principal	Environmental Special 1st	NF.
2D	15034	Principal	Envi roninent al rerdmiciacj	4D
LB	59976	Pr.i ncipa 1	Environnrc-ntaJ Technician	35
24	1S274	Principal	Estimator Building and Construction	4E
21	70133	Principal	Examiner Education Credentials	35
26	60654	Ft jricipal	Field Operations Analyst Develop. Di mbH .	NL
24	64394	Principal	Field Rep resent.* l ive Rousing	NF.
2 b	5166b	Pr incip-ii	Field ReprrtiiT.r.tat.i vc Local properly Tax	HL
27	O12A4	Frincipal	Field Rcpresentative Pharmaceutical s	NL
1 l	2Q724	Prini-.Lpai	F-. Lc Clerk	1 “l
24	56534	Principal	F i firid 1 Analyst	3a
L6	44924	Pi i ncipa 1	Fcren.fi 1 c L'hoLciqrapb.e ;•	35
27	01593	Principal	Furenaic Scientist	35
12	•10014	Principa 1	Garage At ten: i not	40
25	U3D54	Pr i ncipal	Ccologisi	NT
22	56474	Principal	[Searings o: liter Motor Vnhicles	J Lt
2b	17494	?r Lncipa1	Highway Safety Specialist	NE
24	1 b C A	Principal	Historic Preservation Special lot	NT.
1.1	55624	Principal	industrial Assistant	40
21	32412	P rincipal	Inspector Bulkheads and Dredging	NE
21	62224	Principal	Inspector Child Care Centers	NF
2]	14014	Trine ipal	Innpcctor Construction	4i>
2D	1 4624	Prir.ciprf 1	1 nspe ct or Const rue t. i on	Ltd
2 3	32701	17 i riczpa J	Inspector Fire Safety	NL
21	5S474	Principal	Iiuspcctor Multiple Dwellings	NE
24	45023	Principal	Intelligence Rose arc It Analyst	JlL
21	b4?34	Principal	Investigator Banking	NF
S. j	Sbl7A	Principal	investigator insurance Fraud Prevention	NT.
25	3 3454	Principal	investigator Office of the Public Defends	T NL
11	01 934	Principal	Labor.!I.ory Service Worker	35
:9	01924	Fr i ncipal	Laboratory 'L'echr.ician	35
20	02029	Trine i cal	La bo ratory Tcchni it i an	4D
L2	74134	PciRciprf L	Library Assistant	3b
56	12725	Pr i ricipal	l/ocal A i.d Analyst	4R
21	33667	Trine Lpal	Local Aid Frivestig.itor	40
10	20434	Principal	Mail Clerk	35
24	01952	Principal	Medic a1 Tv chnologi st	.3F
11	22024	Principal	Microfilm Machine Operator	35
11	22234	Principal	of f i oc App 11 .gice Ope rator	35
24	55304	Principal	OpelaJ.ions Analyst	3R
13	23215	Pr i ncipal	Dptrator Automated Typewriter	35
10	23216	Principal	Operator Automated Typewriter	35
24	61751	Principal	Parole Counselor Stal.e L’arnle Board	NL
14	44943	Pr i ncipal	Photographer	3b
26	03696	Prine lpal	Physical Therapist	46
2b	16474	Principal	Planner	NL
26	1649 1	Prine ipal	P1 aoner	4E
2 b	16461	PrincipHl	L'lan'.ivr. tnvitenment.aI Protection	EJL
26	12494	Pr i ncipal	Planner Transportation	4E
11 20424	Principal	Postal Clark	40
12 59977	Principal	Poei-n I. Clerk	35
24 54244	Principal	Procedures Analyst	IE
26 5424b	Principal.	Procedures Analyst	4E
>4 38025	Principal	Program At'-Alyr.l. STiF.PA	NL
la 00024	Principal	Rabies Control Technician	NL
18 59976	Principal	Radiological Technician	35
20 14A44	Principal	Rallrrjad inspect.t;r	40
26 12284	Pr incipal	Research Assistant Transportat. ion	IE
25 12676	Principal	ftiaesharing Coordinator	IE
25 57084	Principal	Riqhl. of Way J^ppraiftftr	NT,
24 57064	Principal	Eight of Way Negotiator	ml
21 17344	Principal	Safety 7:u;pe<:t.c?r	NF,
2Q 17204	Principal	Safety Inspector Transport-Ji-ioci	40
26 01154	Principal	Sanitarian	ML
24 02464	Principal	Seed Analyst	32
27 62145	Principal	standards and Procedure	Technician	ML
12 20024	Principal	Statistical Clerk	35
24 84084	Principal	Stat.i v-inn	IE
13 40034	Principal	Stock Clerk	35
22 53101	Principal	Technician Management	Jon Eyatens 40
21 62043	Principal	Tr<:hn i<:i..»r’ Management Information Syd arir NE
24 32430	Principal	Tidelands Appraiser	NL
23 57144	Ptj nrlpal	Title Examiner	NT.
26	11225	Principal	Traffic Control Analyst	IE
20	11234	Principal	Traffic investigator	40
24	6.3564	Principal	Training Technician	3E
2b 63571 Principal Training Technician	NL
26	13264	Principal Trar.spnrt.atinn Analyui-	4E
11	2D624	Principal Vault Clerk	35
2b	D33G5	Pt i in;i pu.l ZuoJr.:giyt Non Came	NT,
1?	22534	Printing Machine operator 3	3b
17	22535	Printing Machine Operator 4	35
17	58532	PiocUfftHlAilt. Controller	35
2 7	64404	Program Development Specialist 1	4E
2fc	61405	Proqr-.ini Development Specialist 1	NT.
27	65286	Program Planning ami Development -Specialist 1	NL
25	00143	Program Special.2 occupational Flnvi	T-.m-iinnt,<i 1 Wealth Mi>
27	621D3	P-oqr.tn Support Specialist 1 Zouth	-4.	Family Srvn. NT.
27	526'Jb	Property Mar-ageuient. Re.rvic.c Spyeialist 4	NU
26	62865	Public Health C’ctiaultant 1	N'L
28	60611	?ublh: Wej. i i i.: i C<>nsjii LI unt 1 Nursing	NT.
24	62926	Public [Jealr.h Representative I	NL
29	55455	Quality Assurance Coordinator, Human	Serz ii:«n	NL
26	50960	Radiat ion Pfiyuiuiac 1	NT.
25	02654	Regional Foresr.er	NL
23	60706	Regional rnpsrviRnr U.-iSt-® r i‘-rsu,J.|-iAvei'.l	’ •>	, r-.nr.	NL
29	53022	Pftqul.uLory Officer 1 Insurance	NL
30	54006	Research Ruonominc 1	ND
25	04184	Residential Servicer; specialist 1	Nd
20	54399	Resource Interpretive specialist	ND
2a	7G395	Sc.-hool Priicjra/r- Coordinator 1	NT.
I 3	78503	Secretary 2 Word P roue r si ng SyALttm	3b
24	52504	Sv-ouricics Market Trader 1	ND
24	b26al	Sft.ljfir Ruyt-r	IE
15	0 3 2 3 8	Senior Cemetery Caretaker	40
1G	21AG 3	Senior	Communications operator	40
14	5S93&	SAtiirJr	Cr.inimun io«lt Jena Cj.ici ntc-r	15
15	52354	Senior	Distributor, Stake i.ul.t.er? Tiukcto	40
23	33373	Senior	field Representative Construe.cent.rati Cl;mpJ t.NL
29	61416	Senior	Hearing Officer, Inmate Disciplinary	Program NT.
21	61301	Senior	rnstrucbr Course J or Read j net m.ent unit	H4
22	6S053	Senior	investigator' Disability Tjiaut.srice	NE
25	62023	Senior	Investigator family Development	NL
20	5G741	Senior	Invepl. j gator Mol-or Carrier;;	4 0
18	80218	Senior	Investigator Student Loans	HE-
17	03933	Sctiiot	Occupational Health Nurse	49
23	O3&72	Se.r'.ior	OiiCnpAC. Ionul TtwiafiLrtl.	ID
19	403 03	Eenior	Operator Refrigeration liervicen	4 0
29	00857	Senior	Public Health Veterinarian	NT.
25	70265	Senior	pupil Tcwriwpr.iT L.il. hm Spec; i aj 1st	ML
12443 Senior Traffic Enumerator	40
14	56C72	Senior- Unemployment Insurance Clerk	15
2 V	80366	Social Scientist 1 Menial Health	NIj
33	6ODG?	social Work Supervisor 2	Ml
i •?	74 3 71	Special Staff Officer- 3	N4
10	34772	Special si-.-itf officer 3	NL
27	1'2755	Scatj rjtical Engineer 2	N4
17	•t D ] 44	Storekeeper 1	40
2.6	15052	Sub-Oide Official	40
25	35100	Sub-code Official	NE
22	63115	subjjtance Abase counselor 1	WL
2 IT	65bl4	Supervising Affirmative Act inn Asei ut. Pub. Centrac-.'l.s	Nii
26	64685	SupervieLug Appeals Examiner	NL
24	5452.4	SUpitcvisin-j Conrnunjty involvement. Info. Specialist	NL
24	5 3<JUQ	Supervising Computer Opera Lor	3E
23	■52141	Siipcrvif;ing family sarvj.ee Specialist 2	NL
20	■6439A	supervising Field Representative. Housing	t-n.
22	54S$6	Supervising Graphic Arlist Biviaion of state Police	NL
2b	60454	Supervising Health Care Facilities Evaluator	NT.
25	60456	Supervising Health Care Facilities* Evalu.dor, 1CF	NL
2D	GTO63	Scperv-jj;ing ir.Apnctci- O).fice of Agricul. Standards	NL
20	324 93	bilpcrvising Inspector Plant industry	NT.
2?	33059	Supervising Tnvest-ig.iior L.aw L Public Gaiety	NL
2b	5-5004	S uperv iing I n v rs t igati । r, unempl cyme nt Insu r un ce	NL
-; 5	OC-Dhl	S':jj >ervi ft i rig Med i c.-j. 1 Exam 1 ncr	NL
10	5S9D5	Supervising nuclear Engineer	NT.
2b	0255b	Supervising Flent Pathologist	NL
28	b2G29	Supervising Procurement Specialisc	ML
27	63004	Supervising Program Substance; Abuj;e/Aids	NL
21	U3I365	Supervising Public Safety Telcremictr.	N4
26	65274	Super vising Rehabili cation Counselor	NT.
2Q	03164	Superv i .jing Research Anu Iyer	31L
2y	03185	Gnpcrvi*ing Research Analyst	N4
1 *	03728	Supervising Respiratory Therapist	M4
2$	57146	Supervising Right of. Way Research Analyst.	NL
21	265 U	Supervising Technician, Commercial Recording	NL
2n	16679	Supervising Tcchtiiul so Electron'.	Traffics Gyui rms	4fl
12	2102b	.Supervising Telephone Operator	3 b
14	21028	Supeivising Telephone Operator	40
:sc	•587CO	Supervising Utility Management Analyst	NT.
26	175274	s uperv i u j.ng v-oc.j c ~ ona 1 Rc tab i 111 at i o n Ccun*e {or	NL
23	65245	Supervisor 2 Unemployment Benefits	NL
1A	56467	Supervisor 1 Diviajrm of Kotor Vehicles	35
2 2	5649b	Supervisor '3 Division of Motor Vebiiilcs	4D
10	b6-403	Supervisor 4 Division cf Motor Vehicle;;	40
	56406	Supervisor -4 Division of Mul.or vehicles	35
17	50312	Supervisor Admin1strativ? Unit.	3b
24	62676	Supv , Allied -Services Cijifit.. for- Rlfnd 4- Vis . rnpciia-f.W	% • ‘
7. Ci	5 3 2 !'.>	Supervisor C^r-h Receipts Jr Digburnementf,	NT.
21	6 5974	Supervisor Cash Receipts and Deposits;	3b
23	bG334	Supv.CATV System Cpcr. & Cuc.pla ic.t ir.ve.ut igati on	NL
25	b2342	Super vis er Collections and Adjustments Sl.uce lottery	NT.
2D	527b6	Supervisor Commodity Distribul ion	NL
27	6D456	Supervisor; Comply Lnts 4 Surveillance	HL
27	631-.3	Supervisor Currit-ul urr. Development and Training	>TL
7.8	2bb'.5O	Supervisor Elect iwr Adr.ir.i.-;tratian	NT.
1 ">	53046	Supervisor Emergency Tele conn-uni cat ions cyi;l. er.	NT.
2 7	44866	Supervisor, Employment .->rid Training Program?.	NL
] 4	4b015	Supervisor Fingerprint: Teohrical Unit	35
11	4470b	•Supervisor Food -Scrviai? Area Operation	40
IS	44945	Supervise!' Forensic Photography Unit	35
14	45045	Supervisor Tdcntifioution Records Unit	35
71	81032	Superv i f.’jT Juvenile Unit Correct ion*	NL
3D	1 5903	Supervisor of Admin. Services Envir. Quality	N4
21	50063	Supervisor of Appropriat.lc-.ri AcctiuntE Treasury	HR
75	44G26	tiuper-visor ot Bakery Operations	Hl
25	62=03	Supv.of Bus.Enterprise!;rComri. for Blind & VH.-Utpair-	.NL
2 b	72753	Supervisor of Ed'.jcruticJial Prcgi'smy z	NT.
2 J*	727=0	Supervisor of Eduoat ir.uial Frcigrams 2	N4
26	72.760	Au.perviftor of Ednputior.al Programs 1	N4
2 S	64764	ilupv. of EiiipLoy. Co'.jcycling ariri Selwcreive Placemerj	NL
20	42333	Supervisor of Equipment £<.:hed.u.lt*.s Tranjportai.lon	4.0
26	60207	S-.jpv, of Field Investigators Inst J i ut ion.j L. El-dHrly	NL
22 54780	Supervisor-	t.?E	Horse Race Activities	ML
24 34815	supervisor	of	Inter-nti] Corniuni cations	NI,
21 42148	Supervisor	of	Landscape Mainteriaacc	40
17 23855	supervisor	of	Legal Secretarial Service?;	85
24 55915	Supervisor	of	License.1! arid Permits Workplace Stand.	NL
27 64470	Supervisor, of Local Assistance, Fire Safety	NL
22 81114	supervisor	of	MairiLenace School of Crjcmervation	NR
21 0.3663	Supervisor	of	Music Therapy	4G
22 55057	Supervisor	u L	Patients Accounts T	NL
21 50863	supervisor	of	Pat.ient.y Accounts 2	NL
25 34605	Supervisor-	of	Secondary Resource;.; Energy Management	NL
19 93366	Supervisor	of	Traffic and Video Tape -Operation.1-;	FRA	NE
21 43864	sup. ril Vehicle tlpera!.ioni-	40
2'3 62554	Supv.of Vtjc .Srv.Connii.for Blind and Visually Impaired	NL
21 62S14	Supervisor of Volunteers institution;; and Agencies	NT.
IF 10044	supervisor of X Ray Technicians	3b
27 16876	Sup. Preventive Maintenance L Constr. Human Servici.v.;	NL
23 61292	Supervisor Property and Records Taxation	NL
23 43S4S	supervisor Radio Maicl.nuance	40
23 34793	Sopervi r>c.ir Radiological Maintenance	N4
19 4.SQ43	Supervisor Records Assembly unit	35
22 54044	sup. Research and Sf.at isi: ics Div. mi Civil Rights'	NL
25 02453	Supervisor Seed Certificar.tori and. Contrnl	NL
25 60675	Supervisor Vocational Programs	NT.
LG 43863	supply Support Technician I.	ati
17 43074	Supply SuppurL Technician 1	40
25 51404	Tux Analyst 1	3E
24 51324	Taxpayer Service Representative 1	NL
17	52352	Technical	Assistant	1 Insurance	35
13	65353	Technical	As/; i ;;t,mn	1 Labor	35
17 SU043	Technical Assistant 3 Phrebasing	35
17	53634	Technical	Assistant	1, Ttea/;ury	?5
12	S23L3	Technical	Assistant.	2, Higher Education	25
69	00000	Technical	Assistant	2, Higher Education	35
17	65355	Technical	Ans'; i:;l,unt	Board of Mediation	35
16 S0O53	Technical Assistant Budget Bureau	35
13 52622	Tech. A/ml,, Bureau of Real Rotate and Ineuraiiui	Mgt,	NL
25 531-35	Technical CO;-J rd i nntor PBA	40
71 031145	Tel ecpirniunicat ions Syr;c.«^ Analyst 1	NL
26 913 58	Television Rr.-oadcast MaintAnanrc Supervisor	40
24	51103	Transportation Services Specialist. 2	37
25	62345	veteran;; Service officer 1	NL
25	03193	Wildlife Toxicologist	NL
15.22616	word Processing Specialist	1	35
23	60200	work Program Specialist I	NL
16	66003	Youth work Supervisor	40
hEW GER3EY W71TER SUPPLY AUTHORITY
TITLE
Foreman Building it Grounds, WSA
Foreman, Facilities M.-j ir.tenance, WSA iK/W)
Foreman, Laborer, WSA Foreman, Maint-etjunce, WSA Foremanr Dumping State mi, W8A Principal Accountant, WSA Sergeant First.. Class, WSA Sergeant of Securil.y, WSA Supervising Plant Opera!.or, WSA Supervisor, Facilities Operations arid Maintenance
APfENtflX V 7iU» Eligible far Clnthug Allowuce PRIMARY LEVEL SUPERVISORS UNIT
TITLE	TITLE	CODE
Adniinistraiivn? Supervisor Residential Services,	IQ Months	04173
Area Supervisor Trufiic Euumcraiiir	3 2444
Armorer (	34124
Armorer II	3-4123
AaRislaoll Chief Security Officer	32263
Assistant Crew Supervisor Bridge Painlcrs	41924
Assistant Crew Supervisor Bridges and Structures	41934
AJtfjglanl Crew Supervisor- Equipment Opaatrw	43754
AsstRLmt Crew Supervisor I lighway Construction	4 3 924
Assistant Crew Supervisor Highway Cwatoivtion anti Bridges 41939
Assistant Crew Supervisor Highway Maintenance	42124
Assistant Crew Supervisor Highway Marking	42034
Assistant Crew Supervisor Highway Drilling Opcratioos	42244
Assistant Crew SupcnvijurLsi^RCJipeHiEhwHiy Marking	42334
Assistant Crew Strptnisnr Machmc Sirup	43944
Assistant Crew Supervisor Miivhiinic	43734
Assistant Crew Supervisor Sign Simp	41844
AssiRtanl Crew Supervisory Marntefiame PIP	43144
Assistant Coif Course Manager	02672
Assistant Head (jroundsworkcr	42746
Assistant Housekeeping Sicpervisor r	44235
Assistant Housekeeping Sqwrisor 2	44234
Assistant Superintendent Fish Hatchery'	03192
Assistant Supervising Mediwil Security Officer	32632
Assistant Supervisor 2 Administrative facilities	R2658
Assistant Supervisor 1 Facilities	82<jfi3
Assistant Supervisor 2 FuciJiticR	82660
Assistant Supervisor 1 Facilities 10	Months	82651
Assistant Supervisor 2 Facilities IQ	Months	82643
Assistant Supervisor Forest Fjre Lquipineot	0264R
Assistant SdpwviRnr of ProtcssioTnjJ and Residential Services 6U634
Assistant Supervisor of Rjscrestinn	03 552
AMtiStanV Sirpc-tvisor ot"R.#vidw4tial t.i-ving	■0421J
Associate Supervisor 2 Facilities	82675
Building Manugcmetil Services H	52576
Captain State Boat	4'1304/59926
ChicfBridgeOperator2	40353
Chief Fridge Operator 3	40352
Chief Bridge Operator	40353
Chief of Survey Party	14045/5£J9-38
Chief Operating Engineer I	40444
Chief Operating Engineer 2	40443
C3iief Operating Engineer 3	40442
ChicCTechnical Enviroiiniwiud System	8ICNJ3
Child Care Quali ty Assurance Inspector 2	62227
CLiwr-al Dietician	44782
Construct to ti tmd Mainietuince 7 ce hi i icrim 2	[0131
i:
Ji i; it !
i!i
i-
I? I
Cottage Training Supervisor
Crew Supervisor Bridge*: and Structures
Crew Supervisor Building Muintoiunce Programs
Crew Supervisor Building Maintenance Workers
Crew Supervisor Carpenters
Crew Supervisor Channel Marking
Crew Supervisor EteCiriciOuiS
Crew Supervisor Electrical Operations
Crew Supervisor Equipment Inspector
Crew Supervisor Equipment Operations
Crew Supervisor Fisheries Worker
Crew Supervisor Garage Operation
Crew Supervisor Highway Construction
Crew Supervisor Highway Construction and Bridges
Crew SijpCTvisor Highway Drilling Operations
Crew Supervisor Highway Maintenance
Crew Supervisor Highway Marking
Crew Supervisor Laborer
Crew Supervisor Landscape Highway Maintenance
Crew Supervisor I zicksniilh
Crew Supervisor Machine Shop
Crew Supervisor Mamlaifntec FTP
Crew Supervisor Mason and Plasterer
Crew Supervisor Mechanic
Crew Supervisor Painter
Crew Supervisor Bridge Painters
(Jrew Supervisor Piumhcr and SteomGttei
Crew Supervisor Print Shop
Crew Supervisor Radio TecJuiicwi
Crew Supervisor Repairer
Crew Supervisor Sl*tet Metal Worker
Crew S npervi sor S ign -Shop
Crew Supervisor Upholstery Shop
Crew Supervisor Wildlife Management Area
Crew Supervisor Wildlife Worker
Crew Supervisor Yard OperaliotL-s
DayCare Center Supervisor
Division forest Fire Wandcn
Elwlziciil and Cl imstr- Conlml SyNtetns
Engineering Technician 2
Foreman Building and Grounds WSA
Foreman Cuntd Operations WSA
Foreman Canal-? WSA
Foreman Electrician W'S'A
Foreman Facilities Maintenance WSA
Foreman Laborer WSA
Foreman Mechanic WSA
Foreman Maintenance 11, Grounds and Maintenance WSA
Foreman O & M Maintenance WSA
Foreman U St M Reservoir WSA
Foreman O & M Reservoir Mn jjitenancc WSA
Foreman Pumping StalioU WSA
Foreman Reservoir execrations WSA
04144
41955 42405/59947
44135
41124
32406
41345
43645
43755
42025
45435
43805
41925
41936
42245
42125
42035
42434
42135
41636
41945
43145
41545
43735
41515
41825
41315
414.15
43535
41244
41645
41K45
41625
421124
45615
42255
60945
02663
113204
10120
Foranan Stnictafts WSA	
Forcuuiji Waler and Fnibtuikmcms WSA	
Forms Design Technician 1	41354
Greenakccpci	02*71
Head Baker	44625
Head Barber	4OT44
Heart Butcher	44635
Hoad Rus Driver	30147
Head Clerk Evidence Hnndhng	21W
Head Cuyk 1	44646
Head Cook 1, 1.0 Munlhs	44654
Head Cook 2	44645
Head Ceuk 2,KJ Months	44674
Head Cook 3	44644
Ilead Cook .1. 10 Months	4464R
Head Cook Regional Fi»l Service Operation	44650
Heart Cook Regional Food Supervisor	44656
Head Cottage Supervisor	04J34
[lend Cottage Training Supervisor	<i4M5
Head ffcijry Worker	45745
Head Day Care Technician	60943
Head Fanner	45.125
Head Gardener	45535
Hund Greenhouse Worker	45515
Heart Grounds Worker	42745
Heart Hairdresser	40923
Head Housckccpci	44104
Iltmd Laundry Worker	44424/44425
H«u| Nurse, 10 Months	03862
HcadNiJtxe, iZMonlhs	0.385.3/59966
Head Sewing Worker	40S44
hrvesligiilor I	56774
LandscafK Designer ■	10694
Manager Film Scivices PBA	93128
Marina Superintendent 2	4J334
Mien>hi«j]ugtat	02004
Model Maker I	41144
Park Maintenance $upcivisur2	43044
Principal Audiovisual Technician	74764
Principal Biologist	01744
Principal Riolugisl	UI754
Principal Buildinv, Inspector	55355
Frineipal Chemist	01554
Principal Chemisl	01569
Principal Cousin! Inspeclor	32061
Principal Fledrical Inspector	15126
Principal Engincciing Aide	14044'5 9975
Principal LnvEronmcntal Technician	15S34
Principal Environmental Technician EQ	59976 {C only)
Principal Field Represtnihilive Housing	64394
Principal Field Representative Phanlumeulktd lletdlh Facilities	012k4 (C uuly)
Principal Fingerprint lecbiucian State Pnlice	45Q11
Principal Forensic Plmlograplter	44924
Principal i-wensto Sclent 1st	<11593
Principal hidustrial Assistant	55824
Principal Inspector Construction	14014/14024
Principal Inspector Fire Safely	32201
Principal Inspector Multiple Dwelling	55474
Principal laboratory Service Worker	01934
Principal Laboratory Technician	G1924/01929
Principal Local Aid Investigator	33867
Principal Mail Cleric	20434
Principal Medical Technologist	01952
Prindpul MicroGimtvty chine Operator	22024
Principal Office Appliance Operator	22234
Principal Physical Therapist	03696
Principal Plumbing Inspector	1512.4
Principal Postal Clerk	20424/59977
Principal Safety Inspector Mining	17244(C vnly)
Principal Safety Inspector Iransporlalton	17204
Principal Sanitarian	03154
Principal Stock Clerk	40034
Principal Traffic Investigator	11234
Principal Training Technician	63564/63571
Principal Vttiill Clerk	20624
Minting Maeii inc Operator 4	22535
Printing Machine Operator 3	22534
Public Health Consultant 1	62865/606 LI
Regional Forester	02654
Senior Cemetery Caretaker	63238
Senior Communicators Operator	21803
Senior Investigator Motor Carriers	5674L
SediOrOceupational Health Nurse	0.3933
Senior Occupational therapist	03672
Senior Operator Refrigeration Services	40303
Senior Studio Carpenter PBA	93334
Senior Traffic Enumerator	L2443
Sergeant First Class WSA	
Sergeant of Security WSA	
Special Staff Officer 3, Dcparimeol of Defense	34372/34371
State Nurse Consultant	03975
Storekeeper l	40144
Sub-Code Official Principal Inspector	15086/131^1 olUlt
Supervising Graphic Aitist Stare Police	54956
Supervising Health Care Facility Evaluator	60458
Supervising, Health Care Facility Evaluator	60454/6045?
Supervising Plant Operator WSA	
Supervising Technical Assistant WSA	
Supervisor 3 DMV	56495*
Supervisor 4 DMV	56483*
Supervisor Facilities Operations & Maintenance WSA	
Supervisor Food Sciviccs Area OperatcwR	44705
Supervisor Forensic Photography I Jrul	44945
Supervisor Music therapy	03663
Supervisor 0 & M Reservoir Maintenance WSA	
Supervisor of Landscape Maintoitfuicc	42146
Supervisor of Occupational Health Services	03935
Supervisor of Record Maictlenancc	2fi?15
Strpervisor of X-Ray Tecbnicians	IBMA'18045
Supervisor Pharmaceutical Service^	01294/01295
Supervisor Radio Maintenance Supervisor Technics! Assistant 1. WS.A Supervisor Ta-hni^r Assistant 2 WSA Supervisor Technical Aasrsumt 3 WSA	43545
Supervisor Technicai Assistant 4 WSA
Supervisor U Facilities ODM, WSA
Supervising Tethnical .Assistant (Wnasquatt Water Supply
.System) WKA
Supply Support Technician	43874
Supply Support Technician i	43869
Tcclliiica! Assistant Pfiysks Lafe	82401
'L'echniwl Coordinator PBA	93 IAS
Television Broadcast iMaintcnariCe Supervisor	93I5R
Youth Woifc Supervisor	66003
Applies only to employees working at a DMV Inspection Station
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employer* Effective: July L 1999
10 Mod th Employees Effective September J, 1990
covering Employee Belations Croapp: P S
iLmge	1	a	3	4 704,16	5 740.24	6 778.99
Znrrenicnt, Step 1	611-33 14,870.35	339.64 15,481-68	6 iV-tro 16,121,32	16,792.00 17 4£lfi 16	17,496.16 tft M6 4n	10,286.40 19,015.39
Step 2	15.451-60 16 093.01	lt», izl.A2 16,76096	lb,?7<£.UU 17,462.6$	18.200.32	18,976.64	19,794.38
Step 4	16,704.34	17,400-60	18,133.36	18,904-48 iq rur R-i	19,716.88 20 457.12	20,573-37 21,352.36
Step 5 Stept? 7	17,315-67 17,927.00 18,538.33	18,040.24 18,679-8$ 19,319.52	)8,W*-U^ 19,474.72 20,145.40	20,312-80 21,01696 91 721 12	21,19736 21,937.60 22 677.84	22,131.35 22,910.34 23,609 33
Ship 8 Step 9	19,149-66 19,760.99	19,959.16 20,598.60	21,486.76	22,425,28	23.418.08	24,468.32
SALARY SCHEDULE
18 Month Employees Effective: July L 199$
10 Month Employee* Effective: September 1.1099 Covering'Employee Retnt ions Groups P*R*6
Itonpe	19	20	21	22	S3	24
fncnenwrtt	1,465.07	1,53989	1,617,25	1,697.23	178232	1.870,03
Step 1	32.005.04	33,47011	35.010.06	36,62725	38.324,48	40,106.80
Step S	33,470.11	35,010.00	36,627.25	38,324.48	40,106.80	41,978.83
Step 3	$4,935.18	36,549,09	38,244.50	40,021.71	41,609.12	43,8464$
Step 4	36,400,25	36,089.7$	39.36L75	41,718.94	43.671.44	45,716.69
Step 5	37,865.32	39,629.67	41.479.00	43,41617	45,463,76	47,586.92
Step 6	39,330.39	41,169.56	43,09625	45,113.40	47,236 08	49,456,95
Step 7	40,795.46	42,700.45	44,713,50	46,610.93	49T018.40	51,326.98
Step 0	42,260.53	44,240.34	46,330.75	48,507.06	50,800.72	53,197.01
Step 9	48,726,60	45,789.23	47,948.00	50,306.09	52,583.04	55,067.04
WangA	7	8	9	10	11	12
"Ip** /n^twwn f	817.66	$68,92	900.21	944.05	990.48	1,030.49
Step I	19,015.39	19.833-05	20,691-97	21,592.16	23,53823	23,526.71
Stt^p 2	19 833-05	20,691-97	21,592.18	22,596.23	23,52651	24,5go.2Q
	20,650-71	21,550-89	23,492.39	23,48038	24,517 19	25,605.69
^Xcp 4	21,46837	1 22,409.81	23,392.60	24,424.33	25,507.57	26,645.10
5	_22,286.Q9	23,268-73	24,292.81	25,368.38	20,498.15	27,634.67
,Q*-D £	23 103-69	24,127.65	25,19302	26,312,43	27,488.63	28,724.18
n 7	28,931.85	24,986.57	26,093.23	27,256.48	28,479.11	29,763.65
Sf*S	24,739.01	25,845-49	26,993.44	2B.200.53	29,469.59	30,803.14
Step 9	2*5,556.67	26,704.41	27,893.66	29,144.58	30,460.07	$1.842.63
Range	25	26	S7	28	89	30^
	1,965.46	2,063.60	2,16666	2,275,01	2,388,46	2,507.16
Step 1	41,976,63	43,948.29	46.005.79	48,17244	50,447.45	5S.835.91
$tep2	43,942.29	46,005.79	40,172.44	50,447.45	52,83591	55,343.07
Steu 3	45,907.75	48,069.29	50,339,09	52,722.46	55,224.37	57^50.23
Step 4	47,073.21	50,13 2s79	52,505,74	54,997.47	57,612.83	00,357,39
Step 5	49.838.67	52,19529	64,678.39	67,272,43	C0,0DJ.29	62,864-55
Step 6	51,804.13	54,259.79	56,839.04	59,547.49	62,389.75	65,371.71
Ste/J 7	53,760.59	56,323.29	59,006.69	fil.822.50	64,778.21	67,878-07
St r>8	55,795.05	50,396.79	61,173.04	64,097.51	$7,166.67	70,386.03
Sf<p9	57.700.51	GO,450.29	63,338.99	66,373.52	69,555.13	72,893.19
IS	14	iJ?						17	>B _.	
Th i*F*>m^n£	1093-60	1,147,05	1,204.54	1,266.47	1,331] 98	1,33!>.4V
Cf	1	24,566-20	25,659 80	26,807.65	28,012.19	29,273.66	30,609-64,
	AJ5 659.80	26,807,65	28,012.19	29,^78,66	$0,609.64.	32,005.04
	■>R 753 40	27.955.60	29.21673	30,545.13	$1,040.63	33,400.44
'	@7.647.00 29,103.35	30,42 IjT	3L,811Jgj ?a,zj.u<j						$4,795.04
	2S 940.60	30,351.30	31,625,81	$3,078.07	34,602.58	36,191,24
$tsp 6	30,034.20	31,39905	32,830.35	34.344.54	35,933.56	37,5&6.64
	31,127.00	32,546.90	34,034.89	35,611.01	37,264.54	38,982.04
•*J «|Lr J *3	32,221-40	33,694.75	$5,239.43	36,077.48	38,595.52	40,3 77.44
Step 9	33,3 IS.OO|	34,842.60	36,443.97	38,143.95	39,926.50	41,772.84
JtinfiC	31	92	33	34	35	36
JrUFemCHt	2,633.51	2,765.08	2,901.78	3,048,81	8,198.40	3,35334
Step 1	55^43.07	57,976,58	60,741.66	63,648.44	68,592.25	69,89065
Step 2	57,976.58	60,741.86	63,643.44	<36,692.25	69,390.65	73,248.99
Step <?	bV.f>10.09	«3,50G. 74	60,5-15.32	$0,741 06	73,089.05	76,807.3$
	- 	 Step 4	63,243.60	66,27U2	69.447.00	72,789.87	78,207,45	79,965.67
	65,877.11	69,036.90	72,340.78	75,038.68	79,435.85	83.324.01
Step 6	68,510.62	71,001.96	75,250.56	70,887,49	02,884.25	86,682,$5
Step 7	71,144.13	74,567.06	70,152.84	81,936.30	35,882.65	90,040.69
StepS	73,777.64	77,392.14	81,054.19	$4,905 11	89,081.05	93,399.03
Step 9	76,411.15	80,097:22	83,955.90	88.033.92	92,279.45	96.757.37i
(Sidin'y Schedules are for itifwinatiOLinl purpose* only)
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective: July 1, 1999
10 Month Employees Effective: September 1, 1999
fVv.nntf Employee: Relations Groups P * R * 8
	a?	38	39	40	41	42
Jncrement	3,528.56	3,703-94	3,889 67	4.083.13	4,289.44	4,501.00
Step 1	73,243.99	76,777.55	B0,48L49	84,371.16	88,454.29	92,743.73
i$?ep 2	76,777,66	80,481-49	84,371.16	88,454.29	92.743.73	87.244 73
seen 5	80,306,11	84.185.43	88^60.83	92,537,42	97^33.17	101.745.73
M . .^. Step 4	83,884.67	87,889.37	52,150.50	96.620.56	101,322.61	106,246.73
	*•■ f	—1 S<ep 5	87,363.23	51,593.31	96,040.17	100,703.68	105,61205	110.747,73
Step 6	80,89179	06,297.25	99.929.84	104.786-81	109,901.49	115,248.73
Step 7	94,420.36	99,001.19	103,819.51	108.869.94	114,190.93	119,749-73
Step 8	97,946.91	102,705.13	107.709.18	112.S53.O7	118,480.37	124,250 73
ti-epd	101,477.47	106,409-07	111,598,85	117,036.20	122,769-81	_]2&,751J3|
J uje	43	44	45
feert merit	4.727.99	4,965.26	5,212 85
Step 1	97,244.73	101,972,72	106.937,68
Step 3	101,972.72	106,937.98	112.150.83
Step 3	106,700,71	111,903.24	117,363.68
Step 4	111,428.70	116,868.50	123,576.53
Step 5	116,156 69	121,833.76	127,789.38
Step 6	120,884.58	126,799.02	133,002.33
Step 7	125,612.67	131,764.28	138,215.08
Step 8	130,340.65	136,729.54	143,427.93
StepS	135,063.65	U J,694-80	148,640.78
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective; July 1, 2000
10 Month Employees Effective: September lt 2000
Covering Employee Reiatiuof Groups: P * H » 9
Range	1	2	8	4	5	6
Tncrerttent	623.55	652.44	684.09	718.24	766.05	794,57
Step 1	15,167.76	15,791-31	16,443.76	17,127.84	17,846.08	18,601.13
Step 2	15,791.31	1BJ43.75	17,127.84	17,846.08	18,601.13	£9,395.70
Step J	16,414.86	17,096.19	17,811.93	18,564.32	19/156.18	20,190.27
Step 4	17,038-41	17,748.63	18,49*02	19,282.56	20,111.23	20,984.84
StepS	17/561.96	£8,401 07	19,180.11	20,000.80	20,866.38	21,779.41
Sup 6	18,285.51	19,053,51	19,864.20	20,719.04	21,621/33	32,673,98
Step 7	18,909.06	19,705.95	20,548.29	21,437.28	22,376.38	23,368.55
Step 8	19,632.61	20,358.39	21,233 3H	22,155.52	23,131.43	24.163.12
Step 9	W.lS&.ltt1	• 2i.blb.33	21316.43	22,873.76'	23,886.48	24,957.69
Range	7	8	9	10	11	12
Increment	834.01	87610	918.21	962.93	1,010.29	1,060.28
Step I	19,395.70	20,229.71	21,105.81	22,024.02	22,986.95	23,997.24
Step S	20,229.71	21,105.81	22,024.02	22,986.95	23397.34	25,057.52
Step 3	21,063.72	21.98191	22,945.23	23,949,88	25,007.53	26,117.80
Step 4	21,897 73	22,858.01	23,860.44	24,912.81	26,017.82	27,178.08
Step 5	22,731,74	23,734,11	24,778.65	25,875.74	27,028 ] J	28,238.36
Step 6	23,566.75	24,610.21	25,696-86	26,838.07	28,038.40	25,298.64
Step 7	34,399.76	25,486.31	26,615.07	27,801.60	28,048.69	30,358.92
Step 3	25,233.77	26^.41	27,533.28	28,764.53	30,058.98	31.419.20
Step .7	26,067.78	27,238.51	28,451-49	29,727.46	31,069.27	32,479.48
Range	13	t4	15	16	17	18
Tncnwnent	1,115.48	1,170.80	1/226-63	1.29 £.80	1,357.60	1,423.31
Step t	25,057.52	26,173.00	27,343.80	28,572.43	29,864.23	31/421.83
Step 2	20,173.00	27,343,30	28,572.43	29/164.23	31,221.83	32,645.14
Step .7	27,288.48	28,514.60	29,80106	31,156.03	32,579.43	34,068.45
Step 4	28,403.90	29,635.40	31,029-69	32,447.83	33,937.03	35,491.76
Step 5	29,519.44	30,856.20	32,256.32	33,739.63	35,294.63	36,915,07
Stef) 6	: Ki,634.92	32,027.00	33,486.95	35,031.43	36,652.23	38/338.38
Step?	3irmv.w	33,15*7.80	34.715.58	36,323.23	:w,v».83	W61.69
Step 8	32,865.88	34,368.60	35.944.21	37,615.03	39,367,43	41,185.00
Step 9	33,981.36	35,539.40	37,172.84	38,905.83	40,725.03	42,608.31
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective; Joly L 2000
10 Month Employees Effective: September 1, 2000
Covering Employee Relations Groups; P * R * S
Range	19	20	21	22	23	24
M creme ni	1,494.37	1,570.69	1,649.60	L73L17	1,817-97	1307.43
Step I	32,645.14	34,139.51	36,710.20	37,359.80	39,090.97	40,908.94
Step 5	34,139.51	35,710,20	37,359.80	29,090.97	40,908,94	4 2*616.37
Step 3	35,633.88	37,280.69	39,009.40	40,822.14	42,726.91	44,723.80
Step 4	37,128.25	38,851.58	4(J,S59.00	42,553.31	44,544.88	46,631.23
Steps	38,622.62	40,422.27	42,308.60	44,284.48	46,363,85	48,538,66
Step 6	40,110.99	41,992.96	43,958.20	46,015.65	48,180.82	50,440.09
Step 7	41,611.36	43,563.06	45,607.80	47,146 82	49,998.79	52,363.52
Step 8	43,105.73	45,134.34	47,267.40	49,477.99	51*816.76	54,260.95
Step 9	44,600.10	46,705.03	48,907.00	51,209.16	53,634.73	56,168.38
Range	25	26	27	28	29	30
/racrentent	2,004.77	2,104.77	2*209.98	2,320.51	2*436.23	2,557.30
Step 1	42,816.37	4432H4	46,925.91	49,135.89	51,456.40	53,892.63
Step 2	44,821.14	46,925.91	49,135.89	51,456.40	53,892.63	56,449.93
Step 3	46,825.91	49,030,68	51,345.87	53,776.91	56,328 86	59,007.23
Step 4	48330.68	51,135.45	63,555.85	56,097.42	58,765.09	61,564.53
Step 5	50335-45	53,240.22	55,765.83	58,417,93	61,201.32	64,121.83
Step 6	52*840.22	55,344,99	57,975.81	60,738.44	63,637.55	66,679.13
Step 7	54,844.99	57,449.76	60,195.79	63,058.95	66,073.78	69,2:10.43
Step 8	66,849.76	59,554.53	62,395.77	65,379.46	68,510.01	71,793.73
Step 9	58,854.53	61,659 30	64,605.75	67,699.97	70,946.24	74,351.03
Range	31	22	33	34	25	36
increment	2,686.18	2,820.38	2,959-82	3,109.79	3,262.36	3,425,51
Step i	56,449.93	59,136-11	61,956.49	64,916.31	68,026.10	71,288.46
Steps	59,136.11	01,958.49	64,916.31	68,026 10	71,288.46	74,713.97
Step 3	61.822.29	64,776.87	67,876,13	71,135.89	74,550.82	78,139.48
Step 4	54,608.4't	67,597.20	70,835-9!?	74,245.63	77,313.18	51,054.99
Step 6	67,194.65	70,417,63	73,795.77	77,355.47	81,075,54	84,990.50
Step 6	69,880.83	73,238.01	70,755.69	30,465.26	84,337.40	88,416.01
Step 7	72,567.01	76,058.89	79,715.41	83,575.05	87,600.26	91,841.52
Step 8	76,263.19	78,878.77	82,675-23	86,684.34	90,862.62	95,267-03
Step 9	77,939.37	81,699.15	86,035.05	89,794.63	94,1'24.98	38,092.54
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employee* Effective: July L 2000
10 Month Employees Effective: September 1,2000
Covering Employee Relations Groups? P ♦ R * S
Range	37	38	3»	40	41	42
fncrement	3,599.13	3,778.02	3,967.45	4,104,80	4,375-22	4,691.02
Sfep I	74,713.97	78,313-10	02,091.12	86,058.68	90.223.38	94,598.60
Step 2	76,313.10	82,091,12	86,058.58	90,223.38	94,598.60	99,189.62
Step 3	8L912J23	85,869.14	90,026.04	94,388.18	98,973.82	103,780,64
Step 4	85,511,36	89.647.16	93,993.50	98,662.98	103,349.04	108,371.66
StepS	69,110.49	93,425.18	97,96056	102,717.78	107,724.26	112,962.68
Step ff	92,709,62	97,203.20	101,928.42	106,88'2,58	113,099.4$	117,553.70
Step 7	96,308.75	100,981.22	105,895.88	111,047.38	116,474.70	122,144.72
Step 8	99,907.88	104,759.24	109,863.34	115,212.18	120,849.92	126,735.74
Step V	103,507.01	108,537.26	imyo.ao	119,376.98	125,225.14	131,328.76
Range	49	44	45
Incrwt&U	4,$22.55	5,084.57	5,317.11
Step J	99,189.62	104,012.17	109,076.74
Step 2	104,012.17	109,076 74	114,393^
Step 3	108,834.72	114,141.31	119,710.96
Step 4	113,657.27	119,205.88	125,028.07
Step 5	118,479.82	124,270.45	130,345.18
Step 6	123,302.37	129,335,02	135,662,29
Step 7	128,124.92	134,399.50	140,979.40
Step 8	132,947.47	139,464.16	146,206.51
Step &	137,770.02	144,528.73	151,613.62
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective: January lt 2001
10 Month Employees Effective: February f, 2001
Covering Employee Relations Groups: P * R * S
Range	1	2	3	4	5	6
Increment	632.73	662,03	6^1,15	728,81	766.14	806.26
Step 1	15,390,8]	16,023.54	16,685.57	17,379.72	18,108.53	18,874.67
Step 2	16,023.64	18,685.57	17,379.72	18,108,53	18374.67	19,680,93
Step 3	13,656,27	17,347.60	18,073.87	18,837.34	19,640.81	20,487.19
Step 4	17,289.00	18,009.63	18,768.02	19,566.15	20,406.95	21,293,45
Step 5	17,921.73	18,671.66	19,462.17	20,294.96	21,173.09	22,099.71
Step 6	18,554.46	19,333.69	20,156.32	21,023.77	21,939.23	22,905.97
Step 7	19,187.19	19,995.72	20,850.47	21,752,50	22,705.37	23,712.23
Step 8	19,819.92	20,667.75	21,544.62	22,481.39	23,471.51	24,518.49
Step ft	20,452.65	21,319.78	22,236.77	23,210.20	24,237.65	25,324.78
salary SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective: January 1, 2001
10 Month Employees Effective: February 1, 2001 Covering Employee Relations Groups: P ♦ R * 8
Range	19	20	21	22	23	34
fncremrnt	1,516.34	1,693.79	1,673.85	1,756.64	1,344.70	1,935.48
Step I	33,125.22	34,641.56	36,235.35	37,909.20	39,665.84	41,510.54
Step 2	34,641.56	36435.35	37,909.20	29,08534	41,510 54	43,446.02
Step J	36,157.90	37,829.14	39,583.05	41,422.40	43,255.24	45,381.50
Step 4	37,674.24	39,422.93	41,25640	43,179.12	45,199.94	47,316.98
Step 5	39,190.58	41,016.72	42,930.75	44,935.76	47,044.64	49,252.46
Step 6	40,706.92	42,610.51	44,604.60	46,692.40	48,889.34	51,187.94
Step 7	42,223.26	44,204.30	46,278.45	48,449.04	50,734.04	53,133.42
Step 8	43,739.60	45,798.09	47,952.30	50,205 68	52,578.74	55,058.90
Step 9	46,255.94	47,391.88	49,626.15	51,962.32	54,423.44	56,994.38
Range	7	8	9	10	£1	12
Increment	846.26	866.98	93L72	977.09	1,026.14	1,075.66
Step t	19,600.93	20,527.21	21,416,19	22347.91	23,325.00	24,350.14
Step 3	20,527.21	21,416.19	22347.91	23,325.00	24,350.14	25,426.02
Step 3	21,373.49	22,305,17	33,279.63	24,302.09	25,375,23	20,501.90
Step 4	22,21977	23,194.15	24,211,35	25,279,18	28,400.42	27,577.78
Step 5	23,066 05	24,083.13	25.143.07	26,256.27	27,425.56	28,653.66
Step 6	23,912.33	24,972.11	26,074.79	27,233,36	23,450.70	29,729.54
Step 7	24,758.61	25,861.09	27,006.51	28^10.45	29,475.64	30,805.42
Step 8	25,604.89	26,750.07	27,938.23	29,187,54	30,500.98	31381130
Step 9	26,451.17	27,639.05	28.869.95	30,164.63	31,526.12	32,957.18
Panj^p	25	26	27	28	29	30
Increment	2.034.25	2,136.72	2,242.49	2,354,63	2,472.06	2,50491
Step 1	43,446.02	45,480.27	47,615.99	49,858.48	62,213.11	54,685.17
Step 2	45,480.27	47,815.99	49358 48	52,213.11	54,685.17	67,280,08
Step 3	47,514.52	49,751.71	52,10097	54,567,74	57,167.23	59,874.99
Step 4	49,548.77	51,887.43	54,343.46	56,922.37	69,629.29	62,469.90
Step 5	51,583.02	54,023.1,5	56,585.95	59,277.00	62,101-35	05,064.81
Step 6	53,617.27	56,158.87	68,828.44	61,631.63	64,673.41	67,659 72
Step?	55,651.52	58,294.59	61,070.93	63,986.26	67,045.47	70,254.63
Step 8	57,685.77	60.430.31	63,313.42	66,340.89	69,617.53	72,849.54
Step9	59,720.02	62,566.03	65,555.91	63,695.52	71,989.59	76,444.45
Range	13	14	15	16	17	18
Jncremsnt	1,131.87	1,188.03	1,246.70	1,3111.79	1,377.67	1,444.24
Step J	25,426.02	26,557,89	27,745.92	28,992.62	30,303.41	31,680.98
StepS	26,567.89	27,746.92	28,992.62	30,303.41	31,680.98	33,125:22
Step 3	27,689.76	28,933.95	30,239.32	31,614.20	33,068.65	34,669.46
Step 4	28,821.™	3(1,121.98	,11,486.02	32,924.99	34,436.12	36,013.70
Step 5	29,953.50	31,310.01	32,732.72	34,235,70	35,813.09	,17,467 94
Step 6	31,085-37	32,498.04	33,079.42	35,646.67	37,191.26	33,902.18
Step 7	32,217.24	33,686.07	35,226.12	36,857.30	38^68.83	40,346.42
Step 8	33,349.11	34,874.10	3(3,472.82	38,168.16	39,946.40	41,790.66
Step 9	34,480.98	36,062.13	37,719.52	39,478.94	41,323.97	43,234.90
Range	31	32	03	34	35	86
Increment	2,725.68	2,861.86	3,003.34	3,155.52	3,3111.34	3,475.83
Step I	57,2811.118	80,005,76	62,867.02	65,870.96	69,026.48	72436.82
Step 2	60,005.76	62,867.62	66,870.96	69,026.48	72,336.82	75,312.70
Step 3	62,731,44	65,729.48	68,874.30	72,182.00	75,847.16	79,288.58
Step 4	06,457.12	68^91.34	71,877.64	75,337 52	78,957.50	82,764.46
Step 5	68,182-80	71,468. W	74,880.98		MZ,207.84	86,240.34
Step 8	70,908.48	74,316.06	77,884.32	81,648.56	85,578-18	09,716.22
Step 7	73,634.16	77,176.92	80,387.66	84^1)4.08	88,888.62	93.192.10
Step 8	76,369.84	80,038.78	83,891.00	87,959.60	92,198,86	96,667.93
Step 9	79,085-52	82,900.64	86,894.34	01,115.12	95,509.20	100,143.86
SAI ART SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective: January 1* 2001
10 Month Employees Effective: February 1,3001
Covering Employee Relations Groups: P * R* S
Rmige	a7	38	38	40	41	42
Increment	3^52.06	3.833.53	4,025-81	4,226.04	4,439-57	4,658-54
Step J	75,812,70	78,464.76	03,298.34	87,324.15	91,660.19	96,989.78
Step 2	79,464.76	83,298.34	87,324,15	91^50.19	95.989.76	J 00.648.30
Step 3	83,116.82	87.L31.92	91,349.96	96,776.23	100,429.33	105,206.84
Step 4	86,768.88	90,965,50	95,375.77	100,002.27	104,868.90	ioo^.js
Step 5	90,420.94	94,799.08	99.401.58	104,228.31	1011,308.47	I) 4,823.92
Step <5	94,073,00	98.632,66	103,427,39	108,454.36	113,748.04	119,282.46
iS’tep 7	97,726.06	102,466.24	107,463.20	112,680.39	118,187 61	123,941.00
Step 3	101,377.12	100,299.82	111,479.01	116506,43	122,627.18	128.5904
Step 9	105,0251,18	110,133.40	115,504.82	121,132.47	127,066,76	133,258.08
Range	43	44	45
Zncreratfnt	4,893.47	5,139,04	5,395.30
Seep 1	100,648.30	105.54L77	110,680.81
Step 2	105,541.77	1)0,680.81	116,076.11
Step 3	110.435,24	116,819.85	121,471,4)
Step 4	115,328.7)	120,958,89	126.866.71
Step 5	120,222,18	126.097.93	132,262 01
Step 6	125,115.65	131,236 97	137,657.31
Step 7	130,009.12	136,376,01	143,05261
Step 8	134,902.59	141,515.06	148,447.91
Step 9	139,796,06	146,654.09	153,843.21
SAEjUtY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective: July 1,2001
10 Month Employees Effective: ScpltHUbcr 1, 2W)1
Covering Employee Relations Groups P * It * S
Range	1	2	3	4	6	6
/iicremenl	E45.38	675.27	706.03	743.39	781,46	822.09
Step 1	15,699.63	16,344.01	17,019.26	17,727,31	16,470,70	19,252.16
Step 2	16,344,01	17,019.28	17.727.31	16,470.70	19,252.16	20,074.55
Step 3	16,989.39	17,6W.55	13,435.34	19,214,09	20,033.62	20,606.94
Step 4	17,634.77	18,309.62;	19.143.37	19,957.48	20,81508	21.719.33
Step 5	13,290.16	19,045.09	19,851.40	20,700.87	21,596.64	22,641.72
Step 6	13,925.53	19,720.36	20,559.43	21,444.26	23,378-00	23,364.11
Step 7	19,570-91	20,395.63	21.2W7.4tf	22,187.65	23,159.46	24.186.50
Step 5	20,216.29	21,070,90	21.975.49	22,931.04	23.940.92	26,008.89
StepS	20.361.67	21 74617	22,663.52	23,674.43	24,722.36	25,831.2H
Range	7	8	9	LO	11	12!
Increment	863.20	906.76	950.36	996.63	1,045.84	1,097.40
Step 1	20,074.66	20,937.75	21,844.51	22,794,87	23,791.50	24^37,14
Step 2	20,937.75	21,844,51	22.794.87	23.701^0	24337.14	25,9X4.54
Step 3	21,800.95	22,751.27	23,745.23	24,788.13	25,882.78	27,031.94
Step 4	22,064.15	S3.658.03	24,695.59	25,784.76	26,928.42	28,129.34
Step 5	23,527.35	24,664.79	25,046.95	26,781.39	27,974.08	29,226.74
Step 6	24,390.55	25,471.55	26.596.3!	27,778.02	29,019.70	30.324.14
Step 7	25,253.75	26,378.31	27,540.67	28,774.65	30,065.34	31,421.54
Step 8	26,UG.95	27,285,07	28,497.08	29,771.28	31,110.98	32,518.94
Step 9	20,980.15	28,191-83	29.447.39	30,767,91	32,156.Ei2	33,616-34
Range	13	14	15	18	17	18
increment	1,154.51	1,211.79	1,271.03	1,337.01	1,405.12	1,473.12
Step !	25.934.54	27,089.05	28.300.04	29,572.47	30,909.48	32,314.60
Step 2	27,089.05	28,3011.84	29,572.47	30,909.48	32,314.66	33,787,72
Step 3	28,243.56	29,512.63	30/144.10	32,248.49	33,719.72	35,2(50.84
Step 4	29,39807	30,724.42	32,115.73	33,583.50	35,L24.54	36,733.90
Step o	30,552.58	31.936,21	33,867,38	34,920.51	36,529.96	38,207.08
Step 6	31,707.09	33,148.00	34,858.99	36,257.52	37.935,08	39,680.2>0
Step 7	32,881.60	34,359.75!	35,930.02	37,591.53	39,340.20	41.153.02
Step 8	34,016.1J	36,571.58	37,202.25	38,931.54	40,745-32	42,626-44
Step 9 •	35,170.62	36,783.37	38,473.88	40,268.55	12,150.44	44,099.561
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective: July 1, 2001
10 Mb ath Employees: Effective: September 1, 2001
Covering: Rmplojree Relations Groups: P • E • 3
Range	id	20	21	32	23	24
Jncrtntent	1,546.67	1,625.67	1,707.32	1,701.78	1,881,59	1,974.19
Step 1	33,787.72	35,334,39	36,960.06	38,66738	40,459.16	42,340.75
Step S	35,334.38	36,960,06	28,667.38	40,469.16	42,340.75	44,314.94
Step 3	36,881.08	38,886.73	40,374.70	42^60.94	44,222.34	46,280.13
Step 4	38,4-27.73	40,311.40	42,082.02	44,042.72	46.108.98	48,263.32
Step 5	39.974,40	41,837.07	d3,789.34	45334.60	47,985.62	50,237.51
Step 6	41,521.07	43,462.74	46,496.66	47,626.28	49,867.11	52,211.70
Step 7	43,067.74	45,088.41	47,203.98	49,418.06	51,748-70	64,lA5u89
Step 8	44,814.41	46,714.08	48,911,30	61.209,81	53,630.29	56,160.08
Step 9	46.161.08	48,339.75	50,618.62	53,001.62	55,511^8	58,134.27
Ranifti	25	26	27	38	29	30
Znrrenw/U	2,074.94	2,178.43	2,287.34	2,401.72	2,521-50	2,046.81
Step 1	44,314,94	46,389.88	48,568.31	50,866.65	53,257.37	55,778.87
Step 2	4638988	48^68,31	50,855.65	63.257.37	55,778,87	56,425.68
Step 3	48,464.82	50,74674	53,142.99	55,659.09	58,360.37	61,072.49
Step 4	60,539.76	53,925.17	65,480.33	58,060.81	60,821-87	63,719.30
Step 5	52,614.70	55,103.60	57,717.67	60,482.53	63,343.37	68,366,11
Step fl	54,689.64	57,283-03	60,005-01	62,864.25	65,864.87	69,012.92
Step 7	58,764.58	59,460.46	62,202.35	65,266.97	68,386.37	71,659,73
Step 8	68,839.52	61,638.89	64,579,69	67,667,69	70,907.87	74,308.54
Step 0	60.9H-46	63,817.32	66,867.03	70,069.41	73,429.37	78,953.35
Range	31	32	33	34	35	36
Mcremenf	2,780.20	2,919.09	3,063.41	3,218.63	3,376-55	3,545.39
Step 7	68,425.68	61,205.88	64,124.97	67,186.38	70,407.01	73,7X3.56
Step 2	61,205-88	64,124.97	57,1X8-38	70,407.01	73,783.56	77,328.95
Step 3	63,986.08	67,044.06	70,251.79	73,625.64	77,160.11	80,874.34
Step d	0(1,766.28	#49,963! 5	73,315.20	76,844.27	80,536-616	84,419.73
Step S	69,546.48	72,832.24	76,378.61	80,062,90	83,913.21	87,965.12
Step 6	72,326-08	75,801.33	79,442.02	83,281.53	87,289.76	91,510.51
Step 7	75,106.88	78,720.42	KL505.43	86.500.16	90,666.31	95,055.90
Step 8	77,887.08	81,639.51	85,569.84	89,718.79	94,042.86	98,601,20
Step 9	80,667.28	84,558.60	88,632.25	92,937.42	97,419.41	102,146 68
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Mouth Employees Effective: July ], 3001
10 Mod th Employees Effective: September 1> 2001
Covering Employee RelutioiiS Groups: P ' R ‘ S
Range	37	98	39	40	41	42
Increment	3,726.11	3,91.0.25	4,106.32	4,310.56	4,528.37	4,751.71
Step 1	77,328.95	81.054.06	84.964.31	89,070.63	93,381.19	97.909.58
Step 2	81,064.08	84,964.31	89,070.63	93381.19	97,90958	102^61.27
Step 3	84.779.17	88,874.66	93,176.95	97,691.75	102,437.93	107,412.95
Step 4	88,504.28	92.784.8J	97.283.27	102,002.31	106,966.30	112,164.69
Step 6	92,229.39	96.696.06	101,389.59	106,312.87	111,494.67	116,916.40
Step 6	95,954-50	100,605.31	105495,91	110,623.43	116/J23-O4	121,668.11
Step 7	99,679-81	104.615.56	109.602.23	114,933.99	120,551.41	126,419.82
Step 8	103,404.72	108,425.81	118,708.56	119.244,55	126,079.78	131,171.53
Step 9	107,129.83	112.336,06	117,814.87	12:4,556.11	129,608.15	136.923.24
Range	43	44	45
Increment	4^91.34	5,241.82	5,503-20
Step J	102,661.27	107,652.61	112,894.43
Step 2	107,652.61	112,894,43	116,397,63
Step 3	1J2,843.95	IJK,13625	123,900.83
Step 4	U7T635.29	123,378.07	129.404.03
Step 5	122,626.63	128,619.89	134,907.23
Step tf	127,617.97	1.73^61.71	140,410.43
Step 7	132,609.31	139,103.53	145,913 63
Step 8	137,680.65	144,346.35	151,416.83
Ste p 9	142,591.99	149,587.17	166,920.03
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Motich Employees Effective; January 1, 3002
IO Month Employees Effective; February 1, 2002
Covering Employed Relations Groups: P ‘ R< 8
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective: January 1,2002
LO Month Employees Effective February L, 2002
Covering Employee Relations Groups: P * R * S
Radge	1	2	3	4	5	6
Zncremwit	808.04	688.51	721.92	757.96	796,79	338.51
Step 1	16'006.44	16,664,48	17,352,99	18,074.91	18,83287	19,629.66
Step 2	16,664,48	17,362.99	18,074.91	18,832.87	10,629.66	20,468-17
Step 3	17/322,52	18,041,50	18,796,83	19,590.83	20,426.45	21,306-68
Step 4	17,080,56	16,73071	19/518.75	20,346,7S	21,223.24	22,145,19
Step S	18,638.60	19,418.52	20,340 67	21,103.75	22,020.03	22,903.70
Step 6	19,296.64	20,107-03	20,962.59	21,864-71	22,616.82	23,822-21
Step 7	19,954.68	20,795.54	21,684.51	22,622.67	23,613.61	24,660.72
Step 8	20,612.72	21,484.05	22,406.43	23,380,63	24,410.40	25,499.23
Step 9	21,27076	22,172.56	23,128.35	24,138.59	25,207.19	28,337-74
Range	19	20	34	ass	23	24
Jncrepient	1,576.99	L 657.54	1,740.81	1/126.90	1,918.49	2,012.90
Step J	34,450.23	36,027.22	37,664.76	39,425.07	41,252.47	43-170,90
Step 2	30,027/22	37,684,76	39,425.57	41,252.47	43,170.90	45,183.80
Step 8	37.6M21	39,342.30	41,166.38	43,079/17	45,089.45	47,196.76
Step 4	39,18120	40,999-84	42,907.19	44,906.27	47,007 94	49,209.60
Step 5	40,768.19	4'4667.38	44,048,90	46,733.17	48,926,43	51,222.56
Step 8	42.335.18	44'314.92	46,3501	48-560.07	50,34492	53,235.48
Step 7	43,912.17	45,972.46	48,129.62	60/186.97	52,763.41	66,248/36
Step 8	45,489,16	47,630.00	49,370.43	52,218/17	54,681 90	57,261.26
Step 9 _	47,060.15	49,287.54	51,611.24	54.040.77	56,600.39	59,274.10
Range	7	8	9	10	11	12
Increment	880.13	924.54	968,99	1,016-17	1,066.15	1,118.91
Step i	20,468.17	21,348.30	22,272.84	23,241 83	24,258.0(1	25,324.15
Step 2	21 <348.30	22,272,84	23,241,83	24,253.00	20-324.15	26,443.06
Step 3	22,228.43	23'197.38	24,2102	25,274.17	26,390,30	27,561.97
Step 4	23,108.56	24,121.92	25,179.81	26,290,34	27,456,45	28,680.88
Step 5	23,988.69	25,046.46	26,148.80	27,306-51	28,522.60	29,799,79
Step 6	2-1,868,82	25,971-00	27.117.79	28,322.68	29,588.75	30,918.70
Step 7	25.748.95	26,896.54	28,086.78	29,.730.35	30,654.90	32,037.61
Step 9	26,629.08	27,820-08	29,055,77	:10,3W5.02	31,721.05	33,156.62
Step 9	27.509.21	28,74462	30,024.76	31,371,19	32.787.20	34,276.43
Range	25	26	27	28	29	SO
M-c rente nl	2,115.62	2,221.15	2,m in	2,448.81	2,070.95	2,698.70
Step J	45,188.86	47,299.48	49,520.68	5L862,S2	54'3»1.63	66,872.58
Step 2	47-299.48	49,530-63	5L852.82	£4,301.63	66,872.58	59,571,20
Step ,5	49,41510	61,741.78	54,186.01	56,760.44	59,443-63	62,209'98
Step 4	51,530.72	53,962.93	50'517.20	59,199 25	02,014.48	64,968,68
Step 5	53,646.34	56,184.08	58'849.39	61,640.06	64,585.43	67'667.38
Step 6	55,7dl.9a1	58,405.23	61-181.58	64,006.87	67,350.38	70,366,08
Step 7	57,077.58	60,626.38	63,513.77	66,543.68	69,727.38	73,004'78
Step 8	59,993.20	62-847.63	65,845.96	68'994.49	72,298.28	75,763.48
Step 9	62,108.82	65,068.68	68,178.15	7lT443-30	74,069.23	78,462.18
Range	IS	14	15	18	17	18
Increment	1,177.J5	1,235.55	1,296.56	1,363.23	1,432.67	1,602-01
Step 1	26,443,06	27.62021	28,855.76	30,152.32	31,615.66	32,948.22
Step 2	27,630.21	28,855.76	30,152.32	31,515.55	32,948.22	34.4J5O.23
Step	28,797.36	30,091.31	31,448.88	32,878.78	34/180,89	35,952,24
Step 4	29,974-51	Ul.326.86	32.745.44	34,242.01	35,813.56	37,4x54:25
Step 5	31,151.66	32,582.41	34,042.00	35,605.24	37,246.23	3tf,S56-!te5
Step 5	32,320.81	33,797.96	35,336.66	36,968.47	38,678.90	40,456.27
Step "	33.565.96	35,0,73.61	36,035.12	38,331.70	40,111.57	41,960-28
Step 8	34.683.11	36,269.00	37,931.68	39,6EJ4.93	41,544.24	43,46^29
Step 9	35,060.26	37,604,61	39,228.24	41,058.10	42,976-91	44,964.30
Range	31	32	Rj	84	35	36
increment	2,834.71	2,976.33	3,123.40	3,281-74	3,4'12.75	3,614.02
Step 1	59,571.28	62,405,99	65,382.32	68'505.80	71,787.54	75,230 29
Step 2	02,405.90	65,882.32	68,505.80	71,787.54	75,230.29	78.845.21
Step 3	65,240.70	6 8,368,65	71,629.28	75,069.28	78,673.04	82,460.1:1
Step 4	68,075.41	71.334.93	74,752.76	78,35102	82,115.79	86,075-05
Step 5	70,910 (2	74,311.31	77,876.24	81,632.70	8n,558.B4	89,689.97
Step 6	73-744.83	77,287-64	80,999.72	84'914.50	89,1)0L2l>	9:j,304.89
Step 7	76,57'J.54	80,363.97	84,123.20	88,196.24	92,444.04	96,919.01
Step 8	79,414.25	63,240,30	87,246.68	91,477.98	95,886.70	100,534 73
Step it	02,248.90	86,210.63	90,370.16	9-1,759.72	99,329.54	104,149.65
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective: January 1, 2002
10 Month Employees Effective: February 1, 2002
Covering Employee Relations Groups: P * R »S
Rango	37	88	39	40	41	42
Increment	3,798,14	3,086.92	4,186.85	4,396.08	4,617,15	4,844.88
Step 1	78,045,21	82,643-35	86,630,27	90,817.12	95,212.20	99,829.35
Step 2	82,643 .06	86,630.27	90,817.12	96,212.20	99,82946	104,674.23
Step 2	86,443-49	90,617.19	05,003.97	99,607.28	104,446.50	109,519.11
Step 4	90,239.63	94,604,11	99,190.82	104,002.36	109,063.66	114,363-99
Step <5	94,037-77	98.59L03	103,377.67	108,397.44	110,680.80	119,208.87
Step 6	97,835.91	102,577.96	107,564.52	112,792.52	118,297.95	124,053-75
Step 7	101,634.05	UM!, 564.87	111,75147	117,187,60	122,915.10	128,898.63
Step 8	1,05,402.19	110,551.79	115,938.22	121,582.68	127^532.25	133,743.51
Slept/	109,230,33	114,638.71	120,125.07	125,977.76	132,149.40	138,588.39
Range	43	44	45			
Increment	5,089-21	5,344,60	5,611_11
Step I	104,674-23	109,703,44	115,108.04
Step 2	109,763.44	115,108.04	120,739-15
Step 3	114,852.65	120,452.64	125,030.26
Step 4	119,941.86	125,797.24	131,941.37
Step 5	125,031.07	131,141.64	137J552.48
Step a	130,120.28	136,486.44	143,163.59
Step 7	135,209,49	141,831.04	148,774.70
StepS	140,298-70	L47,175.64	154,385.81
Step 9	145,387.91	152,520.24	159,996.93
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Mun 111 Employees Effective: July 1,2002
10 Month Employees Effective: September 1,2002
Covering Employ w Rcliitwris Groups: P * R ’ S
Range	1	2	3	4	6	6
Inure rrtent	671.20	702,28	736.36	773.12	812.72	855.28
±Step 1	16,320.57	16X97.77	17,700.06	18,436.41	19,209.53	20,022.25
Step i?	16,997.77	17.7U0.IJ5	18,436.41	19,209.53	20.022.25	20,877X3
Step 3	17,668.97	18,402.33	19,172.77	19,982.65	20,334.97	21,732.81
Step 4	18,340.17	19,104.61	19,909.13	20.755.77	21,647.69	22,588.09
Step 5	19.011X7	19,806,89	20,645.4'3	21,52839	22,460.41	23,443.37
Step	19,682-57	20,509.17	21,361.85	22,302.01	23X73.13	24,298.65
Step 7	20X63.77	21.21 ],45	22,113.21	23,075.13	24.085.85	25,153.93
Step 8	• 21,024.97	21,913.73	22,654.57	23,846.25	24,398.57	26,009.21
Step 9	2U5EH5.17	22,616.01	23,590.93	24,621.37	25,711.29	26.864.49
Range	7	8	9	10	11	12
Increment	697.74	943.03	988.37	1,036.49	1,087.47	1,141.29
Step I	20,877.53	21,775X7	22,718.30	23,706.67	24,743.16	25X36-63
Step 2	21,775.27	22,71830	23,706.67	24,743.16	25,830.63	26X71.92
Step 3	22,673.01	23,661.33	24,695.04	25,779,65	28,918.10	28,113 21
Step 4	23,570.75	24,604.36	25,683,41	2G,81G.I4	28,005.57	29,264.50
Step 5	24,468-49	25,547.39	26,671.78	27X52.63	28,093X4	30,395-79
Step 6	25,366.23	26,490.42	27,660 15	2B,8«9.12	30,180.51	31X37.08
Step 7	26,263.97	27,433.45	28,648,52	29,925.61	31,267.98	32,678-37
Step S	27,161.71	28,376.48	28,636.89	30,962.10	32,355.45	33X19.66
Step 9	28,059.45	29,319.51	30.625.26	31,998.69	33,442.92	34,960.95
Range	L3	14	IS	16	17	18
Increment	1.200-121	1,260.27	1,322.49	1X90.49	1,461.32	1,532.05
Step 1	26,971.92	28,172X1	29,432,88	30,755.37	32,145.86	38,607.18
Step 2	28.172,61	29,432.88	30,755.37	32,145.86	33,607.18	35,139.28
fltap 2	29,3 7.1.10	30.693.15	32,077.86	38,538X6	35.068.50	36,671.28
Step 4		31,953.42	33,400.35	34,926.84	36,529.82	38,203.33
Step 5	31,774.68	33X13-69	34,722.34	36,317,33	37,991.14	39,735.38
Step 6	32,975.37	34,473.96	33,046.83	37,707.82	39,452.46	41,267.43
Step 7	34,176.06	35,734.23	37,367.82	39,098.31	40,913.78	42,799,48
Step ft	35,376.75	:i6,994.50	38,690.31	40,488.80	43X75-10	44X31-53
Step 9	36,577.44	38,254.77	40,012-80	41.679,29	43X36.42	45X63X8
SAlJtftY SCHEDULE
L2 Month Employees Effectives July 1» 2U02
10 Mauth Employees Effective: September J, 2002
Covering Employee Relations Groups: P ♦ K ’ S
Range	19	2»	21	22	23	24
Ittcrwnmf	1,608.53	1,690.70	1,775.62	1,863.44	1,966.86	2.053.16
Step I	35,139,23	36,747.76	38,438.46	40,214.08	42.077.52	44,034.38
Steff s	30,747.76	98,438.46	40,214.08	42.077.52	44.034,38	46,087.54
Step 3	38^56.39	40,129.16	41,969-70	43.940.96	45,991.24	48,140.70
Step 4	39,964.82	41,81936	4j, 765.32	45,804.40	47,94810	50493.86
Step 5	41,573.35	43,510.56	45.540.94	47,667.84	49,904.96	52,247.02
Step 6	43,18138	45,201,26	47,316.56	49,531.28	61,861.82	54.300.10
Step?	44,790.41	46,891.96	49.092.18	51,394,72	53,818.68	56,353.34
Step#	46,398.94	48,582.60	50,867.80	53,258.16	55,775.54	58,406.50
StepS		48,007-47	50,279.36	52,643.42	65,121.60	57,732.40	60,459.66
Range	26	26	27	28	39	80
increment	2,157.93	2,266 57	2376.84	2,497.78	2,622-37	2,752.63
Step 7	46,007.54	48,245.47	50,511.04	52.889.88	55,387.66	59,010.03
steps	48,245.47	50,511.04	52,88938	55,397.66	58,010.03	60,76271
Step 3	50,403.40	52,776.61	55,268.72	57,885.44	60,632.40	63,515.39
Step 4	52,661.33	55,042.18	57,647.56	60,383.22	63,254.77	60^6807
SteP s	54,719.26	67,307.75	60,026-40	62,881.00	66,877.14	69,020.75
StepG	5(5,877.19	59,673.32	62,405.24	65,378.78	68,499.51	71,773-43
Step?	59.035.12	ei.W8.89	64,784-08	67,870 66	71J21.8B	74,526.1)
Step 8	61,193.05	64,104.46	67,162.92	70,374.34	73,744.25	77,278,79
Step 0	63,35098	66.370.03	69,541-76	72,872.12	76,360-62	80,031.47
Range	21	32	33	34	35	36
increment	2/S91.40	3,035.86	3,186.95	3,347.37	3,511.61	3,687.21
Step J	60,762.71	63,654,11	66,689.97	69,875,92	73,223-29	76,734.90
StepS	63,654-11	66,689.97	69,875.92	73.723.29	76,734.90	80,422.11
Step 3	66,545.51	59,72533	73,061.87	7(5,670,66	60,246.51	84,109.32
Step <t	69T436.91	72,761.69	76^47.82	79^1^.08	83.75S.12	87.796.53
Step 5	72,328.31	75,797.55	79,439-77	83,265.40	87,269.73	91,483.74
Step 6	75,21971	78,833.41	82,619.72	86,612.77	90,781:14	95,170.95
Step 7	7«T111.11	61,869,27	85,805.67	89,960-14	94,292.95	93,858.16
Step 8	81,002.61	84,905.13	88,991.62	93,307.51.	97,804.56	102,543.37
Step 9	83,893 .Ml	87,940.99	92,177.57	96,654.88	101,316.17	106,232.58
SALARYSCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective: July 1,2002
10 Month Employees Effectives September lt 2002
Covering Employee Relations Croupe: P 1 B* S
Range	37	8B	39	40	41	42
ZncreiTMJ-iJ	3,874.11	4.066.66	4,270.56	4,482.98	4,709.50	4341.77
Step 1	80,422.11	84,396,22	88,362.88	92,633.46	97.lJfi.44	101,825.94
8tep2	84,296.22	88,362.88	92,633.46	97,116.44	101,825,94	106,787.71
Step 3	99,170,33	93,429.64	96,904.04	101.589.42	106,535.44	111.709.48
Step 4	92,044.44	96.496-20	101,174.62	108.082.40	111,244.94	116,661,25
Step 5	95,918.65	100,662,86	106.445-20	110,566.38	115,954.44	121,693.02
Step 6	99,792.86	104,629.52	109,715.78	116.048.38	120,663.94	126,534.79
Step 7	103,686.77	108.696.18	113,986.36	119,631.34	125.373.44	131,476.56
Step 8	107,540.88	112,762.84	118,256.94	124,014.32	130,082.94	136,418.33
Step y	111, 414.99	116,829.50	122.527.62	128,497.30	134,792.44	141.360,10
Range	43	44	45
Zruirtrment	5,191.W	5,451.49	5,723.33
Step 1	106,767.71	111,968.71	117,410.30
Step 2	111,958.71	117,410.20	123,133-53
Step 3	117,149.71	122,861-69	128,866.86
Step 4	122,340-71	128,313.18	134.58019
Step 5	127,531.71	133,764.67	140,803.63
Step 6	132,722.71	139,216.16	146,02685
.Step 7	137,913.7]	144,667.66	151,750.18
Step 3	143.104.71	150,119.14	157,473.55
Step 9	148,295.71	155,670.63	163,196^4
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective: January 1,2003
10 Month Employees Effective: February I* 2003
Covering Employee Relations Groups: P ♦ ft 1 S
Range	i	2	3	4	5	«
Increment	687.65	719.49	754.41	792,07	832.64	876.25
Step 1	16,726.73	17,41438	18,133.87	10388.28	19,680.36	20,51299
Step 2	17,414.30	10,13337	18,888.28	19,600.35	20,51299	21,389.24
Step 3	18,102-03	18,853.36	19,642.69	20,472.42	21,345.63	22,265.49
Step 4	18,709.68	19,572.85	20,397.10	21,264.49	22,178 27	23,141.74
Step 5	19,477.33	20.29234	21,161.51	22,056,58	23,010.91	24,0)7.99
Step 6	20.164.98	21,011.83	21.905.92	22348.63	23,843,55	24,894.24
Step 7	20,852.63	21.731-32	22.6W.33	23,640.70	24,676.19	25,770-49
Step 3	21,540,2ft	22J5OJ	23,41474	24,432.7?	25,500.83	26,646.74
Step 9	23.227.93	23,170.30	24,169.15	25,224.84	26,341-47	27,522.99
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective: January 1,2003
10 Month Employees Effective; February L 3<HJ3 Covering Employee Relations Group® P * R * S
Range	19	20	21	22	23	24
Increment	1,647.95	1,732.13	1,819.15	1,909,11	2,004,82	2,103.40
Step J	36,000.49	37,648,44	39,380.57	41,199.72	43,100.83	45,113,65
Step 2	37,646-44	39,380.57	41,199.72	43.103.83	45,113.65	47,217.13
Step 3	39,296.39	41,112.70	43,018.87	45,017.94	47,118.47	49,320.61
Step 4	40,944 34	42,844.83	44,888.02	46,9?7.O5	49,123 29	31,424.09
Step 5	42,592 29	44,576.96	46,657.17	48,836.16	51,128.11	53,527.57
Step 6	14,240.24	46,309.09	48,476.32	50,745.27	63,132.03	66,631.06
Step 7	45,888.19	48,041.22	50,295.47	52,654.38	55,137 75	57,734.63
Step 8	47.fi36.14	49,773.35	52,114.62	54,663.49	57,142.57	59,838.01
Step 9	49,134.09	51,305.48	53,933 77	56,472.60	50,147.39	61,941.49
Range	7	8	9	10	1»	12
fncrernent	919.73	966.16	1,(112.59	1,061.90	],114.13	1,169.26
Step i	21,389.24	22,308.97	23,276.12	24,267-71	25^49.01	26,463.74
Step 2	22,308.97	23,276.12	24,387.71	25,349.61	26,463.74	27,633.00
S tep 3	38,228.70	24,241,27	25,300 30	26.411 51	27,577.87	28,002.26
Step 1	24,148,43	25,207.42	26,312.89	27,473.41	28,692.00	29.97152
Step 5	25,068.16	26,173.57	27325.48	28,535.31	20,806.13	31,140.70
Step ti	25,987-09	27,109.72	28,338.07	39,597.21	30,920.26	32,310.04
Step 7	26,007.62	28,105-87	29,350.66	30,659.11	32,034 39	33,479.30
Step 3	27,827,35	29,072.02	30,363-25	31,721.01	33,148.52	34,648.66
Step 9	28.717.08	30,038.17	31,375.84	32,782.91	34,262.85	35,817.82
Range	25	26	±7	28	29	30
Ifterenurrtl	2,210-83	2,321.10	2,437.14	2J159.00	2.686.65	3,820.14
Step J	47,217.13	49,427,516	51,749.06	54,186.20	56,745.20	59,431.85
Step 2	49,427.96	51,74906	54,136.20	56,745.20	59,43L05	62,251.99
Step 3	51,638.79	54,070.16	E6,623JJ4	59,304.20	62,11850	65472.13
Step 4	53,840-62	56,391.26	59,060.48	61,368.20	61,805.15	67,892.27
Step 5	56,060.45	58,712.36	61,497.62	64,422.20	67,491.80	70,712.41
Step 6	50.271.20	61,033,46	63,934.76	66.081.20	70,178.45	73,532.55
Step 7	60,482.11	60,354.56	06,371.90	69,640.20	72,065.10	76,352-69
Step 8	62,692.94	6fi,675,H6	68,809.04	72,090.20	75,661,75	79,172.88
Step JI	64,903.77	67,996.76	71,246.78	74,658.20	78,238.40	81,992-97
Ranga	13	14	15	16	17	16
Jnerement	1,230.12	1,291-15	1,354.90	1,424.58	1,497.14	1,569.60
Step 1	27,633.00	28,063.12	30,154,27	3),509.17	32,933.75	84,430.89
Step 2	28.863.13	30,154.27	31,508.17	32,933.75	34,430.89	36,000.49
Step 3	39,033.24	31,445.42	02,064.07	34, .750.33	38, 920.03	37,57009
Step 4	31,323.36	32,736.67	34,218.97	35,782.91	37,425.17	39.139,69
Step 5	32,553,48	34,027 72	36,573-87	37,207,49	38,y22.31	40,700.29
Step 6	33,703.60	35,318.67	36,920 77	38,632.07	40,419.45	42,278.89
Step 7	35,013.72	36,610.02	38,283.67	40,056.65	41,916.50	43,848.49
Step 3	38,243 84	37,901.17	39,638.57	41.4S123	43,413.73	45,418.09
Step 9	37,173.96	39.192.32	40,093.47	42,905.8J	44,910147	46,987 09
Range	31	32		34	35	36
Ipcremeni	2,962.27	3,110.26	3,264.04	3,429.42	3,597.67	3,777.69
Step 1	62,251.99	65,214.26	68.824.52	71,588-56	75,017.90	78,815.65
Step 2	65,3)4.96	83,324.52	71,388.56	75,017.98	70,63 5.65	02,393-24
Step 3	68,176.53	71,434.78	74,652.80	78,447.40	82,213.32	86,170.83
.S’fep 4	71.138.80	74.545.04	78,118.64	01,876.82	86,810.99	89,948-42
Step 5	74,101.07	77,655.30	81480.6H	W!>^06.24	69,406.00	08.7Ufi.OJ
Step a	77,063.34	80,765.56	04,644.72	88,735.66	93,006.33	97,603-60
Step 7	00,025.61	H3.875.fl2	87,908.70	92,165.08	96.W4.00	101,281.19
Step ti	82,987.88	86,986.08	9L172.80	95.5JM.fiO	100,201.67	105,058.70
Step 9	85,950.15	90,096.34	94,436.84	99,023.92	103,799 34	108,036.37
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employee? Effective: January 1,2003
10 Month Employees Effective: February L 2008
Covering Employee Relation-? Groups: P * R * S
Range	37	88	39	40	41	42
ihcrtment	3,969,06	4,16633	4,375.26	4,592.86	4,824.92	5,062.90
Step 1	82,393.24	86,862-30	90,523,63	94,903.89	99,496.75	104,221.67
Step 2	86,362.30	90,528.63	94,903.39	99,496.75	104,321,67	109,384.57
Step 3	90,331.36	94,694.96	99,279.16	104,069 61	109,146.59	114.447.47
Step 4	W,300.42	96,861.29	103,854.41	108,682.47	113,971-51	119,510.37
Step 5	98,269.48	103,027.62	108,029.67	113,275.33	118,796.43	124,573.27
Step 6	102,238.64	107,193.95	112.404.93	117,868.19	123,621.35	129,636.17
Step 7	106,207.60	111,300.28	116,760,19	122,461.05	128,446.27	134,699.07
Step 8	110,176,66	115,526.61	121,156.45	127,063.91	133,271.19	139,761.97
Step 9	114,146.73	119,692.94	126,530.71	131,646-77	138,096.11	144,824.87
Range	43	44	45
ZncrmiMt	5,318.22	5,585.11	6,863,61
Step 1	109,384.57	114,702.79	120,287.90
Step 2	114,702-79	129,287.90	128,151.51
Step 3	120,021.01	126,873.01	132,015 12
Step 4	125,339.23	13J.45S.12	137,878.73
StepS	130,867.43	137,043,23	143.742.34
Step 6	135.97567	142,028.34	149,805,95
Step 7	141,293.89	148,213.45	155,409-56
Step 8	146,612.11	153,798.56	161,333.17
Step 9	151,930 33	159,383.67	167,196.78
CWA Local JurisdieEbciu
Local 1031
Jurisdiction:
unices
Phene:
Fis:
Preside lit:
Leital mi
Jurisdiction:
Stile tlullcgc S/Etem. Office.iri'Sludcut Axirtamx, CotTWliESion nm Eli^ict Rducalsun
H4 Gul r er .Road
MunaiOlitb Junction, NJ 1SS852
1W8-214-2I7I
908-274-9154
Rem Palanxi
office:
Pbwcs fax;
PrCjiricBl:
LwLllM3 Ju rindiclMH:
DgrarlaicUt af TamscvttsAitr (except OMV), New Jersey Public Elruadcasting
AulJnsnly, O.T.IS
901) Brunswick Avenue
Tnsilun, NJ OB638
6CJ MS9-81OO
6fl 9-9X9-95)0
Jim Marfcefti
Office:
Phurie:
Fbi: Presided!:
LucaL1034 Jurisdiction:
in dicCfflinty nl' Merten Ihd fullowing tAC-cutive Brunrh Department;: BanLdag -dJtd JriSUTSflM^ Educalirm, MiliLky & Veterans Affairs, Office nJ Ute Public Dufcudw, Sente, Tresisusy (except 0. i'.E.S. ), LflWifc Public Safalv.'I ran^urUtioii (DMV) 321 West Strte Street Trenton, NJ 11X613 «l 9-394.7723 t<l!?-.393.7111 RneRnedcr
Office:
Pbr»tie:
F*c-
E-miil:
Web Page:
President:
Ixicil 1037:
Jerkdictlon:
In the Cuuzily of Mercer. the fhl lowing Dartartirscnts: Agcrtillhire, Cppimerce •CncnmisMcei. brivironmeotsl Protaditin, Health, EjtIhjc (kic J.awcrFciry Road
West LrCinoiL, DJJ 0EW2B
609-53(1-01)60 fiiW-alft-nrilR CWAI W4y§i»l.ccim WWW.cwalO34.nrjj Carla Katz
Wuj kci e in the New Jersey Water Supply Aullacrity, Ptdisndes Interstate Part COiOlhiESioo. nnrl State wxirkcrs in die Counties of Jlergm, LsScx, HUilEOn. Miirris. Pascal..-, Sussex, Union and Warren; in lhe CuuuliCi of HlHltCtdon, Mirtdteex, MfianiOildi, Ocean and SomersE.. jurisdiction includes nil Depurtmerrtseacfipl t luiciao Services, Cnerdioru sill
Lotti IGlTcnciiaaed. ..._
CuiOiOUriLty Affairs. Alm ndailed id aU Cmutiea aoe nil woetem in Elio CoaidUEdlon cm Higher Eduralicm nnd TranipurtaliOIL (excdfit DMV) and fatitulicinal wurtCrS in die Deportment! orCuTToeliOdiSarid Hvcnnn ServicBis.
Office:	WCIinLw SrrtCl
Newark, NJ 07102
Piton;	973-623'1X28
Fai:	973-623-3777
E-nwil:	lufb^cwaUjj^xtcg.
PrsEldeit:	Mike llufikins
Local 1638
Jtirisdktitrfi; Siute workers in the Gnemxio; of Atlantic, Birr ling buri, Camderi-Caj*: May.Ciirittieriond, Cifciuecrtei ind Salem. Junsdicruldtiwlades IndiliJlicnal workem in Liu.-Departments of CeureuUOns and Ullman SCficcs, and emplciyecs riribc C'oimitssion on Higher LdluHitiwi and Trart^mrUfliojl (except DMV)
Office:	451 N. Glassboro Road
Wciixlbirfy Heights, NJ JW5D97
Plrtfie:	R56-K33-1500
fax:	356-15)4932
Pre Sclent l^aui AJexsncEer
Umi 3039
JurisdictitMi; 1/1 lite ■Co’inliES of McrcCi, Hunterdon. Somerset, Middlesex, Muiumki Ji and Ocean, Non-insfilirltonal umpluyueS Jib the Departments of Community Afians, Stale, Parole Board, nml Humjci Services(Luditduig DOD. in Northern B^irtingUai Cuuiily). Ill the County of Mricer, Department of LkrStiuucI HRD1
Office;	123 Frat Llano ver Street
Trenton. NJ nxwj®
Ptuinr;	609-394.9151
Fu:	IMH494-94U
President: Jtryce Catrdi
Lwal IMO
Jurisdireion: Institutional workers in the Depnrtmoib; i»r Cwnuctoorts, Military aid Vecemns Affitirx, Juvenile Justice Comoussiott, and Human Serviuti (siaicwiiJc). Ln the County of Mercer. Nmt-imiituiiotial woikers in Conections> Dcprwtmeniur CunvciknisCciJtraj Office, Deportment of PersiaiimL HRD! (statewide) creep! Trenlnrt.
Office	23<JParkwtiy Avemie
Trenton. S'JffiWTS
Phuoe;	<fl?-53R-SfW9
F«:	tWS-'nfl-K&iX
President: CornlynCl. Wade