nn
K*’.
THE STATE UNIVERSITY
OF NEW JERSEY
and
AFSCME
LOCAL
AFL-CIO MUNICIPAL
AGREEMENT BETWEEN
Rutgers
1761
July 1,2007-June 30, 2011
AGREEMENT
This Agreement, made and entered into the 18th day of Januaiy, 2008, by and between RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSE Y OF NEW JERSEY (hereinafter called "Rutgers") and Hie AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE, COUNTY, AND MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES, AFL-CIO; Council 52; and its affiliate LOCAL UNION No. 1761 (hereinafter called he "Union").
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE 1	- PURPOSE...........................................I
ARTICLE 2	- RECOGNITION.......................................1
ARTICLE 3	- UNION SECURITY....................................2
ARTICLE 4	- UNION REPRESENTATIVES.............................3
ARTICLE 5	- NONDISCRIMINATION.................................4
ARTICLE 6	- RULES AND REGULATION..............................4
ARTICLE 7	- LABOR/MANAGEMENT CONFERENCES......................4
ARTICLE 8	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE...............................4
ARTICLE 9	- SENIORITY AND LAYOFF..............................8
ARTICLE 10	- VACATION ELIGIBILITY AND ALLOWANCE..............11
ARTICLE 11	- HOLIDAYS........................................13
ARTICLE 12	- REST PERIODS....................................13
ARTICLE 13	- SICK LEAVE......................................14
ARTICLE 14	- BEREAVEMENT LEAVE...............................15
ARTICLE 15	- PREGNANCY/CHILDBIRTH, ADOPTION, CHILE CARE LEAVE.15
ARTICLE 16	- MILITARY LEAVE..................................16
i
ARTICLE 17 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY...................17
ARTICLE 18	- JURY DUTY......................................17
ARTICLE 19	- ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE...........................18
ARTICLE 20	- SALARY..........................................18
ARTICLE 21	- BIWEEKLY PAY....................................21
ARTICLE 22	- ANNIVERSARY DATES..............................21
ARTICLE 23	- PROMOTION COMPENSATION.........................21
ARTICLE 24	- ACTING CAPACITY.................................21
ARTICLE 25	- OVERTIME........................................21
ARTICLE 26	- CALL BACK PAY..................................22
ARTICLE 27	- AUTO ALLOWANCE..................................22
ARTICLE 28	- CHANGE IN WORKSHIFTS............................23
ARTICLE 29	- SHIFT PREFERENCE................................23
ARTICLE 30	- LAYOFF, RESIGNATION NOTICE.....................24
ARTICLE 31	- TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE...........................24
ii
ARTICLE 32	- JOB POSTING PROCEDURE.............................24
ARTICLE 33	- POSITION CLASSIFICATION REVIEW....................27
ARTICLE 34	- JOB EVALUATION MANUAL.............................28
ARTICLE 35	- BULLETIN BOARDS...................................28
ARTICLE 36	- SAFETY COMMITTEE..................................28
ARTICLE 37	- UNIVERSITY PROCEDURES.............................29
ARTICLE 38	- RETIREMENT AND LIFE INSURANCE BENEFITS............29
ARTICLE 39	- HEALTH BENEFITS...................................29
ARTICLE 40	- TEN-MONTH EMPLOYEES...............................29
ARTICLE 41	- PERSONNEL FILES...................................30
ARTICLE 42	- GENERAL PROVISIONS................................30
ARTICLE 43	- WORKDAY...........................................32
ARTICLE 44	-VDT OPERATORS......................................32
ARTICLE 45	- SEVERABILITY......................................33
ARTICLE 46	- PRINTING OF AGREEMENT.............................33
ARTICLE 47	- TERM..............................................34
APPENDIX A	- Job Titles (Alphabetical List)....................35
iii
APPENDIX B	38
APPENDIX C	41
APPENDIX D	- SALARY TABLES.....................................................46
APPENDIX E	-............................................................  .....50
ADDENDA....................................................‘........... .’....’...‘.1
INDEX..................................................................   :.........v
iv
ARTICLE 1	- PURPOSE
Rutgers and the Union have entered into this Agreement for the purpose of establishing conditions under which employees as hereinafter defined shall be employed to work for Rutgers and procedures for the presentation and resolution of grievances, and to regulate the mutual relations among themselves with the view of promoting and ensuring harmonious relations, communications, cooperation and understanding between Rutgers and its employees.
ARTICLE 2	- RECOGNITION
1.	Rutgers recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive negotiations representative for wages, hours, terms and conditions of employment of its employees as hereby defined.
2.	The terms "employee" and "employees" as used herein shall include all regular employees, both full time and part time employees* (those scheduled to work for twenty (20) hours or more per week), employed in the classifications listed under Appendix "A" attached hereto and included herein by reference and made a part of this Agreement, and for regular employees in such other classifications as the parties hereto may later agree to include; but excluding all probationary employees, confidential employees as agreed previously by Rutgers and the Union, students, casual employees and temporary employees, faculty, professional employees, supervisors, employees in the jurisdiction of other unions now recognized by Rutgers, and all other employees of Rutgers.
* Inclusion in the unit does not change the current benefits for part time employees.
3.	Definitions
A.	Temporary Employee - A temporary employee is defined as an individual who is hired to work on an hourly basis as an interim replacement or for any short term work. If an individual is hired to perform a job which, if it were a regularly appointed position would be included in the negotiations unit, that individual will not be retained in that job for more than twelve (12) consecutive months, with a four (4) month extension if necessary. Beginning in July 1991, when such individual has worked for twelve (12) months in such job, the University will notify the Union, and the Union will grant the four (4) month extension. If the department needs to retain the individual in this capacity beyond sixteen (16) months, the University will notify the Union prior to the expiration of the sixteen (16) months. If agreement is not reached on this further extension for this individual prior to the expiration of the sixteen (16) months, the individual will not be retained by the department.
B.	Casual Employee - A casual employee is defined as an employee who is employed on an intermittent basis.
C.	Regular Employee - A regular employee is defined as an employee appointed on a ten (10) or twelve (12) month continuous salaried basis with a specific or indefinite expiration date.
ARTICLE 3	- UNION SECURITY
A.	UNION DUES
Rutgers agrees to deduct from the paycheck the biwe :kly Union dues of each employee, as defined herein, who furnishes a voluntary written authorization for such deduction, on a form acceptable to Rutgers. Each employee may cancel such written authorization giving written notice of such cancellation to Rutgers aid the Union between December 15 and December 31 of any year effective January 1 of the ensuing year. The amount of Union dues to be deducted by Rutgers from the employee's paycheck shall be in such amount as may be certified to Rutgers by the Union < t least thirty (30) days prior to the date on which deduction of Union dues is to be madr. Deduction of Union dues made pursuant hereto shall be remitted by Rutgers to the Union every four (4) weeks together with a list of the names of employees from whose pay s uch deductions were made. ,
B.	REPRESENTATION FEE
1.	Representation Fee Deduction
The parties agree that effective approximately thirty (30) days after agreement on this contract all employees in the bargaining un it who do not become members of AFSCME Local 1761 within thirty (30) days shall have deducted from their salaries and forwarded to the Union a represei itation fee in a manner and in an amount as provided below.
2.	Representation Fee Amount
At least thirty (30) days before the effective dat ' of the representation fee, or any subsequent modification thereof, the Union shall notify the University of the biweekly amount to be deducted from non-members' salaries. Any change in the representation fee shall be made upon written no ification to the University.
3.	Representation Fee Deductions
The representation fee shall be deducted from nonmembers’ salaries in equal biweekly installments. Representation fee deductions from the salaries of all nonmember employees shall commence on the p ivroll begin date following thirty (30) days after the expiration of a COLT eligible employee's probationary period or the tenth (10th) day following reentry into the bargaining unit for employees who previously served in bargaining unit positions and who continued in the employ of the University in a nonbargaining unit position. For the purpose of this Article, ten (10) month employees shall be considered to be in continuous employment.
If, during the course of the year, the nonmembet becomes a Union member, the University shall cease deducting the representatu n fee and commence deducting the Union dues after written notification by the Union of the change in status.
2
Conversely, if the Union member directs the University to cease dues deductions in a manner appropriate under the terms of the dues checkoff agreement, the University shall commence deduction of the representation fee after written notification by the Union of the change in status. After deduction, representation fees shall be transmitted to the Union in the same manner and. at the same time as Union dues.
4.	Indemni fication
The Union hereby agrees to indemnify, defend, and save harmless the University from any claim, suit or action, or judgements, including reasonable costs of defense which may be brought at law or in equity, or before any administrative agency with regard to or arising from the deduction from the salaries of any employee of any sum of money as a representation fee under the provisions of the Agreement.
ARTICLE 4	- UNION REPRESENTATIVES
1.	Authorized representatives of the Union, who are not employees of Rutgers, shall be admitted to the premises of Rutgers. At the time of entering the premises of Rutgers, the Union representatives shall make their presence and destination known to the Office of Labor Relations or the Division Head, or his/her representative responsible for the area to be visited.
2.	Stewards (not to exceed 41 in number throughout the University) shall be designated in specific, geographic areas. Names of the employees selected to act as Stewards and their areas of responsibility and the names of other union representatives who represent employees shall be certified in writing to Rutgers by the local Union.
3.	Stewards shall be granted a reasonable amount of time during their regular working hours, without loss of pay, to interview an employee who has a grievance and to discuss the grievance with the employee's immediate supervisor. The Union President or his/her designee shall be granted a reasonable amount of time during his/her regular working hours, without loss of pay, to present, discuss and adjust grievances with Rutgers, provided such person is an employee of Rutgers. When a designee is assigned to act in a particular grievance, the Union will give Rutgers prior notice. Neither a steward, nor a Union officer nor a designee shall leave his/her work without first obtaining permission of his/her immediate supervisor, which permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
4.	The Union may have ten (10) members, who are in the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement, on the contract negotiating committee and six (6) members on the economic reopener. Rutgers agrees that these members shall not lose pay for time spent during their regular working hours while serving in such capacity.
3
5.	Rutgers agrees to permit authorized representatives of the Union employed by Rutgers to take time off without loss of pay for the purpose of attending Union conventions, conferences and educational classes, provided that the total amount of such time off without loss of pay during the period of this Agre .‘inent shall not exceed one hundred ninety (190) days. Permission for such time o:f must be obtained from Rutgers. Such permission shall not be unreasonably with leld. Names of persons attending such activities and time to be charged shall be c ertified in writing to the Office of Labor Relations.
ARTICLE 5	- NONDISCRIMIN ATION
There shall be no discrimination by Rutgers or the Union against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, creed, color, sex, re ligion, age, marital status, national origin, disability, status as a Vietnam-era Veteran or disabled Veteran, membership or nonmembership in the Union or sexual orientation.
ARTICLE 6	- RULES AND REGUI ALIGNS
Rutgers may establish and issue reasonable rules and i egulations concerning the work to be performed by, and the conduct of, its employees, and it sha 1 apply and enforce such rules and regulations fairly and equitably. These rules and regulations shall not be inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement, and Rutgers will make every reason; ble effort to have prior discussion on those rules and regulations that may be of general interest or concern as provided for in Article 7. Neither party waives any rights it may have by virtue of New Jersey statutes.
ARTICLE 7	- LABOR/MANAGEMENT CONFERENCES
A Labor/Management Conference is a meeting betwee i the Union, the Office of Labor Relations and such other representative of Rutgers as appropriate, to consider matters of general interest and concern other than grievances. Such a meeting m -.v be called by either party, shall take place at a mutually convenient time and place and may be attended by no more than five (5) Union Representatives employed by Rutgers who shall not lo; e pay for time spent during their regular working hours at such a meeting. International Representatives and/or Council Representatives may attend such meetings. The work place should be free from harassment. Any claims of harassment shall be the subject of a Labor/Management Conference. Agreements reached at Labor/ Management Conferences will be reduced to writing.
ARTICLE 8	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
1.	A grievance is defined as any claimed violation of any j revision of this Agreement or of any Rutgers policy relating to wages, hours or other term;; or conditions of employment of the employees. The procedure set forth herein is the sc Ie and exclusive remedy for any and all claims pertaining to the provisions of this Agreen ent.
4
2.	All grievances, regardless of the Step at which they are initiated, must specifically cite which provision of this Agreement and/or Rutgers policy is alleged to have been violated. The Union shall endeavor to set forth specific information indicating the factual nature of the grievance. This language is not intended to preclude the Union from amending its grievance.
3.	Any grievance of an employee, or of the Union, shall be handled in the following manner:
Step 1
The grievance shall initially be presented within ten (10) working days after the occurrence of the event or knowledge of the event out of which the grievance arises. The grievance shall be presented in writing citing the alleged violation. The grievance normally shall be presented to the employee's immediate supervisor or the person with the authority to resolve the grievance. If the employee so requests, the steward may be present at any meeting that takes place at this level in attempting to adjust the grievance. Such meeting shall be held within ten (10) working days after the grievance is submitted in writing. The first level of supervision shall give his/her answer in writing within ten (10) working days after the grievance is submitted in writing.
In cases where the event giving rise to the grievance is not initiated by the employee's immediate supervisor, the grievance initially shall be presented to the first level of supervision having authority to effect a remedy.
Step 2
If the grievance is not resolved at Step 1, the employee or the Union may within ten (10) working days of the written answer forward the grievance to the second level of authority .with a copy to the first level-of authority .and to the Office of Labor Relations. If a Step 2 grievance is filed by an individual employee, the employee shall also send a copy to the Union president. This second level of authority shall within ten (10) working days of receipt of the written grievance hold a meeting. The employee shall be entitled to be accompanied by the steward and/or by either a Union officer or the president’s designee. This second level of authority shall send to the employee, to the representative(s) present at the hearing, to the Union president, to the first level of authority and to the Office of Labor Relations his/her written answer within ten (10) working days after the date of such meeting.
Step 3
If the Union is not satisfied with the Step 2 answer, the Union may within ten (10) working days of receipt of that answer submit to the Office of Labor Relations in New Brunswick and where appropriate to the Personnel Officer in Newark the written statement of the grievance along with a written request for a Third Step Hearing.
5
Such hearing shall take place at a mutually ag eeable time and place not later than ten (10) working days after receipt of the written reqi est for such hearing. The employee shall be entitled to be present. The steward, and/or either the Union President or his/her designee shall be present, and the Council representati ve may be present.
The Third Step Hearing Officer shall give his/her written decision to the employee and to the Union within ten (10) working days after such hearing. These ten (10) working days may be extended by mutual agreement.
If the Union believes that the third step Hearin g Officer has based his/her decision on material not presented or referenced at the thiid step, the Union may request a reconvening of the hearing to review or rebut this matt ria).
A general grievance, one that may affect all or a group of employees, may be presented by the Union at Step 3.
Step 4
If the Union is not satisfied with the decision of the Third Step Hearing Officer, the Union may within ten (10) working days after the re ceipt of the written decision of the Third Step Hearing Officer submit the grievance to binding arbitration.
Rutgers and the Union agree that the arbitral or to be chosen jointly shall be selected from a panel or panels to be provided by the American Arbitration Association, except that for the life of this Agreement the arbitn (or will be chosen from panel(s) provided by the Public Employment Relations Cor imission. The arbitrator will be selected in accordance with the rules and procedures of :he agency.
The costs and expenses incurred by each party s ball be paid by the party incurring the costs except that the fees of the neutral arbitrator and the administering agency shall be borne equally by Rutgers and the Union.
When documents are discovered by the Univei sity which were not presented at third step but which will be used at arbitration tie University will provide such documents to the Union four (4) working days prior to the arbitration hearing, with the parties realizing that situations may necessitate shorter notice.
4.	No arbitrator functioning under the provisions of the grievance procedure terminating at Step 4 in binding arbitration shall have the power tn amend, modify or delete any provision of this Agreement.
5.	In the case of discharge, the grievance may begin at Step 2 above.
6.	In the case of grievances relating to selection of a candidate under the Promotion and Transfer Procedure, Steps 1,2, and 4 above shall be utili? ed.
7.	Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shall not be considered working days in computing the time limits provided for above. Any written decision or written answer to a grievance
6
made at any step which is not appealed to the succeeding step within the time limits provided, or such additional period of time as may be mutually agreed upon in writing, shall be considered a final settlement and such settlement shall be binding upon Rutgers, the Union and the employee or employees involved.
8.	An employee shall not lose pay for the time spent during his/her regular working hours at the foregoing steps of the grievance procedure. In the event that it is necessary to require the attendance of other employees, during regular working hours, at the Step 4 meeting of the grievance procedure, such employees shall not lose pay for such time.
9.	In the event of the discharge for cause of any employee, Rutgers shall promptly give written notice of the .discharge to the employee's steward and attempt to give telephone notice to the President of the Union or the Vice President of the Union responsible for the campus on which the discharged employee had been employed.
10.	Rutgers and the Union agree to process a grievance over a discharge in an expeditious manner.
11.	Rutgers shall provide a copy of any written reprimand which is to be made part of the employee’s central personnel file to the employee and to the President, or in Newark and Camden to the Vice President. The employee shall sign such reprimand, the signature serving only to acknowledge that he/she has read the reprimand. Any employee may file a grievance with respect to any document written to the employee which expresses dissatisfaction with his/her work performance or conduct and with which he/she does not agree.
Annually, through a joint letter from the Union and the Office of Labor Relations, employees will be informed that .a document from a supervisor to an employee which expresses dissatisfaction with the employee's work performance or conduct may be grieved under this article.
When an employee's record is free from any disciplinary action for a period of one (1) year, any letters of reprimand or documents which express dissatisfaction with the employee's work performance or conduct in the employee's record shall be deemed to be removed. Disciplinary actions other than letters of reprimand shall remain part of the employee's record.
12.	If an employee is being questioned about his/her work performance or conduct and if the employee has a reasonable belief that the answers to such questions will result in discipline, then the employee may request that a steward be present.
13.	No employee shall be discharged, suspended or disciplined in any way except for just cause and the sole right and remedy under this Agreement of any such employee shall be to file a grievance through and in accordance with the grievance procedure.
14.	If Rutgers should exceed the time limits in replying to any grievance at any step in the grievance procedure, the grievance may be advanced to the next step.
7
15.	In addition, an employee may appeal the interpretation, or application of agreements and administrative decisions which affect terms and conditions of employment, as that concept has been defined by law, by presenting such appeal for determination to the Office of Labor Relations.
16.	AFSCME Steward Trainees shall be permitted by the Step One, Step Two or Step Three hearing officer to attend such hearing, provided thal the steward trainee has received permission from his/her supervisor to be in attendance at such hearing.
ARTICLE 9	- SENIORITY AND LAYOFF
1.	AU employees shall be considered as probationary employees for the first ninety (90) calendar days of their employment. The probatiorary period may not be extended without concurrence of the Union. Probationary employees may be disciplined or terminated at any time for any reason whatsoever at the sole discretion of Rutgers and they shall not be entitled to utilize the provisions oi Article 8 - Grievance Procedure. Upon completion of such probationary period, their seniority will be dated as of the date of commencement of their employment. In the even, that two (2) employees have the same seniority date, their respective seniority shall be c etermined by alphabetical order of their last names.
2.	Seniority for full time and part time type 1 employees l or the purpose of this article shall be based upon an employee’s continuous length of ser vice in the bargaining unit, except that employees employed on grant funds shall be credited with their seniority after thirteen (13) months of continuous service in the bargaining unit. Part time employees' seniority shall be maintained bn separate seniority lisis for Camden, Newark and New Brunswick.
3.	The Office of Labor Relations shall maintain seniority lists of employees by seniority units, copies of which shall be furnished to the Union.
Seniority units are as defined as follows:
a.	Camden
b.	Newark
c.	New Brunswick
4.	An employee's seniority shall cease and his/her employe e status shall terminate for any of the following reasons
a.	Resignation or retirement
b.	Discharge for cause
c.	Continuous layoff for a period exceeding six (6) months for employees with less than two (2) years continuous service; continuous layoff for a
8
period exceeding one (1) year and one (1) day for employees with two (2) years or more continuous service.
d.	Failure of laid off employee to report for work either (i) on date specified in written notice of recall mailed seven (7) or more calendar days prior to such date, or (ii) within three (3) working days after date specified in written notice of recall mailed less than seven (7) calendar days prior to such date, unless return to work as herein provided is excused by Rutgers. Written notice of recall to work shall be sent by Rutgers by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the employee’s last known address as shown on Rutgers' personnel records.
e.	Failure to report for work for a period of three (3) consecutive scheduled working days without notification to Rutgers of a justifiable excuse for such absence.
f.	Failure to report back to work immediately upon expiration of vacation, leave of absence or any renewal thereof unless return to work is excused by Rutgers, and such excuse shall not unreasonably be withheld by Rutgers.
5.	When Rutgers decides to reduce the number of employees in any particular job title on a campus (New Brunswick, Newark, Camden), the employee(s) so affected may displace the least senior employee in his/her job title who is also less senior than the affected employee, provided he/she has the requisite qualifications and abilities to perform the work available; if the affected employee does not have the requisite qualifications and abilities to perform the work available, the provisions of paragraph (6) shall apply.
Special Conditions
If the job title identified pursuant to the above paragraph has Special Condition(s) that the affected employee cannot perform, the affected employee may then displace the next least senior employee in such job title in the seniority unit, who is less senior in the job title than the affected employee, provided the affected employee has the requisite qualifications and abilities to perform the work available. This process in respect of Special Conditions shall continue until a bump within the affected employee’s job title in the seniority unit, for which the affected employee has the requisite qualifications and abilities to perform the work available, has been identified, or all eligible positions pursuant to this provision have been exhausted. If after this process no such bump has been identified, the provisions of paragraph (6) below shall apply
6.	If the affected employee does not have the requisite qualifications and abilities to perform the work available in order to displace the less senior identified employee(s) in the affected employee’s job title, the affected employee may displace the least senior employee, who is also less senior than the affected employee, in the next lower-rated classification in his/her expanded job family (Appendix. B) in the seniority unit, for which
9
the affected employee has the requisite qualifications and abilities to perform the work available.
Special Conditions
If the job title identified pursuant to paragraph (6) has Special Condition(s) that the affected employee cannot perform, the affected employee may then displace the next least senior employee in such job ti le in the seniority unit, who is less senior in the job title than the affected employee, provided the affected employee has the requisite qualifications and abilities tn perform the work available. This process in respect of Special Conditions sha I continue until a bump within the affected employee’s job title in the seniority u lit, for which the affected employee has the requisite qualifications and abilities :o perform the work available, has . been identified or all eligible positions pursuant to this provision have been exhausted.
7.	Any employee(s) so displaced may in turn displace thleast senior employee, who is also less senior than the affected employee, in the next lower-rated classification in his/her expanded job family in the seniority unit for which ht 'she has the requisite qualifications and ability to perform the work available.
8.	Employees hired on a 10-month basis shall not be entitled to utilize the provisions above during the off season of July and August. Such employees may apply to the Division of Personnel for casual work during this period witho it jeopardizing the status of their regular appointment.
9.	Employees laid off during a layoff which persists for tl lirty (30) calendar days or less shall not be entitled to displace any other employee during I his layoff period. Such temporary layoff is not subject to the notification provisions of Article 30. This paragraph 9 which is intended for extraordinary circumstances shall not >e utilized to circumvent the other seniority and layoff provisions of this Article.
10.	Any employee exercising his/her right to displace another employee with less seniority in any lower rated job title shall be paid at the rate of such job in accordance with regulations governing an employee being assigned to a lower rated title, but not more than the maximum of such job.
11.	Employees laid off from Rutgers shall be recalled to work in their seniority unit from layoff in order of their seniority to a position in the s;ime job title as the one vacated at time of layoff provided that they have the requisite qi ilifications and ability to perform the work available. Such employees may apply to thi Division of Personnel for casual work without jeopardizing their rights of recall.
12.	For purposes of layoff and recall, the President, three Vice Presidents, the Secretary/Treasurer, Recording Secretary, Corresponding Secretary and all recognized stewards, or an alternate steward temporarily filling t ie role of the steward during the absence of the steward, shall be granted top seniority i i their seniority units during their
10
terms of office, provided that they have the requisite qualifications and ability to perform the work available at the time of layoff or recall. The Union will provide the University with a list of names and geographic areas of responsibility of these persons holding the positions described as being granted top seniority and will keep the list current.
13.	An employee who is promoted or permanently transferred to a job or position not covered by this Agreement shall retain and accumulate seniority in the seniority unit from which he/she was promoted or transferred only for a period of one (1) year from the time of his/her promotion or transfer, during which period of time the employee may be returned to work in a position comparable to the one which he/she held at the time of his/her promotion or transfer.
14.	In determining requisite qualifications and abilities to perform the work available, Rutgers will give the same consideration to employees exercising their seniority rights as they would to new employees in qualifying for the specific position.
15.	If a department lays off an employee but continues to employ a casual employee (Type 4) to perform the same or similar functions as the laid off employee, the department will offer that employee that work as a Type 4, as an option to termination of employment, if the employee has the qualifications and ability to perform it. The employee will be paid at the rate the casual employee was being paid. An employee who elects to work as a casual employee will remain on the recall list in accordance with the Agreement.
16.	When there is more than one vacancy in the job title of an affected employee, all of the vacancies in that title in the seniority unit will be considered the least senior.
ARTICLE 10 - VACATION ELIGIBILITY AND ALLOWANCE
Regularly appointed full time employees are first eligible for vacation upon completion of the fiscal year during which they are employed, and they will accrue vacation at the rate of one (1) day for each full month employed during the period. The allowance earned in one (1) fiscal year must be used before the end of the following fiscal year or it is forfeited. However, if it is mutually agreed between the employee and his/her supervisor, then a maximum of one (1) year's vacation allowance may be carried forward into the next succeeding year. However, an employee may not expect to combine the entire vacation allowance from two (2) fiscal years unless the supervisor and employee mutually agree to such an extended vacation.
Where a University holiday falls within an approved vacation period, it is not counted as a vacation day except if the vacation allowance is being paid upon resignation or death. If an employee becomes ill during five (5) or more of his/her vacation days, he/she may request that that portion of his/her vacation during which he/she was ill be converted from vacation time to sick leave provided that:
I.	He/she was hospitalized during his/her vacation period; or
11
2.	He/she was under a doctor's care for illness e ther than a chronic condition during the course of his/her vacation.
In order to be eligible for such conversion of vacation to paid sick leave, the employee must submit acceptable evidence of hospitalization or of a doctor's attendance. When a death occurs in the immediate family while an employee is on vacation, bereavement time may be charged.
Any vacation allowance accrued at the time of ret rement must be taken prior to the effective date of retirement. The retiring employee is entitled to any unused vacation earned in the previous fiscal year plus the amount of vacation accrued on a pro-rata basis for service in the fiscal year in which retirement occurs. The total amou it may exceed the normal annual allowance. If a holiday falls within the vacation period, it is not counted as a vacation day.
Upon separation, an employee shall be entitled to payment for his/her accrued vacation allowance. Such allowance shall include any unused vacation earned in the previous fiscal year plus the amount of vacation earned in the fiscal year when sq i aration occurs.
Payment will be made for unused vacation allowance of a deceased employee who had been a regularly appointed staff member. Such payment shall be for any unused vacation earned in the previous fiscal year, and vacation accrued on a pro-rnta monthly basis for service in the fiscal year in which death occurs.
Vacation allowances are based on fiscal years of service as follows:
1.	Less than one year of service: - one full working day for each full month of service.
2.	One through twelve years: - fifteen working days.
3.	Thirteen through .twenty years: -20 working days.
4,	Over twenty years: - 25 working days.
When an employee completes twelve (12) years of service during a fiscal year, he/she will earn vacation for the remainder of the fiscal year at the raic of 1-2/3 days for each full month of service. When an employee completes twenty (20) full years of service during a fiscal year, he/she will earn vacation for the remainder of that fiscal year it the rate of two (2) days for each full month of service.
Vacations shall be taken at the convenience of the deps rtment with consideration given to employees' preferences.
In the event of any conflict, the employee with tht greater seniority shall be given preference.
12
Vacation schedules, once decided, cannot be changed without mutual agreement by all employees affected, subject to approval by supervision.
The rate of vacation pay shall be the employee's regular straight time rate of pay.
ARTICLE 11	- HOLIDAYS
The regular paid holidays observed by Rutgers are: New Year's Day, Martin Luther King's Birthday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, the day after Thanksgiving, and Christmas Day. When any of the above holidays falls on a Sunday, the following Monday is observed in lieu of the holiday. When any of the above holidays falls on a Saturday, the preceding Friday will be observed in lieu of the holiday.
In addition, Rutgers shall observe as holidays either one (1) full holiday or two (2) half holidays during the Christmas Season, three (3) other holidays to be annually determined by Rutgers, and two (2) holidays to be selected by the individual employee. Employees shall be eligible for the individually selected holidays after six (6) months of employment and the rules for their use will be governed by those applicable to administrative leave as provided in Article 19 of this Agreement.
An employee whose regularly scheduled day off falls on a University holiday may request a particular day off in that workweek as an Alternate Day off. If the request can be granted without interfering with the needs of the department, it will be granted. If the department determines that its needs do not permit granting that day, the department may assign another day during that workweek as the Alternate Day off. If the employee is not given an Alternate Day off during that workweek the University holiday counts as compensable hours toward overtime.
ARTICLE 12	- REST PERIODS
Where the nature of the work lends itself to pauses during the workday, full time employees working in such an environment are eligible, during each one-half shift, for either an aggregate of fifteen (15) minutes rest period or for one 15-minute rest period.
In those situations where the nature of the work is continuous and uninterrupted, (for example, when an employee(s) is required to remain at a definite station or machine), full time employees working in such an environment are eligible for a formally scheduled rest period of fifteen (15) minutes during each one-half shift. These provisions shall not be utilized to permanently deny an employee a rest period.
Part-time employees are eligible for either an aggregate of fifteen (15) minutes rest period, or for one fifteen (15) minute rest period, for each one half shift the employee is regularly scheduled to work.
13
If it is necessary to leave the work station, it is understood that there be sufficient coverage of said work station. Type of rest period and scheduling of such shall be at the discretion of the employee's supervisor. Rest period time is not cumulative.
ARTICLE 13	- SICK LEA VE
Sick leave is defined as a necessary period of absence because of the employee’s own illness or for exposure of the employee to contagious disease.
The meaning of sick leave may be extended to include a charge to the employee's accrued sick leave time to provide medical care to a seriously ill fam ly member as defined in the special circumstances described below. The number of days that the employee may charge to accrued sick leave time for the special circumstances described in sections 1 and 2, below, shall not exceed a total of five (5) days per fiscal year.
1.	Emergency Attendance.
Employee’s emergency attendance on a member of the employee’s immediate family (mother, father, spouse, child, step child, foster child, sister, brother, grandmother, grandfather) who is seriously ill.
2.	Medically Certified Care.
Employee’s attendance upon the employee’s seriously ill spouse, parent, or child at a hospital, health care facility, or at home, or the employee’s transport of the employee’s seriously ill spouse, parent, or c liild, to medical treatment, when properly certified by a Health Care Provider on the form designated in Appendix E. Use of sick time, will not be permitted vhere the employee has failed to provide the certified form.
Medically certified care does not cover such s ituations as illness not defined as seriously ill. matters unrelated to medical net ds, baby-sitting, running errands, and/or running a business for the family member while he/she is ill.
Full-time employees hired prior to July 1, 2000 earn fifteen (15) days of sick leave in each fiscal year at the rate of 1-1/4 days per month. During the first year of employment, employees will earn sick leave at the rate of one (1) day per month of service except that employees appointed on July 1 will earn sick leave at the rate of 1-1/4 days per month.
Full-time employees hired on or after July 1, 2000 will earn sick leave at the rate of one (1) day per month of service. After seven (7) years of service, full-time employees hired on or after July 1, 2000 will earn sick leave at the rate of one and one quarter (1-1/4) days per month of service, effective on the first July 1 after the seventh year of ser ice has been completed.
Unused sick leave is cumulative.
14
Employees are expected to notify their supervisor preferably by telephone as early as possible at the beginning of the work day on which sick leave is used and to keep the supervisor adequately informed should the absence extend beyond one day.
Employees who require more sick time than accumulated will have their pay adjusted accordingly except that the employee may charge such time to vacation or administrative leave. In such cases, all sick leave policies will apply. Employees may request that the supervisor make available for the employee’s review a current record of the employee’s sick leave, such request will not be unreasonably denied.
ARTICLE 14	- BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
An employee who is absent from work due to death in the immediate family (mother, father, spouse, child, foster child, sister, brother, grandmother, great grandmother, grandfather, great grandfather, grandchild, or any relative of the employee residing in the employee's household) may charge iip to three (3) days for such absence to attend the funeral or for mourning. Such time must be initiated within seven (7) calendar days from notice of the date of death. If such notification exceeds the date of death by more than seven (7) days, a department may require verification of notification. However, in the event that the funeral of a member of the immediate family is held at some distant location, and the employee will attend, an exception to the above may be requested by the employee to provide for up to five (5) days of absence to be charged to bereavement leave.
Employees are eligible to receive one (1) day of bereavement leave for attendance at the funeral of the employee's mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law.
In the event of the death of an employee’s brother-in-law or sister-in-law, the employee may request to use one (1) day of available vacation time, administrative leave, or personal holiday time. Such request will not be unreasonably denied.
If an employee requests to use available vacation time to extend the bereavement leave, it will not be unreasonably denied.
ARTICLE 15	- PREGNANCY/CHILDBIRTH, ADOPTION, CHILD CARE LEAVE
A.	Pregnancy/C hi Idbirth An employee desiring to work during pregnancy must furnish
Rutgers with a physician's certificate indicating the expected date of birth and the physician's opinion as to how long the employee may continue to work. Unless the University requires an additional medical opinion, the employee will be permitted to work until the time specified by her own physician. An employee who is unable to work during pregnancy because of a disability may charge the time to vacation, administrative leave, personal holiday or sick leave to the extent it is available. For the period of disability after childbirth, she may also charge vacation, administrative leave, personal holiday or sick leave to the extent it is available. If sick leave is not available, the employee should apply for temporary disability insurance. An employee who has no earned time to charge will be given a leave of absence without pay in accordance with
15
Article 17 and may elect to continue Rutgers benefit programs by personal contributions while on such leave.
The employee must keep the department fully advised as to due date, expected date of return, whether she will also request Family Leave to care lor the child, and any complications that may keep her from returning to work on the expected c ite of return. She will be reinstated to her original position under most circumstances, or to a position of similar status and pay. If necessary, the department may fill the position on an interim basis with the clear understanding that this is a temporary arrangement which will be terminate, at the time she returns.
An employee who wishes to work part-time for some period before childbirth should discuss this request with her supervisor to determine whether such request can be accommodated.
This policy applies to all female employees regardless of marital status.
B.	Adoption An employee who wishes to take unpaid time off upon placement of a child for adoption should apply for Family Leave. Family I. eave will be granted in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
C.	Child Care Leave An employee who wishes to Hike unpaid time off for child care after the birth of a child should apply for Family Leave. Family Leave will be granted in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
The provisions of B. and C. apply to male and female employees.
ARTICLE 16	- MILITARY LEAVE
1.	Training
Any full-time regularly appointed employee who is a member of a reserve component of the armed forces of the United States of America shall be entitled to a leave of absence with pay for the usual prescribed training period not to exceed fifteen (15) working days per year. Such leave shall not be charged against vacation time.
The employee must give the supervisor a two (2) wed;, advance notice of such leave and must present to the supervisor a copy of the official governmental orders authorizing the military training.
2.	Induction or Enlistment
Any lull time regularly appointed employee, cxcludin : grant and temporary employees, who initially enters active service in any branch of the armed forces of the United States of America for more than six (6) months either volut tarily or pursuant to law shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for the period of such service plus ninety (90) days immediately following separation.
16
Such an employee, unless dishonorably discharged, shall be entitled to reemployment by Rutgers provided application for reemployment is made prior to expiration of the leave.
In case a service-connected disability prevents the employee from returning to work within the normally prescribed time, the employee may request that the leave be extended and upon submitting to Rutgers substantiating medical evidence, a six (6) month leave extension may be granted, the total of such extensions not to exceed twelve (12) months from the date of separation.
Upon reemployment, the returning veteran employee's salary shall be adjusted to reflect any normal increments or general adjustments the employee would have received had the employee continued working for Rutgers.
Sick leave days will not accrue during the military service leave but the time will count as University service in applying vacation scales and with regard to seniority.
ARTICLE 17	- LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY
1.	An employee may submit a written request for leave of absence without pay for consideration by Rutgers. Such request shall be granted by Rutgers only in exceptional situations.
2.	An employee who is unable to perform the duties of his/her job title because of illness or injury shall be given a leave of absence without pay. Such leave of absence shall be limited to a period of three (3) months, but shall be renewable for a justifiable reason for additional three (3) month periods, not to exceed a total leave of absence of one (1) year.
3.	Employees on leave of absence shall retain and accumulate seniority during such leaves of absence. Upon expiration of an employee's leave of absence, the employee shall be returned to his/her former position, if it is open, or to a position comparable to the one previously held.
4.	Employees on leave without salary for one (1) month or longer do not accrue vacation or sick leave benefits. Employees oh leave of absence due to injuries occurring in the course of and arising out of employment for Rutgers, will earn sick leave and vacation until workers' compensation payments cease.
ARTICLE 18	- JURY DUTY
Rutgers shall grant time off with full normal pay to those employees who are required to serve on jury duty during such periods as the employee is actually serving. If jury duty does not require a full day, it is expected that the employee will return to his/her duties.
If an employee whose regular work schedule is an afternoon or night shift is required to serve on jury duty during non-shift hours, the employee will be released from his/her scheduled
17
work shift on the date(s) of jury duty for an amount of time equal to the non-shift hours spent on jury duty, not to exceed the number of hours in the employee's regularly scheduled workday.
Employees are required to submit to their supervisors the notification of jury duty upon receiving it and to submit verification of daily attendance upon return to work.
ARTICLE 19	- ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE
Full time employees shall be granted three (3) days administrative leave at the beginning of each fiscal year. Employees hired after the beginning of ihe fiscal year shall be granted a half (1/2) day administrative leave after each full calendar monti of service in the first fiscal year of employment to a maximum of three (3) days.
Employees appointed on a 10-month basis shall be granted administrative leave on the same basis except the maximum shall be two and one half Ci!-l/2) days per year. Administrative leave for part time employees shall be prorated in accordanct with the length of their work week.
Administrative Leave shall be granted by Rutgers upon request of the employee and shall be scheduled in advance provided the request can be granted 'vithout interference with the proper discharge of the work in the work unit involved. Requests for such leave shall, not be unreasonably denied.	.	,
Administrative Leave may be used, for personal business, including emergencies and religious observances. Administrative Leave may be taken in conjunction with other types of paid leave. Where there are more requests at one time than can be granted without interfering with the proper conduct of the work unit, priorities in granting such requests shall be: (1) emergencies; (2) religious holidays; and (3) personal matters. If there is still a conflict, the matter will be resolved on the basis of seniority within ihe work unit. In the case of an emergency, where advance notice and approval are not possible, requests for Administrative Leave for emergencies shall not be unreasonably denied.
Administrative Leave must be scheduled in minimum units of one (1) hour.
Such leave shall not be cumulative. Unused balance: in any year shall be cancelled. An employee who leaves employment shall not be required to eimbur.se Rutgers for earned days already used.
ARTICLE 20	- SALARY
1.	In the case of employees paid from other than State fur cis, the University will endeavor to persuade funding agencies to conform in accord with the University salary structure.
2.	In the event funding agencies do not conform in uccord with the University salary structure, the failure to do so will be the subject of a Labor/Management Conference under Article 7.
18
3,	Salary Program
The following salary adjustments are subject to the appropriation of and allocation to the University by the State of adequate funding for the specific purposes identified for the full period covered by this Agreement.
When it is possible to do so, salary detail as to overtime and rates will be printed on check stubs.
Fiscal Year 2007-2008
1.	Each eligible employee will receive a normal merit increment on the appropriate anniversary date.
2.	Effective July I, 2007, the salary schedule in effect on June 30, 2007 shall be increased across the board by three percent (3.0%).
3.	' , A full-time, or part-time, 12-month employee, whose annualized base salary on June 30,2007 was less than $37,000, who continues on the payroll through July 1, 2007 shall receive a lump sum bonus, not added to or made part of the base salary, calculated as the difference between three percent (3.0%) of the employee’s annualized base salary on June 30, 2007 and three percent (3.0%) of $37,000. This lump sum bonus shall be appropriately pro-rated for part-time, 12-month employees.
4.	. A full-time, or part-time, 10-month employee, whose annualized base salary on June 30, 2007 was less than $37,000, who continues on the payroll through September 1, 2007 shall receive a lump sum bonus, not added to or made part of the base salary, calculated as the difference between three percent (3.0%) of the employee’s annualized base salary on June 30, 2007 and three percent (3.0%) of . . $37,000 and appropriately pro-rated.
Fiscal Year 2008-2009
1.	Each eligible employee will receive a normal, merit increment on the appropriate anniversary date.
2.	Effective July 1, 2008 the salary schedule in effect on lune 30, 2008 shall be increased across the board by three percent (3.0%),
3.	A full-time, or part-time, 12-month employee, whose annualized base salary on June 30,2008 was less than $37,000, who continues on the payroll through July 1, 2008 shall receive a lump sum bonus, not added to or made part of the base salary, calculated as the difference between three percent (3.0%) of the employee’s annualized base salary on June 30, 2008 and three percent (3 0%) of $37,000. This lump sum bonus shall be appropriately pro-rated for part-time, 12-month employees. The bonus shall be paid in July 2008 for 12-month employees.
4	A full-time, or part-time, 10-month employee, whose annualized base salary on June 30, 2008 was less than $37,000, who continues on the payroll through September 1, 2008 shall receive a lump.sum bonus, not added to or made part of the base salary, calculated as the difference between three percent (3.0%) of the
19
employee’s annualized base salary on June JO, 2008 and three percent (3.0%) of $37,000 and appropriately pro-rated. The bonus shall be paid in September 2008 for 10-month employees.
Fiscal Year 2009-2010
1.	Each eligible employee will receive a normal merit increment on the appropriate anniversary date.
2.	Effective July 1, 2009, the salary schedule in effect on June 30, 2009 shall be increased across the board by three and one-h df percent (3.5%).
3.	A full-time, or part-time, 12-month employee, whose annualized base salary on June 30,2009 was less than $37,000, who continues on the payroll through July 1, 2009 shall receive a lump sum bonus, not added to or made pail of the base salary, calculated as the difference between three and one-half percent (3.5%) of the employee’s annualized base salary on June 30, 2009 and three and one-half percent (3.5%) of $37,000. This lump sum b mus shall be appropriately pro-rated for part-time, 12-month employees. The bon ,is shall be paid in July 2009 for 12-month employees.
4.	A full-time, or part-time, 10-month employee, whose annualized base salary on June 30, 2009 was less than $37,000 whc continues on the payroll through September 1, 2009 shall receive a lump sum bonus, not added to or made part of the base salary, calculated as the difference between three and one-half percent (3.5%) of the employee’s annualized base sal :iry on June 30, 2009 and three and one-half percent (3.5%) of $37,000 and appropriately pro-rated. This bonus shall be paid in September 2009 for 10-month emp iyees.
Fiscal Year 2010-2011
1.	Each eligible employee will receive a normal merit increment on the appropriate anniversary date.
2.	Effective July 1, 2010, the salary schedule in effect on June 30, 2010 shall be increased across the board by three and one-ha f percent (3.5%).
3.	A full-time, dr part-time, 12-month employee, whose annualized base salary on June 30, 2010 was less than $37,000 who continues on the payroll through July 1, 2010 shall receive a lump sum bonus, not adder. to or made part of the base salary, calculated as the difference between three and one-half percent (3.5%) of the employee’s annualized base salary on June 30, 2010 and three and one-half percent (3.5%) of $37,000. This lump sum bo ius shall be appropriately pro-rated for part-time, 12-month employees. The bonus shall be paid in July 2010 for 12-month employees.
4.	A full-time, or part-time, 10-month employee whose annualized base salary on June 30, 2010 was less than $37,000, who continues on the payroll through September 1, 2010 shall receive a lump sum b:mus, not added to or made part of the base salary, calculated as the difference between three and one-half percent (3.5%) of the employee’s annualized base salary on June 30, 2010 and three and one-half percent (3.5%) of $37,000 and appropriately pro-rated. This bonus shall be paid in September 2010 for 10-month emplo ees.
20
ARTICLE 21	- BIWEEKLY PAY
Employees are to be paid on a bi-weekly basis.
ARTICLE 22	- ANNIVERSARY DATES
A new employee is assigned an initial salary anniversary date based on the effective date of appointment. When the date of appointment is the first day of the calendar quarter, that date, in the next fiscal year, becomes the initial anniversary date. When the date of appointment occurs after the first day of a calendar quarter, the first day of the following calendar quarter, in the next fiscal year, becomes the initial anniversary date. An employee's anniversary date may, however, change as a result of other actions such as promotion or salary adjustments.
ARTICLE 23	- PROMOTION COMPENSATION
1.	Upon promotion, an employee's salary is increased one increment in his/her present range; then, if no step in the new range is equal to this increased rate, his/her salary will be adjusted to the next higher rate.
2.	In the case of employees paid from other than State funds, the University will endeavor to persuade funding agencies to conform in accord with the University salary structure.
3.	In the event funding agencies do not conform in accord with the University salary structure, the failure to do so will be the subject of a Labor/Management conference under Article 7.
ARTICLE 24	- ACTING CAPACITY
When Rutgers appoints by written notice an employee to temporarily work in a higher title in an acting capacity as an interim replacement for a period of ten (10) calendar days or more, the employee will be paid, retroactively to the first day of his/her temporary assignment, a rate of pay which would be equal to the rate the employee would receive if he/she were promoted to the higher title. It is not the intention of the University to rotate such assignments solely for the purpose of circumventing this benefit. If such assignment is not put in writing to the employee, the employee will not be held accountable for performing the higher level work.
ARTICLE 25	- OVERTIME
1.	Overtime hours requested and authorized by the employee's supervisor beyond forty (40) hours in the standard, workweek shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half the employee’s regular hourly rate. Effective July 1, 2004, hours worked beyond thirty five (35) but less than or equal to forty (40) hours in the standard workweek by
21
employees whose regular workweek is thirty five (35) hours shall be compensated by either paying the employee’s regular hourly rate, or by providing compensatory time off at a time and one-half rate at the supervisor’s discretion.
2.	The standard workweek to be used in c< imputing overtime hours and pay requirements will extend from 12:01 a,m. Saturday through Midnight Friday.
3.	Overtime Distribution - Rutgers will make every reasonable effort to provide for an equitable distribution of overtime work among employees in each job classification within each work unit, after taking into consideration the nature of the work to be performed during the overtime hours and the qualifications and abilities of the employees in the work unit. Employees shal be expected to work a reasonable amount of overtime upon request. Any refusal c f overtime work shall be recorded as an opportunity to work overtime by the employ ee. The Union shall have access to the overtime record on a reasonable basis. If, because of refusals to work overtime, there are an insufficient number of employees available to perform the overtime work, Rutgers may assign the overtime work to the necessary number of the least senior employees in the work unit who have the qualifications and abilities to perform the work. Employees will be given 24 hours advance notice of scheduled overtime. When such notice has not been give n, scheduled overtime will be on a voluntary basis.
4.	Paid time off for vacation, sick leave, holidays, administrative leave and jury duty is counted as hours worked in determining the l umber of hours an employee has worked in a given week.
5.	Holiday Premium: An eligible employee who is authorized to work on an observed holiday will, in addition to his/her regular pay fot the day, earn compensation at time and one half the employee’s normal rate for all hours worked.
ARTICLE 26	- CALL BACK PAY
Any employee who is called back to work after he/she has completed his/her regular Shift and has left his/her place of work shall be guaranteed a m nimum of four (4) hours work or compensation in lieu thereof. Such employee shall be required to work all hours, in addition to the four (4) hour minimum guarantee, which are required by h is/her supervisor.
ARTICLE 27	- AUTO ALLOW ANCE
No employee will be required to use his/her car fot Rutgers business unless Rutgers designates his/her job as one requiring use of the employee's (ar, or designates such requirement as a result of change in job content.
Neither may an employee use his/her personal car or Rutgers business unless advance approval is given by the employee’s supervisor.
22
The employee must carry Automobile Liability Insurance with liability limits of at least 25/50/10. The cost of any physical damage to the vehicle is the sole responsibility of the owner. Any accident must be reported to the Rutgers Insurance Department.
Use of a personal car on authorized Rutgers business is reimbursable at the prevailing reimbursement rate as specified in University Regulations and Procedures.
ARTICLE 28	- CHANGE IN WORKSHIFTS
Prior to effecting a change of one hour or more in the regular starting time of work shifts, Rutgers will give at least pneweek notice to affected employees and will discuss such change and the need for same with.therepresentatives of the Union, unless circumstances, such as in emergency situations, make.such notice and prior discussion impracticable.
Prior to effecting a temporary change of work location requiring transportation, the affected employee will receive notice of such change no later than the previous work day. If such notice is not timely given, the Department will provide the employee with a means of transportation to and from that location, if necessary.
ARTICLE 29	- SHIFT PREFERENCE
When a vacancy occurs or a new job is created within a given job classification in a work unit having more than one shift, any employee in the same classification may elect, in accordance with seniority, to change his/her shift to that.shift in which the opening occurs, provided in the judgment of supervision that the efficiency of the particular operation will not be impaired by such a change and provided that no employee shall voluntarily exercise his/her seniority rights for such purpose more than once in any year. No employee shall be considered for a change in shift unless he/she shall in writing have requested a change in shift no earlier than six (6) months and no later than two (2) weeks before any such opening occurs.
Effective July 1, 2007, a shift premium of fifty ($.50) cents per hour shall be paid to any full time employee who is regularly scheduled to start work on or after 9:00 p.m. and before 4:00 a.m.
Effective July 1, 2007, a shift premium of forty ($0.40) cents per hour shall be paid to any full time employee who is regularly scheduled to start work on or after 3:00 p.m. and before 9:00 p.m.
Paid time off is considered to be time worked for eligibility for payment.
Employees must be employed on the date of payment in order to receive this payment.
23
ARTICLE 30	- LAYOFF, RESIGNATION NOTICE
Rutgers agrees that prior to any layoff it will, except in case of emergencies, give at least twenty (20) calendar days notice to the employees affected (except probationary employees), and in consideration therefore, the Union agrees that the employees covered by this Agreement will, except in case of emergencies, give at least fourteen (14) ce lendar days notice prior to resigning from employment.
ARTICLE 31	- TECHNOLOGICA L CHANGE
The University shall have the sole right to make technological and other such major changes in its operation as it may deem advisable for its efficient operation. However, prior to the introduction of any such changes, the University shall nc tify the Union of such contemplated changes and of any opportunities for training. In the event th ? introduction of any new process or equipment results in layoff of persons, these matters shall al ;o be discussed with the designated Union representative prior to their introduction. Any such layoffs shall be made pursuant to the layoff procedure in Article 9.
ARTICLE 32	- JOB POSTING PROCEDURE
The procedure to be used by the employer to indie ite a promotional opportunity or a transfer shall be called a "posting procedure." The post ng procedure for clerical, office, laboratory and technical employees shall be divided ir to two categories: Promotional Opportunities-Vacant Positions, and Recruitment Notifications. The posting procedure shall be used in a manner consistent with the goals of the Affirmative Action Program and the provisions of the collective negotiations Agreement between Rutgers ant AFSCME Local 1761,
PROMOTIONAL OPPORTUNITY-VACANT POSJTIO’
Promotional Opportunities-Vacant Positions are defned as those positions within the COLT bargaining unit which are above the elementary level category (see Appendix C) for each job family. When vacancies occur and are to be filled for any of these job classifications, each such promotional opportunity shall be posted on an individual job by job basis in the geographic area concerned (New Brunswick, Newark or Camden) and in one location on each of the other geographic campuses for a period of five (5) work days. The posting shall be on a form entitled "Promotional Opportunity-Vacant Position" and will include t ie following information:
1.	Title of Position
2.	Salary Range
3.	Geographic Location
4.	Department
5.	"Scope and Function"	and	"Requirements" paragraphs of the generic job
description.
6.	Date Posted
7.	Workweek designation if other than 35	hours
24
8.	Expiration Date of Posting
9.	Special Conditions
10.	Specific requirements such as specialized skills, specialized machine capabilities or language skills.
11.	Positions awarded by listing job number, name of successful bidder, old job title, new job title and seniority date; or by listing job number and the term "new hire" whichever is applicable.
12.	The heading will include "AFSCME Local 1761, AFL-CIO."
This information is to be prepared by the Personnel Office for weekly publication. Positions which are posted are not to be reposted in subsequent weeks if they have not been filled. Copies of all job postings will be provided to the Union President. Copies of all job postings will be provided to all stewards and Vice Presidents in the geographic areas concerned. Rutgers will provide to a Union designee in each seniority unit a list of applicants who were successful in the posting procedure.
RECRUITMENT NOTIFICATION
At the discretion of the administration, any position vacancy in a classification other than those listed in the COLT bargaining unit, or elementary level positions, or confidential positions may be made known if such information seems appropriate for distribution. It shall be the responsibility of the appropriate Personnel Office to prepare and distribute such recruitment notices.
GENERAL
POSITIONS TO BE POSTED
All permanent 12 or 10 month vacant positions of twenty (20) hours or more per week that are to be filled and are included within the COLT bargaining unit shall be posted,
EMPLOYEES ELIGIBLE TO USE THE POSTING PROCEDURE
Those Rutgers University employees who a-e considered eligible to use this posting procedure shall be defined as those employees eligible for inclusion in the COLT bargaining unit, including employees working twenty (20) hours a week or more, and having been employed by Rutgers University on a continuous basis for a period of at least six (6) months. Casual and temporary employees are not eligible to bid. Reclassification shall not be a bar to bidding. Employees holding confidential positions may also use this posting procedure.
HOW TO APPLY
Employees covered by this procedure who feel qualified for any posted position may apply for it. A completed bid form for each position applied for must be in the designated Personnel Office at the time specified on the posting. If any interview takes place, the employee
25
shall request permission of his/her immediate supervisor to be absent for the time required. Permission will not be unreasonably denied.
Contents of the job requisition for a position will b e shared with an employee at his/her request in accordance with specific instructions on the posting sheet.
POSTING PERIOD
All positions which must be posted shall be posted for five (5) consecutive work days. Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays shall not be considen j work days for purposes of this procedure.
Only if application is made for a posted position duri ig this five (5) day period is there an obligation to consider that applicant for the position.
SELECTION OF CANDIDATES
The selection of the successful candidate will be determined with primary consideration given to performance, demonstrated ability and qualifications. After these factors have been carefully considered, if two or more candidates for the vacancy are equally qualified based on the aforementioned criteria, then seniority shall be the determ ning factor in the selection of the successful applicant for the position. . Employees covered b) this Agreement will be considered for selection regarding vacant Local 888 positions after Local 888 applicants but before applicants,from any other sources, provided they apply during the appropriate posting period. Non-selection regarding vacant Local 888 positions will not be subject to the grievance procedure.
FUNDING
If a position is funded as opposed to being supported by a regular budgetary line, a notation should be made on the posting of this fact; in this manner, employees will be aware that this is a term appointment rather than an indefinite one.
FREQUENCY OF APPLYING FOR A POSTED POSITION
There shall be no limitation on the number of times an individual who is eligible may bid on posted positions, except that after an employee has successfully bid and has been accepted, the employee must wait six (6) months before bidding on anot ier position.
RECLASSIFICATIONS WITHIN DEPARTMENT S
Where, because of increase in duties and responsibilit y or for other bona-fide reasons, a department wishes to recommend that a position be reclassified, the reclassification procedure shall be followed. This reclassification cannot be used, ziowever, to promote an existing employee into a vacant position. In such a case, the vacant position must be posted as outlined above.
26
ARTICLE 33	- POSITION CLASSIFICATION REVIEW
1.	An employee wishing to request a position classification review will submit a completed request to the Department Head/Director and simultaneously send a copy to the appropriate personnel office on forms designed by Rutgers. The personnel office will complete such review within eight (8) weeks, with a two (2) week extension if necessary, after signoff of the forms by the Vice President/Provost, or consultation by University Human Resources with the employee’s department. Compensation for any new job classification will be effective retroactively to the payroll begin date following receipt of completed request-for-review materials at the appropriate personnel office.
2.	If the employee is dissatisfied with the results of the review, he/she may appeal within six (6) weeks to the Office of Wage & Salary Administration for a second review of the classification material. Such review will be completed within six (6) weeks with a two (2) week extension if necessary.
3.	, If the employee and the Union are dissatisfied with the decision of this first appeal the Union may, within thirty (30) days of receipt of that decision, submit the appeal to a neutral Classification Review Officer (CRO).
The Classification Review Officer, who will be an expert in the field of salary and classification, will be selected mutually by the Union and the University and will serve for the duration of the Agreement.
The Classification Review Officer will consider each case appealed to him/her on its individual merits and any determination by the Classification Review Officer will not be applicable to other employees. The Classification Review Officer will conduct hearings in an expeditious and informal manner. The Classification Review Officer will submit his/her written recommendations to the parties within thirty (30) calendar days of the hearing date or any extension mutually agreed to by the parties.
4.	The determination of the Classification Review Officer will not be denied arbitrarily by the University; the University will provide reasons in writing for any denial of a Classification Review Officer determination.
A decision by the University not to reclassify an individual position whose reclassification has been recommended by the CRO will not be made for budgetary reasons.
5.	If a position classification review is requested of Wage & Salary by other than the incumbent in the position, the incumbent shall be informed by Wage & Salary that such a review has been initiated. Contents of the job description submitted and the decision of Wage & Salary will be shared by the department with the incumbent. The employee has the right to respond in writing to Wage & Salary, with a copy to his/her supervisor, concerning al' data submitted to Wage & Salary.
27
6.	Wage & Salary will inform the Union of any changin the form and the rationale for the
change.
7.	When an employee's position has been reclassified to a lower level, the employee may accept the downgrade; may use the layoff, bumping procedure or may appeal the downgrade through steps two and three of this proc edure. If the latter option is chosen, no salary reduction will be implemented until th;: payroll begin date after the final decision is made.
ARTICLE 34	- JOB EVALUATIO N MANUAL
Rutgers shall provide to the Union a job evaluatior manual containing job descriptions for all jobs in the bargaining unit.
In the event that Rutgers establishes a new bargainir g unit job title or changes the duties as described in the generic job description of an existing job title, the Union will be notified in writing of the new job title, the new job description and/or rhe changed generic job description, and the salary range assigned. If requested by the Union wit bin fifteen (15) working days of said notification, Rutgers and the Union shall negotiate the salary range assigned subject to the Public Employment Relations Commission rules governing negotiations. Any range designation established through said negotiations will be retroactive to the date of said notification. Retroactive payment shall be applicable only to those employees who are in said title at the time of agreement on the designation.
A list of all bargaining unit employees promoted or reclassified out of the unit will be sent to the Union President on a monthly basis. Copies of tie administrative job posting sheets will be sent to the Union President as produced.
ARTICLE 35	- BULLETIN BOARDS
Rutgers shall provide for each agreed-upon area a bulletin board, space on a bulletin board or space for a bulletin board for posting by Union r ::presentatives of notices related to official Union matters. The Union agrees that notices posted on such bulletin boards shall only contain material related to official Local 1761 business.
ARTICLE 36	- SAFETY COMMITTEE
Rutgers and the Union agree to establish jointly a committee to discuss mutual problems concerning employee safety and health. The committee shall be a standing committee, and once constituted shall meet regularly bimonthly to discuss long range, overall safety and health problems of employees. Video Display Terminals and their operation will be discussed at such safety committee meetings. Immediate safety problems should be reported to the supervisor or to the Department of Radiation and Environmental Health and S ifety. The Union may appoint two
28
(2)	employees who shall not lose pay for the time spent at committee meetings. A representative of AFSCME may attend committee meetings.
ARTICLE 37	- UNIVERSITY PROCEDURES
Rutgers and the Union agree that employees shall be entitled to enjoy, and shall be subject to, all terms and conditions of employment applicable to the bargaining unit provided for in the University Regulations, Procedures, and Forms Usage Manual and not provided for herein. During the life of the Agreement, any change in the University Regulations, Procedures, and Forms Usage Manual affecting terms and conditions of employment of members of the bargaining unit shall be negotiated.
ARTICLE 38	- RETIREMENT AND LIFE INSURANCE BENEFITS
Appointed employees shall be eligible for participation in the Public Employees Retirement System consistent with its rules and regulations. Should there be changes made in this plan by legislation during the.term of this Agreement, all such changes appropriate to members of this negotiating unit shall be made and effected in accordance with the provisions of such legislation.
Administrative rules are established by the Division of Pensions and Rutgers.
ARTICLE 39	- HEALTH BENEFITS
Members of the bargaining unit , who are eligible for health insurance benefits coverage and who are hired on or after March 17, 2004 shaft not be eligible for enrollment in the Traditional Plan.
All employees represented by the Union who are eligible for health insurance benefits coverage under P.L. 1961 c.49 (N.J.S.A. 52:14-17.25 et seq) shall pay premium or periodic charges therefore, and shall be subject to other changes in health benefits eligibility and coverage, on the same basis and to the same extent as the State establishes for State AFSCME employees. This provision will become effective July 1, 2000.
ARTICLE 40	- TEN-MONTH EMPLOYEES
Full time employees appointed on a regular 10-month basis (those employed for the standard academic year beginning September 1 and ending June 30) generally receive benefits on a pro-rata basis except for holiday pay which will be granted for those holidays that fall during the academic year only.
29
ARTICLE 41	- PERSONNEL FILES
Only authorized personnel shall have access to emp oyee personnel files.
All employees shall have access to their central personnel files to review their employee records. The request for review of such records shall b: made in writing in advance to the Division of Personnel and such review shall be during regular office hours. An employee may respond in writing to any document in the file. Such response shall become a part of the file.
In addition, upon a specific written request by ;i n employee, the Union, through a designated steward or Union officer, shall have the right io review that employee's file. Such request for review shall state the reason for the request and shall be scheduled in advance with the Division of Personnel and shall take place during regular business hours. Grievances and Classification Review records shall not be a pah of the employee's personnel file. When any such documents are found in the personnel file, they shall be removed.
ARTICLE 42	- GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.	This Agreement supersedes any individual agreemtnt between an individual employee and Rutgers.
2.	Rutgers and the Union recognize the commitment of the University to its students to provide part time employment. Rutgers will not use: undents to undermine the bargaining unit.
3.	Employees may be given permission to attend classes during the workday, provided the attendance at such classes does not interfere with the normal operation of the work unit, where such classes are related to the employee’; job or career improvement and arrangements are made to make up the lost time. Any such arrangement shall be subject to approval by Rutgers.
4.	The annual motor vehicle registration fee tor employe .:s wishing to register their vehicles for the use of surface campus parking facilities shall be l/10th of 1% of the employee's annual salary for employees earning less than $25,01)0. Thereafter, beginning January 1993, for salaries from $25,000 to $29,999 the rate shall be 1 1/lOOth of one percent (.0011).	For	salaries	from	$30,000 to	$34,999, the ra:e shall be	12/100th of one percent
(.0012).	For	salaries	from	$35,000 to	$39,999 the ra :e shall be	14/100th of one percent
(.0014).	For	salaries	from	$40,000 to	$44,999 the ra e shall be	16/100th of one percent
(.0016).	For	salaries	from	$45,000 to	$49,999 the rai e shall be	18/100th of one percent
(.0018). Thereafter, the rate shall increase 2/100th of one percent (.0002) for each additional $10,000 of salary or portion thereof, the n;:w rate to be applied to the entire salary.
The fee shall be based on the employee's annual salary it the time of billing.
30
To the extent permitted by law, effective with the registration next following January 1, 2000, employees who pay the motor vehicle registration fee foi the use of campus parking facilities by way of payroll deduction shall be given the option of paying said fee by way of a pretax payroll deduction.
5.	Rutgers and the Union will establish a committee to study the concept and feasibility of a career ladder program. This committee shall be a standing committee consisting of three (3) Union and three (3) University members. Rutgers and the Union agree that the committee shall first discuss opportunities for technical training in the computer and word processing fields.
6.	Rutgers agrees to have raingear available for those postal employees who regularly pick up and deliver mail and in kiosks on the New Brunswick campus for the use of bus dispatchers. Rutgers agrees to have two (2) smocks or aprons available for employees in reprographics.
7.	Meal Allowance. Employees who are required to work for twelve (12) consecutive hours or more shall be entitled to one meal allowance $6.25 effective July 1, 2007; $6.50 effective July 1,2008; $6.75 effective July 1, 2009 and $7.00 effective July 1,2010.
8.	Dispatcher (University Police) and those employees assigned to the Post Office who are issued uniforms shall receive a uniform maintenance allowance of $100.00 effective July 1, 2007; $105.00 effective July I, 2008; $110.00 effective July 1, 2009 and $115.00 effective July 1, 2010. Rutgers agrees to explore problems in this area if any develop.
9.	At the request of an employee, access to his/her medical records which are maintained by the University will be granted. The request must be in writing and signed by the employee. The request must be made to the medical office where the records are maintained at least two (2) working days prior to the time the employee wishes to have access to such records. The original medical records may not leave the medical office where they are maintained and any inspection of the records must be completed in the presence of a member of the medical office staff during tegular working hours. The employee may purchase copies of such medical records for his/her use at a cost of $.10 per page.
10.	If the University cannot hire a successful applicant unless a salary higher than step 1 of the appropriate salary range is offered, the University will immediately notify the Union ihat it intends to offer or has offered the applicant such a salary, within that salary range, and will provide the Union with information about the position at issue. If the Union so wishes to negotiate particular future salaiy adjustments for that individual, the Union shall request such negotiations.
11.	As soon as practicable following the execution of this Agreement, Rutgers University will post this Agreement on the Office of Labor Relations’ website, and shall list on the website the name, address, telephone number and website of Local 1761.
12.	To the extent permitted by law, upon the effective date of this Agreement, the University will carry without charge by University campus mail up to thiee times per semester the
31
Local 1761 newsletter to its bargaining unit members. Local 1761 will not send, and the University will not carry, by campus mail any other matter except upon payment of appropriate United States Postal charges.
13.	At the close of the fiscal year, employees shall be refunded the deductions for meals made for regular salaried Dining Services employees for those full days on which an employee was absent from work on account of sickness, vacation, or other excused absence under this Agreement. In order to com xnsate the Division of Dining Services for said meals, Dining Services employees shah have the below deductions from their wages:
$ 1.25 per day effective July 1,200 ?
$1.50 per day effective July 1,20011 $1.75 per day effective July 1,200 i)1 $2.00 per day effective July 1,201)
ARTICLE 43	- WORKDAY >
For the sole purpose of determining administralive leave, personal holidays, holidays, vacation and sick leave as set forth in this Agreement, a workday for employees who work a thirty-five (35) hour workweek will be seven (7) consecu live hours and a workday for employees who work a forty (40) hour workweek will be eight (8) consecutive hours.
To the extent possible, Rutgers will use its best efforts to have the normal workweek of all full-time employees consist of five (5) consecutive days.
To the extent possible, Rutgers will use its best efforts to schedule employees to work Monday through Friday.
If a department decides to utilize a compress ed workweek it shall advise affected employees to contact UHR for inforpiation regarding usa ic of paid time off.
ARTICLE 44	-VDT OPE ILATORS
A full-time employee who operates a Video Display Terminal full time who is pregnant and is experiencing significant discomfort at her work si ‘lion may request reassignment to other work. Such request shall be granted in full or in part w ien there is comparable work available, and in accordance with the needs of the employee's department .. When it is not feasible to accommodate the employee, she shall be entitled to a leave without pay upon a doctor's certification that such leave is necessary. Under most ci rcumstances, she will be returned to the same or similar position. Grievances concerning leaves of absence will be arbitrable; grievances concerning assignment will be processed exclusively und ;ir Article 8, Section 15.
Full-time employees who operate VDTs on a full time basis shall be eligible for the cost of eyeglasses each year should there be a change in vi; ion requiring new glasses. The rate at which the employee will be reimbursed is as described in .Article 39.
32
ARTICLE 45	- SEVERABILITY
Rutgers and the Union understand and agree that all provisions of this Agreement are subject to law. In the event that any provision of this Agreement shall be rendered illegal or invalid under any applicable law, such illegality or invalidity shall affect only the particular provision which shall be deemed of no force and effect, but it shall not affect the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
Upon request of either party, the parties agree to meet and renegotiate the provision so affected.
ARTICLE 46	- PRINTING OF AGREEMENT
Rutgers shall be responsible for reproducing this Agreement and will furnish a sufficient number of copies to the Union for distribution to employees in the unit. The printing cost shall be shared equally between Rutgers and the Union.
33
ARTICLE 47	- TE liM
This Agreement shall be effective from July 1,2007 unti 12:00 midnight on June 30,2011.
Dated:
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE, COUNTY AND
LOCAL UNION NO. 1761 AFFILIATED WITH AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE, COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL
34
APPENDIX A AFSCME LOCAL 1761 (COLT) JOB TITLES (ALPHABETICAL LIST)
Title	Range
Business Aide	“ 13
Carpenter/Scenery Painter	14
Classroom Assistant I	10
Classroom Assistant II	9
Computer Aided Design Technician	18
Computer Operator 1	17
Computer Operator II	14
Computer Operator III	11
Contract Post Office Clerk	13
Contract Post Office Head Clerk	15
Copier Operator I	13
Copier Operator II	9
Courier	10
Customer Services Representative	15
Data Control Coordinator I	17
Data Entry' Machine Operator	8
Data Processing Machine Operator I	13
Day Care Teacher’s Assistant	10
Digital Electronics Service Technician	19
Dispatcher (Buses)	11
Dispatcher	14
Dispatcher 9-1-1	15
EDC Assistant - PBP	14
Electronics Technician	14
Equipment Manager Athletics	19.
Events Coordinator	15
Financial Aid Technician	17
Finishing Clerk I	11
Graphics. Coordinator	15
Graphics Technician	13
Head Accounting Clerk	15
Head Audio Visual Technician	16
Head Clerk	15
Head Clerk Bookkeeper	15
Head Data Entry Machine Operator	15
Head PBP Clerk	15
Head Postal Clerk	12
Head Registrations Clerk	17
Head Stock Clerk	15
Health & Safety Technician	16
35
Health Technician II	15
Health Technician III	13
Instrument Maker/Repairer	20
Laboratory Animal Care Tech	10
Laboratory Animal Care Tech - Nwk	12
Laboratory Assistant	8
Laboratory Services Assistant (RC)	13
Laboratory Technician	13
Lead Copier Operator	18
Lead Finishing Clerk	15
Lead Library Utility Worker	13
Lead Offset Print Operator	20
Library Assistant II	13
Library Assistant III	10
Marketing Assistant	: 15
Network Installation Assistant
Network Installation Technician	19
Offset Press Operator I	14
Pharmacy Technician	13
Postal Clerk	10
Principal Accounting Clerk	13
Principal Audio-Visual Technician	13
Principal Clerk	11
Principal Clerk Bookkeeper	12
Principal Clerk Typist	’	■	12
Principal Data Entry Machine Operator	13
Principal Laboratory Animal Care Tech - Nwk	17
Principal Laboratory Animal Care Tech	15
Principal Laboratory Assistant	11
Principal Laboratory Technician	18
Principal PBP Clerk	13
Principal Secretary	13
Principal Secretary - Languages	14	T
Principal Secretary - Technician	14
Principal Stock Clerk	13
Printing Operator I	15
Printing Operator II	13
Program Assistant	13
Property & Supply Worker	12
Publications Assistant	15
Receptionist	8
Registration/Records Clerk	11
Research Aide	13
Secretarial Assistant II	17
Secretarial Assistant III	15
Secretarial Assistant - Languages	16
Secretarial Assistant - Technical	16
36
Secretary t	10
Secretary - Languages	11
Secretary - Technical	11
Secretary - Word Processing	11
Senior Accounting Clerk	10
Senior Admissions Clerk	13
Senior Classroom Assistant	11
Senior Clerk	8
Senior Clerk Bookkeeper	9
Senior Clerk Typist	9
Senior Data Entry Machine Operator	10
Senior Financial Aid Clerk	13
Senior Laboratory Animal Care Tech - Nwk	15
Senior Laboratory Animal Care Tech	13
Senior Laboratory Mechanic	16
Senior Laboratory Technician	16
Senior Rcgistration/Records Clerk	13
Senior Sales Clerk	9
Senior Stock Clerk	10
Senior Television Technician	16
Senior Teller	9
Stock Clerk	8
Theater Technician	14
Unit Coordinator	13
37
APPENDIX B EXPANDED COLT JOB FAMILIES
Secretarial	Range
Sec Asst II	17
Sec Asst-Lang	16
Sec Asst-Tech	16
Sec Asst-HI	15
Health Tech II	15
Prin Secretary-Lang	14
Prin Secretary-Tech	14
Prin Secretary	13
Health Tech III	13
Principal Clk Typist	12
Secretary-Lang	11
Secretary-Tech	11
Sec-Word Processing	11
Secretary	10
Sr Clk Typist	9
Laboratory	Range
Inst Maker/Repairer	20
Prin Lab Tech	18
Prin Animal Care Tech-Nwk	17
Electro/Mechanical Tech	16
Health & Safety Tech	16
Sr Lab Mechanic	16
Sr Lab Tech	16
Sr Lab Animal Care Tech-Nwk	15
Prin Lab Animal Care Tech	15
Lab Services Asst (RC)	13
Lab Technician	13
Sr Lab Animal Care Tech	13
Lab Animal Care Tech - Nwk	12
Prin Lab Asst	11
Lab Animal Care Tech	10
Lab Asst	8
OfficeClerks	Range
Financial Aid Technician	17
Head Registration Clerk	17
Dispatcher 9-1-1	15
Events Coordinator	15
Head Accounting Clerk	15
Head Clerk	15
Head Clerk Bookkeeper	15
Head PBP Clerk	15
38
Marketing Asst	15
Publications Asst	15
Dispatcher	14
Business Aide	13
Lead Lib Utility Worker	13
Library Asst II	13
Pharmacy Technician	13
Prin Accounting Clerk	13
Prin PBP Clerk	13
Program Asst	13
Research Aide	13
Sr Admissions Clerk	13
Sr Financial Aid Clerk	13
Sr Registration/Records Clerk	13
Unit Coord	13
Prin Clerk Bookkeeper	12
Dispatcher (Buses)	11
Prin Clerk	11
Registration/Records Clerk	11
Senior Classroom Assistant	11
Classroom Asst. I	10
Day Care Teachers Assistant	10
Library Asst III	10
Sr Accounting Clerk	10
Classroom Asst. II	9
Sr Clerk Bookkeeper	9
Sr Sales Clerk	9
Sr Teller	9
Receptionist	8
Sr Clerk	8
Stores & Mail Clerk	Range
Equipment Manager Athletics	19
Contract Post Office Hd Clk	15
Head Stock Clerk	15
Prin Stock Clerk	13
Contract Post Office Clk	13
Property & Supply Worker	12
Head Postal Clerk	12
Sr Stock Clerk	10
Courier	9
Postal Clerk	9
Stock Clerk	8
39
Machine Operators
Lead Offset Press Operator Lead Copier Operator Customer Services Rep Lead Finishing Clerk Printing Operator I Offset Press Operator I Copier Operator I Printing Operator II Finishing Clerk I Copier Operator II
Range
20
18
15
15
15
14
13
13
11
9
Comp-DP Keypunch	Range
Digital Electronics Svc Tech	19
Network Installation Tech	19
Computer Aided Design Tech	18
Computer Operator I	17
Data Control Coordinator I	17
Head Data Entry Mach Oper	15
Computer Operator II	14
Network Installation Asst	14
Data Processing Mach Oper I	13
Prin Data Entry Mach Oper	13
Computer Operator III	11
Sr Data Entry Mach Oper	10
Data Entry Mach Oper	8
Audio-Visual
Head Audio-Visual Tech Sr Television Tech Graphics Coord Carpenter/Scenery Painter Electronics Technician Theater Technician Graphics Technician Prin Audio-Visual Tech
Range
16
16
15
14
14
13
13
13
40
APPENDIX C
COLT JOB TITLES BY FAMILY
Account Clerk
Head Accounting Clerk
Principal Accounting Clerk
Senior Account Clerk
Animal Caretaker - IAB Laboratory
Prin Lab Animal Care Tech - Nwk
Sr Lab Animal Care Tech - Nwk
Lab Animal Care Tech - Nwk
Animal Caretaker - Laboratory
Prin Lab Animal Care Tech
Sr Lab Animal Care Tech
Lab Animal Care Tech
Audio Visual-Technician
Head Audio-Visual Technician
Principal Audio-Visual Technician
Clerk
Head Clerk
Principal Clerk
Senior Clerk
Clerk Bookkeeper
Head Clerk Bookkeeper
Principal Clerk Bookkeeper
Senior Clerk Bookkeeper
Clerk Typist
Principal Clerk Typist
Senior Clerk Typist
Computer Operator
Computer Operator I
Computer Operator II
Computer Operator III
Computer Technician
Computer Aided Design Tech
Digital Electronics Service Tech
41
Copier Operator
Lead Copier Operator
Copier Operator I
Copier Operator II
Data Control Coordinator
Data Control Coordinator 1
Data Entry Machine Operator
Head Data Entry Machine Oper Principal Data Entry Machine Oper Senior Data Entry Machine Oper Data Entry Machine Oper
Data Processing Machine Operator
Data Processing Machine Oper I
Dispatcher ■ Buses
Dispatcher - Buses
Electronics Technician
Electronics Technician
Equipment Manager
Equipment Manager Athletics
Financial Aid
Financial Aid Technician
Senior Financial Aid Clerk
Finishing Clerk
Lead Finishing Clerk
Finishing Clerk I
Graphics
Graphics Coordinator
Graphics Technician
Health Technicians
Health Technician II
Health Technician III
Laboratory Assistant
Principal Lab Assistant Lab Assistant
42
Laboratory Mechanic
Instrument Maker Repairer Senior Lab Mechanic
Laboratory Technician
Principal Lab Technician Senior Lab Technician Lab Technician
Library Assistant
Library Assistant II Library Assistant III
Library Utility Worker
Lead Library Utility Worker
Miscellaneous
Business Aide
Carpenter/Scenery Painter Customer Services Representative Dispatcher
Electro/Mechanical Technician Events Coordinator
Health & Safety Technician Lab Services Assistant (RC) Marketing Assistant Pharmacy Technician Program Assistant Publications Assistant
Receptionist
Research Aide
Senior Classroom Assistant Theater Technician
Unit Coordinator
Day Care Teacher’s Assistant Senior Admissions Clerk Classroom Assistant I Classroom Assistant II Dispatcher (Buses) Dispatcher 9-1-1
Network Installation
Network Installation Technician Network Installation Assistant
43
Offset Press Operator
Lead Offset Press Operator
Offset Press Operator I
PBP Clerk
Head PBP Clerk
Principal PBP Clerk
Postal Clerk
Contract Post Office Head Clerk
Contract Post Office Clerk
Head Postal Clerk
Postal Clerk
Printing Operator
Printing Operator I
Printing Operator II
Registration Clerk
Head Registration Clerk
Senior Registration/Records Clerk
Registration/Records Clerk
Sales Clerk
Senior Sales Clerk
Secretarial
Secretarial Assistant II
Secretarial Assistant - Tech
Secretarial Assistant - Lang
Secretarial Assistant III
Principal Secretary - Lang
Principal Secretary - Tech
Principal Secretary
Secretary - Lang
Secretary * Tech
Secretary - Word Processing
Secretary
Stock Clerk
Head Stock Clerk
Property & Supply Worker
Senior Stock Cleric
Courier
Stock Clerk
Principal Stock Clerk
44
Teller
Senior Teller
TV Technician
Senior Television Technician
45
APPENDIX D
RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW JERSEY
THE OFFICE OF THE EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT F OR ADMINISTRATIVE AFFAIRS
COMPENSATION SCHEDULE - ANN) JAL SALARIES
EFFECTIVE JULY 1,20)7
SALARY TABLE: AFSCME LOCAL 1761
FISCAL DAYS: 261
RANGE	STEP:	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09
05	ANNL BIWK	23238 890,35	24196 927.05	25153 963.72	26095 999.81	27050 1036.40	28001 1072.8-	28948 1109.12	30063 1151.84	31025 1188.70
06	ANNL BIWK	24205 927.40	25208 965.83	26210 1004.22	27208 1042.46	28210 1080.85	292011 1119.05	30211 1157.51	31382 1202.38	32378 1240.54
07	ANNL BIWK	25227 966.56	26275 1006.71	27322 1046.82	28378 1087.28	29421 1127.25	3047*. 1167.5$	31525 1207.86	32756 1255.02	33808 1295.33
08	ANNL BIWK	26294 1007.44	27397 1049.70	28502 1092.04	29604 1134.26	30714 1176.79	31813 1218.85	32919 1261.27	34208 1310.66	35311 1352.92
09	ANNL Bl WK	27413 1050.31	28574 1094.79	29728 1139.01	30891 1183.57	32044 1227.74	33200 1272.04	34363 1316.60	35703 1367.94	36863 1412.38
10	ANNL BIWK	28589 1095.37	29801 1141.81	31016 1188.36	32236 1235.10	33450 1281.61	34660 1327.97	35870 1374.33	37294 1428.89	38508 1475.41
11	ANNL BIWK	29829 1142.88	31100 32375 1191.58 1240.43		33647 1289.16	34921 1337.97	36196 1386.82	37461 38953 1435.29 1492.46		40225 1541.19
12	ANNL BIWK	31120 1192.34	32457 1243.57	33791 1294.68	35132 1346.06	36465 1397.13	37803 1448.40	39131 1499.28	40692 1559.09	42028 1610.27
13	ANNL BIWK	32479 1244.41	33879 1298.05	35289 1352.07	36694 1405.91	38100 1459.78	39507 1513.68	40914 42557 1567.59 1630.54		43959 1684.26
14	ANNL Bl WK	33908 1299.16	35382 1355.64	36856 1412.11	38330 1468.59	39807 1525.18	41282 1581.69	42764 44475 1638.47 1704.03		45960 1760.92
15	ANNL Bl WK	35404 1356.48	36950 1415.71	38496 40053 1474.95 1534.60		41593 1593.61	43146 1653.11	44699 46495 1712.61 1781.42		48043 1840.73
16	ANNL Bl WK	36978 1416.79	38610 1479.32	40243 1541.88	41868 1604.14	43501 1666.71	45130 1729.12	46754 1791.35	48661 1864.41	50292 1926.90
17	ANNL BIWK	38633 1480.20	40348 1545.91	42061 1611.54	43770 1677.02	45479 1742.50	47190 1808.05	48904 1873.72	50901 1950.23	52613 2015.83
18	ANNL BIWK	40376 1546.98	42167 1615.60	43962 45761 1684.37 1753.30		47551 1821.88	49343 1890.54	51141 1959.43	53228 2039.39	55024 2108.20
19	ANNL Bl WK	42202 1616.94	44080 1688.89	45965 1761.12	47853 1833.45	49737 1905.64	51613 1977.51	53498 2049.74	55698 2134.03	57577 2206.02
20	ANNL BIWK	44112 1690.12	46095 1766.10	48073 1841.88	50056 1917.86	52034 1993.64	54008 2069.28	55995 58302 2145.41 2233.80		60280 2309.58
46
RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW JERSEY
THE OFFICE OF THE EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT FOR ADMINISTRATIVE AFFAIRS
COMPENSATION SCHEDULE - ANNUAL SALARIES
EFFECTIVE JULY 1,2008
FISCAL DAYS: 261
SALARY TABLE: AFSCME LOCAL 1761
RANGE	STEP:	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09
05	ANNL BIWK	23935 917.05	24922 954.87	25908 992.65	26878 1029.81	27862 1067.51	28841 1105.02	29816 1142.38	30965 1186.40	31956 1224.37
06	ANNL BIWK	2493J 955.22	25964 994.79	26996 1034.33	28024 1073.72	29056 1113.26	30084 1152.65	31117 1192.23	32323 1238.43	33349 1277.74
07	ANNL BIWK	25984 995.56	27063 1036.90	28142 1078.24	29229 1119.89	30304 1161.08	31388 1202.61	32471 1244.10	33739 1292.69	34822 1334.18
08	ANNL BIWK	27083 1037.67	28219 1081.19	29357 1124.79	30492 1168.28	31635 1212.07	32767 1255.45	33907. 1299.12	35234 1349.97	36370 1393.49
09	ANNL BIWK	2823S 1081.81	29431 1127.63	30620 1173.19	31818 1219.09	33005 1264.56	34196 1310.20	35394 1356.10	36774 1408.97	37969 1454.76
10	ANNL BIWK	2944? 1128.24	30695 1176.06	31946 1223.99	33203 1272.15	34454 1320.08	35700 1367.82	36946 1415.56	38413 1471.77	39663 1519.66
11	ANNL BIWK	30724 1177.17	32033 1227.32	33346 1277.63	34656 1327.82	35969 1378.13	37282 1428.43	38585 1478.36	40122 1537.25	41432 1587.44
12	ANNL BIWK	32054 1228.13	33431 1280.89	34805 1333.53	36186 1386.44	37559 1439.05	38937 1491.84	40305 1544.26	41913 1605.87	43289 1658.59
13	ANNL BIWK	33453 ■ 1281.73	34895 1336.98	36348 1392.65	37795 1448.09	39243 1503.57	40692 1559.09	42141 1614.60	43834 1679.47	45278 1734.79
14	ANNL BIWK	34925 1338.13	36443 1396.29	37962 1454.49	39480 1512.65	41001 1570.92	42520 1629.12	44047 1687.63	45809 1755.14	47339 1813.76
15	ANNL BIWK	36466 1397.17	38059 1458.20	39651 1519.20	41255 1580.66	42841 1641.42	<4440 1702.69	46040 1763.99	47890 1834.87	49484 1895.94
16	ANNL BIWK	38087 1459.28	39768 1523.68	41450 1588.13	43124 1652.27	44806 1716.71	46484 1781.00	48157 1845.10	50121 1920.35	51801 1984.72
17	ANNL BIWK	39792 1524.60	41558 1592.27	43323 1659.89	45083 1727.32	46843 1794.76	48606 1862.30	50371 1929.93	52428 2008.74	54191 2076.29
18	ANNL BIWK	41587 1593.38	43432 1664,07	45281 1734.91	47134 1805.91	48978 1876.56	50823 1947.25	52675 2018.20	54825 2100.58	56675 2171.46
19	ANNL BIWK	43468 1665.45	45402 1739.55	47344 1813.95	49289 1888.47	51229 1962.80	53161 2036.82	55103 2111.23	57369 2198.05	59304 2272.19
20	ANNL BIWK	45435 1740.81	47478 1819.09	49515 1897.13	51558 1975.4)	53595 2053.45	55628 2131.35	57675 2209.78	60051 2300.81	62088 2378.86
47
RUTGERS, THE STATE UNI VERSIT' OF NEW JERSEY
THE OFFICE OF THE EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT FOR ADMINISTRATIVE AFFAIRS
COMPENSATION SCHEDULE ANNUAL SALARIES
EFFECTIVE JULY 1,2(09
SALARY TABLE: AFSCME LOCAL 1761
FISCAL DAYS: 261
RANGE	STEP:	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09
05	ANNL Bl WK	24773 949.16	25794 988.28	26815 1027.40	27819 1065.87	28837 1104.87	29850 1143.6!;	30860 1182.38	32049 1227.94	33074 1267.21
06	ANNL Bl WK	25804 988.66	26873 1029.62	27941 1070.54	29005 1111.31	30073 1152.23	31137 1192.9:	32206 1233.95	33454 1281.77	34516 4322.46
07	ANNL BIWK	26893 1030.39	28010 1073.19	29127 1115.98	30252 1159.09	31365 1201.73 ■	32487 1244.7?	33607 1287.63: 1 *	- 1 ,	34920 1337.94	36041 1380.89 ■'
08	ANNL BiWK	28031 1073.99	29207 1119.05	30384 1164.14	31559 1209.16	32742 1254.49	33914 1299.3!'	35094 1344.60:	36467 1397.21	37643 ; 1442.27
09	ANNL BIWK	29223 1119.66	30461 1167.09	31692 1214.26	32932 1261.77	34160 1308.82	35393 1356-Ot	36633 1403.57’	1 ‘ V i 38061 1458.28	39298 .1505.68'
10	ANNL BIWK	30478 1167.74	31769 1217.21	33064 1266.82	34365 1316.67	35660 1366.29	36950 1415.71	38239 1165.10	39757 1523.26	41051 1572.84:
11	ANNL BIWK	31799 1218.36	33154 1270.27	34513 1322.34	35869 1374.30	37228 1426.37	38587 1478.43	39935 1530.08	41526 1591.04	42882 1642.99
12	ANNL BIWK	33176 1271.12	34601 1325.71	36023 1380.20	37453 1434.99	38874 1489.43	40300 1544.07	41716 1598.32	43380 1662.07	44804 1716.63
13	ANNL BIWK	34624 1326.60	361)6 1383.76	37620 1441.38	39118 1498.78	40617 1536.21.	42116 ' 1613.64	43616 1671.12	45368 1738.24	46863 1795.52
14	ANNL BIWK	36147 1384.95	37719 1445.18	39291 ■1505.41	40862 1565.60	42436 1625.91	44008 1686.14	45589 1746.71	47412 1816.56	48996 1877.25
15	ANNL BIWK	37742 1446.06	39391 1509.24	41039 1572.38	42699 1635.98	44340 1698.86	45995 1762.27	47651 1825.71	49566 1899.09	51216 1962.30
16	ANNL BIWK	39420 1510.35	41160 1577.02	42901 1643.72	44633 1710.08	46374 1776.79	48111 1843.34	49842 1909.66	51875 1987.55	53614 2054.18
17	ANNL BIWK	41185 1577.97	43013 1648.01	44839 1717.97	46661 1787.78	48483 50307 1857.59 1927.48		52134 1997.48	54263 2079.05	56088 2148.97
18	ANNL BIWK	43043 1649.16	44952 1722.30	46866 1795.64	48784 1869.12	50692 1942.23	52602 2015.41	54519 088.86	56744 2174.10	58659 2247.48
19	ANNL BIWK	44989 1723.72	46991 1800.43	49001 1877.44	51014 1954.56	53022 2031.50	55022 2108.13	57032 ’.185.14	59377 2274.99	61380 2351.73
20	ANNL BIWK	47025 1801.73	49140 1882.76	51248 1963.53	53363 2044.56	55471 2125.33	57575 2205.94	59694 '287.13	62153 2381.35	64261 2462.11
48
RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW JERSEY
THE OFFICE OF THE EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT FOR ADMINISTRATIVE AFFAIRS
COMPENSATION SCHEDULE - ANNUAL SALARIES
EFFECTIVE JULY 1,2010
salary table: afscme local i w i
FISCAL DAYS; 261
RANGE	STEP;	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09
05	ANNL BIWK	25640 982.38	26697 1022.88	27754 1063.38	28793 1103.19	29846 1143.53	30895 1183.72	31940 1223.76	33171 1270.92	34232 1311.58
06	ANNL BIWK	26707 1023.26	27814 1065.68	28919 ifoi'ei	30020 1150.20	31126 1’92.57	32227 123 L76	33333 1277 :3	34625 1326.63	35724 1368.74
07	ANNL BIWK	27834 1066.44	28990 1110.73	30146 1155.02	31311 1199.66	32463 1243.80	33624 1288.28	34783 1332.69	36142 1384.76	37302 1429.20
08	ANNL BIWK	29012 1111.58	30229 1158.20	31447 1204.87	32664 1251.50	33888 1298.40	35101 1344.87	36322 1391.65	37743 1446.10	38961 1492.76
09	ANNL BIWK	30246 1158.86	31527 1207.94	32801 1256.75	34085 1305.94	35356 1354.64	36632 1403.53	37915 1452.69	39393 1509.32	40673 1558.36
10	ANNL BIWK	31545 1208.63	32881 1259.81	34221 1311.15	35568 1362.76	36908 1414.10	38243 1465.25	39577 1516.37	41148 1576.56	42488 1627.90
11	ANNL Bl WK	32912 1261.00	34314 1314.72	35721 1368.63	37124 1422.38	38531 1476.29	39938 1530.20	41333 1583.64	42979 1646.71	44383 1700.50
12	A' STL. Bi WK	. 34337 1315.60	35s 12 1372.il	37284 1428.51	387« 1485.22	40235 1541.38	4I7H 1573.13	43175 1554.26	44898 1720.23"	.46372 1776.71
13	ANNL BIWK	35836 1373.03	37380 1432.19	38937 1491.84	40487 1551.23	42039 1610.69	43590 1670.12	45143 1729.62	46956 1799 09	48503 1858.36
14	ANNL BIWK	37412 1433.41	39039 1495.75	40666 1558.09	42292 1620.39	43921 1682.80	45548 1745.14	47185 1807.86	49071 1880.12	50711 1942.96
15	ANNL BIWK	39063 1496.67	40770 1562.07	42475 1627.40	44193 1693.22	45892 1758.32	47605 1823.95	49319 1889.62	51301 1965.56	53009 2031.00
16	ANNL BIWK	40800 1563.22	42601 1632.23	44403 1701.27	46195 1769.93	47997 1838.97	49795 1907.86	51586 1976.48	53691 2057.13	55490 2126.06
17	ANNL BIWK	42626 1633.19	44518 1705.68	46408 1778.09	48294 1850.35	50180 1922.61	52068 1994.95	53959 2067.40	56162 2151.81	58051 2224.18
18	ANNL BIWK	44550 1706.90	46525 1782.57	48506 1858.47	50491 1934.53	52466 2010.20	54443 2085.94	56427 2161.96	58730 2250.20	60712 2326.14
19	ANNL BIWK	46564 1784.07	48636 1863.45	50716 1943.15	52799 2022.96	54878 2102.61	56948 2181.92	59028 2261.61	61455 2354.60	63528 2434.03
20	ANNL BIWK	48671 1864.79	50860 1948.66	53042 2032.27	55231 2116.14	57412 2199.70	59590 2283.15	61783 2367.17	64328 2464.68	66510 2548.28
49
______________APPENDIX E - page 1 <?f 2
RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW JERSEY CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED FOR USE OF SICE LEAVE TO CARE FOR A SERIOUSLY ILL FAMILY MEMBER
This form must be submitted to your supervisor for approval in advance of your absence to provide care for a seriously ill family member whenever possible. In cases when it is not possible to submit the form in advance, it must be submitted not later than 30 days after your .absence to provide care for a seriously ill family member.
Without prior and complete certification Sick Leave use will not be permitted for the employee.
I have read the DEFINITIONS on the reverse side and certify th$t .on the,, following DATE{S}:	, '	;
;	: I ■ . ■: I i ; .hn) !
____I will/did provide the following CARE
■ :	■■ : !■ ■' rl..r .	ll-'-
{please specify};:	' - ’
to my SERIOUSLY ILL FAMILY MEMBER___________i_______________________________
(Name of Seriously :11 family member)' ;
Who is my {check one) : □ Spouse □ Parent .	□ Child unde: 18 □ Child 18 or over
incapable of self care
Print Employee Name
Employee Signature
Date
I have read the DEFINITIONS on the reverse side and I certi:y that the individual named above as the SERIOUSLY ILL FAMILY MEMBER is my patient whoiiiffers from a SERIOUS HEALTH CONDITION as defined. I also certify that the above named t-.iployee of Rutgers University needs/needed to provide CARE for the seriously ill family me ^ber identified above on the following dates:
Please print or type Name of Health Care Provider	Type of Practice
Street Address	Telephone Number
City, State, Zip Code	Date of Certification
Signature of Health Care Provider	License Number
50
___________APPENDIX E - page 2 of 2___________
DEFINITIONS FOR USE OF SICK LEAVE TO CARE FOR A SERIOUSLY ILL FAMILY MEMBER
A, Illness, injury, impairment, physical or mental condition that involves one or more of the following:
1.	Inpatient care in a hospital, hospice, residential medical care facility for treatment, recovery, subsequent treatment in connection with the inpatient care.
2,	Continuing treatment for:
a.	a period of incapacity (inability to work, attend school, perform regular daily activities) for more than 3 consecutive calendar days if the period of incapacity also involves treatment two or more times by a health care provider followed by a regimen of continuing treatment under the supervision of a health care provider. Regimen includes a course of prescription medication or therapy requiring special equipment to resolve or alleviate the serious health condition, e, g ., oxygen.
b.	a period of incapacity-due to chronic serious health condition, A chronic condition is one which (1) requires periodic visits for treatment by a health care provider; (2) continues over an extended period of time; and (3) may cause episode rather than a continuing period of incapacity, e.g., asthma, diabetes, epilepsy, etc.
c,	a period of incapacity which is permanent or long term due to a condition for which treatment may not be effective such as Alzheimer's, a severe stroke, terminal stages of a disease.
d.	Medical intervention, such as chemotherapy, dialysis, etc.
A.	Ordinary cosmetic treatments, the common cold, flu, ear aches, upset stomach, minor ulcers,’ headaches, routine dental problems are not serious health conditions. Mental illness, stress or allergies are not a serious health condition unless all other conditions are met
B.	Substance abuse is not a serious health condition unless treatment by a health care provider is involved.
C.	Over the counter medication, bed rest, exercise, and other similar activities that can be initiated without a visit to a health care provider are not, by themselves, a regimen or treatment.
D.	Treatment does not include routine medical, physical, eye, or dental exams.
Care of a Seriously Ill Family Member is the employee's attendance at a hospital, health care facility, or at home, or transport to medical treatment, when certified by a health care provider. It does not cover matters unrelated to medical needs such as baby-sitting, running errands, and/or running a business for the family member while he/she is ill; for these purposed, the appropriate charge it vacation, administrative leave, personal holiday, or leave without pay.
Spouse is a husband or wife as recognized under New Jersey state law for purposes of marriage.
Child is a son/daughter of the employee under the age of 18 who is the biological, adopted, or foster child, stepchild, or legal ward; or over the age of 18 who is incapable of self care because of a mental or physical impairment.
Parent is a biological, adoptive, or step-parent, or legal guardian.
51
ADDENDA
The following Side Bar Agreements are included as addenda, but are not part of, the July 1,2007 to June 30,20011 colledive agreement.
SIDE BAR AGREEMENT BETWEEN RUTGERS AND LO CAL 1761 FOR THE JULY 1,1999 THROUGH JUNE 30,2003 AGREEMENT REGARDING THE RUTGERS/LOCAL 1761 JOINT COMPENSATION COMMITTEE
1.	Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, and AFSCM.E Local #1761 hereby establish a Joint Committee on Compensation (JCC).
2.	The JCC shall be composed of three (3) representatives irom AFSCME Local #1761 and three (3) representatives from Rutgers.
3.	The JCC shall meet no less than once per semester beginning in Fall 2000. The JCC agrees to jointly collect data/information which may be accomplis! ed through the establishment of subgroups.
4.	The JCC shall discuss various/altemate forms of compensation systems possible for different job titles in the unit with a view towards better informing th.: parties. For example, parties may gather information regarding:
___Job rate systems
___Seniority based compensation systems
___Performance based compensation systems
___Variable based compensation systems
___Peer based evaluation systems *. -	. - ■	-
___Incentive compensation systems
5.	The information may be used by the parties to formulate positions on salary and compensation during the next round of negotiations but shall, in no way, be binding on either party.
6.	Both parties agree that these discussions shall not be cons rued as tacit approval of any matter discussed.
1
SIDE BAR AGREEMENT FOR THE DISPLAY OF A BROCHURE AT NEW EMPLOYEE
ORIENATATION SESSIONS
THE STATE UNIVFPSnv OF NEW JERSEY
RUTGERS
Office of Labor Relations ■ Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey 60 College Avenue • NewBrunswick ■ New Jersey 08901-8541 (732)932-7162 ■ FAX: (732) 932-0010
April 20, 2004
Rich Gollin
AFSCME Council 52, Director 516 Johnston Avenue
Jersey City, NJ 07304
Re: AFSCME Local 1761 Brochure and New Employee Orientation
Dear Mr. Gollin:
Pursuant to an agreement reached on March 3, 2004, the University agrees to display a brochure, prepared and provided by, and relevant to, membership in Local 1761 at New Employee Orientation sessions.
Very truly yours
Hany M. Agnostak
Director, Office of Labor Relations
Cc: S. Russell
T. Torok
SIDE BAR AGREEMENT FOR ONE-RANGE UPGRAIE TO POSITIONS OF POSTAL CLERK AND COURIEIL
THE STATE UNIVERSITY O NEW JERSEY
RUTGERS
Office of Labor Relations • Rutgers. The State University of New Jersey 60 College Avenue • New Brunswick * New Jersey 08901 -8541 (732)932-7162 ■ FAX; {732) 932-0018
April 20.2004
Rich Gollin
AFSCME Council 52, Director 516 Johnston Avenue
Jersey City, NJ 07304
Re: Oi le Range Upgrade for the Position of Pcs tai Clerk and Courier
Dear Mr. Gollin:
Pursuant to an agreement reached on Marc h 3,2004, effective July 1,2004, the positions of Postal Clerk and Courier will each be upgraded one salary range from range 9 to range 10. Revised job descripttons v/ill Ije Issued to reflect these changes.
Very truly yours,
k
Hany M.
Director, Office of Labor Relations
Cc: S. Russell
P. Kelly
SIDE BAR AGREEMENT FOR RELEASE TIME FOR LOCAL 1761 PRESIDENT CHARLESETTA BYNES
THE STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW JERSEY
RUTGERS
Office of Labor Relations - Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey 60 College Avenue ■ New Brunswick ■ New Jersey 08901-8541 (732)932*7162 • FAX: (732) 932-0018
April 20, 2004
Rich Goilin
AFSCME Council 52, Director 516 Johnston Avenue
Jersey City, NJ 07304
Re: Release time for Local 1761 President
Chariesetta Bynes
Dear Mr. Goilin:
This correspondence reflects an agreement reached on March 3,2004, regarding union release time for Local 1761 President Chariesetta Bynes. Pursuant to our discussions, Ms. Bynes shall be released from work twice per week, from 1:00 to 4:30pm with the days being mutually agreed upon. Ms. Bynes will continue to work in her position as a Senior Laboratory Technician for her other regularly scheduled hours.
Should any matter, such as an arbitration hearings or meetings, which Ms. Bynes attends or participates In extend beyond 4:30pm on any day of the week, Ms Bynes will not make any claim for benefits or compensation under any provision of the collective negotiations agreement based on additional time spent beyond 4:30pm. In addition, Ms. Bynes shall receive such release time only as long as she remains in the title of AFSCME Local 1761 President.
Very truly yours,
rry M. Agnostak
Director, Office of Labor Relations
Cc: Dr. D. Fugman J. Schrum
Rutgers
University Human Resources
Office of Labor Relatlo s	www.uhr.rutgers.edu
University Human Res:’.trees	732-932-3020, Ext. 4040
Rutgers, The State Un tersity of New Jersey Fax: 732-932-0018 Administrative Service: Bullolng II 57 U.S. Highway 1 New Brunswick, NJ 08! >01-8554
July 18,2007
Rich Gollin, Director
AFSCME Council 52
516 Johnston Avenue
Jersey City, NJ 07304
Re: Salary Set-asides for 10-mon th Employees
Dear Mr. Gollin:
Rutgers will provide a representative from L niversity Human Resources to meet with interested members of the bargaining unit to e (plain to them, and to^^ist them in creating, an account with the Rutgers Federal C redit Union intol;which. IQ^month employees can directly deposit a portion of their alter-tax wages’shouRL they, desire to set aside money to be withdrawn during their two-r. lonth period of non-employment.
Rutgers will provide this informational meeti ng annually each September.
Sincerely,
Harry M. Agnostak, Assistant VP, Human Resources
Rutgers
University Human Resource
Office of Labor Relations
University Human Resources
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Administrative Services Building II
57 U.S. Highway 1
New Brunswick, NJ 08901-8554
www.uhr.rutgers edu 732-932-3020, Ext. 4040 Fax: 732-932-0018
July 18, 2007
Rich Gollin, Director
AFSCME Council 52
516 Johnston Avenue
Jersey City, NJ 07304
Re: Temporary Employees
Dear Mr. Gollin:
The parties are both committed to enforcing the provisions of Article 2 of the Agreement. To that end, the University, to the best of its capabilities, shall provide on October 1 of each year a list of temporary employees who have performed bargaining unit work as least 20 hours a week in excess of 12 consecutive months.
The parties further agree to meet and confer regarding this list should any issues arise.
The intent of this language is not to perpetuate the continued employment of an individual Type 4 employee beyond the contractual limits.
Sincerely,
Harry M. Agnostak, Assistant VP, Human Resources
Kutgers
University Human Resources
Office of Labor Relation s University Human Rest jrces Rutgers, The State Uni, ersity of New Jersey Administrative Service: Building II
57 U.S. Highway 1 New Brunswick, NJ 08$ j 1-8554
www.uhr.njtgers.edu 732-932-3020, Ext. 4040 Fax: 732-932-0018
July 18,2007
Rich Gollin, Director
AFSCME Council 52 516 Johnston Avenue Jersey City, NJ 07304
Re: Inactive Titles to be Deleted from Contract
Dear Mr. Gollin:
During a recent review of many of the job descriptions for titles within the AFSCME Local 1761 bargaining unit it was determined that many of the titles listed within Appendix A are inactive in that they have not been encumbered for at least five years and they represent functions that are obsolete or no longer required by the departments in which these positions existed.
While the University does not propose or suggest removal of these titles from among the titles properly recognized as within the A FSCME Local 1761 bargaining unit, the University intends to deem these titles as "Inactive" as a matter of administrative maintenance. Should a hiring need arise, the duties and responsibilities of which are determined to be within the scope of one of these titles, the title will simply be redeemed as "active" and any individual hired into such position will be recognized as bargaining-unit eligible so long as the individual meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the collective agreement's Recognition article.
Titles to be deemed Inactive:
s'	•RANGE'
Accounting Clerk	07
Addressograph Mimeo Mac.i Operator	05
ANIMAL CARETAKER-IAE LAB	09
ANIMAL CARETAKER-LA Ei	07
Assistant Equip Mgr Athletics	12
Assistant Instrument Maker/Repairer	18
Rutgers
University Human f?<1snurce5
Assistant Lab Mechanic	07
Assistant Museum Installer/Preparator	11
Assistant Photographer	
Audio-Visual Technician	08
Budget Clerk	09
Classroom Assistant	09
Clerk Bookkeeper	08
Clerk Stenographer	07
Clerk Transcriber	07
Clerk Transcriber - Lang	08
Clerk Typist	08
Clerk Typist - Lang	09
Clinic Assistant	12
Composing Machine Operator	07
Compositor Asst/Graphics (ICLE)	11
Compositor Coordinator	15
Computer Design Tech	19
Computer Operator/Libra rian	13
Computer Technician -Physics	16
Crew Rigger	16
Crime Analysis Technician	15
Curatorial Assistant	13
Customer Services Representative	13
Data Control Coordinator II	15
Data Processing Machine Oper II	09
Data Processing Machine Oper HI	07
Drafting Technician	10
Drafting Technician -	13
RUTGERS
11iiiversify Hu man Resoutcus
Electronics	
Electro/Set Compositor (ICLE)	09
Engineering Aide	09
Equipment Manager (N)	14
Equipment Manager Athletics	16
Financial Aid Clerk	09
Finishing Clerk II	08
General Clerk	08
Head Dispatcher - Buses	14
Head Drafting Technician	18
Head Offset Machine Operator	17
Head Photocopy/Reprographics Tech	15
Head Telephone Operator	12
Health & Safety Technician {Inel}	16
Health Technician I	18
Housing Access Coordinator	15
Insurance Clerk	12
Keypunch Operator	07
Lab Animal Care Tech	12
Lab Mechanic	14
Language Lab Assistant	13
Lead Postal Clerk	15
Librarian-Keypunch OPR -CCIS	11
Library Assistant 4	08
Library Assistant IV	08
Library Utility Worker	09
Lighting Specialist	14
Machinist	16
Medical Technician	15
Kutgers
University Human Rtssniiicc-s
Micromation Assistant	10
Micromation Technician	15
Museum Installer/Preparator	14
Office Machine Clerk	07
Offset Machine Operator	07
Offset Press Operator II	11
Offset/Bindery Machine Operator	07
Operations Coordinator	13
PBP Clerk	08
Photocopy/Reprographics . Tech	. 13
Photographer	14
Photographer Technician	
Photographic Communications Coord ,	17.
Photographic Tech-Publications	11
Postal Clerk/Tel ephone Operator	09
Postal Clerk/Telephone Operator-C	09
PPL ANIMAL CARETAKER -LAB	14
PPL ANIMAL CARETAKER-IAB LAB	16
Principal Drafting Technician	14
Principal Engineering Aide 1	w	u	16
Principal Keypunch Operator	13
Principal Office Machine Clerk	11
Principal Offset Machine Operator	13
Principal Statistical Clerk	11
Printing Operations Clerk	08
Printing Operator III	08
Rutgers
timverity Hmndii Vesnin
Production Assistant (SCP A)	13
Production Control Clerk	08
Promotional Assistant (UP) •	■ 07
Publications Clerk	11
Publications Compositor ■'	II
Radiologic Technician >	19
Sales Clerk	;	■■ 08
Scanner Measurer - Physic: i ■ •:	08
Secretarial Assistant I	; 19
Senior Architectural Drafting Tech	:■ '12
Senior Audio-Visual Technician	10 '■
Senior Clerk Typist - Lang	10
Senior Drafting Technician	12
Senior Electronics Technician	16
Senior Engineering Aide	14
Senior Keypunch Operator	09
Senior Lab Assistant	08
Senior Office Machine Cleri	08
Senior .Offset Machine Operator	10
Senior PBP Clerk	10
Senior Platemaker and Multilith Operator	07
Senior Scanner/Measurer -Physics	11
Senior Statistical Clerk	07
Senior Tandem Accelerator Technician	19
Senior Teller (SAR)	11
SR ANIMAL CARETAKER-IAB LAB	12
SR ANIMAL CARETAKERLAB	11
SR Photostat Operator	10
Rijtgers
I Inivf-rfiity Human Resources
Stage Hand/Electrician	14
Stage Manager	12
Statistical Assistant	13
Statistical Asst-Inst Research	13
Statistical Clerk	05
Studio Technician	14
Surplus Property Clerk	11
Tandem Accelerator Technician	15
Telephone Operator	11
Television Technician	14
Teller	07
Teller (SAR)	09
Ticket Sales Assistant	13
Ticket Sales Asst-Athletics	13
Typesetting Prod Assistant-UP	13
Typist - Technical	10
Varicomp/m-VIP Operator (PI)	11
Word Processing Machine Oper I	14
Word Processing Machine Oper II	11
Word Processing Machine Oper III	09
Sincerely,
Assistant VP, Human Resources
INDEX
A
Acting Capacity, 21
Administrative leave, 13
Adoption, 15
Alternate Day off, 13
Anniversary Date, 21
Arbitration, 6
Auto Allowance, 22
Automobile Liability Insurance, 23
B
Bereavement leave, 15
Biweekly Pay, 2)
Bulletin boards, 28
Bumping, 28
c
Call Back Pay, 22
Casual employee, 1
Change in Workshifts, 23
Child Care Leave, 16
Childbirth, 15
Classification Review Officer, 27
D
Definitions, I
Discharge, 7
Discipline. 7
Dues Deductions, 3
F
Family Leave, 16
G
General Provisions, 30
Grievance Procedure, 4
H
Health Benefits. 29
Holidays, 13
J
Job Description, 28
Job Evaluation Manual, 28
Job Posting Procedure, 24
Jury Duty, 17
L
Labor M anagement, 4
Layoff, 11), 24
Leave of Absence, 17
Life Insu ance Benefits, 29
M ■ '
Meal Allowance, 31
Military I eave; 16
Motor Viricle Registration, 30
N
Nondiscri inination, 4
o
Overtime, 21 ■
P
Part-time Employees, 13
Personnel P iles, 30
Pregnancy,15 .
Printing oi -be Agreement, 33
Promotion Compensation, 21
Promotion J Opportunities, 24
R
Rcclassific tion, 26
Rccruitmer t, 25
Regular Employee, 1
Represents ion Fee, 2
Resignation, 8
Rest Perioc13
Retirement S
s
Safety Committee, 28
Salary, 19
Selection, 2 !>
Seniority, 8
Severability, 33
Shift Preference, 23
Sick Leave. 14
Stewards, 3
V
T
Technological Change, 24
Temporary Employee, 1
Ten-Month Employees, 29
Term of Contract, 34
u
Uniform Maintenance Allowance, 31
Union Representatives, 3
University Procedures, 29
V
Vacant Positions, 24
Vacation, 11
VDT Operators, 32
w
Work Shifts, 23
Workday, 32
Workweek, 32
VI
U.S. Department of Labor
Employment Standards Administrat on Office of Labor-Management Standards Washington, D C. 20210
<1^11/20/2007
Rutgers University (clerical & lab technicians)
57 US Highway 1
New Brunswick, NJ 08901
To whom it may concern:
I am writing to formally request a copy of a labor agreement between your company. Rutgers University (clerical & lab technicians) and AFSCME.
The agreement will be placed in the collective bargaining agreements public file at the U.S. Department of Labor, in Washington, D.C. The collective bargaining agreements public file is a library of union contracts covering a 1,000 or more employees. The public file is primarily used by researchers but is available to anyone seeking information on employer/union contracts. If you wish to submit your agreement but would not like your agreement to be viewed by the general public, we can place th at agreement in our private files. These files are only viewable by select OLMS staff.
The latest copy we have of the Rutgers University (clerical *lab technicians) contract expired on 06/30/2007. We are requesting one copy of your most recent contract negotiated.
The copy can be sent to us at:
U.S. Department of Labor
Office of Labor Management Standards
200 Constitution Ave. NW Rm. N-1519
Washington, DC 20210
ATTN: Darnell Jeffries
Or email to: jeffries.damell.e@dol.gov
Thank your so much for your attention with this request.
Sincerely,	/
Darnell Jeffries
Reports and Disclosure Specialist