PROVISIONS FROM BOARDS OF ARBITRATION AWARDS AND
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS
BETWEEN
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
AND
THE PENNSYLVANIA STATE TROOPERS ASSOCIATION
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2000 TO JUNE 30, 2004
Distributed by: Pennsylvania State Police Bureau of Personnel Labor Relations Section Harrisburg, PA 17110 Phone 717-783-5534
INDEX
	Page
Article 1, Recognition	
Article 2, Prior Arbitration Awards & Agreements	
Article 3. Distribution of Booklet	
Article 4. Salaries	
Article 5. Union Security & Assessments	
Article 6. Scheduling	
Article 7. Overtime	
Article 8. Shift Differential	
Article 9. Call Time	
Article 10. Alert Time	
Article 11. Holidays	
Article 12. Personal Davs	
Article 13. Vacations	
Article 14. Sick Leave	
Article 15. Medical Leave Extension	
Article 16. Life Insurance	
Article 17. Survivor Benefits - PSTA Scholarship Fund	
Article 18. Disability Benefits	
Article 19. Hospital and Medical Insurance	
Article 20. Prescription Drug Program	
Article 21. Vision Care Plan	
Article 22. Dental Care Program	
Article 23. Doctor Office Visit Plan	
Article 24. Emergency Counseling Program	
Article 25. Retirement	
Article 26. Discipline	
Article 27. Legal Counsel	
Article 28. Grievance Procedure	
Article 29. Administrative Leave	
Article 30. Union Business	
Article 31. Personnel Files	
Article 32. Clothing Maintenance	
Article 33. Outside Employment	
Article 34. Reduction in Force	
Article 35. Member Treatment	
Article 36. Temporary Assignment	
Article 37. Specialized Positions and Training	
Article 38. Transfers	
Article 39. Badge	
2
	Page
Article 40, Car Utilization Study	
Article 41, Health Care Cost Containment Committee	
Article 42, Special Committee-Promotion System	
Article 43, Side Letters	
Article 44, Physical Fitness Committee	
Article 45, Family Care Leave	
Article 46, Non Work-Related Disabilities	
Article 47, Political Action Committee Deductions	
Article 48, Term of Agreement	
Appendix A, State Police Pay Schedule, July 1, 2000	
Appendix B, State Police Pay Schedule, July 1, 2001	
Appendix C, State Police Pay Schedule, July 1, 2002	
Appendix D, State Police Pay Schedule, July 1, 2003	
Appendix E, Index of References to Arbitration Awards & Agreements	
3
ARTICLE 1
RECOGNITION
Pursuant to Act 111 of 1968, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania recognizes the Pennsylvania State Troopers Association as the exclusive representative for collective bargaining purposes for all State Police members excluding the Commissioner, Deputy Commissioners and cadets.
ARTICLE 2
PRIOR ARBITRATION AWARDS AND AGREEMENTS
Section 1 All prior arbitration awards and agreements are hereinafter incorporated by reference and the provisions of the awards and agreements shall be applicable except as modified herein or by mutual agreement between the parties.
Section 2 If any of the awards by an arbitration panel are not implemented either as a result of legal impediment or failure to obtain legislation, then the Arbitration Panel shall be reconvened so that an equivalent benefit can be given in place of the benefit not granted. If the neutral chairman is not available then the parties shall select another neutral chairman by the method provided in Act 111 of the Commonwealth.
ARTICLE 3 DISTRIBUTION OF BOOKLET
The Commonwealth shall print and distribute to each member as quickly as possible the terms of this Agreement and other relevant provisions of previous awards and agreements.
ARTICLE 4
SALARIES
Section 1 Effective July 1, 2000, the base pay rates of Troopers in the State Police Pay Schedule shall be increased by 3.5%.
Section 2 Effective July 1, 2001, the base pay rates of Troopers in the State Police Pay Schedule shall be increased by 3.5%.
Section 3 Effective July 1, 2002, the base pay rates of Troopers in the State Police Pay Schedule shall be increased by 3.5%.
Section 4 Effective July 1, 2003, the base pay rates of Troopers in the State Police Pay Schedule shall be increased by 3.5%.
4
Section 5	There shall be maintained a rank differential between base rates within the ranks as follows:
a.	The rate for the rank of Corporal shall be 8.0% above the highest base (Step E) without longevity of a Trooper.
b.	The rate for the rank of Sergeant shall be 8.5% above the rate (Step E) without longevity of a Corporal;
c.	The rate for the rank of Lieutenant shall be 9.0% above the rate (Step E) without longevity of a Sergeant;
d.	The rate for the rank of Captain shall be 9.0% above the rate (Step E) without longevity of a Lieutenant;
e.	The rate for the rank of Major shall be 9.5% above the rate (Step E) without longevity of a Captain;
f.	The rate for the rank of Lt. Colonel shall be 10.0% above the rate (Step E) without longevity of a Major.
The existing step "E" for the rank of Corporal and above shall be the rate upon which the base differential shall be calculated.
Section 6	In addition to base salary, members shall be entitled to the longevity rate indicated for their years of service in the following table:
5.0% of base pay after five (5) years of service
6.0% of base pay after six (6) years of service
7.0% of base pay after seven (7) years of service
8.0% of base pay after eight (8) years of service
9.0% of base pay after nine (9) years of service
10.0% of base pay after ten (10) years of service
11.0% of base pay after eleven (11) years of service
12.0% of base pay after twelve (12) years of service
13.0% of base pay after thirteen (13) years of service
14.0% of base pay after fourteen (14) years of service
15.0% of base pay after fifteen (15) years of service
16.0% of base pay after sixteen (16) years of service
17.0% of base pay after seventeen (17) years of service
18.0% of base pay after eighteen (18) years of service
19.0% of base pay after nineteen (19) years of service
20.0% of base pay after twenty (20) years of service
21.0% of base pay after twenty-one (21) years of service
22.0% of base pay after twenty-two (22) years of service
5
23.0% of base pay after twenty-three (23) years of service
24.0% of base pay after twenty-four (24) years of service
25.0% of base pay after twenty-five (25) years of service
26.0% of base pay after twenty-six (26) years of service
27.0% of base pay after twenty-seven (27) years of service
28.0% of base pay after twenty-eight (28) years of service
Section 7	Members who graduate from the State Police Academy shall start at Step S of the Trooper pay range and shall have an anniversary date one year from the date of graduation. All members shall receive one increment each year on their anniversary date until they reach the maximum of their pay range.
Section 8	Members who are promoted shall be placed in the new pay range at the same step and longevity range as that held prior to the promotion with no change in the member's anniversary date or longevity date.
Section 9	In calculating length of service for longevity purposes, the date of a member's service shall be counted from the date of enlistment. For the purpose of this Article, a member's longevity date will not be adjusted for leaves without pay granted in accordance with Article 15, Sections 1 and 2 and Article 45, Section 1.
ARTICLE 5
UNION SECURITY & ASSESSMENTS
Section 1 The Commonwealth shall deduct the current PSTA arbitration assessment from compensation received by a member. The arbitration assessment shall be deducted at the rate of 1/26th of the total assessment from such member's paycheck each pay and shall be forwarded to the Pennsylvania State Troopers Association by the Commonwealth. For members who have not joined the PSTA, a service charge shall be deducted from their compensation as a contribution toward the administration of arbitration awards and the costs of collective bargaining and representation of members in the same manner and amount or percentage as the arbitration assessment. The biweekly amount to be deducted shall be certified to the Commonwealth by the PSTA. Upon failure to pay the charge or fee, the Commonwealth shall discharge the member when advised by the PSTA.
Section 2 Where a member has been suspended, furloughed, or discharged and subsequently returned to work, with full or partial back pay, or has been reclassified retroactively, the Commonwealth shall deduct the assessments and charges that are due and owing for the period for which the member receives back pay. Arbitration assessments and service charges will be resumed for members upon their return from leave of absence without pay or recall from furlough.
Section 3 The Commonwealth shall provide the PSTA, on a quarterly basis, a list of all State Police members excluding the Commissioner, Deputy Commissioners and cadets. This list shall contain the member's name, social security number, address, rank and work location.
6
Section 4 The PSTA shall indemnify and hold the Commonwealth harmless against any and all claims, suits, orders and judgments brought or issued against the Commonwealth as a result of the action taken or not taken by the Commonwealth under the provisions of this Article.
ARTICLE 6
SCHEDULING
Section 1	The workweek shall consist of any five workdays in the week from Saturday through Friday.
Section 2	The workday for all members shall be any eight consecutive hours, inclusive of the meal period, within the period from midnight to midnight of the calendar day; up to two (2) hours may be in the preceding or subsequent day. Should the time overlap of two (2) hours be exceeded by the Commonwealth, the member so assigned shall be paid time and one-half of his/her rate of pay, for all hours in excess of the two (2) hour overlap period.
Section 3	There shall be a minimum of eight hours off between shifts. When two shifts are worked with fewer than eight hours off, hours worked in the eight hour period beginning with the end of the first shift shall be paid at a rate of two and one-half times the hourly rate. A member shall receive no additional compensation for work performed during this period.
Section 4	A change in shift after the shift is posted may take place where twenty-four (24) hours'
notice is given prior to the start of the newly-scheduled shift. Any change in schedule without such notice shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all hours on that shift. This section shall not be construed as preventing such shift changes.
Section 5	A member shall not be required to remain within the jurisdiction of his/her station during non-working hours. This provision shall not apply to a member who is on alert time.
Section 6	A roster of bargaining unit members' shifts for the following week shall be posted at each work location no later than the Tuesday of the week preceding that described in the roster.
Section 7	Court Time
a.	Once posted as provided in Section 6 above, the roster shall not be changed as a result of the necessity for the member to be present at any judicial or administrative proceeding relating to or arising from the performance of his/her duties, except with the affected member's voluntary permission. No member shall be discriminated against for withholding such permission.
b.	In the event that the member would be required to be present at any judicial or administrative proceeding relating to or arising from the performance of his/her duties on a day or shift for which he/she had been scheduled off in accordance with the posted roster, he/she shall be compensated in accordance with Article 9.
7
ARTICLE 7
OVERTIME
Section 1 The Commonwealth shall pay one and one-half of the member's regular hourly rate for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) per day or forty (40) per week. The 8-hour day and the 40-hour week shall include all lunch periods. In calculating time worked, all time shall be included, except alert time. Time worked shall include, but not be limited to extension of work schedule, court time, magistrate's time, mandated school time, reserve time and stand-by time.
Section 2	Days taken by a member as sick leave days are to be counted as work days for the purpose of computing overtime.
Section 3	The Commonwealth shall pay one and one-half of the member's regular hourly rate for all consecutive hours worked in excess of eight whether they occurred in one or two calendar days.
ARTICLE 8
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
Section 1 A shift differential of 5% will be paid for any regularly scheduled shift which starts at or after 12:00 noon or before 10:30 p.m., provided the shift is worked. A shift differential of 6% will be paid for any regularly scheduled shift which starts at or after 10:30 p.m. or before 6:00 a.m., provided the shift is worked.
Section 2 Criminal Investigation personnel scheduled by the Employer to work during the hours set forth in Section 1 above shall be paid as therein provided. Shift differential shall not be paid to Criminal Investigation personnel when the hours worked are employee controlled or are incidental to the cases assigned to such personnel.
ARTICLE 9
CALL TIME
A member who has been called in to work outside of his/her scheduled shift shall be guaranteed a minimum of three (3) hours of pay at the member's regular hourly rate or shall be paid at the appropriate rate for all hours worked, whichever is greater. A member shall be released when the specific purpose of the call in has been satisfied.
The compensable period shall begin when the member is notified.
8
ARTICLE 10
ALERT TIME
Section 1	One-quarter pay shall be paid for alert time, defined as off-duty time when a member is
restricted as to where he/she may go or what he/she may do in order that he/she may quickly return to duty upon call. The compensation is to apply to situations when a member is alerted in connection with special circumstances (present or anticipated) and is not meant to cover any regular or rotational duty which may result in being recalled to active duty status.
Section 2	While alert time shall not be included in calculations to determine overtime pay, the Commonwealth shall not abuse the putting of members on alert.
ARTICLE 11 HOLIDAYS
Section 1	The following days shall be considered as holidays:
New Year's Day* Martin Luther King, Jr.
Day
Presidents' Day
Good Friday* Primary Election Day Memorial Day*
Independence Day* Labor Day* Columbus Day* Veterans' Day* General Election Day Thanksgiving Day* Christmas Day*
Section 2	A member who works on any of the above holidays will be given a compensatory day off. In addition, if the member's regular weekly days off coincide with a holiday, he/she shall be given a compensatory day off.
Section 3	If a holiday is observed while a member is on sick leave, annual or other paid leave status, he/she will receive his/her holiday pay and the day will not be charged against sick, annual, or other paid leave credits.
Section 4	If a member is required to work on one of the holidays designated by an asterisk above, the member shall receive double time for all work performed on such a holiday. In addition, the member shall receive compensatory time off for all hours worked up to eight (8.0) hours.
When a member voluntarily works on one of these holidays for a special enforcement program, the member will be paid at the rate of time and one-half provided the member was in compensable status for 40 other hours that week.
9
ARTICLE 12
PERSONAL DAYS
Section 1 Each member shall receive four personal leave days per calendar year. One personal leave day shall be earned during each one-quarter calendar year. Where practical, they are to be granted at the option of the member. All requests for personal leave shall be approved or disapproved no later than 10 working days prior to the commencement of the requested leave. Members may anticipate personal leave to which they may become entitled during the calendar year. Any member who anticipates such leave and who subsequently terminates employment shall reimburse the Employer for those days of personal leave used but not earned. The members shall be required to utilize two (2) personal days prior to the end of the pay period that includes June 30. If a member is required to work on a scheduled personal leave day and is unable to reschedule the day by the end of the pay period that includes June 30, due to the demands of his/her work, a 7 pay period extension will be granted.
Section 2 Personal leave shall be non-cumulative from calendar year to calendar year. If a member is required to work on his/her scheduled personal leave day and is unable to reschedule his/her personal day during the calendar year due to the demands of his/her work, the calendar year shall be extended for 7 pay periods for rescheduling purposes.
Section 3 For the purpose of this Article, the calendar year shall be defined as beginning with the member's first full pay period commencing on or after January 1 and continuing through the end of the member's pay period that includes December 31.
Section 1
ARTICLE 13
VACATIONS
Members shall earn leave according to the following schedule:
Service
Less than 1 year:
Annual leave will be earned at the rate of
3.85% of all Regular Hours Paid
Over 1 year to 13 years:
Annual leave will be earned at the rate of
5.77% of all Regular Hours Paid
Over 13 years to 21 years:
Annual leave will be earned at the rate of
7.70% of all Regular Hours Paid
Maximum Annual Leave Entitlement Per Year:
40 Hour Workweek:
80 Hours (10 days)
40 Hour Workweek: 120 Hours (15 days)
40 Hour Workweek: 160 Hours (20 days)
10
Over 21 years:	40 Hour Workweek:
Annual leave will be earned at the rate of 208 Hours (26 days) 10% of all Regular Hours Paid
Regular Hours Paid as used in this Article include all hours paid except overtime, alert time, call time and full-time out service training.
Members shall be credited with a year of service for each 26 pay periods completed in an active pay status provided they were paid a minimum of one hour in each pay period.
Length of service for the purpose of determining vacation earning rate shall include all periods of service as a Commonwealth employee.
Section 2 Annual leave may be carried over from one calendar year to the next to a maximum of 60 days (480 hours). If a member is unable to schedule his/her annual leave during the calendar year due to operational needs, the Employer shall offer the member his/her choice of either a 7 pay period extension of the calendar year for rescheduling purposes or payment for all unused accumulated days of vacation in excess of 60. If the member chooses to extend the calendar year but does not take the leave during the 7 pay period extension period, he/she shall then be paid for those days in excess of 60.
Members on disability leave who have been unable to take their annual leave resulting in an excess carry-over at the end of the year shall be authorized a 7 pay period extension upon return from disability leave.
In the event that the carryover of accumulated vacation would include a fraction of a day, the fraction will be rounded up or down to the nearest whole day.
All requests for annual leave shall be approved or disapproved no later than 10 working days prior to the commencement of the requested leave.
Section 3 A member shall have the right to have a minimum of four scheduled days off (non-compensable) contiguous with his/her annual or any other leave to which he/she may be entitled, provided that the scheduled compensable time off be at least five consecutive days in duration.
Section 4 A member's "Leave Period", which consists of at least five compensable non-work days, shall be deemed to have commenced at the end of the last scheduled shift prior to the scheduled leave and to end at the beginning of the member's first scheduled shift after leave has expired.
Section 5 If a member is recalled to work from approved annual or personal leave, the member is entitled to compensation for a minimum of eight hours at the rate of time and one-half for each day worked and the day will not be charged against the member's annual or personal leave. The member will also be granted a compensatory vacation day at a later date for each non-compensable day worked if he/she is recalled after a "Leave Period" as defined in Section 4 above has commenced.
11
Section 6 If a member has selected leave under a tentative leave schedule and the dates of such leave were not refused when the tentative schedule was constructed, then any member who has his/her leave or portion of leave canceled within thirty (30) days of the scheduled commencement of such leave shall be permitted to reschedule such leave at a time of his/her choosing, provided it is after the emergency that gave rise to the cancellation has ended and provided his/her request will not cause cancellation of the scheduled leave of another member.
Section 7 The requirement that no more than 10% of the members on a station can be off on leave at the same time shall not be mandatory. Consistent with operational requirements, leave requests shall not be unreasonably denied.
Section 8 For the purpose of this Article, the calendar year shall be defined as beginning with the member's first full pay period commencing on or after January 1 and continuing through the end of the member's pay period that includes December 31.
Section 1
ARTICLE 14
SICK LEAVE
Members shall earn sick leave in accordance with the following schedule:
Sick Leave will be earned at the rate of 6% of all Regular Hours Paid
Maximum Sick Leave
Entitlement Per Year
40 Hour Workweek:
124.8 hours (15.6 days)
Regular Hours Paid as used in this Article include all hours paid except overtime, alert time, call time and full-time out-service training.
Section 2 Accumulation
Members shall be permitted to accumulate sick leave that is unused each year to a maximum accumulation of 410 days (3280 hours).
Section 3 Members may use up to five days of sick leave for the death of a spouse, parent, stepparent, child, or stepchild and up to three days of sick leave may be used for the death of a brother, sister, grandparent, grandchild, son- or daughter-in-law, brother- or sister-in-law, parent-in-law, grandparent-in-law, aunt, uncle, or any relative residing in the member's household.
12
Section 4 Where sickness in the immediate family requires the member's absence from work, members may use not more than five days of sick leave entitlement in each calendar year for that purpose. Immediate family is defined as the following persons: husband, wife, child, or parent of such member. The Employer may require proof of such sickness.
Section 5	Buy-out
a.	Members who retire with less than 25 years of service shall be paid 35% of their accumulated unused sick leave not to exceed 117 days. Part days shall not be paid. The eligible dependents of a member who dies prior to retirement shall be paid 35% of the member's accumulated unused sick leave at the time of his/her death not to exceed 117 days. Part days shall not be paid.
b.	Members who retire with at least 25 years of service and eligible dependents of members who are killed in the line of duty shall be paid for full days of accumulated unused sick leave in accordance with the following schedule:
Days Available Percentage	Maximum
At Retirement	Buyout	Days
0-135	35%	47
136-235	40%	94
236-335	50%	167
over 335	100% of	75
	days over	
335
Section 6 In the event that a member is receiving Workers' Compensation, he/she shall be permitted to utilize sick leave to provide the difference in biweekly compensation between the monies received from Workers' Compensation and l00% of his/her normal biweekly compensation. Under such circumstances, sick leave shall be deducted from the member's accumulated sick leave in increments of one hour to equal the l00% maximum compensation.
Section 7 In accordance with Section 6 above, members who are not receiving Heart and Lung Act benefits may use sick leave to supplement Workers' Compensation benefits. The Workers' Compensation supplement will be the difference between net salary and Workers' Compensation and Social Security disability benefits (if applicable). Net salary is defined as gross base pay minus applicable payroll taxes and retirement contributions. The Employer will continue to remit appropriate payroll taxes and retirement contributions on behalf of the member. The hours of sick leave charged biweekly while the supplement is payable will be calculated by subtracting the Workers' Compensation amount from the member's regular gross pay and dividing the result by the member's hourly rate of pay, rounded to the next highest hour.
13
Upon determination by the Employer that a member is entitled to the Workers' Compensation supplement, the member will receive the supplement for a period of up to thirty (30) days or to the extent sick leave is available, during which time the member must elect to either continue receiving the Workers' Compensation supplement or to retire. In the event the member retires during the 30-day period, the member shall be paid for full days of accumulated unused sick leave in accordance with Section 5.b. of this Article. In the event the member elects to continue the Workers' Compensation supplement or makes no election within the 30-day period, the Workers' Compensation supplement will continue until sick leave is exhausted or until the member retires, whichever is earlier. If a member retires after the 30-day period, payment for accumulated unused sick leave will be in accordance with Section 5.a. or 5.b. of this Article, as applicable.
Section 8 For the purpose of this Article, the calendar year shall be defined as beginning with the member's first full pay period commencing on or after January 1 and continuing through the end of the member's pay period that includes December 31.
ARTICLE 15
MEDICAL LEAVE EXTENSION
Section 1	A member who becomes disabled because of illness or an off-the-job accident shall be entitled to six-months of leave without pay, during which time his/her Blue Cross/Blue Shield/Major Medical, supplemental health benefits, and Group Life Insurance shall continue in force and be paid for by the Commonwealth.
Section 2	A member who is granted parental leave without pay shall continue to receive Blue Cross/Blue Shield/Major Medical, supplemental health benefits, and Group Life Insurance benefits which shall be paid for by the Commonwealth for up to six months.
Section 3	Any extension of leave under Section 1 or 2 above shall be without benefits and shall be at the discretion of the Employer.
Section 4	A member shall not be required to use accumulated sick, annual and/or personal leave
prior to the commencement of a leave without pay under this Article.
ARTICLE 16 LIFE INSURANCE
The Employer shall assume the entire cost of the currently existing life insurance plan. The amount of insurance is based on the member's annual pay rate in effect on the preceding January 1, rounded to the nearest $1,000 but not to exceed $40,000.
14
ARTICLE 17
SURVIVOR BENEFITS
PSTA SCHOLARSHIP FUND
Section 1	In the event a member is killed in the line of duty, the eligible dependents of the deceased member shall be entitled to all medical benefits for a period of five years for the spouse, or until remarriage of the spouse, whichever is earlier and five years for the children.
Section 2	PSTA Scholarship Fund
a.	As of July 1 of each year of the contract, the Commonwealth shall deposit Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000.00) into an interest bearing account to be used for the purpose of providing scholarship assistance to state-related schools for dependents of members who were killed in the line of duty on or after July 1, 1988. The recipient, nature and amount of such assistance shall be determined by a committee composed of one representative from the Pennsylvania State Troopers Association and one designated by the Commissioner.
b.	Definitions
(1)	"Eligible dependent" means the spouse, child, stepchild or legally adopted child of a State Police member killed in the line of duty who qualifies as a dependent under IRS guidelines.
(2)	"State related schools" shall mean the following Pennsylvania institutions of higher learning: Pennsylvania State University, University of Pittsburgh, Temple, Lincoln, Bloomsburg, California, Cheyney, Clarion, East Stroudsburg, Edinboro, Indiana, Kutztown, Lock Haven, Mansfield, Millersville, Shippensburg, Slippery Rock or West Chester Universities.
(3)	"Killed in the line of duty" means any member whose death is attributable to work-related circumstances and approved under Act 101-102 of 1981 and the Public Safety Officers' Benefit Act of 1976.
(4)	"Full-time student" shall mean a minimum course work load of at least 12 credit
hours per semester.
(5)	"Approved program of higher education" shall mean scholarship assistance for enrollment in a degree program at a state-related school for eight semesters or the completion of a Baccalaureate degree, whichever occurs sooner.
c.	Scholarship Assistance for Eligible Dependents
A committee has been authorized to establish guidelines for the purpose of administering a scholarship assistance program pursuant to Section 2 of this Article.
15
Scholarship assistance shall be afforded to eligible dependents who are full-time students enrolled in an approved program of higher education at a state-related school within the Commonwealth. The student must meet admission requirements, must be accepted under the current admissions policy for course work and must remain in good academic standing at the completion of each semester, as defined by the institution of attendance. As a prerequisite to approving any assistance, students must execute a waiver with the institution for the Committee to be provided with a copy of the transcript of grades upon the completion of each semester.
d.	Amount of Scholarship
Scholarships awarded by the Committee will supplement available grants to the student and shall not exceed the cumulative total of tuition and fees of $1,000 per semester or up to $2,000 per academic year, whichever is the lesser.
Before becoming eligible for scholarship assistance, the student must apply for and declare all state and financial aid grants and authorize the Committee to receive and review any financial aid transcripts on file with the institution.
e.	Miscellaneous
Further implementation and interpretation of the guidelines enumerated herein are reserved to the Committee. The Committee reserves the right to change or amend the program subject to adequate notice which shall be distributed to all members. The determination of the Committee regarding interpretation of the guidelines is final.
ARTICLE 18
DISABILITY BENEFITS
Section 1 If a member has been found to be eligible for a disability retirement and if the disability has been found to be a permanent and total service-connected disability, such member shall receive a supplement equal to 70% of Final Average Salary less the sum of the regular disability retirement and the amounts payable under the Pennsylvania Workers’ Compensation Act, the Pennsylvania Occupational Disease Act and the Federal Social Security Act. The service-connected disability retirement supplement will continue as long as the member is determined to be permanently and totally disabled on account of the service-connected disability.
Section 2 If a member becomes injured while on duty, during the time of his/her disability, he/she shall continue to receive all benefits to which he/she would otherwise have become entitled, including pay increases and accumulation of annual leave.
16
ARTICLE 19
HOSPITAL AND MEDICAL INSURANCE *
The Employer shall continue to provide each member with 100% state-paid coverage under the present Blue Cross/Blue Shield and Major Medical Plan as modified below. In addition it shall provide dependency coverage where the dependents of the member qualify under such Plan.
The BC/BS/MM Plan shall be modified to include the Pre-certification Plan as described in the side letter between the parties dated October 15, 1985.
The Major Medical maximum for general medical expenses shall be $1,000,000 provided, however, that coverage for all general cases will be based upon the most cost effective but medically appropriate treatment alternative.
A voluntary case management program shall be instituted for all phases of the hospital and medical program.
Coverage under the BC/BS/MM plan shall cease on the date a member terminates employment. For the purpose of this Section, termination does not include retirement or death.
The Commonwealth shall pay the cost of coverage as outlined above.
ARTICLE 20
PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLAN*
The Commonwealth shall continue to provide the following prescription drug benefits to members and their eligible dependents: Drugs which by State or Federal law may be purchased only by prescription, insulin when written on a prescription form, oral contraceptives, and allergy extracts or antigens when not dispensed and administered by the same physician and drugs that are prescribed to treat injuries that members may incur as a direct result of Pennsylvania State Police employment. There is a $1 deductible per prescription.
The Commonwealth shall pay the cost of the coverage as outlined above.
17
ARTICLE 21
VISION CARE PLAN *
The Commonwealth shall provide the following vision care benefits to members and their eligible dependents: eye exams at 100% ucr, single vision lenses at $22, bifocal lenses at $36, trifocal lenses at $57, aphakic lenses at $80, medically necessary hard contacts at $100, medically necessary soft contacts at $150, cosmetic contacts at $52 and frames at $30. Dependents under age 19 are eligible for examination and lenses once during a 12-month period. Members and dependents 19 and older are eligible for examination and lenses once during a 24-month period. Members and dependents of any age are eligible for one set of frames in any 24-month period.
The Commonwealth shall pay the cost of the coverage as outlined above.
ARTICLE 22
DENTAL CARE PLAN *
The Commonwealth shall continue to provide members and their eligible dependents with a dental care plan at 100% ucr for basic diagnostic and preventive work, restorations, endodontics, periodontics, oral surgery, prosthodontics and orthodontics. The orthodontic lifetime maximum amount payable shall be $1000.
The Commonwealth shall pay the entire cost of coverage as outlined above.
ARTICLE 23
DOCTOR OFFICE VISIT PLAN *
The Commonwealth shall provide the following doctor office visit benefits to members and their eligible dependents: Medically necessary doctor office visits limited to $15 per visit and $100 per family per contract year.
ARTICLE 24
EMERGENCY COUNSELING PLAN *
Section 1	The Commonwealth shall provide members and their eligible dependents with emergency mental health psychotherapy services. The benefit will be administered by Pennsylvania Blue Shield in accordance with Section 2 below.
Section 2	This benefit provides twelve (12) medically necessary psychotherapy visits for each member and each eligible dependent per contract year. A member or dependent may use a licensed psychologist or psychiatrist of his/her choice and claims will be processed through Blue Shield under the following conditions:
18
a.	If a Blue Shield participating provider is chosen, payment will be made in full and the member or dependent will have no out-of-pocket expenses.
b.	If a non-participating provider is chosen, the member or dependent could experience some out-of-pocket expenses. The difference between the provider's charge and the Blue Shield allowance will not be eligible under Major Medical.
c.	Blue Cross/Blue Shield has the right to investigate claims and only those deemed medically necessary will be covered.
d.	Psychiatric evaluation services will not be covered.
Payment shall not be made under the ECP for visits covered under Workers' Compensation.
For a complete description of these benefits, including their limitations, exclusions and maximums, refer to the State Police Benefits Program Handbook for Pennsylvania State Police members and their dependents.
ARTICLE 25
RETIREMENT
Section 1 Blue Cross/Blue Shield/Major Medical, dental and prescription (except as provided in Section 2 below) coverage in effect at the time of retirement are to continue until the death of the retiring member, provided the member retires under the following conditions:
a.	Superannuation retirement (excluding vestees) or retirement with at least 25 years of service.
b.	Disability retirement.
c.	Retirement with at least 20 but less than 25 years of service, with at least 10 years of enlisted service with State Police (Military time, civilian service and service with another agency are not considered service with the State Police).
Section 2 For members who retire after July 1, 1995, the Retiree Major Medical Program shall not provide prescription drug benefits. Those benefits shall be provided solely by the prescription drug program carried into retirement.
19
Section 3 Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, a member, regardless of age, may also retire on or after July 1, 1989 with all health benefits that are currently carried into retirement under the following conditions:
a.	At 50% of the highest year salary after 20 years of service; or
b.	At 75% of the highest year salary after 25 years of service.
ARTICLE 26 DISCIPLINE
Section 1	Probationary Period
All Troopers shall serve a probationary period of 18 months from the date of original enlistment, during which time they may be dismissed by the Commissioner for violations of rules and regulations, incompetency, and inefficiency without action of a Court-Martial Board, the right of appeal to a civil court, or the grievance procedure.
Section 2	Suspension Without Pay
A member shall not be suspended without pay for more than 30 working days, unless the conduct falls within the purview of the Governor's Code of Conduct or the nature of such conduct could reasonably be construed to result in dismissal by the institution of court-martial proceedings, or the member is notified of dismissal after selecting the grievance procedure or recommendation for probationary review.
Section 3	Fringe Benefits During Suspension Without Pay
A member suspended without pay who has not been charged with a felony or misdemeanor under the laws of the United States, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, any other state(s) of the United States, and/or subdivisions thereof shall continue to receive the benefits provided under the State Police Health Program, the State Police Supplemental Benefits Program, and the Group Life Insurance Program during the period of suspension until such time as the cost of the benefits paid equals the amount of the member's accumulated retirement deductions and interest, plus the amount of all eligible leave payouts; at such time, the above benefits will terminate. If the member elects not to file a grievance, or the grievance is denied wholly or in part, for any reason, the member shall reimburse the Commonwealth for the cost of the benefits within 90 days of the final disposition or upon separation from the Department, whichever shall occur sooner. The member will be required to repay the Commonwealth for the cost of such benefits as follows:
a. For the State Police Health Program and the State Police Supplemental Benefits Program, the member will pay the monthly individual or multiparty premium that is charged to COBRA subscribers during the period of the suspension, minus the 2% administrative charge;
20
b.
For the Group Life Insurance Program, the member will pay the monthly contribution rate that the Agency would have paid during the period of suspension.
Such premiums will be paid whether or not any actual claims were incurred during the period of the suspension.
Suspensions of members who have been charged criminally with misdemeanors or felonies under the laws of the United States, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, any other state(s) of the United States, and/or subdivisions thereof, shall be reviewed by the Office of Administration on a case-by-case basis, in consultation with the PSTA and the Department, as necessary, to determine whether benefits will continue in accordance with the provisions of this Section. A decision will be rendered as soon as possible, but not later than 20 working days from the date the Department is notified of the filing of charges in the case of a member who has been charged criminally with a felony or work-related misdemeanor and not later than 20 working days from the date the Department notifies the member that the member is being suspended in the case of a member who has been charged criminally with a non work-related misdemeanor. If the aforementioned time limits are exceeded, benefits will continue in accordance with the provisions of this Section. The determination of the Office of Administration will not be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedures.
Benefits during suspensions of one full pay period or less shall be processed in accordance with the current practice.
Section 4	Court-Martial Board
Court-martial proceedings shall provide that the accused may name, or designate the PSTA to name one of the three members of the Court-Martial Board.
Section 5	Rights
a.	A member shall be advised of their Garrity/Miranda Rights when applicable.
b.	A member who is the subject of an administrative inquiry or internal investigation shall
be advised of and upon request, be afforded PSTA representation at any interview, predisposition conference, DAR issuance, or any hearing.
c.	Absent exigent circumstances, the member shall receive reasonable notice to arrange for PSTA representation and the member shall be required to arrange such representation within a reasonable time period. However, this does not give the interviewee the right to a specific representative, only to one that is nearest and most readily available.
d.	Any member who is interviewed in regards to an investigation and has reason to believe that their statements could result in administrative action being taken against them, shall be afforded PSTA representation if requested.
21
e.	A member, prior to the issuance of a DAR, shall be afforded the rights under Article 28, Section 2 of the grievance procedure.
f.	If a tape recording is made by the interviewer, a copy shall be furnished to the member upon written request within 15 working days of the completion of the interview of the subject of the investigation. In cases involving multiple subjects of investigation, the tape recording shall be furnished within 15 working days after the last interview is completed. During tape recorded interviews, members shall also be permitted to simultaneously tape record the interview consistent with those procedures jointly agreed to between the parties.
g.	At the issuance of a DAR, an accused member shall be given all information, evidence and all complete statements for any person who may/or may not testify if the statement will be used against the member. If the member is not given the statement, no part of the statement can be used against the member. An accused member shall be given the names of all persons who will testify for the Commonwealth no later than ten (10) working days prior to any hearing.
Section 6	Required Correspondence
When requested a member who is involved in or witness to an incident or is the subject of a complaint allegation, other than allegations of criminal conduct, shall record all the known facts of the involved incident in writing and direct it to their Commanding Officer or other designated authority. The request for all required correspondence shall be made to the member prior to any interview. Absent exigent circumstances, a member will be provided two (2) working days to submit said correspondence. If further information/ clarification is subsequently required, the member shall be given specific questions to be answered.
Section 7	Statute of Limitations
In cases of alleged criminal conduct, cases which could reasonably be construed to give rise to court-martial proceedings, alleged violations of the Governor's Code of Conduct, or cases in which a prosecutorial determination is sought, the Department shall complete its investigation and the member advised of the Troop Commander/Bureau Director's notice of administrative findings within 120 working days. The 120 working days will commence on the date the member is notified of the complaint, except as provided below:
a.	In cases involving alleged criminal conduct or requests for a prosecutorial determination,
the notice of administrative findings shall be issued within 60 working days from the date the Department receives written notice from the member of the disposition/adjudication of the criminal charge or the date the Department receives the prosecutorial determination.
b.	In all other cases the Department shall complete its investigation and the member advised of the Troop Commander/Bureau Director's notice of administrative findings within 90 working days of the date the Department is notified of the complaint.
22
c.
In court-martial cases the member shall be notified of the adjudicated penalty within 30 working days of the member's selection of the grievance procedure.
d. If the aforementioned time limits are not met, no discipline in the form of a suspension without pay may be initiated. However, the time limits may be waived by the Department upon a showing of just cause or by mutual agreement of both parties.
Except in cases alleging criminal conduct or cases which give rise to court-martial proceedings, no disciplinary action consisting of a suspension without pay shall be imposed for violations of Department rules and regulations which are discovered more than one year after the date of occurrence unless mandated by the Governor's Code of Conduct. This paragraph shall not apply upon a showing of proof that the member acted to prevent such discovery.
Section 8	Purging of Files
If a member is found not guilty of the charges, any information contained in the member's official personnel folder and Troop/Bureau personnel file shall be purged within 30 days of the findings and all purged material returned to the member. Unfounded, not sustained, policy void, or withdrawn investigations shall not be used for consideration in evaluations or specialized position selections.
All other purging shall be in accordance with established practice.
Section 9	Receipt of Complaints
An investigator, upon being assigned to conduct an internal investigation as the result of a citizen complaint, shall complete a complaint verification and shall request the complainant's signature attesting to the veracity of the complaint as set forth. Except in cases where criminal conduct is alleged or cases which could reasonably be construed to give rise to court-martial proceedings as determined by the Disciplinary Officer, if the complainant refuses to sign the verification, only a limited investigation for documentary purposes shall be conducted.
Anonymous Complaints: No investigation will be undertaken into anonymous complaints unless a substantiation of the allegation could give rise to criminal charges.
Section 10	Outside Employment
A member who is suspended without pay and submits a Request for Approval of Supplementary Employment will be notified of the approval or denial within three working days of the Department's receipt of any such request. The member may submit the request directly to the Director, Bureau of Personnel by the most expedient means available; e.g., FAX, express mail, etc. The Department's reply shall be sent to the PSTA by the most expedient means available. If the Department fails to respond to the PSTA within the time limitations, the member's request shall be considered approved.
23
A member who has a previously approved Request for Supplementary Employment, and is suspended without pay, may engage in the approved supplementary employment, and except as required by law, shall not be required to offset reimbursement if the member is found not guilty of all charges.
Section 11	Definitions
The term member shall include probationary Troopers except where excluded.
ARTICLE 27 LEGAL COUNSEL
Section 1	If a member is charged with a criminal action arising from the performance of his/her duties, he/she shall select local counsel in consultation with his/her Commanding Officer. The Commonwealth shall pay for the fees of such counsel to the extent the fees are in line with prevailing rates in the area.
Section 2	If a member is a defendant in a civil suit arising from the performance of his/her duties,
the Commonwealth shall immediately furnish counsel and defend the member.
Section 3	The Commonwealth shall be responsible for judgments rendered against the member in job-related suits where the member has acted within the scope and responsibility of his/her office.
ARTICLE 28
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 1	Scope
Grievances are limited to matters involving interpretation of this Agreement including all matters of discipline. Matters dealing with Heart & Lung claims and compensation/reimbursement issues will be addressed with limitations as directed in Sections 9 and 10.
Section 2	Rights
a.	Prior to the issuance of a DAR to a member at the Troop/Bureau level, the Troop Commander/Bureau Director will notify the member in writing of the pending action and furnish the member with a summary of any justification or information pertaining solely to the member, including but not limited to statements of all witnesses as well as copies of any test results being considered for use in the issuance of the proposed DAR.
Exception: The names of confidential witnesses shall not be released.
24
b.	Upon notification the member will have three working days to request a meeting with the Troop Commander/Bureau Director. During this meeting, the member shall provide all known information (such as but not limited to additional names of witnesses or other specifics) which might mitigate or alter the decision to issue the DAR. The member shall be permitted local PSTA representation for such meetings, if so desired. The member assumes responsibility for arranging such representation within 24 hours.
c.	The member and/or PSTA representative may, during this meeting, take notes and ask questions to determine the accuracy and relevancy of the information presented. The meeting will be held within five working days of the member's request.
Section 3	Grievance Steps
STEP 1. The member, either alone or accompanied by a PSTA representative, or the PSTA where entitled, shall present the grievance in writing to the member's Troop Commander/Bureau Director within fifteen (15) calendar days of its occurrence or knowledge of its occurrence.
Within ten (10) calendar days, the Troop Commander/Bureau Director or his/her designee shall conduct a hearing and provide a written STEP 1 decision to the member or the PSTA representative.
If additional information is provided by the member or the PSTA representative, the time limits may be extended an additional five (5) calendar days to review or further investigate the data. Prior to the grievance submission to STEP 2, the grievance may be amended by the member or the PSTA representative.
A member may appeal discipline beginning at STEP 2 of the grievance procedure, within fifteen (15) calendar days of the notice of discipline the member receives from the Disciplinary Officer. The grievance must be presented in writing and received or postmarked to the Office of Administration, Bureau of Labor Relations within the fifteen (15) calendar day period to be considered timely.
STEP 2. In the event the grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved in STEP 1, written appeal, if made, shall be by the member or PSTA to the Office of Administration, Bureau of Labor Relations, 404 Finance Building, Harrisburg, PA 17120. The written appeal shall be made and postmarked within five (5) calendar days of the Troop Commander's/Bureau Director's STEP 1 written decision. The written appeal to STEP 2 shall contain a copy of the grievance and a copy of the STEP 1 decision. Discipline grieved directly to STEP 2 shall also include a copy of the grievant's DAR, the grievant's response, if applicable, notification of disciplinary action, the grievant's proposed witnesses and all other supporting documents. A copy will also be sent to the PSTA President, 3625 Vartan Way, Harrisburg, PA 17110.
Upon receipt of the grievance at STEP 2, either the representative from the Bureau of Labor Relations or the PSTA Grievance Board Chairman shall schedule a grievance committee meeting consisting of members from the Employer (no more than five) and the PSTA Grievance Board (no more than five). The joint committee shall meet at least one day per month, unless the parties mutually agree otherwise.
25
The grievance committee shall meet for the purpose of reviewing the grievance(s) previously denied in writing at STEP 1 and appealed to STEP 2 and matters of discipline grieved directly to STEP 2. A list of grievances to be discussed shall be sent to the Bureau of Labor Relations' representative and the Director of Personnel, Pennsylvania State Police by the PSTA Grievance Board Chairman, within seven (7) calendar days, when possible, prior to the grievance committee meeting.
STEP 3.	If the grievance is not satisfactorily resolved by the grievance committee at
STEP 2, the grievance may be scheduled for arbitration by the PSTA Grievance Board Chairman by serving upon the Bureau of Labor Relations' representative notice, within ten (10) calendar days of the grievance committee meeting, of its intent to proceed to arbitration. The Bureau of Labor Relations representative and the PSTA Grievance Board Chairman shall determine hearing dates and arbitrator availability.
The Employer's decision at STEP 1 and the Committee's decision at STEP 2 shall not be used as a precedent for any subsequent case.
Section 4	Grievance Processing
An aggrieved member and PSTA representative, if member, and a reasonable number of witnesses, when required, shall be granted reasonable time during working hours, if required, to process grievances in accordance with this Article without loss of pay or leave time.
Section 5	PSTA Representation
The PSTA must have an opportunity to appear with the grievant at all steps of the grievance procedure. Subsequent to the issuance of the Disciplinary Officer's letter of adjudication the PSTA shall have the right to investigate all issues not incorporated within an investigation against a member, provided the issue has been brought to the attention of the Department and the Department chooses not to investigate the issue. Such follow-up investigation shall occur during off-duty hours, a member's badge of office shall not be used, and any expenses incurred therewith shall be borne exclusively by the PSTA.
Section 6	Grievance Resolution
The PSTA Grievance Board shall have the authority to settle or withdraw any grievance which does not have merit, does not comply with the time frames stated previously above, or does not comply with the guidelines established by the PSTA.
Section 7	Arbitrator and Site Selection
Five (5) neutral arbitrators are to be selected by the parties jointly to hear cases in the above procedure.
26
Either party may, at any time, remove a neutral arbitrator, selected by the parties, after giving the other party at least fifteen (15) days notice.
When a vacancy exists on the list of arbitrators, the parties should attempt to agree on a replacement within ten (10) calendar days. If the parties cannot agree, the parties shall request the American Arbitration Association to submit a list of seven (7) arbitrators. Upon receipt of such list, the parties shall alternately strike until one arbitrator needed to fill a vacancy remains. A new list shall be requested from the American Arbitration Association for each arbitrator to be selected. Only one arbitrator is to be selected from each list. The Commonwealth shall strike first.
The parties may mutually agree to schedule a hearing at a location agreeable to both. For discipline grievances, the hearing site will be at a neutral location within the geographical area of the Troop where the grievance arose, unless mutually agreed otherwise.
When the parties cannot agree to a hearing location due to a disagreement over the nature of the case, then the hearing site will be decided by the neutral arbitrator.
Section 8	Arbitrator Responsibility
Issues concerning timeliness or procedurally defective cases or matters on arbitrability will be decided prior to hearing the merits of the grievance. The arbitrator shall neither add to, subtract from nor modify the provisions of this Agreement or of the arbitration awards. The arbitrator shall confine himself/herself to the precise issue submitted for arbitration and shall have no authority to determine any other issues not so submitted to him/her.
The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on both parties. The arbitrator shall be requested to issue his/her decision within 30 days after the record is closed, but not to exceed 60 days.
If briefs are to be submitted, they must be postmarked within fifteen (15) working days of the hearing or the arbitrator shall decide the case without the late party's brief.
All of the time limits contained in the Article may be extended by mutual agreement. If the Commonwealth fails to respond in a timely manner in any step of the grievance procedure, the grievant and/or the PSTA may process the grievance to the next Step in the procedure.
All fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be divided equally between the parties. Each party shall bear the cost of preparing and presenting its own case. Either party desiring a record of the proceedings shall pay for the record and make a copy available without charge to the arbitrator.
Section 9	Heart and Lung Claims
Matters dealing with Heart & Lung shall be addressed in AR 4-4 as agreed to. Subsequent changes in AR 4-4 Heart & Lung Procedures shall be subject to bargaining.
27
Section 10	Reimbursement/Compensation Issues
All issues dealing with the application of compensation and reimbursement under FR 4-1, Loss of or Damage to State Property or Equipment, and FR 5-1, Travel & Subsistence, as presently written or modified by the Department, shall be submitted to a Board made up of one representative from the Department, one from the Office of Administration and one from the PSTA. The findings of the Board shall be final and binding. It is understood by the parties that the Board shall have no authority to amend the Commonwealth's travel regulations.
Section 11	Grievance/Court-Martial Procedure Selection
In the event a member is accused of an offense that would otherwise be subject to court-martial proceedings under Article 26, he/she shall be advised as follows:
Subsequent to the issuance of a DAR by the Troop Commander, if the Disciplinary Officer, with the concurrence of the Deputy Commissioner of Administration, directs that the member be court-martialed, the following shall apply for the selection of either court-martial procedure or grievance procedure:
a.	The member will receive written notice (form) that he/she may elect to challenge the accusation either through the court-martial procedure or the grievance procedure within seven (7) calendar days. When made, the election shall be irrevocable. If not made in a timely manner, it shall be conclusively presumed that the member has elected the grievance procedure.
b.	The written notice (form) will state no matter which procedure the member selects, he/she is subject to disciplinary action up to and including but not limited to dismissal, transfer, reduction in rank and/or potential suspension in excess of thirty (30) days.
c.	If the member selects the court-martial procedure, a request will be made of the Governor to convene such proceedings at which time charges and specifications will be issued, in writing, to the member.
d.	If the member selects the grievance procedure, the Commissioner will determine the appropriate penalty, and a written notice will be issued to the member stating the disciplinary action to be taken and the underlying facts in support thereof within forty-five (45) working days. After receiving the Commissioner's decision the normal grievance procedure will then apply.
Section 12	Penalty Imposition
The penalty imposed may not be implemented until one of the following occurs:
a.	The member fails to file a grievance within fifteen (15) calendar days of the notice of discipline from the Disciplinary Officer;
28
b.	After filing the grievance, the member elects not to pursue it;
c.	The PSTA Grievance Board withdraws the grievance;
d.	The penalty is upheld or a different penalty is determined by the joint committee, or the
arbitrator; or
e.	If the PSTA or the grievant requests a continuation of the arbitration and no continuance is requested by the Commonwealth, the Department may implement the penalty on the sixtieth (60th) day or thereafter, following the filing of the grievance for arbitration.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of Sections 11 and 12 herein above, where removal from duty is required at any time due to the nature of the offense, the Department may suspend a member in accordance with Article 26, Section 2.
Section 13	Administrative Leave
Administrative leave shall be for the time that coincides with the grievant's or witnesses' work schedule, not to exceed a full shift. On the day of the hearing, the grievant/witness shall be scheduled on a day shift (a shift for which shift differential is not paid). For this accommodation, no overtime can be charged by the grievant/witness in respect to other sections of this contract.
A grievant and/or witnesses, when required to travel a distance exceeding 100 miles from his/her regular station to the arbitration site, shall not be required to work a shift commencing after 8:00 a.m. the day prior to the arbitration hearing date unless a clear and present danger/emergency exists.
All witnesses granted administrative leave time shall be required to testify unless excused mutually by the parties.
Requests for administrative leave shall be presented in writing to the Office of Administration, Bureau of Labor Relations, at least 14 days prior to the arbitration hearing date, except for unforeseen circumstances, in which case leave shall not be unreasonably denied.
Up to five (5) members appointed by the PSTA to serve on the Grievance Board shall receive sufficient time to review grievances and attend STEP 2 Grievance Committee meetings without loss of leave or compensation. It is agreed that all members appointed by the PSTA shall be active members.
Section 14	Annual Review
The Commonwealth and the PSTA shall meet yearly to review the grievance procedure. The procedure can be modified at any time by agreement between the parties.
29
Section 15	Agreement
The foregoing represents the parties' entire agreement with regard to Article 28, Grievance Procedure, and any previous side-letters concerning this Grievance Procedure Article are no longer in effect.
Section 16	Definitions
The term member shall include probationary Troopers except where excluded.
ARTICLE 29 ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE
Section 1 For any interest arbitration, contract negotiation or preparation therefore under Act 111, all members of the PSTA negotiating committee (limited to a maximum of fifteen persons) and necessary witnesses shall have time off with pay (unless a present or threatened emergency requires their services) as is reasonably necessary to complete the foregoing (including travel time). Members shall provide reasonable notice of the request for such leave to the Employer. Travel time shall be included in the requests.
Section 2 The President of the Pennsylvania State Troopers Association or his designee shall have reasonable time off to handle and process grievances or other labor relations matters with representatives of the Commonwealth. This shall include permitting the President to attend hearings before the Pennsylvania Labor Relations Board.
Section 3 No more than three (3) duly elected representatives (which shall include officers and committee members) of each Fraternal Order of Police Lodge will be permitted to attend three two-day "Round Robins" in the year, without loss of pay, plus one-half day travel for distances exceeding one hundred (100) miles, when verified on the request by the Troop Commander.
Section 4 A committee (numbering no more than seven members) may be designated by the Pennsylvania State Troopers Association to meet two times a year with the State Police Administration to discuss the Field Regulations Manual. The purpose of the meeting shall be to provide the State Police Administration with information and suggestions concerning Field Regulations. The proper utilization of this information is a matter for the State Police Administration to determine.
ARTICLE 30 UNION BUSINESS
Upon written request, the PSTA President shall be granted a leave without pay for the maximum term of office, not to exceed two years.
30
ARTICLE 31 PERSONNEL FILES
Members shall have access to their personnel files in accordance with the State Police Administrative Regulation 4-8.
ARTICLE 32
CLOTHING MAINTENANCE
An allowance of $500 is granted to all members (uniformed and non-uniformed) for the purpose of clothing maintenance. This allowance is in addition to clothing benefits now enjoyed by members. Payment is to be made at the discretion of the Commonwealth except that at least one-half is to be paid during the first six months of the contract year.
ARTICLE 33
OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT
Section 1	Members will be permitted to engage in outside employment under appropriate
circumstances. Outside employment shall not be limited to hardship cases and may take place provided:
a.	Prior authorization is obtained.
b.	The scope of employment does not demean the image of the Pennsylvania State Police.
c.	There is no conflict with the member's primary duties.
d.	The total amount of employment does not interfere with the member's ability to perform his/her duties properly.
Section 2	If a member submits a request for authorization to engage in outside employment, the State Police Administration shall endeavor to respond to the request within one week. If the member does not receive a reply within 30 days, the request shall be deemed to be granted.
31
ARTICLE 34
REDUCTION IN FORCE
Section 1 In the event of a reduction in force, members will be laid off in accordance with the inverse order of seniority on the basis of rank. If an officer (Corporal or above) is subject to layoff, the person with the least seniority in that rank will be laid off first. That officer will then be permitted to use his/her time as an officer for bumping into a lower officer classification. On the basis of his/her Service Seniority he/she may bump into the rank of Trooper. The least senior Trooper will then be laid off. Recall will be in the inverse order of the layoff. This provision must be administered in accordance with any judicially imposed requirements.
Section 2 Service Seniority for the purpose of layoff shall be computed as continuous service from the date of enlistment. Where two or more persons have the same date of enlistment, the seniority rank will be on the basis of the highest to lowest enlistment scores.
ARTICLE 35
MEMBER TREATMENT
Section 1	The Employer agrees not to engage in or permit discrimination or harassment against any member on the basis of race, creed, color, ancestry, sex, marital status, age, national origin, disability, union membership, union activity or political affiliation.
Section 2	Incidents which are at variance with this principle may be appealed through the grievance and arbitration procedure. In cases of alleged harassment, the only remedy available to the arbitrator shall be a cease and desist award.
If a subsequent alleged harassment arbitration involving the same parties results in a cease and desist award, the member who has committed the act of harassment shall be subject to progressive discipline by the Department. Further substantiated acts of harassment shall result in more severe discipline.
ARTICLE 36
TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT
When a member is temporarily assigned the duties of a higher rank for five days or more in any calendar quarter, then the member shall receive, retroactive to the time the assignment took place, the difference between his/her regular rate of pay and the rate he/she would receive had he/she been promoted to that rank. This amount will be in addition to the member’s regular rate of pay. If the member works the majority of hours on a shift, it shall be considered as a whole day at the higher rank.
For the purpose of this Article, the calendar quarter will begin on the first day of the first pay period that ends in the calendar quarter and will end on the last day of the last full pay period within the calendar quarter.
32
ARTICLE 37
SPECIALIZED POSITIONS AND TRAINING
Section 1	Definitions
a.	For the purpose of this Article, a specialized position is one designated on Troop/Bureau rosters as of January 1, 1997 which requires special training or ability that is not required for basic patrol unit assignments whether the specialized position assignment is performed on a permanent or part time basis.
b.	Exclusions to this Article are those specialized positions/assignments offered to all
members on a rotational basis, Area/Troop/Section/Station Commanders, Bureau/Division Directors, Regional Commissioned Officers, positions under the Executive and Administrative office, and positions under the Bureau of Professional Responsibility. Also included in these exclusions are those members assigned to Executive Services.
Section 2	Posting
a.	All vacancies for specialized positions shall be posted at appropriate work locations at every installation within the Troop/Bureau for a period of at least fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the selection process for vacancies, during which time qualified, interested members who have completed their probationary period may express their interest in the position.
b.	All postings shall contain a job description, any special qualifications or requirements, the skills and abilities to be evaluated and the fact that particularized judgment may be exercised. Where the appointing officer exercises particularized judgement in filling specialized positions, that judgement will not be overturned unless it is shown to have been abused or based on unlawful criteria.
c.	A copy of all postings shall be forwarded to the PSTA at the time of posting.
d.	Unless there are operational reasons for not filling the position, the posted position shall
be filled from among the applicants deemed qualified through the selection process. Within thirty (30) calendar days after the completion of the selection process, PSTA will be notified if the posted position will not be filled.
Section 3	Eligibility
a.	Any member who has been suspended within one (1) year of the posting of a specialized position or who has been removed from a specialized position in accordance with Section 7.c. of this Article shall not be eligible to apply unless a standing list is being created. When a standing list is being created, such members may apply but may not be selected until the one (1) year period or mandatory time limit, as applicable, has expired.
33
b.	Members already serving in a specialized position in a Troop/Bureau may request a transfer into another vacancy for the same specialty in that Troop/Bureau. When more than one incumbent in that specialty within the Troop/Bureau request a transfer into the same vacancy, the senior member shall receive the transfer. Seniority for this purpose shall be the member's total time served in the specific specialty in the Troop/Bureau. The vacancy created by the transfer of an incumbent will be posted in accordance with Section 2 of this Article or will be filled from a standing list provided the Troop Commander/Bureau Director determines that the vacancy will be filled.
c.	The Troop Commander/Bureau Director retains the right not to transfer an incumbent for operational reasons. The reason(s) must be given to the member in writing within ten (10) calendar days of the Troop Commander/Bureau Director's decision.
d.	Vacancies for specialized positions with alternate positions shall be first filled from members in those alternate positions in the Troop/Bureau. Seniority shall be the total time spent as alternate for that position in the Troop/Bureau.
Section 4	Reduction in Position
Removal from a specialized position in a Troop/Bureau because of a reduction of personnel in that position or elimination of the specialty shall be by least seniority in that specialty in the affected station, unit or work locations providing all factors are equal.
Section 5	Non- Selection Notification
Where a standing list is used, the appointing officer shall, within thirty (30) calendar days, provide a written explanation to each of the members who did not qualify to be placed on the list. Where a standing list is not used, the appointing officer shall, within thirty (30) calendar days, provide a written explanation to each of the non-selected members setting forth the reasons for non-selection.
Section 6	Selection Procedure
a.	A Troop Commander/Bureau Director may choose either a standing list or to post vacancies on an as-needed basis.
b.	When a standing list is established, it shall be posted within ten (10) calendar days after the compiling of the list. The list shall stand for a period of one (1) year or until the list is exhausted, whichever comes first. The member with the highest absolute score in the selection process shall be selected.
c.	Absolute score shall be calculated to the nearest whole number.
d.	Seniority will be the determining factor in tie breaking only when absolute scores are
identical.
34
e.	Seniority standing for selection purposes shall be the date the member was sworn in as
a Trooper when considered for a position as Trooper, Trooper/Corporal or Trooper/Corporal/Sergeant. For postings requiring rank or ranks higher than Trooper, seniority will be the date the lowest required rank was obtained.
f.	Where score and seniority are tied, the tie shall be broken by lot.
g.	If no one on the eligibility list is interested in a particular position, the Troop
Commander/Bureau Director shall post the position to determine any further interest from qualified members in the Troop/Bureau. The Troop Commander/Bureau Director shall then select a member to fill the position from those interested, qualified members. No selection process is necessary in this situation. If no qualified member is interested in a specialized position, the Troop Commander/Bureau Director may appoint a member to fill the vacancy.
Section 7	Required Time Limits
a.	Unless otherwise specified in the posting, all specialized positions will carry a minimum time limit of three (3) years which members are required to serve in the specialty.
b.	Exceptions to mandatory minimum time limits for specialties are promotion, retirement or removal from the position.
c.	An incumbent may request removal by submitting an STD 501 to a Troop Commander/Bureau Director which thoroughly outlines the reason for requesting removal from the position. The final decision to grant or deny removal rests with the Troop Commander/Bureau Director. The incumbent thus removed is ineligible to apply for another specialized position for the duration of the mandatory time limit remaining since appointed or one (1) year from the date of removal from the position, whichever is less.
Section 8	Selection Process
a.	A selection panel for a given specialized position in a Troop/Bureau shall consist of an officer selected by the Troop Commander/Bureau Director for that specialty, a non-commissioned officer from the Troop/Bureau (to be rotated from year to year) and a member from the Troop/Bureau of equal rank to the highest rank in the posting selected by the PSTA representative in the Troop/Bureau.
b.	The selection process shall consist of the following:
1.	A written test consisting of relevant subject matter to the specialty. A maximum
of ten (10) points applied. A member must receive at least seven (7) points to receive further consideration in the selection process.
2.	Interview process. A maximum of ten (10) points applied.
35
3.	When appropriate, a demonstration of ability relative to the position. A maximum of ten (10) points applied.
4.	Assessment of training and experience. A maximum of ten (10) points applied.
5.	Evaluation of performance. A maximum of ten (10) points applied.
The evaluation shall be by an immediate supervisor(s) who has supervised the member for at least ninety (90) days.
6.	Applicant must achieve a minimum overall score of thirty-five (35) points to be considered for selection.
7.	The Department may deviate from this process with the agreement of the PSTA.
Section 9	Posting and Selection for Training
a.	The posting for any training which is not offered on a rotational basis or training which is offered to a limited number of members in a specialty or unit shall be posted at all affected work locations for at least fifteen (15) calendar days prior to selection of a member to attend. Selection of members to attend the FBI National Academy is at the discretion of the Commissioner.
When the Troop Commander/Bureau Director has not received sufficient notification of an available training opportunity to meet the fifteen (15) day posting requirement, the time period may be waived upon mutual agreement with the PSTA.
b.	Selection of a member shall be by seniority providing the senior member has not 1)
received the same or equivalent training previously, or 2) has not attended special training within the past one hundred eighty (180) calendar days, or 3) received a suspension within one (1) year of the selection. Seniority shall be time in the specialty or unit in the Troop/Bureau.
c.	If a member grieves and is awarded the training, the member shall attend the next available training that is equivalent or similar to the training grieved.
Section 10	Grievances
a.	Grievances relating to the interpretation, application and implementation of this Article shall be filed at the first step of the grievance procedure.
b.	Unresolved grievances shall be presented to a tripartite panel consisting of an arbitrator appointed by each party and a neutral arbitrator as Chairperson as established in Article 28, Grievance Procedure.
36
c.
The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on both parties.
d.	Grievances which are pending and ready for a hearing shall be scheduled monthly for the purpose of adjusting grievances under this section.
e.	Grievances that need to be scheduled for arbitration shall be scheduled independent of other scheduled grievances.
Section 11 It is understood that the provisions of this Article are not applicable to Commissioned Officers.
ARTICLE 38 TRANSFERS
Section 1 If a member is transferred not at his/her request, on a temporary transfer (less than six months) and he/she is not provided transportation, he/she shall receive a travel allowance equal to the IRS rate applicable in Pennsylvania for all miles in excess of fifty miles (driven miles) per day from his/her place of residence to his/her station and return.
Section 2 If a permanent involuntary transfer results in a subsequent involuntary transfer (the permanent transfer lasting for less than six months) the above allowance shall be applicable retroactively to the member.
Section 3 When an involuntary intratroop transfer must be made, the member to be transferred must be the member who has the least seniority in his/her rank in that station (provided he/she has not been moved involuntarily in the previous six months) except in cases of promotion, in conjunction with the imposition of discipline or where there is a need for special skills or specialty.
When the least senior member is transferred under this Section, the Department shall not be required to consider the seniority of any member concurrently or subsequently transferred into that station.
ARTICLE 39 BADGE
The Commonwealth shall provide each member who retires under one of the following conditions and who has been honorably discharged with his/her badge at no cost to the member:
a.	Retirement with 20 or more years of enlisted service with the Pennsylvania State Police, including intervening Military service.
b.	Service-connected disability retirement
37
ARTICLE 40
CAR UTILIZATION STUDY
The seven-member committee which was appointed by the Pennsylvania State Troopers Association to meet periodically with the State Police Administration to discuss the feasibility of developing a program to permit State Police officers to use State Police vehicles during off-duty hours shall continue during the term of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 41
HEALTH CARE COST CONTAINMENT COMMITTEE
The joint committee which has been established for the purpose of investigating health care cost containment issues shall continue during the term of this Agreement. The committee shall be subject to the following provisions:
1.	The committee shall be comprised of not less than two nor more than four representatives each from the Commonwealth and from the PSTA.
2.	The PSTA representatives shall be granted time off with pay (unless a present or threatened emergency requires their services) as is reasonably necessary to complete the foregoing (including travel time).
ARTICLE 42
SPECIAL COMMITTEE - PROMOTION SYSTEM
The committee comprised of five persons to be selected by the PSTA and five persons to be selected by the Commissioner shall meet and discuss on all issues related to the current promotion system. The committee shall make written recommendations to the Commissioner.
ARTICLE 43
SIDE LETTERS
The five letters dated November 15, 1979 signed by Gary M. Lightman, Esquire for the PSTA and Brian T. Baxter, Deputy Secretary for Employee Relations for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on the following subjects are hereby incorporated by reference: Pennsylvania State Police Disability Benefit, Pennsylvania State Police Health and Welfare Fund, Continuation of Benefits under the "Heart and Lung" Act, and Non-Service Connected Survivor Benefit (2 letters). The provisions of these letters shall be applicable except as modified by mutual agreement between the parties.
The provisions of this Article and the side letters referred to herein shall continue in full force and effect for the term of this Agreement, any dates in those letters to the contrary notwithstanding.
38
ARTICLE 44
PHYSICAL FITNESS COMMITTEE
Section 1	A Committee shall be established to develop a mutually acceptable program of physical fitness for the members of the bargaining unit.
Section 2	The Committee shall be comprised of not less than two (2) nor more than four (4) representatives each from the Commonwealth and the Pennsylvania State Troopers Association.
Section 3	The PSTA representatives shall be granted time off with pay (unless a present or threatened emergency requires their services) as is reasonably necessary to complete the foregoing (including travel time).
Section 4	The PSTA members of the Committee shall be provided with access to all information and documents used or considered by the Commonwealth in evaluating the potential physical fitness program and that is reasonably necessary to assist them in the performance of their duties.
Section 5 If after a good faith effort the Committee is unable to reach agreement upon the terms of the physical fitness program, the Commonwealth shall be permitted to formulate and present the Pennsylvania State Troopers Association a complete physical fitness program that it intends to implement within the bargaining unit. If the PSTA believes that such program is, in whole or in part, unreasonable, it shall so advise the Commonwealth within ten (10) business days of its receipt and shall include within such notice the reason or reasons for objection. If the Commonwealth so chooses, it may then seek arbitration of the dispute as provided in Article 28.
Section 6	In the event that the Commonwealth should seek arbitration of the dispute described in
Section 5,	the following rules shall apply:
a.	Unless extended in writing, the hearing shall be held within forty-five (45) calendar days from the selection of the arbitrator;
b.	If either party desires to file briefs at the close of the hearing, they shall be filed in one (1) calendar week;
c.	The arbitrator's final and binding decision shall be rendered in thirty (30) days from receipt of the briefs;
d.	The arbitrator shall not substitute his/her judgment for the reasonable judgment of the Commonwealth in the development of the physical fitness program.
Section 7 The Commonwealth shall not implement, in whole or in part, a physical fitness program unless and until that program is approved by the arbitrator under the procedures as described in Section 6.
39
ARTICLE 45
FAMILY CARE LEAVE
Section 1	After completing one year of service, members shall be granted, upon written request, up to 12 weeks of leave without pay in a calendar year for the purpose of attending to the medical needs of a spouse, parent, child under age 18 or 18 years or older and incapable of self-care because of mental or physical disability, or other person qualifying as a dependent under IRS eligibility criteria.
Leave for this purpose may be taken one day at a time if necessary. Leave shall be approved for less than one day at a time when medically necessary due to a serious health condition as defined in the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993.
Documentation of the need for Family Care Leave shall be required.
Section 2	State-paid coverage for Medical/Hospital benefits, supplemental health benefits, and
Group Life Insurance as provided in Articles 16, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24 will continue for the period of time the member is on family care leave under Section 1 of this Article.
Section 3	The twelve week entitlement under Section 1 above may not be extended.
Section 4	Members will not be required to use accumulated annual and/or personal leave prior to taking family care leave without pay.
Section 5	For the purpose of this Article, the calendar year shall be defined as beginning with the member's first full pay period commencing on or after January 1 and continuing through the end of the member's pay period that includes December 31.
ARTICLE 46
NON WORK-RELATED DISABILITIES
The Board of Arbitration is concerned with respect to troopers who have permanent, non-work related physical or mental disabilities that make it impossible for them to perform their duties. We understand that there must be a system separate and apart from the discipline system to handle such problems in order to protect the due process rights of the troopers involved as well as the interests of the Commonwealth. The Board of Arbitration directs the parties to mutually agree on and to implement such a system within ninety (90) days of the issuance of this Award. In the event the parties are unable to mutually agree upon such a program within ninety (90) days after the issuance of this Award, then this Board shall retain jurisdiction over this issue and shall meet in executive session and, if deemed necessary, hold additional evidentiary hearings and then order the implementation of such a program.
40
ARTICLE 47
POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE DEDUCTIONS
Section 1	The Employer agrees to deduct from the paycheck of members covered by this Agreement voluntary contributions to the Pennsylvania State Troopers Association's Political Action Committee. The Employer shall make such deductions only in accordance with the written authorization of respective members which shall specify the amount, frequency and duration of the deductions.
Section 2	The Employer shall transmit the monies deducted in accordance with this Article to the Pennsylvania State Troopers Association's Political Action Committee in accordance with the procedures agreed to by the Employer and the Pennsylvania State Troopers Association.
Section 3	The Pennsylvania State Troopers Association shall reimburse the Employer for the Employer's actual cost for the expenses incurred in administering this Article.
Section 4	The Pennsylvania State Troopers Association shall indemnify and hold the Commonwealth harmless against any and all claims, suits, orders, or judgments brought or issued against the Employer as a result of the action taken or not taken by the Employer under the provisions of this Article.
ARTICLE 48
TERM OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall be effective as of July 1, 2000. The term of the collective bargaining agreement shall be for four(4) years commencing on July 1, 2000 and terminating on June 30, 2004. All terms set forth above shall be effective July 1, 2000, unless otherwise indicated.
41
APPENDIX A
TROOPER
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA STATE POLICE PAY SCHEDULE EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2000 SCHEDULE P
PAY RANGE 01
LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP S	STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	YEARS OF SVC
	HOURLY	19.11	20.19	21.29	21.89	22.52	23.15	5
A	BIWEEKLY	1,528.80	1,815.20	1,703.20	1,751.20	1,801.60	1,852.00	OR
	ANNUAL*	39,871	42,124	44,419	45,671	46,986	48,300	LESS
	HOURLY					23.65	24.31	OVER
B	BIWEEKLY					1,892.00	1,944.80	5
	ANNUAL*					49,343	50,720	
	HOURLY						24.54	OVER
C	BIWEEKLY						1,963.20	6
	ANNUAL*						51,200	
	HOURLY						24.77	OVER
D	BIWEEKLY						1,981.60	7
	ANNUAL*						51,680	
	HOURLY						25.00	OVER
E	BIWEEKLY						2,000.00	8
	ANNUAL*						52,160	
	HOURLY						25.23	OVER
F	BIWEEKLY						2,018.40	9
	ANNUAL*						52,640	
	HOURLY						25.47	OVER
G	BIWEEKLY						2,037.60	10
	ANNUAL*						53,141	
	HOURLY						25.70	OVER
H	BIWEEKLY						2,056.00	11
	ANNUAL*						53,620	
	HOURLY						25.93	OVER
1	BIWEEKLY						2,074.40	12
	ANNUAL*						54,100	
	HOURLY						26.16	OVER
J	BIWEEKLY						2,092.80	13
	ANNUAL*						54,580	
	HOURLY						26.39	OVER
K	BIWEEKLY						2,111.20	14
	ANNUAL-						55,060	
	HOURLY						26.62	OVER
L	BIWEEKLY						2,129.60	15
	ANNUAL*						55,540	
	HOURLY						26.85	OVER
M	BIWEEKLY						2,148.00	16
	ANNUAL*						56,020	
A-l
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
STATE POLICE PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2000
SCHEDULE P
PAY RANGE 01
TROOPER
LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP S	STEP	STEP A	B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	YEARS OF SVC
N	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*					27.09 2,167.20 56,521	OVER 17
0	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*					27.32 2,185.60 57,000	OVER 18
P	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*					27.55 2,204.00 57,480	OVER 19
Q	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*					27.78 2,222.40 57,960	OVER 20
R	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL-					28.01 2,240.80 58,440	OVER 21
S	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL’					28.24 2,259.20 58,920	OVER 22
T	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*					28.47 2,277.60 59,400	OVER 23
U	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*					28.71 2,296.80 59,901	OVER 24
V	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*					28.94 2,315.20 60,380	OVER 25
w	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*					29.17 2,333.60 60,860	OVER 26
X	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*					29.40 2,352.00 61,340	OVER 27
HOURLY Y	BIWEEKLY ANNUAL* * Annual rates listed on this schedule are approximate.						29.63 2,370.40 61,820	OVER 28
A-2
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
STATE POLICE PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1.2000
SCHEDULE P
CORPORAL
PAY RANGE 02
LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC	LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC
	HOURLY	25.00	5		HOURLY	29.25	OVER
A	BIWEEKLY	2,000.00	OR	N	BIWEEKLY	2,340.00	17
	ANNUAL*	52,160	LESS		ANNUAL’	61,027	
	HOURLY	26.25	OVER		HOURLY	29.50	OVER
B	BIWEEKLY	2,100.00	5	O	BIWEEKLY	2,360.00	18
	ANNUAL’	54,768			ANNUAL’	61,549	
	HOURLY	26.50	OVER		HOURLY	29.75	OVER
C	BIWEEKLY	2,120.00	6	P	BIWEEKLY	2,380.00	19
	ANNUAL’	55,290			ANNUAL*	62,070	
	HOURLY	26.75	OVER		HOURLY	30.00	OVER
D	BIWEEKLY	2,140.00	7	Q	BIWEEKLY	2.400.00	20
	ANNUAL’	55.811			ANNUAL*	62.592	
	HOURLY	27.00	OVER		HOURLY	30.25	OVER
E	BIWEEKLY	2,160.00	a	R	BIWEEKLY	2,420.00	21
	ANNUAL’	56,333			ANNUAL-	63,114	
	HOURLY	27.25	OVER		HOURLY	30.50	OVER
F	BIWEEKLY	2,180.00	9	S	BIWEEKLY	2.440.00	22
	ANNUAL’	56,854			ANNUAL*	63,635	
	HOURLY	27.50	OVER		HOURLY	30.75	OVER
G	BIWEEKLY	2,200.00	10	T	BIWEEKLY	2,460.00	23
	ANNUAL*	57,376			ANNUAL*	64,157	
	HOURLY	27.75	OVER		HOURLY	31.00	OVER
H	BIWEEKLY	2,220.00	11	U	BIWEEKLY	2,480.00	24
	ANNUAL*	57,898			ANNUAL*	64,678	
	HOURLY	28.00	OVER		HOURLY	31.25	OVER
I	BIWEEKLY	2,240.00	12	V	BIWEEKLY	2,500.00	25
	ANNUAL*	58,419			ANNUAL*	65,200	
	HOURLY	28.25	OVER		HOURLY	31.50	OVER
J	BIWEEKLY	2,260.00	13	w	BIWEEKLY	2,520.00	26
	ANNUAL*	58,941			ANNUAL*	65,722	
	HOURLY	28.50	OVER		HOURLY	31.75	OVER
K	BIWEEKLY	2,280.00	14	X	BIWEEKLY	2,540.00	27
	ANNUAL*	59,462			ANNUAL*	66.243	
	HOURLY	28.75	OVER		HOURLY	32.00	OVER
L	BIWEEKLY	2,300.00	15	Y	BIWEEKLY	2,560.00	28
	ANNUAL*	59,984			ANNUAL*	66,765	
	HOURLY	29.00	OVER				
M	BIWEEKLY	2,320.00	16				
	ANNUAL*	60.506					
A-3
* Annual rates listed in this schedule are approximate.
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
STATE POLICE PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2000
SCHEDULE P
Pay range 04
SERGEANT
LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC	LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC
	HOURLY	27.13	5		HOURLY	31.74	OVER
A	BIWEEKLY	2,170.40	OR	N	BIWEEKLY	2,539.20	17
	ANNUAL*	56,604	LESS		ANNUAL*	66,222	
	HOURLY	28.49	OVER		HOURLY	32.01	OVER
B	BIWEEKLY	2,279.20	5	O	BIWEEKLY	2,560.80	18
	ANNUAL*	59,442			ANNUAL-	66,786	
	HOURLY	28.76	OVER		HOURLY	32.28	OVER
C	BIWEEKLY	2,300.80	6	P	BIWEEKLY	2,582.40	19
	ANNUAL*	60,005			ANNUAL*	67,349	
	HOURLY	29.03	OVER		HOURLY	32.56	OVER
0	BIWEEKLY	2,322.40	7	Q	BIWEEKLY	2,604.80	20
	ANNUAL*	60,568			ANNUAL-	67,933	
	HOURLY	29.30	OVER		HOURLY	32.83	OVER
E	BIWEEKLY	2,344.00	8	R	BIWEEKLY	2,626.40	21
	ANNUAL*	61,132			ANNUAL*	68,497	
	HOURLY	29.57	OVER		HOURLY	33.10	OVER
F	BIWEEKLY	2,365.60	9	S	BIWEEKLY	2,648.00	22
	ANNUAL*	61,695			ANNUAL-	69,060	
	HOURLY	29.84	OVER		HOURLY	33.37	OVER
G	BIWEEKLY	2,387.20	10	T	BIWEEKLY	2,669.60	23
	ANNUAL-	62,256			ANNUAL-	69.623	
	HOURLY	30.11	OVER		HOURLY	33.64	OVER
H	BIWEEKLY	2,408.80	11	U	BIWEEKLY	2,691.20	24
	ANNUAL*	62,822			ANNUAL-	70,186	
	HOURLY	30.39	OVER		HOURLY	33.91	OVER
I	BIWEEKLY	2,431.20	12	V	BIWEEKLY	2,712.80	25
	ANNUAL*	63,406			ANNUAL-	70,750	
	HOURLY	30.66	OVER		HOURLY	34.18	OVER
J	BIWEEKLY	2,452.80	13	w	BIWEEKLY	2,734.40	26
	ANNUAL*	63,969			ANNUAL-	71,313	
	HOURLY	30.93	OVER		HOURLY	34.46	OVER
K	BIWEEKLY	2,474.40	14	X	BIWEEKLY	2,756.80	27
	ANNUAL*	64,532			ANNUAL-	71,897	
	HOURLY	31.20	OVER		HOURLY	34.73	OVER
L	BIWEEKLY	2.496.00	15	Y	BIWEEKLY	2,778.40	28
	ANNUAL*	65,096			ANNUAL*	72,461	
	HOURLY	31.47	OVER				
M	BIWEEKLY	2,517.60	16				
	ANNUAL*	65,659					
A-4
* Annual rates listed in this schedule are approximate.
LIEUTENANT
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
STATE POLICE PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2000
SCHEDULE P
PAY RANGE 06
LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC	LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC
	HOURLY	29.57	5		HOURLY	34.60	OVER
A	BIWEEKLY	2,365.60	OR	N	BIWEEKLY	2,768.00	17
	ANNUAL'	61,695	LESS		ANNUAL*	72,189	
	HOURLY	31.05	OVER		HOURLY	34.89	OVER
B	BIWEEKLY	2,484.00	5	O	BIWEEKLY	2,791.20	18
	ANNUAL'	64,783			ANNUAL*	72,794	
	HOURLY	31.34	OVER		HOURLY	35.19	OVER
C	BIWEEKLY	2,507.20	6	P	BIWEEKLY	2.815.20	19
	ANNUAL'	65,388			ANNUAL*	73,420	
	HOURLY	31.64	OVER		HOURLY	35.48	OVER
D	BIWEEKLY	2,531.20	7	Q	BIWEEKLY	2,838.40	20
	ANNUAL'	66,014			ANNUAL*	74,025	
	HOURLY	31.94	OVER		HOURLY	35.78	OVER
E	BIWEEKLY	2.555.20	8	R	BIWEEKLY	2,862.40	21
	ANNUAL'	66,640			ANNUAL'	74,651	
	HOURLY	32.23	OVER		HOURLY	36.08	OVER
F	BIWEEKLY	2,578.40	9	S	BIWEEKLY	2,886.40	22
	ANNUAL'	67,245			ANNUAL*	75,277	
	HOURLY	32.53	OVER		HOURLY	36.37	OVER
G	BIWEEKLY	2.602.40	10	T	BIWEEKLY	2,909.60	23
	ANNUAL*	67.871			ANNUAL*	75,882	
	HOURLY	32.82	OVER		HOURLY	36.67	OVER
H	BIWEEKLY	2,625.60	11	U	BIWEEKLY	2,933.60	24
	ANNUAL'	68,476			ANNUAL*	76,508	
	HOURLY	33.12	OVER		HOURLY	36.96	OVER
I	BIWEEKLY	2.649.60	12	V	BIWEEKLY	2,956.80	25
	ANNUAL'	69.102			ANNUAL*	77,113	
	HOURLY	33.41	OVER		HOURLY	37.26	OVER
J	BIWEEKLY	2.672.80	13	w	BIWEEKLY	2,980.80	26
	ANNUAL*	69,707			ANNUAL*	77,739	
	HOURLY	33.71	OVER		HOURLY	37.55	OVER
K	BIWEEKLY	2,696.80	14	X	BIWEEKLY	3,004.00	27
	ANNUAL*	70,333			ANNUAL'	78,344	
	HOURLY	34.01	OVER		HOURLY	37.85	OVER
L	BIWEEKLY	2,720.80	15	Y	BIWEEKLY	3,028.00	28
	ANNUAL*	70,958			ANNUAL*	78,970	
	HOURLY	34.30	OVER				
M	BIWEEKLY	2,744.00	16				
	ANNUAL*	71,564					
A-5
* Annual rates listed in this schedule are approximate.
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
STATE POLICE PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2000
SCHEDULE P
PAY RANGE 08
CAPTAIN
LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC	LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC
	HOURLY	32.23	5		HOURLY	37.71	OVER
A	BIWEEKLY	2,578.40	OR	N	BIWEEKLY	3,016.80	17
	ANNUAL*	67,245	LESS		ANNUAL*	78,678	
	HOURLY	33.84	OVER		HOURLY	38.03	OVER
B	BIWEEKLY	2,707.20	5	O	BIWEEKLY	3.042.40	18
	ANNUAL*	70,604			ANNUAL*	79,346	
	HOURLY	34.16	OVER		HOURLY	38.35	OVER
C	BIWEEKLY	2,732.80	6	P	BIWEEKLY	3,068.00	19
	ANNUAL*	71,271			ANNUAL*	80,013	
	HOURLY	34.49	OVER		HOURLY	38.68	OVER*
O	BIWEEKLY	2,759.20	7	Q	BIWEEKLY	3,094.40	20
	ANNUAL*	71.960			ANNUAL*	80,702	
	HOURLY	34.81	OVER		HOURLY	39.00	OVER
E	BIWEEKLY	2,784.80	8	R	BIWEEKLY	3.120.00	21
	ANNUAL*	72,628			ANNUAL*	81,370	
	HOURLY	35.13	OVER		HOURLY	39.32	OVER
F	BIWEEKLY	2,810.40	9	S	BIWEEKLY	3,145.60	22
	ANNUAL*	73,295			ANNUAL*	82,037	
	HOURLY	35.45	OVER		HOURLY	39.64	OVER
G	BIWEEKLY	2,836.00	10	T	BIWEEKLY	3,171.20	23
	ANNUAL-	73,963			ANNUAL*	82,705	
	HOURLY	35.78	OVER		HOURLY	39.97	OVER
H	BIWEEKLY	2,862.40	11	U	BIWEEKLY	3,197.60	24
	ANNUAL*	74,651			ANNUAL*	83,393	
	HOURLY	36.10	OVER		HOURLY	40.29	OVER
I	BIWEEKLY	2.888.00	12	V	BIWEEKLY	3,223.20	25
	ANNUAL-	75,319			ANNUAL*	84,061	
	HOURLY	36.42	OVER		HOURLY	40.61	OVER
J	BIWEEKLY	2,913.60	13	w	BIWEEKLY	3,248.80	26
	ANNUAL*	75,987			ANNUAL*	84,729	
	HOURLY	36.74	OVER		HOURLY	40.93	OVER
K	BIWEEKLY	2,939.20	14	X	BIWEEKLY	3,274.40	27
	ANNUAL*	76,654			ANNUAL-	85,396	
	HOURLY	37.06	OVER		HOURLY	41.25	OVER
L	BIWEEKLY	2,964.80	15	Y	BIWEEKLY	3,300.00	28
	ANNUAL*	77,322			ANNUAL*	86,064	
HOURLY 37.39	OVER
M BIWEEKLY 2,991.20	16
ANNUAL*	78,010
* Annual rates listed in this schedule are approximate.
A-6
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
STATE POLICE PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2000
SCHEDULE P
PAY RANGE 09
MAJOR
LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC	LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC
	HOURLY	35.29	5		HOURLY	41.29	OVER
A	BIWEEKLY	2,323.20	OR	N	BIWEEKLY	3,303.20	17
	ANNUAL’	73,629	LESS		ANNUAL*	86,147	
	HOURLY	37.05	OVER		HOURLY	41.64	OVER
8	BIWEEKLY	2,964.00	5	O	BIWEEKLY	3,331.20	18
	ANNUAL*	77,301			ANNUAL’	86,878	
	HOURLY	37.41	OVER		HOURLY	42.00	OVER
C	BIWEEKLY	2,992.80	6	P	BIWEEKLY	3,360.00	19
	ANNUAL*	78,052			ANNUAL’	87,629	
	HOURLY	37.76	OVER		HOURLY	42.35	OVER
D	BIWEEKLY	3,020.80	7	Q	BIWEEKLY	3,388.00	20
	ANNUAL*	78,782			ANNUAL*	88,359	
	HOURLY	38.11	OVER		HOURLY	42.70	OVER
E	BIWEEKLY	3,048.80	8	R	BIWEEKLY	3,416.00	21
	ANNUAL*	79,513			ANNUAL'	89,089	
	HOURLY	38.47	OVER		HOURLY	43,05	OVER
F	BIWEEKLY	3,077.60	9	S	BIWEEKLY	3,444.00	22
	ANNUAL*	80,264			ANNUAL*	89,820	
	HOURLY	38.82	OVER		HOURLY	43.41	OVER
G	BIWEEKLY	3,105.60	10	T	BIWEEKLY	3,472.80	23
	ANNUAL*	80,994			ANNUAL*	90,571	
	HOURLY	39.17	OVER		HOURLY	43.76	OVER
H	BIWEEKLY	3,133.60	11	U	BIWEEKLY	3,500.80	24
	ANNUAL*	81,724			ANNUAL*	91,301	
	HOURLY	39.52	OVER		HOURLY	44.11	OVER
I	BIWEEKLY	3,161.60	12	V	BIWEEKLY	3,528.80	25
	ANNUAL*	82,455			ANNUAL*	92,031	
	HOURLY	39.88	OVER		HOURLY	44.47	OVER
J	BIWEEKLY	3,190.40	13	w	BIWEEKLY	3,557.60	26
	ANNUAL*	83,206			ANNUAL*	92,782	
	HOURLY	40.23	OVER		HOURLY	44.82	OVER
K	BIWEEKLY	3,218.40	14	X	BIWEEKLY	3,585.60	27
	ANNUAL*	83,936			ANNUAL*	93,512	
	HOURLY	40.58	OVER		HOURLY	45.17	OVER
L	BIWEEKLY	3,246.40	15	Y	BIWEEKLY	3,613.60	28
	ANNUAL*	84,666			ANNUAL*	94,243	
	HOURLY	40.94	OVER				
M	BIWEEKLY	3,275.20	16				
	ANNUAL*	85,417					
A-7
* Annual rates listed in this schedule are approximate.
APPENDIX B
TROOPER
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA STATE POLICE PAY SCHEDULE EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2001 SCHEDULE P
PAY RANGE 01
LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP S	STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	YEARS OF SVC
	HOURLY	19.78	20.90	22.04	22.66	23.31	23.96	5
A	BIWEEKLY	1,582.40	1,672.00	1,763.20	1,812.80	1,864.80	1,916.80	OR
	ANNUAL*	41,269	43,606	45,984	47,278	48,634	49,990	LESS
	HOURLY					24.48	25.16	OVER
B	BIWEEKLY					1,958.40	2,012.80	5
	ANNUAL*					51,075	52,494	
	HOURLY						25.40	OVER
C	BIWEEKLY						2,032.00	6
	ANNUAL*						52,995	
	HOURLY						25.64	OVER
D	BIWEEKLY						2,051.20	7
	ANNUAL*						53,495	
	HOURLY						25.88	OVER
E	BIWEEKLY						2,070.40	8
	ANNUAL*						53,996	
	HOURLY						26.12	OVER
F	BIWEEKLY						2,089.60	9
	ANNUAL*						54,497	
	HOURLY						26.36	OVER
G	BIWEEKLY						2,108.80	10
	ANNUAL*						54,998	
	HOURLY						26.60	OVER
H	BIWEEKLY						2,128.00	11
	ANNUAL*						55,498	
	HOURLY						26.84	OVER
1	BIWEEKLY						2,147.20	12
	ANNUAL*						55,999	
	HOURLY						27.07	OVER
J	BIWEEKLY						2,165.60	13
	ANNUAL*						56,479	
	HOURLY						27.31	OVER
K	BIWEEKLY						2,184.80	14
	ANNUAL*						56,980	
	HOURLY						27.55	OVER
L	BIWEEKLY						2,204.00	15
	ANNUAL*						57,480	
	HOURLY						27.79	OVER
M	BIWEEKLY						2,223.20	16
	ANNUAL*						57,981	
B—1
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
STATE POLICE PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1,2001
SCHEDULE P
PAY RANGE 01
TROOPER
LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP S	STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	YEARS OF SVC
N	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						28.03 2,242.40 58,482	OVER 17
0	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						28.27 2,261.60 58,983	OVER 18
P	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						28.51 2,280.80 59,483	OVER 19
Q	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						28.75 2,300.00 59,984	OVER 20
R	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						28.99 2,319.20 60,485	OVER 21
S	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						29.23 2,338.40 60,985	OVER 22
T	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						29.47 2,357.60 61,486	OVER 23
U	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						29.71 2,376.80 61,987	OVER 24
V	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						29.95 2,396.00 62,488	OVER 25
w	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						30.19 2,415.20 62,988	OVER 26
X	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						30.43 2,434.40 63,489	OVER 27
HOURLY Y BIWEEKLY ANNUAL* * Annual rates listed on this schedule are approximate.							30.67 2,453.60 63,990	OVER 28
B-2
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
STATE POLICE PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1,2001
SCHEDULE P
PAY RANGE 02
CORPORAL
LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC	LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC
	HOURLY	25.88	5		HOURLY	30.28	OVER
A	BIWEEKLY	2,070.40	OR	N	BIWEEKLY	2,422.40	17
	ANNUAL*	53,996	LESS		ANNUAL*	63,176	
	HOURLY	27.17	OVER		HOURLY	30.54	OVER
B	BIWEEKLY	2,173.60	5	O	BIWEEKLY	2,443.20	18
	ANNUAL*	56,687			ANNUAL*	63,719	
	HOURLY	27.43	OVER		HOURLY	30.80	OVER
C	BIWEEKLY	2,194.40	6	P	BIWEEKLY	2,464.00	19
	ANNUAL*	57,230			ANNUAL*	64,261	
	HOURLY	27.69	OVER		HOURLY	31.06	OVER
D	BIWEEKLY	2,215.20	7	Q	BIWEEKLY	2,484.80	20
	ANNUAL*	57,772			ANNUAL’	64,804	
	HOURLY	27.95	OVER		HOURLY	31.31	OVER
E	BIWEEKLY	2,236.00	8	R	BIWEEKLY	2,504.80	21
	ANNUAL*	58,315			ANNUAL*	65,325	
	HOURLY	28.21	OVER		HOURLY	31.57	OVER
F	BIWEEKLY	2,256.80	9	S	BIWEEKLY	2,525.60	22
	ANNUAL*	58,857			ANNUAL*	65,868	
	HOURLY	28.47	OVER		HOURLY	31.83	OVER
G	BIWEEKLY	2,277.60	10	T	BIWEEKLY	2,546.40	23
	ANNUAL*	59,400			ANNUAL*	66,410	
	HOURLY	28.73	OVER		HOURLY	32.09	OVER
H	BIWEEKLY	2,298.40	11	U	BIWEEKLY	2,567.20	24
	ANNUAL*	59,942			ANNUAL*	66,953	
	HOURLY	28.99	OVER		HOURLY	32.35	OVER
I	BIWEEKLY	2,319.20	12	V	BIWEEKLY	2,588.00	25
	ANNUAL*	60,485			ANNUAL*	67,495	
	HOURLY	29.24	OVER		HOURLY	32.61	OVER
J	BIWEEKLY	2,339.20	13	w	BIWEEKLY	2,608.80	26
	ANNUAL*	61,006			ANNUAL*	68,038	
	HOURLY	29.50	OVER		HOURLY	32.87	OVER
K	BIWEEKLY	2,360.00	14	X	BIWEEKLY	2,629.60	27
	ANNUAL*	61,549			ANNUAL*	68,580	
	HOURLY	29.76	OVER		HOURLY	33.13	OVER
L	BIWEEKLY	2,380.80	15	Y	BIWEEKLY	2,650.40	28
	ANNUAL*	62,091			ANNUAL*	69,122	
HOURLY 30.02	OVER
M BIWEEKLY 2,401.60	16
ANNUAL*	62,634
* Annual rates listed in this schedule are approximate.
B-3
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
STATE POLICE PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1,2001
SCHEDULE P
SERGEANT
PAY RANGE 04
LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC	LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC
	HOURLY	28.08	5		HOURLY	32.85	OVER
A	BIWEEKLY	2,246.40	OR	N	BIWEEKLY	2,628.00	17
	ANNUAL*	58,586	LESS		ANNUAL*	68,538	
	HOURLY	29.48	OVER		HOURLY	33.13	OVER
B	BIWEEKLY	2,358.40	5	O	BIWEEKLY	2,650.40	18
	ANNUAL*	61,507			ANNUAL*	69,122	
	HOURLY	29.76	OVER		HOURLY	33.42	OVER
C	BIWEEKLY	2,380.80	6	P	BIWEEKLY	2,673.60	19
	ANNUAL*	62,091			ANNUAL*	69,727	
	HOURLY	30.05	OVER		HOURLY	33.70	OVER
D	BIWEEKLY	2,404.00	7	Q	BIWEEKLY	2,696.00	20
	ANNUAL*	62,696			ANNUAL*	70,312	
	HOURLY	30.33	OVER		HOURLY	33.98	OVER
E	BIWEEKLY	2,426.40	8	R	BIWEEKLY	2,718.40	21
	ANNUAL*	63,281			ANNUAL*	70,896	
	HOURLY	30.61	OVER		HOURLY	34.26	OVER
F	BIWEEKLY	2,448.80	9	S	BIWEEKLY	2,740.80	22
	ANNUAL*	63,865			ANNUAL*	71,480	
	HOURLY	30.89	OVER		HOURLY	34.54	OVER
G	BIWEEKLY	2,471.20	10	T	BIWEEKLY	2,763.20	23
	ANNUAL*	64,449			ANNUAL*	72,064	
	HOURLY	31.17	OVER		HOURLY	34.82	OVER
H	BIWEEKLY	2,493.60	11	U	BIWEEKLY	2,785.60	24
	ANNUAL*	65,033			ANNUAL*	72,648	
	HOURLY	31.45	OVER		HOURLY	35.10	OVER
I	BIWEEKLY	2,516.00	12	V	BIWEEKLY	2,808.00	25
	ANNUAL*	65,617			ANNUAL*	73,233	
	HOURLY	31.73	OVER		HOURLY	35.38	OVER
J	BIWEEKLY	2,538.40	13	w	BIWEEKLY	2,830.40	26
	ANNUAL*	66,201			ANNUAL*	73,817	
	HOURLY	32.01	OVER		HOURLY	35.66	OVER
K	BIWEEKLY	2,560.80	14	X	BIWEEKLY	2,852.80	27
	ANNUAL*	66,786			ANNUAL*	74,401	
	HOURLY	32.29	OVER		HOURLY	35.94	OVER
L	BIWEEKLY	2,583.20	15	Y	BIWEEKLY	2,875.20	28
	ANNUAL*	67,370			ANNUAL*	74,985	
	HOURLY	32.57	OVER				
M	BIWEEKLY	2,605.60	16				
	ANNUAL*	67,954					
* Annual rates listed in this schedule are approximate.
B-4
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
STATE POLICE PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1,2001
SCHEDULE P
LIEUTENANT
PAY RANGE 06
LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC	LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC
	HOURLY	30.61	5		HOURLY	35.81	OVER
A	BIWEEKLY	2,448.80	OR	N	BIWEEKLY	2,864.80	17
	ANNUAL*	63,865	LESS		ANNUAL*	74,714	
	HOURLY	32.14	OVER		HOURLY	36.12	OVER
B	BIWEEKLY	2,571.20	5	O	BIWEEKLY	2,889.60	18
	ANNUAL*	67,057			ANNUAL*	75,361	
	HOURLY	32.45	OVER		HOURLY	36.43	OVER
C	BIWEEKLY	2,596.00	6	P	BIWEEKLY	2,914.40	19
	ANNUAL*	67,704			ANNUAL*	76,008	
	HOURLY	32.75	OVER		HOURLY	36.73	OVER
D	BIWEEKLY	2,620.00	7	Q	BIWEEKLY	2,938.40	20
	ANNUAL*	68,330			ANNUAL*	76,633	
	HOURLY	33.06	OVER		HOURLY	37.04	OVER
E	BIWEEKLY	2,644.80	8	R	BIWEEKLY	2,963.20	21
	ANNUAL*	68,976			ANNUAL*	77,280	
	HOURLY	33.36	OVER		HOURLY	37.34	OVER
F	BIWEEKLY	2,668.80	9	S	BIWEEKLY	2,987.20	22
	ANNUAL*	69,602			ANNUAL*	77,906	
	HOURLY	33.67	OVER		HOURLY	37.65	OVER
G	BIWEEKLY	2,693.60	10	T	BIWEEKLY	3,012.00	23
	ANNUAL*	70,249			ANNUAL*	78,553	
	HOURLY	33.98	OVER		HOURLY	37.96	OVER
H	BIWEEKLY	2,718.40	11	U	BIWEEKLY	3,036.80	24
	ANNUAL*	70,896			ANNUAL*	79,200	
	HOURLY	34.28	OVER		HOURLY	38.26	OVER
I	BIWEEKLY	2,742.40	12	V	BIWEEKLY	3,060.80	25
	ANNUAL*	71,522			ANNUAL*	79,826	
	HOURLY	34.59	OVER		HOURLY	38.57	OVER
J	BIWEEKLY	2,767.20	13	w	BIWEEKLY	3,085.60	26
	ANNUAL*	72,169			ANNUAL*	80,472	
	HOURLY	34.90	OVER		HOURLY	38.87	OVER
K	BIWEEKLY	2,792.00	14	X	BIWEEKLY	3,109.60	27
	ANNUAL*	72,815			ANNUAL*	81,098	
	HOURLY	35.20	OVER		HOURLY	39.18	OVER
L	BIWEEKLY	2,816.00	15	Y	BIWEEKLY	3,134.40	28
	ANNUAL*	73,441			ANNUAL*	81,745	
	HOURLY	35.51	OVER				
M	BIWEEKLY	2,840.80	16				
	ANNUAL*	74,088					
B-5
* Annual rates listed in this schedule are approximate.
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
STATE POLICE PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1,2001
SCHEDULE P
PAY RANGE 08
CAPTAIN
LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC	LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC
	HOURLY	33.36	5		HOURLY	39.03	OVER
A	BIWEEKLY	2,668.80	OR	N	BIWEEKLY	3,122.40	17
	ANNUAL*	69,602	LESS		ANNUAL*	81,432	
	HOURLY	35.03	OVER		HOURLY	39.36	OVER
B	BIWEEKLY	2,802.40	5	O	BIWEEKLY	3,148.80	18
	ANNUAL*	73,087			ANNUAL*	82,121	
	HOURLY	35.36	OVER		HOURLY	39.70	OVER
C	BIWEEKLY	2,828.80	6	P	BIWEEKLY	3,176.00	19
	ANNUAL*	73,775			ANNUAL*	82,830	
	HOURLY	35.70	OVER		HOURLY	40.03	OVER
D	BIWEEKLY	2,856.00	7	Q	BIWEEKLY	3,202.40	20
	ANNUAL*	74,484			ANNUAL*	83,519	
	HOURLY	36.03	OVER		HOURLY	40.37	OVER
E	BIWEEKLY	2,882.40	8	R	BIWEEKLY	3,229.60	21
	ANNUAL*	75,173			ANNUAL*	84,228	
	HOURLY	36.36	OVER		HOURLY	40.70	OVER
F	BIWEEKLY	2,908.80	9	S	BIWEEKLY	3,256.00	22
	ANNUAL*	75,862			ANNUAL*	84,916	
	HOURLY	36.70	OVER		HOURLY	41.03	OVER
G	BIWEEKLY	2,936.00	10	T	BIWEEKLY	3,282.40	23
	ANNUAL*	76,571			ANNUAL*	85,605	
	HOURLY	37.03	OVER		HOURLY	41.37	OVER
H	BIWEEKLY	2,962.40	11	U	BIWEEKLY	3,309.60	24
	ANNUAL*	77,259			ANNUAL*	86,314	
	HOURLY	37.36	OVER		HOURLY	41.70	OVER
I	BIWEEKLY	2,988.80	12	V	BIWEEKLY	3,336.00	25
	ANNUAL*	77,948			ANNUAL*	87,003	
	HOURLY	37.70	OVER		HOURLY	42.03	OVER
J	BIWEEKLY	3,016.00	13	w	BIWEEKLY	3,362.40	26
	ANNUAL*	78,657			ANNUAL*	87,691	
	HOURLY	38.03	OVER		HOURLY	42.37	OVER
K	BIWEEKLY	3,042.40	14	X	BIWEEKLY	3,389.60	27
	ANNUAL*	79,346			ANNUAL*	88,401	
	HOURLY	38.36	OVER		HOURLY	42.70	OVER
L	BIWEEKLY	3,068.80	15	Y	BIWEEKLY	3,416.00	28
	ANNUAL*	80,034			ANNUAL*	89,089	
HOURLY	38.70	OVER
M BIWEEKLY 3,096.00	16
ANNUAL*	80,744
* Annual rates listed in this schedule are approximate.
B—6
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
STATE POLICE PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2001
SCHEDULER
PAY RANGE 09
MAJOR
LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC	LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC
	HOURLY	36.53	5		HOURLY	42.74	OVER
A	BIWEEKLY	2,922.40	OR	N	BIWEEKLY	3,419.20	17
	ANNUAL*	76,216	LESS		ANNUAL*	89,173	
	HOURLY	38.36	OVER		HOURLY	43.11	OVER
B	BIWEEKLY	3,068.80	5	O	BIWEEKLY	3,448.80	18
	ANNUAL*	80,034			ANNUAL*	89,945	
	HOURLY	38.72	OVER		HOURLY	43.47	OVER
C	BIWEEKLY	3,097.60	6	P	BIWEEKLY	3,477.60	19
	ANNUAL*	80,785			ANNUAL*	90,696	
	HOURLY	39.09	OVER		HOURLY	43.84	OVER
D	BIWEEKLY	3,127.20	7	Q	BIWEEKLY	3,507.20	20
	ANNUAL-	81,557			ANNUAL*	91,468	
	HOURLY	39.45	OVER		HOURLY	44.20	OVER
E	BIWEEKLY	3,156.00	8	R	BIWEEKLY	3,536.00	21
	ANNUAL*	82,308			ANNUAL*	92,219	
	HOURLY	39.82	OVER		HOURLY	44.57	OVER
F	BIWEEKLY	3,185.60	9	S	BIWEEKLY	3,565.60	22
	ANNUAL*	83,080			ANNUAL*	92,991	
	HOURLY	40.18	OVER		HOURLY	44.93	OVER
G	BIWEEKLY	3,214.40	10	T	BIWEEKLY	3,594.40	23
	ANNUAL*	83,832			ANNUAL*	93,742	
	HOURLY	40.55	OVER		HOURLY	45.30	OVER
H	BIWEEKLY	3,244.00	11	U	BIWEEKLY	3,624.00	24
	ANNUAL*	84,604			ANNUAL*	94,514	
	HOURLY	40.91	OVER		HOURLY	45.66	OVER
I	BIWEEKLY	3,272.80	12	V	BIWEEKLY	3,652.80	25
	ANNUAL*	85,355			ANNUAL*	95,265	
	HOURLY	41.28	OVER		HOURLY	46.03	OVER
J	BIWEEKLY	3,302.40	13	w	BIWEEKLY	3,682.40	26
	ANNUAL*	86,127			ANNUAL*	96,037	
	HOURLY	41.64	OVER		HOURLY	46.39	OVER
K	BIWEEKLY	3,331.20	14	X	BIWEEKLY	3,711.20	27
	ANNUAL*	86,878			ANNUAL*	96,788	
	HOURLY	42.01	OVER		HOURLY	46.76	OVER
L	BIWEEKLY	3,360.80	15	Y	BIWEEKLY	3,740.80	28
	ANNUAL*	87,650			ANNUAL*	97,560	
	HOURLY	42.37	OVER				
M	BIWEEKLY	3,389.60	16				
	ANNUAL*	88,401					
B-7
* Annual rates listed in this schedule are approximate.
APPENDIX C
TROOPER
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA STATE POLICE PAY SCHEDULE EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2002 SCHEDULE P
PAY RANGE 01
LONGEVITY		STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	YEARS OF
RANGE		S	A	B	C	D	E	SVC
	HOURLY	20.47	21.63	22.81	23.45	24.13	24.80	5
A	BIWEEKLY	1,637.60	1,730.40	1,824.80	1,876.00	1,930.40	1,984.00	OR
	ANNUAL*	42,709	45,129	47,591	48,926	50,345	51,743	LESS
	HOURLY					25.34	26.04	OVER
B	BIWEEKLY					2,027.20	2,083.20	5
	ANNUAL*					52,869	54,330	
	HOURLY						26.29	OVER
C	BIWEEKLY						2,103.20	6
	ANNUAL*						54,851	
	HOURLY						26.54	OVER
D	BIWEEKLY						2,123.20	7
	ANNUAL*						55,373	
	HOURLY						26.78	OVER
E	BIWEEKLY						2,142.40	8
	ANNUAL*						55,874	
	HOURLY						27.03	OVER
F	BIWEEKLY						2,162.40	9
	ANNUAL*						56,395	
	HOURLY						27.28	OVER
G	BIWEEKLY						2,182.40	10
	ANNUAL*						56,917	
	HOURLY						27.53	OVER
H	BIWEEKLY						2,202.40	11
	ANNUAL*						57,439	
	HOURLY						27.78	OVER
1	BIWEEKLY						2,222.40	12
	ANNUAL*						57,960	
	HOURLY						28.02	OVER
J	BIWEEKLY						2,241.60	13
	ANNUAL*						58,461	
	HOURLY						28.27	OVER
K	BIWEEKLY						2,261.60	14
	ANNUAL*						58,983	
	HOURLY						28.52	OVER
L	BIWEEKLY						2,281.60	15
	ANNUAL*						59,504	
	HOURLY						28.77	OVER
M	BIWEEKLY						2,301.60	16
	ANNUAL*						60,026	
C-l
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
STATE POLICE PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1,2002
SCHEDULER
PAY RANGE 01
TROOPER
LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP S	STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	YEARS OF SVC
N	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						29.02 2,321.60 60,547	OVER 17
0	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						29.26 2,340.80 61,048	OVER 18
P	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						29.51 2,360.80 61,570	OVER 19
Q	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						29.76 2,380.80 62,091	OVER 20
R	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						30.01 2,400.80 62,613	OVER 21
S	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						30.26 2,420.80 63,134	OVER 22
T	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						30.50 2,440.00 63,635	OVER 23
U	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						30.75 2,460.00 64,157	OVER 24
V	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						31.00 2,480.00 64,678	OVER 25
w	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						31.25 2,500.00 65,200	OVER 26
X	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						31.50 2,520.00 65,722	OVER 27
HOURLY Y BIWEEKLY ANNUAL* * Annual rates listed on this schedule are approximate.							31.74 2,539.20 66,222	OVER 28
C-2
PAY RANGE 02
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
STATE POLICE PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2002
SCHEDULE P
CORPORAL
YEARS	YEARS
LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	OF SVC	LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	OF SVC
	HOURLY	26.78	5		HOURLY	31.33	OVER
A	BIWEEKLY	2,142.40	OR	N	BIWEEKLY	2,506.40	17
	ANNUAL*	55,874	LESS		ANNUAL*	65,367	
	HOURLY	28.12	OVER		HOURLY	31.60	OVER
B	BIWEEKLY	2,249.60	5	O	BIWEEKLY	2,528.00	18
	ANNUAL*	58,670			ANNUAL*	65,930	
	HOURLY	28.39	OVER		HOURLY	31.87	OVER
C	BIWEEKLY	2,271.20	6	P	BIWEEKLY	2,549.60	19
	ANNUAL*	59,233			ANNUAL*	66,494	
	HOURLY	28.65	OVER		HOURLY	32.14	OVER
D	BIWEEKLY	2,292.00	7	Q	BIWEEKLY	2,571.20	20
	ANNUAL*	59,775			ANNUAL*	67,057	
	HOURLY	28.92	OVER		HOURLY	32.40	OVER
E	BIWEEKLY	2,313.60	8	R	BIWEEKLY	2,592.00	21
	ANNUAL*	60,339			ANNUAL*	67,599	
	HOURLY	29.19	OVER		HOURLY	32.67	OVER
F	BIWEEKLY	2,335.20	9	S	BIWEEKLY	2,613.60	22
	ANNUAL*	60,902			ANNUAL*	68,163	
	HOURLY	29.46	OVER		HOURLY	32.94	OVER
G	BIWEEKLY	2,356.80	10	T	BIWEEKLY	2,635.20	23
	ANNUAL*	61,465			ANNUAL*	68,726	
	HOURLY	29.73	OVER		HOURLY	33.21	OVER
H	BIWEEKLY	2,378.40	11	U	BIWEEKLY	2,656.80	24
	ANNUAL*	62,029			ANNUAL*	69,289	
	HOURLY	29.99	OVER		HOURLY	33.48	OVER
I	BIWEEKLY	2,399.20	12	V	BIWEEKLY	2,678.40	25
	ANNUAL*	62,571			ANNUAL*	69,853	
	HOURLY	30.26	OVER		HOURLY	33.74	OVER
J	BIWEEKLY	2,420.80	13	w	BIWEEKLY	2,699.20	26
	ANNUAL*	63,134			ANNUAL*	70,395	
	HOURLY	30.53	OVER		HOURLY	34.01	OVER
K	BIWEEKLY	2,442.40	14	X	BIWEEKLY	2,720.80	27
	ANNUAL*	63,698			ANNUAL*	70,958	
	HOURLY	30.80	OVER		HOURLY	34.28	OVER
L	BIWEEKLY	2,464.00	15	Y	BIWEEKLY	2,742.40	28
	ANNUAL*	64,261			ANNUAL*	71,522	
	HOURLY	31.06	OVER				
M	BIWEEKLY	2,484.80	16				
	ANNUAL*	64,804					
C-3
* Annual rates listed In this schedule are approximate.
PAY RANGE 04
SERGEANT
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA STATE POLICE PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1,2002 SCHEDULE P
LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC	LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC
	HOURLY	29.06	5		HOURLY	34.00	OVER
A	BIWEEKLY	2,324.80	OR	N	BIWEEKLY	2,720.00	17
	ANNUAL*	60,631	LESS		ANNUAL*	70,938	
	HOURLY	30.51	OVER		HOURLY	34.29	OVER
B	BIWEEKLY	2,440.80	5	O	BIWEEKLY	2,743.20	18
	ANNUAL*	63,656			ANNUAL*	71,543	
	HOURLY	30.80	OVER		HOURLY	34.58	OVER
C	BIWEEKLY	2,464.00	6	P	BIWEEKLY	2,766.40	19
	ANNUAL*	64,261			ANNUAL*	72,148	
	HOURLY	31.09	OVER		HOURLY	34.87	OVER
D	BIWEEKLY	2,487.20	7	Q	BIWEEKLY	2,789.60	20
	ANNUAL*	64,866			ANNUAL*	72,753	
	HOURLY	31.38	OVER		HOURLY	35.16	OVER
E	BIWEEKLY	2,510.40	8	R	BIWEEKLY	2,812.80	21
	ANNUAL*	65,471			ANNUAL*	73,358	
	HOURLY	31.68	OVER		HOURLY	35.45	OVER
F	BIWEEKLY	2,534.40	9	S	BIWEEKLY	2,836.00	22
	ANNUAL*	66,097			ANNUAL*	73,963	
	HOURLY	31.97	OVER		HOURLY	35.74	OVER
G	BIWEEKLY	2,557.60	10	T	BIWEEKLY	2,859.20	23
	ANNUAL*	66,702			ANNUAL*	74,568	
	HOURLY	32.26	OVER		HOURLY	36.03	OVER
H	BIWEEKLY	2,580.80	11	U	BIWEEKLY	2,882.40	24
	ANNUAL*	67,307			ANNUAL*	75,173	
	HOURLY	32.55	OVER		HOURLY	36.33	OVER
I	BIWEEKLY	2,604.00	12	V	BIWEEKLY	2,906.40	25
	ANNUAL*	67,912			ANNUAL*	75,799	
	HOURLY	32.84	OVER		HOURLY	36.62	OVER
J	BIWEEKLY	2,627.20	13	w	BIWEEKLY	2,929.60	26
	ANNUAL*	68,517			ANNUAL*	76,404	
	HOURLY	33.13	OVER		HOURLY	36.91	OVER
K	BIWEEKLY	2,650.40	14	X	BIWEEKLY	2,952.80	27
	ANNUAL*	69,122			ANNUAL*	77,009	
	HOURLY	33.42	OVER		HOURLY	37.20	OVER
L	BIWEEKLY	2,673.60	15	Y	BIWEEKLY	2,976.00	28
	ANNUAL*	69,727			ANNUAL*	77,614	
	HOURLY	33.71	OVER				
M	BIWEEKLY	2,696.80	16				
	ANNUAL*	70,333					
C-4
* Annual rates listed in this schedule are approximate.
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
STATE POLICE PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1,2002
SCHEDULE P
PAY RANGE 06
LIEUTENANT
LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC	LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC
	HOURLY	31.68	5		HOURLY	37.07	OVER
A	BIWEEKLY	2,534.40	OR	N	BIWEEKLY	2,965.60	17
	ANNUAL*	66,097	LESS		ANNUAL*	77,343	
	HOURLY	33.26	OVER		HOURLY	37.38	OVER
B	BIWEEKLY	2,660.80	5	O	BIWEEKLY	2,990.40	18
	ANNUAL*	69,394			ANNUAL*	77,990	
	HOURLY	33.58	OVER		HOURLY	37.70	OVER
C	BIWEEKLY	2,686.40	6	P	BIWEEKLY	3,016.00	19
	ANNUAL*	70,061			ANNUAL*	78,657	
	HOURLY	33.90	OVER		HOURLY	38.02	OVER
D	BIWEEKLY	2,712.00	7	Q	BIWEEKLY	3,041.60	20
	ANNUAL*	70,729			ANNUAL*	79,325	
	HOURLY	34.21	OVER		HOURLY	38.33	OVER
E	BIWEEKLY	2,736.80	8	R	BIWEEKLY	3,066.40	21
	ANNUAL*	71,376			ANNUAL*	79,972	
	HOURLY	34.53	OVER		HOURLY	38.65	OVER
F	BIWEEKLY	2,762.40	9	S	BIWEEKLY	3,092.00	22
	ANNUAL*	72,043			ANNUAL*	80,639	
	HOURLY	34.85	OVER		HOURLY	38.97	OVER
G	BIWEEKLY	2,788.00	10	T	BIWEEKLY	3,117.60	23
	ANNUAL*	72,711			ANNUAL*	81,307	
	HOURLY	35.16	OVER		HOURLY	39.28	OVER
H	BIWEEKLY	2,812.80	11	U	BIWEEKLY	3,142.40	24
	ANNUAL*	73,358			ANNUAL*	81,954	
	HOURLY	35.48	OVER		HOURLY	39.60	OVER
I	BIWEEKLY	2,838.40	12	V	BIWEEKLY	3,168.00	25
	ANNUAL*	74,025			ANNUAL*	82,621	
	HOURLY	35.80	OVER		HOURLY	39.92	OVER
J	BIWEEKLY	2,864.00	13	w	BIWEEKLY	3,193.60	26
	ANNUAL*	74,693			ANNUAL*	83,289	
	HOURLY	36.12	OVER		HOURLY	40.23	OVER
K	BIWEEKLY	2,889.60	14	X	BIWEEKLY	3,218.40	27
	ANNUAL*	75,361			ANNUAL*	83,936	
	HOURLY	36.43	OVER		HOURLY	40.55	OVER
L	BIWEEKLY	2,914.40	15	Y	BIWEEKLY	3,244.00	28
	ANNUAL*	76,008			ANNUAL*	84,604	
	HOURLY	36.75	OVER				
M	BIWEEKLY	2,940.00	16				
	ANNUAL*	76,675					
C-5
* Annual rates listed in this schedule are approximate.
PAY RANGE 08
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
STATE POLICE PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2002
SCHEDULE P
CAPTAIN
LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC	LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC
	HOURLY	34.53	5		HOURLY	40.40	OVER
A	BIWEEKLY	2,762.40	OR	N	BIWEEKLY	3,232.00	17
	ANNUAL-	72,043	LESS		ANNUAL*	84,291	
	HOURLY	36.26	OVER		HOURLY	40.75	OVER
B	BIWEEKLY	2,900.80	5	O	BIWEEKLY	3,260.00	18
	ANNUAL-	75,653			ANNUAL*	85,021	
	HOURLY	36.60	OVER		HOURLY	41.09	OVER
C	BIWEEKLY	2,928.00	6	P	BIWEEKLY	3,287.20	19
	ANNUAL-	76,362			ANNUAL*	85,730	
	HOURLY	36.95	OVER		HOURLY	41.44	OVER
D	BIWEEKLY	2,956.00	7	Q	BIWEEKLY	3,315.20	20
	ANNUAL-	77,092			ANNUAL*	86,460	
	HOURLY	37.29	OVER		HOURLY	41.78	OVER
E	BIWEEKLY	2,983.20	8	R	BIWEEKLY	3,342.40	21
	ANNUAL-	77,802			ANNUAL*	87,170	
	HOURLY	37.64	OVER		HOURLY	42.13	OVER
F	BIWEEKLY	3,011.20	9	S	BIWEEKLY	3,370.40	22
	ANNUAL-	78,532			ANNUAL*	87,900	
	HOURLY	37.98	OVER		HOURLY	42.47	OVER
G	BIWEEKLY	3,038.40	10	T	BIWEEKLY	3,397.60	23
	ANNUAL-	79,241			ANNUAL*	88,609	
	HOURLY	38.33	OVER		HOURLY	42.82	OVER
H	BIWEEKLY	3,066.40	11	U	BIWEEKLY	3,425.60	24
	ANNUAL-	79,972			ANNUAL*	89,340	
	HOURLY	38.67	OVER		HOURLY	43.16	OVER
I	BIWEEKLY	3,093.60	12	V	BIWEEKLY	3,452.80	25
	ANNUAL-	80,681			ANNUAL*	90,049	
	HOURLY	39.02	OVER		HOURLY	43.51	OVER
J	BIWEEKLY	3,121.60	13	W	BIWEEKLY	3,480.80	26
	ANNUAL-	81,411			ANNUAL*	90,779	
	HOURLY	39.36	OVER		HOURLY	43.85	OVER
K	BIWEEKLY	3,148.80	14	X	BIWEEKLY	3,508.00	27
	ANNUAL-	82,121			ANNUAL*	91,489	
	HOURLY	39.71	OVER		HOURLY	44.20	OVER
L	BIWEEKLY	3,176.80	15	Y	BIWEEKLY	3,536.00	28
	ANNUAL*	82,851			ANNUAL*	92,219	
HOURLY	40.05	OVER
M BIWEEKLY 3,204.00	16
ANNUAL*	83,560
* Annual rates listed in this schedule are approximate.
C-6
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
STATE POLICE PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1,2002
SCHEDULE P
PAY RANGE 09
MAJOR
LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC	LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC
	HOURLY	37.81	5		HOURLY	44.24	OVER
A	BIWEEKLY	3,024.80	OR	N	BIWEEKLY	3,539.20	17
	ANNUAL*	78,887	LESS		ANNUAL*	92,302	
	HOURLY	39.70	OVER		HOURLY	44.62	OVER
B	BIWEEKLY	3,176.00	5	O	BIWEEKLY	3,569.60	18
	ANNUAL*	82,830			ANNUAL*	93,095	
	HOURLY	40.08	OVER		HOURLY	44.99	OVER
C	BIWEEKLY	3,206.40	6	P	BIWEEKLY	3,599.20	19
	ANNUAL*	83,623			ANNUAL*	93,867	
	HOURLY	40.46	OVER		HOURLY	45.37	OVER
D	BIWEEKLY	3,236.80	7	Q	BIWEEKLY	3,629.60	20
	ANNUAL*	84,416			ANNUAL*	94,660	
	HOURLY	40.83	OVER		HOURLY	45.75	OVER
E	BIWEEKLY	3,266.40	8	R	BIWEEKLY	3,660.00	21
	ANNUAL*	85,188			ANNUAL*	95,453	
	HOURLY	41.21	OVER		HOURLY	46.13	OVER
F	BIWEEKLY	3,296.80	9	S	BIWEEKLY	3,690.40	22
	ANNUAL*	85,981			ANNUAL*	96,246	
	HOURLY	41.59	OVER		HOURLY	46.51	OVER
G	BIWEEKLY	3,327.20	10	T	BIWEEKLY	3,720.80	23
	ANNUAL*	86,773			ANNUAL*	97,038	
	HOURLY	41.97	OVER		HOURLY	46.88	OVER
H	BIWEEKLY	3,357.60	11	U	BIWEEKLY	3,750.40	24
	ANNUAL*	87,566			ANNUAL*	97,810	
	HOURLY	42.35	OVER		HOURLY	47.26	OVER
I	BIWEEKLY	3,388.00	12	V	BIWEEKLY	3,780.80	25
	ANNUAL*	88,359			ANNUAL*	98,603	
	HOURLY	42.73	OVER		HOURLY	47.64	OVER
J	BIWEEKLY	3,418.40	13	w	BIWEEKLY	3,811.20	26
	ANNUAL*	89,152			ANNUAL*	99,396	
	HOURLY	43.10	OVER		HOURLY	48.02	OVER
K	BIWEEKLY	3,448.00	14	X	BIWEEKLY	3,841.60	27
	ANNUAL*	89,924			ANNUAL*	100,189	
	HOURLY	43.48	OVER		HOURLY	48.40	OVER
L	BIWEEKLY	3,478.40	15	Y	BIWEEKLY	3,872.00	28
	ANNUAL*	90,717			ANNUAL*	100,982	
	HOURLY	43.86	OVER				
M	BIWEEKLY	3,508.80	16				
	ANNUAL*	91,510					
C-7
* Annual rates listed in this schedule are approximate.
APPENDIX D
TROOPER
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA STATE POLICE PAY SCHEDULE EFFECTIVE JULY 1,2003 SCHEDULE P
PAY RANGE 01

LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP S	STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	YEARS OF SVC
	HOURLY	21.19	22.39	23.61	24.27	24.97	25.67	5
A	BIWEEKLY	1,695.20	1,791.20	1,888.80	1,941.60	1,997.60	2,053.60	OR
	ANNUAL*	44,211	46,714	49,260	50,637	52,097	53,558	LESS
	HOURLY					26.22	26.95	OVER
8	BIWEEKLY					2,097.60	2,156.00	5
	ANNUAL*					54,705	56,228	
	HOURLY						27.21	OVER
C	BIWEEKLY						2,176.80	6
	ANNUAL*						56,771	
	HOURLY						27.47	OVER
D	BIWEEKLY						2,197.60	7
	ANNUAL*						57,313	
	HOURLY						27.72	OVER
E	BIWEEKLY						2,217.60	8
	ANNUAL*						57,835	
	HOURLY						27.98	OVER
F	BIWEEKLY						2,238.40	9
	ANNUAL*						58,377	
	HOURLY						28.24	OVER
G	BIWEEKLY						2,259.20	10
	ANNUAL*						58,920	
	HOURLY						28.49	OVER
H	BIWEEKLY						2,279.20	11
	ANNUAL*						59,442	
	HOURLY						28.75	OVER
1	BIWEEKLY						2,300.00	12
	ANNUAL*						59,984	
	HOURLY						29.01	OVER
J	BIWEEKLY						2,320.80	13
	ANNUAL*						60,526	
	HOURLY						29.26	OVER
K	BIWEEKLY						2,340.80	14
	ANNUAL*						61,048	
	HOURLY						29.52	OVER
L	BIWEEKLY						2,361.60	15
	ANNUAL*						61,591	
	HOURLY						29.78	OVER
M	BIWEEKLY						2,382.40	16
	ANNUAL*						62,133	
D-l
PAY RANGE 01
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
STATE POLICE PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2003
SCHEDULE P
TROOPER
LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP S	STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	YEARS OF SVC
N	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						30.03 2,402.40 62,655	OVER 17
0	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						30.29 2,423.20 63,197	OVER 18
P	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						30.55 2,444.00 63,740	OVER 19
Q	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL-						30.80 2.464.00 64,261	OVER 20
R	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						31.06 2,484.80 64,804	OVER 21
S	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						31.32 2,505.60 65,346	OVER 22
T	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						31.57 2,525.60 65,868	OVER 23
U	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						31.83 2,546.40 66,410	OVER 24
V	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						32.09 2,567.20 66,953	OVER 25
w	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						32.34 2,587.20 67,474	OVER 26
X	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						32.60 2,608.00 68,017	OVER 27
Y	HOURLY BIWEEKLY ANNUAL*						32.86 2,628.80 ' 68,559	OVER 28
* Annual rates listed on this schedule are approximate.
D-2
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
STATE POLICE PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2003
SCHEDULE P
PAY RANGE 02
CORPORAL
LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC	LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC
	HOURLY	27.72	5		HOURLY	32.43	OVER
A	BIWEEKLY	2,217.60	OR	N	BIWEEKLY	2,594.40	17
	ANNUAL*	57,835	LESS		ANNUAL*	67,662	
	HOURLY	29.11	OVER		HOURLY	32.71	OVER
B	BIWEEKLY	2,328.80	5	O	BIWEEKLY	2,616.80	18
	ANNUAL*	60,735			ANNUAL*	68,246	
	HOURLY	29.38	OVER		HOURLY	32.99	OVER
C	BIWEEKLY	2,350.40	6	P	BIWEEKLY	2,639.20	19
	ANNUAL*	61,298			ANNUAL*	68,830	
	HOURLY	29.66	OVER		HOURLY	33.26	OVER
D	BIWEEKLY	2,372.80	7	Q	BIWEEKLY	2,660.80	20
	ANNUAL*	61,883			ANNUAL*	69,394	
	HOURLY	29.94	OVER		HOURLY	33.54	OVER
E	BIWEEKLY	2,395.20	8	R	BIWEEKLY	2,683.20	21
	ANNUAL*	62,467			ANNUAL-	69,978	
	HOURLY	30.21	OVER		HOURLY	33.82	OVER
F	BIWEEKLY	2,416.80	9	S	BIWEEKLY	2,705.60	22
	ANNUAL*	63,030			ANNUAL*	70,562	
	HOURLY	30.49	OVER		HOURLY	34.10	OVER
G	BIWEEKLY	2,439.20	10	T	BIWEEKLY	2,728.00	23
	ANNUAL*	63,614			ANNUAL*	71,146	
	HOURLY	30.77	OVER		HOURLY	34.37	OVER
H	BIWEEKLY	2,461.60	• 11	U	BIWEEKLY	2,749.60	24
	ANNUAL*	64,199			ANNUAL*	71,710	
	HOURLY	31.05	OVER		HOURLY	34.65	OVER
I	BIWEEKLY	2,484.00	12	V	BIWEEKLY	2,772.00	25
	ANNUAL*	64,783			ANNUAL*	72,294	
	HOURLY	31.32	OVER		HOURLY	34.93	OVER
J	BIWEEKLY	2,505.60	13	w	BIWEEKLY	2,794.40	26
	ANNUAL*	65,346			ANNUAL*	72,878	
	HOURLY	31.60	OVER		HOURLY	35.20	OVER
K	BIWEEKLY	2,528.00	14	X	BIWEEKLY	2,816.00	27
	ANNUAL*	65,930			ANNUAL*	73,441	
	HOURLY	31.88	OVER		HOURLY	35.48	OVER
L	BIWEEKLY	2,550.40	15	Y	BIWEEKLY	2,838.40	28
	ANNUAL*	66,514			ANNUAL*	74,025	
	HOURLY	32.16	OVER				
M	BIWEEKLY	2,572.80	16				
	ANNUAL*	67,099					
* Annual rates listed in this schedule are approximate.
D-3
PAY RANGE 04
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
STATE POLICE PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1,2003
SCHEDULE P
SERGEANT
YEARS	YEARS
LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	OF SVC	LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	OF SVC
	HOURLY	30.08	5		HOURLY	35.19	OVER
A	BIWEEKLY	2,406.40	OR	N	BIWEEKLY	2,815.20	17
	ANNUAL-	62,759	LESS		ANNUAL*	73,420	
	HOURLY	31.58	OVER		HOURLY	35.49	OVER
B	BIWEEKLY	2,526.40	5	O	BIWEEKLY	2,839.20	18
	ANNUAL*	65,889			ANNUAL*	74,046	
	HOURLY	31.88	OVER		HOURLY	35.80	OVER
C	BIWEEKLY	2,550.40	6	P	BIWEEKLY	2,864.00	19
	ANNUAL*	66,514			ANNUAL*	74,693	
	HOURLY	32.19	OVER		HOURLY	36.10	OVER
D	BIWEEKLY	2,575.20	7	Q	BIWEEKLY	2,888.00	20
	ANNUAL*	67,161			ANNUAL*	75,319	
	HOURLY	32.49	OVER		HOURLY	36.40	OVER
E	BIWEEKLY	2,599.20	8	R	BIWEEKLY	2,912.00	21
	ANNUAL*	67,787			ANNUAL*	75,945	
	HOURLY	32.79	OVER		HOURLY	36.70	OVER
F	BIWEEKLY	2,623.20	9	S	BIWEEKLY	2,936.00	22
	ANNUAL*	68,413			ANNUAL*	76,571	
	HOURLY	33.09	OVER		HOURLY	37.00	OVER
G	BIWEEKLY	2,647.20	10	T	BIWEEKLY	2,960.00	23
	ANNUAL*	69,039			ANNUAL*	77,197	
	HOURLY	33.39	OVER		HOURLY	37.30	OVER
H	BIWEEKLY	2,671.20	11	U	BIWEEKLY	2,984.00	24
	ANNUAL*	69,665			ANNUAL*	77,823	
	HOURLY	33.69	OVER		HOURLY	37.60	OVER
I	BIWEEKLY	2,695.20	12	V	BIWEEKLY	3,008.00	25
	ANNUAL*	70,291			ANNUAL*	78,449	
	HOURLY	33.99	OVER		HOURLY	37.90	OVER
J	BIWEEKLY	2,719.20	13	w	BIWEEKLY	3,032.00	26
	ANNUAL-	70,917			ANNUAL*	79,075	
	HOURLY	34.29	OVER		HOURLY	38.20	OVER
K	BIWEEKLY	2,743.20	14	X	BIWEEKLY	3,056.00	27
	ANNUAL-	71,543			ANNUAL*	79,700	
	HOURLY	34.59	OVER		HOURLY	38.50	OVER
L	BIWEEKLY	2,767.20	15	Y	BIWEEKLY	3,080.00	28
	ANNUAL-	72,169			ANNUAL*	80,326	
	HOURLY	34.89	OVER				
M	BIWEEKLY	2,791.20	16				
	ANNUAL*	72,794					
D-4
* Annual rates listed in this schedule are approximate.
PAY RANGE 06
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
STATE POLICE PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1,2003
SCHEDULE P
LIEUTENANT
LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC	LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC
	HOURLY	32.79	5		HOURLY	38.36	OVER
A	BIWEEKLY	2,623.20	OR	N	BIWEEKLY	3,068.80	17
	ANNUAL*	68,413	LESS		ANNUAL*	80,034	
	HOURLY	34.43	OVER		HOURLY	38.69	OVER
B	BIWEEKLY	2,754.40	5	O	BIWEEKLY	3,095.20	18
	ANNUAL*	71,835			ANNUAL*	80,723	
	HOURLY	34.76	OVER		HOURLY	39.02	OVER
C	BIWEEKLY	2,780.80	6	P	BIWEEKLY	3,121.60	19
	ANNUAL*	72,523			ANNUAL*	81,411	
	HOURLY	35.09	OVER		HOURLY	39.35	OVER
D	BIWEEKLY	2,807.20	7	Q	BIWEEKLY	3,148.00	20
	ANNUAL*	73,212			ANNUAL*	82,100	
	HOURLY	35.41	OVER		HOURLY	39.68	OVER
E	BIWEEKLY	2,832.80	8	R	BIWEEKLY	3,174.40	21
	ANNUAL*	73,879			ANNUAL*	82,788	
	HOURLY	35.74	OVER		HOURLY	40.00	OVER
F	BIWEEKLY	2,859.20	9	S	BIWEEKLY	3,200.00	22
	ANNUAL*	74,568			ANNUAL*	83,456	
	HOURLY	36.07	OVER		HOURLY	40.33	OVER
G	BIWEEKLY	2,885.60	10	T	BIWEEKLY	3,226.40	23
	ANNUAL*	75,256			ANNUAL*	84,145	
	HOURLY	36.40	OVER		HOURLY	40.66	OVER
H	BIWEEKLY	2,912.00	11	U	BIWEEKLY	3,252.80	24
	ANNUAL*	75,945			ANNUAL*	84,833	
	HOURLY	36.72	OVER		HOURLY	40.99	OVER
I	BIWEEKLY	2,937.60	12	V	BIWEEKLY	3,279.20	25
	ANNUAL*	76,613			ANNUAL*	85,522	
	HOURLY	37.05	OVER		HOURLY	41.32	OVER
J	BIWEEKLY	2,964.00	13	w	BIWEEKLY	3,305.60	26
	ANNUAL*	77,301			ANNUAL*	86,210	
	HOURLY	37.38	OVER		HOURLY	41.64	OVER
K	BIWEEKLY	2,990.40	14	X	BIWEEKLY	3,331.20	27
	ANNUAL*	77,990			ANNUAL*	86,878	
	HOURLY	37.71	OVER		HOURLY	41.97	OVER
L	BIWEEKLY	3,016.80	15	Y	BIWEEKLY	3,357.60	28
	ANNUAL*	78,678			ANNUAL*	87,566	
HOURLY	38.04	OVER
M	BIWEEKLY	3,043.20	16
ANNUAL*	79,367
D-5
* Annual rates listed in this schedule are approximate.
PAY RANGE 08
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
STATE POLICE PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1,2003
SCHEDULE P
CAPTAIN
LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC	LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC
	HOURLY	35.74	5		HOURLY	41.82	OVER
A	BIWEEKLY	2,859.20	OR	N	BIWEEKLY	3,345.60	17
	ANNUAL*	74,568	LESS		ANNUAL*	87,253	
	HOURLY	37.53	OVER		HOURLY	42.17	OVER
B	BIWEEKLY	3,002.40	5	O	BIWEEKLY	3,373.60	18
	ANNUAL*	78,303			ANNUAL*	87,983	
	HOURLY	37.88	OVER		HOURLY	42.53	OVER
C	BIWEEKLY	3,030.40	6	P	BIWEEKLY	3,402.40	19
	ANNUAL*	79,033			ANNUAL*	88,735	
	HOURLY	38.24	OVER		HOURLY	42.89	OVER
D	BIWEEKLY	3,059.20	7	Q	BIWEEKLY	3,431.20	20
	ANNUAL*	79,784			ANNUAL*	89,486	
	HOURLY	38.60	OVER		HOURLY	43.25	OVER
E	BIWEEKLY	3,088.00	8	R	BIWEEKLY	3,460.00	21
	ANNUAL*	80,535			ANNUAL*	90,237	
	HOURLY	38.96	OVER		HOURLY	43.60	OVER
F	BIWEEKLY	3,116.80	9	S	BIWEEKLY	3,488.00	22
	ANNUAL*	81,286			ANNUAL*	90,967	
	HOURLY	39.31	OVER		HOURLY	43.96	OVER
G	BIWEEKLY	3,144.80	10	T	BIWEEKLY	3,516.80	23
	ANNUAL*	82,016			ANNUAL*	91,718	
	HOURLY	39.67	OVER		HOURLY	44.32	OVER
H	BIWEEKLY	3,173.60	11	U	BIWEEKLY	3,545.60	24
	ANNUAL*	82,767			ANNUAL*	92,469	
	HOURLY	40.03	OVER		HOURLY	44.68	OVER
I	BIWEEKLY	3,202.40	12	V	BIWEEKLY	3,574.40	25
	ANNUAL*	83,519			ANNUAL*	93,220	
	HOURLY	40.39	OVER		HOURLY	45.03	OVER
J	BIWEEKLY	3,231.20	13	w	BIWEEKLY	3,602.40	26
	ANNUAL*	84,270			ANNUAL*	93,951	
	HOURLY	40.74	OVER		HOURLY	45.39	OVER
K	BIWEEKLY	3,259.20	14	X	BIWEEKLY	3,631.20	27
	ANNUAL*	85,000			ANNUAL*	94,702	
	HOURLY	41.10	OVER		HOURLY	45.75	OVER
L	BIWEEKLY	3,288.00	15	Y	BIWEEKLY	3,660.00	28
	ANNUAL*	85,751			ANNUAL*	95,453	
	HOURLY	41.46	OVER				
M	BIWEEKLY	3,316.80	16				
	ANNUAL*	86,502					
D-6
* Annual rates listed in this schedule are approximate.
PAY RANGE 09
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
STATE POLICE PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1,2003
SCHEDULE P
MAJOR
LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC	LONGEVITY RANGE		STEP E	YEARS OF SVC
	HOURLY	39.14	5		HOURLY	45.79	OVER
A	BIWEEKLY	3,131.20	OR	N	BIWEEKLY	3,663.20	17
	ANNUAL*	81,662	LESS		ANNUAL*	95,536	
	HOURLY	41.10	OVER		HOURLY	46.19	OVER
B	BIWEEKLY	3,288.00	5	O	BIWEEKLY	3,695.20	18
	ANNUAL*	85,751			ANNUAL*	96,371	
	HOURLY	41.49	OVER		HOURLY	46.58	OVER
C	BIWEEKLY	3,319.20	6	P	BIWEEKLY	3,726.40	19
	ANNUAL*	86,565			ANNUAL*	97,185	
	HOURLY	41.88	OVER		HOURLY	46.97	OVER
D	BIWEEKLY	3,350.40	7	Q	BIWEEKLY	3,757.60	20
	ANNUAL*	87,378			ANNUAL*	97,998	
	HOURLY	42.27	OVER		HOURLY	47.36	OVER
E	BIWEEKLY	3,381.60	8	R	BIWEEKLY	3,788.80	21
	ANNUAL*	88,192			ANNUAL*	98,812	
	HOURLY	42.66	OVER		HOURLY	47.75	OVER
F	BIWEEKLY	3,412.80	9	S	BIWEEKLY	3,820.00	22
	ANNUAL*	89,006			ANNUAL*	99,626	
	HOURLY	43.05	OVER		HOURLY	48.14	OVER
G	BIWEEKLY	3,444.00	10	T	BIWEEKLY	3,851.20	23
	ANNUAL*	89,820			ANNUAL*	100,439	
	HOURLY	43.45	OVER		HOURLY	48.53	OVER
H	BIWEEKLY	3,476.00	11	U	BIWEEKLY	3,882.40	24
	ANNUAL*	90,654			ANNUAL*	101,253	
	HOURLY	43.84	OVER		HOURLY	48.93	OVER
I	BIWEEKLY	3,507.20	12	V	BIWEEKLY	3,914.40	25
	ANNUAL*	91,468			ANNUAL*	102,088	
	HOURLY	44.23	OVER		HOURLY	49.32	OVER
J	BIWEEKLY	3,538.40	13	w	BIWEEKLY	3,945.60	26
	ANNUAL*	92,281			ANNUAL*	102,901	
	HOURLY	44.62	OVER		HOURLY	49.71	OVER
K	BIWEEKLY	3,569.60	14	X	BIWEEKLY	3,976.80	27
	ANNUAL*	93,095			ANNUAL*	103,715	
	HOURLY	45.01	OVER		HOURLY	50.10	OVER
L	BIWEEKLY	3,600.80	15	Y	BIWEEKLY	4,008.00	28
	ANNUAL*	93,909			ANNUAL*	104,529	
	HOURLY	45.40	OVER				
M	BIWEEKLY	3.632.00	16				
	ANNUAL*	94,723					
* Annual rates listed in this schedule are approximate.
D-7
APPENDIX E KEY
NO.	ARBITRATOR	DATE OF AWARD/AGREEMENT	EFFECTIVE DATE
1	Galfand	12/21/70	7/1/71
2	Gershenfeld	12/28/71	7/1/72
3	By Agreement	9/27/72	7/1/73
4	Gershenfeld	12/27/73	7/1/74
5	Unterberger	12/27/74	7/1/75
5a	Letter of		
	Agreement	5/10/75	1/1/76
5b	By Agreement	5/21/75	1/1/76
6	By Agreement	11/12/75	7/1/76
7	Loewenberg	12/23/76	7/1/77
8	McDermott	3/24/78	7/1/78
9	Powell	12/21/78	7/1/79
10	By Agreement	11/15/79	7/1/80
10A	By Agreement	6/13/80	7/1/80
(to clarify language)			
11	Weinstein	5/7/81	7/1/81
12	By Agreement	12/14/81	7/1/82
12a	Side Letter of		
	Agreement	3/2/82	2/1/82
12b	Side Letter of		
	Agreement	7/1/83	1/1/82
13	Herring	9/15/83	7/1/83
14	Kasher	3/22/84	7/1/84
14a	Side Letter of		
	Agreement	3/15/84	7/1/84
14b	Side Letter of		
	Agreement	4/13/84	4/13/84
15	Pereles	12/14/84	7/1/85
16	By Agreement	10/15/85	7/1/86
17	DiLauro	2/17/88	7/1/88
17a	Side Letter of		
	Agreement	2/26/88	7/1/88
17b	Side Letter of		
	Agreement	8/29/89	8/29/89
18	By Agreement	12/1/89	7/1/90
18a	Side Letters of		
	Agreement	5/10/90	7/1/90
18b	Side Letter of		
	Agreement	5/25/90	7/1/90
E-1
18c	Side Letter of Agreement	9/13/90	10/1/90
19	DiLauro	6/15/92	7/1/92
19a	Letter of Agreement	1/26/93	7/1/92
19A	By Agreement	11/24/92	7/1/94
19b	Letter of Agreement	6/16/93	8/15/93
19c	Letter of Agreement	6/23/93	6/23/93
19d	Letter of Agreement	1/11/94	1/1/94
20	Schwartz	7/11/95	7/1/95
20a	Side Letter of Agreement	5/16/96	5/16/96
20b	Side Letter of Agreement	6/12/96	6/12/96
20c	Side Letter of Agreement	5/5/97	5/5/97
20d	Side Letter of Agreement	5/28/97	6/28/97
20e	Side Letter of Agreement	11/5/97	11/5/97
20f	Side Letter of Agreement	12/11/97	12/11/97
20g	Side Letter of Agreement	1/6/98	1/6/98
20h	Side Letter of Agreement	1/26/98	1/26/98
20A	Schwartz	8/29/97	12/29/97
21	By Agreement	10/7/97	7/1/98
22	By Agreement	1/7/00	7/1/00
22A	Side Letter of Agreement	8/31/00	7/1/00
E-2
INDEX OF REFERENCES TO ARBITRATION AWARDS AND AGREEMENTS
Recognition...........10A
Prior Arbitration Awards
& Agreements Section 1............3,4,6,7,11,12
Section 2............9,12
Distribution of Booklet...4,10A,12
Salaries Section 1............22
Section 2............22
Section 3............22
Section 4............22
Section 5............17,18a
Section 6............1,2,3,4,6,8,
15,16,18,19,20
Section 7............5a,10A
Section 8............11,14a,22A
Section 9............1,10A,20f,22A
Union Security & Assessments Section 1.............2,8,9,13,17b
Section 2............17b
Section 3............17b
Section 4............10
Scheduling Section 1............9,17b
Section 2............9,13,20,22A
Section 3............9,11,20
Section 4............8,20
Section 5............4
Section 6............17
Section 7............17,22A
Overtime Section 1............1,10A
Section 2............4
Section 3............5,10A
Shift Differential
Section 1............5,5a,6,15
Section 2............5a
Call Time.............3,10A,19,19a,20
Alert Time
Section 1............2,10A
Section 2............1,10A
E-3
Holidays Section 1...........3,10A,11,12,13
Section 2...........3
Section 3...........3
Section 4...........4,9,10,10A,14b,20
Personal Days
Section 1...........4,9,10A,12,13,16,18,19,19a,20,20b,22A
Section 2...........10A,20
Section 3...........20b
Vacations Section 1...........2,4,10A,12b,16,18,19,
19a, 20,22A
Section 2...........1,7,10A,12,12b,19,
19a,20,22A
Section 3...........9,10A
Section 4...........8,10A
Section 5...........4,8,10A,20
Section 6...........8
Section 7...........12
Section 8...........20b
Sick Leave
Section 1...........1,10A,12b,20
Section 2...........1,9,10,12,12b,13,
14,15,16,17,19,20
Section 3...........4,10A
Section 4...........8,13
Section 5...........6,9,10,12,12a,13,
14,15,16,17,20 Section 6...........17
Section 7...........18b
Section 8...........20b
Medical Leave Extension
Section 1...........7,8,10A,19d,20f,20g
Section 2...........12,19d
Section 3...........7,8,10A,19d,20g
Section 4...........20f
Life Insurance.........1,2,10A
Survivor Benefits - PSTA Scholarship Fund
Section 1...........8,13,19,19c,22A
Section 2...........17,18a, 19c
Disability Benefits Section 1...........2,10A,22A
Section 2...........7,22A
Hospital & Medical Insurance...1,2,3,7,10,11, 12,13,16,17	E-4
Prescription Drug Plan.......5a,5b,10,22A
Vision Care Plan......7,10,11,12,17,19,22A
Dental Care Plan......4,5,10,13,22A
Doctor Office Visit Plan...13,22A
Emergency Counseling Plan Section 1.............10,12,17a,18,19
Section 2............10,17a,18,19,20,20a
Retirement............3,4,8,9,10A,12,17,20,20h,22A
Discipline Section 1............19b
Section 2............19b
Section 3............19b,20e
Section 4............19b
Section 5............19b,20
Section 6............19b,20
Section 7............19b,20
Section 8............19b,20
Section 9............19b,20
Section 10...........19b
Section 11...........19b
Legal Counsel Section 1............5,7
Section 2............7,10A,13
Section 3............7
Grievance Procedure Section 1............19b
Section 2............19b,20
Section 3............19b,22A
Sections 4-16........19b
Administrative Leave
Section 1............4,10,10A
Section 2............9,20
Section 3............5a,8
Section 4............4,8
Union Business..........10
Personnel Files.......6
Clothing Maintenance.......4,6,8,10,11,12,18
Outside Employment Section 1............2,4
Section 2............5,11
Reduction in Force Section 1...........8
Section 2............8,10A
E-5
Member Treatment Section 1...........18c
Section 2...........18c
Temporary Assignment.......9,10A
Specialized Positions
and Training
Sections 1-8........17,18a,20A
Section 9...........20A,20f
Section 10	20A
Section 11	20f
Transfers Section 1...........9,11,18,20
Section 2	9
Section 3	9,18
Badge...............10,12,19,22A
Car Utilization Study...11,12
Health Care Cost Containment
Committee...........15,16,18a
Special Committee -
Promotion System.......16,18a
Side Letters.........10A,11,13
Physical Fitness Committee
Secions 1-7...............17
Family Care Leave Section 1-3.........19d
Section 4	20f
Section 5	20b
Non Work-Related Disabilities......20
Political Action Committee Deductions
Sections 1-4........20c
Term of Award and Agreement...22
E-6