COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
AND
PENNSYLVANIA STATE CORRECTIONS OFFICERS ASSOCIATION
Effective July 1, 2001 to June 30, 2004
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE NUMBER
PREAMBLE	4
ARTICLE 1,	RECOGNITION	4
ARTICLE 2,	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS	4
ARTICLE 3,	ASSOCIATION SECURITY	5
ARTICLE 4,	DUES DEDUCTION	5
ARTICLE 5,	CREDIT UNION	6
ARTICLE 6,	HOURS OF WORK	7
ARTICLE 7,	MEAL PERIODS	8
ARTICLE 8,	EATING AND SANITARY FACILITIES	8
ARTICLE 9,	HOLIDAYS	9
ARTICLE 10,	LEAVES	11
ARTICLE 11,	STRESS DAY	17
ARTICLE 12,	LEAVES OF ABSENCE	17
ARTICLE 13,	CIVIL LEAVE	18
ARTICLE 14,	MILITARY LEAVE	19
ARTICLE 15,	LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY	22
ARTICLE 16,	PARENTAL LEAVE	25
ARTICLE 17,	SALARIES AND WAGES	26
ARTICLE 18,	OVERTIME	29
ARTICLE 19,	SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL	32
ARTICLE 20,	CALL TIME AND LAY-OVER	33
ARTICLE 21,	STANDBY TIME	33
ARTICLE 22,	LIFE INSURANCE	33
ARTICLE 23,	HEALTH BENEFITS	34
ARTICLE 24,	WORK-RELATED INJURIES	38
ARTICLE 25,	CLASSIFICATION	42
ARTICLE 26,	DISCHARGE, DEMOTION, SUSPENSION AND DISCIPLINE	46
ARTICLE 27,	SENIORITY	46
ARTICLE 28,	FURLOUGH PERIODS	53
ARTICLE 29,	UNIFORMS, CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT	53
ARTICLE 30,	DISCRIMINATION	55
ARTICLE 31,	ASSOCIATION BUSINESS	55
ARTICLE 32,	PEACE AND STABILITY	55
ARTICLE 33,	MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS	56
ARTICLE 34,	EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY	61
ARTICLE 35,	H-1 ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROCESS -
GRIEVANCES AND ARBITRATION	62
ARTICLE 36,	SAFETY AND HEALTH	66
ARTICLE 37,	SUCCESSORS	67
ARTICLE 38,	POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE DEDUCTIONS	67
ARTICLE 39,	FAMILY CARE LEAVE	67
ARTICLE 40,	BARGAINING UNIT WORK	68
ARTICLE 41,	TERMINATION	69
SIGNATURE PAGE	70
APPENDIX A,	CLASSIFICATION TITLES	71
APPENDIX B,	7/1/01 PAY SCHEDULE	73
APPENDIX C,	7/1/02 PAY SCHEDULE	84
APPENDIX D,	7/1/03 PAY SCHEDULE	95
APPENDIX E,	SENIORITY UNITS	106
APPENDIX F,	H-1 ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROCESS -
RULES OF PROCEDURE	107
APPENDIX G,	DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS DRUG AND
ALCOHOL TESTING PROGRAM	113
PREAMBLE
This Agreement entered into by the Pennsylvania State Corrections Officers Association, hereinafter referred to as the Association, and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, hereinafter referred to as the Employer, has as its purpose the promotion of harmonious relations between the Association and the Employer; the establishment of an equitable and peaceful procedure for the resolution of differences; and the establishment of rates of pay, hours of work, and other conditions of employment.
ARTICLE 1 RECOGNITION
Section 1 The Pennsylvania State Corrections Officers Association is recognized as the exclusive representative for collective bargaining purposes for employees within the classifications included under the following certification of the Pennsylvania Labor Relations Board, more specifically referred to as PERA-R-01-153-E, Correction Officers and Forensic Security Employees.
Section 2 The term employee when used in this Agreement is defined as those persons in the classifications covered by the certification referred to in Section 1 of this Article.
ARTICLE 2
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Section 1 It is understood and agreed that the Employer, at its sound discretion, possesses the right, in accordance with applicable laws, to manage all operations including the direction of the working force and the right to plan, direct, and control the operation of all equipment and other property of the Employer, except as modified by this Agreement.
Matters of inherent managerial policy are reserved exclusively to the Employer. These include but shall not be limited to such areas of discretion or policy as the functions and programs of the Employer, standards of service, its overall budget, utilization of technology, the organizational structure and selection and direction of personnel.
Section 2 The listing of specific rights in this Article is not intended to be nor should be considered restrictive or a waiver of any of the rights of management not listed and not specifically surrendered herein whether or not such rights have been exercised by the Employer in the past.
ARTICLE 3
ASSOCIATION SECURITY
Section 1 Each employee who, on the effective date of this Agreement, is a member of the Association, and each employee who becomes a member after that date shall maintain membership in the Association, provided that such employee may resign from the Association, in accordance with the following procedures:
a.	The employee shall send a certified letter, return receipt requested, of resignation to the headquarters of the Pennsylvania State Corrections Officers Association and a copy of the letter to the employee's agency. The official membership card, if available, shall accompany the letter of resignation.
b.	The letter shall be postmarked during the 15 day period prior to the expiration date of this Agreement and shall state that the employee is resigning membership in the Association and where applicable is revoking check-off authorization.
Section 2	The payment of dues and assessments while a member shall be the only requisite employment condition.
Section 3	The Employer and the Association hereby agree that all non-members of the Association shall be subject to a fair share fee as provided for in Act 84 of l988 (S.B. 29l) and any amendments thereto.
Section 4	The Employer shall furnish each new employee with a copy of this Agreement together with an authorization for dues payroll deduction, provided the Association has furnished the Employer with sufficient copies of the Agreement containing the authorization for dues deduction.
Section 5	This Article shall be effective as soon as practicable after the date this Agreement is signed by the parties.
ARTICLE 4
DUES DEDUCTION
Section 1 The Employer agrees to deduct the Association biweekly membership dues and an annual assessment, if any, from the pay of those employees who individually request in writing that such deductions be made. The rate at which dues are to be deducted and the amount of the annual assessment shall be certified to the Employer by the Association, and the Employer shall deduct Association dues at this rate from members' regular biweekly salary and wages (including retroactive salary/wage payments and lump sum payments made pursuant to Article 17, Salaries and Wages). The aggregate deductions of all employees shall be remitted together with an itemized statement to the Association by the last day of the succeeding month, after such deductions are made. This authorization shall be irrevocable by the employee during the term of this Agreement. When revoked by the employee in accordance with Article 3, the agency shall halt the check-off of dues effective the first full pay period following the expiration of this Agreement.
Section 2	The Employer further agrees to deduct a fair share fee biweekly from all employees in the bargaining unit who are not members of the Association.
Authorization from non-members to deduct fair share fees shall not be required. The amounts to be deducted shall be certified to the Employer by the Association, and the aggregate deductions of all employees shall be remitted together with an itemized statement to the Association by the last day of the succeeding month, after such deductions are made.
Section 3	The employee’s written authorization for dues payroll deductions shall contain the employee’s name, employee number, agency in which employed, work location (institution/boot camp or corrections community center), Association name and local.
Section 4	Where an employee has been suspended, furloughed or discharged and subsequently returned to work, with full or partial back pay, the Employer shall, in the manner outlined in Sections 1 and 2 above, deduct the Association membership dues and fair share fees that are due and owing for the period for which the employee receives back pay.
Section 5	The dues deduction and fair share fee provisions of this Article shall continue to pertain and be complied with by the Employer when any employee is transferred from one position to another position covered by this Agreement. Dues deductions and fair share fee deductions will be resumed for employees upon their return from a leave of absence without pay or recall from furlough.
Section 6	The Employer shall provide the Association, on a quarterly basis, a list of all employees in the bargaining unit represented by the Association. This list shall contain the employee’s name, social security number, address, agency in which employed, class code, work location (institution/boot camp or corrections community center) and whether the employee is a member or non-member.
Section 7	The Association shall indemnify and hold the Employer harmless against any and all claims, suits, orders, or judgments brought or issued against the Employer as a result of the action taken or not taken by the Employer under the provisions of this Article.
Section 8	This Article shall be effective as soon as practicable after the date this Agreement is signed by the parties.
ARTICLE 5
CREDIT UNION
Section 1	The Employer agrees to make payroll deductions available to employees who wish to
participate in the Pennsylvania State Employees Credit Union, as designated by the Association, and any one of the credit unions duly chartered under State or Federal statutes and approved by the Employer.
Section 2	The Employer shall remit the deductions of employees together with an itemized statement to the applicable credit unions designated under Section 1 above within 30 days following the end of the calendar month in which deductions were made.
Section 3
a.	The Employer shall establish rules, procedures and forms which it deems necessary to extend payroll deductions for credit union purposes.
b.	Payroll deduction authorization forms for credit union purposes must be executed by and between the employee and an official of the credit union.
Section 4	The Association shall indemnify and hold the Employer harmless against any and all claims, suits, orders, or judgments brought or issued against the Employer as a result of the action taken or not taken by the Employer under the provisions of this Article.
ARTICLE 6
HOURS OF WORK
Section 1	All employees shall have a work schedule consisting of any ten days within a consecutive 14 calendar day period.
Section 2	The work day shall consist of any 24 hours in a pre-established work schedule beginning with the scheduled reporting time for the employee’s shift.
Section 3	The work shift shall consist of 7^ or 8 work hours within pre-established work schedule which shall be exclusive of a roll-call period that is not more than five minutes prior to the beginning of the work shift. Such roll-call periods shall not be counted as time worked for the purpose of calculating daily or biweekly overtime.
Section 4	The regular hours of work for any shift shall be consecutive except that they may be interrupted by a meal period.
Section 5	Work schedules showing the employees’ shifts, work days, and hours shall be posted on applicable departmental bulletin boards. Except for emergencies, changes will be posted two weeks in advance. Where changes are to be made by the Employer for other than emergency reasons, or where schedules are to be adopted for new programs, the Employer agrees to meet and discuss with the Association prior to the implementation of such changes or schedules.
Section 6 The provisions of Sections 1 through 5 shall not be applicable to part-time Corrections Community Center Monitors. Part-time Corrections Community Center Monitors will continue their hours of work in accordance with past practices, unless changed by the Employer under the terms of Article 2 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 7 MEAL PERIODS
Section 1	All employees shall be granted a meal period during each shift, which period shall fall within the third to fifth hours of their work day unless otherwise approved by the Employer or unless emergencies require a variance.
Section 2	If employees of the Department of Public Welfare Regional Forensic Units are required
to work more than two hours beyond their regular quitting time, they will be allowed a meal period at the end of the initial two hour period or sooner. In addition, the employee will be allowed a meal period for each four hours worked beyond each meal period. For employees who work more than two hours after their scheduled quitting time and have not had notice of such work requirement at least two hours before commencement of their regular shift, the Employer shall compensate the employee for a meal in an amount actually expended and not to exceed $8.00.
Section 3	Past practices relating to meal periods including one meal per shift and the providing of meals during such meal periods to employees in the Department of Corrections shall continue. All H-1 bargaining unit employees in the Department of Corrections will have meal periods included as hours worked.
Section 4	The Employer agrees to reimburse all employees $8.00 for all meals missed as a result
of community assignments.
ARTICLE 8
EATING AND SANITARY FACILITIES
Section 1	The Employer shall provide adequate eating space and sanitary facilities at all permanent locations, which shall be properly heated and ventilated.
Section 2	Vending machines for beverages shall be provided at institutional/boot camp sites where meal facilities are not available at all times. The Association may meet with authorized personnel of the various institutions/boot camps to discuss the possible increase in items that may be furnished through vending machines.
Section 3	Additional vending machines for snacks, sandwiches and beverages may be installed in all work locations when feasible, providing that existing vendor contracts permit the installation of additional vending machines and that arrangements can be made to do so at no cost to the Employer.
Section 4	The Department of Corrections agrees to meet and discuss with the Association at institutional/boot camp or agency levels, upon request, for the purpose of determining the allocation of vending machine profits.
Section 5	The Employer shall furnish showers for all employees in institutions/boot camps operated by the Department of Corrections and the Department of Public Welfare.
ARTICLE 9 HOLIDAYS
Section 1 The following days shall be recognized as holidays:
1.	New Year's Day - January l
2.	Martin Luther King Jr.’s Birthday - 3rd Monday in January
3.	Presidents' Day - 3rd Monday in February
4.	Memorial Day - Last Monday in May
5.	Independence Day - July 4
6.	Labor Day - lst Monday in September
7.	Columbus Day - 2nd Monday in October
8.	Veterans’ Day - November 11
9.	Thanksgiving Day - 4th Thursday in November
10.	Day After Thanksgiving
11.	Christmas Day - December 25
In the event that a particular date on which a holiday is celebrated (as listed above) is changed for the majority of Commonwealth employees, such changed date shall apply equally to employees in this bargaining unit.
The holiday shall be deemed to fall on the day on which the holiday occurs.
Section 2	A permanent full-time employee shall be paid for any holiday listed in Section 1 of this
Article, provided the employee was scheduled to work on that day and if the employee was in an active pay status on the last half of the employee’s scheduled work day immediately prior and the first half of the employee’s scheduled work day immediately subsequent thereto.
If a holiday is observed while a permanent full-time employee is on sick leave, combined or other paid leave status, the employee will receive holiday pay and the day will not be charged against sick, combined or other paid leave credits.
Section 3	Permanent full-time employees shall be guaranteed the same number of days off with
pay equal to the number of paid holidays outlined in Section 1 above.
Section 4	If a permanent full-time employee works on any of the holidays set forth in Section l of
this Article, the employee shall be compensated at one and one-half times the employee’s hourly rate of pay for all hours worked on said holiday. The employee shall receive paid time off for all hours worked on a holiday up to a full shift. If such time is worked during the employee’s regularly scheduled shift, the paid time off shall be in lieu of holiday pay for that time under Section 2 above. Paid time off for time worked outside of the employee’s regularly scheduled shift shall not be in lieu of such holiday pay. If a written request is received prior to or within 45 days after the holiday
is worked, paid time off shall, subject to management's responsibility to maintain efficient operations, be scheduled and granted as requested by the employee, prior to the holiday or within
the 90 calendar day period succeeding the holiday. If the Employer does not schedule such paid time off in accordance with the employee’s request, or at some other time prior to the completion of the 90 calendar day period succeeding the holiday, the employee shall be compensated at the employee’s regular rate of pay in lieu of such paid time off.
Section 5	A permanent employee separated from the service of the Employer for any reason prior to taking paid time off earned by working a holiday listed in Section 1, shall be compensated in lump sum for any unused paid time off the employee has accumulated up to the time of separation.
Section 6 Whenever the Employer declares a special holiday or part holiday for all employees under the Employer’s jurisdiction, all permanent employees who are required to work on the day on which such holiday hours occur shall receive time off with pay for all hours worked up to the number of hours in the employee’s normal work shift if a full holiday is declared, or up to a pro rata share of the normal work shift if a partial holiday is declared. The Employer shall have the option of paying the employees their regular hourly rate of pay in lieu of such equivalent time off with pay.
Section 7	Whenever the Employer determines that staffing requirements prevent granting paid
leave in lieu of a holiday which occurs on an employee’s scheduled day off or prevent the granting of paid leave earned by an employee by working on a holiday listed in Section 1, or if the employee consents, upon request, to forego the day of paid leave, the employee shall be given an additional day's pay in lieu of a day of paid leave.
Section 8	Past practices at each institution/boot camp in the Department of Corrections concerning the granting of compensatory time off earned as a result of working a holiday shall continue.
Section 9	When an employee’s work shift overlaps the calendar day, the first shift of the employee in which 50% or more of the time occurs on the applicable holiday shall be considered in the holiday period and the holiday period shall end 24 hours after the commencement of that shift.
Section 10	Permanent part-time employees shall receive holidays on a pro rata basis. Employees, at the option of the Employer, shall receive either pro-rated paid leave or shall be paid at their regular hourly rate of pay in lieu of such paid leave.
Permanent part-time employees shall be compensated at one and one-half times their regular hourly rate of pay for all hours worked on a holiday set forth in Section 1 above.
Section 11	In no event shall an employee be entitled to duplicate holiday payment. Time worked on holidays during an employee’s regular shift shall not be excluded from hours worked for the purposes of determining eligibility for overtime pay under Section 1 of Article 18 of this Agreement.
Section 12	There shall be no duplication or pyramiding of any premium pay provided for under the provisions of this Agreement for the same hours worked.
Section 13	The provisions of this Article are inapplicable to those employees with a pre-established work schedule which includes paid leave days in lieu of holidays.
ARTICLE 10
LEAVES
Section 1 Employees will earn combined and sick leave as of their date of hire with the Employer as a percentage of regular hours paid in accordance with Schedule 1 of this Article. Employees shall be eligible to use combined and sick leave after 30 calendar days of service with the Employer. Bereavement leave will be earned as of the beginning of the year in accordance with Schedule 1 of this Article, however, it will be non-cumulative from year to year. An employee may use sick leave for absences from work due to personal illness for more than five consecutive days or a chronic short or long-term personal illness or disability which mandates a regimented set of treatment which is administered by a licensed health care professional. (Examples for which this type of leave may be used are chemotherapy and kidney dialysis). Employees will be eligible to use sick leave using the following criteria:
a.	0 to 5 years inclusive of credited Commonwealth service - an employee must be absent due to personal illness for more than five consecutive days, sick leave will be available, beginning with the sixth day of absence, combined leave will be available for the first five days of absence.
b.	Over 5 years through 15 years inclusive of credited Commonwealth service - an employee must be absent due to personal illness for more than five consecutive days, sick leave will be available retroactive to day four. Combined leave will be available for the first three days.
c.	Over 15 years through 25 years inclusive of credited Commonwealth service - an employee must be absent due to personal illness for more than five consecutive days, sick leave will be available retroactive to day three, combined leave will be available for the first two days.
d.	Over 25 years of credited Commonwealth service - an employee must be absent more than five consecutive days, sick leave will be available retroactive to day one.
e.	Each absence mandated by a regimented set of treatment which is administered by a licensed health care professional due to a chronic short or long-term personal illness or disability.
Regular hours paid as used in this Article include all hours paid except overtime, standby time, lay-over hours, call time, and full-time out-service training.
Employees shall be credited with a year of service for each 26 pay periods completed in an active pay status, provided they were paid a minimum of one hour in each pay period.
Section 2 Employees will be able to use earned combined leave for any reason. All leave will be requested in advance and approved (pre-scheduled) subject to management's responsibility to maintain efficient operations. Emergency requests (non pre-scheduled call offs) for leave will be approved in cases of employee illness, family illness, a stress day or other legitimate reasons. However, excessive requests for non pre-scheduled leave will be treated under the basic concepts of just cause discipline.
If the nature of the work makes it necessary to limit the number of employees on pre-scheduled leave at the same time, the employee with the greatest Bargaining Unit seniority shall be given a choice of leave periods in the event of any conflict in selection. Where reasonable opportunities are available for selection of leaves on a seniority basis, approved requests shall not be revoked if a conflict in selection develops after the selection period.
The selection period for vacations from January 1 to March 31 shall be November and December of the preceding year and the selection period for vacations from April through December shall be January 1 to March 31 unless there are existing or subsequent agreements on the selection period and procedure at appropriate local levels.
Section 3	Combined leave, sick leave and bereavement leave pay shall be the employee’s regular straight time rate of pay in effect for the employee’s regular classification.
Section 4	If a holiday occurs during the work week in which combined leave, sick leave or bereavement leave is taken by an employee, the holiday shall not be charged to leave.
Section 5	If employees are required to work during their scheduled combined leave period and
are unable to reschedule their vacation during the year due to demands of their work, the calendar year shall be extended for 7 pay periods for rescheduling purposes. However, an extension of the calendar year shall not be granted if the employee has not attempted to schedule leave during periods of time when leave could have been granted.
Section 6	Employees separated from the service of the Employer for any reason prior to taking their leave shall be compensated in a lump sum for the unused combined leave they have accumulated up to the time of separation.
Section 7 Unused combined leave shall be carried over from one calendar year to the next provided that in no case shall the amount thus carried over exceed 45 days. In the event an employee has in excess of 45 days at the end of the calendar year, such excess shall be transferred to the employee’s sick leave account. Employees transferring to this bargaining unit will have unused annual and/or personal leave transferred to their combined leave account created by this Article.
Section 8 If an employee is required to return to work after commencement of a pre-scheduled combined leave, the employee shall be compensated at one and one-half times the employee’s regular hourly rate of pay for all hours required to work on the pre-scheduled combined leave day or days. The employee shall be permitted to reschedule such combined leave day or days in accordance with Section 2.
Section 9 The provisions of Section 1 of this Article shall not apply to temporary employees unless such employees have worked 750 regular hours by the end of the last full pay period in each year. It is understood that this Section does not apply to furloughed employees who, during their recall period, return to the Employer’s payroll in a temporary capacity.
Section 10 Employees on leave without pay to attend official Association meetings or conferences in accordance with Article 15, Section 3 shall have that time included in regular hours paid for purposes of earning combined and sick leave entitlement and credited service under Section 1 above.
Section 11 Permanent employees who have one or more years of service since their last date of hire may anticipate combined and sick leave to which they become entitled during the then current calendar year unless the Employer has reason to believe that the employees have been abusing the leave entitlement. Permanent employees with less than one year of service since their last date of hire may not anticipate combined or sick leave.
Section 12 An employee who is furloughed and is not employed in another position within l4 calendar days of the effective date of furlough will receive a lump sum payment for all earned, unused combined leave unless the employee requests in writing before the end of the l4 calendar days to freeze all earned, unused combined leave.
An employee may subsequently change a decision to freeze the earned, unused combined leave by submitting a written request for a lump sum payment for the combined leave. Payment will be made within 35 days of the date on which the request is received by the Employer, and will be at the rate of pay in effect on the last day of employment prior to the date of furlough.
If the employee is re-employed during the furlough recall period, combined leave which was frozen will be reinstated. If the employee is not re-employed prior to the expiration of the furlough recall period, the employee shall be paid off in lump sum for all frozen, unused combined leave at the rate of pay in effect on the last date of employment prior to the date of furlough.
Section 13 A doctor's certificate is required for an absence from work due to personal sickness for three or more consecutive days of work or a family illness for three or more consecutive days which requires an employee’s absence from work or to document a chronic short or long-term personal illness or disability for which a regimented treatment program which is administered by a licensed health care professional will require absence from the work place. For absences of less than three days, a doctor's certificate may be required where the Employer has reason to believe that the employee has been abusing the sick leave privilege.
Family is defined as husband, wife, child, step-child, parent, brother or sister of the employee.
Section 14 Employees may accumulate sick leave up to a maximum of 300 days. Employees transferring to this bargaining unit will have all unused sick leave transferred to the sick leave account created by this Article.
Section 15
a.	Employees who retire shall be paid in accordance with Schedule 2 of this Article for their accumulated unused sick leave if they retire under the conditions set forth in Subsection b.
b.	Eligibility for payment of benefits under Subsection a. is as follows:
(1)	Superannuation retirement with at least five years of credited service in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems,
(2)	Disability retirement, which requires at least five years of credited service in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems, or
(3)	Other retirement with at least 25 years of credited service in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems,
(4)	Death prior to retirement or separation from employment except as provided in Section 16.
c.	Such payments shall not be made for part days of accumulated sick leave.
d.	No payments under this Section shall be construed to add to the credited service of the
retiring member or to the retirement covered compensation of the member.
Section 16	When an employee dies as the result of a work-related accident, the Commonwealth will pay 100% of the employee’s unused sick leave. Such payments shall not be made for part days of accumulated sick leave.
Section 17 Employees may use up to five days of leave for the death of a spouse, parent, stepparent, child or stepchild and up to three days of leave may be used for the death of a brother, sister, grandparent, step-grandparent, grandchild, step-grandchild, son- or daughter- in-law, brother- or sister-in-law, parent-in-law, grandparent-in-law, aunt, uncle, or any relative residing in the employee’s household.
Up to 3 days of bereavement leave per year used by an employee will not be deducted from any earned leave and shall be noted as bereavement leave in the employee leave records.
Bereavement leave in excess of the 3 day per year entitlement shall be deducted from the sick leave account but shall be noted as bereavement leave in the employee leave records. If sick leave is not available, pre-scheduled combined leave will be granted upon request of the employee. Bereavement leave entitlement shall be non-cumulative from year to year.
Employees must submit the name of the deceased and relationship of the deceased to the employee along with a copy of the obituary or death notice in order to be entitled to use bereavement leave.
Section 18 After five years of service, an employee who uses three or less occasions of non pre-scheduled combined leave in a calendar year may elect at the end of the calendar year to sell up to eight days of the employee’s combined leave earnings for the calendar year to the Employer. Part days may not be sold. The rate of pay for days sold will be the employee’s regular daily rate of pay on December 31 of the year.
For the purpose of this Section any leave noted as bereavement leave in the employee leave record shall not count as a non pre-scheduled combined leave occasion.
Section 19 For the purpose of this Article, the calendar year shall be defined as beginning with the employee’s first full pay period commencing on or after January 1 and continuing through the end of the employee’s pay period that includes December 31.
Section 20 Effective at the beginning of the first full pay period in January 2002, where a family member’s serious health condition requires the employee’s absence from work beyond 15 days (112.5/120 hours as applicable) in a calendar year, permanent employees with at least one year of service may use accrued sick leave.
a.	Employees who meet the eligibility criteria in b. through e. below may use accrued sick leave in accordance with the following schedule:
Leave Service Credit
Over 1 year to 2 years
Over 2 years to 3 years
Over 3 years to 15 years
Over 15 years to 25 years
Over 25 years
Sick Family Allowance
Up to 30/32 additional hours (4 days)
Up to 52.5/56 additional hours (7 days)
Up to 112.5/120 additional hours (15 days)
Up to 150/160 additional hours (20 days)
Up to 195/208 additional hours (26 days)
b.	During the initial 15 days (112.5/120 hours) of absence, paid combined leave and/or unpaid leave shall be used. The sick family leave allowance must be used prospectively, and may not be retroactively charged for any of the initial 15 days (112.5/120 hours). A separate 15 day (112.5/120 hour) requirement must be met for each different serious health condition and/or family member and for each calendar year, even if not all of the additional days were used during the previous calendar year.
c.	The initial 15 days (112.5/120 hours) of absence may be accumulated and the additional leave may be used on an intermittent basis.
d.	Proof of the family member’s serious health condition as defined by the Family and Medical Leave Act must be provided on the Commonwealth’s Serious Health Condition Certification form. Proof may be required for each absence during the 15 day (112.5/120 hour) period and subsequent sick family leave period.
e.	Family member for the purposes of this Section is defined as the following persons: husband, wife, child, step-child, or parent of the employee or any other person qualifying as a dependent under IRS eligibility criteria.
SCHEDULE 1
LEAVE SCHEDULE
	Combined	Sick	Bereavement
	Leave	Leave	Leave
	Days/Percentage	Days/Percentage	Days
	of Regular Hrs Pd	of Regular Hrs Pd	
Less than 1 year	15/5.77%	2/.77%	3 p/yr.
Over 1 year to 2 years inclusive	20/7.70%	3/1.16%	3 p/yr.
Over 2 yrs to 3 yrs inclusive	20/7.70%	4/1.54%	3 p/yr.
Over 3 yrs to 4 yrs inclusive	20/7.70%	5/1.93%	3 p/yr.
Over 4 yrs to 5 yrs inclusive	20/7.70%	6/2.31%	3 p/yr.
Over 5 yrs to 6 yrs inclusive	20/7.70%	7/2.70%	3 p/yr.
Over 6 yrs to 7 yrs inclusive	20/7.70%	8/3.08%	3 p/yr.
Over 7 yrs to 15 yrs inclusive	25/9.62%	8/3.08%	3 p/yr.
Over 15 yrs to 25 yrs inclusive	30/11.54%	8/3.08%	3 p/yr.
Over 25 years	35/13.47%	8/3.08%	3 p/yr.
Combined leave and sick leave will be earned as a percentage of regular hours paid as shown above.
Bereavement leave will be available at the beginning of the calendar year. It will be non-cumulative from year to year.
SCHEDULE 2
SICK LEAVE RETIREMENT BUY-OUT
Days Available at Retirement	Percentage Buy-Out	Maximum Days
0 - 200	40%	80
201-300	50%	150
300 + (in last year	100% of	8
of employment)	over 300 days	
ARTICLE 11
STRESS DAY
Section 1	Employees with 10 or more years of H-1 Bargaining Unit service shall earn one paid
stress day per calendar year. Effective at the beginning of the first full pay period in January 2002, employees with five or more years of H-1 Bargaining Unit service shall earn one paid stress day per calendar year. This day will not be charged against any form of paid leave. The employee will be entitled to use this day after completing 30 working days in an active pay status in the calendar year. The stress day will be granted, upon request, as long as no more than 5% of the employees scheduled on that shift have not called off as a stress day, or as long as no more than 10% of the employees scheduled on that shift have called off. It will be management's responsibility to advise the employee at the time of the stress day call-off that either the 5% or 10% maximum has been reached.
ARTICLE 12
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section 1 All time that an employee is absent from work shall be appropriately charged.
Section 2 Where a state civil service examination is not given during an employee’s non-working time, a permanent full-time employee shall be granted administrative leave with pay to take such examination which is scheduled during the employee’s regular work hours subject to management's responsibility to maintain efficient operations. Employees shall only be entitled to leave for this purpose on one occasion during each one-half calendar year. Such leave shall not exceed the employee’s normal work shift or the time necessary to travel to and from the examination and to take the examination, whichever is lesser. Employees shall not be eligible for travel expenses under this Section.
Section 3 All requests for leave must be submitted in writing to the employee’s immediate supervisor and shall be answered in writing. All other than emergency leave requests for one shift or less, except those made during the selection period, shall be answered, where possible, by the end of the work shift on which the request is made. In no event shall the request be left unanswered 24 hours prior to the requested time. If the request is received less than 24 hours prior to the start of the shift, it will be answered by the beginning of the shift for which the leave was requested.
Requests for emergency type leaves shall be answered before the end of the shift on which the request is made.
Except for such emergency type leaves, the time when leave is taken is at the discretion of the Employer.
Requests for any type of leave to which an employee is entitled under this Agreement and which is more than one shift but not more than one month shall be answered by the Employer within five days. If the requested leave is in excess of one month, the request shall be answered within 10 days.
Section 4	The Employer will continue its present practice of granting administrative leave to a reasonable number of employees who attend training seminars conducted by the Association to the same general extent that this has been granted in prior years.
Section 5	For the purpose of this Article, the calendar year shall be defined as beginning with the employee’s first full pay period commencing on or after January 1 and continuing through the end of the employee’s pay period that includes December 31.
ARTICLE 13 CIVIL LEAVE
Section 1 The Employer recognizes the responsibility of its employees to fulfill their civic duties as jurors and witnesses in court proceedings. The Employer agrees therefore to grant civil leave with pay to permanent employees:
a.	Who have not volunteered for jury duty and are called for jury duty or
b.	Who are not a party in a civil or criminal court proceeding, but are subpoenaed as a witness to attend such a court proceeding.
If the employee’s shift is different than the hours required to attend court, the employee shall be granted Civil Leave for their regular shift immediately preceding or subsequent to the court appearance.
Evidence of such civil duty in the form of a subpoena or other written notification shall be presented to the employee’s immediate supervisor as far in advance as possible.
Section 2 Permanent employees who are subpoenaed as witnesses or who are parties in the following administrative hearings shall be granted leave with pay while attending such hearings: Unemployment Compensation Board of Review Referee, Workers' Compensation Judge, and Workers’ Compensation Appeal Board.
Permanent employees who are subpoenaed as witnesses before the State Civil Service Commission or Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission shall be granted leave with pay while attending such hearings.
Evidence of such duty in the form of a subpoena or other written notification shall be presented to the employee’s immediate supervisor as far in advance as practicable.
Section 3 The term court as used in this Article is intended to mean only the following courts: Minor Judiciary Court, Courts of Common Pleas, Commonwealth Court and the United States District Court.
Section 4
a.	Permanent employees, while performing fire fighting duties or emergency management rescue work during a fire, flood, hurricane or other disaster may be granted leave with pay. Certified Red Cross disaster relief volunteers may be granted leave with pay to perform disaster relief work for the Red Cross during a state of emergency declared by the Governor.
b.	Volunteer participation in fire fighting activities, civil air patrol activities or emergency management rescue work or disaster relief work for the Red Cross shall require the prior approval of the agency head. Employees absent from work for reasons under Subsection a. shall be required to obtain a written statement from the fire company, forest unit, emergency management agency, or other organization with which they served, certifying as to their activities during the period of absence.
ARTICLE 14
MILITARY LEAVE
Employees shall be eligible for military leave as provided as follows:
Section 1	Military Reserve
a.	All permanent employees of the Commonwealth who are members of reserve components of the Armed Forces of the United States shall be entitled to military leave with compensation for all types of training duty ordered or authorized by the Armed Forces of the United States. Such training may either be active or inactive duty training and shall include but is not limited to:
(1)	Annual active duty for training
(2)	Attendance at service schools
(3)	Basic training
(4)	Short tours of active duty for special projects
(5)	Attendance at military conferences and participation in any command post exercise or maneuver which is separate from annual active duty for training or inactive duty training
b.	For military training duty as provided for in Subsection a., the maximum military leave with compensation is 15 working days per calendar year.
c.	The rate of compensation for a military leave day shall be the employee’s regular rate of compensation for the employee’s regular classification.
Section 2	Pennsylvania National Guard
a.	In accordance with the Military Code as amended by Act 92 of 1975, and Act 174 of 1990, all permanent employees of the Commonwealth who are members of the Pennsylvania National Guard shall be entitled to military leave with compensation for all types of training duty (active and inactive) or other military duty ordered or authorized by the Armed Forces of the United States. Such duty shall include but is not limited to:
(1)	Annual active duty for training
(2)	Attendance at service schools
(3)	Basic training
(4)	Short tours of active duty for special projects
(5)	Attendance at military conferences and participation in any command post exercise or maneuver which is separate from annual active duty for training or inactive duty training
(6)	Other military duty
b.	For military training duty or other military duty as provided for in Subsection a., the maximum military leave with compensation is 15 working days per calendar year.
c.	Military leaves with compensation shall also be granted to members of the Pennsylvania National Guard on all working days during which, as members of the Pennsylvania National Guard, they shall be engaged in the active service of the Commonwealth as ordered by the Governor when an emergency in the Commonwealth occurs or is threatened, or when tumult, riot or disaster shall exist or is imminent.
d.	The rate of compensation for a military leave day shall be the employee’s regular rate of compensation for the employee’s regular classification.
Section 3	General
a.	Employees of the Commonwealth who leave their jobs for the performance of duty, voluntarily or involuntarily, in any branch of the Armed Forces of the United States, any of its Reserve components or any of its National Guard components, or the commissioned corps of the Public Health Service for the purpose of training or service must be granted military leave without pay. The provisions of Section 3 through Section 6 are consistent with Chapter 43, Part III, of Title 38 United States Code and Military Code, 51 Pa. C.S. §7301 et seq.
b.	Employees who are on military leave without pay shall have their duties performed either by remaining employees and their positions kept vacant or by temporary substitutes.
Section 4	Granting, Duration and Expiration
a.	Military leave without pay must be granted for the following military services:
(1)	For all active duty (including full-time National Guard duty)
(2)	For initial active duty for training
(3)	For other active or inactive military training duty. Employees who volunteer for additional duty not required as part of routine training shall provide four weeks notice if possible to their immediate supervisor prior to the commencement of such duty
b.	Military leave without pay is available for five years plus any involuntary service during wartime or national emergency. The five years is cumulative throughout employment with the Commonwealth.
c.	Military leave without pay shall expire:
(1)	For periods of service of more than 180 days, no more than 90 days after the completion of the service
(2)	For periods of service of more than 30 days but less than 181 days, no more than 14 days after the completion of the service
(3)	For periods of service that were less than 31 days, the first full regularly scheduled work period following the period of service or up to eight hours after an opportunity to return from the place of service to the employee’s home
(4)	For periods of hospitalization or convalescence from illness or injury incurred during the period of service, up to two years after the period of service or when recovered, whichever occurs sooner
(5)	For circumstances beyond an employee’s control, the above periods may be extended upon demonstration of such circumstances
Section 5	Re-employment
Employees have the right to return to employment at the time of or prior to the expiration of military leave upon notifying the agency head of the desire and availability to return to Commonwealth service, provided the following are met:
a. The employee is capable of performing the essential functions of the position.
For temporary employees, the temporary position has not yet expired.
b.
c. For periods of service delineated in Section 4 c. (1) and (4), written application for reemployment is provided to the agency head.
Section 6	Seniority Rights
An employee who returns to employment at the time of or prior to the expiration of military leave shall be given such status in employment as would have been enjoyed if employment had been continuous from the time of entrance into the Armed Forces.
Section 7	Retirement Rights
Employees who are granted military leaves may, under conditions provided in the Military Code (51 P.S. 7306) and Chapter 43, Part III of Title 38 United States Code and in accordance with procedures prescribed by the State Employees' Retirement Board and the Public School Employes’ Retirement Board, choose either to continue or discontinue making regular payments into their retirement accounts.
Section 8	Loss of Benefits
Employees who are separated from the service by a discharge under other than honorable conditions, bad conduct, or dishonorable discharge shall not be entitled to any of the benefits of Section 3 through Section 9 of this Article (relating to military leaves without pay) except such vested rights as they may have acquired thereto by virtue of payments made into their retirement accounts.
Section 9	Physical Examination
Employees shall be granted one day's leave with pay for the purpose of undergoing any physical examination that may be required in connection with entering the Armed Forces. An extension of such paid leave, not exceeding two additional days, may be approved by the agency if the employee certified in writing that more than one day is required to complete the examination.
Section 10	For the purpose of this Article, the calendar year shall be defined as beginning with the employee’s first full pay period commencing on or after January 1 and continuing through the end of the employee’s pay period that includes December 31.
ARTICLE 15
LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY
Se	ction 1 Employees may be granted leaves without pay at the sole discretion of the Employer for any reason for a period not to exceed two years.
Se	ction 2 Employees who are elected or appointed as Association officials or representatives shall, at the written request of the employee, be granted leaves without pay for the maximum term of office, not to exceed three years. Such leaves may be renewed or extended by written consent of the Association and the Employer.
Se	ction 3 Association officials or elected delegates shall be granted, subject to management's responsibility to maintain efficient operations, up to six weeks leave without pay each year without loss of seniority credit where such time is necessary to enable them to attend official Association meetings or conferences. Employees may use accrued combined leave for this purpose in lieu of leave without pay.
The following shall be recognized as official Association meetings or conferences:
1.	PSCOA State Committees meetings (no more than four (4) employees per meeting);
2.	PSCOA State Board meetings (held quarterly, President/Vice President from each local);
3.	PSCOA Executive Board meeting (held quarterly, no more than eight (8) employees);
4.	President’s meeting;
5.	Contract Interpretation Training Sessions held after the negotiation of a new collective bargaining agreement for the purpose of disseminating contract interpretation information to delegates. An employee may be granted leave without pay with seniority credit to attend two contract interpretation sessions during the life of a collective bargaining agreement;
6.	Statewide and Regional General Membership Meeting (one per year, no more than three (3) employees per local);
7.	PSCOA Training Sessions (one per year per employee);
8.	CUSA Corrections Conference (held quarterly);
Requests for leave without pay with seniority credit for Association officials or elected delegates will be forwarded to the Bureau of Labor Relations, Office of Administration, by PSCOA, not less than three weeks prior to the date of each meeting or conference. Each request will contain the name, classification, department and work location of the Association official or delegate, in addition to the name of the meeting or conference.
Section 4 After completing one year of service, an employee may be granted a leave of absence without pay at the sole discretion of the Employer for educational purposes. Such leave shall not exceed one year and shall not be granted more than once every four years.
Section 5 After completing six months of service, employees shall be granted, upon written request, extended leave of absence without pay for reason of illness for a period of at least two consecutive weeks, but not more than six months. If the illness or disability is due to a serious health condition as defined by the Family and Medical Leave Act, leave shall be granted for less than two consecutive weeks. The request, which shall be submitted in advance of the leave if circumstances permit, shall include proof of illness or disability in the form of a doctor's certificate and shall state a prognosis and expected date of return.
If requested and properly documented as medically necessary, leave under this Section shall be approved on an intermittent or reduced-time basis.
After the employee has used an aggregate of six months of leave without pay under this
Section, the Employer is not required to grant subsequent leave without pay for this purpose unless six (6) months in an active pay status have elapsed from the termination of the last date of approved leave under this Section.
This Section shall not apply to a work-related injury.
Section 6 Upon request of the employee, an extension of up to an additional six months of leave without pay for illness shall be granted provided the employee provides proof of continuing illness or disability in the form of a doctor's certificate which shall state a prognosis and expected date of return. The extension shall be without benefits. Upon certification from the employee's doctor that the employee is able to return to work, the employee shall be offered a position in the same classification and seniority unit for which a vacancy exists and to which there are no seniority claims and which the agency intends to fill. If such a position is not available, the employee shall be offered, during the remainder of the six-month period, any position in the same classification, in a lower classification in the same classification series, or a position previously held, within the same geographical/organizational limitation as the seniority unit, for which a vacancy exists and to which there are no seniority claims and which the agency intends to fill. If the employee refuses an offer of a position in the same classification, the employee's rights under this Section shall terminate. If the employee accepts a position in a lower classification or a position previously held, the employee will be offered a position in the same classification if there is a vacancy in that classification during the remainder of the six-month period in the seniority unit, provided there are no seniority claims to the position, and the agency intends to fill the position.
This Section shall not apply to a work-related injury.
Section 7 Employees shall not be required to use accumulated sick or combined leave prior to the commencement of a leave without pay.
Section 8 Upon the expiration of any approved leave of absence without pay, except as provided in Section 6 above, and Article 24, Section 7, the employee is entitled to return to a position in the same or equivalent classification within the agency, subject to the furlough provisions of Article 27, Seniority.
Section 9 It is understood by both parties that tie provisions of Sections 5, 6, 7 and 8 are consistent with the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, 29 USC Section 2601 et seq. and that leave granted in accordance with Sections 5, 6, 7 and 8 shall be designated as leave under the provisions of the Act.
Section 10 For the purpose of this Article, the calendar year shall be defined as beginning with the employee's first full pay period commencing on or after January 1 and continuing through the end of the employee's pay period that includes December 31.
ARTICLE 16
PARENTAL LEAVE
Employees shall be eligible for parental leave as provided as follows:
Section 1	General
All permanent employees of the Employer who become parents through childbirth or formal adoption or placement of a child with an employee for foster care shall be granted parental leave upon request.
Section 2	Granting Leave
a.	An employee shall submit written notification to the immediate supervisor stating the anticipated duration of the leave at least two weeks in advance if circumstances permit. Such leaves shall be granted for a period of time not to exceed six months. Upon the request of the employee and at the discretion of the agency head, parental leaves may be extended or renewed for a period not to exceed six months. In no case shall the total amount of leave exceed 12 months. Parental leaves shall begin whenever employees request; and may be used prior to the date of custody or placement when required for adoption or placement to proceed. No unpaid parental leave shall be granted beyond one year from the date of birth, of assuming custody of an adopted child or of placement of a foster child.
b.	In no case shall the employee be required to leave prior to parental leave unless he/she can no longer satisfactorily perform the duties of his/her position.
c.	While an employee is on parental leave, the duties of the position shall either be performed by remaining staff and the position kept vacant or they shall be performed by a substitute employee.
Section 3	Re-employment
a.	An employee shall have the right to return to the same position in the same classification held before going on parental leave, or to an equivalent position with regard to pay and skill.
b.	The employee’s anniversary date shall be extended in accordance with Section 5.24 of the Commonwealth's Personnel Rules (relating to leave without pay).
Section 4	Seniority Rights
Upon return from parental leave, an employee shall retain all seniority and pension rights that had accrued up to the time of leave. Seniority shall continue to accrue during parental leave.
Section 5
Combined and Sick Leave
An employee is entitled to use accrued sick leave for the period that he/she is unable to work as certified by a physician. An employee may use all accrued combined and sick leave at any time before, during or after parental leave. Unused leave shall be carried over until return. An employee shall not earn combined and sick leave while on parental leave without pay. Paid leave is not to be included when calculating the six (6) month entitlement.
Section 6 Guidelines established by the Secretary of Administration regarding parental leave are published through the Directives Management System (Reference Management Directive 530.2). Guidelines regarding state-paid benefits while on parental leave are published through the Directives Management System (Reference Management Directive 530.4).
Section 7 It is understood by both parties that the provisions of this Article are consistent with the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act, 43 P.S. Section 951 et seq., and the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, 29 USC Section 2601 et seq., and that leave granted in accordance with this Article shall be designated as leave under the provisions of the Act.
ARTICLE 17
SALARIES AND WAGES
Section 1 Each employee covered by this Agreement shall be entitled to the longevity rate on the pay schedules in Appendices B, C, and D indicated for their step and years of service which is based on the following table:
4% of base pay after five (5) years of service.
5% of base pay after six (6) years of service.
6% of base pay after seven (7) years of service.
7% of base pay after eight (8) years of service.
8% of base pay after nine (9) years of service.
9% of base pay after ten (10) years of service.
10% of base pay after eleven (11) years of service.
11% of base pay after twelve (12) years of service.
12% of base pay after thirteen (13) years of service.
13% of base pay after fourteen (14) years of service.
14% of base pay after fifteen (15) years of service.
15% of base pay after sixteen (16) years of service.
16% of base pay after seventeen (17) years of service.
17% of base pay after eighteen (18) years of service.
18% of base pay after nineteen (19) years of service.
19% of base pay after twenty (20) years of service.
20% of base pay after twenty-one (21) years of service.
21% of base pay after twenty-two (22) years of service.
22% of base pay after twenty-three (23) years of service.
23% of base pay after twenty-four (24) years of service.
24% of base pay after twenty-five (25) years of service.
25% of base pay after twenty-six (26) years of service (effective July 1, 2001).
26% of base pay after twenty-seven (27) years of service (effective July 1, 2002).
27% of base pay after twenty-eight (28) years of service (effective July 1, 2003).
Employees who as of June 30, 2001 have not received a longevity increase for at least one year will have their longevity date changed to July 2001. All other employees will move to the next higher rate on their longevity date.
Employees whose rate of pay exceeds the rate for the maximum established for their longevity range shall be placed at Step "0."
For the purpose of this Section, years of service will be defined as years of service within the bargaining unit.
Section 2 Effective July 1, 2001 a new three-step pay range 34 will be created for Correction Officer Trainee and Forensic Security Employee Trainee. The pay range will be as follows: Step S -$12.03; Step A - $12.39; and Step B - $12.66. Current employees in the Correction Officer Trainee and Forensic Security Employee Trainee classifications shall move to Step S of the new pay range ($12.03), except for employees assigned to Step 0.
Effective July 1, 2001, the pay range for all classes except Correction Officer Trainee and Forensic Security Employee Trainee shall be increased by one pay range. There will be no Step S in any pay range except pay range 34. All employees other than Correction Officer Trainees and Forensic Security Employee Trainees at pay range 34 Step S will be moved to pay range 35 Step A. All employees at pay range 34 Step A will be moved to pay range 35 Step B and will have their anniversary date changed to July 2002. All other employees will be placed on the same step and longevity level in the new pay range, except for employees assigned to Step 0.
These changes are reflected in the Pay Schedule in Appendix B.
All current employees who are assigned to Step 0 shall be treated in accordance with the side letter between the parties dated November 5, 2001.
Each institution may hire Correction Officer Trainees and Forensic Security Employee Trainees at any step of pay range 34. However, all Correction Officer Trainees and Forensic Security Employee Trainees within an institution who are paid below the hiring rate will be adjusted to the new hiring rate. For the purpose of this Section, Step 0 will not be considered a hiring rate.
Upon promotion to Correction Officer 1 or Forensic Security Employee 1, all Correction Officer Trainees and Forensic Security Employee Trainees will move to pay range 35 Step B.
Section 3 Effective July 1, 2002, each employee covered by this Agreement shall receive a general pay increase of three and one-half percent (3.5%). This increase is reflected in the Pay Schedule in Appendix C.
Section 4 Effective July 1, 2003, each employee covered by this Agreement shall receive a general pay increase of four percent (4%). This increase is reflected in the Pay Schedule in Appendix D.
Section 5 In addition to the above general pay increases, employees whose salary is below the maximum of their applicable pay and longevity range (Step K) shall receive, on their anniversary date, a service increment of one step or the amount necessary to reach the maximum, whichever is lesser. An employee’s performance rating shall not be used in determining entitlement to a service increment. The increment shall be granted solely on the basis of service on the employee’s anniversary date. Except as provided herein, the definition of anniversary date in the Commonwealth's Personnel Rules, in effect on the date of this Agreement, shall apply.
Section 6
a.	A permanent salaried employee whose salary exceeds the maximum of the employee’s applicable pay range and longevity range when the general pay increases outlined in Sections 3 and 4 are effective shall receive the annual amount of the general pay increase in the form of a one-time cash payment rounded to the nearest dollar.
If an employee’s rate of pay exceeds the maximum of the employee’s applicable pay range and longevity range before the general pay increase, but would not exceed the maximum after the general pay increase, the employee’s rate shall be increased by the amount which will make it equal to the new maximum of the applicable longevity range. The one-time cash payment for an employee in this situation shall be reduced by the amount of increase in the employee’s annual rate of pay.
b.	The cash payments provided for in this Section shall not be added to the employee’s base salary. The cash payments will be subject to dues and fair share fee deductions where applicable.
Section 7	All Correction Officer Trainees and Forensic Security Employee Trainees shall remain in that classification for one year.
Section 8	An employee in an inactive pay status shall, upon return to active status, be entitled to the above general pay increases and cash payments outlined in this Article.
Section 9	The salaries of employees shall be paid biweekly. In the event the payday occurs on a holiday, the preceding day shall be the payday.
ARTICLE 18 OVERTIME
Section 1	One and one-half of the employee’s regular hourly rate of pay shall be paid for work under the following conditions:
a.	For any work in excess of 8 hours in any one work day or in excess of 80 hours in a pre-established biweekly work schedule
b.	There shall be no duplication of premium pay for the same hours worked under the provisions of Subsection a.
Section 2
a.	The following items will be regarded as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime pay under Section l of this Article.
(1)	Hours worked, excluding standby time and	layover time
(2)	Holidays
(3)	Pre-scheduled combined leave
(4)	Three non pre-scheduled combined leave	occurrences per calendar year
(5)	Compensatory leave; to be included in the period of occurrence for the purpose of computing overtime
(6)	Administrative leave
(7)	Stress Day
b.	The following items will not be regarded as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime pay under Section l of the Article:
(1)	Where the Employer exercises its option to pay for a holiday which occurs on an employee’s day off in lieu of granting time off with pay or where the employee consents to forego a day of paid leave
(2)	Where the employee is paid for compensatory time earned as a result of working a holiday
(3)	Any non pre-scheduled combined leave days in excess of three occurrences in a calendar year
(4)	Sick leave
(5)	Bereavement leave
(6)	Civil Leave
(7)	Paid military	leave
(8)	Any form of	unpaid leave
Section 3	Double an employee’s regular hourly rate of pay shall be paid for work under the following conditions:
a.
For the 2nd and 4th scheduled days off work, provided in order to be eligible for double time on the 2nd day off, the employee was in an active pay status the first
five regularly scheduled work days and worked the first scheduled day off in the normal biweekly work period and, in order to be eligible for double time on the 4th day off, the employee was in an active pay status the 2nd five regularly scheduled work days and worked the 3rd scheduled day off in the normal biweekly work period.
b.	All hours during which an employee is held hostage by an inmate/patient. The Employer in its sole discretion will determine when a hostage incident has occurred and the starting and ending time during which double time will be paid.
Section 4 By mutual agreement between the Employer, the Association and the employee involved, compensatory time at the appropriate rate may be granted in lieu of overtime pay. Such compensatory time is to be granted within the 90 calendar day period succeeding the date on which the overtime is worked. If a written request is received prior to or within 45 days after the date on which the overtime is worked, the compensatory time off shall, subject to management's responsibility to maintain efficient operations, be scheduled and granted as requested by the employee. If the Employer does not schedule the compensatory time in accordance with the employee’s request, or at some other time mutually agreed to, prior to the completion of the 90 calendar day period succeeding the date on which the overtime is worked, the employee shall be compensated at the appropriate rate of pay in lieu of paid time off.
Section 5 a. The Employer will attempt to equalize overtime during each one-half calendar year between or among employees in the same job classification within each equalization unit who have previously stated in writing a willingness to accept overtime assignments. When the need for overtime occurs, the Employer shall first seek to obtain volunteers for the performance of overtime beginning with the most senior employee who has the least overtime credit during the one-half calendar year among those employees who have stated a willingness to work overtime. An employee declining overtime shall be credited with the overtime worked by the employee accepting the overtime for equalization purposes. Employees may be passed over in order to comply with the equalization requirements or when the performance of such overtime would result in the employee working three consecutive shifts. The Employer shall not be required to accept as a volunteer an employee who would be entitled to double time for such overtime work except if there are no volunteers who would be entitled to time and one-half for such overtime work.
An employee submitting a written statement of willingness to work overtime or withdrawing their written statement of willingness to work overtime after the beginning of a six-month equalization period shall be credited for equalization purposes with an amount of overtime equal to the maximum amount of worked and credited overtime held by an employee in the same classification in the equalization unit at the time of submitting or withdrawing the statement. This Paragraph shall be superseded by any existing or subsequent procedure mutually agreed upon in writing by the Employer and the Association at the agency, institution/boot camp or local agency level.
b.	In the event there is an insufficient number of volunteers, the Employer shall have the right to assign overtime work on a non-volunteer basis. Such mandatory overtime shall be assigned in the following manner:
(1)	The Employer shall maintain a list, in Bargaining Unit seniority order, comprised of all employees (including those who have expressed a willingness to accept overtimeassignments) in the same job classification within each equalization unit. Mandatory overtime shall be assigned to the least senior employee on said list who has not had a mandatory overtime assignment. Once an employee has been assigned overtime on a mandatory basis, such employee shall not be assigned mandatory overtime until all employees above the employee on the list have either been assigned mandatory overtime or have been excused for good and sufficient reasons, regardless of the number of hours worked during such overtime assignment and regardless of the length of time between mandatory overtime assignments.
(2)	Once each employee whose name appears on the list provided for in Subsection b. (1) above has been assigned mandatory overtime, the process shall repeat itself.
(3)	If any employee has worked two (2) prior Christmas or New Year's holidays and is scheduled off for the following Christmas or New Year's holiday, the employee will not be mandated to work that Christmas or New Year's holiday. Seniority provisions concerning conflicts in overtime work must be waived to accomplish this specific instance.
(4)	There shall be no requirement to equalize overtime which is assigned on a mandatory basis and overtime assigned on a mandatory basis shall not be included in the hours which the Employer is required to equalize in accordance with the provisions of Subsection a. above.
(5)	In the event an employee cannot be reached to be informed of the mandatory overtime assignment, the Employer has the right to assign such mandatory overtime to the next employee on the list. However, when the next mandatory overtime assignment occurs the Employer shall assign such mandatory overtime to the employee(s) previously passed over.
(6)	Employees entering established equalization units shall be placed on the mandatory overtime list provided for in Subsection b. (1) above in bargaining unit seniority order.
c.	Lists showing accumulations of overtime within each equalization unit during the preceding six-month period shall be posted every six months.
d.	Equalization units will be established by written agreement of the parties. The parties shall attempt to establish such units by labor-management meetings at appropriate local levels. If agreement is not reached, the Association can request that all unresolved equalization unit issues within a particular agency be submitted to a committee consisting of representatives of the Association and representatives of the Office of Administration and the agency. After a period of 45 days from the date of the Association request to submit the unresolved issues to the Committee, the Association can request that all unresolved equalization unit issues for an agency be submitted to an arbitration panel. The arbitration panel shall consist of one Association staff member, one staff member of the Employer, and one impartial arbitrator jointly selected by the parties.
e.	If a grievance arises over equalization of overtime based on actions taken by the Employer prior to the date of an agreement or an arbitration award establishing the applicable equalization unit, an arbitrator shall not award back pay to an employee due to the Employer’s use of the incorrect equalization unit for the equalization of overtime.
Section 6	Employees who are required to remain on duty during meal periods shall be compensated for these periods at the appropriate rate of pay.
Section 7	Payment for overtime is to be made the pay day of the first pay period following the pay period in which the overtime is worked. For the purpose of this Section, and in the determination of this time, pay periods will be considered as after-the-fact.
The employee option for separate overtime checks is eliminated.
Section 8	There shall be no duplication or pyramiding of any premium pay provided for under the provisions of this Agreement for the same hours worked. Time worked on holidays during an employee’s regular shift shall not be excluded from hours worked for the purpose of determining eligibility for overtime pay under Section 1 of this Article.
Section 9	When permanent full-time employees who normally perform a certain type of work within a seniority unit are on furlough, the Employer will not schedule other employees within the seniority unit to perform the same type of work on an overtime basis where such furloughed employees have the skill and experience to perform such work if the overtime involves full shifts and is expected to extend on a regular basis, for a period of four or more weeks.
ARTICLE 19
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
Section 1 An employee whose work shift consisting of 7 1/2 or 8 work hours which begins at or after 8:00 p.m. and before 6:00 a.m. will be paid a shift differential of 90 cents per hour for all such hours worked on that shift.
An employee whose work shift consisting of 7 1/2 or 8 work hours which begins at or after 12:00 noon and before 8:00 p.m. will be paid a shift differential of $1.00 per hour for all such hours worked on that shift.
Section 2 When an employee works overtime either before or after the employee’s full shift, shift differential at the appropriate rate will be paid for all hours worked as defined by Section 1. Shift differential will be included in the base rate for the purpose of computing the appropriate overtime premium rate.
ARTICLE 20
CALL TIME AND LAY-OVER
Section 1	Employees who have been called into work outside of their regular shift schedule shall be guaranteed a minimum of four hours work. Call time pay begins when employees report to their assigned work site ready for work. There shall be no duplication of hours.
Section 2	Call time shall be paid for at whatever rate is appropriate.
Section 3	Unless provided otherwise herein, the provisions of Section 1 shall be applicable to any
work assignment that is separated from the employee’s regular shift schedule or other work assignment by a break in time other than a meal period. Section 1 shall not be applicable to scheduled overtime where the past practice has been to schedule certain work assignments on a regular basis without being subject to any minimum hours or pay.
Section 4	Whenever the Employer assigns an employee to escort inmates in the community and where such results in the inability to return home on the same day, said employee shall receive 25% of base pay for every hour on layover.
Layover time will terminate upon commencement of the return trip home. Layover pay shall be given in addition to any meal and lodging allowance ordinarily received by the employees.
ARTICLE 21
STANDBY TIME
Section l An employee is on standby during the period that the employee is required to remain at a specific location and to be available for emergencies. Only employees who are required to be on standby are entitled to the compensation hereafter set forth. Such employees shall, at the Employer’s discretion, either be paid 25% of their regular base pay for such standby time or receive compensatory time off equivalent to 25% of such standby time. Employees shall be considered to be on standby time until officially released. Standby time shall not be considered hours worked for the purpose of overtime computation. An employee shall not be considered to be on standby time while being paid for call time.
Section 2 An employee who is required to be on-call for a court appearance arising within the scope of his employment shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of Section 1 above.
ARTICLE 22
LIFE INSURANCE
Section 1 The Employer shall continue to assume the entire cost of the insurance coverage for eligible employees as set forth in the currently existing life insurance plan as modified by Section 2. The amount of insurance is based on the employee’s annual pay rate in effect on the preceding January 1, rounded to the nearest $1,000, but not to exceed $40,000. The amount will be reduced to 65% on the date the insured individual reaches age 70 and 50% on the date the insured individual reaches age 75.
An employee who suffers a work-related disability which is covered by Act 534/632, returns to work and then subsequently suffers a reoccurrence of the disability which requires an adjustment of the Employer-paid life insurance, will have his/her estate compensated by the Employer for the difference between the amount paid by the Employer’s life insurance program and the amount the employee’s estate would have received had the adjustment not occurred.
Section 2 a. Permanent employees who are granted sick leave without pay or parental leave without pay will continue to receive 100% state-paid coverage under the current life insurance plan for up to six months. Permanent employees who are on sick or parental leave without pay for longer than six months may remain in the program for an additional six month period by paying the entire premium. Permanent employees who are granted family care leave will continue to receive 100% state-paid coverage under the current life insurance plan for up to twelve (12) weeks. Permanent employees who are granted injury leave (paid and unpaid) will continue to receive 100% state-paid coverage under the current life insurance plan for up to twelve (12) months or, if only paid leave is used, beyond 12 months until the paid leave is exhausted.
b. Those permanent employees who are placed on suspension or who are granted leave without pay for any reason other than sickness, parental, family care or injury leave for longer than one full pay period may remain in the program for up to one year by paying the entire premium.
Section 3 The Employer shall continue to provide each employee who is covered under the currently existing life insurance plan with fully paid accidental death benefits for work-related accidental deaths. The amount of coverage is $20,000, unless the surviving spouse or minor children are entitled to benefits under Act 101 of 1976.
ARTICLE 23
HEALTH BENEFITS
Section 1 Pennsylvania Employees Benefit Trust Fund
a.	A jointly administered, multi-union, Health and Welfare Fund has been established under the provisions of an Agreement and Declaration of Trust executed by and between Council 13, American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO, and the Employer, and executed by the trustees.
This jointly administered Fund is known as the Pennsylvania Employees Benefit Trust Fund (hereinafter Fund). The Fund shall conform to all existing and future Federal and Commonwealth statutes applicable to and controlling such Health and Welfare Fund.
Said Agreement and Declaration of Trust shall provide for equal representation on the Board of Trustees appointed by the unions and the Employer. In addition, the Agreement and Declaration of Trust will allow the Fund to provide benefits to management level and retired employees, as well as employees represented by other unions and other employers in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
b.	The Board of Trustees of the Fund shall determine in their discretion and within the terms of this Agreement and the Agreement and Declaration of Trust the extent and level of such hospital, medical/surgical and major medical health coverage, supplemental benefits and other benefits to be extended by the Fund.
c.	The Employer shall contribute to the Fund the amounts indicated below on behalf of each permanent full-time employee eligible for benefits and covered by this Agreement:
July 1, 2001- June 30, 2003	$190.00 biweekly per employee
The contributions for permanent part-time employees, who are eligible for benefits and expected to be in an active pay status at least 50% of the time every pay period, will be 50% of the above referenced rates.
The parties agree that during the first year of the agreement (July 1, 2001- June 30, 2002) the Employer will stop the above referenced $190.00 biweekly per employee contributions for two pay periods. The Employer, at its sole discretion, will determine for which two pay periods the contributions will cease.
d.	If the negotiations with the employee organization which represents the majority of Commonwealth employees modifies the Employer's contribution rate of $190.00 bi-weekly per employee or the language of this Article for the period July 1, 2003 and thereafter, the results of those negotiations and any language changes will be applied to this bargaining unit.
e.	The Employer shall make aggregate payments of contributions together with an itemized statement to the Fund within one month from the end of the month in which the contributions were collected.
f.	All benefits extended by the Fund must be designed to be excludable from the "regular rate" definition of the Fair Labor Standards Act, unless hereinafter required by federal law to be included.
g.	No dispute over eligibility for benefits or over a claim for any benefits extended by the Fund shall be subject to the grievance procedure established in any collective bargaining agreement, except as otherwise specifically provided within this Article.
h.	It is expressly agreed and understood that the Employer does not accept, nor is the Employer to be hereby charged with any responsibility in any manner connected with the determination of liability to any employee claiming under any of the benefits extended by the Fund. It is expressly agreed that the Employer’s liability, in any and every event, with respect to benefits extended by the Fund shall be limited to the contributions indicated under Subsection c. above.
Section 2 The provisions of Sections 3 through 7 shall be modified to the extent the hospital, medical/surgical and major medical health coverage and other benefits as determined and extended by the Fund and/or the Retired Employees Health Program is modified for current and/or future employees and annuitants by and through the Pennsylvania Employees Benefit Trust Fund as provided for in Section 1 of this Article.
Section 3 The Fund shall continue to provide each permanent full-time active employee with hospital, medical/surgical and major medical health coverage, a Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) Option, a Preferred Provider Organization (PPO) or health benefits delivery system and/or other benefits as determined and extended by the Fund. In addition, it shall provide dependency coverage where the dependents of the employee qualify.
Section 4 The Fund shall continue to provide permanent part-time employees who are expected to be in an active pay status at least 50% of the time every pay period with hospital, medical/surgical and major medical health coverage and other benefits as determined and extended by the Fund. In addition, it shall provide 50% dependency coverage where the dependents of the employee qualify. Such employees shall contribute an amount determined by the Fund's trustees toward the cost of coverage.
Section 5
a.	Permanent employees who are granted sick leave without pay or parental leave without pay may continue to receive benefits as determined and extended by the Fund for up to six months. Permanent employees who are granted family care leave may continue to receive benefits as determined and extended by the Fund for up to 12 weeks. Permanent employees who are granted injury leave (paid and unpaid) may continue to receive benefits as determined and extended by the Fund for up to 12 months or if only paid leave is used, beyond 12 months until the paid leave is exhausted.
b.	Except as provided in c. below, permanent part-time employees and those permanent full-time employees who are placed on suspension or who are granted leave without pay for any reason other than sickness, parental leave, family care or injury leave for longer than one full pay period or who are on leave longer than the applicable period specified in a. above, will be permitted to continue coverage on a direct pay basis at a rate to be determined by the Fund but no greater than the COBRA rate.
c.	Permanent full-time employees and permanent part-time employees who are eligible for benefits who are regularly placed on leave without pay for one to three months every year due to cyclical work schedules or weather conditions will continue to receive benefits as determined and extended by the Fund for the period they are on leave. If the leave extends beyond the regular leave period, employees will be permitted to continue coverage on a direct pay basis at a rate to be determined by the Fund but no greater than the COBRA rate.
d.	The Employer shall continue to make full contributions to the Fund for permanent full-time employees for the period of time for which they are entitled to benefits under Section 5 a. or c. and 50% contributions for permanent part-time employees for the period of time for which they are entitled to benefits under Section 5 a. or c.
Section 6
a.	The Employer shall allow each individual who was eligible as an active employee under the hospital, medical/surgical and major medical health plan or an HMO, PPO or similar health benefits delivery system to elect coverage upon retirement under the Retired Employees
Health Program. In addition, dependency coverage shall be allowed where the dependents of the annuitant qualify under such Program.
The Employer shall continue to pay the cost of coverage under the Retired Employees Health Program, as that Program is developed and administered in a cost effective and beneficial manner by the Pennsylvania Employees Benefit Trust Fund subject only to the prior approval of the Office of Administration, and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Retired Employees Health Program Participation Agreement between the Employer and the Fund.
b.	The Employer shall continue to pay the entire cost of coverage for annuitants who retire under (1), (2), (3) or (4) below and who have elected coverage under the Retired Employees Health Program:
(1)	Retirement at or after superannuation age with at least 15 years of credited service in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems, except that
(a)	an employee who leaves State employment prior to superannuation age, and subsequently retires at or after superannuation age must have 25 years of credited service in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems,
(b)	an employee who is furloughed prior to superannuation age, and subsequently retires at or after superannuation age during the recall period must have 15 or more years of credited service in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems,
(c)	an employee who leaves State employment prior to superannuation age and is subsequently rehired and then retires at or after superannuation age must have 15 or more years of credited service in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems with at least three years of credited service from the most recent date of reemployment. However, if the departure from State employment was due to furlough and the employee returns during the recall period, this three year requirement will not apply. If the employee had qualified, other than through disability retirement, for Employer paid coverage in the Retired Employees Health Program prior to the most recent rehire period, this three year requirement will not apply.
(d)	an employee who leaves State employment subsequent to superannuation age and is subsequently rehired and then retires must have 15 or more years of credited service in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems with at least three years of credited service from the most recent date of reemployment. However, if the departure from State employment was due to furlough and the employee returns during the recall period, this three year requirement will not apply. If the employee had qualified, other than through disability retirement, for Employer paid coverage in the Retired Employees Health Program prior to the most recent rehire period, this three year requirement will not apply.
(2)	Disability retirement, which requires at least five years of credited service in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems, except that, if an employee had previously qualified based on an approved disability retirement, then returns and retires under a normal or early retirement, he or she must retire at or after superannuation age with 15 or more years of credited
service in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems, or 25 years of credited service in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems, or
(3)	Other retirement with at least 25 years of credited service in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems, except that an employee who leaves State employment, is subsequently rehired and retires must have at least 25 years of credited service in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems with at least three years of credited service from the most recent date of reemployment. However, if the departure from State employment was due to furlough and the employee returns during the recall period, this three year requirement will not apply. If the employee had qualified, other than through disability retirement, for Employer paid coverage in the Retired Employees Health Program prior to the most recent rehire period, this three year requirement will not apply.
(4)	All employees who are age 45 or over on March 1, 1993 and also have at least five years of credited service under the Retirement Code, whether it has been purchased as of that date or eligible to be purchased as of that date, will be "grandfathered in" and the total years of service requirement for fully state-paid REHP coverage for those employees will be ten years of credited service rather than fifteen.
Section 7 If an employee is killed in the line of duty, the Employer will continue to provide hospital, medical/surgical and major medical health coverage, HMO, PPO or health benefits delivery system to the spouse of the employee until the spouse remarries and/or to eligible dependents until they are no longer eligible for dependent coverage.
The hospital, medical/surgical and major medical health plan, HMO, PPO, or other health benefits delivery system will be converted to the Retired Employees Health Program at the time when the employee would have reached age 60.
ARTICLE 24 WORK-RELATED INJURIES
Section 1 An employee who sustains a work-related injury, during the period of this Agreement, as the result of which the employee is disabled, if so determined by a decision issued under the operation of the Workers' Compensation Program, shall be entitled to use accumulated combined or long-term sick leave or injury leave without pay. While using accumulated leave, the employee will be paid a supplement to workers' compensation of full pay reduced by an amount that yields a net pay, including workers' compensation and social security disability benefits, that is equal to the employee's net pay immediately prior to the injury. Net pay prior to injury is defined as gross base pay minus federal, state, and local withholding, unemployment compensation tax, social security and retirement contributions. One full day of accumulated leave (7.5 or 8 hours as appropriate) will be charged for each day the supplement is paid. Accumulated leave and injury leave without pay may be used for an aggregate of 12 months or for the duration of the disability, whichever is the lesser, except that, if only accumulated leave is used, it may be used beyond 12 months until exhausted or until the disability ceases, whichever occurs sooner. In no case, however, will the aggregate of 12 months extend beyond three years from the date the injury occurred. If no leave is available under this Section, the provisions of Section 13 may apply.
For temporary employees, accumulated leave and injury leave without pay shall be available for up to an aggregate of 12 months, for the duration of the disability or for the scheduled duration of the temporary employment, whichever is the least. In no case, however, will the aggregate of 12 months extend beyond three years from the date the injury occurred.
The employee election to use or not use accumulated leave under this Section cannot be changed more than once.
Section 2 An employee who works a reduced number of hours (part-time) due to partial disability may use leave in accordance with Section 1. Pay for accumulated leave used will be calculated in accordance with Section 1, based on the net amount of lost earnings.
Section 3 Retirement credited service for the period of time that the employee is using leave under this Article, shall be determined in accordance with the State Employees' Retirement Code.
Section 4 At the expiration of the leave under Section 1, if an employee continues to receive workers' compensation, the employee will be placed on leave without pay in accordance with Section 7 below and will not be entitled to receive state-paid benefits.
Section 5	An employee is required to refund to the Employer the amount of any overpayment. In
no case shall an employee be entitled to full pay and workers' compensation and/or social security for the same period. The Employer shall recover any amount in excess of the paid supplement to workers' compensation as described in Section 1. Failure to apply for or report social security or other applicable disability benefits to the Employer will result in the termination of the leave under Section 1.
Section 6	State-paid coverage for life insurance, hospital and medical insurance and supplemental
benefits as provided in Articles 22 and 23, will continue for the period of time that the employee is on leave under Sections 1 and 13.
Section 7	An employee has the right to return to a position in the same or equivalent classification
held before being disabled, for a period of up to three years from the date the injury occurred provided the employee is fully capable of performing the duties of that position, subject to the furlough provisions of Article 27, Seniority. This guarantee expires if the disability ceases prior to the expiration of the three-year period and the employee does not return to work immediately or if the employee retires or otherwise terminates employment. During the period of time between the end of the leave under Section 1 or Section 13 where applicable, and the end of the guarantee in this Section, the employee will be on leave without pay.
During the three-year period, employees who are not fully capable of performing the duties of their position shall have, upon request, a right to return to an available position in a lower classification, within the same geographical/organizational limitation as the seniority unit, to which there are no seniority claims and which the agency intends to fill, provided the employee meets the minimum requirements and qualifications essential to the work of the classification and the employee is fully capable of performing the duties of the position. If an employee returns to a position in a lower classification, the employee will be demoted in accordance with the Commonwealth's Personnel Rules, but shall maintain the right to return	to	a	position	in	the	same	or
equivalent classification held before being disabled, for a period of up to three years from the date the injury occurred, provided the employee is fully capable of performing the duties of that position, subject to the furlough provisions of Article 27, Seniority.
Disabled employees receiving workers' compensation will be notified 90 days prior to the expiration of the three-year period. The notification will include information concerning the employee's right to apply for disability retirement, if eligible. If the employee does not receive 90 days notice, the employee's right to return will not be extended. However, the leave without pay will be extended for 90 days from the date of notification to enable the employee, if eligible, to apply for disability retirement.
The right of return for temporary employees shall be limited to the scheduled duration of the temporary employment.
Section 8	The compensation for disability retirement arising out of work-related injuries shall be in accordance with the State Employees' Retirement Code.
Section 9 An employee who sustains a work-related injury, during the period of this Agreement, if so determined by a decision issued under the operation of the Workers' Compensation Program, may use combined or long-term sick leave for the purpose of continued medical treatment of the work-related injury in accordance with Article 10. If no paid leave is available, an employee may use leave without pay. Each absence shall not exceed the minimum amount of time necessary to obtain the medical treatment. Employees shall make reasonable efforts to schedule medical appointments during non-work hours or at times that will minimize absence from work. Verification of the length of the medical appointment may be required. This Section is not applicable to any absence for which workers' compensation is payable. When workers' compensation is payable, the provisions of Section 1 shall apply.
Section 10	Sections 4, 6, and 8 of this Article shall not apply to temporary employees.
Section 11	The Commonwealth agrees to the use of modified duty where the employee is able to
work only in a limited capacity and the prognosis for the injury indicates that the employee will be able to resume all of the duties of the employee's classification in a reasonable period of time. The Employer may terminate a modified duty assignment when it becomes apparent that the employee will not be able to resume the full duties of the employee's classification within a reasonable period of time.
Under the modified duty concept, the employee will be retained without loss of pay or status. The Employer may assign the employee duties outside their classification and bargaining unit, outside their previously assigned shift and/or outside their overtime equalization unit. To facilitate the implementation of modified duty assignments, schedule and assignment changes may be implemented as soon as practicable. If the employee is unable to resume all of the duties of the employee's classification within a reasonable period of time, the Employer may demote or laterally reclassify the employee to an appropriate classification, taking into account the duties and responsibilities the employee is capable of performing and subject to the protections afforded by Federal and State Statutes.
Section 12	Sections 1 through 11 and 13 of this Article shall not be applicable to employees whose
injuries are within the scope of either Act 193 of 1935, P.L. 477, as amended, or Act 632 of 1959, P.L. 1718, as amended.
Section 13 An employee who is disabled due to a recurrence of a work-related injury after three years from the date the injury occurred, or before three years if the leave entitlement in Section 1_has been depleted, shall be entitled to use accumulated leave and injury leave without pay while disabled for a period of up to 12 weeks. To be eligible to use injury leave without pay, the employee must have been at work at least 1250 hours within the previous 12 months. The 12 week period will be reduced by any other leave used within the previous 12 months that was designated as leave under the provisions of the Family and Medical Leave Act. If only accumulated leave is used, it may be used beyond 12 weeks until exhausted or until the disability ceases, whichever occurs sooner. While using accumulated leave, the leave will be charged and paid in accordance with Section 1.
Section 14 It is understood by both parties that the provisions of this Article are consistent with the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, USC Section 2601 et seq. and that leave granted in accordance with Sections 1 and 13 shall be designated as leave under the provisions of the Act.
Section 15 It is understood by both parties that the provisions of this Article are consistent with the Americans with Disabilities Act.
Section 16 Unless inconsistent with existing law, an employee who is 1) eligible for Act 632/534 benefits; and 2) injured as the direct result of an intentional and violent act of a patient/inmate; and 3) at or beyond the fourth year anniversary of the date of injury by June 30; and 4) under normal retirement age on June 30 may be entitled to an additional benefit payment annually.
The additional benefit payment shall be equal to 75% of the gross base pay plus longevity that the employee would be earning had the injury not occurred (assuming no promotions) up to the statutory workers' compensation maximum benefit for an injury occurring in the year the payment is made, minus 1) the gross amount of the Act 632/534 benefit; and minus 2) social security disability benefits; and minus 3) any remuneration or profit received from any occupation, business, or employment commenced subsequent to the disability.
The amount payable will be computed on June 30 of each year and will be paid in a lump sum, less applicable taxes, no later than December 1.
The benefit will be payable until 1) Act 632/534 benefits are terminated or 2) the employee reaches normal retirement age.
The additional benefit payment will be applicable for the first time for disabled employees who met the above criteria by June 30, 1995.
Any decision regarding the additional benefit payment contained in this Section may not be used as evidence by the employee, the Association or the Employer in any Act 632/534 eligibility proceeding.
ARTICLE 25 CLASSIFICATION
Section 1 The position classification plan, as established and maintained by the Employer, consists of a schedule of classification titles with classification specifications for each classification which define and describe representative duties and responsibilities and set forth the minimum requirements and qualifications essential to the work of the classification. If employees consider their permanent position or the Association considers a position to be improperly classified, the employees or the Association may process an appeal for a reallocation of the position through the grievance procedure as set forth in Section 2 of this Article.
If a determination is made by the Employer in the course of an appeal that a position should be upgraded, the employee shall be promoted retroactively to the date the grievance was filed in writing except where a Correction Officer 1 position is being upgraded to a Correction Officer 2 position and the Correction Officer 1 did not receive the position through Article 33, Section 18. In this case a Correction Officer 2 position will be posted and filled in accordance with Article 27, Seniority, Section 5c. However, the incumbent of the Corrections Officer 1 position will be compensated for working out of class in accordance with Section 3 from the date the grievance was filed in writing until the position is permanently filled by a promotion to a Corrections Officer 2.
If a final determination is made by the Employer in the course of an appeal filed by the Association that a position should be upgraded, the position will be posted and filled in accordance with Article 27, Section 5.
If a final determination is made by the Employer in the course of an employee appeal or an Employer-initiated classification review that a position should be downgraded, the employee shall be demoted to the proper classification and pay range without any reduction in salary. The effective date of the classification change shall be the first day of the first pay period subsequent to the response.
If a final determination is made by the Employer in the course of an employee appeal or an Employer-initiated classification review that a position should be reclassified to another class in the same pay range, the effective date of the classification change shall be the first day of the first pay period subsequent to the response. .
Section 2 Any grievance or dispute which may arise concerning the application, meaning or interpretation of this Article shall be settled in the following manner:
Step 1. The employee, either alone or accompanied by the Association Representative shall present the grievance in writing to the institution human resource officer. The employee or the Association, as appropriate shall attach to the grievance a description of the job and all other relevant documents. The institution human resource officer shall have seven (7) working days to contact the employee or Association, as appropriate, to schedule a classification audit and hearing in order to attempt to resolve all outstanding factual disputes regarding the duties and responsibilities of the employee’s permanent position. The employee, an Association representative and appropriate local management personnel may be present at the audit and hearing. The seven (7) working day period may, however, be modified by mutual agreement. The audit and hearing will be
conducted independent of any other labor-management meetings. Within thirty days of the completion of the audit and hearing, the human resource officer will issue a grievance response to the employee or the Association, as appropriate.
Step 2. An appeal from an unfavorable disposition at Step 1 shall be presented in writing by the employee or the Association representative to the Classification and Recruitment Section, Bureau of Human Resources, Department of Corrections or Classification and Pay Section, Bureau of Personnel, Department of Public Welfare, as applicable, within fifteen (15) working days after the response is issued or due. The employee or the Association, as appropriate shall attach to the grievance a description of the job and all other relevant documents. The Classification and Recruitment Section or Classification and Pay Section shall have ten (10) working days to contact the employee or Association, as appropriate to schedule a second step audit and hearing. The employee, an Association representative and appropriate local management personnel may be present at the audit and hearing. The ten (10) working day period may, however, be modified by mutual agreement. Within thirty days of the completion of the audit and hearing, the Classification and Recruitment Section or Classification and Pay Section will issue a grievance response to the employee or the Association, as appropriate.
Step 3. In the event the grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved at Step 2, the employee or Association Representative, as appropriate may file a written appeal to the Classification Grievance Unit, Bureau of Classification and Compensation, Office of Administration within fifteen (15) working days after the response from Step 2 is issued or due. The employee or the Association, as appropriate shall attach to the grievance a description of the job and all other relevant documents. The Classification Grievance Unit shall have fifteen (15) working days to contact the employee or Association, as appropriate to schedule a third step audit and hearing. The employee and an Association representative may be present at the audit and hearing. The fifteen (15) working day period may, however, be modified by mutual agreement. Within thirty days of the completion of the audit and hearing, the Classification Grievance Unit will issue a grievance response to the employee or the Association, as appropriate.
Employer determinations prior to Step 3 can be reversed by the Office of Administration.
Step 4. In the event the grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved at Step 3, the Association may file a written notice of its intent to proceed to arbitration to the Classification Grievance Unit, Bureau of Classification and Compensation, Office of Administration within fifteen (15) working days after the response from Step 3 is issued or due. Such appeals will be reviewed by a panel which shall consist of three members: one member appointed by the Employer, one member appointed by the Association, and a third member selected by the parties jointly from a list of five names to be mutually agreed upon by the Employer and the Association. If the parties fail to agree on an impartial arbitrator, either party may request the Bureau of Mediation to submit a list of seven (7) possible arbitrators to the parties. The parties shall, within fifteen (15) working days of the receipt of said list, select the arbitrator by alternately striking one name from the list until only one name remains. The Employer designee shall strike the first name. The third member shall not be affiliated, directly or indirectly, with any labor organization or be an employee of the Commonwealth and must be knowledgeable in the field of position classification.
The panel shall neither add to, subtract from nor modify the provisions of this Article nor recommend any alterations or revisions to the Commonwealth's classification and compensation plans. The panel shall be confined to deciding the proper classification in the then existing classification plan for the position in dispute.
The findings of the panel shall be submitted to the parties within 30 days after the hearing or receipt of transcript when taken. The determination of the panel shall be final and binding in those cases where an employee's position is downgraded as a result of an employee appeal or an Employer-initiated classification review. In all other cases the decision of the panel shall be advisory only as to the Employer.
The panel shall meet monthly if necessary for the purpose of hearing appeals under this Section.
Working days as referred to in this Section will exclude holidays and Saturdays/Sundays.
Section 3 The Association recognizes the right of the Employer to direct its working force, which includes the assignment of work to individual employees and it further recognizes that such assignments may include work outside an employee's classification. However it is understood that assignments outside of classification shall be made in a manner consistent with the Employer's operations and organizational requirements.
Whenever an employee temporarily is charged to perform in general the duties and responsibilities of a position in a higher rated classification that are separate and distinct from those of the employee's own position for a period of any five full cumulative days in a calendar quarter, the employee shall be compensated, retroactive to the time the assignment took place, at an amount equal to the minimum step of the pay range for the temporary position or at 4 1/2% above the employee's current rate of pay, whichever is greater. Such employee while temporarily working and being paid in a higher class will also be paid at the higher rate for a holiday provided the employee is charged to perform the higher-level duties on the scheduled workday immediately before and immediately after such holiday and is paid at the higher rate on those days. The holiday shall not count toward the requirement for five full cumulative days in a quarter. Once the requirement for the five full cumulative day threshold has been met, payment will be included in the biweekly paycheck. If the position is filled permanently by other than the employee temporarily filling the position, the employee temporarily assigned shall be returned to their previous position and compensation, but shall receive any increments and service credits for such increments to which they would have been entitled had they remained in their normal assignment. An employee or employees shall not be temporarily assigned to perform in general the duties and responsibilities of a position in a higher rated classification for more than nine continuous months or the length of the leave of absence of the employee being replaced, whichever is greater.
A temporary assignment to a higher classification within the bargaining unit which lasts or is anticipated to last more than 20 days will be offered to employees pursuant to the provisions of Article 27, Sections 5 and 6.
In addition, if the Employer assigns an employee on a temporary basis to a lower classification or if an employee temporarily performs some duties and functions assigned to a lower classification, the employee so assigned shall receive the compensation of the higher level to which the employee is regularly assigned. The Employer, however, at any individual work site shall make such assignments on a non-discriminatory basis so as to equalize the same among the persons within the classification from which assignments are made, so long as such equalization does not interfere with efficient operating procedures.
FILING OF GtRIEVANC.es
Grievances arising from the provisions of this Section shall be submitted in writing and the employee shall attempt to include the dates on which the alleged out of class work occurred and a description of the alleged higher level work performed. The failure of the employee to provide the required information will not affect the validity of the grievance.
Grievances pertaining to this Section may be processed through the procedure set forth in Section 2 above.
The decision of the arbitration panel shall be final and binding.
Section 4 Under Section 2 and 3 above, all fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be divided equally between the parties except where one of the parties of this Agreement requests a postponement of a previously scheduled arbitration meeting which results in a postponement charge. The postponing party shall pay such charge unless such postponement results in a settlement of the appeal in which event the postponement charge shall be divided equally between the parties. A postponement charge resulting from a joint postponement request shall be shared equally by the parties. Each party shall bear the costs of preparing and presenting its own case. Either party desiring a record of the proceedings shall pay for the record and make a copy available without charge to the arbitrator.
Section 5 The Employer shall notify the Association of class specification and pay range revisions to all classes that are presently in the certified bargaining unit for which the Association is the representative and of class specifications and pay ranges of proposed classes that the Employer may reasonably anticipate will be placed in the certified bargaining unit, prior to the submission of these changes to the Executive Board of the Commonwealth. The Association will submit acknowledgement of the receipt of the proposed changes and its comments, in writing, to the Employer within fifteen (15) working days of receipt of the notification. If written comments are not received from the Association within fifteen (15) working days, the Employer will contact the Association, by telephone, before submitting the proposals to the Executive Board. Reasonable written requests by the Association for time extensions will be granted.
Section 6	The Employer shall issue a job description or post orders for the various jobs performed by employees at the various institutions/boot camps.
Section 7	The changes to this Article shall be effective for grievances filed on or after 30 days after the date this Agreement is signed by the parties. For the period from July 1, 2001 until this
Article is effective, the grievance procedure in Section 2 of Article 25, Classification, of the prior Agreement effective July 1, 1998 through June 30, 2001 will remain in force.
ARTICLE 26
DISCHARGE, DEMOTION, SUSPENSION AND DISCIPLINE
Section 1 The Employer shall not demote, suspend, discharge or take any disciplinary action against an employee without just cause. An employee may appeal a demotion, suspension, or discharge beginning at the first step of the grievance procedure, subject to any conditions set forth in the grievance procedure under Article 35. The Association and the appropriate local shall be notified promptly by the Employer of any suspension, discharge or disciplinary demotion provided, however, the requirement to notify the local of the Association will not be applicable if the Association has not informed, in writing, the agency or institution/boot camp/corrections community center of the applicable local for the employee involved. The failure of the Employer to comply with the preceding notification requirements will not affect the validity of the action, but will suspend the time period set forth in Step 1 of Section 2 of Article 35, H-1 Alternative Dispute Resolution Process, Grievances and Arbitration, until the notification is sent.
Section 2	Any action instituted under Section 1 of this Article shall be implemented within a reasonable period of time after the event giving rise to such disciplinary action or knowledge thereof.
Section 3	In the event any action is taken by the Employer under the provisions of this Article which involves patient abuse and a grievance is filed by any employee, the arbitrator shall not consider the failure of the patient to appear as prejudicial.
Section 4	The Employer will attempt to discipline employees in such a manner so as not to embarrass the employee before the public or other employees. It must be kept in mind, however, that where insubordination or flouting of authority by an employee in public and in the presence of other employees takes place, the Employer shall not be restricted by the operation of this Section.
Section 5	The provisions of Section 1 shall not apply during the initial twelve months of probationary employment. Periods of leave without pay and periods of time during which an employee is using paid leave to supplement workers' compensation shall not count toward the initial probationary period.
ARTICLE 27
SENIORITY
Section 1 Under the terms of this Agreement, the term "seniority" means a preferred position for specific purposes which one employee within a seniority unit may have over another employee within the seniority unit because of a greater length of service within the State government or a particular organizational or occupational segment thereof.
a.	Classification seniority standing for the purpose of promotion shall be determined by the length of unbroken (as defined in Section 2) service with the Employer in the employee’s current classification.
For calculating Forensic Security Employee 1 classification seniority, time spent as a Forensic Security Employee Trainee shall be included.
An employee whose position has been downgraded will have service in the higher classification counted toward classification seniority in the lower classification.
b.	Bargaining Unit seniority standing for the purpose of furlough shall be determined by the length of unbroken (as defined in Section 2) service with the Employer in classifications covered by this Agreement.
c.	A Forensic Security Employee who involuntarily transfers between forensic units after the official notice of a worksite closing or reduction in the workforce will have the total time served at the multiple worksites combined for calculating classification seniority at the worksite.
A Corrections Community Center Monitor who involuntarily transfers between centers after the official notice of a worksite closing or reduction in the workforce will have the total time served at the multiple worksites combined for calculating classification seniority at the worksite.
d.	Employees who served in the Armed Forces of the United States during periods of time listed below shall be responsible for providing proof of military service to their human resource officer within 60 days of their first day of work in order to receive seniority credit in accordance with the Preference in Public Employment Act of 1945, P.L. 837. Failure to provide the required proof of service during the time period shall bar the employee or Association from claiming credit for such service at a later date.
Applicable periods are as follows:
1.	World War I - April 6, 1917-November 11, 1918
2.	World War II - December 7, 1941-September 2, 1945
3.	Korea - June 25, 1950-July 27, 1953
4.	Vietnam - August 5, 1964-January 28, 1973
e.	Seniority credit for each employee is maintained as a total number of days. Employees will accrue seniority in accordance with the following procedure: The number of regular hours paid each biweekly pay period plus the number of hours of military leave without pay; leave without pay for Association business in accordance with Article 15, Section 3; leave without pay for work-related injuries in accordance with Article 24, Section 7; sick leave without pay in accordance with Article 15, Sections 5 and 6; parental leave without pay in accordance with Article 16, Section 2 and family care leave without pay in accordance with Article 39 will be accumulated. This total number of hours will be divided by 7.5 or 8 as applicable and rounded up to the next higher day. The result will be added to employee’s accumulated total.
Section 2 The following shall constitute a break in service: resignation, separation for just cause, retirement, absence without leave for five consecutive working days, failure to report within l0 consecutive working days of recall, expiration of recall period, failure to report after leave and acceptance of other permanent employment while on leave. This shall not restrict the Employer’s right to take whatever personnel action it deems warranted for any of the above. If service is broken by any of the above, the employee shall lose Bargaining Unit seniority, Classification seniority and longevity credit. If an employee is returned within one year after such break in service, the employee shall be entitled to credit for longevity purposes and seniority purposes the time accrued up to the time break in service occurred, but shall not be entitled to any credit for the time represented by such break in service.
If an employee accepts a transfer out of or is promoted out of this Unit, the employee shall lose whatever Bargaining Unit and Classification seniority the employee has accumulated up to the time of transfer or promotion. If an employee returns to this bargaining unit at any time after such transfer or promotion, the employee’s seniority in this bargaining unit shall begin anew.
Employees who are furloughed and who file applications for retirement benefits which are subsequently approved, will be considered to have a break in service as of the date of the approval of benefits by the State Employees’ Retirement Board.
Section 3 Seniority lists shall be prepared for each seniority group and revised where necessary every six months. Appropriate service information shall be shown thereon to permit application of various seniority provisions. Such lists shall be posted on the appropriate bulletin boards. Seniority lists shall be provided to the local Association President, upon request, not more than once every six months.
Section 4 The Employer agrees that all vacancies which are to be filled within the seniority unit will be posted at appropriate work locations prior to the filling of such vacancies for a period of at least 15 calendar days unless an emergency requires a lesser period of time. Such postings shall include the position number (Bureau Code, Class Code and serial number). This requirement is not applicable to entry-level positions.
Section 5	Whenever the Employer deems it necessary to fill a civil service vacancy, vacancies shall be filled in the following manner:
a.	Employees in the classification immediately below the vacancy within the seniority unit wishing to bid for such a vacancy shall submit their name to the Employer on a bidding form available from an agency office specified on the posting. Employees must submit a bid within the time period specified on the posting.
b.	When a vacancy is filled without examination and where it is determined that skill and ability are relatively equal among the bidding employees in the classification immediately below the vacancy within the seniority unit, the vacancy shall be filled by promoting the employee with the greatest Classification seniority subject to the following exceptions:
(1)	Where it is necessary to comply with the provisions of applicable law and rules relating to the Commonwealth's Equal Employment Opportunity Program.
(2)	Where the job involved requires highly specialized skill, training and expertise and there are employees in the classification immediately below the vacancy who possess such qualifications.
(3)	Whenever a position is reclassified upward to correct an improper classification or to reflect an accretion of duties or reorganization of duties, then the incumbent shall be awarded the higher position, except for Correction Officer 1 to Correction Officer 2 positions where the incumbent did not receive the position in accordance with Article 33, Section 18.
c.	When a vacancy is filled by examination within a seniority unit, the bidding employee with the greatest Classification seniority in the classification immediately below the vacancy who is within five points of the seniority unit employee with the highest score shall be promoted unless a person outside the seniority unit receives a grade placing the person 10 points or more higher than the seniority unit employee with the highest score in which instance the person from outside the seniority unit may be appointed. (An example of a five-point range would be 85-90, inclusive. An example of a 10-point range would be 80-90, inclusive). This Section is subject to the exceptions as set forth in Subsections (1), (2) and (3) of Section 5 b. of this Article. For the purpose of this Section, persons outside the seniority unit whose names appear on the civil service list are not required to submit a bid in order to be considered for the vacancy.
d.	Effective 30 days after this Agreement is signed by the parties, Subsection c. of this Section shall be replaced by the following:
When a vacancy is filled by examination within a seniority unit, the Employer will select from among the three bidding employees in the seniority unit with the greatest Classification seniority in the classification immediately below the vacancy within the highest single score band. If there are fewer than three bidding employees in the seniority unit in the classification immediately below the vacancy in the highest single score band, the Employer will add the number of bidding employees necessary, starting with the bidding employee with the greatest classification seniority in the classification immediately below the vacancy in the seniority unit in the next highest score band, until there are three bidding employees from which to select. If a person outside the seniority unit receives a grade placing the person 10 points or more higher than the seniority unit employee with the highest score, the person from outside the seniority unit may be appointed. (An example of a 10-point range would be 80-90, inclusive.) For the purpose of applying this Section, the parties agree to waive the Civil Service regulation requiring an employee’s name be removed from the Civil Service list if the employee has been passed over three times. This Subsection is subject to the exceptions as set forth in Subsections (1), (2) and (3) of Section 5 b. of this Article. For the purpose of this Subsection, persons outside the seniority unit whose names appear on the civil service list are not required to submit a bid in order to be considered for the vacancy.
If an employee who is the most senior bidding employee is passed over for promotion three times, the Employer shall provide the employee and the Association with a written explanation of
the reasons for non-selection. Grievances arising under this Subsection may be pursued through Step 2 of the H-1 Alternative Dispute Resolution Process and the decision of the Joint Committee shall be final and binding.
Section 6	Whenever the Employer deems it necessary to fill a non-civil service vacancy, vacancies shall be filled in the following manner:
a.	Employees in the classification immediately below the vacancy within the seniority unit wishing to bid for such vacancy shall submit to the Employer their name on a bidding form available from an agency office specified on the posting. Employees must submit a bid within the time period specified on the posting.
b.	Where it is determined that skill and ability are relatively equal among the bidding employees in the classification immediately below the vacancy within the seniority unit, the vacancy shall be filled by promoting the employee with the greatest Classification seniority except in the following instances:
(1)	Where it is necessary to comply with the provisions of applicable law and rules relating to the Commonwealth's Equal Employment Opportunity Program.
(2)	Where the job involved requires highly specialized skill, training and expertise and there are no employees in the classification immediately below the vacancy who possess such qualifications.
(3)	Whenever a position is reclassified upward to correct an improper classification or to reflect an accretion of duties or reorganization of duties, then the incumbent shall be awarded the higher position.
Section 7	When the Employer determines that a furlough is necessary within a seniority unit, employees will be furloughed in the inverse order of Bargaining Unit seniority. Employees affected by furlough who have the requisite seniority and skill and ability shall bump laterally or down in the following manner:
a.	If an employee is affected by furlough, the employee shall bump down into the next lower classification within the classification series within the same geographical and organizational limitation as the seniority unit, provided the employee has more Bargaining Unit seniority than the employee with the least Bargaining Unit seniority in that classification and has the requisite skill and ability. If such a bump is not available, the employee shall bump into any other lower classification in the same classification series using the same procedure.
b.	If the affected employee is unable to bump into any position as provided in Subsection a. above, the employee shall be furloughed.
c.	Where the need for furlough can be reasonably anticipated, the Employer will notify the Association one month in advance of any impending furlough.
Section 8 Before any furlough is implemented in a classification in the classified service in a seniority unit, all emergency employees will be separated before any temporary employees; temporary employees will be separated before any provisional employees; and all provisional employees will be separated before any probationary employees or any regular status members of the classified service are furloughed.
Before any furlough is implemented in a non-civil service classification, all temporary employees will be separated before any permanent employees are furloughed.
Section 9 The Employer shall establish a recall list by classification series using the same geographical and organizational limitation as the seniority unit in which the furlough occurred for those employees furloughed under Section 7 of this Article in the inverse order of seniority.
a.	Employees on such recall lists shall have rights to a position in a classification within the seniority unit from which they were furloughed or to any lower-level classification in the same geographical and organizational limitation as the seniority unit in which the furlough occurred provided they have the requisite seniority and skill and ability.
b.	Such recall lists will remain in effect for a furloughed employee for a period of three years after the effective date of the furlough.
c.	In the event an employee on a recall list refuses an offer of employment in a lower classification for which the employee has seniority rights, the employee shall forfeit recall rights to such a classification; if the employee refuses an offer of employment in the classification from which the employee was initially furloughed, the employee shall forfeit all recall rights.
d.	During the period that employees are on a recall list, they shall keep the Employer informed of any changes in address. The Employer shall not be held liable if an employee is not offered recall due to failure to notify the Employer of a change of address. An employee who is not offered recall because of failure to notify the Employer of a change of address and who subsequently informs the Employer of the current address shall be returned to the recall list and shall be offered the next opportunity for recall, provided the employee’s three year recall period has not expired.
e.	The recall period of a furloughed employee who, during the recall period, returns to the furloughing agency's payroll in a temporary capacity shall be extended by the amount of time the employee serves in the temporary capacity.
f.	A furloughed employee who, during a recall period, returns to the Employer’s payroll in a temporary capacity shall, upon recall from the furlough to permanent employment, be credited with seniority for the amount of time spent in the temporary capacity.
g.	A furloughed employee who, during a recall period, returns to the Employer’s payroll in a temporary capacity shall be eligible for all benefits enjoyed by permanent employees, provided other applicable eligibility requirements are met.
h.
The Employer will provide the Association with a copy of all recall lists.
i.	A furloughed employee who applies for and receives retirement benefits from the State Employees' Retirement Board shall forfeit all recall rights under this Section as of the date of approval of benefits by the State Employees' Retirement Board.
Section 10 Employees desiring to transfer to other positions shall submit a written request to their immediate supervisor stating the reasons for the requested transfer. If the Employer in its sole discretion agrees to such transfer, the employee shall be entitled to maintain whatever seniority rights that are appropriate.
When staffing new institutions/boot camps, 20% of the positions in the Corrections Officer classification and 20% of the positions in the non-Corrections Officer classification will be offered to current employees in the bargaining unit, subject to the losing institution/boot camp being able to protect the efficiency of its operation.
Section 11 In making shift assignments to shift openings, preference shall be granted on a seniority basis unless the Employer feels it is necessary to assign otherwise in order to protect the efficiency of operation. Seniority status in this regard shall be Classification seniority attained at the work site.
Section 12 In the event of the consolidation or elimination of jobs, the Employer shall reassign the affected employees to positions for which they are qualified insofar as positions are available. If positions are not available, the employees will be furloughed.
Section 13 The probationary period for promotions shall be 180 calendar days in length and the provisions of Article 26, Section l shall not be applicable if an employee is demoted within that time for failure to successfully complete the probationary period. In such case, employees shall have the right to return to their former classification during this period. Periods of leave without pay and periods of time during which an employee is using paid leave to supplement workers' compensation shall not count toward the probationary period.
If an employee works out-of-class and is subsequently promoted to the classification, the employee shall have the time worked out-of-class in the preceding six months credited for the probationary period for promotion and for classification seniority.
Section 14 For the purpose of furlough, one hundred and four (104) Association stewards and/or chair officers shall have superseniority. The Association shall provide the Bureau of Labor Relations, on a yearly basis, a list of all employees who have been granted superseniority in accordance with the provisions of this Section. The Association may, however, within fifteen (15) days of the announcement of a furlough, notify the Bureau of Labor Relations of any changes of incumbents to these positions. The list shall contain the employee's name, Association title, agency of employment, work location and Local.
Section 15 Seniority unit means that group of employees in a classification within an affected institution/boot camp or agency operational structure in a given geographic work area as listed in Appendix E.
Section 16 Grievances relating to the interpretation, application and implementation of Sections 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 12 and 15 of this Article shall be filed at the first step. Arbitration of grievances
relating to these Sections shall be conducted by a panel of three members - one to be appointed by the Office of Administration, one to be appointed by the Association and the third to be selected by the Employer, from a list of five names to be mutually agreed upon by the Employer and the Association. Such third member shall not be affiliated, directly or indirectly, with any labor organization or be an employee of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The decision of the panel, hereinbefore described, shall be final and binding on the parties to this Agreement. The panel shall meet monthly for the purpose of adjusting grievances under this Section.
Section 17 When in the exercise of seniority rights provided hereunder, two or more employees are deemed relatively equal in skill and ability and have the same seniority, preferential rights shall be determined by bargaining unit seniority. If bargaining unit seniority proves to be the same, preferential rights shall be determined by lot.
Section 18 The provisions of this Article relating to promotions and filling of vacancies shall not be applicable to entrance level classifications.
ARTICLE 28
FURLOUGH PERIODS
The Employer acknowledges that its agencies should generally refrain from entering into new subcontracting agreements for services in an institution/boot camp, district or local area during periods of time when the agency's permanent full-time employees in that institution/boot camp, district or local area who normally perform that type of work are on furlough and eligible for recall. Unless precluded by an urgent need for the services, an agency will notify the Association prior to any variance from this policy and meet with the Association, upon request, to discuss the reason for the proposed subcontract and recommendations by the Association for alternative methods of providing such services.
ARTICLE 29
UNIFORMS, CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT
Section 1 Where the Employer now provides devices, apparel or equipment necessary to protect employees from injury or exposure to extreme non-climatic heat or cold, the Employer shall continue to provide the level of protection in accordance with the practice now prevailing. Where no such protection is now provided, the Employer shall provide whatever device, apparel or equipment is necessary to afford a level of protection provided by the agency for similar risks or exposure.
Section 2 In the event a patient or inmate damages or destroys items of clothing or personal property which are worn by an employee and which are necessary for the performance of such employee's work, the Employer shall reimburse the employee for the value of such clothing or personal property. In addition, where the employee demonstrates that items of clothing which were not being worn by the employee are destroyed by a patient or inmate, the Employer shall reimburse the employee for the value of such clothing. The condition of the clothing or personal property immediately prior to such damage shall be taken into account in determining its value. The incident giving rise to such claims must be verified and not be due to the employee 's own negligence. The
Employer shall take prompt and timely action in the disposition of employee claims for damaged personal effects.
Section 3 All employees of the Department of Corrections except Corrections Community Center Monitors will be required to wear uniforms. Uniforms will be required at all institutions of the Department of Public Welfare unless the Employer and the employees at the institution by mutual agreement waive this requirement. The uniform will be selected and furnished by the Employer. The uniform selected shall not constitute a safety hazard. Smocks shall not be a uniform and employees shall not be required to wear smocks.
The Employer agrees to furnish uniforms, or replacement of such uniforms or part of such uniforms where work-related wear and tear reasonably necessitate replacement.
The Employer has phased out the practice of the Employer paying for dry cleaning, laundering, tailoring, altering or repairing of uniforms, and/or dry cleaning, laundering, tailoring, altering, or repairing of uniforms on the same date as the new Corrections Officer uniform was phased in at the respective institution.
A statewide uniform committee will be established in the Department of Corrections to meet and discuss over the uniform design. The committee will consist of equal representatives of the Employer and the Association.
Uniform requirements are not to be confused with dress regulations required by the Employer.
Effective for the 2001-2002 fiscal year, employees in this bargaining unit with the exception of Corrections Community Center Monitors shall receive a clothing allowance of $300. Effective for the 2002-2003 fiscal year, the amount will be increased to $400. Effective for the 2003-2004 fiscal year, the amount will be increased to $450.
Section 4 In accordance with Department of Corrections Uniform Regulations, Policy Number 6.2.4 issued October 12, 2000, the wearing of protective vests will be optional unless otherwise directed by the Facility Manager. In the event that the Facility Manager believes that information indicates an increased threat or risk level exists for a particular individual, specific areas of the facility, or the facility as a whole, he/she has the discretion to require that the particular individual, the staff assigned to the specific area, or all H-1 staff of the facility wear the protective garment while on duty.
If the discretion is exercised, the Facility Manager or designee will inform the particular individual, the staff assigned to the specific area, or the H-1 staff of the facility of the starting date and ending date of wearing the protective garment while on duty.
The parties agree to create a Department of Corrections labor-management committee to function during the first and second year of the contract to review and recommend standards, regulations and procedures for the wearing of protective vests.
ARTICLE 30 DISCRIMINATION
Both the Employer and the Association agree not to discriminate against any employee on the basis of race, religious creed, color, ancestry, sex, marital status, age, national origin, disability, Association membership, political affiliation, AIDS or HIV status, or sexual orientation.
ARTICLE 31
ASSOCIATION BUSINESS
Section 1 The Employer agrees to provide space on bulletin boards to the Association for the announcement of meetings, election of officers of the Association and any other material related to Association business. Furthermore, the Association shall not post material detrimental to the labor-management relationship nor of a political or controversial nature. The Association may send mail related to Association business to local official Association representatives at appropriate facilities to which mail is delivered. Such mail shall not be read by other than the addressee.
Section 2	No Association member or representative shall solicit members, engage in
organizational work, or participate in other Association activities during working hours on the Employer’s premises except as provided for in the processing of grievances.
Association members or representatives may be permitted to use suitable facilities on the Employer’s premises to conduct Association business during non-work hours upon obtaining permission from the Employer’s human resource officer or designated representative. Any additional costs involved in such use must be paid for by the Association.
Association representatives shall be permitted to investigate and discuss grievances during working hours on the Employer’s premises if notification is given to the human resource officer or a designated representative. If the Association representative is an employee of the Employer, the employee shall request from the immediate supervisor reasonable time off from regular duties to process such grievances. The Employer will provide a reasonable number of employees with time off, if required, to attend negotiating meetings.
Section 3	Local Association officers may select to credit time off for official Association business to combined leave or leave without pay. The officer may select either of the above methods without loss of seniority credit.
ARTICLE 32
PEACE AND STABILITY
Section 1	It is understood that there shall be no strike, as that term is defined under the Public Employe Relations Act, during the life of this Agreement, nor shall any officer, representative or official of the Association authorize, assist or encourage any such strike during the life of this Agreement.
Section 2	Should a strike occur not authorized by the Association, the Association within 24 hours following the request of the Employer shall:
a.	Publicly disavow such action by the employees.
b.	Advise the Employer in writing that such employee action has not been authorized or sanctioned by the Association.
c.	Post notices on all bulletin boards advising employees that it disapproves of such action and instruct them to return to work immediately.
Section 3	The Employer reserves the right to discipline, suspend, demote, or discharge any employee or employees who violate the provisions of Section 1 of this Article.
Section 4	The Employer will not engage in any lockout during the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 33
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section 1 In the event that any provisions cf this Agreement are found to be inconsistent with existing statutes or ordinances, the provisions of such statutes or ordinances shall prevail, and if any provision herein is found to be invalid and unenforceable by a court or other authority having jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered void, but all other valid provisions shall remain in full force and effect. The parties, however, shall, at the request of either, negotiate on the subject matter involved in any invalid provision.
Section 2	The Commonwealth and the Association acknowledge that this Agreement represents
the results of collective negotiations between said parties conducted under and in accordance with the provisions of the Public Employe Relations Act and constitutes the entire agreement between the parties for the duration of the life of said Agreement; each party waiving the right to bargain collectively with each other with reference to any other subject, matter, issue, or thing whether specifically covered herein or wholly omitted herefrom and irrespective of whether said subject was mentioned or discussed during the negotiations preceding the execution of this Agreement.
Section 3	In the event that any provision of this Agreement requires legislative action to become effective, including but not limited to the amendment to existing statutes, the adoption of new legislation, or the granting of appropriations, it shall become effective only if such legislative action is taken. The parties, however, mutually agree to make recommendations to the Legislature which may be necessary to give force and effect to the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 4	Where the term meet and discuss is used in this Agreement, it will be deemed to have the meaning of that term as defined and applied under the Public Employe Relations Act.
Section 5 Ratings shall be completed by supervisors who are familiar with the work performance of the employee. This shall in no way affect review procedures.
Section 6 Employee benefits and working conditions now existing and not in conflict with the Agreement shall remain in effect subject, however, to the right of the Employer to change these benefits or working conditions in the exercise of its management rights reserved to it under Article 2 of this Agreement.
Section 7 Travel expenses shall be paid in accordance with the Commonwealth's existing Travel Expense Regulations. The mileage allowance shall be the General Services Administration rate. If the General Services Administration of the Federal Government increases or decreases the mileage allowance for employees under its jurisdiction, the mileage allowance for employees under this Agreement will be increased or decreased on the effective date of the General Services Administration change.
Section 8 Committees composed of representatives of the Association and the Employer are to be established at agency and appropriate local levels to resolve problems dealing with the implementation of this Agreement and to discuss other labor-management problems that may arise. The committees shall be established on an institutional/boot camp basis as well as a statewide basis.
When the Association places an item on the agenda for a labor-management meeting, management will respond in writing. When management places an item on the agenda for a labor-management meeting, the Association will respond in writing.
The Department of Corrections shall supply the Association, upon its request, with statistics concerning the creation, abolishment, and reallocation of positions within this unit when such information is requested at the statewide labor-management committee meetings. The Department of Public Welfare shall supply like information when requested by the Association at local labor-management committee meetings.
Upon request of the Association, representatives of the Employer will meet and discuss with representatives of the Association on an institutional/boot camp or statewide basis to discuss policies of the Employer that affect wages, hours, terms and conditions of statewide employment as well as the impact thereon. It is understood that this provision includes policies and programs of the Employer on an institutional/boot camp or statewide basis that affect the safety and security of unit employees.
Section 9	Inter-city and inter-agency permanent transfers shall be made by agreement between
the Employer and employee. An employee shall not be transferred to another institution/boot camp without the employee’s consent.
Section 10 Reasonable use of telephones for local calls on personal business by employees is permitted in accordance with existing practices where such use does not interfere with the efficiency of the operation. Long distance calls are permitted provided they are collect or are charged to credit cards or to the employee’s home telephone number.
Section 11 There shall be an official personnel file for each employee. The contents of an employee’s personnel file, excluding pre-employment information is available for examination by the employee. Such examination shall be at the location where the personnel file is maintained and shall be conducted in the presence of the human resource officer or designee. Material shall not be
removed from or added to the folder nor shall its contents be altered in any way. An employee is entitled to have a representative with them while reviewing their own file. If there is any disagreement as to the contents of the personnel file, an employee shall have the right to submit a statement concerning any materials in the employee’s file and any such statement shall then become part of their personnel file.
The Employer will purge all employees’ personnel records of written reprimands and suspensions for minor work rule infractions two years from the date of issuance, except where there has been subsequent discipline for the same type of infraction.
Section 12 The Employer agrees, upon request, to discuss any contemplated change in organizational structure that may affect existing job classifications. Such discussions shall be held to determine whether opportunities will be provided for lateral transfers into new or existing vacancies which may afford promotional opportunities based on seniority.
Section 13 The Employer agrees to give the Association reasonable notice of planned major operational changes which materially affect an employee’s hours of work or working conditions.
Section 14 During the term of this Agreement, upon the mutual agreement of the parties, joint committees may be established to study any matter dealing with labor-management problems.
Section 15 The Employer agrees that the reasons for a new sub-contracting agreement that will directly result in the furlough of employees will not be arbitrary or capricious.
Section 16 All letters of agreement signed by the Office of Administration in effect on July 1, 2001 shall remain in effect if applicable.
Section 17	In-service training that is required by the Employer is included in hours of work. The
joint Labor-Management Apprenticeship Committee established in the Department of Corrections to review the training needs and appropriate compensation relating to training for employees in the Department of Corrections shall continue. The mission of the Apprenticeship Committee shall be expanded to include the review of the training needs of non-Corrections Officers within the bargaining unit. This will include an evaluation of the existing pre-service, in-service and on-the-job training. The Committee will develop a plan to address any training needs not currently being addressed.
A joint Labor-Management Apprenticeship Committee shall be established in the Department of Public Welfare to review the training needs and appropriate compensation relating to training for employees in the Department of Public Welfare.
Section 18 The Employer agrees to post any vacancy in a permanent job assignment (i.e., not involving promotion) 15 days prior to the filling of such vacancy unless an emergency requires a lesser period of time. Employees at an institution/boot camp who are in the eligible job classification will be given an opportunity to bid on such a vacancy and preference shall be granted on a seniority basis unless it is necessary or desirable to assign otherwise in order to protect the efficiency of operations. Whenever the vacancy is filled by a person other than the most senior eligible employee bidding on the job, the institution superintendent or his representative will
explain to the most senior eligible employee the reason for selecting a less senior person. A grievance under this Section may be pursued only through Step 2 of the H-1 Alternative Dispute Resolution Process and the decision of Joint Committee shall be final and binding.
The January 21, 1988 and September 28, 1988 (Corrected Copy) Sideletters shall remain in effect, except that the parties agree that an employee may be removed from a bid post and disciplined for the same Rules infraction, provided there is a nexus between the Rules infraction and the duties of the bid post. An employee’s removal from a bid post for a Rules infraction may be grieved through Step 3 of the H-1 Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedure. The issue to be decided is whether there is a Rules infraction and if so, whether there is a nexus between the Rules infraction and the duties of the bid post.
Section 19	The dress of officers while on community details is left to the discretion of the Employer,
which shall in all instances exercise due regard for the safety of both patients/inmates and employees.
The Employer, whenever possible, shall assign sufficient personnel (no less than a two person detail unless such security does not warrant such personnel) to accompany inmates/patients outside the institution/boot camp and in the community.
Section 20	The Employer shall furnish written notification of inmate or patient charges against the employee at least 24 hours prior to the commencement of the proceedings.
Section 21	The Employer shall provide liability coverage and legal defense in civil suits as detailed in Title 4 PA Code Chapter 39 and Management Directives 205.6 and 630.2.
In criminal actions against any employee arising from his/her conduct within the scope of his/her employment, the Employer may provide an attorney to represent him or her, or if it does not:
a.	It shall advance reasonable fees incurred for services performed on and after July 1, 1978 of an attorney engaged by the employee up to the amount of his contribution to his retirement account, except that if the employee is charged with theft from the Employer, this amount shall be reduced by the alleged amount of the theft. If the employee’s defense is not successful, the amount advanced shall be recovered either out of that amount in the employee’s retirement account or by some other method in accordance with law.
b.	If the employee’s defense is successful, in addition to the amount, if any, that has been advanced, it shall reimburse his reasonable attorney's fees incurred for services performed on and after July 1, 1978 to the following extent:
(1)	full, if successful on the basis of a verdict following a full jury trial;
(2)	to the extent determined by the Employer to be appropriate if successful on
some other basis.
For the purpose of the provision, all of the criminal charges arising from the same episode, event or circumstances shall be regarded as a single criminal action; charges arising from different criminal episodes, events or circumstances shall be regarded as separate criminal actions.
Section 2.2.	The Employer must retain certain prerogatives which include but are not limited to the
determination of the required employee complement. Due regard shall be given by the Employer in determining personnel needs to the safety of employees. The Association may invoke the provisions of the grievance procedure in the event it determines that assignments are made without due regard to safety.
Section 23 Employees should be treated in a respectful manner which does not embarrass them or demean their dignity. The appropriate forum for incidents which are inconsistent with this principle shall be labor-management meetings under Article 33, Section 8.
Section 2.4	If an employee experiences an exposure as defined in Act 148 to an inmate's/patient's
blood and body fluid, the employee and the Employer shall follow the procedures outlined in Act 148 of 1990. If such procedures require an employee to attempt to obtain a court order to obtain the HIV status of the inmate/patient, the Employer shall reimburse reasonable attorney's fees unless the Employer determines that the attempt to obtain the court order is without merit. An employee may utilize the grievance procedure to challenge the Employer’s denial of reasonable attorney's fees.
Section 25 A Stress Management Program shall be given on a voluntary basis for one hour as part of the annual training program for Corrections Officers on an every other year basis. The current practice for the Stress Management training of Forensic Security Employees shall remain in effect.
Section 26 The Commonwealth shall provide fully paid coverage for six psychotherapy visits per contract year for each employee of this bargaining unit. The method of administering this coverage shall be jointly established consistent with the following criteria:
a.	The psychologist or psychiatrist used will be the employee’s choice.
b.	The employee should experience no out-of-pocket expense.
c.	This coverage does not extend to dependents or spouses except as provided below.
d.	This coverage will not be used for visits covered under workers' compensation.
The Commonwealth shall provide up to six fully paid psychotherapy visits per contract year, subject to the criteria listed in Subsections a., b., c., and d of this Section, for each spouse and legal dependent child of an employee in this bargaining unit who has been held hostage by an inmate or patient. This coverage will be in effect for a period of three years from the date of the hostage incident unless the psychologist or psychiatrist certifies the need for treatment beyond the three year limitation.
The Commonwealth reserves the right to discuss the administration of this coverage during the term of this Agreement.
Section 27	A communicable disease committee shall be established to meet and attempt to resolve
the issues of giving employees notice when inmates or patients have a communicable disease, testing employees who have been exposed to a communicable disease, testing inmates and patients who have caused a possible exposure of an employee to a communicable disease, providing employees with the appropriate training and equipment to deal with patients and inmates who have a communicable disease and providing employees with the appropriate inoculations to protect employees in this unit.
Section 28 The Commonwealth and the Association agree that the Department of Corrections Drug and Alcohol Testing Program contained in Appendix G represents the results of negotiations conducted under and in accordance with the Public Employe Relations Act and constitutes a term and condition of employment for employees in this bargaining unit.
A committee comprised of Employer and Association representatives will meet to formulate rules, regulations and procedures to provide for drug and alcohol free institutions/boot camps. The committee will address issues relating to employees, training of employees, inmates, visitors and security. Unresolved committee issues will be subject to arbitration.
Section 29 The parties agree that employees are subject to the provisions of the Drug Interdiction Equipment Program, Department of Corrections Policy Number 6.3.15 as amended and the K-9 Program, Department of Corrections Policy Number 6.3.14, as amended, effective January 1, 1997. Searches of employees due to a positive reaction to drug interdiction equipment or a K-9 will be conducted in accordance with the existing Institution Security Policy, 6.3.22.
The Commonwealth and the Association agree the coverage of employees by the above referenced programs represents the results of negotiations conducted under and in accordance with the Public Employe Relations Act and constitutes a term and condition of employment for employees in this bargaining unit.
Section 30 Employees will be permitted to use up to four (4) hours administrative leave per calendar year to donate blood. Blood donations will be made in accordance with Management Directive 530.21, Amended.
ARTICLE 34
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
If any provision of this Agreement is in conflict with Federal Executive Orders 11246 and 11375, as amended, the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and all laws and rules, relating to the Commonwealth's Equal Employment Opportunity Program and the Americans with Disabilities Act, the provisions of the aforementioned Orders, laws and implementing regulations shall prevail.
Disputes regarding the application and implementation of the Orders, laws and implementing regulations shall be subject to arbitration.
This provision does not constitute a waiver of rights under Act 195.
Upon request of the Association, a committee composed of an equal number of Management and Association representatives shall be established to review compliance with the Commonwealth's Equal Employment Opportunity Program at those institutions/boot camps in the Department of Corrections of concern to the Association.
ARTICLE 35
H-1 ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROCESS GRIEVANCES AND ARBITRATION
Section 1 Where an employee has the right to process a grievance through either the procedure provided herein or through the Pennsylvania Civil Service Commission and files an appeal with the Commission, either the contract grievance procedure shall cease, if the employee has submitted a contract grievance, or the employee shall not be entitled to institute proceedings under the contract grievance procedure. If the appeal to the Commission is withdrawn by the employee or not accepted by the Commission within fifteen (15) calendar days of the date of the occurrence of that action giving rise to the grievance, the processing of a timely filed contract grievance shall be permitted.
Section 2 Any grievance or dispute which may arise concerning the application, meaning or interpretation of this Agreement except for a dispute arising out of Article 33, Section 22 or a denial of a request for combined leave shall be settled utilizing Steps 1, 2 and 3 below:
Disputes arising out of Article 33, Section 22 or a denial of a request for combined leave shall be settled utilizing Steps 1, 2.a. and 3 below:
Step 1. The employee, either alone, or accompanied by the Association Representative, or the Association Representative, where entitled, shall present the grievance in writing to the respective institutional/boot camp representative or official Agency designee within fifteen (15) working days of the date of the occurrence giving rise to the dispute, or when the employee knew or by reasonable diligence should have known of the occurrence.
The parties agree the respective institutional/boot camp representative or official Agency designee and the Association counterpart must schedule and meet on a monthly Step 1 basis, if necessary, in order to attempt to resolve all outstanding grievances. At the Step 1 meeting, the parties will advise each other of the then known facts, including witnesses, and furnish copies of relevant reports or investigations upon which the party will rely in proving and/or supporting its respective position. Where special circumstances require confidential and/or security related information not be disclosed at the institutional/boot camp level at that time, the case will be handled in accordance with the "Security Related Disclosure Procedures" which have been established.
Any agreed upon final settlement of a grievance reached at Step 1 shall be reduced in writing and signed by the Association, and respective institutional/boot camp representative or official Agency designee. Decisions at Step 1 shall not be used as a precedent for any subsequent case.
After the Step 1 meeting has been held and the then known and to be relied on information discussed, the respective institutional/boot camp representative or official Agency designee must, if the case is not settled at this point, make a written disposition of the matter to the Association within five (5) working days from the date of the Step 1 meeting.
Step 2. If the disposition of the matter by the respective institutional/boot camp representative or official designee is not satisfactory, or a response has not been received from Step 1, the Association shall have fifteen (15) working days after the Commonwealth's response is received or due, to appeal the decision by filing its grievance with one of the two Joint Committees for the H-1 Alternative Dispute Resolution Process referred to in Rule 1 of the attached Rules of Procedure. Such submission shall be made in writing and shall be filed in accordance with the established procedures.
Failure of the Association to submit grievances to the appropriate Joint Committee within the fifteen (15) day appeal period specified above, shall be cause for the Commonwealth to consider the matter "settled and withdrawn". Any later discovered or developed evidence, not previously disclosed to the other party at the Step 1 meeting will be submitted to the other side as soon as practical after discovery and/or development, but in no event later than 48 hours (excluding holidays and Saturdays/Sundays) before the Step 2 hearing.
Decisions of a Joint Committee are final and binding and shall not operate as a precedent for contractual interpretation matters.
The Committee at Step 2 shall have the right to hear testimony from both parties, investigate all facts and render a final and binding decision. Each case shall be considered on its merits and the collective bargaining agreement shall constitute the basis upon which the decision shall be rendered.
The Committee shall neither add to, subtract from, nor modify the provisions of this Agreement. The Committee shall be confined to the precise issue submitted and shall have no authority to determine any other issues not so submitted. If the Joint Committee is unable to reach a decision of majority vote, the matter will be considered "deadlocked".
Step 2.a. In the event the grievance alleging a violation of Article 33, Section 22 or a denial of a request for combined leave has not been satisfactorily resolved, or a response has not been received from Step 1, the Association shall have fifteen (15) working days after the Commonwealth’s response is received or due, to appeal the decision by filing the grievance with the Office of Administration, Bureau of Labor Relations, 404 Finance Building, Harrisburg, PA 17120. The written appeal to Step 2.a. shall contain a copy of the grievance and a copy of the Step 1 decision.
Failure of the PSCOA to submit grievances to Step 2.a. within the fifteen (15) working day appeal period specified above, shall be cause for the Commonwealth to consider the matter “settled and withdrawn”. Any later discovered evidence, not previously disclosed to the other party at the Step 1 meeting will be submitted to the other side as soon as practicable after discovery and/or
development, but in no event later than 48 hours (excluding holidays and/or Saturdays/Sundays) before the Step 2.a. grievance committee meeting.
Upon receipt of the grievance at Step 2.a., the representative of the Bureau of Labor Relations and the PSCOA Grievance Board Chairman shall schedule a grievance committee meeting consisting of members from the Employer (no more than three) and the PSCOA Grievance Board (no more than three). This committee shall meet at least once per month in Harrisburg, PA, unless the parties mutually agree otherwise, to resolve all pending grievances by reviewing all of the information previously exchanged between the parties.
A list of grievances to be discussed shall be sent by the Bureau of Labor Relations’ representative to the PSCOA Grievance Board Chairman and the appropriate DOC and/or DPW designee(s) within seven (7) calendar days prior to the grievance committee meeting.
Decisions of the grievance committee at Step 2.a. shall be issued in writing for each grievance reviewed. The decision shall be final and binding and shall not operate as a precedent for contractual interpretation matters.
The Bureau of Labor Relations staff shall prepare the written minutes of each committee meeting, briefly outlining the facts and the decision reached by the Committee in each case heard. Copies of all such minutes and decision shall be mailed to the Association and to the Departments of Corrections and Public Welfare. Such minutes will be approved at the next meeting of the Committee and will form the official record of the Committee action.
Step 3. An appeal from a deadlocked decision at Step 2 or Step 2.a. may be initiated by the Association, by written notice of the intent to proceed to arbitration. This notice must be sent within fifteen (15) working days after the deadlocked decision from Step 2 or Step 2.a. to the Office of Administration, Bureau of Labor Relations, 404 Finance Building, Harrisburg, PA 17120, and the affected Commonwealth agency (Division of Labor Relations).
ARBITRATION
The impartial arbitrator is to be selected by mutual agreement between the parties within fifteen (15) working days after the notice has been given. If the parties fail to agree on an impartial arbitrator, either party may request the Bureau of Mediation to submit a list of seven (7) possible arbitrators to the parties.
The parties shall, within fifteen (15) working days of the receipt of said list, select the arbitrator by alternately striking one name from the list until only one name remains. The Employer designee shall strike the first name.
Each case shall be considered on its merits and the collective bargaining agreement shall constitute the basis upon which the decision shall be rendered.
The arbitrator shall neither add to, subtract from, nor modify the provisions of this Agreement. The arbitrator shall be confined to the precise issue submitted for arbitration and shall have no authority to determine any other issues not so submitted.
A decision at either Step 2 Joint Committee or Step 2.a. Grievance Committee or by the arbitrator shall be final and binding on both parties. The arbitrator shall be required to issue a decision within thirty (30) days after the close of the hearing.
TIME. LIMITS
Working days as referred to throughout Section 2 will exclude holidays and Saturdays/Sundays.
All of the time limits contained in Sections 1 and 2 may be extended by mutual written agreement. The granting of any extension at any step shall not be deemed to establish precedence.
COSTS
Each party shall bear the costs of preparing and presenting its own case.
All fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be divided equally between the parties, except where one of the parties of this Agreement requests a postponement of a previously scheduled arbitration meeting which results in a postponement charge. The postponing party shall pay such charge unless the postponement results in a settlement of the grievance in which event the postponement charge shall be divided between the parties.
A postponement charge resulting from a joint postponement request shall be shared equally by the parties.
Either party desiring a record of the proceedings shall pay for the record and make a copy available without charge to the arbitrator.
Section 3	An employee shall be permitted to have a representative of the Association present at Step 1; subject, however, to Section 606, Article VI of the Public Employe Relations Act.
Upon request by an employee or Association representative, a grievance meeting will be postponed or rescheduled, if necessary, if an Association Representative is temporarily unavailable to the employee.
STEWARDS
Employees selected by the Association to act as Association representatives shall be known as stewards. The Association shall furnish the Commonwealth with the names and work locations of grievance representatives and shall notify the Commonwealth of any change.
LOST TIME.
A reasonable number of witnesses, when required to attend Joint Committee meetings because of the Commonwealth's refusal to accept that witness' written statement, as provided in these rules, shall be allowed to attend a grievance meeting without loss of pay.
An employee who presents a grievance or sits on a Joint Committee shall do so with pay provided the Association has indicated their desire to have that person participate in the procedure. The number of employees so designated shall not be abused.
Section 4	The Joint Committee will function under the Rules of Procedure contained in Appendix F.
Section 5	The Commonwealth and the PSCOA shall meet yearly to review the grievance procedure. The procedure can be modified at any time by written agreement between the parties.
Section 6	The provisions of this Article and Appendix F shall be effective for grievances filed on or after 30 days after the date this Agreement is signed by the parties. For the period from July 1, 2001 until this Article is effective, the grievance procedure and Appendix F of the prior Agreement effective July 1, 1998 through June 30, 2001 will remain in force.
ARTICLE 36
SAFETY AND HEALTH
Section 1	The Employer will take affirmative action to ensure compliance with laws concerning the health and safety of employees working in state-owned or leased buildings.
Section 2 The Employer agrees to inform the local Association, as soon as possible, when representatives of the Bureau of Occupational and Industrial Safety, Department of Labor & Industry, or other state or federal agencies involved in the establishment or enforcement of laws concerning or affecting the health and safety of employeees working in state-owned or leased buildings are on the premises for an inspection. A designated Association steward located on the premises shall be allowed to accompany such representatives on inspection tours of the work site to point out deficiencies, without loss of pay or leave time. In addition, when the Employer is aware of the presence of representatives of such regulatory agencies who are at the work site for the purpose of safety inspections, the Employer agrees to inform the local Association.
Section 3 The Employer will not assign employeees to any work area in any building owned or leased by the Commonwealth while there is clear and present danger to their safety and such a danger is not an anticipated part of the professional responsibilities and risks of a Corrections Officer or Forensic Security Employee.
Section 4	The Employer will take appropriate action to protect its employeees from injury while at
work in any buildings owned or leased by the Commonwealth. Where clear and present hazardous conditions exist at a work site, the Employer shall post appropriate warning signs and take immediate action to abate the hazard.
Section 5	The Employer agrees to advise the local Association of the identity of all patients/inmates who have a communicable disease or are suspected of having a communicable disease.
Section 6	Upon written request, the local Association shall be provided with copies of statistical reports concerning work- related accidents.
Section 7 The Employer agrees to establish a health and safety committee at each work location. The committee shall be composed of an equal number of representatives of the Association and the Employer. The purpose of the committee shall be to investigate present or potential safety hazards and to make recommendations for corrective action. Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the committees shall meet once each quarter unless a clear and present danger situation warrants a special meeting. The committee shall establish its own operating procedures. However, Association representatives on the committee shall be given a reasonable amount of time during working hours to investigate safety and health hazards brought to the committee and to serve on this committee.
ARTICLE 37
SUCCESSORS
In the event the Employer sells, leases, transfers or assigns any of its facilities to other political subdivisions, corporations or persons, and such sale, lease, transfer or assignment would result in the layoff, furlough, or termination of employees covered by this bargaining agreement, the Employer shall attempt in good faith to arrange for the placement of such employees with the new Employer. The Employer shall notify the Association in writing at least 90 days in advance of any such sale, lease, transfer, or assignment.
ARTICLE 38
POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE DEDUCTIONS
Section 1	The Employer agrees to deduct from the paycheck of employees covered by this Agreement, voluntary contributions to the Association’s Political Action Committee. The Employer shall make such deductions only in accordance with the written authorization of respective employees which shall specify the amount, frequency and duration of the deductions.
Section 2	The Employer shall transmit the monies deducted in accordance with this Article to the Association’s Political Action Committee in accordance with the procedures agreed to by the Employer and the Association.
Section 3	The Association shall reimburse the Employer for the Employer’s actual cost for the expenses incurred in administering this Article.
Section 4	The Association shall indemnify and hold the Commonwealth harmless against any and all claims, suits, orders, or judgments brought or issued against the Employer as a result of the action taken or not taken by the Employer under the provisions of this Article.
ARTICLE 39
FAMILY CARE LEAVE
Section 1 After completing one year of service, permanent employees shall be granted, upon written request, up to 12 weeks of leave without pay in a calendar year for the purpose of attending to the medical needs of a spouse, parent, son or daughter or other person qualifying as a dependent. The one year of service will include all periods of Commonwealth service provided the employee has worked at least 1250 hours within the last twelve months.
Leave for this purpose may be taken one day at a time if necessary. Leave shall be approved for less than one day at a time when medically necessary due to a serious health condition as defined in the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993.
The request, which shall be submitted at least two weeks in advance if circumstances permit, must include documentation supporting the need for family care leave.
Section 2	State-paid coverage for life insurance and for health benefits as provided in Articles 22
and 23 will continue for the period of time the employee is on family care leave under Section 1 of this Article.
Section 3	It is understood that the twelve week entitlement under Section 1 above may not be extended.
Section 4	Employees will not be required to use accumulated combined leave prior to taking family care leave without pay.
Section 5	An employee shall have the right to return to the same position in the same classification held before going on family care leave, or to an equivalent position with regard to pay and skill.
Section 6	For the purpose of this Article, parent shall be defined as the biological parent of the employee or an individual who stood in loco parentis to an employee when the employee was a son or daughter.
For the purpose of this Article, son or daughter shall be defined as a biological, adopted, or foster child, a step-child, a legal ward, or a child of a person standing in loco parentis who is
a.	under 18 years of age; or
b.	18 years of age or older and incapable of self-care because of a mental or physical disability.
Section 7	It is understood by both parties that the provisions of this Article are consistent with the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, 29 USC Section 2601 et seq. and that leave granted in accordance with this Article shall be designated as leave under the provisions of the Act.
Section 8	For the purpose of this Article, the calendar year shall be defined as beginning with the employee’s first full pay period commencing on or after January 1 and continuing through the end of the employee’s pay period that includes December 31.
ARTICLE 40
BARGAINING UNIT WORK
Section 1	The Employer shall not contract/assign H-1 bargaining unit work to independent contractors, consultants or other non-H-1 bargaining unit state employees where such contract/assignment would result in the layoff or downgrading of an employee or prevent the return to work of an available, competent employee except for legitimate operational reasons resulting in reasonable cost savings or improved delivery of service.
Section 2	The Employer shall not contract/assign H-1 bargaining unit work which becomes available as a result of a retirement, resignation, termination, promotion, demotion or reassignment of an employee to independent contractors, consultants or other non-H-1 bargaining unit state employees except for legitimate operational reasons resulting in reasonable cost savings or improved delivery of service.
Section 3	This Agreement will not be construed so as to prevent managerial, supervisory or other non-H-1 bargaining unit state employees from performing H-1 bargaining unit work for the purpose of instruction, illustration, lending an occasional hand or in emergency situations to carry out the functions and programs of the Employer or maintain the Employer’s standard of service.
Section 4	The Employer shall provide the Association with as much advanced notice as possible of a proposed contract/assignment of H-1 bargaining unit work outside the H-1 bargaining unit.
Section 5 At each site where a proposed contract/assignment is to occur, local labor/management committees shall meet and discuss over the reasons for the assignment. At this time the Employer shall provide to the Association all information it has to support a claim of reasonable cost savings or improved service. The Association shall have the opportunity to provide alternative methods to attaining the Employer’s desired result. In the event that the parties at the local level are unable to resolve the issue, the contract or the assignment made may be implemented and the matter shall be referred to a committee comprised of the PSCOA, the Agency and the Office of Administration. Should the parties be unable to resolve the issue, the Association shall notify the Office of Administration in writing of its intent to submit the matter to the grievance procedure.
Section 6	The Employer and the Association acknowledge the above represents the results of negotiations conducted under and in accordance with the Public Employe Relations Act and constitutes the full and complete understanding regarding the issues of contracting out and transfer of bargaining unit work.
ARTICLE 41
TERMINATION
This Agreement shall be effective July 1, 2001 except where specifically provided that a particular provision will be effective on another date. This Agreement shall continue in full force and effect up to and including June 30, 2004. It shall automatically be renewed from year to year thereafter unless either party shall notify the other in writing by such time as would permit the parties to comply with the collective bargaining schedule established under the Public Employes Relations Act.
I
November 5, 2001
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
PENNSYLVANIA STATE CORRECTIONS
OFFICERS ASSOCIATION
APPENDIX A
CLASSIFICATION TITILES
CLASS
PAY
CODE CLASS TITLES	RANGE
30100	Forensic Security Employee Trainee	34
30110	Forensic Security Employee 1	35
30120	Forensic Security Employee 2	37
42871	Corrections Canteen Clerk 1	29
42872	Corrections Canteen Clerk 2	30
42873	Corrections Stock Clerk 1	30
42874	Corrections Stock Clerk 2	32
47200	Corrections Officer Trainee	34
47210	Corrections Officer 1	35
47220	Corrections Officer 2	37
47280	Corrections Utility Plant Operator	35
47290	Corrections Plant Mechanic	35
47300	Corrections Maintenance Repairman 2	35
47320	Corrections Community Center Monitor	29
47613	Corrections Records Specialist	35
69510	Corrections Equipment Operator	35
81510	Corrections Food Service Instructor	35
93470	Corrections Locksmith	35
98010	Corrections Sawmill Foreman	37
98020	Corrections Upholstered Furniture Foreman	37
98200	Corrections Wood Furniture Factory Foreman	37
98210	Corrections Coffee & Tea Processing Foreman 1	37
98220	Corrections Mattress Factory Foreman 1	37
98230	Corrections Soap Detergent Factory Foreman 1	37
98240	Corrections Container Foreman 1	37
98250	Corrections Canning Factory Foreman 1	37
98260	Corrections Knitting Mill Foreman 1	37
98270	Corrections Shoe Factory Foreman 1	37
98280	Corrections Textile Mill Foreman 1	37
98290	Corrections Garment Factory Foreman 1	37
98295	Corrections Optical Lab Factory Foreman	37
98300	Corrections Metal Products Factory Foreman 1	37
98310	Corrections Printing Shop Foreman 1	37
98320	Corrections Meat Processing Foreman 1	37
98340	Corrections Laundry Plant Foreman 1	37
98360	Corrections Advanced Data Entry Center Foreman 1	37
98530	Corrections Upholsterer Foreman	37
98540	Corrections Janitorial Work Foreman	32
98550	Corrections Laundry Foreman	32
98560	Corrections Laborer Foreman	35
98570
98580
98590
98800
98804
98810
98812
98820
98825
98830
98850
98860
98870
98880
98890
98900
98910
98920
98930
98940
98950
98960
98970
98980
Corrections Water Treatment Plant Foreman	35
Corrections Sewage Treatment Plant Foreman	35
Corrections Dairyman 1	35
Corrections Automotive Mechanics Trade Instructor	37
Corrections Automotive Body Factory Foreman	37
Corrections Barber Instructor	37
Corrections Barber Manager	35
Corrections Carpenter Trade Instructor	37
Corrections Upholsterer Trade Instructor	37
Corrections Welding Trade Instructor	37
Corrections Plumbing Trade Instructor	37
Corrections Printing Trade Instructor	37
Corrections Machinist Trade Instructor	37
Corrections Masonry Trade Instructor	37
Corrections Painting Trade Instructor	37
Corrections Built-Up Roofing Trade Instructor	37
Corrections Shoe Repair Trade Instructor	37
Corrections Sheet Metal Trade Instructor	37
Corrections Cosmetology Instructor	37
Corrections Tailoring Trade Instructor	37
Corrections Refrigeration Mechanic Trade Instructor	37
Corrections Construction Equip. Operator Instructor	37
Corrections Electrical Trade Instructor	37
Corrections Electronic Trades Instructor	37
PAGE 1 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2001
SCHEDULE H
APPENDIX B
PAY RANGE 29
LONGEVITY RANGE	STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
5 YEARS HOURLY 5	OR	BIWEEKLY LESS	ANNUAL*	10.53 842.40 21,970	11.02 881.60 22,992	11.54 923.20 24,077	11.87 949.60 24,766	12.24 979.20 25,538	12.60 1,008.00 26,289	12.99 1,039.20 27,102	13.41 1,072.80 27,979	13.85 1,108.00 28,897	14.35 1,148.00 29,940	14.99 1,199.20 31,275
OVER	HOURLY 6	5	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	10.95 876.00 22,846	11.46 916.80 23,910	12.00 960.00 25,037	12.34 987.20 25,746	12.73 1,018.40 26,560	13.10 1,048.00 27,332	13.51 1,080.80 28,187	13.95 1,116.00 29,105	14.40 1,152.00 30,044	14.92 1,193.60 31,129	15.59 1,247.20 32,527
OVER	HOURLY 7	6	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	11.06 884.80 23,076	11.57 925.60 24,140	12.12 969.60 25,287	12.46 996.80 25,997	12.85 1,028.00 26,810	13.23 1,058.40 27,603	13.64 1,091.20 28,458	14.08 1,126.40 29,377	14.54 1,163.20 30,336	15.07 1,205.60 31,442	15.74 1,259.20 32,840
OVER	HOURLY 8	7	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	11.16 892.80 23,284	11.68 934.40 24,369	12.23 978.40 25,517	12.58 1,006.40 26,247	12.97 1,037.60 27,061	13.36 1,068.80 27,874	13.77 1,101.60 28,730	14.21 1,136.80 29,648	14.68 1,174.40 30,628	15.21 1,216.80 31,734	15.89 1,271.20 33,153
OVER	HOURLY 9	8	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	11.27 901.60 23,514	11.79 943.20 24,599	12.35 988.00 25,767	12.70 1,016.00 26,497	13.10 1,048.00 27,332	13.48 1,078.40 28,125	13.90 1,112.00 29,001	14.35 1,148.00 29,940	14.82 1,185.60 30,920	15.35 1,228.00 32,026	16.04 1,283.20 33,466
OVER	HOURLY 10	9	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	11.37 909.60 23,722	11.90 952.00 24,828	12.46 996.80 25,997	12.82 1,025.60 26,748	13.22 1,057.60 27,582	13.61 1,088.80 28,396	14.03 1,122.40 29,272	14.48 1,158.40 30,211	14.96 1,196.80 31,213	15.50 1,240.00 32,339	16.19 1,295.20 33,779
OVER	HOURLY 11	10	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	11.48 918.40 23,952	12.01 960.80 25,058	12.58 1,006.40 26,247	12.94 1,035.20 26,998	13.34 1,067.20 27,833	13.73 1,098.40 28,646	14.16 1,132.80 29,543	14.62 1,169.60 30,503	15.10 1,208.00 31,505	15.64 1,251.20 32,631	16.34 1,307.20 34,092
OVER	HOURLY 12	11	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	11.58 926.40 24,161	12.12 969.60 25,287	12.69 1,015.20 26,476	13.06 1,044.80 27,248	13.46 1,076.80 28,083	13.86 1,108.80 28,918	14.29 1,143.20 29,815	14.75 1,180.00 30,774	15.24 1,219.20 31,797	15.79 1,263.20 32,944	16.49 1,319.20 34,405
OVER	HOURLY 13	12	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	11.69 935.20 24,390	12.23 978.40 25,517	12.81 1,024.80 26,727	13.18 1,054.40 27,499	13.59 1,087.20 28,354	13.99 1,119.20 29,189	14.42 1,153.60 30,086	14.89 1,191.20 31,066	15.37 1,229.60 32,068	15.93 1,274.40 33,236	16.64 1,331.20 34,718
OVER	HOURLY 14	13	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	11.79 943.20 24,599	12.34 987.20 25,746	12.92 1,033.60 26,956	13.29 1,063.20 27,728	13.71 1,096.80 28,605	14.11 1,128.80 29,439	14.55 1,164.00 30,357	15.02 1,201.60 31,338	15.51 1,240.80 32,360	16.07 1,285.60 33,528	16.79 1,343.20 35,031
OVER	HOURLY 15	14	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	11.90 952.00 24,828	12.45 996.00 25,976	13.04 1,043.20 27,207	13.41 1,072.80 27,979	13.83 1,106.40 28,855	14.24 1,139.20 29,710	14.68 1,174.40 30,628	15.15 1,212.00 31,609	15.65 1,252.00 32,652	16.22 1,297.60 33,841	16.94 1,355.20 35,344
OVER	HOURLY 16	15	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.00 960.00 25,037	12.56 1,004.80 26,205	13.16 1,052.80 27,457	13.53 1,082.40 28,229	13.95 1,116.00 29,105	14.36 1,148.80 29,961	14.81 1,184.80 30,900	15.29 1,223.20 31,901	15.79 1,263.20 32,944	16.36 1,308.80 34,134	17.09 1,367.20 35,657
PAGE 2 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2001
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 29
LONGEVITY RANGE			STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
	OVER	HOURLY	12.11	12.67	13.27	13.65	14.08	14.49	14.94	15.42	15.93	16.50	17.24
17	16	BIWEEKLY	968.80	1,013.60	1,061.60	1,092.00	1,126.40	1,159.20	1,195.20	1,233.60	1,274.40	1,320.00	1,379.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	25,266	26,435	27,687	28,479	29,377	30,232	31,171	32,172	33,236	34,426	35,970
	OVER	HOURLY	12.21	12.78	13.39	13.77	14.20	14.62	15.07	15.56	16.07	16.65	17.39
18	17	BIWEEKLY	976.80	1,022.40	1,071.20	1,101.60	1,136.00	1,169.60	1,205.60	1,244.80	1,285.60	1,332.00	1,391.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	25,475	26,664	27,937	28,730	29,627	30,503	31,442	32,464	33,528	34,739	36,282
	OVER	HOURLY	12.32	12.89	13.50	13.89	14.32	14.74	15.20	15.69	16.20	16.79	17.54
19	18	BIWEEKLY	985.60	1,031.20	1,080.00	1,111.20	1,145.60	1,179.20	1,216.00	1,255.20	1,296.00	1,343.20	1,403.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	25,704	26,894	28,166	28,980	29,877	30,754	31,713	32,736	33,800	35,031	36,595
	OVER	HOURLY	12.43	13.00	13.62	14.01	14.44	14.87	15.33	15.82	16.34	16.93	17.69
20	19	BIWEEKLY	994.40	1,040.00	1,089.60	1,120.80	1,155.20	1,189.60	1,226.40	1,265.60	1,307.20	1,354.40	1,415.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	25,934	27,123	28,417	29,230	30,128	31,025	31,985	33,007	34,092	35,323	36,908
	OVER	HOURLY	12.53	13.11	13.73	14.13	14.57	14.99	15.46	15.96	16.48	17.08	17.84
21	20	BIWEEKLY	1,002.40	1,048.80	1,098.40	1,130.40	1,165.60	1,199.20	1,236.80	1,276.80	1,318.40	1,366.40	1,427.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	26,143	27,353	28,646	29,481	30,399	31,275	32,256	33,299	34,384	35,636	37,221
	OVER	HOURLY	12.64	13.22	13.85	14.24	14.69	15.12	15.59	16.09	16.62	17.22	17.99
22	21	BIWEEKLY	1,011.20	1,057.60	1,108.00	1,139.20	1,175.20	1,209.60	1,247.20	1,287.20	1,329.60	1,377.60	1,439.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	26,372	27,582	28,897	29,710	30,649	31,546	32,527	33,570	34,676	35,928	37,534
	OVER	HOURLY	12.74	13.33	13.96	14.36	14.81	15.25	15.72	16.23	16.76	17.36	18.14
23	22	BIWEEKLY	1,019.20	1,066.40	1,116.80	1,148.80	1,184.80	1,220.00	1,257.60	1,298.40	1,340.80	1,388.80	1,451.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	26,581	27,812	29,126	29,961	30,900	31,818	32,798	33,862	34,968	36,220	37,847
	OVER	HOURLY	12.85	13.44	14.08	14.48	14.93	15.37	15.85	16.36	16.90	17.51	18.29
24	23	BIWEEKLY	1,028.00	1,075.20	1,126.40	1,158.40	1,194.40	1,229.60	1,268.00	1,308.80	1,352.00	1,400.80	1,463.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	26,810	28,041	29,377	30,211	31,150	32,068	33,069	34,134	35,260	36,533	38,160
	OVER	HOURLY	12.95	13.55	14.19	14.60	15.06	15.50	15.98	16.49	17.04	17.65	18.44
25	24	BIWEEKLY	1,036.00	1,084.00	1,135.20	1,168.00	1,204.80	1,240.00	1,278.40	1,319.20	1,363.20	1,412.00	1,475.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	27,019	28,271	29,606	30,461	31,421	32,339	33,341	34,405	35,552	36,825	38,473
	OVER	HOURLY	13.06	13.66	14.31	14.72	15.18	15.62	16.11	16.63	17.17	17.79	18.59
26	25	BIWEEKLY	1,044.80	1,092.80	1,144.80	1,177.60	1,214.40	1,249.60	1,288.80	1,330.40	1,373.60	1,423.20	1,487.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	27,248	28,500	29,856	30,712	31,672	32,590	33,612	34,697	35,823	37,117	38,786
	OVER	HOURLY	13.16	13.78	14.43	14.84	15.30	15.75	16.24	16.76	17.31	17.94	18.74
27	26	BIWEEKLY	1,052.80	1,102.40	1,154.40	1,187.20	1,224.00	1,260.00	1,299.20	1,340.80	1,384.80	1,435.20	1,499.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	27,457	28,751	30,107	30,962	31,922	32,861	33,883	34,968	36,116	37,430	39,099
* Approximate annual rate is derived by multiplying the biweekly rate by 26.08 and rounding to the nearest dollar.
PAGE 3 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2001
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 30
LONGEVITY RANGE	STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
5 YEARS HOURLY 5	OR	BIWEEKLY LESS	ANNUAL*	10.84 867.20 22,617	11.33 906.40 23,639	11.87 949.60 24,766	12.24 979.20 25,538	12.60 1,008.00 26,289	12.99 1,039.20 27,102	13.41 1,072.80 27,979	13.85 1,108.00 28,897	14.35 1,148.00 29,940	14.99 1,199.20 31,275	15.54 1,243.20 32,423
OVER	HOURLY 6	5	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	11.27 901.60 23,514	11.78 942.40 24,578	12.34 987.20 25,746	12.73 1,018.40 26,560	13.10 1,048.00 27,332	13.51 1,080.80 28,187	13.95 1,116.00 29,105	14.40 1,152.00 30,044	14.92 1,193.60 31,129	15.59 1,247.20 32,527	16.16 1,292.80 33,716
OVER	HOURLY 7	6	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	11.38 910.40 23,743	11.90 952.00 24,828	12.46 996.80 25,997	12.85 1,028.00 26,810	13.23 1,058.40 27,603	13.64 1,091.20 28,458	14.08 1,126.40 29,377	14.54 1,163.20 30,336	15.07 1,205.60 31,442	15.74 1,259.20 32,840	16.32 1,305.60 34,050
OVER	HOURLY 8	7	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	11.49 919.20 23,973	12.01 960.80 25,058	12.58 1,006.40 26,247	12.97 1,037.60 27,061	13.36 1,068.80 27,874	13.77 1,101.60 28,730	14.21 1,136.80 29,648	14.68 1,174.40 30,628	15.21 1,216.80 31,734	15.89 1,271.20 33,153	16.47 1,317.60 34,363
OVER	HOURLY 9	8	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	11.60 928.00 24,202	12.12 969.60 25,287	12.70 1,016.00 26,497	13.10 1,048.00 27,332	13.48 1,078.40 28,125	13.90 1,112.00 29,001	14.35 1,148.00 29,940	14.82 1,185.60 30,920	15.35 1,228.00 32,026	16.04 1,283.20 33,466	16.63 1,330.40 34,697
OVER	HOURLY 10	9	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	11.71 936.80 24,432	12.24 979.20 25,538	12.82 1,025.60 26,748	13.22 1,057.60 27,582	13.61 1,088.80 28,396	14.03 1,122.40 29,272	14.48 1,158.40 30,211	14.96 1,196.80 31,213	15.50 1,240.00 32,339	16.19 1,295.20 33,779	16.78 1,342.40 35,010
OVER	HOURLY 11	10	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	11.82 945.60 24,661	12.35 988.00 25,767	12.94 1,035.20 26,998	13.34 1,067.20 27,833	13.73 1,098.40 28,646	14.16 1,132.80 29,543	14.62 1,169.60 30,503	15.10 1,208.00 31,505	15.64 1,251.20 32,631	16.34 1,307.20 34,092	16.94 1,355.20 35,344
OVER	HOURLY 12	11	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	11.92 953.60 24,870	12.46 996.80 25,997	13.06 1,044.80 27,248	13.46 1,076.80 28,083	13.86 1,108.80 28,918	14.29 1,143.20 29,815	14.75 1,180.00 30,774	15.24 1,219.20 31,797	15.79 1,263.20 32,944	16.49 1,319.20 34,405	17.09 1,367.20 35,657
OVER	HOURLY 13	12	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.03 962.40 25,099	12.58 1,006.40 26,247	13.18 1,054.40 27,499	13.59 1,087.20 28,354	13.99 1,119.20 29,189	14.42 1,153.60 30,086	14.89 1,191.20 31,066	15.37 1,229.60 32,068	15.93 1,274.40 33,236	16.64 1,331.20 34,718	17.25 1,380.00 35,990
OVER	HOURLY 14	13	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.14 971.20 25,329	12.69 1,015.20 26,476	13.29 1,063.20 27,728	13.71 1,096.80 28,605	14.11 1,128.80 29,439	14.55 1,164.00 30,357	15.02 1,201.60 31,338	15.51 1,240.80 32,360	16.07 1,285.60 33,528	16.79 1,343.20 35,031	17.40 1,392.00 36,303
OVER	HOURLY 15	14	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.25 980.00 25,558	12.80 1,024.00 26,706	13.41 1,072.80 27,979	13.83 1,106.40 28,855	14.24 1,139.20 29,710	14.68 1,174.40 30,628	15.15 1,212.00 31,609	15.65 1,252.00 32,652	16.22 1,297.60 33,841	16.94 1,355.20 35,344	17.56 1,404.80 36,637
OVER	HOURLY 16	15	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.36 988.80 25,788	12.92 1,033.60 26,956	13.53 1,082.40 28,229	13.95 1,116.00 29,105	14.36 1,148.80 29,961	14.81 1,184.80 30,900	15.29 1,223.20 31,901	15.79 1,263.20 32,944	16.36 1,308.80 34,134	17.09 1,367.20 35,657	17.72 1,417.60 36,971
PAGE 4 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2001
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 30
LONGEVITY RANGE			STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
	OVER	HOURLY	12.47	13.03	13.65	14.08	14.49	14.94	15.42	15.93	16.50	17.24	17.87
17	16	BIWEEKLY	997.60	1,042.40	1,092.00	1,126.40	1,159.20	1,195.20	1,233.60	1,274.40	1,320.00	1,379.20	1,429.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	26,017	27,186	28,479	29,377	30,232	31,171	32,172	33,236	34,426	35,970	37,284
	OVER	HOURLY	12.57	13.14	13.77	14.20	14.62	15.07	15.56	16.07	16.65	17.39	18.03
18	17	BIWEEKLY	1,005.60	1,051.20	1,101.60	1,136.00	1,169.60	1,205.60	1,244.80	1,285.60	1,332.00	1,391.20	1,442.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	26,226	27,415	28,730	29,627	30,503	31,442	32,464	33,528	34,739	36,282	37,618
	OVER	HOURLY	12.68	13.26	13.89	14.32	14.74	15.20	15.69	16.20	16.79	17.54	18.18
19	18	BIWEEKLY	1,014.40	1,060.80	1,111.20	1,145.60	1,179.20	1,216.00	1,255.20	1,296.00	1,343.20	1,403.20	1,454.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	26,456	27,666	28,980	29,877	30,754	31,713	32,736	33,800	35,031	36,595	37,931
	OVER	HOURLY	12.79	13.37	14.01	14.44	14.87	15.33	15.82	16.34	16.93	17.69	18.34
20	19	BIWEEKLY	1,023.20	1,069.60	1,120.80	1,155.20	1,189.60	1,226.40	1,265.60	1,307.20	1,354.40	1,415.20	1,467.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	26,685	27,895	29,230	30,128	31,025	31,985	33,007	34,092	35,323	36,908	38,265
	OVER	HOURLY	12.90	13.48	14.13	14.57	14.99	15.46	15.96	16.48	17.08	17.84	18.49
21	20	BIWEEKLY	1,032.00	1,078.40	1,130.40	1,165.60	1,199.20	1,236.80	1,276.80	1,318.40	1,366.40	1,427.20	1,479.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	26,915	28,125	29,481	30,399	31,275	32,256	33,299	34,384	35,636	37,221	38,578
	OVER	HOURLY	13.01	13.60	14.24	14.69	15.12	15.59	16.09	16.62	17.22	17.99	18.65
22	21	BIWEEKLY	1,040.80	1,088.00	1,139.20	1,175.20	1,209.60	1,247.20	1,287.20	1,329.60	1,377.60	1,439.20	1,492.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	27,144	28,375	29,710	30,649	31,546	32,527	33,570	34,676	35,928	37,534	38,911
	OVER	HOURLY	13.12	13.71	14.36	14.81	15.25	15.72	16.23	16.76	17.36	18.14	18.80
23	22	BIWEEKLY	1,049.60	1,096.80	1,148.80	1,184.80	1,220.00	1,257.60	1,298.40	1,340.80	1,388.80	1,451.20	1,504.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	27,374	28,605	29,961	30,900	31,818	32,798	33,862	34,968	36,220	37,847	39,224
	OVER	HOURLY	13.22	13.82	14.48	14.93	15.37	15.85	16.36	16.90	17.51	18.29	18.96
24	23	BIWEEKLY	1,057.60	1,105.60	1,158.40	1,194.40	1,229.60	1,268.00	1,308.80	1,352.00	1,400.80	1,463.20	1,516.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	27,582	28,834	30,211	31,150	32,068	33,069	34,134	35,260	36,533	38,160	39,558
	OVER	HOURLY	13.33	13.94	14.60	15.06	15.50	15.98	16.49	17.04	17.65	18.44	19.11
25	24	BIWEEKLY	1,066.40	1,115.20	1,168.00	1,204.80	1,240.00	1,278.40	1,319.20	1,363.20	1,412.00	1,475.20	1,528.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	27,812	29,084	30,461	31,421	32,339	33,341	34,405	35,552	36,825	38,473	39,871
	OVER	HOURLY	13.44	14.05	14.72	15.18	15.62	16.11	16.63	17.17	17.79	18.59	19.27
26	25	BIWEEKLY	1,075.20	1,124.00	1,177.60	1,214.40	1,249.60	1,288.80	1,330.40	1,373.60	1,423.20	1,487.20	1,541.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	28,041	29,314	30,712	31,672	32,590	33,612	34,697	35,823	37,117	38,786	40,205
	OVER	HOURLY	13.55	14.16	14.84	15.30	15.75	16.24	16.76	17.31	17.94	18.74	19.43
27	26	BIWEEKLY	1,084.00	1,132.80	1,187.20	1,224.00	1,260.00	1,299.20	1,340.80	1,384.80	1,435.20	1,499.20	1,554.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	28,271	29,543	30,962	31,922	32,861	33,883	34,968	36,116	37,430	39,099	40,539
* Approximate annual rate is derived by multiplying the biweekly rate by 26.08 and rounding to the nearest dollar.
PAGE 5 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2001
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 32
LONGEVITY RANGE	STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
5 YEARS HOURLY 5	OR	BIWEEKLY LESS	ANNUAL*	11.51 920.80 24,014	12.03 962.40 25,099	12.60 1,008.00 26,289	12.99 1,039.20 27,102	13.41 1,072.80 27,979	13.85 1,108.00 28,897	14.35 1,148.00 29,940	14.99 1,199.20 31,275	15.54 1,243.20 32,423	16.17 1,293.60 33,737	16.85 1,348.00 35,156
OVER	HOURLY 6	5	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	11.97 957.60 24,974	12.51 1,000.80 26,101	13.10 1,048.00 27,332	13.51 1,080.80 28,187	13.95 1,116.00 29,105	14.40 1,152.00 30,044	14.92 1,193.60 31,129	15.59 1,247.20 32,527	16.16 1,292.80 33,716	16.82 1,345.60 35,093	17.52 1,401.60 36,554
OVER	HOURLY 7	6	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.09 967.20 25,225	12.63 1,010.40 26,351	13.23 1,058.40 27,603	13.64 1,091.20 28,458	14.08 1,126.40 29,377	14.54 1,163.20 30,336	15.07 1,205.60 31,442	15.74 1,259.20 32,840	16.32 1,305.60 34,050	16.98 1,358.40 35,427	17.69 1,415.20 36,908
OVER	HOURLY 8	7	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.20 976.00 25,454	12.75 1,020.00 26,602	13.36 1,068.80 27,874	13.77 1,101.60 28,730	14.21 1,136.80 29,648	14.68 1,174.40 30,628	15.21 1,216.80 31,734	15.89 1,271.20 33,153	16.47 1,317.60 34,363	17.14 1,371.20 35,761	17.86 1,428.80 37,263
OVER	HOURLY 9	8	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.32 985.60 25,704	12.87 1,029.60 26,852	13.48 1,078.40 28,125	13.90 1,112.00 29,001	14.35 1,148.00 29,940	14.82 1,185.60 30,920	15.35 1,228.00 32,026	16.04 1,283.20 33,466	16.63 1,330.40 34,697	17.30 1,384.00 36,095	18.03 1,442.40 37,618
OVER	HOURLY 10	9	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.43 994.40 25,934	12.99 1,039.20 27,102	13.61 1,088.80 28,396	14.03 1,122.40 29,272	14.48 1,158.40 30,211	14.96 1,196.80 31,213	15.50 1,240.00 32,339	16.19 1,295.20 33,779	16.78 1,342.40 35,010	17.46 1,396.80 36,429	18.20 1,456.00 37,972
OVER	HOURLY 11	10	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.55 1,004.00 26,184	13.11 1,048.80 27,353	13.73 1,098.40 28,646	14.16 1,132.80 29,543	14.62 1,169.60 30,503	15.10 1,208.00 31,505	15.64 1,251.20 32,631	16.34 1,307.20 34,092	16.94 1,355.20 35,344	17.63 1,410.40 36,783	18.37 1,469.60 38,327
OVER	HOURLY 12	11	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.66 1,012.80 26,414	13.23 1,058.40 27,603	13.86 1,108.80 28,918	14.29 1,143.20 29,815	14.75 1,180.00 30,774	15.24 1,219.20 31,797	15.79 1,263.20 32,944	16.49 1,319.20 34,405	17.09 1,367.20 35,657	17.79 1,423.20 37,117	18.54 1,483.20 38,682
OVER	HOURLY 13	12	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.78 1,022.40 26,664	13.35 1,068.00 27,853	13.99 1,119.20 29,189	14.42 1,153.60 30,086	14.89 1,191.20 31,066	15.37 1,229.60 32,068	15.93 1,274.40 33,236	16.64 1,331.20 34,718	17.25 1,380.00 35,990	17.95 1,436.00 37,451	18.70 1,496.00 39,016
OVER	HOURLY 14	13	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.89 1,031.20 26,894	13.47 1,077.60 28,104	14.11 1,128.80 29,439	14.55 1,164.00 30,357	15.02 1,201.60 31,338	15.51 1,240.80 32,360	16.07 1,285.60 33,528	16.79 1,343.20 35,031	17.40 1,392.00 36,303	18.11 1,448.80 37,785	18.87 1,509.60 39,370
OVER	HOURLY 15	14	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	13.01 1,040.80 27,144	13.59 1,087.20 28,354	14.24 1,139.20 29,710	14.68 1,174.40 30,628	15.15 1,212.00 31,609	15.65 1,252.00 32,652	16.22 1,297.60 33,841	16.94 1,355.20 35,344	17.56 1,404.80 36,637	18.27 1,461.60 38,119	19.04 1,523.20 39,725
OVER	HOURLY 16	15	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	13.12 1,049.60 27,374	13.71 1,096.80 28,605	14.36 1,148.80 29,961	14.81 1,184.80 30,900	15.29 1,223.20 31,901	15.79 1,263.20 32,944	16.36 1,308.80 34,134	17.09 1,367.20 35,657	17.72 1,417.60 36,971	18.43 1,474.40 38,452	19.21 1,536.80 40,080
PAGE 6 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2001
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 32
LONGEVITY RANGE			STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
	OVER	HOURLY	13.24	13.83	14.49	14.94	15.42	15.93	16.50	17.24	17.87	18.60	19.38
17	16	BIWEEKLY	1,059.20	1,106.40	1,159.20	1,195.20	1,233.60	1,274.40	1,320.00	1,379.20	1,429.60	1,488.00	1,550.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	27,624	28,855	30,232	31,171	32,172	33,236	34,426	35,970	37,284	38,807	40,434
	OVER	HOURLY	13.35	13.95	14.62	15.07	15.56	16.07	16.65	17.39	18.03	18.76	19.55
18	17	BIWEEKLY	1,068.00	1,116.00	1,169.60	1,205.60	1,244.80	1,285.60	1,332.00	1,391.20	1,442.40	1,500.80	1,564.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	27,853	29,105	30,503	31,442	32,464	33,528	34,739	36,282	37,618	39,141	40,789
	OVER	HOURLY	13.47	14.08	14.74	15.20	15.69	16.20	16.79	17.54	18.18	18.92	19.71
19	18	BIWEEKLY	1,077.60	1,126.40	1,179.20	1,216.00	1,255.20	1,296.00	1,343.20	1,403.20	1,454.40	1,513.60	1,576.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	28,104	29,377	30,754	31,713	32,736	33,800	35,031	36,595	37,931	39,475	41,123
	OVER	HOURLY	13.58	14.20	14.87	15.33	15.82	16.34	16.93	17.69	18.34	19.08	19.88
20	19	BIWEEKLY	1,086.40	1,136.00	1,189.60	1,226.40	1,265.60	1,307.20	1,354.40	1,415.20	1,467.20	1,526.40	1,590.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	28,333	29,627	31,025	31,985	33,007	34,092	35,323	36,908	38,265	39,809	41,478
	OVER	HOURLY	13.70	14.32	14.99	15.46	15.96	16.48	17.08	17.84	18.49	19.24	20.05
21	20	BIWEEKLY	1,096.00	1,145.60	1,199.20	1,236.80	1,276.80	1,318.40	1,366.40	1,427.20	1,479.20	1,539.20	1,604.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	28,584	29,877	31,275	32,256	33,299	34,384	35,636	37,221	38,578	40,142	41,832
	OVER	HOURLY	13.81	14.44	15.12	15.59	16.09	16.62	17.22	17.99	18.65	19.40	20.22
22	21	BIWEEKLY	1,104.80	1,155.20	1,209.60	1,247.20	1,287.20	1,329.60	1,377.60	1,439.20	1,492.00	1,552.00	1,617.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	28,813	30,128	31,546	32,527	33,570	34,676	35,928	37,534	38,911	40,476	42,187
	OVER	HOURLY	13.93	14.56	15.25	15.72	16.23	16.76	17.36	18.14	18.80	19.57	20.39
23	22	BIWEEKLY	1,114.40	1,164.80	1,220.00	1,257.60	1,298.40	1,340.80	1,388.80	1,451.20	1,504.00	1,565.60	1,631.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,064	30,378	31,818	32,798	33,862	34,968	36,220	37,847	39,224	40,831	42,542
	OVER	HOURLY	14.04	14.68	15.37	15.85	16.36	16.90	17.51	18.29	18.96	19.73	20.56
24	23	BIWEEKLY	1,123.20	1,174.40	1,229.60	1,268.00	1,308.80	1,352.00	1,400.80	1,463.20	1,516.80	1,578.40	1,644.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,293	30,628	32,068	33,069	34,134	35,260	36,533	38,160	39,558	41,165	42,896
	OVER	HOURLY	14.16	14.80	15.50	15.98	16.49	17.04	17.65	18.44	19.11	19.89	20.73
25	24	BIWEEKLY	1,132.80	1,184.00	1,240.00	1,278.40	1,319.20	1,363.20	1,412.00	1,475.20	1,528.80	1,591.20	1,658.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,543	30,879	32,339	33,341	34,405	35,552	36,825	38,473	39,871	41,498	43,251
	OVER	HOURLY	14.27	14.92	15.62	16.11	16.63	17.17	17.79	18.59	19.27	20.05	20.89
26	25	BIWEEKLY	1,141.60	1,193.60	1,249.60	1,288.80	1,330.40	1,373.60	1,423.20	1,487.20	1,541.60	1,604.00	1,671.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,773	31,129	32,590	33,612	34,697	35,823	37,117	38,786	40,205	41,832	43,585
	OVER	HOURLY	14.39	15.04	15.75	16.24	16.76	17.31	17.94	18.74	19.43	20.21	21.06
27	26	BIWEEKLY	1,151.20	1,203.20	1,260.00	1,299.20	1,340.80	1,384.80	1,435.20	1,499.20	1,554.40	1,616.80	1,684.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	30,023	31,379	32,861	33,883	34,968	36,116	37,430	39,099	40,539	42,166	43,940
* Approximate annual rate is derived by multiplying the biweekly rate by 26.08 and rounding to the nearest dollar.
PAGE 7 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2001
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 34
LONGEVITY RANGE	STEP S	STEP A	STEP B
5 YEARS HOURLY 5	OR	BIWEEKLY LESS	ANNUAL*	12.03 962.40 25,099	12.39 991.20 25,850	12.66 1,012.80 26,414
* Approximate annual rate is derived by multiplying the biweekly rate by 26.08 and rounding to the nearest dollar.
PAGE 8 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2001
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 35
LONGEVITY RANGE			STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
	5 YEARS	HOURLY	12.66	13.24	13.85	14.35	14.99	15.54	16.17	16.85	17.45	18.25	19.07
5	OR	BIWEEKLY	1,012.80	1,059.20	1,108.00	1,148.00	1,199.20	1,243.20	1,293.60	1,348.00	1,396.00	1,460.00	1,525.60
	LESS	ANNUAL*	26,414	27,624	28,897	29,940	31,275	32,423	33,737	35,156	36,408	38,077	39,788
	OVER	HOURLY	13.17	13.77	14.40	14.92	15.59	16.16	16.82	17.52	18.15	18.98	19.83
6	5	BIWEEKLY	1,053.60	1,101.60	1,152.00	1,193.60	1,247.20	1,292.80	1,345.60	1,401.60	1,452.00	1,518.40	1,586.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	27,478	28,730	30,044	31,129	32,527	33,716	35,093	36,554	37,868	39,600	41,373
	OVER	HOURLY	13.29	13.90	14.54	15.07	15.74	16.32	16.98	17.69	18.32	19.16	20.02
7	6	BIWEEKLY	1,063.20	1,112.00	1,163.20	1,205.60	1,259.20	1,305.60	1,358.40	1,415.20	1,465.60	1,532.80	1,601.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	27,728	29,001	30,336	31,442	32,840	34,050	35,427	36,908	38,223	39,975	41,770
	OVER	HOURLY	13.42	14.03	14.68	15.21	15.89	16.47	17.14	17.86	18.50	19.35	20.21
8	7	BIWEEKLY	1,073.60	1,122.40	1,174.40	1,216.80	1,271.20	1,317.60	1,371.20	1,428.80	1,480.00	1,548.00	1,616.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	27,999	29,272	30,628	31,734	33,153	34,363	35,761	37,263	38,598	40,372	42,166
	OVER	HOURLY	13.55	14.17	14.82	15.35	16.04	16.63	17.30	18.03	18.67	19.53	20.40
9	8	BIWEEKLY	1,084.00	1,133.60	1,185.60	1,228.00	1,283.20	1,330.40	1,384.00	1,442.40	1,493.60	1,562.40	1,632.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	28,271	29,564	30,920	32,026	33,466	34,697	36,095	37,618	38,953	40,747	42,563
	OVER	HOURLY	13.67	14.30	14.96	15.50	16.19	16.78	17.46	18.20	18.85	19.71	20.60
10	9	BIWEEKLY	1,093.60	1,144.00	1,196.80	1,240.00	1,295.20	1,342.40	1,396.80	1,456.00	1,508.00	1,576.80	1,648.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	28,521	29,836	31,213	32,339	33,779	35,010	36,429	37,972	39,329	41,123	42,980
	OVER	HOURLY	13.80	14.43	15.10	15.64	16.34	16.94	17.63	18.37	19.02	19.89	20.79
11	10	BIWEEKLY	1,104.00	1,154.40	1,208.00	1,251.20	1,307.20	1,355.20	1,410.40	1,469.60	1,521.60	1,591.20	1,663.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	28,792	30,107	31,505	32,631	34,092	35,344	36,783	38,327	39,683	41,498	43,376
	OVER	HOURLY	13.93	14.56	15.24	15.79	16.49	17.09	17.79	18.54	19.20	20.08	20.98
12	11	BIWEEKLY	1,114.40	1,164.80	1,219.20	1,263.20	1,319.20	1,367.20	1,423.20	1,483.20	1,536.00	1,606.40	1,678.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,064	30,378	31,797	32,944	34,405	35,657	37,117	38,682	40,059	41,895	43,773
	OVER	HOURLY	14.05	14.70	15.37	15.93	16.64	17.25	17.95	18.70	19.37	20.26	21.17
13	12	BIWEEKLY	1,124.00	1,176.00	1,229.60	1,274.40	1,331.20	1,380.00	1,436.00	1,496.00	1,549.60	1,620.80	1,693.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,314	30,670	32,068	33,236	34,718	35,990	37,451	39,016	40,414	42,270	44,169
	OVER	HOURLY	14.18	14.83	15.51	16.07	16.79	17.40	18.11	18.87	19.54	20.44	21.36
14	13	BIWEEKLY	1,134.40	1,186.40	1,240.80	1,285.60	1,343.20	1,392.00	1,448.80	1,509.60	1,563.20	1,635.20	1,708.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,585	30,941	32,360	33,528	35,031	36,303	37,785	39,370	40,768	42,646	44,566
	OVER	HOURLY	14.31	14.96	15.65	16.22	16.94	17.56	18.27	19.04	19.72	20.62	21.55
15	14	BIWEEKLY	1,144.80	1,196.80	1,252.00	1,297.60	1,355.20	1,404.80	1,461.60	1,523.20	1,577.60	1,649.60	1,724.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,856	31,213	32,652	33,841	35,344	36,637	38,119	39,725	41,144	43,022	44,962
	OVER	HOURLY	14.43	15.09	15.79	16.36	17.09	17.72	18.43	19.21	19.89	20.81	21.74
16	15	BIWEEKLY	1,154.40	1,207.20	1,263.20	1,308.80	1,367.20	1,417.60	1,474.40	1,536.80	1,591.20	1,664.80	1,739.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	30,107	31,484	32,944	34,134	35,657	36,971	38,452	40,080	41,498	43,418	45,358
PAGE 9 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2001
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 35
LONGEVITY RANGE			STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
	OVER	HOURLY	14.56	15.23	15.93	16.50	17.24	17.87	18.60	19.38	20.07	20.99	21.93
17	16	BIWEEKLY	1,164.80	1,218.40	1,274.40	1,320.00	1,379.20	1,429.60	1,488.00	1,550.40	1,605.60	1,679.20	1,754.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	30,378	31,776	33,236	34,426	35,970	37,284	38,807	40,434	41,874	43,794	45,755
	OVER	HOURLY	14.69	15.36	16.07	16.65	17.39	18.03	18.76	19.55	20.24	21.17	22.12
18	17	BIWEEKLY	1,175.20	1,228.80	1,285.60	1,332.00	1,391.20	1,442.40	1,500.80	1,564.00	1,619.20	1,693.60	1,769.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	30,649	32,047	33,528	34,739	36,282	37,618	39,141	40,789	42,229	44,169	46,151
	OVER	HOURLY	14.81	15.49	16.20	16.79	17.54	18.18	18.92	19.71	20.42	21.35	22.31
19	18	BIWEEKLY	1,184.80	1,239.20	1,296.00	1,343.20	1,403.20	1,454.40	1,513.60	1,576.80	1,633.60	1,708.00	1,784.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	30,900	32,318	33,800	35,031	36,595	37,931	39,475	41,123	42,604	44,545	46,548
	OVER	HOURLY	14.94	15.62	16.34	16.93	17.69	18.34	19.08	19.88	20.59	21.54	22.50
20	19	BIWEEKLY	1,195.20	1,249.60	1,307.20	1,354.40	1,415.20	1,467.20	1,526.40	1,590.40	1,647.20	1,723.20	1,800.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	31,171	32,590	34,092	35,323	36,908	38,265	39,809	41,478	42,959	44,941	46,944
	OVER	HOURLY	15.07	15.76	16.48	17.08	17.84	18.49	19.24	20.05	20.77	21.72	22.69
21	20	BIWEEKLY	1,205.60	1,260.80	1,318.40	1,366.40	1,427.20	1,479.20	1,539.20	1,604.00	1,661.60	1,737.60	1,815.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	31,442	32,882	34,384	35,636	37,221	38,578	40,142	41,832	43,335	45,317	47,340
	OVER	HOURLY	15.19	15.89	16.62	17.22	17.99	18.65	19.40	20.22	20.94	21.90	22.88
22	21	BIWEEKLY	1,215.20	1,271.20	1,329.60	1,377.60	1,439.20	1,492.00	1,552.00	1,617.60	1,675.20	1,752.00	1,830.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	31,692	33,153	34,676	35,928	37,534	38,911	40,476	42,187	43,689	45,692	47,737
	OVER	HOURLY	15.32	16.02	16.76	17.36	18.14	18.80	19.57	20.39	21.11	22.08	23.07
23	22	BIWEEKLY	1,225.60	1,281.60	1,340.80	1,388.80	1,451.20	1,504.00	1,565.60	1,631.20	1,688.80	1,766.40	1,845.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	31,964	33,424	34,968	36,220	37,847	39,224	40,831	42,542	44,044	46,068	48,133
	OVER	HOURLY	15.45	16.15	16.90	17.51	18.29	18.96	19.73	20.56	21.29	22.27	23.27
24	23	BIWEEKLY	1,236.00	1,292.00	1,352.00	1,400.80	1,463.20	1,516.80	1,578.40	1,644.80	1,703.20	1,781.60	1,861.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	32,235	33,695	35,260	36,533	38,160	39,558	41,165	42,896	44,419	46,464	48,551
	OVER	HOURLY	15.57	16.29	17.04	17.65	18.44	19.11	19.89	20.73	21.46	22.45	23.46
25	24	BIWEEKLY	1,245.60	1,303.20	1,363.20	1,412.00	1,475.20	1,528.80	1,591.20	1,658.40	1,716.80	1,796.00	1,876.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	32,485	33,987	35,552	36,825	38,473	39,871	41,498	43,251	44,774	46,840	48,947
	OVER	HOURLY	15.70	16.42	17.17	17.79	18.59	19.27	20.05	20.89	21.64	22.63	23.65
26	25	BIWEEKLY	1,256.00	1,313.60	1,373.60	1,423.20	1,487.20	1,541.60	1,604.00	1,671.20	1,731.20	1,810.40	1,892.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	32,756	34,259	35,823	37,117	38,786	40,205	41,832	43,585	45,150	47,215	49,343
	OVER	HOURLY	15.83	16.55	17.31	17.94	18.74	19.43	20.21	21.06	21.81	22.81	23.84
27	26	BIWEEKLY	1,266.40	1,324.00	1,384.80	1,435.20	1,499.20	1,554.40	1,616.80	1,684.80	1,744.80	1,824.80	1,907.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	33,028	34,530	36,116	37,430	39,099	40,539	42,166	43,940	45,504	47,591	49,740
* Approximate annual rate is derived by multiplying the biweekly rate by 26.08 and rounding to the nearest dollar.
PAGE 10 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2001
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 37
LONGEVITY RANGE			STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
	5 YEARS	HOURLY	13.69	14.34	14.99	15.54	16.17	16.85	17.45	18.25	19.07	19.87	20.71
5	OR	BIWEEKLY	1,095.20	1,147.20	1,199.20	1,243.20	1,293.60	1,348.00	1,396.00	1,460.00	1,525.60	1,589.60	1,656.80
	LESS	ANNUAL*	28,563	29,919	31,275	32,423	33,737	35,156	36,408	38,077	39,788	41,457	43,209
	OVER	HOURLY	14.24	14.91	15.59	16.16	16.82	17.52	18.15	18.98	19.83	20.66	21.54
6	5	BIWEEKLY	1,139.20	1,192.80	1,247.20	1,292.80	1,345.60	1,401.60	1,452.00	1,518.40	1,586.40	1,652.80	1,723.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,710	31,108	32,527	33,716	35,093	36,554	37,868	39,600	41,373	43,105	44,941
	OVER	HOURLY	14.37	15.06	15.74	16.32	16.98	17.69	18.32	19.16	20.02	20.86	21.75
7	6	BIWEEKLY	1,149.60	1,204.80	1,259.20	1,305.60	1,358.40	1,415.20	1,465.60	1,532.80	1,601.60	1,668.80	1,740.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,982	31,421	32,840	34,050	35,427	36,908	38,223	39,975	41,770	43,522	45,379
	OVER	HOURLY	14.51	15.20	15.89	16.47	17.14	17.86	18.50	19.35	20.21	21.06	21.95
8	7	BIWEEKLY	1,160.80	1,216.00	1,271.20	1,317.60	1,371.20	1,428.80	1,480.00	1,548.00	1,616.80	1,684.80	1,756.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	30,274	31,713	33,153	34,363	35,761	37,263	38,598	40,372	42,166	43,940	45,796
	OVER	HOURLY	14.65	15.34	16.04	16.63	17.30	18.03	18.67	19.53	20.40	21.26	22.16
9	8	BIWEEKLY	1,172.00	1,227.20	1,283.20	1,330.40	1,384.00	1,442.40	1,493.60	1,562.40	1,632.00	1,700.80	1,772.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	30,566	32,005	33,466	34,697	36,095	37,618	38,953	40,747	42,563	44,357	46,235
	OVER	HOURLY	14.79	15.49	16.19	16.78	17.46	18.20	18.85	19.71	20.60	21.46	22.37
10	9	BIWEEKLY	1,183.20	1,239.20	1,295.20	1,342.40	1,396.80	1,456.00	1,508.00	1,576.80	1,648.00	1,716.80	1,789.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	30,858	32,318	33,779	35,010	36,429	37,972	39,329	41,123	42,980	44,774	46,673
	OVER	HOURLY	14.92	15.63	16.34	16.94	17.63	18.37	19.02	19.89	20.79	21.66	22.57
11	10	BIWEEKLY	1,193.60	1,250.40	1,307.20	1,355.20	1,410.40	1,469.60	1,521.60	1,591.20	1,663.20	1,732.80	1,805.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	31,129	32,610	34,092	35,344	36,783	38,327	39,683	41,498	43,376	45,191	47,090
	OVER	HOURLY	15.06	15.77	16.49	17.09	17.79	18.54	19.20	20.08	20.98	21.86	22.78
12	11	BIWEEKLY	1,204.80	1,261.60	1,319.20	1,367.20	1,423.20	1,483.20	1,536.00	1,606.40	1,678.40	1,748.80	1,822.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	31,421	32,903	34,405	35,657	37,117	38,682	40,059	41,895	43,773	45,609	47,528
	OVER	HOURLY	15.20	15.92	16.64	17.25	17.95	18.70	19.37	20.26	21.17	22.06	22.99
13	12	BIWEEKLY	1,216.00	1,273.60	1,331.20	1,380.00	1,436.00	1,496.00	1,549.60	1,620.80	1,693.60	1,764.80	1,839.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	31,713	33,215	34,718	35,990	37,451	39,016	40,414	42,270	44,169	46,026	47,966
	OVER	HOURLY	15.33	16.06	16.79	17.40	18.11	18.87	19.54	20.44	21.36	22.25	23.20
14	13	BIWEEKLY	1,226.40	1,284.80	1,343.20	1,392.00	1,448.80	1,509.60	1,563.20	1,635.20	1,708.80	1,780.00	1,856.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	31,985	33,508	35,031	36,303	37,785	39,370	40,768	42,646	44,566	46,422	48,404
	OVER	HOURLY	15.47	16.20	16.94	17.56	18.27	19.04	19.72	20.62	21.55	22.45	23.40
15	14	BIWEEKLY	1,237.60	1,296.00	1,355.20	1,404.80	1,461.60	1,523.20	1,577.60	1,649.60	1,724.00	1,796.00	1,872.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	32,277	33,800	35,344	36,637	38,119	39,725	41,144	43,022	44,962	46,840	48,822
	OVER	HOURLY	15.61	16.35	17.09	17.72	18.43	19.21	19.89	20.81	21.74	22.65	23.61
16	15	BIWEEKLY	1,248.80	1,308.00	1,367.20	1,417.60	1,474.40	1,536.80	1,591.20	1,664.80	1,739.20	1,812.00	1,888.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	32,569	34,113	35,657	36,971	38,452	40,080	41,498	43,418	45,358	47,257	49,260
PAGE 11 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2001
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 37
LONGEVITY RANGE			STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
	OVER	HOURLY	15.74	16.49	17.24	17.87	18.60	19.38	20.07	20.99	21.93	22.85	23.82
17	16	BIWEEKLY	1,259.20	1,319.20	1,379.20	1,429.60	1,488.00	1,550.40	1,605.60	1,679.20	1,754.40	1,828.00	1,905.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	32,840	34,405	35,970	37,284	38,807	40,434	41,874	43,794	45,755	47,674	49,698
	OVER	HOURLY	15.88	16.63	17.39	18.03	18.76	19.55	20.24	21.17	22.12	23.05	24.02
18	17	BIWEEKLY	1,270.40	1,330.40	1,391.20	1,442.40	1,500.80	1,564.00	1,619.20	1,693.60	1,769.60	1,844.00	1,921.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	33,132	34,697	36,282	37,618	39,141	40,789	42,229	44,169	46,151	48,092	50,115
	OVER	HOURLY	16.02	16.78	17.54	18.18	18.92	19.71	20.42	21.35	22.31	23.25	24.23
19	18	BIWEEKLY	1,281.60	1,342.40	1,403.20	1,454.40	1,513.60	1,576.80	1,633.60	1,708.00	1,784.80	1,860.00	1,938.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	33,424	35,010	36,595	37,931	39,475	41,123	42,604	44,545	46,548	48,509	50,553
	OVER	HOURLY	16.15	16.92	17.69	18.34	19.08	19.88	20.59	21.54	22.50	23.45	24.44
20	19	BIWEEKLY	1,292.00	1,353.60	1,415.20	1,467.20	1,526.40	1,590.40	1,647.20	1,723.20	1,800.00	1,876.00	1,955.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	33,695	35,302	36,908	38,265	39,809	41,478	42,959	44,941	46,944	48,926	50,992
	OVER	HOURLY	16.29	17.06	17.84	18.49	19.24	20.05	20.77	21.72	22.69	23.65	24.64
21	20	BIWEEKLY	1,303.20	1,364.80	1,427.20	1,479.20	1,539.20	1,604.00	1,661.60	1,737.60	1,815.20	1,892.00	1,971.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	33,987	35,594	37,221	38,578	40,142	41,832	43,335	45,317	47,340	49,343	51,409
	OVER	HOURLY	16.43	17.21	17.99	18.65	19.40	20.22	20.94	21.90	22.88	23.84	24.85
22	21	BIWEEKLY	1,314.40	1,376.80	1,439.20	1,492.00	1,552.00	1,617.60	1,675.20	1,752.00	1,830.40	1,907.20	1,988.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	34,280	35,907	37,534	38,911	40,476	42,187	43,689	45,692	47,737	49,740	51,847
	OVER	HOURLY	16.56	17.35	18.14	18.80	19.57	20.39	21.11	22.08	23.07	24.04	25.06
23	22	BIWEEKLY	1,324.80	1,388.00	1,451.20	1,504.00	1,565.60	1,631.20	1,688.80	1,766.40	1,845.60	1,923.20	2,004.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	34,551	36,199	37,847	39,224	40,831	42,542	44,044	46,068	48,133	50,157	52,285
	OVER	HOURLY	16.70	17.49	18.29	18.96	19.73	20.56	21.29	22.27	23.27	24.24	25.27
24	23	BIWEEKLY	1,336.00	1,399.20	1,463.20	1,516.80	1,578.40	1,644.80	1,703.20	1,781.60	1,861.60	1,939.20	2,021.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	34,843	36,491	38,160	39,558	41,165	42,896	44,419	46,464	48,551	50,574	52,723
	OVER	HOURLY	16.84	17.64	18.44	19.11	19.89	20.73	21.46	22.45	23.46	24.44	25.47
25	24	BIWEEKLY	1,347.20	1,411.20	1,475.20	1,528.80	1,591.20	1,658.40	1,716.80	1,796.00	1,876.80	1,955.20	2,037.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	35,135	36,804	38,473	39,871	41,498	43,251	44,774	46,840	48,947	50,992	53,141
	OVER	HOURLY	16.98	17.78	18.59	19.27	20.05	20.89	21.64	22.63	23.65	24.64	25.68
26	25	BIWEEKLY	1,358.40	1,422.40	1,487.20	1,541.60	1,604.00	1,671.20	1,731.20	1,810.40	1,892.00	1,971.20	2,054.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	35,427	37,096	38,786	40,205	41,832	43,585	45,150	47,215	49,343	51,409	53,579
	OVER	HOURLY	17.11	17.93	18.74	19.43	20.21	21.06	21.81	22.81	23.84	24.84	25.89
27	26	BIWEEKLY	1,368.80	1,434.40	1,499.20	1,554.40	1,616.80	1,684.80	1,744.80	1,824.80	1,907.20	1,987.20	2,071.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	35,698	37,409	39,099	40,539	42,166	43,940	45,504	47,591	49,740	51,826	54,017
* Approximate annual rate is derived by multiplying the biweekly rate by 26.08 and rounding to the nearest dollar.
PAGE 1 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2002
SCHEDULE H
APPENDIX C
PAY RANGE 29
LONGEVITY RANGE	STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
5 YEARS HOURLY 5	OR	BIWEEKLY LESS	ANNUAL*	10.90 872.00 22,742	11.41 912.80 23,806	11.94 955.20 24,912	12.29 983.20 25,642	12.67 1,013.60 26,435	13.04 1,043.20 27,207	13.44 1,075.20 28,041	13.88 1,110.40 28,959	14.33 1,146.40 29,898	14.85 1,188.00 30,983	15.51 1,240.80 32,360
OVER	HOURLY 6	5	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	11.34 907.20 23,660	11.87 949.60 24,766	12.42 993.60 25,913	12.78 1,022.40 26,664	13.18 1,054.40 27,499	13.56 1,084.80 28,292	13.98 1,118.40 29,168	14.44 1,155.20 30,128	14.90 1,192.00 31,087	15.44 1,235.20 32,214	16.13 1,290.40 33,654
OVER	HOURLY 7	6	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	11.45 916.00 23,889	11.98 958.40 24,995	12.54 1,003.20 26,163	12.90 1,032.00 26,915	13.30 1,064.00 27,749	13.69 1,095.20 28,563	14.11 1,128.80 29,439	14.57 1,165.60 30,399	15.05 1,204.00 31,400	15.59 1,247.20 32,527	16.29 1,303.20 33,987
OVER	HOURLY 8	7	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	11.55 924.00 24,098	12.09 967.20 25,225	12.66 1,012.80 26,414	13.03 1,042.40 27,186	13.43 1,074.40 28,020	13.82 1,105.60 28,834	14.25 1,140.00 29,731	14.71 1,176.80 30,691	15.19 1,215.20 31,692	15.74 1,259.20 32,840	16.44 1,315.20 34,300
OVER	HOURLY 9	8	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	11.66 932.80 24,327	12.21 976.80 25,475	12.78 1,022.40 26,664	13.15 1,052.00 27,436	13.56 1,084.80 28,292	13.95 1,116.00 29,105	14.38 1,150.40 30,002	14.85 1,188.00 30,983	15.33 1,226.40 31,985	15.89 1,271.20 33,153	16.60 1,328.00 34,634
OVER	HOURLY 10	9	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	11.77 941.60 24,557	12.32 985.60 25,704	12.90 1,032.00 26,915	13.27 1,061.60 27,687	13.68 1,094.40 28,542	14.08 1,126.40 29,377	14.52 1,161.60 30,295	14.99 1,199.20 31,275	15.48 1,238.40 32,297	16.04 1,283.20 33,466	16.75 1,340.00 34,947
OVER	HOURLY 11	10	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	11.88 950.40 24,786	12.44 995.20 25,955	13.01 1,040.80 27,144	13.40 1,072.00 27,958	13.81 1,104.80 28,813	14.21 1,136.80 29,648	14.65 1,172.00 30,566	15.13 1,210.40 31,567	15.62 1,249.60 32,590	16.19 1,295.20 33,779	16.91 1,352.80 35,281
OVER	HOURLY 12	11	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	11.99 959.20 25,016	12.55 1,004.00 26,184	13.13 1,050.40 27,394	13.52 1,081.60 28,208	13.94 1,115.20 29,084	14.34 1,147.20 29,919	14.78 1,182.40 30,837	15.27 1,221.60 31,859	15.76 1,260.80 32,882	16.34 1,307.20 34,092	17.06 1,364.80 35,594
OVER	HOURLY 13	12	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.10 968.00 25,245	12.67 1,013.60 26,435	13.25 1,060.00 27,645	13.64 1,091.20 28,458	14.06 1,124.80 29,335	14.47 1,157.60 30,190	14.92 1,193.60 31,129	15.41 1,232.80 32,151	15.91 1,272.80 33,195	16.48 1,318.40 34,384	17.22 1,377.60 35,928
OVER	HOURLY 14	13	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.21 976.80 25,475	12.78 1,022.40 26,664	13.37 1,069.60 27,895	13.76 1,100.80 28,709	14.19 1,135.20 29,606	14.60 1,168.00 30,461	15.05 1,204.00 31,400	15.55 1,244.00 32,444	16.05 1,284.00 33,487	16.63 1,330.40 34,697	17.37 1,389.60 36,241
OVER	HOURLY 15	14	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.32 985.60 25,704	12.89 1,031.20 26,894	13.49 1,079.20 28,146	13.89 1,111.20 28,980	14.32 1,145.60 29,877	14.74 1,179.20 30,754	15.19 1,215.20 31,692	15.68 1,254.40 32,715	16.19 1,295.20 33,779	16.78 1,342.40 35,010	17.53 1,402.40 36,575
OVER	HOURLY 16	15	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.43 994.40 25,934	13.01 1,040.80 27,144	13.61 1,088.80 28,396	14.01 1,120.80 29,230	14.44 1,155.20 30,128	14.87 1,189.60 31,025	15.32 1,225.60 31,964	15.82 1,265.60 33,007	16.34 1,307.20 34,092	16.93 1,354.40 35,323	17.68 1,414.40 36,888
PAGE 2 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2002
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 29
LONGEVITY RANGE			STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
	OVER	HOURLY	12.54	13.12	13.73	14.13	14.57	15.00	15.46	15.96	16.48	17.08	17.84
17	16	BIWEEKLY	1,003.20	1,049.60	1,098.40	1,130.40	1,165.60	1,200.00	1,236.80	1,276.80	1,318.40	1,366.40	1,427.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	26,163	27,374	28,646	29,481	30,399	31,296	32,256	33,299	34,384	35,636	37,221
	OVER	HOURLY	12.64	13.24	13.85	14.26	14.70	15.13	15.59	16.10	16.62	17.23	17.99
18	17	BIWEEKLY	1,011.20	1,059.20	1,108.00	1,140.80	1,176.00	1,210.40	1,247.20	1,288.00	1,329.60	1,378.40	1,439.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	26,372	27,624	28,897	29,752	30,670	31,567	32,527	33,591	34,676	35,949	37,534
	OVER	HOURLY	12.75	13.35	13.97	14.38	14.82	15.26	15.72	16.24	16.77	17.37	18.15
19	18	BIWEEKLY	1,020.00	1,068.00	1,117.60	1,150.40	1,185.60	1,220.80	1,257.60	1,299.20	1,341.60	1,389.60	1,452.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	26,602	27,853	29,147	30,002	30,920	31,838	32,798	33,883	34,989	36,241	37,868
	OVER	HOURLY	12.86	13.46	14.09	14.50	14.95	15.39	15.86	16.38	16.91	17.52	18.30
20	19	BIWEEKLY	1,028.80	1,076.80	1,127.20	1,160.00	1,196.00	1,231.20	1,268.80	1,310.40	1,352.80	1,401.60	1,464.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	26,831	28,083	29,397	30,253	31,192	32,110	33,090	34,175	35,281	36,554	38,181
	OVER	HOURLY	12.97	13.58	14.21	14.63	15.08	15.52	15.99	16.52	17.05	17.67	18.46
21	20	BIWEEKLY	1,037.60	1,086.40	1,136.80	1,170.40	1,206.40	1,241.60	1,279.20	1,321.60	1,364.00	1,413.60	1,476.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	27,061	28,333	29,648	30,524	31,463	32,381	33,362	34,467	35,573	36,867	38,515
	OVER	HOURLY	13.08	13.69	14.33	14.75	15.20	15.65	16.13	16.66	17.20	17.82	18.61
22	21	BIWEEKLY	1,046.40	1,095.20	1,146.40	1,180.00	1,216.00	1,252.00	1,290.40	1,332.80	1,376.00	1,425.60	1,488.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	27,290	28,563	29,898	30,774	31,713	32,652	33,654	34,759	35,886	37,180	38,828
	OVER	HOURLY	13.19	13.81	14.45	14.87	15.33	15.78	16.26	16.79	17.34	17.97	18.77
23	22	BIWEEKLY	1,055.20	1,104.80	1,156.00	1,189.60	1,226.40	1,262.40	1,300.80	1,343.20	1,387.20	1,437.60	1,501.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	27,520	28,813	30,148	31,025	31,985	32,923	33,925	35,031	36,178	37,493	39,162
	OVER	HOURLY	13.30	13.92	14.57	14.99	15.46	15.91	16.40	16.93	17.48	18.12	18.92
24	23	BIWEEKLY	1,064.00	1,113.60	1,165.60	1,199.20	1,236.80	1,272.80	1,312.00	1,354.40	1,398.40	1,449.60	1,513.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	27,749	29,043	30,399	31,275	32,256	33,195	34,217	35,323	36,470	37,806	39,475
	OVER	HOURLY	13.41	14.03	14.69	15.12	15.58	16.04	16.53	17.07	17.63	18.27	19.08
25	24	BIWEEKLY	1,072.80	1,122.40	1,175.20	1,209.60	1,246.40	1,283.20	1,322.40	1,365.60	1,410.40	1,461.60	1,526.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	27,979	29,272	30,649	31,546	32,506	33,466	34,488	35,615	36,783	38,119	39,809
	OVER	HOURLY	13.52	14.15	14.81	15.24	15.71	16.17	16.67	17.21	17.77	18.41	19.23
26	25	BIWEEKLY	1,081.60	1,132.00	1,184.80	1,219.20	1,256.80	1,293.60	1,333.60	1,376.80	1,421.60	1,472.80	1,538.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	28,208	29,523	30,900	31,797	32,777	33,737	34,780	35,907	37,075	38,411	40,121
	OVER	HOURLY	13.63	14.26	14.93	15.36	15.84	16.30	16.80	17.35	17.91	18.56	19.39
27	26	BIWEEKLY	1,090.40	1,140.80	1,194.40	1,228.80	1,267.20	1,304.00	1,344.00	1,388.00	1,432.80	1,484.80	1,551.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	28,438	29,752	31,150	32,047	33,049	34,008	35,052	36,199	37,367	38,724	40,455
	OVER	HOURLY	13.73	14.38	15.04	15.49	15.96	16.43	16.93	17.49	18.06	18.71	19.54
28	27	BIWEEKLY	1,098.40	1,150.40	1,203.20	1,239.20	1,276.80	1,314.40	1,354.40	1,399.20	1,444.80	1,496.80	1,563.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	28,646	30,002	31,379	32,318	33,299	34,280	35,323	36,491	37,680	39,037	40,768
* Approximate annual rate is derived by multiplying the biweekly rate by 26.08 and rounding to the nearest dollar.
PAGE 3 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2002
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 30
LONGEVITY RANGE	STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
5 YEARS HOURLY 5	OR	BIWEEKLY LESS	ANNUAL*	11.22 897.60 23,409	11.73 938.40 24,473	12.29 983.20 25,642	12.67 1,013.60 26,435	13.04 1,043.20 27,207	13.44 1,075.20 28,041	13.88 1,110.40 28,959	14.33 1,146.40 29,898	14.85 1,188.00 30,983	15.51 1,240.80 32,360	16.08 1,286.40 33,549
OVER	HOURLY 6	5	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	11.67 933.60 24,348	12.20 976.00 25,454	12.78 1,022.40 26,664	13.18 1,054.40 27,499	13.56 1,084.80 28,292	13.98 1,118.40 29,168	14.44 1,155.20 30,128	14.90 1,192.00 31,087	15.44 1,235.20 32,214	16.13 1,290.40 33,654	16.72 1,337.60 34,885
OVER	HOURLY 7	6	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	11.78 942.40 24,578	12.32 985.60 25,704	12.90 1,032.00 26,915	13.30 1,064.00 27,749	13.69 1,095.20 28,563	14.11 1,128.80 29,439	14.57 1,165.60 30,399	15.05 1,204.00 31,400	15.59 1,247.20 32,527	16.29 1,303.20 33,987	16.88 1,350.40 35,218
OVER	HOURLY 8	7	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	11.89 951.20 24,807	12.43 994.40 25,934	13.03 1,042.40 27,186	13.43 1,074.40 28,020	13.82 1,105.60 28,834	14.25 1,140.00 29,731	14.71 1,176.80 30,691	15.19 1,215.20 31,692	15.74 1,259.20 32,840	16.44 1,315.20 34,300	17.04 1,363.20 35,552
OVER	HOURLY 9	8	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.01 960.80 25,058	12.55 1,004.00 26,184	13.15 1,052.00 27,436	13.56 1,084.80 28,292	13.95 1,116.00 29,105	14.38 1,150.40 30,002	14.85 1,188.00 30,983	15.33 1,226.40 31,985	15.89 1,271.20 33,153	16.60 1,328.00 34,634	17.21 1,376.80 35,907
OVER	HOURLY 10	9	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.12 969.60 25,287	12.67 1,013.60 26,435	13.27 1,061.60 27,687	13.68 1,094.40 28,542	14.08 1,126.40 29,377	14.52 1,161.60 30,295	14.99 1,199.20 31,275	15.48 1,238.40 32,297	16.04 1,283.20 33,466	16.75 1,340.00 34,947	17.37 1,389.60 36,241
OVER	HOURLY 11	10	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.23 978.40 25,517	12.79 1,023.20 26,685	13.40 1,072.00 27,958	13.81 1,104.80 28,813	14.21 1,136.80 29,648	14.65 1,172.00 30,566	15.13 1,210.40 31,567	15.62 1,249.60 32,590	16.19 1,295.20 33,779	16.91 1,352.80 35,281	17.53 1,402.40 36,575
OVER	HOURLY 12	11	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.34 987.20 25,746	12.90 1,032.00 26,915	13.52 1,081.60 28,208	13.94 1,115.20 29,084	14.34 1,147.20 29,919	14.78 1,182.40 30,837	15.27 1,221.60 31,859	15.76 1,260.80 32,882	16.34 1,307.20 34,092	17.06 1,364.80 35,594	17.69 1,415.20 36,908
OVER	HOURLY 13	12	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.45 996.00 25,976	13.02 1,041.60 27,165	13.64 1,091.20 28,458	14.06 1,124.80 29,335	14.47 1,157.60 30,190	14.92 1,193.60 31,129	15.41 1,232.80 32,151	15.91 1,272.80 33,195	16.48 1,318.40 34,384	17.22 1,377.60 35,928	17.85 1,428.00 37,242
OVER	HOURLY 14	13	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.57 1,005.60 26,226	13.14 1,051.20 27,415	13.76 1,100.80 28,709	14.19 1,135.20 29,606	14.60 1,168.00 30,461	15.05 1,204.00 31,400	15.55 1,244.00 32,444	16.05 1,284.00 33,487	16.63 1,330.40 34,697	17.37 1,389.60 36,241	18.01 1,440.80 37,576
OVER	HOURLY 15	14	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.68 1,014.40 26,456	13.25 1,060.00 27,645	13.89 1,111.20 28,980	14.32 1,145.60 29,877	14.74 1,179.20 30,754	15.19 1,215.20 31,692	15.68 1,254.40 32,715	16.19 1,295.20 33,779	16.78 1,342.40 35,010	17.53 1,402.40 36,575	18.17 1,453.60 37,910
OVER	HOURLY 16	15	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.79 1,023.20 26,685	13.37 1,069.60 27,895	14.01 1,120.80 29,230	14.44 1,155.20 30,128	14.87 1,189.60 31,025	15.32 1,225.60 31,964	15.82 1,265.60 33,007	16.34 1,307.20 34,092	16.93 1,354.40 35,323	17.68 1,414.40 36,888	18.33 1,466.40 38,244
PAGE 4 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2002
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 30
LONGEVITY RANGE			STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
	OVER	HOURLY	12.90	13.49	14.13	14.57	15.00	15.46	15.96	16.48	17.08	17.84	18.49
17	16	BIWEEKLY	1,032.00	1,079.20	1,130.40	1,165.60	1,200.00	1,236.80	1,276.80	1,318.40	1,366.40	1,427.20	1,479.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	26,915	28,146	29,481	30,399	31,296	32,256	33,299	34,384	35,636	37,221	38,578
	OVER	HOURLY	13.02	13.61	14.26	14.70	15.13	15.59	16.10	16.62	17.23	17.99	18.65
18	17	BIWEEKLY	1,041.60	1,088.80	1,140.80	1,176.00	1,210.40	1,247.20	1,288.00	1,329.60	1,378.40	1,439.20	1,492.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	27,165	28,396	29,752	30,670	31,567	32,527	33,591	34,676	35,949	37,534	38,911
	OVER	HOURLY	13.13	13.72	14.38	14.82	15.26	15.72	16.24	16.77	17.37	18.15	18.81
19	18	BIWEEKLY	1,050.40	1,097.60	1,150.40	1,185.60	1,220.80	1,257.60	1,299.20	1,341.60	1,389.60	1,452.00	1,504.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	27,394	28,625	30,002	30,920	31,838	32,798	33,883	34,989	36,241	37,868	39,245
	OVER	HOURLY	13.24	13.84	14.50	14.95	15.39	15.86	16.38	16.91	17.52	18.30	18.97
20	19	BIWEEKLY	1,059.20	1,107.20	1,160.00	1,196.00	1,231.20	1,268.80	1,310.40	1,352.80	1,401.60	1,464.00	1,517.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	27,624	28,876	30,253	31,192	32,110	33,090	34,175	35,281	36,554	38,181	39,579
	OVER	HOURLY	13.35	13.96	14.63	15.08	15.52	15.99	16.52	17.05	17.67	18.46	19.14
21	20	BIWEEKLY	1,068.00	1,116.80	1,170.40	1,206.40	1,241.60	1,279.20	1,321.60	1,364.00	1,413.60	1,476.80	1,531.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	27,853	29,126	30,524	31,463	32,381	33,362	34,467	35,573	36,867	38,515	39,934
	OVER	HOURLY	13.46	14.08	14.75	15.20	15.65	16.13	16.66	17.20	17.82	18.61	19.30
22	21	BIWEEKLY	1,076.80	1,126.40	1,180.00	1,216.00	1,252.00	1,290.40	1,332.80	1,376.00	1,425.60	1,488.80	1,544.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	28,083	29,377	30,774	31,713	32,652	33,654	34,759	35,886	37,180	38,828	40,268
	OVER	HOURLY	13.58	14.19	14.87	15.33	15.78	16.26	16.79	17.34	17.97	18.77	19.46
23	22	BIWEEKLY	1,086.40	1,135.20	1,189.60	1,226.40	1,262.40	1,300.80	1,343.20	1,387.20	1,437.60	1,501.60	1,556.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	28,333	29,606	31,025	31,985	32,923	33,925	35,031	36,178	37,493	39,162	40,601
	OVER	HOURLY	13.69	14.31	14.99	15.46	15.91	16.40	16.93	17.48	18.12	18.92	19.62
24	23	BIWEEKLY	1,095.20	1,144.80	1,199.20	1,236.80	1,272.80	1,312.00	1,354.40	1,398.40	1,449.60	1,513.60	1,569.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	28,563	29,856	31,275	32,256	33,195	34,217	35,323	36,470	37,806	39,475	40,935
	OVER	HOURLY	13.80	14.43	15.12	15.58	16.04	16.53	17.07	17.63	18.27	19.08	19.78
25	24	BIWEEKLY	1,104.00	1,154.40	1,209.60	1,246.40	1,283.20	1,322.40	1,365.60	1,410.40	1,461.60	1,526.40	1,582.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	28,792	30,107	31,546	32,506	33,466	34,488	35,615	36,783	38,119	39,809	41,269
	OVER	HOURLY	13.91	14.55	15.24	15.71	16.17	16.67	17.21	17.77	18.41	19.23	19.94
26	25	BIWEEKLY	1,112.80	1,164.00	1,219.20	1,256.80	1,293.60	1,333.60	1,376.80	1,421.60	1,472.80	1,538.40	1,595.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,022	30,357	31,797	32,777	33,737	34,780	35,907	37,075	38,411	40,121	41,603
	OVER	HOURLY	14.03	14.66	15.36	15.84	16.30	16.80	17.35	17.91	18.56	19.39	20.10
27	26	BIWEEKLY	1,122.40	1,172.80	1,228.80	1,267.20	1,304.00	1,344.00	1,388.00	1,432.80	1,484.80	1,551.20	1,608.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,272	30,587	32,047	33,049	34,008	35,052	36,199	37,367	38,724	40,455	41,937
	OVER	HOURLY	14.14	14.78	15.49	15.96	16.43	16.93	17.49	18.06	18.71	19.54	20.26
28	27	BIWEEKLY	1,131.20	1,182.40	1,239.20	1,276.80	1,314.40	1,354.40	1,399.20	1,444.80	1,496.80	1,563.20	1,620.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,502	30,837	32,318	33,299	34,280	35,323	36,491	37,680	39,037	40,768	42,270
* Approximate annual rate is derived by multiplying the biweekly rate by 26.08 and rounding to the nearest dollar.
PAGE 5 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2002
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 32
LONGEVITY RANGE	STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
5 YEARS HOURLY 5	OR	BIWEEKLY LESS	ANNUAL*	11.91 952.80 24,849	12.45 996.00 25,976	13.04 1,043.20 27,207	13.44 1,075.20 28,041	13.88 1,110.40 28,959	14.33 1,146.40 29,898	14.85 1,188.00 30,983	15.51 1,240.80 32,360	16.08 1,286.40 33,549	16.74 1,339.20 34,926	17.44 1,395.20 36,387
OVER	HOURLY 6	5	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.39 991.20 25,850	12.95 1,036.00 27,019	13.56 1,084.80 28,292	13.98 1,118.40 29,168	14.44 1,155.20 30,128	14.90 1,192.00 31,087	15.44 1,235.20 32,214	16.13 1,290.40 33,654	16.72 1,337.60 34,885	17.41 1,392.80 36,324	18.14 1,451.20 37,847
OVER	HOURLY 7	6	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.51 1,000.80 26,101	13.07 1,045.60 27,269	13.69 1,095.20 28,563	14.11 1,128.80 29,439	14.57 1,165.60 30,399	15.05 1,204.00 31,400	15.59 1,247.20 32,527	16.29 1,303.20 33,987	16.88 1,350.40 35,218	17.58 1,406.40 36,679	18.31 1,464.80 38,202
OVER	HOURLY 8	7	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.62 1,009.60 26,330	13.20 1,056.00 27,540	13.82 1,105.60 28,834	14.25 1,140.00 29,731	14.71 1,176.80 30,691	15.19 1,215.20 31,692	15.74 1,259.20 32,840	16.44 1,315.20 34,300	17.04 1,363.20 35,552	17.74 1,419.20 37,013	18.49 1,479.20 38,578
OVER	HOURLY 9	8	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.74 1,019.20 26,581	13.32 1,065.60 27,791	13.95 1,116.00 29,105	14.38 1,150.40 30,002	14.85 1,188.00 30,983	15.33 1,226.40 31,985	15.89 1,271.20 33,153	16.60 1,328.00 34,634	17.21 1,376.80 35,907	17.91 1,432.80 37,367	18.66 1,492.80 38,932
OVER	HOURLY 10	9	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.86 1,028.80 26,831	13.45 1,076.00 28,062	14.08 1,126.40 29,377	14.52 1,161.60 30,295	14.99 1,199.20 31,275	15.48 1,238.40 32,297	16.04 1,283.20 33,466	16.75 1,340.00 34,947	17.37 1,389.60 36,241	18.08 1,446.40 37,722	18.84 1,507.20 39,308
OVER	HOURLY 11	10	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.98 1,038.40 27,081	13.57 1,085.60 28,312	14.21 1,136.80 29,648	14.65 1,172.00 30,566	15.13 1,210.40 31,567	15.62 1,249.60 32,590	16.19 1,295.20 33,779	16.91 1,352.80 35,281	17.53 1,402.40 36,575	18.25 1,460.00 38,077	19.01 1,520.80 39,662
OVER	HOURLY 12	11	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	13.10 1,048.00 27,332	13.70 1,096.00 28,584	14.34 1,147.20 29,919	14.78 1,182.40 30,837	15.27 1,221.60 31,859	15.76 1,260.80 32,882	16.34 1,307.20 34,092	17.06 1,364.80 35,594	17.69 1,415.20 36,908	18.41 1,472.80 38,411	19.18 1,534.40 40,017
OVER	HOURLY 13	12	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	13.22 1,057.60 27,582	13.82 1,105.60 28,834	14.47 1,157.60 30,190	14.92 1,193.60 31,129	15.41 1,232.80 32,151	15.91 1,272.80 33,195	16.48 1,318.40 34,384	17.22 1,377.60 35,928	17.85 1,428.00 37,242	18.58 1,486.40 38,765	19.36 1,548.80 40,393
OVER	HOURLY 14	13	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	13.34 1,067.20 27,833	13.94 1,115.20 29,084	14.60 1,168.00 30,461	15.05 1,204.00 31,400	15.55 1,244.00 32,444	16.05 1,284.00 33,487	16.63 1,330.40 34,697	17.37 1,389.60 36,241	18.01 1,440.80 37,576	18.75 1,500.00 39,120	19.53 1,562.40 40,747
OVER	HOURLY 15	14	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	13.46 1,076.80 28,083	14.07 1,125.60 29,356	14.74 1,179.20 30,754	15.19 1,215.20 31,692	15.68 1,254.40 32,715	16.19 1,295.20 33,779	16.78 1,342.40 35,010	17.53 1,402.40 36,575	18.17 1,453.60 37,910	18.92 1,513.60 39,475	19.71 1,576.80 41,123
OVER	HOURLY 16	15	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	13.58 1,086.40 28,333	14.19 1,135.20 29,606	14.87 1,189.60 31,025	15.32 1,225.60 31,964	15.82 1,265.60 33,007	16.34 1,307.20 34,092	16.93 1,354.40 35,323	17.68 1,414.40 36,888	18.33 1,466.40 38,244	19.08 1,526.40 39,809	19.88 1,590.40 41,478
PAGE 6 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2002
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 32
LONGEVITY RANGE			STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
	OVER	HOURLY	13.70	14.32	15.00	15.46	15.96	16.48	17.08	17.84	18.49	19.25	20.06
17	16	BIWEEKLY	1,096.00	1,145.60	1,200.00	1,236.80	1,276.80	1,318.40	1,366.40	1,427.20	1,479.20	1,540.00	1,604.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	28,584	29,877	31,296	32,256	33,299	34,384	35,636	37,221	38,578	40,163	41,853
	OVER	HOURLY	13.82	14.44	15.13	15.59	16.10	16.62	17.23	17.99	18.65	19.42	20.23
18	17	BIWEEKLY	1,105.60	1,155.20	1,210.40	1,247.20	1,288.00	1,329.60	1,378.40	1,439.20	1,492.00	1,553.60	1,618.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	28,834	30,128	31,567	32,527	33,591	34,676	35,949	37,534	38,911	40,518	42,208
	OVER	HOURLY	13.93	14.57	15.26	15.72	16.24	16.77	17.37	18.15	18.81	19.59	20.40
19	18	BIWEEKLY	1,114.40	1,165.60	1,220.80	1,257.60	1,299.20	1,341.60	1,389.60	1,452.00	1,504.80	1,567.20	1,632.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,064	30,399	31,838	32,798	33,883	34,989	36,241	37,868	39,245	40,873	42,563
	OVER	HOURLY	14.05	14.69	15.39	15.86	16.38	16.91	17.52	18.30	18.97	19.75	20.58
20	19	BIWEEKLY	1,124.00	1,175.20	1,231.20	1,268.80	1,310.40	1,352.80	1,401.60	1,464.00	1,517.60	1,580.00	1,646.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,314	30,649	32,110	33,090	34,175	35,281	36,554	38,181	39,579	41,206	42,938
	OVER	HOURLY	14.17	14.82	15.52	15.99	16.52	17.05	17.67	18.46	19.14	19.92	20.75
21	20	BIWEEKLY	1,133.60	1,185.60	1,241.60	1,279.20	1,321.60	1,364.00	1,413.60	1,476.80	1,531.20	1,593.60	1,660.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,564	30,920	32,381	33,362	34,467	35,573	36,867	38,515	39,934	41,561	43,293
	OVER	HOURLY	14.29	14.94	15.65	16.13	16.66	17.20	17.82	18.61	19.30	20.09	20.93
22	21	BIWEEKLY	1,143.20	1,195.20	1,252.00	1,290.40	1,332.80	1,376.00	1,425.60	1,488.80	1,544.00	1,607.20	1,674.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,815	31,171	32,652	33,654	34,759	35,886	37,180	38,828	40,268	41,916	43,668
	OVER	HOURLY	14.41	15.06	15.78	16.26	16.79	17.34	17.97	18.77	19.46	20.26	21.10
23	22	BIWEEKLY	1,152.80	1,204.80	1,262.40	1,300.80	1,343.20	1,387.20	1,437.60	1,501.60	1,556.80	1,620.80	1,688.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	30,065	31,421	32,923	33,925	35,031	36,178	37,493	39,162	40,601	42,270	44,023
	OVER	HOURLY	14.53	15.19	15.91	16.40	16.93	17.48	18.12	18.92	19.62	20.42	21.28
24	23	BIWEEKLY	1,162.40	1,215.20	1,272.80	1,312.00	1,354.40	1,398.40	1,449.60	1,513.60	1,569.60	1,633.60	1,702.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	30,315	31,692	33,195	34,217	35,323	36,470	37,806	39,475	40,935	42,604	44,399
	OVER	HOURLY	14.65	15.31	16.04	16.53	17.07	17.63	18.27	19.08	19.78	20.59	21.45
25	24	BIWEEKLY	1,172.00	1,224.80	1,283.20	1,322.40	1,365.60	1,410.40	1,461.60	1,526.40	1,582.40	1,647.20	1,716.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	30,566	31,943	33,466	34,488	35,615	36,783	38,119	39,809	41,269	42,959	44,753
	OVER	HOURLY	14.77	15.44	16.17	16.67	17.21	17.77	18.41	19.23	19.94	20.76	21.63
26	25	BIWEEKLY	1,181.60	1,235.20	1,293.60	1,333.60	1,376.80	1,421.60	1,472.80	1,538.40	1,595.20	1,660.80	1,730.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	30,816	32,214	33,737	34,780	35,907	37,075	38,411	40,121	41,603	43,314	45,129
	OVER	HOURLY	14.89	15.56	16.30	16.80	17.35	17.91	18.56	19.39	20.10	20.93	21.80
27	26	BIWEEKLY	1,191.20	1,244.80	1,304.00	1,344.00	1,388.00	1,432.80	1,484.80	1,551.20	1,608.00	1,674.40	1,744.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	31,066	32,464	34,008	35,052	36,199	37,367	38,724	40,455	41,937	43,668	45,484
	OVER	HOURLY	15.01	15.69	16.43	16.93	17.49	18.06	18.71	19.54	20.26	21.09	21.97
28	27	BIWEEKLY	1,200.80	1,255.20	1,314.40	1,354.40	1,399.20	1,444.80	1,496.80	1,563.20	1,620.80	1,687.20	1,757.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	31,317	32,736	34,280	35,323	36,491	37,680	39,037	40,768	42,270	44,002	45,838
* Approximate annual rate is derived by multiplying the biweekly rate by 26.08 and rounding to the nearest dollar.
PAGE 7 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2002
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 34
LONGEVITY RANGE	STEP S	STEP A	STEP B
5 YEARS HOURLY 5	OR	BIWEEKLY LESS	ANNUAL*	12.45 996.00 25,976	12.82 1,025.60 26,748	13.10 1,048.00 27,332
* Approximate annual rate is derived by multiplying the biweekly rate by 26.08 and rounding to the nearest dollar.
PAGE 8 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2002
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 35
LONGEVITY RANGE			STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
	5 YEARS	HOURLY	13.10	13.70	14.33	14.85	15.51	16.08	16.74	17.44	18.06	18.89	19.74
5	OR	BIWEEKLY	1,048.00	1,096.00	1,146.40	1,188.00	1,240.80	1,286.40	1,339.20	1,395.20	1,444.80	1,511.20	1,579.20
	LESS	ANNUAL*	27,332	28,584	29,898	30,983	32,360	33,549	34,926	36,387	37,680	39,412	41,186
	OVER	HOURLY	13.62	14.25	14.90	15.44	16.13	16.72	17.41	18.14	18.78	19.65	20.53
6	5	BIWEEKLY	1,089.60	1,140.00	1,192.00	1,235.20	1,290.40	1,337.60	1,392.80	1,451.20	1,502.40	1,572.00	1,642.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	28,417	29,731	31,087	32,214	33,654	34,885	36,324	37,847	39,183	40,998	42,834
	OVER	HOURLY	13.76	14.39	15.05	15.59	16.29	16.88	17.58	18.31	18.96	19.83	20.73
7	6	BIWEEKLY	1,100.80	1,151.20	1,204.00	1,247.20	1,303.20	1,350.40	1,406.40	1,464.80	1,516.80	1,586.40	1,658.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	28,709	30,023	31,400	32,527	33,987	35,218	36,679	38,202	39,558	41,373	43,251
	OVER	HOURLY	13.89	14.52	15.19	15.74	16.44	17.04	17.74	18.49	19.14	20.02	20.92
8	7	BIWEEKLY	1,111.20	1,161.60	1,215.20	1,259.20	1,315.20	1,363.20	1,419.20	1,479.20	1,531.20	1,601.60	1,673.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	28,980	30,295	31,692	32,840	34,300	35,552	37,013	38,578	39,934	41,770	43,647
	OVER	HOURLY	14.02	14.66	15.33	15.89	16.60	17.21	17.91	18.66	19.32	20.21	21.12
9	8	BIWEEKLY	1,121.60	1,172.80	1,226.40	1,271.20	1,328.00	1,376.80	1,432.80	1,492.80	1,545.60	1,616.80	1,689.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,251	30,587	31,985	33,153	34,634	35,907	37,367	38,932	40,309	42,166	44,065
	OVER	HOURLY	14.15	14.80	15.48	16.04	16.75	17.37	18.08	18.84	19.50	20.40	21.32
10	9	BIWEEKLY	1,132.00	1,184.00	1,238.40	1,283.20	1,340.00	1,389.60	1,446.40	1,507.20	1,560.00	1,632.00	1,705.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,523	30,879	32,297	33,466	34,947	36,241	37,722	39,308	40,685	42,563	44,482
	OVER	HOURLY	14.28	14.93	15.62	16.19	16.91	17.53	18.25	19.01	19.69	20.59	21.52
11	10	BIWEEKLY	1,142.40	1,194.40	1,249.60	1,295.20	1,352.80	1,402.40	1,460.00	1,520.80	1,575.20	1,647.20	1,721.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,794	31,150	32,590	33,779	35,281	36,575	38,077	39,662	41,081	42,959	44,899
	OVER	HOURLY	14.41	15.07	15.76	16.34	17.06	17.69	18.41	19.18	19.87	20.78	21.71
12	11	BIWEEKLY	1,152.80	1,205.60	1,260.80	1,307.20	1,364.80	1,415.20	1,472.80	1,534.40	1,589.60	1,662.40	1,736.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	30,065	31,442	32,882	34,092	35,594	36,908	38,411	40,017	41,457	43,355	45,296
	OVER	HOURLY	14.54	15.21	15.91	16.48	17.22	17.85	18.58	19.36	20.05	20.97	21.91
13	12	BIWEEKLY	1,163.20	1,216.80	1,272.80	1,318.40	1,377.60	1,428.00	1,486.40	1,548.80	1,604.00	1,677.60	1,752.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	30,336	31,734	33,195	34,384	35,928	37,242	38,765	40,393	41,832	43,752	45,713
	OVER	HOURLY	14.67	15.34	16.05	16.63	17.37	18.01	18.75	19.53	20.23	21.16	22.11
14	13	BIWEEKLY	1,173.60	1,227.20	1,284.00	1,330.40	1,389.60	1,440.80	1,500.00	1,562.40	1,618.40	1,692.80	1,768.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	30,607	32,005	33,487	34,697	36,241	37,576	39,120	40,747	42,208	44,148	46,130
	OVER	HOURLY	14.80	15.48	16.19	16.78	17.53	18.17	18.92	19.71	20.41	21.35	22.31
15	14	BIWEEKLY	1,184.00	1,238.40	1,295.20	1,342.40	1,402.40	1,453.60	1,513.60	1,576.80	1,632.80	1,708.00	1,784.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	30,879	32,297	33,779	35,010	36,575	37,910	39,475	41,123	42,583	44,545	46,548
	OVER	HOURLY	14.93	15.62	16.34	16.93	17.68	18.33	19.08	19.88	20.59	21.53	22.50
16	15	BIWEEKLY	1,194.40	1,249.60	1,307.20	1,354.40	1,414.40	1,466.40	1,526.40	1,590.40	1,647.20	1,722.40	1,800.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	31,150	32,590	34,092	35,323	36,888	38,244	39,809	41,478	42,959	44,920	46,944
PAGE 9 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2002
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 35
LONGEVITY RANGE			STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
	OVER	HOURLY	15.07	15.76	16.48	17.08	17.84	18.49	19.25	20.06	20.77	21.72	22.70
17	16	BIWEEKLY	1,205.60	1,260.80	1,318.40	1,366.40	1,427.20	1,479.20	1,540.00	1,604.80	1,661.60	1,737.60	1,816.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	31,442	32,882	34,384	35,636	37,221	38,578	40,163	41,853	43,335	45,317	47,361
	OVER	HOURLY	15.20	15.89	16.62	17.23	17.99	18.65	19.42	20.23	20.95	21.91	22.90
18	17	BIWEEKLY	1,216.00	1,271.20	1,329.60	1,378.40	1,439.20	1,492.00	1,553.60	1,618.40	1,676.00	1,752.80	1,832.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	31,713	33,153	34,676	35,949	37,534	38,911	40,518	42,208	43,710	45,713	47,779
	OVER	HOURLY	15.33	16.03	16.77	17.37	18.15	18.81	19.59	20.40	21.13	22.10	23.10
19	18	BIWEEKLY	1,226.40	1,282.40	1,341.60	1,389.60	1,452.00	1,504.80	1,567.20	1,632.00	1,690.40	1,768.00	1,848.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	31,985	33,445	34,989	36,241	37,868	39,245	40,873	42,563	44,086	46,109	48,196
	OVER	HOURLY	15.46	16.17	16.91	17.52	18.30	18.97	19.75	20.58	21.31	22.29	23.29
20	19	BIWEEKLY	1,236.80	1,293.60	1,352.80	1,401.60	1,464.00	1,517.60	1,580.00	1,646.40	1,704.80	1,783.20	1,863.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	32,256	33,737	35,281	36,554	38,181	39,579	41,206	42,938	44,461	46,506	48,592
	OVER	HOURLY	15.59	16.30	17.05	17.67	18.46	19.14	19.92	20.75	21.49	22.48	23.49
21	20	BIWEEKLY	1,247.20	1,304.00	1,364.00	1,413.60	1,476.80	1,531.20	1,593.60	1,660.00	1,719.20	1,798.40	1,879.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	32,527	34,008	35,573	36,867	38,515	39,934	41,561	43,293	44,837	46,902	49,010
	OVER	HOURLY	15.72	16.44	17.20	17.82	18.61	19.30	20.09	20.93	21.67	22.67	23.69
22	21	BIWEEKLY	1,257.60	1,315.20	1,376.00	1,425.60	1,488.80	1,544.00	1,607.20	1,674.40	1,733.60	1,813.60	1,895.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	32,798	34,300	35,886	37,180	38,828	40,268	41,916	43,668	45,212	47,299	49,427
	OVER	HOURLY	15.85	16.58	17.34	17.97	18.77	19.46	20.26	21.10	21.85	22.86	23.89
23	22	BIWEEKLY	1,268.00	1,326.40	1,387.20	1,437.60	1,501.60	1,556.80	1,620.80	1,688.00	1,748.00	1,828.80	1,911.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	33,069	34,593	36,178	37,493	39,162	40,601	42,270	44,023	45,588	47,695	49,844
	OVER	HOURLY	15.98	16.71	17.48	18.12	18.92	19.62	20.42	21.28	22.03	23.05	24.08
24	23	BIWEEKLY	1,278.40	1,336.80	1,398.40	1,449.60	1,513.60	1,569.60	1,633.60	1,702.40	1,762.40	1,844.00	1,926.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	33,341	34,864	36,470	37,806	39,475	40,935	42,604	44,399	45,963	48,092	50,241
	OVER	HOURLY	16.11	16.85	17.63	18.27	19.08	19.78	20.59	21.45	22.21	23.23	24.28
25	24	BIWEEKLY	1,288.80	1,348.00	1,410.40	1,461.60	1,526.40	1,582.40	1,647.20	1,716.00	1,776.80	1,858.40	1,942.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	33,612	35,156	36,783	38,119	39,809	41,269	42,959	44,753	46,339	48,467	50,658
	OVER	HOURLY	16.24	16.99	17.77	18.41	19.23	19.94	20.76	21.63	22.39	23.42	24.48
26	25	BIWEEKLY	1,299.20	1,359.20	1,421.60	1,472.80	1,538.40	1,595.20	1,660.80	1,730.40	1,791.20	1,873.60	1,958.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	33,883	35,448	37,075	38,411	40,121	41,603	43,314	45,129	46,714	48,863	51,075
	OVER	HOURLY	16.38	17.13	17.91	18.56	19.39	20.10	20.93	21.80	22.58	23.61	24.68
27	26	BIWEEKLY	1,310.40	1,370.40	1,432.80	1,484.80	1,551.20	1,608.00	1,674.40	1,744.00	1,806.40	1,888.80	1,974.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	34,175	35,740	37,367	38,724	40,455	41,937	43,668	45,484	47,111	49,260	51,492
	OVER	HOURLY	16.51	17.26	18.06	18.71	19.54	20.26	21.09	21.97	22.76	23.80	24.87
28	27	BIWEEKLY	1,320.80	1,380.80	1,444.80	1,496.80	1,563.20	1,620.80	1,687.20	1,757.60	1,820.80	1,904.00	1,989.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	34,446	36,011	37,680	39,037	40,768	42,270	44,002	45,838	47,486	49,656	51,889
* Approximate annual rate is derived by multiplying the biweekly rate by 26.08 and rounding to the nearest dollar.
PAGE 10 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2002
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 37
LONGEVITY RANGE			STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
	5 YEARS	HOURLY	14.17	14.84	15.51	16.08	16.74	17.44	18.06	18.89	19.74	20.57	21.43
5	OR	BIWEEKLY	1,133.60	1,187.20	1,240.80	1,286.40	1,339.20	1,395.20	1,444.80	1,511.20	1,579.20	1,645.60	1,714.40
	LESS	ANNUAL*	29,564	30,962	32,360	33,549	34,926	36,387	37,680	39,412	41,186	42,917	44,712
	OVER	HOURLY	14.74	15.43	16.13	16.72	17.41	18.14	18.78	19.65	20.53	21.39	22.29
6	5	BIWEEKLY	1,179.20	1,234.40	1,290.40	1,337.60	1,392.80	1,451.20	1,502.40	1,572.00	1,642.40	1,711.20	1,783.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	30,754	32,193	33,654	34,885	36,324	37,847	39,183	40,998	42,834	44,628	46,506
	OVER	HOURLY	14.88	15.58	16.29	16.88	17.58	18.31	18.96	19.83	20.73	21.60	22.50
7	6	BIWEEKLY	1,190.40	1,246.40	1,303.20	1,350.40	1,406.40	1,464.80	1,516.80	1,586.40	1,658.40	1,728.00	1,800.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	31,046	32,506	33,987	35,218	36,679	38,202	39,558	41,373	43,251	45,066	46,944
	OVER	HOURLY	15.02	15.73	16.44	17.04	17.74	18.49	19.14	20.02	20.92	21.80	22.72
8	7	BIWEEKLY	1,201.60	1,258.40	1,315.20	1,363.20	1,419.20	1,479.20	1,531.20	1,601.60	1,673.60	1,744.00	1,817.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	31,338	32,819	34,300	35,552	37,013	38,578	39,934	41,770	43,647	45,484	47,403
	OVER	HOURLY	15.16	15.88	16.60	17.21	17.91	18.66	19.32	20.21	21.12	22.01	22.93
9	8	BIWEEKLY	1,212.80	1,270.40	1,328.00	1,376.80	1,432.80	1,492.80	1,545.60	1,616.80	1,689.60	1,760.80	1,834.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	31,630	33,132	34,634	35,907	37,367	38,932	40,309	42,166	44,065	45,922	47,841
	OVER	HOURLY	15.30	16.03	16.75	17.37	18.08	18.84	19.50	20.40	21.32	22.22	23.14
10	9	BIWEEKLY	1,224.00	1,282.40	1,340.00	1,389.60	1,446.40	1,507.20	1,560.00	1,632.00	1,705.60	1,777.60	1,851.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	31,922	33,445	34,947	36,241	37,722	39,308	40,685	42,563	44,482	46,360	48,279
	OVER	HOURLY	15.45	16.18	16.91	17.53	18.25	19.01	19.69	20.59	21.52	22.42	23.36
11	10	BIWEEKLY	1,236.00	1,294.40	1,352.80	1,402.40	1,460.00	1,520.80	1,575.20	1,647.20	1,721.60	1,793.60	1,868.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	32,235	33,758	35,281	36,575	38,077	39,662	41,081	42,959	44,899	46,777	48,738
	OVER	HOURLY	15.59	16.32	17.06	17.69	18.41	19.18	19.87	20.78	21.71	22.63	23.57
12	11	BIWEEKLY	1,247.20	1,305.60	1,364.80	1,415.20	1,472.80	1,534.40	1,589.60	1,662.40	1,736.80	1,810.40	1,885.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	32,527	34,050	35,594	36,908	38,411	40,017	41,457	43,355	45,296	47,215	49,176
	OVER	HOURLY	15.73	16.47	17.22	17.85	18.58	19.36	20.05	20.97	21.91	22.83	23.79
13	12	BIWEEKLY	1,258.40	1,317.60	1,377.60	1,428.00	1,486.40	1,548.80	1,604.00	1,677.60	1,752.80	1,826.40	1,903.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	32,819	34,363	35,928	37,242	38,765	40,393	41,832	43,752	45,713	47,633	49,635
	OVER	HOURLY	15.87	16.62	17.37	18.01	18.75	19.53	20.23	21.16	22.11	23.04	24.00
14	13	BIWEEKLY	1,269.60	1,329.60	1,389.60	1,440.80	1,500.00	1,562.40	1,618.40	1,692.80	1,768.80	1,843.20	1,920.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	33,111	34,676	36,241	37,576	39,120	40,747	42,208	44,148	46,130	48,071	50,074
	OVER	HOURLY	16.01	16.77	17.53	18.17	18.92	19.71	20.41	21.35	22.31	23.24	24.22
15	14	BIWEEKLY	1,280.80	1,341.60	1,402.40	1,453.60	1,513.60	1,576.80	1,632.80	1,708.00	1,784.80	1,859.20	1,937.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	33,403	34,989	36,575	37,910	39,475	41,123	42,583	44,545	46,548	48,488	50,533
	OVER	HOURLY	16.15	16.92	17.68	18.33	19.08	19.88	20.59	21.53	22.50	23.45	24.43
16	15	BIWEEKLY	1,292.00	1,353.60	1,414.40	1,466.40	1,526.40	1,590.40	1,647.20	1,722.40	1,800.00	1,876.00	1,954.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	33,695	35,302	36,888	38,244	39,809	41,478	42,959	44,920	46,944	48,926	50,971
PAGE 11 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2002
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 37
LONGEVITY RANGE			STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
	OVER	HOURLY	16.30	17.07	17.84	18.49	19.25	20.06	20.77	21.72	22.70	23.66	24.64
17	16	BIWEEKLY	1,304.00	1,365.60	1,427.20	1,479.20	1,540.00	1,604.80	1,661.60	1,737.60	1,816.00	1,892.80	1,971.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	34,008	35,615	37,221	38,578	40,163	41,853	43,335	45,317	47,361	49,364	51,409
	OVER	HOURLY	16.44	17.21	17.99	18.65	19.42	20.23	20.95	21.91	22.90	23.86	24.86
18	17	BIWEEKLY	1,315.20	1,376.80	1,439.20	1,492.00	1,553.60	1,618.40	1,676.00	1,752.80	1,832.00	1,908.80	1,988.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	34,300	35,907	37,534	38,911	40,518	42,208	43,710	45,713	47,779	49,782	51,868
	OVER	HOURLY	16.58	17.36	18.15	18.81	19.59	20.40	21.13	22.10	23.10	24.07	25.07
19	18	BIWEEKLY	1,326.40	1,388.80	1,452.00	1,504.80	1,567.20	1,632.00	1,690.40	1,768.00	1,848.00	1,925.60	2,005.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	34,593	36,220	37,868	39,245	40,873	42,563	44,086	46,109	48,196	50,220	52,306
	OVER	HOURLY	16.72	17.51	18.30	18.97	19.75	20.58	21.31	22.29	23.29	24.27	25.29
20	19	BIWEEKLY	1,337.60	1,400.80	1,464.00	1,517.60	1,580.00	1,646.40	1,704.80	1,783.20	1,863.20	1,941.60	2,023.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	34,885	36,533	38,181	39,579	41,206	42,938	44,461	46,506	48,592	50,637	52,765
	OVER	HOURLY	16.86	17.66	18.46	19.14	19.92	20.75	21.49	22.48	23.49	24.48	25.50
21	20	BIWEEKLY	1,348.80	1,412.80	1,476.80	1,531.20	1,593.60	1,660.00	1,719.20	1,798.40	1,879.20	1,958.40	2,040.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	35,177	36,846	38,515	39,934	41,561	43,293	44,837	46,902	49,010	51,075	53,203
	OVER	HOURLY	17.00	17.81	18.61	19.30	20.09	20.93	21.67	22.67	23.69	24.68	25.72
22	21	BIWEEKLY	1,360.00	1,424.80	1,488.80	1,544.00	1,607.20	1,674.40	1,733.60	1,813.60	1,895.20	1,974.40	2,057.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	35,469	37,159	38,828	40,268	41,916	43,668	45,212	47,299	49,427	51,492	53,662
	OVER	HOURLY	17.15	17.96	18.77	19.46	20.26	21.10	21.85	22.86	23.89	24.89	25.93
23	22	BIWEEKLY	1,372.00	1,436.80	1,501.60	1,556.80	1,620.80	1,688.00	1,748.00	1,828.80	1,911.20	1,991.20	2,074.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	35,782	37,472	39,162	40,601	42,270	44,023	45,588	47,695	49,844	51,930	54,100
	OVER	HOURLY	17.29	18.10	18.92	19.62	20.42	21.28	22.03	23.05	24.08	25.10	26.14
24	23	BIWEEKLY	1,383.20	1,448.00	1,513.60	1,569.60	1,633.60	1,702.40	1,762.40	1,844.00	1,926.40	2,008.00	2,091.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	36,074	37,764	39,475	40,935	42,604	44,399	45,963	48,092	50,241	52,369	54,538
	OVER	HOURLY	17.43	18.25	19.08	19.78	20.59	21.45	22.21	23.23	24.28	25.30	26.36
25	24	BIWEEKLY	1,394.40	1,460.00	1,526.40	1,582.40	1,647.20	1,716.00	1,776.80	1,858.40	1,942.40	2,024.00	2,108.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	36,366	38,077	39,809	41,269	42,959	44,753	46,339	48,467	50,658	52,786	54,998
	OVER	HOURLY	17.57	18.40	19.23	19.94	20.76	21.63	22.39	23.42	24.48	25.51	26.57
26	25	BIWEEKLY	1,405.60	1,472.00	1,538.40	1,595.20	1,660.80	1,730.40	1,791.20	1,873.60	1,958.40	2,040.80	2,125.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	36,658	38,390	40,121	41,603	43,314	45,129	46,714	48,863	51,075	53,224	55,436
	OVER	HOURLY	17.71	18.55	19.39	20.10	20.93	21.80	22.58	23.61	24.68	25.71	26.79
27	26	BIWEEKLY	1,416.80	1,484.00	1,551.20	1,608.00	1,674.40	1,744.00	1,806.40	1,888.80	1,974.40	2,056.80	2,143.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	36,950	38,703	40,455	41,937	43,668	45,484	47,111	49,260	51,492	53,641	55,895
	OVER	HOURLY	17.85	18.70	19.54	20.26	21.09	21.97	22.76	23.80	24.87	25.92	27.00
28	27	BIWEEKLY	1,428.00	1,496.00	1,563.20	1,620.80	1,687.20	1,757.60	1,820.80	1,904.00	1,989.60	2,073.60	2,160.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	37,242	39,016	40,768	42,270	44,002	45,838	47,486	49,656	51,889	54,079	56,333
* Approximate annual rate is derived by multiplying the biweekly rate by 26.08 and rounding to the nearest dollar.
PAGE 1 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2003
SCHEDULE H
APPENDIX D
PAY RANGE 29
LONGEVITY RANGE	STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
5 YEARS HOURLY 5	OR	BIWEEKLY LESS	ANNUAL*	11.34 907.20 23,660	11.87 949.60 24,766	12.42 993.60 25,913	12.78 1,022.40 26,664	13.18 1,054.40 27,499	13.56 1,084.80 28,292	13.98 1,118.40 29,168	14.44 1,155.20 30,128	14.90 1,192.00 31,087	15.44 1,235.20 32,214	16.13 1,290.40 33,654
OVER	HOURLY 6	5	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	11.79 943.20 24,599	12.34 987.20 25,746	12.92 1,033.60 26,956	13.29 1,063.20 27,728	13.71 1,096.80 28,605	14.10 1,128.00 29,418	14.54 1,163.20 30,336	15.02 1,201.60 31,338	15.50 1,240.00 32,339	16.06 1,284.80 33,508	16.78 1,342.40 35,010
OVER	HOURLY 7	6	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	11.91 952.80 24,849	12.46 996.80 25,997	13.04 1,043.20 27,207	13.42 1,073.60 27,999	13.84 1,107.20 28,876	14.24 1,139.20 29,710	14.68 1,174.40 30,628	15.16 1,212.80 31,630	15.65 1,252.00 32,652	16.21 1,296.80 33,821	16.94 1,355.20 35,344
OVER	HOURLY 8	7	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.02 961.60 25,079	12.58 1,006.40 26,247	13.17 1,053.60 27,478	13.55 1,084.00 28,271	13.97 1,117.60 29,147	14.37 1,149.60 29,982	14.82 1,185.60 30,920	15.31 1,224.80 31,943	15.79 1,263.20 32,944	16.37 1,309.60 34,154	17.10 1,368.00 35,677
OVER	HOURLY 9	8	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.13 970.40 25,308	12.70 1,016.00 26,497	13.29 1,063.20 27,728	13.67 1,093.60 28,521	14.10 1,128.00 29,418	14.51 1,160.80 30,274	14.96 1,196.80 31,213	15.45 1,236.00 32,235	15.94 1,275.20 33,257	16.52 1,321.60 34,467	17.26 1,380.80 36,011
OVER	HOURLY 10	9	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.25 980.00 25,558	12.82 1,025.60 26,748	13.41 1,072.80 27,979	13.80 1,104.00 28,792	14.23 1,138.40 29,689	14.64 1,171.20 30,545	15.10 1,208.00 31,505	15.60 1,248.00 32,548	16.09 1,287.20 33,570	16.68 1,334.40 34,801	17.42 1,393.60 36,345
OVER	HOURLY 11	10	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.36 988.80 25,788	12.94 1,035.20 26,998	13.54 1,083.20 28,250	13.93 1,114.40 29,064	14.37 1,149.60 29,982	14.78 1,182.40 30,837	15.24 1,219.20 31,797	15.74 1,259.20 32,840	16.24 1,299.20 33,883	16.83 1,346.40 35,114	17.58 1,406.40 36,679
OVER	HOURLY 12	11	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.47 997.60 26,017	13.06 1,044.80 27,248	13.66 1,092.80 28,500	14.06 1,124.80 29,335	14.50 1,160.00 30,253	14.92 1,193.60 31,129	15.38 1,230.40 32,089	15.88 1,270.40 33,132	16.39 1,311.20 34,196	16.98 1,358.40 35,427	17.74 1,419.20 37,013
OVER	HOURLY 13	12	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.59 1,007.20 26,268	13.18 1,054.40 27,499	13.79 1,103.20 28,771	14.19 1,135.20 29,606	14.63 1,170.40 30,524	15.05 1,204.00 31,400	15.52 1,241.60 32,381	16.03 1,282.40 33,445	16.54 1,323.20 34,509	17.14 1,371.20 35,761	17.90 1,432.00 37,347
OVER	HOURLY 14	13	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.70 1,016.00 26,497	13.29 1,063.20 27,728	13.91 1,112.80 29,022	14.31 1,144.80 29,856	14.76 1,180.80 30,795	15.19 1,215.20 31,692	15.66 1,252.80 32,673	16.17 1,293.60 33,737	16.69 1,335.20 34,822	17.29 1,383.20 36,074	18.07 1,445.60 37,701
OVER	HOURLY 15	14	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.81 1,024.80 26,727	13.41 1,072.80 27,979	14.03 1,122.40 29,272	14.44 1,155.20 30,128	14.89 1,191.20 31,066	15.32 1,225.60 31,964	15.80 1,264.00 32,965	16.32 1,305.60 34,050	16.84 1,347.20 35,135	17.45 1,396.00 36,408	18.23 1,458.40 38,035
OVER	HOURLY 16	15	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.93 1,034.40 26,977	13.53 1,082.40 28,229	14.16 1,132.80 29,543	14.57 1,165.60 30,399	15.03 1,202.40 31,359	15.46 1,236.80 32,256	15.94 1,275.20 33,257	16.46 1,316.80 34,342	16.99 1,359.20 35,448	17.60 1,408.00 36,721	18.39 1,471.20 38,369
PAGE 2 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2003
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 29
LONGEVITY RANGE			STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
	OVER	HOURLY	13.04	13.65	14.28	14.70	15.16	15.59	16.08	16.61	17.14	17.76	18.55
17	16	BIWEEKLY	1,043.20	1,092.00	1,142.40	1,176.00	1,212.80	1,247.20	1,286.40	1,328.80	1,371.20	1,420.80	1,484.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	27,207	28,479	29,794	30,670	31,630	32,527	33,549	34,655	35,761	37,054	38,703
	OVER	HOURLY	13.15	13.77	14.41	14.82	15.29	15.73	16.22	16.75	17.28	17.91	18.71
18	17	BIWEEKLY	1,052.00	1,101.60	1,152.80	1,185.60	1,223.20	1,258.40	1,297.60	1,340.00	1,382.40	1,432.80	1,496.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	27,436	28,730	30,065	30,920	31,901	32,819	33,841	34,947	36,053	37,367	39,037
	OVER	HOURLY	13.27	13.89	14.53	14.95	15.42	15.87	16.36	16.89	17.43	18.06	18.87
19	18	BIWEEKLY	1,061.60	1,111.20	1,162.40	1,196.00	1,233.60	1,269.60	1,308.80	1,351.20	1,394.40	1,444.80	1,509.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	27,687	28,980	30,315	31,192	32,172	33,111	34,134	35,239	36,366	37,680	39,370
	OVER	HOURLY	13.38	14.01	14.66	15.08	15.55	16.00	16.50	17.04	17.58	18.22	19.03
20	19	BIWEEKLY	1,070.40	1,120.80	1,172.80	1,206.40	1,244.00	1,280.00	1,320.00	1,363.20	1,406.40	1,457.60	1,522.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	27,916	29,230	30,587	31,463	32,444	33,382	34,426	35,552	36,679	38,014	39,704
	OVER	HOURLY	13.49	14.13	14.78	15.21	15.68	16.14	16.64	17.18	17.73	18.37	19.19
21	20	BIWEEKLY	1,079.20	1,130.40	1,182.40	1,216.80	1,254.40	1,291.20	1,331.20	1,374.40	1,418.40	1,469.60	1,535.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	28,146	29,481	30,837	31,734	32,715	33,674	34,718	35,844	36,992	38,327	40,038
	OVER	HOURLY	13.61	14.24	14.90	15.34	15.82	16.27	16.78	17.33	17.88	18.53	19.36
22	21	BIWEEKLY	1,088.80	1,139.20	1,192.00	1,227.20	1,265.60	1,301.60	1,342.40	1,386.40	1,430.40	1,482.40	1,548.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	28,396	29,710	31,087	32,005	33,007	33,946	35,010	36,157	37,305	38,661	40,393
	OVER	HOURLY	13.72	14.36	15.03	15.46	15.95	16.41	16.92	17.47	18.03	18.68	19.52
23	22	BIWEEKLY	1,097.60	1,148.80	1,202.40	1,236.80	1,276.00	1,312.80	1,353.60	1,397.60	1,442.40	1,494.40	1,561.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	28,625	29,961	31,359	32,256	33,278	34,238	35,302	36,449	37,618	38,974	40,727
	OVER	HOURLY	13.83	14.48	15.15	15.59	16.08	16.54	17.06	17.62	18.18	18.84	19.68
24	23	BIWEEKLY	1,106.40	1,158.40	1,212.00	1,247.20	1,286.40	1,323.20	1,364.80	1,409.60	1,454.40	1,507.20	1,574.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	28,855	30,211	31,609	32,527	33,549	34,509	35,594	36,762	37,931	39,308	41,060
	OVER	HOURLY	13.95	14.60	15.28	15.72	16.21	16.68	17.20	17.76	18.33	18.99	19.84
25	24	BIWEEKLY	1,116.00	1,168.00	1,222.40	1,257.60	1,296.80	1,334.40	1,376.00	1,420.80	1,466.40	1,519.20	1,587.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,105	30,461	31,880	32,798	33,821	34,801	35,886	37,054	38,244	39,621	41,394
	OVER	HOURLY	14.06	14.72	15.40	15.85	16.34	16.81	17.34	17.91	18.48	19.15	20.00
26	25	BIWEEKLY	1,124.80	1,177.60	1,232.00	1,268.00	1,307.20	1,344.80	1,387.20	1,432.80	1,478.40	1,532.00	1,600.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,335	30,712	32,131	33,069	34,092	35,072	36,178	37,367	38,557	39,955	41,728
	OVER	HOURLY	14.18	14.84	15.53	15.98	16.48	16.95	17.48	18.05	18.63	19.30	20.16
27	26	BIWEEKLY	1,134.40	1,187.20	1,242.40	1,278.40	1,318.40	1,356.00	1,398.40	1,444.00	1,490.40	1,544.00	1,612.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,585	30,962	32,402	33,341	34,384	35,364	36,470	37,660	38,870	40,268	42,062
	OVER	HOURLY	14.29	14.96	15.65	16.10	16.61	17.09	17.61	18.19	18.77	19.45	20.32
28	27	BIWEEKLY	1,143.20	1,196.80	1,252.00	1,288.00	1,328.80	1,367.20	1,408.80	1,455.20	1,501.60	1,556.00	1,625.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,815	31,213	32,652	33,591	34,655	35,657	36,742	37,952	39,162	40,580	42,396
	OVER	HOURLY	14.40	15.07	15.77	16.23	16.74	17.22	17.75	18.34	18.92	19.61	20.49
29	28	BIWEEKLY	1,152.00	1,205.60	1,261.60	1,298.40	1,339.20	1,377.60	1,420.00	1,467.20	1,513.60	1,568.80	1,639.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	30,044	31,442	32,903	33,862	34,926	35,928	37,034	38,265	39,475	40,914	42,750
* Approximate annual rate is derived by multiplying the biweekly rate by 26.08 and rounding to the
nearest dollar.
PAGE 3 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2003
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 30
LONGEVITY RANGE	STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
5 YEARS HOURLY 5	OR	BIWEEKLY LESS	ANNUAL*	11.67 933.60 24,348	12.20 976.00 25,454	12.78 1,022.40 26,664	13.18 1,054.40 27,499	13.56 1,084.80 28,292	13.98 1,118.40 29,168	14.44 1,155.20 30,128	14.90 1,192.00 31,087	15.44 1,235.20 32,214	16.13 1,290.40 33,654	16.72 1,337.60 34,885
OVER	HOURLY 6	5	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.14 971.20 25,329	12.69 1,015.20 26,476	13.29 1,063.20 27,728	13.71 1,096.80 28,605	14.10 1,128.00 29,418	14.54 1,163.20 30,336	15.02 1,201.60 31,338	15.50 1,240.00 32,339	16.06 1,284.80 33,508	16.78 1,342.40 35,010	17.39 1,391.20 36,282
OVER	HOURLY 7	6	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.25 980.00 25,558	12.81 1,024.80 26,727	13.42 1,073.60 27,999	13.84 1,107.20 28,876	14.24 1,139.20 29,710	14.68 1,174.40 30,628	15.16 1,212.80 31,630	15.65 1,252.00 32,652	16.21 1,296.80 33,821	16.94 1,355.20 35,344	17.56 1,404.80 36,637
OVER	HOURLY 8	7	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.37 989.60 25,809	12.93 1,034.40 26,977	13.55 1,084.00 28,271	13.97 1,117.60 29,147	14.37 1,149.60 29,982	14.82 1,185.60 30,920	15.31 1,224.80 31,943	15.79 1,263.20 32,944	16.37 1,309.60 34,154	17.10 1,368.00 35,677	17.72 1,417.60 36,971
OVER	HOURLY 9	8	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.49 999.20 26,059	13.05 1,044.00 27,228	13.67 1,093.60 28,521	14.10 1,128.00 29,418	14.51 1,160.80 30,274	14.96 1,196.80 31,213	15.45 1,236.00 32,235	15.94 1,275.20 33,257	16.52 1,321.60 34,467	17.26 1,380.80 36,011	17.89 1,431.20 37,326
OVER	HOURLY 10	9	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.60 1,008.00 26,289	13.18 1,054.40 27,499	13.80 1,104.00 28,792	14.23 1,138.40 29,689	14.64 1,171.20 30,545	15.10 1,208.00 31,505	15.60 1,248.00 32,548	16.09 1,287.20 33,570	16.68 1,334.40 34,801	17.42 1,393.60 36,345	18.06 1,444.80 37,680
OVER	HOURLY 11	10	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.72 1,017.60 26,539	13.30 1,064.00 27,749	13.93 1,114.40 29,064	14.37 1,149.60 29,982	14.78 1,182.40 30,837	15.24 1,219.20 31,797	15.74 1,259.20 32,840	16.24 1,299.20 33,883	16.83 1,346.40 35,114	17.58 1,406.40 36,679	18.22 1,457.60 38,014
OVER	HOURLY 12	11	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.84 1,027.20 26,789	13.42 1,073.60 27,999	14.06 1,124.80 29,335	14.50 1,160.00 30,253	14.92 1,193.60 31,129	15.38 1,230.40 32,089	15.88 1,270.40 33,132	16.39 1,311.20 34,196	16.98 1,358.40 35,427	17.74 1,419.20 37,013	18.39 1,471.20 38,369
OVER	HOURLY 13	12	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.95 1,036.00 27,019	13.54 1,083.20 28,250	14.19 1,135.20 29,606	14.63 1,170.40 30,524	15.05 1,204.00 31,400	15.52 1,241.60 32,381	16.03 1,282.40 33,445	16.54 1,323.20 34,509	17.14 1,371.20 35,761	17.90 1,432.00 37,347	18.56 1,484.80 38,724
OVER	HOURLY 14	13	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	13.07 1,045.60 27,269	13.66 1,092.80 28,500	14.31 1,144.80 29,856	14.76 1,180.80 30,795	15.19 1,215.20 31,692	15.66 1,252.80 32,673	16.17 1,293.60 33,737	16.69 1,335.20 34,822	17.29 1,383.20 36,074	18.07 1,445.60 37,701	18.73 1,498.40 39,078
OVER	HOURLY 15	14	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	13.19 1,055.20 27,520	13.79 1,103.20 28,771	14.44 1,155.20 30,128	14.89 1,191.20 31,066	15.32 1,225.60 31,964	15.80 1,264.00 32,965	16.32 1,305.60 34,050	16.84 1,347.20 35,135	17.45 1,396.00 36,408	18.23 1,458.40 38,035	18.89 1,511.20 39,412
OVER	HOURLY 16	15	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	13.30 1,064.00 27,749	13.91 1,112.80 29,022	14.57 1,165.60 30,399	15.03 1,202.40 31,359	15.46 1,236.80 32,256	15.94 1,275.20 33,257	16.46 1,316.80 34,342	16.99 1,359.20 35,448	17.60 1,408.00 36,721	18.39 1,471.20 38,369	19.06 1,524.80 39,767
PAGE 4 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2003
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 30
LONGEVITY RANGE			STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
	OVER	HOURLY	13.42	14.03	14.70	15.16	15.59	16.08	16.61	17.14	17.76	18.55	19.23
17	16	BIWEEKLY	1,073.60	1,122.40	1,176.00	1,212.80	1,247.20	1,286.40	1,328.80	1,371.20	1,420.80	1,484.00	1,538.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	27,999	29,272	30,670	31,630	32,527	33,549	34,655	35,761	37,054	38,703	40,121
	OVER	HOURLY	13.54	14.15	14.82	15.29	15.73	16.22	16.75	17.28	17.91	18.71	19.40
18	17	BIWEEKLY	1,083.20	1,132.00	1,185.60	1,223.20	1,258.40	1,297.60	1,340.00	1,382.40	1,432.80	1,496.80	1,552.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	28,250	29,523	30,920	31,901	32,819	33,841	34,947	36,053	37,367	39,037	40,476
	OVER	HOURLY	13.65	14.27	14.95	15.42	15.87	16.36	16.89	17.43	18.06	18.87	19.56
19	18	BIWEEKLY	1,092.00	1,141.60	1,196.00	1,233.60	1,269.60	1,308.80	1,351.20	1,394.40	1,444.80	1,509.60	1,564.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	28,479	29,773	31,192	32,172	33,111	34,134	35,239	36,366	37,680	39,370	40,810
	OVER	HOURLY	13.77	14.40	15.08	15.55	16.00	16.50	17.04	17.58	18.22	19.03	19.73
20	19	BIWEEKLY	1,101.60	1,152.00	1,206.40	1,244.00	1,280.00	1,320.00	1,363.20	1,406.40	1,457.60	1,522.40	1,578.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	28,730	30,044	31,463	32,444	33,382	34,426	35,552	36,679	38,014	39,704	41,165
	OVER	HOURLY	13.89	14.52	15.21	15.68	16.14	16.64	17.18	17.73	18.37	19.19	19.90
21	20	BIWEEKLY	1,111.20	1,161.60	1,216.80	1,254.40	1,291.20	1,331.20	1,374.40	1,418.40	1,469.60	1,535.20	1,592.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	28,980	30,295	31,734	32,715	33,674	34,718	35,844	36,992	38,327	40,038	41,519
	OVER	HOURLY	14.00	14.64	15.34	15.82	16.27	16.78	17.33	17.88	18.53	19.36	20.06
22	21	BIWEEKLY	1,120.00	1,171.20	1,227.20	1,265.60	1,301.60	1,342.40	1,386.40	1,430.40	1,482.40	1,548.80	1,604.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,210	30,545	32,005	33,007	33,946	35,010	36,157	37,305	38,661	40,393	41,853
	OVER	HOURLY	14.12	14.76	15.46	15.95	16.41	16.92	17.47	18.03	18.68	19.52	20.23
23	22	BIWEEKLY	1,129.60	1,180.80	1,236.80	1,276.00	1,312.80	1,353.60	1,397.60	1,442.40	1,494.40	1,561.60	1,618.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,460	30,795	32,256	33,278	34,238	35,302	36,449	37,618	38,974	40,727	42,208
	OVER	HOURLY	14.24	14.88	15.59	16.08	16.54	17.06	17.62	18.18	18.84	19.68	20.40
24	23	BIWEEKLY	1,139.20	1,190.40	1,247.20	1,286.40	1,323.20	1,364.80	1,409.60	1,454.40	1,507.20	1,574.40	1,632.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,710	31,046	32,527	33,549	34,509	35,594	36,762	37,931	39,308	41,060	42,563
	OVER	HOURLY	14.35	15.01	15.72	16.21	16.68	17.20	17.76	18.33	18.99	19.84	20.57
25	24	BIWEEKLY	1,148.00	1,200.80	1,257.60	1,296.80	1,334.40	1,376.00	1,420.80	1,466.40	1,519.20	1,587.20	1,645.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,940	31,317	32,798	33,821	34,801	35,886	37,054	38,244	39,621	41,394	42,917
	OVER	HOURLY	14.47	15.13	15.85	16.34	16.81	17.34	17.91	18.48	19.15	20.00	20.73
26	25	BIWEEKLY	1,157.60	1,210.40	1,268.00	1,307.20	1,344.80	1,387.20	1,432.80	1,478.40	1,532.00	1,600.00	1,658.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	30,190	31,567	33,069	34,092	35,072	36,178	37,367	38,557	39,955	41,728	43,251
	OVER	HOURLY	14.59	15.25	15.98	16.48	16.95	17.48	18.05	18.63	19.30	20.16	20.90
27	26	BIWEEKLY	1,167.20	1,220.00	1,278.40	1,318.40	1,356.00	1,398.40	1,444.00	1,490.40	1,544.00	1,612.80	1,672.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	30,441	31,818	33,341	34,384	35,364	36,470	37,660	38,870	40,268	42,062	43,606
	OVER	HOURLY	14.70	15.37	16.10	16.61	17.09	17.61	18.19	18.77	19.45	20.32	21.07
28	27	BIWEEKLY	1,176.00	1,229.60	1,288.00	1,328.80	1,367.20	1,408.80	1,455.20	1,501.60	1,556.00	1,625.60	1,685.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	30,670	32,068	33,591	34,655	35,657	36,742	37,952	39,162	40,580	42,396	43,960
	OVER	HOURLY	14.82	15.49	16.23	16.74	17.22	17.75	18.34	18.92	19.61	20.49	21.23
29	28	BIWEEKLY	1,185.60	1,239.20	1,298.40	1,339.20	1,377.60	1,420.00	1,467.20	1,513.60	1,568.80	1,639.20	1,698.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	30,920	32,318	33,862	34,926	35,928	37,034	38,265	39,475	40,914	42,750	44,294
* Approximate annual rate is derived by multiplying the biweekly rate by 26.08 and rounding to the
nearest dollar.
PAGE 5 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2003
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 32
LONGEVITY RANGE	STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
5 YEARS HOURLY 5	OR	BIWEEKLY LESS	ANNUAL*	12.39 991.20 25,850	12.95 1,036.00 27,019	13.56 1,084.80 28,292	13.98 1,118.40 29,168	14.44 1,155.20 30,128	14.90 1,192.00 31,087	15.44 1,235.20 32,214	16.13 1,290.40 33,654	16.72 1,337.60 34,885	17.41 1,392.80 36,324	18.14 1,451.20 37,847
OVER	HOURLY 6	5	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	12.89 1,031.20 26,894	13.47 1,077.60 28,104	14.10 1,128.00 29,418	14.54 1,163.20 30,336	15.02 1,201.60 31,338	15.50 1,240.00 32,339	16.06 1,284.80 33,508	16.78 1,342.40 35,010	17.39 1,391.20 36,282	18.11 1,448.80 37,785	18.87 1,509.60 39,370
OVER	HOURLY 7	6	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	13.01 1,040.80 27,144	13.60 1,088.00 28,375	14.24 1,139.20 29,710	14.68 1,174.40 30,628	15.16 1,212.80 31,630	15.65 1,252.00 32,652	16.21 1,296.80 33,821	16.94 1,355.20 35,344	17.56 1,404.80 36,637	18.28 1,462.40 38,139	19.05 1,524.00 39,746
OVER	HOURLY 8	7	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	13.13 1,050.40 27,394	13.73 1,098.40 28,646	14.37 1,149.60 29,982	14.82 1,185.60 30,920	15.31 1,224.80 31,943	15.79 1,263.20 32,944	16.37 1,309.60 34,154	17.10 1,368.00 35,677	17.72 1,417.60 36,971	18.45 1,476.00 38,494	19.23 1,538.40 40,121
OVER	HOURLY 9	8	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	13.26 1,060.80 27,666	13.86 1,108.80 28,918	14.51 1,160.80 30,274	14.96 1,196.80 31,213	15.45 1,236.00 32,235	15.94 1,275.20 33,257	16.52 1,321.60 34,467	17.26 1,380.80 36,011	17.89 1,431.20 37,326	18.63 1,490.40 38,870	19.41 1,552.80 40,497
OVER	HOURLY 10	9	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	13.38 1,070.40 27,916	13.99 1,119.20 29,189	14.64 1,171.20 30,545	15.10 1,208.00 31,505	15.60 1,248.00 32,548	16.09 1,287.20 33,570	16.68 1,334.40 34,801	17.42 1,393.60 36,345	18.06 1,444.80 37,680	18.80 1,504.00 39,224	19.59 1,567.20 40,873
OVER	HOURLY 11	10	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	13.51 1,080.80 28,187	14.12 1,129.60 29,460	14.78 1,182.40 30,837	15.24 1,219.20 31,797	15.74 1,259.20 32,840	16.24 1,299.20 33,883	16.83 1,346.40 35,114	17.58 1,406.40 36,679	18.22 1,457.60 38,014	18.98 1,518.40 39,600	19.77 1,581.60 41,248
OVER	HOURLY 12	11	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	13.63 1,090.40 28,438	14.25 1,140.00 29,731	14.92 1,193.60 31,129	15.38 1,230.40 32,089	15.88 1,270.40 33,132	16.39 1,311.20 34,196	16.98 1,358.40 35,427	17.74 1,419.20 37,013	18.39 1,471.20 38,369	19.15 1,532.00 39,955	19.95 1,596.00 41,624
OVER	HOURLY 13	12	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	13.75 1,100.00 28,688	14.37 1,149.60 29,982	15.05 1,204.00 31,400	15.52 1,241.60 32,381	16.03 1,282.40 33,445	16.54 1,323.20 34,509	17.14 1,371.20 35,761	17.90 1,432.00 37,347	18.56 1,484.80 38,724	19.33 1,546.40 40,330	20.14 1,611.20 42,020
OVER	HOURLY 14	13	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	13.88 1,110.40 28,959	14.50 1,160.00 30,253	15.19 1,215.20 31,692	15.66 1,252.80 32,673	16.17 1,293.60 33,737	16.69 1,335.20 34,822	17.29 1,383.20 36,074	18.07 1,445.60 37,701	18.73 1,498.40 39,078	19.50 1,560.00 40,685	20.32 1,625.60 42,396
OVER	HOURLY 15	14	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	14.00 1,120.00 29,210	14.63 1,170.40 30,524	15.32 1,225.60 31,964	15.80 1,264.00 32,965	16.32 1,305.60 34,050	16.84 1,347.20 35,135	17.45 1,396.00 36,408	18.23 1,458.40 38,035	18.89 1,511.20 39,412	19.67 1,573.60 41,039	20.50 1,640.00 42,771
OVER	HOURLY 16	15	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	14.12 1,129.60 29,460	14.76 1,180.80 30,795	15.46 1,236.80 32,256	15.94 1,275.20 33,257	16.46 1,316.80 34,342	16.99 1,359.20 35,448	17.60 1,408.00 36,721	18.39 1,471.20 38,369	19.06 1,524.80 39,767	19.85 1,588.00 41,415	20.68 1,654.40 43,147
PAGE 6 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2003
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 32
LONGEVITY RANGE			STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
	OVER	HOURLY	14.25	14.89	15.59	16.08	16.61	17.14	17.76	18.55	19.23	20.02	20.86
17	16	BIWEEKLY	1,140.00	1,191.20	1,247.20	1,286.40	1,328.80	1,371.20	1,420.80	1,484.00	1,538.40	1,601.60	1,668.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,731	31,066	32,527	33,549	34,655	35,761	37,054	38,703	40,121	41,770	43,522
	OVER	HOURLY	14.37	15.02	15.73	16.22	16.75	17.28	17.91	18.71	19.40	20.20	21.04
18	17	BIWEEKLY	1,149.60	1,201.60	1,258.40	1,297.60	1,340.00	1,382.40	1,432.80	1,496.80	1,552.00	1,616.00	1,683.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	29,982	31,338	32,819	33,841	34,947	36,053	37,367	39,037	40,476	42,145	43,898
	OVER	HOURLY	14.50	15.15	15.87	16.36	16.89	17.43	18.06	18.87	19.56	20.37	21.22
19	18	BIWEEKLY	1,160.00	1,212.00	1,269.60	1,308.80	1,351.20	1,394.40	1,444.80	1,509.60	1,564.80	1,629.60	1,697.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	30,253	31,609	33,111	34,134	35,239	36,366	37,680	39,370	40,810	42,500	44,273
	OVER	HOURLY	14.62	15.28	16.00	16.50	17.04	17.58	18.22	19.03	19.73	20.54	21.41
20	19	BIWEEKLY	1,169.60	1,222.40	1,280.00	1,320.00	1,363.20	1,406.40	1,457.60	1,522.40	1,578.40	1,643.20	1,712.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	30,503	31,880	33,382	34,426	35,552	36,679	38,014	39,704	41,165	42,855	44,670
	OVER	HOURLY	14.74	15.41	16.14	16.64	17.18	17.73	18.37	19.19	19.90	20.72	21.59
21	20	BIWEEKLY	1,179.20	1,232.80	1,291.20	1,331.20	1,374.40	1,418.40	1,469.60	1,535.20	1,592.00	1,657.60	1,727.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	30,754	32,151	33,674	34,718	35,844	36,992	38,327	40,038	41,519	43,230	45,045
	OVER	HOURLY	14.87	15.54	16.27	16.78	17.33	17.88	18.53	19.36	20.06	20.89	21.77
22	21	BIWEEKLY	1,189.60	1,243.20	1,301.60	1,342.40	1,386.40	1,430.40	1,482.40	1,548.80	1,604.80	1,671.20	1,741.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	31,025	32,423	33,946	35,010	36,157	37,305	38,661	40,393	41,853	43,585	45,421
	OVER	HOURLY	14.99	15.67	16.41	16.92	17.47	18.03	18.68	19.52	20.23	21.07	21.95
23	22	BIWEEKLY	1,199.20	1,253.60	1,312.80	1,353.60	1,397.60	1,442.40	1,494.40	1,561.60	1,618.40	1,685.60	1,756.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	31,275	32,694	34,238	35,302	36,449	37,618	38,974	40,727	42,208	43,960	45,796
	OVER	HOURLY	15.12	15.80	16.54	17.06	17.62	18.18	18.84	19.68	20.40	21.24	22.13
24	23	BIWEEKLY	1,209.60	1,264.00	1,323.20	1,364.80	1,409.60	1,454.40	1,507.20	1,574.40	1,632.00	1,699.20	1,770.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	31,546	32,965	34,509	35,594	36,762	37,931	39,308	41,060	42,563	44,315	46,172
	OVER	HOURLY	15.24	15.93	16.68	17.20	17.76	18.33	18.99	19.84	20.57	21.41	22.31
25	24	BIWEEKLY	1,219.20	1,274.40	1,334.40	1,376.00	1,420.80	1,466.40	1,519.20	1,587.20	1,645.60	1,712.80	1,784.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	31,797	33,236	34,801	35,886	37,054	38,244	39,621	41,394	42,917	44,670	46,548
	OVER	HOURLY	15.36	16.06	16.81	17.34	17.91	18.48	19.15	20.00	20.73	21.59	22.49
26	25	BIWEEKLY	1,228.80	1,284.80	1,344.80	1,387.20	1,432.80	1,478.40	1,532.00	1,600.00	1,658.40	1,727.20	1,799.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	32,047	33,508	35,072	36,178	37,367	38,557	39,955	41,728	43,251	45,045	46,923
	OVER	HOURLY	15.49	16.19	16.95	17.48	18.05	18.63	19.30	20.16	20.90	21.76	22.68
27	26	BIWEEKLY	1,239.20	1,295.20	1,356.00	1,398.40	1,444.00	1,490.40	1,544.00	1,612.80	1,672.00	1,740.80	1,814.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	32,318	33,779	35,364	36,470	37,660	38,870	40,268	42,062	43,606	45,400	47,320
	OVER	HOURLY	15.61	16.32	17.09	17.61	18.19	18.77	19.45	20.32	21.07	21.94	22.86
28	27	BIWEEKLY	1,248.80	1,305.60	1,367.20	1,408.80	1,455.20	1,501.60	1,556.00	1,625.60	1,685.60	1,755.20	1,828.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	32,569	34,050	35,657	36,742	37,952	39,162	40,580	42,396	43,960	45,776	47,695
	OVER	HOURLY	15.74	16.45	17.22	17.75	18.34	18.92	19.61	20.49	21.23	22.11	23.04
29	28	BIWEEKLY	1,259.20	1,316.00	1,377.60	1,420.00	1,467.20	1,513.60	1,568.80	1,639.20	1,698.40	1,768.80	1,843.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	32,840	34,321	35,928	37,034	38,265	39,475	40,914	42,750	44,294	46,130	48,071
* Approximate annual rate is derived by multiplying the biweekly rate by 26.08 and rounding to the
nearest dollar.
PAGE 7 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2003
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 34
LONGEVITY RANGE	STEP S	STEP A	STEP B
5 YEARS HOURLY 5	OR	BIWEEKLY LESS	ANNUAL*	12.95 1,036.00 27,019	13.33 1,066.40 27,812	13.62 1,089.60 28,417
* Approximate annual rate is derived by multiplying the biweekly rate by 26.08 and rounding to the nearest dollar.
PAGE 8 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2003
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 35
LONGEVITY RANGE	STEP B	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
5 YEARS HOURLY 5	OR	BIWEEKLY LESS	ANNUAL*	13.62 1,089.60 28,417	14.25 1,140.00 29,731	14.90 1,192.00 31,087	15.44 1,235.20 32,214	16.13 1,290.40 33,654	16.72 1,337.60 34,885	17.41 1,392.80 36,324	18.14 1,451.20 37,847	18.78 1,502.40 39,183	19.65 1,572.00 40,998	20.53 1,642.40 42,834
OVER	HOURLY 6	5	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	14.16 1,132.80 29,543	14.82 1,185.60 30,920	15.50 1,240.00 32,339	16.06 1,284.80 33,508	16.78 1,342.40 35,010	17.39 1,391.20 36,282	18.11 1,448.80 37,785	18.87 1,509.60 39,370	19.53 1,562.40 40,747	20.44 1,635.20 42,646	21.35 1,708.00 44,545
OVER	HOURLY 7	6	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	14.30 1,144.00 29,836	14.96 1,196.80 31,213	15.65 1,252.00 32,652	16.21 1,296.80 33,821	16.94 1,355.20 35,344	17.56 1,404.80 36,637	18.28 1,462.40 38,139	19.05 1,524.00 39,746	19.72 1,577.60 41,144	20.63 1,650.40 43,042	21.56 1,724.80 44,983
OVER	HOURLY 8	7	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	14.44 1,155.20 30,128	15.11 1,208.80 31,526	15.79 1,263.20 32,944	16.37 1,309.60 34,154	17.10 1,368.00 35,677	17.72 1,417.60 36,971	18.45 1,476.00 38,494	19.23 1,538.40 40,121	19.91 1,592.80 41,540	20.83 1,666.40 43,460	21.76 1,740.80 45,400
OVER	HOURLY 9	8	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	14.57 1,165.60 30,399	15.25 1,220.00 31,818	15.94 1,275.20 33,257	16.52 1,321.60 34,467	17.26 1,380.80 36,011	17.89 1,431.20 37,326	18.63 1,490.40 38,870	19.41 1,552.80 40,497	20.09 1,607.20 41,916	21.03 1,682.40 43,877	21.97 1,757.60 45,838
OVER	HOURLY 10	9	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	14.71 1,176.80 30,691	15.39 1,231.20 32,110	16.09 1,287.20 33,570	16.68 1,334.40 34,801	17.42 1,393.60 36,345	18.06 1,444.80 37,680	18.80 1,504.00 39,224	19.59 1,567.20 40,873	20.28 1,622.40 42,312	21.22 1,697.60 44,273	22.17 1,773.60 46,255
OVER	HOURLY 11	10	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	14.85 1,188.00 30,983	15.53 1,242.40 32,402	16.24 1,299.20 33,883	16.83 1,346.40 35,114	17.58 1,406.40 36,679	18.22 1,457.60 38,014	18.98 1,518.40 39,600	19.77 1,581.60 41,248	20.47 1,637.60 42,709	21.42 1,713.60 44,691	22.38 1,790.40 46,694
OVER	HOURLY 12	11	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	14.98 1,198.40 31,254	15.68 1,254.40 32,715	16.39 1,311.20 34,196	16.98 1,358.40 35,427	17.74 1,419.20 37,013	18.39 1,471.20 38,369	19.15 1,532.00 39,955	19.95 1,596.00 41,624	20.66 1,652.80 43,105	21.62 1,729.60 45,108	22.58 1,806.40 47,111
OVER	HOURLY 13	12	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	15.12 1,209.60 31,546	15.82 1,265.60 33,007	16.54 1,323.20 34,509	17.14 1,371.20 35,761	17.90 1,432.00 37,347	18.56 1,484.80 38,724	19.33 1,546.40 40,330	20.14 1,611.20 42,020	20.85 1,668.00 43,501	21.81 1,744.80 45,504	22.79 1,823.20 47,549
OVER	HOURLY 14	13	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	15.25 1,220.00 31,818	15.96 1,276.80 33,299	16.69 1,335.20 34,822	17.29 1,383.20 36,074	18.07 1,445.60 37,701	18.73 1,498.40 39,078	19.50 1,560.00 40,685	20.32 1,625.60 42,396	21.03 1,682.40 43,877	22.01 1,760.80 45,922	22.99 1,839.20 47,966
OVER	HOURLY 15	14	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	15.39 1,231.20 32,110	16.10 1,288.00 33,591	16.84 1,347.20 35,135	17.45 1,396.00 36,408	18.23 1,458.40 38,035	18.89 1,511.20 39,412	19.67 1,573.60 41,039	20.50 1,640.00 42,771	21.22 1,697.60 44,273	22.20 1,776.00 46,318	23.20 1,856.00 48,404
OVER	HOURLY 16	15	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	15.53 1,242.40 32,402	16.25 1,300.00 33,904	16.99 1,359.20 35,448	17.60 1,408.00 36,721	18.39 1,471.20 38,369	19.06 1,524.80 39,767	19.85 1,588.00 41,415	20.68 1,654.40 43,147	21.41 1,712.80 44,670	22.40 1,792.00 46,735	23.40 1,872.00 48,822
PAGE 9 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2003
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 35
LONGEVITY RANGE			STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
	OVER	HOURLY	15.66	16.39	17.14	17.76	18.55	19.23	20.02	20.86	21.60	22.60	23.61
17	16	BIWEEKLY	1,252.80	1,311.20	1,371.20	1,420.80	1,484.00	1,538.40	1,601.60	1,668.80	1,728.00	1,808.00	1,888.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	32,673	34,196	35,761	37,054	38,703	40,121	41,770	43,522	45,066	47,153	49,260
	OVER	HOURLY	15.80	16.53	17.28	17.91	18.71	19.40	20.20	21.04	21.78	22.79	23.81
18	17	BIWEEKLY	1,264.00	1,322.40	1,382.40	1,432.80	1,496.80	1,552.00	1,616.00	1,683.20	1,742.40	1,823.20	1,904.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	32,965	34,488	36,053	37,367	39,037	40,476	42,145	43,898	45,442	47,549	49,677
	OVER	HOURLY	15.94	16.67	17.43	18.06	18.87	19.56	20.37	21.22	21.97	22.99	24.02
19	18	BIWEEKLY	1,275.20	1,333.60	1,394.40	1,444.80	1,509.60	1,564.80	1,629.60	1,697.60	1,757.60	1,839.20	1,921.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	33,257	34,780	36,366	37,680	39,370	40,810	42,500	44,273	45,838	47,966	50,115
	OVER	HOURLY	16.07	16.82	17.58	18.22	19.03	19.73	20.54	21.41	22.16	23.19	24.23
20	19	BIWEEKLY	1,285.60	1,345.60	1,406.40	1,457.60	1,522.40	1,578.40	1,643.20	1,712.80	1,772.80	1,855.20	1,938.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	33,528	35,093	36,679	38,014	39,704	41,165	42,855	44,670	46,235	48,384	50,553
	OVER	HOURLY	16.21	16.96	17.73	18.37	19.19	19.90	20.72	21.59	22.35	23.38	24.43
21	20	BIWEEKLY	1,296.80	1,356.80	1,418.40	1,469.60	1,535.20	1,592.00	1,657.60	1,727.20	1,788.00	1,870.40	1,954.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	33,821	35,385	36,992	38,327	40,038	41,519	43,230	45,045	46,631	48,780	50,971
	OVER	HOURLY	16.34	17.10	17.88	18.53	19.36	20.06	20.89	21.77	22.54	23.58	24.64
22	21	BIWEEKLY	1,307.20	1,368.00	1,430.40	1,482.40	1,548.80	1,604.80	1,671.20	1,741.60	1,803.20	1,886.40	1,971.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	34,092	35,677	37,305	38,661	40,393	41,853	43,585	45,421	47,027	49,197	51,409
	OVER	HOURLY	16.48	17.24	18.03	18.68	19.52	20.23	21.07	21.95	22.72	23.78	24.84
23	22	BIWEEKLY	1,318.40	1,379.20	1,442.40	1,494.40	1,561.60	1,618.40	1,685.60	1,756.00	1,817.60	1,902.40	1,987.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	34,384	35,970	37,618	38,974	40,727	42,208	43,960	45,796	47,403	49,615	51,826
	OVER	HOURLY	16.62	17.39	18.18	18.84	19.68	20.40	21.24	22.13	22.91	23.97	25.05
24	23	BIWEEKLY	1,329.60	1,391.20	1,454.40	1,507.20	1,574.40	1,632.00	1,699.20	1,770.40	1,832.80	1,917.60	2,004.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	34,676	36,282	37,931	39,308	41,060	42,563	44,315	46,172	47,799	50,011	52,264
	OVER	HOURLY	16.75	17.53	18.33	18.99	19.84	20.57	21.41	22.31	23.10	24.17	25.25
25	24	BIWEEKLY	1,340.00	1,402.40	1,466.40	1,519.20	1,587.20	1,645.60	1,712.80	1,784.80	1,848.00	1,933.60	2,020.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	34,947	36,575	38,244	39,621	41,394	42,917	44,670	46,548	48,196	50,428	52,682
	OVER	HOURLY	16.89	17.67	18.48	19.15	20.00	20.73	21.59	22.49	23.29	24.37	25.46
26	25	BIWEEKLY	1,351.20	1,413.60	1,478.40	1,532.00	1,600.00	1,658.40	1,727.20	1,799.20	1,863.20	1,949.60	2,036.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	35,239	36,867	38,557	39,955	41,728	43,251	45,045	46,923	48,592	50,846	53,120
	OVER	HOURLY	17.03	17.81	18.63	19.30	20.16	20.90	21.76	22.68	23.48	24.56	25.66
27	26	BIWEEKLY	1,362.40	1,424.80	1,490.40	1,544.00	1,612.80	1,672.00	1,740.80	1,814.40	1,878.40	1,964.80	2,052.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	35,531	37,159	38,870	40,268	42,062	43,606	45,400	47,320	48,989	51,242	53,537
	OVER	HOURLY	17.16	17.96	18.77	19.45	20.32	21.07	21.94	22.86	23.66	24.76	25.87
28	27	BIWEEKLY	1,372.80	1,436.80	1,501.60	1,556.00	1,625.60	1,685.60	1,755.20	1,828.80	1,892.80	1,980.80	2,069.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	35,803	37,472	39,162	40,580	42,396	43,960	45,776	47,695	49,364	51,659	53,975
	OVER	HOURLY	17.30	18.10	18.92	19.61	20.49	21.23	22.11	23.04	23.85	24.96	26.07
29	28	BIWEEKLY	1,384.00	1,448.00	1,513.60	1,568.80	1,639.20	1,698.40	1,768.80	1,843.20	1,908.00	1,996.80	2,085.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	36,095	37,764	39,475	40,914	42,750	44,294	46,130	48,071	49,761	52,077	54,392
* Approximate annual rate is derived by multiplying the biweekly rate by 26.08 and rounding to the
nearest dollar.
PAGE 10 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2003
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 37
LONGEVITY RANGE	STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
5 YEARS HOURLY 5	OR	BIWEEKLY LESS	ANNUAL*	14.74 1,179.20 30,754	15.43 1,234.40 32,193	16.13 1,290.40 33,654	16.72 1,337.60 34,885	17.41 1,392.80 36,324	18.14 1,451.20 37,847	18.78 1,502.40 39,183	19.65 1,572.00 40,998	20.53 1,642.40 42,834	21.39 1,711.20 44,628	22.29 1,783.20 46,506
OVER	HOURLY 6	5	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	15.33 1,226.40 31,985	16.05 1,284.00 33,487	16.78 1,342.40 35,010	17.39 1,391.20 36,282	18.11 1,448.80 37,785	18.87 1,509.60 39,370	19.53 1,562.40 40,747	20.44 1,635.20 42,646	21.35 1,708.00 44,545	22.25 1,780.00 46,422	23.18 1,854.40 48,363
OVER	HOURLY 7	6	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	15.48 1,238.40 32,297	16.20 1,296.00 33,800	16.94 1,355.20 35,344	17.56 1,404.80 36,637	18.28 1,462.40 38,139	19.05 1,524.00 39,746	19.72 1,577.60 41,144	20.63 1,650.40 43,042	21.56 1,724.80 44,983	22.46 1,796.80 46,861	23.40 1,872.00 48,822
OVER	HOURLY 8	7	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	15.62 1,249.60 32,590	16.36 1,308.80 34,134	17.10 1,368.00 35,677	17.72 1,417.60 36,971	18.45 1,476.00 38,494	19.23 1,538.40 40,121	19.91 1,592.80 41,540	20.83 1,666.40 43,460	21.76 1,740.80 45,400	22.67 1,813.60 47,299	23.63 1,890.40 49,302
OVER	HOURLY 9	8	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	15.77 1,261.60 32,903	16.51 1,320.80 34,446	17.26 1,380.80 36,011	17.89 1,431.20 37,326	18.63 1,490.40 38,870	19.41 1,552.80 40,497	20.09 1,607.20 41,916	21.03 1,682.40 43,877	21.97 1,757.60 45,838	22.89 1,831.20 47,758	23.85 1,908.00 49,761
OVER	HOURLY 10	9	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	15.92 1,273.60 33,215	16.66 1,332.80 34,759	17.42 1,393.60 36,345	18.06 1,444.80 37,680	18.80 1,504.00 39,224	19.59 1,567.20 40,873	20.28 1,622.40 42,312	21.22 1,697.60 44,273	22.17 1,773.60 46,255	23.10 1,848.00 48,196	24.07 1,925.60 50,220
OVER	HOURLY 11	10	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	16.07 1,285.60 33,528	16.82 1,345.60 35,093	17.58 1,406.40 36,679	18.22 1,457.60 38,014	18.98 1,518.40 39,600	19.77 1,581.60 41,248	20.47 1,637.60 42,709	21.42 1,713.60 44,691	22.38 1,790.40 46,694	23.32 1,865.60 48,655	24.30 1,944.00 50,700
OVER	HOURLY 12	11	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	16.21 1,296.80 33,821	16.97 1,357.60 35,406	17.74 1,419.20 37,013	18.39 1,471.20 38,369	19.15 1,532.00 39,955	19.95 1,596.00 41,624	20.66 1,652.80 43,105	21.62 1,729.60 45,108	22.58 1,806.40 47,111	23.53 1,882.40 49,093	24.52 1,961.60 51,159
OVER	HOURLY 13	12	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	16.36 1,308.80 34,134	17.13 1,370.40 35,740	17.90 1,432.00 37,347	18.56 1,484.80 38,724	19.33 1,546.40 40,330	20.14 1,611.20 42,020	20.85 1,668.00 43,501	21.81 1,744.80 45,504	22.79 1,823.20 47,549	23.74 1,899.20 49,531	24.74 1,979.20 51,618
OVER	HOURLY 14	13	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	16.51 1,320.80 34,446	17.28 1,382.40 36,053	18.07 1,445.60 37,701	18.73 1,498.40 39,078	19.50 1,560.00 40,685	20.32 1,625.60 42,396	21.03 1,682.40 43,877	22.01 1,760.80 45,922	22.99 1,839.20 47,966	23.96 1,916.80 49,990	24.96 1,996.80 52,077
OVER	HOURLY 15	14	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	16.66 1,332.80 34,759	17.44 1,395.20 36,387	18.23 1,458.40 38,035	18.89 1,511.20 39,412	19.67 1,573.60 41,039	20.50 1,640.00 42,771	21.22 1,697.60 44,273	22.20 1,776.00 46,318	23.20 1,856.00 48,404	24.17 1,933.60 50,428	25.19 2,015.20 52,556
OVER	HOURLY 16	15	BIWEEKLY YEARS	ANNUAL*	16.80 1,344.00 35,052	17.59 1,407.20 36,700	18.39 1,471.20 38,369	19.06 1,524.80 39,767	19.85 1,588.00 41,415	20.68 1,654.40 43,147	21.41 1,712.80 44,670	22.40 1,792.00 46,735	23.40 1,872.00 48,822	24.38 1,950.40 50,866	25.41 2,032.80 53,015
PAGE 11 OF 11
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS/FORENSIC SECURITY EMPLOYES PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2003
SCHEDULE H
PAY RANGE 37
LONGEVITY RANGE			STEP A	STEP B	STEP C	STEP D	STEP E	STEP F	STEP G	STEP H	STEP I	STEP J	STEP K
	OVER	HOURLY	16.95	17.74	18.55	19.23	20.02	20.86	21.60	22.60	23.61	24.60	25.63
17	16	BIWEEKLY	1,356.00	1,419.20	1,484.00	1,538.40	1,601.60	1,668.80	1,728.00	1,808.00	1,888.80	1,968.00	2,050.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	35,364	37,013	38,703	40,121	41,770	43,522	45,066	47,153	49,260	51,325	53,474
	OVER	HOURLY	17.10	17.90	18.71	19.40	20.20	21.04	21.78	22.79	23.81	24.81	25.86
18	17	BIWEEKLY	1,368.00	1,432.00	1,496.80	1,552.00	1,616.00	1,683.20	1,742.40	1,823.20	1,904.80	1,984.80	2,068.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	35,677	37,347	39,037	40,476	42,145	43,898	45,442	47,549	49,677	51,764	53,954
	OVER	HOURLY	17.25	18.05	18.87	19.56	20.37	21.22	21.97	22.99	24.02	25.03	26.08
19	18	BIWEEKLY	1,380.00	1,444.00	1,509.60	1,564.80	1,629.60	1,697.60	1,757.60	1,839.20	1,921.60	2,002.40	2,086.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	35,990	37,660	39,370	40,810	42,500	44,273	45,838	47,966	50,115	52,223	54,413
	OVER	HOURLY	17.39	18.21	19.03	19.73	20.54	21.41	22.16	23.19	24.23	25.24	26.30
20	19	BIWEEKLY	1,391.20	1,456.80	1,522.40	1,578.40	1,643.20	1,712.80	1,772.80	1,855.20	1,938.40	2,019.20	2,104.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	36,282	37,993	39,704	41,165	42,855	44,670	46,235	48,384	50,553	52,661	54,872
	OVER	HOURLY	17.54	18.36	19.19	19.90	20.72	21.59	22.35	23.38	24.43	25.45	26.53
21	20	BIWEEKLY	1,403.20	1,468.80	1,535.20	1,592.00	1,657.60	1,727.20	1,788.00	1,870.40	1,954.40	2,036.00	2,122.40
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	36,595	38,306	40,038	41,519	43,230	45,045	46,631	48,780	50,971	53,099	55,352
	OVER	HOURLY	17.69	18.52	19.36	20.06	20.89	21.77	22.54	23.58	24.64	25.67	26.75
22	21	BIWEEKLY	1,415.20	1,481.60	1,548.80	1,604.80	1,671.20	1,741.60	1,803.20	1,886.40	1,971.20	2,053.60	2,140.00
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	36,908	38,640	40,393	41,853	43,585	45,421	47,027	49,197	51,409	53,558	55,811
	OVER	HOURLY	17.84	18.67	19.52	20.23	21.07	21.95	22.72	23.78	24.84	25.88	26.97
23	22	BIWEEKLY	1,427.20	1,493.60	1,561.60	1,618.40	1,685.60	1,756.00	1,817.60	1,902.40	1,987.20	2,070.40	2,157.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	37,221	38,953	40,727	42,208	43,960	45,796	47,403	49,615	51,826	53,996	56,270
	OVER	HOURLY	17.98	18.82	19.68	20.40	21.24	22.13	22.91	23.97	25.05	26.10	27.19
24	23	BIWEEKLY	1,438.40	1,505.60	1,574.40	1,632.00	1,699.20	1,770.40	1,832.80	1,917.60	2,004.00	2,088.00	2,175.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	37,513	39,266	41,060	42,563	44,315	46,172	47,799	50,011	52,264	54,455	56,729
	OVER	HOURLY	18.13	18.98	19.84	20.57	21.41	22.31	23.10	24.17	25.25	26.31	27.42
25	24	BIWEEKLY	1,450.40	1,518.40	1,587.20	1,645.60	1,712.80	1,784.80	1,848.00	1,933.60	2,020.00	2,104.80	2,193.60
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	37,826	39,600	41,394	42,917	44,670	46,548	48,196	50,428	52,682	54,893	57,209
	OVER	HOURLY	18.28	19.13	20.00	20.73	21.59	22.49	23.29	24.37	25.46	26.52	27.64
26	25	BIWEEKLY	1,462.40	1,530.40	1,600.00	1,658.40	1,727.20	1,799.20	1,863.20	1,949.60	2,036.80	2,121.60	2,211.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	38,139	39,913	41,728	43,251	45,045	46,923	48,592	50,846	53,120	55,331	57,668
	OVER	HOURLY	18.43	19.29	20.16	20.90	21.76	22.68	23.48	24.56	25.66	26.74	27.86
27	26	BIWEEKLY	1,474.40	1,543.20	1,612.80	1,672.00	1,740.80	1,814.40	1,878.40	1,964.80	2,052.80	2,139.20	2,228.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	38,452	40,247	42,062	43,606	45,400	47,320	48,989	51,242	53,537	55,790	58,127
	OVER	HOURLY	18.57	19.44	20.32	21.07	21.94	22.86	23.66	24.76	25.87	26.95	28.09
28	27	BIWEEKLY	1,485.60	1,555.20	1,625.60	1,685.60	1,755.20	1,828.80	1,892.80	1,980.80	2,069.60	2,156.00	2,247.20
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	38,744	40,560	42,396	43,960	45,776	47,695	49,364	51,659	53,975	56,228	58,607
	OVER	HOURLY	18.72	19.60	20.49	21.23	22.11	23.04	23.85	24.96	26.07	27.17	28.31
29	28	BIWEEKLY	1,497.60	1,568.00	1,639.20	1,698.40	1,768.80	1,843.20	1,908.00	1,996.80	2,085.60	2,173.60	2,264.80
	YEARS	ANNUAL*	39,057	40,893	42,750	44,294	46,130	48,071	49,761	52,077	54,392	56,687	59,066
* Approximate annual rate is derived by multiplying the biweekly rate by 26.08 and rounding to the
nearest dollar.
APPENDIX E
Seniority Units by Agency
Department of Corrections
Promotions
1.	Each Institution/Boot Camp
2.	Community Services Centers - Each County
3.	Headquarters including the Training Academy
Furloughs
1.	Each Institution/Boot Camp
2.	Community Services Centers - Each Region (3)
3.	Headquarters including the Training Academy
Department of Public Welfare
Promotions and Furloughs
1.	Each Regional Forensic Unit
APPENDIX F
H-1 ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROCESS
RULES OF PROCEDURE
RULE 1
JOINT COMMITTEES
Section 1	Function - Joint Committee
It shall be the sole purpose of the Joint Committees to hear unresolved grievances from Step 1, except for grievances arising out of Article 33, Section 22 or a denial of a request for combined leave. The Joint Committee shall have the authority to render final and binding decisions on all grievances properly brought before it.
Section 2	Composition
Any Joint Committee shall be made up of an equal number of representatives designated by the Association and by the Commonwealth from persons not directly involved in the case. Each party shall designate a Co-Chairperson to the Committee for purpose of orderly execution of procedures.
Section 3	Jurisdiction
The parties agree to implement two Sectional Joint Committees comprising the following locations:
EASTERN JOINT COMMITTEE
Facility
Chester
Camp Hill
Frackville
Dallas
Graterford
Muncy
Retreat
Norristown
Waymart
Mahanoy
Coal Township
Elizabethtown Training Academy
Headquarters
Smithfield
Huntingdon
Community Corrections Centers located at:
Philadelphia Harrisburg Allentown Scranton York
WESTERN JOINT COMMITTEE
Facility
Laurel Highlands
Rockview
Pittsburgh
Waynesburg
Greensburg
Cresson
Mercer
Mayview
Warren
Greene
Quehanna
Somerset
Albion
Cambridge Springs
Houtzdale
Pine Grove
Community Corrections Centers located at:
Johnstown
Pittsburgh
Erie
Sharon
RULE 2
JOINT COMMITTEE MEETING
Section 1	Time and Place
The Eastern Joint Committee shall meet every month in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.
The Western Joint Committee shall meet every month in Altoona, Pennsylvania, or in such other alternative locations as the parties may agree.
The time and place of any meeting may be changed by mutual agreement of the Co-Chairpersons of the Joint Committee.
Section 2	Agenda
A copy of the docket of cases to be heard at each Joint Committee meeting will be mailed by the designated docketing representative at least ten (10) days in advance of the date of each meeting.
Once the docket has been prepared by the docketing representative and mailed out to all interested parties, no additional cases can be added to the docket for that meeting, with the exception of discharge or continuing liability cases. If the Co-Chairperson of the Association and the Co-Chairperson of the Commonwealth mutually agree that a case involving a discharge or continuing liability may be heard by the Joint Committee on short notice, then such case will be placed on a supplemental docket at the time of the Joint Committee meeting.
RULE 3
PROCEDURE ON GRIEVANCES
Section 1	Filing of Grievances
The grievance shall be reduced to writing by either party on a form approved by the Joint Committee. Copies of same shall be submitted to the docketing agent.
Section 2	Selection of Panel
The Association and the Commonwealth will select their respective Co-Chairperson. The position of Acting Chairpersons for each Joint Committee session will be alternately filled by the respective side. Each Co-Chairperson shall select their members of a panel to hear a case on the docket. Any panel of the Joint Committee hearing a case shall consist of a maximum of three (3) representatives for the Commonwealth and the Association, but at all times shall consist of an equal number of designated representatives of the Commonwealth and the Association.
In the event any case on the docket affects the facility of any member of the panel, then such panel member shall remove himself from the panel for that case and the Chairperson for either the Association side or the Commonwealth side, as the case may be, shall designate another member of their group to sit on the panel to hear that particular case.
Section 3	Settlements
If a case, after being placed upon the Joint Committee's agenda for a particular meeting, is settled between the parties involved, both parties shall file a notification with the Joint Committee of the settlement before the meeting when such case was scheduled to be heard.
Section 4
Postponement of Cases
Postponement of cases on the agenda of the Joint Committee will be permitted only once for each party. Notice of a postponement shall be given to the other party by the fastest possible method of communication upon knowledge of the need to postpone. No subsequent postponements by that party will be permitted at the Joint Committee.
Section 5 Default
In the event either party in a dispute fails to appear before the Joint Committee or a panel thereof without an authorized postponement, the Joint Committee shall render a default decision in favor of the appearing party. If either party in a case which is scheduled to be heard at a particular meeting fails to appear at the time the case is called, that case will be placed at the end of the Agenda and then be called again. At that time when the case is again called, if the party again fails to appear, the Joint Committee shall render a default decision in favor of the appearing party. However, in any such case the Co-Chairperson of the group whose representative fails to appear may appoint a member of the Committee, or an alternate, to present the case. Except upon the consent of the Co-Chairperson shall the Joint Committee be required to meet on the day following the day of a scheduled meeting because of the failure of a party to appear on the date for which the hearing was scheduled.
RULE 4
OPERATION OF JOINT COMMITTEE
Section 1	Rules
The operation of the Committee shall be in accordance with these Rules of Procedure and such other rules as may from time to time be adopted by the Joint Committee. Such other rules shall be established by a majority vote of the Joint Committee provided, however, both the Association and the Commonwealth members of the Committee have equal voting power. Whenever an addition or amendment to these Rules of Procedure, or other rules duly adopted, is proposed, it shall be presented in writing to the Joint Committee at a regularly scheduled meeting of the Committee and voted upon at the following meeting.
Section 2	Order of Cases
All cases will be heard by the Joint Committee in the order which they are docketed, except for docketed discharge cases which will be heard ahead of any other docketed cases. Additionally, upon reasonable request the Co-Chairpersons can agree to hear any particular case out of its regular order on the Agenda.
Section 3	Step 2 Hearings
In the hearing of a case, either party may present any evidence bearing on the facts of the particular case, and may present testimony of witnesses either in person or by sworn affidavit. It will not be necessary for written statements by Commonwealth employees to be notarized in order to be considered. However, these statements must contain the following statements:
"THE FOLLOWING STATEMENT IS BEING GIVEN BY ME FREELY AND
WITHOUT COERCION FOR OFFICIAL COMMONWEALTH BUSINESS AND WILL BE CONSIDERED FOR ALL PURPOSES, INCLUDING ACTIONS UNDER THE STATUTES OF THIS COMMONWEALTH, JUST AS THOUGH IT HAD BEEN SWORN OR AFFIRMED BEFORE A COURT OF LAW OR FORMAL ARBITRATION PANEL."
All evidence to be presented must be made known to the other party within a reasonable time prior to the hearing, BUT IN NO EVENT LATER THAN FORTY-EIGHT (48) HOURS PRIOR TO THE SCHEDULED HEARING. THE FOLLOWING ARE THE ONLY PERMISSIBLE EXCEPTIONS: BARGAINING HISTORY, PRECEDENT SETTING ARBITRATION AWARDS, PRECEDENT SETTING SETTLEMENTS, COURT DECISIONS, AND LABOR BOARD DECISIONS. Failure to comply with this rule by either party, shall constitute grounds for the Committee to refuse to consider the evidence in question if an objection to its introduction is raised. During the hearing, only panel members, alternate members of the Joint Committee, the parties presenting the case, and those directly involved in the specific case being heard, shall be allowed to sit in the immediate area where the hearing is being conducted. Other members of the Joint Committee, except for the designated panel hearing the case, shall not participate in the presentation, the discussion, or the questioning.
In discharge, involuntary demotion, suspension and reprimand cases, the Commonwealth must present its evidence first; in all other cases, the Association will present its evidence first. Each party shall declare, prior to the presentation of its case, whether there will be a co-presenter on the respective case. The number of co-presenters shall be limited to two (2) individuals, and a co-presenter shall only supplement the presentation of the case. Both sides will have an opportunity to summarize and rebut, however, when co-presenters are used, only one (1) of the co-presenters may respond during the Summation and Rebuttal portion of the presentation. After each party has presented its case and its official rebuttal testimony, the panel members will be free to ask questions of the parties. Each party shall then have the opportunity to summarize its case. After such summary, the panel of the Joint Committee will retire to executive session and will vote, and thereby render its decision. The voting will be conducted by secret ballot if requested by any member of the committee, otherwise, voting by a show of hands will be deemed to be sufficient. When the panel goes into executive session in order to decide the case, all others must retire from the room. After a decision has been reached by a majority vote of the panel, the decision shall be reduced to writing and provided to the parties in a manner agreed upon by the Joint Committee.
Section 4	Recess
A recess may be requested by either party during the hearing of a case. However, if such a request is granted by the Acting Chairperson, it shall not exceed one hour. The Acting Chairperson may also call for recess at any time, but such recess not to exceed one hour in duration.
RULE 5
COMMITTEE MINUTES
The Bureau of Labor Relations staff shall prepare the written minutes of each committee meeting, briefly outlining the facts and the decision reached by the Committee in each case heard. Copies of all such minutes and decision shall be mailed to the Association and to the Departments of Corrections and Public Welfare. Such minutes will be approved at the next meeting of the Committee and will form the official record of the Committee action.
APPENDIX G
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING PROGRAM
1.	POLICY
a.	Employees of the Department of Corrections are required to participate in the Drug and Alcohol Testing Program, as outlined below.
b.	The following controlled substance and alcohol testing is required:
1)	Reasonable Suspicion
2)	Return-to-duty
3)	Follow-up
c.	The split sample collection method will be used for urine samples for purposes of testing for controlled substances. The breath alcohol testing method administered by a trained Breath Alcohol Technician (BAT) using an Evidential Breath Testing device (EBT) will be used for the alcohol testing.
d.	Prohibitions for controlled substances.
No employee shall:
1)	Perform work when using or being under the influence of any controlled substance, except under instruction of a physician who has advised the employee that the substance does not adversely affect the employee's ability to safely perform the employee's job duties.
2)	Perform work if the employee tests positive for controlled substances.
3)	Refuse to submit to a controlled substance test.
e.	Prohibitions for alcohol
No employee shall:
1)	Perform work while being under the influence of alcohol as defined by g. and h. below.
2)	Perform work while possessing or using alcohol.
3)	Refuse to submit to an alcohol test
f.	No supervisor/manager shall:
1)	Permit an employee who refuses to submit to controlled substance and/or alcohol tests to perform or continue to perform job functions.
2)	Permit an employee to perform or continue to perform work if the Employer has actual knowledge that an employee has tested positive for alcohol and/or controlled substances.
g.	Consequences to employees who test 0.02% or greater but less than 0.04% for alcohol (CDL only)
1)	Employees will not be permitted to perform work for at least 24 hours.
2)	Employees shall be advised of the availability of the State Employees Assistance Program.
3)	The employee shall be subject to unannounced follow-up alcohol testing. The number and frequency will consist of at least six tests in the first 12 months following the date of the employee's return to duty.
4)	Employees who have a verified positive test result for alcohol during the 12 months following the date of the employee's return to duty shall be referred to SEAP and treated under h. below.
5)	Employees who have a verified positive test result for alcohol during the initial hire, 12 month probationary period shall be terminated.
h.	Consequences to employees who test positive for controlled substances or .04% or
greater for alcohol or employees who test positive under the provisions of g. (4) above.
1)	Employees shall not be permitted to perform work and shall be evaluated by a State Employees Assistance Program substance abuse professional who shall determine what assistance the employee needs in resolving problems associated with the use of controlled substances and/or alcohol.
2)	If the employee is determined to require treatment, the substance abuse professional will evaluate the employee's participation in the program and determine whether or not the employee has followed the prescribed rehabilitation program.
3)	A return to duty controlled substances and/or alcohol test will be required and the result must be a verified negative.
4)	The employee shall be subject to unannounced follow-up controlled substance and/or alcohol testing. The number and frequency of such follow-up testing shall be directed by the SEAP substance abuse professional and will consist of at least six tests in the first 12 months following the date of the employee's return to duty.
5)	Employees who have a verified positive test result for controlled substances and/or alcohol during the 12 months following the date of the employee's return to duty shall be terminated.
6)	Employees who have a verified positive test result for controlled substances and/or alcohol during the initial hire, 12 month probationary period shall be terminated.
i.	All immediate supervisors of employees and all other supervisors who may be involved in making "reasonable suspicion" decisions as to whether or not an employee may be fit for duty based on observable behavior and should receive a drug and/or alcohol test are required to receive approximately 60 minutes of approved training on controlled substance use, alcohol misuse and reasonable suspicion determinations. This training will be provided by a contractor and will cover the physical, behavioral, speech and performance indicators of use of controlled substances and of probable alcohol misuse.
j.	All employees will receive educational material which explains the requirements, policies and procedures of the drug and alcohol testing program. This information will contain prohibitions, consequences, and information on the effects and symptoms of drug and alcohol use. Employees are required to sign a certificate indicating they have received this information. If employees refuse to sign the form indicating they have received this information, they will be subject to appropriate discipline. If employees refuse to sign the forms necessary for them to be tested or refuse to be tested for controlled substances and/or alcohol, the employee will have been deemed to have tested positive and will be subject to the provisions of h. above.
k.	All drug and alcohol testing required by this policy, except for return to duty testing, is considered to be conducted on duty time and thus employees are in compensable status for all time spent providing a urine or breath sample, including travel time to and from the collection site.
l.	An employee removed from duty pending the outcome of a reasonable suspicion controlled substance test may use Combined Leave or Leave Without Pay. If the test result is negative, the employee will be made whole for any wages lost, or paid leave used.
m.
If an employee is removed from duty and referred to treatment following a positive test for controlled substances and/or alcohol, he/she may use paid sick leave or sick leave without pay consistent with the provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
2.	DEFINITIONS
a.	Alcohol. The intoxicating agent in beverage alcohol, ethyl alcohol (ethanol) or other low
molecular weight alcohols, including methyl and isopropyl alcohol.
b.	Alcohol use. The consumption of any beverage, mixture, or preparation. For employees in the CDL program this definition also includes the consumption of any medication containing alcohol.
c.	Breath Alcohol Technician (BAT). An individual who instructs and assists individuals in the alcohol testing process and operates an Evidential Breath Testing (EBT) device.
d.	Controlled Substances. The controlled substances covered by this policy include cocaine, marijuana, opiates, phencyclidine (PCP), amphetamines, barbiturates, Benzodiapin and Quaaludes (Methaqualine).
e.	Medical Review Officer (MRO). A licensed physician (medical doctor or doctor of osteopathy) employed by the contractor responsible for receiving laboratory results generated by an Employers drug testing program who has knowledge of substance abuse disorders and has appropriate medical training to interpret and evaluate an employee’s confirmed positive test result together with the employee’s medical history and any other biomedical information.
f.	Evidential Breath Testing Device. A device approved by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration for the evidential testing of breath.
g.	Reasonable suspicion. A belief that the employee has violated the controlled substance and/or alcohol prohibitions, based on specific contemporaneous, articulable observations concerning the appearance, behavior, speech, or body odors of the employee. Other indicators of reasonable suspicion include: (A) a positive reading from drug interdiction equipment; (B) A positive reaction from a K-9 dog to an employee's property; and (C) notification by proper authority that an employee has been arrested and charged with a violation of any criminal drug statute involving the manufacture, distribution, dispensing, use or possession of any controlled substances.
h.	Refusal to submit to testing. An employee who (a) refuses or fails to provide adequate urine for controlled substances testing without a valid medical explanation after the employee has received notice of the requirement for urine testing; or (b) refuses or fails to provide adequate breath for testing without a valid medical explanation after the employee has received notice of the requirement for breath testing; (c) engages in conduct that clearly obstructs the testing process.
i.
Positive Test:
1)	Screening test cut off levels:
*a)	Marijuana	50 ng/ml
*b)	Cocaine	300 ng/ml
*c)	Opiates	300 ng/ml
*d)	Phencyclidine	25 ng/ml
*e)	Amphetamines	1,000 ng/ml
**f)	Barbiturates	300 ng/ml
**g)	Benzodiazepine	300 ng/ml
**h)	Quaaludes (Methaqualine)	300 ng/ml
2)	Confirmatory test cut off levels:
*a)	Marijuana	15 ng/ml
*b)	Cocaine	150 ng/ml
*c)	Opiates	300 ng/ml
*d)	Phencyclidine	25 ng/ml
*e)	Amphetamines	500 ng/ml
**f)	Barbiturates	200 ng/ml
**g)	Benzodiazepine	200 ng/ml
**h)	Quaaludes (Methaqualine)	200 ng/ml
*	These cutoff levels are established consistent with the Mandatory Guidelines for Federal Drug Testing Programs and are subject to change by the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS). When advances in technology or other considerations warrant identification of these substances in other concentrations and the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) changes the Mandatory Guidelines for Federal Drug Testing Programs, the Drug Testing thresholds enumerated above will be changed as of the same effective date.
*	* These cutoff levels are established with acceptable certified laboratory testing standards and are subject to change when advances in technology or other considerations warrant identification of these substances in other concentrations and the certified laboratory standards are changed.
j.	The selected contractor must use a Department of Health and
Human Services certified laboratory.
3. RESPONSIBILITIES.
Department of Corrections will establish overall policy and administer the program activities by coordinating with the Association to ensure all program activities are coordinated and appropriate communication occurs. Specific responsibilities include:
a.
1)	Developing information material to be given to all employees to explain the drug and alcohol testing requirements and applicable policies regarding drug and alcohol use and the consequences.
2)	Coordinating with the State Civil Service Commission and the Bureau of State Employment to ensure that employment/recruitment material includes information on the drug and alcohol testing requirements, and that procedures are established to deal with employees who fail the drug and/or alcohol tests.
3)	Ensuring that orientation information for covered employees reflects the policies, procedures, testing requirements, and consequences mandated by this program.
4)	Ensuring that all appropriate agency management are aware of drug and alcohol policy and program requirements, and that all aspects of the program policies and procedures are coordinated and implemented within the agency.
5)	Ensuring that appropriate agency procedures have been established to ensure that drug and alcohol testing occurs as required for:
a)	Reasonable suspicion
b)	Return-to-duty
c)	Follow-up
6)	In conjunction with the Office of Administration ensure that SEAP and the contractor share appropriate information and follow established policies and procedures.
b.	Institution/Boot Camp/Corrections Community Center Coordinators are to ensure that
the drug and alcohol testing program is implemented, coordinated, and maintained in their respective institutions by:
1)	Ensuring that all appropriate supervisors receive the MANDATORY training.
2)	Ensuring that appropriate records are maintained only by identified personnel and that strict confidentiality procedures are followed for the testing results.
3)	Ensuring that appropriate agency procedures are established for dealing with employees who test positive for drugs and/or alcohol.
c.	Agency Personnel Officer is to assist Institution/Boot Camp/Corrections Community
Center Coordinators in ensuring that all personnel program activities affected by the program requirements have been modified to meet these requirements which impact upon the recruitment, hiring, orientation, testing, training, transactions, discipline, labor relations and record keeping activities of the agency.
d.	Selected Contractors are responsible for administering the drug and alcohol testing
requirements, supervisory training, record keeping and reporting processes consistent with the signed contract and this policy.
e.	The Department of Corrections is responsible for developing and/or obtaining
educational/procedural materials relating to this program and disseminating such materials to all affected employees.
f.	State Employees Assistance Program will coordinate the evaluation and referral of
employees who have tested positive for controlled substances and/or alcohol with a substance abuse professional. SEAP will coordinate all aspects of evaluation, treatment and follow up and communicate appropriately with the employee, agency and contractor.
4. PROCEDURES
a.	Institution/Boot Camp/Corrections Community Center Coordinators are to ensure that
all supervisors who may be involved in a "reasonable suspicion" determination are identified and trained in accordance with these procedures.
b.	Reasonable Suspicion Testing for Observable Behavior.
1)	An agency supervisor/manager, who has been trained in accordance with the regulations, must require an employee to submit to a controlled substance and/or alcohol test when the supervisor has reasonable suspicion to believe the employee has violated the controlled substance and/or alcohol prohibitions. Upon determining that reasonable suspicion due to observable behavior exists, the agency supervisor/manager should have another supervisor/manager who has been trained in accordance with the regulations, witness the observations.
2)	The required observations for controlled substances and alcohol reasonable suspicion testing must be made by a supervisor or manager who is trained in accordance with the following requirements:
a)	Supervisors/Managers designated to determine whether reasonable
suspicion exists to require an employee to undergo controlled substance and/or alcohol testing must receive the Department of Corrections approved training on controlled substances, alcohol misuse and reasonable suspicion determinations.
b)
The training provided by the contractor must cover the physical, behavioral, speech, and performance indicators of probable alcohol misuse and use of controlled substances.
3)	A written record must be made of the observations leading to a controlled substances and/or alcohol test, and must be signed by the supervisor/manager who made the observations. A separate independently written statement must be signed by the supervisor/manager who witnesses the observations. These reports must be made within 24 hours of the observed behavior or before the results of the test are released, whichever is earlier.
4)	Department of Corrections must transport the employee to and from the testing site. The employee must be removed from duty until verified test results are received. If the test results are negative, the employee will be returned to work with back pay or the return of paid leave taken.
5)	The employee is to be given a form which the employee must present to the testing facility prior to testing. This form will contain employee identification and notification information as well as the name of the agency contact person.
6)	The employee must provide the testing site with positive identification in the form of a photo I.D.
c.	Reasonable Suspicion for a positive reaction to drug interdiction equipment or a
positive reaction by a K-9 dog to an employee's property or notification by proper authority that an employee has been arrested and charged with a violation of any criminal drug statute involving the manufacture, distribution, dispensing, use or possession of any controlled substances.
1)	If an employee has a positive reaction to Drug interdiction equipment in accordance with the Department of Corrections Drug Interdiction Equipment Program, Policy Number 6.3.16, the employee, at the discretion of the Department of Corrections, may be subject to reasonable suspicion drug and/or alcohol testing in accordance with this policy.
2)	If a positive reaction to an employee's property by a K-9 detects the presence of contraband in accordance with the Department of Corrections, K-9 Program, Policy Number 6.3.14, the employee, at the discretion of the Department of Corrections, may be subject to reasonable suspicion drug and/or alcohol testing in accordance with this policy.
3)	If the Department is notified that an employee has been arrested and charged with a violation of any criminal drug statute involving the manufacture, distribution, dispensing, use or possession of any controlled substances the employee, at the discretion of the Department of Corrections, may be subject to reasonable suspicion drug and/or alcohol testing in accordance with this policy.
d.	Return to duty testing.
1)	If SEAP has determined that the employee requires treatment, SEAP must certify to the agency that an employee identified as needing assistance in resolving problems associated with controlled substance use and/or alcohol misuse was evaluated by a substance abuse professional, the employee followed the rehabilitation program prescribed, and the employee has undergone a return to duty controlled substance test with a verified negative result.
2)	Before an employee can be returned to duty, the employee must undergo both alcohol and a controlled substance returned to duty test with negative results.
e.	Follow-up testing.
The employee shall be subject to a minimum of six unannounced follow-up controlled substance and/or alcohol tests as directed by the substance abuse professional during the 12 month period following the employees return to duty.
f.	Positive controlled substance test results.
1)	Upon confirmation of a positive test result, the employee may request a secondary split sample be sent to a different certified laboratory to be analyzed.
2)	If an employee has a verified positive test for controlled substances, the Medical Review Officer will inform the employee and the agency contact person, in writing. Prior to verifying a positive result, the MRO will make every reasonable effort to contact the employee confidentially and afford the employee the opportunity to discuss the test result. If after making all reasonable efforts and documenting them, the MRO is unable to reach the employee directly, the MRO shall contact a designated management official who shall direct the employee to contact the MRO as soon as possible (within 24 hours).
3)	As soon as the agency is notified of a verified positive test result, the agency contact person must ensure that the employee is removed immediately from the performance of work.
g.	Maintenance of Records.
1)	The Contractor will be responsible for maintaining all records resulting from the administration of drug and alcohol tests under this program. These records will be maintained as outlined in the contract with DOC and will be consistent with the federal requirements.
2)	The MRO will notify the employee, in writing, of both positive and negative drug and/or alcohol test results, and the specific controlled substances for which the test was verified positive.
3)	With the employee's written consent, the Contractor will provide any of the testing information to another Employer.
4)	The Department of Corrections are to establish internal confidential procedures to ensure that testing notifications, test results, and any other data pertaining to the drug and alcohol testing of employee are maintained in a locked file and are released only to authorized personnel as determined by the agency Coordinator.
h.	Training.
1)	The Contractor will provide drug and alcohol training to supervisors by___________________________________.
2)	The Contractor or Agency Personnel Office will notify Institution/Boot Camp contact persons where and when training will be conducted. This training is mandatory and it is the institution's responsibility to ensure that employees and supervisors receive this training. If an employee/supervisor is unable to participate in the scheduled training, the Institution/Boot Camp Coordinator should be notified and the Coordinator should make alternate arrangements through the employee to receive the training as soon as possible.
3)	No supervisor should be involved in a reasonable suspicion determination unless the supervisor has received the required training.
4)	Once the initial training is provided, new supervisors/managers of employees are to be provided the required training from the Contractor or Agency Personnel Office within 60 days of becoming a supervisor/manager of these employees. Agency Coordinators shall contact the Contractor within 10 days of the employee becoming a supervisor and provide the names and locations of the supervisors/managers in need of training.
5)	New employees after __________________will be provided educational material during
their orientation regarding the policies and requirements of the drug and alcohol testing program. Prior to any testing, the employee will be provided with additional information. The employee will be required to sign receipt of any information and forms that are provided.
Employees in this bargaining unit who are randomly tested for controlled substances and/or alcohol under the CDL policy and who test positive will be treated under the provisions of this policy.
Employees in this bargaining unit who are tested for controlled substances and/or alcohol due to the employee's assignment to the Drug Interdiction Team and who test positive will be treated under the provisions of this policy.