Table of Contents
Preamble  .......................................................1
Article 1
Recognition......................................................1
Article 2
Contract Coverage................................................1
Article 3
Management Rights................................................3
Article 4
Employee Bill of Rights..........................................4
Article 5
Non Discrimination...............................................5
Article 6
Concerted Activity...............................................5
Article 7
Union Security and Payroll Deduction.............................6
Article 8
Union Rights.....................................................8
Article 9
Working Test Period..............................................12
Article 10
Service Ratings..................................................15
Article 11
Personnel Records................................................16
Article 12
Seniority.......................................................18
Article 13
Order of Layoff or Reemployment.................................19
Article 14
Dismissal, Suspension, Demotion or Other Dr cipline.............24
Article 15
Grievance Procedure..............................................26
Article 16
Hours of Work....................................................32
Article 16	A
Alternative Work Schedules.......................................37
Article 17
Holidays.........................................................40
Article 18
Vacations........................................................42
Article 19
Sick Leave.......................................................44
i
Article 20
Sick Leave Bank..................................................47
Article 21
Pregnancy, Maternal, and Parental Leave..........................50
Article 22
Health Program...................................................51
Article 23
Group Health Insurance...........................................52
Article 24
Compensation.....................................................52
Article 25
Travel Expenses and Reimbursements...............................58
Article 26
Objective Job Evaluations........................................63
Article 27
Class Reevaluations..............................................65
Article 28
Temporary Service in a Higher Classification.....................66
Article 29
Out of Title Work................................................67
Article 30
Transfers........................................................69
Article 31
Training and Professional Leave..................................73
Article 32
Permanent Part-Time Employees....................................75
Article 33
Safety...........................................................75
Article 34
Winter Work and Assignments......................................76
Article 35
Retirement.......................................................77
Article 36
Method of Salary Payment.........................................78
Article 37
Indemnification..................................................78
Article 38
Miscellaneous....................................................78
Article 39
Institutional Meals and Housing..................................82
Article 40
Entire Agreement.................................................83
Article 41
Supersedence.....................................................83
ii
Article 42
Legislative Action.............................................84
Article 43
Savings Clause.................................................84
Article 44
Duration of Agreement..........................................84
Article 45
Temperature Variation..........................................85
Memorandum of Understanding -1.................................85
Memorandum of Understanding- II................................85
Memorandum of Understanding- III
Holiday Party/Picnic...........................................87
Memorandum of Understanding - IV
Meal Grievance Arbitration.....................................87
Memorandum of Understanding- V.................................88
Memorandum of Understanding-VI.................................88
Memorandum Of Understanding-VII
Exchange (swap) of Employees...................................88
Side LettecSpecial Revenue Holidays Under Article 17, Section Four.89
State Of Connecticut Bargaining Committee......................91
Administrative And Residualemployees Union Bargaining Committee...........................................92
P-5 Pay Plans..................................................93
Hi
Preamble
STATE OF CONNECTICUT, acting by and through the Office of Labor Relations, hereinafter called 'the State” or ‘The Employer’' and the Administrative and Residual Employees Union,
WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS the parties to this Agreement desire to establish a state of amicable, understanding cooperation and harmony, and
WHEREAS the parties to this Agreement consider themselves mutually responsible to improve the public service through increased morale, efficiency, and prod ictivity;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties mutually agree as follows:
Article 1
Recognition
The State of Connecticut herein recognizes the Administrative and Residual Employees Unit n, hereinafter the “Union”, as the exclusive representative of the State Employees whose classifications were assigned to the certified unit by action of the Connecticut State Board of Labor Relations under Certification SE-5971, subject to such modifications or clarifications of the unit as the Board or a co art of competent jurisdiction may order, or to which the parties may agree.
Article 2
Contract Coverage
Section One.This Agreement shall pertain only to those employees whose job titles fall within Certification SE-5971 or by mutual Agreement of the parties and sha.il not apply to non-permanent employees appointed to nonpermanent temporary, emergency or seasonal positions, t or to durational positions of six (6) months or less. Employees appointed originally on a provisional basis, and/or employees appointed to durational positions established for six (6) months or more shall be covered by this Agreement, but shall have n<1 right of appeal from termination due to expiration of position or failure to
1
successfully complete the required examination and appointment process. Persons serving a Working Test Period are not excluded except as otherwise indicated in this Agreement.
(a)	New Classes. The Employer will notify the Union of the establishment of new classes and its position concerning the bargaining unit placement. Said notice shall precede the filling of any positions within said classification including the transfer of incumbents from existing titles.
(b)	Changes in Job Specifications. The Employer shall notify the Union as far in advance as practicable to permit the parties to negotiate the impact of changes in job specifications.
Section Two. Provisional Employees. Provisional employees are employees who are initially appointed to permanent positions pending State examination or examination results. Provisional appointees are subject to the requirements of the merit system in all respects, including but not limited to certification from an examination list and completion of the Working Test Period. Permanent appointment is contingent upon meeting all said requirements, and failure to do so will result in termination of employment without right of appeal except as provided by the merit system. In all other respects, provisional employees are subject to the provisions of this Agreement and can utilize ah benefits as if they were initially appointed as permanent full time employees. Seniority shall be retroactive to the date of last hire upon successful completion of the Working Test Period.
Section Three. Temporary Employees. A temporary employee is defined as an employee who is hired to fill a temporary, durational or emergency position of six (6) months duration or the length of leave of absence of the employee replaced, whichever is longer. Due to the nature of temporary employment, temporaiy employees cannot be guaranteed continued employment beyond the termination date of the appointment. Termination is therefore without right of appeal. In other respects, this Agreement shall apply to a temporaiy
2
employee alter completion of six (6) monihs of continuous service. When the service of such employee has been satisfactory for a period of six (6) months and a non competitive vacancy exists in the bargaining unit which he. she is qualified to fill, the Employer shall offer the position to t ie employee after permanent employees have been considered. I Ipon appointment to a permanent position the employee shall serve a Working Test Period as provided in this Agreement. Seniority shall be retroactive to the date of last hire upon successful completion of the Working Test Period. The period for advance notice to durationals who are employed without a specified termination date of the impending termination of their employment shall be not less than three (3) weeks.
Article 3
Management Rights
Section One. Except as otherwise limited by an express provision of this Agreement, the State reser cs and retains, whether exercised or not, all the lawful and customary rights, powers, and prerogatives of public management. Such rights include, but are not limited to, establishing standards of productivity and performance of its employees; determining the mission of an agency and the methods and meais necessary to fulfill that mission, including the contracting out of or the discontinuation of services, positions, or program s in whole or in part; the determination of the content of job classification; classification and pay grade for newly created jobs; the appointment, promotion, assignment, direction and transfer of personnel; the suspension, demotion, discharge or any other appropriate action against its employees; the relit f from duty of its employees because of lack of work or for o her legitimate reasons; the establishment of reasonable work ules; and the taking of all necessary actions to carry out its mission in emergencies.
Section Two. Those inherent management rights not restricted by a specific provision of this Agreement are not in
3
any way, directly or indirectly, subject to the grievance procedure.
Article 4
Employee Bill of Rights	j
Section One. Each employee covered herein shall be expected to render a full and fair days work in an atmosphere of mutual respect and dignity free from significant abusive or arbitrary conduct.
Section Two. An employee's off-duty conduct, speech, beliefs, politics or preferences shall not in and of themselves । impact on his/her employment unless clearly job related-
fa) In any off-duty conduct involving criminal charges or criminal investigation, which yields no charges, statements made by the accused shall not be admissible in a later administrative action unless clearly job related.
(b) Any complaints not alleging criminal conduct shall be i given to the affected employee within four (4) business days of receipt by the employing agency.
Section Three. An employee shall be entitled to Union representation upon his/her request at each step of the grievance procedure and all predisc ip li nary hearings.
Section Four. No employee shall be requested to sign a statement of an admission of guilt to be used in a disciplinary proceeding without being advised of his/her right to Union j representation. If the employee waives right to representation in this instance, such waiver shall be in writing.
Section Five. No record of complaint against any employee shall be kept in an employee's personnel file unless such record includes identification of the complainant.	1
Section Six. No employee shall be compelled to offer evidence under oath against himself/herself in any disciplinary action. Testimony by the employee in his/her own behalf shall । constitute waiver of this protection. (See Article 14, Section Six [b]).
4
Article 5 Non Discrimination
Section One. The parties agree that neither shall discriminate against any employee, because of the individual's race, color, religious creed, age, sex, marital status, national origin, ancestry, physical or mental disability, sexual orientation, history of mental disorder or mental retarcation, except on the basis of bona fide occupational qualifications. The parties further agree in all aspects to follow the irovisions of C.GS. Sections 46a-81c,d,e, regarding the prohibit on of discriminatory employment practices.
Section Two	. The parties agree to won jointly to eliminate and to prevent discrimination and to ensure equal opportunity in the application of this Agreement.
Section Thr	ee. The Employer shell not discriminate against any employee who has utilized th: statutory “whistle blower” provisions and filed information with the appropriate statutory officials.
Section Four. Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the Employer will have the right and duty to take all actions necessary to comply with the provision of the Americans with Disabilities Act, 42 LJ.S.C. 2101, et seq. (ADA). Upon request, the Employer wi 1 meet and discuss specific concerns identified by the Union; however, this shall not delay any actions taken to comply with the ADA.
Section Five: Neither party' shall disc iminate against any employee on the basis of membership or non-membership or lawful activity on behalf of the exclusive bargaining agent.
Article 6
Concerted Activity
Section One. Neither the Union nor a.ny employee shall engage in, induce, support, encourage, or condone a strike, sympathy strike, work stoppage, slo vdown, concerted withholding of services, sickout or any it terference with the mission of any State Agency. This Article shall be deemed to prohibit the concerted boycott or refusal of overtime work, but
5
shall be interpreted consistent with any provisions of this Agreement on distribution and assignment of overtime work.
Section Two. In any appeal of disciplinary action taken as a result of an alleged violation of this Article, the arbitrator shall have no authority to alter or modify the disciplinary penalty imposed if such penalty is less than the equivalent of a five (5) day suspension.
Section Three. The Union shall exert its best efforts to prevent or terminate any violation of Section One of this Article. Immediate written notice to employees involved of their obligation under this Section, with copies of such notice served on the Employer, shall constitute compliance with this Section.
Section Fou	r. The Employer agrees that during the life of this Agreement there shall be no lockout.
Section Fiv	e. The Employer will provide security for employees who continue to meet job obligations in spite of any illegal strike, picket line or other job action posing a hazard to the employees' safety.
Article 7
Union Security and Payroll Deduction
Section One. During the life of this Agreement, an employee retains the freedom of choice whether or not to become or remain a member of the Union, which has been designated as the exclusive bargaining agent.
Section Two. Union dues and/or assessments shall be deducted by the State employer biweekly from the paycheck of each employee who signs and remits to the State an authorization form. Such deduction shall be discontinued upon written request of an employee thirty (30) days in advance.
If a change in salary causes a change in the amount of dues or assessment, which should be withheld, the change in dues or assessment shall be made simultaneously with any change in salary.
6
Section Three. An employee who, wit. tin thirty (30) days after initial employment in the bargaining u lit covered by this Agreement, fails to become a member of the Union or an employee whose membership is terminated for nonpayment of dues or who resigns from membership shall oe required to pay an agency service fee under Section Four.
Section Four. The State shall deduct the agency service fee biweekly from the paycheck of each employee who is required under C.G.S. 5-280 to pay such a fee a-J a condition of employment, provided, however, no such payment shall be required of an employee whose membership is terminated for reasons other than nonpayment of Union dues or who objects to payment of such fee based on the tenets of a religious sect. The amount of agency service fee shall not exceed the minimum applicable dues and/or assessments payable to the exclusive bargaining agent.
Section Five. The amount of dues or agency service fees deducted under this Article shall be remitted to the Treasurer of the Administrative and Residual Employees I nion as soon as available after the payroll period together with the list of employees for whom any such deduction is mad .:.
Section Six. No payroll deduction of ..lues or agency service fee shall be made from workers' compensation or for any payroll period in which eamings received arc insufficient to cover the amount of deduction, nor shall sucl deductions be made from subsequent payrolls to cover the period in question (non-retroactive).
Section Sev	en. No other organizations sha 1 be entitled to deduction of its dues or service fees from the payi oil.
Section Eig	ht. The State employer sha 1 continue its practice of payroll deductions as authorized by employees for purposes other than payment of Union dues or ; .gency service fees, provided any such payroll deduction has been approved by the State in advance.
7
for photocopying extensive information and otherwise as permitted under State Freedom of Information Law. The Union shall not have access to privileged or confidential information.
Section Seven. Union Business Leave. Subject to prior written approval of the Office of Labor Relations, paid leave may be granted to Union officers, stewards, delegates or designees as follows:
(a)	For each year of the contract, a bank of one and three quarter (1.75) hours per employee in the bargaining unit as of July 1 to be used for Union business and steward training shall be established.
Union business leave shall be granted as follows:
(1)	Usage shall be for no more than two (2) days per week per person. If the Union seeks additional usage, the State and the Union shall discuss the situation and may, by mutual Agreement, grant the leave usage.
(2)	Usage shall not be unreasonably denied except where an agency emergency exists. However, if the usage would cause significant impact on the agency operations, the State and the Union shall discuss the situation and may, by mutual Agreement, postpone or cancel the leave usage.
(3)	Unless mutually agreed otherwise, the Union will give seven (7) full working days written notice requesting Union Business Leave to the Office of Labor Relations. The Union shall provide a concurrent copy to the affected agency.
(b)	Leave in the first year may be supplemented by not more than ten percent (10%) of the bank from year two. Leave in the second year may be supplemented by not more than ten percent (10%) of the bank from year three. Leave in the third year may be supplemented by not more than ten percent (10%) of the bank from year four. Likewise, a sum not to exceed ten percent (10%) of the annual bank may be carried over into a succeeding year, but all leave excess shall expire on the final date of this Agreement.
10
Upon expiration of this Agreement ano prior to approval of a successor agreement, the Union shah continue to have available leave time as provided in subsection (a) of this Section Seven. Upon approval of a successor agreement, the leave time utilized during this transition period will be deducted from what approved leave time has been incorporate ! into the successor agreement.
(c)	Officers Leave. Three (3) employees elected or appointed to a full-time office with the Union shall be eligible for an unpaid leave of absence not to exceed two (2) years. Extensions of said leave shall be requested and favorably considered on an annual basis.
One (1) additional employee elected cr designated by the Union to a fall-time Union assignment shall be eligible for full-time paid leave, which shall be remunerated by the Employer as follows:
(1)	The Employer shall pay all salary and benefits. For the purpose of meeting this obligation,, the Department of Administrative Services, at its discretion, may establish and fund a position at the level necessary to cover 1 he paid leave until return to service can be arranged.
(2)	Not less than half of the annual work hours shall be deducted from the Union leave bank.
(3)	Upon request from the State, the Union shall make reimbursement for any gross salary not compensated from the Union business leave bank (pursuant to Subsection (c) [2]).
Upon return from such leave, the Employer shall offer the employee a position at least equal to the farrier position in pay, benefits and duties at the wage rates in force a t the time of return
11
from such leave. It is intended that the employee on leave shall return to service with all the classification and benefit adjustments attendant to the vacated position, which have accrued in his/her absence. This Article does not obligate the Employer to offer the employee a position in the employee's former agency unless such placement is practicable.
Upon return from leave, the employee on unpaid leave shall have the right to purchase back retirement credits for the period of the leave, provided that, in addition, the employee or the Union contribute the State's share of the cost of such retirement credit.
Section Eight. Orientation. The Employer will provide each new employee with a copy of the collective bargaining Agreement then in force and will furnish such employee with the name of his/her steward. The Employer shall notify the Union of new hires not later than the date of the first paycheck after hire.
Section Nine. The Employer shall provide space for Union meetings during non-working hours (including lunch periods) provided rooms are available and there is no disruption of work.
Section Ten. The existing practices within Agencies for paid leave time for employees serving as witnesses in administrative or judicial proceedings involving contract administration or enforcement shall continue for the duration of the Agreement.
Article 9
Working Test Period
Section One. The Working Test Period shall be deemed an extension of the examination process. Therefore, a determination of unsatisfactory performance during a Working Test Period shall be tantamount to a failure of the competitive exam. Dismissal of employees during the original Working Test Period shall not be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure.
12
Section Two. (a) The Working Test Period for classes in the A&R Unit shall be six (6) months except for those classes established under C.G. S. Section 5-234. in which case the Working Test Period shall be for the duratio ) of the established training program. Within ten (10) d; ys preceding the termination of the Working Test Period, and at such other times as the Commissioner of Administrative Services requires, the appointing authority shall report to said Commissioner of Administrative Services whether such employee is able and willing to perform the duties in a manner so as to merit permanent appointment. The Working Test Period may, with the approval of the Commissioner of Administ ative Services, be extended on an individual basis for a definite period of time not to exceed six (6) months.
(b) The Working Test Period for a promotion is four (4) months.
There shall be no Working Test Period for any employee with permanent status in the position who is involuntarily transferred in that job classification.
Any employee who is promoted to a position, which requires a Working Test Period, shall b( advised by the immediate supervisor of his/her performance at the midway point of the Working Test Period. At the e nployee’s request, such progress report shall be put in writing within ten (10) working days.
(1)	If the employee's performance i: “less than good”, the immediate supervisor must offer suggestions for improvement, if requested by the employee. These suggestions shall be reduced to writing within two (2) weeks.
(2)	If at the end of the Working Test Period the employee's performance in the new position is rated as unsatisfactory, he/she must be returned to the previous position or a comparable position without loss of any benefits or seniority rights.
Section Three. The Working Test Period shall commence on the date of appointment from the employment list if the
13
position is competitive. Otherwise, the Working Test Period shall commence on the date of original appointment. Employees provisionally promoted will have said provisional service credited toward completion of the Working Test Period when/if a permanent appointment is made.
Section Four. This contract shall not be deemed to terminate any right of appeal which may have existed prior to the Agreement alleging patent unfairness of the Working Test Period due to evaluator bias or variance from the pertinent job specification, provided, however, no such claim will be processed under the grievance and arbitration procedure, and	g
further provided this provision shall be deemed subordinate to	1
Article 14 (Dismissal, Suspension, Demotion or Other Discipline), Section One.
Section Five. The State will waive the Working Test Period for trainees and pre-professional trainees who satisfactorily complete two (2) year training programs. For trainees and pre-professional trainees with program duration of less than two * (2) years, the total time which may be served before permanent appointment shall not exceed two (2) years, assuming satisfactory performance. Employees successfully completing a one (1) year training class shall be subject to a four (4) month 4 Working Test Period in the target class. In all other instances,	’
the State retains the discretion to count time spent in professional trainee or pre-professional positions toward completion of the prescribed Working Test Period.
Section Six. Appeal rights for employee in two (2) year	j
training classes. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section	5
Four above, the following applies to employees in two (2) year	g
training classes:	I
The parties acknowledge that training classes are created for	j
the purpose of preparing employees for their target class. It is 1 agreed that one (1) year of employment in pay status is sufficient to evaluate the potential of an employee, but said evaluation period may be extended by the equivalent of any long term illness (greater than five (5) consecutive days) or leave without
14
pay. Training class employees who have performed in the class as defined above, for the equivalent of one (1) year and are subsequently determined by the Employe] to be incapable of performing the job duties of the training cl.iss, shall be entitled to the right of appeal to the third step of the grievance procedure, when the employee alleges patent employer unfairness, or variation from the assigned job classificatior.
An employee who is determined by he Employer to be incapable of performing the job duties of tie training class, but who is considered by the Commissionei of Administrative Services to be suitable for employment in some other department, may be restored to the employment list.
Article 10
Service Ratings
Section One. All employees shall receive an annual evaluation three months prior to their anniversary date (January 1, or July 1, as applicable). (C.GS. Section 5-210(b) for reference). When the month end falls on a loliday or weekend the rating shall be deemed timely if tendered on the first business day after said weekend or holiday. Service ratings may be issued: (1) during any Working Test Period, (2) when the employer wishes to amend a previously submitted less than good rating due to marked improvement, (3,i and at such other times as the appointing authority deems that the quality of service of an employee should be recorded.
No second "less than good" rating shall be given until the employer has implemented a remedial plan which specifically identifies the deficiencies and the steps the employee needs to take to cure the deficiencies. In any event, said remedial plan must be in place for at least six (6) months bt fore a second "less than good" rating is issued.
The Employer retains all other contract tally or statutorily permitted mechanisms for assessing employee performance. Any files maintained concerning interim conferences shall be in the form of supervisory notes and shall not be on the established rating form.
15
Section Two. A service rating will be conducted by the management designee familiar with the employee’s performance in his/her current job assignment. No supervisor shall make comments within a service rating where such comments are inconsistent with said rating. However, constructive suggestions for improvement shall not be considered to be inconsistent with the rating.
Section Thr	ee. Ratings of fair in two (2) categories and/or unsatisfactory in one (1) or more categories shall constitute an overall rating of “less than good”. Any other rating shall be considered good, except that a fair rating shall indicate a need for improvement. An employee who has received a “less than good” rating should be counseled.
Section Fou	r. An employee may appeal any overall evaluation or evaluation category in which the rating was other than “good or better”. The evaluator bears the burden of demonstrating the appropriateness of said evaluation.
Section Fiv	e. The service rating form remains a negotiated document.
Article 11
Personnel Records
Section One. An employee's personnel file or “personnel record” is defined as that which is maintained at the agency level, exclusive of any other file or record, provided however, in certain agencies which do not maintain personnel files or records at the agency level, the defined file or record shall be that which is maintained at the institution level.
Section Two. An employee covered hereunder shall, on the employee's request, be permitted to examine and copy, at a cost of ten (10) cents per page, all materials in his/her personnel file, other than preemployment material or any other material that is confidential or privileged under law. The State employer reserves the right to require its designee to be present while such file is being inspected or copied. The Union may have access to any employee's records upon presentation of written
16
authorization by the appropriate employee. The Union and/or member has the right to take an inventory of the contents of the personnel file at any time.
Section Three. No new material derogatory to an employee shall be placed in the employee's personnel file unless the employee or the Union Steward has been afforded an opportunity to sign (indicating receipt of si ch material) and has received a copy of such material. Notices c f proven or accepted discipline and stipulated resolutions thereof are recognized as records to be retained in the personnel file unless the parties mutually agree otherwise, and such agreement is incorporated as part of the terms of said stipulation.
Within thirty days of receipt an employee may file a written rebuttal to such derogatory materials or request that such material not subsequently merged in a. service rating be VOIDED in the record. For purposes of this Section VOIDED SHALL BE DEFINED AS: 1) the document has been removed and placed in another non-personnel file, 2) no negative presumption can be drawn from the document, and 3) the document is not usable in the future as a reference or a document.
Section Four. This Article shall not be deemed to prohibit supervisors from maintaining written notes or records of employee's performance for the purpose cf preparing service ratings. However, such notes or records shii.1.1 not be admissible in any appeal unless the material has been included in the employee’s personnel file in a manner consistent with this Section. The supervisor shall forewarn or notify the employee of any deficiency in advance of the preparation of service ratings or taking disciplinary action.
Section Five. When an employee seeks access to his/her personnel file, the Employer shall provide :ime off, charged as work time, to travel to the agency office to examine the file or have the file or copies of its contents transferred to the employee's work site for inspection in accordance with Section
17
(b) Employees who have not attained permanent status in the classification in which the layoff is to occur shall be removed before any permanent employee.
Section Two. (a) For the purpose of layoff selection, seniority shall be defined as accumulated service in the P-5 bargaining unit. If seniority of two (2) or more employees is exactly the same, the more senior employee shall be determined by considering: 1) total state service 2) time in classification; 3) a coin toss.
(b) The Employer may designate certain persons as “key persons” within the agency A key person shall be deemed to have greater seniority than any other bargaining unit employee who would seek to displace him/her under the provisions of Article 13(3), following layoff from another agency A “key person” shall be bypassed by the lateral displacer, who shall displace the next, more senior person in that title, if one exists.
A “key person” may not be retained over another, more senior, agency employee, nor may the privilege be asserted against an employee with super seniority, under the Article.
The agency shall resolve any conflict(s) caused by competing claims for employees with rights asserted under this section and Section (b), above. Agencies shall be entitled to the designation, based upon the following formula:
Agencies with fewer than 75 unit employees	2 key persons per year.
Agencies with fewer than 125 unit employees	3 key persons per year.
Agencies with 125 + unit employees	4 key persons per year.
No employee may be designated as “key” until that person shall have either one (1) year in the classification; or three (3) years in the job series.
The agency lists shall be forwarded, annually to the Union; no later than April 30, of each year. The list may be changed for
20
the next declaration period; but there shall be no right of substitution (during that contract year) jnless the designee leaves the bargaining unit, or the employ of the agency.
The decision to designate or not, i> deemed to be an exclusive managerial decision. No employee may grieve the Employer's decision to exercise said right; i tor may an employee grieve the loss of designation as “key person”.
Section Three. No employee shall be laid off if any employee within the same class with ! ess bargaining unit seniority is retained (subject to Section Two supra). This provision shall not apply to Union steward:, who are deemed to have the highest seniority in their classification.
(a)	An employee whose position is to ?>e eliminated who is not the least senior in his/her classific; tion shall laterally displace the least senior employee in that classification in his/her agency who may then elect as follows:
(1)	To accept the layoff and exercis e Section Six rights
(2)	To laterally displace the least senior employee in the classification statewide, or
(3)	To bump down within his/her a gency pursuant to Subsection Five infra.
If the employee elects (3) above, that employee shall have an absolute right to the first agency vacancy in his/her former classification, in addition to and notwithstanc ing any of the other provisions of this article (See Section Six [e];.
(b)	Any employee displaced from his/1 er classification by exercise of Section Three (a) (2) or (3) s.ipra shall exercise bumping rights as defined in Section Five, infra in the agency from which the original layoff occurs, if his/her employing agency cannot arrange to absorb the employeu to be displaced.
Section Four. The State employer shal give an employee and the Union not less than one six (6) weeks written notice of layoff, stating the reason for such action. When practicable, additional advance notice shall be given. An employee shall have four (4) weeks from receipt of notification oflayoffin
21
which to exercise bumping rights pursuant to Section Five, herein. The Commissioner of Administrative Services shall arrange to have the employee transferred to a vacancy in the same or comparable class or in any other position which, in the judgment of the State employer, the employee is qualified to fill within the department, agency or institution in which the employee works. If the employee refuses to accept the transfer, an eligible employee may exercise bumping rights as specified in Section Five.
(a)	The Employer shall attempt to provide training for employees who, but for the absence of certain identifiable skills, would be eligible for employment in currently vacant positions within the bargaining unit.
(b)	When addressing questions of position to be considered as comparable the comparability listing promulgated by the Department of Administrative (DAS) dated October 1995 shall be utilized. As new classifications are established or existing classifications are restructured, DAS shall identify the proper and appropriate comparability for these new/restructured classes using the same or similar criteria utilized for the October 1995 comparability tables.
Section Five. In lieu of layoff, an employee with more than two (2) years of continuous State service may bump into a lower class within the same classification series or a class declared comparable within the agency in which the layoff occurs, and shall bump the employee with the lowest bargaining unit seniority in such lower class subject to the provision of Section Two.
The bumper shall be paid for service in such lower class as provided in Regulation 5-239-2(0.
Section Six. Reemployment List, (a) The names of permanent employees who are eligible for reemployment shall be arranged on appropriate reemployment lists in order of seniority in the State service, and shall remain thereon for a period of three (3) years.
22
(b)	Employees shall be entitled to specify for placement on the reemployment list for any or all ch sses in which they formerly held permanent status or which are deemed comparable. In the event that an employ :e is appointed to a position from a reemployment list but such position is in a lower salary group than the class or classes for which his/her name is entered upon a reemployment list, he/she shall remain eligible for certification from the latter list.
(c)	An employee appointed from a reemployment list to a position in his/her former salary group will be appointed at the same step in such group as he/she held wher. he/she last worked in State sendee. An employee so appointed to a position in a lower salary group will be appointed at the same step in the salary group as he/she held when he/she last worked in State service.
(d)	There shall be no appointment fom outside State service until laid-off employees eligible for ehire and qualified for the position involved are offered reemployment.
(e)	Any employee who elects to accept another position in his/her former classification shall forfeit :he absolute right described in Section Three (a)(3) of this Artic e.
(f)	For the purpose of layoff selection, ii: is understood that an employee in a training class is deemed to ,>e an incumbent in his/her target class. This provision shall not alter the reemployment rights, if any, to which such individual is entitled by contract.
Section Seven. For the purposes ol this Article, the Employment Security Division may, at the discretion of the Labor Commissioner, be excluded from the remainder of the Labor Department and deemed to be a separate agency.
Section Eight. Impact of Contracting Out. (a) During the life of this Agreement, no full-time permanent employee wi 11 be laid off as a direct consequence of the exercise by the State employer of its right to contract oct.
23
(b)	The State employer will be deemed in compliance with this Section if:
(1)	The employee is offered a transfer to the same or similar position which, in the Employer's judgment, he/she is qualified to perform, with no reduction in pay; or
(2)	The Employer offers to train an employee for a position, which reasonably appears to be suitable based on the employee's qualifications and skills. There shall be no reduction in pay during the training period.
(c)	Sunset Clause: The provisions of this Section expires automatically on the expiration date of this Agreement.
Article 14
Dismissal, Suspension, Demotion or Other Discipline
Section One. (a) No employee shall be suspended, demoted, or reprimanded except for just cause.
(b) No permanent employee in the classified service who has completed the Working Test Period and no unclassified employee who has completed six (6) months of service or the pre-tenure period, whichever is longer, shall be dismissed except for just cause.
Section Two. Grievances concerning dismissal, suspension or disciplinary demotion shall be submitted directly to Step II of the grievance procedure within fifteen (15) days of the receipt of official notification of such action. The fifteen (15) days referenced herein commence with receipt by the Union (Union representative) of a copy of the notification of discipline. In the event the notification is mailed to the Union, it shall be by certified mail. When feasible, the Union will provide the agency with a concurrent copy of the Step II filing. All other grievances shall be filed at Step I.
Section Three. The grievance procedure shall be the exclusive forum for resolving disputes over disciplinary action and will supersede any preexisting forums.
24
Section Four. Employer Conduct for Discipline. Whenever it becomes necessary to discipline an individual employee, the supervisor vested with said responsibility shall undertake said talks in a fashion calculated to apprise the employee of shortcomings, while avoiding embarrassment and public display.
Section Five. Placement of an employe e on a paid leave of absence shall be governed by Regulation 5-240-5a to permit investigation. Provided, however, nothing shall preclude an employee from electing to be placed on r..n unpaid leave of absence for up to thirty (30) days. In such event, the employee may draw accrued vacation pay.
At the expiration of the thirty (30) day period, the employee shall be either:
(1)	charged with the appropriate violation;
(2)	reinstated and reassigned to other duties determined appropriate by the appointing authority pending completion of the investigation; or
(3)	reinstated from leave.
Section Six. Interrogation, (a) An employee who is being interrogated concerning an incident or action which may subject him/her to disciplinary action shall be notified of his/her right to have a Union Steward or other represents l ive present upon request, provided however, this provision shai. not unreasonably delay completion of the interrogation. The interrogation shall not in any case be delayed beyond twelve (12) working hours irrespective of the ability of the Union to provide the required representation. However, no employee will b,‘ forced to appear on the day/shift of such notice. This provision shall be applicable to interrogation before, during or alter the filing of a charge against an employee or notification tc the employee of disciplinary action.
(b) No employee shall be compelled to oiler oral or written evidence against himself/herself in any invest^1 ation or (pre)
25
disciplinary action. Statements by the employee in his/her own behalf shall constitute waiver of this protection.
Section Seven. Whenever practicable, the investigation, interrogation or discipline of employees shall be scheduled in a manner intended to conform with the employee's work schedule, with an intent to avoid overtime. When any employee is called to appear at any time beyond his/her normal work time and actually testifies, he/she shall be deemed to be actually working. This provision shall not apply to Union stewards. The applicability of this Section to employees on unscheduled work weeks shall be a subject of continuing discussion at local unit levels by the appropriate Labor Management Committees.
Section Eight. C.G.S. Section 5-240 and the regulations appurtenant thereto in effect on January 1, 1994 are hereby incorporated by reference.
Article 15 Grievance Procedure
Section One. Definition. Grievance. A grievance is defined as, and limited to, a written complaint involving an alleged violation or a dispute involving the application or interpretation of a specific provision of this Agreement.
Section Two. Grievances shall be filed on mutually agreed forms which specify: (a) the facts, (b) the issue, (c) the date of the violation alleged, (d) the specific controlling contract provision, and (e) the remedy or relief sought. Any grievance may be amended up to and including Step II of the grievance procedure so long as the factual basis of the complaint is not materially altered.
Section Three. Grievant. A Union representative, with or without the aggrieved employee, may submit a grievance, and the Union may in appropriate cases submit an “institutional” or “general” grievance in its own behalf. When individual employee(s) or group of employees elect(s) to submit a grievance without Union representation, the Union's representative or steward shall be notified of the pending grievance, shall be provided a copy thereof, and shall have the
26
right to be present at any discussion of the grievance, except that if the employee does not wish to have the si eward present, the steward shall not attend the meeting but shall be provided with a copy of the written response to the grievance. The steward shall be entitled to receive from the Employer all documents pertinent to the disposition of the grievance and to file statements of position.
Section Four. Informal Resolutions. The grievance procedure outlined herein is designed to faci itate resolution of disputes at the lowest possible level of the procedure. It is therefore urged that the parties attempt informal resolution of all disputes and to avoid the formal procedures.
Section Five. A grievance shall be deemed waived unless submitted at Step I within thirty (30) days from the date of the cause of the grievance or within (30) days horn the date the grievant or any Union representative or steward knew or through reasonable diligence should have known of the cause of the grievance.
(a)	In an arbitration proceeding developi ig from Article 4, the arbitrator’s remedy shall be limited to a ‘ tease and desist’’ order or comparable corrective action.
Section Six. The Grievance Procedure.
Step I. Agency Head or Designee. A grievance shall be submitted to the Agency Head or designee. A meeting with the Union representative and/or grievant shall be held within ten (10) days of receipt of the grievance and a writ en response shall be issued within ten (10) days thereafter.
Step II. The Office of Labor Relations. The parties acknowledge that orderly administration if the contract grievance procedure requires the Director of L ibor Relations to play an active role in the contract grievance procedure. Accordingly, no grievance shall be deemed rip e for submission to arbitration unless and until the Director of Labor Relations has had an opportunity to resolve the grievance. An unresolved
27
grievance may be appealed to the Director of Labor Relations within twenty (20) days of the date of the Step 1 response. Said Director may hold a conference within sixty (60) days of receipt of the grievance and issue a written response within fifteen (15) days of the conference.
Step III Arbitration. Within ten (10) working days after the State’s answer is due at Step II or if no conference is held within sixty (60) days, within ten (10) working days after the expiration of the sixty (60) day period, an unresolved grievance may be submitted to arbitration by the Union or by the State, but not by an individual employee(s) except that individual employees may submit to arbitration in cases of dismissal, demotion or suspension of not less than five working days.
Section Seven. For the purpose of the time limits hereunder, “day” means calendar day unless otherwise specified. The parties by mutual agreement may extend time limits. The State Employer may waive Step I by notifying the steward and/or notifying the Union Office.
Section Eight. In the event that the State Employer fails to answer a grievance within the time specified, the grievance may be processed to the next higher level and the same time limits therefore shall apply as if the State Employer's answer had been filed timely on that last day.
The grievant assents to the last attempted resolution by failing timely to appeal timely said decision or by accepting said decision in writing.
Section Nine. Arbitration, (a) The parties shall agree on an expanded arbitration panel of five (5) arbitrators from which a specific arbitrator shall be selected on a rotational basis. Each party retains the right, following three (3) case experiences to strike any particular arbitrator from the panel. In such case, a replacement arbitrator shall be jointly agreed upon to replace each rejected arbitrator. Submission to arbitration shall be by letter, postage prepaid, addressed to the Director of Labor
28
Relations. The submission shall specify thai the arbitrator must be available to schedule the beginning hearing within twenty (20) days of his/her appointment.
The expenses for the arbitrator's service and for the hearing shall be shared equally by the State and the Union, or in dismissal or suspension cases when the Union is not a party one-half the cost shall be borne by the State and the other half by the party submitting to arbitration.
On grievances when the question of arbitrability has been raised by either party as an issue prior to the actual appointment of an arbitrator a separate arbitrator shall be appointed at the request of either party to determine the issue of arbitrability. Cases involving discharges, transfers, layoffs, or actions in which delay might render any remedy mt ot shall be given preferential scheduling.
(b)	The arbitration hearing shall not folicw the formal rules of evidence unless the parties agree in advance, with the concurrence of the arbitrator at or prior to 1 he time of his/her appointment.
In cases of dismissals, demotions or suspension in excess of five (5) days, the parties may request the arbit -ator to maintain a cassette recording of the hearing testin ony. Costs of transcription shall be borne by the requesting party. A party requesting a stenographic transcript shall arrange for the stenographer and pay the costs thereof.
The State will continue its practice of p lid leave time for witn esses of either party.
(c)	The arbitrator shall have no power I o add to, subtract from, alter, or modify this Agreement, nor to g ant to either party matters which were not obtained in the bargaining process, nor to impose any remedy or right of relief for any period of time prior to the effective date of the Agreement, nor to grant pay retroactively for more than thirty (30) calenda days prior to the date a grievance was submitted at Step I. The arbitrator shall
29
render his/her decision in writing no later than thirty (30) calendar days after the conclusion of the hearing, unless the parties jointly agree otherwise.
The arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding on the parties in accordance with C. G. S. Section 52-418, provided, however, neither the submission of questions of arbitrability to any arbitrator in the first instance nor any voluntary submission shall be deemed to diminish the scope of judicial review over arbitral awards, including awards on competent jurisdiction to construe any such award as contravening the public interest.
Late Arbitration Awards. On those cases in which an arbitrator fails, without permission of the parties, to render a decision within the contractual time limits:
(a)	The award shall be void.
(b)	The arbitrator shall be dropped from the panel.
(c)	The arbitrator shall not be paid.
Expedited Arbitration. Expedited arbitration shall be available in those cases where time based issues are critical and for other grievances where the parties agree that such speedier process is mutually advantageous.
The procedure for said grievances shall be as follows:
(1)	Grievance files at Step II within ten (10) days of notice of the action.
(2)	Step II conference within ten (10) work days of receipt.
(3)	Employer response within three (3) work days of conference.
(4)	Claim for arbitration to be filed within seven (7) work days of receipt of the Step II response.
(5)	Arbitration to be scheduled within twenty (20) work days of claim.
(6)	Arbitration decision may be issued as bench decision, by mutual agreement of the parties, but in all cases the award will be issued within ten (10) days of the close of the hearing.
30
All deadlines specified in this section may be waived by mutual, written consent of the parties. It is recognized that in scheduling an expedited arbitration, a regular grievance scheduled for arbitration may be replaced by the expedited grievance with mutual agreement of the parties. Furthermore, it is recognized that the failure to meet the appeal time frames established for the Union to move the grievance forward serves as removal of the grievance from expedited status to regular grievance status.
Section Ten. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the following matters shall be subject to the grievance procedure but not to arbitration:
(1)	compliance with health and safety standards covered by CONN OSHA:
(2)	disputes over claimed unlawful discrimination shall be subject to the grievance procedure but shall not be arbitrable if a complaint is filed with the Commission on Human Rights and Opportunities arising from thu same common nucleus of operative fact.
(b) Notwithstanding any other pre: vision of this Agreement, the following matters shall not be subject to either the grievance procedure or arbitration:
(1)	dismissal of non-permanent employees.
(2)	the decision to make a layoff and non-disciplinary termination of employees.
Section Eleven, (a) The existing procedures for handling appeal of rejection from admission to examin; tion and disputes over reclassification shall remain in force, except that the final step of the reclassification procedure shall be the same as the final step in the appeal of rejection from admission to examination, with the decision to be rendered within forty-five (45) days.
(b) The Union shall be entitled to have a representative attend all deliberations of the reclassification [:anel and to offer input during the said deliberations.
31
Section Twelve: Conferences and Hearings. All Step II Conferences, Arbitrations, Facilitations and grievance related meetings shall be closed to the press and the public, unless the parties jointly agree to the contrary.
Article 16
Hours of Work
Section One. (a) The standard workweek for all full-time employees shall be forty (40) hours, normally Monday through Friday, eight (8) hours per day between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
The establishment or disestablishment of non-standard workweeks or schedules shall be made only to meet changing agency operation needs and only after advance approval by the Office of Labor Relations, and prior negotiation with the Union and not less than two (2) weeks advance notice to affected employees, except when:
(1)	The standard workweek is being established; or,
(2)	An emergency situation exists. For such exception, notification and/or consultation shall be made as soon as practicable. As soon as the emergency is alleviated, the employee shall revert to his/her regular schedule.
(b) Employees' request for compressed work schedules (including a four (4) day work week) may be implemented when the following conditions prevail:
(1)	The employee initiates said request along with supportive justification.
(2)	Such a request is compatible with agency operating needs.
(3)	Such a request receives the review and approval of the Agency Head.
(4)	The Agency Head shall forward said endorsement to the Office of Labor Relations and it shall be treated as a request for a non-standard work week.
(5)	Disputes hereunder are neither grievable nor arbitrable.
32
Section Two. For the purpose of dciermining hours of work, a duty station shall be defined as trie State-owned or leased building, or other locations at which a; i employee reports for duty. An employee's work day shall begir at the duty station except as outlined below.
(a)	For designated field employees, the duty station shall be defined as the first business call. Howeve , if the first or last business call is more than thirty (30) minute; from home (if by personal vehicle), pickup point (if by ?Jtate vehicle) or hotel/motei (if traveling outside of the State < m State business), the excess over thirty (30) minutes shall be considered as time worked. Provided, however, if the employee resides outside of the State of Connecticut, the standard work day will be measured from the State line when conducting field assignments in Connecticut or passing through Connecticut on field assignments. Such employee conducting fie d assignments in his/her State of residence will use his/her personal residence as the point of reference for measuring the thirty (30) minute time period above. Provided, however, designated field employees who conduct field assignments in other Stites will use the hotel/motel in which they stayed the night price to the call as the point of reference for measuring the thirty' (30) minute time period above. The out of State lunch reimbursement policy shall not apply to designated field employees living out-of-state who perform field assignments in their State of re sidence and/or in Connecticut. Meal reimbursement shall apply for all field assignments outside of Connecticut and outsic ? the individual's State of residence.
(b)	For designated office employees whose duty station is periodically rotated to meet agency opera: ing needs, said provision (a) shall be equally applicable, except that the facility to which the employee is assigned shall be considered as the first (and last) business call.
Any such employee whose duty station is changed shall be given a minimum of two (2) weeks advance notice of such change except in unusual circumstances.
33
Section Thr	ee. Meal Periods. Meal periods shall be scheduled close to the middle of a shift consistent with the operating needs of the agency. Airport Managers assigned by the appointing authority to be on call during the meal break shall be paid for such meal breaks.
Section Fou	r. Rest Periods. Unless precluded by existing agency policy and subject to the operating needs of any agency, employees will be scheduled to receive a fifteen (15) minute rest period in each half shift.
Section Fiv	e. Overtime, (a) The provisions of this Section shall be interpreted consistent with C.G.S. Section 5-245 except when specifically provided otherwise.
(b)	(1) Time and one half shall be paid for all hours in excess of forty (40), except as may otherwise be provided in Article 16A, or C.GS. Section 5-245 for employees on approved rotating shifts, unscheduled positions or classes, and averaging schedules.
(2)	Employees shall continue to be paid overtime consistent with this Agreement, although the parties recognize the statutory obligation that eligible employees be paid overtime in compliance with the provisions of the federal Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA).
After the payment of overtime in accordance with the Collective Bargaining Agreement (see generally, this Article), an employee's additional FLSA payment, if any, shall be computed according to the rules set forth in the FLSA (29, CFR Part 778 et seq). In determining whether said employee is eligible for FLSA overtime payment, only “hours worked” as defined in the Act shall be counted. Furthermore, the FLSA liability shall be offset by the amount of overtime payments already paid to said employee in accordance with this Agreement and existing practice, for that FLSA work period.
(c)	Call Back Pay. Employees who have left work after the end of their scheduled work shift and who are called back to work or called to perform business related tasks, shall receive a
34
minimum of four (4) hours of overtime, including portal-to-portal travel, if applicable. This provision shall not apply to employees who are called in early p, ior to their regular starting time and work through their regular shift.
(d)	Exempt Employees. (1) Except as may otherwise be provided by specific terms of this Agreement, C.GS. Section 5-245(b)(l) shall be deemed to exempt from overtime payment all employees being paid above Salary Grade 24, and those unclassified positions which on June 30, l'->77 were deemed exempt positions. Subject to the operating net ds of the agency:
(2)	Exempt employees who are repaired by the State to attend regular and recurrent evening meetirgs or otherwise to be called out regularly and recurrently to perform work outside the regular scheduled workweek shall be aut.iorized to work a flexible work schedule or to receive compensa ory time off, and;
(3)	Exempt employees who are required by the State to perform extended service outside the normal workweek to complete a project or for other State purpose shall be authorized to receive compensatory time off.
(4)	In no event shall such compensatory time be deemed to accrue in any matter or be the basis for compensation upon termination of employment.
(5)	Employees who are cons, .stently denied compensatory time off under Subsection 1 or 2 may grieve up to but not beyond the Commissioner of Administrative Services. The Commissioner may direct the granting of die compensatory time or request that the Office of Policy ; nd Management authorize payment of such compensatory time i i lieu of time off. The employee will either receive compensaiory time off or payment.
(6)	In cases of national or State erne rgency or where prior approval has been given by the Office of Policy and Management, exempt employees may be paid o /ertime
35
consistent with this Article. This paragraph is not intended to preempt or nullify any existing provisions which vary the exemption rules.
(e)	Overtime pay shall not be pyramided. When practicable, overtime checks shall be paid no later than the second payroll period following the overtime worked.
(f)	Employees assigned to work out of state shall be compensated at the same rate of compensation as would be applicable if the work was performed in the state.
Employees assigned to travel out of state as part of a regular work assignment, shall be compensated for the actual time spent in such travel.
(g)	Each organization unit of a State agency shall establish a volunteer overtime list. An employee may remove/add his/her name from/to the list with two (2) weeks notice. In the event no volunteer is available, the State has the right to require overtime when practicable. Overtime equalization shall be practiced consistent with agency operating needs. An employee who has not volunteered for overtime shall not be penalized for such refusal. The State shall designate job titles where mandatory paid overtime can be required. There shall be no compensatory time for employees eligible to receive overtime pay.
Section Six. When the employee is late for work due to inclement weather, hazardous driving conditions, or mass transportation failures, the employee shall not be charged for such lateness provided that he/she arrives at work within an hour of the start of the shift. In exceptional circumstances, up to 2-1/2 hours may be excused without charge to the employee's leave balances if the severity of conditions so warrants. In assessing whether or not to excuse lateness in excess of an hour, consideration will be given to the time the employee arrives at work when compared to other employees traveling to work under similar circumstances.
Failure to excuse lateness of up to 2-1/2 hours shall be subject to the grievance and arbitration provisions of this
36
Agreement. In any arbitration of a dispute under this Section, unless the Employer can be shown to have < cted arbitrarily and capriciously, the arbitrator shall give substantial weight to the judgment of the Employer.
In those cases in which either the additicnal 1-1/2 hours are not credited to the employee, or the latei ess exceeds 2-1/2 hours, said employee may opt to either ma<e up said time or charge said excess time to accrued leave.
Section Seven. Consistent with C.GS. J ection 5-248c and the regulations promulgated there under, a pt rmanent employee may submit a request to the appointing autho ity for a voluntary schedule reduction. The appointing authority shall promptly review such request and notify the employee of the approval or denial of the request. The approval or denial of such request is neither grievable nor arbitrable.
Arucle 16 A
Alternative Work Schedi les
Section One. The State shall continue to implement and operate for employees in all agencies, AWS schedules; the degree of employee free choice and band-width may vary from agency to agency or subunit to subunit, but tl :e preference shall be for maximum employee free choice where feasible. Any bargaining unit employee not otherwise exempted by agreement, or by action of the employer as set forth below, may participate in the available options.
Employees whose salaries are currently below the (Article 16, Section 5 [d]) Overtime Cap may nevertht less participate in pure flextime, averaging and compressed woi kweek options to the same degree as those above the cap. Ary such employee who voluntarily chooses such a schedule option, shall be allowed to work up to eighty (80) hours in any pay period before qualifying for paid overtime. This provision shall supersede relevant statutes in accordance with the provisions of the State Employee Relations Act, C.GS. Section 5-278K
37
(a)	Each State Agency will have established a menu of alternative work schedule options. The menu of options shall be available to full-time permanent employees. Said menu may include the following:
1.	unrestricted daily starting/quitting time; around
a core hour structure.
2.	5/4 or 4/5 bi-weekly.
3.	weekly variable starting and quitting time.
Agencies may be exempt from offering alternative schedules based on business needs. In requesting such exemption the agency must provide its justification to the Office of Labor Relations, who shall in turn inform the Union of its determination concerning the exemption. Upon request from the Union, through the Office of Labor Relations, the parties shall meet and discuss the exemption.
(b)	Assignment to any variation of the standard workweek, is not considered an alternative work schedule.
(c)	There shall be an AWS Facilitator, who shall be knowledgeable in flexible schedule issues. The Facilitator shall be available to resolve such matters as are set forth hereafter. The State and the Union shall share equally the Facilitator’s expenses.
(d)	Each agency shall maintain an AWS Committee of an equal number of representatives of the Union and the Agency. The Committee shall review and vote upon all new and/or revised, AWS programs and offerings. No dispute shall be deemed ripe for arbitration until the Committee has reviewed same; or has failed to meet within fifteen [15] days of notice of a pending dispute.
Section Two	. Employees shall submit quarterly the schedule from the menu of options that the employee wishes to be working for the following quarter. The submittal will be to the employee’s supervisor (non-bargaining unit). The grant
38
or denial of this submitted schedule will be based on business needs. Staffing compliments required during a workday are to be determined solely by management.
Section Thr	ee. Reduction and/or Elimination
Except as otherwise provided herein, the employee and the Union must receive not less than ten (Hi) days notice of an Agency’s intent to modify, suspend, o discontinue any alternative work schedule. Agencies may reduce, or eliminate alternative work schedules based upon written supportive factual evidence of one or more of the following:
(a)	increased cost or unduly burdensome
(b)	inconvenience or decrease in service to the public
(c)	decrease in work productivity
(d)	inability of the employer to maintain or sustain adequate staffing levels
Except as otherwise provided here n, a reduction or elimination of an alternative work schedule s subject to direct arbitral appeal pursuant to the arbitration provisions of this Agreement, but shall not be deemed ripe for submission to arbitration until the AWS Facilitator has reviewed same, and issued a non-binding opinion thereon. Unless the Union agrees to the contrary, actions to reduce or eliminate programs shall be stayed until receipt of the Facilitator's opinion. The Facilitator shall have binding authority to continue or terminate the stay, pending appeal through arbitration.
Section Fou	r. Individual Options
(a)	An employee who can demonstrate a need for a non-AWS option, schedule modification based upon childcare responsibilities, eldercare, family or personal medical condition or treatment, or other care obligations, educational programs, carpooling or mass transportation considerations, shall be accommodated whenever possible. The AWS Facilitator shall have binding authority to resolve these disputes. Such request shall be reviewed quarterly.
39
(b)	An employee shall qualify for said accommodation unless the Agency can establish that the employee has demonstrated a pattern of a lack of dependability during the preceding twelve (12) months. Said pattern must have been documented in writing, and the employee must have been provided with an opportunity to acknowledge receipt of said documentation. Management shall give due consideration as to whether the grant of said schedule might logically cure the dependability problem.
(c)	The Appointing Authority may revoke a preferred schedule if an employee has been found to have misconducted him/herself in any manner with respect to the schedule. The removal of said schedule shall be stayed until the matter can be reviewed initially by the AWS Facilitator, who may issue an interim order regarding the schedule. Said order shall be limited to the issue of whether the stay should continue pending submission of the threshold issue to the [disciplinary] arbitrator [Grievance Panel].
Section Fiv	e. Conflicts
Whenever possible, Article 12 “seniority” shall apply in resolving conflicts between similarly classified employees and competing requests for schedules. Medical requests, ADA accommodations, and employee performance shortcomings considerations are examples of agreed exceptions to the seniority rule.
Article 17 Holidays
Section One. For the purposes of this Article, holidays are as follows: New Year's Day, Martin Luther King Day, Lincoln's Birthday, Washington's Birthday, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veteran’s Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day.
Section Two	. Unless superseded in this Article the provisions of C.GS. Section 5-254 and the appurtenant regulations shall continue in force.
40
Section Thr	ee. Holiday Pay. Each full time employee shall receive pay for the holidays as designated in Section One as follows.
1.	When an employee’s schedule incl.ides a holiday, but the employee is not obligated to work on that designated holiday, said employee shall receive his/hei regular week's pay for the week in which the holiday falls [:<aid holiday pay is equal to eight (8) hours],
2,	When an employee is neither scheduled to work, nor called-in on the holiday the employee shall receive a compensatory day of eight (8) hours.
3.	If an employee works on the holiday as part of his/her regular schedule, the employee shall recei /e a compensatory day off plus he/she shall be paid time and ore-half for all hours worked on the holiday.
(a) By mutual agreement between the employee and the agency, any single holiday listed above, may be worked in exchange for a day off on the day following Thanksgiving.
4.	An employee who is scheduled to be off on a holiday but is called in on that holiday shall receh e pay at time and one-half for all hours worked plus a compen: atory day off.
5.	An employee regularly scheduled or less than a full day on a holiday shall be compensated as fof ows:
(a)	An employee who works shall be paid time and one-half plus a compensatory day as in Section Three above.
(b)	An employee who does not work shall receive a total of eight (8) hours holiday credit, which shall be applied so as to guarantee a full week’s pay in the week of the holiday. The excess shall be banked as compensatory time.
6.	Except where otherwise prov ided herein, a compensatory day paid to an employee who actually worked on the holiday shall be equal to eight (8) hours. Any current stipulated agreements regarding the length of the compensatory day shall be deemed void by virtue of this prov ision.
Section Four. At agencies where a regular schedule requires an employee to work on a holiday, st iffing needs to be met by volunteers before employees are assign ed, provided there
41
are sufficient volunteers qualified and available to meet the agency's operating needs. The Employer may schedule an employee for a compensatory day off within thirty (30) days of the date the holiday was worked, at the mutual convenience of the parties. If such compensatory day cannot be scheduled within the thirty (30) day period, the employee may request, within forty-five (45) days of the date the holiday was worked, payment at the regular rate of pay earned at the time the holiday was worked. Otherwise, the Employer may schedule a compensatory day off within ninety (90) days of the date the holiday was worked, or at the conclusion of the ninety (90) day period, pay the employee at the regular rate of pay earned at the time the holiday was worked. Seniority shall be considered in meeting staffing needs, consistent with the above.
Section Five. Premium Holidays. Any employee required to work on a premium holiday (Christmas, New Years, Thanksgiving, Memorial Day, July 4th, Labor Day), shall be paid at the rate of time plus one-half (1-1/2) for all hours worked on the holiday plus his/her regular pay for the day, unless the employee wishes compensatory time in lieu of the day's pay.
Section Six. In the case of any premium holiday, the premium pay described in this Section Five shall be applicable on both the actual holiday and the observation day. Nothing herein shall permit any given employee who works both the holiday date and the observation date to claim premium holiday payment for more than one (1) of the dates worked.
Article 18 Vacations
Section One. Employees who were on the State payroll as of June 30, 1977 shall accrue one and one quarter (1-1/4) vacation days per month, except that employees who have completed twenty (20) years of service shall earn paid vacation credits at the rate of one and two-thirds (1-2/3) work days for each completed calendar month of service. For employees hired
42
on or after 7/1/77, the following vacation Ie ive shall apply:
0-5 years	1 day j er month
Over 5 and under 20 years	1 -1 /4 d ay per month
Over 20 years	1-2/3 d.iy per month
Section Two. No employee may carry over, without agency permission, more than ten (10) days of vacalion leave to the next year. Such permission shall not be u ireasonably denied. Employees are urged, however, to schedule ise of vacation leave to preclude build-up of accrued vacation.
For employees hired on or before lune 30, 1977, the maximum accumulation of vacation shall be one hundred twenty (120) days. For employees hired on or after July 1, 1977, the maximum accumulation shall be sixty (60) days.
Section Three. Except as provided her/in, the written rules and regulations relative to vacation leave wi). continue in force.
(a)	No vacation leave shall accrue for any calendar month in which an employee is on leave of absence without pay for an aggregate of more than five (5) working day:..
(b)	When a full day off is granted by the act of the Governor, an employee on vacation shall not have the day charged as a vacation day.
Section Four. Subject to operating needs, agencies shall attempt to provide each employee who so rec; nests with a total of one (1) week vacation leave during prime vacation period (June 15 through September 15 and November 20 through January 30). Arbitrary denials under this provision may be appealed through the grievance and arbitration procedu re.
Section Five. Advanced Vacation Pay. Upon written request to the agency, no later than three (3) weeks prior to the commencement of a scheduled vacation period, an employee shall receive such earned and accrued pay f >r vacation time as he/she may request, such payment to be nade prior to the commencement of the employee vacation period. Such advances shall be for the period of not less than one (1) pay week.
43
Section Six. Personal Leave. In addition to annual vacation, each appointing authority shall grant to each full-time permanent employee in the state service three (3) days of personal leave of absence with pay in each calendar year. Personal leave of absence shall be for the purpose of conducting private affairs, including observance of religious holidays, and shall not be deducted from vacation or sick leave credits. Personal leave of absence days not taken in a calendar year shall not be accumulated.
Article 19 Sick Leave
Section One. Each full-time employee shall accrue sick leave at the rate of one and one-quarter (1-1/4) days per completed calendar month of service.
(a)	Such leave starts to accrue only on the first working day of the calendar month and is credited upon completion of the month.
(b)	No sick leave will accrue when an employee is on leave of absence without pay for an aggregate of more than five (5) working days.
Section Two. The appointing authority shall grant sick leave to the eligible employee who is incapacitated for duty. During such leave, the employee is compensated in full and retains his/her employment benefits. Such leave shall not be granted for periods of time during which the employee is receiving compensation in accordance with C.G.S. Section 5-142 or Section 5-143 except to the extent permitted by said Sections or for recuperation from an illness or injury which is directly traceable to employment by an employer other than the State of Connecticut.
Section Thr	ee. An eligible employee shall be granted sick leave:
(a)	for medical, dental, or eye examination or treatment for which arrangements cannot be made outside of working hours;
44
(b)	in the event of death in the immediate family when as much as five (5) working days leave with pay shall be granted. Immediate family means spouse, father, mother, sister, brother, or child, and also any relative who is domiciled in the employee’s household;
(c)	in the event of critical illness o severe injury to a member of the immediate family crea ing an emergency, provided that not more than five (5) days of sick leave per calendar year shall be granted therefore;
(d)	for going to, attending, and return ing from funerals of persons other than members of the immediate family, if permission is requested and approved in advance by the appointing authority and provided that not more than three (3) days of sick leave per calendar year shall be granted therefore.
Section Fou	r. If an employee is si-.:k while on annual vacation leave, the time shall be charged against accrued sick leave.
Section Five. A holiday occurring whe n an employee is on sick leave shall be counted as a holiday anc not charged as sick leave. When a full day off is granted by the act of the Governor, an employee on sick leave shall not be charged as being on sick leave.
Section Six. An employee laid off shal l regain accrued sick leave to his/her credit provided he/she retun: s to State service on a permanent basis pursuant to Article 13, Set rion Six.
Section Seven. An employee who has resigned from State service in good standing and who is reemployed within one (1) year from the effective date of his/her resi gnation shall retain sick leave accrued to his/her credit as of t ie effective date of his/her resignation.
Section Eight. All sick leave shall be recorded in the attendance records of the appointing authority. Such records shall reflect the current amount of accrued le ive, the amount and dates when leave was taken, and the current balance available to each employee. The records shall be subject :o review by the
45
Commissioner of Administrative Services, and said records shall be available at reasonable times to the employee concerned. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement or applicable Statute or Regulations, no employee shall be required to disclose the nature of the illness underlying a sick leave request.
Section Nine. Sick leave shall accrue for the first twelve (12) months in which an employee is receiving Workers' Compensation benefits.
Section Ten. Medical Certificate. An acceptable medical certificate, which shall be on the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Administrative Services or a form signed by a licensed physician or other practitioner whose method of healing is recognized by the State providing the same basic information, may be required of an employee by his/her appointing authority to substantiate a request for sick leave for the following reasons:
(1)	any period of absence consisting of more than five (5) consecutive working days;
(2)	to support request for sick leave of two (2) days or more during annual vacation;
(3)	leave of any duration if absence from duty recurs frequently or habitually provided the employee has been notified that a certificate will be required;
(4)	leave of any duration when evidence indicates reasonable cause for requiring such a certificate, except cases of alleged misconduct, which shall continue to be covered by Article 14.
The employee may grieve the imposition of the prospective medical certificate requirement. In such event the arbitrator may deny imposition of the requirement if the Agency can be shown to have acted arbitrarily or capriciously. During the pendency of the grievance, the imposition of the medical certificate requirement shall be stayed. The stay shall be in the nature of a temporary restraining order pending an expedited review arbitration on the validity of the stay, or the appropriateness of the medical certificate requirement.
46
Section Eleven. Upon death of ar employee who has completed ten (10) years of State service, the Employer shall pay to the beneficiary one fourth (1/1) of the deceased employee's daily salary for each day of sick leave accrued to his/her credit as of his/her last day on the active payroll up to a maximum payment of sixty (60) days' pay. The provisions of this section shall take effect July 1, 1980.
Section Twel	ve. This Article supersedes Regulations 5-247-1 through 5-247-4 and 5-247-7 through 5-247-11.
Section Thir	teen. Family Leave Pro vision. An employee who is seriously ill, or who has a seriously ill relative, as described by statute, may request and shall >e granted;
(a)	a leave of absence subject to the provisions of C.GS. Section 5-248a (and amendments thereto) and the regulations appurtenant thereto;
(b)	contractually permitted use of accrued sick leave or vacation leave for family care purposes.
In addition thereto, an employee who i:. seriously ill, or who has a seriously ill relative, as described ay the statute, may, without loss of statutory benefits, request and may, at the Employer's discretion, be granted part-tin e work, where said work can be arranged. The duration of ;uch part-time work arrangements will be determined by the E mployer. Denial of part-time work arrangements shall not be gr; evable or arbitrable.
When family sick leave is utilized n conjunction with provision of C.GS. Section 5-248a (and < mendments thereto) the statutory leave shall be extended by the actual duration of the contractual sick leave usage.
Article 20
Sick Leave Bank
Section One	. Definition. There shall be an Emergency Sick Leave Bank to be used by full-time permanent employees.
Section Two	. Eligibility. An employeshall be eligible to use sick leave benefits from the bank when:
47
(a)	The employee has been employed by the State for two (2) or more years.
(b)	The employee has exhausted all sick leave, and personal leave.
(c)	The employee has exhausted vacation leave in excess of sixty (60) days and any other compensatory time.
(d)	The illness or injury is not covered by Workers' Compensation and/or such compensation benefit has been exhausted.
(e)	An acceptable medical certificate supporting the continued absence is on file.
(f)	The employee has not been disciplined for sick leave abuse during the two (2) year period preceding application for the benefit; provided, however, the committee may waive this requirement.
Section Three. Benefit Amount. Benefits under this Article shall be paid at the rate of one-half (1/2) day for each day of illness or injury. Payments shall begin on the sixteenth (16th) day after the exhaustion of leave or Workers' Compensation as outlined above. No employee shall be eligible to draw from the bank more than once per contract year; more than two hundred (200) one-half {1/2) days per year of illness or injury; or if the fund is depleted. Employees receiving benefits under this Article shall not accrue vacation or sick leave during the period of eligibility or be eligible for holiday or other paid leave benefits.
Section Four. Retention of Position. The Employer shall hold the position for any employee who has been placed on sick leave bank for a period of not less than forty-two (42) calendar days. If an employee remains on the sick leave bank for more than forty-two (42) calendar days, the employee shall provide the employer with at least four weeks notice of the employee’s anticipated date of return. Upon receiving said notice, the employer shall identify an available vacancy, in State service, the employer is authorized to fill in which to transfer the
48
employee. Said transfer shall be to an eqi .ivalent position with equivalent pay in state service if he/she re aims to work within twenty-four (24) weeks of his/her initial placement on the sick leave bank pursuant to C.G.S. Section >248a. If no such vacancy exists, the employee shall be place .1 on a reemployment list for any position within the classification in which the employee held permanent status, or any pos tion the employee is otherwise deemed qualified to fill. This provision shall not preclude agencies from holding the position for longer periods up to and including the actual length of the leave.
Section Five. The Fund. The fund las been established through contributions of hours from t nth the State and employees. Effective on the first day o ' the payroll period following legislative approval of this contract, each full-time employee employed for two (2) or more years shall contribute four (4) hours toward the sick leave bank. Said contribution shall be deducted from their individual sick leave balance on such date. Effective that same date, ne Employer shall contribute an additional 1,000 hours to the fi ind. Eight (8) hours shall be deducted from the sick leave balance of any full time employee who has not made the above contribution, subject to the provisions of Section Two above. Additionally, four (4) hours shall be deducted from the sick leave balance of those employees who made the first contribution.
If at any time the fund should fall below 3,000 hours, the Committee shall recommend a contribution from each full-time employee. Said contribution shall not exceed eight (8) hours in any calendar year and shall only be made by mutual agreement of the panics.
Section Six. Administration of the Prigram. An eligible employee requesting use of emergency sick leave may make application on the prescribed form to a Labor-Management committee established to administer the program. Said committee shall be comprised of two (2) members; one (1) from the Employer and one (1) from the Union. T?.e Committee shall
49
have full authority to grant benefits and administer the program in accordance with the guidelines above or as mutually agreed to. When an employee returns to work, or when sick leave benefits have been exhausted, the agency will notify the Committee, in writing, with the total number of hours used by said employee. Time off without loss of pay or benefits shall be granted to Committee members to attend meetings as necessary to administer this program.
The actions or non-actions of the Committee shall in no way be subject to collateral attack or subject to the grievancearbitration process. The panel shall not be considered a State agency, nor shall it be considered a board or other subdivision of the Employer. All actions shall be taken at the discretion of the Committee, and no requests shall be conducted as contested cases. The parties agree to continue to share in the administration of the bank.
This Article supersedes Regulations 5-247-5 and 5-247-6.
Section Seven. The parties agree that the SLB Committee may, from time to time, make reasonable modifications/accommodations in its rules of operations. When such modifications are to be adopted, the changes shall be approved by the respective parties, signed and dated. If any modifications necessitate Legislative notice of Supersedence, said proposed change shall become effective upon Legislative approval.
Article 21
Pregnancy, Maternal, and Parental Leave
Disabilities resulting from or contributed to by pregnancy, miscarriage, abortion, childbirth or maternity, defined as the hospital stay and any period before or after the hospital stay certified by the attending physician as that period of time when an employee is unable to perform the requirements of her job, may be charged to any accrued paid leaves. Upon expiration of paid leave, the employee may request and shall be granted a medical leave of absence without pay position held. The total period of medical leave of absence without pay with position 50
being held shall not exceed six (6) months following the date of termination of the pregnancy (also see provisions of Article Twelve, Seniority). A request to continue on a medical leave of absence due to disability as outlined abo^ e must be in writing and supplemented by an appropriate medical certificate. Such requests will be granted for an additional period not to exceed three (3) additional months. If granted, the position may or may not be held for the extended period subject to the appointing authority's decision.
Parental Leave: The provisions of C.GS. Section 5-248a (and amendments thereto) and the reg .ilations appurtenant thereto, as they apply to parental leave, shall apply. An employee who is granted a statutory non-disability leave may request and shall be granted the financial benefits of accrued vacation leave, personal leave and/or compensatory time during the period of statutory leave; however, such time, if taken during the period of statutory leave, shall not be i itilized to extend the same leave for a period in excess of that described in the request for such leave or the statutory maximum.
A statutory parental leave need not commence immediately following the birth or adoption of a child, but must be completed w ithin the one (1) year period following such birth or adoption.
Holidays which occur during the period covered by the parental leave provisions of C.G.S. Section 5-248a shall not be compensated unless the employee is concu- rcntly utilizing paid vacation, compensatory time or personal leave as may be permitted above and consistent with current practice.
Up to five (5) days of paid leave, deduc led from sick leave, will be provided to an employee in connection with the birth, adoption or taking custody of a child.
Article 22
Health Program
Section One. Where an employee'/; job specification requires a physical examination or when, in the judgment of the Employer, a physical examination is directly related to job performance and is required, the Employer w: 11 provide such
51
examination free of charge. The State will continue to offer free immunization programs, subject to operating needs of the Employer.
Section Two. The parties shall continue the availability and maintenance of a list of State or public health service-clinics where employees may receive, free of charge, examination for the following health services: Chest X-Rays, venereal disease, pap smear, E.K.Q glaucoma and stress testing. The parties may, by mutual Agreement, establish a Committee to arrange and coordinate scheduling of such services. Any time spent in receiving services hereunder shall be on the employee’s free time or chargeable to accrued leave time.
Section Three. Disputes over the application of this Article shall be neither grievable nor arbitrable.
Article 23
Group Health Insurance
Section One. Health Insurance. For the duration of this Agreement, the State shall continue in force the health insurance coverage previously effective unless modified through the Health Care Cost Containment process or by mutual agreement of the parties.
Section Two. Life Insurance. The existing group life insurance program shall continue in force for the duration of this Agreement unless varied by mutual agreement of the parties or legislative action.
Article 24 Compensation
Section One. General Wage Increases. Effective with the pay period that includes July 1, 2003, the base annual salary of all employees shall continue at the pay levels effective June 28, 2002. Effective with the pay period that includes July 1, 2004, the base annual salaiy of all employees shall be increased by three and one-half percent (3,5%). Effective with the pay period that includes July 1, 2005, the base annual salary for all employees shall be increased by three and one-half percent
52
(3.5%), Effective with the pay period that includes July 1, 2006, the base annual salary for all employees s 5all be increased by three and one-half percent (3.5%).
For the first year of this Agreement, commencing July 1, 2003, employees who are on the maximum step of the salary schedule, who receive no annual increment, shall forfeit any lump sum payment. Effective July 1, 2004 those employees who are on the maximum step of the salary schedule, who receive no annual increment shall receive a lump sum payment of two and one-half (2.5%) of their annual rate. Said payment shall be made on the date when the annval increment would have applied.
Section Two	.
(a)	Annual Increments. Employees will continue to be eligible for and receive annual increment;? during the term of this contract in accordance with existing practice that the first year of the Agreement (2003-2004) there shall be no annual incremental increases; increments shall be delayed by three (3) months in contract year 2004-2005; increments shall be delayed by three (3) months in contract year 2005-2006. The fourth year (2006-2007) of the Agreement the annual increment will be restored to be paid the first (1st) pay perio .1 following July 1, 2006 or January 1, 2007, as applicable.
(b)	New Step. Effective July 1, 2000 the pay plan shall be modified by the addition of a full eig hth (8th) step which shall be three percent (3%) above step seven 7).
Section Thr	ee. Longevity. Employees shall continue to be eligible for longevity payments for the life of this contract in accordance with existing practice. The longevity schedule(s) is/are appended hereto.
Section Fou	r. Shift and Weekend Differential, (a) The existing rules, regulations and rates for nig it shift differential will continue in force except as follows:
53
(l)The night shift differential shall be sixty-five cents ($.65) per hour. Effective the pay period including July 1, 2005 the shift differential shall be seventy cents ($.70) per hour. Effective the pay period including July I, 2006 the shift differential shall be seventy-five cents ($.75) per hour.
(2)	Those employees who have selected an alternative work schedule shall not receive shift differential for any hours within the bandwidth hours of AWS.
(3)	Employees at or below Salary Grade 18 shall be eligible for shift differential; effective the pay period including July 1, 2005 the salary eligibility for entitlement of shift differential will be Salary Grade 24 and below. Teletrack Line Supervisors shall qualify for the night shift differential provided all other eligibility criteria are met.
(b) Weekend Differential. For the purpose of this Article, a weekend is defined as the forty-eight (48) hour period beginning at 11:00 p.m. on Friday night and ending at 11.00 p.m. on Sunday night.
(1)	Weekend differential shall be paid for working a full shift with the majority of shift hours falling on the weekend.
(2)	Weekend differential shall be paid only for employees working in seven (7) day operations and only for hours worked and not while such an employee is on leave of any nature.
(3)	The weekend differential shall be forty cents ($.40) per hour. Effective the pay period including July 1, 2005 the weekend differential will be forty-five cents ($.45) per hour. Effective the pay period including July 1, 2006 the weekend differential will be fifty cents ($.50) per hour.
(4)	Employees at or below Salary Grade 18 shall be eligible for the weekend differential. Effective the pay period including July 1, 2005 the salary eligibility for entitlement of weekend differential
54
will be Salaty Grade 24 or below. Teletrack Line Supervisors shall be eligible fc. r said differential provided that all other eligibility criteria are met.
Section Five. An employee who is promoted, whether provisionally or permanently, shall receive an increase equivalent to not less than the amount of , in increment in the salary group of the classification to which he/she is promoted, but not to exceed the maximum for the new c lassification.
Section Six	. Effective the contract year commencing July 1, 2003 the State will allocate $140,000 for tuition reimbursement in accordance with established policy and p ocedure. Effective July 1, 2004, the second year of the Agreement, the fund will be established at $140,000. Effective July 1, 2005, the Tuition Reimbursement Fund allocation as set fort i for contract year 2004-2005 shall be increased by Twenty thousand dollars ($20,000). Effective July 1, 2006, the fourth year of the Agreement, the fund will be established at $2 10,000.
Unused funds from one contract ye;.r will be carried forward into the following contract year; however, unused funds at the expiration of the contract term shall lapse.
The State will honor reimbursement cl aims submitted by unit employees for the contract years of 2063-2004 and 2004-2005, if such claims meet the contractual st; ndards, and to the extent that the aggregate of such claims shall not exceed the permissible limitations.
Tuition reimbursement shall be equa. to seventy-five percent (75%) of the per credit rate for undergraduate and graduate courses at the University of Connecticut, Storrs; however, such reimbursement shall not exceei I the actual cost of each course.
Section Sev	en. Licensing Fees. An employee whose job specification requires a professional license or certification as a condition of employment and who uses such license for State business shall be reimbursed for the cost cd" such license or certification.
55
Section Eig	ht. Accidental Death and Dismemberment Policy. Effective July 1, 1985, the State shall provide a SI0,000 accidental death and dismemberment policy to cover employees traveling on State business.
Section Nin	e. Employees who are required on a daily basis to wear safety shoes shall receive an annual allowance of seventy dollars ($70.00).
Section Ten. On-Call/Standby Pay. For those employees, who are by managerial direction, assigned on-call/standby status and must be available for service and must respond if contacted, a sum of $ 1.00 per hour shall be paid for each hour so assigned. Effective July 1, 2005, the rate shall be increased to $1.25 per hour and for holiday on-call/standby the rate will be $2.00 per hour. Notwithstanding the duration of any on-call/standby assignment, compensation shall not exceed $100 per employee per week. Effective July 1, 2005, the maximum compensation per employee per week shall be $ 175.
Section Eleven. Overpayment Procedure. When the Employer determines that an employee has been overpaid, it shall notify the employee of this and the reasons therefore. The Employer shall arrange to recover such overpayment from the employee over the same period in which the employee was overpaid unless the Employer and employee agree to some other arrangements. (For example: an employee who has been overpaid by $5.00 per pay period for six months shall refund the Employer at the rate of $5.00 per pay period over six months.)
In the event the employee contests whether or how much he/she was actually overpaid, the Employer shall not institute the above refund procedure until the appeal is finally resolved through the grievance procedure. This section shall apply to overpayments, which occur after July 1, 1987.
Section Twelve. Home Office Premium. On or about December 1 of each contract year, employees in the following classifications who are expected to use their home to conduct State business, shall receive two hundred and twenty-five dollars
56
($225.00); Department of Agriculture Inspector Dairy, or Department of Agriculture Inspector Poultry and Livestock.
Said payments shall be proportionately reduced for those employees who use their home to conduct Sl ate business for less than a full year, measured from Jul/ 1 to June 30. Notwithstanding the above provision, the current practice pertaining to Hours of Work, Section Two shall continue in force.
The first payment under this Section s hall be made on or about December 1, 2000 for the period commencing July 1, 2000 to June 30, 2001.
Section Thirteen. Any employee who is required by the State to garage a State vehicle at his/her home and whose gross income is reported to be increased by ti e provision of an employer provided vehicle pursuant to Federal Public Law 99-44 shall receive a two hundred dollar ($2 DO) annual payment on or about January 15 of each contract year. Eligibility for the annual payment shall be limited to those employees who are required to home-garage the vehicle for an aggregate of ten (10) months or more between November 1 and October 31. Those employees who are required to home-garage a vehicle for an aggregate of four (4) months but less tha 1 ten (10) months between November 1 and October 31 si all receive a one hundred dollar ($100) annual payment on or about January 15 of each contract year.
In order for an employee to be deemed “ required” to garage at home and therefore be eligible for the a:?ove payment, the Agency Head or designee must certify to th ,: Director of State Fleet Operations and obtain his/her approval, that due to the nature of the duties the employee must be req aired to garage the State vehicle at his/her home.
Employees who are allowed, but not required to home garage a State vehicle shall have the option to park at an approved State owned or leased facility consistent with General Letter No. 115.
57
This section shall not be interpreted to limit the State’s right to remove garaging under the provisions of Article 25, Section Fifteen.
Section Fourteen. Lottery Incentives. Connecticut Lottery Corporation shall continue at its discretion, the practice of providing entrepreneurial incentives to designated State Lottery employees.
Article 25
Travel Expenses and Reimbursements
Section One	. The standard state travel regulations in force on January 1, 1990, shall be incorporated by reference, except as superseded herein.
Employees on the payroll as of July 1, 1982, who currently qualify for benefits in excess of those delineated in the current travel regulations, which rights have been previously arbitrated successfully, shall retain the benefit of said prior practice.
Section Two	. Mileage reimbursement shall be paid at the rate of thirty-two cents ($.32) per mile, said figure to be readjusted within thirty (30) days of readjustment by the U.S. General Services Administration.
Section Thr	ee. Mileage reimbursement for use of personal vehicle on authorized State business shall be computed as the lesser of the following:
(a)	From the duty station to and around the employee's work area and return.
(b)	From home to and around the employee's work area and return.
Section Four. Field employees or employees with rotating duty stations whose work day begins at a location not owned, leased or occupied by the State shall be paid mileage portal to portal. Such employees whose work day begins at a location owned, leased or occupied by the State shall be paid mileage in accordance with Section Three above.
58
Section Five, (a) No employee req.iired to use his/her personal vehicle for State business shs .1 receive mileage reimbursement of less than two dollars ($2.0 )) per day.
(b) Auto Usage Fee. Employees required to utilize (or have available for work related response) a nersonal vehicle for fifty percent (50%) of the assigned monthly work days shall be paid a daily auto usage fee equal to $32 0 for each day of required availability or $4.50 for each day of required usage, for each work day of such month which shall be in addition to the mileage reimbursement described in Section 'rwo.
Said Usage shall be evaluated and paid ./n a monthly basis upon presentation of travel expense reimbursement.
Section Six. In the event of a federally c r state imposed gas rationing program, no employee shall be directed to utilize his/her personal vehicle unless the Employe makes provisions for adequate additional gasoline for employees so directed.
Section Seven. Each employee required by the Employer to use a personally-owned motor vehicle for official State business shall produce an insurance policy for review by the Employer showing that the vehicle to be us.:d is insured in at least the following amounts: (a) $50,000/100,000 minimum liability and $5,000 property damage; (b) $L 00,000 minimum for liability for bodily injury and property dan: age.
No employee shall be terminated from employment solely because an insurer refuses to grant more titan the minimum amount of insurance required by law.
Section Eight. Upon request, any employee traveling out of State in a State vehicle shall be issued a co nmercial gasoline credit card for any emergency repairs which occur after the normal work day. Every effort must be made to secure permission from a supervisory employee price to making such repairs. Emergency telephone numbers will be provided in each State passenger car for vehicle breakdowns.
Section Nine. When an employee is involved in an accident, damage to State property caused by tl e driver shall be
59
the responsibility of the agency. The driver may only be assessed for property damage if (a) his/her actions constitute willful or wanton misconduct; (b) he/she was under the influence of alcohol or unprescribed narcotics.
Section Ten. (a) Out of State Travel. Effective Upon Legislative Approval: An employee who is required to travel overnight and out of state on State business for a period of two (2) or more consecutive days shall receive a ten dollar ($10.00) lump sum undocumented reimbursement for each day, or partial day, of said business trips, but shall receive no payment for the return day if said return travel ends prior to 7:00 a.m. on that day.
(b) Premium City Supplement. The Employer shall pay a premium to each employee assigned out of state to cities within Zone 1 and 1A on the Travel Reimbursement policy or outside of the continental United States of America in accordance with current qualification practices. The premium shall be six dollars ($6.00) per day for contract years 2003-2004. In contract year 2005-2006, the Supplement shall be increased to eight dollars ($8.00) per day.
Section Eleven, (a) Travel Advance. Upon request of the employee, the State shall advance a sum of two hundred dollars ($200.00) to each bargaining unit employee who regularly and recurringly accrues travel expenses on an average of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) a month for which reimbursement is claimed. Each employee who wishes to accept said advance shall execute a promissory note which shall make the monies advanced deductible from the employees last paycheck as a State employee within the unit (effective date July 1, 1986). This provision shall not limit or diminish an employee's right to the benefit provided pursuant to Article 25 (11 )(b).
Effective July 1, 1988, when a request for repayment is occasioned by a change in circumstances wherein the employee is no longer deemed to be qualified for such advance, payment shall be deducted from:
60
(1)	The first salary payment following ninety (90) days from agency notification to the employ ee,
OR
(2)	Where said employee has appealed the agency decision regarding qualification, the first paycheck following the end of the appeal process.
(b) In the event an employee is required to travel out of state on employer business, that employee shall be provided with a cash advance in an amount requested by the employee to cover necessary allowable expenses as outlined in the state travel regulations. At the conclusion of the trip, the employee shall submit the proper vouchers or receipts to justify the advance. If the advance taken was less than justified, the employee shall be reimbursed for the out of pocket expenses within two (2) weeks of filing his/her expens;? report.
Section Twel	ve. The Employer will reimburse the full amount of a single hotel room under the folic wing conditions:
(a)	When the employee is engaged in a regular job assignment requiring an overnight stay, authorized in advance by the appointing authority.
(b)	When the employee is engaged in a regular job assignment and an emergency develops requiring an overnight stay.
(c)	When the employee is at a job related conference approved in advance by the Employer, vhich requires an overnight stay at a specifically designated hold.
Every effort shall be made to make advance arrangements through the Comptroller or at hotels/motels oi the Comptroller's list of approved hotels. The employee is exj lected to obtain the lowest priced room available. However, where no approved accommodation is available, the employee shall be compensated for the maximum payment on the Comptroller’s list.
By October 1, 1988 the State and the Union will agree on a list of acceptable hotels/hotel chains. Frorr. among these the employee will make every effort to obtain the lowest priced
61
room available. However, where no approved accommodation is available, the employee shall be compensated at the maximum lodging rate provided for in General Letter 212 or subsequent upward revision.
Employees will attempt to secure government rates where available. This will not preclude those attending approved conferences from conference hotel accommodations as per section 12(c) above.
Section Thir	teen, (a) An employee who qualifies for a reimbursable meal shall be compensated as follows:
	2003-04	2004-05	2005-06	2006-07
Breakfast	$ 8.00	$ 8.00	SI 0.00	$ 10.00
Lunch	$10.00	$10.00	$ 12.00	$ 14.00
Dinner	$ 20.00	$ 20.00	$ 24.00	$ 25.00
	$38.00	$ 38.00	$ 46.00	$ 49.00
(b)	An employee who qualifies for a “midnight” meal shall be compensated at a rate equal to the luncheon reimbursement.
(c)	Taxes on meals shall continue to be fully reimbursed.
(d)	Gratuities shall be reimbursed to a maximum of fifteen percent (15%) of the allowable meal maximum.
Section Fourteen. Airport Managers who are designated to respond to snow and ice season emergencies shall, during the period of such season, be assigned a State vehicle for business use only.
Section Fifteen, (a) The State, upon six (6) weeks notice, may remove vehicle assignment and/or home garaging. The Agency must demonstrate a business reason to effectuate such removal.
(b)	In instances when an employee grieves such removal, the grievance will be filed directly at Step II. In any such arbitration, the arbitrator shall not substitute his/her judgment for that of the Agency, unless the Agency can be shown to have acted arbitrarily or capriciously.
62
(c)	The only exception to the notice r equirement outlined in Subsection (a) above shall be instances of disciplinary removal of either privilege.
Section Sixteen. Other Business-] (elated Expenses. Employees shall be fully reimbursed for all other business-related expenses, including but not limited to telephones, telegrams, tolls, parking charges, and ground transportation, so long as they were incurred in the conduct of State business and to the extent that such charges exceed wenty-five dollars ($25.00), verified by receipts. Employees snail be reimbursed for gratuities to hotel/motel maids at the rate of up to one dollar ($1.00) per night for stays of three (3) oi more consecutive nights.
This provision shall be deemed to super sede the provisions of Section Four (a)(3) (Miscellaneous) and Fi ee (Miscellaneous) of the travel regulations. (No duplication of payments).
ATRICLE 26
Objective Job Evaluatici ns
Section One	. OJE Payline. Upon 0.1 E implementation, and thereafter, bargaining unit classification:; which have been evaluated pursuant to the Objective Job Evaluation process shall be assigned to pay grades based upon ti e “point to pay” relationship as reflected on the following schedule: Any classes coming into A&R that were not previous!; evaluated within A&R will be evaluated within one (1) year thereafter.
OJE Point to Pay Schedt le (OJE Pay Line)
Pay
OJE
Grade
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
Poin. 5 89 - 96 97 - 1D5 106- 1 14 115 - 136 137- 1 19 150- 1.2 163 - 176 177 - l'il 192 -2i>7
63
Pay
Grade
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
Section Two	. Date of
OJE
Points
208 - 223
224 - 240
241 - 258
259 - 280
281 - 300
301 - 321
322 -343
344 - 366
367-390
391 -416
417-430
43 I - 453
454 - 476
477 - 499
500 - 524
525 - 550
551 - 577
578 - 605
606 - 634
Implementation. Those
classification and individual adjustments which issue as a result of the Objective Job Evaluation process (and appeals there from) shall be implemented and compensated effective October 1, 1987.
Section Thr	ee. Method of Implementation. Employees whose classification is upgraded shall be placed at the step of the new salary group, which is closest to, but not less than his/her current salary (upgrading by the round up method).
Section Fou	r. OJE Red Circling. In accordance with Public Act 87-407, An Act Providing Funding for Implementation of State Objective Job Evaluations, “inequities shall not be eliminated through the downgrading of any job classification or salaries.”
Section Fiv	e. Miscellaneous Section.
(1)	Unclassified Classes. Employees whose classes are allocated to the unclassified service shall be adjusted consistent with the contractual OJE line effective the first full pay period
64
following the issuance of said evaluation report, or the OJE implementation date, whichever is later.
(2)	Training Classes. It is the understanding of the parties that the salaries of the Connecticut Career Trainee and Accountant Career Trainee Classes, and all incumbents therein, shall be increased to a first year salary oi either salary grade 15(1) or salary grade 15(2) consistent wifi historical practice and degree credentials no later than the dnte of objective job evaluation (OJE) study implementation. I ipon completion of one (1) year of service in a two (2) year training class, said employee shall be advanced to salary grade 15(5).
(3)	New Classes. All new classes studied by OJE shall be paid retroactively to the date the class was created.
Article 27
Class Reevaluations
Section One. The procedure set forth in this Article supersedes the provisions of C.G.S. Section 5 -200(n).
Section Two. The Onion, but not any employee shall have the right to appeal in writing by submitting data, views, arguments or a request for a hearing relative i:o reevaluation of a class or classes of positions allocated to the state compensation plan. Within sixty (60) days after the rece .pt of such written data or holding the requested hearing, the Commissioner of Administrative Services or Designees shall ar swer the appeal.
Section Three. The Commissioner sh; .1 judge the appeal only with respect to the following criteria:
(a)	Whether there was a change in job duties of the class appealed substantial enough that it should aave the effect of changing its compensation grade. The Con missioner will not look to changes, which occurred prior to the effective date of this Agreement.
(b)	Having found a substantial change in job duties, then internal consistency among classes covered i?y this Agreement based on benchmark classes, established by he Commissioner, shall be considered.
65
Section Four. In any arbitration case arising from such appeal, the mutually agreed upon arbitrator or permanent umpire, who shall be experienced in public sector position classification and evaluation, shall base his/her decision on the criteria set forth in Section Three above. Pay comparability for equal work in other jurisdictions or outside the scope of this Agreement shall not be a basis for the arbitrator's or umpire's decision hereunder.
Section Five. Nothing in this Article shall be deemed to prevent the State from instituting a class reevaluation on its own initiative after prior consultation by the Union. The Union shall be given two (2) weeks notice prior to a class reevaluation. The State's decision shall be final unless the Union can meet its burden under Section Three above.
Article 28
Temporary Service in a Higher Classification
Section One. Temporary Service in a Higher Classification is defined as the assignment by an appointing authority to perform service in a higher classification when there is a bona fide vacancy which management has decided to fill temporarily rather than permanently, or when an employee is on extended absence due to illness, leave of absence or other reasons, provided such assignment is approved by the Commissioner of Administrative Services. Extended absence is one which is expected to last more than thirty (30) consecutive working days.
Section Two. (a) An employee who is assigned to perform temporary service in a higher class shall, commencing with the thirty-first (31) consecutive working day, be paid for such actual work, retroactive to the first day of such service, at the rate of the higher class as if promoted thereto.
(b)	An appointing authority making a temporary assignment to a higher class shall issue the employee written notification of the assignment and shall immediately forward the appropriate form along with a copy of the written notification seeking approval of the assignment from the Commissioner of Administrative Services in writing. The form certifying the
66
assignment shall specify the rights and obi gations of the parties under Section Two (c) and (d).
(c)	If, by the thirty-first consecutn e working day, the assignment has not been approved, the appointing authority shall immediately reassign the employee to his/her former duties and compensate the employee for assigned service pursuant to Section Two. No appeal rights shall accrue in this instance.
(d)	In the event the Commissioner of Administrative Services disapproves the requested assignment on the basis of his/her judgment that the assignment does not constitute temporary service in a higher class, the employee may continue working as assigned with recourse under i he appeal procedure for reclassification but not under the grievance or arbitration procedure, or may request reassignment. If reassignment is denied by the appointing authority, the employee may appeal such action as outlined above. If reassignment is granted, no appeal rights shall accrue. In those cases in which an employee makes separate claims for reclassification a: id temporary service coverage, the employee shall be entitled to back pay, if successful, retroactive to the earliest contractual date permitted by either procedure (as if the cases had beer jointly filed).
Article 29
Out of Title Work
Section One. Working out-of-title shall be defined as the temporary assignment by an appointing authority to perform duties not within any existing job classif cation for a period which exceeds ninety (90) days, provided such assignment is approved by the Commissioner of Administi ative Services. Said assignment, in order to qualify for treatment hereunder, shall meet the conditions outlined herein.
Section Two. In determining out-of-title work hereunder, the employee shall not be entitled to coverag e of this section if: (a) The duties alleged to be out of title are:
(1)	Normally performed by employees :i n the grievant’s title and are not described in another title; or
67
(2)	reasonably related to the class specifications for the grievant’s title; or
(3)	new duties which are a reasonable outgrowth of duties assigned to the grievant’s class.
(b) The grievance or complaint is more appropriately addressed by use of the procedures providing for
(1)	class reevaluation
(2)	temporary service in a higher classification
(3)	reclassification grievances.
Section Three. The appointing authority making such assignment shall immediately issue to the employee a written notification of such assignment and concurrently submit a request seeking approval of the establishment of a temporary new class in accordance with the following:
(a)	Requests must give complete justification for both need to fill position immediately and for establishment of the class. Such requests shall include therewith a completed duties questionnaire and a copy of the written notification to the employee. An outline of the proposed specification listing typical duties, experience and training requirements and suggested minimum qualifications must be enclosed. Salary determination for temporary class title will be subject to evaluation by the Personnel Division and to the Commissioner of Administrative Services and Secretary of the Office of Policy and Management approval of new classes.
(b)	(1) The Commissioner of Administrative Services will notify Agency Head of the temporary class title and salary group and will request submission of appropriate forms to establish the position. Appointments may be made after approval. Appointments to temporary classes are temporary and normally will not exceed ninety (90) days. Extension of an additional ninety (90) days may be required to complete the evaluative and approval process.
(2)	In the event the assignment is approved the Commissioner of Administrative Services, the employee shall be
68
compensated for the performance of duties retroactive to the thirty-first working day of service.
(3)	If the Commissioner of Administrative Services has not approved the assignment within two (2) me nths of receipt of the request, or in the event the Commissioner of Administrative Services disapproves the request on the oasis that in his/her judgment the assignment does not constitute working out-oftitle, the employee shall have recourse for ; ppeal of such action under the appeal procedure for reclassification, but not under the grievance or arbitration procedure.
Section Four. Upon notification that the Commissioner of Administrative Services and the Secretary of the Office of Policy and Management have established a permanent class, the following procedure should be followed:
(a)	As soon as notification is received that the Commissioner of Administrative Services ;.nd Secretary of the Office of Policy and Management h ive approved the establishment of a permanent class to replace a temporary class title, appropriate forms requesting the establishment of a new position w.ith the approved permanent title and canceling the temporary class title should be submitted. The effective date should be the date of establishment of the class.
(b)	After receipt of approval, appropriate transactions transferring the employee from temporary ta provisional status and requests to start the examining process should be submitted.
Article 30 Transfers
Section One. Transfer is the movement of an employee within job classification, (or class declared comparable by the Commissioner of Administrative Services) fiom one geographic location or operational (work) unit to a nother geographic location or operational (work) unit. The geographical relocation of an operational (work) unit is not considers . a transfer.
69
Section Two. Transfers Within an Agency. Permanent and temporary (less than six (6) months) transfers within an agency may be made when the appointing authority determines the good of the service will be served, and shall be in accordance with the following:
(a)	An employee requesting a transfer shall submit a written request to his/her immediate supervisor, who shall immediately forward it, with any comments and recommendations, to the appointing authority or designee. Requests for transfer will be sympathetically considered except when the employee has transferred within the past six (6) months. Transfer request will be kept on file for eighteen (18) months unless withdrawn or extended in writing by the employee.
(b)	When a transfer is to be made, the agency designee will review requests of eligible employees. Of those individuals who are equally qualified, preferences will be given to the employee with the greatest seniority. For purposes of transfers, seniority as defined in Article 1.2 shall be utilized. For purposes of intra-agency transfer, stewards shall be deemed to have the highest seniority, except as provided in (a) above.
Section Three. Transfer to Another Agency. Permanent or temporary (less than six (6) months) transfers to another agency may be made subject to the requirement that no permanent transfer shall be made unless and until an employee laid off from the same class and eligible for reemployment has been offered the vacant position.
(a)	An employee requesting transfer shall submit a written request, through his/her immediate supervisor and appointing authority, to the Commissioner of Administrative Services. Requests for transfers will not be denied by the appointing authority unreasonably, or unless an employee has transferred within the past six (6) months.
(b)	When a vacancy is to be filled from an open competitive list, the Commissioner of Administrative Services will forward the names of eligible employees on the transfer list, ranked in order of seniority within the class, along with the certification
70
from the appropriate examination list. Stewards shall not be deemed to have super-seniority for purposes for inter-agency transfer. The appointing authority, before making an open competitive appointment, shall conside one (1) or more individuals on the transfer list.
(c)	(1) An employee who voluntarily transfers to another agency may request a return to his/her former position within three (3) weeks following transfer.
(2)	The Agency [which has received the transferee] shall have six (6) weeks to evaluate the trar sferee, and may elect to return the employee to the agency from which he/she transferred. This election shall be without documentary comment by the agency, and the permanent records will be limited to a notation that the employer was “returned by agreement”
(3)	A transferee returned to his/her original agency under Subsections (1) or (2) above, musi be returned to the previous position or a comparable posit: on (in the original agency) without any loss of pay or benefits.
(4)	The returning employee will remain in the Agency to which he/she transferred until the o iginal Agency has approval from the Office of Policy and Management to refill the position. The original Agency will process the appropriate paperwork immediately. In no event shall such potential delay affect the employee’s right to return to a position in the original Agency or the Agency’s right to return the employee. The actual transfer date shall always be effective the f rst day of a payroll period.
Section Fou	r. No employee sha). be involuntarily transferred except within the agency. Before any involuntary transfer, volunteers shall be solicited from those qualified, and if no volunteers are available, the least senicr employee in the class who is qualified for said position shall I e transferred.
71
Section Fiv	e. Nothing herein shall restrict the appointing authority’s right to fill vacancies by any means other than voluntary transfer.
Section Six. The Employer will not transfer an employee for disciplinary purposes. In any case in which the employee alleges that said transfer was disciplinary, expedited arbitration shall be appropriate. This provision shall not apply in cases where there is a combining or transfer of functions from one department to another or from one location to another.
When a grievance has been filed hereunder, all action shall be stayed until the question of whether the transfer is for disciplinary purposes has been considered by the arbitrator.
Section Sev	en. Transfer shall not affect the accumulation of an employee’s benefits or seniority provided herein.
Section Eig	ht. Except as provided herein, no employee who has been transferred shall be required to serve a new Working Test Period if such Working Test Period has been satisfactorily completed in the position transferred from.
Section Nin	e. Except as provided herein, the rules, regulations and practices shall remain in force.
Section Ten. Legislative Merger/Consolidation of Agency Functions, (a) In a case where an identifiable division of any agency is relocated to another agency, the employees thereof shall be similarly relocated without any loss of compensation or benefits. The parties shall, within thirty (30) days following implementation negotiate the impact of such relocated employees.
(b) In those cases where only a segment of an agency function is transferred to another agency, volunteers will be solicited from those in each affected job classification. In the absence of sufficient volunteers, the least senior employee(s) shall be transferred from such segment in each affected job classification. In those cases wherein there are more volunteers
72
than are necessary, employees within the affected segment shall have right of first refusal, and thereafter vacancies shall be filled by seniority.
Article 31
Training and Professional Leave
Section One. The Employer recognizes its responsibility to provide relevant training for each new employee and continue on-the-job training.
Section Two. Management retains die right to determine training needs, programs, procedures, and to select employees for training. The Union may submit written recommendations concerning training needs.
Section Three. Training activities which are designed to improve employee skills related to current job assignments and in which participation is required by management in lieu of normal work assignments will be scheduled during regular work hours when in management’s judgment ii: is practical to do so. Such training required by the State in add tion to regular duty time shall be considered time worked for overtime purposes.
Section Four. The State shall continue to offer training programs, which are aimed at skills development and improvement in order to afford employees greater opportunity for performance improvement and promotional growth. When such programs are available to a group of employees, the selection of the employec(s) to be trained shall be predicated on the needs of the State, the potential of the employee to benefit and contribute to the operational program, end with due regard to the principle of fair opportunity for all eligible and qualified employees within the group. Seniority (but not steward seniority) shall be a factor in the selectioi process. Where practicable, volunteers will be solicited for training opportunities.
Section Five, (a) Professional leave is defined as leave to attend seminars, classes, lectures, workshops, conventions, or other related activities in aid of the development, maintenance or
73
exchange of professional skills, techniques or experiences which clearly relate to an employee's primary job assignment or logical career progression.
(b)	The Employer recognizes that certaih benefits accrue to both the State and the employee through participation in professional leave and will support such leave consistent with agency operating needs and budgetary constraints.
(c)	Employees may request and, subject to the conditions outlined herein, shall be granted up to ten (10) days leave with pay per contract term for professional development.
(1)	Request must be in writing, identifying the activity to be attended and its relationship to the job assignment and/or career progression, submitted at least three (3) weeks in advance of leave.
(2)	No overtime or expenses other than time off without loss of regular day's pay will accrue to the Slate.
(3)	Professional leave, if not used in any contract year, shall be neither accruable nor payable.
(d)	Nothing herein will prevent the Employer from assigning an employee to participate in professional development activities as part of a regular job assignment. Such assignments however, will be in addition to professional leave. In such a case, the Employer will absorb any overtime or other expenses accruing from a regular job assignment, consistent with applicable contract provisions.
Section Six. Professional Development and Conference Fund. Effective July 1, 2003, the State will allocate one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) to the Professional Development and Conference fund. Effective July 1, 2004, the State will allocate one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) to the Professional Development and Conference fund. Effective July 1, 2005, the State will allocate one hundred thousand dollars ($ 100,000) to the Professional Development and Conference fund. Effective July 1, 2006, the State will
74
contribute one hundred twenty thousand dollars ($120,000) to the Professional Development and Conferei ce Fund.
In addition, the Union may develop, subject to approval by the State, programs, the cost of which will q tality for said funds. Existing guidelines for usage and reimburse ment shall remain in effect unless varied by mutual agreement c»f both parties. Any unexpended funds, which exist at the end ’of any contract year, shall roll over for use in the next succeeding year. All funds remaining at the end of the contract shall revert to the State unless the parties agree otherwise.
Article 32 Permanent Part-Time Empj oyees
Permanent part-time employees shall centinue to receive all benefits described herein including seniority rights, wage and benefit packages, access to grievance machinery, and all other sundry provisions to the extent applicable under existing rules and regulations. Employees hereunder shill receive pro rata personal leave, based on the ratio of the employee's work schedule to the standard work week as averaged over the preceding two (2) months. (Example: an employee who averages 25 hours per week in the two months prior to the crediting will receive credit for 25/40 of the personal leave, or in this example - 15 hours).
Article 33 Safety
Section One. The Employer shall maintain a safe and secure work place for all bargaining unit employees. The Employer is receptive to all recommer dations regarding improvements of apparently unsafe or unhealthy conditions. Once the Employer determines that an ursafe or unhealthy condition exists, it will make a good faith effort to remedy or alleviate the condition.
Section Two. Employees shall perform their duties in a safe manner and shall comply with the safety rules and regulations and accident prevention measures established by the Employer.
75
Section Three. No employee shall be required to perform work under unsafe conditions, provided however, that an employee must follow the “work now, grieve later” rule unless there is a clear and present danger to the employee’s physical well-being, in which case the grievance will be initiated directly at Step II.
Section Four. In the event of an on-the-job injury requiring medical attention, the Employer will expedite such attention by calling for ambulance service, if required, or when necessary, arrange for transportation to a medical facility. Neither the injured individual nor any assisting employee shall suffer any loss of time resulting from such injury or attendance thereto on the day of occurrence.
Article 34
Winter Work and Assignments
Section One	. Annually, prior to November 1, the Employer shall designate those employees having a snow and ice control or removal assignment or related assignment. Employees whose normal duties are not related to snow and ice control or removal work shall not be designated for such assignment.
Section Two	. Snow and ice control or removal or related assignments shall not be added to job specifications during the term of this Agreement without negotiation with the Union.
Section Thr	ee. The Employer shall provide appropriate rest, toilet and eating facilities for the employees to the best of its ability.
Section Four. Bargaining unit employees designated by the Employer as having a snow and ice control or removal assignment shall be paid a premium, at the prevailing Department of Transportation rate, for each hour actually worked on snow and ice control or removal, other than during the regular shift schedule. •
76
Premium pay will be authorized under the above conditions from November 1 through April 30 of each year for the life of the contract. The premium will not be used in computing overtime.
Section Five. Inasmuch as it is not feasible for certain bargaining unit employees above the grade eligible for overtime pay to be granted compensatory time of’ during the winter season (November 1 to April 30), these cm doyecs shall receive straight time pay for overtime hours workt d during this period which are related to snow and ice or other weather emergencies.
(a)	Overtime pay shall not be pyramided.
(b)	Where practicable, overtime checks shall be paid no later than the second payroll period following the overtime worked.
(c)	All paid leave of absence shall be considered as time worked for purposes of computing overtime.
(d)	As used in this Article, the term “emergency” means “a situation or occurrence of serious nature developing suddenly and unexpectedly and demanding immediate action.”
Section Six. Other Winter Work Premiums. In addition to the contractual items as otherwise enumerated, employees of the Department of Transportation shall re ceive winter work related premiums and benefits. Said benefit; shall include:
(a)	Rest periods.
(b)	Meal entitlement at contractual reimbursement level.
(c)	Callback within two (2) hours of rele ase.
(d)	Hazardous duty protection under the Department of Transportation Q Item (Hazardous S ibstances).
(e)	Snow/ice premium pay provision.
Article 35 Retirement
The terms and conditions of employee retirement benefits are contained in a separate Agreement betv een the State and Union.
’ll
Article 36 Method of Salary Payment
Section One. Workers' Compensation Coverage and Payments. Where an employee has become temporarily totally disabled as a result of illness or injury caused directly by his/her employment, said employee may, pending final determination as to the employee's eligibility to receive workers' compensation benefits, charge said period of absences to existing leave accounts. Where a determination is made supporting the employee's claim, State authorities shall take appropriate steps to rectify payroll and leave records in accordance with said determination. Upon final and non-appealable decision by appropriate State authority that an employee is entitled to receive workers’ compensation benefits, said employee shall receive his/her first payment no later than four (4) weeks following such determination. Accrued leave time may be used to supplement workers' compensation payments up to but not beyond the regular salary.
Section Two. Regular paychecks will be available for distribution at the agency by 3:00 p.m. on alternate Thursdays.
Article 37
Indemnification
During the life of this Agreement, the State employer will continue to indemnify persons covered by this Agreement to the extent provided by C.G.S. Sections 4-165, 10-235 and 19a-24.
In deciding whether to provide counsel to a professional employee being sued for malpractice, the question of whether such employee was acting within the scope of his/her employment shall be sympathetically considered consistent with the purpose of the indemnification statutes.
Article 38
Miscellaneous
Section One	. The parties will cooperate in arranging for the most economical and expeditious printing of this Agreement by a unionized printer in booklet form and will share the cost of
78
same. The Union will be provided with i ix thousand (6,000) copies of the contract.
Section Two	. Except where varied in this Agreement, the Employer will continue in force its written rules and regulations with reference to
(a)	eligibility and reimbursement for meals;
(b)	personal leave or other paid or imp; id leave of absence;
(c)	insurance coverages, programs, premium contribution and deduction policy, (unless ; iltered by mutual Agreement);
(d)	workers' compensation;
(e)	retirement, including disability retirement, to the extent applicable;
(f)	death benefits.
Section Three. During the life of this / greement, the State will not increase the cost to employees for uniforms and equipment.
Section Four. References in this Agreement to “rules and regulations” refer to the “Blue Book”, Regulations of the Personnel Policy Board effective July 1, 1975, and any amendments thereto. Such references inc tide all applicable General Letters and Q items.
Section Five. Civil Leave, (a) If an employee receives a subpoena or other order of the Court requiring an appearance during regular working hours, time off with p; ty and without loss of earned leave time shall be granted. This provision shall not apply in cases where the employee is a plain iff or defendant in the Court action.
If an employee is called to jury duty cia day when the employee is scheduled to work, which may either exceed the length of said duty or continue past the normal hours for said duty, all times served (plus travel time, if a reti im to work so
79
requires) shall be credited to the employee on that day as time worked. Jury duty pay received on days off shall not be creditable to the State.
(b) If a court appearance (not jury duty) is required as part of the employee’s assignment or as a direct consequence of his/her official function, time spent shall be considered as time worked. If the appearance requires the employee's presence beyond his/her normal work day, all time beyond the normal work day shall be paid in accordance with Article 16.
Section Six. Military Leave. A full-time permanent employee who is a member of the armed forces of the State or any reserve component of the armed forces of the United States shall be entitled to military leave with pay for required field training, provided such leave does not exceed two (2) calendar weeks in a calendar year, in addition to up to seven (7) days of military leave for weekend drills. Additionally, any such employee who is ordered to active duty as a result of an unscheduled emergency (natural disaster or civil disorder) shall be entitled to military leave with pay not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days in a calendar year. During such leave, the employee’s position shall be held, and the employee shall be credited with such time for seniority purposes. Other requests for military leave may be approved without pay. Nothing in this article shall be construed to prevent an employee from attending ordered military training while on regularly scheduled vacation.
Section Seven. Hazardous Duty. The Union, and not any individual employee, shall upon request be granted a hearing by the Office of Labor Relations concerning a claim for hazardous or unpleasant duty pay differential. Disputes under this section shall not be subject to the Grievance and Arbitration Article. The hourly pay differential which was established for certain designated job assignments or working conditions in the Department of Correction shall continue under the criteria and standards for payment established in prior agreements. The hourly pay differential rate shall be fifty-five cents ($0.55) per hour.
80
Section Eight Competitive Examine tion. Upon request, the Personnel Division shall provide the excusive representative with a list of newspapers in the State of Connecticut, which are utilized to publicize merit examinations.
Section Nine. Past Practices. .Any change in or discontinuation of an unwritten past practice concerning wages, hours or other conditions of employment tot covered by this Agreement shall be subject to a test of reasonableness. The questions of:
(a)	Whether or not there is in fact i valid current past practice in effect, and;
(b)	The reasonableness of the change or discontinuation may be submitted to arbitration in accordance with the provisions of Article 15 (Grievance Procedure).
Section Ten.	Floaters’ Day Off. Effective September 1, 1985, the Division of Special Revenue shall take all action necessary to implement a program, which pi ovides a permanent day off (other than Sunday) for all track be: :ing floaters during the period from September to May. The parties acknowledge that the nature of the floaters' assignment :s such that certain adjustments to said schedule may be necessary to achieve coverage; but the agency shall make a good faith effort to construct a program, which reflects a commitment to this provision.
Section Elev	en. Examination Leave. Except in those cases in which a state examination is offered on alternate dates, one of which is on an employee's day olf, bargaining unit employees shall be released on state time for merit system examinations.
Section Twel	ve. Except where a greater benefit currently exists, all leave accrual and deduction shall be recorded on an hour-for-hour basis.
Section Thir	teen. Whenever the word s| touse is referred to (husband/wife) in this Agreement, it shall also mean domestic partner. A domestic partner is a person who lir.s qualified for
81
domestic partnership benefits under the parties’ pension and health care agreement.
Article 39
Institutional Meals and Housing
Section One. Meals. The rate charged to employees for meals at State agencies with employee dining facilities shall be as follows:
Breakfast	$2.50
Lunch	$4.00
Dinner	$4.00
Section Two. Housing. The Employer reserves the right to select among applicants for housing, and to terminate occupancy in accordance with State Housing Regulations. If an employee becomes ineligible for housing due to a change in job title or assignment or for other reasons, the agency may allow the employee up to six (6) months to secure alternate housing.
The Employer shall not remove an employee from housing or refuse to consider an application for housing as a form of discipline for matters unrelated to housing, but this provision shall not restrict the Employer's right to remove from housing an employee whose employment is terminated.
The Employer shall have the right to establish rental rates for employees in State-owned Housing. Such rental rates shall be based upon appraisals conducted by or for the State which will establish fair market values for the properties. The State will continue to take into consideration whether or not the housing is located on the grounds of State institutions, when determining rental values.
The rental values established by the State for employee housing shall not be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure.
82
Article: 40
Entire Agreement
This Agreement, upon ratification, supersedes and cancels ail prior practices and Agreements whether vritten of oral unless expressly stated to the contrary herein, ;md constitutes the complete and entire Agreement between the parties and concludes collective bargaining for its term.
The parties acknowledge that during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement, each had the .inlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposal; with respect to any subject or matter not removed by law from the area of collective bargaining, and that the understanding and ; igreement arrived at by the parties after exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement. Therefore, the Statu and the Union, for the duration of this Agreement, each voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right, and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter whether or not referred to or covered in this Agreement, even though such subjects or matters may not have been within the knowledge or contemplation of either or both of the parties at the time they negotiated or signed this Agreement. The parties agree, however, that the duty to bargain to the extent required by law over the decision to terminate or amend regulations, general letters, administrative directives, and agency rules or orders, reduced to writing and uriformly applied to employees since July 1, 1977, which are mandatory subjects of bargaining and which are herein incorporatec by reference, shall be neither waived nor diminished except as indicated otherwise herein.
Article 41
Supersedence
The inclusion of language in this Agreement concerning matters formerly governed by law, regulation, or policy directive shall not be deemed a preemption of the entire subject matter. Accordingly, statutes, rules, regulations and ai Iministrative
83
directives or orders shall not be construed to be superseded by any provision of this Agreement except as provided in the Supersedence Appendix to this Agreement or where by necessary implication, no other construction is tenable.
Article 42
Legislative Action
The cost items contained in this Agreement and the provisions of this Agreement which supersede preexisting statutes shall become effective in accordance with the procedures in C.G.S. Section 5-278. If the Legislature rejects the Agreement, the parties shall return to the bargaining table.
Article 43
Savings Clause
Should any provision of this Agreement be found unlawful by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of the Agreement shall continue in force.
ARTICLE 44
Duration of Agreement
This Agreement shall be effective on July 1, 2003 and shall expire on June 30, 2007.
The parties acknowledge that the resolution of this Agreement resolves and discharges all other claims which from the Contract reopener provisions of their predecessor Agreement.
Unless otherwise stated to the contrary changes to language provisions shall take effect upon Legislative Approval.
Negotiations for the successor to this Agreement shall commence with the timetable established under the C.G.S. Section 5-276a(a). The request to commence negotiations shall be in writing, sent certified mail, by the requesting party to the other party. The provisions of C.G.S. Section 5-270, et seq., and the regulations thereto notwithstanding, the next window period for this bargaining unit shall be no earlier than August 2006.
84
Article 45
Temperature Variat ion
Contingent upon the employer’s ability to restore the temperature to the prescribed guidelines, th e agency shall release or reassign/relocate affected employees. ] f released, it shall be without loss of pay or benefits.
Memorandum of Understanding -1
The parties agree to meet and discuss as a subject of the Labor Management Committee the a< lequacy of parking facilities, security provided by the State, ippropriate notice to the employees in the event of parking dislocation, and any need for additional parking facilities or security, No charge shall be imposed for parking facilities presently provided without charge and no existing charge for parking facilities shall be increased or decreased without negotiations.
Employees who are required to transport large quantities of cash, securities or other negotiable ins truments from one building to another shall be provided with adequate security.
Memorandum of Understanding- II
Section One. Reclassification Appeal Procedure. An appeal panel shall be appointed consisting of two (2) Human Resource professionals from separate agencies, appointed by the Commissioner of Administrative Services and two (2) Union representatives experienced in job classification, appointed by the Union. The Commissioner shall designate the chairperson for the panel. The panel shall, at all timet, consist of four (4) members and report on the appeal within sixty (60) calendar days from the date the appeal was received in the Office of the Commissioner of Administrative Services Continuances or changes in scheduled hearings shall be granted by the panel chairperson only for good cause, but must bi:; rescheduled within thirty (30) calendar days from the date of the originally scheduled hearing. Hearings will ordinal ily be open to the public. However, they may be closed or witnesses sequestered
85
at the discretion of the panel. The panel chairperson may exclude any person who engages in improper conduct. No formal transcripts or stenographic records of proceedings shall be required. Technical rules of evidence shall not prevail. The panel may not grant any remedy other than the specific remedy requested in the grievance filed at Step I or as modified by mutual agreement of the parties concerned and may not add to, subtract from, alter or modify bargaining agreement or grant either party matters which were not obtained in the bargaining process. The chairperson shall authorize paid leave for a reasonable number of witnesses including the grievant and Union representative as necessary. Management may be represented by either the appointing authority (or designee), the Commissioner of Administrative Services designee(s) or both. The burden of proof shall be on the employee to show that management’s denial of the reclassification was arbitrary or unreasonable.
Section Two. The Panel shall hear and decide and report in writing within forty-five (45) days of communication to the Commissioner of Administrative Services. The decision may be any of the following.
(a)	The appeal is sustained and reclassification to the position in the classification requested is recommended.
(b)	The appeal is sustained and payment for service in the higher class is authorized, consistent with Section Four, but reclassification is not recommended because:
(1)	existing examination or employment list conditions do not permit appointment;
(2)	the organizational structure and/or staffing conditions do not support the additional position;
(3)	of other reason (state reason).
(c)	The appeal is denied.
86
Section Three. In any finding referred to in Section Two (b) above, the panel must issue a cease and desist order, or may order back payment as a remedy if deemed appropriate consistent with this Article.
Section Four. An employee whose appeal is sustained shall be eligible for payment in the higher cla; s beginning with the thirty-first (31) working day from the date which the panel finds the employee began working in the higher class. In no case may this latter day be earlier than thirty (30) calendar days prior to the submission of the grievance at Step I.
Section Five. Panel Action. The decision of the panel shall be in writing and shall be signed by Ilie panel chairperson. Such decision shall include a brief statement of the findings of fact and agenda supporting the decision of the panel. The original grievance, along with all documents, evidence, and other written data relating to the case sh ill be filed with the Commissioner of Administrative Services. Copies of the decision only shall be forwarded to the Un .on representative (or grievant), the appointing authority and any other party deemed by the panel to be entitled to such copy. The decision of the panel shall be binding on all parties.
Section Six. The existing procedures for reclassification grievances shall be continued in effect unless clarified or superseded herein.
Memorandum of Understate ding- III Holiday Party/Picni c
For the life of this Agreement, employees of the A&R bargaining unit will continue to be eligible: to receive one-half day off with pay to attend one (1) annua picnic and one (1) holiday party. Said picnic and holiday pan ;/ must be sponsored by the A&R Union or the employing agenc; of the employee.
Memorandum of Understan ding - IV Meal Grievance Arbitration
The parties agree that the intent of :he arbitrator in the above cited case was to extend the meal re lated reimbursement to an employee based upon the following:
87
(a)	the reimbursement should be for the actual meal taken, if during the overtime period, or;
(b)	if no meal is in fact taken, then reimbursement shall be for (1) the meal missed during the shift, or if (1) is not applicable, then (2) the meal period closest to the end of the shift.
Memorandum of Understanding- V
Effective March 29, 1989, trainees and preprofessional trainees who satisfactorily complete the training program will be promoted effective the date corresponding with such completed training and on the anniversary date of appointment to the training program.
Memorandum of Understanding-VI
The parties herein express the mutual recognition of service rating (performance appraisal) intent and purpose.
The mechanism utilized to evaluate employee performance is intended to be a module for development and improvement of the individual being appraised. This purpose is served by identification of both strengths and weakness possessed by the employee. The goal of the rating is to build on employee strengths and set goals to overcome and/or minimize the effects of weakness. The measure of determining success in applying this evaluation system lies in the standards identified coupled with the approach used to evaluate performance against those standards.
Memorandum Of Understanding-VII
The State of Connecticut and the Administrative and Residual Employees Union acknowledge that there are occasions when exchange (swap) of employees between two (2) agencies is of mutual benefit. The State also recognizes the advantage of Agency involvement in arranging such swaps.
Swaps may be considered under the following circumstances:
1.	The approach for an exchange (swap) must be initiated by the Union or an Agency.
88
2.	The employees involved must understand and accept that the swap is a voluntary transfer.
3.	The employees involved must acce it that upon being transferred the swap is final with no opporl unity to return to the employee's former agency.
4.	Swaps may only be within classification and the impacted employees transfer at salary step and grade.
5.	Swaps do not represent vacancies and Lie Union agrees that such transfers (swaps) will not result in any grievance activity by any employee.
6.	There shall be no ripple effect over moi ement of employees resulting from the swap.
7.	The Agencies retain veto power over participating in any proposed swap of employees and there shall be no grievances honored or filed over such denial.
8.	Discussions over swaps will be between the Union and the Agencies. Full disclosure of the employee's personnel records and disciplinary records will be provided each agency involved.
9.	Final Stipulated Agreement allowing the swap to be concluded will be prepared by the Office if Labor Relations. The agreement will be signed by the Union, Agencies, employees impacted and the Office of L ibor Relations (on behalf of the State).
Side Letter: Special Revenue Holidays
Under Article 17, Section Four
Beginning September 1, 1984 the following shall be applicable to employees of the Division of Special Revenue:
1.	On any timesheet which induces a holiday the employee shall make a binding election, by way of appropriate coding, of either pay or compensatory time f.ir those hours over 35, in the holiday half of the pay period, which are attributable to the holiday. If the employee elects compensatory time said employee may do so, but not in excess of a bank of 108 hours.
89
Once 108 hours are in the bank all holidays must be coded to pay. However, this will not preclude the employee from replenishing the bank for any earned time taken, in order to return the bank to a 108 hour balance.
2.	An employee who elects payment in lieu of holiday compensatory time, as set forth in paragraph 1, shall be paid for said service at straight time.
3.	This holiday compensatory bank shall be separate and apart from any other earned leave bank.
Clarification Notes
All time worked on premium holidays shall be paid at time and a half plus compensatory time which may be banked or paid out at straight time only.
The side letter applies to all employees whether above or below the overtime cap because holiday compensation is not limited by the overtime cap provisions.
90
STATE OF CONNECTICUT
BARGAINING COMMO TEE
Robert L. Curtis	Office of Labor E Nations
Anne Alling	Dept, of Revenue Sendees
Keith Anderson	Dept, of Adminisi ralivc Services
Steve Caliendo	Consumer Proteci on
Sandy Cunningham	Workers Compensation Comm.
Sarah Curtis	Dept of Mental Health & Addct. Svcs
Tom Donlon	Dept, of Correction
Joanne Driver	Dept, of Environmental Protection
Fred Ferris	Dept of Mental Health & Addct. Svcs
Neal Grieffin	Dept, of Labor
Theodore Janiszewski	Office of the Trea: urer
Rudolph Jones	Dept, of Social Services
David Krayeski	Dept, of Administi itive Services
Randi LeBlanc	UCHC
Anthony Lewis	Military
Tom Malecky	Dept, of Public He ilth
Diana McKenney	Dept, of Public Works
Karen M ch i gen	State Lottery Commission
Patricia Nadolny	Dept, of Transport; tion
Debra Paradise	Dept, of Education
Jeannette Perez	Comptrollers
Sue Phillips	Dept, of Children 8. Families
Crystal Ross	Insurance Dept.
Steve Shonta	Dept, of Motor Vel: icle
91
ADMINISTRATIVE AND RESIDUAL EMPLOYEES UNION BARGAINING COMMITTEE Barry Scheinberg
Chief Spokesperson/General Counsel
Michael Winkler Michael Myles Kathy Belfi Janis Bureau Mary Conlon Kathie Daly John Disette Carol Driscoll Gary Gile Mary Ann Goggin Bryan Gunning Paul Kreil Pauline Kruk Paul Kulesa Donald Levenson Susan LoGatto Joseph Mudry, Jr. Brian Scully Brian Swanson Alan Sylvestre John Toomey, Jr. Bernard Vignali
President, A&R
Chief Negotiator
Department of Insurance
Department of Banking
Dept, of Mental Health & Addict. Svcs. Department of Transportation Department of Labor
Department of Public Safety Department of Social Services Department of Information Technology Dept, of Environmental Protection Dept, of Mental Health & Addict. Svcs. Dept, of Mental Health & Addict. Svcs Middlesex Community College Department of Public Health Office of the Secretary of the State Division of Special Revenue Department of Revenue Services Department of Revenue Services Department of Labor Department of Labor Department of Labor
92
P-5
PAY
PLANS
93
P-5 AR 40 Hour Plan Effective 6/28/2003
Grade	Period	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8
AR 11	Annual	$28,966.00	$29,844.00	$30,731.00	$31,611.00	$32,524.00	$33,451.00	$34,381.00	$35,413.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,109.81	$1,143.45	$1,177.44	$1,211.15	$1,246.14	$1,281.65	$1,317.28	$1,356.82
	Daily	$110.99	$114.35	$117.75	$121.12	$124.62	$128.17	$131.73	$135.69
	Hourly	$13.88	$14.30	$14.72	$15.14	$15.58	$16.03	$16.47	$16.97
AR 12	Annual	$29,904.00	$30,829.00	$31,740.00	$32,697.00	$33,655.00	$34,625.00	$35,584.00	$36,652.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,145.75	$1,181.19	$1,216.10	$1,252.76	$1,289.47	$1,326.63	$1,363.38	$1,404.30
	Daily	$114.58	$118.12	$121.61	$125.28	$128.95	$132.67	$136.34	$140.43
	Hourly	$14.33	$14.77	$15.21	$15.66	$16.12	$16.59	$17.05	$17.56
AR 13	Annual	$31,592.00	$32,757.00	$33,929.00	$35,105.00	$36,285.00	$37,457.00	$38,639.00	$39,799.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,210.43	$1,255.06	$1,299.97	$1,345.02	$1,390.23	$1,435.14	$1,480.43	$1,524.87
	Daily	$121.05	$125.51	$130.00	$134.51	$139.03	$143.52	$148.05	$152.49
	Hourly	$15.14	$15.69	$16.25	$16.82	$17.38	$17.94	$18.51	$19.07
AR 14	Annual	$33,070.00	$34,286.00	$35,498.00	$36,714.00	$37,925.00	$39,140.00	$40,354.00	$41,565.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,267.05	$1,313.64	$1,360.08	$1,406.67	$1,453.07	$1,499.62	$1,546.14	$1,592.53
	Daily	$126.71	$131.37	$136.01	$140.67	$145.31	$149.97	$154.62	$159.26
	Hourly	$15.84	$16.43	$17.01	$17.59	$18.17	$18.75	$19.33	$19.91
AR 15	Annual	$34,655.00	$35,907.00	$37,155.00	$38,407.00	$39,655.00	$40,913.00	$42,163.00	$43,428.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,327.78	$1,375.75	$1,423.57	$1,471.54	$1,519.35	$1,567.55	$1,615.45	$1,663.91
	Daily	$132.78	$137.58	$142.36	$147.16	$151.94	$156.76	$161.55	$166.40
	Hourly	$16.60	$17.20	$17.80	$18.40	$19.00	$19.60	$20.20	$20.80
P-5 AR 40 Hour Plan Effective 6/28/2003
Grade	Period	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8
AR 16	Annual	$36,343.00	$37,631.00	$38,918.00	$40,209.00	$41,494.00	$42,783.00	$44,068.00	$45,391.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,392.46	$1,441.81	$1,491.12	$1,540.58	$1,589.81	$1,639.20	$1,688.43	$1,739.12
	Daily	$139.25	$144.19	$149.12	$154.06	$158.99	$163.92	$168.85	$173.92
	Hourly	$17.41	$18.03	$18.64	$19.26	$19.88	$20.49	$21.11	$21.74
AR 17	Annual	$38,143.00	$39,469.00	$40,795.00	$42,115.00	$43,442.00	$44,766.00	$46,092.00	$47,475.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,461.42	$1,512.23	$1,563.03	$1,613.61	$1,664.45	$1,715.18	$1,765.98	$1,818.97
	Daily	$146.15	$151.23	$156.31	$161.37	$166.45	$171.52	$176.60	$181.90
	Hourly	$18.27	$18.91	$19.54	$20.18	$20.81	$21.44	$22.08	$22.74
AR 18	Annual	$40,070.00	$41,427.00	$42,783.00	$44,142.00	$45,496.00	$46,855.00	$48,213.00	$49,660.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,535.25	$1,587.25	$1,639.20	$1,691.27	$1,743.15	$1,795.22	$1,847.25	$1,902.69
	Daily	$153.53	$158.73	$163.92	$169.13	$174.32	$179.53	$184.73	$190.27
	Hourly	$19.20	$19.85	$20.49	$21.15	$21.79	$22.45	$23.10	$23.79
AR 19	Annual	$42,041.00	$43,442.00	$44,839.00	$46,239.00	$47,631.00	$49,027.00	$50,425.00	$51,938.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,610.77	$1,664.45	$1,717.97	$1,771.61	$1,824.95	$1,878.43	$1,932.00	$1,989.97
	Daily	$161.08	$166.45	$171.80	$177.17	$182.50	$187.85	$193.20	$199.00
	Hourly	$20.14	$20.81	$21.48	$22.15	$22.82	$23	*<"> ' J r-	
a	a a	/ v 11 i Li ci i	$44,184.00	$45,612.00	$47,048.00	$48,475.00	$49,901.00	$51,335.00	$52,762.00	$54,345.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,692.88	$1,747.59	$1,802.61	$1,857.28	$1,911.92	$1,966.86	$2,021.54	$2,082.19
	Daily	$169.29	$174.76	$180.27	$185.73	$191.20	$196.69	$202.16	$208.22
	Hourly	$21.17	$21.85	$22.54	$23.22	$23.90	$24.59	$25.27	$26.03
AR 21	Annual	$46,360.00	$47,838.00	$49,306.00	$50,772.00	$52,246.00	$53,714.00	$55,185.00	$56,841.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,776.25	$1,832.88	$1,889.12	$1,945.29	$2,001.77	$2,058.01	$2,114.37	$2,177.82
	Daily	$177.63	$183.29	$188.92	$194.53	$200.18	$205.81	$211.44	$217.79
	Hourly	$22.21	$22.92	$23.62	$24.32	$25.03	$25.73	$26.43	$27.23
P-5 AR 40 Hour Plan Effective 6/28/2003
Grade	Period	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8
AR 22	Annual	$47,631.00	$49,377.00	$51,124.00	$52,867.00	$54,613.00	$56,358.00	$58,102.00	$59,846.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,824.95	$1,891.84	$1,958.78	$2,025.56	$2,092.46	$2,159.32	$2,226.14	$2,292.96
	Daily	$182.50	$189.19	$195.88	$202.56	$209.25	$215.94	$222.62	$229.30
	Hourly	$22.82	$23.65	$24.49	$25.32	$26.16	$27.00	$27.83	$28.67
AR 23	Annual	$49,889.00	$51,711.00	$53,517.00	$55,340.00	$57,156.00	$58,976.00	$60,794.00	$62,618.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,911.46	$1,981.27	$2,050.46	$2,120.31	$2,189.89	$2,259.62	$2,329.28	$2,399.16
	Daily	$191.15	$198.13	$205.05	$212.04	$218.99	$225.97	$232.93	$239.92
	Hourly	$23.90	$24.77	$25.64	$26.51	$27.38	$28.25	$29.12	$29.99
AR 24	Annual	$52,285.00	$54,180.00	$56,077.00	$57,972.00	$59,868.00	$61,762.00	$63,658.00	$65,568.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,003.26	$2,075.87	$2,148.55	$2,221.15	$2,293.80	$2,366.37	$2,439.01	$2,512.19
	Daily	$200.33	$207.59	$214.86	$222.12	$229.38	$236.64	$243.91	$251.22
	Hourly	$25.05	$25.95	$26.86	$27.77	$28.68	$29.58	$30.49	$31.41
AR 25	Annual	$54,843.00	$56,811.00	$58,766.00	$60,732.00	$62,704.00	$64,667.00	$66,629.00	$68,628.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,101.27	$2,176.67	$2,251.58	$2,326.90	$2,402.46	$2,477.67	$2,552.84	$2,629.43
	Daily	$210.13	$217.67	$225.16	$232.69	$240.25	$247.77	$255.29	$262.95
	Hourly	$26.27	$27.21	$28.15	$29.09	$30.04	$30.98	$31.92	$32.87
P-5 AR 40 Hour Plan Effective 6/28/2003
Grade	Period	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step?	Step 8
AR 26	Annual	$57,546.00	$59,608.00	$61,622.00	$63,658.00	$65,696.00	$67,729.00	$69,763.00	$71,856.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,204.83	$2,283.84	$2,361.00	$2,439.01	$2,517.09	$2,594.99	$2,672.92	$2,753.11
	Daily	$220.49	$228.39	$236.10	$243.91	$251.71	$259.50	$267.30	$275.32
	Hourly	$27.57	$28.55	$29.52	$30.49	$31.47	$32.44	$33.42	$34.42
AR 27	Annual	$60,397.00	$62,509.00	$64,620.00	$66,718.00	$68,834.00	$70,936.00	$73,050.00	$75,242.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,314.07	$2,394.99	$2,475.87	$2,556.25	$2,637.32	$2,717.86	$2,798.86	$2,882.84
	Daily	$231.41	$239.50	$247.59	$255.63	$263.74	$271.79	$279.89	$288.29
	Hourly	$28.93	$29.94	$30.95	$31.96	$32.97	$33.98	$34.99	$36.04
AR 28	Annual	$63,447.00	$65,629.00	$67,814.00	$69,996.00	$72,174.00	$74,353.00	$76,533.00	$78,829.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,430.92	$2,514.53	$2,598.24	$2,681.84	$2,765.29	$2,848.78	$2,932.30	$3,020.27
	Daily	$243.10	$251.46	$259.83	$268.19	$276.53	$284.88	$293.23	$302.03
	Hourly	$30.39	$31.44	$32.48	$33.53	$34.57	$35.61	$36.66	$37.76
AR 29	Annual	$64,056.00	$66,461.00	$68,868.00	$71,269.00	$73,674.00	$76,076.00	$78,480.00	$80,835.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,454.26	$2,546.40	$2,638.63	$2,730.62	$2,822.76	$2,914.79	$3,006.90	$3,097.13
	Daily	$245.43	$254.64	$263.87	$273.07	$282.28		it*	
	Hourly	$30.68	CQ1 BO	A n A	—		$35.29	$36.44	$37.59	$38.72
AR 30	Annual	$66,629.00	$69,099.00	$71,579.00	$74,048.00	$76,521.00	$78,994.00	$81,473.00	$83,918.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,552.84	$2,647.48	$2,742.50	$2,837.09	$2,931.84	$3,026.60	$3,121.58	$3,215.25
	Daily	$255.29	$264.75	$274.25	$283.71	$293.19	$302.66	$312.16	$321.53
	Hourly	$31.92	$33.10	$34.29	$35.47	$36.65	$37.84	$39.02	$40.20
P-5 AR 40 Hour Plan Effective 6/28/2003
Grade	Period	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8
AR 31	Annual	$69,305.00	$71,847.00	$74,395.00	$76,941.00	$79,490.00	$82,037.00	$84,582.00	$87,120.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,655.37	$2,752.76	$2,850.39	$2,947.94	$3,045.60	$3,143.19	$3,240.69	$3,337.94
	Daily	$265.54	$275.28	$285.04	$294.80	$304.56	$314.32	$324.07	$333.80
	Hourly	$33.20	$34.41	$35.63	$36.85	$38.07	$39.29	$40.51	$41.73
AR 32	Annual	$72,083.00	$74,696.00	$77,310.00	$79,928.00	$82,549.00	$85,161.00	$87,788.00	$90,422.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,761.81	$2,861.92	$2,962.07	$3,062.38	$3,162.80	$3,262.88	$3,363.53	$3,464.45
	Daily	$276.19	$286.20	$296.21	$306.24	$316.28	$326.29	$336.36	$346.45
	Hourly	$34.53	$35.78	$37.03	$38.28	$39.54	$40.79	$42.05	$43.31
AR 33	Annual	$74,980.00	$77,670.00	$80,359.00	$83,052.00	$85,743.00	$88,433.00	$91,128.00	$93,862.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,872.80	$2,975.87	$3,078.89	$3,182.07	$3,285.18	$3,388.24	$3,491.50	$3,596.25
	Daily	$287.28	$297.59	$307.89	$318.21	$328.52	$338.83	$349.15	$359.63
	Hourly	$35.91	$37.20	$38.49	$39.78	$41.07	$42.36	$43.65	$44.96
AR 34	Annual	$78,069.00	$80,833.00	$83,595.00	$86,365.00	$89,122.00	$91,887.00	$94,647.00	$97,487.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,991.15	$3,097.05	$3,202.88	$3,309.01	$3,414.64	$3,520.58	$3,626.33	$3,735.14
	Daily	$299.12	$309.71	$320.29	$330.91	$341.47	$352.06	$362.64	$373.52
	Hourly	$37.39	$38.72	$40.04	$41.37	$42.69	$44.01	$45.33	$46.69
AR 35	Annual	$81,275.00	$84,107.00	$86,948.00	$89,779.00	$92,611.00	$95,442.00	$98,279.00	$101,228.00
	Bi-Wk	$3,113.99	$3,222.50	$3,331.35	$3,439.81	$3,548.32	$3,656.79	$3,765.48	$3,878.47
	Daily	$311.40	$322.25	$333.14	$343.99	$354.84	$365.68	$376.55	$387.85
	Hourly	$38.93	$40.29	$41.65	$43.00	$44.36	$45.71	$47.07	$48.49
P-5 AR 40 Hour Plan Effective 6/25/2004
Grade	Period	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step?	Step 8
AR 11	Annual	$29,980.00	$30,889.00	$31,807.00	$32,718.00	$33,663.00	$34,622.00	$35,585.00	$36,653.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,148.66	$1,183.49	$1,218.66	$1,253.57	$1,289.78	$1,326.52	$1,363.41	$1,404,33
	Daih*	$114.87	$118.35	$121.87	$125.36	$128.98	$132.66	$136.35	$140.44
	Hourly	$14.36	$14.80	$15.24	$15.67	$16.13	$16.59	$17.05	$17.56
AR 12	Annual	$30,951.00	$31,909.00	$32,851.00	$33,842.00	$34,833.00	$35,837.00	$36,830.00	$37,935.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,185.87	$1,222.57	$1,258.66	$1,296.63	$1,334.60	$1,373.07	$1,411.12	$1,453.45
	Daily	$118.59	$122.26	$125.87	$129.67	$133.46	$137.31	$141.12	$145.35
	Hourly	$14.83	$15.29	$15.74	$16.21	$16.69	$17.17	$17.64	$18.17
AR 13	Annual	$32,698.00	$33,904.00	$35,117.00	$36,334.00	$37,555.00	$38,768.00	$39,992.00	$41,192.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,252.80	$1,299.01	$1,345.48	$1,392.11	$1,438.89	$1,485.37	$1,532.27	$1,578.24
	Daily	$125.28	$129.91	$134.55	$139.22	$143.89	$148.54	$153.23	$157.83
	Hourly	$15.66	$16.24	$16.82	$17.41	$17.99	$18.57	$19.16	$19.73
AR 14	Annual	$34,228.00	$35,487.00	$36,741.00	$37,999.00	$39,253.00	$40,510.00	$41,767.00	$43,020.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,311.42	$1,359.66	$1,407.71	$1,455.91	$1,503.95	$1,552.11	$1,600.27	$1,648.28
	Daily	$131.15	$135.97	$140.78	$145 60	$1 An. an	C1 cc 99		* ' r : r,
	rivwfiy	816.40	$I?.UU	$17.60	$18.20	$18.80	$19.41	$20.01	$20.61
AR 15	Annual	$35,868.00	$37,164.00	$38,456.00	$39,752.00	$41,043.00	$42,345.00	$43,639.00	$44,948.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,374.26	$1,423.91	$1,473.41	$1,523.07	$1,572.53	$1,622.42	$1,672.00	$1,722.15
	Daily	$137.43	$142.40	$147.35	$152.31	$157.26	$162.25	$167.20	$172.22
	Hourly	$17.18	$17.80	$18.42	$19.04	$19.66	$20.29	$20.90	$21.53
P-5 AR 40 Hour Plan Effective 6/25/2004
Grade	Period	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8
AR 16	Annual Bi-Wk Daily Hourly	$37,616.00 $1,441.23 $144.13 $18.02	$38,949.00 $1,492.30 $149.23 $18.66	$40,281.00 $1,543.34 $154.34 $19.30	$41,617.00 $1,594.53 $159.46 $19.94	$42,947.00 $1,645.48 $164.55 $20.57	$44,281.00 $1,696.60 $169.66 $21.21	$45,611.00 $1,747.55 $174.76 $21.85	$46,980.00 $1,800.00 $180.00 $22.50
AR 17	Annual Bi-Wk Daily Hourly	$39,479.00 $1,512.61 $151.27 $18.91	$40,851.00 $1,565.18 $156.52 $19,57	$42,223.00 $1,617.74 $161.78 $20.23	$43,590.00 $1,670.12 $167.02 $20.88	$44,963.00 $1,722,73 $172.28 $21.54	$46,333.00 $1,775.22 $177.53 $22.20	$47,706.00 $1,827.82 $182.79 $22.85	$49,137.00 $1,882.65 $188.27 $23.54
AR 18	Annual Bi-Wk Daily Hourly	$41,473.00 $1,589.01 $158.91 $19.87	$42,877.00 $1,642.80 $164.28 $20.54	$44,281.00 $1,696.60 $169.66 $21.21	$45,687.00 $1,750.46 $175.05 $21.89	$47,089.00 $1,804.18 $180.42 $22.56	$48,495.00 $1,858.05 $185.81 $23.23	$49,901.00 $1,911.92 $191.20 $23.90	$51,399.00 $1,969.32 $196.94 $24.62
AR 19	Annual	$43,513.00 r>f>-r -f-r	$44,963.00	$46,409.00 tfr 4 “7"70 4 n	$47,858.00 p4 qqn o/	$49,299.00 p4 qqo op	$50,743.00 p 4 Q 4 Ji 1 q	$52,190.00 p4 nnn pp	$53,756.00 qn ncn pq
	Daily Hourly	$166.72 $20.84	$172.28 $21.54	$177.82 $22.23	$183.37 $22.93	$188.89 $23.62	$194.42 $24.31	$199.97 $25.00	$205.97 $25.75
AR 20	Annual Bi-Wk Daily Hourly	$45,731.00 $1,752.15 $175.22 $21.91	$47,209.00 $1,808.78 $180.88 $22.61	$48,695.00 $1,865.71 $186.58 $23.33	$50,172.00 $1,922.30 $192.23 $24.03	$51,648.00 $1,978.86 $197.89 $24.74	$53,132.00 $2,035.71 $203.58 $25.45	$54,609.00 $2,092.30 $209.23 $26.16	$56,248.00 $2,155.10 $215.51 $26.94
P-5 AR 40 Hour Plan Effective 6/25/2004
Grade	Period	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8
AR 21	Annual	$47,983.00	$49,513.00	$51,032.00	$52,550.00	$54,075.00	$55,594.00	$57,117.00	$58,831.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,838.43	$1,897.05	$1,955.25	$2,013.41	$2,071.84	$2,130.04	$2,188.40	$2,254.07
	Daily	$183.85	$189.71	$195.53	$201.35	$207.19	$213.01	$218.84	$225.41
	Hourly	$22.99	$23.72	$24.45	$25.17	$25.90	$26.63	$27.36	$28.18
AR 22	Annual	$49,299.00	$51,106.00	$52,914.00	$54,718.00	$56,525.00	$58,331.00	$60,136.00	$61,941.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,888.86	$1,958.09	$2,027.36	$2,096.48	$2,165.71	$2,234.91	$2,304.07	$2,373.22
	Daily	$188.89	$19581	$202.74	$209.65	$216.58	$223.50	$230.41	$237.33
	Hourly	$23.62	$24.48	$25.35	$26.21	$27.08	$27.94	$28.81	$29,67
AR 23	Annual	$51,636.00	$53,521.00	$55,391.00	$57,277.00	$59,157.00	$61,041.00	$62,922.00	$64,810.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,978.40	$2,050.62	$2,122.27	$2,194.53	$2,266.56	$2,338.74	$2,410.81	$2,483.15
	Daily	$197.84	$205.07	$212.23	$219.46	$226.66	$233.88	$241.09	$248.32
	Hourly	$24.73	$25.64	$26.53	$27.44	$28.34	$29.24	$30.14	$31.04
AR 24	Annual	$54,115.00	$56,077.00	$58,040.00	$60,002.00	$61,964.00	$63,924.00	$65,887.00	$67,863.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,073.38	$2,148.55	$2,223.76	$2,298.93	$2,374.10	$2,449.20	$2,524.41	$2,600.12
	Daily	$207.34	$214.86	$222.38	$229.90	$237.41	op		
	Hourly	Cod op		.uu	$28./4	$29.68	$30.62	$31.56	$32.51
AR 25	Annual	$56,763.00	$58,800.00	$60,823.00	$62,858.00	$64,899.00	$66,931.00	$68,962.00	$71,030.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,174.83	$2,252.88	$2,330.39	$2,408.36	$2,486.56	$2,564.41	$2,642.23	$2,721.46
	Daily	$217.49	$225.29	$233.04	$240.84	$248.66	$256.45	$264.23	$272.15
	Hourly	$27.19	$28.17	$29.13	$30.11	$31.09	$32.06	$33.03	$34.02
P-5 AR 40 Hour Plan Effective 6/25/2004
Grade	Period	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8
AR 26	Annual Bi-Wk Daily Hourly	$59,561.00 $2,282.04 $228.21 $28:53	$61,695.00 $2,363.80 $236.38 $29.55	$63,779.00 $2,443.64 $244.37 $30.55	$65,887.00 $2,524.41 $252.45 $31.56	$67,996.00 $2,605.22 $260.53 $32.57	$70,100.00 $2,685.83 $268.59 $33.58	$72,205.00 $2,766.48 $276.65 $34.59	$74,371.00 $2,849.47 $284.95 $35.62
AR 27	Annual Bi-Wk Daily Hourly	$62,511.00 $2,395.06 $239.51 $29.94	$64,697.00 $2,478.82 $247.89 $30.99	$66,882.00 $2,562.53 $256.26 $32.04	$69,054.00 $2,645.75 $264.58 $33.08	$71,244.00 $2,729.66 $272.97 $34.13	$73,419.00 $2,812.99 $281.30 $35.17	$75,607.00 $2,896.82 $289.69 $36.22	$77,876.00 $2,983.76 $298.38 $37.30
AR 28	Annual Bi-Wk Daily Hourly	$65,668.00 $2,516.02 $251.61 $31.46	$67,927.00 $2,602.57 $260.26 $32.54	$70,188.00 $2,689.20 $268.92 $33.62	$72,446.00 $2,775.71 $277.58 $34.70	$74,701.00 $2,862.11 $286.22 $35.78	$76,956.00 $2,948.51 $294.86 $36.86	$79,212.00 $3,034.95 $303.50 $37.94	$81,589.00 $3,126.02 $312.61 $39.08
AR 29	Annual Bi-Wk Daily Hourly	$66,298.00 $2,540.16 $254.02 $31.76	$68,788.00 $2,635.56 $263.56 $32.95	$71,279.00 $2,731.00 $273.10 $34.14	$73,764.00 $2,826.21 $282.62 $35.33	$76,253.00 $2,921.58 $292.16 $36.52	$78,739.00 $3,016.82 $301.68 $37.72	$81,227.00 $3,112.15 $311.21 $38.91	$83,665.00 $3,205.56 $320.56 $40.07
AR 30	Annual Bi-Wk Daily Hourly	$68,962.00 $2,642.23 $264.23 $33.03	$71,518.00 $2,740.16 $274.02 $34.26	$74,085.00 $2,838.51 $283.86 $35.49	$76,640.00 $2,936.40 $293.64 $36.71	$79,200.00 $3,034.49 $303.45 $37.94	$81,759.00 $3,132.53 $313.26 $39.16	$84,325.00 $3,230.85 $323.09 $40.39	$86,856.00 $3,327.82 $332.79 $41.60
P-5 AR 40 Hour Plan Effective 6/25/2004
Grade	Period	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8
AR 31	Annual Bi-Wk Daily Hourly	$71,731.00 $2,748.32 $274.84 $34.36	$74,362.00 $2,849.12 $284.92 $35.62	$76,999.00 $2,950.16 $295.02 $36.88	$79,634.00 $3,051.12 $305.12 $38.14	$82,273.00 $3,152.23 $315.23 $39.41	$84,909.00 $3,253.22 $325.33 $40.67	$87,543.00 $3,354.14 $335.42 $41.93	$90,170.00 $3,454.79 $345.48 $43.19
AR 32	Annual Bi-Wk Daily Hourly	$74,606.00 $2,858.47 $285.85 $35.74	$77,311.00 $2,962.11 $296.22 $37.03	$80,016.00 $3,065.75 $306.58 $38.33	$82,726.00 $3,169.58 $316.96 $39.62	$85,439.00 $3,273.53 $327.36 $40.92	$88,142.00 $3,377.09 $337.71 $42.22	$90,861.00 $3,481.27 $348.13 $43.52	$93,587.00 $3,585.71 $358.58 $44.83
AR 33	Annual Bi-Wk Daily Hourly	$77,605.00 $2,973.38 $297.34 $37.17	$80,389.00 $3,080.04 $308.01 $38.51	$83,172.00 $3,186.67 $318.67 $39.84	$85,959.00 $3,293.45 $329.35 $41.17	$88,745.00 $3,400.20 $340.02 $42.51	$91,529.00 $3,506.86 $350.69 $43.84	$94,318.00 $3,613.72 $361.38 $45.18	$97,148.00 $3,722.15 $372.22 $46.53
AR 34	Annual Bi-Wk Daily Hourly	$80,802.00 $3,095.87 $309.59 CQp "7Q	$83,663.00 $3,205.48 $320.55 4 rt	$86,521.00 $3,314.99 $331.50	$89,388.00 $3,424.83 $342.49	$92,242.00 $3,534.18 $353.42 $44.18	$95,104.00 $3,643.84 $364.39 $45.55	$97,960.00 $3,753.26	$100,900.00 $3,865.91
								$46.92	$48.33
AR 35	Annual Bi-Wk Daily Hourly	$84,120.00 $3,222.99 $322.30 $40.29	$87,051.00 $3,335.29 $333.53 $41.70	$89,992.00 $3,447.97 $344.80 $43.10	$92,922.00 $3,560.23 $356.03 $44.51	$95,853.00 $3,672.53 $367.26 $45.91	$98,783.00 $3,784.79 $378.48 $47.31	$101,719.00 $3,897.28 $389.73 $48.72	$104,771.00 $4,014.22 $401.43 $50.18
P-5 AR 40 Hour Plan Effective 6/24/2005
Grade	Period	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8
AR 11	Annual Bi-Wk Daily Hourly	$31,030.00 $1,188.89 $118.89 $14.87	$31,971.00 $1,224.95 $122.50 $15.32	$32,921.00 $1,261.35 $126.14 $15.77	$33,864.00 $1,297.48 $129.75 $16.22	$34,842.00 $1,334.95 $133.50 $16.69	$35,834.00 $1,372.96 $137.30 $17.17	$36,831.00 $1,411.15 $141.12 $17.64	$37,936.00 $1,453.49 $145.35 ' $18.17
AR 12	Annual Bi-Wk Daily Hourly	$32,035.00 $1,227.40 $122.74 $15.35	$33,026.00 $1,265.37 $126.54 $15.82	$34,001.00 $1,302.73 $130.28 $16.29	$35,027.00 $1,342.04 $134.21 $16.78	$36,053.00 $1,381.35 $138.14 $17.27	$37,092.00 $1,421.15 $142.12 $17.77	$38,120.00 $1,460.54 $146.06 $18.26	$39,263.00 $1,504.33 $150.44 $18.81
AR 13	Annual Bi-Wk Daily Hourly	$33,843.00 $1,296.67 $129.67 $16.21	$35,091.00 $1,344.49 $134.45 $16.81	$36,347.00 $1,392.61 $139.27 $17.41	$37,606.00 $1,440.85 $144.09 $18.02	$38,870.00 $1,489.28 $148.93 $18.62	$40,125.00 $1,537.36 $153.74 $19.22	$41,392.00 $1,585.91 $158.60 $19.83	$42,634.00 $1,633.49 $163.35 $20.42
AR 14	Annual Bi-Wk Daily Hourly	$35,426.00 $1,357.32 $135.74 $16.97	$36,730.00 $1,407.28 $140.73 $17.60	$38,027.00 $1,456.98 $145.70 $18.22	$39,329.00 $1,506.86 $150.69 $18.84	$40,627.00 $1,556.60 $155.66 $19.46	$41,928.00 $1,606.44 $160.65 $20.09	$43,229.00 $1,656.29 $165.63 $20.71	$44,526.00 $1,705.98 $170.60 $21.33
AR 15	Annual Bi-Wk Daily Hourly	$37,124.00 $1,422.38 $142.24 $17.78	$38,465.00 $1,473.76 $147.38 $18.43	$39,802.00 $1,524.99 $152.50 $19.07	$41,144.00 $1,576.40 $157.64 $19.71	$42,480.00 $1,627.59 $162.76 $20.35	$43,828.00 $1,679.24 $167.93 $21.00	$45,167.00 $1,730.54 $173.06 $21.64	$46,522.00 $1,782.46 $178.25 $22.29
P-5 AR 40 Hour Plan Effective 6/24/2005
Grade	Period	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8
AR 16	Annual	$38,933.00	$40,313.00	$41,691.00	$43,074.00	$44,451.00	$45,831.00	$47,208.00	$48,625.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,491.69	$1,544.56	$1,597.36	$1,650.35	$1,703.11	$1,755.98	$1,808.74	$1,863.03
	Daily	$149.17	$154.46	$159.74	$165.04	$170.32	$175.60	$180.88	$186.31
	Hourly	$18.65	$19.31	$19.97	$20.63	$21.29	$21.95	$22.61	$23.29
AR 17	Annual	$40,861.00	$42,281.00	$43,701.00	$45,116.00	$46,537.00	$47,955.00	$49,376.00	$50,857.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,565.56	$1,619.97	$1,674.37	$1,728.59	$1,783.03	$1,837.36	$1,891.81	$1,948.55
	Daily	$156.56	$162.00	$167.44	$172.86	$178.31	$183.74	$189.19	$194.86
	Hourly	$19.57	$20.25	$20.93	$21.61	$22.29	$22.97	$23.65	$24.36
AR 18	Annual	$42,925.00	$44,378.00	$45,831.00	$47,287.00	$48,738.00	$50,193.00	$51,648.00	$53,198.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,644.64	$1,700.31	$1,755.98	$1,811.77	$1,867.36	$1,923.11	$1,978.86	$2,038.24
	Daily	$164.47	$170.04	$175.60	$181.18	$186.74	$192.32	$197.89	$203.83
	Hourly	$20.56	$21.26	$21.95	$22.65	$23.35	$24.04	$24.74	$25.48
AR 19	Annual	$45,036.00	$46,537.00	$48,034.00	$49,534.00	$51,025.00	$52,520.00	$54,017.00	$55,638.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,725.52	$1,783.03	$1,840.39	$1,897.86	$1,954.99	$2,012.27	$2,069.62	$2,131.73
	Daily	$172.56	$178.31	$184.04	$189.79	$195.50	$201.23	$206.97	$213.1R
	Hourly	$21.57	$22.29	too n-t	‘	.	L		$>□. I6	$25.88	$26.65
AR 20	Annual	$47,332.00	$48,862.00	$50,400.00	$51,929.00	$53,456.00	$54,992.00	$56,521.00	$58,217.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,813.49	$1,872.11	$1,931.04	$1,989.62	$2,048.13	$2,106.98	$2,165.56	$2,230.54
	Daily	$181.35	$187.22	$193.11	$198.97	$204.82	$210.70	$216.56	$223.06
	Hourly	$22.67	$23.41	$24.14	$24.88	$25.61	$26.34	$27.07	$27.89
P-5 AR 40 Hour Plan Effective 6/24/2005
Grade	Period	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8
AR 21	Annual	$49,663.00	$51,246.00	$52,819.00	$54,390.00	$55,968.00	$57,540.00	$59,117.00	$60,891.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,902.80	$1,963.45	$2,023.72	$2,083.91	$2,144.37	$2,204.60	$2,265.02	$2,332.99
	Daily	$190.28	$196.35	$202.38	$208.40	$214.44	$220.46	$226.51	$233.30
	Hourly	$23.79	$24.55	$25.30	$26.05	$26.81	$27.56	$28.32	$29.17
AR 22	Annual	$51,025.00	$52,895.00	$54,766.00	$56,634.00	$58,504.00	$60,373.00	$62,241.00	$64,109.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,954.99	$2,026.63	$2,098.32	$2,169.89	$2,241.54	$2,313.15	$2,384.72	$2,456.29
	Daily	$195.50	$202.67	$209.84	$216.99	$224.16	$231.32	$238.48	$245.63
	Hourly	$24.44	$25.34	$26.23	$27.13	$28.02	$28.92	$29.81	$30.71
AR 23	Annual	$53,444.00	$55,395.00	$57,330.00	$59,282.00	$61,228.00	$63,178.00	$65,125.00	$67,079.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,047.67	$2,122.42	$2,196.56	$2,271.35	$2,345.91	$2,420.62	$2,495.22	$2,570.08
	Daily	$204.77	$212.25	$219.66	$227.14	$234.60	$242.07	$249.53	$257.01
	Hourly	$25.60	$26.54	$27.46	$28.40	$29.33	$30.26	$31.20	$32.13
AR 24	Annual	$56,010.00	$58,040.00	$60,072.00	$62,103.00	$64,133.00	$66,162.00	$68,194.00	$70,239.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,145.98	$2,223.76	$2,301.61	$2,379.43	$2,457.21	$2,534.95	$2,612.80	$2,691.15
	Daily	$214.60	$222.38	$230.17	$237.95	$245.73	$253.50	$261.28	$269.12
	Hourly	$26.83	$27.80	$28.78	$29.75	$30.72	$31.69	$32.66	$33.64
AR 25	Annual	$58,750.00	$60,858.00	$62,952.00	$65,059.00	$67,171.00	$69,274.00	$71,376.00	$73,517.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,250.96	$2,331.73	$2,411.96	$2,492.69	$2,573.61	$2,654.18	$2,734.72	$2,816.75
	Daily	$225.10	$233.18	$241.20	$249.27	$257.37	$265.42	$273.48	$281.68
	Hourly	$28.14	$29.15	$30.15	$31.16	$32.18	$33.18	$34.19	$35.21
P-5 AR 40 Hour Plan Effective 6/24/2005
Grade	Period	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8
AR 26	Annual	$61,646.00	$63,855.00	$66,012.00	$68,194.00	$70,376.00	$72,554.00	$74,733.00	$76,974.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,361.92	$2,446.56	$2,529.20	$2,612.80	$2,696.40	$2,779.85	$2,863.34	$2,949.20
	Daily	$236.20	$244.66	$252.92	$261.28	$269.64	$277.99	$286.34	$294.92
	Hourly	$29.53	$30.59	$31.62	$32.66	$33.71	$34.75	$35.80	$36.87
AR 27	Annual	$64,699.00	$66,962.00	$69,223.00	$71,471.00	$73,738.00	$75,989.00	$78,254.00	$80,602.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,478.89	$2,565.60	$2,652.23	$2,738.36	$2,825.22	$2,911.46	$2,998.24	$3,088.20
	Daily	$247.89	$256.56	$265.23	$273.84	$282.53	$291.15	$299.83	$308.82
	Hourly	$30.99	$32.07	$33.16	$34.23	$35.32	$36.40	$37.48	$38.61
AR 28	Annual	$67,967.00	$70,305.00	$72,645.00	$74,982.00	$77,316.00	$79,650.00	$81,985.00	$84,445.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,604.10	$2,693.68	$2,783.34	$2,872.88	$2,962.30	$3,051.73	$3,141.19	$3,235.45
	Daily	$260.41	$269.37	$278.34	$287.29	$296.23	$305.18	$314.12	$323.55
	Hourly	$32.56	$33.68	$34.80	$35.92	$37.03	$38.15	$39.27	$40.45
AR 29	Annual	$68,619.00	$71,196.00	$73,774.00	$76,346.00	$78,922.00	$81,495.00	$84,070.00	$86,594.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,629.09	$2,727.82	$2,826.60	$2,925.14	$3,023.84	$3,122.42	$3,221.08	$3,317.78
	Daily	$262.91	$272.79	$282.66	$292.52	$302.39	? pc	eonn 4 4	j	a
		ipJZ.u i	$34. iu	535.34	$36.57	$37.80	$39.04	$40.27	$41.48
AR 30	Annual	$71,376.00	$74,022.00	$76,678.00	$79,323.00	$81,972.00	$84,621.00	$87,277.00	$89,896.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,734.72	$2,836.10	$2,937.86	$3,039.20	$3,140.69	$3,242.19	$3,343.95	$3,444.30
	Daily	$273.48	$283.61	$293.79	$303.92	$314.07	$324.22	$334.40	$344.43
	Hourly	$34.19	$35.46	$36.73	$37.99	$39.26	$40.53	$41.80	$43.06
P-5 AR 40 Hour Plan Effective 6/24/2005
Grade	Period	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8
AR 31	Annual	$74,242.00	$76,965.00	$79,694.00	$82,422.00	$85,153.00	$87,881.00	$90,608.00	$93,326.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,844.53	$2,948.86	$3,053.41	$3,157.94	$3,262.57	$3,367.09	$3,471.58	$3,575.71
	Daily	$284.46	$294.89	$305.35	$315.80	$326.26	$336.71	$347.16	$357.58
	Hourly	$35.56	$36.87	$38.17	$39.48	$40.79	$42.09	$43.40	$44.70
AR 32	Annual	$77,218.00	$80,017.00	$82,817.00	$85,622.00	$88,430.00	$91,227.00	$94,042.00	$96,863.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,958.55	$3,065.79	$3,173.07	$3,280.54	$3,388.13	$3,495.29	$3,603.15	$3,711.23
	Daily	$295.86	$306.58	$317.31	$328.06	$338.82	$349.53	$360.32	$371.13
	Hourly	$36.99	$38.33	$39.67	$41.01	$42.36	$43.70	$45.04	$46.40
AR 33	Annual	$80,322.00	$83,203.00	$86,084.00	$88,968.00	$91,852.00	$94,733.00	$97,620.00	$100,549.00
	Bi-Wk	$3,077.48	$3,187.86	$3,298.24	$3,408.74	$3,519.24	$3,629.62	$3,740.23	$3,852.46
	Daily	$307.75	$318.79	$329.83	$340.88	$351.93	$362.97	$374.03	$385.25
	Hourly	$38.47	$39.85	$41.23	$42.61	$44.00	$45.38	$46.76	$48.16
AR 34	Annual	$83,631.00	$86,592.00	$89,550.00	$92,517.00	$95,471.00	$98,433.00	$101,389.00	$104,432.00
	Bi-Wk	$3,204.26	$3,317.71	$3,431.04	$3,544.72	$3,657.90	$3,771.38	$3,884.64	$4,001.23
	Daily	$320.43	$331.78	$343.11	$354.48	$365.79	$377.14	$388.47	$400.13
	Hourly	$40.06	$41.48	$42.89	$44.31	$45.73	$47.15	$48.56	$50.02
AR 35	Annual	$87,065.00	$90,098.00	$93,142.00	$96,175.00	$99,208.00	$102,241.00	$105,280.00	$108,438.00
	Bi-Wk	$3,335.83	$3,452.04	$3,568.66	$3,684.87	$3,801.08	$3,917.28	$4,033.72	$4,154.72
	Daily	$333.59	$345.21	$356.87	$368.49	$380.11	$391.73	$403.38	$415.48
	Hourly	$41.70	$43.16	$44.61	$46.07	$47.52	$48.97	$50.43	$51.94
P-5 AR 40 Hour Plan Effective 6/23/2006
Grade	Period	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Steps
AR 11	Annual	$32,117.00	$33,090.00	$34,074.00	$35,050.00	$36,062.00	$37,089.00	$38,121.00	$39,264.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,230.54	$1,267.82	$1,305.52	$1,342.92	$1,381.69	$1,421.04	$1,460.58	$1,504.37
	Daily	$123.06	$126.79	$130.56	$134.30	$138.17	$142.11	$146.06	$150.44
	Hourly	$15.39	$15.85	$16.32	$16.79	$17.28	$17.77	$18.26	$18.81
AR 12	Annual	$33,157.00	$34,182.00	$35,192.00	$36,253.00	$37,315.00	$38,391.00	$39,455.00	$40,638.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,270.39	$1,309.66	$1,348.36	$1,389.01	$1,429.70	$1,470.92	$1,511.69	$1,557.02
	Daily	$127.04	$130.97	$134.84	$138.91	$142.97	$147.10	$151.17	$155.71
	Hourly	$15.88	$16.38	$16.86	$17.37	$17.88	$18.39	$18.90	$19.47
AR 13	Annual	$35,028.00	$36,320.00	$37,620.00	$38,923.00	$40,231.00	$41,530.00	$42,841.00	$44,127.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,342.07	$1,391.58	$1,441.38	$1,491.31	$1,541.42	$1,591.19	$1,641.42	$1,690.69
	Daily	$134.21	$139.16	$144.14	$149.14	$154.15	$159.12	$164.15	$169.07
	Hourly	$16.78	$17.40	$18.02	$18.65	$19.27	$19.89	$20.52	$21.14
AR 14	Annual	$36,666.00	$38,016.00	$39,358.00	$40,706.00	$42,049.00	$43,396.00	$44,743.00	$46,085.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,404.83	$1,456.56	$1,507.97	$1,559.62	$1,611.08	$1,662.69	$1,714.30	$1,765.71
	Daily	$140.49	$145.66	$150.80	$155.97	11	C1 CO q-7	« th a	
	r iCiUi’iy	*!' •'i'/	518.21	$18.85	$19.50	$20.14	$20.79	$21.43	$22.08
AR 15	Annual	$38,424.00	$39,812.00	$41,196.00	$42,585.00	$43,967.00	$45,362.00	$46,748.00	$48,151.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,472.19	$1,525.37	$1,578.40	$1,631.61	$1,684.56	$1,738.01	$1,791.12	$1,844.87
	Daily	$147.22	$152.54	$157.84	$163.17	$168.46	$173.81	$179.12	$184.49
	Hourly	$18.41	$19.07	$19.73	$20.40	$21.06	$21.73	$22.39	$23.07
P-5 AR 40 Hour Plan Effective 6/23/2006
Grade	Period	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8
AR 16	Annual	$40,296.00	$41,724.00	$43,151.00	$44,582.00	$46,007.00	$47,436.00	$48,861.00	$50,327.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,543.91	$1,598.63	$1,653.30	$1,708.13	$1,762.73	$1,817.48	$1,872.07	$1,928.24
	Daily	$154.40	$159.87	$165.33	$170.82	$176.28	$181.75	$187.21	$192.83
	Hourly	$19.30	$19.99	$20.67	$21.36	$22.04	$22.72	$23.41	$24.11
AR 17	Annual	$42,292.00	$43,761.00	$45,231.00	$46,696.00	$48,166.00	$49,634.00	$51,105.00	$52,637.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,620.39	$1,676.67	$1,732.99	$1,789.12	$1,845.45	$1,901.69	$1,958.05	$2,016.75
	Daily	$162.04	$167.67	$173.30	$178.92	$184.55	$190.17	$195.81	$201.68
	Hourly	$20.26	$20.96	$21.67	$22.37	$23.07	$23.78	$24.48	$25.21
AR 18	Annual	$44,428.00	$45,932.00	$47,436.00	$48,943.00	$50,444.00	$51,950.00	$53,456.00	$55,060.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,702.23	$1,759.85	$1,817.48	$1,875.22	$1,932.73	$1,990.43	$2,048.13	$2,109.58
	Daily	$170.23	$175.99	$181.75	$187.53	$193.28	$199.05	$204.82	$210.96
	Hourly	$21.28	$22.00	$22.72	$23.45	$24.16	$24.89	$25.61	$26.37
AR 19	Annual	$46,613.00	$48,166.00	$49,716.00	$51,268.00	$52,811.00	$54,359.00	$55,908.00	$57,586.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,785.94	$1,845.45	$1,904.83	$1,964.30	$2,023.41	$2,082.73	$2,142.07	$2,206.37
	Daily	$178.60	$184.55	$190.49	$196.43	$202.35	$208.28	$214.21	$220.64
	Hourly	$22.33	$23.07	$23.82	$24.56	$25.30	$26.04	$26.78	$27.58
AR 20	Annual	$48,989.00	$50,573.00	$52,164.00	$53,747.00	$55,327.00	$56,917.00	$58,500.00	$60,255.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,876.98	$1,937.67	$1,998.63	$2,059.28	$2,119.81	$2,180.73	$2,241.38	$2,308.63
	Daily	$187.70	$193.77	$199.87	$205.93	$211.99	$218.08	$224.14	$230.87
	Hourly	$23.47	$24.23	$24.99	$25.75	$26.50	$27.26	$28.02	$28.86
P-5 AR 40 Hour Plan Effective 6/23/2006
Grade	Period	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8
AR 21	Annual	$51,402.00	$53,040.00	$54,668.00	$56,294.00	$57,927.00	$59,554.00	$61,187.00	$63,023.00
	Bi-Wk	$1,969.43	$2,032.19	$2,094.56	$2,156.86	$2,219.43	$2,281.77	$2,344.33	$2,414.68
	Daily	$196.95	$203.22	$209.46	$215.69	$221 95	$228 16	$234.44	$241.47
	Hourly	$24.62	$25.41	$26.19	$26.97	$27.75	$28.53	$29.31	$30.19
AR 22	Annual	$52,811.00	$54,747.00	$56,683.00	$58,617.00	$60,552.00	$62,487.00	$64,420.00	$66,353.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,023.41	$2,097.59	$2,171.77	$2,245.87	$2,320.00	$2,394.14	$2,468.20	$2,542.27
	Daily	$202.35	$209.76	$217.18	$224.59	$232.00	$239.42	$246.82	$254.23
	Hourly	$25.30	$26.22	$27.15	$28.08	$29.00	$29.93	$30.86	$31.78
AR 23	Annual	$55,315.00	$57,334.00	$59,337.00	$61,357.00	$63,371.00	$65,390.00	$67,405.00	$69,427.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,119,35	$2,196.71	$2,273.45	$2,350.85	$2,428.01	$2,505.37	$2,582.57	$2,660.04
	Daily	$211.94	$219.68	$227.35	$235.09	$242.81	$250.54	$258.26	$266.01
	Hourly	$26,50	$27.46	$28.42	$29.39	$30.36	$31.32	$32.29	$33.26
AR 24	Annual	$57,971,00	$60,072.00	$62,175.00	$64,277.00	$66,378.00	$68,478.00	$70,581.00	$72,698.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,221.12	$2,301.61	$2,382.19	$2,462.73	$2,543.22	$2,623.68	$2,704.26	$2,785.37
	Daily	$222.12	$230.17	$238.22	$246.28	$254.33	$262.37	$270 43	$278.54
	1	1	.1							.... . .—	
		’ — - • •			 -		' -				^vj-r.vj4_
AR 25	Annual	$60,807.00	$62,989.00	$65,156.00	$67,337.00	$69,522.00	$71,699.00	$73,875.00	$76,091.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,329.78	$2,413.38	$2,496.40	$2,579.97	$2,663.68	$2,747.09	$2,830.46	$2,915.37
	Daily	$232.98	$241.34	$249.64	$258.00	$266.37	$274.71	$283.05	$291.54
	Hourly	$29.13	$30.17	$31.21	$32.25	$33.30	$34.34	$35.39	$36.45
P-5 AR 40 Hour Plan Effective 6/23/2006
Grade	Period	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8
AR 26	Annual	$63,804.00	$66,090.00	$68,323.00	$70,581.00	$72,840.00	$75,094.00	$77,349.00	$79,669.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,444.60	$2,532.19	$2,617.74	$2,704.26	$2,790.81	$2,877.17	$2,963.57	$3,052.46
	Daily	$244.46	$253.22	$261.73	■6^ -J O CO	$279 09	$28? 72	$296.36	$305.25
	Hourly	$30.56	$31.66	$32.73	$33.81	$34.89	$35.97	$37.05	$38.16
AR 27	Annual	$66,964.00	$69,306.00	$71,646.00	$73,973.00	$76,319.00	$78,649.00	$80,993.00	$83,424.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,565.68	$2,655.41	$2,745.06	$2,834.22	$2,924.10	$3,013.38	$3,103.19	$3,196.33
	Daily	$256.57	$265.55	$274.51	$283.43	$292.41	$301.34	$310.32	$319.64
	Hourly	$32.08	$33.20	$34.32	$35.43	$36.56	$37.67	$38.79	$39.96
AR 28	Annual	$70,346.00	$72,766.00	$75,188.00	$77,607.00	$80,023.00	$82,438.00	$84,855.00	$87,401.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,695.25	$2,787.97	$2,880.77	$2,973.45	$3,066.02	$3,158.55	$3,251.15	$3,348.70
	Daily	$269.53	$278.80	$288.08	$297.35	$306.61	$315.86	$325.12	$334.87
	Hourly	$33.70	$34.85	$36.01	$37.17	$38.33	$39.49	$40.64	$41.86
AR 29	Annual	$71,021.00	$73,688.00	$76,357.00	$79,019.00	$81,685.00	$84,348.00	$87,013.00	$89,625.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,721.12	$2,823.30	$2,925.56	$3,027.55	$3,129.70	$3,231.73	$3,333.84	$3,433.91
	Daily	$272.12	$282.33	$292.56	$302.76	$312.97	$323.18	$333.39	$343.40
	Hourly	$34.02	$30.-3U		.OD	.Tj.iri. i.i		i-4 ; ,uu	
AR 30	Annual	$73,875.00	$76,613.00	$79,362.00	$82,100.00	$84,842.00	$87,583.00	$90,332.00	$93,043.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,830.46	$2,935.37	$3,040.69	$3,145.60	$3,250.66	$3,355.68	$3,461.00	$3,564.87
	Daily	$283.05	$293.54	$304.07	$314.56	$325.07	$335.57	$346.10	$356.49
	Hourly	$35.39	$36.70	$38.01	$39.32	$40.64	$41.95	$43.27	$44.57
P-5 AR 40 Hour Plan Effective 6/23/2006
Grade	Period	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step6	Step?	Step 8
AR 31	Annual	$76,841.00	$79,659.00	$82,484.00	$85,307.00	$88,134.00	$90,957.00	$93,780.00	$96,593.00
	Bi-Wk	$2,944.10	$3,052.07	$3,160.31	$3,268.47	$3,376.79	$3,484.95	$3,593.11	$3,700.89
	Daily	$294.41	$305.21	$316.04	$326.85	$337.68	$348.50	$359.32	$370.09
	Hourly	$36.81	$38.16	$39.51	$40.86	$42.21	$43.57	$44.92	$46.27
AR 32	Annual	$79,921.00	$82,818.00	$85,716.00	$88,619.00	$91,526.00	$94,420.00	$97,334.00	$100,254.00
	Bi-Wk	$3,062.11	$3,173.11	$3,284.14	$3,395.37	$3,506.75	$3,617.63	$3,729.28	$3,841.15
	Daily	$306.22	$317.32	$328.42	$339.54	$350.68	$361.77	$372.93	$384.12
	Hourly	$38.28	$39.67	$41.06	$42.45	$43.84	$45.23	$46.62	$48.02
AR 33	Annual	$83,134.00	$86,116.00	$89,097.00	$92,082.00	$95,067.00	$98,049.00	$101,037.00	$104,069.00
	Bi-Wk	$3,185.22	$3,299.47	$3,413.68	$3,528.05	$3,642.42	$3,756.67	$3,871.15	$3,987.32
	Daily	$318.53	$329.95	$341.37	$352.81	$364.25	$375.67	$387.12	$398.74
	Hourly	$39.82	$41.25	$42.68	$44.11	$45.54	$46.96	$48.39	$49.85
AR 34	Annual	$86,559.00	$89,623.00	$92,685.00	$95,756.00	$98,813.00	$101,879.00	$104,938.00	$108,088.00
	Bi-Wk	$3,316.44	$3,433.84	$3,551.15	$3,668.82	$3,785.94	$3,903.41	$4,020.62	$4,141.31
	npilir		A A J A A A		ir JLrU.ciii	ipo/d-ou	$3yu.3b	$402.07	$414.14
	Hourly	$41.46	$42.93	$44.39	$45.87	$47.33	$48.80	$50.26	$51.77
Longevity - Semi-Annual Payment July 1,2003 through June 30, 2007
Salary	10	15	20	25
1-11	$75.00	$150.00	$225.00	$300.00
12	75.25	150.50	225.75	301.00
13	92.00	184.00	276.00	368.00
14	94.75	189.50	284.25	379.00
15	97.50	195.00	292.50	390.00
16	100.50	201.00	301.50	402.00
17	103.25	206.50	309.75	413.00
18	106.00	212.00	318.00	424.00
19	109.00	218.00	327.00	436.00
20	111.75	223.50	335.25	447.00
21	114.75	229.50	344.25	459.00
22	136.25	272.50	408.75	545.00
23	142.00	284.00	426.00	568.00
24	147.75	295.50	443.50	591.00
25	153.25	306.50	459.75	613.00
26	159.00	318.00	477.00	636.00
27	164.50	329.00	493.50	658.00
28	170.25	340.50	510.75	681.00
29	187.50	375.00	562.50	750.00
30	193.00	386.00	579.00	772.00
31	198.75	397.50	596.25	795.00
32	204.25	408.50	612.75	817.00
33	210.00	420.00	630.00	840.00
34	215.75	431.50	647.25	863.00
35	221.25	442.50	663.75	885.00
36	227.00	454.00	681.00	908.00
37	233.00	466.00	699.00	932.00
38	238.50	477.00	715.50	954.00
39	244.25	488.50	732.75	977.00
40	249.50	499.00	748.50	998.00
41	255.50	511.00	766.50	1022.00
42	261.25	522.50	783.75	1045.00
Administrative and Residual (P-5) Lump Sum Bonus at Maximum* 7/1/2003 - 6/30/2007 Contract
Salary Grade	6/25/2004	6/24/2005	6/23/2006
11	$917	$949	$982
12	$949	$982	$1,016
13	$1,030	$1,066	$1,104
14	$1,076	$1,114	$1,153
15	$1,124	$1,164	$1,204
16	$1,175	$1,216	$1,259
17	$1,229	$1,272	$1,316
18	$1,285	$1,330	$1,377
19	$1,344	$1,391	$1,440
20	$1,407	S 1,456	S 1,507
21	$1,471	$1,523	$1,576
22	$1,549	$1,603	$1,659
23	$1,621	$1,677	$1,736
24	$1,697	$1,756	$1,818
25	$1,776	$1,838	$1,903
26	$1,860	$1,925	$1,992
27	$1,947	$2,016	$2,086
28	$2,040	$2,112	$2,186
29	$2,092	$2,165	$2,241
30	$2,172	$2,248	$2,327
31	$2,255	$2,334	$2,415
32	$2,340	$2,422	$2,507
33	$2,429	$2,514	$2,602
34	$2,523	$2,611	$2,703
35	$2,620	$2,711	$2,806
36	$2,722	$2,817	$2,915
37	$2,828	$2,927	$3,029
’Lump sum payments will be made when the Annual Increrrn mt would have applied. Only employees who are at maximum prior to when their inci ament would have been applied are eligible. Employees receiving an annual increment to go to maximum on their anniversary date are not eligible that contract year.
Administrative and Residual Unit [P-5] Contract Index
Provision Access to Information	Reference Article 8, Sec. 6	page(s) 9
Access to Premises	Article 8, Sec. 3	8
Accruals Layoff	Article 19, Sec. 6	45
Recording	Article 38, Sec. 12	81
Resignation	Article 19, Sec. 7	45
Sick Leave	Article 19, Sec. 1	44
Vacation	Article 18, Sec. 1	42-43
Alternative Work Schedules (Flextime)	Article 16A	37
Annual Increments	Article 24, Sec. 2	53
Arbitration	Article 15, Sec. 6	27
Class Reevaluations	Article 27, Sec. 4	66
CHRO Complaints	Article 15, Sec. 10(s )(2)	31
Expedited	Article 15, Sec. 9	30
Hazardous Duty	Article 38, Sec. 7	80
Health Program	Article 22, Sec. 3	52
Lateness	Article 16, Sec. 6	36
Out of Title	Article 29, Sec. 3(b) 3)	69
Temporary Service	Article 28, Sec. 2(d)	67
Auto LIsage Fee	Article 25, Sec. 5(b)	59
Breaks	Article 16, Sec. 4	34
Bulletin Boards	Article 8, Sec. 5	9
Bumping Rights	Article 13, Secs. 3-6	21-23
Business Related Expenses	Article 25, Sec. 16	63
Administrative and Residual Unit [P-5] Contract Index
Provision	Reference	page(s)
Callback Pay	Article 16, Sec. 5(c)	34-35
CCT’s		
Appeal Rights	Article 9, Sec. 6	14-15
Working Test Period	Article 9. Secs. 2-3 and 5	13-14
Civil Leave	Article 38. Sec. 5(a)	79
Class Re-Evaluation	Article 27	65-66
Comparability List	.Article 13, Sect. 4(b)	22
Compensation	Article 24	52-58
Compensatory Time	Article 16, Sec. 5(d)	35
	Article 17, Sec. 4	41-42
Contracting Out	Article 13, Sec. 8	23
Death Benefit	Article 19, Sec. 11	47
Demotion	Article 3, Sec. 1	3
	Article 14, Sec. 1-2	24
Derogatory Material	Article 11, Sec. 3	17
Discipline	Article 4, Sec. 3-4, 6	4
	Article 14	24-26
Dismissal	Article 14, Sec. 1-5	24-25
	Article 25, Sec. 15(c)	63
Discrimination	Article 5	5
Domestic Partner	Article 38, Sec. 13	81
Dues and Payroll Deductions	Article 7, Sec. 1-10	6-8
Duty Station	Article 16, Sec. 2	33
II
Administrative and Residual Unit (P-5| Contract Index
Provision	Reference	page(s)
Employee Rights	Article 4	4
Exchange of Employees (Swap)	Memorandum of	
	Understanding VI)	88
Examination Appeal	Article 15, Sec. 11 a)	31
Examination Leave	Article 38, Sec. 11	81
Family Leave	Article 19, Sec. 13	47
Flextime (Alternative Work Schedules)	Article 16A, Secs. 1-3,5	37-40
Floater’s Day Off	Article 38, Sec. 10	81
Four-Day Work Week	Article 16, Sec. l(bt	32
	Article 16A, Sec. 1 a)	38
Funeral Leave	Article 19, Sec. 3(t"(d)	45
General Wage Increase (GWI)	Article 24, Sec. 1	52-53
Grievance Procedure	Article 15	26-32
	Article 14, Secs. 2-7	24
Group Health Insurance	Article 23, Sec. 1	52
Harassment	Article 4, Sec. 1	4
Hazardous Duty	Article 38, Sec. 7	80
Health Programs	Article 22	51-52
Holidays	Article 17	40-42
Call-In	Article 17, Sec. 3	41
Overtime	Article 17. Sec. 3	41
III
Administrative and Residual Unit
| P-5] Contract Index
Provision	Reference	page(s)
Holidays		
Parly/Picnic	Memorandum of	
	Understanding III	87
Premium	Article 17, Sec. 5	42
Home Garaging	Article 24, Sec. 13	57-58
	Article 25. Sec. 15	62
Home Office Premium	Article 24. Sec. 12	56-57
Hours of Work	Article 16	32-37
Housing	Article 39, Sec. 2	82
Inclement Weather	Article 16, Sec. 6	36-37
Institutional Meal Rates	Article 39. Sec. 1	82
Insurance		
Accidental Death and		
Dismemberment	Article 24, Sec. 8	56
Group Health	Article 23, Sec. 1	52
Life Insurance	Article 23. Sec. 2	52
Motor Vehicle	Article 25. Sec. 7	59
Interrogation	Article 4, Sec. 6	4
	Article 14, Sec. 6-8	25-26
Jury Duty	Article 38, Sec. 5	79-80
Key Persons	Article 13. See. 2(b)	20
Lateness	Article 16, Sec. 6	36-37
Layoffs	Article 13	19-24
Licensing Fees	Article 24, Sec. 7	55
IV
Administrative and Residual Unit
|P-5] Contract
	Index	
Provision	Reference	page(s)
Life Insurance	Article 23. Sec. 2	52
Longevity	Article 24, Sec, 3	53
Lottery Incentives	Article 24. Sec. L -	58
Lump Sum (at max)	Article 24. Sec. 1	52-53
Management Rights	Article 3	3
Meal Periods	Article 16, Sec. 3	34
Meal Reimbursement	Article 25, Sec. 1J	62
	Article 44; Memorandum of Understanding IV	88
Medical Certificates	Article 19, Sec. IC	46
Method of Salary Payment	Article 36	78
Mileage Reimbursement	Article 25. Secs. 2 -5	58-59
Military Leave	Article 38, Sec. 6	80
Night Shift Differential	Article 24. Sec. 4(a)	53-54
Noin-AWS Schedule	Article 16A, Sec. 1	39-40
Non-Standard		
Work Week	Article 16, Secs. 1-2	32-33
Objective Job Evaluation (OJE)	Article 26	63-65
Officer Leave	Article 8. Sec. 7(c i	11-12
On-Call/Standby Pay	Article 24, Sec. 1(	56
Administrative and Residual Unit [P-5] Contract
Index
Provision	Reference	page(s)
Order of Layoff or Reemployment	Article 13	19-24
Orientation	Article 8, Sec. 8	12
Out of State Travel	Article 25, Sec. 10(a)	60
Out of Title Work	Article 29, Secs. 1 -2	67-68
Overpayment (Wages)	Article 24, Sec. 11	56
Overtime	Article 16. Sec. 5	34
Exempt Employees	Article 16, Sec. 5(d)	35
Holidays	Article 17, Sec. 3	41
Parking and Security	Article 44; Memorandum of Understanding 1	85
Part-time Employees	Article 32	75
Past Practices	Article 38. Sec. 9	81
Personal Leave	Article 18. Sec. 6	44
Personnel Records	Article 11	16-18
Picnic	Article 44; Memorandum of Understanding III	87
Parental and Pregnancy Leave	Article 21	50-51
Physical Exam	Article 22, Sec. 1	51-52
Premium City Supplement	Article 25. Sec. 10(b)	60
Professional Development and Conference Fund	Article 3 1. Sec. 6	74-75
VI
Administrative and Re idual Unit [P-5] Contract
	Index		
Provision	Reference	•	page(s)
Professional Leave	Article 31, Sec. 5		73-74
Promotions	Article 9, Sec. 2(bj		13
	Article 24, Sec. 5 Article 44; Memor. ndum		55
	of Understanding V		88
Reclassification Appeal Procedures	Article 15, Sec. 11(a)		31
	Article 44; Memorandum of Understanding I		85
Re-Employment List	Article 13, Sec. 6		22-23
Reimbursements	Article 25		58-63
Rest Periods	Article 16, Sec. 4		34
Retirement	Article 35		77
Safe Work Place	Article 33		75-76
Safety Shoes	Article 24, Sec. 9		56
Salary	Article 24, Secs. l-:;		52-55
Overpayment of	Article 24, Sec. 11		56
Self Incrimination	Article 14, Sec. 6		25
Seniority	Article 12		18-19
Layoff	Article 13		19-24
Staffing Needs	Article 17, Sec. 4		41-42
Stewards	Article 8, Sec. 4(d)		9
Service Ratings	Article 10		15-16
Seventh Step Supplemental	Article 24, Sec. 1		52-53
VII
Administrative and Residual Unit
[P-5] Contract Index
Provision	Reference	page(s)
Shift Differential	Article 24, Sec. 4(a)	53-54
Sick Leave	Article 19	44-47
Sick Leave Bank	Article 20	47-50
Special Needs Schedules (AWS)	Article 16A, Sec. 4	39-40
Special Revenue Holidays	Article 44; Special Letter	89-90
State Exam Leave	Article 38, Sec. 11	81
Stewards Rights	Article 8, Secs. 1-4	8-9
Strikes	Article 6	5
Subpoenas	Article 38, Sec 5(a)	79
Suspension	Article 14, Secs. 1-3	24-25
Swap of Employees	Memorandum of	
	Understanding VII	88
Temperature Variation	Article 45	85
Temporary Service Higher Class	Article 28	66-67
Training Leave	Article 31, Sec. 5	73-74
Transfers	Article 30	69-73
Travel Advance	Article 25, Sec. 11(a)	60-61
Travel Expenses	Article 25	58-63
Union Business Leave	Article 8, Sec. 7	10-12
Union Rights	Article 8	8
VIII
Administrative and Residual Unit [P-5] Contract
Index		
Provision	Reference	page(s)
Vacations	Article 18	42-43
Wage Overpayment	Article 24, Sec. 11	56
Weekend Differential	Article 24, Sec. 4(b ।	54
Winter Work	Article 34	76-77
Workers’ Compensation	Article 36	78
Working Test Period	Article 9	12-15
IX
NOTES
NOTES
NOTES
NOTES
NOTES