Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection - Metadata Header
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/)
Title: Michigan, University of and University of Michigan Professional Nurses
Council, Michigan Nurses Association (2001)
K#: 800387
Location: MI Ann Arbor
Employer Name: Michigan, University of
Union: University of Michigan Professional Nurses Council, Michigan Nurses Association
Local:
SIC: 8062	NAICS: 622
Sector: L	Number of Workers: 1800
Effective Date: 04/11/01	Expiration Date: 06/30/04
Number of Pages: 145	Other Years Available: Y
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
AGREEMENT
between THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
and
THE MICHIGAN NURSES ASSOCIATION
and

THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
PROFESSIONAL NURSE COUNCIL
Executed April 11, 2001
Expires June 30, 2004
UMPNC Office: 663-5657
table o" contents;
Art.itle	ElArject	pa re	Faye
1	Bseogr.it i on 4 D-ef irrj.trOCXS	2	
IT	Management Rights	1 j	3
III	Professional Nursing	11	4
IV	PerXormaFjce Planning t Evald at ion	29	0
V	No- Interference 6 N’j-Lock	:ib	c
VI	Guarantee N On -d i s CZ iel'i j 1 io r<	44	11
VII	Association Cue= £ Representat ior	4 7	12
VI11	Service Fees Check Off of As 3 od a t i on Due a or Representation ICivioa Lee	57	] 4
IX	Association Orientation	65	16
X	Bulletin Boards	72	17
Xi	Classification 4 Kages	73	13
XII	Components of Earnings 4 Paycheck	84	19
XIII	C.Q-I sect i.r.T.3 Staffing s Scheduling	99	2D-
XIV	workload Review	132	33
XV	Overtime	HO	36
XV-A	Assigned Time Off	1.64A	60
XVI	Shift PiemiuJti	16S	61
xvn	(Jr.-Call Systems ahd Pay	HO A	Ed
XVIII	Call Back Pay	176	68
XX	Variable Activity	17B	6'.i
XXI	Seniority Definitions s Loss or	106	7 4
XXII	Seniority Reinstatement 4 Credit for Prior	199	76
XXIII	Jcrvice In to mat ion Liats	216	79
xxiv	Peraonnal Files	23C	HC
XXV	Probationary Employees.	232	91
XXVI	Reiiuction. nt the WerkiTvj	242	83
XXVII	Force/Recall Procedures Transfers: Prcmuti nns, Uemoticijs, s	269	c._
XXVIII	Laterals Hark Redesign	296	iOl
XXIX	Paid Time Dif	321	102
XXX	Short Term Disability	3 36	lil
XXXI	Employee Assist Ltnse	344	Li 5
XXXII	Holidaye	347	117
XXXV	Funeral Lea VO Pay f^erta vem^Rt)	403	12 4
xxxv 1	Jury & Witness Service	■W5	125
XXXVII	Annual Military Lustve	410	126
XXXVIII	Leaves of Absctiue	411	126
xxx ix	Benefit Plana	-140	136
XL	Comir.it tees	464	143
I
Art id e	Subj ect
XT.T XLII XL IV XLV XLVZ	Inclement Weather Tuition Support Program Occupational Health 4 Safety Discipline Dispute Resolution Procedure/Mediation Procedure
Kivu XLVIII XLIX L	Arbitration Procedure Conferences Profesaiona L Activities 4 Education Release Time for Association Business
LI I	Subcontracting, 'Temporary and Agency Nurses
LUI LIV LV LVI	Charge Nurse Guidelines Severability Waiver Terai of Agreement APPENDIX
A A-L	Wage Schedules Schedules 4 salary Step Placement for CRNA
B C	Classification Titlos 4 Pay Grades Representation Districta by Service/Geographic Area
D E	Vacation 4 Holiday Request Tiir.es Calculation of Straight Day Shifts
Para	Page J 44	MEHDHANDU.M CP UNDERSTANDING fMOUi	Fara	Page
463				
474	145	Retirement Incentive	6 36	203
484	140	Contagious Diseases	639	2S4
497	152	D'J al Appointments	640	705
530	159	Mileage Heiirt-.ijcsenent	632	2L6
		Periodic Health Appraisal Program	643	207
5 j5	168	Starting State for New Employees i	652	208
583	172	Transfers		
5^7	173	Certified Nurse Midwives	655	210
593	175	Weekenda (Scheduling Blocks)	656	211
		Clinical ladder	661	214
601	177	Tuition Loan	671	215
		Unit Reconfiguration	6^5	216
605	178	Anniversary Dates	67 7	216
606	179	Workforce Transition	697	219
607	179	Dual Unit Positions	700	221
600	180	Relevant Labor Markets	702	222
		Graduate Nurse	710	223
		Overtime Man a g eznent.	713	274
609	181	Work. Redesign	715	225
620	192	Ambulatory Care Collaborative Practice	716	
		Model		226
626	195	professional Issues	7 ’ D(	277
632	196	Transfer 6 Promotion	719	228
		Market Assessment	72L	22 9
637a	190			
637R	199	ADDENDUX		
		A Temporary Nurse Schedule Guidelines		A-l
		B PTO Guidelines		A-3
		C Disability Accomnioda fieri Guidelines		A-ll
INTENT NOTES
Intent Notes follow Addendujr.
ALPHABETICAL INDEX
_______________________Subject_____________________ Ability to Perform Work Accrual - Paid Time Off
Ambulatory Care Collaborative Practice Model Anniversary Dates Annual Evening Shift Bonus Annual Military Leave Annual Night Shift Bonus Arbitration Procedure Assigned Time Off Assistive Personnel Evaluation Association Dues 4 Representation Service Fees Association Orientation Benefit Plans Bonus -
•	Eligibility
■	Float
•	Overtime Trigger Bonus (See Overtime Systems)
*	Straight Evenings
•	Straight Mights
•	Weekend Silletin. B<j?_rci-. Call Back Pay Central Staffing Resource <CSH> Criteria for Evaluation Certified Nurse Midwives Charge Kjrse Guidelines Check-Off Association Dues/Representation Svc Fee Classification and Wages Classification Titles 4 Pay Grades Clinical Authority Clinical Ladder Clinical Nurse III Role Specific Activity Classification Descriptions Conmi.ttees Components of Earnings and Paycheck Corrections Conferences Consecutive Work Days - Protium Contagious Diseases Credit for Prior Service Day Shift Staffing Formula: Calculation of Straight Day shilts Definitions:
• Ability to Perform Work
IV
 FarF.nraph
______________________ Subject__________
Defiziitions (continued)
	• Day
Paragraph	• calendar Week
327	* Employee;
7^6	o Pul1-Time Employee
67?	n Part-Time Employee
115	n Regular Employee
	c Student Status
111	O Temporary Status
575	• Evening Shi ft
164A	• Lateral Transfer
22	* Layoff
47	• Mandatory Reduction of Hours
65	■ ^ight Shift
440	* Promotion
116	• Overtime (See Qvertijne Systems)
179	• Provisional Selection
	* Reduction-In-Force
114	• Redistererl Murse
110	• Regular Job Opening
100	■ Role Specific Activity
7?	• seniority
176	+ Substantial Difference
105	* Transfer
7D5	* Unit
655	• Week
635	* Wee kend
57	Delegation
79	Demotions
626	Dental Assistance
20	Disability Accommodations
661	Disability Accommodation Guidelinks
132B	Discipline
00	C1 sc: Lmittat Luu
464	Dispute Resolution & Mediation Procedure
34	Dual Appointments
	Dual unit Posit tons
93	Educational Funds
639	Employee’ Assistance
2151;	Evaluation5 by Nursing
124	Evaluations Performance
637B	Evening Shift Premium
	Evening shift Quarterly licnas
24 6	Float {W^-rk Reassignment)
Float iVoluntaryI
141
142 5
8
9
11
10
112
212
243. 1
244
100
1.1 „
140
27 5ft, 285
243
12
27 0
121\
137
284 4 intent
265
14 ,24b
142
101
20h
292
461
3432 Addendum C?
4 97
44
1540
700
59C
21,22
28
185
114
183
179
Subject	Paragraph
Funeral Leave Pay (her a a 'J ement J Graduate Nurse	403 652iir 713
Group Life Insurance Health Insurance Holidays Holidays: Eligibility Holidays: Scheduling Hospital Business Days inclejnerit Weather Information Lists internship or Training Position	444 441 341 352 361 560 460 216 262, 202.6b,
Jury u Witness Service Leaves of Absence ♦	Association Business •	Child Care ■	Disability •	Educational •	General Conditions •	Government Service *	Medteal •	Military •	Personal •	Return ftej Leave •	Seasonal Long Tn rm Disability -Management Rights Market Assessment. Mediation System Mileage Reimbursement Night Shift Dcfiniticn Kight Shift Premium Hight Shift - Straight Ha Interference i No-Lock Out Guarantee ’ Non-DiscriminatiOTi Non-Di're ct Patient Care Activities Non-Nursing Tasks Notification to Association-Discipline Cicaupational Health s Safety	294.t:, 652B.4 238 inLent 405 411 417 416 413 421 429 418 411 415 414 423 438 450 15 720 556 642 94 167 107 35 44 132A 26 GQ 494
Overtime Logs (Recording System?)	150 4 I.-[Lent
On-Call Pay On-Call Systems On-Call SvsteiC.S; Onsthedalcd Eutient Care Areas On-Call Systems on 24/7 units	171 170A I'.'OE 170D
VI
Suhjsrt	Paragraph
■	Orientation	fib, 2Gt, 2 J i s
	7r.ten-
।	Overtime	140
’	Overtime Eligibility	: 4H
Overtime; MaxUO'.nn huurs/24 hour period	: p?
Overtime Management	1153, 713
<	Overtime Premium (-See also Overtime Over-Limit	14 3
Premium for each urea.'	
Overtime Pyramiding	151
Overtime Scheduling	152
overtime systems	’. b:ir
* 24/7 Units	
o Unit Categories	16HB Intent
o Definitions	163c
.	o individual Limit; Overtime Snn'.ia, Oved-	i ->
1	Limi t Premium	
J	o Exceptions to individual Limit, Overtime	
Bonus, Over-Limit Premium	163E
o Additional Overtime Management Actions	163F
<	• WM3C £ ECHO	1B1C
u unit Categories	163? Intent
c Definition:;	163U
, ■	o Individual Limit, Overtime Bonus, Over-	1 63H
Limit Premium	
o Exceptions to Individual Limit, Overtime	
Bonus, Over-Limit Premium	1531
o Additicnal 'jver'-j.ie Mar.agem.euL Actions	1G1J
• Emergency Department	1S3K
n Unit Categories	LtdB InLcuL
o Definitions	163K
O Individual Limit, Overtime Bonus, Over-	163L
Limit Premium	
o Exceptioris to Individual Limir., Overtime	
Bonus, Ovcr-Limir. Preminin	16 3 M
‘	c Additional Overtime Manugcilcnt lections	15 3N
* DP, PACU, Procedure Areas	1<i'30
O tjni - Catecorj es	L€3B Tncer.r.
a Dcfinitienc	1630 '
c Individual Limit., Overtime Ror.us, Over-	J 6 3 P
LuTiit c,rejniuni	
o Exceptions r.o Indi Vidus’, Lim.ir, Oyer time	
Bonns, c ver - Lim i t. Premium	163<!
o Overtime Honit.drir,s	1 ijR
o Additional Overt’me HanaocKlont Action:;	16 is
Sub-i act_________________________Paragraph
• Ambulatory Car?	1 MT
o Unit Categories	163B intent
o Individual Lljnit	It. IT
O Exceptions to Individual Limit £	1 63U
Overtime Sonus	
o Overtime Bonus (Ambulatory care)	163V
o Additional Overtime Mana gene nr. Action?	1MW
Overtime Trigger (se^ also Overtime Systems)	163A
Paid Time Off Guidelines	Addendum B
Paid Time Off Program	32b
Paid Ti-me Off Records Pay:	07
* call Stick	176
• On-Call	171
• Reporting	1641
Feer Review	28E
Paycheck Corrections	05
Performance Expectations	17
Performance Planning and Evaluation	30
Periodic Health Appraisal Program	643
Personnel Files	230
Policies and Procedures	35
Posting 4 Bidding pr^ceduie Premium:	276
■ Evening' Shift.	16b
• Excess seven Days	33
■ Night Shift	167
• overtime	143
< V.-ot-itlng Ealfts	90
• weekend	10<l
Priority Consideration	247, 253, 261
	264
Probationary Employees	232
Professional Activities	26
Professional Activities and Education	50 7
Professional Issues	710
Professional Nursing	17
Promotions	269
Provisional Selection	27 5, 205
Quarterly Bonus	110
Rates of Pay on Transrer	294
Recognition and ES&Iifiiliens	2
Recording Systems fOvertime Logs!	lb3 & Intent
Reduction of the Working force i Recall Procedures	243
Esins f.at.eirient & Credit, lor Prior Servic-u:	199
Release Time for Association business	59.1
Relevant Leib Or Markets	7C2
vlii
* [
i
i
-Subject	Paragraph
Report Liig Fay	1E4 1
Representation Districts by Service or Area	632
Rest Periods	96
Retirement Incentive	618
Retirement Plan	4 58
Role Specific Activity	12A,132E
Safety Committee	405
Seasonal Appointments	18511
Seniority Definitions S Less of Seniority	18R
Service fee:	48
• Challenged	53
* Deduction	57
Severability	60 E
Shift Premium	9R,165
Shift Preference (Changes)	126
Shift Preference: Six month waiting period	ill & intent
Shift Reassignment	131A
Paid Time Off Accrual for Part-Time Employees	3335
SL&ep Time	17 5D
Staffing i Scheduling:	88
• Day Shift Formula	124
• Guidelines	95
• Ncn-day shifts	92
* Review	1'53
* Sequence for Development of unit Schedule	91
Shift Assignments for CNT 6 cull	197
Shift Rotation	97
Short Term Disability	33 5
Standards x Measurement Tool	82 £ 662
Starting Rate for New Employees 4; Transfers	652
Step - Pay {N-l - N-5)	
Step - Pay ERNA {N-6}	E20
Step Placement Upon Hi re	652,625?,
Step Placement Upon Transfer	294,652.flUbA
straight Night shift	1L7
Subcontracting, Temporary and/oi lrAgency Nurses"	601
Temporary Employees	91 Intent,
	1E5B, 6C1
Temporary Nurse Guidelines'	Addendum B
Term of Agreement	ELI?
Terminal ion	49, 233, 427
Transfers: Promotions, Demotions i Laterals	269,lit
Travel Accident Insurance	£
Trigger Report (See also Overtime Systems)	163
Tuition Loan	671
Tuition Support Program	474
subject ______________________ Paragraph
Unit Categories	163.B Tntent
Unit Reccnfiouraticn	675
Vacation s Holiday Request Tini©*	S37A
Variable Activity	178
Voluntary Schedule;	
• Excess Seven Days	93
• Overtime	lSz
» Rc-tauing Shift	90
• Weekend	IC'C'
Voluntary Float Benns	17'3
Wage Schedules (CN-1 - CN-51	609
Wage Schedule ' CRNA (N-6)	
Waiver	607
Weekend Premium	100
Weekend Work. ?T0	100A
Weekends (Scheduling Blockal	656
Work Schedule:	
• Four Week 2-locks	10b
* Notification	104
■ Weekends	100
Worktorce Transition	697
Workload Review	133
Work Redesign	296,715
'the Regents c-f the University of Michigan hereinafter cabled the "University" or ''employer", ar.d the Michigan Nurses Agsociatlcn and its University c.f Michigan Professional Nurse Connelly hereinafter called "Association'’, enter into the following Agreement, this 21th day of April 2001 and aoree as follows:
ARTICLE I RECOGNITION ANO DEE'lNIT IONS
SECTION A.	DESCRIPTION OF UNIT
Pursuant to and in conformity with the certification issued t>y the Michigan Employment. Relations Commission on February 10, L9?5 in Case NO, R?i C-69, the University recognizes the Association as the sole and exclusive representative for the purposes of collective bargaining in respect co wages, hours and other conditions of employment: for all employees in the following described unit:
All full-time and regular part-time registered professional nurses employed by the University of Michigan at all facilities, including Staff Nurses, Nurse Clinicians . and IT, Health Nurses, Coordinator Nursing Education, Clinical Specialist, Nurse Anesthetists, and Assistant Head Nurses (nor-supervisory}; but excluding nursing supervisors. Assistant Head Nurses (supervisory), Head Nurses, all other supervisors, instructional staff, and all other employees.
Also included are graduates of a registered nursing program pending licensure by the State of Michigan as = registered nurse.
See Appendix 3 for current classification titles.
SECTION B,	DEFINITIONS
1)	The terms "omployee" and "employees" as used in thia Agreement (except where the Agreement clearly indicates otherwise) shall mean only an employee or employees
within the bargaining unit described in SECTICW A.
In addition, it shall xean an individual with a temporary permit issued by the Michigan Board of Licensing and employed by the Cniversity in a classification set forth in SECTION A pending Mi chigan ■Registration, While in such an employment status, the employee shell always be in a probationary status.
10
2)	The term "fnll-tiae employee" ahull mean a regular employes whose normal schedule of work is forty (40) hours per calendar week or eighty ISO) hours per two calendar weeks or one hundred twenty (120) hours per three calendar weeks.
3)	The term "part-time employee" shall mean a regular employee whose normal schedule of work is less than forty (40) hours per calendar week or less than eighty (501 hours per two calendar weeks or less that One hundred twenty (1.20.! hours per three : calendar weeks.	J
4J The term "regular employee'' shall mean an individual whose employment ■ ia reasonably expected to continue indefinitely and who is not employed izi a temporary or student status. (See Intent Note for Paragraph 5)
5; "Temporary status" is employment which is (1) irregular, sporadic, or casual, or (Zj limited in duration ar.d established fur (a) a specific project, (bl relief for regular ■ employee absences, or (c) augmenting ; regular	employsea	occasioned by .(
resignations, dismiaaalE, short term fl staffing requirements, or other conditions fl that, may create a short terai staffing need. fl
(Sere Intent hote for paragraph 10)	,fl
6; "Student status" is employment which is	:lfl
required by or results from, the pursuit of	.^fl
any educational program for which services ^fl related to that educational program are rendered.
12
“Registered" shall mean licensed to practice nursing Ln the State of Michigan.
ISA
3) "Role Specific Activity" shall performance expectations consistent the individual employee's job.
mean with
13
SECTION C. OTHER DEEIHITIONS
f
For the purpose of thia Agreement, following definitions shall apply:
the
;■£?!
1 J
15
1) ''Unit" means ; care or service i purposes of, hut educational funds
a functional administered not limited
>, holidays,
area of patient separately (for to, scheduling, vacation and
Reduct ion-in-Force) except for the OR, in which
Cores A core C However, section
will
B will be considered one unit, and
be considered
this definition is
(See Intent Note for Paragraph 14)
a separate unit, Hat applicable tc :scription of Dr.it).
ARTICLE II
MANAGEMENT RIC-UTS
All management rights and tuner.ions, except those which are clearly and expressly abridged
by this Agreement, shall exclusively in the University.
functions include.
but are not
remain vested Such rights and limited to (1)
full and exclusive control of the management of
the University,
the
operations personnel performed,
the methodsr
by which any and
supervision of
processes, means
the
composition, determination ' wording forces;
: control a assignment, of the aim
property and direction and type of
and be
the and
(2) the right to determine
the
work tc be done and the standards to be met by eiiployees covered by this Agreement; (3/ the tight to change or introduce new operations,
methods, processes, means
the right to extent work i
facilities,
detunr.ine whether and to
and what
;hail be performed by employees;
-44> the right to hire, establish and change work schedules, set hours of work, establish.
eliminate
change classifications, assign,
^.transfer, promote, demote, release and lay off ^yernployees; (Si the right ~o determine, the ’Fjfualif Lcsti ems of employees, and t<i suspend.
3
IC
17
13
discipline and discharge
and and
to
otherwise to maintain an efficient operation.
ecipl
Nothing in this Article give the University the
oyees
orderly,
shall be
right
applicable laws or direct employees applicable law?.
ARTICLE PROFESSIONAL
III
NURSING
The University
responsibility, available high
and
has the obligation
quality nursing patients and to provide and maintain
for cause effective
construed
to violate to violate
authority, to make care for
_____________________________________ a suitable environment far the practice of nursing by the employee? covered by this Agreement. Tho University provides employee? time and support service? to ’
expectations. the employee sufficient tu
iomplete their
When, the
following discussion
supervisor agrees support servicea nave
that । not that or a
been provided to meet an expectation, expectation will be changed or deleted, plan will be developed to provide sufficient
time or support services. Performance expectation? may bo amended as job requirements change. Staff will not be demoted if inability to meet role expectations is due to lack of coverage alone. An employee who believes that be/she is being held accountable fcr meeting an expectation without being provided tins or support services may Nursing Cirector.
Nurses employed in areas directly to Nursing will be nursing director most closely
the department or clinical area
appeal to
lent the
not reporting
assigned associated
with
_______________________________ the nurse works in for the purpose at responding to concerns related to nursing practice nr implementation of the Agreement.
The University recacnise? employees covered by this Agreement arc licensed Registered Nurses who are authorized to practice nursing toy the State of Michigan and who have the responsibility and obligation to provide high quality nursing care for patients within the
1?
20
resources and employer. (See
Employees responsibility is consistent patient using University -
A.
environment provided by the Intent Note for Paragraph 19)
and the University share the for providing nursing care which with the needs and goals of the the facilities provided by the
CLItilCAI. AUTHORITY
The University recognizes that; employees are members, of the Nursing profession and, as such, are employed to assume the responsibilities for assessment, planning, implementing, and patient
including planning, functions
However,
evaluating education , in this
nursing care, and discharge regard, these
are
whom employees
practiced with the patient? for given responsibility within
are
the resources and
It is the
environment provided by
protea s ian
the
that and
■determines the scope of nursing practice it is the registered nurse who is responsible and accountable for the provision of nursing care- Fer any given patient assignment the registered nurse supervises and determines the appropriate utilization of any unlicensed assistive personnel involved in the provision of direct patient care. If the work of assistive personnel is not delegated by the
it is not supervise, this work.
the responsibility of the RN
met, iter or To this end
the RH, to for
be orovided job description?
provide guidelines
, Registered Nurses will
personnel, which ha? personnel■ have input
including any spei been provided for
assistive
Additionally, Registered Nurses may
the development
any
specific training ar.d/or competencies. Intent Note for Paragraph 20A)
We recognize the principle that clinical nursing skills are most effectively evaluated by a Registered Nurse, Therefore, wherever practicable,, as determined by the University, an employee's clinical nursing skills will be ^.evaluated by a Registered Nurse, in those areas .■where there is also a nurse manager, the nurse
5
manager will be involved in the evaluation to some degree. The employee will have the -option of having an individual meeting with the nurse manager, and/or the option oi requesting that the nurse manager be present during the evaluation meeting, Ar employee who receives a written clinical evaluation by a nc-n-nure.e, may-file a written request for a review of the evaluation, provided the written reqvest ia filed within 15 calendar days cf receipt of the written evaluation. In the event that the employee filea for such a review, the review will be conducted by a Registered Nurse.
22	Employees are responsible for coordinating
the work, and teaching, and contributing to the evaluation of clinical nursing skills of designated nursing personnel. In addition, coordination of services is an integral part of nursing cate and employees have Lhe responsibility to facilitate and collaborate in providing this care. There will be adequate Registered Nurse staff to provide training to assistive personnel to support completion ct the competency assessment. Registered Nurse input will be included tn the annual competuncy assesstr.er.t and performance evaluation of assistive . personnel. (See Intent Kctes for Paragraph 22)
22A
23
To this end
utilizing the principles of
interest based problem solving, concerns regarding the utilization of assistive personnel iray he addressed as a first step at the vu^it level. The issue will he. addressed at the next appropriate workload review committee meeting anc all interested ur.it staff will be invited to participate in the discussion. If consensus is not reached by the workload review committee members, the Director oi Nursing and the Association leadership will he invited to attend a special workload review meeting- In this event, the Association leadership will participate in discussions with the Director of Nursing prior to a decision being maria and COmlnur.lcated.
R. MAINTAINING AND UPGRADING NURSING PRACTICE
It is the responsibility and obligation of
each employee to maintain and upgrade his/her
w.-

24
25
knowledge and ski'
patient care, responsibility
In and
University, within
affecting the quality of
this regard, it is obligation of available resources,
the the
assist employees by establishing programs and/or providing resources for orientation and staff development. Employees are also encouraged to contribute to upgrading nursing
pra
by proposing nursing research
opportunities and developing, conducting end participating in those opportunities which are
made available.
■duties, education
to
It
Nothing herein prevent assignment s understood that.
cccur on paid time-
required by the
should be of these programs or cution will
The University supports .nursing research-This support may take the form of time, money
support services within available
and nurse consultation
resources.
also provides educations’, development of research program management and available resources.
C. POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
The University
skills, including budgeting, within
Policies and procedures care will, whenever possible, input from employees in the personnel involved in, or policies and proced-iras. that high quality patient
affecting nursing be developed with classification' of affected by, such The parties agree
accomplished through a employees and management.
joint
=■ can bast be effort between
The parties further
agree that active participation by employees ir.
regard
to
program
development, and the on patient care will care. To this end, Professional Kursing
planning,
impact of budget promote such high committees which
will include
program changes quality address
employees
from appropriate classifications, as determined
by the University, recommendations fl committee members, no loss of pay
The University will seek rom the Association for These employees will suffer ■ as a result of such
participation- (Ree Intent Note for Paragraph 2-5J
7
High quality patient care requires the combined, coordinated and interdisciplinary efforts and services of a variety of personnel and the specific identification and assignment of tasks required for proper patient care to certain categories of personnel, to the exclusion of other categories is not practical nor in the best interest of quality patient care. It is understood, therefore, that employees covered by this Agreement have a primary responsibility of providing nursing care which does not require them to function as a clerk, messenger, transporter, custodian, maintenance employee or dietetics worker for substantial periods of time except in rare and unu sual cite umst a neos .
Questions arising under Paragraphs 21, 25 and the question of whether an individual employee is being required to function a= a clerk, messenger, transporter, custodian, maintenance employee or dietetics worker for substantial periods of time except i;i rare and unusual circumstancea may be proper subject of Article XuVI and XLVII, the Dispute Resolution, Mediation and Arbitration Procedures, Any other questions arising under this Article may be referred to Conferences under Article XLVIII, but are not subject to the Dispute Resolution, Mediation and	Arbitration
Procedures,
ARTICLE IV
PERFORMANCE PLANNING AND EVALUATION
3S
A performance evaluation program will be continued at the option of the University, If continued, the performance evaluation program will incorporate the following factors:
2fiA
29B
The principle of informing employees about their performance through supervisory evaluation and/cr other methods as determined by the supervisor I See Intent Note for Paragraph 2&A)
A yearly performance plan will be prepared. At the option of the supervisor the plan will be prepared cither by the employee and a
coals and the means tc
be provided -with
23C
plan
performance
made
by
be
SEE
classification
measurements only
based
within
standards
Examples of
unit.
2SE
33
ar.d the performance
(See
GUARANTEE
its
upon each
and
will noL cause, nor shall any
the the the the
prior aware part
provided unit,
to of
within each
officials, affiliates
appropriate evaluation evaluation process.
i will each i unit,
with the ?or each standards Paragraph
any the
ARTICLE ?
NO-INTERFERENCE AND NO-LOCK OUT
^employee or employees concertedly take part in, ^3hy action against or any interference with the rations of the University during the term <jf this Agreement,
The . employees
established far employee strength
J members of the bargaining unit tsupport, encourage nr condone
classification established for
6620
' review wilZ peer review
supervisor or by all employees within each classification in the unit and a supervisor. The manager and employees will jointly identify
period and be made process and their
The Association will be evaluation teol for each
Each employee will
Performance evaluations
anti only performance
each unit.
Gr.iy employees educated in peer be allowed tc participate in । processes.
The Association will also receive revisions to the evaluation tool or standards. (See Paragraph bbirj
professional activities, achieve them.
ion anti its members, its
weaknesses as well as a plan for performance improvement will be included in each written evaluation. These examples, either written or verbal, will be related with sufficient detail sc chat the employee can respond. (Sec Intent Mote for Paragraph 281?:
SECTION A. NG-INTERFERENCE
event
action
Steps
disavowal and
of
action
39
University
represented by The Michigan. Nurses Association;
took
of
unauthorized by the Association
subjects you
c
40
41
In the event that any employee or employee
out
aga 5 nst
representatives
its officials and representatives
interference officials Association,
■or its the
and and
a
University prosecute
of the : place
of the
including suspension
perform their obligations as set forth in this Article.
immediate any such
You are advised that the acticn against and
Association immediately ahali all individuals to cease 1
shall, within
inform employees that t violation of the Agreement
the nolle discharge.
Michigan which
viclatiori of
agreement and
any such
collective
rferar.ee and
1 instruct any their action ir action is
suspension of
Agreement and
of all benefits under bargaining agreement and are required to cease interference irunedlately.
interference and on notice from the University, the Association, without any delay, shall ta.ke whatever affirmative steps are necessary in an attempt or attempts to prevent and bring about the termination of such action cr interference-
university (date) is and in bargaining
Such affirmative
disciplinary action, including all benefits under this discharge,
To all employees
Association by the "University of action ur interference, deliver the
shall refuse to interference, the will net file or damages arising
shall include the refusal to recognize
In addition, the Association twenty-f&ur (24) hours of
disciplinary action.
interference with the operations
An authorized official shall sign the notice.
subjecting them tt>
.he
the
this
any such
and
:t ion
such action r agrees tba any action such action Association,
42
Nothing herein shall preclude the University from seeking legal or other redress of any individual oi from taking disciplinary action., including suspension of all benefits under this Agreement and discharge against any employees taking part in the action of interference. Any such disciplinary action taken shall not be reviewable through the Dispute Resolution and Arbitration Procedures, except for the fact question of whether the employee tock part in any such action cr interference.
SECTION B. NO-LOCK OPT GUARANTEE
The University shall not -conduct a lock-out of employees during the term nt this Agreement,
ARTICLE 71
NON - 01 SC F? IMI NAT ION
SECTION A,_
44
The University and the Association agree that there shall be no discrimination in the application cf the provisions of this Agreement
shall
based creed,
or. the non-relevant factors of
color, national origin,
orientation, marital status, or
sex, age.
race, sexual except
where sex or age is a bona fide occupational
qualification, discrimination
in add! i n the
on, there shall be no
application
provisions of this Agreement, relevant mcr.tal ar physical Further, employees shall not sexual harassment.
SECTION B,
Neither the university
discriminate
against
based
of the
on ncn-
handicaps.
subject to
employee because of
Association, intimidate, with, any
with respect to, lawful
labor organization activities or membership
the right r.o membership.
■discrimination
refrain from
application of
। addition, against any the terms
SUC'n activities there shall be employee in
or
the
this Agreement
ecause of membership ar non-membership in the sociation.
46
statutory
SECTION A.
47
43
with
month
following thirty (30) calendar days employment
and
month
continued employment,
of
unif:
alternative,
a
representation service lee.
SECTION B.
43
A of thia Article unless:
50
amount
such delinquency and warning him/her that
calendar
li'
Agreement and to State of Michigan
Bo Section
Nothing in this Article shall be construed to prevent sn employee alleging digsriEiination
unless < within will he
either t ir. the reqei red
ARTICLE VII ASSOCIATION DUES AND REPRESENTATION SERVICE FEES
During the life of this .he extent the laws of the
thereafter, a condition
dnea or service fee
uniformly required Association dues,
Association first has notified the
from exercising constitutional rights which may be available.
in the bargaining unit.
fee, and specifying trie
Every employee, beginning
employee by letter, explaining that he/she is delinquent in not tendering either the uniformly required Association dues or a uniformly required representation service
are tendered days he/stie
terminate ci under
shall tender to the Association, as
employee shall be
1) The
thirty ;30)	>
reported to
termination as provided and
University for this Article,
51
2 J The Association has University with written procedure of Section B.
has been fcllowed or
furnished proof chat
the the
’dniversicy with a copy of to the employee and notice not complied with the Association must specify
I, oi this Article has supplied the
the letter sent that he/she has request. The further, when
requesting the University to terminate the employee, the following by written notice:
12
52	"The Association certifies that ____________,
has failed to tender either uniformly required Association dues or service fee required as a condition of continued employment under the collective bargaining Agreement and that under the terms of the Agreement, the University shall terminate the employee".
SECTIOS1 ,;C.
53	If the amount of the representatiu-n-servi.co
fee is formally challenged by an employee, the Association shall have the sole burden of establishing the legal validity of the fee. The university shall not be obligated to terminate such employee's employment until the formal challenge has been resolved.
54	However, any employee who has an objection
on file prior to April ]5,	19P1, shall he
exempt from paying dues/service fees for the duration of their employ tier, t at the University.
55	At the request of the Association, and as
ar. alternative to termination, an employee hired after January 29,	1930, whom the
Association duly certifies as delinquent in the
payment of dues or the required representation
fees according to the procedure
Paragraphs 50-52
membership dues his/her wages University will Association in outlined in ArtL
will service
have fees
set forth in the requi red
by remit
the a j ch
Universit dues or f
deducted
:rcm The
2ees tc the
accordance ole VIII of
with the procedure this Agreement.
,mi| jgjBBijp
SECT 1OW, D.
ft&6
The Association shai; the University harmless claims, demands, suits, arising from this Artic;
indemnify and save from, any and all r any other action or from complying
with any request for terminal ten under this Article.
13
ARTICLE VTI1
CHECK OFF OF ASSOCIATION DUES OH REPRESENTATION - SERVICE FEE
During the term of this Agreement, and to the extent the laws of the State of Nfichigan permit, and as provided in this Article, the University will deduct current Association dues or the representation service lee from the pay, if any, of each employee who voluntarily executes and delivers to the University the following deduction authorization form'.
SOCIAL SBCUWTr HJWEA
ftW S*flSa
CLASSHGAT1QH__________________________________
QUIT COT.
voluntary authorization FOB deduction or ASSOCIATION DLS3 0« SHtVICE FEES
*fchqa*i Um fcwtoltt*}
L wtototlto WtoWytf Memgn	ton	a- to	tvn. to "to	Om —_****
—**	<*'*]•* erffitifcto WtoWtyto limto—1.1*rtwilnfeiTkLrtatftyrfkfcftiftaIfrMfctto***rtM
Md to rml to wk to to Auatotto 4 mto tom md to noh raw ra rw to vwd <pi1 bKMtfi to	*<h| to
fenton Tin utEitaton to tetow bi d rwto, niri^Ato dtoto Mtotidfr	M t*	tototan
nt to ottotoa- hanMu wwrwt btoam to MtWjRi tarat Araiiitoto rad Ito UrwW of WcMOtoK PA Wtortj^te rad dtoxi M	awtod <pin to tatomdtototfitti to W-rttfdfwM* to b*fltoW to.
9GNKTUE QFBWLOTEE
AfCHgS BmADIS
tuffi OF SGMNG
wcrecFtse-heRr
5B
The following certification form ahali be used by the Association when certifying membership dues and the representation-Service fee,
CERTIFICATION OF FINANCIAL OFFICER OF ASSOCIATION
I certify that the membership dues for the Michiqan Nurses Association is $ pt;r month end that the represontation-service fee is $__ _ per month.
Date Signature__________
Financial Officer
Date Delivered to the university
co
Payroll deduct ions shall. he nade only item the pay due employees on the last pay day of each calendar month; provided, however, Lhe Initial deduction for any employee shall not begin unless both (1) a properly executed "Voluntary Authorization for Deduction of Association Dues or Service Fees'1 I or it and (2)
Lhe amount of the monthly membership dues the representahion'aervice fee certilled by
and
Lhe
financial officer of the Association has keen
delivered tn the University at a place designated by the -University at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to the last, pay day of the calendar month. Changes in the amount of the monthly membership dues cr service fee also must be delivered to the 'University at a place designated by Lite University at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to the last pay day of the calendar month before the change will become effective.
61
The authorization and direction shall be irrevocable far the period of one fl) year from, the date of delivery to the University or until Lite termination of the collective agreement between the University and the Association which is in force at the time of delivery of thia authorization, whichever occurs sooner. This authorization and direction shall he automatically renewed, and shall be irrevocable fnr successive periods of one (1) year each, cr for the period of each succeeding applicable collective ag r eerie nt between the University and the Association, whichever shall be shorter, unless a written revocation is provided to the University by the employee at least thirty (30: calendar days prior to the expiration ct each period of one (1J year, or period of each applicable collective agreement between the University and the Association, whichever occurs sooner.
62
all sums deducted hy the University shall be remitted tc the financial ci finer of the Association at the address given to the University by the Association, by toe fifteenth (15th) calendar day of the month following Lhe month in which the deductions were made, together with a list of names and the amount deducted for each employee for whom a deduction . was made.
15
63	The University shall not be liable to the
Association by reason of the requirements of this Article for the remittance or payment of any sum other than that constituting actual deductions made from the pay earned by the employee- In addition, the Association shall indemnify and save the University harmless from any liability resultinq from any and all claims, demands, suits or any other action arising frcar, compliance udth this Article, or in reliance on any notice, certification or authorisation furnished under this Article.
64	The Association specifically agrees to maice
whatever adjustments are necessary directly with any employee who may, as a result of this deduction procedure, pay more or less than the Association's annual membership dues or representation-service fee.
ARTICLE IX ASSOCIATION ORIENTATION
65	Tlie University shall distribute a copy of
this Agreement tc all employees. In addition, during the orientation the Association shall distribute the following to all employees entering the bargaining unit:
66	1) A Voluntary Authorization for Deduction qf
Association Dues or Service Fee lorn.
67	2) An Association Application for Membership
form.
68	3} A cover letter of instructions.
63	4) Information prepared by the Association
regarding the Association.
7	0	Twice per month, the University and the
Association will hold a contract and Association orientation for new employees and transfers into the bargaining unit. A representative from the Medical Campus Human Resources Department will he present for and participate in the contract orientation portion of this orientation. (See Intent Note for Paragraph 70)
71	The University will provide the Association
with:	(1) a list of orientees and their
aasigned units; |2) notification of transfers into the bargaining unit and their assigned
16
units; and Id) Lite assigned time wil.l be? a pa it. of tha published schedule for orientation ol’ employees -
ARTICLE X BULLETIN BOARDS
72	The University will provide the Association,
with space of not less than thirty (30) locked bulletin boards, in mutually agreeable locations - The Association will he furnished with a list of locations anfl one key for Cath locked board - Prior to the placement of a new bulletin board or a change in location of an existing bulletin hoard, the University will discuss the matter with the Association in an effort to find a mutually agreeable location. These bulletin boards will be fcr the exclusive use of the Association. The size ci these boards shall be sufficient to post four (4) 8-1/2 inches by 11 inches Association notices. Such notices must be signed by the Association Chairperson or designate-
RR
74
75
76
77
70
■■
A
4
f
<
The notices may be posted by the Association Representative in the Association Representative's district acid, althougli :ioL limited to the following notices, they shall be of that type:
1)	Association meetings;
2)	Association elections and appointments;
3}	Results of Association elections;
4> Educational, recreational and social programs of the Association.
In the event that a dispute arises concerning the appropriateness of material posted, the Chairperson of the Association or designate will be advised as soon as practicable by the Medical Caiwus human Resources Department of the nature Of the dispute. In the event the chairperson or designate is not readily available, the notice may be removed from' the bulletin beard until the dispute is resolved. ir. the event the Chairperson or designate is readily available, the Chairperson or Lhe designate :tay then make mutually acceptable arrangements to resolve the dispute.	Failing mutually accentable
arrangements, the University may remove the
17
notice from the bulletin boards. Whenever notices are removed from the bulletin heprds, the removed notices will he made available to the Chairperson of the Association or designate within two(2} hours of removal.
ARTICLE KI classification ano wages
SECTION A- If AGE SCHEDULE
Wages shall be paid in wage schedules as set forth
accordance with the in Appendix A.
SECTION &■ CLASSIFICATION DESCRIPTIONS
S’
fid	During the life of this Agreement
classification descriptions may be evaluated, revised, established or deleted.
81	Each employee will be provided with a copy
of their classification description. It is not intended that a description sets forth each and every duty and responsibility of an employee assigned to a classification.	All
class!ficatinn description^ will be accessible at all times on all unita to employees covered by this Agreement. Upon reQuest of an employee, one (1} copy of each classification description will be provided.
82	Sitbjact to staffing, and budgetary
considerations as determined by the University, the University will provide the opportunity for an. employes1 s movement Into nther classifications, The employee’s movement into other classifications will also be dependent on the employee's qualifications and effort in accordance with the procedures and raquirements as established by the University. These procedures and requirements will be consistent throughout the University, in accordance with the standards and Measurement Tool.
03	In the event that significant changes in a
classification description or placement standards, if any, are considered, a joint conference shall be held according to Article XLVIII, (Conferences] . m addition, a joint conference shall be held according to Article XLVlli, (Conferences), if any deletions of
18
classification(s) are being considered and/or any new classification(s> and/or classification description(t) are being considered.
SECTION C. SALARY STATUS
$3A	Employees other than those assigned to a
classification in pay grade N-1 or N-1, shall t?e considered exempt employees.	In this
regard, employees assigned to a classification ifi the N-3 uay grade shall receive overtime payments as provided in Article xv in the seme manner as employees in the N-1 and N-2 pay grades.
ARTICLE XII
COMPONENTS OF FAHNINGS & PAY CHEEK COKhEr" ; IjK E
A. COMPONENTS
84	At ' the request of an employee, the
employee's supervisor or designate will provide the employee with the following components of the employee's earnings for a given nay period in writing:
1; Straight Time Hours Worked
2)	Straight Time Pay
3)	Overtime Hours Worked
4)	Overtime Fay
5)	Shift Premium Hours Worked
6)	Shift Premium Fay
7)	On-Call Hours
8; On-Call Pay
5) Holiday Hours
l(j) Holiday Pay
11) FTO hours used
1?) Identified Pay Adjustments
B. CORRECTIONS
85	1’ Each employee's supervisor or designate
will provide, at the request of the employee, the procedure to be utilised to resolve any error Itj Inc	eitp’i ny ee1 s
paycheck.
86	2) If there is a pay.shortage in an employee's
check, the corrOCt payment shall be made by the University in the following manner:
3) Far a pay correction of eight (0) or more hours the employee's options are:	To
receive the pay correction via an imprest check	or at the next weekly	check
distribution ("S11 payroll) or on the next regular pay date-
41 For a pay correction of less then eight {8) hours, the employee's options are:	To
receive the pay correction via a payroll voucher or at the next weekly check distribution ("A" payroll] or on the next regular pay date.
i. PAID TIME OF? ih'TU'j RECORDS
07
Where applicable, employees will receive their Paid Time Off accrual records each month. An employee may request from, their supervisor or other designated University representative, their Paid Time Off accrual rate, usage during the month, balance and maximum accrual {See Paragraph 333, see Intent Rote for Paragraph 87) .
ARTICLE XIII STAFFING AND SCHEDULING
SECTIOH A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SB
The parties agree that a process to determine staffing levels tc provide nursing care for the projected nursing workload in the patient care units is necessary. Further, the University, in those areas where a patient classification system determined by the University to be valid and reliable is available, will utilize this system as one of the management tools tn assist in determining staffing needs based on measured workload. In those areas which do not currently ut.i lize such a classification system, the University will continue to improve internal means to determine staffing, including evaluating classification systems when such systems may be useful. A joint meeting, with the Association and the University, will be held every 3-6 months with the Directors from Ambulatory Care, to discuss and share data on workload, for the purpose of monitoring and measuring activity for projecting growth. The actual staffing levels


8 SA
or the inclusior. □ £ other manaqcraenT tools are? not subject to the Arbitration procedure. The budgeted staffing will include an allowance for paid time Off. The Directors of Nursing will seek input from Lhe Association tlhairpergon or designate during th'e system evaluation and selection process. (See Intent Notes for Paragraph 88; see naragrapj:i 7 215]
A joint meeting, with the Association ar.d the University, will be held prior to any hospital-wide full time equivalent (FTE) reduction, concerning the effect on petient cate, itarkload, staff Kit, appropriate delegation, safety and work redesign.
89
Whenever an employee's workload concerns have not been satisfactorily addressed, they may be referred to the unit workload review committee referenced in Article KIV, ’‘Workload Review”..
90
The parties further agree that scheduling employees to cover a twenty-four (24) hour/seven (7J day a week hospital operation is complex and thus requires the ctidperation of all employees and supervisors in approaching this Lask. (See intent Note for Paragraph 90)
Sequence for development of unit schedule; (See Intent Hutus for Paragraphs 91,	1S1,
ItlbE; see Addendum A, Temporary Nurse Scheduling Guidelines]
1)	Unit employees scheduled Lu meet appointment fraction,
2)	Schedule dual unit employees,
3)	Honor standing requests from part-time employees requesting to work ever appointment. (See Paragraphs 183?.3, 1831.2, 183M.3, 163Q.5, 163U.1)
41 Regular float employee, a? available, to consistently replace an employee on anticipated absence.
i) Regular available float employee.
21
i J Unit. part-time employees requesting additional noti-overt line hours for the current schedule (See Paragraphs 2 53 E. 3, 1631.3, 163M.3, 163Q.5, 163(1.1)
7) unit based temporary employees.
SHIFT ROTATION
92
The University shall endeavor tc Schedule employees in pay grades N-l arid fl-2 in the same rotating shift assignment in the same unit for approximately the same number of non-d^y shifts, prorated for appointment fraction, with a variance of no more than three (3) non-day shifts worked between any two employees in pay grades fl-1 and N-2 in the same unit and rotating shift assignment over a period of one (1) four {4} week schedule, excluding those employees who express a preference fcr mere frequent non-day shifts. Employees in pay q cades fl-3 and N-4. working net the sa™ft Uv.it avVi in the same shift rotation will work no more eff-shifts than the highest number worked hy an □rnplt-yee in pay grades fl-1 and N-2r prorated for appointment fraction.
SCitE PULING OF CONSECUTIVE^ CALENDAR DAYS
93	The University shall not schedule employeea
tc work more than seven (?) consecutive calendar days except in an emergency or at the employee's request. If an employee is scheduled to work in an emergency, the employee will be paid a premium of two dollars (S2.QQ) per hour for all consecutive calendar days worked in excess Of seven (7) calendar days-This premium shall not apply to employees requesting to work more than seven (7) consecutive calendar days, (See Intent Kota for Paragraph 93)
HICHT SHIFT
Ol	The University shall consider the niglit
shift to be the first shift of the day no matter how much time into the previous calendar day the shift begins.
22
STAFFING AND SCHEDULING GUIDELINES
35	in this connection the University will
provide the Association with a copy of Staffing and Scheduling guidelines developed for each Director of Nursing’s area at University of Michigan Hospitals. Those areas where guidelines do not presently exist will endeavor to develop and implement them six (6) months from the date of the execution of this Agreement, but nut inter thcfti one it'/ year Itcti this date. Some or all employees in the area will be provided opportunity to comment on the Guidelines before implementation. Changes in the Guidelines will also be provided to the Association.
REST PERIOD
96	There will be a rest period which may be
taken at a time and place and in a manner which does not interfere with patient care, The rest period will be with pay and will not exceed fifteen (151 minutes for each four (<1 hours of work. The rest period' is intended to be a recess to be preceded and followed by a work period. consequently, it may nut be need to cover a staff member's late arrival to work or early departure, nor slay it he regarded as cumulative if not taken.
SCHEDULING LIMITATIONS
97	The parties agree that limitations on
schedule rotation, working beyond appointment hours and required weekends are degi rable objectives. In this COhhecticn the University shall:
ROTATING SHIFT ASSIGNMENT 4 SHIFT PREMIUM
98	1}
schedule employees on a rotating shift assignment to work no more than two {2) shifts of eight (Hl or more hours with only wne. ctiMvge ixv utt scheduled calendar week, AS such, if an employee is scheduled to work in excess of this principle, that employee will receive a premium of■seventy five cent-13 (S.75) per hour for all hnur.s worked in that calendar week. This premium applies only to those employees scheduled
23

to work more than two shifts with one change in one calendar week and does not apply to employees who express a preference for such schedulea . Starting times which do not vary from earliest to latest by more than three (3) hours shall not be considered a different shift.
53	It ia understood that nothing herein shall
preclude assigning an employee to any shift because of employee absence? and variations in the workload of the unit. However, employees will not normally be assigned to work more than two (2) different shifts, except at the employee's request. (See intent Note for Paragraph 99)
WEEKEND ASSIGNMENT AND BONUS
100	1} The university shall endeavor to schedule
employees to work no more than two (2) out of four (4) weekends for employees who are scheduled in four (4i week blocks, unless individual employees express a preference for weekend work schedules. [See Intent Notes for Paragraph 100)
2} An employee who receives Paid Time Off for one or more weekend shifts will not be required to work on a weekend previously scheduled off to make up for the time lost due to unscheduled absences. Further, an employee will not be required to work on a weekend at the beginning, end or in the middle cf a continuous period of Paid Time off (PTO) contiguous with the weekends.
3)	If an employee is scheduled to work in excess of the principle regarding weekend work, that employee will receive a premium of two dollars ($2.00) per hour beginning with the first hour of the third weekend out of four {4) if on a four (4) week schedule that the employee Is scheduled to work. Thia premium applies only to those employees scheduled to and working more than two (2) out of four (4) weekends and does not apply to employees who express a preference for more frequent weekend work schedules -
24
1
■t
4)	An- employee who volunteers or who is assigned and works a fifth (Sth) and/nr sixth (6th; weekend shift within the: eight (3) weekend shifts in a tour {4) week scheduling system, will he paid an hourly bonus of three dollars ($3.DD) for all hours worked on the fifth {.5th) and/or sixth (6th) weekend shift.
5)	An employee who is assigned and works a seventh (7th) and/or eighth (8th) weekend shift in the same four (4 J week scheduling block will be paid an hourly bonus of five da 11azb ($5,00) for all hours worked on the weekend shifts starting with the fifth (5thl weekend shift.
6)	After granting two (2) out af four (4) weekends off, if additional weekends off are available, they shall be distributed as equitably as practicable. If the weekend hours worked to qualify for the above bonuses are paid at the overtime rate the weekend bonuses will be paid at the overtime rate.

100A Employees with a thirty six (36; hour weekly appointment fraction, working twelve hour shifts, where two (2) cf these shifts occur on the weekend, will accrue Paid Timo Off hours equivalent, t.q a full time (40 hour) appointment for each quarter worked in this manner.
i

100B Weekend shifts that are assigned eft fur an employee who is regularly scheduled to work every weekend will be considered worked for the purpose of qualifying for the weekend bonus. If the employee who works every weekend volunteers or requests tc take a weekend shift off, that shift is not credited as a weekend shift worked for purposes of the weekend bonus.
101	For purposes of this Article, the
definition .of a weekend, shall be the fortyeight (48) hour period between 11;JU p.m. Friday and 11:00 p.m. Sunday. A weekend worked or a weekend shift worked to qualify for the bonus is defined as working ar. least one shift of at least eight hours during this time frame
r
!
j i
45
or not receiving forty-eight (40) consecutive jicurs off.
GENERAL SCHEDULING PROVISIONS
102	The University shall endeavor to schedule
employees to work hours consistent with their appointment hours as provided in Article XV, Overtime.
104	Employees will be notified of their work
schedule, including shift length, as part of the scheduling process at least two (2) weeks in advance. Once a schedule is posted, the manager will not cancel a portion of a shift in exchange for hours elsewhere in the schedule, unless the employee voluntarily agrees to the change.
105	Units which intend to schedule employees in
such a manner as to avail themselves of the Provision of Section B. of Article XV, (Overtime) will do so only with the concurrence of enough employees so as to make such scheduling feasible,
106	Whenever scheduling is done in four-week
blocks, these four-week periods will coincide with the Memorandum of Understanding on Weekends, (See Paragraph 656)
mi my
SECTION B. SHIFT ASSIGNMENTS FUR CL I BIC AI. NURSE I j) CLINICAL NURSE II;
107	Employees . in the Clinical Hupse I. and
Clinical Nurse II classifications will toe assigned to straight shifts in accordance with the following procedures:
1; Straight Night Shift
Definition;
IOS	A work shift scheduled to begin on or after
7:00 p.ni. and before 3; 00 a,iri,, or has a majority of scheduled hours between 11:00 p.d and 7; 00 a.in.
109	A work shift of less than eight (8) hours
per day and scheduled to start at a time determined by adding one (1) hour to 7:00
26
	p.m, for each hour the daily work schedule is less than eight (8) hour? and before 1: QU a.m. or has a majority of scheduled hours before 7:00 a,m. after using Lhu calculation above.
110	In addition to the hourly shift premium as provided in Article XVI, a quarterly bonus of three hundred dollars (3300,00) will be paid to a full-time employee who works a complete quarter on nights.
111	In addition to the hourly shift premium acid the quarterly bonus, a bonus of two thousand dollars ($2, <100. CJC1) will be paid to a full-time employee who works four 14) consecutive quarters cn the night shift, except as provided in Paragraph 119.
	2) straight Evening Shift Definition:
] 12	A work shift scheduled to begin on or after 11:00 a-m. and before 1; DC- p.m., or has a majority of scheduled hours between J: 22 p.m, and 11:00 p.m.
113	A work shift of less than eight ;3) hours per day and scheduled to start at a time determined by adding one (1) hour to 1.1: 22 a.It..' for each hour the daily work schedule is less than eight (3) hours and before 11:00 p,ra, or has a majority of scheduled hours before 11:00 p.m. after using the calculation above.
114	In addition to the hourly shift premium as provided in Article XVI, a quarterly bonus of two hundred dollars ($200,00) will be paid to a full-time employee who works a complete quarter on evenings.
115	In addition to Lhe hourly shift premium and the quarterly bonus, a tonus of one thousand five hundred deliars ($1500.00) will be paid tc a full-time employee who works four consecutive quarters on the evening shift, except as provided in Paragraph 119.
27
3] Bomig Eligibility
116	The above bonuses shall ba pro-rated for
part-time employees. The quarterly bonus periods shall begin on July 1, October 1, January 1, and April 1, as the case may be.
117	Ar. employee who is assigned to a rotating
schedule of exclusively evening and night shifts shall be eligible for quarterly and annual bonusest pro-rated according to appointment fraction and proportionate evening and night shift work.
118
LIS
120
121
Eligibility for a bonus payment, in any quarter as defined above, shall be forfeited if a full-time employee is absent for any reason, except for scheduled Paid Time Off or holiday time off, in excess of one hundred twenty (120) hours in a given quarter. Part-time employees shall have absences pro-rated when making this calculation.
Eligibility for the annual bonus will not be forfeited due to the forfeiture Of a quarterly bonus that was caused by an excused employee absence, provided that eligibility for the quarterly bonus is maintained for four out of five consecutive quarters. Payment will be made following -the fifth quarter in such a situation.
Eligibility fur a (mitos payment, in any quarter as defined above, shall not be forfeited if an employee is moved from a night or evening schedule at the initiative of the University, or where failure tn complete a full quarter is due to jury duty.
An employee in the N-3 pay grade who requests acid is assigned to a straight evening or night shift will be eligible for a straight shift bonus as described in Section B, Subsections 1, 2 and 3 of this Article.
26
5) Initial Assignment to Rotating shifts
123	Employees not assigned to straight shift
schedules will be assigned to a relating shift schedule.
6} Straight Day Shifts
124	No less than forty percent [40t) of Lhe
hours on the day shift Oh each unit shall be designated a? Straight day shifts. I See Appendix E for calculation of straight day shifts), Assignment to these shifts will be ottered in seniority order, most to least. In any event, at least one person will be assigned to a straight day shift schedule nu each unit. I'he supervisor on each unit will post the number of day shift hours needed and will determine how many Clinical Nurse l’s and Clinical Nurse It's are' necessary on each shift. (See Intent Note for Paragraph 124)
125	Employees in the W-3 pay grade may request
and be assigned straight shift positions. These straight shifts shall be in addition to hours calculated in Paragraph 124. Such employees will be eligible for any straight shift bonuses as described in Section B. 1, 2 and 3 of this Article.
1)
126
127
128
Changes in Shift Preference
Changes in shift preference will be made according to the following procedures:
■
h
When shifts become available, the manager will notify all. unit employees, Any emplcyee desiring to change their shift schedule to the available shift(s) must give the supervisor written notice of their preference as soon as possible- Such requests are due no later than one week prior Lo the unit's deadline for making schedule re guests.
' i
i
Employees wishing to cbar.ge from a rotating shift schedule to a straight shift schedule will be assigned unless all straight shift schedules are filled. Where more requests are made than can ne accommodated.
25
■ >
assignment shall be on the basis of seniority, most tn least,
125	Any employee wishing to change from a
straight shift schedule, will be assigned to their shift preference as regular job openings occur, in accordance with seniority, most to least, or be assigned to a rotating shift schedule, if available.
130	In all cases where more than one (1)
employee has requested a shift change to an available regular job opening on the unit, assignment shall be on the basis of seniority, most tc least -
331	Shift selection for an employee
transferring into the bargaining unit and/or a unit shall be based on length of service from the date of such transfer for six (6) months; thereafter, such an employee's seniority becomes effective. (See Intent Note for Paragraph 131)
Shift Reassignment
ISLA When work hours need to be reallocated, employees and managers will meet tn jointly identify and construct new individual schedules, then these schedules will be selected using the following process, (See Intent Note for Paragraph 131A)
1)	Unit employees will be informed of the need for resaaignmant and the shift(a) and/or rotation(st from which the reassignment cot Id be made- (Reassignment me ana changing of an employee's straight shift, ■shift rotation and/or shift length to a different straight Shift, shift rotation and/or shift length). Volunteers will be sought for this reassignment and will be reassigned in seniority order provided that the reaS S1 g: imei11:
a)	Does not require the use of overtime;
b)	Does not require other employees t.o change their shift assignments; and
30

ct Does not increase other employees' off shift rotations above the unit, maximum -
2)	if there	are no volunteer? for	the
reassignment, the Unit Workload Seview Cpir’nittee	will meet tn consider	the
following option?:
a) Increase off shift rotations up to the unit maximum:
h) Reassign the least senior employee who is able to do the work;
cl if option (bj would require multiple other reassignmenta or off shift rotations above the unit maximum, then reassign the employee with the least seniority who can be reassigned . without requiring multiple or other reassignments;
dj Have all employees take turns covering ths shift, (This would be 'JOluutJiy and would be used only if the coverage required would be infrequent).
31 if the Unit Workload UeView Committee chooses an option other Lhau those described in Step 2 above, this option will be presented to the Chairperson of the UMPNC, the Director of Nursing, and the Manager of Medical Campus Human Resources Department, or their designees, for approval.
131B
An employee Who is reassigned will have his/her original shift, assignment restored in seniority order when the need for reassignment ends, provided that s/he indicated the desire to return to his/her prior shift or rotation.
111C	fn order to restore reassigned employee? to
their original shift a s s iqnments, any positions posted for the unit will be for the shift, to which employees were reassigned.
SECTION £■ NDK-DIRECT PATIENT CARE ACTIVITIES
132A It is understood that staff nurses krill be involved in both direct and non-direct patient card activities * To this end, time for non-direet patient care activities will be allocated as unit workload allows. (See Paragraph 17; see Intent Note for Paragraph 132 Al
I32A.1 When implementing new initiatives involving non—direct patient care activities, planning will include compensated time necessary to carry out the initiatives, (See paragraph 17)
132A.2 Recognized unit and department committees will meet on g regular basis. It is not an expectation that employees participate on CoaMfiit tee s without pay.' To that end, a variety of measures will .be utilized on each unit to insure participation with pay. (See Paragraph 17)
section d. n-3 role specific activity
132b Employees in the N-3 pay grade will make arrangements for role specific activities with their manager. The allocation of time will be mutually agreed to and based upon each individual's performance plan.
132c The agreed upon division of time will be reviewed annually at the time the performance plan is created and at the reguest of either party with the undtrstandi-ng that short term fluctuations may be negotiated.
132D It is understood that the needs of the unit may necessitate re-scheduling an employee in the N-3 pay grade to perform direct patient care on a day that was originally set aside for the performance of role specific activities. In thia event, alternative time will be scheduled. In addition, if there are specific days for which the employee cannot be available for staffing, these days shall be negotiated with the manager.
32

ARTICLE XIV WORKLOAD REVIEW
k
F r
I i r. t F
*■
L' ;;
£■
i:
-'■ v
e
133 When a problem of excessive workload arises, It must be addressed to ensure the long term viability of the unit, including quality cf patient care and employee satisfac~ion. {See intent Note for Paragraph 18)
134	lb this connection, and at the discretion
of the Association, unit workload review Comai it tee a will be established on each unit. The supervisor will serve on the committee acid equal numbera of unit employees shall be selected by the University and the Association such that there will be at least four (4), but nd mb re than six (6) employees on the committee. One half (1/2} of the membership {those selected by the Association and the University) will rotate off the committee annually. Members will serve for two (2} years. To this end new members shall be identified by December 31, each year with appointments beginning on February 1. Each committee will meet monthly, or more often at their diseretied, to address workload concerts and formulate plans of action. A special conference will he held to determine "unit1’ in Ambulatory Care. Each commit tee shall elect, a chairperson other than the nurse manager. (See Paragraph 132.A.2; See Intent Note for Paragraph 134)
135 Members of unit workload review comnitteea and the Astociation will be provided with education and information related to staffing a nd scheduling procedures, methodologies, considerations and tools, including available objective data. This information may include, but is not limited to, fiscal considerations; tools, including patient classification system data and staffing data; other factors whi ch may influence staffing and scheduling, such as rsad trips, delegation, training and mentoring responsibilities; the responsibilities of workload review committees, including relevant empowerment presentation; and the committee process. AL least monthly, the following will be provided for analysis: Workload, Acuity and Activity trends; Anticipated and Unanticipated absences; Occupancy; use of supplemental
s
■i
1 h * i
d J
3
t J
J
1
d
3 I i 1

33
reSources; any submitted practice documents; position control and the unit budget.
136	Following a review of data or whenever a
workload concert! is identified, the committee will review a number of possible actions, including, but not limited to, temporary modification of task expectations, obtaining additional personnel, resources and modification of the workload. in any given situation, the actions most appropriate to implement will depend on a number of factors. These include, but are not limited to, the experience and skill	level	of	the	staff,	the
extent and expected duration of the problem, th* nature of the	work	to	be	done,	the
availability of personnel, resources and time saving equipment* An analysis of available objective data, such as patient acuity and workload index data, will be included in the review_
136S Every two years, or when a significant change occurs, a joint team on each unit will analyse the required work nf CNTl's and make retoniniendations to the manager. CNI and CNtL roles will be based on performance expectations.
137	Actions agreed upon which are under the
contra J of the supervisor will be implemented by -the supervisor. When the committee has reborcmended setions or resources external to the unit which cannot be Implemented by the sw&e rvi-sor, tha- super visor will dlacuas the recommendations with the Director of Nursing (ft designate). This meeting will occur within three (3) working days following identification of .the need. If the Director of Nursing agrees with the proposed solutions, implementation will begin within seven (7) calendar days. If thft Director of Nursing does not agree with the proposed solutions, she/he will meet with the workload review committee within three (3} working days to discuss the issues to arrive at a mutually agreed solution. If the Director of Nursing and the unit workload review committee ar^ unable to reach agreement, the Director of Nursing will determine the actions to be taken and begin implementation of these actions within one (1) week. When the Director of

34
Nursing and the unit workload review committee agree that temporary reduction ir- the workload through managing the census is appropriate, the Director of Nursing will have the authority to implement this. The workload review commitr.ee will bo responsible for development of a communication tool to be posted on each unit, which will communicate how the issues o£ workload, census, acuity and non-productive time ace being addressed.
3 38	The Association will be informed of the
times and locations of unit workload, review committee meetings, by the chairperson, not the committee and may have a representative attend when available, (See Intent Note tor Paragraph 130]
138A Meetings of alt committees under this Article shall be exclusive cf the Dispute Resolution Procedure and no dispute shall be considered at the meetings, nor shall negotiations for altering the terms of this Agreement he held at such meetings- The role of staff nurses on committees shall bt; to provide professional judgment to matters within their expertise. Cliscus.sions will include those topics related tc the charge of the ■committee except for mandatory subjects of bargaining which shall be reserved for the bargaining process.
119	Any questions regarding this article may be
reviewed' through the 2nd step of the dispute resolution procedure. Any miresolved questions following the second step of the dispute resolution procedure may be appealed to the Hospitals .Executive Director who shall conduct a hearing and issue a decision within twe (2; calendar weeks of any such appeal. However, ciu questions arising from this Article may be reviewed through Arbitration.
35
ARTICLE XV OVERTIME
SECTION A.	DEFimTIOWS
HD For the purposes of the Article and the computation of overtime premium, the following definitions shall apply:
131	1) "Day" means the twenty-four (24)
consecutive hour period beginning with an employee's starting time on each work day.
142	2) ’'Calendar Week" means seven (1) consecutive
calendar days beginning at midnight between Saturday and Sunday.
SECTION B.	OVERTIME PREMIUM
143	an employee assigned to a classification in
Pay grade N-l, N-2 or H-3, will ba paid an overtime premium of ona half 11/2) the employee's rate of pay per hour and shift premium, if applicable, dependent upon the work schedule to which assigned, for the time paid as follows:
Either
143	1} In excess of eighty (SO) hours in a two (2)
calendar week work schedule or in excess of -eight (&) hours in a day; or
145	2) In excess of forty (40) hours in a one (1)
calendar week work schedule or in excess of an employee's regular daily schedule of work of not less than eight {8) hours in a day; or
146	3) In excess of one hundred twenty (120) hours
in a three (3} calendar week work schedule or in excess of twelve (12) hours in a day. As of April 12,	1392, this paragraph
applies only to pay grades N-3 and above.
147	To accommodate an employee’s schedule
reguest, the overtime premium in Paragraph 143 will be waived provided there are seven (7) hours between the end of one shift and the beginning of the next shift. In no case shall an employee delivering direct patient care be
36
permitted to return tn work £oilowing an overtime shift with less than seven (7) hours off between shifts except as noted in Paragraph 115D. (See Intent Notes for Paragraph. 147 and Article XIII, Staffing and Scheduling)
iqg in calculating hours to determine when the overtime premium is payable the following wil*. be used:
1)	Time when actual work is required and is performed, (See Intent Note for Paragraph 140.1)
2)	Time off for which pay is received pursuant to Article XXIX, Paid Time Off, Article xxx, Short Term Disability, Article xxxv. Funeral Le are Pay/Bereavement, Article XXXII, Holidays, and time off work pursuant to Article XXXVI, Jury and Witness Service wi,U be counted.
149 In add it inn,	e scused paid time during an
assigned schedule of work pursuant to Article XL, (Committees!, Ar Licit' XL7I, 1 Dispute Resolution Procedure■ and Median inn Procedure), Article XLVIT (Arbitration Procedure), At tide XLVIII, (Conferences), Article Xl.IX, (Professional Activities and Education), Article L, (Release Time for Association Business) will be counted in calculating hours to determine when the overtime premium is payable.
150 EraployBea in pay grades N-4, HP~4 and N-6 are not entitled to ' the overtime "premium betf will receive compensation, in addition to their • monthly salary, at each employee's rate of pay per hour and shift premium, if applicable!, for paid time in excess of the hours get forth above and calculated as provided shove. (See paragraph 65-5)
SECTION C. PYRAnlDINJ
151 Overtime premium shall noh be pyramided, compounded, nr paid twice for the same time paid.
SECTION D, SCHEDULING
152	The parties agree that overtime assignments
should be filled by volunteers. On those occasions when overtime is assigned, an employee will work unless the employee is excused or has fulfilled their individual overtime limit {See applicable Overtime System Paragraph 163D.1, 163H.1, 163L.1, 163P.1 or 161T) The University will endeavor to give employees forty-eight [43) hours advance notice of overtime assignments.	Except for
extraordinary circumstances an employee shall not work in excess of sixteen [16) hours in a twenty-four (24 J hour period- Any employee who feels that overtime has been disproportionately assigned to him/her shall discuss the matter with his/her supervisor.
153	The following process will be used to fill
neetls through the' use of overtime, above appointment hours and the use of Central Staffing Resource including hoth regular and temporary employees, and unit-based temporary employees:
154 Sequence for filling	open shifts' after the
schedule is posted (See Intent Note for Paragraph 185? ;
1} Employees needing hours to meet their -appointment fraction.
2} Regular float employees.
3} Temporary employees working straight time,
4] Regular employees requesting overtime or . overappointment hours.
155	Volunteers for overtime/over appointment
hours will have priority over assigned overtime. When a decision must be made between two or more employees, tie-breakers will be the fewest number of overtime/over appointment hours worked in the scheduling period, and then by the date of the last occurrence, and then by seniority, highest to lowest, (See Paragraph 158)
155A Assigned evertime/aver appointment will not affect, employee—initiated obligations fet Wor.< beyond their appointment fraction, nor will the employee-initiated obligations relieve the employee nf aaaigned overtirae/over appointment.
15€	Where there ate no volunteers and unit
employees must be assigned, the hours will be assigned equitably among all the employees on the unit using the applicable overtime system.
When a decision mast be made between two or more employees who have equal amounts of overtime/over appointment hours , the deni Lion shall be based on the last occurrence and then on seniority, lowest to highest unless the assigned overtime would cause the employee to work beyond their individual limit, (See the applicable Overtime System Paragraphs 163D.1, 363H.1, 163L.1., 163P.1 or L6-3T)
157	If overtime/OTer appointment hours are no
longer needed, the hours will be cancelled in the following sequence: [See Intent Notes for Paragraphs 157 and 195}
1)	An employee on uVertime/over appointment who is volunteering to be cancelled will be allowed to leave;
2)	If there is more then one volunteer, the employee with the greatest amount of overtime/over appointment hours worked in the scheduling period will be allowed to leave. If the volunteers have an equal
. iiumber . of . overtime/over .appointment'. hoi i re, then the mofct senior tyrployee will be allowed to leave;
3	J If there are on volunteers, the employee with the greatest number of overtime/over appointment hours within the scheduling period will have their hours cancelled. In case of a	tie, the overtime/over
appointment hours of the least senior employee Wil; be cancelled;
4)	Prescheduled over appointment hour? will be the last to be tabCelled.
35
RECORDING SYSTEMS
153
Workload Review Committees will determine equitable recording aysterns to determine distribution of overtime and assigned time off. These two (2J systems will be complementary. Overtime/aver appointment hoars will be recorded iri a manner that honors the principles of equity and seniority consistent with the applicable Overtime System. Workload Review Committees will determine specific application of the recording ayaterns. (See intent Note Paragraph 15$; Paragraphs 163c - 163X Overtime Systems, Paragraph 10OD, Voluntary Float)
159	Any regular employee who is unit based and
wishes additional hours on units other than their own, will make their scheduling availability known to the CSR.
161	uilL suit be recited to alter
their scheduled shift or thair typical lunch length to avoid the payment of overtime.
SECT IQN E. OVERT IKE MaSA&EMENT
163	The parties agree that in the operation of
a tertiary care medical facility, seme overtime is unavoidable. We further agree that it is
desirable	to	these occurrences.		To
this end,	occurrences	of overtime	shall	be
monitored	and addressed according		to	the
following	proceduresi	(See Intent	Note	for
Paragraph 163)
- ■ - Overtime- Trigger" ■	■ ■
163 A 1) When the sum of all overtime and unanticipated over appointment hours worked exceeds five percent (5%) of all hours worked on a unit in four (4) week schedule, the Workload Review Committees will review the situation and make recommendations. These recommendations will be included at joint monthly meetings, {See Intent Notes for Paragraph 163A)
2)	When the sum of all hours worked by temporary staff, all over appointment hours, and all overtime hours worked on a unit exceeds ten percent (10%) of all hours
4t>
worked for a period of three (3) consecutive scheduling periods, in the absence of return to work obligations, the Workload Review Committee will meet with the Director of Norsing and the Chairperson of the Association or designee tn determine next steps or options (See intent Note for Paragraph 163A.2)
3)	For any unit that exceeds the five percent iSi) trigger as described in Paragraph 163A. 1, for any six (fi) of the preceding twelve {12) scheduling periods, additional regular positions will be added Lo the Central Staffing Resource cluster targeted for that unit.
Overtime Sys tents
163B Overtime systems designed to encourage volunteer ism. .and.-to provide an individual-limit for overtime/over appointment hours are individualized based upon differences in patient, care delivery systems in the following unit categories: (See Intent Note for Paragraph 163B)
1)	24/7 Units: those units providing patient
care on a twenty-four 5.24; hejur/seven (7) day a week basis with the exception of Women's Hospital Birthing Center, ECHO and the Emergency Department;
2)	Women's Hospital Birthing Center {WHBCJ and ECHO;
"3} Emergency Department (EDj;
4} Procedure Areas:	Operating Rooms, Post
Anesthesia	Recovery/Care Units, Medical
Procedures Unit, Hemodialysis, Cardiac Cath Dab, Radiology, Cancer Center Bl and H2 Procedure Areas, Cancer Center Infusion Area, Photopherasia, Apheresis Transfusion service and BP Lab; and,
5) Ambulatory Care Clinics, HorticMed, and Practice Management Services.
41
SECTIQW A-.,- OVERTIME SYSTEM POR 24/7 UNITS
Definitions:
16SC 1) Individual Limit: The point reached through assigned or voluntary time worked on an employee's	home	unit	beyond	which	an
employee cannot he required to work.
2) overtime	Bonus:	ft	bonus	paid	On
overtime/over appointment hours based upon the overtime trigger on the unit. The overtime bonus is not applicable for hours eligible for the over-1imit premium.
3} Over-limit Premium; A monetary incentive for employees who volunteer to work beyond their individual limit on their hnrae unit. (See intent Note for Paragraph 163C)
24/7 .Unit: . Individual, Limit, Overtime Bonus and Over-Limit Premium
L63D 1)	24/7 Unit Individual Limit:	No employee
will be required to work more than sixteen (16) overtime/over appointment hours in a four-week scheduling period on their home unit. (See Individual Limit and Premium exceptions, Paragraph 163E, see Additional [danagament Actions, Paragraph 163FJ.
2] 24/7 Unit Overtime Bonus: A bonus of five dollars ($5,001 per hour will be paid on
*ligible overt Itje/over app^itvWawt hwirs. This bonus shall be paid in the following manner:
a) In calculating hours to determine when the five dollar (S5.{1Q) bonus is payable, the bonus shall be paid in the same manner as Paragraphs 146 and 149 of this Article* *
(?) The overtime bonus is not payable on those hours which are eligible for the over-limit premium,
c} The five dollar ($5.00) bonus applies only when the employee works One (1) or more hours, per occurrence, not cumulative. In the event that an

42
employee works one (1) or more hours, the five dollar ($5.Q0) bonus will be paid on the entire period. Including the first hour of overtime/cver appointment-
d)	Ml hours worked pursuant to being On-call, with the exception of tho.se hours eligible for the over-limit premium, shall be paid the five dollar (S5,00) bonus, except when the employee is voluntarily on-call and returns to work their regularly scheduled hours. The one hour trigger does not apply.
e)	Tn the event that the 'sum of al 1 overtime and unanticipated uver-appointment hours worked exceeds five percent (5%) of ail hours worked on a unit . in a four (4) .week scheduling period, the five dollar {$5.00; per hour bonus, referenced above shall be increased to ten dollars ($10.D3) per hour on that unit for all subsequent four (4) week schedules until the slim, is equal to Or lass than five percent (5%) .
j. 24/7 Unit Over-limit Premium: An over-limit premium will be paid on overtime and over appointment hours exceeding the individual Limit on the home unit as felltMf.
aJ	Fer overtime hours (those paid at time
'and one-half the hourly rate), the over-limit premium will be:
(1)	For employees on units below the five per cant (54) overtime trigger:	double time (2 times
hourly rate)? OR
(2)	For employees on units above the five per cent {5%) trigger; double time (2 times hourly rate) □R time and one-half plus one (1) hour of PTQ for each hour worked, at the employee's aptiun.
42
b) Fer over appointment hours that do not qualify for time and one-half, the over-limit premium will be:
(1)	For employees °n units below the five per cent (5$) overtime trigger; double time (2jc hourly rate}, OR
(2)	For employees on units above the five per cent (5%) overtime trigger; double time (2k hourly rate) OR straight time plus one (13 hour of pI'J fit each hour, at the employee’s option,
24/7 Unit: Exceptions to individual Limit, Overtime Bonus and Over-Limit Premium
163E	1) Overtime/over appointment hours resulting
fr-em employee—initiated schedule changesr including "double-ba cits" will not be credited toward the individual limit, the over-limit premium or the overtime bonus;
{See Paragraph 147)
2)	Daily overtime that does not increase the appointment fraction does not count toward the limit, hut does count as an occurrence.
3)	Over appointment hours that are scheduled pricr to a schedule being posted as a result of a part-time employee’s request will not be eligible for the over-limit
..	n rami urn or the overtime . bonus., and .Hi II net
be credited toward the individual Limit.
(See Paragraph 91}
4)	Employees who are scheduled off on a holiday and who request, prior tn the schedule being posted, to work their full appointment fraction during the holiday week will not have those hours credited toward the individual limit ar the over-lirnit premium.
51 For a period of six (6) months following an employee's reduction in appointment fraction, the employee must work the equivalent of his/her former appointment fraction plus the applicable individual
■
I

limit to be eligible for the over-1 linit premium l
&) On-call hours accumulated aS a result, of call systems established under paragraph 170D will be considered part at the individual limit and will be credited toward the limit at the time the commitment is made. Only hours worked will apply toward eligibility for the over-limit, premium.
24/7 Unit: Additional____Overtime
Actions Effective January 2, 2002:
Management
1G3F 1)
On units below the five per cent (5f) overtime trigger for sir (6) of sever. (7) scheduling periods the individual limit will decrease to twelve J12) hours and the limit will apply as provided in paragraphs 163D and 163E of this Article.
if the unit then remains below the five per cent (5$) overtime trigger for three (3) of the next four (4) scheduling periods;
a)	The aver-limit premium	writ	be
eliminated, and
b)	The individual limit will remain aL
twelve (12 hour si .
■$
.*< '.1
If the unit overtime trigger exceeds five per cent (5%) for three (3) consecutive scheduling periods a Workload Review £SUOMi.t.tfie. meeting (till. be... hftl ri inrlirri-nq the area Director and the Association Chairperson or designee. Reasons for the overtime will be examined and mutually agreeable solutions will be adopted.
j i
4) In n:> event will the overtime trigger exceed five per cent (53} for six (ii) consecutive scheduling periods.
45
SECTION B. OVERTIME SYSTEM FOR WHBC t ECHO
Definitions;
1£3G
1} Individual Limit: The point reached through assigned or voluntary time worked on an employee's	home	unit	beyond	which	an
employee cannot be required to work.
2) Overtime	Bonus: A	bonus	paid	on
overtime/over appointment hours based upon the overtime trigger on the unit. The overtime bonus is not applicable for hours eligible for the over-liBtit premium,
2) Over-limit Premium: A monetary incentive for employees who volunteer to work beyond their individual limit on their home unit. (See Intent Mote for Paragraph
S RCHO;, , _Ijd i vi rin a 1 ,, I, i mi tj . Overtime,.Barms and Over-Limit Premium.
163H
1)	WHBC & ECHO Individual Limit:	No employee
will be required to work more than sixteen (16) overtime/over appointment hours of which no more than eight (B) shall be on-call hours in a four-week scheduling period on their home unit. (See Individual Limit & Premium Exceptions, Paragraph 1631; Additional Management Actions, Paragraph 16-3 J)
<
2)	WHBC t ECHO Overtime Bonus:	A bonus of
f.i-ve -dollars {$5,00} per hour will be paid on eligible overtime/over	appointment
hours. This bonus shall tie paid in the following manner:
a)	In calculating hours to determine when the five dollar ($5.00) bonus is payable, the bonus shall be paid ir. the same manner aS Paragraphs 148 and 143 of this Article.
b)	The overtime bonus is not payable On those hours which are eligible for the □ver-limit premium,
c)	The five dollar {$5.00} bonus applies only when the employee works one (11

46
or more hours, per occurrence, not. cumulative. In the event that an employee works one [1) or more hours, the live dollar (SS.dCl) bonus will be paid on the entire period, including the first hour of overtime/over appointment.
d)
All hours worked pursuant to being on-call , with the exception of thoae hours eligible for the over-limit premium, Ehall be paid the five dollar ($5.GO) bonus, except when the employee ia voluntarily on-call and returns to work their regularly scheduled hours. The one hour trigger does not apply.
In the event that the sum of all overtime and unanticipated uver-appointment hours worked exceeds five ..percent of. all haurs worked .on. a unit in a tour (4) week scheduling period, the five dollar [$5,00) per hour bonus, referenced above shall be increased to ten dollars [$10.00) per hour on that unit for all subsequent four [4) Week Schedules ur.t.il the sum is equal to or less than five percent (5%) ,
3)	WHBC 4 ECHO Over-Limit Premium: An over-limit premium will be paid on overtime and over appointment hours exceeding the individual limit on the home unit as follows: (See Paragraph 1631.6)
a)	Fur' overtime hours [those paid at tike anti one-half the hourly rate;, the over-limit premium wiJ] be:
(1)	For employees on units below the five per cent (5ft) overtime trigger:	double time (2 times
hourly rate); OR
(2)	For employees on units above the five per cent (5%) trigger: double time (2 times hourly rata) OR time and one-half plus one (1) hour of PTO for each hour worked, at the employee's option.
47
b; For over appointment hours that do not qualify for time and one-half, the over-liir.it premium will be;
(1J For employees on units below the five per cent (53) overtime trigger: double time {2x hourly rate)f OR
(2} For employees on units above the five per cent (53} overtime trigger: double time [2x hourly rate} OR straight time plus one (1) hour of PIO for each hour, at the employee’s option.
WHBC i ECHO: Exceptions tc? Individual Limit, Overtime Bonus and Over-limit Premium * 2 3 4 5
1631	1) --Ciwstiffle^ever- sppcjntiwtrt —botm resulting
from employee-initiated schedule changes, including ■ "double-backs1' will ndt be credited toward the individual limit, the <j ver-limit premium or the overtime bonus (See Paragraph 147);
2) Daily overtime that does not increase the appointment fraction does not count toward the limit, but does count as an occurrence.
3) Over appointment hours that are scheduled prior to a schedule being posted as a result of a part-time employee's request will not ..be filiglhlft.	-crajf—iiwit-
premium or the overtime bogpsi and will tuot be credited toward the individual limit, (See Paragraph 91)
4) Employees who ars scheduled off on a Holiday and who request, prior til the schedule being posted, to work their full appointment fraction during the holiday week will not have those hours credited toward the individual limit or the over-1irait premium.
5) For a period of sis (6)' months following an employee’s reduction in appointment fraction, the employee must work the equivalent of his/her forfflfit appcjiiYtK^nt
48
tract inn plus the applicatjle LtydividvijL limit td be el igible for the ever-limit premium.
6)	The on-till system will remain in effect. On-call hours will owt to.-* a rd the individual limit when ths c ammi tmcr.t is made, Ohly hours worked will apply toward eligibility for tits over-limit premium.
WHBC & ECHO; -Additional Overtime MlLiaae.fflcT'.t Actions Effective January 2, 2002:
163 J 1} On units below the five per cent (!>%} overtime trigger for six (6) of seven {7) scheduling periods the individual Li wit will decrease to twelve {12) hours of any combination of overtime/over appointment and on-call and will apply as provided in paragraphs 163H £ 1631 of this Article.
2]	If the lihit then remains below the five per cent (531 overt trigger far three (3) of the next four (4) scheduling periods:
a)	The over-limit- premium	si ill	be
eliminated, ^nd
b}	The individual limit will remain at
twelve {12 hours);
2)	If the unit overtime trigger exceeds five per cent (5%) for three 13) consecutive scheduling periods a workload Review
, Ctimim i bpe... meeting - w± li ■ -held - rnu lulling the area Director and the Ass®eiatiun Chairperson or designee. Reasons for the overtime will be examined and mutually agreeable solutions will be adopted,
4)	In no event will the overtime trigger exceed five per cent {5$) for six (E) consecutive scheduling periods.
45
SECTION C. EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT (ED) □VERTIMF.
SYSTEM
Definitions-.
163K li Individual Limit: Th* point reached through assigned or voluntary time worked on an employee's home . unit beyond which an employee cannot be required to work.
5	J (Overtime	Bonus:	A	biinus	paid	on
overtime/over appointment Jicurs based upon the overtime trigger on the unit. The overtime bonus is not applicable for hours eligible for the over-Jimit premium.
3)	Over-limit Premium; A monetary incentive tor employees who volunteer to work beyond their individual limit on their home unit. [See Intent Note for Paragraph 163C}
Emergency Department:_________individual Limit,
overtime Bonus and Over-Limit "premium ---------------------------------------
161L	1) ED individual Limit; (See Individual Limit
£ Premium Exceptions, paragraph 163H i Additional Management Actions Paragraph 163N)
a) For a period nf	(6) months
beginning 6/10/01, no employee will be required to work more than twenty (20) overtime/overappointment	hour3	of
which no more than twelve (12) shall
........beon-call .. hoiira...dm....Ji. four--Wiil
scheduling period, on t licit heme unit;
bl Effective 11/25/01, no employee will be required to work wore than sixteen (16) overtime/over appointment hours of which no more than eight (B) shall be on-call hours within a four-week scheduling period on their home unit.
2)	ED Overtime Bonus: A bonus of five dollars (35.00J per hour will he p^id on eligible overtime/over appointment hours,	This
bonus shall be paid in the following manner:
50
a)	In calculating hours to determine when the five dollar (55.33) bonus is payable, the bonus shall be paid in the Sa’.te manner as Paragraphs 14P and 143 of this Article.
b)	The avert! me bonus is not payable on those Hoara which are eligible for the over-limit premium,
c)	The five dollar ($5,001 bonus applies only when the employee works one (1) □r mote hours, per occurrence, not cumulative. In the event that an employee works one [1) or more hours, the five dollar ($5.00) bonus will be paid on the entire period, including the flrat hour of	overtime/ever
appointment.
d- -All- ■ tirrrrrs -worked ■ purs uant “to -tjsl ng'' On-call, with the exception o£ those hours eligible for the over-limit premium, shall he paid the five dollar (85,00) bonus, except when the employee is voluntarily cn-call and returns to work their regularly scheduled hears. The one hour trigger does not apply.
e) In the event that the sum of ail overtime and unanticipated over-appointment hours worked exceeds five percent (55} of all hours worked OH a ......unit.. .in- - a ...-faux- -141 - ■■ wwk- - actieduling .period, the five nollir ($5 ,.00) per hour bonus, referenced above shall be increased to ten dollars ($10.00) per hour ofi that unit for all subsequent four (4) week schedules until the sum is equal tq c.r less than five percent (5%) .
3)	ED Over-Limit Premium:	An over-limit
premium will be paid on Overtime and ever appointment hours exceeding the individual limit on rjte home unit aa follcws: (See Paragraph 163M.6)
51
■v

a)	Fur overtime hours (thoje paid at tima and one-half the hourly rate), the over-limit premium will be:
(I)	For employees on units below the five per cent (5»J overtime trigger:	double time (2 times
hourly rate); OR
?-)	For employees on units above the five
per cent (5%) trigger: double time {2 times hourly rate) OR time and one-half plus one (1) hour of PTO for each hour worked, at the employee's option.
b]	For over appointment hours that do not qualify for time and one-half, the over-limit premium will be:
(1)	For employees on units below the five ' per' cent" f'5£) ' overtime trigger: double time (2x hourly rate) , OR
(2)	For employees on units above the five per cent (51} overtime trigger; double time (2x hourly rate) OR straight time plus one {!) hour of PTO for each hour, at the amp!oyee'a option,
Emergency Department: Exceptions to Individual
Limit, Overtime Bonus and Over-Limit premium
■	-1g- - Overt imo / ovc r ■ - o ppolft tment—bottra- -resulting- ■
.from . «mpi oyef-i n 1 t-i ated schedule change*, including "double-backs" will net be credited toward the individual limit, the over-limit premium or the overtime bonus (See Paragraph 141);
2)	Daily overtime that does not increase the appointment fraction doe a not count toward the lirart, but doea count as an occurrence.
3)	Over appointment hours that are scheduled prior to a schedule being posted as a result of a part-time employee’s request will, not be eligible for the over-liinit premium or the overtime bonus, and will not
51
be credited toward the individual, limit, (See Paragraph 91}
4)	Employees who are scheduled off on a holiday and who request, prior to the schedule being posted, to work their full appointment fraction during the holiday week will not have those hours credited toward the individual limit or the overling t premium.
5} Fer a period of six {6} months following an employee's reduction in appointment fraction, the employee must work the equivalent of his/her former appointment fraction plus the applicable individual limit to be eligible for the over-limit premium.
6J The current system of prescheduling once 11 may remain in effect..	On—call hours
count toward the individual limit. Those hours worked count toward the over-limit premium, (Sae paragraphs 1'^0A 4 170B)
Emergency Department  _ Additioral	Overtime
Management Actiona Effective January 2, 2002;

163N	1}
2)
31
On units below the five per cent (5%) overtime trigger for sin 1 &) of seven (7} scheduling periods the individual limit will decrease to twelve 112) hours cf any combination of overtime/over appointment and on-call hours and will apply as provided in paragraphs 163L t of this "Article-;:----...................... "
If the unit then remains below the five per cent (55) overtime trigger for three {3j of the next four (4) scheduling periods:
a)	The over-limit premium	will, bo
eliminated, and
b)	The individual lijr.it will remain at
twelve (12 hours};
If the unit overtime trigger uxo^eds five per cent. (5U) for three (3) consecutive scheduling periodo a workload Review Committee meeting will be held ijlrkluding
the area . Director and the Association Chairperson or designed. Reasons for the overtime will be examined and mutually aiie.eabLi enLutlrms will be. adopted *
4) In no event will the overtime trigger exceed five per tent (511) for six (6) consecutive scheduling periods.
SECTION D. OVERTIME SYSTEM FOR OPERATING ROOMS (OR) POST-AiiE5THESlA_C ARE UH ITS (PAC (J) 4 PROCEDURE AREAS
Definitions:
1630	1) Individual Limit: The point reached through
assigned nr voluntary tirne woiked on an employee rS home unit beyond which an employee cannot he required to work.
?1.._	- - SiUVli.L- --At..... bonus . -p^id. -oh-
overtime/over appointment hours baaed upon the overtime trigger on the unit. The overtime bonus is not applicable for hours eligible for the over-limit premium.
3) Over-limit Premium: A monetary incentive for employees uhf volunteer to uork beyond their individual limit on their home unit, (See Intent Mote Eor Paragraph 1E3C>
Or, PACU, s .Procedure Area: Individual Limit, Overtime Bonus And Over-Limit Premium
163?	1) OR, PACU 4 Procedure Ar efl. Individual... Limit:
■ ■ ■ ”■ NJF’Biqplbyee” wTir be required to work more ■ then a tcrtal of eight (3) overtime/ever appointment hours in a four-week scheduling period on their home unit as follows: (See Individual Limit	Exceptions,	Paragraph
163Q, On-call Systems, Paragraphs 170a 4 ] 7QB, Additional Management	Actions,
Paragraph 153G, and Intent “Note for Paragraph 163PJ a] Hours worked at the end of .a shift, or
b) Hours worked ag a result of supplemental call, or

54
c: > [jours worked ai a result Of open, unfilled hours aasigr.Rd aft«r Lhe schedule is posted.
21 OR, PACE $ Procedure Area Overtime Bonus;
A bonus of five dollars (i^.OOj per hour will be paid co eligible overtime/over appointment hours. This bonus shall be paid in the following manner;
a} m calculating hours to determine when the five dollar ($5,OQJ bonus is payable, the bonus shall he paid in the Sane manner as Paragraphs 14& and 143 of this Article.
bl. The overtime bond-i in iv.'L payable d£L those hours which are eligible for the over-limit premium.
■e-j ■ -■ Wt ■five ' dollar ’ ’ T$5. 0Ur "bonus “applies Oflly when the employee Works one (1J or more hours, per occurrence, not cumulative. In the event ’ th.it an employee works one (1; or more hours, tin? five dollar i. i-5. ?rbonus will be paid on the entire periodr including the first hour of overLime/over appointment.
d) All hours worked pursuant to being on-call, with the exception of those hours eligible for the over-limit premium, shall be paid the five dollar .....IStliBlll _■■ bonus,-- -except--when--the-employee is yolgntarily . on-call and returns to work their regularly scheduled hours, rhe one hour trigger does not apply.
e) In the event that the sum of all overtime and unanticipated over-appointitent Wjys narked ■evesed?. iive percent {5SJ of all hours worked on a unit in a four (4) Week scheduling period, the five dollar ($5,CC) per hour bonus?, referenced above shall be increased to ten dallara {$10.DOI per ho-jr on that unit for all subseguenL four (4) week schedules until ths sum
55
is equal to QI legs than five percent (M) .
3) OR, P'ACt.l £ Procedure Area Over-Limit Premium: An Over-limit premium will be paid on overtime and aver appointment hours exceeding the individual limit on the home unit ad follows: (See Paragraph 163Q.3) a) For overtime hours (those paid at time and one-half the hourly rate), the over-limit premium will be:
{1) Far employees on units below the five per cent (51) overtime trigger:	double time <2 times
hourly rate); OR
(2) For employees on units above the five per cant {5%} trigger: double time {2 times hourly rate)
..OR ..time and.. one-half..plus ...one
(1) hour of PTO for each hour worked, at the employee's option.
b) For over appointment hours that do not ■ qualify for time and one-half, the □ver-limit premium will be:
(1} For employees on units below the five per cent (51) overtime trigger:	double time (2x hourly
rate), OR
(2) For employees on units above the five per cent (5i) overtime
.............. ..trigger :.ffisihi®' Ttiae ’{Zx tiouriy ■ ■ ■.....................rate b -OR • straight t ime plus- ■ one
(1) hour of PTO for each hour, at the employee's option.
OR, PACT) _ £ Procedure Area: Exceptions to Individual Limit, Overtime Bonus and Over-Limit Premium
]63Q	1) Overtime/over appointment hours resulting
from employee-initlated schedule changes, including "double-backs" will not be credited toward the individual limit, the over-limit premium or the overtime bonus (See Paragraph Hl);
56
i
2)	Daily overtime that does nut increase the appointment fraction does not count toward the limit, but does count as an occurrence,
3)	On-call- and overtime/ over appointment hours worked as a result of traditional holiday, weekend and off shite on-call systems arc not eligible for the over limit premium and will not be credited toward the individual limit.
fll For a period of six (6) months following an employee's reduction in appointment, fraction, the employee must work the equivalent of his/her former appointment fraction plua the applicable individual limit to be eligible for the over-limit premium.
51 Over appointment hours that are scheduled ...............-	prior ...to., -a... -sdiadiil«---lwijig^-p*e£ed- -ae--a result- of a part-time employee's request will nbt be eligible for the OVer-1 imit premium or the overtime bonus, and will not be credited toward the individual limit. (See Paragraph 91)
Oft., PACO i Procedure Axea:_ Overtime HoniLuring
153R
1) Overtime monitoring Ongoing.
and tracking will
be
2; If the unit trigger exceeds five per cent (5%) fur three {3) consecutive scheduling _periods a_-Workload Rey_i_ew__CanmLt t ee__mee£jng will be called to include the area Director and the Association "chairperson (or designee). Reasons tor the overtime wiii be examined and options reviewed. A joint response plan will be developed.
3] If the unit overtime nigger exceeds five BOr Cent (511) for sis (6) Consecutive scheduling periods, additional actions will be considered and implemented through mutual agreement -
v/A, a tritj.ced'irre Akea-. Ad-d-i.t,ional Overtime Management Actiuns Effective January, 2002
L63S1	1) On units with aggregate Overtime/over
appointment hmirs as outlined in Paragraph 163N.1 which ar* below six (6} hours per employee for nine (3] of eleven (11) scheduling periods the following actions will occur:
a)	The individual limit will decrease to six (6) hours and will apply as provided in Paragraphs 161P 4 163Q, and;
b)	The over-limit premium will be eliminated.
SECTION E. AMBULATORY CARE OVERTIME SYSTEM
1C3T  AmfaulBtevy - -gave ■ ■ -Individual ■ ■ -Liiiii L r.Ntr■ ■
employee will be required to work more than sixteen (16) hours of unanticipated overtime/over appointment time in a four-week scheduling period on their home unit. (See Individual Limit exceptions, Paragraph 163tj)
Ambulatory Care: Exceptions to Individual Limit and Overtime Bonus
163U	1) Prescheduled houra resulting from a part-
time employee1s request for additional hours de not contribute toward the individual limit.
....2_j A schedule, .change, .that ...results in daily overtime but does not increase the appointment fraction does not contribute ■ toward the individual limit.
Ambulatory Care Overtime Bonas
163V	1) Definitions
a) Anticipated: Those hours needing to be filled that are known more than forty-eight (JB) hours in advance.
58
tel TinanticipaLed:
(1]	Those hours needing to he filled that are known forty-eight (46) hours or Less in advance;
(2)	Those anticipated needs that have
net been met forty-eight (48) hours prior to the need;
(3}	All hours worked eg a result of
on-call, except if the employee is voluntarily on-call and returns to work their regularly scheduled hours, (See Paragraph 163V.2)
2)	Overtime Bonus Process
A bonus of five dollars ($5.00) pjy hour win' Eft" "pariJ' "to full and part-time employees' who work overtime over appointment hours to fill unanticipated needs. This bonus shall be paid in the foilowing ma ns e r:
a] In calculating hours to determine when the five dollars ($5.00) bonus is payable, the bonus shall be paid ir. ■ the Same manner as paragraphs 146 and 143 of this article.
b)
The five dollars (55-00) bonus applies only when the employee works one (1i ■er—more- ■ -hours,- - -pet—occurrence,.not
cumulative. .. In the- ■ event --that- -an employee works one (1} or more hours, the five dollars ($5.00) bonus wifi be paid on the entire period, including the first hour of overtime/over appuintment hours.
c) All hours worked pursuant to being on-call shall be paid the five da 11 are ($5.UO) bonus, except when the employee is voluntarily on-cail and returns tc work their regularly scheduled hours. The one hour trigger does not apply.
59
d) In the event that the aim of all overtime and unanticipated over-appointment hours worked exceeds five percent {5%} of all hours worked on a unit in a four (4) week scheduling period, the five dollars ($5.DO) per hour bonus, referenced above shall be increased to ten dollars (510,00} per hour on that unit for all subsequent four (4) week schedules until the sum ia equal to or less than five percent (5t). (See Intent Note for Paragraph 163ft.2)
Ambulatory Care: Additional Overtime Management Actions Effective January, 2Q02
163W The individual limit will decrease to twelve (12) hours on those units with an overtime trigger below the five per cent
..... overtime-'Trigger for ’nine ~ut~~ eleven ’ ’ (lit scheduling periods.
163X Ambulatory Care Alternate Schedule: A schedule may be altered at the employee's request and at the manager's discretion, within FLSA regulations, to meet patient care requirements. The total number of hours scheduled shall nut exceed eighty (80) hours in a two (2) week pay period for employees who normally work eight (3} hour shifts, and forty (4T0) hours in one fl) calendar week for employees who normally work shifts greater than eiaht (8) hours. (See Intent Note for Paragraph ... ... . -163X4.......-	-.........................—■
ARTICLE XV - A ASSIGNED TIME OFF
164A In the event there are more staff Scheduled for a shift than are required to meet the workload, it may be necessary to reduce the number of employees scheduled for that shift. When all overtime and 0verappointment hours have been cancelled in accordance with Paragraph 157, then the following procedure shall be used to make an adjustment.
1)	CSR regular employees will be released back to CSR for reassignment. (See Paragraph 1851)

60
2)	Unit’based temporary employees will be released.
3)	Volunteer floats from, other units will be released.
164H Voluntary time off shall be recorded by occurrence and distributed equitably among all unit employees as referred to in Paragraph 15B.
The following Sequence will be followed in seniority order, highest, to lowest:
1)	Employees willing to float to other units.
2)	Employees willing to go or stay home while being on-Call, if needed.
3)	Employees willing to go or stay home and use PTO time.
4)	Employees willing to go or stay home
164C An employee who volunteers to be off or is assigned off may be reguested to be on-call with appropriate compensation - [See intent Note for Paragraph 164c and applicable Overtime System Paragraphs 163D.2.d, 163H.2,d, 153L.2.d, 163P.2.d or 163V.2.C)
164D If a sufficient number of volunteers is not feund, employees may be assigned off in seniority order, lowest to highest. Time assigned off will be recorded by occurrence and distributed equitably among all unit employees.
.... P* mgr a ph ..1531______Tn__thia.. rrtnnprt- i nn the
jjnlversity will' endeavor to limit the designation ?o that ne employee will be sent home for more than sixteen (16) hours in a two (2) calendar week period. (See intent Note for Paragraph 16 4 D ]
1)	This assigned time off procedure docs not apply to Holidays, (See Paragraph 363),
164E When volunteers to float are in competition for available hours, whether C3P regular employees floating outside of their home cluster or employees floating from their home units, the employee assigned off will he determined by seniority and then by the last date of assigned time off, assuming that the
61
CSR employee cannot be reassigned. {Sae M Paragraph 105 J)	3
1€4F In addition, the employee shall have the 3 option of using PTC time, provided the employee	.’3
has sufficient accrued PTO time, or excused no	'3
pay time. The employee may request or may be	3
offered the opportunity to make up the time and	•]
return PTO to bank in the same week. Absences	a
incurred under this Article shall not adversely	•■j
affect the employment record or benefits of the ’ il employee-	13
164G	Employees assigned time off will have first	']
priority to recoup hours in the pay peri nd/week	'3
without incurring overtime.	1
ltS4H	Employees may volunteer for alternate work	3
through the Central Staffing Resource, which .j wl 11 count as equivalent to assigned time off	3
— ■ —-------purpoocn----ef--recording----fttri.equitable.....—3
distribution. If work is available, the regular employee will have priority over any temporary	|
employee for available hours on a unit on which	*
they are qualified to work and priority over	'I
unit employees on overtime.	I
Ififll A regular employee who reports for work at the employee’s scheduled start time when the * employee has	not been notified that no work is	J)
available may be assigned alternate work. if	•’?
no- alternate	work is assigned and the employee
is assigned	off, the employee shall receive	J
four {41 hours pay at the employee's hourly 3 ......rate, plus shift, premium, for anv shift. Thia.... ----j paragraph does not apply to assigned time off ■' on a Holiday. (Riefer to Paragraph 368)
164K Such payment or options will not be payable if no work is available because of conditions beyond the control of the University, such as fire, flood, power failure, labor dispute and student disruption, ar if the employee fails to receive notice not to report because the employee did not provide a correct address or telephone number.

>'2
ARTICLE XVI
SHIFT PREMIUM
SECTION A. EVENING SHIFT PREMIUM
165	Ar. evening shift premium of one dollar
{$1.00;■ per hour worked shall he paid to an employee who is scheduled to start work on or after 11:00 a.m. and before 7:00 p,m. or who has a majority of scheduled hours between 3:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m.
iGii	A work shift of less than eight {$) hours
per day and scheduled to start at a time determined by adding one (1) hour to 11 a.m, for each hour the daily work schedule is leas than eight (B) hours and before 11:00 p.m. or has a majority of scheduled liours before 11:00 p.m. after using the calculation above,
167	A night shift premium of one dollar and
twenty-five cents ($1,251 per hour worked shall be paid to an employee who is scheduled to start work on or after 7:00 p.m. and before 3:00 a.m. or who has a majority of scheduled hours between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
160	A work shift of less than eight (S) Lours
per day 3nd scheduled to start at a time determined by adding one (1) hour to 7:00 p.m. for each hbUf the daily work schedule ia less than eight (0) hours and before 7:00 a.m. -j.r has a malgrjj;y._sf..aGhedui.ecL.diQirrs..before..Zififi. a.m. after using the calculation above.
SECTION C.JjDDTT TONAL PROVISIONS
169	An employee who works beyond the employee's
scheduled hours will continue to receive shift premium, if any, determined by the Starting time set forth in Section A and B above. In addition, if an employee (1) is scheduled and works eight (0) or mere hours,- and (2) works more than four (4) additional consecutive and contiguous hours; then the employee will be □aid the shift premium for that shift, or the shift premium for his/her first eight 13), ten (IQ) or twelve (12) hour shift, whichever premium is greater.
62
170	If an employee's schedule of work is
divided by a period of time exceeding one (1J hour, the second segment will be coneidered a new starting time in determining whether a 5hift premium is payable for that Segment,
ARTICLE XVII ON-CALL SYSTEMS AND PAY
SECTION A: ON-CALL SYSTEMS
370A	On-call scheduling systems must be in
compliance with the on-call language in this Article,	i,See	Nets for Paragraph LblB.
and intent Notes for Paragraph 17QA]
Established Systems In Unscheduled Patient Care Areas
170B	1) Established systems in unscheduled patient
...   _. care—srew;—in—ef.Tiaet~~prl.6t ~Eo~KpriT CT7
2001 shall Yemain in effect for the duration of this Agreement.
2]	A supplemental call system may be developed on units with an established call system to cover Overtime which occurs aL the end of a shift, sub} ect to taanege t appral.
17QC Tn the event either party wishes to change an established on-call system or create a new system, the parties shall meet to negotiate such changes.
Short-Term- Aystems
17C’b’"i) If the following criteria for establishing a short term oh-cal.1 system on Jn inpatient unit are met, the manager will request a special conference with the Association and rhe Nursing Director:
a)	The unit must document a five per cent (5t) rate in anticipated open shifts or an overtime trigger over five per cent (5%}.
b)	A majority of the unit employees muat vote to establish an on-call system.
€4
2)
Jf approval to establish .in. Oo-nall System As given by the Association and the Director of Nursing, an Association representative will meet with the unit workload review committee to determine the
reasons for the si Luat.iern and recommend
act inn;? t(?:
a! Respond to the Current siLuar.ion.
bl Prevent the situation from recurring
3) The on-eali system will remain in effect no longer thar>	<41 'Jftste, at which tiir.fe
its effectiveness will be evaluated by the unit workload committee and the Association, Components ci the evaluation may include, but will not be limited to:
staffing
needs.
bl Employee satisfaction with the system,
c)	Lengths	of shifts	that	employees
worked	to	maintain Safe Staffing
levels.
■41
d]	A determination if the precipitating problem has been resolved and if not, why,
e)....Decide if an extension of the system ......should, be reQuest^d^.... . ..............
Addltiohai ' "data' wSich may be useful in decision making will be provided to the evaluate on group upon request, Examples of data are;
a) Unit census and acuity trends on a VLOTithi to mon th basis.
h) Comparisons of assigned time off versus overt ime/oVerfi11 hours.
c) Use of FTO and extended aick hours.
5} If it is determined that the need for en on-call system remains, a aecond majority
65
I fl J vote of the unit employees must be -	|
obtained,	|
SECTION B; OH-CALL PfiY	|
171	An employee shall receive the following 11
hourly rate for time in an	on-call status:	3
1/	M-l	$4.54	|
2)	N-2	$4.77	i
3)	N-J $5,01	' ■!
4)	bJ-4	$5,51	’3
5)	N-5	S7.40	■]
6)	N-fi	$9.44	J
Provided,	howEVer	that an employee is not	in
the on-ca	11 status	when at work nor shall	an
employee	receive on-call pay for any time		in
the On-call status		when the employee does	not
---- - return - -to- work - pursuant—t-o- pall ■—on - call- pay— — hours equal the number of hours scheduled to	a
potentially be at work, (See Paragraph 174A.	.£
see Intent t'ote foi Paragraph 171)
172	An employee shall bo in an on-call status
only for that period of time specifically made known to the employee in advance. such status is not time worked for any purpose.	On-call
assignments will be selected from among volunteers when practicable. if sufficient volunteers are not available, assignments will be made first from among those who have not volunteered for the time period for which .. . . volunteers are aought. Thereafter, and .if., more .... assignments are _made, the _assignments will be prorated equitably according - to "appointment hours to the extent practicable. (See Intent Note for Paragraph 172)

173	Any employee in an on-call status is
required ta restrict whereabouts to the extent that the employee can be reached immediately by telephone, paging device or similar arrangement and he available to immediately return to work when called- Employees on-call will have access to a paging device-
174	When an employee reports fur work as a
result of being called in while an on-call status existed, the employee shall receive payment at their hourly rate, including
66
applicable premiums, for the time the employee works. All hour3 worked pursuant to on-call are eligible for the five dollar ($5-001 bonus. The on-call rate wi 11 not be paid for the same hours the employee is receiving either on-cal 1 hack pay or pay for time worked pursuant to entail.
:?4» Jill hpu.r.s utorkod pursuant tn being on-call fee paid the five dollars (55.00) bonus, except when the employee is voluntarily on-call and returns to work their regularly scheduled hours. The one (1) hour trigger does not apply -
175	Tn this regard, the employee may be
assigned to perform duties other than those intended al the time the employee was called In. For purposes of this provision, the employee has the option pf declining to perform ... _ _hhe_duties___if. ...the. duties assigned are not duties customarily performed by employees. However, if no duties are assigned, the employee shall receive an amount equal to two (2} hours of pay at the rate of time and one half {1/2) of their hourly rate, and shall he paid every time the employee returns to work. . Such payment, is not time worked for any purpose. {See Paragraph 180c;
175A On-call status will not be cancelled with less than twenty-four 124) hours noLice. (See Intent Note for Paragraph 175A)
175B Employees will not normally be required to .....worE' Tiieyohcr th"e apfilUsO-orFdiaf 1' tins I r aster. (~Sep~" TnLent- Motes- fw Paragraph- L?A?rt- ................-.
!7hC
175D
on-call will be limited tc twelve (12; hour blocks in those areas where there is a high frequency call back rate, unless it is mutually agreed by the employee end the /Meager to h.eve . longer time blocks. Unit on-call guidelines, will include length of on-c?-J 1 blocks Lo be used on that unit. (See intent Note for Paragraph 1750)
The parties agree that for those unite without 24-hour regular patient care operations, employees who work in excess of four (4) hours after 11:DC p.m. pursuant to on-call, Will be allowed a period of eight (8)
Ci?
hours for sleep time and will be paid the normal hourly rate far hours Lost frtn ti'ieii normal work schedule up td a maximum of four (4) hours. Currently these units, include, but are not limited to. Operating BiW, Vest Anesthesia Care Unit, Medical Procedures Unit, Hemodialysis, Cardiac Cath Lab, Radiology and Ep Lab.
ARTICLE XVIIi CALL BACK PAY
176 An employee who i? not in an on-call status and returns to work because of a call back made after the employee has left the university premises upon completion . of their assigned schedule of work, whether on a scheduled day oft or following a day worked, shall receive payment at their hourly rate, including applicable premiums, for the time worked. Tn thi.3 regard, th* employee .may be
-■ ■  -perfduii duties cfhhor than those intended at the
time the employee was called in. For purposes tfclj provision, the employee has the option of deci inlng to perform the duties if the duties assigned are not duties customarily perforated by employees. However, if no duties are assigned, the employee shall receive an amount equal to four (4) hours qf pay at their hourly rr.te.. Such payment is not time worked for any purpose.
177	Title pttivi^icd ehali not apply, however, to
employees who are called in to begin work prior to the start of their shift and work_ ..... contiTOioujly— Lutt —ttreii"	provided the
.University...pstmit-s-■ ■ thfr-- einpluyed' ’tiff’ Work ’ ” the employee's scheduled hours of work for that day-.
ARTICLE XX
VARIABLE PiCTlVIlY

178	The parties agree that the appropriate
deployment of employees trs provide high qua’i ity nursing care for all patients in a large tertiary c^re medical center is a complex task. Further, marked change? Lv. the activity of individual unite within such afi institution present a particular challenge to the flexibility and creativity of the. st.?if£ to
63
respond to these	within "the limi tations
of finite resources.
Tn order to respond tn these changes, the parties agree that a variety of methods to allow redeployment of staff, while maintaining the principles of 'voluntenrltw. etid	cl
distribution, be made available.
It is mutually desirable that tespunf-es to th^se changes be made without incurring overtime.
SEtTlOEl A. VOLUNTARY FLOAT
Float Bonus
175	An employee who agrees to Heat from their
unit at times ot reduced staffing needs ter at least four (4} .hours W1 .U be .paid eight -fteHarU ' ....	(. b"ij per hour ok will be £redited with one
[1] hour of PTO for every four {4) hours wor^iod in float status in addition to their hourly Waste. The choice will be made by the employee at the time floating occurs. This is only applicable: to regular hours, not overtime or■ □wr appointment.
Iflfl	Et-ployeva who float to another unit to
provide expertise that is not available on the* receiving unit will receive the float bonus as dasoribed Lb Varagraph 175 of this Article for all hours worked. A four M; hour minj[Aiini is required-	...___. .
18 Of.  .-Emplnywe -who- float --to" gti’AmBiiJatory Care ■ Clinic for the purpose of enhancing their own professional qr&sth will not bo eligible for the float bonus, fsee intent Nota for Paragraph 18 DA)
Voluntary Float General principles
L 8 OB	Elmpldyeea Won are i looting -will nflt be
required Lo float more than one time during a shift. An employee may volunteer tb return to the home unit if they afa ’no Longer needed on the receiving unit.
180C Tf an employee is tn-ctsH fnr one unit, be/she will not be required to report to work
65
and then' float tc another unit for that shift. (See intent Notes for Paragraph lBOC)
18TO Credit for float occurrences will be recorded as	overtime/over	appointment or
assigned time off in the unit recording system as established according to Paragraph 150, at the employee's direction,
161	Orientation will include the full ranga of
activities that the employee will be expected to perform, and will be based on existing competencies used in any new employee's orientation. (See Intent Note for Paragraph 10)
1S1A When there is mutual agreement between an employee and a manager that the employee may float to enhance professional skills, the manager will commit to providing the necessary training and the employee will commit; to
......working^ffh-agrees upon “humEet" Sfsfii Ft s'.
162	An employee who is voluntarily floating has
the right to refuse a particular assignment, based on competency. The supervisor and the employee will meet to resolve the issue. No discipline can be initiated against the employee who is floating until a meeting between the employee, supervisor and the Association is held to review the issues.
SECTION B. WORK ASSIGNMENT
163	Employees will not normally be reassigned
......from	regular—tartt-.—in -the- event —chat the ■
Univer si-ty .hsl 1 eves . Ut XS- ■ tSCiStiry to t employees in response to a situation that will last for a period of time and/or is anticipated, the University will discuss the matter first with the Association, If it becomes necessary to temporarily reassign an employee to another unit, volunteers will be sought from among the employees being considered for reassignment. When an employee is reassigned, he/she will he given an orientation consistent with the duties to be performed. Orientation will include the full range of activities that the employee will be expected to perform, and will be based on existing competencies used in any new employee's orientation. A nurse who does not
70
believe that he/she has been adequately oriented will not be reassigned. Cnee orientation is completed and competencies demonstrated, the employee may be reassigned.
An employee who has been temporarily reassigned to another '.init will not be assigned to be in charge. If dll employee is temporarily reassigned, the employee will do so unless; (See intent Notes for Paragraphs 18 and 18 J)
183A After discussing the matter with the employee's supervisor, the employee refuses to be reassigned because cf an asserted lack of competence Lo perform the assignment(s|; or,
183B The employee is excused by the employee's supervisor.
18 3C
In the event that alter discussing Lhe matter with the employee’s supervisor, the employee refuses to be reassigned because of alleged lack of .competence to perform ths assignment (s) ; and in the event that disciplinary action is contemplated, the provisions of Section D. of Article XLV, [Discipline) shall be applicable even though discharge my not be contemplated. In this regard, discipline, if any, pertaining to the professional judgments regarding the employee's competence to. perform the assignment is) will not be imposed prior to the review provided far therein, including a joint meeting with the Association and the employee.
.....................---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ■
104	An employee with less than one (1) year of
registered nurse experience will not be reassigned to another unit,
10 4A a probationary employee will not bo reassigned to another unit,
10 4B When an employee volunteers or is assigned, there will always be an assigned resource person who is a Registered Nurse,
?-
104C pnee an employee is reassigned, he/sde will not b<3 recalled tn their home unit for the remainder of that eight (0J.or twelve (11!) hour-shift, unless mutually agreed by the employee
71
and the supervisor'or designate of the home and receiving un.ir.s,
1B4D When seeking volunteers or assigning employees to float when there are no volunteers. Occurrences Of reassignment will be equitable among employeea on a '.’.Tilt who have been adequately oriented and have met the requirement outlined above.
] 94E A home unit will not reassign an employee to another ur.it and simultaneously utilize temporary employees, other floats, or overtime/above appointment hours tn cover the aatne time period.
section d. central staffing resource {csrs
1$5 A Central staffing Resource consisting of temporary and regular employees will be available________fur nntici patpd—and—unanticipated-------
needs utilizing the fallowing principles (See intent ’Note for paragraph 1S5)
1R5A Any regular C5R employee will be paid a quarterly bonus of five-hundred dollars 15500 J, prerated according to appointment fraction-ihe quarterly bonus period will begin with January 1, L35F. The quarterly bonus periods will continue with April 1, July 1, and October 1, as the cage may be.
1&53 Tenantarlfi employed in areas which do not report to nursing will be included in the CSR, If parties agree this is not. _feas ibl e ■ ..tfat........
----- parties wm meet to explore alternative______________ ..........................................................■—systems' "Fur	afea s’,’’’ ’C5ee ’’intent Note for Paragraph 1B5EI
185C A core number of Central Resource Float Positions will be maintained based on variable needs. These employees will have completed unit'based compatenciee for their cluster. (See Intent Note for Paragraph 135CJ
1S5D Employees within ths Central Staffing Resource will be expected to accept assignments only in areas to which they	taceiv&tJ
adequate orientation and for which they are competent to perform. The CSR will maintain a system for initial and ongoing orientation of
72
employees to units on which they may he scheduleJ to work.
185F CSR temporary and regular employees will indicate their specialty areas and available hours. C5R will coordinate achedulidg of these emplcyEe?■
185G units may request Lhe use of a specific CSR temporary or regular employee for consistent use in order to cover u specific need ■'i. e. extended sick, leave of absence for which a position is being held),
105H Any regular employee that is unit based and wishes additional hours on units other than their twi nill make thecas elves known to Csh to be scheduled. (See Paragraph 179)
1851 A regular employee who does not__have _wqrk .... 'will	navf priority ±dr”hours Over any temporary employee cr pv-sr ar>y unit-based	regular ’
employee requesting work above appointment hours on another unit, as long as the regular employee is qualified tn do the work, according to the following:
1857 The Central staffing Rasnurce will develop a system, reasonably accessible t<? employees and other users, to identify employees on units with reduced staffing needs and provide a mechanism fnr voluntary alternative placeman-n of employees to meet unanticipated needs and reduce under appointment situations.
. ... _aj.. ._Un±L£-crintemplatiag-. assigned—ev^tijne- -wil 1 contact the Central Staffing Resource for-
possible voluntary replacement employees.
b} Units contemplating assigned rime cff will make employees aware	of	alternative
placement ooportunitiea	(See Paragraph
164E) .
185K
Of employees scheduled through the csR, regular employees will have scheduling/ assignment priority over temporary employeta (Bee Paragraph 1£4E and Tntent Mete for Paragraph 135K)
73
185ij Employees within the Central Staffing Resource will net normally be expected to accept a charge nurse assignment. if an occasion arista that ar. employee within the Central Staffing Resource is asked to accept a charge nurse assignment, the employee will be provided with the charge nurse guidelines tlM-exist for the unit for which she/he will be in charge and orientation to t’ne charge nurse assignment. (See Irltent Note for Paragraph 1B5LJ
1B5M in the event that after discussing the matter with the central Staffing Resource supervisor, the employee refuses the assignment because of an alleged lack of competence to perform the assignmerit and/or lack of adaquate ryExentatiOTi; tmd in the event that disciplinary action is contemplated, the provisions of Section D, of Article XL/ (Discipline) shall be applicable even thcnjqh d.fsr-haroF -taiy—net—|be-... contemplated/ In this regard, dletipiite, if any, pertaining to the professional judgments regarding the employee's competence tc perform the assignments will not be imposed prior to the review provided for therein.
SECTION E. OTHER
1B5N On units where there is a predictable seasonal ■< ax i a t i-uTi it activity the fallowing options may pe Considered; (See Intent Note tor paragraph IBSN)
1)	Offer positions with a seasonal
........■ -   Specified tlt>T15' Haiti5fied”wI'tJi appo i fitment .... 	-	frarfione^---------• -..-..." ...
2)	offer positions for "r" mu-nth appointment with salary and benefits distributed evenly ■ over twelve (12) months.
3} Offer positions with a seasonal assignment in two units (See Paragraph 43fl) .
ARTICLE XXL
SENIORITY DEFINITTONS AND LOSS 0F SENIORITY
SECTION A.	DEFINITIONS
IBS	For the purpose of this Agreement, th£
following definition shall apply;
74
167	"Seniority" means- uninterrupted employment
with the University beginning with the latest datfi of hiring with the University and shall include periods of University employment outside the bargaining unit, layoffs and other periods of absence authorited hy and consistent with this agreement. {See Intent Note lor Paragraph 167)
SECTION B.	WSS QE' SENIORITY
1B0
169
190
191
192
192
An employee shall loss lon^et be an employee if:
seniority and no
1)	The	employee	resigns -or quits;
2)	The	employee	is discharged or terminated;
3)	The employee loses, or otherwise does nut maintain a State of Michigan Nursing		
	—trip	JTT557	-			 •		
4}	The	employee	retires;
5)	The	emp J oyee	doss ■ not return to dork from
194
layoff at the scheduled return time, provided the employee is given r.ot less than seven |7) calendar days notice to return hy certified or registered mail or by telegram addressed to the employee at the	w.■ = Last address filed with the
Medical Campus fluman Resources Department, except when the failure to return to work' as scheduled is due to citeumstanc-us beyond ... .the... i? tint tai -of - the employee?- thtf- dferversity •
has_ been.. ._=o ■. notified, ..and_an ■■ - accuptablH ■
alternate return date ia agreed to by the University;
f) The employee has been on layoff lor a period of time equal to tile empl'i-yue' s seniority at the time nf the employee's layoff or eighteen (IS j months, whichever Is lets;
195	7) The employee does not return to WOrJc st the
expiration of 5 leave of absence, unless circumstances bvyond the control of the employee prevented the return, except that continuation oi the reasons for which the leave WdS granted shall not he. Such a circumstance. if the employee was able to;
75
196
1 97
198
199

I	1 :
fl) seek a leave extension, if available, prior to the leave expiration; or, (21 notify the University that the return would not be timely, but did not, this exception to termination shall not apply; or
8} The employee is absent from work for three (3) consecutive days without notifying the University, except when the failure to notify and work is due to circumstances beyond control of the employee, After such absence, the University shall send -written notification to the employee at the employee’s last known address that the employee has lost seniority and the employee's employment has been terminated.
In the event that employee loses seniority as a result of 5,	t>,	7, or H above, the
Chairperson of the Association shall receive written notification f^ntn rhp. Nn i irara i Ty-----.....
A dispute involving compliance with this Section shall begin at Step Two of the dispute resolution procedure, and may be processed through the Dispute Resolution and Arbitration Procedures by the Assentation only for an employee who has Lost' seniotity and is tin longer an employee under the provisions of 1, Z, 3 and 4 above, provided it ia submitted in writing at step Two of the dispute resolution procedure within one hundred si^ty-eight {160) hours after facts have occurred giving rise to the employee's dispute. In the event that an employee has lost seniority and is no lonQsjc ..art...
'"anpioyee”iin<Ier"the-;provisions of 5, 6, 1 and B above-,-"at dispate"may be”"submitted-in ~writing by the Association at Step Two no later than seventy-two (72) hours follow),ng receipt of the written notification by the Association Chairperson or designate.
ARTICLE XXII reinstatement and credit for prior service
SECTION A, GENERA1 REINSTATEMENT
An employee with two (2) or more years of continuous service who terminates his/her employment with the University, will be	.J
reinstated if:
76
20CJ 1) The person is re-employed on or after September IT, 1904;
201	2) The person is re-employed within one ■; 1)
year of the date he/she terminated;
202	3) The arapleyee remains re-employed for two
(2) years; and
203 J} The employee applied for reinstatement subsequent to two (2; years of reemployment hut not more than thirty (30) months after re-employment.
20 3A	Where a non-bargaining unit employed leaves
the University under other reinstatement guidelines and returns to the bargaining unit, the guidelines under which the employee left, will apply.
203E Employees who are reinstated shall retain their University date of hire as their anniversary date upon reinstatement,
SECTION B. EDUCATIONAL REINSTAT EifEM'T
204	An employee who is terminating tn pursue a
full-time formal educational program or to fulfill a requirement for completion of an educational program which is related to the current position or to positions within the University to which the employee may reasonably aspire will be automatically reinstated if;
205	17 Frier to termination, the employee notified
...LTTe Employment atiice__Ey‘_compietrng-a'_forTn regarding	termination for educational
pursuits provided by the employee's immediate	supervisor	cr Director nt
Nursing;
2QE 2} The person is re-employed within the six (6) month period following completion of the educational program; and
201 3j The employes remains re-employed tor nine (9) months.
SECTION C, CONDITIONS FOR REINSTATEMENT
208	An employee will only be reinstated or
receive credit for prior service one time.
20S The reinstated employee shall have his/her previous date of hire re-established £or the following purposes;
210	1) Seniority;
211 S'j To restore sick time that had accrued at the time of termination; and
212	3) To establish eligibility for Paid Time Off
Under Article XXTX, Short Term Disability Income under Article XXX, Long Terra Disability under Article XXXIX, Retirement under Article XXXIX, prospectively, consistent with the employee's years of service,	_ _ _	____ _ .....
213	Paid Tima Off does not accrue during the
period of absence,
214	The period a£ absence need not be
cnn-Sldfited tl™ worked for the. purpose tf establishing aalary,
215	A reini hated employee shall he subject to
the same enrollment standards in insured benefit plans as a naw hire, SECTION £>, CREDIT FOR PRIOR SERVICE
_______ 21 5 A.. .. ■ —Io-^dd±tieft--tn—the--7reinvtat'-errrent language' ......_______ip this Article.—an,-JfctopJ, g y i?e. who has a - break-fn~ ■ service of more than one (1} year may request prior service credit for previous employment with the University, provided that;
a)	The employee had a minimum, of one (1) year of continuous prior service as a regular employee;
b)	The break in service is greater than one {I) year:
Cj The length of the break in service was less than the length of service prior to termination; and.
78
dj The employee has completed ten J10; years of current, continuous University service,
215B Credit for prior service will be used in determining eligibility for retirement arid service awards only.
215c To retire with benefits requires a benefit eligible appointment, (Jee Paragraph 4 60AI
2] 5D An employee may he reinstated or receive credit for prior service only One time,
ARTICLE XXIII INFQRMMlOtf LISTS
215 'The University shall furniah the Association with the following informational lists;
----243 --44- -■■ ■ Two -	—copies ■ -rrf — mouLilly—irsts-—sx— ftoiitiwsi
Alphabetical . by name, identification nuciber, classification title, pay grade, rate of pay, and date of hire ■c.£ all eitployeea in thu bargained unit.
b)
C)
Employees together with their most current addresses a? they' appear cn the records of the university.
Employees hired during the previous calendar ..jmQtttti,......................................-.......
d) Employee5 promoted during the prevj ous calendar mon t h-
ej Employees terminated during the previous calendar month.
f)	Employees	on leave	of absence,
including identification number.
g)	Employees	transferred	into the
bargaining	unit during	the previous
calendar month.
73
hj	Employees	transferred out	of the
bargaining	unit during the	previous
Calendar month.
i)	Employees	who, together with the
department	are claggified as	temporary
staff nurse number and hourly rate of pay-
218	2; ft list of areas whers positions within the
bargaining unit are open a? of Tuesday of each calendar week by classification, title,
219	3} A list of all bargaining unit employees
according to Salaries by position Title Code on a quarterly basis,
220	Unit location will be added to the lists
set forth above, if omit location becomes machine processable in the Medical Campus Human Resources Department.______________________________
221	The Association shall retain the
information in above tn confidence and disclose it only to those ffEicial? of the Association whose Association duties require them to have sugh infonr-ation.
article xxrf personnel piles
230	An employee shall be entitled to review the
contents of his/bar Miedica.1 Campus Humin Resources Department personnel file,- At the request of the employee, a representative., of ■■■...the Assukjijttprr usy"Ke"present / " At the request
_ _---of_—the---employee;---doping' Of"'any-'itemtsf
contained in the Medical Campus Human Resources Department personnel file shall be provided to the employee. Cue copy of any itemjs} the employee has not otherwise received shall be provided st no cost to the employee. Additional copies br copies of any item(s) the employee has otherwise received shall be provided at the prevailing cast of duplication at the time the request is submitted or ten (10J cents per copy, whichever is less.
231	With the written consent of the employee,
the iVsatt-iaticn Representative may read the contents of the employee'personnel file and
80
■;	obtain a copy of any notice of repriaitid or
discipline that :iaa not already been provided
'	to the Association.
:..	ARTICLE XXV
PR0SATIONRRY EMPLOYEES
[	212	Rn. employee is a ”pr oh iti onary employee.”
p	for the employee's first six (&) calendar
!;.	months of employment at the University or for
the first six (5) calendar months following transfer into the bargaining unit. The employee will receive a written evaluation or. ■:?	or before thes day the employee completes four
■	(4) calendar months of employment- in the
!■'	event that the employee does not receive such a
?	written evaluation, the employee wi.ll no longer
i/	be a probationary employee. Tn addition, the
■■■	University may discontinue an employee's
t".	probationary period at any time by written
it— . --------—ngtico—trr—tfhtf--employbw■ {a&t! ‘intent Kote"-for
r-	Paragraph 232; see Paragraph 710)
t	233	As an alternative to tsnni nation, and at
-	the option of tha- University, an	may
$•	transfer during the probationary period,
provided the transfer is arranged through the
i	Medical Campus Human Resources Department. In
i,	sueti an event., arid Eit the option, of the new
J	supervisor, the probationary period may start
r	over, and all the provisions of this article
j	will ^pply. A probationary transfer may be
j:,	requested by the employee, following discussion
t-J ■	with the supervisor, sr may be suggested by the
supervisor ....when....teaaina^Lffifr- - -is-frying
E'	contaaylated. A probationary. employee
■	...Limited to one such transfer.
;	234	A "probationary employee" may be oriented
S	to the charge nurse assignment under the direct
Supervision of d Head Nurs£, Assistant Head
J	Nurse or their designate who is a qualified
non-probationary licensed Registered Nurse who i:	performs the charge nurse rplo on a regular and
recurring basis. A licensed Registered Nurse VjVj I;, a "pitA^ationary ertpltryee1' may tt given a charge nurse assignment at the discretion of the supervisor if she/he hag been oriented ro the charge nurse assignment but will oct be is	assigned, the charge nurse t<ile unit as there are
f'	no other options available.
f:.
;	Si
23-i	An employee who ha<1 completed a
probationary period prior to termingtian and who is rehired within one year of the tft£®inati<SS\ date, f.a’jS be a "probatiMazy employee" for the employee's firat three (3) months of employment.
i
-L-
r:.
236	No matter concerning the discipline, layoff
or termination of a "probationary employee1’ shall be subject to the Dispute Resolution and Arbitration procedures- At the request of the-Association Chairperson, the University, through a designated representative, aha 11 discuss the termination or transfer of a probationary employee, provided the request is made within seventy-two (72) hours following the notification to the Association Chairperson of the tormioatLoti or ttar.afer.
231	A "probationary employee1!____shall hava—-ee----
’ " seniority, ejeoept as otherwise provided in th* Agreement, until the "probationary employee" ’nas completed the probationary period. Upon completion of the probationary period, the employee will acquire seniority from the employee's date nf hire. An employee who has a continuous period of temporary employment counted towards completion . of his/her probationary period as outlined below will acquire seniority from the date the employee began that continuous period of temporary employ "tent <ac six (.S! EKsnXhs prior to ths regular date of hire, whichever is later. The request to change the seniority , date b^sad. .upon..
" tffinporaTy _woflt“ nw5t ”E*’ made within six
— -----steftths—of—the—date—ffT hire " in cider to be
timely. Initially, eligibility for insured and accrued benefits is prospective from the date of the change from temporary employment to regular employment. Thereafter, accrued benefits will be based on th* seniority date.
233	An individual's temporary employment status
Will count toward completion qif the probationary period if all of the. following conditions ai? met-.
235	1 ) The individual worked an average of not
less than twenty (20) hours each week
32
I
	immediately preceding hire as a regular employee;
L	24 0	2) The. individual performed the full ra;:ge of
	duties of fl peobat.Tjj [i-i t y etfpldj'ee on tttfe unit as assigned;
v'	24i	31 The individual met the work schedule expectations as a probationary employee on
K '	the wilt as assigned; arid
$!■'	242	4) The individual worked the entire time In the same position.
ARTICLE XXVI
REDUCTION OF THE WORKING FORCE 4 RECALL PROCEDURES
	SECTION A. DEFINITIONS
242	1) layoff: Not working it the University as an
--------—emplflyee--rrt-the---bal-UaJ, UlJig ““Hue.f3““the'
	elimination of an 1nd i vi dua1’s position.
	2'i Handutozy leduutioTj of hours'. ■ Retsuir^d dacrease to eighty percent (50%) or less per week in an employee's appointment hours
tbi	by the University for at lea^t thirty (30)
L'	2 45	calendar days. 3) Unit; A functional area Of patient cure or service	administered	separately	(for
i&{-.	purposes of, but not limited Ln,
jr<.j	scheduling, educational funds, holidays, vacation and reduction-in-forca) , except . .. -for...the. OR,-.in. which- CfflEW-»--4->-«4H-be considered or>e unit, and ' Cntta_-jZ_. .will—be -
!r’	considered a separate unit. In the event c-f. tb.ft co^LSuLidation at ane c- more. ucit.s.
K7'	the consolidated units shall bn considered a unit in the application of this Article.
24 5A	The University and the Association agrue that University Health Service is a Unit,
^■.	24 5B	The University and ■ the Association agree that a special Conference will be held prior to the layoff of employees in Ambulatory Care.	The purpose of this special Conference us to inform the Association of the functional areas of
	patit-’nt care or service [hiinit" definition.
jk 1.	S3
Article ' XXVI, Reduction of Force and Recall Procedures, Ambulatory Cars.
the Working
Section A) in
Ability to perform tha work: The employee has the skilla (including the ability to work with patients, families nr significant others, and with professional and supportive personnel who provide patient care), education, training [specialized or otherwise], and knowledge, to perform the lull range of duties of the position in question within the usual or ordinary period of Eime to be or to become acquainted with those aspects of the position that the employee could not or would not otherwise know as distinguished from training or learning the basic or special skills needed for the position.
247	51 Priority Cons-I d^vaf i mu:----The— - employee -
having the required qualifications will be considered, including an interview,	in
seniority order until an employee	is
placed, at the same time 55 other employees, but prior to applicants for employment. (Sea Intent Note for Paragraph 247)
SECTION B. PROCEDURE
24S .A Don-probationary employee and the Association shall be notified of an impending layoff or mandatory reduction in hours as soon as practicable, but no later... than. thirty. .Il£l).......
calendar' Says'prior'to'' the layoff or mandatory___
-------reducLiun in ]RTUTB~ for employee3 with-less than ten (10] years seniority, or ninety (50) calendar days for employees with. ter\ <1.(11 years or more seniority. The Association, within five (5) calendar days following notification, may request b meeting with the University to advise the University of its position and any proposed solutions Which it may have in regard to such layoff or mandatory reduction in hours. (See Intant Noto for paragraph
24SA A joint team will meet to coordinate the Reduction-in-Force/replacement process once the need is identified. This team should include the Association chairperson or designee, CSp.
64

mansger, a Human Resources representative and the Chief of Nursing or designee.
243	A reduction of the work force shall be by
and from each classification within a unit in accordance with the following procedure;
250
251
1] Probationary employees in an affected classification within a unit shall be removed from the classification before a non-probatipnary employee, provided that the employees remaining ir. the classification have the ability to perform the work which remains or will remain in the unit.
2} Thereafter, employees in the affected classification within a unit shall be removed from the classification in order o’f seniority, beginning with the employee with ...-Jdw—least - seniority/- - provided—thnv"the employees remaining in the classification have the ability to perform the work which remains or will remain in the unit- (See Intent Note for Paragraph 2511
252	3) In the event that a temporary employee is
employed in a unit, a non-probatiori^ry employee, who is to be removed from any unit, shall have the ppLion of repLacing the temporary employes, contingent upon ability to perform the work availahlfi, ’Tn employee exercising this option does not ’ become a temporary employee.
'253
4) A removed or about to be removed non -. "probationary employee shall receive priority consideration for positions in their own clinical ar^a, iriulidiTig priority over all other employees, for a period of two (2) weeks from the date of notification of reduction in force, Thereafter,- the employee will have priority consideration as defined in Paragraph 247 (over applicants for- employment). priority cotiside.rati.otv £<sr pcjsltidoia will oscur in the following order: (See Paragraph 247..i i Intent Notes for Paragraph 253)
aj Regular job openings in the same classifies^;on.
by Regular job openings in the same pay ■ grade.
c) Regular job openings Ln each succeeding Inker pay grade.
253a An employee with the centred qualifications ag defined in Article XXVII will be placed in a regular job opening, if
■any, prior to any other applicant for employment. Prior to piscina an employee in a lower pay grade, the University wilt at terapt to place the employee in Lhe same pay grade first■ [See Intent Note for Paragraph 253A)
254	5; should 1 removed or about to be removed,
employee not be placed in a regular opening aa provided in. Paragraph. 253, the employee will replace a probationary employee in a Clinical Nurse I classification within the
..-.......employee-^—own—clinical- ’ areS FI cat atwT thereafter in other clinical area? of the University, provided the employee has at least two 17) years seniority and the ability to perform the work of the probationary employee.
254A
fi)
254B
255	7>
25 6	0)
In the event ar. employee is noL placed as described in the above paragraph, that employee with two (2] years seniority may replace the least senior et^l/jyae in the
■ University, provided that the difference in
seniority between the two (2) employees is greater than one (1) year and the etflpioyae has the .Abilitythe--Wtre4e • -erf - -the- •• •■
to another position for one year.
Paragraphs 254 and 254A do not apply to movement between the Master Pjgteeffceni and the Local Operating Agreement positions.
Should a removed employee not he placed, the employee will be laid off.
f
in no case will the University be required to rearrange work schedules to accommodate employee^, provided however, iL is understood that r.he application of this
06
procedure may require work. schedule clian-qta,. notwithstanding the pro visions of Article XT11, Staffing and Scheduling.
257	9) An employee scheduled for a mandatory
reduction in hours may eLr;ct to he- iTteiftij by the provisions af 3., 4,, 5., 6; and 7. above.
258	Contingent upon available Work, an employee
who is about to be laid off may be placed by the University in the CSR, as a regular empldyee at the employee's request. Employees must meet the qualifications and be willing to float to exercise this option. Employees placed in this mJnner will have reca.ll lights consistent with paragraphs 264 and 264A’L. Tf there are mure employees than can be placed in the CSR in this manner, they shall be placed in seniority order, highest to lowest. In this
• ••• —-eveett?—titart - employee “wm dalle"“prltjrLt.y
any temporary employee Or over any unit based regular employee requesting work above appointment hours on another unit tnrough CSR for available hours On a Unit ‘which they are qualified to work. An employes1, ckoosLiig this Option will need to do sa during their notification period. (See intent Mote for Paragraph 2 58)
2 58A	Employees electing pLid-^-denr id iSP,
pursuant, to Paragraph- 358 may exercise this option for a maximum of ninety (90) days effective ths first diy of work in Css,, ■ unl-ess the^e... is ...Joint__agr^amant ■■ -	■ ■ -ext-errd-the ■
placement. fn the absence at an	or, tbn ■■ ■■■-;■
employee may he offered a position for which he/she is qualified, Rejection of such an offer will be considered 4 voluntary termination. (See Paragraph 260A)
259	A process to assise employees who have been
subject to a reduction-in-lcrce will be established. This will include Association representation during RTF notification when practicable and a. d&signat.e.'d UTintian Resource representative as a resource for the employee. The e.dpLoyee will be provided information or. rights and responsibilities under this Agreement, and regarding the .application and
07
interview process- ' (See Intent Notes for Paragraph 259]
260
assessment of the employee's qualifications and interests will be made with the employee. The employee will have a choice among available positions for which he/she is qualified, whenever practicable. (See intent Note for Paragraph 260)
260A An employee who has the ability to perform the work and does not accept whatever placement is offered at any time during the thirty (30) day or ninety (90) day notice period, that provides at least eighty percent (BQi) of the employee’s base rate and eighty percent (60%) of the employee’s appointment hours, regardless af work schedule, shall he considered a voluntary quit at the end of the thirty (30) or ninety (90) day notification period, whichever ....— la -applicable pursuant—to—Paragraph 2 4B.— (See ..
Intent Note for Paragraph 26OA)
261	If an employe5 is laid off, additional
assistance will b'£ provided Ln applying for University positions in other classifications Outside the bargaining unit. If there are training positions available (internship), employees an notice tit lay off nr whe have been laid off will have priority consideration for those positions, If retraining funds are available, the employee may apply for retraining funds.
262	If an employee accepts a training position,
She/he will give a written cannni taient based
. '“upon ffie length '’’the’-Training program antT’ will forfeit recall rights. (See Paragraphs 266,. 2S2,6,b.( 29<U & 652B-4 and Intent Notes for Paragraph 266)
A non‘bargained for regular, registered nurse, removed as & ConsequEnce of a reduction-in-force, may replace the most recently hired probationary employes in their clinical area, then in other clinical areas, if no positions are available.
66
SECTION C., TEKPCRftRY LAYOFFS
2 63	In the event employees wit a sen!oilLy are
to be laid off because of a temporary discontinuance o£ operations, or any portion thereof, temporary adjustments in the work force can be made without application of the Reduction of the forking Force or Recall. Procedures, The Association will be notified of suck tempi r ary adjustitieots, If such adjustments continue for more Lhan seven t7j calendar days, the Association can request the University to apply the Reduction of Lhe Working Force procedure and the University wi11 do SO within the Lol lowing seven (7; calendar days. During a period of temporary adjustment, the provisions of reference Paragraph. 331 shall not be applicable.
SECTION D.: PROCEDURES FQR RECALL
264	An employee with seniority who is on layoff
Lor less than eighteen (15) months, contingent on ability to perform the work, will be recalled . to the same position from which laid off and will be given priority consideration for other regular job openings {].) in the same classification and dlin teal area from which the employee was laid off (2J in the Clinical Nurse 1 classification in the clinical area from which the employee was laid off and (3) in the Clinical Nurse I classification in other clinical areas within the University, However, priof tc the application of (21 and (3) the Ujliversity..Will place the empl^ynaregular -......opeining in the employee's game classifimt.-r. .. .
------and thereafter in other regular openings in other classifications in the same pay grade and then ih each next succeeding lower pay grade, provided the employee has the required qualifications as defined in Article XXVII. (See Intent Note for Paragraph 264)
264A Employees -who have been Subject to a reductjon-in-force and • placed i.n another regular position will have the following recall rights:
2 64B Within eighteen (18 J months following removal from a position, an. employee with seniority will he recalled to the same positi.cn
as
I
if it bBcoiues available, contingent on ability to perform the work.
264C When implementing the recall procedures outlined in Paragraph 264, 264A and 264B, the following process will be applied to fill available positions:
1)	An employee with seniority who is on layoff for less than eighteen {18) months, contingent on ability co perform Lhe work, will be recalled to the same position from which laid off,
2)	Then any employee who has been on the recall list for at least ninety {90) days, if qualified, may be offered an available position, even if the employee has not applied for the position.	Failure tg
accept a position offered that provides at least eighty	percent (&Gt)	of	the
..........employea11—bis»—rata—wd—eighty - percent—
(8CM of the employee1 s appointment hours, regardless of work schedule, shall be considered a voluntary quit at the end of two {2) calendar weeks following the date of the job offer.
2640 If the initial placement is determined to be unsatisfactory, by mutual agreement of the University, the Association and the employee, within six (6) months of placement, the parties will. meet to determine an appropriate reaslution.
264IE _ _____Recall rights_____cease upon placement in the
same position from which removed, or in
(iSj "iiibntEs',''-w7i 1cEever-cccurs "IirsLI....
SECTIM D.D. REDUCTIQW OF HOURS RESTORATION
265	An employee with seniority whose
appointment has been mandatorily reduced as defined in this Article, and chooses to remain in the reduced appointment, shall have some or all □ £ the reduced hours restored, contingent an the ability to perform the work, if the hours become available for the position from which the hours were reduced.
90
SECTION E. PLACEMENT ORIENTATION

26g
When placement is made in a regular job
opening under the provi sione. of this Article, a normal orientation, as defined in Section A, of Article XXVII, Transfers, will be available. When a position held by a probationary employee is involved, the orientation shall not include training or teaching the affected employee the basic or special skills needed for the position. An employee will work no less than thirty-two [32) hours in a week in order Lo facilitate orientation and/or retraining in a reasonable time frame. When the manager and employee agree to an extended orientation, the employee will agree that recall rights will connuente six (6) months following completion of the orientation plus one additional month for each extended week of orientation (beyond Die average for that unit) , This is not intended
• - • — ■ —to extend. Llie recall rights past’ 18 months t rem Reduct i on-in-Force notification.
SECTION ?'■ LIABILITY
2 69	A dispute involving compliance with this
Article shall begin at Step Two of the Dispute Re enlist ion Procedure, provided it is submitted in writing at Step Two within the fifteen fl.5) calendar day period after the Association nr the employee has the knowledge, or should have had knowledge, of the facts giving rise to the dispute. No dispute concerning "ability to do the .work" or "equivalent or required
■ ■ shall..tee ■ ■ ■ subject-to-
arbitration
ARTICLE XXVII TRANSFERS; PROMOTIONS,’ DEMOTIONS, AND LATERALS
SECTION A, DEEINTTIONS
269	1] Transfer - A "transfer" is the explicit
movement of’ an employee to a regular jot. opening .during which time Lhe employee performs or is expected to perform the full range of duties of that position, [See Intent Note for Paragraph 259)
270	2) Regular Job Opening - A. "regular job
Opening” is a Vacant position which
91
expect ad to continue for more than six [6) consecutive months. A position is not vacant when the etnpioyae in the position, following a review of the employee's duties and responsibilities, is reclassified.
211
3} Ptcwsitiw, - j, ‘’pifSMTCiati” is defined as the transfer of an employee to a regular job Opening in a classification assigned to a higher pay grade.
272	4) Lateral - A "lateral" is defined as the
transfer of an employee to a regular job opening in a classification assigned to the sant* pay grade.
?73
5? Demotion - A "demotion" is defined as the transfer of an employee to a regular job opening in a classification assigned to a loW&r pay grade.
274
274A
2740
6)	Required Qualifications - "Required qualifications'1 means that the records of the University, or other knowledge mads known tn the University, establish that the employee has the education, training, and experience as posted, and indicates with reasonable certainty that ths employee will be able to perform competently the full range of duties of the regular opening within a reasonable period of time.
7)	Competent performance - "Competent performance is the ability to work effectively with patients, families or a’igniT i caiit otfier s /’ end with prof ess ioiia 1 	anti	supportive—personnel	wfiap fdvviJe patient care. The employee shall have demonstrated ability to provide effective nursing care to patientsf i.e. assesses, plans, implements, documents,	eva Lnates
nursing care,- initiates effective actions in emergencies; guides performance of others Who provide nursing care,
8)	Desired Qualifications - "Desired qualifications" are additional skills, experience and credentials that are valuable to the pcsi-ion and which will enhance the ability to do the work.
52
275	Normal Orientation - ''tJorml orientation"
means the usual or ordinary period nf tijne to be, nr to become, acquainted With those aspects of the position that the employee could not or would not otherwise know, as distinguished from training or learning the basic or Special skill a needed for a position, except where the training or learning of the basic or special Skills is required for all employees when first assigned to a particular position. See Intent Note for Paragraph 275)
275A ID] Provisional Selection; status that may be granted to a senior employee by a hiring manager vivec.	aze zeservatlons about
the employee's ability to perform the duties of a posted position. (See Paragraph 20 5 and Intent Note for Paragraph 27 5A)
276	The following procedure is intended to
provide employees the opportunity to apply for and receive consideration for a regular job Opening st the Same time other candidates arc being considered.
27 7	1) If a regular job opening is not filled in
another manner consistent with the terms of this Agreementincluding, but not limited to, placement as a result of application of Article Xitvir Reduction of the Working Force and Recall Procedure? and return from i.eaye_ of_ absence, the regular . job . npe^iPpT■■■ except for Clinical____Nurse II openings
..... filled ""from within a unit, will be posted for five (5) calendar days, Clinical Nurse il regular job openings will be made known on the unit. For the purpose of administering this Section, a clinic in Ambulatory Care shall be defined as a unit.-
(See Paragraph 333 D)
270	2) The posting will note the classification,
the pay grade, the unit, tho appnintment hours, the shift is), and whether it is a reposting df a position. postings for. les? than twenty (23) hours (i.5 Pte) will include the statement ''may have the potential to be combined". In add! lion this
92
posting will include a list of all required qualifications essential for consideration for that position, as well as a list of desired qualifications in priority order, (See Intent Notes for paragraph 278)
2 ISA
Selection criteria will be developed by the “Hiring supervisor for each position that is pasted and will be made available to candidates upon request, along with any other information about that position including a specific job description, if available. (See Intent Note for Paragraph 279AJ
270B
General information about the internal appLicitLon and	lutetview	process,
bargaining	unit	classification
descriptions, and unit profiles will be marie available in the Employment office
__LLpnn_.rpqiiest.-Unit pjfoXLLas—still—itj<j±Ajde— the usual qualifications for Clinical Nurse I positions on that linit. Tnere wii 1 be collaboration between the Association and the University wh^n the required qualifications differ from the prior posted required qualificationE-
273 ■
3)	Locked posting boards will bo located in University and Mott Hospitals and the North Ingalls Building. These boards will be placed in locations mutually selected by the University and ths Association.	Any
additional	boards will be placed	Ln
locations....mutually selected ./...by	the
University	and the Association,	in
.. addition, employees working in outTyifig areas will have access to the posting information, through a timely pasting list, recorded information or other mechanism as developed by the University, no later than the next calendar day. If the neat calendar day is Saturday or Sunday, the next day will bo Monday,

2BU
4)	An employee who wiahef to be assured of consideration for a transfer to a regular job opening must fill cut a bid form supplied by Lhe University, and file it at the Employment Office, When submitting a
94
hid, . an employee will include two (2) copies of a current resume.
2S1	5) An employee who does not provide all
requested in format; ion or who has not filed the bid iornt properly prior to live (5; p.m. on the closing date, need not be can^tdertd.
2 92	6a] An employee need not be considelcd for
transfer under this Section during the one (1] year period following the employee's promotion, transfer or date of bite- In this connection, it is understood that it may be advantageous for an employee to transfer before the end of the one (1) year period. The one (If year period does nut apply to employees who have been placed in a position following	r edit c t: i On - .i n ■*-
force, (See Intent Mote for Paragraph
.... .... ____________________________________ —
6b) Employees who accept a position in an internship or retraining program wiJl make a commitment in writing.before the transfer taKOS place. No commitment, will ne less t-har, orit fl} year oz longer than two (2’,' years. The commitment period will begin at the time of transfer and will exclude periods covered by short term dieability or leave of absence. {See Paragraphs 262, 2 94? and Int.ent Note for Paragraph 2EtE)
6c] Registered Nurses who have left the bargaining unit fox .less ..than one .ill___year
and who have remained in. a ragu.lait Uni uei si Ly positionTsl , will Tie considered for posted positions as an internal candidate and the University date of hire will apply for the purposes of selection consideration.
6d) Registered Nurses who have left Line bargaining unit for longer than one (1) year, but who have remained in a regular University position fa) will be considered for posted positions as an internal candidate and the prior bargaining unit years will apply 3S seniority tor the purposes of selection consideration.
55
283
Ge} Employees who are to be interviewed fnr a pee it iori	will be informed ebout the
interview process, including the name and title of	the	interviewer {s)	and	the
projected	time	frame, prior	to	the
interview. (See Intent Note for Paragraph 203) ,
7) Employees who apply for a position will be notified of candidacy scatns no later than fourteen {14) calendar days following the intarview, or when the hiring decision atcurs, whichever is first. If an employee is not tn be interviewed, that employee will be notified as soon as the decision is made.
2BJA
An employee who is considered for a regular job opening, including a Clinical Nurse II opening within a unit, under the provision set fdrth above and is not placed in the ~ regulat job ope 1111 LT-Wil 1—T^'-3o notified” rti writing as to the reasons for not being placed, including the specific nature of the substantial differences in desired qualifications related to the selected candidate, as ionn as practicable, but in no event later than fourteen [14) calendar days after the decision. Employees who desire additional information about the position or their candidacy may contact the Employment office or their supervisor, if the opening was within the employee13 unit.
283B
2B3C
Within .age week following ■mti-fication that -tiie-employea «ii w.	*ad at- -their
request._____a meeting_______wl th___the----hiring----
supervisor will occur, The discussion will include a review of qualifications, reasons not selected, ?nd provide suggestions for dft’relQjiTOftnt ta qualify fcr future positions.
At the employee's reguest, the Association will receive the following information r el at-tid tn the ir\ter V ie* t th"! emp lay e-.e.1 s candidacy status, reason? not selected, and the resume and qualifications af the selected candidate.
9ff
g.EXTIdU C, SELECT LOU
2S1	Transfers will be made on the basis of
qualifications and seniority Ln tht? following manner: (See Intent Notes for Paragraph 2R4 ,-$ee Paragraph 2B2.i5c t 6di,
J] Employees and applicants must posses? all required qualifications in order to he considered; (See Paragraph 291)
2)	Among employees possessing the required qualifications, the most senior will pe selected unless there is a s; uh stan Li a l difference among the aesirfid qualifications. (Sec Pabdgraphu 2$5 atd 293AJ
3)	Among employees and applicants possessing
the required qualifications, th£ employee
■■■■Uli LL—-ba-Sdi&eeeii--’STtteat-ttiele te 'a
substantial difference among the desired
qualificatiohE. (See Paragraphs 293,	119
and intent Notes for Paragraph 284)
295	In cases when a manager has resetvatiota
about a senior employee’s ability to perform the duties of a position the selection may be made on a provisional basis per Paragraph 275A-provisional status will be conferred, for a per Ind of sit To.uri.ths.. The. candidate and the Association will be provided with the performance criteria ’ and the . rationale supporting the requirements at the time of the transfer_ St... the.. end . of.. .titt. six.. (4) -4ne»tb -period, the essplg.’jie* will be- tmcvSrich with a_.
..  SI-1tten-evs1 ua tlonIf the transfer proves to be unsuccessful, placement in a different position will be facilitated. (See intent Wots for Paragraph 275A}
SBCTIOH D, REVIEW PROCEDURE
286	In the event that an employee, except a
probationary . employee or an employee transferred er proitoted during the ptucadltig one (1) year pari cd	(who does not havy
management approval to transfer), with a timely bid form on file is not selected for that regular job opening, the question ot whether that employee had th* resultad qualifications
97
y E r
f
l !
i
F
!■
r
i i.
or substantially better desired qualifications than the person selected may proceed directly to Step Two of the Dispute Hesolutj on Procedure within the hiring area, provided the involved employee has more seniority than the person selected. If a Clinical Nurse II Opening is filled frdm within a unit, only an employee from within that unit who has ir.ore seniority than the employee selected may process a dispute. (See Intent Mote for Paragraph 28 6; 3ee Paragraph 282,6.a and Intent Note for paragraph 2&2.6.a).
2S6A For purposes of this article, the Step Two dispute must be filed Within fourteen (14) calendar days of notification of the decision not to hire. The $tep Two dispute will be heard within fourteen (14) calendar days of the filing date. The Step Two answer will be given in writing within thirty (30) calendar days of _____ the Step Tun hearing. -----------------------------
236B In the event consensus a nd/1 or a satisfactory answer is not reached, an appeal to the Associate Hospital Director of the hiring area and the Administrator of Human Resources may be made by any of the involved parties. A meeting will he held within fourteen (14) calendar days of the appeal. A written decision will be issued within fourteen (14] calendar days of the hearing.
2B6C Within ten (ID] calendar days following tL&cielpt Qf the. decis-lcn. tsf the. appe^L pawsl, and at the request of the Association, the ...University will submit the issue through the ...-------media 11 on "process out lined" ”m Article xLv i -
Appeal to the arbitration procedure is not available.
SECTION E, GENERAL PROVISIONS
281	1) An employee who is selected for transfer
will be transferred not later than thirty (30) calendar days after notification to the employee of the selection, unless a longer period of time is mutnelly agreed upon ir. writing between the employee and the involved supervisors.
9B
2)	An employee who is transferred will be giver, a reasonable period of time to demonstrate campetent performance. During this period of time, the employee will receive a normal orientation as defined in Section A, of this Article, If Competent performance is not demonstrated, a joint meeting that includes the employee, the manager (s J and the Association Chairperson or designee will be held to identify a plan tn promote success. If the pLan. is wot Tuccftesful, the employee will be placed in a vacancy, if any, where the employee hag previously demonstrated competent performance. If there are no vacancies, the Association, the University and the affected employee Will meet to determine the next steps, {See Paragraph 235 and intent Note for Paragraph 20 0j
3)	Following promotion, an employee who is ---placed, i-n-a—vacancy—vhiuilyh-this—nroces 5—
described in Paragraph 26B, will be paid at the same pay rate the employee received prior to the promotion, or at a higher pay rate if the employee would have received an
increase in pay pursuant to the terms of thia Agreement if the employee had nor. been promoted.
4)	During any period in which employees are being considered far transfer, the regular job opening may be filled by other then the provisions of this Article until the s-eLecticn pTocess, is completed and. placo-merA i? ....’wd.e.: Ih...ililj5....iegarid, ..nn. .employas,.-who ■ ■ i s specifically bold in advance that the employee is temporarily assignedto fill a regular job Opening prior to the final selection and placement and the position is in a classification assigned to a higher pay grade, will be compensated at the rate of five percent (.5%) of their regular wage in addition to their regular wage for hours worked in that classification-
s' No employee will be required to perform the job duties of a higher classification as a prerequisite to promotion.
6)	No employee will be involuntarily demoted without prior written octi fleet!on of
39
parfaeflianee deficiencies.; Prior to or at the time demation is first contemplated, the supervisor will initiate a meeting with the employee to discuss the performance deficiencies and develop a plan for correction with appropriate time frames. If an employee is involuntarily demoted, the employee and the Association will receive a written explanation for the demotion.
2 9J
291A
294
7} The Association, and University will have an agreed upon process to review posted required qualifications prior to a job offer when the qualifications are disputed.
The Association leadership, Director and manager will meet prior to a job offer if the most senior candidate has not been selected,
SECTIOH F. RATES OF PAY OH TP&HSFKR............ ,
When an employee moves to a classificaticn in a different pay grade, the employee's wage within the new range will be at the same step in the Wage Schedule as the step the employee was on in the prior classification s^cept as provided below;
a] Employees who transfer into the classifications of Nurse Practitioner r.S Certified iharse Midwife ’will be placed on the step in the appropriate pay grade that provides at least a five per cent (5%) base wage increase.
---,—b)----aip Layers—who----LLjnafm------ttrtn-tin? -classification of Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist will be placed on the appropriate step as outlined in Paragraph 6.25A.
C) Eiflployeeg who transfer into a position that is part of a formal internship or retraining program will be p^id at a rate that is five per cent (53) lower than their current step for the duration of the internship or retraining program.
100
d] An employee who hired previously into ■in Ambulatory Care Clinic and who was placad two steps below their calculated experience (See Paragraph 552!?, 3), who then transfers to a non-Ambulatory CJre Clinic will be placed two steps higher than their step st the time of transfer. Movement to the next step will occur on the anniversary date. (See Intent note for Paragraph L63B)
ARTICLE XXVI11 WORK REDESIGN
295	The University and the Association agree
that Lt is appropriate to evaluate the nork processes of registered nurses and tn design the work in a manner that la both efficient and provides quality care. We acknowledge the importance n£____sunk., .^n—cvaluatl-mr,—rneluding-
disc Usa inn aiaonq colleagues. We flirt tier acknowledge that work processes or design could impact quality nf cafe, employee satisfaction or the long term viability of the unit. Therefore, concerns regarding such design require timely and appropriate resnlutlon-
797
To this end, the University and the Association agree that it i.s appropriate to conduct work redesign across in and outpatient areas in the context pf haw it affects patient care. Joint redesign efforts will be coordinated at the departmental and central administration _ _ievel with_ the . As_s o^i at ion ' leadership'.'. An agreed upon process will be
—ttsed-Lor work redesign-.' Ccmmunrcation of work redesign proposal decisions to others affected through appropriate means will be ai: included component of the process. Current work redesign initiatives will he reviewed for mutual endorsement and/or modification. (See Paragraph 715 and intent Nate for Paragraph 297}
2 93
The parties agree to establish a process for collaborative discussions and planning regarding changes in the Registered Nurse role expectations whenever work redesign is undertaken, of at the reguest of either party. He agree to utilize the principles cf interest
101
based problem solving, and only if consensus is not achieved will the university make a data-based decision,
299	Ml levels of Registered Nurses may
participate in the redesign process and periodic feedback front patients and families will be included as a component of the work redesign	efforts.	Consistent	baseline
assistive	personnel	expectations	will be
identified and implemented across units. Training to meet job expectations and ongoing performance requirements will be developed for assistive personnel.
300	Future unit mergers will be taken as an
opportunity for work redesign and implemented in 3 mutual and collaborative way. Collaboration with other departments to identify clinical activitiea that are being
.. rlnnp by others that can he rirmn by hump* wire .. efficiently and effectively will be undertaken.
301	to the extent that institutional work
redesign occurs, which involves services which are supportive to nursing, there will be collaboration between nursing and the affected departments in the design, implementation and evaluation of support service changes. The employees participating in this process will include those affected by any changes.
302	Approximately every six to twelve {6-12)
■months wi ongoing, following work rftdtaiqn, hiutliaily_ _agreed	upon quality assessment
"evaluations will be implemented.
303
If an employee's position is eliminated due to work redesign, he/she will be placed in a position covered by this Agreement first, if available. If no available positions then he/she may be offered a position outside the bargaining unit. If a non-bargainod tor position is declined, or if r.o positions are available, the employee will be placed in reduction-in-force status. This employee will retain recall rights if placed in a nonbargained for position.
10?

ARTICLE XXIX PAID time; OFF
SECTION Ai. PRINCIPLES
324	The Paid Time Off (PTO) system ia managed
based upon principles and guidelines jointly developed by the Association and the University. The guidelines are included as Addendum B to this Agreement. Any changes to the guidelines during the term of this Agreement will be mutually agreeable and based upon the following principles:
1) As professionals, nurses will demonstrate accountability for patient care and resped for colleagues in the responsible Utilization of Paid Time Off.
2)
Adequate access to prescheduled time off
result . in only the exceptional unanticipated request after the schedule is posted.
3)	The privacy of professional nurses win ns respected and disclosure of the reason for paid time off will not generally be required, (5ee Addendum ft, FT 0 Guidelines)
4)	The continuous use of unscheduled or unanticipated time off can be construed as a failure of the system and as behavior that may r equirt 1 titer veAtion,
SECTION A2. ELIGreiLittr
325	An employee shall be eligible to receive
Paid Time Off (PTO) income in accordance wit It the provisions of this Article. {See Intent Notes for Paragraph 325)
326	NO employee shall be eligible for raid Time
Off (PTO), or receive pay in Lieu of Paid Time Off, before it accrues..Probationary employees are not eligible for scheduled time off except at the discretion of their supervisor. (See Paragraph 333]
Ittj
SECTION 8. ACCRUAL
327	Upon completion of the employee'^ first
regularly scheduled work d?y, a full-time employee will be er edited with forty-eight (40) hours of PTO time. A part-time employee normally scheduled to work eight (0] or more hours per week will pa credited with PTO in an amount which is directly proportionate to that of full-time employees. Those normally scheduled to work Iftsa than eight (8) hours per week Shall not be credited with PTO nor shall PTD accrue.
Employees in pay grade N-3 - N-6 will be credited with seventy-two [72} hours of PTo time, pre-rated for part-time appointments.
320	Except as provided in Paragraph 330 of this
Article:
aT Vuii-time employees classification Ml or time as follows:
assigned to a
K2 will accrue pto
Seniority	Rate of accrual
each First five years	16	hours
Five through ten years	20	hours
Over ten years	24	hours
bj Eu.ll-tim£ employees,	signed tn
classifications N3 through R6 will accrue PTO time of twenty-four (24) hours a month. (See Intent Note for Paragraph 328)
------Except as—provided in fa.tiagi.dvLi 33Q; rull-time employees upon completion of ninety (SO) Calendar days of regular employment shall accrue PTQ at the rate outlined in Paragraph 320 - A part-time employee normally scheduled to work eight (0) or more hours per calendar week will accrue PTO on a basis which is directly proportionate to that accrued by full- time employee. Those normally scheduled to work leas than eight (0) hours per week shall not accrue PTO.
320	During the calendar month in which an
employee starts or ends employment, or starts or returns from .any leave of absence, the
104
> i
■ample, yte sti&LL accrue Paid Time Cstt huUlt depending upon the cay of the calendar zf.oiith or. which the event occur? as follows:
Start uf End n±
Emplo ymen l	Emplo yme nt
or Return	or Start
DAY OF MONTH_______from LOA of LOA '
One through ten	lljrji	Hone
Eleven through twenty	50S	5(lfc
Twenty-one through end None	10 Ofc
331	Except aS provided in Paragraph 330 above,
an employee shall not accrue any hours of Paid Tims Off (FTQ) income during any leave of absence or during any calendar month in which the employee is absent without pay far fifteen (15) or more work day?. During any calendar month in which the employee is absent without pay for less than fifteen (15}_, but more than sgvrflj fTJ" work ”days~' ’ THe "empl c-yce shall accrue fifty percent (50fc] of their normal PTC income.
332	Wo employee may accrue hours of pro income
in excess of the employee’s annual accrual, or if a part-time employee, in excess of the appropriate proportionate num’oei' uk hours.
333	BTO will be accrued, recorded and available
at the end of the calendar month (See Paragraph 07 and Intent Note for Paragraph 07).
333A Unused ?TO time will be paid to an employee, .anpuallyi on .the	pay d*y - in
■ January,. _ presided-- the- eMfpleyae- anskes - a—w t, 1 l mil
_______request tft his/her___supervisor by—December 4- ■■
■aath yeer and provided the employee maintains a minimum of forty (40) hours (pro-rated according to appointment fraction) of accrued pro time.
333B An increase in the rate of accrual shall be effective in the calendar month during which completion of the required years of seniority or & change, in the overtime payment eligibility status occurs. The accrual for that month Will be On a percentage basis depending upon the day of the month the event occurs as outlined in Paragraph 330.
105
section c. par in lieu cf ftp time
333c The University will give written ‘fl notification to an employee at least two (2)	J
months prior to the employee reaching maximum	1
accrual, (See Paragraph 33 3A and Intent Mote ci for Paragraph 67)	j
333D An employee will receive pay in lieu of <3 Paid 'Time Off (i.e., without taking actual time	.-3
off from work) only after completion of the 3 employee's probationary period and titan otlly under the following circumstances:	V
333E	1) Retirement; or	' >
2; Start oi a leave of absence, except that an jjj employee who is granted a' leave of absence ' '1 for a period of six {£) months or less shall, upon written request, have up to # forty (40) hours of accrued PTD time retained, p r o vided.-i-be... reniraet- is- -mode■■ to - ■. —
the supervisor prior to the beginning of .'£! the leave o£ absence,- or
3)	Termination, fnr whatever the reason, provided that the employee has one (1) year i of seniority at the time of termination; or	)<
4)	Death, in which	case a	survivor will	be	.i
paid; or
5)	Layoff; or	->
6)	If the hours of	employment are reduced	fur	22$
an indef in its period of '	time, ..payjngnt	of	...3
..........PTCF""Tiaufs 'wiTl'	E* made"	for all accrued _____(a
—------------—h*we—±n—excess Of fJte“ maximum" accrual
eLigibll.lt'j f®v the rt-iluceii employment,	T
SECTION' D. PAY FDR ACCRUED PTP TIME
133F Pay for PTO time shall be at the employee’s rate of pay at the tiw* taken, tiiiit-s the number of hour a of accrued PTd time scheduled and used. Pay f'or PTC time shall be paid to the employee on the employee's regular pay day-shift premium, as set forth in Article XVI shall be paid fur the uumhet ot tvJMru tf accrued PTO time scheduled and used only by an employee who does not rotate from a shift for which the premium is payable.
106
33311	Pay in lieu of PTO time shall, be at the
employee’s rate of pay at the time the event set forth in Section C- occurs, times the number of hours of accrued PTC time. pay for scheduled PTO time shall be at the employee' s rate of pay at the time the scheduled time is taken, times the number of hours o± accrued pto scheduled and used, Pay for pro time shall be paid to the employee on the employee's pay day, except that an employee shall be paid tor such tims in advance -of the employee's Bcheduleri time off on the employee's regular pay day preceding the scheduled time off, providing the employee is scheduled for ten (1Q) or more consecutive PTO days and the payment in advance is rwyae-sted in yritllvg at	seven jT)
calendar days prior tn the pay day preceding the first day of such scheduled time off. Shift premium, as sat forth in Article XVI
—shall- be ■ pjld—for —the---uumJuUl “TJT hbura ”tT'
accrued pro scheduled and used only hy att employee who does not rotate from a shift for which the premium is payable.
SECTIQW E. SCHEDULING OF PTO TIME
333H a) Holiday scheduling takes precedence over the granting of PTO,
b)	PTO shall he scheduled to meet the work requi tenants of the University on a unit basis in accordance with the fallowing procedure:
3331 ll Each unit will Pdst, brier to Dpi-enther___________]_..
of each year , and at such other times as may be .established by a unit, any limitations concerning the scheduling of time off, including the election ;o close down any or all of the operations of Lhe unit and schedule time off during the close down period. Enit guidelines shall allow each employee to schedule at least seventy-percent 110%> of his/her annual accrual of PTO time as vacation according to the requirements specified in Paragraph 333J, If ‘unit- guidelines are established to assure a specific amount cf time off for each employee during the period, riecember 15 through January 15, thia time may be
ID?
included in ' the calculation of seventy percent (7D%) of accrual even if the time is not actually scheduled off until posting of the unit schedule for that period, {See Intent Note for Paragraph 3221)
2)	If scheduled time off is limited to less than seventy percent (70%) of accrual, or any approved time off scheduled according to the agreed upon procedure is denied or cancelled due to unanticipated needs of the unit, the employee will not lose PTO accrual.
.3) Scheduled PTo allocation for employees in the Clinical Nurse III classification will include only those hours which are budgeted toward direct patient care,
333J There will be one request period each year for the period of Hay 1, through apr-T—
.......unit will accept reguests as follows;
a} During the month of February each employee will initially sign up for a maximum of two (2} weeks of Fro in seniority order, highest to lowest. Unit guidelines will not restrict scheduled PTO requests to less than two (2) weeks. At the employee's option the two (2) weeks need net be consecutive. After all employees have opportunities, the remaining time will be requested and granted In seniority order, highest to lowest. (See Paragraph 333K)
■ ■•b) ■5itren—ffie' hSc7ieduleci' PTS "request period ends ------la—mid week?—that—request peri oil" will' be " extended to encompass the full week for the purpose of granting scheduled Pro time off.
c)	The time off will be posted on April 1, (See Appendix D for complete time off and Holiday Request Times; See Intent Hute for Paragraph 333J) .
333K Each unit will schedule time off based upon these requests, except that when it is necessary to select from among employees with the same or overlapping requests, preference will be given to those whose request results in seven (7} or more consecutive days of time off
108
(including any paid holiday) and seniority. This preference is limited to the first round of PTQ selection. . (See Intent Kote for Paragraph 332J)
333L Employees will be informed individually in writing whether their request has been grunted or denied.
333M If an employee's PTD request is denied, during the annual request period or it scheduled time off is changed due to the needs of the unit, accrued PTO time will not he lost and at Lhe request of the employee, all accrued PTQ hours in excess of the maximum will he paid.
33311 An employee who transfers into a unit arid has noL taken previously approved scheduled time off, loses that time off preference unless
....the unit can accommodate the request made in . the former unit. in such a case, the employee will be perrr.itted to reschedule, consistent with the work requirements of the new unit. Every attempt wtI 1 be made to accommodate previously agreed to FTO for an employee whose transfer is a result of reduct ion-in-force, as long as no higher senior employee has been denied that time off.
3330 The availability of additional time off which is not scheduled in accordance with the above procedure	will he communicated to the
unit staff and granted in seniority order fallowing a tme week request period.
dir3P-----when-exLiounjitidty cl mums Lancee bsyend the
control of the employee cannot be corrected in time for the employee tn meet employmenr. obligations, PTC- time may be granted for the absence, including a partial shift absence. It is expected that the employee will notify the-manager or designee of the length of the expected absence whenever possible.
3 33Q A unit may charge an employee's PTO accrual and pay an employee for an absence, even though it is an unexcused absence.
332R
Tf a day observed fay hcliday, as provided
the University as a in Article XKXIT
109
(Holidays) occurs during an employee's scheduled time off, the employee shall, if otherwise eligible for it, receive holiday- pay and will not hive th St tlrna r?ff charged against accrued Pro.
SECTION E. ACCRUAL ADJUSTMENT FOR PART-TIME employees
333S An employee's appointment hours should reflect the fc’.ira an employe* is regularly scheduled tn work. If a part-time employee has worked an average of at lea3t four (4) nonovertime hours per week in excess of their appointment hours for eight (0] consecutive weeks or more, the University will modify the employee's pro (Article XXIX), Short-term disability iv,c*E'ft iAtticl-a TO,1, , ar.Ct'liln retroactively to the beginning of the period. This modification will result in s.n	A.
which is directly_proportipngte .tg _ the rngximum hours of" fncoma, and short-term disability income for which a full-time employee is eligible.
section' g, preventive health care appointment
333T An employee may be granted paid time off for preventive health care appointinents, including post-operative examinations and Care, and second opinion examinations required by the employer or third party payer. In order tn he considered for such time off, the employee must give the employee's immediate supervisor written - notice and- receive- approval at least
....- five' P5T....-cafsnaa r ”'" days ’ 'prior ' 16 " ' t he the time and day of the appointment and the probable duration of ths absence, if applicable. A series of appointments may be in the same notice. In the event that a health care professional schedules a return appointment nr care which prevents giving the required notice, as much notice as possible based on the circumstances is reguired.
333IJ if the employee is granted paid time off under thia Section, the supervisor may request Lhe phone number of the Health care provider prior to the employee leaving the unit for the appointment.
110
SECTION H; USE pF PTO FOR WORK7RELATED IMJJEY
333V	PTO 1'jfjQr i. will be nsefd t&iTCjyil ax i iy to -_;?■■??.■
absences as a result of a work-re;ated injury. When Worker's Compensation coverage becomes available, the PTO hours Will be returned to the employee's PTO bank.
Article xxx
SHOW? TF.PM t IShll 11 IT 1
SECTION A.	FDI.1-7THE EMPLOYEES
336 A full-time employee who has at least two (2) full yeans of continuous service and has eighty (80) hours of continuous sickness and injury absence will be eligible: for not iwsie than one thousand forty (104GJ hours pf shortterm disability intorae, paid at three hundred ■ ■ ■ ■ twenty—(32Q)---hum's—ttf—-full ~~F^y....3W""SSVeB
hundred twenty •(720) at two-thirds (2/3) the employee's rate. An employee with ten (101 or more y^ars of seniority will be paid an his/her normal full pay rate tor one thcjiisand toTty (1Q40) hours. It is renewable on the first (1st) of the month following their seventh (7th] anniversary and ever'/ five (5) y«?ara thereafter. Short-term disability hours do net renew during a leave c£ absence or any period t>£ absence due t.q illness or injury covered by thia Article. Eligibility for short-term disability income hours which would have otherwise renewed, is deferred until . tie.
... . Wrap I pyre... returns ..-Co.-JUttiv*- .aunpluyniwitt ■ 4See ■■ ■ _______Intent Hate for Paragraph 3361 _____
337
Thia short-term disability income will be available to an eligible employee only after continuous hours of disability absence following an original eighty (60) continuous hours of sickness or injury absence. Thereafter, other accrued hours- of PTO income may be used and paid. Each illness or injury shall be independent of any other injury or illness and require completion cf the eighty BO hour period abovet	except as provided in
Section D. of this Article, (See Intent dotes for Paragraphs 32S and 337)
ill
SECTION B.	PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
33?	A part-time" employee appointed to work
eight (0) or rapre hours pet calendar week and who has at least two (2} full years of continuous service shall be eligible for shortterm disability income providing the employee meets the eligibility requirements of Section A on a pre- rata basis dependent on the employee's appointment hours which shall be directly proportionate to the eligibility requirements of a full-time employee, rhe number of hours of short-term disability income payable as provided in Section A. shall be directly proportionate to ttie maximum hours of short-term disability income for which a full-time employee is eligible.
SECTION 0-_______ELIGIBILITY FOR SHORT-TERM
disability income
3 38 A The university reserves the tight to request a second medical opinion and abide by that opinion when determining eligibility for short term disability income. The University and the employee will mutually agree upon the physician to perform the evaluation and to abide by the second opinion- The examination and report will be without cost to the employee.	Until the second opinion is
received, the employee ■ 3 physician statement will prevail in determining eligibility for short term disability incom#.	If the
University requests that the .employee provide
___ " any" medical racor da_. from..-the,. pmn 1 owe J J - haa-lt-h- ■ care provider Is} _ or from institutions or facilities providing care, the employee may request reimbursement for the cost, if any, of copying the requested records.
338E Arbitrary failure or refusal to follow accepted medical practice in	treating a
sickness or injury shall be	reason for
discontinuing or withholding short term disability income.
3 3 Sc Nothing in this Article requires an employee tc disregard the medical care plan of the employee's physician. Eligibility for short term disability incomes will be determined as provided Ln Paragraph 338A.
112
SECTION ELIGIBILITY TO RETURN TO WORK
339
An employee who is off work in accords net with the provisions Of this Article shall be returned to active employment by ths University either to the employee's former position, or to a position consistent with the pro visions of Section I. of Article XKXVIII (Leaves of Absence), provided, however, that the notice requirements of Section I, shall not be applicable except that in ths case cf diaabili ty absences where Lhe employee know? that another individual will be working in the absent employee's position, the returning employee will provide as much advance ncti ce of return aa possible, including a release from, the employee’s physician where applicable or recruited by the University,
340	If the employee is released tb return to
■ ■ ■ -  wurk,--but st—fewer'H5UTS” than” tne""appointfiieht fraction because of temporary medical restrictions, the employee shall be paid for actual time worked and shall be eligible to continue to receive ahett-term disability income for the balance of their appointment hours. In this regard, a physician's verification of restrictions shall be required. Itl addition, a. release from the employee' s physician shall he required before an employee can return to their previous appointment hours-
341	Should an employee, whg returns to active
employment pursuant to this Section, nut return-Jttj—bhrr. employee■''■-» -ibraiwr-uffiit,	aiuplrryge- •
________shall be given consideration_________print—to—an— employee ezerciiinq rights Under Section C.r Article XXVII [Transfers:____________________?ramotions,
Demotions, and Laterals; but after an employee ex.ercisin.q rights under Article XXVI {Reduction of the Working Force and Recall Proceduresj for regular job openings which become available in' the employee's former unit provided the employee requests such consideration by completing a bid form at the time the employee returns to active employment.
SECTION E. DISABILITY ACCOMMODATIONS
343	university resources will . be used to
fac.tlicate CetirrH tn work for employees who are
113
unable to perform the full range of duties of their position due to a work-related or a ncn-occupational injury or illness. Guidelines and process related to the timely, appropriate placement cf such employees hav£ been developed by the Association and the University and are included as Addendum c to tbi a Agreement. The guidelines and process may be evaluated over the life of this Agreement and Jointly modified as usesasary. (See Intent Note for Patagtaph 343)
343A
A joint Association and University team nf
not more than four member? will be convened to identity nursing positions add work areas hospital-wide that require minimal orientaLien that could be used for accommodating employees
with disabilities,
Positions will be
identified for both short and long term placement, with the expectation that a short terra placement would not exceed six (6} months. ■ - - would ’ be accompanied by progressive work hardening and would be considered a "bridge" pfslcion back tg a	pcnit-itTL.
343B When placing an employee with a disability,
the University will place the employee in a position covered by this Agreement, assuming ability tn do the work, prior to any other position. (See Intent Note for Paragraph 34 3B)
343c
1430
When a temporary pesition in the Central
Staffing Resource ig identified as a placement for an employee needing accoirttodation, that . .employee will be ccheitJeted regular. See
■ latest-Net* -for-P»ragrapiv54UC}
If an open position is determined to be an
appropriate placement for an employee with a disability who is awaiting placement, this position need not be posted in accordance with Article XXVII, but may be filled by an employes with a disability, assuming ability to do the work. When there is more than one such employee, placement decisions will be made on the basis of seniority, Qualifications and substantial differences. (See intent Note for Paragraph 343D)
343E The University will develop and maintain a
centralized database of employees needing
114
accommodation, The data base will contain ctults for Staff working in an accommodated role and those needing placement and will be updated monthly (per scheduling period).
34 3F At the time the Medical Campus Human Resources Department is notified that an employee may no longer qualify for long term disability (LTD), there will be a joint meeting of the Association and the University to discuss the conditions ol return to active employment and options for work trial placement.
MVTlCLE XXXI
EMPLOYEE AS SI STATIC E
344	The University and the Association agree
that an employee who has an alcohol, drug or psychological problem which affects performance may be r-ghabi 1 1 r.atrvi. ..... llit_. parti-fit--further.- -
agree that timely and effective assistance can contribute to the employee's ability to meet employment obligations, maintain standards for nursing practice and to provide for safety of the public, Tire parties further agree that cooperation will result in earlier identification of troubled employees before their s-ipltAti'.en’L ututus La in "jeapurdy, Following consultation with the Association, but at the discretion of the University, discharge wl 1] not be imposed when less serious discipline and appropriate treatment can enable an employee to meet the employment obligation. The ■ ■ Univeraity■ s' decisioh ’'.th', discharge. ...jib .. ■flmjaloyee' dd'ee not. preclude the review cf sucn a
--------d ibiJjaigtf—' through EHe dispute —Resolution Procedure 5nd Mediation Procedure, Article XL.VT and the Arbitration Procedure, Article xlvu. Finally, the parties acknowledge that the ultimate responsibility in accepting, confronting and overcoming the problem is th^L ■ of the e-vvplu yci:.
345 The University, through its employee assistance program , has made available a program to provide sissis fence to employees.
1) In seeking assistance through the University's employee assistance program, an employee may select any Counselor it
the program who is available on a timely basis.
2} In cooperation with the University and the University's employee assistance program, th^ Association may provide a list of potential treating practitioners to whom employees may be referred.	It is
understood that employees are responsible f<ir ■ casts itvzumed either through their health Care insurance coverage or Otherwise.
3) Participation in any treatment program whictj may be recommended by the University's employee assistance .program will be voluntary. Release of information concerning an employee13 participation in this program is confidential and can occur only with the employee's written release of information.	________________________
■■■+} trapIby£HS_"wTII" "be" TiTfortned of the program during Nurse Orientation and other apprqpr late m^thobe t-.TVd media.
5 J An employee referred for treatment by the University's employee assistance program and participating in a program will pct be disadvantaged in regard to the provisions of Article XXXIX, Benefit plans; Article KXXVIIT, Leaves of Absence; Or Article XXIX, Paid Time Off, due to participation in that program.
6J . Ng . Less than one designated A3se*i»tion .----jsaptweahitiwe ■■ will -bs- • ntanber ef^'fhe
_____Un 1 versi ty1 s _ emnl nyae—a&gietanee-progranr advisory oaramittjae r ^valaiitiou. catmmi-ttet, and any other joint	labor/management
committee(s) which may be established witbin the University hospitals to address issues related to programs and education, on the subject of substance abuse and employeos.
346
The University, except as otherwise provided by law or regulation, will schedule a special conference with the Association no less than ninety (90) calendar days prior to implementing any policy or program which requires testing employees for substance use.
116

TDe Association may reconvene the conference no less than sixty (60} calendar days prior to the implementation data to inform the Uni versify of its position regarding the proposed program.
ARTICLE XXXII holidays
SECTION A.
347	The following hg] idays wil 1 he observed on
the calendar day on which each f^lls, except that a holiday failing On Sunday Will be observed on the following Monday and a holiday falling on Saturday will he oba&tved on the preceding Friday, Operating units which have seven (7} days per week operations may observe Saturday and Sunday holidays on the day on which they fall rather than on the preceding Friday nr following Monday.
348	1. New Years Day
2	Memorial Day
3.	independence Day
4,	Labor Day
5,	Thanksgiving Day s the Day after Thanksgiving
6,	Christmas Day
34?	Any employee may substitute up to three (3)
holidays of the employee's own choice for any of Lhe holidays designated above, within any July 1 to June 30 period, provided arrangements are made in aufficierit time to provide fnr the subst i turion. The sub stit dt e. holiday .may. jant, hie. taken "during any -week in which the employee has a hullday tiff . in such a case, the pt □ via ions of this Article shall apply to the substituted holiday and not the holiday designated above?, in the event that no work is provided such an employee on a holiday designated above, the employee will not he paid for the holiday -aniens ar t iiigaveTitS for a. !?TQ 'ia’J ha-ve faces', made in accordance with the provisions of Article xxtK,
SEPTIC?? B.
350	The holiday shall ns the consecutive
twenty-four (2-1) hour period starting with the employee's starting time on tbo calendar day on
117
which the holiday is observed, except when otie-half	OX more of an Employee's work
schedule occurs on the calendar day on which the holiday is observed and the balance of the wcrln schedule begins on the preceding day, the twenty'four (24) hour period shall start with the employee's starting ■ time on. the calendar day preceding the calendar day cm which the
hnliday is observed, (1/2) .of an employee's the calendar day in observed, even though
When less than one half >;ar< schedule otcurs on which the holiday 13 the ejflployee’s starting
tiavi starts on the calendar day on which the holiday is observed, the tWenty-fcur (2<) hour period shall end at the employee's starting
tiuie on the calendar day in which is observed.
the holiday
351	rhe holiday pay and the nay for
on the holiday shall be based on
time Worked the twenty-
four (2J} (lour period aet forth afcflwe for those
the calendar day on which the holiday is obaetved.
351a For those employees whose normal schedule of work is a combination ef eight (H) and twelve (12) hflur shifts., holidays observed on the employee's scheduled days nff «ill be divided as equitably as practicable between those two (2) shift lengths. Holidays observed on the employee's	-iiys of wnrk will
be equitably distributed between those shift lengths.
55IB ’ _ _-During... a. . week. -Ln., which a heliday ■ falls,' employees will be scheduled_____________________________________rnn i i st on t—with
tneir appointment fraction except
during
Thanksgiving week, in which me at the two (2)
holiday shifts may be iridud.ed employee's appointment fraction {See
in ths Intent
Notes for Paragraph 351B; see Paragraph 3 55},
SECTION C.
it?. Bad. employee normally scheduled to work eight f&J or more hours per week shall suffer no loss in salary, including shift premium, if
applicable, far th? employee :iieets t-he
■ requirements:
hoiiday provided the following eligibility
4
The employee work? the employee's last scheduled work day prior to and the employee' & first scheduled wotk day following the holiday, unless the employee's failure to work both days is excused because of (1} personal sickness or injury as provided in Article XXIX, (PAID TIMF, OFF} or (2) other extraordinary circumstances beyond the control of the employee which catvnmt be corrected in time- for the employee to meet the individua.1 employment obligation.
3
3A For a holiday not included in appointment fraction, which falls on the employee's scheduled day off, the ejii.pLoyew will receive pay for the holiday determined by prorating the holiday according to the employee's appointment fraction and normal shift length.
353	For employees On fixed schedules; In the,
ft vent _a holiday- ,1s.ehaErveri. _ oa- -a - ■ ^ull time- ■ ■ ■
....employee’s scheduled day off, ths? employee will receive eight fS) hours pay fur the. tic Lid ay.
In the event a holiday is observed on a part-time employes’? scheduled dsy off, the employee will receive pay for tbe holiday determined by multiplying the employee's hourly rate times eight (8} multiplied by the employee'a appointment iractlon. Those normally scheduled tu work less than eight (S) hours per calendar week shall not receive pay for the holiday.
353A For those Operating Room, Fost Anesthesia Re co very/Care Units and ^rocedvire Areas .las., identified in Paragraph 15313;_<} where' employee*
■■ artr retpii FStl 't'o'. take -ca 11 on a holiday, the
_______fejlloiicg AppLltt.-----
1} Call taken on the holiday proper is CtTLsidertcl to be a holiday worked and part of the etflpicyme's appointment fraction, hot to exceed the normal shift length.
2) If a part time employee does not take call on the holiday and . works their usual appointment fraction during the holiday week, then the holiday will be prorated. If a part time tmtpluyee takes call on the holiday proper, it is considered a holiday worked Md pay will r.ot be prorated
119
15 4
355
359
regardless of the other days scheduled in tho holiday week.
SECTION □.
An employee who ia assigned and works an the holiday shall receive either (1) the holiday pay as provided in Section C. or (2} holiday pay for tha actual time worked, whichever amount is the greater. In addition to this holiday pay, an employee who is assigned and works on the holiday, either (1) will ba paid for the time worked at one and one half (1-1/2) times the employee's hourly rate and shift premium, if applicable, or {2} will receive time off equivalent to the tima worked without loss of pay, on another day mutually agreeable to the employee's supervisor. To the extent that time worked is paid pursuant to this Section, it shall not be paid under Article XV (Overtime} for the same time worked.
Employees who are off on the holiday, but who work their full appointment fraction during a holiday week, may choose either payment for
the holiday at straight time, or equal number of hours added to their (See Intent Note for Paragraph 355)
having an PTO bank.
SECTION F.
350
An employee who fails	to work on a holiday
when - assigned or called	in shall not receive
holiday pay as provided	in Section C. unless
the .employee's failure	to work is excus.ed
... Iaoauaa... nf . (1 j... personal. - »icknus ox- in J uty. as ■ provided in Article XXIX (PAID TIME OFF), or (2) other extraordinary circumstances beyond, the control of the employee which cannot be corrected in time for the employee to meet the
individual
employment
obligation.
SECTION G.
in the
event that
deduction because
from the >
the
it is necessary to make a
salary
employee does
of not
eligibility requirements set forth
i employee meet the in Section
C.
the amount of the deduction will be the
employee’s hourly rate multiplied by eight (0), or whatever the employee's regular schedule of
120
hours per day, plus shift premium tor that day, if applicable.
SECTION H.
361	There will be one holiday request period
each year. time off oft the holidays will be granted in seniority order, highest to lowest, in order to meet staffing needs of the unit, according to the following;
362	1) from January 1 through January IS,
employees may request holiday time off on not more than two (2) of the following four (4)
a J Memorial Day
h) independence Day
c]	Labor 'Day
d)	Thanksgiving Day and the day after 	Thanksgiving, and........ .................
363	2} Employees may request holiday' time off on
not more than one of the following two holidays and will be. guaranteed either Christinas Day or New Year’s Day off. (See Appendix D, Paragraph 637A, for complete Vacation and Holiday Request Times.;
364
When scheduling employees to work on a holiday in a unit, the supervisor will endeavor to find volunteers from, among the employees in the classification needed. if sufficient volunteers cannot be found, employees will be assigned- tty wort on the holiday' “according tg tire" fallowing pfocediife..
365 First priority in holiday scheduling will be given to requests off in seniority order, highest to lowest.
366	1) By February 1 of each year, each unit will
post the tentative holiday schedule. The unit may institute a holiday on-call system hy a majority vote of the unit employees,
3 67	During each May 1 through the fallowing
January, employees will be assigned so that no more than one (1) holiday variation exists between any two unit employees, unless they specifically request to do so, counting
121
holidays taken off On the holiday as a holiday worked, If it -3 possible to schedule additional holidays off, all six holidays iH&ffit>zial $ay thruagh Hew i ear’s Day) will be considered together and requests granted on the basis of equity tfithin the current holiday schedule (Memorial Day through New Year's Day) and seniority. Following the New Year's holiday each year, the new holiday schedule will !ae the basis for equity for the next year.
3£8	If more employees are available to work on
the holiday than are needed, the process for making the adjustment will he as follows;
11 Eroceee to release ett^loyceii during schedule development;
a) Ko employee will be allowed to take a second additional holiday off until all einployeeB_haye hsd__an opporcunity 'for "6he "adiiiti ona.1 iuol-iday off.
2} Process to release employees on the holiday:
a) Volunteers from ompluyees who are working the holiday as a holiday.
	(seniority.	highest to lowest)
t>)	If there employees	are no volunteers, then will be assigned in
	seniority highest.	order from lowest to
---.......cl ■ - Such ■ ■assi-gned ■ tine . oft tn holidays ..........	--- will—be—equitably—distributed—among employees on an annual basis, and will be assigned independent of any assigned time off,
26!)	Tf more employees request a holiday off
than can be granted, employees will be assigned to work according to inverse seniority, (lowest to highest}. Assignments to Work in excess of one half (1/2) of the holidays will be made according to inverse seniority (lowest tu highest) in rotating order.
122
370	Employees required to work on a holiday
will be granted their shift preference in a c cd rdanqe with the f-oll<ykirig siaqueqC'-';
a} Employees assigned to a straight shift will be scheduled on their straight shift in seniority order, highest to lowest;
J j’M
b) Employees assigned to a roLat.idd shift wiii be assigned to either of their shifts, iti seniority order, highest to lowest;

cl Employees not assigned in accordance with a} or b) above wi]l be assigned to the remaining available shifts based ar; seniority, highest to lowest;
371
312
£
J
<
{. •
F
V
d] Requests to work other than ■one1e normal Straight shift or rotating shift may be honored provided that they do not prevent ■ ■ — another- - employee-■■ -front'" being-' scfi'etful ecT ' fh accordance with a., h-, or c. above or require payment of overtime according to Article XV.
Nothing in this procedure precludes an employee from volunteer!tig to work additional holidays. DnC-e a holiday schedule is posted, an employee who wishes to work an additional holiday will assume the shift of the most senior employe® who deaired the holiday off.
If safe and adequate nursing care as determined toy the . Supajylspr cannot .ba gga.ciiiitaMl .with thrwF ...guideline,	senior
employaes may be moved .from thei r—prefer red— shift first, and then oth^rt assigned tc work a holiday they had requested off in inverse seniority ord^r (lowest to highest).	Any
employee thus affected will be given an explanation by the supervi sor.
An employee (lined Or an empioyec who transfers into a unit alter January 25 will be permitted to request holiday time off for the applicable period. ccplSist-arit with the staffing needs of the unit for the holiday. An attempt will be made tc schedule such employees- for holiday time off, however, no employee with a valid request made during January shal. be disadvantaged by the attempt to accotimiodate the
123
request of such a transferring employee or new 'nira.
3?4	Once an employee la assigned, changes in
assignment shall be at the discretion of the supervisor„
37 5	For the purpose of timely resolution of
disputes arising from the scheduling of holidays, the Association Chairperson and the Manager of Medical Campus Human Resources Department (or their' designates; will meet to resolve the matter. If the matter is not resolved at this meeting, it may be subject to At tide (Di-spuiVt Rejoltition proted'ite and Mediation	Procedure) and Article XLVIl
(Arbitration Procedure) beginning with step two.
MVEICLE KKXV FUNERAL LMVE PAX. (BSEEaMHEHT)...
4<J3
In the event of the death of an employee's spouse or a significant other ruin-related person living io the employee’s household, or the spn, daughter, parent (including step-patent;, grandparent, brother, sister, tjr aridch ild (ce the spouse of it, cf thesa), c.f either the airiplcyee or the employee1 s spouse, or any other related person living in the employee’s household, an employee who attends the funeral or service shall be granted time oft witfe sitth pay plus thift premi-Ufii if applicable. The amount of time off work with pay .. shall bs- -wil-y- that which is pequiresi _.io. . . attend,'-the - ■ firne'raT' or"' service and make nerf snary—fane pal—or—service arrangemonts, and (prior or subsequent to ths- funeral or service} financi?!, custodial, or other necessary
arrangements for surviving family members. Tn iin e’verit shall Such time off work with pay exceed three (3) work days as defined by the employee's work schedule and not to exceed thirty-six (3£j hours. If additional time off is needed, the employee may request the use of accrued variation time.
404	In the avent that an employee is on
vacation, the provisions of this Art id a nevertheless shall apply.
124
ARTICLE XXXvt .TOKf SM WITMESS SERVICE
405
An employee who loses time from work during the employee's normal schedule of work because of jury duty service or to testify pursuant to & Sutipcerii shall be paid ioT Such time. l(J:jt. at the employeers rate of pay plus shift premium, if applicable. Jury duty and witness fees J ha 11 be offset against such pay. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, such jury duty and witness service shall he considered time worked. The employee shall furnish the University a written statement from the court she/*ifig tlie days M Lime: &f Jury duty cr witness service and the amount of jury duty or witness fees the employee was eligible to receive for each day. The employee will report, to work when released from jury duty or witness service,	....... ..... ..........—...-~....
4 Of	Compensation received as reimbursement for
expenses incurred pursuant to jury or witness service Shall not be used to reduce regular university ccmpsnsa t i on.
4Q7	Whenever passible and without disrupting
ft-her employees' ex 1 Sti tvg unit k sCltedtjL'i a, <sn employee while on jury duty will be assignee t.o the day shift and a Honday through Friday schedule provided the schedule of work change doeg not require payment of an overtime prern.ium.. Tn thia regani, employees should, be .^signed s. - -schedule Which/_ elJLminaXfia.. .. -br ■miTiinil-ses' ’Sniplojreeg front being gcheduled to _______work—eb—lion day shiftd and/or not scheduled to work an days of jury duty- It is untier stood that this may mean a temporary reassignment from their normal shift rotation and/or the usual hours of work (e.g., twelve (12 J hour changed til eight < tij kavUT sihift.sJ .
4Q8	Whenever an employee is directed by toe
University to testify in a case involving the University, ■ such employee Wil 1 receive pay for tiufl lost fr<?m normal duties as if the employee were performing normal duties. If subpoenaed ay the University, witness foes shall be offset against such pay. In addition, such stl employee will receive expenses, if any, in accordance with University regulations.
12 5
405	None of the above provisions will apply to
tima lost from work by an employee who is a. plaintiff or by an employee who testifies as an "expert witness", whether testifying pursuant to subpoena or not. Such an employee must make prior arrangements with tho supervisor for either vacation or an excused absence.
ARTICLE XXXVTT
ANNU A J. MILITARY LEAVE
410
An employee who is A member of ths armed fortes reserve or national guard and who loses time from work during the employee's normal schedule of work to participate in annual military training or for service required as a result of a civil disorder or other temporary emergency, shall be granted an excused absence frdm work. The employee will be paid for the time lost at the employee's hourly rate glus ■5hrft"'■premium;” ”IT ”applicable/"hot" to" exceed fifteen HL) work days in any one calendar year. Armed forces reserve or National Guard base pay shall be offset against such pay. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, auch service shall be considered time worked. The employee shall furnish the University with written evidence of service and the amount of base pay the employee vas eligible to receive. If an employee receives PTO pay during a period of training or service, the employee shall not be eligible for the pay provided by this Ktvilc.lt far that. period df ti’s.e f-?.t 'lihiuh the emplrLyea. received PTO. pdy.
ARTICLE ZX/VTH-
J.EAVES OF ABSENCE
SECTION A.	PERSONAL MF-pICAL
411	An employee with seniority who (1) is
unable to Work because of personal sickness, injury or pregnancy and (2) has exhausted PTQ under Article XXIX and supplemental disability pay it applicable, under Article XXX shall be granted a leave of ■ absence without pay upon requesting ir. writing and furnishing evidence of disability satisfactory to the University. Such request and evidence may bo furniahed by the Association or any other interested party.
126
411A E'er those employees with twelve (12) or more months 01 Servicej the University wil 1 continue its portion of health benefit con t r i bu t i or.B during the first twelve (12 } weeks, each twelve (12} mocitha, of any cdrubination at personal medical, childcare and family medical Leaves. in no case will University contributions to health and dental benefits exceed twelve (12) WCe JOS annually. The employee will continue to be responsible for paying their portion of health plan premiums. The Group Health Inewrance Plan may be continued during a personal medical, family medical or childcare leave of absence beyond twelve {12} weeks provided direct payment of the total premium is made through and as prescribed Dy the University, except as provided by the University Disability Plan. (See Intent Nate .for Paragraph 411A)
412	The .leave of absence shall be for the
period of coritinuing disability, but not exceed twelve (12) months, unless extended by the University. In no case, hewnver; stall a leave and extension exceed two (?) years. To continue Lhe leave of absence, an employee must receive appropriate medical treatment and furnish satisfactory evidence of continuing disability. When necessary, physician's Opinions shall be Lhe basis used to determine the question of appropriate rnedica^ treatment or evidence of continuing disability.
Arbitrary faLLu.ce to	attipbed medical
practice ■in- treating- a sickness ar
be"reason for ‘ aiscoh’Einuihg' th* leave of -------absence.---The i.iediual luave rtay he taken On an intermittent or a reduced effort schedule, but only when medically necessary. When an employee requests an intermittent or reduced effort schedule, the University may require1 the employee to temporarily transfer to an available alternative position, or alter an existing petition for which the employee is qualified and which better accommodates recurring periods of leave than does the OEipl oyee'a regular position. I'hi1 alternative position must have equivalent pay and benefits for the first twelve (12) weeks of the leave.
(See Intent Note for Paragraph 412}
121
SECTION B.	DISABILITY
413	Subject to, and consistent with, the
University Disability Plan, as provided in this agreement under Article XKXIX, an employee who qualifies for disability benefits will be granted a leave of absence for an indefinite period.
SECTION C.	PERSONAL
414	An employee with seniority may be granted a
leave of ab&etvze 'uithwt. pay toy the utaI.varsity tor a period not to exceed six (61 months- The leave may be extended for additional periods, but in no case shall the Leave and extensions exceed one year. An employee on pecsanal leave of absence shall not be eligible for benefits under the Disability Flan.
SECTION D.	MILITARY
415	An employee entering the military service
an il) an inductee through the selective service system, or (2) a voluntary enlistee, or (J) a member of the Armed Forces Reserve nr National Huard, either pursuant to an order or call to active duty or active duty for training, or by volunteering during a period of national emergency, shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for the period of active duty or active duty for training, not to exceed four (4] years, plus additional time imposed by law and the period in which reinstatement must be requested as set forth in Section I and the time required for placement. An employee on military leave of absence shall not be eligible for benefits under the Disability Plan.
SECTION E.	CHILDCARE
416	Following the birth, fostering, custody,
adoption or preparation for any of the above of an employee1s child, step child or legal ward under age eighteen, or eighteen years or older and incapable of self care, a non-probationary employee, upon written request, shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for not more than six (S) months. in the case of the birth of a child, Lhe childcare leave may begin the date upon which Lhe employee's physician
12 B
releases the employee to return Lo wcrk. A leave of up to six (6} mori-ha may be taken anytime within the first twelve 112) month? of the event. It must be taken in a singlo block
£
of time end must be completed within one 11) year following the birth, adoption, foStCling or preparation for any of the above. Thereafter, CX thr. eions may be granted by the University, but in no case shall a Leave and extensions exceed ode (1! year from the beginning of the childcare leave.
Tar tViOee	with twelve iLZ^ tt
more months of service, the University will continue its	portion of	health	benefit
contributions during the first twelves (12) weeks, each twelve (12) months, of nciy combination of personal medical, childcare and family medical leaves. In no case wi)1 University contribution? to health and dental benefits exceed twelve (12) weeks annually. The employee will continue to be responsible for paying their portion of health plan premiums. The group Health Insurance Plan may be continued during a personal medical, family medical or childcare leave nf absence beyond twelve 112) weeks, provided direct payment of Lhe total. premium is made through and a? prescribed by the University, except as provided by the University Disability Plan. {See Intent Note for Paragraph 416;

SECTION £■ FAMILY MEDICAL
416A
A non-probationary employee who is unable to work because he/she is needed to care for a
seriously or chronically ill family member will be granted a leave of absence without pay for up to twelve (12 J weeks per year. The family medical leave may be taken on an intermittent or a reduced effort schedule, but only when medically necessary for the family member. The University may require written medical certification of' the need to care £cr the
family member. When an ■employee requests an intermittent Or reduced effort schedule the University may require the employee to temporarily transfer to an available alternative position or alter an existing position for which the employee is qualified and which better accommodates recurring periods
129
of leave than does the employee's regular position. The alternative position must have sq-aivalent pay and benefits.
For those employees with twelve (12) or more months of service, the University will continue its portion	of health	benefit
contributions during the first twelve {12) weeks, each twelve (12) months, of any combination of personal medical, childcare and family medical leaves. In no case will University contributions to health and' dental benefits exceed twelve <12 J weeks annually. The employee will Continue to he responsible for paying their portion of health plan premiunia- The Group Health insurance Plan may be continued during a personal medical, family medical ar childcare leave of absence beyond twelve (12) weeks, provided direct payment of the total premium is made through and as prescribed by the University, except as provided by the university Disability Plan.
For the purpose of this provision, "family members’1 will include the following: the employee's spouse cr domestic partner with whom the employee shares J iving accommodatitiris and expenses; and, without regard to place of residence, the child, sibling, parent or grandparent or other related Indi, virtual whose care is the responsibility of the employee, spouse or domestic partner. {See Intent Notes for Paragraph 416A)
Section g. association business
7
A non-probatqonary employee who is elected or appointed to a full-time, official Association elective office, upon written request of the Association, shall be granted a leave of absence without pay not to exceed two (2) years or the term of the office or length of the appointment, whichever is less, Written notice, requesting an Association leave, will be given tn the University, by the Association, as far in advance as possible but in nd event later than twenty (20) calendar days prior to the effective date of the Association leave. An employee on a leave for Association Business shall not be eligible fur benefits under the Disability Plan.
130

SECTION H.	LEAVE FOR GOVERNMENTAL SERVICE
4 IB
An employee with at least one year of seniority may make a written request for a leave of absence if elected to a full-time public office. Such a leave will be limited to one term of office. An extension of the leave for a second term of office may he granted at the discretion cf the Medical Campus Human Resources Department,
413
An employee with at least one ;1) year of seniority may make a written request for a leave of absence if appointed to a full-time non-civil service office nr committee of a policy-making nature or one of significant responsibility such aS, but not limited to, the head of or assistant to the head of an office, department or branch of the Federal, State cr local government. Such a leave will he limited to Lite term of the appointment but in no case to exceed two ;2) calendar years. An extension of the leave for an additional period of up tn one ill year may be granted at the discretion of the Medical Campus Human Resources Department,
420
An employee with at least one ■;!) year of seniority may, upon written request,' be graciLed a full-time leave of up to one (1) year, for active participation in a governmental volunteer program provided satisfactory written evidence cf acceptance in such a program is submitted. Extensions of up to one (1) additional year may be granted at the discretion of the Medical Campus Mania n Resources Department, An employee on a leave for governmental service shall nut be eligible for benefits under the Disability Plan.
SECTION I.	EDUCATIONAL LEAVE
421
An employee with at least one (11 year of seniority may request, in writing, a leave in order: 3) to pursue a full-time educational program or b) to fulfill a requirement ter completion of an educational program wll J-C h is related tc the current positinn or to positions t.o which the employee may aspire within the ’jniversi ty. A leave of up t.o one year may be
131
granted at the discretion of th& University-One (1) year extensions may be granted but in no ease m.-iy the	leave, with extensions,
exceed four (4) calendar years or the-employee's seniority, whichever is the lesser-
422 An employee on an educational leave af absence shall not be eligible for benefits under the Disability Plan,
SECTION J.	RETURN TO ACTIVE EMPLOYMENT
423 Return to active employment prior to the expiration of any leave of absence, or any extension, shall be at the option of the University. The University, it Lte	aivi
without cost to the employee, nuy require that a physician or physicians examine the employee before returning the employee to active employment. If returning from * personal medical, childcare or family medical leave within twelve (12) weeks, the designated phyeiciah mey not be a University employee.
424	In addition, and in order tn be eligible tn
return to active employment, an employee returning from a military leave of absence must have a certificate of satisfactory service arid apply for re~emplg yment within ninety (.90) calendar days aftsr release from duty. Employees who are hospitalized and simultaneously released from the military, must apply" for re-employment within ninety (9U) calendar days following release from the hospital.
424A An employee eligible to return from a military leave of absence will tv placed in the same position, shift, unit and schedule. In addition, time while on active duty will count in placement on the salary grid. (See Intent Mote tor Paragraph 454AJ
425	In addition, and in Order to be eligible to
return to active employment, an employee returning from a personal medical or. childcare leave of absence must provide, at least fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the end of the leave, a statement from rhe employee's physiol an releasing the employee to return, to work, except that this shall not apply in the
132
case □ £ a childcare leave of absence granted for an adoption, fostering or custody.
42 6	At the conclusion of a leave of absence an
employee eligible to return Kill be placed in an available open position in the employee's forjfter classification title, assuming the ability to perform the work available. Except, as ptuvirieri it. Paragraph	1.1 the employee
does not have the ability to perform work or if there are no available positions in the employee's former classification, the employee will be placed on retiiiction-in-force and placed in accordance with Article XXVI- (See intent Note Paragraph 42 6)
4 z 6ft	An employee returning from ar, unpaid
personal medical, childcare or family medical leave of absence not exceeding twelve (121 weeks, will be returned to the employee's former position. (See	Intent	Note for
Paragraph 412)
42'(	If the leave was for u fixed period of
time, and the return is timely, the employee1 s placement will be within seven (J) calendar daya aftSI the end of the date. if the return is not timely, the employee will be terminated iinleae eKtrautdinarg circ.dau tanr.ee heyoitd the control of the employee prevented the employee from returning as scheduled, except that continuation of the reasons that the employee was granted a leave shall not be an extraordinary circumstance. if the employee was able to (1) seek a leave extension prior to the leave expiration or (2.1 notify Lhe University that the return would not be timely, but did not, this except inn to termination shall not apply.
SECTION K. GENERAL CONDITIONS
426	During a leave of absence, an employee will
not accrue PTC1 nor be eligible fi?ji any payments for time off work provided by this Agreement, except as provided in Section D. of Article XXXIX, (Benefit Plans) .
423
An employee who he granted a Leave r,i absence for a period of six (6) months or less shall, upon written reouest, have up to forty
133
(40) hours of accrued PTQ retained, provided the request is made to the supervisor prior to the beginning of the leave of absence.
423A Accrued PTU time need not be paid off prior to commencement of a reduced effort schedule or intermittent personal medical nr family medical leave of absence.
430	[hiring a leave of absence in excess of six
(t>) months, an employee kill not accrue work experience for purposes of determining the appropriate step on the Wage Schedule, Appendix A, except in cases when the University evaluates the education gained on an educational leave to be equivalent to work experience.
431	Subject to, and consistent with, the Group
Health insurance Plan, the University will continue its portion of health benefit contributions during the first twelve (12) weeks, each twelve	(12) months, of any
combination of personal medical, child care and family medical leaves for those employees with twelve (12j or more months of service. in no case will University contributions to health and dental benefits exceed twelve (12) weeks annually. The group Health Insurance Plan may be continued during a personal medical, childcare or family medical leave of absence beyond twelve (12) weeks, provided direct payment of the total premium is made through and as prescribed by the University, except as provided by the University Disability Plan.
432	Subject to, and consistent with, the Group
Life Insurance Plan, coverage may be continued during a leave of absence, provided direct payment of the employee's portion cf the premium is made through and as prescribed by-the University, except as provided by the University Disability Plan.
433	During a leave of absence, both the
University's and the employee’s contributions to the Retirement Plan are discontinued, except as provided by trie University Disability Plan, provided,	however, that subject to,	and
consistent	with,	the Retirement	Plan	an
employee on a leave of absence may continue
134
active participation by making direct paymenr of any amount, to the University in the manner prescribed my the University.
434	Unless otherwise specifically provided by
this Agreement, leaves ci absence will not tie granted to an employee who is laid off nor will an extension of a leave be granted if the employee would have been Laid off had the employee been working during the employee's leave *
425	Any employee who obtains a leave of absence
under false pretense or uses the leave for purposes other than for which it was obtained shall be subject to immediate discharge.
436	Unless otherwise specifically provided for
by this Agreement, seniority shall accumulate during a leave of absence and extensions.
437	Request for leaves of absence under Section
H, Will be at t.he discretion c± the University if an employee has not been actively employed at least one (1) calendar- year since the end nt a leave of absence granted under Section C., E,, Fl,, and I.
SECTION L. SEASONAL LEAVE OF ABSENCE

436	Notwithstanding other provisions of this
Article, ■ an employee with seniority whose appointment is seventy-five percent (75$) or more may be granted a seasonal leave of absfence without pay by the University for a period of not leas than three ■;3) weeks not more than four (4) months. The use of this leave shal_ be limited to employees Ln units which have an identified seasonal fluctuation of clients. Paid Time Off (PTO) accrual shall cease during the period of seasonal leave of absence and shall resume upon return to work. University contributions to health, dental end life insurance will continue during the seasonal leave of absence and employee contributions to these plana [if any} will be deducted from the last paycheck prior to the seasonal leave. (See Paragraph 185}
439	An employee may work for another employer
while on a seasonal, leave. An employee
135
returning from a seasonal leave will be assigned to their previously held position. If the position no longer exists, the provisions of Article XXVI, Reduction of the Working Force and Recall Procedures, will be applicable. If the position still exists but the employee can no longer perform the full range of duties of the position that existed prior to the leave, the University and the Association will meet and attempt to make arrangements £01 the employment of the employee.
ARTICLE XXXIX BEWEE’IT PLANS
44U	Each plan shall _ be as provided by the
University and may be amended, but not eliminated. In the event of changes in benefits, the Association will be notified prior to the effective date of the change. If the University increases its monthly contributions or improves benefits provided in this Article for University employees not represented by a labor organisation, it will increase its monthly contribution and provide the improved benefits for employees in the bargaining unit in the same manner and to the same extent.
SECTION A. HEALTH INSURANCE
441	During the term of this Agreement, no less
"than the Michigan Blue Cross/Blue Shield and the United of Omaha Major Medical schedule of hospital and medical benefits in effect at the execution date of this agreement will be provided and maintained,
442	The Group Health Insurance Plan shall be as
■provided by the University within the Flexible Benefits Program in the same manner and to the same extent as provided to nun-bargained for employees with the following exceptions:
a) Employees working at least twenty (20) hours per week are eligible tor Health Insurance Benefits at the same level as full-time employees.
b} The employer will contribute up to $439.t}(J per month toward the cost of the group
135
health care programs offered Ly the University and the employee'5 contribution will not exceed 3225.00 per month for full family coverage if the petal premium for full family coverage does not exceed 3664,00 per month. If the ictal health insurance premium exceeds cr is less than 5664.00, the 5439.00 and 5225.00 shall change to reflect one-half the increase or decrease.	however, Lhe Onivarsity
contribution toward any group health care program selected shall not exceed the contribution toward premiums of r.he Blue Cross/Elue Shield and United of Ctnaha Mal or Medical plans for one person, two parsons, or full family coverage.
Prior to the execution date nt th: a Agreement the Association has had the opportunity to have explained the hospital and medical coverage available from the various organizatiana during the term of this Agreement and from which an employee can select coverage. In the event of any changes in Lhe coverage from any of the organizations, the Association will be notified prior to the effective daLe ci the changes.
4 4 SA The University will provide a monthly "opt out" credit to those employees who elect nc health insurance coverage in the same manner and'to the same extent as provided to the ncti-bargaiiied for employee?.
442B Employees who do not elect to "opt out" or enroll in a health insurance plan within sixty (60) days of Lhe eligibility date will be automatically enrolled in . the Ccir.prehensive Major Medical Plan, "Opt down" credits will not be provided if automatic enrollment occurs.
442C No matter concerning the Group Health Plan shall be subject to the Dispute Resolution and Arbitration Procedures of the Agreement, except for questions concerning compliance with the specific provisions of this Article, and whether or not the employee has coverage in accordance with the terms of the Plan.
443	If, during the term of this Agreement, a
Federal or State law is enacted which requires
137
the payment of taxes or premiums to either tbj? Federsi or State government or another entity for hospital! or medical benefits for employees, the university may make such adjustments in the schedules of benefits provided by this Article to avoid duplication of benefits. Ifi addition, any such taxe£ or premiums paid by the University shall be included in the total dollar limitation provided in this Article.
SECTION B, GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
414	tmcing t'ne Term of this Agreement, the
Enhanced Group Life Insurance Plan shall be as provided by the University within the Flexible Benefit program in the same manner and to the same extent as provided to non-bargained for employees. The amount of life insurance coverage elected by an employee may range from five thousand dollars ($5,Odd) at the minimum to an amount equal to six (5) times the employee's salary. Salary as indicated, is based upon an employee's job rate for a normal forty (40? hour work week, excluding 'jvertirtna and other premiums-
444A The cost uf tile Enhanced Group Life Insurance Flan is determined by the amount of coverage selected, current age, smoking status and r.uirett salary. The amount of coverage chosen and its tost will increase when salary is inoreased. The cost will also increase when moving into the next higher age bracket. An employee may receive "Opt out or Opt down1' credits based on the option selected. The Whivetsixy pays a portion of the cost and the employee pays any remaining portion, in the same manner and to the same extent as provided to the non-bargained for employees.
4 44b Active employees age 65 and over are subjected to scheduled reductions, however, coverage for active employees will not be reduced below five-thousand dollars ($5,DD0).
44 4C The Dependent Life insurance plan shall be as provided by the University within Flexible Benefits Program in the same manner and to the same extent as provided to the non-bargained fur employees.
13B
I
SECTION C ■ TRA’fEL ACCIEEHT IWSURAfr'EB
445	During thus term of this Agreement, the
Travel Accident Insurance Plan shall be without cost tc the employee and no less than the fallowing will be provided and maintained.
446	1}	The amount of the principal sum of
447		insurance for employees shall be fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) of five (3) times base annual salary, whichever is mt?re, except as the iinour.r. may be reduced proportionately hy a catastrophic accident. The principal sum will be paid for loss of
44?	3)	life or any two members (hand, foot, or sight of onsi eye] , □ne half -I 1.Z2) the prixicipal sum for loss
449	41	of any one member. Disability benefits.
SECTION a. LDHG TEAM DZ3A&I17TV PLAN
45Q
451
■152
Iha Long T^rnti Disability Plan shall be aS provided by the University. It. may be amended, but not eliminated, hy the university, except that the following, consistent with the terns cf the plan, shall not be changed during the term of this Agreement:
1) The university will pay the entire cost for coverage, except during the first four (4} years □£ service when the employee must p.sy the entire cost ’ for coverage on all base income, and except on base income over-thirty thousand dollars i$30,QQOl per year after four (4) years of service.
2 J Disability is defined as the complete inability, by reason of any medically determined physical or marital impairment, as determined by the University, tc engage in any occupation of employment., for whigh the employee Is reasonably lifted by education, training or experience. The impairment must have lasted or he expected to last for a continuous period of not le« than twelve (171 consecutive months from
13?
the tmployea's last day" of work, or be expected to result in death.
453	3) fln eligible employee, normally scheduled to
work twenty (20) or more hours per calendar week, shall receive a disability income which shall be sixty-five percent (£i5$) of the employee's monthly base income (forty percent (40%} of base salary above fifty thousand dollars ($50, (KJQ) ), not to exceed twenty-three thousand dollars ($23,000) a month after offsetting for income front other sources. (Monthly base Income is calculated as follows: hourly rate times 2DB0 divided by 12) ,
4 54	4) Tn the event that, cash benefits are
received fr«n Social security. Worker's Compensation, veteran's Benefits, University Travel accident Plan, or any other University, Government, or Public Program, the disability income set forth in 3 above shall be adjusted sn that the combination of disability income and cash benefits from other sources shall not exceed sixty-five percent (65%J of the employee's monthly base income.
455	5) For each month that a disability income is
received. Retirement Plan, Group Life Insurance, and Health Insurance Plan contributions, both University's and ' employee's shall be made by the University, if and when applicable as provided in the Disability Plan.
456	6} The University, whenever possible, will
aid the employee receiving Long Term Disability	Plan benefits in obtaining
employment	of a rehabilitative nature
either with the university or with other organisations. Tn the event of such employment, disability income will only he reduced by an amount equal to the one half (1/2) earnings received from this employment.
457	'/) Benefits are continued to the earliest of
recovery, death or retirement at age sixty-five (65) .
140
SECTION E. RETIREMENT .FLAW
Ss;	450	During the term of this Agreement the
TIAA/CREF Retirement Plan with no less than the E‘.'.	following will be provided and maintained; (See
Ey	Paragraphs 215A-D and Intent Note for Paragraph
&	*5S)'
■	453	1) The University will contribute an amount
th-	equal to ten percent	(lOlt;	of Lac
Ek;	employee's earnings each	month	and the
K,-’	employee will contribute an	amount	equal to
Kw-.-	five percent (5$) of	the employee’s
Eg	earnings each month, or
fey- 460	2) At the option of the employee, age chirty-
g£-.	five (35) or older, the University wi.L
■SI''	contribute an amount equal to five percent
■&.	(51) of the employee's Social Security base
;	earnings each month and the employee will
Ea?.	not, contribute. When earnings are in
R-	excess of the Social Security base, 1 above
p/j-	shall apply.
ev.	46DA	if the University- revises the current
K:'	retirement plan with respect tn retirement
ET'.	eligibility for employees who have reduced
their appointment fraction below fifty per tent ;	(504) ci twenty (20) hours per week for
University employees not represented by a labor organization, Lhe same revision will be pt	extended to employees covered by this Agreement
jfc;	in the same manner and to the same extent.
Bg	SECTIQW E. DENTAL ASSISTANCE FLAW
£■■■■'	461	After erne year of continuous University
service,- the Dental Rian shall be as provided g..	by the University within the Flexible Benefits
5'	Program. Employees have a choice of three (3)
dental plan notions. During the term. of this
■	Agreement, no less than the University	of
£'	Michigan Dental Plan, Option 1 (nnei schedule
of benefits in effect at the execution of this £.	Agreement will be provided and tnair.tai;iea.	In
the event of any changes in the benefits,	the
tf	Association will be notified prior to	the
J?	effective date of changes.
5;-,	461A The University contribution toward dental
s-'..	plan coverage will be provided in the same
141
manner and to the same extent as provided to the non-ha rosined for employees. The University will provide a monthly "opt out” credit to those employees who eLect <Va de-.iXti 1 coverage and have at least one (1) year of continuous service. rhe "opt out" credit will be provided io the same manner and tn ttic tame extent as pr&vided to the npn-bargained for employees. Tht llriiveisity will. autamatically enroll employees in the University of Michigan Dental Flan, Option 1 (One) aftfir one il) year of continuous service as provided tn the non-bargained for employees.
451.B NtJ matter concerning the Dental Flan shall be subject to the Dispute Resolution and Arbitration Procedures of this Agreement except fot questions concerning compliance with the specific previsions uf this Article, and whether or not the employee has coverage in accordance with the terms of the Plan.
SECTION G.
4-61C if, during the term of this Agreement, a federal or state law i& enacted which requires the payment of taxes or premium^ to either the federal or state government or another entity for dental benefits for employees, the University may make such adjustments in the schedule of benefits provided by thia Article to avoid duplication of benefits. in addition, any - such tames at preaniwits paid by the University shall be included in the total dollar limitation provided in this Article.
462	Group auto/homeowners liability, long-term
cere group insuzence, legal and vision plans shall be as provided under the Flexible Benefits Plan in the ^ame manner and to the same extent as i-5 provided to university employees not represented by a labor organization. No matter concerning the abnve benefits will be subject to the? Dispute Resolution and Arbitration Procedures of this Agreement; except far questions concerning compliance with the specific provisions of this Article and whether or not the employees have coverage In accordance with the terms of the Flexible Benefits Plan,
142
ARTICLE KL COMMITTEES
SECTICII A. HURSIKG f PA-C.T I Ct CQMMLTTF.Rg_
464	Each unit will post the membership list,
dates and meeting tines of any meetings in the appropriate areas. All employees are encouraged tn pres ent their views to a ’mew-bt-r oi committees prior Ln meetings. (See Intent yote for Paragraph 4 34 J
465	A copy of the minutes of these committee
mcetinga ah all be sent to the Association Ch? 5 rperson.
46& Any forum used to discuaa nursing practice will include Clinical Nurse I's and Clinical Nurse Il's,
S ECT TOH■B. OTHER COMMITTEES
468A Tn the event that the University, through the Medical Campus Human Resources Department, and the Association mutually agree to establish a joint comiftittee not provided for in thus Agreement, and provided mutually satisfactory arrangements car, fee made, the Association may designate any employee's) for the committee.
Such employees shall be the Assriniario.-i1 s representative (b) and will suffer nt? losa of time or pay when attending scheduled meetings of the. committee.
SECTION C.
460B (Sec ARTICLE K1V, Workload Review,’
section d.
46EC Meeting? of all COiriT,! 11 eea under this Article shall be exclusive of the Di.spvtb ResolntiC'n procedure and nc dispute sliall b« considered st the meetings, nor shall negotiations fur altering the terms cl this Agreement be held at such meetings. The role of staff nurses on committees anal] be to provide professional judgment to matters within thecr expe rtise. Discussions will include those topics related to the charge of the committee except for mandatory Subject? of bargaining
143
which shall be reserved for the bargaining process.
ARTICLE XLI INCLEMENT WEATHER
463	In the ■ event of inclement weather
conditiona, University Hospital will endeavor to maintain all of its services. To that endy employees will make every effort to get to work. In the event that an employee is unable to get to work, the employee will:
470	1} Contact his/her immediate supervisor, as
soon aa possible regarding hia/her inability to get to work: and
471 J} Remain available to come to work if transportation is provided by the University.
472	Employees who are at work shall be prepared
to remain at work, if necessary, until aunh time as the inclement weather conditions have subsided and other employees report to work to rep], ace them. Once inclement weather conditions have subaided and other employees report to work to replace them, employees who were transported to work by the University during the inclement weather period will, at the employee's option, be ■ provided with transportation, home by the University. The University will. endeavor to provide this transportation within two (2} hours.
473	Subsequent to the declaration of an
Inclement Weather Period by the University, employees who came to work shall, in addition to their regular pay, have added to their Paid time Off (PTC) accrual an amount equal tn the hours actually worked. Time lost from work during such an Inclement Weather Period shall be without loss of regular pay provided the emp] oyec meets the conditions a? set forth Ln 41	and	#2	above.
144
ARTICLE KLII
TUITION SUEEOUT PROGRAM
SE£TJCiN _A-_ ELIGIBILITY
474	An employee will be eligible LO receive
tuition support as provided in this Ar tic: J e if the employee: (1) is currently employed at the University in at least a twenty (20) hour position (0,5 ETE) ; (2) has aL least six (6) consecutive months service at the time of enrollment in an educational course approved by the University at, or through, an educational or training institution approved by the University; (3) intends to and does remain on the active employment roll during the entire term of the class; (fl) successfully completes the course; and, (5) provides the required documentation in a timely fashion. Approvals must be authorized prior to enrollment.
("Successful completion” means a final transcript grade of "C" or better for credit courses, "H” or better on a graduate level) and a certificate of satisfactory completion for a noncredit course.) The course cannot be used to further the employee's educational degree attainment beyond the Master's degree Level.
(Courses in professional programs in Law, Medicine, end Dentistry are spfiCrfically excluded from this program.)
375	An "educational course", within the meaning
of this Article, is one which either (1) is job-related or (2) prepares the employee to enroll in one that is job-related. The term "job-related" includes preparation for potential pramotion as well as improvement in currently utilized skills and knowledge.
476	An education or training institution will
be approved by the University if the institution is recognized by the Veteran1S Administration or in the most current edition of Accredited Institutions of Post-secondary Education as an approved institution.
SECTION B.	AMOUNT OP SUPPORT
377	The amount of tuition support ig calculated
based on tuition and registration fees or.ly. Other fees and expenses arc not covered under
145
this program. Tuition support is calculated using the in-state tuition rate (where applicable), regardless of the ■ residency status of the employee, and is based on the tuition rate in effect at the time of the request. For part-time employees, tuition support is calculated un a pro rata basia according to the appointment fraction on the date the request for tuition support is approved, (See Intent Notes for Paragraph di7)
University of Michigan Courses. Full-time employees are eligible for 75% of the cost, of in-state tuition plus registration fees lor up to four (4) credit hours per term, Part-time employees kith a fifty pur cent □r greater appointment are eligible for tuition support proportional to their appointment traction. For example, an employee with an 80S appointment would be eligible for a tuition advance of Bfl% of 75%, or 6U% of the sum of m-gtate tuition plus registration fees.
ti) Non-university of Michigan Courses:	Full-
time employees are eligible for the lesser of 75% of the cost of in-atate tuition plus registration fees or $800 per term. Part-time employees with a 50% or greater appointment are eligible for tuition support proportional to their appointment fraction. For example, an employee with. an. 80% appointment would be eligible for tuition support of the lesser of $4BD (60% of 75% = 60% x 5880 - $400) or 60% (80% of 7 5% = 60%) of the sum of in-state tuition plus registration fees. (See Intent Notes for Paragraph 477)
If the University increases the amount of the tuition refund for employees net represented by a labor organization, it will increase the amount for employees in the bargaining unit in the same manner and to the same extent.
SECTION C.	WORK SCHEDULE ACCOMMODATION
9	For full-time employees, educational
courses under this program may be taken during working hours for a total of not more than three {3} houra of time oft from work with pay.
146
per week; provided al.I jot requirements are met. a staff member who meets all other requirements., tut is excluded Irani monetary participation because of benefits snob as those resulting from scholarships or military service may be granted time off from work using the same criteria as for participants receiving refunds. Tn no case will time off from work to attend classes be considered as working time in the ccw.putation of overtime.
4 79A Part-time employees who Qualify for tuition support on a pro-rated bap.ia are not eligible to take the course during working hours and be paid for the time to attend class -it shall be at the discretion cf the employee's supervisor if special scheduling Can be devised to allow the part-time employee to attend the class(eg).
SECTION D.	PROCESS FOR PAYMENT
■ISO
Tuition Reimbursement
Tn order tc receive tuition r C imbur S eir.er.t, the employee must provide the manager with:
1)	An official grade report showing successful, completion of the course as defined in Paragraph <174, and
2)	A -paid bill cr receipt indicating Lhe amount of tuition and fees the employee has paid. Tuition. reimbursement will be included in the employee's regular paycheck-
481 Tuition Advance
At the discretion of the employee, tuition may be received in advance of taking the course. The tuition advance will be included in the employee's regular paycheck.
1) No later than {fiO) days after the end of the term, an employee who has received a tuition advance must provide the supervisor with: 1) an official grade report showing successful completion of the course as defined in Paragraph 474, and 2) a paid
147
bill or receipt indicating the amount of tuition and fees the employee has paid.
2'i In accepting a tuition advance, the employee agrees that if he/she does not: 1) successfully complete the clast as defined in Paragraph fl 73, and 2) provide the manager with an official grade report and a paid bill or receipt for tuition within sixty (SU) days after the end of the term, the full amount of the advance will be deducted from the employee's paycheck in equal installments over a six-month period, as authorized by ths employee's signature on the Request.
3} If an employee leaves the University, either voluntarily or involuntarily, before successfully completing the course or before reimbursing any amounts owing under this Article, or if an employee does not register for, or steps attending, a course for which he/she has received an advance, the employee is responsible for immediate repayment of the full amount of the tuition advance.
ARTICLE XT.IV
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH 4 SAFETY
SECTION A.
484	the Lisi varsity shall continue to provide
for the safety of employees during the hours of their employment. In this regard, the University, through the appropriate Medical Campus Human Resources Department, will receive and consider written r ecommenda t i on s with respect to unsafe conditions or other safety ideas from any employee or the Association.
485	A Safety Committee of University and
Association representatives shall meet once a month for a regularly scheduled meeting to discuss unsafe conditions and safety ideas. At least one 11) calendar week prior tn the meeting, the University and/cr the Association shall submit an agenda of matters to be discussed including, but not limited to reported work related injuries. If the Safety Committee feels that an investigation should be
14 B
made concerning a particular practice cr rjJ.e that affecta the safety of employees, one (1) regular Association member and one (it regular University member shall be designated io promptly investigate and thereafter report their findings to the safety Cornnit toe which may make an appropriate recommendation to Lhe University, The University shall respond within seven I?? calendar days after receipt of any recommendation requesting action, Nothing in this section shall preclude or Limit the University from conducting its own investigations and taking whatever action it deems necessary at any Lime,
Representatives of Lhe Association, nnt to exceed four [4;, who have teen designated as regular members of the Safety Committee shall not suffer loss nt time or pay when absent from their assigned schedule of work while attending a meeting or participating in an investigation for the Safety Comnittee. The University and the Association shall exchange a list cf iLs regular members. The other party shall be notified prcm.ptly in writing of any changes u; its members.
SECTION a.
4B6
An employee who is injured during the employee's hours of employment shall report the injury to the employee's immediate supervisor as soon aS possible. If the injury is to the extent of doctor’s or hospital care, arrangements will be made by the University to provide care in the University Hospital, if practicable, otherwise to another medical facility. The injured employee shall be paid at the employee's regular rate of pay, plus shift premium, if applicable, L'or the time lest from work, provided the employee returns to work, and finishes out the shift following, treatment, unJ.eas the employee is tcld nbt. to. return tn work by the health care provider in which case the employee's pay shall cease on completion Of treatment. IA nc eve [it, however, Shall the employee he paid for time beyend the quieting time ol Lhe employee’s scheduled shift or for any overtime hours. (Ues Intent Hate for Paragraph J□6:
143
SECTTOM
4 07	1) Non-emergentp wor k-re lateri health care will
be	provided to employees for:	3
a)	reported work-related illness	or	•■
injury;	J
h)	evaluation for contagious condition	-I
potentially harmful to patients	or	.5:
co-workers; and	•;
c!	potential work-related infections	or	j
chemical exposure.	□
48$	2]	Other services which may be offered	to	•*
employees include:	ji
,r.
a J	new employee screening;	>
b}	mandatory programs including
tuberculosis surveillance and immunizations;
0}	infectious disease exposure follow- i;
up;
dj	initial and periodic health
appraisals for employees in high risk areas;
e)	supervisor-requested physical;	7.
fl	hepatitis surveillance;
g}	pregnancy testing Lor employees	who
suspect they are pregnant and work	?
in high risk areas; and
h J	em.ployee infonnation about.	;;
infectious diseases and/or	.'j
occupational health risks.
SECTION D.
489	The location for pro vis ion of the services
described in Section Cl and 82 will be the Employee Health Service for Hospital-based employees and at a location designated by the University for nun HOSpital-based employees. Son Hospital-based employees will be informed as to whaL services are available aod the location where those services will be provided.
S EC T TON F„ OF.FTN ITI ON
490 Hospital-based employees include;
a) employees paid in whole or in part or. a hospital account;
150
bj employees paid in Whole or in part or. a department-a’- Medical Service Plan account; and
C; all University paid employees whose work assignments require them to be in Lhe hospital for any portion of their time. For this pop'J 1 p.r.ion, a wurk-related illness or injury must be directly related Lc the hospital work assignment.
SECTIOS F.
■191	Employees must have approval to reave tr.C
unit, from their .supervisor, before utilijing the Employee Health Service or other designated location.
492	Whenever an employee requires emergent
health care or during hours when the Employee Health Service or other designated Location is not open, employees may be referred by their supervisor to Emergency Services. Employees shall be advised by their supervisor or designate of the appropriate procedure to follow when he/ahe i= not available -
493	lb addition, the supervisor or designuLC
may send an employee on work lime to the Employee Health Service or ether designated location for any occupational health service which enables the employer to meet tequirements of outside agencies and University policies. Employees utilising the Employee Health Service or other designated locations or Emergency Services will not be paid beyond their regular schedule of work.
494	Treatment of job-related acute ur chronic
illnesses and injuries affecting an employee's ability to work by the Employee Health Service or other designated location of Emergency Services shall be at no cost to the employee. Employees who are subsequent Iy referred to other clinics because nf a job-related illness or injury will not be required to pay for the services provided. However, employees may be charged far health care received' In the Einpluyee Health Service or other designated location or Emergency Services	if it	is
subsequently de ter Kilned that the illness cr injury was not job-related.
.?	151
435
496
Services specified 35 being provided in this Article shall be provided at no cost to employees.
E’er the purposes of this Article, the University shall notify the Association of any changes in the definition of Hospital-based employees or in the services provided by the Employee Health Service or other designated Ideation,
ARTICLE XIV
DISCIPLINE
SECTION A, JUST CAUSE
497	The University shall not discharge or take
other disciplinary action without just cause,
SECT ICT B. REPRESENTATION BY ASSOCIATION
4 3E	When a supervisor wishes to conduct an
investigatory interview with an employee, the supervisor will inform the employee of the purpose of the meeting. If the circumstances are such that the employee reasonably believes that disciplinary action could result, the employee may reguest the presence o± the employee's Association Representative for the meeting. In such an event, the supervisor will call for an Association Representative. If the Association Representative is not available, the employee may opt to continue meeting or postpone and reschedule within twenty (24} hours or on the next mutual working day. It is understood that this section does not prevent the suspension of the employee or notice to the employee of the disciplinary action taker, before the arrival of the Association Representative. When the supervisor has concluded the investigatory interview, the Association Representative may ask questions for clarification or offer additional relevant information. It is understood that the dispute resolution procedure is the appropriate procedure for review pf the merits,
SECTION C. NOTIFICATION TO ASSOCIATION
4 99	As soon as possible the University will
orally notify the Association Chairperson, or
152
other person designated in writing, if available, of the disciplinary layoff cr discharge. (See Intent Note for Paragraph
500	Tn addition, the University shall give the
Association Chairperson, or other parson deaignated in writing, written notification of any disciplinary action taken which involves a written reprimand, disciplinary layoff, or discharge, deluding a copy of any writ ten notification to the employee and letters of reprimand and disciplinary layoff,	if any,
involved in the decision, within five (5? calendar days after the action is taken, if an Association Representative is present to meet with the employee following the giving of discipline which involves a written reprimand, disciplinary lay-off or discharge, he/sht will be given a copy of any written reprimand or notification given to the employee. Further, the University will, upon request, provide the Association with relevant information related to an employee's discipline within five (5) working days following the leanest.. Compliance with these requests will he conducted ir. a manner which preserves the rights of employees and the confidentiality of patient metrical records.
SECTION D. REVIEW PROCEDURE
501	The parties agree that discipline should he
both corrective and progressive rather than punitive, in this regard, the University will follow a discipline procedure which is corrective and progressive- Tn any individual situation, the extent of disciplinary action taker, will	depend	on	the	facts and
circumstances available at the time the decision is made.	In cases of serious
misconduct, steps cf progressive discipline may be omitted.
501A Six (6) months following the issuance o£ a disciplinary letter, and at the employee's request, the manager will write a second letter reflecting the employee's current status. In addition, letters of discipline more than two {2) years old will not be considered Ln transfer/pramntion decisions. Such letters shall not be used in progressive discipline.
153
?or those disciplinary cases Lhat rise to the level o£ disciplinary Layoff or discharge', letters of discipline which are more than twc !2j years old and indicate a trend or pattern may be used. (See intent Note for Paragraph 501AJ
502	The 'University will not discharge, suspend	•'jl
or give a disciplinary layoff to an employee	'.fl
over the telephone provided that the employee '3 agrees to return to work to meet with the .vS Supervisor.	■ Jj
503	The University shall notify the Association *3
Chairperson, or other person designated in	>3
writing, prior to discharging an employee.	ja
Thereafter, and prior to final decision by the JI University, the Association, through its .sfl Association Chairperson or other designate, ■ shall have the opportunity to review the case :^l with University representatives, provided such review is requested by the Association within .3 two (2) calendar days after notification by the University of such proposed action.
504	This review shall be held within two (2) J
calendar days after request by the Association.	..’7J
The employee and immediate supervisor will be	is
at the review unless this requirement would not	.-a
permit the review to be held within the two (2)	•■••3
calendar day period because of the	73
unavailability of the employee or the absence	.-3
. from work of the supervisor, provided however,	fl
that the University and the Association may	;;ji
arrange for another mutually agreeable time.	3
505	In addition to the employee, if available, jS
the Association may have not mote than two (2)	/jj
representatives of the Association, who are	-£a
also employees, in attendance at the review.	.3
X3S
506	Any employee who loses time from Lhe
employee'5 assigned regular schedule of work	-du
While attending such a review shall do so	a
without loss of pay, provided the employee	M
receives permission from the employee's	3
immediate supervisor to leave work and the employee reports back to the employee1 s	:<3
immediate supervisor when the review has been	■■■3
completed.	■s
71
154
507	The Association may have not more than two
(2} non-employee Association Representatives present at Such a review.
SECTION £■ SUSPENSION
508	In the event that an employee is suspended
from employment pending a decision as to the extent of the disciplinary action to be taken, if any, notice of such suspension Will he given to the Association Chairperson or ether person designated by telephone and in writing- The suspension will be no longer than is necessary to gather sufficient facts to make the decision, Once an employee has been suspended, the University will take disciplinary action, if any, within seven (7) calendar days unless mutually agreed otherwise.
SECTION F. REMOVAL EROH PREMISES
509	when the University intends to order an
employee to leave work for disciplinary reasons, the employee's Association Representative shall be notified by the University and. Without 105-5 of time or pay, be afforded the oppartunity to be present and hear the reasons, and thereafter be afforded the opportunity to consult with the employee for -= reasonable period of Lim.O at a place provided by the university before the employee leaves the premises. If, however, the immediate removal of the employee from University premises., is necessary to prevent injury to the employee or others or disruption of the workplace, such opportunity need not be afforded, m such a case the University shall notify the Association nf the incident. It is understood that this Section does not prevent the suspension of tho employee or notice to the employee of the disciplinary action Laker before the arrival Of the Association representative or notice to the employee that, the representative has been called. When the supervisor has concluded, r.he Association Representative may ask questions far clarification or offer additional relevant information. It is understood that the dispute resolution procedure is the appropriate procedure to review the merits of the disciplinary action taken.
155
SECTION g. REVIEW GF DISCIPLINE/DISCHARGE
51G
A dispute which (11 concerns a disciplinary layoff or discharge of a non-probatiqnary employee, and (2) alleges that no just cause in fact exists, or that the disciplinary action was taken arbitrarily and was clearly excessive, may be processed at the written option of the Association through either the Arbitration Procedure or Section H. of this Article provided, in either option, that the ■ dispute is submitted in writing at Step Two of the Dispute Resolution Procedure within seventy-two (72) hours after receipt by the Association of the University’s notice under Section C.
Sil
Failure to submit a written dispute by the Association on behalf of the employee within three (3) working days following written notification to the employee shall constitute a waiver of all claims concerning such disciplinary layoff or discharge.
512
If any dispute alleging a violation of this Article should he taken to arbitration, the Arbitrator's authority shall be limited to the fact question of whether there was just cause and as follows:
513	1) If the Arbitrator finds there was just
cause, the Arbitrator may modify the disciplinary action taken only if it:
514	a) was taken arbitrarily, at
515	b) was excessive; otherwise, the
Arbitrator must affirm it.
SECTION H, IMPARTIAL REVIEW PANE?.
bit
A dispute which (1) concerns a disciplinary layoff or discharge of a non-probatioiiary employee, and (2) such disciplinary action is based or, the employee's failure to meet recognized Univarsity nursing practices and policies when such failure is not the result of the employee's incompetence, and (3) which is not resclved at Step Two of the Dispute Resolution Procedure may be appealed to the Impartial Review Panel, only by the
15ff
Association, provided, however, that written notice of intent to appeal to the Panel must be received by the Chairperson of the University Review Committee within the ten (10) calendar day period following the receipt by the Association of the University’s Step Two answer.
If the Association exercises its option (as provided in Section G.l to vise this Section, the procedure provided in this Section will he the sole and exclusive procedure tc resolve the dispute and the decision of the Panel wil". be final and binding on all Lhe parties.
1; The Impartial Review Panel Will be composed
□£ three (3> members according to the following provisions;
a) Within ten (101 calendar days after receipt by the University, of notice of intent to appeal, the Chaiepersen of the University Review Committee and the Chairperson Of the AssociaLior will each submit the name of one (1? Michigan Registered Nurse who is noL an employee Pf the University of Michigan Hospital nor the Michigan Nurses Association, These two (2) members will mutually select, within the succeeding fourteen (14) calendar days, a third member who must nut be a Registered Nurse.
b} The three (3} members shall select one (1} of their numbers tc be chairperson who shall preside at the hearing and who shall report, in writing, Lhe Panel's findings and decision to the University and the Association.
c; The Review Panel shall convene and. initiate the hearing at a time which ia mutual Ly agreeable, to the members, ■ the University and the Association, but in no event later than thirty (30: calendar days after the third [uerrber of the Panel has accepted selection. The University will designate a place for Lhe hearing.
157
522	2} The Review Panel snail be limited to the.
evidence presented tn it and will be prohibited from conducting any activity of an investigative nature.
523	3} The Review Panel may request that testimony
presented to it be mechanically recorded and available only to the Panel for purposes of its own deliberation, Any such recordings shall be destroyed by the Panel upon the rendering of its decision.
524	4) The decision of the Review Panel, together
with a sunmation of its findings, will be submitted to the parties in writing, no later than thirty (30) calendar days after the completion of the hearing, A majority of the Review Panel members la necessary in order tg reach a decision.
525	5) The hearing of the Review Panel will net be
public.
526	6) The Review Panel shall cause all witnesses
to swear to or affirm the true)', of their testimony.
527	7) The Review Panel may make, at its
discretion, any additional rules for the conduct of the hearing provided such rules do not conflict with this Agreement.
528	8') The University and the Association will
share, equally, in the reasonable expenses incurred by	the	Review Panel members
pursuant to	the	fulfillment of their
responsibilities under this Section.
52 5	5) Tae expenses of, and the compensation for,
each and every witness and representative for either Lhe University or the Association shall be paid by the party producing the witness or hearing the Representative .

ARTICLE. XLV
DISPUTE RESOLUTION PRCCEDURE AND
KRDT ATI ON FROCHDURE.
SECTION A.	E'ERIHITIL'N OF A DISPUTE
530	A dispute is defined as a disagreeJr.oo L
arising under and during the term of this Agreement, between the University and any employee concerning (1) the employee1e employment and (2) the interpretation and application of the*	pre vision®	of this
Agreement. Such a dispute may be submitted only by the involved employee in actordanee with the procedure set forth in Sect ten E.
SECTION B.	GROUP DISBUTE OR COMBINED_ DISPUTES
531	A group dispute is a dispute which concerns
more than one fl) employee and involves * "ommon fact situation and the same provision (s) of the agreement, in such a case it shall fee .sufficient for not more than two (2) employees to file the dispute on behalf of all named and similarly affected empluyees.
522	Tn addition, the Chairperson of the
Association and the representative of the Medical Campus Human Resources Department may agree to combine more than one (1) dispute for the purpose of expeditiously processing the dispute through the dispute resolution procedure.
B,':	533 In the event that- the group dispute, or the
e'.	combined disputes, involves employees from
k?	mbre than one department or unit, it may be
gi	filed by the Association at Step Two of the
1'.-	Dispute Resolution Procedure-
s'	SECTION C. ASSOCIATION DISPUTE
534	An Association dispute is defined a
fei	disagreement, other than one which can be
S.'	processed under Section A. or E. above, arising
S'.	under and .during the term of this Agreement,
S	between the University and the Association
fc."	concerning the interpretation and application
£?.	Of the provisions of this Agreemeot.
;T 535	In the event that the Asscci ation h^s ?-
dispute, it Shall begin at Step Two of the
159
Dispute Resolution Procedure, provided the dispute is aubmitted within the thirty {30/ calendar day period toll owing the day on which the Association had knowledge of the facts ■giving rise to the dispute.
SECTION D.	REPRESENTATION
536
537
If Association - The Association will be represented in the Dispute	Resolution
Procedure as follows;
a?
53&
539
540
b)
nJ
d)
The number of district representatives shall not exceed one (1) per unit. In addition, there may tie up to two [2 J Alternate District Representatives for each Representation District set forth in Appendix C. The Alternate District Representatives shall only function aa an Association Representative When the District Representative is not available to represent the involved employee, The Alternate District Representatives shall be designated by the Association as First Alternate and Second Alternate and will be called in that sequence, (see Intent Note for Paragraph 537)
There may be one Area Representative for each combination of districts as set forth in Appendix C. Each Area Representative shall be a non-probationary employee working in one (1} of the representation districts.
The Association Chairperson who shall be a non-probat iar.ary employee.
When a District Representative has a dispute he or she may be represented at Step One of the Dispute Re solution Procedure by the alternate District Representative.	When an Area
Representative has a disput□ he or she may be represented at Step One of the Dispute Resolution Procedure by the District Representative and at Step Two of the Dispute Resolution Procedure by another Are?.
16d
Representative designated by Association Chairperson.
the
541	e)
in the absence cf a District Representative and both aHerns'e District Representatives, the involved employee will be represented by the employee1s Area Rep r e sent at i ve. tn the absence of all of the above the Association Chairperson may designate another District or Area Representative or any non'probat ionary employee by oral notification Lu a representative of the Medical Campus Human Resources Department.
542	f)
A District Representative, alternate.1 District Representative, Area Representative, or the Association Chairperson, may be granted a necessary and reasonable amount o± time off from the person's assigned schedule of work, without less of time or pay while directly involved in the manner provided at the appropriate step of the Dispute Resolution Procedure, S'jch Association Representative shall receive permission from their immediate supervisor to leave their work and must report back to their immediate supervisor when their part- it! the procedure has been completed.
543	At the request of the Association
Chairperson, and provided satisfactory arrangements are made through the Medical Campus Human Resources Department, the Association Chairperson may be granted a reasonable amount of time off in accordance with provisions of this paragraph to investigate a dispute in accordance with the arrangements that have been made. in the absence Of the Association Chairperson made known tc the Medical Campus Human Resources Department in advance and in writing, any non-probe ti unary ■ employee designated by the Association may function as a substitute for the Association Chairperson for the purpose of this paragraph.
161
544	Unive £ t y	- The University will be
ce.prasen.ted in. the Dispute Fesclution Procedure as follows:
54 5	Step L -- The immediate supervisor of the
involved enrol□ yee,
546
Step 2	-- The Director of Nursing or
designee, At the discretion of the Association and the University, the manager may attend the Step Two hearing.
548	3)
54 3
List uf Representatives.
a)
The Association, shall furnish the. Chairperson of the University's Review Committee with a list of the Association Representatives by Representation District. Any change in the list shall be reported promptly in writing, by the Association to the Chairperson of the University's Review Committee. The University shall not recognize any employee as an Association Representative or Alternate Representative without such notice, except that in ar. emergency the As social inn chairperson may designate any non-protationary employee as a substitute Representative. This designation may take place by oral notification to the University to be followed by written notification as set forth above■
550
bj
The University sha.ll furnish, the Chairperson of the Association with a list cf its Assistant Dire-cters of Nursing, Director Associates, Directors of Nursing and Department Heads and their office locations, and the members of the University Review Committee. Any change in the list shall be reported promptly in writing by the University to the Chairperson of the Association,
162
SECTION E.	DISPUTE RESOLUTION PRfjTETjrilLE
551	The following procedure shall he the sole
Slid exclusive mean? for dispute resolution: (See Intent Mote for Paragraph 5511
552	1} STEP ONE — Any employee having a dispute,
Or One (1) member front the employees having a group dispute, may discuss the natter with the employee's immediate supervi star. At the involved employee'i option, the employee's District Representative will be called by the immediate supervisor and may be present during and participate in, the discussion. If a resolution is not readied during this discussion, provided that the request is made not later than thirty [ JC) days from the dace an employee has knowledge of the facts Surrounding a dispute, the employee may request .further discussion. In this event, an interestbased problem solving meeting will be held, with the employee, die employee's supervisor, an Association Representative and, at the supervisor's discretion, an assistant director of nursing- During this meeting, the parties should identify the issue (s) of concern, the interests oi the parties, and options for resolution.
553	21 step two -- if no mutually satisfactory
resolution of the dispute is developed during the above discussion(si or no decision is communicated t<? the employee within the fourteen ;14) calendar day period following the coneluai,Oil of the STEF ONE	discussion(s),	an appeal may he
submitted to the Director of Nursing, provided the appeal is submitted wi thin the thirty (30) calendar day period frum which Lhe first step discussions with, an Association Representative f?rst began.
The appeal muse be in. writing and will include the following:
a)	a statement of the facts in dispute;
b)	the interests of Lhe involved parties;
163
c)	the relevant provisions of the Agreement ;
d)	remedies or options identified to resolve the dispute; and
e)	a summary o± the previous di souaaion(3) ,
554	The dispute shall be dated and signed by
the involved employee and the District Representative.
557	Within twenty-one (21) calendar days
following receipt of an appeal by the Office of the Director of Nursing, a STEP TWO meeting, attended by the Director of Nursing or Department Head or a designee and the Association Area Representative or designee, will be Convened to review the appeal with the employee, the employee's supervisor and Other individuals who can contribute relevant facts concerning the dispute and to continue problem solving, utilizing an intorest-based problem solving model. where the involved employee is net scheduled to work on the designated day of the meeting, it is the employee's option to attend the hearing on that day or to have the meeting rescheduled to another mutually agreeable day. In the event of a dispute which is appealed directly to STEP TWO, the . Association Chairperson and the Manager of the Medical Campus Human Resources Department may be present. (See Intent Notes for Paragraph 557)
557A Within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the STEP TWO discussion, a report will be issued by the parties, containing the following elements:
1)	A statement of the dispute;
2)	the interests of the involved parties;
3)	the relevant provisions of the Agreement;
4)	remedies or options identified to resolve the dispute;
5]	Either the agreed upon resolution, signed by the University and the Association, or a Summary of r.he previous discussion (5) ,
164
Where the Association and the University are unable La resolve their differences, the Association may request that the University Supply a written' Statement entailing the Employer's position in the matter- The Association may submit a wrlLLen response or otherwise include in its "NoLice of Arbitration” a statement of the Association's position.
557B a representative(s) of the appropriate operating or administrative unit may be included in the discussions at this meeting. In addition	to Lhe Chairperson	ci	t.r.e
Association and the involved employee, the Association may have an employee who is not scheduled to work during the time of this meeting and not	more than two (2)
representatives from the Michigan Nurses Association State Office at the meeting. Within the thirty <30? calendar day period following such a meeting, the Chairperson of the Association will be given a copy of the written STEP TWO answer. Tn the event Liat this- time period is not mcL, the Un?.varsity will notify Lhe Chairperson of the AssoctaLion, explaining the- reasons for the delay.
557c Neither the University nor the Association intend that the above process he used to renegotiate provisions of the Agreement, no: shall the University, the Association or employees ba compelled, by reason of their participation in the above process, tc-campromise their rights and benefits under the Agreement or applicable law.
SECTION F.	MEDIATION SYSTEM
553	The Association and the University agree
that mutual problem solving is the preferred manner to resolve differences.
559	within ten (10) calendar days following
receipt ■ of the second step answer and upon agreement o- the Association and the Universrty, a system of mediation may be used prior tc filing fcr arbitration. In addition, upon agreement of the As S OC-i a t i 0J1 u:nl the University, mediation may be used r.n resolve issues of concern that do not fall under the
165
dispute resolution procedure. Partip? present during mediation shall be the Manager csL Staff and Union and the Director of Nursing or their designees, the Chairperson of VHPNC, the appropriate Area Representative, a representative of MN A, and the grievant. The Association and University must mutually agree and select a mediator, who shall not be an employee cE the Association or the University, in the fallowing manner: {Ssc Intent Note for Paragraph 555)
560	1) A list of mediators will ba jointly
developed by the Association and the University within sixty (60) calendar days of execution of this contract.
561	2) The list Can only be altered by mutual
agreement of the Association and the University.
562	Where no mediation agreement i.s reached,
the Association may proceed to arbitration provided the submission is received within thirty {30) calendar days of the date either party concludes that a mediation agreement cannot be reached.
563
Within eighteen (IB) months following the implementation of the mediation system, the Association and the University shall jointly review and Evaluate the system for necessary modi Creations.
564	The Association and the University agree to
share the costa of mediation.
SECTION G.	TIME LIMITS ON APPEALS
565	1} Any complaint or dispute not processed
within the specified time limits shall be considered settled on the basis of the last answer and not subject to further review, but shall not prejudice the position of either party with respect to a dispute involving the same issue at that unit or any other unit of the University.
566 la, If a dispute has not been heard within thirty (30) calendar days oE the filing date, and there is no extension granted, the dispute may he submitted to the next
166
step of the dispu arbitration procedure.
resoluticn and
2)	A dispute may be withdrawn without prejudice and, if so withdrawn, all. financial liabilities shall be cancelled. If the dispute is reinstat-ed, finiincia'. liability, if any, shall date only from the date of such reinstatement, provided, however, reinstatement must occur within the specified, time limits for appeal,
3)	Where one or more disputes involve a similar issue, those disputes by mutual agreement may be held in abeyance without prejudice, pending the deposition of an appeal, to STEP TWO or arbitration of a representative case. In such event, financial- liability, if any, will not he affected except as set forth in Other Article? of thia Agreement--
4	J Whenever time limits axe osed in this Article, actual receipt or a postmark, if mailed, will control.
SECTIDH H. TIME LIMIT OH CIAIMS
570
1)	No claim, including claims far back wagos, except as provided in 2 below, by an employee covered by this Agreement or by the AssDciatiOTj, against the University, shall be valid for the period prior to thirty (30) calendar days prior to the date the dispute is brought to the attention of the University through this procedure.
571
2)	Ho claim for back wage? by an employee which is the result o± improper tame recording,	calculation of pay, or step
placement within the pay grade shall ne ■ valid for the period prior to twelve (12j ■ months prior to the date the dispute la brought to the attention of the University through this procedure.
5ECTIOH I . CLARIF!CATTOM OF "HTF-NT
Agreements between clarification of intent Agreement, or issues of
the parties involving of any provision of the mutual concern, will be
167
written and approved by ch£ University and the Association,
SECTTOW J. CONFIDENTIALITY DF DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROCEDURE
57 3
574
Information and data related to matters processed through Article XLV Discipline or Article aLVT, Dispute Resolution Procedure and Mediation Procedure and Article XLUII, Arbitration Procedure, should not be disclosed to any individuals other than those whose duties require such knowledge-
In the event discipline and disputes are used as part o£ a training nr educational program, the name or names of the disciplined or involved employees will be deleted,
ARTICLE XLVII
ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
575
1) Motice of Arbitration - Any dispute as defined in Section A?", E, or E. of this Article which is not resolved at STEP TWO within the thirty <30} calendar day period following the discussion at STEP TWO, may be submitted to arbitration only by the Association, provided, however, that written notice cf intent to arbitrate must be received by the Chairperson of the University Review Committee within the thirty (30) calendar day period following receipt by the Association of the STEP TWO answer, or within sixty (50) calendar days of the discussion at STEP TWO, whichever date comes first. At the request of the Association prior to the end of the time period, and Cm a case by case basis, the thirty (30) or sixty (60} calender day period may he extended by the University, Such notice shall identify the dispute and the issues, set forth the provisions of the Agreement involved, and set forth the rationale explaining how the Agreement has been violated and the remedy desired. If no such notice is given within the prescribed time limit, the dispute shall be considered settled On the basis of the STEP TWO answer. (See Intent Notes for Paragraph 5751
tea
575ft
?.'! Selection of an Arbitrator - Following the written notice to the radical Campus Human Resources Department, the University and the Association shall attempt to select an arbitrator. If an arbitrator is not selected, then an effort will be made to agree upon the agency which will provide a list of arbitrators. In either case this effort tc agree will take place within the forty-five	(451	calendar d^y period
following receipt of the written notice. Thereafter,	the	Association,	cr the
University or both, within the next ten 110? calendar days only may request the agency selected, or if none is mutually agreed upon, either the nrr.erican Arbitration Association, . the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service or the Michigan Employment Relations Commissions, to submit a list of five (5) nr more qualified arbitrators, none of whom may be in the employment of the University. If both the University and the Asscci aticrn independently solicit a list from. a different agency,. the earliest postmarked request shall determine which list is to be used if the parties can not mutually agree on another arrangement. if one of the arbitrators or, the list is not mutually agreeable, a second list, from the same agency, will be requested- If nene of the arbitrators on the second list is mutually agreeable, then the arbitrator shall be' selected from the List by alternately striking names. The first strike shall be determined by a coin flip. The remaining name shall act as the arbitrator. 'The' University and the Association, on a case by case basis, may change, by mutual ar.d specific agreement, either or both ut the tan (1<J) or forty-five (45) talendar day periods set forth above.
575
3)	Terms and Conditions of Arbltrarion - Every dispute submit ted to an arbitrator for decision shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
577
a) Either the University ar the Association, or both, shall notify the arbitrator of the selection and upon
169
the arbitrator's acceptance shall forward to the arbitrator a copy of the dispute, the University's answer tn STEP TWO, the Association's notice of intent to arbitrate and a Copy of the Agreement. A copy of this communication, except a copy of the Agreement, shall be sent to either tho University or the Association as the case may be, m the event the arbitrator does not accept the selection, the selection process shall be repeated until an arbitrator has accepted selection.
57a
b)
Upon receipt nf this ccjjcmunication, the arbitrator shall fix the time for hearing the issue or issues submitted for decision..
579
□ J
At the time of the arbitration hearing, both the University and the Association shall have the right to examine and cm 53-ex ami ne witnesses.
530
d)
Upon the request of either the University or the Association, or both, a transcript of the hearing shall be made and furnished the arbitrator with the University and the Association having an opportunity to purchase their wn ctpy, The party requesting the transcript shall bear the full cost of the arbitrator’s copy, unless it is mutually requested. In such a case, the cost shall be shared equally.
530 A
e)
At the close of the hearing, the arbitrator shall afford the University and the Association a reasonable opportunity to furnish briefs.
5B1
f)
The jurisdictional authority of the arbitrator is defined as and limited to the determination of any dispute as defined in Section A., B. or C, submitted to the arbitrator consistent with this Agreement and considered by the arbitrator in accordance with this
Agreement.
170
502
50 2A
582E
g>- The arbitrator shall nor have any authority to add to, subtract from or otherwise modify any of the terms, clauses, or provisions of this Agreement. This paragraph does tint preclude the University and the Association from mutually agreeing, in writing, to submit to arbitration, an issue which is not Within the provisions of this Agreement.
h)	The fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be shared egually by Lhe University and the Association.
i)	If the Association determines that an employee is needed as a witness to testify in an arbitration hearing, the Association shall notify and submit to the University, no later than seven (7) calendar days prior to the scheduled bearing, the names of persona to be released. An employee who loses time from work during the employee's assigned working hours when testifying during an arbitration hearing shall do so without loss ol pay. Upon the grievanv's request, the University will attempt to schedule the grievant on work time for the Arbitration hearing.
582C
j ! The parties wii. bearings under the Association the hearing as release time as (Release Time Business).
L endeavor to schedule this section so that Chairperson may attend part of his/her paid provided in Article L for Association
582D
502E

k)	The arbitrator shall render a decision in writing within thirty (JO) calendar days following Lhe bearing, unless an extension is granted mutually by the parties.
1)	The arbitrator's decision, when made in accordance with the arbitrator's jurisdiction and authority established by this Agreement, shall he final and binding upon the University, the
171
Association, and the employee or employees Involved,
5432F mJ The provisions o£ this Section do not prohibit the University and the Association from mutually agreeing to an expedited arbitration procedure for a given dispute or disputes.
582g
4} Pre-Arbitration Hearing Conferences - Upon the fixing af an arbitration hearing date, the University, the Association Chairperson, and the representative of the Association who will represent an employee in the arbitration hearing may arrange mutually agreeable terms for a preheating conference, to consider means of expediting the hearing by, for example, reducing the issue or issues to writing, stipulating facts and authenticating proposed exhibits.

ARTICLE XLVITT CONFERENCES
502
At the written request of either the Association or the University, conferences shall be held for the purpose of considering matters of mutual interest, ether than disputes under consideration in the Dispute Resolution Procedure. Provided that mutually acceptable arrangements can be made, the University will schedule conferences as soon as practicable but 'no later than within twenty-one (21) calendar days after receipt of the written request. All such conferences shall be arranged through the Chairparson of the Association., or another person designated in writing by the Association, and a designated Representative of the Medical Campus Human Resources Department. The Chairperson and Representatives of the Association, not to exceed a total of four (4) shall not suffer loss of time or pay when absent from their assigned schedule of work for the purpose of attending a conference. (See intent Note for Paragraph 5S3)
554
Association conference attendance is limited to employees and employees of the Michigan Nurses Association unless the Association and the University mutually agree otherwise prior to the conference. The tctal
172
attendance representing the Association or the University is limited to eight (8) individuals unless the Association and the universitv mutually agree otherwise prior Lo the conference-
585
585A
586
The University will respond to requests lor information made by the Association. Requests for information not responded It in the conference will be responded to either verbally or in writing by a time mutual !y agreed upon during the con fere [ice. In the event that this time commitment cannot he met, the University Will notify the Chairperson of the Association of the time when a response will be forthcoming.
Where either party requests a written response, the response shall be due upon a mutually agreeable deadline, not to exceed thirty [3D] calendar days, unless an extension is mutually agreed upon.
It is understood that any matter discussed, or any action taken pursuant tc such-conferences, shall in no way change or a Ltetany of the provisions of the collective bargaining agreement, or the rights or obligations of either the University or the Association under the terms of the Agreement.
526A Agreements between rhe parties involving clarification cf intent of any provision cf the' Agreement, nr issues of mutual concern, will be written and approved by the University and the Association.
ARTICLE XLIX PROFESSIGNAL ACTIVITIES AND EDUCATION
537	Absence from the unit for attendance at
professional	conf ere [ices,	or research cr
training at an on or off campus site or absence' for attendance at a work related educational program such aS a. conference, seminar, <>r workshop, shall be subject to approval as to the relevance of the subject matter to the profession and the service needs of the Unit. On an annual basis, manager and employees will jointly identify professional activities, goals, and the means to achieve them. Ire
173
addition; employees may request to participate in other professional development activities, including professional associations. Approval of these requests is at the discretion of the supervisor. Employees will request hospital business time during the schedule request period whenever possible.
50 0	Upon request, each employee with an
appointment fraction of fifty percent [5Q%! or more will receive paid release time for ■ attendance at professional and education activities as described in Paragraph 583. Hospital business days used on a weekend will he considered part of the employee's appointment fraction. Scheduling of such paid release time will he at the discretion of the supervisor. Paid release time will be available as follows:
1)	Pay grades N-l through N-5 - not less than eight (8) hours per year,
2)	Pay grade N-fi (CRWA) as follows;
a)	Effective July 1, 2001 - not less than r.hree (3) days each year.
b)	Effective July 2, 20C2, not less than five (5) days each year, prorated tn appointment fraction except that no employee will receive less than three (3) days.
5E?	The parties agree that all employees should
take advantage of opportunities afforded them. To this end, the University will provide financial resources to assist in the attendance at relevant professional conferences, seminars ■ and other appropriate professional development activities according to the following schedule:
EDUCATIONAL FUNDS FOR PAY GRADES N-1 - N-5
550	For the period July 1, 2000 through June
3Ct, 2004, two hundred thirty-five thousand, five hundred dollars ($2 35,500) per year will be allocated at the unit level proportionate to the number of budgeted full time equivalent positions in the N-l through U-5 pay grades or. July 1 of each year. Decisions on disbursement
174
of funds will be made aL Lhe anil level by a commit.tee consisting of a Siipervi sor acid Lhrea [3) employees selected by the unit staff.
Disbursement criteria will be determined at the unit level by the employees aod the 3 cap CL vi Sir. In addition, unit staff will determine criteria for addressing competing requests and equitability. (See Intent Note for Paragraph 590)
WORSE	FRACTITION ERS	AND CERTIFIED NURSt’
MIDWIVES
591	Effective July 1, 2UD1, addiLiociai funding
will be available so that each employee with an appointment fraction of fifty per cenL (50%) Pi more in the Nurse Practitioner or Certified Nurse Midwife classification will receive 'a total of $500 annually.
£'/	CERTIFIED REGISTERED NURSE ANESTHETISTS
5 92 A	Effective July 1, 2051, $1, 500 annually
£	will be available for each employee with ar.
i	appointment fraction of fifty per CCj'.t (53%) or
>k	more in the classification of Certified
,<	Registered Nurse Anesthetist.
,■■■■	592B The University will provide the
■'	Association, .with a copy of any Professional
Activities end Education Distribution Guidelines and Procedures developed within each-Nursing Director's area at University of ft.	Michigan Hospitals. some or all of	the
employees in the area will be provided the :i	opportunity to comment on the Guidelines	and'
<■; -	Procedures before implementation. changes	in
'	the Guidelines and Procedures will also	be
u.	provided the Association.
?	ARTICLE L
:■	RELEASE TIME FOR ASSOCIATION BUSINESS
>;	SECTION A.
593	The Chairperson of the Association shall be
-	released from regularly assigned work at ' no
-	loss of regular pay, benefits or seniority for
y;	five io) eight (B) hour days per week for
■	responsibilities in accordance with Article
■■■	XLV, Section D., Discipline; Article XLVI,
175
594
Section E. , Dispute Resolution Procedure and Mediation Procedure; and article XLVII Arbitration Procedure; Article XLVI11, Conferences; Article IX, Association Orientation; and other joint meetings with the University, The Chairperson will maintain his/her classification title and pay grade during his/her term(sJ of office. At the conclusion of his/her term in office as chairperson of the Association he/she will return to a position within the same pay grade. At the Chairperson's option, he/she will return to his/her former position. (See intent Note for Paragraph 593}
In the event, however, the Chairperson ceases to perform the' functions set forth in this Section or designates a representative when otherwise available (sickness, vacation, other short term absences} or is not otherwise available as scheduled, after notice to the Association and a reasonable opportunity to remedy the situation, the pay shall cease or be reduced to coincide with availability until the situation is remedi e d.
595
The Vice Chairperson shall be released from regularly assigned work at no logs of regular pay, benefits or seniority for up to four (4) days (thirty-two hours) per week. The Secretary or the Treasurer and the Area .Representatives of the Association shall be released from regularly assigned work at no loss of regular pay, benefits, or seniority for a total of four (4) days (thirty-two hours) per month, plus the balance of hours not used by the Viet Chairperson, for the purpose of conducting the business of tho Association which la directly related to the administration of the Agreement. All such time off shall be scheduled with the permission of the Secretary's, Treasurer's	and	Area
Representatives supervisor(s) and shall be considered time worked for purposes of computing PTO accrual and overtime. During d short term absence of the Chairperson, the release time of the Secretary, Treasurer and Area Representatives may be rearranged so that the Vice-Chairperson may provide coverage for the absence. Total release time for the Vi.ce Chairperson, Secretary, Treasurer, and Area
ITS
Rep r ea e n t ?-t i ve ? 3 ha 11 not exceed an averago of twenty (23) days (one-hundred sixty hours) per month in a - we Ive (121 month period.
SECTIOH £■
555	ft non-prc?bafi onary employee who is duly
elected or appointed by the Association, upon the timely written request ol the Chairperson of the Association, will he granted an excused absence without pay for a period of t. iT.e sufficient to attend a meeting, contereucc or convention of the MiOhioan Nurses Association provided, however, that such request, in writing, is received no later than Lwo :2) calendar months prior to the requested time off. In addition, no employee will be granted more than five (5) consecutive working days off at any one time nor may more than three (-1) employees be granted release time at any one time.	It is understood that such requests,
even though, granted, may be cancelled due io the patient care needs of the Unit.
591	Excused absences, ■ without pay, will he
considered time worked except IS Otherwise provided in thia Agreement-
ARTICLE LIi
SUBCONTRACTING, TEMPORARY AND/OR "AGENCY" NURSES
601	The parties agree that it is highly
advantageous to employ regular employees, LFNs and aides to provide nursing care. However, the parties recognize that in Our en vitontr.ent it may be necessary tc employ temporary and/or "agency" nurses.
601A	If a unit-based temporary employee works an
average of twenty (2C) or more hour? per week, for a period of six (E) months, the unit workload will be evaluated to determine the need for a regular unit or CSR position. If no need exists, the temporary assignment :tay be extended by mutual agreement -
CD IB	A unit-based temporary employee may [iDt
hold a position which requires work of an average of twenty (20) or more hours per week for longer than one (1) year without mutual agreement.
177
i>02	The ■ University will, provide employees
charged with the responsibility for assigning work tg temporary and/or "agency" nurses, any known information regarding work the temporary and/or ” agency" nurse is not Qualified to perform that regular employees on the unit are customarily assigned.
603	Further, the parties agree that regular
unit employees will receive priority over temporary and/or "agency” nurses when unit work schedules are being developed. The University will avoid changing, reorganizing or altering the work schedules of regular employees to accommodate the assignments of temporary and/or ’’agency" nurses, except by mutual agreement. Tn this end, after all regular employees are scheduled, the manager way then add unit based temporary employees to the schedule. (As outlined in the sequence of Paragraph 91) (Sec Intent Note for Paragraph 603
till	In the event a decision is made to have
work regularly and customarily performed by employees in the bargaining unit performed nn University-operated premises by a source outside the University or by University employed temporaries, no employee in the bargaining unit shall suffer a loss of base wages as a result of such a deci?ion.
ARTICLE LIII CHARGE SURSE GUIDELINES
605	The Hospitals' and unit specific charge
nurse guidelines will bu reviewed annually and revised if necessary. A reasonable number of employees whose work assignments include charge nurse responsibility will be given the opportunity to provide input to the review and revision process. Upon request, the Association will be given Copies of the guidelines.
6Q5A Charge nurse patient assignments will be adjusted tn reflect the responsibilities and expectations of the charge nurse duties. (See Intent Note for Paragraph 605AJ

176
article lt.v SEVERABILITY
606 .If any provision of Lhis Agreement is found invalid because it IS contrary to Federal cr State law by a board or court of compalaaL jurisdiction, or if compliance with or enforcement of any provision should be permanently restrained by any such court, that provision shell be null and void, but the remainder of Lhe Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. At the request of either party, the parties shall enter into negotiations for the purpose of arrivi ng at a mutually satisfactory and lawful provision. Tn such an event, the University may exercise its discretion in the matter until completion c,f any such negotiations,
ARTICLE LV WAIVER
607	The ■ University and the Association
acknowledge that during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement, each han t:ic unlimited right and opportunity t.o make demands and proposals with respect t.o any subject or matter not removed by Law from the area of collective bargaining, ar.d that the understanding and agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement. Therefore the University and the Association, except as provided in Article T.VI, TERM OF agreement, each- voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right, and agrees the other shall not he obliged to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter referred to or covered in this AurcenienL, or with respect Lo any subject or matter not specifically referred to or covered in this Agreement, even though such subject or matter may nut have been within the knowledge or contemplation o£ either or. both parties at the time that they negotiated cr signed this Agreement,
179
ARTICLE LVI
Term of asreRmen'
60S
This Agreement shall become effective on April 11, 2CD1 and shall remain in full fores and effect until and including June 30, 2004, Ind thereafter from year to year unless within, the thirty (3 of day period immediately preceding April 1, 2004 ar any anniversary thereof, written -notice of modification or termination is given by either the University Or the Association to the other party.
Executed this nth day of April, 2001.
For the Regents of The The Michigan Nurses
100
APPENDIK a
WAGE SCHEDULES FOR PAY GRADES N-1 - N-5
SECT? I DM A. IMPLEMENT AT IGN
Schedule A- W-l - w-5
609	Effective with the execution date of this
Agreement, the Wage schedule shall be no less than the amount set forth for each step within each pay grade as shown io Schedule A, Paragraph 616.
Schedule B - N-1 - S-5
610 Effective June 24, 2001 for bi-weekly paid employees and July 1, 2C01 for monthly paid employees, the Wage Schedule shall be no less than the amount set forth for each step within each pay grade as shewn in Schedule B, Paragraph 611.
Schedule C - W^l — W-5
611	Effective June 23, 7.0S2 for bi-weekly paid
employees and. July 1, 20G2 for monthly paid employees, the Wage Schedule shall be no lesa than the amount pet forth for each step within each pay grade as shown in Schedule C.-Paragraph BIS.
Schedule D - N~1 - H-5
bllA Effective June 22, 2003 for bi-weekly paid employees and July 1,	fur monthly paid
employees, the wage Schedule shal 1 be no less than the amount, set forth for each step within each pay grade as shown ir. Schedule 0, Paragraph	619,	(See Memorandum	of
Understanding, Paragraphs 720 - 721)
Retroactive Payment B-l ~ N-j
611B	A retroactive payment will be made for
those employees who were regular employees on thg pay schedule as of July 1, 2 0 CH and who rernain regular employees on the date of ejfttdjtlujj cf t-hia Agreen>e-vf a = lollr-i-s,'
Employees R’ho moved from Minimum to Step
□ne (1) between July 1, 2 JUD and the date
1S1
of ezacution of this Agreement will receive a four per .cent {4t> retroactive payment calculated on grogs wages earned between July 1,	200D and the first anniversary
date, and a two per cent (2S) retroactive payment calculated on gross wages earned from the first anniversary date to the date of execution of this Agreement.
2/ Employees who were on Steps One (1) through Eight (0} as of July 1, 200Q will receive a. two per cent (2%} retroactive payment calculated on gross wages earned from July 1, 2300 to the date of execution of this Agreement.
4)

6)
Employees on Step Nine (9) as of July 1, 2000 will receive a two and one-half per cent (2,5%) retroactive payment calculated on gross wages earned from July 1, 2DD0 to the date of execution of thia Agreement,(See Intent Mote for Paragraph 611,6.3)
Employees who were hired into the University and placed on Step Wine (9} after June 28, 1398 AND who have not received a wage increase or promotion will receive a two per cent (2%) retroactive payment calculated on gross wages from the first anniversary date through June 30, 2000.
Employees co Overman A as of July 1, 2000 will receive a retroactive payment of sin per cent {6%} calculated on gross wages earned from July 1, 200Q to the execution date of thia Agreement. (See Intent Note for Paragraph 611B.5)
Employees on Overman B as of July 1, 2000 will receive a retroactive payment of four per cent ;4%;- calculated on gross wages earned from. July 1, 2QUO to the execution date of thia Agreement. (See Intent Note for Paragraph 61IB.6J
182
SECTION B. REVIEW
612
In the event an employee believes the placement on a step is not correct, the Medical Campus Huip.ar. Resource Department wi’-l review the matter, provided the request for review is made within the thirty (30) calender day peri cd following the date ci execution cf this Agreement. If the matter is not received in this manner, a dispute may be processed through the Dispute Resolution Procedure, beginning at STEP TWO, provided it is filed within the fifteen (15) calendar day period follawir.g the response by the Medical Campus Human Rescarce Department.
SECTIDM C. SUBSEQUENT STEP MOVEMENT
613
Following initial placement on a step, an employee will move to at least the next higher step.on the employee’s anniversary date except that any employee at Overtax A or E as of July lr 2000 will have step increases effective July 1 of each year as applicable. Step increases for employees at Step 9 d'aring the. Agreement, wh.i ch expired on 6/30/00 rea rmed Oli the employee’s anniversary date after July 1, 2000. step increases will occur through Jure 30, 2004, (Sae Intent Nate for Paragraph 613}
16.1
616 SCHEDULE A
Minunum	1	2	3					4	5	ra	
N-1 Annual	36,272.00	38,854.40	4X206.40	41,600.00	43,160.00	44,720.00	4b,mm
Motility	3,189.33	3237.5?	3,350.53	X468.67	3,596.67	3,736.67	
Biweekly	1,472.00	1,404.40	1,546.40	1,60000	1,660.00	1,720.00	1,7Mjffi
Hnuriy	1841)	1868	19.33	20.00	20.75	21.50	
N-2 Awiud		4D.7B83D	42.224.00	43.680.00	45,30240	46,968.40	48,8^g
Mcnfty		3,309.07	3,518.67	3,640.00	3,775.20	3.913.87	4,0mj
fiiiwdty		WIN	1,624.00	1.680.DO	1,742.40	1,806.40	
Houty		19.61	20.30	21.00	21.78	22.56	
N-3 Annual		42,827.20	44,324.80	45,864.00	47.569.60	49,316,00	51J2O|
Atonthly		3,568.90	3,693.73	3,622.00	3,964.13	4.109.73	4260T3
Eweekty		1,647,10	1,704.60	1,764.00	1,829.60	1,896.80	1.96&M
Hourly		29.59	21.31	22.05	22.87	23.71	
N-4INM Annual		47,1 moo	48,755.20	50/460.60	52,332.60	54,246.40	56,248m
MshJify		3,926,09	■4,062.93	4,205.07	4,361.07	4,520.53	4,686g
Biweekly		1212.00	1.875.20	1J949-40	^01280	2.W.40	2.16*3
Hourly		22.66	2344	34.25	25.16	35.*?	zftS
N-S Annual MwUty Biweekly Hourty					74,616.67 6,210.06 2,889.07 35.87	75,78355 6,315.30 2,914.75 38.43	77,O56$| 6.42038 2,9633® 37Jt|
Grade	7	8	9	10	It.._
N-1					
ArnuBl	48,172.60	50,086.40	52.29120	53,352.00	55,203.20
Monthly	4,014.40	4,173.87	4,357.60	4,446.00	4,S)0.27
Btwuakly	1,852.80	1,926.40	2,011.20	2,062.00	2,123.2D
Hourty	23.16	24.08	25.14	25.65	26.54
14-2					
Annuel	50,585.60	52,803.20	54,917.00	56.014.40	57,969.60
Morttty	4,21547	4,383.60	4,575.00	4,667.87	4,830.60
Pej-.-^Lh.	1,945.60	2,023.20	2,112jOO	2,154.40	2,229.6D
Hourly	24.32	25.29	2840	26.93	27.07
N-1					
Annual	53,123.20	55,224.00	57,657.60	58,822.40	6D.86O.8O
MHltity	4,426.93	4,602.00	4,804.80	4.901.67	5,Q71.73
Biweekly	2.W3.20	.2,124.00	2-217.60	2,262.40	2,340.80
Houty	25.54	26.55	27.72	28.26	29.26
N-41NM					
Annual	58,427.20	60,756.80	63.419.2D	64,606.00	66,955.20
Monthly	4,868.93	5,063.07	5,264.93	5,390.67	5,570.60
	2,247.20	2,338pSP	2,439.20	3,488.W	2.575120
Houty	28.09	29.21	30.49	31.10	32.19
					
Annual	78,49920	01,151.20	84^63.24	86.047.52	89,058.94
Men thy	6.541.60	6,762.60	7.030.27	7,170.63	7,421.58
Biweekly	3,019.30	3,121.20	324474	3,309.52	3,425.34
Haity	37.74	39.02	40^6	41.37	42.S2
184
185
617 SCHEDinB E
	hrMrwrmni	i	z	3	4	5 	M
M-1			
Annual	39,395.20 40,372.80 41,737.20 43.264.00	44,782,40	48042,40 4?,JCT
Monthly	3,262.93	3,354.40	3,432.27	3,605.33	3,731.87	3.861.87 '
Bfwetty	t^lS.20	1.552.30 1,607.20	1,664.00	t,72240	1,782.40 I'lftM
Heinly	18.94	19.41	20.09	20.80	2103	22.28
N-2			•Jj
Annual	42,411.20 43.B88.0Q 45,427,20	47,000.00	48.672.00	50,351
MarWy	3,534.27	3,657.33	3,765.60	3,917.33	4,056.00 4J5W
B meekly	1.631.20	1,668.00 t.747.20	1.808.00	1072.00	1,939
Hourly	2039	21.10	21.64	22.60	23.40
N-3			
Annual	44,532.30 46,092,80 47,004,40	40,337.60	51,105.60	52,0^8
Monthly	3.711.07	3.B41.07	3,974.53	4.11147	4,258,50 4,4(ffii
BiweeWy	1,712.80	1,772.80	1.B34.40	1,898.60	1,965.00	2.D3W
Hourly	21.41	22.16	22.93	23.72	24.57	2i|
N-47NFU			
Annual	48,984.09 50,660.60 52,476.40	54,398.80	5600100 58,17^
Monthly	4,002.00 4,224.13	4,373.20	4,525.73	4.683.47	404»
BiweeWy	1,884.00 1,949.60	2,018.40	2,066.80	2,151.60	2,2311
Houly	23-55	24,37	25.23	28.11	27.02	&
N-5			
Annual		77,228.26	7S.435.9S	79.75M
Monthly		6,435.69	6,53633	6,6463
Biweekly		2.970.32	3,616.77	3003
Hourly					37.13	37.71	3& ■41
	Grade	7	3	9	10	11	_ _12	
	N-1						
■	Annual	49,649.60	51,376.00	53,185.60	55,067.60	56,971.20	58,968.00
	Monthly	4,137.47	4,281.33	4,432-13	4,588.13	4,747.60	4,914.00
	Erweekty	1,909.60	1,976.00	2,045.63	2.117.60	2,191.20	2.11W.00
’Ui--	Hourly	23.87	24.70	25.57	26.47	27.39	28.35
	N-2						
nk	Annual	52,12434	53.955.2D	55,848.00	57,803.20	59,820.80	61,921.60
tat-1'..	Monthly	4.343.73	4,496.27	4,664.00	4,816.93	4,905.07	5,160,13
sa.	Bteddy	2,00400	2,075.20	2,143.00	2,22320	2,30000	2,381,6D
bma-	Hourly	25.06	25.94	20-85	27.79	28.76	29,77
[<:■■■	N-3						
	Annual	54,745.60	56.6W.20	58.635.2D	6D,694.40	62,816.00	65,020-60
	McnWy	4,562.13	4,721.60	4,836.27	5,057.87	5,234.67	5,418.40
ft?'	Biweekly	2,105.60	2,179.20	2,255.20	2,334.40	2,416.00	2,500.60
	Howfy	28.32	27.24	28.19	29.16	30.20	31.26
	N-4JNP-4						
	Annual	60,218.06	62,316. W	64.59D.BD	66.788.00	89,097.60	71,531.20
£?•	Monthly	5,018.00	5,193.07	5,375.07	5,564.00	5,758.13	5.960.93
	Biweekly	2.316.00	2,396.80	2,480.80	2,568.00	2,657.60	2,751.29
	Hourly	28.96	29.96	31.01	32.10	33-22	3439
	N0						
	Annuel	81,246.67	83,991.49	87,315.95	B9.059.1S	92,176.01	95,402.17
	MaiiWy	6,770,56	6.999.29	7.276.33	7,421.60	7,681.33	7,950.18
	Biweekly	3,124.67	3.230.44	3^58.31	3,42535	3,545.23	3,66931
	Hourly	39J06	40.38	41.98	42.B2	44.32	45.07
s	—						
106
LB7
61B SCHEDULE c
Grade	Mitwnum^	1 *1,974.40 3.497,67 1,614.49 20.13	2	3	4	5	c'
N-1 Annuel Mantfify BtoeMy Houity	40,955.21} 3,412,93 1,575.20 19.69		43,451.20 3,620.93 1,671.20 20.89	44,989.50 3.747.47 1,729.80 21.62	46,550.40 8,879.20 1.790.40 22.3B	48,172.80 4,014.40 1,852.30 23.16	-•"J 49J5^ l.ftfg
N-2 Annuaf MofrtliJy Biweekly Houily		44,07510 3,67293 1,68620 21.19	45.614.40 3,801.20 175440 21.93	47,216.00 3,334.67 1,816.00 22.7D	48,880.00 *j07333 1,330.00 23.50	50,385.60 4,215.47 1,945.60 24.32	52,35® *,3ffl ZQfS
H-3 Annual MontHy Biweekly Howty		46,30.00 3^6.67 1.78D.IX1 22.25	47,902.40 3,991.87 1,842.40 23.03	49,587.20 4,132.27 1,907.20 23.84	51,313.60 4,275,13 1,973.60 24.67	53,123,20 4,426.93 2,043.20 25.64	54.97® AW 2.tgl
N-4/NP-4 Annual Monthly Biweekly Htwriy		50.916.40 4.243.2D 1,958.40 24.48	52,707.20 4,392.27 2,027.20 25.34	54,558.40 4,546.53 2,09840 26.23	56,4724)0 4,706.00 2,172.00 27.15	58.443j00 4,870.67 2,248.00 28.10	60,48® 6,MM
Annual Monthly Biweekly Hourly '					30,317.39 6,693.12 3,089.13 33.61	81,57342 6,797.78 3,137.44 3SDJ	BZW 6,W| 3.19M
			188				-3
Grade	7	8	9	10	11	12
N-1						
Annual	51,604.80	53,414.40	55,206.40	57,241.60	59,238.40	61,318.40
Monthly	*,300.49	4,451.20	4,60720	4,770.13	4,936.53	5,109.67
Biweekly	1.984.80	2.054.40	2,126.40	2.201.60	2,278.40	2,368.40
Howiy	24.81	25.68	26.68	27.52	2B.46	29.40
N-2						
Annual	54,2O4.BD	56,097.60	58,052.80	601091.20	62,192.00	64,376.00
Atantfity	4,517.07	4,674j8O	4,837.73	5,007.60	5,18D67	5,364.67
Biweekly	■2,034.80	2,157.60	2232180	2,311 DO	2,392.00	2.476.00
Hourly	26.06	26.97	27.91	28.89	29.90	30.95
H3						
Annual	56.908.80	58,905,60	60,964.00	63,107.20	65,312.00	67,600.00
Mcnnty	4,742.40	4,906.80	5,080.40	5,758.93	5,442.67	5,633.33
Biweekly	2.1BB.6Q	2,265.60	2,34410	1,427.20	1512.00	2.HW.OO
Hourty	27.36	■	28.32	2931	30.34	31.40	32.50
kUiMM						
Annual	€2,606,00	64,792.00	67,080.00	69,430.40	71,843.30	74.360.00
Monthly	5,217.33	5,399-33	5190.00	5,785.87	5,966.93	6,196.67
Bfwwkly	2,408100	2,492.00	2,580.00	2,670.40	2,763.20	2,860.00
Hourly	30.10	31.15	32.25	33.38	34 54	35.75
N-5						
Annual	84,49654	87.351.15	90,606.59	92,621.55	95,863.05	99,21625
Mtxnhly	7,041.38	7,279.26	7,567.38	7,718.46	7,98469	8,368.19
DHKXfifjr	3,249.87	3,359.66	3,492.64	3,562.37	3.6B7.04	3,616.09
Houly	*0.62	42,00	43.66	44.53	46.09	47.70
IBS
619
SCHEDULE D
_Grade
Mtnhiunii
1
2
.1
4
5
N-1
Annual Monthly BwaeHy Hourly	41,600.00 3,466.67 1,600.09 20.00	42,72320 3,66017 1.643 JO 20.54	43,846.40 3,653.87 1,686.40 21.06	44,989.60 3,747.47 1,729.60 21.62	46,550.40 3,879.20 1,790.40 22.35	48.17180 4,014.40 1,852.80 23,16	49;ffl 4,13 1,1ft
N-2							
Annual		44.075.30	45,61440	47,216.00	48.880.00	50185.80	53,359
Monthly		3,67193	31O1.20	3,934.67	4,073.33	4,215.47	
Biweekly		1,695 JO	1,754.40	1,816.00	1.880.00	1,945.60	2wl
Hourly		21.19	21.93	2270	23.50	24.32	
							
Annual		46,260.00	47,30240	49,587.20	51113.60	53.123.20	54.97s
Monthly		3,856.57	3,991.87	4,132.27	4,176.13	4,426.93	
Biweekly		1,780.00	1,842.40	1,807.20	1,973.60	2,043.30	2,1ffl
Hourly		2125	23.03	23.64	24.67	2554	
M4							
Annual		50,918.40	52,707.20	54,558.40	56472.00	56,448.10	6O,4sS
Monttly		4,243.20	4.392.27	4,546.53	4,70610	4.67D.67	
Biweekly		W.JO	1027.20	2,098.40	2,172.00	2,248.00	
Kxjrty		24.4*	2534	25.23	27.15	2810	
WP-4							
Annual		52,187.20	53,996,80	55.889.60	57,84480	59,883.20	61,9188
Monthly		4,348,93	4,499.73	4,657.47	4,82040	4,990.27	5,16$
Biweekly		1007.20	2,075.60	2,149.60	2,22410	2.3D3.2D	2,MfS
Hourly		25.09	25.96	26.87	27.81	' 28.79	
H-5							
Annua					80,317.39	61,573.42	02,54^
Monthly					6.6M.12	6,797.78	6,917®
Biweekly					3,089.13	3,13744	313®
Hourly					38.61	3922	
Grade	7	8	9	10	11	12	13
H-1							
Annuel	61,604.80	53,414.40	55,286.40	57,241.60	59,238.40	61,316.40	63,460.80
Matjily	4,300.40	4,451.20	4,607.30	4.77D.13	4136.53	5,109.87	5,288.40
Biweekly	1,984.30	2,054.40	2.126.40	2,201.60	2 278.40	2,356.40	2,440.60
Hourly	24.81	25.68	26.58	27.52	28.46	29.43	30.51
N-2							
Annual	54,204.60	56,097.60 '	58,052.80	60,091.20	62,192.00	54,375.00	66.643.20
Mjnthly	4,517.07	4.674.60	4,837.73	5,007.60	5,132.67	5,364.67	5,553.60
8 weekly	2,084.80	2,157.60	2,232.80	2,311.20	2,392.00	2,476.00	2.563.20
Hourly	26.06	26.97	27.91	28.39	29.90	30.95	32.04
(43							
Anniih	56,905.80	58.905 60	60,964.80	63.10720	65,312.00	67,600.00	69,971.20
Mcnltiy	4,74140	4.908.80	5,080.40	5158.93	5,442.67	■ 5,633.33	5,830.93
Biweekly	2.183.80	. 2,265.60	2.344.8D	2,427.20	2,512.00	2,600.00	2.691.20
Hourly	27.36	28.32	29.31	30.34	31.40	32.50	33.64
H-4							
Annual	62,606.00	64,792.00	67,080.00	69,430.40	71,843.20	.74,360,00	76,960.60
Monthly	5,217.33	5,39953	5,590.00	5,786.87	5.98613	5,196.67	6,415.07
Biweekly	2,4O8j6O	2,492.00	2,580.00	2,67040	2,763.20	2.86D.0Q	2,966.80
Howty	30.10	31.15	32.25	33.38	34.54	35.75	37.01
WM							
Airiuhl	64,147.20	66.396.60	68,702.40	71,115.20	73,611.20	76,190.4D	78,852.80
Monthly	5,345.60	5.532.60	5,725.30	5,926.27	6,134.27	6,349.20	6,571.07
EJueeWy	2.467.2D	2,553.60	2,642.40	2,735.20	2,831.20	2,930.40	3,032.80
Hourly	30.84	31.92	33-03	34.19	35.39	36.63	37.91
N4							
Annual	64,496.54	87,351.15	90,608.59	92.621.55	95,863.05	99,21825	102,690.89
Monthly	7,04118	7,279.26	7,567.38	7,718.46	7,988.59	3.263.19	8,557.57
Biweekly	3,249.87	3,339.65	3,492.64	3,562.37	3,687.04	3116.09	3,949.65
Howty	40J62	4100	43.66	44.53	46.09	47 70	49.37
1 so
191
APPENDIX A-l WAGE SCHEDULES S STEP PLACEMENT FOR CERTIFIED REGISTERED NURSE ANESTHETIST (N-E)
SECTION A. IMPLEMENTATION
Schedule A - N—6
620	Effective May I, 2QO1 the Wage Schedule
shall be no less than the amount set forth for each Step within pay grade N6 as- shown in < Schedule A, Paragraph 624A,
Schedule B - N-6
021	Effective July 1, 2001 the Wage Schedule,
shall be no less than the amount set forth for ..‘J each step within pay grade N6 as shown in Schedule B, Paragraph 624B.
Schedule C - M-6
622	Effective July lr 2002 the Wage Schedule
shall be no less than the amount set forth for each step within pay grade N-6 a? shown in	-
Schedule C, Paragraph 62 4C.
Schedule D - N-6
623 Effective July 1, 2003 the Wage Schedule shall be no less than the amount get forth far each ' < step within pay grade N-6 as shown in Schedule
U, Paragraph 624D, (See Memorandum of Understanding, Paragraphs 120-121)
Retroactive Payment ~ N-6
fi2 4	Employees in the NG pay grade who were
regular employees on the pay schedule as of July 1, 2D0Q and who remain regular employees on the date of execution of this Agreement will receive a ten per cent (10's) retroactive payment calculated on grogs wages earned from July 1, 2D00 through April 30, 2001,
192
624A CRNA Schedule A
	Step	1	2
g>			
	Annua 1	1CB, 160,00	112,320.00
	Monthly	9,C13.33	9,360.00
	Biweekly	4 ,1 fit). CD	4,320.00
	Hourly	52.00	54 . CD
	6248 CRNA Schedule B		
	step	1	2
	Annual	1 12,486.40	116,912.BE
	Monthly	9,37.3.57	% 724.40
	Siweekly	1,326.40	4,492.80
	hourly	54.09	56.16
624C CRMA Schedule C
	Sten	1	2
	Annual	116,979,70	121,492.80
	Mnnzhly	9,748.27	10,124.40
	Biweekly	4,499.20	4,672.00
	'dourly	56.24	59-41
	624D CRNA schedule D		
	Step	1	2
	Annual	121,659.20	126,339-20
	Monthly	10,133.27	10,528.27
	Biweekly	4,679.23	4,659,20
	Hourly	Sfi.49	60-
	suction e. _e	EVIEW	
	625	The pruz	:eas for re	view of aLep placement
	for employees in the H-		6 pay grade is outlined
	in Paragraph	612.	
193
62 5A
SEcngw c. , step placement ■ fce hires _dr TRANSFERS	" '	”
I) CRNA’a with less than one (1) year CRNA experience will be placed on Step One (1; upon hire into the NS pay grade and will move to Step Two (2! after one (1} year employment in the US pay grade.
2'i CRNA's with one or more years of full-time CRNA experience will be placed on Step Two (2> .
3) Step increases will Occur as applicable through June SO, 2004-
APPENDIX E CLASSIFICATION TITLES AND PAY GRADES
626	N-1	Graduate Clinical	Nurse Nurse	I
621	!C-2	Clinical	Nurse	II
628	N-3	Clinical	Nurse	:n
Clinical Care Coordinator Educational Nurse Coordinator Flight Nurse Specialist Practice Management Coordinator
629
N-4	Clinical	Nurse	IV
Clinical	Nurse	Specialist
Clinical	Nurse	Consultant
Educational Nurse Specialist
629A H-P4 Nurse Practitioner
630	N-5 Certified Nurae Midwife
631
N-6 Nurse Anesthetist
155
i y4
APPENDIX C REPRESENTATION AREAS
632 UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL ACUTE CARE
4B	5A	6A	7A	8A
4C	5B	6B	7C	SB
5C	60	SC
CSR Acute Care Cluster
633 UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL INTENSIVE CARE
TIC'd	Acute Dialysis
NICU	Trauma/Burn
SICU	Emergency Services
CCMU	Survival Flight
ccu	CSR Adult ICU Cluster
634	PEDIATRIC / PERINATAL / PSYCHIATRY
PICH Peru ECHO Holden 9C RD
Pediatric Dialysis
Women's Birthing Center
Child/Adolescent Psych, Outpatient Psychiatry CSR Pediatric ICU Cluster CSR Pediatrin Acute Care Cluster
635 AMBULATORY CARE
Taubman Clinics	Turner Clinic
Employee Health	Practice Management
Cancer Center	Off—site Health Centers
CSR Ambulatory Care Cluster
All practices under the Local Operating
Agreement
636 OPERATING ROOKS, RECOVERY ROONS, PROCEDURE AREAS
Main Operating Roams	Mott Operating Rooms
Main Recovery Room	Mott Recovery rooms
Kellogg	Medical Procedure Unit
Livonia Surgery Center	Radiology/Angiography
Cardiac Cath/EPS/ECHO Labs
IBS
631 ADVANCED PRACTICE NURSES & OUTLYING AREAS
CRNA's Certified Nurse Hldwives Clinical Nurse Specialists Educational Services
HomeMed, Hume infusion □B Anesthesia Nurses Vascular Access Team Blood Bank/Aphercsis Radiation Oncology Student Health Services
Nurse.Practitioners	Flint Student Health Svcs,
Dental Sctujol	Psychiatric Emergency Svcs-
Lrvonia Chronic	Acute Pain Services (Adult
Dialysis off-site	& Pediatric)
All remaining Dialysis sites
191
APPENDIX D
Vacation i Holiday Seguest Times
637A
Request Period
January 1-15;
Holiday request for
o Memorial Day
o July 4th
O Labor Dey o Thanksgiving
□	Christmas
□	New Years
February 1-26:
Notification Period
February 1:
Holiday Schedule Posted
Vacation Request for May 1 - Apri 1 36
March:
0 Nurse Manager makes vacation schedule
April
Vacation Schedule Posted
ISA
APPENDIX E CALCULATION OF STRAIGHT DAY SHIFTS
6S7R	Calculation of straight day shifts per
Paragraph 124 is as follows:
1| Total the number o± day shifts pur week as though alj budgeted posit LOH? are filled,
2) Multiply the number of day shifts pez' week (from 1 above) by 8 to determine the total number of day Shift hours required,
3} Multiply the number of tor?. I day shift hours required if rum 2 above) by 0.4 (40^) to determine: the number of hours to be designated as straight day shift hours.
4} Divide the number of hours designated as straight day shift hours if rot 3 above) by 4C to determine the number of FTE (full time equivalent) to be designated as straight day shift positions.
5} Use the following Chart to determine the number of employeOs to be assigned to straight day shift. Use the employee's shift length and appointment fraction to determine- the Day Shift Fraction fur each employee. Subtract the Day Shift Fraction from the number of FTE designated as straight day shift positions (from 4 above). Continue this process until zero or less than .zero is achieved -
155
STRAIGHT DAY Sri I FT EXAMPLE
Example:	'fl
al	Assume 50	day shifts per week	,'rd
b)	50 shifts	x fl hours = 400 hours	$1
c)	4 00 hours	x. .4 (■IDS] = 160.0 straight	day	,:.jj
shift hours	_';i
d)	160 day shift hours divided by 43 hours =
4 FTE to be	designated as day shift	jjn
positions	dj
e)	Employees in seniority order:
Emp Shift Hauri/Week
Length
Day Shift Calculation Fraction
A	3	40	1.00	(4-1-3}
B	12	20	.47	(3-.47-2.53)
L	0/12	36 [3-3's s	.70 4-12’s/2 weeks)	(2.53-7-1.03)
D	3/12	40 .(4-B's 4	.00 4-12’s/2 weeks)	(1.0 3-8-1.03)
E	3	24	.60	(1.03-.6-.4 3)
F	12	36	.60	(. 43-. 6=<0)
These six employees would be assigned to straight day shifts.
sot}
STRAIGHT DRY SHIFT TABLES
Length Of Shift- = 6 Hours
Hours/Wk.	# Shifts/2 Wks.	Day Shift
		Fraction
		
4	1	. i
fl	5	. 2
12	3	■ J
16	4	. ■!
20	5	.5
24	6	. 6
2?	7	■“1
32	H	
36	9	.9
40	13	1.0
Length of	Shift = IC Hours	
5	J	.1
ID	2	,2
15	3	.3
20	4	, 4
25	5	.5
30	6	
35	7	.7
40	H	.S
Length □ £	Shift 12 Hours	
4	1	.07
B	2	, 12
12	3	.2
16	4	.27
20	5	.33
24	6	, 4
20	7	.47
32	3	■ 53
36	9	.6
*40	10	.67
* This schedule would incur overtime for ncn-exeffipt staff.
201
Length of Shift - 6 and 12 Hour Combinations
Hours/wk	if 8 Hr. Shifts psi 2 weeks	# 12 Hr. Shifts pur 2 weekfl	□ay Shift fraction
10	1	1	.2
16	1'	2	.1
22	1	3	.4
28	1	4	.5
34	1	5	,6
MO	1	6	
14	2	1	,3
20	2	2	.4
26	2	3	.5
32	2	4	.6
’*36	'I.	S	.3
10	3	1	,4
2t	3	2	. 5
30	3	3	.0
36	3	4	.7
22	4	1	.5
26	4	2	. 6
34	4	3	.7
40	4	4	.8
26	5		.€
32	5	2	.7
35		3	.8
30	6	1	.1
36	6	2	.0
34	7	1	.6
M'J	7	2	
”*30	8	1	.9
Ibese combinations ace not possible without paying overtime.
Curing 2 week pay period, one week employee has 7. eight hmir shifts and 2 treble Y.o;it shifts- The other week, the employee has 3 twelve hour shifts,
During 2 week pay period, one week employee has 5 eight hour shifts- The other week, the employee has 3 eight hour shifts and 1 twelve hour shift.
2 U2
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTAND ING RETIREMENT INCENTIVE
638	The purpose af this incentive ig to
facilitate the Cast Effectiveness Plan- During the term c?f the Agreement, the parties r&M^ttize that the ntfet at tetiremedt-increntivfts may hft made to eligible employees ■ These incentives may be offered more than once to minimise the need for layoffs, based on the needs of the University. The incentive will incl’odft the equivalent <sf six '14 ninths base salary with an additional ten percent (io*J lump sum payment, as of the effective date of the employee's retirement- (see Intent Note for Paragraph 638)
For the Regents of
The University of Michigan'
The Michigan Nuraea Agsocialien
and
The University of Michigan Professional Surge Council
Pate : /ofayfe/
203
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING CONTAGIOUS DISEASES
639	In the event that an employee is exceed to
a contagious disease and	Che	University
prohibita the employee from performing their regularly assigned duties,	the University
guarantees that the employee will suffer, no loss of straight time earnings (forty (401 hours par week or pro-rated amount for part-time employees} . In this regard, it is understood that the employes, at the discretion, of the ■University, may be assigned alternate work or receive PTO pay provided such pay 13 available.
For the Regente of The University of Michigan
The Michigan Nurses
Association
and
Date;
The university of Michigan Professional Nurse Council
204
memorandum of understanding DUAL APPOINTMENTS
640
An employee sis defined by Article I, Section B who is at til* same time appointed for a portion of their effort to a classificationfs} or titiefs) outside the scope of this Agreement, may, at the employee’s option; accrue PTO and be eligible for Supplemental Disability Income for Extended Disability based on the employee1s total appointment. The accrual rates and eligibility criteria for these benefits shall he established in Article XXIJI Paid Time Off, and Article XHX short Term Disability Income,
641
This policy will affected employees and the Association,
made available
a copy will be given to
For the Regents of
The University of Michigan
The Michigan Nurses Association
and
The university of
Michigan Professional
Nurse Council _____•
Date :	/’<*/-}^JS /
2tJ5
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING MILEACE REIMBURSEMENT
64 2	The parties agree that during Che term of
this agreement, authorizatiqjn for mileage reimbursement shall be at the discretion of the University. Employees in this bargaining unit *ho are so authorized shall be reimbursed at the rate used for other University employees. (See Intent Hots for Paragraph 64 7,1
For the Regents of Tile University of Michigan
Th* Michigan Nursea Association
and
The University of Michigan ProfeSBional NUrse Council
20ff
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING PERIODIC HEALTH APPRAISAL PROGRAM
643	This confirms that employees who were in
the following classifications as of September 30, 1S80 will be eligible for the University Periodic Health Appraisal Program, as it exiett or Iff modified in the future r Home Care Coordinator, Education Coordinator, Health Nurse, Nurse Clinician II, Clinical Nursing Specialist, Nurse Anesthetist, Senior Staff Nurse and Nurse Clinician I.
64 4	After September 30, 13S0, employees who are
hired or promoted into the above mentioned, claseificatiens will not be eligible for participation in. th* Program,

For the Regents of The University of Michigan
The Michigan Nurses
Association
and
Date:	fa///* i
The University of Michigan Professional Nurse Council
207
MEMORANDUM OF UJIDERSTANDING STAR11W3 RATE FOR HESS EMFUOYEEfc RUH IRMlStEHS
652	Prior to iTnpleToenting any changes in the
method used to determine the starting Rate for a w®w employe*, the. Uniwanslty will discuee th* matter with the Association and invite coirnnants through the conference Procedure provided in Article XLVInr conferences.
652A Employees who are hired or transfer into the bargaining unit shall be placed on a salary step commensurate with their Registered Nurse experience except as noted in Paragraph 652B.
S52B i) New hires who are graduates of a registered professional nursing program and who are awaiting State of Michigan licensure will be placed in the Graduate Nurse classification and paid according to Paragraphs 710-712 (Memorandum of tftidexstanding. Graduate Nurse),
2)	New hires into the bargaining unit on or after April jl, 2001, will be placed ho higher than two (2) steps below the maximum regardless of experience.
3)	(Jew hires into an Ambulatory Care position on or after of April 11, 2001, will fee placed at a Step that is two (2) steps below their calculated experience step placement. Subsequent step movement will begin on their first anniversary- (See intent Tiote for paragraph	Unit
Categorise)
4)	Hew hires or transfers accepting a formal intermehip or retraining program will b& paid at a rate that is five per cent (5%) lower than their calculated experience step placement for the duration of the internship or retraining program.
SJ New hires into the classifications of NUree practitioner <?r Certified Nurse Midwifo will be placed or. the step in the appropriate pay grad* that provides at least a five per eent (5%) base wage increase over the calculated step placement in the Hi pay grade:, (See tntatit Not* for Paragraph S52E)
20&
6) Transfers into the classifications of Nurse PraCtitionir or certified Nurse Midwife will be placed on the step that provides at least a five par cent L5V) increase. (See Intent Note for paragraph 652B)
7} New hires or transfers into the classification of Certified Registered Hursd Anesthetist will j?e placed according to paragraph 625.
€■53	In this cwmectiMi a principle to be
included in the -method used to d.F-t urTninu the Starting Rate for a new employee in the bargaining unit shall be that the new employee mill net kws hired at a Starting Rate th&t 1^ greater than any current employee in the bargaining unit in the same classification with equivalent experience.
654	One full month of credit will be given for
e;ich month of full *time employment as a Registered Nurse. Lees than full-time employment as a Registered Nurse veil 1 be given the corresponding prorated credit. (See intent Note for Paragraph 654}. However, it ie understood that thia change does not limit ths University’s ability to change the methodology for determining starting rates in ths future as set forth in paragraph 652. This Agreement will be applied prospectively and there will be no salary review nor change in any salary which was established before July 29,	1965 as a
result of this change in methodology.
The Michigan Nurses Association
rhe university of Michigan
and
Date:	f
The University of Michigan Professional
209
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING CERTIFIED NURSE MIDWIVES
655
This confirms nur Agreement that Certified Nurse Midwives will be paid according to the N-5 wage schedule on Schedules A and B, As £Uch( ths schedules include all compensation for Article XV I, Shift Premium □ Article XV, Overtime, Article XVII, On-Call and Article XV -a. Assigned Time Off of our Agreement. This rate considera and includes the fact that these eaxpLoyees axe expected to work whenever needjad-
For the jtegent's at
The University of Mi chigan
The Michigan Nurses Association
and
Date:
The DulvetSity of Michigan Professional NUrse Council

210
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING WEEKENDS
656	The parties agree that . f<?I the purpose if
implementing Article Kill (Staffing and Scheduling, Weekends) the weekend periods shall be counted in blocks of four as follows:
1!	2001 12/23-24 12/3C-31 1/6-7 1/13-14	21	1/2G-21 1/27-28 2/3-4 2/10-11	-3)	2/17-18 2/24-25 3/3-4 2/10-11
4)	2/17-13 3/24-25 3/31-4/1 4/7-8	5}	4/14-15 4/21-22 4/28-29 5/5-6	6)	5/12-13 5/19-20 5/26-27 6/2-3
7>	6/9-10 6/16-17 6/23-24 6/30-7/1	0}	7/7-9 7/14-15 7/21-22 7/26-29	9)	9/4-5 9/11-12 9/18-19 8/25-26
10}	9/1-2 9/8-9 9/15-16 9/22-23	11)	9/29-30 10/6-7 10/13-14 13/20-21 2002	12)	10/27-28 11/3-4 11/10-11 11/17-19
13)	11/24-25 12/1-2 12/8-9 12/15-16	14)	12/22-23 12/29-30 1/5-6 1/12-13	15)	1/19-70 1/26-27 2/2-3 2/9-10
16)	2/16-17 2/23-24 3/2-3 3/9-10	17)	3/16-17 3/23-24 3/30-31 4/6-?	16)	4/13-14 4/20-21 4/27-78 5/4-5
211
13)	5/11-12 5/16-13 5/25-26 6/1-2	20)	6/6-9 6/15-16 6/22-23 6/29-30	21)	7/6-7 1/13-14 7/20-21 7/27-28
22]	8/3-4 &/10-I1 0/17-10 fi/24-25	23)	3/31-9/1 9/7-8 9/14-15 9/21-22	24)	9/2S-25 10/5-6 10/12-13 10/19-2C
25)	10/26-27 11/2-3 11/3-10 11/16-17	26)	11/23-24 11/30-12/1 12/7-8 12/14-15	27)	2003 12/21-22 12/28-29 1/4-5 1/11-12
28)	1/18-19 1/25-26 2/1-2 2/0-9	29)	2/15-16 2/22-23 3/1-2 3/8-9	30)	3/15-16 3/22-23 3/29-30 4/5-6
31)	4/12-13 4/19-20 4/26-27 5/3-4	32)	5/10-11 5/17-18 5/24-25 5/31-6/1	23)	6/7-8 6/14-15 6/21-22 6/26-Z9
34)	7/5-6 7/12-13 7/79-2Q 7/26-27	35)	8/2-3 8/9-10 S/16-11 0/23-24	26)	0/30-31 9/6-7 9/13-14 3/20-21
3D	9/27-26 1Q/4-5 10/11-12 10/18-19	30)	10/25-26 11/1-2 11/8-9 11/15-16	39)	11/22-23 11/2S-30 12/6-7 12/13-14
212
2004
40)	13/20-21 12/27-28 1/3-4 1/10-11	41)	1/17-16 1/24-25 1/1L-Z/1 2/7-6-	42)	2/14-15 2/21-22 2/25-29 3/6-7
43)	3/13-14 3/20-21 3/27-28 4/3-4	44)	4/10-11 4/17-15 4/24-25 5/1-2	45)	5/0-9 5/15-16 5/22-23 5/23-30
46)	6/5-6 6/12-13 6/15-20 6/26-27	47}	7/3-7/4 7/10-11 7/17/15 7/24-35	48)	7/21-6/] 0/7-8 6/14-15 8/21-22
45)	8/28-29 9/4-5 9/10-11 9/15-11	50}	9/25-26 10/2-3 10/9-10 10/16-17	51)	10/23-24 10/30-31 11/6-7 11/13-14
52.1	11/20-2L 11/27-28 12/4-3 1'2/11-17.	53)	12/10-19 12/25-26 1/1-1/2 1/6-1/9		
For the Regents o£ The tftiiveraity o£ Michigan
The Michigan. Nurses Association
and
Date:
The TJrilweral.fy C't Michigan Profeeeion.sl Nurse Council
213
1 . 1 •;'s 5
memorandum of understknoimig	■:
CLINICAL ladder	■■■■;
661	Th# parties agree that an eguitable system .
of movement through the clinical	Ladder la	■/
desirable. the parties further agree	that thia	'1
ie a conpiex and difficult ta^k	within a	•J
decentralized nursing system, given	the wide	>
range of responsibilities within each clinical area and the differences between unite.	■■!
662 In order to insure that employees are ”3 informed af the standards for promotion within : th* clinical ladder, the University agrees to have accessible on each unit a copy of The J Standards and Measurement Tool,	}}
662C QrietLtatioa and emgoing education will be provided far employees and managers regarding implementation and maintenance of the Standards t Measurement Tool, Only employees educated in the peer review groc*ee will t* allowed to participate in peer review conducted as part of this process,
6C2D In an attempt to create a system that recognizes professional achievement, a new framework will be designed through a joint process over the life of this Agreement, The joint group will develop criteria, structure and an implementation methodology which will then be recommended to the jointo negotiating team- for integration into the 2004 contract negotiations,
662f The Association Representatives participating in this prodees will suffer no loss in pay or ehift premium, if applicable -
The Michigan Nurses
For th* Regents of	Association _
The University of	—jyL&xi&i*-
Michigan	and
The University of	-<
Michigan Professional	••;
Nhrse Counoi-i	-5
Date:	"U-CXajy, V	W Q
■.■r.xT-l-LcL
214
MEMORANDUM OF tjMDEH.STMttUWG TUITION LOAN
&71	in the event the university develops a
Tuition Loan Program, this program will ht; offeted to the Assoclation-
671A The University and the AQSOciatiOii will jointly investigate the feasibility of ail endowment fund for the purpose of establishing a tuition loan program for employees.
For the Aegants of The University of Michigan
The Michigan Nurses Association
and
Date :
The University of Michigan professional
315
i
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING ' UNI7 RECONFIGURATION
675
In the event a patient population and/or
service is to be reconfigured within the University, the Association and the University shall meet to determine ’ the mochanism to resolve the placement of individuals in available positions in the newly configured units, and other issues that arise as a consequence of the reconfiguration prior to implementation. Topics for discussion should include, but need not be limited to:	Shift
preference, PTQ and holiday scheduling, seniority ranking, retention of classification, demotion and/or reduction-in-force, and employees on leaves of absence. (See Paragraph 292 and 662B1
675A
In the event there exist fewer Clinical II
positions io the reconfigured unit, it is not intended that current employees in that classification re-hid for positions.
67 6
Representatives of the Association shall not
suffer loss of time or pay for participation in meetings related to this issue.
67 6A
For purposes of cross training for merged or
reconfigured units, adequate time will be allowed for orientation to meet necessary clinical competencies for the patient population. if a temporary change of shift, at the request of the University is required, there will ba no loss in pay, including shift differentials, bonuses and premiums. Part-time appointment hours may be adjusted for orientation,


676B
Employees with the highest seniority uti a rrergcd or reconfigured unit will have first priority for voluntary reduct ion-iil-lOrCc status,
Far the Regents of The University of Michigan
Date;
The Michigan Korses Association
and
The University of Michigan ProfebeIona1 JJurse council Cl.
217
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING ANNIVERSARY DATES
S77	Anniversary date means the most recent date
of entry into the MNA bargaining unit. For employees transferring into the bargaining unit after January 14, 1932, the anniversary date means the moat recent date o£ hire a a a regular employee with the University. Employees who are reinstated following the eKecution of this Agreetnen-t shall retain their University date of hire as their anniversary date when they are reinstated.
For the Regents of The University of Michigan
The Michigan NUrges Association
and
Date f	/jy fo i
The University of Michigan Professional
Mil vc o Pm i n r* i 1
218
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
WORKFORCE TRANSITION
697	When a workforce transition neeti is
identified, a joint Aasoriation and university leadership group will meet to develop a workforce transition plan that identifies expected out cornea, strategies to achieve them, evaluation component and defined time frame?. Planning groups will include employees and will address the timing of transitions, training needs and ways to meet them and an orientation plan. During transition. planning the Association and the University will meet to work through seniority and other workforce transition issues needing clarification- A? the transition plan is being developed, '-he University will provide ongoing, timely information to employees related to how transitions will affect them,
697A Information will be shared with the Association leadership on changing structures and endeavors of the University while providing training opportunities in forecasted growth areas. The Association and the University will be jointly involved ’ with the planning (Strategic,.
taS	It is recognised that content and role
expertise can he learned, therefore, decisions regarding potential job opportunities shall demonstrate flexibility and Openness. Relevant training programs will be identified and/or developed to assist employees in the transition process, if needed. These will include, but are not limited to:
Inpatient opportunity clinics.
nurses
to float
may be
to similar
g i ven an outpatient
Opportunities wil] be provided to nurses tc gain skills, ar.d experience, or observe in emerging and existing areas Cither through Central - staffing Resource, ar on unpaid time. This will allow nurses who are interested to explore other areas prior to making a commitment.
219
65?	It ig	underetcod	that training and
orientation will be initiated prior to the completion of th* transition. If the transition results in reduction of the working force, resources will be utilized to assist in the placement of displaced employees. Funds will be solicited to support nurses in the training and development associated with career transitions and development. In addition, training programs will be offered to laid off employees for needs in new practice areas, i.e. primary care, community, and new technology, (Reference Article XXVI1.
For th* Regents of The University of Michigan
The Michigan Nurses Association
and
hate:
The University of Michigan Professional Worse Council
220
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING DUAL UNIT POSITIONS
700	In order to respond to variations in
work-load, it in desirable to create dual unit positions in the Clinical Nurse II classification, a home unit will be designated for seniority based decisions. The individual nurse will be able to choose an alternative unit, from a list of areas with known needs-Advanced scheduling will be provided and this posit ion will be implemented bo as to avoid overtime, {See Intent Note for Paragraph 700)
7CH	It is further agreed that Ho current
employee® would be required to take such a position, nor would any current employees be placed in reduction-in-force statue to create auch positions
For the Regents of The University of Michigan Date: 221	The Michigan Nurses Association and The University of Michigan Professional	; Nurse Council 1 i ■j s _::j t •_>« t
memorandum of ukderstaSding RELEVANT LABOR MARKETS
102
Tin- parties agree if the phivetsity engages in different tie.al.th date UMe-knesfieg aTid/tt conducts business in different geographic Ideations 1) the University will extend, full insured belief its, as defined in Article Xcin, to nufsea in the above bueineseea or locations and 2) the Association and the University will -meet to determine what possible except lone to Other current provisions may be established in local operating agreementa, it is understood that relevant labor markets will be included in the considerations, to this end, as the University engages in additional health cure businesses and/or conducta business in different geographic locations ij the Association and Che University will iseat to design prototypss for relevant labor market rates, benefit packages and other current contract provisions that may impact arrangements with Bush btisineeees and J) the Association and ths university will meet to wjatually determine resolution, if deviations from the established prototypes are determined desirable.

The Michigan Nurses
For the Regents of	Association
The University <>f Michigan
and
The University of
Michigan professional
Date:

222
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING GRADUATE JJURSE
710	Hile Conf iritis OUr agreement to create a DeK
da BEi.fi. eat inn of CrTatmate Nurse, whirl i is limited co individuals who are graduates of u registered professional nursing program, and are awaiting State o£ Michigan licensure, The duration of employment uf any one individual in this classification is limited Co foiif calendar months, with Che specific purpose of allowing time to take the State Boards in order tn obtain a Michigan professional registered nurse license. Failure to obtain the license within four calendar months of the coinmen cement of emgloyuuent; will result in termination of employment -	Such teitnination will not be
Subject to	the Dispute and Arbitration
prcMiel-Mia tf thia fcgreeraetit,
711	During this four-month period/ the Graduate
Unrsfc will not atfXtie seniorit^ - Abets? to scheduled	PTC1 is	nt	the University's
discretion-	The pay fate will be 1 5t less
than the minimuni salary for a Clinical Nurse i in the applicable wjge schedule in Appendix A.
712	The Graduate Nutse's title will bs changed
to Clinical Nurse 1, and pay adjusted to the minimum rate of the applicable wage schedule, effective with the beginning of the first biWeekly pay period following receipt by the University of evidence of 3 tat a lic*neu.te. Upon licensure, the employee will be subject to the Probationary Period as outlined in Article IT- at thin. agreed nt.	Following
successful completion of probation, the employee will accrue seniority from the original date of hire as a Graduate Wuret,
Fer the Regents of The University of Michigan
The Michigan Nurses
Date ■■
The University of Michigan Profess!Onal Nurse Council
223
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING OVERTIME MANAGEMENT
713	The parties will explore the feasibility
of creating alternative roles for areas with on-call requirements,
"H	In. addition, the parties will establish a
joint group, including representatives trom the relevant areas, to examine the possibility of adding USE clusters ta provide support to those areas not currently covered by CSR..
For the Regenta of The University of Michigan
The Michigan Nurses Associalion
and
Date :
The University of Michigan professional
KFi ir a □ r^nh Hir'd 1
224
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING WORK REDESIGN OPPORTUNITIES
715	A joint group will be established to
identify work redesign opportunities in an effort to decrease nursing workload. If the workload under Sen eideratian is nursing work, only, this group will oversee the redesign program. If the workload ie not solely-nursing work, thia group will identify employees to participate in the redesign process.
iku-n a/C-7
For tlie Regents bf
The University of Michigan
The Michigan Nurses Association
Date:

The University of Michigan Professional
Wliraa f’r'umr'll
225
I
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING AMBULATORY CARE OOLLABQRATIVE PRACTICE MODEL
716	in order 'to promote, support and ensure <;$
quality patient care in the ambulatory care setting, a collaborative practice .model will	"P
be developed- by the AsstjciatinrL anti the >) University during the life of this agreement, ./ (See Intent Note for paragraph 16SB}
717 The objectives of the model will be to:	it
1)	Enhance the nurse/physician relationship;
2)	provide a model for delegation and -J, supervision of patient car# activities,-	JSj
3)	Establish a process for resolving workload concerns that cannot be addressed at the local level:
4)	identify opportunities for coat efficiencies in the Ambulatory Care Ulinics,
For the Regents The University of Michigan
The Michigan Nurses
Association
and
The University of Michigan Professional
Date:	_____
Nurse council
226
MEMORANDUM of UNDERSTANDING PROFESSIONAL ISSUES
71S	The joint bargaining teams agree to
mutually conduct a review of: current incumbents in the Clinical Nurse III, ClinisaL Care Coordinator and Selected Clinical Nufse II roles to determine the appropriateness of the classification and to establish a benchmark for purposes of future classification.
For the Regents of ’ The University of ■Michigan
The Michigan Nurses Association
and
The University of
Michigan Professional
Date:
227
S3
MEMORANDUM OF UIWEKSTANDING TRANSFER AND PROMOTION
719	The Association and the University will
meet jointly to define and/or rephrase required and desired qualifications as competencies -
For the Regents or The University of Michigan
The Michigan Nurses Associ ation
and
The University of Michigan Professional Nurse Council
220
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING MARKET ASSESSMENT
720	Prior to July 1,	2003, a joint Tarket
assessment Will be conducted ta evaluate the need for any adjustment, to the wage schedules. Data will be reviewed co determine whether adjustments should he made to one or more classdfications. Criteria for adjustment include:
1]	Average actual rates below Che 75th percentile compared against regional competitorsr (aee Intent Note lor Paragraph 730)
2)	Vacancy rates exceeding ten per cent (10%} aa confirmed by an analysis ot budgeted versus filled positions. (Vacancy rate calculation is posted RN FTE divided by filled RN ITE.'.i
3)	Overtime triggera.
721	By mutual agreement, adjustments tray be
made based upon any other criteria that the Association and the University deem appropriate.
For the Regents of The University of Michigan
The Michigan Nurses Association
and
The University of Michigan Professional Nurse Council
Cate:
22 3
■ COfjEfeffiCT AfcDEtiEiHM"
:':7 '. ■■	■' ^rJDEMBUM: A ■
. •	:	GOJEElIKES
.' v.T^e'Ifiarjupttf: ..r-ei^taa to
■: -.sfftresiLlial.in^-;&£■ ■■ ujjlJt-bs,B*4.-.■:jteitip.M;*ry' • &uts«-. is to epiutt ■ ■ ;ch»t . tfcju'iar .	■.’Setfeisi& ■ prior 1ty in
" ■ .Stc.bssti«jSj2fig\ ' ..'ia>	■: tiler a :i a aa j-ni^reet in
■ haiTiflg	share. " in ■ yn?rJiiLng weeJtE?nd
■ .Jsfri.fi Bfj,.otf^shiftp .'*11$; dprjp.g?;■■.'h^fc.Iiday■;■^l^re:k■3, oh d-rase unit!? _■ whlg-fi 'ifkifreisliii*' . po ■’. * ’	.baais-.	’ The
..:jf*iijSwipg ;iajAa 7 apply .’ ta--. tift1 t-.be seel temporary
. ■juries.: £f£ entire :• April. '• 11.,.. 2W2 , ■ tfee lines apply ”'t0 ..t^tnppr^s^ • juries 'whet sera:', part ■ p£ a CSR ■d:U'3,pir*.	..■■■■■	.
"£’dch.i^U't'-k>a3:pa: tempCKiry ejnpiojjes .ktorling three"
:'■• -.-.-cfc;-Ttro^'	jje-’r.	-p^xioti will, be
.j^chedl^.e^- 'tii '■■wca?!?. a.'" Hinieiutfi- ei' .tw& mteteTYd
. .shlft^ P.&t.' .;s?(jhfectuiln^.^eri£Hl .< kicrnrs: - .1
'. The ■ centra=-uai def in it ion bi'* weekend
■. sppjlie^ -ffif1. ^fintptx ary. employe e.«; * .
tb.tn^btairy ■ niti'sesi ,yf.b p.ren<h,eduie
' ;&r . fewis* •gfakfljs jiet scheduling.- per led do not
. 1-fiave .^b -me^ -.tie ?:«.«(*leji'd. 'rsqK.irjertrtintf., They itay Shirrl cwvi.
,.■ ' Eteth	will .be
'■ ' 'r' '' L '" '$■" "	c*i- *<&£. .;
W-S*d-

'.	■ guidelines
‘ ■ ■■ jjpnn, ■	i. • ruhit <: ■' ' ""
s.,,	_ ... 7._\ j<:	-.!.’. ’.	..	.. ..._
.jfaha^eXS! '■ *tkI7 temporaly ■: nukse* me yt -ro '-di scua 3
_., ....__________ ■ 'ectrffdul'ijii
it - li ;.sfeC'arrimt=.n<iee?:'..t,ftat
. iiS'r. '■■ ;?L«Trlt-bp^t4; ;&sirp*;taiy< jfuijfag ■ will. be :: ■;.	thzted •; t;of- ^jjirit the jsurfipeff’" erf. ■ Btrid t® dur.i n g
■■'.'iiiiil'id^j-- -:.#i®[s^.; tiiat.'-' i&f leet.5	normal
'.	' . Tefflpbr.aty mrcs&s. :a?icu-i(t be
•■:	i, iar--	'. bill EtS:.. du'.jtlfi 5. tiiJM t? but nf.the
:br>e. -■&£■. thesis' wa'.eJca should • ' :&£.'.• Ciirl^£jtiw -:.o/ jffew! ¥e*t-’:sC	■ {ft week ia
d&fiKeh as'. Sijrrsia#. i,hr&ugh jSatpr<Jaf during which thia iji&iiday -frfl’Hl...


COMTRfJZT SJQOEMDUH
Unit-baged temporary nurses are to be scheduled after all regular Staff are tc ti.edu L’rd. pec contract language.
5, Temporary nurses are to be paid at a consistent level across the Hospitals. The rate has been Uet ac-.t'E’iirrn to the labor market end, iniil. be adjusted cn a central level only following a labor market study. (Periodic audits will be completed to ensure consistency in salary amonq temporary nurses] .
*GuideLiner apply to all unit-based temporary nurses
regardless of hire date.
A - 2
C<WRA.CT AQDEHnUM
rtDDbJ-’DUt-l E
joint umpnc/um management ?Tu guidelines
As Initially agreed in 1998 when the Paid Time Off (PTO) Guidelines were implemented, the Joint tiMf&Vl/Madegft'asnt	Implement at Lov. Team. (jm;1:
evaluated PTO implementation for 18 months. Based upon an analysis of pto usacje, a survey of nurse managers and anecdotal comments by nurse managers and UMPNC membership, iasuea were identified and options gen*rated fy; changes tn the gui de Lines. Based upon the evaluation, the FTP Guidelines were revised effective September 1,	1999, Highlights of the
changes together with the JIT rationale are outlined below*
PTO Guidelines were created to support the professional and responsible behavior related to the use uf paid time off. it is our collective belief that treating professionals Utilizing professional guidelines and principles results in accountable behavior. It is our desire to continue to function from a premise of expecting professional and responsible behavior. As professionals, you deserve to be trested as professional and these guidelines are intended to be responsive to that.
Lt is the intent of the PTQ Guidelines, as well aa the contract scheduling language, to provide sufficient access to prescheduled time off so that Only the exceptional request would ocCUr after the schedule is posted. It is an expectation that, planning E-ar such activities as vatatlt.s', and Lei.suit be done with sufficient notice to allow the employee to utilise the contractual vacation request period and/or the usual schedule request process-
If the request is titniwi doe- to the inability tn get resources end the employee is not able to work, it is assumed that the decision not to work is due to emergent or unexpetted circumstances Other than those which would normally b^ pre“SChedul^d (e.g., not for vacation or leisure-type activities lor the enjoyment of the employes) .The continuous use of PTO tn an unscheduled manner can be construed as a failure of the system and as behavior that may require intervention. The use of unscheduled time creates a
A - J
CONTRACT ADDENDUM
negative impact on patient care and upon the work schedules and subsequent job satisfaction of your colltigu'es .
Therefore, as a refinement which clarified the original interests and intent of PTC, the following q'uidv liT.es reflect the	iTwiicattd above.
Additional revisions Have been made tc incorporate changes in the June 2dO0 Agreement.
1-	Employees ^huuld request sthedciled hT'O time as far in advance as possible.
Scheduled Bequests:
■ Annual Vacation Bequests (Annual FTO Requests)
• In seniority order for remaining vacation blocks that are available following the request period on the unit. (See Paragraph 1330) .
+ Schedule request time - for incidental requests.
Unscheduled Requests
*	Requests for ngeds which became known after schedule request period hut greater than 40 hours..
•	Tbeee toquests must be made to the manager.
Unanticipated Requests
•	Employee needs that arise with less than 48 hours notice.
2, No justification for the use of PTO will be required with the following exceptions:
• If PTO i.£ used tn conjunction with s holiday, see Paragraphs 352 ± 350.
■ If unscheduled PTO is taken contiguous to a scheduled PTO request (either prior to or immed lately following the time: off), the nurse manager may require an explanation of
A - 4
contract addendum
the absence and verilication of the reason, dS appjropri ate ,
* If PTC is used for health care appointment [see Paragraphs 333T & 333U)-
*	Cisclusute uf rea?M fol absentee isw. is required for accessing short-term disability (STD) and bridge bant reimbdtsement.
These guidelines ate intended tn presmote personal and professional responsibility.
■	Employees should disclose length of time needed for PTC-
■	This wiU include unscheduled, scheduled and
unanticipated time.
*	Disclosure of reason is required for accessing short-term disability fSTD) Or bridge bank reimbursement.
* Maintain balance,
awareness/self-mobitcring of
PTQ
*	Consider requests in the context of what is
happening on the unit.
Respect individual and peer needs for time off.
4.	Process to fill requests that occur after schedule request time hut greater than 4E* hours:
•	Submit CSR requests,
■	Seek volunteers for overappointment hours.
*	Seek unit based temporary availability.
*	Review standing overtime requests, if applicable.
•	Seek volunteers for overtime.
5,	Staff are encouraged th assist with staffing needs related to PTQ requests by volunteering tn work n.ver$ppuLntJl.'irrt hO.'Jis, 'relwte'ei:iiig ’ tc. float and seeking Other options for coverage per unit guidelines.
5
contract addendum
fc. Trading remains an option within unit guidelines,
T - If PIO accrual is exY,austwi wheT, pifeviously scheduled FTO time arrives:
*	If eiQ accrual is eAbaueted whtlt scheduled vacation arrives, vacation will be cancelled and the time may Joe offered to other staff.
•	If PTO accrual is almost exhausted (t.g, 3 days left}, the manager will ask the employee which days he/she chooses to use and the remainder may he offered to other staff.
•	if the employee's Pro is exhausted due to assigned (mandatory) time off or work related illness or injury, within the past year, it will he the employee's discretion whether to take the previously scheduled vacation with no pay or to cancel it, (The year is the period from May 1 to April 30)
0. A meeting may be initiated when there is concern related to the continuous use of unscheduled and unarLt-lclpatftfi PTC- iTitluilinq Lb's Ute of partial shifts and	contiguous unscheduled	and
unanticipated time with scheduled time.	The
discuss ion will include a UMBKC representative in addition	to	the	manager and	the employee.
The purpose	of	the	meeting is	to provide sr.
opportunity	for	the	employee tp	clarify their
actions, to	develop	a mutual understanding of
the employee's issues and of the impact of the employee's absenteeism on patient cart and on the work life of other staff members, and tc develop a mutual plan to ifiinimite the use of unscheduled and unanticipated PTO.
<t should be ngted that meetings related to any use of unapproved no pay time due to exhaustion of PTO actiunl may have the outcome of diac ip Unary action and should include representation by UMFNC and HRD in addition to the m.ariaggt a.rvd erauploy&e.
A - b
CONTRACT ADDENDUM
'J, Unanticipated, or last minute requests for partial aMtits create an additional burden on remaining staff due to the inability to obtain tnve S a^e. therefore,
*	Units will receive periodic reports on the war kIced and ope rat Lona 1 cricae.qiiecuz^s o£ partial shift abaence.
•	Employees are? expected to identify their needs £t!r partial shift absences as early as possible and to be active in assisting with obtaining coverage.
•	Employees are expected to notify thd manager or designee uf the length of the expected absence whenever possible.
■	Employees anticipating a used for late arrival or early departure front a scheduled shift can make alternate coverage arrangements utilizing . language from Paragraph 147 i.lo sc commodate an employee's schedule request, the overtime premium in Paragraph 143 will be waived provided there lie Bt'.'ev. (11 hOAze between the. tsid tf one shift and the beginning o£ the dent shift, in no case shall an employee deliv tiring direct patient tare be permitted, to return to work following an overtime shift with less than seven (7} hours off between shifts except as noted in Paragraph 175D. (See Article XIII, Staffing and Scheduling)- When such arrangements are made it is aaagmed that both employees have agreed to waive the overtime relative to Paragraph 147.
•	Employees who need a partial shift absence for health care appointments must comply with the process outlined in fajragraph 3337;
» When there is a concern ■ abouc an employee's frequency or regularity of partial shift absences, a meeting may be convened with UHPU/l, the	and the tmple.yev th ievit'rt
and problem solve as needed -
A - 7
CONTRACT ADDENDUM
10, The. Cb-int Lt-Atou's use oi PTO in an unscheduled pr unanticipated manner can be construed as a failure of the system and as behavior that setjuije intervention, The use of unscheduled Of unanticipated time creates a negative impact nn patient care and upon the work schedules aiid subsequent job satisfaction of your colleagues. Therefore:
*	Unit data related to the scheduled, unscheduled and unanticipated percentage by period will ba p-rc.-jidfed on a periodic basis.
*	Staff are reminded that it is the intent of the pzocfrsn £or scheduled time off that only the exceptional Ply request would occur aft^r the unit schedule is posted.
*	Employees are encouraged to Utilize work Jife/home life resources available through the Employee Assistante Program, support groups, etc.
» When there ia a concern about an employee'-■ frequency or regularity of unscheduled and/pr unanticipated ¥10, a meeting may be convened with UMPKC, the manager and the employee to review and problem solve as needed. The intent of the ■meeting ia to provide a mutual understanding of the need for unscheduled/unanticipated time off and. to develop i plan to minimize its use.
71. It is not the intent that in.iaphtduil.ed or unanticipated PTO be used to extend a scheduled PTC. However, we recognize that extenuating circumstahce? may occur iv a me instance-Therefore:
• If unscheduled or unanticipated PTQ is taken either prior to and or iollowing a scheduled PTO, the nurse manager may require an expla-nitibn of the absence and verification of the reason as appropriate.
' When there is a concern about an employee's frequency or regularity of unscheduled and/pr
A - 9,
CWTHACT ADDENDUM
unanticipated PTC cnntigunus to scheduled PTO, a fileeting tnay ■ tie coiuren^d hSittj the manager and the employee to review and problem solve as needed.
12, It la a measure of professional accoutilabi 11 Ly that employees identify time off requirements in advafuze h.2. much as ia possible through the use Of the vacation/holiday request period and the monthly schedule request. period. These ptocessea litre thoughtfully crafted by joint team memPers and modified over tbe years based upon employee input to provide a fair and equitable system, far time off while maintaining adequate staffing for quality patient care. The continuous use of unscheduled and/iir unanticipated time off reflects a lack of preplanning and may be interpreted as disregard for professional and personal accountability, Therefore:
*	Requests for additic.'nal time nfi following the posting of the unit Schedule 5 tic u l.d be reserved for those events about which the efcp Lc.y 'is	not aware during the usual
request period.
*	7Tie use of unscheduled and unanticipated PTO should be reserved fur those times when the employe* is unable to come ter work due tp urgent or emergent personal circumstances and is not to be used fpr vacation or leisuretype activities for' ttie. tnjo.'ySWant of the efitp 10 y e e,
•	When there is a tiitjCETTi about an employee's frequency or regularity of the use of unscheduled and/or unanticipated time off, a feting may be convened with UMfR’C, the manager and the employee for the purpose or clerifleetibn of the employee's actions and. to develop a- plan fur advanced scheduling of time off.
13. As part of the evaluation process, anecdotal comments were received from staff members about the absenteeism of theit Co1I'ts. Wbiia the

A - 3

ravrii-LDTing and -mpruvement of performance is ths responsibility of the manager and the individual employee, constructive feedback js also part uf our professional responsibility to mir colleagues. Therefore;
*	As a courtesy, staff members are encouraged tc approach their pe<iss aboMt absenteeislti pride to reporting this to the manager when possible.
•	dur sing p.ratf aie ordinarily encouraged to share constructive feedback about the impact of certain behaviors as it relates to patient care and to the general work life of the unit.	'.uch feedback	is critical for
clinical performance and interpersonal relationships which are impacted by absenteeism.
•	Nursing staff are encouraged to utilize available resources to assist in this regard.
In support of the PTO process, the pertinent:
following is
•	will continue to provide staff
With information monthly about PTO accruals.
•	Core information will be identified to be oti all annual PTO request forms to assure agreement between staff and manager related to the amount of PTO time made available, amount requested, amount scheduled and aisnuns. denied,- it will be signed by both parties,
■	Seniority governs the resolution of competing requests.
■	There will be continue to be joint monitoring and evaluation cf the system.
■	The joint PTO Advisory Group will continue to exi St m order to do problem-solving, monitoring and evaluation related to the implementation of the revised PTO Guidelines.
A
CONTRACT ADDENDUM
ADDENDUM C DISABILITY ACCOMMODATION GUIDELINES
1.	Recess to £ccoirutiodated work must be preceded by timely, sufficient	mealcal	dmcuwientat -. -:.r.
provided by the employee.
2.	An employee with a medical restriction will be accoCTnodated on t.b.e. bows '..imt If tbert is 'work that meets the restrictions as outlined 1:1 tne medical documentation-
3,	[?lac.e.v.esit on	unit for a time-3 imlted
restriction will be coordinated by the director and manager of the home unit in collaboration with CSB-
4.	if appropriate accommodated work is not iivailable, the employee may not riork and will bo placed an the appropriate status (i-e., ?T0r STD, 1.0A) .
5.	^ork --connect ions will become involved in the
£s s e a aimsfi L	and interpretation. of medi.-t.al
documentation as well as the coordination of wnrk-site evaluation, employee assessment and appropriate matching of restrictions Lc job functions as follows, i	;
Employee with a work-related injury □■;■■ illness at the time of the initial injury or illness;
Employee who self-refers at any time;
c.. Employee requesting accommodated work for a long-term restriction;
d- Employee requesting return tn work fcom	।
Long-Term Disability (LTD) .status;	|
t->.	Employee requesting accommodated work for a
time-limited re str icti on, but who does not.	1
present sufficient medical documentation;
CONTRACT ADDENDUM
f l Employee reqjesting accommodated work for a time-limited restriction, but who cauoejt be accommodated on the home unit or placed on another unit through CSR;
g,	Employee who requests an extension of shott-1eim disability, or an extension of a medical leave of absence;
h.	Employee whose initial request for shortterm disability or leave of absence is not accompanied by sufficient meilital documentation, or is deemed excessive by the manager;
i.	Enuployea wtin dtsires it. pursue accommodated work opportunities at the time tbe initial request for short-term disability or leave of absence is presented- in this regard, the manager may initiate a discussion about accommodated work with the employee at this time, however if the employee does not agree, the issue will not be pursued during the initial absence, assuming approval of the absence by the manager,
j.	Nursing Administration, UMPNC leadership, Human Resources will work together with Work-Connections to facilitate timely, appropriate placement of employees who require work accommodations as outlined in the attached flowchart.
Definitions:
A time-limited restriction is a temporary inability to perform the full range of duties due to a medically documented condition which is expected to uhaTige or improve such that the employee may return to his/her usual duties within six months (or nine months for pregnancy, excluding childcare leave of absence).
A long-term restriction is an inability to' perform the full range of duties due to a medically documented condition which is not expected to change of improv^ within six months (or nine months for poegoar,cy, excluding childcare leave of absence),
A - 12
I
CDHTEACT ADDENDUM
An a ccomjiioda t i on is the Use of adaptive devices cr aids, or the reorganization of duties or envircrunont such that an employee with restrictions can per form, the essentia] functions of a position.
P. tfjee-l.aV schedvile is a schedml e designed tn meet ar. employee's medically-documented work restriction related CO shift length, number of sequential da ya in a week, number of hours in a week. Lime cf day, or Shift rntation which is substantially different frcr. the usual schedules of a unit employee with the same classification and seniority who does net have a work restriction.
A -
1.3

$ 3
I
intent notes
ARTICLE I: RECOGNITION AND DEFINITIONS
5/10	We agrfie to educat* TOetvager-s reg az di rig the
use of temporary staff:
a)	Relief for regular eczpioyee ached^l.-fed pto.
b)	Not as an allowance for paid time off,
c)	Not built into <0 hour/w^ek schedules unless filling in for leaves of absence, extended sick, unfilled posted poaitiasis (Reference Overtime System, Article XV).
d)	Limited in duration.
10	The parties will evaluate the definition of
a temporary employee as defined in Paragraph 10 to bring the definition into harmony with the system as outlined in Article XX, Variable Activity, Paragraph Iflt.
14	Any case started in Core "C" will he
completed by Core "C nurses unleas there are volunteers from Cores "A" or "B".
Cross coverage between Cores A, [3 and C will be voluntary.
Payroll, scheduling, hiring end management win be separate tor core pcH*
IS If an employee believes that an assignment will ttmprtmiiBe patient care and safety, he/she will not!fy the manager or designee through the usual chain of command for prompt problem stivin^.
ARTICLE III: FRO FES SIGNAL NL'RSING
2CA	The American Nurses Association (ANA)
position statement on the use of unlicensed assistive per sotine 1 will be accessible tc employees on the units and included in centra) orientation. The delegation competencies will he mutually reviewed 2>™J then ths gaps will be identified and addressed.
1-1
intent notes
22	The American Nurses Association [ANA; and
th* Michigan Nurses Association {MNA] ।jft 1 E-ga11 On guidelines will be adopted.
Registered Nurse input means an employee who is a member df the bargaining unit.
25	Examples of "whenever possible" include new
equipment teaching and external legal legistation-
2BA Advance Tract!ce Murses (APN) will be evaluated by another APH whenever passible. In addition, ARN’s will he evaluated using tools designed specifically for the applicable APN role. If a tool is not currently available, the A.VN' □ will be involved in the development of an evaluation tool for their rolea.
An employee signature Of. a performance evaluation does not coofirm agreement with the evaluation.
ARTICLE IX: ASSOCIATION OR I ENT AT IOS
70	We agree that transfers into the Bargaining
ttilit will be scheduled for Association orientation. We will work with Educational Services for Nursing to schedule time amd site, and with managers to schedule the employee so that overtime will not be incurred.
We agree that Association orientation is paid time for the orienteea and. that the tLhair or Designee will try to condut-t orientation on non-paid time. If that is not feasible, the university will try to provide thirty (30) minutes of paid release time. h’e also agree that the University will not attend the portion of orientation related to membership or dues,
AftTTCl£ XL I;
COMPONENTS OF EARWINGS 4 PAYCHECK CORRECTIONS
87	PTC1 utilization and balances will be
printed on the employee pay stubs at the time df systems capability.
1-2
INTENT NOTES
ARTICLE XIII: STAFFING AHO SCHEDULING

lhe Staffing factor will be adjusted to be ctris1stent with units’ activities in the dr&as of toad trips, transfers, admissions and discharges.
Adequate resources will be provided to meet worXloati, including allowances for expected time off.
Develop support for managers to plan when and how much time off can be tolerated and maintained, Any patient classification system used by the University is not the able criteria for detemdnifig adequate staffing.
The Association Will participate in the evaluation of any workload measurement tools under consideration.
90	Coordination, of schedules and resolution of
ally Other professional nr contractual Concerns related to regular employees working split appointments on different utti-ia will be addressed through collaboration among the employee and the unit managers.
91	The definition of a weekend for temporary
employees will match the cuntract'iel definition of a weekend.
Any unit based temporary will be required to work some weekends and off shifts, and shifts during holiday irtteka. The Workload review coitsmittee will review equitability. (See Addendum A: Tettiporary Nurse scheduling Quids Lined
91 "Emergency” medns:
a)	There are no other opt-iosia available tc teTTifttly the situation
1-3
intent notes
b)	The unit is unable to function, and changing the schedule is of the highest degree necessary to ensure the unit's ability tc function
c)	Budgetary considerations do not constitute ar, et^frlgency
99	"Not normally1' means unusual, rare
occurrence.
100	We agree that an empla^f^a vl/s r^iests t.r>
work additional weekend shi ft5 cannot be denied those shifts as long as there is any other employee on the unit who wants additional weekends off provided the staff remaining have the ability to do the work. The intent is to increase weekends off for those employees who desire that schedule by allowing other employee? to work additional weekend shifts hy request.
We ?4i'se that the eight Itij weekend shifts shall be counted consecutively.
"Equitably as practicable'1 refers to employees available to have an extra weekend off. We agree there are iraglica.tltm.a related to scheduled time off: staff will not be required to take accrued PTO in order to maintain eguitabilityf staff on scheduled paid time off need to be taken into account.
Employees in the clinical Nurse TH classification will work a portion of direct patient care on weekends unless the role prohibit? it.
114	Tarty psrceTit	is a minimum, not a
maximum. The intent is tc attract employees to straight off shifts by use of the bonus in order to increase the number of straight day shifts,
131	The six {6} month waiting period for shift
preference does not apply to employees who transfer as a result of reduction-in-force.

1-4
INTENT NOTES
'LAble TO do the work" in Step 2 means:
a)	not already working that shift
b)	the affected shift will have an acceptable mix ct staff, e.g,, not all new grads.
If option d) io Step 2 is used, this would not be considered a violation of Paragraph 92 cf the Agreement.
132A
Opportunities for additional non-direcL patient care time above that normally budgeted will be equitably distributed among employees working on well defined non-direct patient care activities.
&KJICIX S1V-; WHWL&M' HEVIcM
124
138
It is intended that each committee will.meet monthly or more often (at their discretion) When required/derired. Each committee Will establish and adhere to a precess tn determine, the defined regularity of meetings and indicators that will be used to determine the necessity of a meeting and thft communication of such to the committee membership. Agendas shall be posted with a request for staff input at least one (1) week prior to each .scheduled meeting. Committee decisions Shall be made by consensus following the receipt of staff input.
Each January, all coirmittee members will he oriented to the co^.ittw Charge- The committee charge will be defined, and reviewed annually by the Nursing Executive Council with Association Representatives frem all representation areas. Educational Services for Nursing will develop a program to addxesa educational needs as outlined in paragraph 119, The program will respond ho individual needs and incorporate training in interest based problem solving.
1-5
intent notes
ARTICLE XV: OVERTIME
141	A position which denies diily overtime will
twit he pasted.
The requirement for seven f?) hours between the end of one shift and the beginning nt the next shift does not preclude the employee working pursuant to tall front reporting to their next scheduled shift. (See paragraph 175D) .
140.1	Employees fulfilling work obligation^ in of I'.w.ch sh^lL be paid	&v ei time
accordingly.
157	A temporary employee may replace a tegular
employee who is working overtime/over appointment hours with th* exception of prescheduled over appointment hours.
158 Guidelines for Recording Systems, for applicable areas related to Overtime, Assigned Tima Off, On-Ca.ll and. Float
Eligible overtime and overappointment will be recorded for purposes of detertaLtiiri-g payment of premiums, hours accrued toward limit, assigning overtime and release whan overtime is no longer needed.
Overtime will be recorded in a log (a) comprised of two ocxnponents: equity and scheduling
Hours accrued toward an individual limit will be recorded in an equity log. Hours accumulated in excess of the defined limit (hours that quality for the pver-limit premium) will pot be recorded in the equity log, Eligible evert iw/over appcint-ffiftht hours worked add ail Other hours qualifying for the over-limit premium will be recorded in the schedule period Log.
Credit for eligible float occurrences will be recorded pn the equity log or (he
X-«
INTENT NOTES
assigned time off leg, at the employee's direction as the date of last occurrence.
■ Details regarding the format, definition of occurrence, method for "zeroing" the insa, etC-, will he det entitled by each unit's Workload Be view Connuittde.
163	The University agrees to provide each
Workload Review Committee and the Association with a report tvety four weeks 1 Title.ding, but not limited to, all hours worked by employees on the unit, all hpurs worked hy temporary staff, all Overtime hours, all mandatary overtime hours, all overappointment hours, all mandatory overappointment hours, all unanticipated overappointment hours, and calculations of the review triggers described in Paragraph 163a. The calculation of overtime and overappointment hours in the Outpatient and tkealvYj Center aceas will Ue dnne on individual Clin;c/area basis-
163A	Non-productive Clinical Nurse Til time will
be included in the overtime trigger formula.
if overt line data has not been submitted by a unit by the time the trigger meeting is held, the information will be provided to the association within one (Ij week of the date of the meeting.
163A.2 The Association Chairperson will meet with th* Director of Patient C$re Services for the AJnbulatory Cafe Clinics to review this trigger on a regular basis,
163B UNIT CATEGORIES
2d/7 Units
For purposes of the overtime system, 24/7 units ate those areas where patient care is provided twenty four hours/seven days per week, included with the 24 27 units are the Fj.A add 5C infusion areas, Vascular Access Services and CSR employees assigned to 24/7 clusters,
1-7
intent notes
Women's. Hospital Birthing center, Emergency
Department, ECMO
Due to the on-call reQuiremstits related ta unscheduled patient care, the Emergency i	Department, Women13 Hospital Birthing Center
and ECHO have 3 separate overtime system. In addition, these areas dire conaidercd to be ।	unscheduled, pat Lett cate ureaa fcf. the purpose
'	of Article XV11, On-Call Systems and Pay only.
,	Procedure Areas (Unscheduled Fatlent Care
:	Areas)
I
i.	.For the application pf the overtime system,
;	procedure areas ire usually described as
|	follows:
I	- -	1, patient tire is not scheduled an a tweuty-
r	four hour/seven day basis;
2.	On-call is required to manage unscheduled patient care;
I
3.	Patient care is related primarily to specific procedures and/or treatment.
Based upon these criteria, procedure areas
|	includj*, hut are not limited to: Operating
Rooms, Post Anesthesia Care/Recovery Aress, Medical 'Procedures Unit, Acute and Chronic Hemodialysis, Livonia Surgery Center Operating Rooms, Photophereais, Cancer Center Infusion Areas, CaivcAr Center Procedure Atea^ Bl and Bl, Radiology, Cardiac Cath Lab, BP Lab and Transfusion Aphe/esia Services.
Ambulatory Care Clinics
For purposes of the overtime system, hire rates for	external	candidates,	and the
i	Ambulatory	care	Collaborative Practice Model,
:	Ambulatory	Care	Clinics	are usually	described
:,	as follows*.
1. Care is provided primarily to outpatients,-
I-B
intent notes
2,	Patient cate is not provided twenty-four hc?u ra / seven da y a;
3,	The unit, is whjfeze physicians hold office hours for the	purpose	of	seeing
outpatients;
Based upon these criteria Anihiilstory Care CL Ln ids LtuzLude, but are not limited to; Taubman Center clinics. Comprehensive Cancer and Geriatric Center clinics, Pediatric Surgery and Pediatric Cardiology clinics. Pain Clinic, Employee Health Service, university Health Service, MiW.S CLiriid, CatVoer An^et Lxltie, Ba di a tier. Oncology, Burn Clinic, the primary care health centers, Riverview clinic, Plastic Surgery clinic, Preventive Cardiology clinic, Med Sport and other off-site specialty clinics,"
HpmeMed and Practice Management Services are included with the Ambulatory Uare Chnic? for purposes of the overtime system only.
1630 Through joint agreement, an individual unit or units may be designated for a specific time period during which the .hours worked would be eligible for a premium above the applicable overtime and trigger bonus. The specific detail about the premium and the timeframe will be announced each time a joint decision is made.
163P Open shifts may be posted as overtime cr supplemental . on-call hours with agreement between the unit workload review committee and the manager. If the hours are posted as supp1emental on-cajl hours, the hours will be credited toward the individual limit at the time the commitment is made.
163X Alternate schedule changes within the pay period or work week may be made with manager approval.	Weekly/bi-weekly timesheets must
accurately reflect the hours werked-
r-s
INTENT NOTES
ARTICLE XV-a: ASSIGNED TIME OFF
164C An employee who is assigned off will not ba required to be on call or return to work during that employee's shift.
1643 ’’Endeavor to" means:
a) Needs of the unit which address issues related to clinical competence and ability to do the work. Thia stay require flexibility of both the manager/employer and the employee.
b} Is dependent on the ability of the remaining staff tn do the work.
cl Does not depend on the amount <?f Scheduled PTO the staff have, or whether they are on vacation.
ARTICLE XVTI: ON-CALL SYSTEMS AND DAY
17DA	Due to the requirement for on-call systems,
titYis pltitedsure aitaa at identified in "Paragraph 1636.4, plus ths Emergency Department, ECHO and Women’s Hospital Birthing Center are considered to be unscheduled patient car* areas for purposes of Article KVil, an-Call Eyaterns and Pay. (See Intent Note 163B Unit Categories)
171	The parties agree that on-call pay is
received even though the on-call period is contiguous with the employee's regular shift,
172	The first "practicable" meins:
a)	The ability to do the work and clinical needs of the unit; or,
b)	in large units or units wfiere employees <are having difficulty scheduling themselves, it is more practicable to have the manager aasiqtx epuitahly	alien employees to
make switches later.
The second "practicable" means:
1-10
INTENT NOTES
a.! Pefejrs tn the prqratioh- ca.ua Log schedul i nri, ''nightmares”, where it would d is advent age full oi part time employees. We agree nt need objective criteria to assess this; or,
b) iteiers to the ability to do the work and to the clinical ne*ds of the unit and is not related tn budget.
17 5A Scheduled on-tall on 21/7 units may be cancelled with less than twenty-four (24) hours notice at the employee's teguest and with the manager's approval.
17 53 We agree that employees will not normally be required to work beyond the specified on-call time frame. we agree that this may occur in some situations in the unscheduled patient Care areas r i.e., staying an extra one half 1,1/2) hour to finish a case in the D.R, rather than calling in a new ur.-call team.
we agree the time should be short m duration.
We also agree' that employees will not be required tn work beyond the specified time frame simply to have them work the two (2) hours pay they will receive as a result ot being called in.
175C it is agreed that areas with a high f Teqxittity « 11-	site
probability cf working greater than twelve (12) hours on a regular basis is high.
JATICLE XX-, 'JJAXA&LE WZTI'Jm
IBflA C5H regular employees in need of placement will have priority over an inpatient employee seeking additional skills in thi? Ambulatory Care Clinics.
10OC lit the Operating Rooms, cases occurring after hours (on-call) win be conducted in the location best suited to the patient's needs. This will not be considered a float occurrence.
1-11
intent notes
In the operating rooms, float bonus, when applicable, will be paid through the conclusion of the case.
103	We agree that "not normally" refers to a
response to a situation that is expected to laat for a period of time and is anticipated. We also agree to continue to allow floating over the Christmas holiday for those units that wish to continue that practice.
We also agree that "not normally" refers to an isolated situation which requires a response, is urgent and not ongoing, and is related to patient care.
We agree that a nurse who is floated will be given less complex or difficult patients unless she/he requests more complex patients.
We agree that ir. other than "not normally" situation, floating will be on a voluntary basis.
105	The parties agree that the staffing system
.will be comprised of centralized and local resources and that an emphasis will be placed on providing work to regular employees to meet both anticipated and unanticipated needs. The parties will also explore the concept of establishing parameters for the release of a Central Staffing Resource (CSR) employee from an assignment.
Changes in planned CSR coverage will be reported tO' the unit charge nurse/lead nurse so that problem-solving may occur.
The University agrees that temporary employees should not be given work if a regular employee does not have work, as long as the regular employee is qualified to do the .work.
Employees who are subject to a reduction-in-force and who have not been placed in a regular job opening will replace a tempcraiy employee on a unit or may, at the University's
1-12
INTENT NOTES
option and at the employee’s request, fee temporarily placed as a regular employee through the central Staffing Resource for ninety {■‘301 days, effective the first day of work in CSR, unless there is joint agreement to extend the placement. In the absence of ar. extension, the employee may be offered a position for which he/she is qualified. Rejection of such an offer will be consideted a voluntary termination.
in the event that a regular employee replaces a unit-baaed temporary employee who is filling a position for another regular employee on extended sick, time or leave of absence where the position is being held, the employee subject to a reduction-in-force will only hold that position until the original regular employee returns to the position.
If the employee subject Lo a reduction-in-force has not been placed in a regular jot opening when the employee returns from extended sick time or leave of absence, the University will place him/her in another position nr the Central staffing Resource as outlined above, if work is available.
We agree tn educate managers regarding the use of temporary staff:
a) Relief for regular employee vacation
hi Not as an allowance for paid time off
c} Not built into $0 hour/week schedules unless filling in for leaves of absence, extended sick, unfilled posted positions (Reference Overtime System, Article XV}
d} Limited in duration
The parties will evaluate the definition of a temporary employee as defined in Paragraph id to bring the definition into harmony with the system as outlined in the Memorandum of Understanding, Temporary Employees.
1-13
INTENT NOTES
105B Effective April 11,	2002, CSR. temporary
employees inrill have the same weekend, off shift end holiday week requirements as unit based temporary employees (see Addendum A; Unit Based Temporary Nurse Schedule Guidelines!.
For administrative and scheduling purposes, unit-based temporary employees will be returned to the inpatient units. The Association will be notified as to the identity of these employees. A periodic review of a unit's scheduling practices related to the temporary employees will be conducted jointly.
18 SC	A process to provide Central Staffing
Resource coverage for those units with non-traditional and/or varying shift lengths will he developed.
105K CSR regular float employees will have assignment priority over temporary employees in the Ambulatory Care Clinics provided that the regular employee has the skill level required for the assignment. An attempt will be made to identify those Ambulatory Care areas where a special skill is required. (it is understood that some Csr float employees will rewain, available for unanticipated fills).
1B5L "Not normally'’ means when no other options are available, or where the employee worked previously.
IS5N The option for a seasonal assignment is not intended to be a dual unit position and as such, classification is not determinative. It is the intent that the employee would have a designated homa unit and that the secondary unit would pay for orientation,
ARTIC1E XXI
SENIORITY DEFINITIONS AND IjDSS OF SENIORITY
107	We agree that "seniority” does not include
temporary employment.
1-14
INTENT NOTES
ARTICLE XXV; PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
Employees may provide input, concerning a peer’s knowledge and skill level. The manager assumes sole responsibility for hiring, evaluation and promotion and for the completion of written documentation associated with these activities.
ARTICLE XXVI REDUCTION1 OF THE WORKING FORCE 4 RECALL PROCEDURES
247	We agree that "priority consideration''
means consideration including an interview.
248	"As soon as practicable" means as soon as
possible once the information ia available. The intent is to give enough time prior to the reduction'in-force to call a meeting to look at solutibns/alternativea.
251	Employees on personal leave of absence,
excluding medical, FllLA and military, whose positions are being held will be included for reduction-in-force in seniority order with other employees on that unit. Those returning from medical, EULA and military will begin reduction-in-force process, if applicable, upon return.
253 "Priority consideration.” means that an employee who has been subject to a r eduction-in-force, who has the required, qualifications, will be placed even if an external candidate is determined to be more qualified.
Clinical areas will be defined jointly and reviewed at the time of a reduction in forte to confirm cotiaistency with the agreed upon rationale.
The two week period for placement is the two full pasting periods following notification of reduction in force.
253A Employees returning from a leave of absence
will be placed in reduction-in-force status if
1-15
INTENT NOTES
there are insufficient open positions and/or tuo probationary employees. These employees will De placed in seniority order with those employees aobiact to a reductIon-in-force■
When an employee returns front a leave of ibsenpe and there are employees who have been subject to a reduction-in-force, the employee will be placed within the ctutractual seven (7) day time frame before other employees provided there are sufficient available pssitipns for all erppLD’j'eSjS to he placed, and the other employees have s time frame to be placed which is longer than the time frame for th* eatiployce returning from a leave of absence.
In. tlva erteut the employee subject to a reduction-in-force has less than seven (7) calendar days remaining in the nntifl<iatioTi period, he/she will be placed first.
259	in regard to placement of employees who
have been subject to a reduct ion-in- force in the CSH, we agree that:
a) Placement is at the University's discretion awi at the employee's option;
bi The employee may not refuse an offer of a regular position and opt to go into the CSR;
ci The intent is tc place the employee in a regular position or training posit Lott; arid,
d) The ■ employee rethink recall rights consistent with those of a laid off employee {paragraph 269),
259	An Association representative will
participate in the initial hatification meeting with rhe employee unless the timing ia Such that the representative cannot attend.
Whenever possible, formal notification of a reduction-in-force will be done as early Ln, tbe
1-16

INTENT NOTES
employee1s shift as Feasible. The employee ki.il not normally be expected to W k the t emaihid® c of the shiit I L-l 1 ri w i Jig notification, and Will receive pay for the rest of the shift. Interviews for other job opportunities that ate scheduled on work time will be paid, provided prior arrangements for release are made wi th the tUJrse ma.TUVgat.
When necessary to facilitate the interview process, interviews will be scheduled for the employee through the Employment Office.
260	"Whenever practicable1' refers to the number
of employees reduced-in-force, the number of open positions, and the time frame for placement.
2Soft Ha agree that if an employee is offered a position outside of the Bargaining Unit or in tbe CiiT. and turna the position dcwri, the employee does not become a voluntary quit.
264	in the recall paragraphs, "sama position"
refers to the same unit and same classification ftcite which the employee wss removed. hr. employee may be offered recall tn a position of mere pr less than the original appointment hours, ' However, the employee may decline a position of lass than eighty percept (80%! of atlqlf.-sL ippoiTitmuTit hours without losing recall rights.
ARTICLE XXVII TRANSFERS; PROMOTIONS, ^EMOTIONS, AND LATERALS
263	We agree that in tr^nsfer/promotion, trie
Employment Office will net discuss discipline older than two (2) years with the hiring manager. If an employee is denied t rang f <3 r/p rpKi.n t i o ti. duft tt> the manager's reliance on discipline older than two [2) years, the request for transfer/promotion will be reevaluated without consideration given r.o the discipline.
1-17
it I
INTENT NOTES
I
275	The orientation framework for a unit will
be provided to the employee who is transferring, including but Hot limited to:
1} Program structure and defined timeframe;
2} Clinics 1 competencies;
3]	Available resources;
■1) Feedback process including employee evaluation;
5J Name and title of the designated resource
person.
Orientation participants will be given the opportunity to formally evaluate the program.
275A Provisional selection status is intended to provide an opportunity for the employee and the manager co explore the "fit” of the new position.
273	it is agreed that positions posted for less
than 20 hours will be considered to be combined on a case by case basis in conjunction with the position that the employee proposes as a match.
Opportunities to allow employees to transfer to desirable areas with a split appointment will ba supported whenever possible.
278A	"Selection criteria1' ate a set of standards
used to evaluate and compdt* candidates for a position. . Selection criteria recognize the quality and amount of education, experience, knowledge and skills as indicated by the required and desired qualifications of the posted position. They ■ must be job-related, measurable and/or demonstrah1er and related to the ability to perform the work successfully, and are applied to ail candidates consistently.
2S2.6.a Prior to the one (!) year period following the employee's promotion, transfer or date of hire, the current manager will determine whether or not the employee may be considered for transfer. If the current iranager agrees to allow a transfer, the usual transfer language applies.
1-18

INTENT NOTES
Unit eanpicyBes whu alt Iv.’f'tlved. lit ItlLu z ■< it1* ivuj candidates for posted positions will be educated about the interview process including the philosophy and principles of the applicable language Of this Agreement concerning Transfer and Prcmotinn, required and desired qualifications and substantial differences.
284	Job preference will be given to UMPNC
employees for Bargaining Unit positions for Which they are qualified-
Evaluation of the desired qualifications may include input from references.
SUBSTANTIAL DIFFERENCE DEFINITION:
Tn an effort to meet the mutual interests of staff and managers, the following principles related tn transfer and pTtcntiptioTi were jointly developed:
To professionally value each other and to be respectful to each other's skills'
To foster coiwnitltient to internal and more senior employees;
To be able to demonstrate the relevance cf required and desired qualifications to the role.
If a less senior or external candidate possesses	exceptional	professional
credentials, skills, knowledge or abilities, he/she may be selected over a more senior or internal candidate according to the following guidelines:
1.	The pruf essiona.l credentials, ski Lis, knowledge or abilities are relevant to the role, identified prior to the posting and listed in priority order as desired qualifications.
2.	Assessment of the professional credentials, skills, knowledge or abilities is accomplished objectively through a combination of the candidate
1-19
intent notes
interview, resume, references, educational records or other documentation;
if. The professional credentials, skills, knowledge or abilities enhance the ability to do the work so that the candidate will be able to become expert and function independently within an abbreviated timeframe.
4 ■ Placement of the candidate who possesses the professional Credentials, akills, knowledge nr abilities will further institutional and unit goals including quality patient care, ■ patient/family satisfaction, cost effectiveness, and will promote effective team work.
Professional credentials, skills, knowledge or abilities include, but are not limited to:
Relevant education including degtee, certification or continuing education;
Experience, both theory and practice based, evaluated by considering the breadth and depth, how recent, relevance, and specialized skills or knowledge.
Professional qualities including progressive professional growth, demonstrated interpersonal skills, initiative, leadership, and work quality or performance.
It should be noted that there is a saturation point for experience; that is, a longer period of the same or similar ftKpeci^nc* in irvi o£ it.se.lf inay not constitute a substantial difference. Similarly, short periods of the same experience may not indicate enough depth to be substantial.
2&C	Lt the time trames foe a dispute ere not
met, the dispute may be moved to the next step, including mediation where appropriate.
1-20
INTENT NOTES
260	Employees who participate in a formal
internship or retraining program will be evaluated at specific intervals and will me encouraged to identify any concerns within three weeks of the date nf transfer so that a return to the prior unit may be facilitated as necessary. Responses tc concerns raised latiir in the program will be discussed and decisions made based upon mutual agreement. Employees will be advised in advance of the required cojKiiitment and the circumstances tinder which they may withdraw from the program and return to the farmer unit or to another open position. (see paragraph 253)
If competent performance is not demonstrated within the agreed upon timeframe, either through a regular transfer or promotion or failure to complete an internship cr retraining program, the employee may be placed in a vacancy, if any, where the employee has previously demonstrated competent performance prior to any other employee or applicant,
ARTICLE XXVIII:	WORK REDESIGN
291	Money designated for training required for
work redesign will be a part of work redesign plans,
ARTICLE XXIX:	PAID TIME OFF
325	Upon implementation of PTO, the equivalent
of eighty 180) hours of current sick time was moved into a one-time bridge bank to he used when the employee experienced continuous illness which required movement tc Short Tenn Disability (STD). The remaining current sick time accrual hours were held to either replenish the bridge bank or to supplement the STD. The former sick accruals are not renewable.
Hours in the one-time bridge hank will not fluctuate either up or down with changes in appointment fraction, but- will remain applicable tn the employee's appointment
1-21
*
-
INTENT NOTES
fraction st the time the bank wss established.	,-
Efforts will be made to restore banks that have been changed.
A "sell back1' will occur every December for	•<
payment the last pay day in January,
Employees will be granted a minimum of seventy percent nil%? of their year’s accrual rate, as scheduled time off.
326	For employees working a split appointment
between different classifications, PTO accrual will be prerated tg each appointment fraction and classification and then added to determine the total monthly accrual,
3331 Groups will be created within the Ambulatory Care CSR cluster for the purpose of granting annual scheduled PTO.
333J	Seven consecutive days means any seven day
period and will not be limited to a Sunday through Saturday definition of a week.
ARTICLE XXX:	SHORT TERM DISABILITY
336	If the employee's two {2? year anniversary
KCuia at state time duil-Lg the eighty jftO) hours access period, then the employee is eligible for short term disability.
331	Once an employee is eligible for access to
his/her short-term disability income as provided in Paragraph 337, eligibility will continue for all other absences related to the same illness nr injury,
143 We agree that periodic re-evaluation may be requested to extend the need for accommodation.
343B The University agrees to identify retraining opportunities to facilitate and/or expand career options for employees with	i
disabilities.

1-22
INTENT NOTES
^..TTJ^yr-rvii >. MJ,.
3-130 Employees receiving long-term dis ability (LTD) who art given work trial placements through CSR will not be considered as holding a regular positinn.
3430 We agree that employees covered by this paragraph quality as disabled under the Americans with Ci eabilities Act. LADA;
The University agrees to identify retraining opportunities to facilitate and/or expand career options for employees wi th disabilities.
ARTICLE XXXII; HOLIDAYS
3 5 IB	To meet unit needs, employees msy be
scheduled to work an extra shift during Thanksgiving week.
In the event that staffing needs require an employee to work a holiday that had previously been granted aft, the manager will select the least senior employee who has not been granted a vacation over the holiday period in question.
355	Paragraph 355 applies only when
prescheduled.
ARTICLE XXXVIII:	LEAVES OF ABSENCE
411A	Under the provisions of the Family Medical
Leave Act (FMLA), the twelve [12) month period during which employees are entitled to continuing benefits will be calculated from the beginning of the eligible leave of absence cr from the first date of an intermittent leave.
412	We agree Lhat, when taken intermittently or
on a reduced effort schedule, the twelve (12) weeks Of personal medical cr family medical leave available annually will be pro-rated based on the actual numbers of hours absent on leave per week. Examples; a .full-time employee who is taking personal medical leave or family medical leave intermittently at twenty (2D) hours per week, will be eligible
1-23
TUT ENT MOTES
for a maximum of twenty-four (24) weeks of such leave in a twelve (12) month period; or a part-time employee who normally works thirty (30) hours per week, but is taking tan (ID) hours of leave under a reduced effort schedule, will be eligible for a maximum of thirty-aix (36) weeks of such leave in a twelve (12) month period. An employee working a reduced effort schedule while oh a personal medical or family medical leave of absence, will retain the same health benefits held prior to taking the leave.
J IJBIP..IJ I LjJIIII^ - .HI J II.
Also, accrued Pro time need not be exhausted prior to taking an intermittent personal medical or family medical or reduced effort leave of absence.
416	Under the provisions of the family Medical
Leave Act (FMLA), the twelve (12) month period during which employees are entitled to continuing benefits will be calculated from the beginning of the eligible leave of absence or from the first date of an intermittent leave.
416A under the provisions of the Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA), the twelve (12) month period during which employees are entitled to continuing benefits will he calculated fruni the beginning of the eligible Leave of ahaer.ce at from the'first date of an intermittent leave.
We agree that, when taken intermittently or on a reduced effort schedule, the twelve (12) weeks of personal medical or family medical leave available annually will be pro-rated based on the actual numbers of hours absent on leave per week. Examples:	a full-time
employee who is taking personal medical leave or family medical leave intermittently at twenty (20) hours per week, will be eligible for a maximum of twenty-four (24) weeks of such leave in a twelve (12) month period; or a part-time employee who normally works thirty (30) hours pet week, but is taking ten (10) hours of leave under a reduced effort schedule, will be eligible for a maximum of thirty-six (36) weeks of such leave in a twelve (12) month period.
r-24
TN7EWT NOTES
"J i.
An employee working a reduced effort schedule while on a personal medical or family medical leave of absence, will retain the same health benefits held prior to taking the leave.
Also, accrued PTO time need not be exhausted prior to taking art intermittent personal medical or family medical or reduced effort leave of absence.
424A We agree that the language on placement following return from a military leave of absence is not consistent with seniority.
42 £	Employees on a personal leave of absence
whose positions are being held will be included for reduction-in-force in seniority order with other employees an the unit.
Employees returning freer, a leave of absence will be placed in reductlon-in-force status if there are insufficient open positions and/or no probationary employees. These employees will be placed in seniority Order with those employees subject to a reductlon-in-lorce.
When an employee returns from a leave of absence and there are employees who have been subject to a reduction—in-force, the employee will be placed, within the contractual seven \7'l day time' frame before other employees provided there are sufficient available positions for all employees to be placed, and the other employees have a time frame to be placed which is longer than the time frame for the employee returning from a leave of absence.
In the event the employee subject to a reduction-in-force has less than seven ■ [7) calendar days remaining in the notification period, he/she will be placed first.
ARTICLE XXXIX:	BENEFIT PLANS
4.5E1	Un employee will be permitted to decrease
their appointment fraction below fifty per cent or twenty hours per week without being fully advised, both verbally and in writing, of the
1-25
INTENT NOTES
consequences of the reduction as it effects retirement eligibility,
ARTICLE XL: COMMITTEES
The University and the Association agree to develop a. system to monitor committees in order to avoid duplication of work effort and to evaluate effectiveness,
ARTICLE XLII: TUITION SUPPORT PROGRAM
477	A ccoupelling case would need to be made for
an employee to be permitted to take courses for more than three terms in a given year.

For non-Universify of Michigan courses, the $800 per term maximum is effective through July 31, 2001. Thereafter the maximum will be adjusted each July by a percentage equal to the average increase in resident undergraduate tuition at the University of Michigan Ann Arbor campus fur that academic year.
ARTICLE XLIVT OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH S SAFETY
486	"If practicable1' refers to distance and/or
level of injury,
.ARTICLE XLV: HSCTPITXE
499	We agree that whenever practicable an
Association Representative will be present, when an employee receives notice cf a disciplinary layoff or discharge.
501A We agree that in transfer /promotion, the Employment Office will not discuss discipline older than two (2) years with the hiring manager,	if an employee is denied
transfer/promotion due to the manager's reliance on discipline older than two (2) years, the request for transfer/promotion will be reevaluated without consideration given tc the discipline.
■i
1-26
INTENT NOTES
ARTICLE XLVI DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROCEDURE AND MEDIATION PROCEDURE
537	We agree to a special conference to
determine units in Ambulatory Care for purposes of establishing district representation,
551	The Association agrees to list specific
paragraphs in disputes. Management agrees to answer specifically each of the paragraphs Listed- If these commitments are not met, the parties agree to bring this back to the table at the time of the next negotiations. Where either party has a question regarding the lack of specificity in either the dispute or the answer, that party shall approach the other for clarification of paragraph and/or specificity of answer.
An employee may consult with and utilize Lhe Office of Equity and Diversity during the dispute resolution process.
55?	If the involved employee does not norruiily
work on the designated days, the involved employee will be scheduled on a day other than a designated day-
559	We agree the mediator is non-jurisdictional
and advisory only. We also agree that a mediator may not be used as a witness far either party in an arbitration.
575	If a dispute has not been heard with thirty
(30) calendar days of the filing date and there is no extension granted, the dispute may be submitted to the next step of the dispute res olut ion/a rh i t ra t ion	pro cflduresr	including
mediation where applicable.
The intent is to move disputes forward. The time frames outlined in the rest of Article XLVI are the norm. We agree the intent is not to extend the norm, but to deal with exceptions.
1-27
INTENT NOTES
ARTICLE XLVIIT: CONFERENCES
583	"As sncm as practicable" means schedules t?f
participants, or needing additional information.
ARTICLE XLIX: PROFESSIONAL ACTIVITIES MD EDUCATION
590	A system to track the annual use of
education funds by unit will be developed.
ARTICLE L: RELEASE TIME FOR ASSOCIATION BUSINESS
593	Training and education funds will be
available to facilitate placement.
ARTICLE LU SUBCONTRACTING, TEMPORARY AND/OR "AGENCY" NURSES
€03 We agree that the second sentence refers to "every effort, ma-jor exceptions only" in reference to changing, reorganizing or altering work schedules of regular employees to accommodate temporary staff.
ARTICLE LIU: CHARGE NURSE GUIDELINES
605A Intent is to allow flexibility in charge assignments to reflect patient ac.uity, census, employee ability to perform charge duties.
APPENDIX A - WAGE SCHEDULES PAY GRADES N-1 - N-5
51IB.3 Employees who had a retroactive step increase between July 1, 2000 and the execution date of the Agreement received an additional twn per cent (21) from their anniversary date to the contract execution date.
61 IB. 5 uvermax A and Overmax B from the 1997 Agreement have been incorporated into Schedule A of this Agreement as Step Ten (LQ) and Step Eleven (11), respectively.
I-2B
INTENT NOTES
.^n	L'J'frJ. ^-■^■w.- ■: ■■ ;■ :M- 4<^udtauiai
The six per cent (6%} included a 2.5% retroactive payment and a 3.5% retroactive step increase.
611B.6 Overmax A and fivennax B from the 1591 Agreement have been incorporated into Schedule A of this Agreement as Step Ten (10) and Step Eleven (11), respectively.
£13	Overman A and Overmax B iruhl the 1997
Agreement have been incorporated into Schedule A of this Agreement as Step Ten (IC) and Step Eleven (11), respectively,
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING: RETIREMENT INCENTIVE
63B	We agree that this process will take effect
after the parties have met and agreed that significant layoffs may occur,
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING: MILEAGE REIMBURSEMENT
642	Employees required to work at more than one
location end who must travel between work sites shall be reimbursed for mileage at the same rate as for other University employees for miles traveled from one work site tc another.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
STARTING RATE FOR NEW EMPLOYEES AND TRANSFERS
652B Additional step advancement for hires and transfers Into the classifications of Nurse Practitioner and Certified Nurse Midwife may be considered based upon previous experience in the applicable advance practice role.
654	We agree that RN’s who transfer into the
Bargaining Unit who were previously in the Bargaining Unit, or who have been in an RN-related role (L.e-, nurse manager), shall have their University RN experience calculated without regard to appointment fraction for purposes of step placement. This language applies to University experience since the most recent University date of hire.
I-2S
INTENT NOTES
MEMORANDUM of UNDERSTANDING: DUAL UNIT POSITIONS
700	It i3 not the intent to convert all of the
positions on a unit into dual unit positiona.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING: MARKET ASSESSMENT
770	Regional competitors as of the execution
date of this Agreement are William Beaumont Hoapitai, Detroit Medical Center, Henry Ford Hospital, Oakwood Hospital, Providence Hospital and St. Joseph Mercy Hospital in Ann Arbor.
GENERAL INTENT NOTES COLLABORATIVE IMPLEMENTATION
Letter of Agreement:
a)	Following ratification, a jointly written
summary will be prepared, including contract changes and process to be followed when issues of intent and interpretation arise.
b)	Following	ratification,	joint
informalion/orientation sessions will be held for membership, management and administration,
c]	Quarterly forums will be held, with agendas
de vel cped. coll abcxat i vel y.
d]	We will establish ground rules prior to
forums or any other joint sessions for dealing with issues of dispute and how we will communicate differences.
el	We agree to bring forward and attempt to
resolve problems and issues as they arise.
fl	We agree to evaluate this process one year
from execution.
Definition of ’"endeavor toH:
Where the employer justifies by the use of objective criteria that can be described, including:
1-10
INTENT NOTES
al
b>
Needs of the unit Which address issues related to clinical competence, ability to do the work, and may require flexibility of both management/employer and employee. Management not having time is not an acceptable rea son.
1-31