AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE BOARD OF EDUCATION
City of Elizabeth
&
Tbe Elizabeth
EDUCATION ASSOCIATION
< TEACHERS, ASSISTANTS SECRETARIES, & SECURITY PERSO
JULY 1, 2001 THROUGH JUNE-40* 2004
Elizabeth Education Association
3500 Members Strong
One Union Square • Elizabeth, NJ 07201 Office (908)355-1120 - Fax: (908)355’1793

SECURITY PERSONNEL
JULY 1, ZCO1 THROUGH JUNE 30, 2004
Elizabeth Education Association
3500 Members Strong
One Union Square ■ E(izabethTNJ 07201 Office: (908)355-1120 • Fax: (908)3554793
Tdw- • toiaSj:	J**
B6w,5-«


AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE BOARD OF EDUCATION City of Elizabeth &
7 iOt? Elizabeth EDUCATION ASSOCIATION


TEACHERS, ASSISTANTS, SECRETARIES,
...	TABLE OF CONTENTS	
	article PREAMBLE	 I	RECOGNITION	 II	N egotiations procedure	 Ill	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	 IV	EMPLOYEE RIGHTS	 V	ASSOCIATION RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES. VI	SCHOOL CALENDAR	 Vn ORIENTATION PROCEDURES		 VIII TEACHER ASSIGNMENT	 IX	TRANSFER AND REASSIGNMENTS	 X	PROMOTIONS	 XI	TEACHER EVALUATION	 XII	SALARIES	 XIU SICK LEAVE	 XIV	EMERGENCY LEAVES OF ABSENCE	 XV	EXTENDED LEAVES OF ABSENCE	 XVI SABBATICAL LEAVES	 XVB INSURANCE PROTECTION	 XVBI DEDUCTION FROM SALARY	 XIX MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS	 XX	STUDENT DISCIPLINE	 XXI INSTRUCTIONAL ADVISORY COUNCIL ... XXII EVENING SCHOOL, SUMMER SCHOOLS, FEDERAL PROGRAMS	 XXIll PROTECTION OF TEACHERS, STUDENTS AND PROPERTY	 XXIV SUBSTITUTES	 XXV MANAGEMENT RIGHTS	 XXVI SECRETARIES A ND CLERKS	 XXVII PREPARATION TIME - SUBSTITUTES	 XXVIII REPRESENTATION FEE	 XXIX TEACHERS HOURS	 XXX	S ECURJTY PERSONNEL, ASSISTANTS, ATTENDANTS, TECHNICIANS & PARENT LIAISON	 XXXI DURATION OF AGREEMENT	 APPENDIX A		PAGE 	3 	3 	4 	: 5 	8 	9 	10 	10 	11 	13 	14 	 15 	16 	19 	20 	21 	22 	27 	28 	2S 	29 	29 	30 	30 	30 	30 	31 	32 	34 	35 	37 	40 	41
PREAMBLE
THIS AGREEMENT entered info this day of
1998 by and between the BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF ELIZABETH, NEW JERSEY, hereinafter called the ‘Boajd”» and the ELIZABETH EDUCATION i ASSOCIATION, hereinafter called the “Association”
ARTICLE J
RECOGNITION
A. Pursuant to the provisions of NTS.A. 34: J 3A-1 ct | scq., the Elizabeth Board of Education hereby recognizes A the Elizabeth Education Association as the majority £■ representative for collective negotiations concerning terms < and conditions of employment for all certified personnel under contract or on leave, now employed* or as hereafter may be employed by the Board* including:
*	Teachers: Zncfudmg Extended Schoai Day/Year Thachers (U months)
•	Librarians
•	Nurses
•	Attendance Officers
v * Guidance Counselors
•	School Psychologists
•	Occupational Education Instructors
•	Psychiatric Social Workers
•	Teacher Assistants
•	Learning Disabilities Specialists
*	Reading Consultants
•	Reading Resource Teachers
*	Bilingual Consultants
*	ESL Consultants
•	Mininum Basic Skills Consultants
•	Testing, Consultants
•	Elementary Consultants
*	Staff Development Coordinators (11 months)
»	Staff Development Research Consultants (11 months)
•	Professional Development Teacher Trainer*
(10 rronths)
:	• School improvement Facilitators (11 months)
$	• Teacher of' Public Information (11 months)
£	• High School Facilitators
I	• Early Childhood Trainers
I	»Early Childhood Consultants
i	•Testing & Monitoring Consultants
j:	■ TV. Production Employees
5	• Media Specialist Technicians
• Tech-Media specialists
but excluding:
•	Coordinators
•	Vice Principals
•	Principals
■	Directors
*	Assistant Superintendent of Schools
•	Superintendent of Schools
■	Admlnisirative Assistant
B. The Board also recognizes the Association as the majority representative for collective negotiations for the following non-certified personnel under contract or appointment, now employed or as hereafter may be employed by the Board:
•	Clerks
■	Secretaries
*	Telephone Switchboard Operators
•	Laboratory Assistants
*	Computer Operators
•	Security Personnel
•	Head Security Personnel
*	Classroom Assistants
*	Library Assistants
•	Multipurpose Assistants
4 Community Assistants
•	Chapter 1 PEP Assistants
•	Chapter 1 Pre-K Assistants
*	Assistant Audio Visual Technician
■	Locker Room Attendant
•	Parent Liaison
•	Guidance Associates
•	Classroom Assistants with CDA Ortifirare
•	Computer Data Entry
*	Noncertified Attendance Officers
C. Unless otherwise indicated, the term "employee", when used hereinafter in this Agreement, shall refer to all employees represented by the Association in the negotiating unit as above defined.
ARTICLE II
NEGOTIATIONS PROCEDURE
A,	The parties agree to enter into collective negotiations over a successor Agreement in accordance with the provisions of N.J.S.A, 34:13A-1 et seq.; such negotiations shall begin no later than November 1st of the calendar year preceding the year in which this Agreement expires.
B,	Upon request by the Association President, the Board agrees to make known to the President when and where information is available that the Board is required by law to release.
C.	Neither party in any negotiations shall have any control over die selection of the negotiating representatives of the other party,
D.	This Agreement incorporates the entire understanding of the parties on all matters which were or could have been the subject of negotiations. During the term of this Agreement, neither party shall be required to negotiate with respect to any such matter whether or not covered by this Agreement and whether or not within the knowledge or contemplation of either or both of the parties at the time they negotiated or executed this Agreement
ARTICLE UI
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
A, DEFINITION
L A “grievance0 shall mean a complaint by an employees) or by the Association that there has been an inequitable, improper or unjust application, interpretation or violation of Board Policy, this Agreement, or an administrative decision, except that the term “grievance” shall not apply to:
a.	Any matter for which a specific method of review is prescribed and expressly set forth by law or any rule or regulation of the State Commissioner of Education; or
b.	A complaint of a non-tenured teacher which arises by reason of his/her not being reemployed; or
c.	A complaint by any certified personnel occasioned by appointment to or lack of appointment to, retention in or lack of retention m any position for which tenure either is not possible or not required
2. A grievance to be considered under this procedure must be initiated by the grievant [the employees} or the Association} within twenty (20) workdays from the time when the grievant knew or should have known of its occurrence.
• •• IJ-" ij-i n ii .in ,u ini....................
B. PROCEDURE
1. (a) Failure al any step of this procedure to communicate the decision on a grievance within the specified time limits shall permit the grievant to proceed to the next step. Failure at any step of this procedure to appeal a grievance to the next step within the specified time limits shall be deemed to be waiver of further appeal of the decision. The parties may mutually agree in writing to extend or contract any time limitations set forth in this Article,
(b) It is understood that an employee grievant shall, during and notwithstanding the pendency of any grievance, continue to observe all assignment* and applicable rules and regulations of the Board until such grievance and any effect thereof shall have been duly determined.
2,	The grievant shall file a written grievance with his/her principal (or immediate supervisor or department head, as the case may be) within twenty (20) work days (as defined in section A.2. of this Article). The written grievance must specify the following: (a) the date the grievance occurred; (b) the nature of the grievance, including the Board Policy, administrative decision and/or Article(s) and section^) of this Agreement giving rise to the grievance; (c) the nature and extent of any claimed injury, loss or inconvenience. The principal (or Immediate supervisor or department head, as the case may be) shall provide the grievant with a written answer to the grievance within five (5) workdays from the date the written grievance was received.
3.	The employee grievant, no later than five (5) workdays after receipt of the decision of his/her principal or other immediate supervisor, may appeal the decision to the Superintendent of Schools. The appeal to the Superintendent of Schools must be marie in writing and shall set forth the reason(s) why the grievant is dissatisfied with the answer of the principal or other immediate supervisor. The written appeal must have the previously filed grievance and answer thereto attached.
The Superintendent shall attempt to resolve the matter as quickly as possible, but within a period not to exceed ten (10} workdays from receipt of the appeal. The Superintendent shall communicate his/her decision in writing tn the employee grievant, to the Association and tn Ilie principal or other immediate supervisor.
4,	If the grievance is not resolved to the satisfaction of the employee grievant and he/she wishes a review by a third party, he/she shall so notify the Association within ten (10)
workdays of receipt of the superintendent's decision, if the Association determines that the matter should be reviewed further, it may initiate arbitration under the procedure set forth below.
5.	ARBITRATION
a.	If the Association desires to initiate arbitration, it shall send a written demand for arbitration to the New Jersey Public Employment Relations Cnnunisrion (PERC), with a copy to the Superintendent, within twenty (20) days from the date of receipt of the Superintendent's decision, if not timely received, within twenty (20) workdays from the date it should have been received. The arbitration shall be conducted under the rules and regulation of PERC then in effect
b.	The arbitrator shall be limited to the issues) submitted and shall consider nothing else unless mutually agreed to by the Board and Association. The arbitrator can add nothing iot or subtract anything from the Agreement between the parties or any policy of the Board of Education. The recommendations of the arbitrator shall be advisory, except in the case of an alleged violation of this Agreement wherein the arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding on both partial
c.	Rights of an Employee to Representation
1.	An aggrieved employee may be represented at all stages of the grievance procedure by himseif/herself or, at his/her option, by the Association or by a representative selected or approved by the Association.
2.	When an employee is not represented by the Association in the processing of a grievance, the Association shall at the time of submission of the grievance to the Superintendent or at any later level, be notified by the Superiutendent that the grievance is in process, have the right to be present and submit its position in writing at any bearing held concerning the grievance and shall receive a copy of all decisions rendered.
3.	'The Board and the Association shall assure the employee freedom from restraint, interference, coercion, discrimination or reprisal in presenting his/her appeal with respect to his/her grievance.
C.	COSTS
1.	Each party will bear their own costs incurred in the grievatjce/arbitration procedure.
2.	The fees and reasonable expenses ol the arbitrator are the only costs which will be shared by the two parties and such costs will be shared equally.
3.	If time is lost by an employee due to arbitration proceedings necessitating the retention of a substitute, the Board of Education will pay only the cost of the substitute. The time lost by the employee must be without pay or charged to personal time.
D.	CLASS GRIEVANCE
If, in the judgment of the Association, a grievance affects a group or class of employees, which has common issues of fact and law, the Association may initiate and submit such grievance in writing at the Superintendents level of the grievance procedure set forth in this Article, The Association may process such grievance through all levels of the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE IV EMPLOYEE RIGHTS
A.	No employee shall be disciplined or reduced in compensation in any manner or form or discharged without just cause. Any such action asserted by the Board, or by any agent or representative thereof, shall not be made public unless formal charges are made, and shall be subject to the grievance procedure herein set forth.
B.	Whenever any employee is required to appear before the Board or any committee or member thereof concerning any charge or inquiry into a matter which could adversely effect the continuation of that employee in his/her office, position, or employment or the salary or any increments pertaining thereto, then he/she shall be given prior written notice of the reasons for such meeting or interview and shall be entitled to have a designated representative of the Association present to advise and represent him/her during such meeting or interview.
C.	Employees shall not be required to drive students to activities which take place away from the school building.
D.	Teachers shall maintain the exclusive rights and responsibility to determine grades. Upon written submission by his/her. building administrator specifically recommending a changed grade and stating the reason therefore, tbe teacher shall so change the grade.
E.	Employees are permitted to wear pins or other identification of the Association or its affiliates, provided that such pin or identification is reasonable in size and is not disruptive to the classroom and/or work place.
F.	Pejwjnnel shall only be available to the employee whose file it is, under current Board policy and practice, and to administrators with school business which requires review of the teacher’s Hie. Each Hie shall contain a log indicating the name of the person reviewing the tile and the date on which it was reviewed.
। G. Administrators and employees should engage in the employment relationship based on mutual respect and
! dignity. Administrators should seek to avoid open criticism ' and reprimand of an employee in the presence of students or l other adults. Employees who need to be criticized or reprimanded should receive such correction in the privacy of the administrator’s office if the immediacy and gravity of the problem do not indicate a need for immediate corrective action. In lite manner, employees should avoid public conflict with administrators, and matters of difference and criticism should at all times take place in private.
H. Layoff and Recall: The parties agree to establish a joint committee composed of equal representatives. The committee shall make its report by July 1, 2000 for implementation in year 1. Tbe committee shall review and establish a procedure of layoff and recall of bargaining unit members not covered by a statutory schedule for layoff and recall in the teachers1, custodians’ and cafeteria contracts. The parties agree that the seniority shall be the method utilized for such new provision, that a employee shall enjoy a maximum of five (5) years on a recall list, that if an individual is recalled to employment at the Board and declines an offer of reemployment, said individual shall be removed from a recall list, that a dispute on the application of the layoff/recail provision shall be subject to expedited arbitration before a mutually selected arbitrator, and the arbitrator shall not have the authority to award back pay but shall be limited in authority to ordering a different employee be recalled or placed on layoff.
ARTICLE V
ASSOCIATION RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES
A. Tbe Association and its representatives shall have the right to use wbool buddings at all reasonable hours for 1 Association meetings; provided approval has been granted ! by the Secretary-School Business Administrator after filing of Building Application form, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
9
8

B. The Association shall have, in each school budding, the exclusive use of a bulletin board in each faculty lounge and teacher's dining room. The location of Association bulletin boards in each room shall be where presently located, and if none, where designated by the Association.
ARTICLE VU1 TEACHER ASSIGNMENT
A. All teachers shall be given written notice of their contract and salary status no later than April 30th.
Any additional bulletin boards which may be required shall be supplied by the Association, Copies of all materials posted on such bulletin boards shall be given to the school principal, but no approval shall be required.
C. The Association shall have the right to reasonable use of the school mailboxes. A copy of any open material placed in the mailboxes shall be filed in the Superintendent’s office at the time of distribution. No approval shall be required.
i	D. The rights and privileges of the Association and its
i' representatives as set forth in this Agreement shall be i[ granted only to the Association as the exclusive representative of the employees, and to no other organization.
1	E. 1. The President of the Association shall have a
full time release schedule.
i
2. The Vice President of the Association shall be I	relieved of non-teaching duties. Tn the event the Vice
.	President of the Association is not a high school teacher, the
President of the Association and the Superintendent of Schools shall jointly develop the respective work schedule ; । of such employee to provide comparable released time as provided io the foregoing provisions of the teacher’s J contract.
I	ARTICLE VI
SCHOOL CALENDAR ij
The Association shall appoint a committee to study and make recommendations to the Superintendent covering the school calendar. The recommendation of the Association I shall be presented to the Board of Education for । consideration.
i
ARTICLE VE
ORIENTATION PROCEDURES
The Association shall appoint a committee to study and ii make recommendations Co the Superintendent covering orientation procedures.
B.	All teachers shall be given written notice of their tentative class subject and building assignments for the forthcoming school year, if practical by June 15tb, but no later that the Last day of school. The administration may change such assignments in the event of unforeseen material circumstances or emergencies, and shall notify the teacher affected by such change promptly and in writing.
C.	Ths use of teacher*’ cars on official District business shall be compensated for at the prevailing rate per mile as applied by the Federal Government. In accordance with past practice, travel allowance for teachers, consultants, child study team, home instructors and audio visual personnel will be $30.00 per month; athletic trainers shall be $15.00 per month; attendance officers and r*immunity liaisons assigned to the attendance officers will be $45.00 per month; the travel allowance for those teachers who receive $.60 per day shall be increased to $.80 per day, effective February J, 1984. Nurses shall receive the IRS rate whenever they must use their car lor school business including traveling between buildings. Nurses shall be paid at Che hourly rate whenever they are required to work past their regular quitting time. Beginning in 2002, nurses shall be annually reimbursed $200.00 for white pants and shoes.
D.	Review of professional assignments may be subject to the Instructional Advisory Council.
E.	During the time that the eta of an elementary teacher is inder the direct instruction of a special teacher in art, music, and/or physical education, such lime may be used as preparation time by the said classroom teacher not to exceed one period per day.
F.	As of September 1991, teachers who are stationed at the High School may be assigned to teach a sixth (6th) period under the following conditions:
1.	Tie administration must post the assignment and seek volunteers.
2.	Teachers shall be protected in the exercise of the right to freely volunteer or tn refrain from volunteering for a sixth (6th) teaching period assignment without fear of penalty, reprisal or coercion.

3.	If more than one teacher volunteers, the volunteer with the greater seniority in the district shall be given the assignment.
4.	If no one volunteers, the administration may involuntarily assign the least senior teacher in the district with the appropriate certificate/endorsement for that teaching assignment.
5.	For die beginning of a school year, no more than four (4) teachers with the appropriate certificate/ endorsement may be assigned a sixth (6th) teaching period,
6.	If a vacancy occurs after the beginning of a school year, more than four (4) teachers within a department may be assigned a sixth (6th) teaching period,
7.	Any teacher who is assigned a sixth (6th) teaching period will be paid the following stipends, which shall be prorated based upon the portion of the year that a teacher has the assignment to the full year:
Effecti vc school year 2000-01	$4,117
Effective school year 2001-02	$4,220
Effective school year 2002-03	$4t326
Effective school year 2003-04	$4,497
8.	High School employees with a teaching certification assigned to non-teaching positions who are also assigned to teach a class on a regular basis shall be compensated pro rata at the rate of $750.00 per semester for each class assigned beginning July 1, 2002.
G. The assignment of teachers to the extended school day/year shall be only on a voluntary basis- All assignments of teachers to the extended school day/year shall be for a complete one school year when a teacher completes the second school year at an extended day/year schedule, the Superintendent of Schools in his sole and absolute discretion may request the teacher to continue the assignment or reassign the teacher to another school under the traditional terms of the collective bargaining agreement without the differential applicable to the extended school day/year assignment Teachers may request reassignment to the traditional school schedule at the end of each school year not late than May 15th. Requests for reassignment shall be honored if al all possible. If the. district determines not to renew the assignment of a teacher to the extended school day/year, the teacher may appeal only to the Superintendent of Schools for a review of this decision and the SuperiDtendem's decision shall be final without appeal to arbitration.
H, Preparation Periods for Elementary Thachers: The parties agree to establish a joint committee to study tbe scheduling of current released rime for elementary teachers. This joint committee shall be composed of equal representatives appointed by the Association and the Superintendent of Schools. The committee shall study the possibility, use and cost providing one (J) preparation per day for elementary teachers. The committee shill provide a full written report to the Superintendent of Schools who shall transmit the report to the Board of Education no later than March 1, 2002. The Board agrees to consider tbe recommendations of this report.
ARTICLE IX
TRANSFER AND REASSIGNMENTS
J, TEACHERS
A. No later than May IOth, tbe Superintendent shall have posted in each school building all vacancies for tbe coming school year known to him and approved by the Board as of May 1st. Additional vacancies which shall become known to the Superintendent and approved by the Board between May 11 th and May 30th, shall be posted by the Superintendent in each school building by June 10th. Copies of said notices shall be sent to the Association. Employees who desire a change in grade or subject assignment or who desire to transfer to another building for the forthcoming year may file a written statement of such desire with tbe Superintendent.
B. Notice of an involuntary transfer nr reassignment shall be given to teachers as soon as practicable. The teacher involved shall be entitled to a meeting with the appropriate administrator or supervisor (as determined by the Superintendent) at which time tbe teacher shall be notified of the reasons for the involuntary transfer or reassignment. In tbe event that a teacher objects to the transfer or reassignment at this meeting, tbe Superintendent or designee shall meet with the teacher upon the teacher's request. The teacher shall have the option to have an Association representative present at such meeting. A list of open positions shall be made available to all involuntary transferees and they shall be given the opportunity to apply for such open positions.
..II ■ I . ■ III R	. L. .. I HUH J. .IIJU^JJ.1. . .1^^
^si.f ^L, l-	|C-.' .'vH'.'.Jr’-r: fsivyrt. -lI->st-J- >'1'fcSW.;**‘4Uib.K.'

* maagey.- -ar
IL EMPLOYEES OTHER THAN TEACHERS
A.	The Superintendent shall have posted in each school building all vacancies when they are known to him/her and are approved by the Board. Such notice shall include the title of the position and the building in which the position will be located. Copies of said notices shall be sent to the Association. Employees who desire a change io assignment or who desire to transfer to another building may tile a written statement of such desire with the Superintendent.
B.	Notice of involuntary transfer or reassignment shall be given to an employee as soon as practicable. The employee involved may request a meeting with the appropriate administrator or supervisor at which time the employee shall be given the reasons for the involuntary transfer or reassignment. Upon request of the employee, the Superintendent or designee shall meet with the employee to discuss the transfer or reassignment. A list of open positions in the district shall be made available to all involuntary transferees and they will be given an opportunity to apply for such positions.
C.	An employee who transfers or is reassigned to a t ■. ,	position of a different classification or category, or from a 10
f f	month or 10-5 month position to a 12 month position, shall
i = be given full credit for all his/her prior employment for t |l vacation accrual.
।	ARTICLE X
; |l	PROMOTIONS
|'	A. A notice of vacancy in a promotional position, in
1 Summer School and/or the creation of any new position i shall be sent to and posted in each school and a copy shall be sunt to the Association ten (10) days before the final date when the applications must be submitted.
।	B. Employees who desire to apply for such vacancies
। shall submit their applications in writing to the ' Superintendent within the time limit specified in the notice. When the vacancy described in the notice is filled, the 1 Superintendent may destroy all applications for said i position.
C. Employees who desire to apply for a promntitmaJ position which may be open during the summer period when school is not regularly in session shall submit their names to the Superintendent, together with the positions) for which they desin: to apply, and an address where they can be reached during the summer. The Superintendent ; shall notify such employees of any vacancy in a position for !:	winch they desire to apply. Such notice shall be sent at least
ten (10) days prior to the closing date for application.
. Notice of such vacancies shall also be posted in the IJ administrative office, in each school building, and a copy of 11 said notice shall be given to the Association,
i
D. Announcements of appointments shall be made by posting a list in the office of the Central Administration and each school building, and a list of which positions have been filled and by whom shall be given to the Association.
ARTICLE XI
TEACHER EVALUATION
A,	A teacher shall receive a copy of his/her evaluation report.
B.	A teacher shall have the right, upon request, to review the contents of his/her personnel file.
C.	No material derogatory to a teacher's conduct, service, character or personality shall be placed in his/her personnel file or used in an evaluation unless the teacher has had an opportunity to review the material. The teacher shall have the right to submit a written answer to such material.
D.	Pre*tenurc teachers shall be evaluated by a supervisor or their immediate supervisors at least three (3) times in each school year, to be followed in each instance by a written evaluation report and by a conference between the teacher and his/her evaluator. Such reports shall be written in narrative form and shall include:
1.	Strengths;
2.	Weaknesses:
3.	Specific suggestions as to the measures which the teacher might take to improve his/her performance in each of the areas wherein weaknesses have been indicated; and
4.	Other relevant suggestions or comments.
E.	1. To the extent possible, the observation report shall be given to the teacher at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the observation conference.
2.	The observation conference shall be held within ten (10) days, if possible, from the date of the observation.
3.	Tenured teachers shall be evaluated at least once each school year as required by the Commissioner of Education's regulations.
15

V
i	ARTICLE XII
SALARIES
A. 1. The Salaries of all employees covered by this? agreement mu set forth in salary guides attached herein and > :•	made a part hereof; said salary guides shall be enforced in
1i:	accordance with tbe existing rules and regulations for
application thereof Staff Development Coordinators (11 :j mouths) pay on the counselors* guide. Staff Development Research Consultants (11 months) pay on the counselors1 guide. Speech Therapists shall be paid on the Child Study J, Team Guide* Teacher of Public Information (11 months), n Extended School Day/Year Teachers (11 months) shall be paid 1.155 times the appropriate step and column of the Lj teachers-nurses & attendance officers salary guide. School Improvement Facilitators (11 months) shall be paid 1.10 | J	times the appropriate step and column of the teachers-nurses
I .	& attendance officers salary guide. Professional
1 '	Development Teacher Trainers (10 months) shall be paid on
, the appropriate step and column of the teachers-nurses & [■ attendance officers salary guide.
L1	2. a. Effective July 1, 2001 high school guidance
J counselors, high school facilitators, early childhood trainers, early childhood consultants, testing and monitoring : . consultants, T.V. production employees, media specialist : Ip technicians, and tech-media specialists shall beeprue eleven ; I	(11) month positions. These employees shall be paid 1.10
! 11	times the appropriate step and column of their respective
j । salary guides. These employees shall work either the month (i of July or August Any person employed by the district as of || June 30, 2001 may choose to remain as a ten (10) month j employee. Any person hired by the district as of July 1,2001 shall be an eleven (11) month employee
11
;	2. b. Effective July 1, 2002 Child Study foam
:| Members shall all become eleven(ll}month positions. ।	These employees shall be paid 1.11) times the appropriate
I,1	step and column of their respective salary guides. These
employees shall work either the month of July or August.
II Any person employed by the district ns of June 30, 2002 may choose to remain as a ten (10) month employee. Any 1 person hired by the district as of July 1, 2002 shall be an eleven (11) month employee.
4. Any of those eleven (11) month employees so cited above in XII - A.3. who are also working an extended day schedule shall be paid 1,155 times the appropriate step and column of their respective salary guides.
3. I. Employees employed on a twelve (12) month basis shall be paid in twenty-four (24) equal semi-monthly installments. Those employed on an eleven (11) month basis shall be paid in twenty-two (22) equal semi-monthly installments.
2.	Employees employed on a ten (117) month basis shall be paid in twenty (20) equal semi-monthly installments.
3.	When a payday falls on or during a school holiday, vacation, or weekend, employees shall receive their paychecks cm the last previous working day, subject to any delay caused by circumstances beyond tbe control of the business office.
4.	Employees shall receive their fmal checks and the tentative pay dates for the following year on the last working day in June, July, or August whichever is appropriate for their schedules subject to any delay caused by circumstances beyond the control of the business office.
5.	The Board shall implement the Summer payment plan and direct deposit plan by July 1, 1996.
C.	All employees shall be placed at their exact step and training level called for under the salary guides.
D.	If there is a Summer school session, teachers so employed shall be compensated at the following hourly rates:
Effective July 1, 2000	$22.55
Effective July 1T 2CX) 1	$23 11
Effective July 1*2002	S23,69
Effective July 1,2003	$24.63
Guidance. Head teachers^ Child SlLidy foam members, and Program Assistants shall be compensated at the hourly rates set forth in the Rules and Regulations for Application of Salary Gjidu annexed hereto.
3, Any other certified or nun-certified employees not named above in XII-A who are working an eleven (11) month year at an Extended Schoo) Day/Year School (school #26 model) shall be paid 1.10 times the appropriate slop and column of their respective salary guides. Employees !| working an extended day schedule (school #26 model) shall be paid 1.05 5 Limes the appropri ate step and column of their ii respective salary guides.
17

.... ":' . 1 ■	lwj1 JWi'ym jji r
I-	E. SUBSTITUTION INCENTIVE
COMPENSATION fEXCfPrASSZSPLNTS; ATTENDANTS, 7EC/ZNZCZANS1, PARENT LM/SCW AND SECLWnY P£ESONN£Z.)
1.	At the time of retirement an employee shall be entitled to an additional compensation computed at the rate of $10.00 per day for fifty percent (50%) of his or her unused accumulated sick leave at the time of retirement.
2.	The effectiveness of the incentive program shall be evaluated upon termination of this agreement to determine if its implementation has reduced absence and 'relieved the substitution problem. Continuation of this program shall depend upon its proven effectiveness.
Effective July 1, 2002 all employees upon resigning from the district for retirement from the pension fund shall be paid for unused sick leave as follows:
T	Days	Teachers	Secretaries	Other Support
	16-50	$10	$10	$10
,!	51-100	$20	$17.50	$15
II	101-150	$30	$25	$20
. 'i	151-200	$40	$32.50	$25
!■:	201 and above	$50	$40	S30
f. I1	Each rale per day shall be separate and distinct and
apply to the total number of unused sick leave days as in the
• ; following examples: A teacher with forty-nine (49) days :i	shall receive four hundred and ninety dollars ($490). A
11	teacher with one hundred and forty-nine (149) days shall
receive four thousand four hundred and seventy dollars II ($4,470). These examples by way of illustration also apply ' II to secretaries and other support employees who have a 11	different rate per day.
F. Teacher Assistants (TATs) annual stipend shall be I - made part of salary for pension purposes beginning July I, 2002.
ARTICLE X1U SICK LEAVE
All employees shall be entitled to sick leave days to the extent and in the manner following:
A.	ABSENCE WHICH MAY BE ALLOWED WITHOUT LOSS OF SALARY
1.	All 10 month employees, both tenured and non-tenured. shall be entitled to twelve (12) days annual sick leave per school year. All 10 month employees hired after the commencement of the school year shall be entitled to annual sick leave on a prorated basis, computed according to a formula which is based upon the annual entitlement of twelve (12) days for a full-time employee.
2.	All twelve (12) days may be accumulated for future yean. Full salary shall be paid for such accumulated days in case of absence due to prolonged illness or disability, when properly certified by the attending physician or physicians.
Physical examinations of the employee may be required at any time during an illness or a disability, or to determine the fitness and return to duty, by the Chief Medical Inspector and/or staff physician of the Board of Education at the request of the Superintendent of Schools, or the Secretary-School Business Administrator, as the case may be. Payment of salary under the provisions of this clause shall be upon the recommendation of the Superintendent of Schools for educational employees, or the Secretary-School Business Administrator for business employees, and approval by the Board of Education.
B.	ABSENCE PROCEDURE
1.	All absentees shall sign statements giving the causes and dales of absences. The signed statement shall be sent to the Superintendent’s or Secretary-School Business Administrator’s Office with the proper payroll report.
2.	Employees who have been out ill for three (3) or more consecutive days are required to present a physician's certificate as to the nature of the illness and that they are physically able to return to their duties. Employees who have been out ill only the day before or the day after a school holiday shall not be required to present a physician's certificate provided that the school administrator shall determine the validity of such absence by their standards.
C.	No employee will be paid at the beginning of any school year until that employee has reported for duty, except any persco sreadily employed or under tenure in the previous school year by the Elizabeth Board of Education.
D.	An employee who has exhausted the annual and accumulated sick leave as set forth in this Article may apply to the Board for additional paid sick leave consistent with the provisions of NJ.S.A. 18A:3O-6, which is incorporated herein by reference.
ARTICLE XIV
EMERGENCY LEAVES OF ABSENCE
A.	NON-CVMULATIVE EMERGENCY LEAVES OF ABSENCE
1,	Non-cunnilative emergency leaves of absence for teachers and secretaries shall be allowed for a maximum of not more than five (5) days in anyone year with pay in the event of an emergency, and emergency is understood to be:
a.	Death of near relative or close associate - 1 day.
b.	Quarantine ordered by the Board of Health.
c.	Serious illness of a member of an employee's family which requires personal attention of the employee -not more than one (1) school day per year.
d.	Personal business days (not to exceed two (2) days) may be permitted per year. Personal business days are days that require the employee’s absence for personal, legal or family business which cannot be accomplished on other than school hours. Employees planning to be absent under this claiLse shall notify the principal a reasonable time in advance; payment for absence classified as ‘personal business’ shall be subject to review and approved by the Superintendent of Schools or the Secretary-School Business Administrator, whichever one is in charge; such approval ^hall not be unreasonably denied. Tbe request for personal business leave shall include the reason that tbe day is needed. In the event of an emergency which does not permit advance notice, the employee shall give notice of his/her absencc in accordance with the district procedure and shall give the reason for his/her absence upon his return to the district. Any unused personal business days shall be accumulated as additional sick days.
2.	Effective July 1.1994t Assistants, Attendants and Security Personnel shall be entitled to one (1) personal business day (as defined in Aid of this Article) annually which, if not used, may be accumulated as a sick day.
a. Assistants, Attendants, and Security Personnel: Said employees shall be allowed one (I) day with pay for the death of near relative or close associate.
3.	All employees shall also be allowed annually not more than one (1) day with pay for the serious illness of a member of an employee's family which requires tbe personal attention of tbe employee.
B.	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
Five (5) days of leave will be permitted for each death in the immediate family of an employee. Immediate family is defined as spouse, parent, child, sister, brother, mother, father, father-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law and grandch.ldTen.
Three (3) days of leave shall be granted in the case of the death of grandparent or grandparent-in-law.
lb be entitled to bereavement leave, the death must occur within the employee’s regular work year and shall commence on the next paid day following the date of death.
ARTICLE XV
EXTENDED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
A.	No member of the teaching staff, nurse, cleric or other employee shall be granted a leave of absence until the employee ha> served three (3) calendar years from the date of annual appointment except for employees requesting leave of absence for service in tbe military forces of the United States.
B.	MATERNITY/CHILD CARE LEAVE
1.	An employee shall notify tbe Superintendent of her pregnancy as soon as it is medically confirmed.
2.	The Board shall not remove any tenured employee from her regular duties during her pregnancy or a non-tenured employee during those months of her pregnancy which Occur during the work/school year for which she has contracted unless her performance has substantially declined or her health would be impaired if she were to continue in her employment.
3.	The Board shall grant leave for pregnancy/dnld care to any employee wishing to return within a school year in which her leave commences. Tbe child care portion of the leave shall be unpaid.
4.	The Board shall grant leave for pregnancy/child care to any tenured employee or other employee who has been conpnuously employed by the district for at least three (3) calendar years from the date of annual appointment wishing to return at the beginning of any of the two (2) school years Following tbe year in which leave commences.
5,	The Board shall not bar any employee from returning to work after the birth of her child solely on the grounds of a prescribed lapse of time between birth and the desired return date.
20
21

6.	For the period of disability related to (he employee’s pregnancy and childbirth, the employee may elect to use her accumulated sick leave and receive hill pay and benefits. The period of disability shall be defined to be any period of time that the employee’s doctor certifies subject to verification by a physician chosen by the district.
7.	Similar leaves of absence shall be granted to any employee at the inception of child custody or al the time of adoption.
C.	The Board may grant a leave of absence for up to one (I) year without pay to a tenured employee or other employee who has been continuously employed by the district for at least three (3) calendar years from the date of annual appointment to care for a seriously ill member of his/her immediate family.
D.	1. An employee shall not receive increment credit for time spent on leave granted pursuant to Sections B and C of the Article.
2. All benefits to which an employee was entitled at the time his/her leave of absence commenced including unused accumulated sick leave shall be restored to him upon his return.
E, All extensions or renewals of leave shall be applied for in writing. Approval or rejection shall be given in writing.
ARTICLE XVI SABBATICAL LEAVES
Sabbatical Leaves shall be granted in accordance with the following Professional Leave Plan:
SECTION I:	DEFINITIONS
A. For the purpose of this plan the word “teacher” or "teachers"’ shall mean certified classroom teachers, librarians, special teachers, school nurses, and any other professionally certified personnel employed by the Board of Education who are covered by this contract.
B For the purpose of this plan the term "service” shall mean only active, full-time employment in the public schools of Elizabeth, New Jersey.
SECTION 2:	ELIGIBILITY
Teachers having completed seven (7) years of satisfactory service may be granted professional leaves for study Or travel for a period not exceeding ten (IQ) school months and not less then five (5) school months except at the discretion of the Board of Education. Teachers having completed fourteen (14) years of satisfactory service may be granted a professional leave for rest and recuperation for a period mt exceeding ten (10) school months and not less than five (5) school months except at the discretion of the Board of Education.
SECTIONS: FOR STUDY AND TRAVEL
A, If professional leave is requested fur the purpose of study the applicant shall present for the approval of the Superintendent and the Board of Education a program of courses, independent study, research or creative work prior to presentation of request for approval to the Board of Education which should be carried out unless the Board otherwise directs.
B.	If Professional Leave is requested for the purpose of travel, the itinerary must be submitted to the Superintendent and the Board of Education at the time of application and must be carried out subject to such changes as the Board may direct,
SECTION 4:	REST AND RECUPERATION
A professional Leave for the purpose of rest and recuperation may be requested by a teacher who has completed fourteen (14) years of satisfactory service.
SECTION 5:	OPERATION OF LEAVE
A No inure than one percent of (he total instructional staff shall be granted a leave under the plan during any school year.
B.	Because it is more difficult to secure substitutes for a fractional school year than for a full school year, preference will be assigned to applications for leave covering a full school year.
C.	Leave may be denied in cases where it is unduly difficult to secure competent substitutes.
SECTION 6.	COMPENSATION
A. Anyone granted a Professional Leave shall receive fifty percent (50%) of the salary which he/she would have received during tbe same period in regular service, except in tbe case of Professional Leave for study only wherein the compensation shall be sixty percent (60%) of their salary tbe teacher would have received for the period.
B. A teacher on Professional Leave shall not accept any monetary remuneration without first obtaining tbe approval of the Board of Education, This provision shall not apply to grants from foundations, honorariums from publishing companies, speaking engagements or scholarships.
C- This compensation payable to persons on leave shall be paid at the same time as other members of the professional staff. Tbe teacher shall designate the place to which the check is to be mailed.
SECTION 7:	REPORT REQUIRED
Each applicant who has been granted a Professional Leave for study or travel shall file a written report with the Superintendent and Board of Education not later than ninety (90) days after return to active duty. This report shall include: the names of the institutions attended, courses pursued, credits received, experience gained, itinerary of travel, research pursued, or creative work accomplished-
SECTION 8:	RETURN TO POSITION
Upon the expiration of tbe granted leave, the teacher shall return to any position in any school as assigned by the Board of Education.
SECTION 9:	PENSION FUND
A. During the period of Professional Leave, retirement credits can be allowed as provided in the Pension Fund Law and the rules of the Board of Trustees of the Teacher’s Pension and Annuity Fund, to wit:
If a teacher granted a leave of absence by his/her employer shall receive in reduced salary an amount equal to the required monthly deductions for pension purposes, deductions will be made from such salary as though the teacher were receiving fid! salary and will be paid and reported to the Teacher's Pension and Annuity Fond and full credit will be allowed for service. In no case shall any deductions be made or service credit allowed where the salary to the teacher on leave of absence is less than the amount required for purposes of deduction.
24
•3?
The Secretary-School Business Administrator shall deduct from the gross earnings of professional leave salary, all mandatory and permissive payroll deductions as required or permitted by law.
B.	No teacher shall be deprived of the regular annual increment in salary because of absence on such leave granted by the Board of Education as stated in Section 2 and 4 hereof.
SECTION IC): FUTURE SERVICE
A. Any applicant granted Professional Leave must signify his intention to return to his/her position at the conclusion of the Professional Leave and render at least two (2) cotisectttve school years of service.
B. In the event of resignation before beginning or completing service period provided for in subdivision (A) of Section 9, the teacher shall return to the Board of Education the entire sum of money received during the Professional Leave period on demand after notifying the Board of Education of his/her intention not to return or not ro complete the required two (2) years of service.
C.	At the discretion of the Board of Education, no penalty shall be inflicted in the event of incapacity to teach, dismissal,. Act of God, or other circumstances deemed sufficient.
D.	A teacher who shall be granted this leave must do the following:
k Receive a copy of the Professional Leave plan, read the conditions stated herein, and sign the statement attached to the plan agreeing to ah conditions stated therein. The signature is to be witnessed by the (a) Superintendent of Schools and (b) the secretary of either the Superintendent of Schools or of the Assistant Superintendent of Schools.
2. The teacher to be granted the leave will sign a note, properly witnessed, to agree to conditions of the rule specifically rwo (2) years of service after completion of leave or full repayment of grant by the Board of Education to the Board of Education if he/she has not met all stated conditions.
25
J*?-:-';!?-?'
SECTION I ]: INTERRUPTION OF
PROFESSIONAL LEAVE
A,	Interruption of the program of study or travel caused by serious accident or illness during a Professional Leave shall net prejudice the Board of Education as regards the fulfillment of the conditions regarding study or travel on which leave was granted and not affect the amount of compensation paid such teacher under the terms of such Professional Leave provided:
1.	Evidence of their accident or illness is satisfactory to the Superintendent and their Board of Education.
2.	The Superintendent has been promptly notified of such accident or illness within thirty (30) days of such accident or illness.
B,	If a teacher becomes pregnant while on Professional Leave, she must notify the Board of Education and request a maternity leave under the rules of the Board of Education governing maternity leave. The Professional Leave shall immediately terminate on the commencement of maternity leave.
SECTION 12:	TIME OF APPLICATION
A.	Application for leave during any fall semester, that is, from September through January, or for any full school year, must be made on or before April 1st of that calendar year.
B.	Application for leave during the second semester, that ist February through June, must be made on or before the preceding October I st of that school year.
C.	In cases of emergency affecting the health of the teachers and/or the general welfare erf public schools, exceptions to the above dates may be approved by the Board of Education upon recommendation of the Superintendent of Schools.
SECTION 13:	NOTICE OF ACCEPTANCE OR REJECTION
A.	Every applicant shall be notified promptly by the Superintendent in writing after the action of the Boaitf of education whether the application has been granted or rejected and, if rejected, the reason for the rejection.
B.	The action of (he Board of Education on an application is to take place as soon as possible after the closing date fur the receipt of applications for any one period.
SECTION 14:
This plan shall in no way interfere with existing leave of absence provisions.
ARTICLE XVII
INSURANCE PROTECTION
(Employees Working an Average of 20 Hours or More Per Week)
A The Board shall continue to pay the full premium for each employee working an average of al least 20 hours or more per week and, in eases where appropriate, for family plan insurance coverage through Blue Shield-Blue Cross Hospital, rider J and major medical program and the New Jersey Public Health Benefits Plan.
B, The Board shall pay full premium for the prescription insurance plan for each employee working an average of at least 20 hours or mure per week and, in cases where appropriate, for the family. The specific prescription program shall be the program in effect on the signing of (his Agreement afforded city employees by the City of Elizabeth, except the following co-payments shall be applicable:
GENERIC DRUGS	$3.00
NON-GENERIC DRUGS	$6.00
MANDATORY MAIL ORDER	SO W
An employee may use mail order for a prescription supply of 21 days or more.
There shall be no prescription premium cap.
C.	Dental program coverage shall be provided for employees working an average of at least 20 bourn or more per week and their families, but limited to those employees who have a least one (1) year or more continuous service in the district. The selection of the dental program shall be by mutual agreement between the parties and shall have no premium csp. Effective July I, 1994, the following deductible shall apply:
Single	$30.00
Family	$90.00
D.	Effective February 1,1999 the Board of Education shall ipcovida for each employee working an average of at least 20 or mure hours per week a family Vision Care Plan folly paid for by the Board. Service frequency shall be examination-12 months, lenscs-24 mouths, and fratnes-24 months. Copay amounts shall be $10.00 for the examination and $10,00 for materials.
ARTICLE XVIII DEDUCTION IN SALARY
A, The Board agrees to deduct from the salaries of the employees in tbe Bargaining Unit dues for the Elizabeth Education Association, the New Jersey Education Association or the National Education Association, or any one or any combination of such associations as said employees individually and voluntarily authorized the Board to deduct. The Board agrees to deduct association dues in accordance with Chapter 310, Public Laws of 1967, N.J.S.A. 52:14-15, 9e, and under rules established by the State Department of Education.
B.	Tbe Board agrees to make available salary deductions for the tax sheltered annuity plan and the Union County Tfeacber’s Federal Credit Union. The Board shall make a good faith effort to acquire tbe capability to make direct deposit of such deductions.
C.	Tbe Association shall indemnify and hold the Board harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits and other forms of liability that shall arise out of, or by reason of any action taken or not taken by the Board for die purpose of complying with any of the provisions of this Article. The Association shall intervene in and defend any administrative or court litigation. The Board shall have no obligation to defend actions arising under this Article, but once compelled to do so, the Association shall reimburse the Board for all reasonable costs incurred in defending or participating in such litigation.
article XIX MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
A. Whenever any notice is required to be given by either parties uf (his Agreement to the other, pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement either party shall do so by telegram or registered letter al the following addresses:
1	If by tbe Association to the Board at 500 North Broad Street, Elizabeth, New Jersey, 07207.
2.	If by tbe Board to the Association at One Union Square, Elizabeth, New Jersey, 0720L
B.	This agreement shall not be modified in whole or part by the parties except by an instrument in writing duly executed by both parties.
C.	The current attendance policy of the Board of Education shall be applied to all employees.
ARTICLE XX STUDENT DISCIPLINE
An appropriate student disciplinary procedure shall be developed for the District and shall include a definition of tbe duties and responsibilities of all administrators, supervisors, and other personnel pertaining to student discipline. Copies of such procedure shall be presented to each teacher at tbe start of each school year.
ARTICLE XXI
INSTRUCTIONAL ADVISORY
COUN CHJPROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
A.	An Instructional Advisory Council shall be established and shall meet regularly. The Council may consider such matters as curriculum improvements, teaching techniques, professional assignments, instructional organizational patterns, experimentation, extra-curricular programs, in-service training and staff development, pupil testing and evaluation, philosophy and educational goals of the district, teacher recruitment, research, educational specifications for buildings, and other related matters regarding the effective operation of the Elizabeth School District.
B.	The Council shall consist of five (5) representatives appointed by the Superintendent and five (5) representatives appointed by the Association.
C.	The Council shall encourage the initi ation of ideas and suggestions for projects by individual teachers, departments, grade levels, Association committees, administrators, board members, students, parents, or other interested parties.
D.	The Council shall meet at least once a month.
E.	The Board and (he Association shall consider and study all written recommendations submitted by the Council for adoption.
F.	The Board will make available an amount not to exceed $100.00 for legitimate expenses for this Council.
G.	The Professional Development Committee shall be established and work with the Superintendent in formulating district programs for meeting continuing education credit requirements per NJ.A.C. 6:11-13.
1.	All credit hours worked per Article XXIX (E) of this agreement shall count for credit requirements per N J.A.C 6:11-13.
2, The content of each teacher's continuing education shall be specified in a Professional Improvement Plan per N.J.A.C. 6:11-13. In each teacher's annual evaluation report a record shall be made of the number of hours of continuing education credits completed for the year per NJ.A.C. 6:11-13.
ARTICLE XXII
EVENING SCHOOL, SUMMER SCHOOLS, FEDERAL PROGRAMS
All openings for positions in such programs shall be publicized in accordance with the procedure for publicizing promotional vacancies.
article xxm
PROTECTION OF TEACHERS, STUDENTS AND PROPERTY
A.	The Board shall provide legal assistance for any teacher who is assaulted during the course of the performance of his/her lawful duties as a teacher in the school district.
B.	The Board agrees that a teacher shall be entitled to full salary for up to one (1) year with no deduction for sick leave or personal leave in the event of absence caused, by an I assault upon the teacher while in the performance of his/her	I
lawful functions on behalf of the Board of Education. The extent and causation of such disability shall be verified by j the Chief Medical Inspector of the Board of Education.
C.	Teachers shall immediately report cases of assault suffered by them or by students to their principal; a copy uf such report shall be forwarded to the centra) administration office.
ARTICLE XXIV SUBSTITUTES
Once an employee has reported unavailability it shall be the responsibility of the administration to arrange for a substitute.
article XXV MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
A.	The Board hereby retains and reserves unto itself all powers, rights, authority, duties and responsibilities conferred upon and vested in it by the laws of the State of New Jersey, the constitutions of the State of New Jersey and of the United States.
30
ARTICLE XXVI SECRETARIES AND CLERKS
A Hours for secretarial staff shall be as follows:
1.	8:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. - School Offices 8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. - Administrative 7:30 a.m. - 4:00 pun. - School#26Z Extended Day
2.	8:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. - During School Recess
3.	Effective July 1998 tbe Superintendent of Schools shall determine whether or not to institute summer work hours. Summer work hours shall be defined as Monday through Thursday, 8:00 AM to 4:30 PM with one hour lunch. Summer hours shall be effective from the first . full work week following the July 4th holiday until such time in August as the Superintendent designates in any given year. During the period of summer hours, vacation may only be taken in a four day block and charged as five days (shorter vacation day blocks may be approved by the Director and the Superintendent for unusual circumstances);, sick days, personal days, and any charges for time on a daily basis shall be at the rate of 1.25. The Superintendent shall make every effort to determine by April 30 if summer hours will be in effect in a given year (i.c. if summer hours are to be in effect, notice, if practical, shall be given by April 30 of the same year).
B.	FLEX TIME-SECRETARIALAND CLERICAL STAFF
Effective July 1,1994, school management teams duly elected pursuant to Board policy may recommend to the Superintendent that some secretarial and clerical employees start earlier and stay later than the hours stated above. No secretarial or clerical employee will be required tu work more hours than constitutes their regular work day as set forth in section A. above. All such recommendations shall include the necessary staffing assignments needed to Implement the recommendations. It is understood that such staff aenignments are voluntary and that the Superintendent of Schools shall not unilaterally impose stall’ schedule changes outside the regular workday. If more than one. employee volunteers, seniority shall prevail, provided all other criteria are equal. If approved by the Superintendent, the recommendation of the school management team shall be implemented.
Secretarial and clerical employees who participate on the school management teams shall be paid the following hourly rate:
For school year 2000-01 $13.16
For school year 20014)2 $13.49 For school year 2002-03 $ 13.83 For school year 2003-04 $14.38
31

C.	Secretaries and clerks receive vacation time according to the following provisions;
a.	In tbe first year of employment each employee shall receive one (1) day for each month worked during the fiscal year prior to July 1st. No employee shall recri ve more than ten (10) days.
b,	Twelve (12) month employees with 1 to 6 years of service shall receive two (2) weeks vacation annually. Employees with 7 to 12 years of service shall receive three (3) weeks vacation annually. Employees with 13 or more years of service shall receive four (4) weeks vacation annually.
c.	Ten and one-half (10 1/2) month employees with ] to 12 years of service shall receive two weeks vacation annually. Employees with 13 or more years of service shall receive three (3} weeks vacation.
D.	Tbe hourly rate for evening school and Summer school secretaries shall be as follows:
Effective July 1,2000	$14.68
Effective July 1,200)	$15-01
Effective July 1,2002	$15.39
Effective July 1,2003	$16.00
E.	Twelve (12) month secretaries and clerks shall be entitled to fourteen (14) sick leave days.
F.	Secretaries shall not be required to work when schools are closed for inclement weather. Individual secretaries assigned to tbe Mitchell Building may be requested to come to work by the administrator to whom they report, but any such secretary shall be provided with a comp day” in connection with any such day on which a secretary reports, Said “comp day” shall be used before the end of the academic year.
G.	Secretaries assigned to School #26 and/or working the extended day shift (7:30 a_m. - 4:00 p.m.) shall be paid 1055 limes the appropriate step and column of theh respective salary guides.
ARTICLE XXVII
PREPARATION TIME - SUBSTITUTES
A.	SECONDARY SCHOOLS
Secondary school teachers who are required to take over a class for an absent colleague during a teacher’s lunch or preparation period (or who are required to lake additional students from another class because of that teacher's absence, thereby changing his/her class load) shall be compensated a the rate of 1/5 of the substitute per diem rate for each such class assignment.
B.	ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS
L a- In the case of an absent elementary teacher, the cooperating elementary teachers who combine their class far an entire day with those of tbe absent teacher shall receive tbe substitute teacher’s per diem rate to be divided equally among cooperating elementary teachers.
b.	Coverage payment shall also be made to Class Size Reduction (Team) Teachers whose teaching partner is absent beginning July 1,2002.
2.	This provision shall not apply to special teachers, i.e., art, music, physical education, Chapter 1, Compensatoiy Education, Bilingual/E-SL, <lpull out” teachers, and such other teachers who customarily do not have self-contained regular classroom assignments.
3.	If a special subject area teacher is assigned to cover for an absent regular classroom teacher for (he full day, thereby depriving the regular elementary classroom teacher of his/her preparation period [or when the special subject area teacher is reassigned to another school related activity (citywide art exhibits, field trips, Board related business, etc.)] tbe per diem substitute pay shall be divided amongst the teacher so affected.
4.	When teachers are covering for an absent teacher, those children of the absent teacher shall follow the same schedule as the covering teacher’s class. This includes gym, art, music, shop, etc. In the event that the absent teacher’s class is scheduled for a special class on the same day, that class will not be held and the special teacher will use this period as a prep period.
C.	GENERAL INFORMATION (applies to both secondary and elementary schools)
1,	Preparation periods cannot be interchanged with on-duty period.
2.	A teacher who substitutes for a colleague who has been called upon by the administration to attend a meeting or perform any other school-related activity shall be compensated under this Article.
3.	The foregoing sections shall not apply when coverage has been caused by a teacher who, after reporting to school, leaves before the end of the day because of emergency or illness.
.4, The payments required by this Article shall be made quarterly.
32
33
ARTICLE XXVni
REPRESENTATION FEE
1.	If an employee does not become a member of the Association during any membership year which is covered in whole or in part by this Agreement, said employee will be required to pay a representation fee to the Association for that membership year. The purpose of this fee will be to offset the employee’s per capita cost of services rendered by the Association as majority representative.
2.	Prior to the beginning of each membership year, the amount of said representation fee shall be certified to the Board by the Association, which amount sdiall not exceed eighty-five percent (85%) of the regular membership dues, fees and assessments charged by the Union to its own members.
3.	Once during each membership year covered in whole or in part by this Agreement, the Association will submit to the Board a list of those employees who have not become members of the Association for the then current membership year. The Board will deduct the representation fee in equal installments, as nearly as possible, for the paycheck paid to each employee of the aforesaid list during the remainder of the membership year in question.
4.	The employer shall remit the amount deducted to the Association monthly, on or before the 15th of the month following the month in which such deductions were made.
5.	These deductions shall commence thirty (30) days after the beginning of employment in the unit or ten (10) days after re-entry into employment in the unit.
6.	The Association shall establish and maintain at all times a demand and return system as provided by NJ.S.A, 34: )3A’5J(c) and 5.6, and membership in the Association shall be available to all employees in the unit on an equal basis at all times. In the event the Association fails to maintain such a system or if membership is not so available, the employer shall immediately cease making said deductions.
7.	The Association shall indemnify and hold the Board harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits and other forms of liability that shall arise out of, or by reason of any action taken or not taken by the Board for be purpose of complying with any of the provisions of this Article. The Association shall intervene in and defend any administrative or court litigation. The board shall have no obligation to defend actions arising under this Article, but once compelled to do so, the Association shall reimburse the Board for al reasonable costs incurred in defending or participating in such litigation.
ARTICLE XXIX TEACHERS HOURS
A.	Effective September I, 1985, the regular workday ofteachersshallbe8:15 am. to 3:05 p m. The Board retains the right to schedule one-half (1/2) days as full day's. The work year for teachers shall consist of 180 student contact days phis one orientation day. Newly hired teachers may be assigned an additional orientation day.
B.	Except in an emergency, teachers will not be assigned non-professiona] duties such as hall duty between 3:00 p.m. and 3:05 p.m.
C.	School Improvement Facilitators shall work eleven (11) months each year. They shall follow the teachers1 ten month school calendar plus they shall work a maximum of 22 days during summer recess. Daily work hour* and the daily work schedule during the school year shall be the same as regular classroom teachers. During summer recess daily work hours and the daily work schedule shall be the same as assigned the secretaries at the Mitchell Building.
1.	Staff Development Coordinators and Staff* Development Research Consultants shall follow the teachers’ ten month school calendar. In addition they shall work either the month of July or August as assigned. Their daily work hours shall be 8:30 AM - 4:30 PM during the school year. Summer hours shall be the same as assigned the secretaries in the Mitchell Building.
2.	Professional Development Teacher Trainers shall follow the teachers’ ten month school calendar and daily work, hours.
3.	Extended School Day/Year Thachers shall work a regular school day of eight (8) hours and fifteen (15) minutes. The normal hours shall be from 7:30 AM - 3:45 PM for a total of 199 workdays per school year. Time worked in addition to the above shall be compensated at the hourly rate for teachers (Appendix A, Part II - C).
4.	Teachers of Public Information shall work eleven (11) months each year. They shall Follow the teachers’ ten month school calendar plus they shall work a maximum cf twenty-two (22) days during summer recess. Their daily work hours shall be 8:30 AM - 4:30 PM during the school year. Summer hours shall be the same as assigned the secretaries in the Mitchell Building.
34	35
•. ।- 1 • . iwfli
D.	FLEX TIME
Effective July 1, 1994, school management teams duly elected pursuant to Board policy may recommend to the Superintendent that some portions in their respective schools start as early as 7:30 a.m, and end as tele as 4:30 p.m. No teacher will be required to work more than six (5) hours fifty (50) minutes continuous per day. All such recommendations shall include the necessary staffing assignments needed to implement tbe recommendations. It is understood that such, staffing assignments are voluntary and that the Superintendent of Schools shall not unilaterally impose staff schedule changes outside the regular workday. If more than one teacher volunteers, seniority shall prevail, provided all other criteria are equal. If approved by the Superintendent, the recommendation of the school management team shall be implemented.
Teachera who participate on the school management teams shall be paid the following hourly rates:
For school year 2000-01 $22.55 For school year 2001-02 $23.11 For school year 2002-03 $23.69 For school year 2003-04 $24.63
E.	The Elizabeth Board of Education and the Elizabeth Education Association recognize tbe importance of continuing education for staff members and its value to the students in the Elizabeth Public Schools. In an effort to improve delivery of instruction in the core curriculum content areas and address relevant issues arising from contemporary educational challenges the parties enter into the following agreement. No later then July 1, 1998 certified employees shall choose to be placed on the “Regular*’ teachers guide or the “Professional Development Guide”. Those teachers who elect to be placed on the “Professional Development Guide’* will participate in a comprehensive staff development program designed to enhance delivery of instruction in the Core Curriculum Content Areas. Trained teachers who elect the “Professional Development Guide” agree to spend up to 20 hours per year outside their regular workday and workweek to meet with their colleagues, assess new techniques, evaluate training programs, etc. as scheduled by the Division of Staff Development, Best Practices and Innovative Programs. Teachers who elect to remain on the “Regular*’ teachers guide are also subject to in-service training. Any required training outside of the regular workweek ex work day for teachers on the “regular"’ guide Khali be compensated at the hourly rate. Employees hired on July ), 1997 or Later shall . be placed on the "Professional Development Guide”. Tire hours worked outside the regular workday and workweek shall be counted toward the continuing education standards subject to the approval procedures contained within the law.
36
>:  ..... '-J.<i*r’fe*4*
District Professional Development:
1.	Coordination of the district professional development requirement and the state's continuing education requirement will be referred to a joint study committee comprised of representatives appointed by the Board and the Association.
2.	Any teacher on tbe regular teacher salary guide for 2002-2003 as of January 1,2003 may switch to the professional teacher guide for 2003-2004 by notifying in writing the Superintendent of Schools do later than January 31,2003.
3.	Graduate courses must be approved by the Director of Staff Development, Best Practices and Innovative Programs. Courses must be relevant to the New Jersey Core Curriculum Content Standards and/or tbe teacher’s pcsition in the school district. A teacher must complete the necessary forms. Graduate credits will count for three (3) hours of district professional development per graduate credit for a maximum of nine(9) hours district professional development credit Id any one school year,
F. A joint committee shall be formed to study, review and make recommendations concerning the use of flex time.
ARTICLE XXX
SECURITY PERSONNEL, ASSISTANTS ATTENDANTS, TECHNICIANS AND
PARENT LIAISONS
A Security Personnel, Assistants, Attendants, Technicians and Parent Liaisons shall be given the school holidays and inclemem weather days without deduction of salary, except that Security Personnel are required to work the Christmas and Easter Recesses.
B. Eit^loyees covered by this Article shall serve a probationary period of thirty (30) workdays after cumntencemeut of employment. Upon written notice to the employee and tbe Association, the Board shall be entitled to an additional trial period of thirty (30) workdays. During this probationary period, an employee may be terminated with or without cause.
37
J:	C, FLEXTIME
fl • ;
|	Effective July 1,1994, school management teams,
*	duly elected pursuant to Board of Education policy may
ij,	recommend to the Superintendent that some employees
§ covered by this Article start earlier and stay later than their K . regular work hours. No employee will be required to work ||. more hours than constitutes his/her regular workday. All such recommendations shall include the necessary staffing $	। assignments needed to implement the recommendations. It
i, is understood that staffing assignments arc voluntary and the Superintendent shall not unilaterally impose staff schedule changes outside tbe regular workday. If more than one L:	employee volunteers, seniority shall prevail, provided all
F- other criteria are equal If approved by tbe Superintendent, f, the meummendations of the school management team shall $ be implemented. Employees who participate on the school £	management teams shall receive the following hourly rate of
pay:
jdh	For	school year	2000-01	$13.16
L’	For	school year	2001-02	$13.49
p:	For	school year	2002-03	$13.83
'	For	school year	2003-04	$14.38
; ■	D. Eleven (11) month security personnel shall work
either July or August. They shall be paid on the appropriate h: ■ ’, step of tbe eleven (11) month security salary guide. Any , employee hired before July 1,2002 shall have the option of ■ remaining an hourly paid summer employee. For the J. •. purpose of pension credit far the 11-mdnth position, tbe d , ' Board will allow 24 salary pay periods for tbe ILmonth j i / position. This provision shall take effect July 1, 2002, t: '
; {	Twelve (12) month security personnel at the
Mitchell Building, Prince Street or other worksites shall be paid on the appropriate step of the twelve (12) month 1'i security salary guide. Vacation shall be tbe same as - । secretaries. This provision shall take effect July 1,2002.
E.	1, Any Security Guard working an 11 month year at an extended day/year school shall be paid 1.10 times tbe appropriate, step and column of the proper salary guide.
2.	Any Security Guard working an 11 month year so cited above in E. 1. who is also working an extended day schedule shall be paid 1.155 times the appropriate step and column of the salary guide.
3,	The Board agrees to establish and equitable system for rotation of overtime for security guards in each building or worksite. A joint committee established by the parties shall develop the details and procedures for the rotational system of assignment of overtime; by July 1, 2000. The parties agree that if an employee refuses an offer of overtime, such employee shall be rotated to tbe bottom of said list, thtit any arbitration concerning an alleged violation of such rotational overtime assignment shall be limited to the granting of a preferential opportunity for a future overtime assignment and such arbitration shall be without authority to award compensation for lost overtime assignment, that such system shall provide procedure to recognize emergency overtime assignments and also take into consideration cases that may differentiate between employees who are held over for overtime and employees who are called back, for overtime, that said system must work expeditiously for assignment of overtime, and that overtime must be worked as required.
F.	Head Parent Liaisons shall receive an annual $4,000.00 pensionable stipend added to their regular salary.
Effective July 1, 2002 security personnel transferred to a lower paying position shall not be entitled to continue receiving the. higher pay, i.e. Security Personnel transferred from 12 month position to 11 month position shall be paid on the 11 month guide.
Effective July 1, 2002 head security personnel using tbeir own vehicles for official district business shall be compensated at tbe same rate as the attendance officer.
A joint committee shall be formed to develop the RIF/Rccall language for all employees agreed to fa the previous settlement.
39
39
■vHiUrf':’ - I’l.tU
ARTICLE XXXI DURATION OF AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT shall be effective July 1,2001, except as otherwise provided, and shall continue and remain in full furtx and effect to and including June 30,2004, when it shall expire. This Agreement shall not be extended.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have
caused this Agreement to be signed by their respective
presidents, attested by their respective secretaries, and their
APPENDIX A
RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR APPLICATION OF SALARY GUIDE FOR INSTRUCTIONAL PERSONNEL
PARTI: GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS
A- Upon the recommendation of the Superintendent of Schools and with the approval of the Board of Education, increments as indicated in this salary guide may be withheld from individuals, fur cause.
B.	For the purpose of computing levels of training, thirty-two (32) semester points of work approved by the Superintendent of Schools are considered the measure of one year of training. The bachelor’s degree is considered as meeting the requirement of four (4) years cf training and the master's degree the requirement of rive (5) years of training.
C.	Any approved semester points approved by the Supcrinteodent of Schools and earned in accredited teachers* colleges, colleges and universities, cr in courses conducted by the New Department of Education or any inservice training courses approved by the Superintendent of Schools will be applied toward advancement on (he salary guide, There shall be no limit on the number of points applied per year.
D.	Experience gained in any school system or in fields of work which are closely related to prospective assignments in the Elizabeth Public Schools, shall be evaluated by the Superintendent of Schools with the approval of the Board of Education in fixing initial salaries.
Eu As an award for the achievement of the next higher academic milestone or degree, the annual rate of pay fur any teacher, nurse or attendance officer employed under this guide shall be increased by an amount called for in the appropriate attached schedules, effective the first of the month following receipt cf official evidence in the office of (he Superintendent of Schools that such academic status has been achieved. Official evidence is defined as a transcript or chpioTTLt.
F.	Teachers, nurses and attendance officers who plan to complex enough coDege work in order to achieve the next milestone level award provided for in this guide for such training during any particular fiscal year shall notify the Superintendent of Schools in writing before September 15 of (be preceding fiscal year.
40	41
G.	To receive credit for academic training, nurses must have taken acceptable courses in nursing education, health education, or other closely related fields having the approval of the Superintendent of Schools.
H.	Except in emergencies, only persons who have bad academic training comparable to that expected of teachers will be considered for initial appointment as attendance । officers.
I.	To receive credit for academic training, attendance officers must have taken acceptable courses in social service or closely related fields having the approval of the Superintendent of Schools.
J.	All nurses and attendance officers shall be employed on a 10-month basis.
K.	These salary guides shall supersede and replace all previous salary guides of the Board of Education effecting teachers, nurses, attendance officers and psychological service personnel, and such previous guides are hereby rescinded.
L.	Teachers who desire payment for a “Recognized Club” must submit a request, in writing, to the Principal, outlining the goals of the Club no later than January 15th of each school year for the next school year. The Principal will evaluate each club's value based on the criteria approved by the Board of Education. The Principal shall recommend clubs to the Superintendent for official recognition by February 15th. The Board of Education shall have sole authority to recognize a club and will officially recognize clubs fur each school year by March 15th. No one who desires to be paid as a club advisor shall form a club prior to its official recognition by tbe Board of Education.
M.	Effective the 1998-99 school year, employees who reach their 25th year of Elizabeth experience as of June 30th of each contract year shall receive an additional adjustment of up to SI,000.00 per adjustment per employee. This additional adjustment shall be incorporated in base salary. Employees who work 6 1/2 hours per day or more Khali receive the entire $1,000.00 adjustment. Employees 1 working less than 6 1/2 hours per day shall receive a prorated adjustment.	i
Longevity (Effective July 1, 2002):
Years	2002-03	2003-04
20	$500	$750
25	$1,250	' $1,500
30	$1,750	32,000
N.	Tuition reimbursement shall begin for the 1996-97 school year. $150,000.00 shall be provided for tbe reimbursement of tuition for teachers who have successfully competed graduate level work at an accredited teachers’ college, college and/or university, or courses conducted by the NJ Department of Education, or any in-service training courses approved by tbe Superintendent. Secretaries, assistants, security personnel, and other employees covered by the Instructional Unit contract are eligible for reimbursement for successfully completing course work approved by the Superintendent that relates to their assignment with the Board. Tbe maximum rate for tuition shall be the tuition rate in effect al Rutgers University; a maximum of two courses per semester shall be subject to this program. In 1997-98 a sum of $156,000 00 shall be provided for the program and in 1998-99 tbe sum of $162,000.00 shall be provided for the program. In 1999-00 the sum of $200,000.00, in 2001 a sum of $300,000.00, in 2002 a sum of $400,000.00, and in 2003 a sum of $500,000.00 shu.ll be provided for the program plus any unused funds from the previous year. Any unused funds shall be rolled into the next year.
O.	A new procedure for distributing tuition reimbutsemenl funds will be developed beginning the 1999-2000 year and throughout the years of this agreement. The first ccme-first served allocations shall be terminated. The total annual allocation of funds for this benefit shall be divided in three (3) equal parts: summer, fall and spring semesters. Applicants who qualify for reimbursement shall receive an equal payment of money not to exceed the Rutgers University tuition rate. Any unused funds in a semester shall be rolled into tbe next semester or year. Teachfrs receiving tuition reimbursement shall refund to the Board 50% of tbe amount of tuition reimbursement paid to the teacher if the teacher does not remain in the employment of the Board for at least three (3) years from the last semester for which tuition reimbursement was received. Any teacher leaving before three (3) years shall repay 50% of their payment within that three (3) year period. Exceptions from having to pay any refund shall be made for the following reasons:
1.	A teacher is involuntarily severed from employment by the Board
2.	Medically unable to continue working
3.	Resigns following a Board approved leave of absence
4.	Upon death the teacher’s estate shall not be encumbered
: 5. Any other circumstances beyond the control of the teacher
42
43
FART It SPECIFIC CONSIDERATIONS
A. L Each currently employed commercial, art, physical education and music teacher whose salary, training and experience status is comparable to that of currently employed industrial aits and home economics teachers shall be classified in the same salary categories as currently employed industrial arts and home economics teachers.
2. Tbe pay rate for daily substitute teachers shall be one hundred dollars($ 1OO.QQ) per day and minimum salary after twenty (20) consecutive days in the same position. The one hundred dollar ($100.00) per diem rate shall be utilized for Article XXVII payment calculation.
B, Educational qualifications and professional experience shall be evaluated by the Superintendent of Schools in determining initial salaries for school psychologists, psychiatric social workers, learning disabilities specialists, guidance counselors and occupational instructors.
C.	The hourly rate, including hourly summer session assignments, shall be as follows:
■i
ii
Effective July 1,2000 Teachers Guidance, Headteachers,	$21,23
Child Study Team, and Program Assistants	$21.69
Effective July 1, 2001 Teachers Guidance, Head teachers.	$21.76
Child Study Team, and Program Assistants	$22,23
Effective July 1, 2002 Teachers Guidance, Head teachers,	$22.30
Child Study Team, and Program Assistants	$22.79
Effective July 1, 2003 Teachers Guidance, Head teachers.	$23.18
Child Study Team, and Program Assistants	$23.69
k i
Lab Assistants &. Audio Visual Technicians
a. AV Technician with college degree: $500 pensionable stipend effective July 1,2002.
D.	Pre-K: School Year 2001-2002
The Elizabeth Education Association (Association) and the Elizabeth Board of Education (Board) agree to the following terms and conditions for all employees represented by the Association who are assign^! to a Pre-K program for the 2001-2002 school year. Due tn the exigencies of the requirements mandated by the New Jersey State Board of Education for Pre-K programs including a 200 day year the Association and the Board understand the necessity of working together in the coming year and pledge to cooperate in resolving issues which may ar.se from implementing those requirements.
1.	Duration: September 1, 2001 through June 30,2002.
2.	Pre-K teachers assigned Ur School #26: Teachefs shall work an eleven month year of 201 days consisting of 200 student contact days plus one (1) oricntaSoo day. They shall be paid on the appropriate step and column o: the school #26 salary guide. For the two(2) student contact days worked beyond 198 student contact days teachers shall be compensated for each of the two(2) days at the psr diem rate of 17220th of their individual annual salaries. Teachers shall work a school day of eight (8) hours and fifteen (15) minutes. The normal hours shall be from 7:30am - 3:45pm. Time worked in addition to the above $tall be compensated at the hourly rate for teachers (Appendix A, Part II-C) as per normal posting practices.
A. Pre-K classroom assistants assigned to SchooL#26: Assistants shall work an eleven month year of 201 days consisting of 200 student contact days plus one (1) orientation day. They shall be paid on the appropriate step and column of the classroom assistants salary guide or the certified child development aides (CDA) salary guide whichever is applicable plus a ten percent (10.0%) annual differentia] which shall be added to their salary. For the two (2) student contact days worked beyond 198 student contact. days assistants shall be compensated for each of the two (2) days at the per diem rate of 17220th of their individual annual salaries. Assistants paid on the Multi/8 hour guide shall work a school day of eight (8) hours. The normal, hours shall be from 7:45am - 3:45pm. Assistants paid on the CDA guide shall work a school day of eight (8) hours and fifteen (15) minutes. Tbe normal hours shall be from 7:30am - 3:45pm. Time worked in addition to the above shall be compensated at the hourly rate for assistants (Article XXX-C) as per normal posting practices
Classroom Assistants
a. Maximum step in 2002-2003 will be increased by $400.00
45
44
3.	Pre-K teacherii assigned to the Pre-K Center: Teachers shall work a ten month year of 188 days consisting of 187 student contact days plus one (1) orientatton day. They shall be paid on the appropriate step and column of the school #26 salary guide at the pro rata figure of 188/2OOths. Teacher? shall work a school day of eight (8) hours and fifteen (15) minutes. The normal hours shall be from 7:30am - 3:45pm. Time worked in addition to the above shall be compensated at tbe hourly rate for teachers (Appendix A, Part H-C) as per normal posting practices.
There shall also be thirteen (13) student enrichment days scheduled on Saturdays throughout the school year. Teachers shall be paid for eleven (11) of the enrichment days on the appropriate step and column of the school#26 salary guide at the pro rata figure of 12/200lhs. For the twelfth (12th) and thirteenth ()3th) days which are two (2) student contact days worked beyond 198 student contact days teachers shall be compensated for each of the two (2) days at the per diem rate of l/ZOOtb of their individual annual salaries. Thachers shall work a school day of eight (8) hours and fifteen (15) minutes. The normal hours shall be from 7:30am - 3:45pm. Time worked in addition to the above shall be compensated at the hourly rate for teachers (Appendix At Part II-C) as per normal posting practices.
Volunteers shall be solicited first for the enrichment program.
A. Pre-K classroom assistants assigned to the Pre-K Center: Assistants shall work a ten month year of 188 days consisting of 187 student contact days plus one (1) orientation day. They shall be paid on the appropriate step and column of the classroom assistants salary guide or the certified child development aides (CDA) salary guide whichever is applicable plus a ten percent (10.0%) annual differential which shall be added to their individual salaries at the pro rata figure of 188/2OOths. Assistants paid on the Multi/8 hour guide shall work a school day of eight (8) hours. The normal hours shall be from 7:45am -3:45pm. Assistants paid on the CDA guide shall work a school day of eight (8) hours and fifteen (15) minutes. The normal hours shall be from ?:30am - 3:45pm. Time worked in addition to the above shall be compensated at the hourly rate for assistants (Article XXX-C) as per norma] posting practices.
There shall also be thirteen (13) student enrichment days scheduled on Saturdays throughout the school year. Assistants shall be paid for eleven (11) of tbe enrichnjent days on tbe appropriate step and column of the classroom assistants salary guide or the certified child develofknent aides (CDA) salary guide whichever is applicable plus a ten percent (10.0%) annual differentia] which shall be added to their individual salaries at the pro rata figure of 12/200ths. For the twdfth(12th) and thirteenth (131)) days which are two (2) student contact days worked beyond 198 student contact days assistants shall be compensated for each of the two (2) days at the per diem r^te of 1/200th of their individual annual salaries. Assistants paid on the Multi/8 hour guide shall work a school day of eight (8) hours. The normal hours shall be from 7:45am - 3:45ptn. Assistants paid on the CDA guide shall work a school day of eight (8) hours and fifteen (15) minutej. The normal hours shall be from 7:30am -3:45pm. Ture worked in addition to the above shall be compensated at the hourly rate for assistants (Article XXX-C) as per normal posting practices.
Volunteers shall be solicited first for the enrichment program.
4.	Pre-K teachers assigned to Neighborhood Schools at programs not enumerated above: Teachers shall work a ten month year of 181days consisting of 180 student contact days plus one (1) orientation day. They shall bp paid on the appropriate step and column of the regular or professional teachers salary guide, whichever is applicable. Teachers shall work a school day of six (6) hours and fifty (50) minutes. The normal hours shall be from 8:15 am - 3:05 pm. Time worked in addition to the above shall be compensated at the hourly rate for teachers (Appendix A, Part Il-C) as per normal posting practices.
There shall also be twenty (20) student enrichment days with seven (7) days scheduled on weekdays in the latter part of lune and thirteen (13) days scheduled on Saturdays throughout the school year. Teachers shall be paid for eighteen (18) of the enrichment days oh the appropriate step and column of the regular or professional teachers salary guide, whichever is applicable, at their individual daily rales (l/200th) plus J 5.5% for each of the 18 enrichment days. For the nineteenth (19th) and twentieth {20th) days which are two (2) student contact days worked beyond 198 student contart days teachers shall be compensated for each of the two (2) days at the per diem rale of 1 /200th of their individual annual salaries which shall include the 15.5% differential pay. Teachers shall work a school day of eight (8) hours and fifteen (15) minutes. The normal hours shall be from 7:30am — 3:45pm. Tune worked in addition to khe above shall be compensated at the hourly rate for teachers (Appendix A. Part II-C) as per normal posting practices.
47
46

Volunteers shall be solicited first for the enrichment program.
A. Pre-K classroom assistants assigned to Neighborhood Schools at programs not enumerated above: Assistants shall work a ten month year of 181 days consisting of 180 student contact days plus one (1) orientation day. They shall be paid on the appropriate step and column of the classroom assistants salary guide. Assistants paid on the 6 hour guide shall work a school day cf six (6) hours. The normal hours shall be from. 8:30am -2:30pm. Assistants paid on the 6-5 hour guide shall work a school day of six (6) hours and thirty {30) minutes. The normal hours shall be from 8:30am -3:00pm. Time worked in addition to the above shall be compensated at the hourly rate for assistants (Article XXX-C) as per normal posting practices.
There shall also be twenty (20) student enrichment days with seven (7) days scheduled an weekdays in the latter part of June and thirteen (13) days scheduled on Saturdays throughout the school year. Assistants shall be paid for eighteen (18) of the enrichment days on the appropriate step of the classroom assistants Multi/8 hour salary guide at their individual daily rates (l/200th) plus ten percent 10.0% for each of the 18 enrichment days. For the nineteenth (19th) and twentieth (20th) days which are two (2) student contact days worked beyond 198 student contact days assistants shall be compensated for each of the two (2) days at the per diem rate of l/200th of their individual annual salaries which shall include the 10.0% differential pay. Assistants shall work a school day of eight (8) hours. The normal hours shall be from 7:45am — 3:45pm. Tune worked in addition to the above shall be compensated at the hourly rate for assistants (Article XXX-C) as per normal posting practices.
Volunteers shall be solicited first fur the enrichment program.
5.	Support Staff Employees assigned to a Pre-K program; These employees shall work under the terms and conditions of the applicable contracts between the Association and the Board. Such employees working during the Pre-K enrichment days shall also be compensated per the terms and conditions of the applicable contracts between die Association and the Board.
Volunteers shall be solicited first for that part of the enrichment program which is scheduled for Saturdays.
Given the unusual circumstances of the Pre-K program for the school year 2001-2002 the Association and the Board agree that flexibility and understanding of individual needs are paramount for maintaining good labor relations and for successfully implementing the state mandated Pre-K program.
Ibachers Professional
qo-oi 01-02	02-03	03-04
i --------------------------1--------------2
------------1---------------1-----------2
1-------------1-........1----------------2
2...........—	1-------------1------------2
3			1__		1			2
4—		1—		—	—			2
5- -	—	—-1			2
6—		-2—		1			r2
7—		3—		1			2
8—		4„.		-.			-2
9—		5—		1			_2
10 —		6 -		2—			3
11 -		7-.	-	3			4
12 —		g„.			4			5
13 —		9—		_5			6
14 —		10-			6			7
15 —	_...| i		7	.		8
16 —		12-		8			10
17 —		13-		a		—to
18 —		13„		8			10
48
49

• .	.-.'"J.11'.'flW!
Ji,I:...
Teachers Regular
Secretaries
I
I
4
0Q-01	01-02	02-03	03-04
			1—		2
•i		1				1—		2
7			-2			2—		3
2			3			3„„.		4
3			4			4 —-		_5
4			5			5™-		6
5	.		6			—6—		7
6			-7			7„_..			8
7	-		8			3-—		9
8			9			9—		io
9			10			10 —			11
10-.....-		11			--.-11 --		12
11			J2			12 —		13
12			13			12 —	-	13
B			13			12 —		13
1 • r
Lab Assistants
00-01	01-02	02-03	03-04
-----------1-----------1-----------2
1-----------2-—---------1----------2
2	3------------2........ .2
3	4-----------—3------- -—2
4	5------------4----------2
5-----------6-----------5-----------3
6	-7-----------6----------4
7-----------R------------7----------5
8	9--------- -8--------—-6
9-----------10----------9-----------7
10----------11----------10----------8
11----------12----------11----------9
12----------13----------12----------10
13----------14----------13---------11
14----------15----------14----------12
15----------16—........—15-----------13
16----------17----------16----------14
17----------18----------17----------15
IB----------19----------IB----------16
19----------20----------18---------—17
20----------21----------19----------17
21----------21----------19----------17
Computer Data Entry
00-01	01-02	02-03	03-04
------------------------1------------2
-----------1-------------2---------3
1	2-------------3------- —4
2	-—3-----------4----------5
3	4------------.5----------5
4	5-------------5----------5
5	5-------------5----------5
52

Security
00-01	01-02	02-03	03-04
------------------------1------------2
-----------1------------2------------2
i 1-----------2------------3_..........2
2	 3	-........ 4-----------3
3	4------------------5---------4
4	5---------------------------...5
5	ft----------------7.......,.„6
6	-7-----------------8---------7
7	-—8---------------9----------R
8	9-----------------10---------9
9	10----------------11---------10
]0----------11-----------12-------- 11
11----------12......... 13----------12
12----------13-----------14---------13
13----------]4......... -14---------13
14----------14..........—14---------13
53
I; ।	Classroom Assistants
El-
r1 1	00-0!	01-02	02-03	03-04
£ :
3	--------------------------1-------------2
I	--------------1-------------1-----------2
1------------2--------------2----------2
•£••••	2------------3--------------3-----------2
| . ।	3-------------4------------14-----------2
1:	4-------------'.............5...........!
£	5.............6-------------6-----------4
I7--	6-------------7............ 7-----------5
»i:,	7-............3-------------8-----------6
|p:.	#-------------9-------------9-----------7
9-----------10-------------10..........-3
Ii-r	10------------It...........U------------9
j	II-----------12------------12......... 10
:/'j	12-----------13-...........13----------11
13-..........14------------14-----------12
£■’	14-----------15------------15----------13
I	15-----------16------------15----------13
a	i6-----------16------------15......—13
WU!Ul,iw -1-. I
Parent Liaison/Non-Certified Attendance Officers
(Hired on or after January 1> 1999)
00-01	01-02	02-03	03-04
............................1 —...........2
-------------1-------------2--------------3
I-------------2---------. - -3--------------4
2--------------3-^...........4--------------5
3 --..........-4-------------5-------------6
4------------- 5-------------6-------------7
5--------------6.............7-------------g
6--------------7-------------8............—8
7--------------g-------------g_,_........._g
3....-.......8-------------8-------------8
I	Child Development Aides
|	(CDA CERTIFIED)
S. •
1	00-01	01-02	02-03	03-04
	—			1			2
					—_2			3
	I-..-		—2			3			4
i	2		-3			4			5
	3		—4			5—			5
	4		_„5			5	-		5
				
-J	5		-5			5			5
55

REGULAR TEACHERS -
Teachers, Nurses & Attendance Officers 2000-2001
AEG^LAJ? TEACffEftS -r^iwJ^eTJ, /Vurses £ Attendance Officers 2002-2003
Salary Guide			
Sitp	BA	MA	6Tfl¥»
1	33216	33808	35265
2	33466	34058	35515
3	33692	3437?	35866
4	33919	34696	36218
5	34166	35037	36597
6	34425	35388	37004
7	34701	35762	37453
8	35355	36441	38670
9	35992	38555	40610
10	37855	40453	42279
11	39055	41955	44155
12	39755	43255	45755
13	41269	44555	47755
14	43340	46857	49755
15	45555	49255	53005
16	48755	52655	56255
16J	50555	54605	58255
17	52355	56555	60255
17.5	56740	60978	64770
18	63624	65900	69785
REGULAR TEACHERS -
Teachers, Nurses & Attendance Officers 2001-2002
Salary Guide
Shf	BA	MA	ATM YR
1	33216	33808	35265
2	33466	34058	35515
3	33692	34377	35866
4	33919	34696	36218
5	34166	35037	36597
6	34425	35388	37004
7	34701	35762	37453
8	35355	36441	38670
9	35992	38555	40610
10	37855	40453	42279
11	39055	41955	44155
12	39755	43255	45755
13	41269	44555	47755
14	43340	46857	49755
15	45555	49255	53005
16	48755	52655	56255
16.5	50555	54605	58255
17	52355	56555	60255
17.5	56740	60978	64770
18	62124	66400	70285
		56	
Salary 8*4	Guide		
	BA	MA	6THYR
1	33216	33808	35265
	33466	34058	35515
3-	33692	34377	35866
4:	33919	34696	36218
S;	34166	35037	36597
6:	34425	35388	37004
7:	34701	35762	37453
8	35355	36441	38670
9	35992	38555	40610
ia	37855	40453	42279
11	39055	41955	44J55
12	39755	43255	45755
13	41269	44555	47755
14	43340	46857	49755
15	45555	49255	53005
16	48755	52655	56255
163	50555	54605	58255
IT	52355	56555	60255
17.fi	56740	60978	64770
18	62624	66900	70785
AEG[7L4J? rEACHEAS -			
Tfeacftm,	£ Attendance Officers 2003->2004 Salary Guide			
SteQ	BA	MA	CTHYB
1	33216	33808	35265
2:	33466	34058	35515
31	33692	34377	35866
4	33919	34696	36218
5	34166	35037	36597
6	34425	35388	37004
7	34701	35762	37453
8	35355	3644)	38670
9	35992	38555	40610
10	37855	40453	42279
11	39055	41955	44155
12	39755	43255	45755
13	41269	44555	47755
14	43340	46857	49755
19	45555	49255	53005
16	48755	52655	56255
16.fi	50555	54605	58255
17	52355	56555	60255
17.5	56740	60978	64770
18	63124	67400 57	71285
Guidance Counselors-OCC 2000-2001
Ed. Inst-Reading Cons & Eng. Mastery Cong
REGULAR TEACHERS -
Guidance Counselars-OCC 2002-2003
Ed Inst-Reading Cans & Eng. Mastery Cons
Salary Guide				Salary Guide			
SUjj	RA	MA	«TH¥R	Btqi	Ba	MA	CTBYJt
1	34,877	35,498	37.028	I	34,877	35,498	37.028
2	35,139	35,761	37,291	2	35,139	35,76)	37.291
3	35,377	36,096	37,659	3	35,377	36.096	37.659
4	35,615	36,431	38,029	4	35,615	36.431	38,029
5	35374	36.789	38,427	5	35,874	36,789	38,427
6	36,146	37,157	38,854	6	36.146	37.157	38,854
7	36,436	37,550	39.326	7	36,436	37.550	39,326
8	37,123	38,263	40,604	8	37.123	38,263	40,604
9	37.792	40.483	42,641	9	37,792	40,483	42,641
10	39.748	42,476	44,393	10	39,748	42,476	44,393
11	41,008	44,053	46.363	]1	41,008	44,053	46,363
12	41,743	45,418	48,043	12	41,743	45,418	48,043
13	43,332	46,783	50,143	13	43,332	46,783	50,143
14	45.507	49.200	52,243	14	45,507	49.200	52,243
15	47,833	51,718	55,655	15	47,833	51,718	55,655
16	51,193	55,288	59.068	]6	51,193	55,288	59,068
16*5	53,083	57,335	61.168	16.5	53,083	57,335	61,168
17	54,973	59,383	63,268	1.7	54,973	59,383	63,268
17,5	59,577	64.027	68,009	17*5	59,577	64,027	68.009
18	64.705	69,195	73,274	18	65,755	70,245	74.324
REGULAR TEACHERS -				REGULAR TEACHERS -			
Guidance Counsetors^OCC 2001-2002				Guidance Cmtnselorx-OCC 2003-2004			
Ed. Insi-Reading Cons A Eng. Mastery Cons				Ed, Inst-Reading Cons & Enf- Mastery Cons			
Salary Guide				Salary Guide			
sup	BA	MA	tfKYR		SA	MA	6THYR
1	34,877	35.498	37,028	I	34,877	35,498	37,028
2	35,139	35,761	37,291	2	35,139	35,761	37,291
3	35,377	36,096	37,659	3	35,377	36,096	37,659
4	35,615	36,431	38,029	4	35,615	36,431	38,029
5	35.874	36.789	38,427	5	35,874	36,789	38,427
6	36,146	37.157	38,854	6	36,146	37,157	38,854
7	36,436	37,550	39,326	7	36,436	37,550	39,326
8	37,123	38,263	40,604	8	37,123	38,263	40,604
9	37.792	40,483	42,641	9	37,792	40,483	42,641
10	39.748	42.476	44,393	10	39,748	42,476	44,393
11	41,008	44,053	46,363	11-	41,008	44,053	46,363
12	41,743	45,418	48,043	12	41,743	45,418	48,043
13	43,332	46,783	50,143	13	43,332	46,783	50,143
14	45.507	49*200	52.243	14	45,507	49,200	52,243
15	47,833	51,718	55.655	15	47,833	51,718	55,655
16	51,193	55,288	59.068	16	51.193	55,288	59,068
16*5	53,083	57,335	61,168	16,5	53,083	57*335	61,168
17	54,973	59,383	63,268	17	54.973	59.383	63.268
17.5	59,577	64,027	68,009	17,5	59,577	64.027	68.009
18	65,230	69,720	73.799	18	66.280	70,770	74,849
		58				59	
- <*■ r-	•‘i-H? •••	* ■					. ■■ .	
«.'A>»V •” S’ '	19				• 1	09		
W‘8L	otm	9£f‘69	81		tlE'ZZ		9££'89	8T
LPVtL	9U0L9	m‘Z9	S£l		LVZ'lL	9Z.0Z9		Sil
L8Z.'99	ITZ/Z9	I6£l££	£1		I8Z99	TIZ'Z.9	169 ‘IS	£1
I80‘W	990'09	H9'SS	£'9I		I80‘f9	990'09	H9‘££	£91
188'19	IZ6‘£S	IE9‘£S	9T		18879	IZfi'LS	l£9‘£S	91
9OE8S	181‘W	nros	91		9O£8£	181>£	ii roe	91
!££>£	EKIS	t£94^	>1		I££'W		K9‘£t	H
l£S*Z£	(l06fr	96r?t	£1		rssts	IIG‘6f	96£‘ff	£1
EEE'OG	I8£*£f	rem	Z1		lEE'OS	18£'£f	i££‘Efr	n
l£S'8f	l£l*9fr	196'Zfr	II		T£S'8fr	I6I9V	I96‘tt	n
ZUS'Qfr	86t‘tt	IWlfr	01		Ws9f	86f‘ft?	W'li?	01
U9‘*t	nm	16£'6£	6		U9"tt	Ilfr'Zf	I656E	6
L£S‘Zt	SSO'tfr	I68‘8E	8		£££tf	£80W	T68‘8£	8
86I‘It	8££6E	um	L		861‘lfr	8££‘6£	IZF8E	L
torofr	£Z6*8E	8987E	9		VOA'Ot	£Z6'8E	8984££	9
LSZtfr	iKSE	Esrzc	£		£SZlOf	1K8E	£89l££	£
0t8'6£	99l‘8£	Il£‘£E	fr		0f86E	991‘BE	11 Tie	
£Sf6£	918' ££		£		€Sf6£	£I8*£E	I90’££	£
£9C'6£	W‘££	£I8’9E	Z		£9O'6£	m'zs	£I8‘9E	Z
ram	68I*£E	8£S’9£	I		Z6£'8€	6sru	8E£‘9£	I
HARM	VW	Vi	4»S		MA HU	vW	Vfl	d»ig
		flpmg Xjbjbs					apftiQ	
	tMOTUWf-tyA topos							
	MMZ-E&QZ srsi9vptf3£sj					ZOOZ-IOOZ sjstSvj&qifad		
	- SVSHMSX tfV7/JfW					- SH3H3V31 WltfD		
	06£‘££	988'89	81
m'u	9£0‘£9	tlf‘L9	SZl
I83‘99	IIZZ9	IGS'ZS	£1
180'W	990'09	II9‘SS	£'9I
188'19	IZ6*£S	IE9E5	91
9Q£l8S	rem	11 F0£	SI
IEFf£	EKIS	t£9'£t	fl
I£ftJ	110'6^	96£'St	EI
LEE'OS	I8S'£t	IEZ‘£t	ZI
[£S‘8t>	I£I*9V	I964Zt	II
£O£‘9fr	eem	IK'lt	01
l£9*i^	ITfr'Zt	16£'6£	6
£££*£*	S8UW	I68‘8£	8
861‘Ifr	8££'6£	UF8£	L
M4‘0fr	£Z6‘8E	8981££	9
£££‘0fr	IK8E	£«£'££	S
(M'6£	99V8E	IIE'ZC	f
£Sf6E	£18‘£E	190'H	£
£9O*6E	m'ZE	€I849£	I
C6F8E	681‘U	8ES‘9£	1
BA HU	VW	v«	tiws
		appifj Uepg	
fr9£‘9£	06fxZZ.	98 £7.9	81
	9£O42.9	flf'Z9	S’£l
iez‘99	nrw	16£‘££	£1
180‘W	990'09	I19SS	£91
18819	IZ6'£G	IE9ES	91
90£*8S	I8l‘K	IIF05	91
lEL'fS	€KIS	t’£9<£f	fl
I£St£	II0‘6f	96€'Sf	EI
I££‘0£	I8£7t	icm	ZT
US'8f	ISl'9fr	196'Zfr	11
LQ5‘9P	86ftt	iKir	01
U9‘W	Ilftf	T6£46£	6
£££Tf	seo'of	168'8£	8
R6l'If	8EE6E	UF8E	£
WZ'Ofr	£Z648£	898' ££	9
£SZ‘0t	IK8E	E8S7E	£
0K6E	99l'8E	!!£££	f
E£f‘6£	£I8'Z£	190‘ZE	£
£90‘6£	m4£€	£I8'9E	Z
Z6F8E	681‘Z.E	8ES9E	I
HAH19	VK	va	dais
		aptiiQ Xjb]bs	
SOOZ'ZOOZ sjsigojmi^sj ~ SffSff jyaf JTV7/]£)tf¥
J^S
IffflZ-mt sj^oio^sj
-snasjvai vviaoan

REGULAR TEACHERS - SCHOOLS Teachers, Nurses <4 Atienduuce Qtffcers 2000-2001
REGULAR TEACHERS - SCHOOL #26 Teachers, Nurses & Attendance Officers 2002-2003
Salary Guide					Salary Guide			
. j	Step	EkA	MA	frfHYR	Step	NA	MA	&THYB
; : !	J	38364	39048	40731	I	3B364	39048	40731
	2	38653	39337	41020	2	38653	39337	41020
	3	38914	39705	41425	3	38914	39705	41425
	4	39176	40074	41832	4	39176	40074	41832
	5	39462	40468	•42270	5	39462	40468	42270
•I?.' V	6	39761	40873	42740	6	39761	40873	42740
	7	40080	41305	43258	7	40080	41305	43258
J	8	40835	42089	44664	8	40835	42089	44664
pr’-	9	4J571	44531	46905	9	41571	44531	46905
. v : ;	10	43723	46723	48832	H)	43723	46723	48832
• U f	11	45109	48458	50999	11	45109	48458	50999
	12	45917	49960	52847	12	45917	49960	52847
i	13	47666	51461	55157	13	47666	51461	55157
	14	50058	54120	57467	14	50058	54120	57467
1^1	15	52616	56890	61221	15	52616	56S90	61221
id.	16	56312	60817	64975	16	56312	60817	64975
	16.5	58391	63069	67285	16,5	5839 J	63069	67285
	17	60470	65321	69595	17	60470	65321	69595
j iV,.’	17.5	65535	70430	74809	17.5	65535	70430	74809
:	IS	71176	76115	80602	18	72331	77270	81757
1 \ ,-l '	REGULAR TEACHERS - SCHOOL #26				REGULAR TEACHERS - SCHOOL #26			
Iv' i« 1	Teachers, Nurses A Attendance Officer* 2001*2002 Salary Guide				Teachers, Nwses & Attendance Officers 2003*2004 Salary Guide			
n ■■>■	Step	BA	MA	sth ya	Step	BA	HA	6TUYR
1 f ■. .	1	38364	39048	40731	1	38364	39048	40731
%• । ।	2	38653	39337	41020	2	38653	39337	41020
i 1	3	38914	39705	41425	3	389J4	39705	41425
r-.'	4	39176	40074	41832	4	39176	40074	41832
n ':	5	39462	40468	42270	5	39462	40468	42270
]. \ 4	6	39761	40873	42740	6	39761	40873	42740
	7	40080	41305	43258	7	40080	41305	43258
r ’	8	40835	42089	44664	8	40835	42089	44664
&I ■■■	9	4157J	44531	46905	9	41571	44531	46905
■ ' '	10	43723	46723	48832	JO	43723	46723	48832
	11	45109	48458	50999	11	45109	48458	50999
F":	12	45917	49960	52847	12	45917	49960	52847
U'	13	47666	51461	55157	13	47666	51461	55157
	14	50058	54120	57467	14	50058	54120	57467
	15	52616	56890	61221	15	52616	56890	61221
‘ ■!	16	56312	60817	64975	16	56312	60817	64975
’k •/ l9 ■ •. •	.	16.5	58391	63069	67285	16.5	58391	63069	67285
ll	17	60470	65321	69595	17	60470	65321	69595
B *i II	17.5	65535	70430	74809	17.5	65535	70430	74809
Ri	’1 S’ ’ 4 3 '■ fl':' 1	18	71753.	76692 62	81179	18	72908	77847 63	82334
				" .	I •	■ i				SA •. .J • • . w. .	• •
' ■—J	REGULAR TEACHERS - SCHOOL #26 Guidance Counselors-OCC 2000-2001 Ed, Inst-Reading Cons <£ Eng. Mastery Cmi				REGULAR TEACHERS - SCHOOL #26 Guidance Counselors-OCC 2002-2003 Ed. Inst-Reading Cans & Eng. Mastery Cans			
mi	."TJ.L.. ^■.4jajiucMaaiEta—B»n»»Liwiimui ■ j iisitt.'-T-	—g-" "-	-.■ • ''iirJuE.t"~'~'~*~:,5,!:a ।_'	1" ~:~.	Salary Guide Step	BA I	40283 ;	2	40586 3	40860 4	41135 5	41435 6	41749 7	42084 8	42877 9	43649 10	45909 11	47364 !	12	48213 13	50049 ?	14	52561 15	55247 16	59128 ,	16.5	61311 17	63494 17.5	68811 18	74735	MA 41001 41304 41691 42078 42491 42917 43370 44194 46758 49059 50881 52458 54034 56826 59734 63857 66222 68587 73951 79920	tfCHYR 42768 43071 43496 43923 44383 44877 45421 46897 49250 51274 53549 55489 57915 60340 64282 68223 70649 73074 78550 84632		Salary Guide St^	BA 1	40,283 2	40,586 3	40,860 4	41,135 5	41,435 6	41,749 7	42,084 8	42,877 9	43.649 10	45.909 11	47,364 12	48,213 13	50,049 14	52,561 15	55,247 16	59,128 16.5	61,311 17	63,494 17,5	68,811 18	75,947		MA 41,001 41,304 41,691 42,078 42,491 42,917 43,370 44,194 46,758 49,059 50,88 J 52,458 54,034 56,826 59,734 63,857 66,222 68,587 73,951 81,133	6TRYR 42,768 43,071 43,496 43,923 44,383 44,877 45,421 46,897 49,250 51,274 53.549 55,489 57,915 60,340 64,282 68,223 70,649 73.074 78,550 85,845
1	’	REGULAR TEACHERS - SCHOOL #26 Guidance Connseiars-OCC 2001-2002 Ed. Inst-Reading Cans 4 Eng. Mastery Cons				REGULAR TEACHERS - SCHOOL #26 Guidance Ceunselors-OCC 2003-2004 Ed. InSt-Reading Cons & Eng. Mastery Cons			
h hi i;Jr 5 ill h'i if •i1 V-j .' >,1 ff 11	Salary Guide Step	BA 1	40,283 2	40.586 8	3	40,860 4	41,135 5	41,435 ,	6	41,749 7	42,084 8	42,877 ;	9	43,649 10	45,909 1!	11	47,364 12	48,213 13	50,049 14	52,561 15	55,247 16	59,128 1	16.5	61,311 j-	17	63,494 17.5	68,811 i	18	75,341 I	MA 41,001 41,304 41,691 42,078 42,491 42,917 43,370 44,194 46,758 49,059 50,881 52,458 54,034 56,826 59,734 63,857 66,222 68.587 73,951 80,527 54	mm 42,768 43,071 43,496 43,923 44,383 44,877 45,421 46,897 49,250 51,274 53,549 55,489 57,915 60,340 64,282 68,223 70,649 73,074 78,550 85,238		Salary Guide Step	BA I	40,283 2	40,586 3	40,860 4	41,135 5	41.435 6	41,749 7	42,084 8	42,877 9	43,649 10	45,909 11	47,364 12	48,213 13	50.049 14	52,561 15	55,247 16	59,128 16,5	61.311 17	63,494 17.5	68,811 18	76,554		MA 41,001 41,304 41,691 42,078 42,491 42,917 43,370 44,194 46,758 49,059 50,881 52,458 54,034 56,826 59,734 63,857 66,222 68,587 73.951 81,739 65	MTU YR 42,768 43.071 43,496 43,923 44,383 44,877 45,421 46,897 49,250 51,274 53,549 55,489 57,915 60.340 64,282 68,223 70,649 73,074 78,550 86,451
							• • • •. j ••	•* '-y. - '•
										f : {ji-Tri
		PEG CLAP TEACHEJtf - SCHOOL. #2d				PEG CLAP LEA CHEES - SCHOOL #26				i
L!;:i		Psychologists 2000-2003				Psychologists 2002-2003				
Lii		Psy. Social Wbritcrs-LDTC				Psy. Social Workers-LDTC				
		Salary Guide				Salary Guide				
		Step	BA	MA	fcTHYR	Step	Ba	MA	4TE1TR	
		1	42201	42953	44804	1	42,201	42,953	44.804	
li^ s		?	2	42519	43271	45122	2	42,519	43,271	45.122	
		3	42306	43676	45568	3	42.806	43,676	45,568	
		4	43094	44081	46015	4	43,094	44,081	46,015	
		5	43408	44515	46496	5	43.408	44,515	46,496	
ill'.?		;	6	43737	44960	47014	6	43,737	44,960	47.014	
III; <		r	7	44088	45436	47584	7	44,088	45,436	47,584	
		8	44919	46298	49130	8	44,919	46,298	49.130	
		9	45728	48984	51595	9	45,728	48,984	51.595	
h-N		10	48095	51396	53715	10	48,095	51,396	53,715	
S'		!i	11	49619	53304	56099	11	49,619	53,304	56,099	
’ =		;|	I2	50509	54955	58132	12	50,509	54,955	58,132	
		■1	13	52432	56607	60673	13	52,432	56,607	60,673	
	6	i:	14	55063	59532	63214	14	55,063	59.532	63,214	
		15	57878	62578	67343	15	57,878	62,578	67,343	
		16	61943	66898	71472	16	61,943	66,898	71,472	
		•	16,5	64230	69376	74013	16.5	64,230	69,376	74,013	
		/	17	66517	71853	76554	17	66,517	71,853	76,554	
	ki	17.5	72088	77473	82290	17.5	72,088	77,473	82,290	
		18	78293	83726	88662	18	79,564	84,996	89,932	
	i!:l	REGULAR TEACHERS - SCHOOL #26				PEGI/L4E 7EACWEES - SCHOOL #26				
	fe	Psychologists 2003-2002				Psychologists 2003-2004				
		Psy. Social Worksrs-LDTC				Pay. Social Worktrt-LDTC				
Li=‘		Salary Guide				Salary Guide				1
h-		Stef	BA	MA	STH YR	Step	BA	MA	STH YR	
		I	42,201	42,953	44,804	I	42,201	42,953	44,804	
k:		•i	2	42,519	43,271	45,122	2	42,519	43,271	45,122	1
		3	42,806	43,676	45,568	3	42.806	43,676	45,568	
		4	43,094	44,081	46,015	4	43,094	44,081	46,015	
		5	43,408	44,515	46,496	5	43,408	44,515	46,496	1
	* . ।	li!	6	43,737	44,960	47,014	6	43,737	44,960	47,014	
	|r I	7	44,088	45,436	47,584	7	44,088	45,436	47,584	1
	!’ f	8	44,919	46,298	49,130	8	44.919	46,298	49,130	
fi		i	9	45,728	48,984	51,595	9	45,728	48.984	51,595	
		10	48,095	51.396	53,715	10	48,095	51.396	53,715	
		11	49,619	53.304	56.099	H	49,619	53.304	56,099	
		12	50,509	54.955	58,132	12	50,509	54,955	58,132	
	L	13	52,432	56.607	60,673	13	52,432	56,607	60,673	
		14	55,063	59,532	63.214	14	55,063	59,532	63,214	
	h-	15	57,878	62,578	67,343	15	57,878	62,578	67,343	
		16	61,943	66,898	71,472	16	61,943	66,898	71,472	
		•!	16.5	64,230	69,376	74,013	16.5	64,230	69.376	74,013	
		«.	17	66,517	71,853	76,554	17	66,517	71,853	76,554	
	•1..	i1	17.5	72,088	77,473	82,290	17,5	72,088	77,473	82.290	1
		'	18	78,929	84,361	89,297	18	80,199	85,632	90.568	
Sc				66				67		1 3
".!•					tty - 4					1
PROFESSIONAL TEACHERS
Itocfters, jVmw £ Attendance Officers 2000-2007
PROFESSIONAL TEACHERS
Teachen, Nurses & Attendance Officers 2002-2003
Salary Guide				Salary Guide			
Sbe?	BA	MA	CTHYR	Sap	RA	MA	6THYR
1	34286	34786	36211	1	W)	42491	44671
2	34586	35086	36511	2	4)391	4377 L	46271
3	34836	35336	36761	3	<485	45071	48271
4	35063	35655	37112	4	43856	47373	50271
5	35289	35974	37463	5	47052	50752	54502
6	35516	36293	37815	6	50252	54152	57752
7	35763	36634	38194	7	53852	58052	61752
8	36022	36985	39036	8	66374	70650	74535
9	36298	38921	40976				
10	38221	40819	42645	PROFESSIONAL TEACHERS			
11	39421	42321	44521	Teacfterf, Nurses £ Attendance Officers 2003-2004			
12	40171	43621	46121				
13 14	41635 43706	44921 47223	48121 50121	Salary Golds			
15	46902	50602	54352	Stop	BA	MA	(TH YR
16	50102	54002	57602	1	41380	44280	46480
17	53702	57902	61602	2	4203J	45431	47931
18	63474	67750	71635	3	42745	46031	49231
				4	44016	47533	50431
				5	48522	52222	55972
PROFESSIONAL TEACHERS				6	53212	57112	60712
Teac/ters, Nurses A Attendance Officers 2001-2002				7	57943	61212	64912
				8	62673	66911	70704
Salary Guide				9	66754	71030	74915
SlEp	BA	MA	6THYR	10	68354	72630	76515
1	38000	38685	40174	JI	69354	73630	77515
2	38227	39004	40526	12	70354	74630	78515
3	38474	39345	41047	13	71354	75630	79515
4	38733	40932	42987				
5	38891	41489	43315				
6	3939 L	42291	44491				
7	41480	43591	46091				
8	41605	44891	48091				
9	43676	47193	50091				
10	46872	50572	54322				
11	50072	53972	57572				
12	53672	57872	61572				
13	64874	69150	73035				
30
;|IL H'i
11J
i'l ■ u	i i	PROFESSIONAL TEACHERS Ind Arts; Home Economics ct Tiar. Sfwp 2G0&-2&0J					PROFESSIONAL TEACHERS Ind. Aris; Home Economics & Vfcw* Shop 2QG2-2(fO3					
I] iW al ] i, 1 i! ii l;i ■y J- r 1 .'1L Mj 0’)	f: 7 h c : ► ? : i s ! F fl I 1 t ■t J 1 i : i i	Salary Guide Step	2 YEARS	3 YEAH 9 LAAtiR/VS 2 YEARS J YKAftS 1	34286	34286	34286	34286	34286 2	34586	34586	34586	34586	34586 3	34836	34836	34836	34836	34836 4	35063	35063	35063	35063	35063 5	35289	35289	35289	35289	35289 6	35516	35516	35516	35516	35516 7	35763	35763	35763	35763	35763 8	36022	36022	36022	36022	36022 9	36298	36298	36298	36298	36298 10	38221	38221	3822)	38221	38221 11	39421	39421	39421	39421	39421 12	40171	40171	40171	40171	40171 13	41635	41635	41635	41635	41635 14	43706	43706	43706	43706	43706 15	46902	46902	46902	46902	46902 16	50102	50102	50102	50102	50102 17	53702	53702	53702	53702	53702 18	62017	62529	62733	63142	65937 PROFESSIONAL TEACHERS Ind Aris; Home Economics A 14k* Shop 2&01-2002 Salary Guide Step	J YEARS	J YEARS	!A<JtHEArS	3 YEARS	,1 YEARS 1	38000	38000	38000	38000	38000 2	38227	38227	38227	38227	38227 3	38474	38474	38474	38474	38474 4	38733	38733	38733	38733	38733 5	38891	38891	38891	3889L	38891 6	39391	39391	39391	39391	39391 7	41480	41480	41480	41480	41480 8	41605	41605	41605	41605	41605 9	43676	43676	43676	43676	43676 10	46872	46872	46872	46872	46872 11	50072	50072	50072	50072	50072 12	53672	53672	53672	53672	53672 13	63385	63908	64117	64535	67392					Salary Guide Step	1YEAFEA	3 YEARS	TA&BEiVS	2 YU A RS	3YEARS 1	40000	40000	40000	40000	40000 2	40391	40391	40391	40391	40391 3	42485	42485	42485	42485	42485 4	43856	43856	43856	43856	43856 5	47052	47052	47052	47052	47052 6	50252	50252	50252	50252	50252 7	53852	53852	53852	53852	53852 8	64850	65385	65599	66027	68950 PROFESSIONAL TEACHERS Ind- Arts; Home Economics & Vbc.	2003-20^4 Salary Guide Step	2YEARS	} YEARS	1AAHE/VS	3 YEARS	3 YEARS 1	41380	41380	41380	41380	41380 2	42031	42031	42031	42031	42031 3	42745	42745	42745	42745	42745 4	44016	44016	44016	44016	44016 5	48522	48522	48522	48522	48522 6	53212	53212	53212	53212	53212 7	57943	57943	57943	57943	57943 8	61234	61739	61941	62346	65105 9	65221	65760	65975	66405	69345 10	66785	67336	67556	67997	71007 11	67762	68321	68544	68992	72045 12	68739	69306	69533	69986	73084 13	69716	70291	70521	70981	74123					1' ;F 4
1 ^', H p L k. r.4	t > 1 J 1		70						71			j i|
Ul		/• >• ‘f •* ", •		.•vis'll	1- . ’ • • ••	•* ■ •	- -1 ii‘ -• .J s 'dff .7 *	a:		■	. . U BWv.	’I			
73
72
1WS»
PJtOFESSHWAL TEACHERS Guidance Counseiors-OCC 2000-2001
Ed inst-Reading Cans & Eng. Mastery Cans
PEOFESSZOjVAL TEACHEES
Guirfaru'e Caunsetors-QCC 2002-2003
Ed fnst-Reading Cons A Eng. Mastery Cons
PEOFESSKWAL TEACHEffS Guidance Cotutselors-OCC 2001-2002 Ed Inst-Reading Cons £ Eng. Mastery Cons
Salary Guide
i is lr.'	8i£f 1	BA 36000	MA 36525	tTUVR 38022
V	2	36315	36840	38337
L	3	36578	37103	38599
P^*U T	4	36816	37438	38968
	5	37053	37773	39336
Tf I	6	37292	38108	39706
M'	7	37551	38466	40104
	8	37823	38834	40988
Rh	9	38113	40867	43025
	10	40132	42860	44777
	11	41392	44437	46747
J 1 ’	12	42180	45802	48427
fl 1	13	43717	47167	50527
Pll tf	14	45891	49584	52627
rP	15	49247	53132	57070
	16	52607	56702	60482
bi	17	56387	60797	64682
H	18	66648	71138	75217
Salary Guide
	Step	BA	MA	6TB YR
ds	r	1	39900	40619	42183
	] 2	40138	40954	42552
&	f 3	40398	41312	43099
t•!! pi.	i 4	40670	42979	45136
tai	r	5	40836	43563	45481
h’ i	6	41361	44406	46716
i -	7	43554	45771	48396
y	1	8	43685	47136	50496
	9	45860	49553	52596
i!	10	49216	53101	57038
V it	[	u	52576	56671	60451
l!.:1	12	56356	60766	64651
bi;	'	13	68118	72608	76687



Salary Guide
Step J	RA 42000	MA 44616	«rani 46905
2	42411	45960	48585
3	44609	47325	50685
4	46049	49742	52785
5	49405	53290	57227
6	52765	56860	60640
7	56545	60955	64840
8	69693	74183	78262
mWSmVAE TEACHERS			
Guidance Coonselars-fJCC 2003-2004
Ed. Ins^Reading Cons <fe Eng. Mastery Cwm
Salary Guide
SUp	BA	ma	CTEYR
I	43449	46494	48804
2	44133	47703	50328
3	44882	48333	51693
4	46217	49910	52953
5	50948	54833	58771
6	55873	59968	63748
7	60840	64273	68158
8	65807	70257	74239
9	70092	74582	78661
10	7)772	76262	80341
11	72822	77312	81391
12	73872	78362	82441
13	74922	79412	83491


Salary Guide
75
74
PROFESSIONAL TEACHERS
Psychologists 2090-2001 Psy. Social Wbrkers-LDTC
professional teachers
Psychologists 2002-2963 Psy. Social Workers-LDTC
PROFESSIONAL TEACHERS
Psychologists 2663-2004 Psy. Social WarkerS'LDTC
PROFESSIONAL TEACHERS
Psychofogi&fg 20QI-2002 Psy. Social Vforlws-LDTC
a i
Salary Guide
Til	Step		BA	MA	(TH YR
	i	37715	38265	39832
	2	38045	38595	40162
	J	3	38320	38870	40437
	4	38569	39221	40823
	5	38818	39571	41209
	1	6	39068	39922	41597
d J	7	39339	40297	42013
•J	1 8	39624	40684	42940
	f	9	39928	42813	45074
	I	10	42043	44901	46910
	1	11	43363	46553	48973
il	12	44188	47983	50733
	13	45799	49413	52933
	14	48077	51945	55133
	15	51592	55662	59787
	16	55112	59402	63362
	1	17	59072	63692	67762
U	4	18	69821	74525	78799
	BA	MA	(TH YR
1	41800	42554	44191
2	42050	42904	44579
3	42321	43280	45152
4	42606	45025	47286
5	42780	45638	47647
6	43330	46520	48940
7	45628	47950	50700
8	45766	49380	52900
9	48044	51912	55100
10	51559	55629	59754
11	55079	59369	63329
12	59039	63659	67729
13	71361	76065	80339
Salary Guide
Step I	BA 44000	MA 46740	(TH YR 49138
2	44430	48148	50898
3	44734	49578	53098
4	48242	52110	55298
5	51757	55827	59952
6	55277	59567	63527
7	59237	63857	67927
S	73011	77715	81989
Salary Guide
St*?	BA	MA	(TH YR
1	45518	48708	51128
2	46234	49974	52724
3	47G20	50634	54154
4	48418	52286	55474
5	53374	57444	61569
6	58533	62823	66783
7	63737	67333	71403
8	68940	73602	77774
9	73429	78133	82407
10	75189	79893	84167
11	76289	80993	85267
12	77389	82093	86367
13	78489	83193	87467
PJ!0F£SSJ<WAL TEACHERS - SCHOOL #26 Teachers, Nurses d Attendance Oj^jcerr 2000-2001	PROFESSIONAL TEACHERS- SCHOOLS Teachers, Nurses & Attendance Officers 2002-2003
Salary Guide Step	BA	MA	S'1H lH 1	39600	4017?	41824 2	39947	40524	42170 3	40236	40813	42459 4	40498	41182	42864 5	40759	41550	43270 6	41021	41918	43676 7	41306	42312	44114 8	41605	42718	45087 9	41924	44954	47327 10	44145	47146	49255 11	45531	48881	51422 12	46398	50382	53270 13	48088	51884	55580 14	50480	54543	57890 15	54172	58445	62777 16	57868	62372	66530 17	62026	66877	71150 18	73312	78251	82738 PROFESSIONAL TEACHERS - SCHOOL#26 Teachers, Nurses & Attendance Officers 2001-2002 Salary Guide BA	MA	4THYR 1	43,890	44,681	46,401 2	44,152	45.050	46,808 3	44,437	45,443	47.409 4	44.737	47,276	49,650 5	44,919	47,920	50,029 6	45,497	48,846	51,387 7	47,909	50,348	53,235 8	48,054	51,849	55,545 9	50,446	54,508	57,855 10	54,137	58,411	62,742 11	57,833	62338	66,496	Salary Guide Step	BA	MA	blUYR 1	46200	49077	51595 2	46652	50556	53443 3	4S070	52057	55753 4	50654	54716	58063 5	54345	58619	62950 6	58041	62546	66704 7	62199	67050	71324 8	76662	81601	86088 PROFESSIONAL TEACHERS - SCHOOL#26 Teachers, Nurxts &. Attendance Officers 2003-2004 Salary Guide BA	MA	67H YH 1	47794	51143	53684 2	48546	52473	55360 3	49370	53166	56862 4	50838	54901	58248 5	56043	60316	64648 6	61460	65964	70122 7	66924	70700	74973 8	72387	77282	81663 9	77101	82040	86527 10	78949	83888	88375 11	80104	85043	89530 12	81259	86198	90685 13	82414	8735 3	91840
w
47

£3
*1

Hi
if
PROFESSIONAL TEACHERS - SCHOOL #26
Guidance Counselors-OCC 2000-2001
Ed. Inst-Reading Cons £ Eng. Mastery Cow
fflOFESSKWAL KACBm - SCWOL #26
Guitftirice Counsetors-OCC 2002-2003 £tt Irtsi-R&iding Cons <£ Engi Mastery Cons
Salary Guide				Salary	Guide		
Step	BA	MA	ent nt	Step	BA	MA	tfTHYR
1	41580	42187	43915	1	48,510	51,531	54,175
2	41944	42551	44279	2	48,984	53,083	56,115
3	42247	42854	44582	3	51,524	54,660	58,541
4	42523	43241	45008	4	53,186	57,452	60.966
5	42797	43627	45433	5	57,062	61,549	66,097
6	43072	44014	45860	6	60.943	65,673	70,039
7	43372	44428	46320	7	65,309	70,403	74,890
8	43686	44854	47341	8	80,495	85,681	90,392
9	44020	47201	49694				
10	46353	49503	51718	PEOFESSRWAL TEACHERS			- SCHOOL #26
11	47808	51325	53993	Guidance Couwe/nrs-OCC 2003*2004			
12 13	48717 50493	52901 54478	55933 58359	Ed. Inst-Reading Cons ■£ Eng. Mastery Cons			
14 15	53004 56880	57270 61368	60784 65915	Salary Guide			
16	60761	65491	69857	Sie?	BA	MA	tiTHYK
17	65127	7022 J	74708	1	50,184	53,701	56,369
18	76978	82164	86875	2	50,973	55,096	58,128
				3	51,839	55,824	59,705
			~ SCHOOL #26	4	53,380	57,646	61,160
PEOEESSJONAL TEACHEES				5	58,845	63,332	67,880
Guidance CounseMrs^GCC 2001-2002				6	64,533	69,263	73,628
Ed. Inai-Reading Cons & Eng. Mastery Cons				7	70,270	74,235	78,722
				8	76,007	81,146	85,746
Salary Guide				9	80,956	86,142	90,853
Step	BA	MA	ATflSH	10	82,896	88,082	92.794
1	46,085	46,915	48,721	11	84,109	89,295	94,006
2	46,360	47,302	49,148	12	85,322	90,508	95,219
3	46,659	47,716	49,780	13	86,535	91,720	96,432
4	46,973	49,640	52,132				
5	47,165	50,316	52,530				
6	47,771	S1,28R	53,956				
7	50,305	52,865	55,897				
8	50,456	54,442	58,322				
9	52,968	57,233	60,748				
10	56,844	61,331	65,879				
11	60,725	65,455	69,820				
12	65,091	70,184	74,671				
13	78,676	83,862	88,573				
it
79
7S
$$
•Tff’A:!-: It:
to

I hl I
PROFESSIONAL TEACHERS- SCHOOL#26
Psychologists 2000-2001
Psy. Social Workers-LDTC
PROFESSIONAL TEACHERS - SCHOOL #26
Psychologists 2002-2003
Psy. Social Vforkars-LDTC
80
81
WtGFtfSS/OVAL TEACHEJfS
Psychologists 2001-2002 Psy. Social Workers-IDTC
PROFESSIONAL TEACHERS
Psychologists 2003-2004 Psy. Social Workers-IDTC
&
lria>7^)
Wx
Salary Guide
sup	BA	MA	•THYK
1	43560	44196	46006
2	43942	44577	46387
3	44259	44894	46705
4	44548	45300	47151
5	44835	45705	47597
6	45123	46110	48044
7	45437	46543	48525
8	45766	46989	49595
9	46U7	49449	52060
10	48560	51861	54180
11	50084	53769	56564
12	51037	55420	58597
13	52897	57072	61138
14	55528	59997	63679
15	59589	64290	69054
16	63655	686)0	73183
17	68228	73564	78265
18	80644	86076	91012
Salary Guide
Step	BA	MA	iTHYk
1	48,279	49,149	51,041
2	48,567	49,555	51,488
3	48,881	49,988	52.150
4	49,210	52,004	54,615
5	49,411	52,712	55,032
6	50,046	53,731	56,526
7	52,700	55.382	58,559
8	52,859	57.034	61,100
9	55,490	59,959	63,641
10	59.551	64,252	69,016
11	63,616	68,571	73,145
12	68,190	73,526	78,227
13	82,422	87,855	92,791




Salary Guide step
1 2
3 4
5 6
7 8
DA	MA	«TH¥Jt
50,820	53,985	56.755
51,317	55,611	58,787
53,977	57,263	61,328
55,719	60,187	63,869
59,780	64,480	69,245
63,845	68t800	73,374
68,419	73,755	78,456
84,328	89,761	94.697
Salary Guide
Step	TSA.	MA	6 TB YR
1	52,573	56,258	59,053
2	53,400	57,720	60,896
3	54,308	58,482	62,548
4	55,922	60,391	64,073
5	61,647	66,348	71,112
6	67,606	72,561	77,135
7	73,616	77,770'	82,471
8	79,626	85,010	89,829
9	84,811	90,244	95,180
10	86,844	92,276	97,212
11	88, U4	93,547	98,483
12	89,385	94,817	99,753
13	90,655	96,088	101,024




Salary Guide
Salary Guide
EXSEC
ASTS' MSEC
WWL2 ASMS
ASH
ASUt
ASIV
Step snfcs
M2
ASI
ASU
AS UI
WK12 AMU
ASI
M2
S?1W
Step
18,404
26,699
250M
27,514
30.911
21,185
2-3.264
22,739
20.619
23,082
23,692
29,212
ia.126
20,569
20,226
19.908
19/51
17.395
28.704
26,999
21,4)4$
25/0!
13,426
20,869
20.526
29 J12
31,217
20,05!
22.564
23,039
20,939
23,382
23,998
27,814
17,695
2U2M
z
29.163
25,731
21,2*0
21,013
20/84
18,784
20,405
18,055
22,864
23.339
11,239
23082
24,298
28,114
29.812
31,517
20/08
3
29.765
26.192
■2.1,705
22488
21,277
19,155
20.793
18.439
4
24,726
28,544
30.259
31.976
23,697
•1.597
24,093
20.868
23,218
4
30.532
27,100
29,113
23,H9
22,408
19,770
21363
S
L9,IU9
2M64
24,090
21,968
31,066
32,578
23,606
24,518
25001
29,005
21,252
5
31,703
30,253
2408*
28,134
23.431
30.374
22,843
22/J1
6
19,664
24.776
14,277
12,583
25.680
26,374
30,248
31,671
34,181
21,832
6
33,36*
31,858
24,867
25,561
29435
23.692
21,567
20.845
23,316
25,614
26/15
23,697
27,347
28,085
31.M!
34,506
36074
22,994
7
35,161
33,693
31038
26,534
27.272
22.8*4
13,302
22.18!
24,801
8
25,003
36,16!
38,178
24.420
27.011
28,962
29,731
33.384
8
35.348
37/65
18,918
32,371
28.149
26>864
24,189
16.198
9
23.607
29.82B
29068
17,709
11/35
36459
39,782
2*434
32.697
43.108
9
41.295
35,646
38069
31,884
26,896
30092
29,015
28,855
17,621
18
32,372
31.647
30X167
34,202
46,830
10
29,434
35,501
39,592
43.212
41,399
46,017
34.682
38,779
29.2.14
330*9
31.834
11
28021
31.560
3-4.328 '35,351
3M34
31.875
36,169
37.64*
11
41,995
45.840
49,689
41,1*2
454X27
4*,*76
36.835
31.062
3S.456
33,515
34.53«
12
29/35
36.63!
40,846 41,916
38.258
56,9%
12
42/81
44.331
48,905
52,950
5G.950
54.996
46/05
36.258
00,88!
42.331
38,840
39,916
13
34.651
Salary Guide
Salary Guide
Step SACS
Sfll
WJVU
AM<XS
Asn
Aim
AS!
EXSEC
ASIV
EXSEC
ash
Asm
ASIV
Ml
WP.M
AMO/
ASI
Step S'le s
22,948
•23.304
23.179
23,M8
24,122
24,738
28/54
30,252
3!,957
2/X154
25,65!
27.349
20,876
18,776
21,219
21,835
2CU01
1S/W5
23,248
24,079
23004
23,648
24,422
2503*
28,854
30/52
32,157
260.41
28040
304)54
22.321
11,876
19,776
12,2(9
J9.045
2! AOI
2
2.1/4*
23,904
24/75
13,948
24.722
25,338
29,154
30,852
31/57
.30,354
2*051
2)1,649
22,176
20,076
22/19
23,135
21,710
19,345
4
23,848
24/M
14,679
24,24*
25,022
23,638
29454
32.857
31,152
3O.KC3
27,31!]
29 0%
21,534
20,434
22.930
23/63
19,105
22,055
4
5
2<3tf
24,Sf»
25037
14,608
25,433
26,066
29/84
.11,?«6
33/16
3M15
27/42
29,163
22,911
20.KO3
23/55
24,1138
22,443
20,089
24/92
24,916
15,430
24,992
26,320
27,014
30,588
33,31!
,14,821
20,903
32,353
24,769
28,784
23.613
21.420
24.08!
6
2O,6fiO
23.1)4
1
23,634
26,354
26.1.13
26.034
27.987
28.125
32.49!
35.146
36.714
32.5OK
34,018
21,224
13,517
26,211
30,085
21,495
23,966
24,542
a
27X160
21,651
IK,317
27.460
29,602
30,371
34,024
36,301
38,818 .
35.9H
27.912
31.6*8
34.143
15,951
23,534
27.184
22/31
23,451
8
29X114
9
30,468
30.308
19,474
32.143
33.337
37099
441/22
43,74*
33.22!
35.998
38015
2K.799
29/68
26/48
27/J 4
9
10
30074
33013
33.287
30,707
34,842
36,!41
40,231
43,852
41,470
42,945
27,546
36,2%
39,619
31,342
32,534
28.271
29.665
29.505
10
LJ
31,074
34.968
35,991
32/15
36.909
38288
464M!
42/35
50,329
46,667
19,904
34,039
35.333
39.429
43.W9
19,271
32,210
32,484
11
12
34/12
38/54
39.603
36036
40/45
41,959
46.420
50.365
54,312
41/32
45.617
•*9/26
31.112
36,IC)6
37,485
34,165
35.188
30,185
12
13
31,951
42,140
43.216
39.558
44,181
45.631
50.203
54,250
5K^96
51.950
55,996
43.331
47.905
40,9)6
37,238
4l,SKL
35,651
39,840
13
82
83
27.446
27,977
4
SECRETARIES 2000-2001
5£CRETAItfES 2001*2002
v/'-'-'T

SECRETARIES 2002-2003
SECRETARIES 2003-2004


LABASS/STAJVTS^A.K fSCffMC/AjVS
LAB ASS/STANTS £ A. K TECffiVZCZAjVS 2001-2002
Salary Guide				Salary Guide			
Step	LAB ASST	AV1W	AV 12	Step	LABASST	AVWJ	AV 12
1	12,860	14,768	14,940	1	13,826	15,734	35,906
2	13,200	15,108	15,280	2	14,166	16,074	16.246
3	13,539	15,501	15,676	3	14,506	16,414	16.586
4	13,887	15,903	16,084	4	14,845	16,807	16,982
5	14,242	16,321	16,504	5	15,193	17,209	17,390
6	14+614	16,759	16,983	6	15,548	17,627	17,810
7	14,996	17,228	17,492	7	15,920	18,065	18,289
R	15,401	17,755	18,029	8	16,302	18,534	18.798
9	15,821	18.212	18,497	9	16,707	19,061	19,335
10	16.308	18,823	19.114	10	17,127	19.5)8	19,803
11	16,816	19,567	19,890	11	17,614	20,129	20,446
12	17,509	20,481	20,814	12	18,122	21,037	21,370
13	18,297	21,643	21,998	13	18,853	22,199	22,554
14	19,108	22,672	22,765	14	19,664	23,228	23,321
15	19.920	23,742	23,743	15	20,476	24,298	24,299
16	20,737	24,996	25,105	16	21,293	25,552	25,661
17	21,545	25,746	25,855	17	22,101	26,302	26,411
18	22.357	26,667	26,668	18	22,913	27,223	27,224
19	23,107	27,417	27,418	19	23,663	27,973	27,974
20	23,982	28,627	28.628	20	24.538	29,183	29,184
21	25,687	31,596	31,699	21	26,261	32,170	32,273
•S'



MBASSLSTAiVTS £ A.tf TECHA7C7A V5 2062-2003
IAB ASSISTANTS & A. K TKCHNTCMAK
Salary Guide
Salarj Guide
sup	LU ASST	AV 105	AV 12	Stef	LU ASST	AVIA S	AV 11
1	15,535	17,443	17,615	1	17,126	19,142	19J23
2	15,875	17,783	17,955	2	17481	19,560	19.743
3	16,214	18,176	18,351	3	17.853	19,998	20,222
4	16,562	18,578	18,759	4	J 8.235	20,467	20,731
	16,917	18,996	19,179	5	18.640	20,994	21.268
6	17,289	19,434	19t658	6	19,060	21,451	21,736
7	17,671	19,903	20,167	7	19,547	22,062	22,379
8	18,076	20,430	20,704	8	20,055	23,132	23,487
9	18,496	20,887	21,172	9	20,786	24,161	24,487
10	18,983	21,498	21,815	10	21,597	25,231	25,254
11	19,491	22,568	22,923	11	22,409	26,485	26,594
12	20,222	23,597	23,923	12	23,226	27,485	27,594
13	21,063	24,667	24.690	13	24,274	28t863	28,970
14	21,845	25,921	26,030	14	25,245	30,164	30,271
15	22,662	26,921	27hO3O	15	26,217	31,466	31,571
16	23,470	27,671	27,780	16	27,188	32,767	32.872
17	24,282	28,592	28,593	17	28,120	34,029	34,132
18	25,032	29.552	29,553				
19	26,820	32,729	32,832				
I



SECL/RHT GUARDS 2000-2001
SECURITY GUARDS 2002-2003
Salary' Guide	Salary Guide
Step	10M	L2M	HD-1DM	HD-L1M	Stef)	ION	UM	mi	HD-19M	HD-11M	BD-L2M
1	19,022	21,976	22,406	26.038	1	20,956	23,052	23,910	24.340	26,774	27.972
2	19,322	22,276	22,706	26,338	2	21.256	23.382	24.210	24,640	27,104	28,272
3	19,631	22,686	23,144	26,902	3	21,556	23,712	24,510	24,940	27,434	28,572
4	19,955	23,123	23,617	27,511	4	21.856	24,042	24,810	25,240	27,764	28,872
5	20,300	23,578	24.119	28.168	5	22,165	24,382	25,220	25,678	28.246	29,436
6	20,674	24.060	24.670	28,848	6	22,489	24,738	25,657	26,151	28,766	30.045
7	21.085	24,568	25,261	29,570	7	22.834	25,117	26,112	26,653	29,318	30,702
8	21,523	25,100	25.889	30,337	8	23,208	25,529	26,594	27,204	29.924	31,382
9	21,994	25,666	26,549	31,135	9	23,619	25,981	27,102	27,795	30,575	32,104
10	22.605	26,398	27,318	32,085	10	24,057	26,463	27,634	28,423	31,265	32.871
11	23,269	27.195	28.173	33,173	11	24,528	26,981	28,200	29.083	31,991	33.707
12	23.967	28,225	29,319	34,659	12	25,139	27,653	28,932	29,853	32,838	35.193
13	24,973	29,442	30.586	36.192	13	25,803	28,383	29,976	31,120	34,232	36,726
14	27,823	32,781	33,918	39,782	14	29,823	32,805	34,781	35,918	39,510	41.782
SRCUR/TT GUARDS 2001*2002
SECURITY GUARDS 2003-2004
Salary Guide	Salary GwWe
S«P	nevi	UM	J2M	RD-IOM	KD-11H	HD-I1M	Step	1(M	tlM	J2M	HD.UM	HD-11M	JUhllM
1	19,986	21,985	22,940	23,370	25,707	27,002	1	22,621	24,883	25,676	26,134	28.747	29,892
2	20,286	22,315	23,240	23,670	26,0(37	27,302	2	22,921	25,213	25,976	26.434	29,077	30,192
3	20.586	22,645	23,540	23,970	26,367	27,602	3	23.221	25,543	26.276	26.734	29,407	30,492
4	20,895	22.985	23,950	24,408	26,849	28,166	4	23,545	25.900	26,713	27,207	29,928	31,101
5	21.219	23,341	24,387	24,881	27,369	28,775	5	23,890	26,279	27,168	27,709	30.480	31,758
6	21,564	23,720	24.842	25,383	27,921	29,432	6	24,264	26,690	27,650	28,260	31,086	32,438
7	21,938	24,132	25,324	25.934	28,527	30,112	7	24,675	27,143	28,158	28.851	31,736	33.160
8	22,349	24,584	25,832	26,525	29,178	30,834	8	25,113	27,624	28,690	29,479	32,427	33,927
9	22,787	25.066	26.364	27.153	29,868	31,601	9	25,534	28,142	29,256	30,139	33.153	34,763
10	23,258	25,584	26,930	27,813	30,594	32,399	10	26.195	28,815	29,988	30,909	34,000	36,249
11	23,869	26,256	27.662	28,582	31,440	33,437	11	26,859	29,545	31,032	32.176	35,394	37,782
12	24,533	26,986	28,489	29,583	32,541	34,923	12	28,991	31,890	33,557	34,697	38,167	40,432
13	25,237	27,761	29.706	30,850	33,935	36,456	13	31.123	34.235	36.081	37,218	40,940	43,082
14	28.823	31,705	33,781	34,918	38.410	40,782							
CLASSROOM ASS/SFAATS 2000-200]
CLASSROOM ASSISTANTS 2002-2003
Salary	Guide					Salary Guide					
Step	6 HRS	45 HRS	7 HRS	luckir	MULHAHR	St*p	SHJtS	iJHBS	7 BBS	LOCKER	MULTL'BER
1	8,495	9,048	9.673	10,159	10,728	1	9,955	10.508	11.133	11,619	12,188
2	8,795	9,348	9.973	10,459	11,028	2	10,255	10,808	11,433	11,919	12,488
3	9,000	9,570	10,199	10,741	11,329	3	10.555	11,108	11.733	12,219	12.788
4	9,217	9,814	10,440	11,031	11,636	4	10,760	11,330	11,959	12.501	13,089
5	9,451	10,077	10,703	11,331	11,957	5	10,977	11,574	12.200	12.791	13.396
6	9,698	10,345	10.992	11.639	12.287	6	11,211	11,837	12,463	13,091	13.717
7	9,946	10,613	11,282	11,950	12.617	7	11.458	12,105	12,752	13,399	14,047
8	10,238	10,933	11,625	12,317	13,008	8	11.706	12.373	13.042	13,710	14,377
9	10,566	11,284	12,003	12,730	13,784	9	11.998	12,693	13.385	14,397	15,422
10	10,969	11,828	12,607	13,837	14,862	10	12,326	13,393	14,192	15,422	16,345
11	11.685	12.833	13.632	14,862	15.785	11	13,270	14,402	15,320	16.447	17.370
12	12,710	13,842	14,760	15,887	16.810	12	14.402	15,445	16,488	17,530	18.572
13	13.842	14,885	15,928	16,970	18.012	13	15,002	16,045	17,088	18,130	19,172
14	14,442	15,485	16,528	17,570	18,612	14	15,602	16,709	17,847	18,986	20,128
15	15,007	16,149	17,287	18.426	19,568	15	17,752	18,956	20,154	21,355	22,558
16	16,152	17.356	18,554	19,755	20.958						
						CLASSROOM ASSISTANTS					
CLASSROOM ASSZSFA ATS						2003'2004					
2001-2002											
						Salary Guide					
Salary Guide						Step	(HRS		7 HRS	LOCKER	MULTI/S HR
Step	bERS	ti.SHRS	7 HRS	LOCKER	MULTI/BHR	1	11,308	11,878	12,507	13.049	13,637
1	9,047	9,600	10,225	10,711	11,280	2	11,605	12,175	12,804	13,346	13,934
2	9,347	9,900	10.525	11,011	11.580	3	11.822	12,419	13.045	13,636	14.241
3	9,647	10,200	10,825	11.311	11,880	4	12,056	12,682	13.308	13,936	14.562
4	9.852	10.422	11,051	11.593	12,181	5	12,303	12,950	13,597	14,244	14,892
5	10,069	10,666	11,292	11,883	12,488	6	12,551	13,218	13,887	14,555	15,567
6	10,303	10,929	11,555	12,183	12,809	7	12,843	13,538	14,337	15,567	16,490
7	10,550	11,197	11.844	12.491	13,139	8	13.415	14,547	15,465	16.592	17,515
8	10,798	11,465	12,134	12,802	13,469	9	14,544	15,587	16,630	17,672	18,714
9	11,090	i 1,785	12,477	13,169	14,036	10	15.244	16,287	17,330	18,372	19,414
10	11,418	12,136	12,859	14,089	15,1)4	11	■15,844	16.887	17,989	19,128	20.270
11	11,937	13,085	13,884	15,114	16,037	12	17,448	18.572	19,722	20,892	22,064
12	12,962	14.094	15.012	16.139	17,062	13	19,052	20,256	21,454	22,655	23,858
13	14,094	15,137	16,180	17,222	18,364						
14	14,694	15,737	16,780	17,822	18,864						
15	15,294	16.401	17,539	18,678	19.820						
16	16,752	17,956	19,154	20,355	21,558						
91
90
PArtEAT LM/SCW/MSW-CEE 77F7PD
ATTEjVDA^CE OFFZCEff Hired before 1/1/99 00-01	01-02	02-03	03-04 $30,410	$31h6ll	$32,860	$34,897 PARENT UAISON/NON-CERTIF1ED ATTENDANCE OFFICER 2000-20QI Salary Guide Step	Salary 1	26,254 2	26,754 3	27,254 4	27.754 S	28,254 6	28,754 7	29254 8	29t754 PARENT UAISON/NON-CERTIFIED ATTENDANCE OFFICER 2001-2002 Salary Guide Step	Sabi? 1	26,904 2	27,404 3	27,904 4	28,404 5	28,904 6	29t404 7	29,904 8	30.404	AT £MfSW/WW-C£«nF/£D ATTENDANCE OFFICER 2002-2003 Salary Guide Step	Snhiy 1	27,704 2	28,204 3	28t704 4	29204 5	29,704 6	30,204 7	30,704 S	31,204 PARENT UAISON/NON-CERTIFIED ATTENDANCE OFFICER 2003-2004 Salary Guide Slap	Salary 1	29,422 2	29,953 3	30,484 4	31,015 5	31,546 6	32,077 7	32,608 8	33,139
COMEUTEJ? DATA EATRY
MZSCELLAttEOLtf 2000-2001
Step	2000-01	2001-02	2002-03	2003-04		
1	33,000	34,304	35,658	37,020	Salary Guide	
2	33,500	34,823	36,199	37,520	Tide	Salary
3	34.000	35,343	36,739	38,020	Job Developed	3ft,7#5
4	34,500	35,863	37,279	38,520	Sr. Comp. Opieraicn	45,141
5	35,000	36,383	37,820	39,020	Comp, Operntor	40,733
					Jr. Comp, Operator	26,390
CHILD DEVELOPMENT AIDES					Comp/ Tedmkijjj	33,862
CDA CERTIFIED					hired prior id 7/l/^and/or 5+ years experience	
					Comp/ Ibduucian	2^,067
Step	2000-01	2001-02	2002-03	2003-04	hired on <u after 7/1/97 with less (han 5 years experience	
1	27,000	28,067	29,175	30,456	Guidance Associates	28.067
2	27,500	28,586	29,715	30,956		
3	28,000	29,106	30,256	31,456		
4	28,500	29,626	30,796	31,996	MISCELLANEOUS	
5	29,000	30,146	31,336	32.536	2001-2002	
					Salary Guide	
					Title	Salary
					Job Peveloper	40.317
					Sr. Comp, Operator	46,924
					Comp, Operator	42,362
					Jr. Comp, Operator	27,432
					Crimp/'Tteehtiidan	35,199
					hired prior to 7/lj$7and/or 5+ years experience	
					Comp/ Technipi an	29,175
					hired cm or after 7/1/97 with Jexs chan 5 years experience	
Guidance Associate!
29,175
ft:

Nt
Af/SCEUANE<9E7S 2W-2MJ
SPECIAL A CTZVZT7E5
Salary G*ide
tn
Salary Guide
Title
Job Developer
$r. Comp. Operator
Comp. Operator
Jr. Comp. Operator
Comp/ Technician
Salary
41,909
48,77®
44,036
28,516
36,390
Egubcth	Scbxl	2000-2001	2001-2001	Htn-iw	3W3-2WM
Sdmol NnTOtrFom Adris or	U3S6	tl^d?	31,319	31,371
pubfr Speaki*g4)ehKe Advisor	$$334	$5,775	35,920	$6,153
Asistaot frWlc Spesiing/IArhite Advisor $ 2317		S23&?	£2,4H	S3.O76
Ye^took A4riw	$2,M3	$2,094	$2,146	SL23I
Play Pradoctioa Adviser	$2,986	$3, neo	$3,137	$3,261
faainrClMS AdWOF	$1,411	$1,447	J1.4S3	$1.!M|
Junior Ctas Advisor	11,411	$1,447	$1.4X3	31,541
SophotKoe Ctaa Advisrc	$l,4kl	S3 Ml	$1,483	S1.S41
FtcsIWim fins Adviaor	$l,4l|	SI 447	31,483	S1J4J
Student Govcnalnir Athiaw	$1,411	$1447	$1483	$1341
Ttscfcanj Asriatalt	57.142	»22D	S3.3ftk	$3,431
Clnef VICA Ad riser	S3J21	$1609	S3.6W	53.S4S
VKA	sun	$23??	S2.9S9*	$3,in6
Litaay Muiaiae	SJJOCI	$199?	S4/I98	$4,259
hired prior to 7/l/97anri/rw 5+ years experience
30328
Comp/Technician
hired on ar after 7/1/97 with less than 5 years experience
30,328
Guidance Associates
Haxgaital Oil*
MkUeScbonfc '
Salary
43,563
Jofa Developer
50,705
St. Comp. Operator
45,773
Comp. Operator
29,642
Jr. Comp. Operator
38,035
Comp/ Technician
hired prior to 7/l/97andto 5+ years experience
31,525
Comp/ Technician
hired on or after 7/1/97 with less than 5 years experience
31,525
Guidance Associates
97
96
lOboura per yum hnurlyiaiefcriMctwrs (rata sod regulations fa-apriiutfitotif salary guide for ins true tkin al personnel. Put (| spedfk wnsuterwaM, C.>
20 hours pa }Uf M tuwly r*e Far leaden (rales andre^ulaiWKtA ta application of salary gudda for insoiktirtfud [Encate], Pm EI specific CMSUdWBlutf., C-l
jWSCEWUVEOIZS
2003-2004
Salary Guide
Title

-:-W.

athletic coaches Salary Guide				; -::;jitf)OORniA<!K(Bv«AGMs)				$3,998 $3,351	$4JJ9S $3,135	34,1W 53371
				J- ''/aHd&iMti	: . -As*. Guift	: 1			$3,900 $3,270			
Eihabtth Hlfih School	MW-2M1 2Wl-»m W01-1003 3M3-2W4						■fRACJC [Bop ft mA)				
Athletic Pifficlor		57,7W	$?.»l	W43W		ffcaddMch	$4^61	$5,0115	$5,212	55.41&
Asst. A.’Jilclic birectw	S5JS3	$5,384	SS3W	$5,737		AsM-Gisrt ($!	$3,270	$3,351	$3,435	S3,371
						j\st. Fra thou.	$3,170	$3^51	$2,4'35	53,571
foohall HeadCwfifa	JU.3M	$8,605	$mj	I0,]-6fl		Grads (5.1	$2^NI	52,942	$3,013	$2,134
Asai. Vanity	54,459	$4570	J4,W4	$4^70		GOLI				
SaphomcM Condi	$4,459	$4^70	$4.f*l	&4.B7O		Hurt CmUfe	$3,372	53,457	$3,543	sw
Asst ftmiix Varsity	$3,926	S4JJ24	$4,124	54^?						
Awi- SophixMre	$3,926	$4,024	$4,124	54,W	t.	SWBfMDiQ	ft Glfte>				
Asst- Ftcahmari	$3,936	$4-024	$4,114	$42?7		H^adCud) •	$4,961	5SJ385	55,212	W4L8
Tth *. Sth GraJe (2)	53,926	$4,024	54.134	S4.2B7		IfctfDi'nnfcaoKh	$4,96’]	S<6B5	$5413	I5,4JI1
						Assi. Coach (2)	$3,7?0	$3,351	$3,435	52571
CROSS COUNIRV (Hoj? & GJrfcl HeadCtl*^	$3,900	W,9W	$4,im			Asa Middle- SrtooN	J2.&7O	U9*2	$3J)!5	$3,134
Asst. Coach	J2.H7O	$2,942	SJXHS	$3,134	i*	• TKNUIS rXH* ft Gl-M				
LftiftS* Grid* (5)	S2,K7<1		$3,0l5	$3,)34	F	HMiiCi'»± .	$3-372	$M5?	$3^43	S3,6£5
SOOCERlRrjp ft Girls)			$4Xi53	$4,342		ROWING Pop ft (Wl				
Hud Com fl	14,4-33	$4,544				]lud Coach	f-UM	$1W5	J25SB	S3, >06
Assl- Frestunafl	S3,] 88	$3,267	S3349	53.4B1						
Assl- Varsity AsU-JunkffVaisty	J3.1M $3,1 Hit	$3,267 $3367	53,344 53J49	$3.48i $A,4Bl	a*	SAND CXmtrr	54,961	$5X111$	$3%2L2	$3,418.
74 ft 8th Grade-(5)	U^to	$1942	53XJ1S	$3,134	>	X-jDStad DirtfUsr (2-	$3,664	$3,736	$3,250	$4,002
RASKK'fBALL * Gtrfc) ttadCwKii	$6,017	S*6.14t7	$632]	$W7l		COLOR GLIAHJI , Advisee	$456]	S4-675	$4,792	$4,W
A>St Cot&	$3J9B	$3Ji9i	$3,090	$4.14*						
Asrt Junior Vanity		S3.4B3	WsST®	$3,711	•a	CHORAL tfTS ifartx				
Arrt FreEiriroan	»,] J7	$3115	$3,243	$3,425			$3,075	jn.,152	$3431	$3,358
Tib * Sth Gnxle IS)	53,137	$3,215	IJ-TW	$3,425						
						CHiBRLEADKg Pet Swswlsll ft WlMtr)				
WRESTLING				$\571		Advise	5Z.670	$2,942	83,0] .5	$3,134
]-Le3d Ccuch	36X117	$6,167	$6,321							
Awt. Hud Coicfl	$1910		KWB	W.771		- CYMM!?ilCS (WHS				
Assistant Csiacte	S3.270	lajsi	$3,435	$3^71		TJudCwci,	54,162	$4,266	$4,372	54^45
Asst. Jua1M VnsitJ'	$3270	$5,351	S345S	$3,571		Aad. Ctacb	$2,570	$J>12	$3,015	$3,134
AasL Fruksao	S3,137	$3215	$3J.«	$3,425						
7 th ft Jith Grade (Sj	JWO	52,942	S3XH5	$3,134	X	VOLLEYBALL HeadCac^	$4,162	$4^66	54,372	S4.S48
BASEBALL ft SOFTBALL lib?? ft Ghfcj				S5.4JR		Asst Coads	J2,K70	$3,942	$3,015	53.1,34
Hwl Caacta	W,%L	$5,M5	$5^12							
Asst. C«iach		$.1,3Si	&J,4^	JJ.57!		bANCE (Gfrto) Ci.wh				
Ast Jimiitf Viral}	$3,370	SK331	$3,435	1V?J	1		$3,270	$3J5l	33,43$	W7)
Au. Prcabman	tt.ni	52,942	$3,015	S3,134	'					
■tyh & 86 Grade (5)	S2,37D	S1W2	$34315	$3,134	t	^A€$iLTl|MANAGERS	$4^59	$4,570	$4,634	54,870
/
i
c.