THE CITY OF NEW YORK
KloUo
Office Of Labor Relations
40 Rector Street, New York, NY 10006-1705
http://nyc.gov/olr
JAMES F. HANLEY
Commissioner
PAMELA S. SILVERBLATT
First Deputy Commissioner
TO:	HEADS OF CONCERNED CITY DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES
FROM:	JAMES F. HANLEY, COMMISSIGNER/
SUBJECT: EXECUTED CONTRACT: SANITATION WORKERS
TERM:	NOVEMBER 23, 2002 TO MARCH 1,2007
Attached for your information and guidance is a copy of the executed contract entered into by the Commissioner of Labor Relations on behalf of the City of New York and the Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association, Local 831, International Brotherhood of Teamsters on behalf of the incumbents of positions listed in Article I of said contract.
The contract incorporates terms of an agreement reached through collective bargaining negotiations and related procedures.
DATED: JUL 0 3 2006
HO:	DATE:
07 0 01 M03 2QQG
SANITATION WORKERS
2002-2007
Table of Contents
ARTICLE I	- UNION RECOGNITION AND UNIT DESIGNATION...................1
ARTICLE II	- DUES CHECKOFF.........................................  1
ARTICLE III	- SALARIES...........................................    2
ARTICLE IV	- HEALTH AND WELFARE BENEFITS.............................6
ARTICLE V	- TIME AND LEAVE, DEATH BENEFITS.........................  9
ARTICLE VI	- PERSONNEL AND PAY PRACTICES............................10
ARTICLE VII	- REFUSE/RECYCLING COLLECTION........................... 18
ARTICLE VIII	- LABOR-MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE...........................19
ARTICLE IX	- PRODUCTIVITY PROGRAMS..................................20
ARTICLE X	- GRIEVANCES....................................          20
ARTICLE XI	- NO STRIKES........................................     23
ARTICLE XII	- APPLICATION OF CONTRACT.............................. 23
ARTICLE XIII	- FINANCIAL EMERGENCY ACT..............................23
ARTICLE - XIV APPENDICES..........................................  23
ARTICLE XV	- SAVINGS CLAUSE.........................................23
ARTICLE XVI	- CAPTIONS............................................  23
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
Term: November 23,2002 to March 1,2007
AGREEMENT entered into this day of	2006, by and between the City of New York
(hereinafter referred to as the “Employer”), and the Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association, Local 831, International Brotherhood of Teamsters (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”), for the period from November 23,2002 to March 1,2007.
WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, the parties hereto have entered into collective bargaining and desire to reduce the results thereof to writing, NOW, THEREFORE, it is mutually agreed as follows:
ARTICLE I - UNION RECOGNITION AND UNIT DESIGNATION
Section 1.
The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive collective bargaining representative for the bargaining unit set forth below, consisting of Employees of the Employer, wherever employed in the below listed title, and in any successor title(s) that may be certified by the Office of Collective Bargaining to be part of the unit herein for which the Union is the exclusive bargaining representative.
SANITATION WORKER
Section 2.
(a) The terms “Employee” and “Employees” as used in this Agreement shall mean, except as otherwise used in Article IV, Sections 1 and 3, only those persons in the unit described in Section 1 of this Article who were and still are employed by the Employer under the title of Sanitation Worker on the date of the signing of the Waiver and Release required by Article XII of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II - DUES CHECKOFF
Section 1.
(a)	The Union shall have the exclusive right to the checkoff and transmittal of dues on behalf of each Employee in accordance with the Mayor’s Executive Order No. 98, dated May 15, 1969, entitled “Regulations Relating to the Checkoff of Union Dues” and in accordance with the Mayor’s Executive Order No. 107, dated December 29, 1986, entitled “Regulations Governing Procedures for Orderly Payroll Checkoff of Union Dues” or any successors) thereto.
(b)	Any Employee may consent in writing to the authorization of the deduction of dues from the Employee’s wages and to the designation of the Union as the recipient thereof. Such consent, if given, shall be in a proper form acceptable to the City, which bears the signature of the Employee.
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
1
Term: November 23,2002 to March 1,2007
Section 2.
The parties agree to an agency shop to the extent permitted by applicable law, as described in a supplemental agreement hereby incorporated by reference into this Agreement.
ARTICLE III - SALARIES
Section 1.
The Employer agrees to employ each of the Employees for the period of this Agreement for 261 (8 hour) working days per annum at the respective annual compensations set forth as follows:
(a) For Sanitation Workers Hired Prior to 7/1/88
	11/23/02	11/23/03	3/2/05	3/2/06
After three years	$51,446	$54,018	$55,639	$57,392
After two years	$49,731	$52,218	$53,785	$55,479
After one year	$48,028	$50,429	$51,942	$53,578
Less than one year of service	$40,129	$42,135	$43,399	$44,766
(b) Sanitation Workers
Hired Between July 1, 1988 and June 30, 1991 shall be subject to the following six-step salary schedule:
	11/23/02	11/23/03	3/2/05	3/2/06
Step				
1st	$51,446	$54,018	$55,639	$57,392
2nd	$40,954	$43,002	$44,292	$45,687
3 rd	$39,004	$40,954	$42,183	$43,512
4th	$37,147	$39,004	$40,174	$41,439
5th	$35,376	$37,145	$38,259	$39,464
6th	$33,692	$35,377	$36,438	$37,586
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
2
Term: November 23,2002 to March 1,2007
- (c) Sanitation Workers
Hired On or After July 1,1991 and before January 1,2006, shall be subject to the following six-step salary schedule:
	11/23/02	11/23/03	3/2/05	3/2/06
Step				
1st	$51,446	$54,018	$55,639	$57,392
2«d	$41,518	$43,594	$44,902	$46,316
yd	$37,313	$39,179	$40,354	$41,625
4th	$35,534	$37,311	$38,430	$39,641
5th	$33,843	$35,535	$36,601	$37,754
6th	$32,231	$33,843	$34,858	$35,956
(d)	Annual salary adjustments as enumerated above shall accrue from the date of appointment of each of the Employees and shall be payable on the regular first pay period following annual anniversary date of such appointment.
(e)	Sanitation Workers
Hired On or After January 1,2006 shall besubject to the following six-step salary schedule:
1/1/06	3/2/06
Step	'. : Upon completion of 5-1/2 years of employment (Basic)	$55,639	$57,392
Upon completion of 4-1/2 years of employment	$42,745	$44,091
Upon completion of 3-1/2 years of employment	$37,080	$38,248
Upon completion of 2-1/2 years of employment	$32,960	$33,998
Upon completion of 1-1/2 years of employment	$30,900	$31,873
Upon completion of six months of employment	$29,870	$30,811
First six months of employment (Annualized)	$26,000	$26,000
Uniformed Sanitationmen's Association
3
Term: November 23,2002 to March 1, 2007
Section 2. Longevity
(a)	Sanitation Workers who have completed 5,10, 15, or 20 years of service shall receive an annual longevity differential payment according to the following schedule:
Longevity Differential Payment
Years of Service	Effective 11/23/02
Five	$1,495
Ten	$2,395
Fifteen	$3,295
Twenty	$4,195
(b)	These salary adjustments shall be computed as salary for pension purposes under the following conditions. The five and ten year steps are pensionable after 20 years of service and the 15 and 20 years steps are pensionable after 25 years of service. In the event this provision is declared invalid under the law, the parties shall reopen negotiations to resolve the issue of the increased cost of changing the effective date of the pensionability of the above adjustments. Such negotiations will be commenced forthwith. If no agreement is reached, pursuant to the New York City Collective Bargaining Law, an impasse may be declared and subsequent mediation and the impasse proceeding, if any, shall in all respects be conducted on an expedited basis.
(c)	Calculation of night shift differential payments shall be based upon the old longevity amount of $200 after five years of service.
(d)	ITHP and pension benefit calculations shall only include the amount of the annual longevity payment that is pensionable.
Section 3.	Uniform Allowance
Effective November 23, 2002, a per annum Uniform Allowance of $800 shall continue to be provided pursuant to provisions of the appropriate certificate of the Director of Management and Budget.
Effective November 23, 2005, the per annum Uniform Allowance shall be increased to $900.
Section 4.
The Employer also agrees to compensate any of the Employees for the period of this Agreement, for services rendered and to be rendered, as follows:
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
4
Term: November 23,2002 to March 1,2007
(a)	SundayWork - to be paid for at double time (2x) the respective pro-rated daily rate. This provision
shall be likewise applicable to snow removal activities performed on Sundays.
Saturday Work - to be paid for at straight time (lx) for the first six (6) hours and thereafter at time and one-half (l-l/2x) for the next two (2) hours at the respective pro-rated daily rate.
Chart Day - work performed on chart days to be paid for at double time (2x) the respective pro-rated daily rate. This provision shall not be applicable to snow removal activities performed on Chart Days.
(b)	Snow Removal Activities - in accordance with the respective budget certificates relating thereto; it being understood that, should any of the Employees be required to report for legal emergencies and/or snow work, on other than the Employee’s regularly scheduled tours, the Employee shall be guaranteed and paid a minimum of eight (8) hours pay at time and one-half (1 - l/2x) the pro-rated daily rate if the Employee reports for such work.
(c)	Holiday Work - in addition to the compensations referred to herein, the Employer hereby also agrees to provide additional payment to each Employee of one and one-half (1-1/2) day’s pay for each eight (8) hour day actually worked by the Employee on the following holidays:
New Year’s Day	Independence Day	Veterans Day
Lincoln’s Birthday	Labor Day,	Thanksgiving Day
Washington’s Birthday ,	■ Columbus Day	Christmas Day
Memorial Day	Election Day
(d)	Night Differential - in addition to all other compensations referred to herein, the Employer agrees to pay each affected Employee who is required actually to work a night shift, the sum not to exceed ten percent (10%) of the Employee’s daily rate computed on the basis of the respective annual compensation set forth in Section 1 hereof. For these purposes a night shift shall be any shift in which four (4) or more hours of the shift fall after 3:00 p.m., except, that work performed on snow removal for which additional compensation is provided in accordance with Section 4(b) above and for which additional compensation is also provided in accordance with Sections 4(a) and 4(c) above, and all other excused or unexcused absences with or without pay shall be excluded from this provision.
v Uniformed Sanitationmen's Association
5
Term: November 23,2002 to March 1,2007
Section 5.	General Wage Increase
(a)	(i) Effective November 23,2002, Employees shall receive a rate increase of 5%.
(ii)	Effective November 23,2003, Employees shall receive an additional rate increase of 5%.
(iii)	Effective March 2,2005, Employees shall receive an additional rate increase of 3%.
(iv)	Effective March 2,2006, Employees shall receive an additional rate increase of 3.15%.
(b)	The increases provided for in Section 5(a) above shall be calculated as follows:
(i)	The increase in Section 5(a)(i) shall be based upon the base rates (which shall include salary or incremental schedules) of the applicable title in effect on November 22, 2002;
(ii)	The rate increase in Section 5(a)(ii) shall be based upon the base rate (which shall include salary or incremental schedules) of the applicable title in effect on November 22, 2003;
(iii)	The rate increase in Section 5(a)(iii) shall be based upon the base rate (which shall include salary or incremental schedules) of the applicable title in effect on March 1,2005; and
(iv)	The rate increase in Section 5(a)(iv) shall be based upon the base rate (which shall include salary or incremental schedules) of the applicable title in effect on Marchi 1,2006.
(c)	The general increase provided in Section 5(a) shall be applied to the base rates and salary grades herein fixed for the applicable titles.
(d)	Employees newly hired on or after January 1,2006 shall receive the salaries set forth in Article III, Section 1 .(d).
ARTICLE IV - HEALTH AND WELFARE BENEFITS
Section 1.
(a)	Security Benefits Fund - Effective November 23,2002, the Employer agrees to continue to provide
the annual amount of $1,325 for each incumbent Employee, or the pro-rata share thereof for each Employee employed during the term of this Agreement for a period less than the full term of this Agreement, for the purpose of furnishing certain supplementary benefits for the period of employment of such Employee by the Employer during the term of this Agreement, all as provided for in a supplemental Agreement to be approved as to form by the Corporation Counsel. Effective November 23,2004, the pro-rata annual contribution shall be increased to $1,408 for each incumbent Employee.
The payments as above indicated shall be remitted by the Employer to the Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association Security Benefits Fund subject to the said supplemental Agreement to be entered into between the
Uniformed Sanitation men’s Association	6	Term: November 23,2002 to March 1,2007	(X w
' Employer and the Union for the benefit of each Employee and further subject to periodic audit by the Comptroller of the City of New York.
(b)	Effective November 23, 2002, Employees who have been separated from service subsequent to December 31,1970, and who were covered by the Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association Security Benefits Fund at the time of such separation pursuant to a separate agreement between the Employer and the Union shall continue to be so covered, subject to the provisions of Section 1 (a) hereof, on the same contributory basis as incumbent Employees. Contributions shall be made only for such time as said individuals are eligible to be primary beneficiaries of the New Y ork City Health Insurance Program and are entitled to benefits paid for by the Employer through such Program.
(c)	The Union agrees to provide welfare fund benefits to domestic partners of covered Employees in the same manner as those benefits are provided to spouses of married covered Employees.
Section 2.
As additional compensation to each Employee, the City shall, during the term of this Agreement, pay into the Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association Compensation Accrual Fund (formerly or currently known as the Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association Annuity Fund) the following amounts per Employee for each working day for which such Employee is paid by the City, but not to exceed an aggregate of the per annum amount shown below per Employee, for the purpose of furnishing certain additional benefits to each Employee. The Compensation Accrual Fund shall be maintained in accordance with the provisions of a supplemental Agreement to be entered into between the City and the Union approved as to form by the Corporation Counsel and shall be subject to periodic audit by the Comptroller of the City of New York.
Effective Date
November 23,2002
Daily Amount
$5.25
Per Annum Amount
$1,370.25
Section 3.
The City shall continue to provide a choice of health and hospitalization insurance plans for each Employee, not to exceed 100% of the full cost of HIP-HMO on a category basis. There will be an annual reopening period during the term of this Agreement for active Employees to exercise their choice among medical plans.
Section 4.
Retirees shall have the option of changing their previous choice of Health plans. This option shall be:
(a)	a one time choice;
(b)	shall be exercised only after one year of retirement; and
(c)	can be exercised at any time without regard to contract periods.
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
7
Term: November 23,2002 to March 1,2007
The effective date of change to a new plan shall be the first day of the month three (3) months after the month in which the application has been received by the New York City Health Insurance Program.
Effective with the reopener period for Health Insurance subsequent to January 1,1980 and every two years thereafter, retirees shall have the option of changing their previous choice of health plans. The option shall be exercised in accordance with procedures established by the Employer. The Union will assume the responsibility of informing retirees of this option.
Section 5.
(a)	Effective July 1,1983 and thereafter, the City’s cost for each Employee and each retiree under age 65 shall be equalized at the community rated basic HIP/HMO plan payment rate as approved by the State Department of Insurance on a category basis of individual or family, e.g., the Blue Cross/GHI-CBP payment for family coverage shall be equal to the HIP/HMO payment for family coverage.
(b)	If a replacement plan is offered to Employees and retirees under age 65 which exceeds the cost of
the HIP/HMO equalization provided in Section 6(a) hereof, the City shall not bear the additional costs.
(c)	The City shall continue to contribute on a City Employee benefits program-wide basis the additional annual amount of $30 million to maintain the Health Insurance Stabilization Reserve Fund which shall be used to continue equalization and protect the integrity of health insurance benefits.
(d)	The Health Insurance Stabilization Reserve Fund shall be used: to provide a sufficient reserve; to maintain to the extent possible the current level of health insurance benefits provided under the Blue Cross/GHI-CBP plan; and, if sufficient funds are available, to fund new benefits.
(e)	The Health Insurance Stabilization Reserve Fund shall be credited with the dividends or reduced by the losses attributable to the Blue Cross/GHI-CBP plan.
(f)	Pursuant to paragraph 7 of MLC Health Benefits Agreement, notwithstanding the above, in each of the fiscal years 2001 and 2002, the City shall not make the annual $35 million contributions to the health insurance stabilization fund.
Section 6.	Health Care Flexible Spending Account
(a)	A flexible health care spending account shall be established after July 1993 pursuant to Section 125
of the IRS Code. Those Employees eligible for New York City health plan coverage as defined on page 32, section 4(B) of the 1992 New York City Health Summary Program Description shall be eligible to participate in the account. Participating Employees shall contribute at least $260 per year up to a maximum of $5,000 per year. Said contribution minimum and maximum levels may be modified by the MLC Health Advisory Committee based on experience of the plan. Any unfunded balance may be deducted from final salary payments due an Employee.
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
8
Term: November 23,2002 to March 1,2007
(b)	Expenses of the account shall include but not be limited to deductibles, co-insurance, co-payments,
excess expenses beyond plan limits, physical exams and health related transportation costs for vision, dental, medical and prescription drug plans where the Employee and dependents are covered. In no case will any of the above expenses include those non-deductible expenses defined as non-deductible in IRS Publication 502.
(c)	An administrative fee of $1.00 per week for the first year shall be charged for participation in the program. An Employee’s participation in the account is irrevocable during a plan year. At the close of the plan year any excess balance in an Employee’s account will not be refunded.
ARTICLE V - TIME AND LEAVE, DEATH BENEFITS
Section 1.
Sick leave and/or line-of-duty injury benefits shall be granted to Employees in accordance with Chapter 551 of the Laws of 1962 (New York State).
Section 2.
(a)	For Employees Hired Prior to July 1. 1988
The Employer further agrees to continue to grant to each Employee an annual vacation allowance of twenty-five (25) days, and to continue to grant terminal leave of one (1) month for every ten (10) years of service prior to retirement.
(b)	For Employees Hired On or After July 1. 1988
Employees shall accrue an annual vacation allowance at a rate of eighteen (18) days in each of their first four (4) years of service, at a rate of twenty (20) days in their fifth year of service and at a rate of twenty-five (25) days in their sixth year of service. The Employer further agrees to continue to grant terminal leave of one (1) month for every ten (10) years of service prior to retirement.
Section 3.
Employees shall be entitled to the following days off with pay:
New Year’s Day	Independence Day	Veterans Day
Lincoln’s Birthday	Labor Day	Thanksgiving Day
Washington’s Birthday	Columbus Day	Christmas Day
Memorial Day	Election Day	
In the event that another day is officially designated as the day of observance of any of the above-listed holidays, that day shall be considered the holiday for the purpose of this Section.
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
9
Term: November 23,2002 to March 1,2007
Section 4.
Employees shall be entitled to four (4) working days off with pay in the event of a death in the immediate family. The family shall be defined for this purpose as spouse; natural, foster, or step-parent; child, brother or sister; father-in-law or mother-in-law; grandchildren; or any relative residing in the household.
Section 5.
In the event an Employee dies because of a line-of-duty injury received during the actual and proper performance of sanitation service and directly resulting from a characteristic hazard of such service, through no fault of his own, a payment of $25,000 shall be made from funds other than those of the Retirement System in addition to any other payment which will be made as a result of such death. Such payment shall be made to the beneficiary designated under the Retirement System or, if no beneficiary is so designated, to the estate of the deceased.
Section 6.
If an Employee dies while employed by the Employer, his beneficiary designated under the Retirement System or, if no beneficiary is so designated, the deceased’s estate shall receive payment in cash for the following as a death benefit:
(i)	All unused accrued leave up to a maximum of fifty-four (54) days’ credit.
(ii)	All unused accrued compensatory time earned subsequent to January 1, 1971 which is verifiable by official Department records up to a maximum of two hundred (200) hours.
ARTICLE VI - PERSONNEL AND PAY PRACTICES
Section 1.	Hours
(a)	The work-week shall consist of forty (40) hours, consisting of five (5) eight (8) hour days, exclusive of Sundays.
(b)	The Employer shall promulgate a schedule of days off other than Sunday to be known as a chart system and shall post such schedule in each work location. Such chart system shall continue to be based on a “25” week chart cycle in those work locations where the “30” week chart cycle was heretofore in effect. Such “25” week chart cycle shall provide each Sanitation Worker eveiy fifth week a long week-end (3 days) or a short week-end (2 days). The City and the Union may mutually agree in writing to change or modify the then existing chart system.
(c)	In the event of an emergency caused by accident, fire, flood, riot or a potential danger to health, life or property, the Employees, when called, shall report to work, and shall be compensated at the premium rate as set forth in Article III hereof. The Employer shall inform the Union of the nature of the emergency and the reason for changing the normal starting time.
w G $
O’t0
Uniformed Sanitationmen's Association
10
Term: November 23, 2002 to March 1, 2007
(d)	In the event a change in the lunch period is deemed necessary, the Employee shall be notified at roll call except in case of a snow or other emergency requiring such change. An entry shall be made in the blotter noting the reasons for the change. Information relating to such changes shall be made available to the Union upon request.
(e)	The present practice for granted paid rest periods and/or coffee breaks shall be continued. The first coffee break shall be for a period of fifteen (15) minutes and it shall start two (2) hours after the beginning of the shift. The second coffee break shall be taken one and one half (1-1/2) hours after the lunch period is completed and this one shall be for a period of ten (10) minutes. In the event of overtime, another coffee break or rest period often (10) minutes shall be taken one (1) hour after the start of the overtime period. During a normal work day (7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.) the following is an example of the coffee break or rest period that will be taken:
1st period	-	9:00 a.m. to 9:15 a.m.
2nd period	-	1:30 p.m. to 1:40 p.m.
O/T period	-	4:00 p.m. to 4:10 p.m.
(f)	In the event a truck is replaced in the field for reasons other than a breakdown, an Employee assigned to such replacement truck will receive a ten (10) minute rest period. In the event the Employer institutes a general relay system whereby trucks are replaced in the field, this subsection (f) may be reopened for negotiation.
(g)	Each Employee shall be granted fifteen (15) minutes of paid time for the purpose of washing and changing immediately prior to the end of the shift.
(h)	Special Summer Shifts may be established for the period starting with the second Monday in June of each year through the second Saturday in September of each year, conditions permitting, and the day shift shall start at 6:00 a.m. for the work force on refuse collection and those cleaning functions as designated by the Employer.
(i)	Sign out sheets shall be made available in ample time for the Employee to sign out prior to the end of the shift. However, no Employee is to leave the Employee’s assigned work location prior to the end of the shift. The designated Shop Steward shall be the last person to leave the premises at the conclusion of the assigned shift.
(j)	The regular shifts shall be as follows: 12:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m.; 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.; 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.; 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.; 4:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m.; 7:00 p.m. to 3:00 a.m.; night plow operations -11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. Other than regular shifts may be established from time to time in special situations as specifically approved by the Director of Operations? The Employer shall inform the Union of the nature of the new shift and the reasons for establishing such shift. Except in an emergency, no shift will overlap into a premium day. An emergency, for these purposes,* shall be declared in writing by the Commissioner or the Commissioner’s designee who shall be guided generally by the standards fixed by the Health Code and what
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
11
Term: November 23,2002 to March 1,2007
constitutes an “Act of God.” With respect to all night shifts, night picks will be conducted every six (6) months. A night shift, as that term is used in this Agreement, will be any shift in which four (4) or more hours worked by the Employee fall between the hours of 3:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(k)	In accordance with existing practice, the Department will request a list of volunteers in each Sanitation District who would be willing to work on their chart days if the need arises. Available personnel shall be taken from the volunteer list.
Section 2.	Premium Pay and Overtime
(a)	Premium pay and overtime shall be paid in accordance with the terms and conditions and at the rates set forth in Article III hereof.
(b)	Sunday, Chart and Holiday work shall be offered to the Employees on the basis of district seniority and each Employee shall be selected in turn according to the Employee’s place in order of rotation previously agreed to by the Employer and the Union. Special Assignments will not be given priority. An exception to the foregoing rotational procedure is when an Employee would be required to work two consecutive shifts. An Employee requesting to be skipped when assigned to work Sundays, Charts or Holidays shall not be re-assigned for such work until the Employee’s name is reached again in orderly sequence. There will be no waivers submitted to or accepted by the Employer for Sunday, Chart or Holiday work. When an Employee is transferred from one work location to another work location the Employee’s name shall be placed on the Sunday, Chart and Holiday lists in the Employee’s proper seniority order immediately. When an Employee is detached for one (1) year or more, the Employee’s name will be placed on the Sunday, Chart and Holiday lists, in the Employee’s proper seniority order, at the location to which the Employee is detached. The Employee shall at all times work in accord with the needs of the location to which the Employee is detached.
(c)	Overtime work shall be offered first on a seniority basis. In the event a sufficient number of Employees have not volunteered, then the Employer will order the required overtime on the basis of inverse seniority. When overtime is deemed necessary by the Employer, except in an emergency, the Employee shall be notified by the Employer by the end of the Employee’s lunch period of the day on which the overtime is to be worked. These provisions are not applicable in times of snow emergency and other Acts of God.
(d)	There shall be a “Special Emergency List” established in each Sanitation District. Such list shall be used on a priority basis for Employees called in during an emergency. There shall be no less than ten (10) Employees so assigned. Assignments to such a “Special Emergency List” shall be made annually during the month of November, in accordance with this Subsection (d). Such work shall not affect an Employee’s position on the regular Sunday and Holiday work rotation list. The Employee who signs for such “Special Emergency List” must call his work location during any snow alert. If the Employee is not at home during a snow alert and the Employer calls his home, whoever answers the call must contact the Employee. Discretion must be used when notifying whoever answers the phone in that a child may not be expected to notify her/his father/mother who is not at home. Messages left on an “answering machine” shall be considered sufficient notification. The Employee will not have the right to refuse to report to work. The provisions of this Subsection (d) shall apply only to those districts having a list often (10) or more Employees so assigned. If this number is not obtained, no list shall be posted. The location will then use the regular established Sunday and Holiday list for personnel for emergencies. However, the provisions of this Subsection (d) which pertain to call in and reporting when contacted during emergencies shall apply to the regular list during such emergencies.
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
12
Term: November 23,2002 to March 1,2007
Section 3.	Vacations
(a)	The applicable provisions of the Department’s General Order with respect to vacations as promulgated
each year shall regulate vacations.
(b)	In the event that a Sanitation Worker is hospitalized due to illness or injury while on vacation, the Chief Medical Examiner shall terminate the Sanitation Worker’s vacation and place the Employee on sick leave. The Union may file a grievance at Step 5 of the Grievance Procedure, when claiming a violation of this Subsection (b), without resort to prior steps in the Grievance Procedure.
(c)	After hospitalization, an Employee who is seriously disabled and submits proof of such disability satisfactory to the Department which shall properly exercise its discretion therein, may have such leave time charged to sick leave and not to annual leave provided that the Employee’s annual leave is not, under such circumstances, carried over to the next vacation year, except that upon good cause shown, the Commissioner may grant such extension.
Section 4.	Seniority and Assignments
(a)	(i) Seniority as used in this Section shall be the date of the most recent appointment to
the title as set forth in Article I, Section 1 of this Agreement.
(ii)	Seniority shall be applied as follows: in the Bureau of Cleaning and Collection: by district; in the Bureau of Waste Disposal: by work location, defined as the physical work location to which an Employee is permanently assigned.
(b)	(i) Seniority as defined and applied in this Section shall be the basis for temporary or permanent
transfer; vacation period choice; or desired work shift.
(ii)	Seniority as defined and applied in this Section shall be the basis for permanent special assignments within the Bureau of Cleaning and Collection and transfer to the Bureau of Waste Disposal, except that the Employer reserves the right to establish:
(1)	Minimum qualifications for such assignments; and
(2)	a four-week training and evaluation period.
Shop Stewards, designated by the Union in Accordance with Article IX, Section 1(b) of this Agreement shall be considered the most senior Employee in their respective work location in the Bureau of Cleaning and Collection and the Bureau of Waste Disposal, for purposes of this provision, for such period during which they retain such designation.
(iii)	When it becomes necessary to assign any Employees to a location other than the Employee’s regular work location, the assignment will be offered on a seniority basis. In the event a sufficient number of Employees have not volunteered, the Employer will order the required change on the basis of inverse seniority, the Shop Steward to exercise the right as the most senior Employee. The provisions of this
Uniformed Sanitation men’s Association
13
Term: November 23,2002 to March 1,2007
1
Subsection (b)(iii) shall also apply to transfers between sections that are ordered prior to the beginning of the shift.
(iv)	Out-of-Town work means work done out of zone. There will be four (4) hours of time in the book for the first day that such work is performed in each zone. In the event the instances of such work occur at times other than after holidays, more than occasionally, the Union will seek to negotiate similar compensation with the Commissioner. If that proves unsuccessful, the issue shall be taken to binding arbitration.
(c)	The following assignments in the Bureau of Cleaning and Collection shall be deemed permanent special assignments for the purpose of this Article:
Large Wrecker Garage Utility Hoist Fitted Chassis Gas and Oil Worker Roll-on/Roll-off
Mechanical Brooms
EZ Pack
Greaser
Offal Truck
House Truck (Where a full time house truck is approved by Chief of Staff)
Employees assigned to special equipment may be given other assignments by the Department when the special equipment is not available or when the needs of the Department do not require the use of the above-listed special functions.
(d)	The procedure for filling a permanent vacancy in an assignment enumerated in Subsection (c) of this Section shall be as follows:
(i)	The District Superintendent in the District in which vacancy occurs shall assign the senior qualified Employee requesting such duty.
(ii)	If there are no volunteers for a special duty assignment, the District Superintendent shall assign
the least senior qualified Employee.
(iii)	A senior Employee, desiring such duty but deemed not qualified, shall be given a reasonable opportunity to acquire the skills required for the assignment. In the event a senior Employee desiring such duty is passed over because of failure to meet the minimum qualifications, the Employee and/or the Union may file a grievance in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Agreement.
(iv)	Training will be offered to Employees seeking assignment to special equipment in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the needs of the Employer.
(e)	The following rules shall apply to the filling of vacancies in the permanent special assignments enumerated in Subsection (c) of this Section:
Uniformed Sanitation men’s Association
14
Term: November 23,2002 to March 1,2007
(i)	Temporary vacancies, due to Employees being sick, on compensation, on vacation, compensatory time off, on chart, etc. shall be filled by the Garage Shop Steward if the Steward elects to assume such temporary assignment. Should the Garage Shop Steward elect to fill such assignment, the Steward’s starting time, whenever practicable, shall be the same as that of the majority of the Employees the Steward represents. In the event the Garage Shop Steward does not so elect, the temporary vacancy shall be filled by assignment by the District Superintendent, provided, however, that such selection shall not result in a more senior Employee being required to go on the night shift or out of location.
(ii)	An Employee assigned to a permanent special assignment may request a transfer to any other such assignment. Such request shall be processed in accordance with Section 4(d) of this Article.
(iii)	Employees newly transferred into a District may not be assigned to a permanent special assignment for a period of one (1) year from the date of physical transfer.
(iv)	An Employee assigned to a permanent special assignment may not be displaced by a senior Employee.
(v)	Any other special assignment, now in force or to be created hereafter in a District, shall be filled in accordance with the provisions of this Section.
(f)	The Department shall review and act upon requests for transfers no less frequently than every six (6) months.
Section 5.	Health and Safety
(a)	The Employer shall provide the following equipment, maintained at all times in good working order and in proper quantity: clean lavatory facilities; shower and wash basin facilities with hot and cold running water; heating facilities; proper ventilation; proper lighting and ample supplies of soap, other cleansers, paper towels, paper tissue and other clean-up materials.
The Employer and the Union shall conduct periodic inspection of all facilities which house Employees in order to insure that all such facilities are adequately maintained and provide sanitary working conditions. Where deficiencies are found and/or repair necessary, the Employer will take steps to make such repairs immediately. Since there is a large backlog of needed repairs, the Employer will proceed on a priority basis.
The Union reserves the right to challenge the Employer’s priority list.
In the event it is beyond the Employer’s capacity to make such repairs, the Employer, where possible, will seek additional funds to effectuate such repairs.
In the event that repairs cannot be made or funds to effectuate such repairs are not available, and the conditions at the location are such that they constitute a hazard to the life, health or safety of Employees, the Employer will take immediate steps to transfer all Employees to a more suitable location.
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
15
Term: November 23,2002 to March 1,2007
In the event the Union holds the Employer to be in default of this Subsection (a), the Union shall present the issue to the arbitrator for decision within forty-eight (48) hours, without resort to the other steps of the Grievance Procedure.
(b)	Two (2) qualified Sanitation Workers’ shall respond to any call for a large wrecker in cases involving arterial highways. One (1) of these will operate the wrecker to the scene, the other shall operate a back-up vehicle to the scene for safety purposes and then assist the wrecker operator. On all other calls where a back-up vehicle is not required one (1) Employee may respond to the call.
(c)	The Employer shall maintain complete medical records on injured Employees.
(d)	The Employer will endeavor to minimize and reduce accidents and injuries by maintaining its equipment and facilities in good working order. Each Employee shall make every effort to perform the duties in a safe and efficient manner commensurate with the requirements of the Employer. Complaints involving the safety of equipment or working conditions may be processed as grievances.
Section 6.	Rights of Employees
(a)	When an Employee has completed the respective work shift, and has been notified of his or her
assignment for the next work day, the Employee will not be called at home for any change out of his or her district. He or she may only be called when it involves reporting to a location within his or her own district, or when it involves change of shift. The above provisions shall not apply in the event of snow emergency or Act of God. The Employee will be responsible to report by roll call to the location within the district where he or she is scheduled to work.
(b)	Whenever an Employee is called to the Main Office of the Department or called by any other agency of Government for interrogation, the Employee shall be notified of the right to counsel or union representation. Such Employee shall be given ample time to secure such representation, if the Employee so elects.
(c)	The Employee when summoned to the Department shall be called whenever possible during ordinary working hours. In the event the proceedings in the Department go beyond the ordinary working hours, the Employee shall be paid time and one-half (1-1 /2x) in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
(d)	Following signout from any day shift, an Employee may be recalled if the night city superintendent has been contacted and a determination is made that the position must be filled.
Section 7.
Effective July 1,1978, any Employee applying for either ordinary or line-of-duty disability retirement shall begin to receive his accrued time, including accrued vacation, compensatory time, terminal leave and any other accrued leave, as of the date he submits the disability retirement application, provided that the time taken does not extend beyond the effective date of retirement.
$
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
16
Term: November 23,2002 to March 1, 2007
Section 8.	Interest
(a)	Interest on wage increases shall accrue at the rate of three percent (3%) per annum from one-hundred-twenty (120) days after the execution of this Agreement or one-hundred-twenty (120) days after the effective date of the increase, whichever is later, to the date of actual payment.
(b)	Interest on shift differentials, holiday and overtime pay, shall accrue at the rate of three percent (3%) per annum from one-hundred-twenty (120) days following their earning or one-hundred-twenty (120) days after the execution of this Agreement, whichever is later, to the date of actual payment.
(c)	Interest accrued under (a) or (b) above shall be payable only if the amount due to an individual Employee exceeds five dollars ($5.00).
Section 9.
A laid-off Employee who has returned to service in the Employee’s former title or in a comparable title from a preferred list shall receive the basic salary rate that would have been received by the Employee had the Employee never been laid-off up to a maximum of two (2) years of general salary increases.
Section 10.	Performance Compensation
The City acknowledges that each of the uniformed forces performs an important service that reflects the diverse missions of the City’s uniformed agencies. In order to reward service of an outstanding, exceptional nature, each of the uniformed agencies will establish a performance compensation program to recognize and reward such service, tailored to the unique missions of the individual uniformed agency.
The parties agree that additional compensation may be paid to Employees performing outstanding, exemplary, difficult and/or unique assignments. The City will notify and discuss with the Union of its intent to pay such additional compensation and the individuals to be compensated.
The criteria for the granting of performance-based compensation shall be based upon outstanding performance in the work assigned, and/or performance of unique and difficult work.
The performance-based compensation payments provided for in this section shall be one-time, nonrecurring cash payments subject to applicable pension law. An Employee can receive no more than one payment annually.
This provision shall not affect any existing productivity programs covered in any existing collective bargaining agreements. Nor shall this provision be construed to waive any obligation of the City to negotiate over future productivity programs as required by applicable law.
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
17
Term: November 23, 2002 to March 1, 2007
ARTICLE VII - REFUSE/RECYCLING COLLECTION
Section 1.	Refuse Collection
(a)	The Employer and the Union recognize that the Employer has the unilateral right to set and establish refuse collection routes.
The Employer and the Union enter this Agreement without prejudice to, and without waiver of, any rights that they may have under law, rule, regulation or contract in that regard.
(b)	Effective upon the date of execution of this Agreement, if the Employer determines that a Sanitation Worker has not completed the refuse collection route designated by the Employer, the Sanitation Worker shall not receive the “1980 Two Worker Truck differential”, described herein, for the period of time which the Sanitation Worker failed to complete the designated refuse collection route. The implementation of this provision shall be consistent with Section 3 of this Article.
(c)	If a situation arises whereby the amount of refuse exceeds that which was originally presented
to the Union upon the execution of this Agreement, then the Union shall have the right to present that situation to the Labor-Management Committee designated in Article VIII, Section 1 of this Agreement.
Section 2.	Recycling Collection
(a)	The Employer and the Union recognize that the Employer has the unilateral right to set and establish recycling collection routes.
The Employer and the Union enter this Agreement without prejudice to, and without waiver of, any rights that they may have under law, rule, regulation or contract in that regard.
(b)	Effective upon the date of execution of this Agreement, if the Employer determines that a Sanitation Worker has not completed the recycling collection route, as designated by the Employer, the Sanitation Worker shall not receive the “1980 Two Worker Truck differential”, described herein, for the period of time which the Sanitation Worker failed to complete the designated recycling collection route. The implementation of this provision shall be consistent with Section 3 of this Article.
(c)	If a situation arises whereby the amount of recycling exceeds that which was originally presented to the Union upon the execution of this Agreement, then the Union shall have the right to present that situation to the Labor-Management Committee designated in Article VIII, Section 1 of this Agreement.
Section 3.	Impartial Chair/Appeal Procedure
Any Sanitation Worker who may not receive the “1980 Two Worker Truck differential” pursuant to this Article, shall have the right to appeal the Employer’s determination to a Tripartite Dispute Resolution Panel for a hearing to be held within forty-eight (48) to seventy-two (72) hours of the Department’s notification to the Sanitation Worker. The Tripartite Resolution Dispute Panel shall be made up of a representative designated by the Employer, a representative designated by the Union and an Impartial Chair selected by the parties’ two representatives. The standards governing the determination of the panel shall
Uniformed Sanitation men’s Association
18
Term: November 23,2002 to March 1, 2007
include those set forth in the Kelly Impasse Award referenced in the “Two Worker Truck Agreement” attached hereto and made a part hereof. A claim by the Sanitation Worker that the design or length of the refuse/recycling collection route prevented the Sanitation Worker from completing the collection route shall not constitute good cause. The decision of the Tripartite Dispute Resolution Panel shall be final and binding and not subject to any further appeal.
ARTICLE VIII - LABOR-MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
Section 1.
The Employer and the Union, having recognized that cooperation between management and Employees is indispensable to the accomplishment of sound and harmonious labor relations, shall jointly maintain and support the following Labor-Management committees.
There shall be one general Labor-Management Committee to consider and recommend to the Commissioner changes in working conditions of the Employees within the agency who are covered by this Agreement. Matters subject to the Grievance Procedure shall not be appropriate items for consideration by the Labor-Management Committee. This Labor-Management Committee shall consist of six (6) members who shall serve for the term of this Agreement. The Union’s three (3) members shall be the Union President, the Union Vice President and one other executive board member. The Agency’s three (3) members shall be the Commissioner, the First Deputy Commissioner and one other deputy commissioner. Vacancies shall be filled by the appointing party for the balance of the term served. Each member may designate one (1) alternate. The Committee shall select a chair from among its members at each meeting. The chair of the Committee shall alternate between the members designated by the Agency and the members designated by the Union. The Committee shall make its recommendations to the Agency head and the Union in writing. This Committee shall meet at the call of either the Union or the Employer at times mutually agreeable to both parties. At least one week in advance of a meeting the party calling the meeting shall provide to the other party a written agenda of matters to be discussed. Minutes shall be kept and copies supplied to all members of the Committee.
There shall be separate Labor-Management committees established to review the following issues:
Section 2.	Trial Room
(a)	A Labor-Management Committee shall be established to study the current trial room. This committee shall complete its work within ninety (90) days of the execution of this Agreement.
(b)	The committee defined in 2(a) shall be comprised of three (3) representatives of the Union and three (3) representatives of the Employer. This committee shall set forth its recommendations to the Union and the Employer at the conclusion of the ninety (90) day period.
Section 3.	Gainsharing/Productivity
(a)	A Labor-Management committee shall be established to discuss the feasibility of programs to improve the efficiency with which services are delivered by the Department. These discussions shall include, among other things, the feasibility of establishing Department Employee incentive programs such as the
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
19
Term: November 23,2002 to March 1,2007
sharing of savings between the City, as employer, and its Employees, as represented by the Union, realized by programs involving intensified efficiency, the application of new technology or methods of cleaning, collection and disposal, the intensified utilization of equipment, the improvement of routings and scheduling and attrition of staff, without reduction of services.
(b)	The committee defined in 3(a) shall be comprised of three (3) representatives of the Union and three (3) representatives of the Employer. This committee shall make recommendations to the Union and the Employer.
Section 4.	Recycling Program
(a)	A Labor-Management committee shall be established to study various aspects of the City’s recycling program, including the utilization of new technologies and equipment.
(b)	The committee defined in 4(a) shall be comprised of three (3) representatives of the Union and
three (3) representatives of the Employer. This committee shall make recommendations to the Union and the Employer.
ARTICLE EX - PRODUCTIVITY PROGRAMS
New productivity programs have been instituted by the Employer which involve the Union’s input and cooperation. In the event the Employer may consider other alternatives of service delivery, including managed competition, such consideration may include a review of the Department’s cost effectiveness and work performed by private carters in New York City and other municipalities.
ARTICLE X - GRIEVANCES
Section 1.	Grievance Representation
(a)	Any grievance of any Employees within the bargaining unit shall be processed and presented solely by the duly designated representatives of the Union.
To meet with, aid or encourage any non-certified minority organization and/or group representing Employees in the civil service title of Sanitation Worker for purposes of collective bargaining or processing of grievances shall be regarded as an infringement of this Agreement.
(b)	One (1) Shop Steward shall be duly designated by the Union for the following work shifts and
job locations:
(i)	Bureau of Cleaning and Collection: Days - One (1) Steward for each section, garage, and any other field location.
Nights - One (1) Steward for each district.
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
20
Term: November 23,2002 to March 1, 2007
(ii)	Bureau of Waste Disposal: One (1) Steward for each shift at each field location.
(c)	An agreed number of Borough Grievance Representatives duly designated by the Union shall
have the right, without loss of pay, to investigate grievances in the bargaining unit, within their prescribed borough, and to process these grievances in all levels from the officer in charge of the given job location to the Borough Superintendent’s level in the Bureau of Cleaning and Collection, or the Division Head level in the Bureau of Waste Disposal.
The Union Borough Grievance Representatives, while engaged in duties as the Union’s Representative, shall, when reporting to a job location, sign the prescribed time sheet and shall keep a daily record of time spent and location visited.
Section 2.	Grievance Procedure
(a)	The term “grievance” shall mean a dispute concerning the application or interpretation of the terms and provisions of this Agreement or of the terms of a personnel order of the Mayor.
(b)	The grievance procedure shall be as follows:
Step 1. - The Shop Steward and the grievant shall have the right to present the grievance to the supervisor in charge of the location either before RoH Call or at the end of the lunch period of that shift. Roll Call shall not be delayed or interrupted because of the presentation of grievances. The Shop Steward shall have the right to avail himself of the services of the Borough Grievance Representative of the Union or any duly designated officer of the Union for the purpose of processing the grievance. The grievance must be presented within one hundred twenty (120) days after the grievance was discovered or reasonably should have been discovered.
Step 2. - If a grievance remains unresolved at the job location (Step 1) for three (3) working days after its presentation, the Union representative shall have the right to present the matter in dispute to the appropriate Department representative at the Borough level in the Bureau of Cleaning and Collection, or the Division level in the Bureau of Waste Disposal. Such presentation must take place within five (5) working days after the grievance was first presented in the job location.
Step 3. - If a grievance remains unresolved at the Borough level (Step 2) in the Bureau of Cleaning and Collection or the Division level (Step 2) in the Bureau of Waste Disposal within three (3) working days after its presentation, the duly designated officers and/or staff of the Union shall have the right to present the unresolved grievance to the respective Bureau head involved.
Step 4. - If a grievance has not been resolved within three (3) working days after its presentation to the Bureau head (Step 3), the duly designated officers and/or staff of the Union shall have the right to process the grievance with the Director of Operations or the Director’s duly designated representative.
Step 5. - If the grievance has not been resolved at Step 4 within five (5) working days after its presentation, the President of the Union and/or the President’s duly designated representative shall have the right to process the grievance with the Commissioner of Department of Sanitation and/or the Commissioner’s duly designated representative.
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
21
Term: November 23,2002 to March 1,2007
Step 6. - In the event the grievance remains unresolved within fifteen (15) working days after all the steps in the procedure stipulated above have been executed the Union shall have the sole right to invoke arbitration. The arbitration shall be conducted consistent with the procedures developed by the parties under applicable law. The costs and fees of such arbitration shall be borne equally by the Union and the Employer. The decision or award of the arbitration shall be final and binding in accord with applicable law. As a condition to the right of the Union to invoke impartial arbitration as set forth in this Article, the Employee or Employees and the Union shall be required to file with the Director of the Office of Collective Bargaining a written waiver of the rights, if any, of the Employee or Employees and/or the Union to submit the underlying dispute to any other administrative or judicial tribunal except for the purpose of enforcing the arbitrator’s award.
(c)	Any grievance of a general nature affecting a group of several or more Employees shall be filed
at the option of the President of the Union at Step 5 of the grievance procedure without resort to previous grievance steps.
(d)	The City shall have the same right and the same obligation as the Union to bring to arbitration any dispute between the parties concerning any matter defined as a “grievance” herein. It is expressly understood that, notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this Article, the City and the Union shall have identical rights and obligations with respect to arbitration.
(e)	If the Employer exceeds any time limit prescribed at any step in the grievance procedure, the Union may invoke the next step of the procedure and only the Union may invoke impartial arbitration under Step 6.
(f)	The Employer shall notify the Union in writing of all grievances filed by the Employees, all
grievance hearings and all grievance determinations. The Union shall have the right to have a representative present at each step of the grievance procedure and shall be given forty-eight (48) hours advance notice of all grievance hearings.
(g)	Each of the steps in the grievance procedure, as well as time limits prescribed at each step thereof, may be waived by mutual agreement of the parties.
(h)	The grievance and arbitration procedure contained in this Agreement shall be the exclusive remedy for the resolution of disputes defined as “grievances” herein. The sole remedy for alleged violations of this Agreement shall be a grievance pursuant to this Article. This Section shall not be construed in any manner to limit the statutory rights and obligations of the Employer under Article XIV of the Civil Service Law.
(i)	In the event an officer in a job location seeks to suspend a Sanitation Worker summarily, the officer cannot do so of his own accord. He must refer the recommendation to the Officer-in-charge of the Borough Office. That Officer must then try to resolve the dispute with both parties - the officer recommending the suspension and the Sanitation Worker, together with the Union representative - before ordering the suspension. The only exception to the foregoing is when there is an immediate threat of life, limb or property or an imminent violation of civil or criminal law.
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
22
Term: November 23,2002 to March 1,2007
ARTICLE XI	- NO STRIKES
Neither the Union nor any Employee shall induce or engage in any strikes, slowdowns, work stoppages, or mass absenteeism, or induce any mass resignations during the term of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XII	- APPLICATION OF CONTRACT
It is specifically understood and agreed that the terms and provisions of this Agreement and the benefits granted thereunder shall be applicable as of the effective date of this Agreement to each Employee who was and still is employed by the Employer in the title of Sanitation Worker on the date of the signing of the Waiver and Release required by this Agreement and who executes the following instruments and complies with the provisions of such instruments:
(a)	A Waiver of any rights such Employee may have under Section 220 of the Labor Law in a form and manner approved by the Corporation Counsel’s Office for such purposes (see: Appendix “A”); and
(b)	A Release to the City of New Y ork in the form now used by the City for such purposes (see: Appendix
“B”).
ARTICLE XIII - FINANCIAL EMERGENCY ACT
The provisions of this Agreement are modified by and subject to any applicable provisions of law, including the New York State Financial Emergency Act for the City of New York, as amended.
ARTICLE - XIV APPENDICES
The Appendix or Appendices, if any, attached hereto and initialed by the undersigned shall be deemed a part of this Agreement as if fully set forth herein.
ARTICLE XV - SAVINGS CLAUSE
Section 1.
In the event that any provisions of this Agreement are found to be invalid, such invalidity shall not impair the validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions thereof.
Section 2.
This Agreement expresses all agreements and understandings between the parties and no other agreement, understanding or practice shall be of any force or effect.
ARTICLE XVI - CAPTIONS
Captions and Table of Contents are included for purposes of indexing.
Uniformed Sanitation men's Association
23
Term: November 23,2002 to March 1,2007
WHEREFORE, we have hereunto set our hands and seals this O day of / vU 2006.
CITY OF NEW YORK
UNIFORMED SANITATIONMEN’S
ASSOCIATION, LOCAL 831, INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS
BY: ___________________
//AMES F. HANLEY // Commissioner of Labor Relations
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
BY:
?</
PAUL T. REPHEN1
ACTING CORPORATION COUNSEL
DATE SUBMITTED TO THE FINANCIAL CONTROL BOARD
BY:
UNIT: Sanitation Worker
TERM: November 23,2002 to March 1,2007
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
24
Term: November 23, 2002 to March 1,2007
AGREEMENT made this J day of ' C1	2006 by and between the Uniformed
Sanitationmen’s Association, Local 831, IBT and the City of New Y ork for the period November 23,2002 to March 1,2007.
WHEREAS, it is the desire and intent of the parties to continue the two-worker collection program
NOW, THEREFORE, it is agreed as follows:
1.	That the following shift differentials shall be paid by shift per individual for the operation of collection vehicles manned by two workers:
A.	Side loading collection vehicles when engaged in regular collection functions.	Effective Date	Amount
		11/23/02	$27.91
		11/23/03	$29.31
		03/02/05	$30.19
		03/02/06	$31.14
B.	Rear loading “20 yd ”	Effective Date	Amount
	collection vehicles, when engaged in side loading collection districts.	11/23/02	$ 27.91
		11/23/03	$29.31
		03/02/05	$30.19
		03/02/06	$31.14
C.	Rear loading “20 yd ” collection vehicles,	Effective Date	Amount
	when engaged in regular collection operations.	11/23/02	$ 27.91
		11/23/03	$ 29.31
		03/02/05	$30.19
		03/02/06	$31.14
D.	Rear loading “25 ydJ” collection vehicles,	Effective Date	Amount
	when engaged in regular collection operations.	11/23/02	$33.52
		11/23/03	$ 35.20
		03/02/05	$ 36.26
		03/02/06	$ 37.40
Uniformed Sanitationmen's Association
Term: November 23, 2002 to March 1, 2007
E. “Cut down” collection vehicles engaged in bulk
collection; Rear loading vehicles assigned to “basket” collection.	Amount $0
F.	“EZ Pack” collection vehicles,	Effective Date	Amount
	when engaged in regular collection operations.		
		11/23/02	$ 18.96
		11/23/03	$ 19.91
		03/02/05	$20.51
		03/02/06	$21.16
G.	“Route Extension” Differential under	Effective Date	Amount
	previous contract		
		11/23/02	$9.82
		11/23/03	$10.31
		03/02/05	$10.62
		03/02/06	$10.95
2.	That the collection shift differential be paid on those shifts a Sanitation Worker actually performs
collection functions on a collection vehicle manned by two workers which excludes payment for such days not worked as holidays, annual leave, sick and terminal leave.
Further, it is agreed that the foregoing standard shall be implemented in accordance with the “Agreed Upon Productivity Standard” described in the Memorandum of Robert Shrank to Bruce McIver and Jack Bigel dated June 30, 1981. Consistent with current policy the standards will be established for the Districts and may be reviewed by the parties at regular quarterly intervals after the implementation of the program in the District.
3.	That, effective March 1,1992, collection shift differential earned in the previous year shall be
pensionable and shall be treated for pension purposes in the same manner as the night shift differential. Deductions for pension contributions will be made on all shift differential payments.
4.	That from the date of implementation of this agreement through March 1,2007, the collection
shift differential shall be included in the rate for all purposes (except as otherwise provided in paragraphs 2, 3(a) and 3(b) above) and, as of July 1,1982 shall be increased by any general wage increases negotiated on or after that date.
5.	That the Tripartite Dispute Resolution Panel formed pursuant to the Kelly Impasse Award dated
December 10, 1980, except as modified in the 1991-95 collective bargaining agreement, shall continue and shall hear and decide any and all disputes arising out of the implementation of this two-worker sanitation collection vehicle program.
6.	The City will continue to utilize its best efforts to maintain the sanitation cleaning and collection
workforces so that adequate levels of service can be provided. The City recognizes that the workforce engaged in collection will be at a reduced level after full implementation of current productivity programs. The City
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
Term: November 23, 2002 to March 1, 2007
within the context of its fiscal condition will seek to maintain an adequate workforce for purposes of cleaning and collection. The City will meet and discuss with the Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association when the net uniform attrition of Employees engaged in cleaning and collection in the Sanitation Department is anticipated to be more than the Citywide average in any fiscal year. Such discussions will include an explanation of the reasons for such action, an examination of the workload impact on the remaining uniform workforce, and possible alternative actions. Furthermore, there will be no layoffs at any time as a result of implementation of the extension of the two-worker truck program to the entire department.
Further, it is the understanding of the parties that while the foregoing paragraph on Workforce indicates the City’s intent regarding cleaning and collection, it does not give rise to any rights or liabilities that are not already contained in contract or law.
7.	In converting each District to two-worker operation the Department has used equipment of the
same type as that used previously. The Department has, however, reserved the right to deploy trucks of different types in circumstances such as holiday weeks, snow and the like. In the event the Department seeks to deploy trucks of different type in other circumstances and cannot obtain the consent of the District Labor-Management Committee, the issue shall be presented for expeditious resolution by the Tripartite Committee. The parties understand and agree that the foregoing shall not limit the Department in the deployment of bulk and alley trucks with two men and with the payment of a differential equal to that applicable to the side loading vehicle.
8.	That there shall be established a joint health committee that shall call upon a mutually agreed
upon industrial health specialist to examine and report on health and safety issues relating to the two-worker operation of sanitation collection vehicles.	,,
9.	The parties shall continue to operate Labor-Management committees at the district level to deal
with implementation of the extension of this two-worker collection program. Furthermore, the parties shall continue to utilize the contractual Labor-Management forum to pursue other productivity measures which may be applicable to other areas of the Department. ,
10.	An equipment committee shall be established to assist in the Department’s purchase Or
modification of collection vehicles. This committee shall include an equal number of representatives from the Department and the Union, and such other individuals as shall be mutually agreed upon.
11.	This agreement shall constitute part of the collective bargaining agreement entered into between
the parties for all purposes.
Dated:
CITY OF NEW YORK,
New York, New York
UNIFORMED SANITATIONMEN’S ASSOCIATION,
y: James F. Hanley
y: Harry Nespoh
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
Term: November 23,2002 to March 1,2007
THE CITY OF NEW YORK
Office Of Labor Relations
40 Rector Street, New York, NY 10006-1705
http://nyc.gov/olr
JAMES F. HANLEY
Commissioner
PAMELA S. SILVERBLATT
First Deputy Commissioner
Mr. Harry Nespoli
President
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
Local 831, IBT
23-25 Cliff Street
New York, NY 10038
Dear Mr. Nespoli:
This is to confirm that the City of New York, as employer of the bargaining unit Sanitation Workers (the “Employer”), agrees, in accordance with applicable law. that any conversion of the function(s) of the Department of Sanitation to any public authority established by or at the request of the Mayor, City Council or other Governmental body, insofar as such functions pertain to that bargaining unit, shall be conditioned upon the public authority’s acceptance of (i) its obligation to recognize and bargain with the Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association, Local 831, IBT (the “Union”) and (ii) the terms of the then existing collective bargaining agreement between the Employer and the Union for the remainder of that agreement’s effective period.
Agreed and Accepted on Behalf
THE CITY OF NEW YORK Office Of Labor Relations 40 Rector Street, New York, NY 10006-1705 http://nyc.gov/olr
JANIES F. HANLEY
Commissioner
PAMELA S. SILVERBLATT
First Deputy Commissioner
Mr. Harry Nespoli
President
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
Local 831,1BT
23-25 Cliff Street
New York, NY 10038
Dear Mr. Nespoli:
This is to confirm our mutual understanding and agreement regarding the legislation enacted providing Tiers Two and Four Sanitation Workers, represented by the Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association (“USA”), with half pay pension after twenty (20) years of service and the right to vest after fifteen (15) years of service.
Said Sanitation Workers shall be required to make additional pension contributions in the amount of 5.35%, effective July 1, 1992. These additional amounts shall not be subject to social security offset or loans.
There shall also be an additional employee contribution of .55% of payroll to fund the increased cost of health insurance and welfare fund coverage for this new category of retirees. These amounts shall be paid into a separate fund maintained for this purpose.
In no event shall the enabling legislation result in a variation of the agreement between the City and the Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association.
In the event that any provision of the enabling legislation once enacted into law shall for any reason be adjudged to be invalid or unconstitutional by a Court of competent jurisdiction, the above agreement shall cease nunc pro tunc and the parties shall be required to negotiate a new agreement.
It is further agreed and understood that this legislation shall also apply to Uniformed Sanitation employees outside the bargaining unit.
If the above accords with your understanding, please execute the signature line provided below.
Agreed and Accepted on Behalf of Local 831, IBT
President
truly yours,
ames F. Hanley Commissioner
THE CITY OF NEW YORK
Office Of Labor Relations
40 Rector Street, New York, NY 10006-1705 http ://nyc .gov/olr
JAMES F. HANLEY
Commissioner
PAMELA S. SILVERBLATT
First Deputy Commissioner
Mr. Harry Nespoli
President
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
Local 831, IBT
23-25 Cliff Street
New York, New York 10038
Re: Work Experience Program (WEP)
Dear Mr. Nespoli:
This is to confirm our mutual understanding and agreement that the City and the Union recognize that no current Sanitation Workers are intended to be displaced as a result of Work Experience Program (WEP) assignments through the loss of job or position, reduction of wages and benefits, or infringement of promotional opportunities. The parties will discuss development of a procedure to ensure that displacement does not occur.
If the above accords with your understanding, please execute the signature line provided below.
Agreed and Accepted on Behalf of Local 831, IBT
BY:^^
Tj^arry/Iespoli / / President
THE CITY OF NEW YORK
Office Of Labor Relations 40 Rector Street, New York, NY 10006-1705 http: //ny c. gov/olr
JAMES F. HANLEY
Commissioner
PAMELA S. SILVERBLATT
First Deputy Commissioner
Mr. Harry Nespoli
President
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
Local 831, IBT
23-25 Cliff Street
New York, New York 10038
Re:	Study of Feasibility of DSNY Performing
Commercial Refuse Removal In Residential Buildings
Dear Mr. Nespoli:
This is to confirm our mutual understanding and agreement that the City and the Union will study the feasibility of the Department of Sanitation’s performing commercial refuse removal functions in residential buildings.
If the above accords with your understanding, please execute the signature line provided below.
Agreed and Accepted on Behalf of Local 831, IBT
Very truly yours,
THE CITY OF NEW YORK
Office Of Labor Relations
40 Rector Street, New York, NY 10006-1705
http://nyc.gov/olr
JAMES F. HANLEY
Commissioner
PAMELA S. SILVERBLATT
First Deputy Commissioner
Mr. Harry Nespoli
President
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
Local 831, IBT
23-25 Cliff Street
New York, New York 10038
Dear Mr. Nespoli:
Pursuant to Article IV, Section 1. of the 2002-2007 USA Agreement, the parties agree that there shall be an increase in the welfare fund contribution of $83 per annum, effective on November 23, 2004.
For purposes of implementing	this rate increase to the Retiree Welfare Fund, the following shall apply:
•	The monthly contribution	for	October 2004 shall be $110.4167
•	The monthly contribution	for	November 2004 shall be $112.2367
•	The monthly contribution	for	each month thereafter shall be $] 17.3333
If the above accords with your understanding, please execute the signature line below.
Agreed and Accepted on Behalf of Local 831,I.B.T.
0
THE CITY OF NEW YORK
Office Of Labor Relations
40 Rector Street, New York, NY 10006-1705 http ://nyc. gov/olr
JAMES F. HANLEY
Commissioner
PAMELA S. SILVERBLATT
First Deputy Commissioner
Mr. Harry Nespoli
President
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
Local 831, IBT
23-25 Cliff Street
New York, New York 10038
Dear Mr. Nespoli:
The Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association, Local 831, IBT (“the Union”) and the City of New York (“the City”) (together, the “Parties”) mutually understand and agree that the general wage increases, the new supplemental payments to the Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association Compensation Accrual Fund, and the new productivity differentials are funded, in part, through savings to be achieved through increased productivity and other cost-savings mechanisms including the new salary schedule for new hires.	■
The Parties mutually agree that should the productivity initiatives set forth in the new 10.7 tons refuse and 6.2 tons recycling Tons Per Truck Shift Program and/or the Dumping-on-Shift Program and/or the One-Worker Roll-on/Roll-off Program fail to achieve the savings agreed upon herein to fund the 1.3% wage increases in this and subsequent collective bargaining agreements, the Parties agree to meet and confer to evaluate whether or not operational changes may be made to facilitate achieving the agreed-upon savings. Should such savings not be able to be realized, the Parties agree to consider new or alternative funding mechanisms to address any shortfall(s) in projected savings. In the event that the parties are unable to agree, the matter shall be submitted to the Tripartite Dispute Resolution Panel formed pursuant to the Kelly Impasse Award dated December 10, 1980 (the “Tripartite Panel”) for resolution.
The Parties agree that the program will be reviewed periodically after implementation and thereafter excluding the four (4) month break-in period. The Parties will meet to discuss changes in productivity standards and/or shift differentials or other forms of compensation, if the agreed upon standards are exceeded or are not met. Any disagreements, not otherwise precluded by the parties’ collective bargaining agreement and/or by prior decision or law, will be determined by the Tripartite Panel.
Refuse and Recycling Targets
In accordance with Section 9 of the Two-Worker Truck Agreement, the Parties have mutually agreed to have the Citywide and local district labor management committees recalibrate the Citywide target average tons per truck shift in the refuse collection and recycling programs to 10.7 tons per truck shift for refuse collection and to 6.2 tons per truck shift for recycling collection, respectively.
Individual district goals will be established for each program after the Sanitation Department (the “Department”) and the Union, through the Citywide and district labor management committees, reach agreement on the individual district goals.
The Citywide target may be more (or less) than the 10.7 refuse / 6.2 recycling tons per truck shift subject to the agreement of the Parties, and the number of truck shifts shall be adjusted accordingly.
The Parties agree to eliminate the 4.8, 5.4 and 7.2 targets for recycling and the 10.6 target for refuse. The Parties recognize that there are now two components of the collection productivity differentials, one for the underlying “two-worker truck” program as indicated in the Two-Worker Truck Agreement Paragraphs 1 .A. through F), and one for the new 10.7 tons per truck shift for refuse collection and the 6.2 tons per truck shift for recycling collection targets that combines the payment provided under Paragraph G. with the supplemental payment to the Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association Compensation Accrual Fund. It is therefore possible for a Sanitation Worker to receive neither component, only the “two-worker truck” component, or both the “two-worker truck” component and the new 10.7/6.2 “combined” component.
The docking trigger for the 10.7/6.2 combined component is 10.7/6.2, and the docking trigger for the “two-worker truck” component, is 10.1/6.0.
The 10.7 tons per truck shift for refuse collection and the 6.2 tons per truck shift for recycling collections, as well as the 45.6% of trucks dumped on shift, are the agreed upon targets to be reached for the new tons per truck shift and dumping-on-shift programs.
It is agreed that the Citywide bank for refuse and recycling will be used to address unexpected circumstances and temporary difficulties in a district. If the district 2% bank is frequently exceeded, then the Department and the Union shall meet promptly to resolve the truck shift issue in the affected district while maintaining the Citywide 10.7 and 6.2 tons per truck shift targets. The number of trucks assigned on a holiday shall have no effect on the bank for that week.
The parties agree to review the adequacy of the “banks” on a district-by-district basis.
The Parties have mutually agreed that the combined differential for the 10.7 and 6.2 collection targets consists of the component indicated in Paragraph 1. G of the Two-Worker Truck Agreement and a separate contribution in the flat amount of $2.00 per qualifying shift to be paid to the Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association Compensation Accrual Fund (the “Supplemental Payment”). The $2.00 per shift Supplemental Payment shall be adjusted by future across-the-board increases, if any, but the Supplemental Payment shall not be subject to any premium payments. Eligibility for payment will begin in a district once the district begins the new program. The Supplemental Payment component will be paid on a standard four-week cycle subject to a determination that the standards for receiving the payment have been met.
If the tons per truck shift targets for a given District are unmet, the combined differential shall be paid provided that the District has met its targeted number of truck shifts and the new routes, designed to achieve a Citywide average of 10.7 tons per truck shift for refuse and 6.2 tons per truck shift for recycling, have been completed.
The Supplemental Payment shall not be paid to any member subject to the established docking procedure unless and until the employee appeals such decision and such appeal is upheld.
“Refuse and Recycling” collection vehicles	Effective Date	Amount
when engaged in regular collection operations		
under the 10.7/6.2 TTS programs.	01/09/06	$2.00
	03/02/06	$2.06
Dumping-on-Shift Targets
The Parties have mutually agreed to a new program for refuse and recycling crews that shall be part of a comprehensive productivity agreement, the purpose of which is to establish new performance measurements for attaining savings to be derived from “dumping on shift” and to provide a differential payment for achieving and maintaining those performance standards.
The Citywide and district targets and cut-off times will be adjusted through labor management committees as is the current practice. The productivity program assumes that a “dumping-on-shift” performance standard of at least 45.6% (combined standard for refuse and recycling) shall be maintained. The Parties agree that payment will be made based on a weekly target of 45.6% of loads dumped on shift as long as a floor of 40% is attained Citywide. The floor of 40% is intended to address circumstances and difficulties that may occur. When the 40% floor is not attained Citywide (excluding non-normal operations, e.g., snow and transfer station issues), the differential payment will not be paid to any employee for that week. The Union may appeal such a decision to the Tripartite Panel.
The Parties have mutually agreed that a new differential in the amount of $5.00 per qualifying shift will be paid for each dump made on shift (only one payment shall be made for a split-body truck) when the route is cleaned. Eligibility for payment will begin during the initial monitoring period of four (4) months. During the four month monitoring period, the
Parties agree to a trial program in which supervisors in the district, after consultation with the designated shop steward, shall determine which sections and trucks will be sent to the dump site first if they have finished the route.
The dumping-on-shift differential shall not be paid if the route is incomplete except as otherwise provided below. The “dump-on-shift” differential payment shall be paid in all cases where the employee is dispatched to dump by assigned supervision. Payment shall not be made for exigencies such as, but not limited to, longer term operational issues such as a facility being closed for an extended period of time and/or going off-line in which case the program shall be suspended in the affected location(s).
Any Sanitation Worker who has been denied the “dump-on-shift” differential pursuant to this Agreement shall have the right to appeal the denial to a review committee consisting of the First Deputy Commissioner or designee(s) and the President of Local 831, IBT, or designee(s). If the matter is still unresolved, the Union may appeal the Employer’s determination to the Tripartite Panel for a hearing to be held within forty-eight (48) to seventy-two (72) hours of the Department’s notification to the Sanitation Worker pursuant to the provisions of Article VII of the collective bargaining agreement between the City of New York and the Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association, Local 831, IBT, covering the period from November 23, 2002 to March 1,2007 (the “Collective Bargaining Agreement’).
The standards to be established Citywide and for the Boroughs under the new productivity program shall be reviewed (monitored) at regular quarterly intervals, or at the request of either Party, after the implementation of the program to determine whether or not the agreed upon targets are continuing to be met. The Parties shall promptly meet and make any necessary adjustments to ensure continuing savings are being attained.
The “dumping-on-shift” differential shall not become part of the employee’s basic salary rate nor be added to the Employee’s basic salary for the calculation of any salary-based benefits. The differential shall be adjusted by future across-the-board collective bargaining increases, if any, and it shall be subject to any premium payments. The differential shall be pensionable consistent with applicable law. Eligibility for the “dumping-on-shift” differential will begin in a District once the District begins the new program.
This agreement shall not supersede the provisions of Article Vil, Sections 1 (a), 2 (a) and 3 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
“Dumping-on-Shift” when engaged in regular collection and recycling operations.	Effective Date	Amount 01/09/06	$5.00 03/02/06	$5.16
Roll-on/Roll-off Program
The parties have mutually agreed to a new program - a “Roll-on/Roll-off’ productivity agreement using one Sanitation Worker in place of a two Sanitation Worker crew on certain “Roll-on/Roll-off’ vehicles to be determined by the Department, without any reduction in current productivity standards. Any changes will be discussed through the labormanagement committee created through the productivity programs (the “Labor-Management Committees”).
Current assigned locations shall remain the same unless changed through the Labor-Management Committees.
The Parties have mutually agreed that a new differential in the amount of $80.00 per qualifying shift will be paid in the same manner as other differentials. Current productivity standards shall be maintained.
The “Roll-on/Roll-off’ differential shall not become part of the employee’s basic salary rate nor be added to the Employee’s basic salary for the calculation of any salary-based benefits. The differential shall be adjusted by future across-the-board collective bargaining increases, if any, and shall be subject to any premium payments. The differential shall be pensionable consistent with applicable law. Eligibility for the “Roll-on/Roll-off’ differential will begin in a District once the District begins the new program.
The “Roll-on/Roll-off’ vehicles will be added to the list of permanent special assignments contained in Article VI, Section 4 (c) and treated in accordance with the provisions of such Article for all subsequent assignments to such vehicles.
The current side letter concerning “Roll-on/Roll-off’ assignments is hereby rescinded and is replaced by the terms of a new side letter (attached).
This agreement is subject to the terms of the currently effective collective bargaining agreement between the City of New York and Local 831 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters.	(
“Roll-on/Roll-off ’ collection vehicles
when engaged in one-person collection operations.
Effective Date
01/09/06
03/02/06
Amount $ 80.00 $ 82.52
Any dispute, controversy, or claim not otherwise precluded by the parties’ collective bargaining agreement and/or by prior decision or law concerning or arising out of the execution, application, interpretation or performance of any of the terms or conditions of this agreement shall be submitted to the Tripartite Panel.
If the above accords with your understanding, please execute the signature line below.
Agreed and Accepted on Behalf of Local 831, IBT
Very truly yours.
James F. Hanley
HarryWespoli
President
THE CITY OF NEW YORK Office Of Labor Relations 40 Rector Street, New York, NY 10006-1705 http://nyc.gov/olr
JAMES F. HANLEY
Commissioner
PAMELA S. SILVERBLATT
First Deputy Commissioner
Mr. Harry Nespoli
President
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
Local 831, IBT
23-25 Cliff Street
New York, New York 10038
Dear Mr. Nespoli:
A Labor-Management Pension Committee will be established to investigate pension enhancement legislation for eligible Sanitation Workers.
The Committee will analyze the actual costs and additional contribution rates required to provide this benefit without any cost to the City.
Upon mutual acceptance of the Committee’s recommendations, including plan design and costs, the parties agree to jointly support the legislation necessary to implement the benefit changes.
If the above accords with your understanding, please execute the signature line below.
Agreed and Accepted on Behalf of Local 831, IBT
Very truly yours,
James F. Hanley
THE CITY OF NEW YORK
Office Of Labor Relations
40 Rector Street, New York, NY 10006-1705
http ://nyc. gov/olr
JAMES F. HANLEY
Commissioner
PAMELA S. SILVERBLATT
First Deputy Commissioner
Mr. Harry Nespoli
President
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
Local 831, IBT
23-25 Cliff Street
New York, New York 10038
Dear Mr. Nespoli:
The parties expressly agree that any and all grievances and/or issues raised, of whatever nature, related to any claims regarding productivity generated under the previous collective bargaining agreement are hereby withdrawn and/or considered settled as of the parties’ signing of the Memorandum of Agreement effective upon execution of the collective bargaining agreement between the City of New York and the Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association, Local 831, IBT, covering the period November 23, 2002 to March 1,2007, resulting therefrom.
If the above accords with your understanding, please execute the signature line below.
Agreed and Accepted on Behalf of Local 831, IBT
President
THE CITY OF NEW YORK Office Of Labor Relations 40 Rector Street, New York, NY 10006-1705 http://nyc.gov/olr
JAMES F. HANLEY
Commissioner
PAMELA S. SILVERBLATT
First Deputy Commissioner
May 25, 2006
Harry Nespoli
President
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
25 Cliff Street
New York, NY 10007
Dear Mr. Nespoli:
This is to confirm our mutual understanding and agreement regarding the $83.00 additional welfare fund contribution that became effective on November 23, 2004. This payment is provided in Article IV, Section 1. (a) and (b) of the 2002-2007 Agreement.
For the first payment cycle beginning on or after November 23, 2004 and ending on or about November 22, 2005, 100% of the $83 increased annual contribution otherwise payable to the active welfare fund shall instead be remitted by the Department of Sanitation to the retiree welfare fund. For the payment cycle beginning on or about November 23, 2005 and for the remainder of the term of the Agreement, $73 of the $83 increased annual contribution otherwise payable to the active welfare fund shall instead be remitted to the retiree welfare fund (the remaining $10 shall be remitted to the active welfare fund). These payments shall be cost-neutral.
The USA asserts that the above-described allocation does not violate the Trust Agreements under which the active welfare fund and the retiree welfare fund are established and maintained and will take any necessary action to ensure continued compliance. The USA agrees on its own behalf, and on behalf of its members, to hold the City harmless in the event there is a lawsuit or a challenge to the use of the sum of money specified above.
The arrangement expressed in this agreement may be continued beyond the expiration date of the collective bargaining agreement subject to the mutual written agreement of the parties. It is understood and agreed that the City of New York shall not unreasonably withhold its approval to extend these terms. In the absence of such explicit written agreement to extend, the $83.00 per annum per active employee will default to the active welfare fund.
If the above conforms to your understanding, please execute the signature line below.
President
Very truly yours,
ames F. Hanley
sanitation
JOHN J. DOHERTY
Commissioner
125 Worth Street, Room 720 New York, New York 10013
Mr. Harry Nespoli
President
Local 831 IBT,
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
23-25 Cliff Street
New York, New York 10038
Dear Mr. Nespoli:
The roll on/roll off trucks will be added to the list of permanent special assignments contained Article VI, Section 4, of the collective bargaining agreement.
The following procedures are to be implemented when the new productivity program for Roll on/Roll off becomes effective:
The former Auxiliary Field Force employees currently assigned as Roll on/Roll off operators and not displaced by the reduction from two workers to one worker pursuant to this program, will be first to operate their assigned vehicles at their location, subject to Article VI, Section 4 of the currently effective collective bargaining agreement. Any available tissue openings at a location shall be filled by seniority..
The most senior available Sanitation Worker who has a Roll on/Roll off tissue in a District shall have the opportunity to bid for available Roll on/Roll off assignments in that District.
Roll on/Roll off truck assignments shall be made first by A.F.F. personnel then by seniority from among the Sanitation Workers assigned to these vehicles.
If a location with an assigned Roll on/Roll off truck has no available former A.F.F. crew member to back-fill or replace a Roll on/Roll off truck operator, then the provisions of Article VI, Section 4, would be utilized to fill the assignment.
After the foregoing has been complied with, all future permanent special assignments will be filled in accordance with the provisions of Article VI, Section 4, of the collective bargaining agreement.
Completely new members assigned will receive eight (8) days training. Five (5) at Training Division, three (3) on the job.
www.nyc.gov/sanitation
KEEP NYC CLEAN REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE & DON'T LITTER
printed on recycled paper
ROLL ON/ROLL OFF ASSIGNMENT PROTOCOL
PAGE 2.
This letter shall subject to the currently effective collective bargaining agreement between the City of New York and Local 831 IBT and constitute part of the Agreement entered into between the parties.
Very truly yours.
ohn/X Doherty
Commissioner
c:Michael A. Bimonte
First Deputy Commissioner James F. Hanley, Commissioner, Office of Labor Relations Eugene S. Egan, Director of Labor Relations
sanitation
JOHN J. DOHERTY
Commissioner
125 Worth Street, Room 720 New York, New York 10013
Mr. Harry Nespoli
President
Local 831 IBT,
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
23-25 Cliff Street
New York, New York 10038
Dear Mr. Nespoli:
This will confirm the Department of Sanitation’s intention to apply the following procedure for lunch time truck diversion:
Where the need arises to divert a collection truck and crew to another area at lunch time, seniority will prevail for the loaders. Seniority will not prevail for the operator, unless the truck is diverted out of the district. This procedure shall only apply at the specific lunch location, wherever it is that day, that the officer and crew are present.
This letter shall constitute part of the Agreement entered into between the parties for all purposes, including without limitation, the grievance procedure.
Very truly yours,
c:James F. Hanley, Commissioner, Office of Labor Relations Michael A. Bimonte, First Deputy Commissioner Eugene S. Egan, Director of Labor Relations
www.nyc.gov/sanitation
KEEP NYC CLEAN REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE * DON'T LITTER
printed on recycled paper
sanitation
JOHN J. DOHERTY
Commissioner
125 Worth Street, Room 720 New York, New York 10013
Mr. Harry Nespoli
President
Local 831 IBT,
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
23-25 Cliff Street
New York, New York 10038
Dear Mr. Nespoli:
Please be advised that Sanitation Workers will not be moved between locations to replace Sanitation Workers on the same shift who have been temporarily transferred to another location.
This letter shall constitute part of the agreement entered into between the parties for all purposes, including without limitation, the grievance procedure.
Very truly yours, ....................
JohnJ. Doherty 'J Commissioner
c:James F. Hanley, Commissioner, Office of Labor Relations Michael A. Bimonte, First Deputy Commissioner Eugene S. Egan, Director of Labor Relations
www.nyc.gov/sanitation
KEEP NYC CLEAN REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE DON'T LITTER
printed on recycled paper
sanitation
JOHN J. DOHERTY
Commissioner
125 Worth Street, Room 720 New York, New York 10013
Mr. Harry Nespoli
President
Local 831 IBT.
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
23-25 Cliff Street
New York, New York 10038
Dear Mr. Nespoli:
The Department of Sanitation expects that, except as provided below, there should be no further need for cancellation of chart days off provided that the number of volunteers does not decrease.
Further provided that fifty percent (50%) of the Sanitation Workers scheduled to be off on Mondays as a chart day will be subject to mandatory chart day cancellation.
Further provided that in the event of snow or other emergency, all chart day off cancellations will be on a mandatory basis.
This letter shall constitute part of the Agreement entered into between the parties for all purposes, including without limitation, the grievance procedure.
Very truly yours,
c:James F. Hanley, Commissioner, Office of Labor Relations Michael A. Bimonte, First Deputy Commissioner Eugene S. Egan, Director of Labor Relations
www.nyc.gov/sanitation
..	C.-”* "
KEEP NYC CLEAN REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE DON'T LITTER printed on recycled paper
sanitation
JOHN J. DOHERTY
Commissioner
125 Worth Street, Room 720 New York, New York 10013
Mr. Harry Nespoli
President
Local 831 IBT,
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
23-25 Cliff Street
New York, New York 10038
Dear Mr. Nespoli:
Please be advised that, notwithstanding the provisions of Article VI, Section 4(b)(iii), work assignments outside of location ordered after the beginning of a shift shall first be offered on a seniority basis to employees who are not presently involved in their assignments and are physically available. If a sufficient number of employees has not volunteered, inverse seniority among employees then available shall be utilized to determine such work assignments.
This letter shall constitute part of the Agreement entered into between the parties for all purposes, including without limitation, the grievance procedure.
Very truly yours,
Commissioner
c James F. Hanley, Commissioner, Office of Labor Relations Michael A. Bimonte, First Deputy Commissioner Eugene S. Egan, Director of Labor Relations
www.nyc.gov/sanitation
KEEP NYC CLEAN REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE DON'T LITTER
printed on recycled paper
sanitation
JOHN J. DOHERTY
Commissioner
125 Worth Street, Room 720 New York, New York 10013
Mr. Harry Nespoli
President
Local 831 IBT,
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
23-25 Cliff Street
New York, New York 10038
Dear Mr. Nespoli:
This will confirm our understanding that the “minimum qualifications” and “four week training and evaluation period” referred to in Article VI, Section 4(b)(ii) shall apply only to employees newly transferred to the Bureau of Waste Disposal and shall not apply to assignments in the Bureau of Cleaning and Collection or to employees presently assigned to the Bureau of Waste Disposal.
Very truly yours.
crJames F. Hanley, Commissioner, Office of Labor Relations Michael A. Bimonte, First Deputy Commissioner Eugene S. Egan, Director of Labor Relations
www.nyc.gov/sanitation
KEEP NYC CLEAN REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE DON'T LITTER
printed on recycled paper
sanitation
JOHN J. DOHERTY
Commissioner
125 Worth Street, Room 720 New York, New York 10013
Mr. Harry Nespoli
President
Local 831 I.B.T.
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association
23-25 Cliff street
New York, New York 10038
Dear Mr. Nespoli:
This letter is in response to your inquiry concerning the target for payment of the “Dump-on-Shift” differential prior to the Staten Island Transfer Station becoming operational.
Until the Staten Island Transfer Station becomes operational the target for dump on shift is 44.6%. When the Staten Island Transfer Station becomes operational the target will revert to the contractually required 45.6% for dumping on shift.
Should you have any other questions on the matter please do not hesitate in contacting me.
Very truly yours,
Commissioner
c: James F. Hanley
Commissioner, Office of Labor Relations
Michael A. Bimonte
First Deputy Commissioner
Eugene S. Egan
Director of Labor Relations
www.nyc.gov/sanitation
KEEP NYC CLEAN REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE DON’T LITTER
printed oh recycled paper
sanitation
JOHN J. DOHERTY
Commissioner
125 Worth Street, Room 720 New York, New York 10013
Mr. Harry Nespoli
President
Local 831 IBT,
Uniformed Sanitationmen’s Association 23-25 Cliff Street
New York, New York 10038
Dear Mr. Nespoli:
This letter is to confirm our understanding with respect to the Union’s position on certain issues raised during collective bargaining on October 7, 2005, between the City of New York and Local 831 IBT.
The language of Article VI, Section 2(d), which provides for an emergency list, also states that if there is no emergency list in a district the “.... regular established Sunday and Holiday list....” will be used for emergencies and subject to call in and reporting requirements of that subsection.
The issue of a requirement that Sanitation Workers call their assigned work location when an emergency occurs can be satisfied with notification by the Department, through radio and television media, with an announcement that Sanitation Workers are to contact their respective work location for such assignment as may be required. This would be sufficient notice to the employees that they are required to call in.
This letter shall be subject to the currently effective collective bargaining agreement between the City of New York and Local 831 IBT and constitute part of the Agreement entered into between the parties.
ly yours.
Dolffrty
Commissioner
c:Michael A. Bimonte, First Deputy Commissioner James F. Hanley, Commissioner, Office of Labor Relations
Eugene S. Egan,
Director of Labor Relations w-w.nyc.gov/r.niutlon
KEEP NYC CLEAN /Ws REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE DON'T LITTER
printed on recycled paper