Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection - Metadata Header
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/)
Title: New York, City of and Uniformed Fire Officers’ Association, International Association of Fire Fighters (IAFF), AFL-CIO, Local 854 (2000)
K#: 810456
Location: NY New York
Employer Name: New York, City of
Union: Uniformed Fire Officers’ Association, International Association of Fire
Fighters (IAFF), AFL-CIO
Local: 854
SIC: 9224	NAICS: 922160
Sector: L	Number of Workers: 2500
Effective Date: 07/01/00	Expiration Date: 12/31/02
Number of Pages: 61	Other Years Available: N
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
THE CITY OF NEW YORK
Office Of Labor Relations
40 Rector Street, New York, NY 10006
http://nyc.gov/html/olr
JAMES F. HANLEY
Commissioner
PAMELA S. SILVERBLATT
First Deputy Commissioner
TO:
FROM:
SUBJECT:
HEADS OF CONCERNED CITY DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES
JAMES F. HANLEY, COMMISSIONER
EXECUTED CONTRACT: FIRE OFFICERS
TERM:	JULY 1,2000 TO DECEMBER 31,2002
Attached for your information and guidance is a copy of the executed contract entered into by the Commissioner of Labor Relations on behalf of the City of New York and the United Fire Officers Association, Local 854, International Association of Firefighters, AFL-CIO on behalf of the incumbents of positions listed in Article I of said contract.
The contract incorporates terms of an agreement reached through collective bargaining negotiations and related procedures.
DATED: jp/ 21
OFFICE OF LABOR RELATIONS REGISTRATION OFFICIAL	CONTRACT
NO:	OATH:
03 00 5	W 21 2002
FIRE OFFICERS
2000 - 2002 AGREEMENT
Table of Contents
ARTICLE I	- RECOGNITION..........................................1
ARTICLE II	- UNION SECURITY.....................................  1
ARTICLE III	- WORK SCHEDULE.......................................2
ARTICLE IV	- UNION REPRESENTATION.................................6
ARTICLE V	- SALARIES............................................ 6
ARTICLE VI	- OUT-OF-TITLE SPECIAL ASSIGNMENT TOURS...............10
ARTICLE VII	- TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS...............................11
ARTICLE VIII	- NIGHT SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL..........................12
ARTICLE IX	- FAMILY PROTECTION PLAN FUND.........................13
ARTICLE X	- HEALTH AND HOSPITALIZATION BENEFITS..................14
ARTICLE XI	- ANNUITY FUND....................................... 16
ARTICLE XII	- VACATION AND LEAVE...............................  17
ARTICLE XIII	- SAFETY STANDARDS AND EQUIPMENT................... 19
ARTICLE XIV	- FACILITIES.........................................19
ARTICLE XV	- TRANSPORTATION...............................  .....19
ARTICLE XVI	- VACANCIES.......................................   20
ARTICLE XVII	- INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS.................................20
ARTICLE XVIII	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.................................23
ARTICLE XIX	- DELEGATES........................................  29
ARTICLE XX	- NO STRIKE.........................................  29
ARTICLE XXI	- IMPARTIAL CHAIR..................................  29
ARTICLE XXII	- DETAILS TO OTHER UNITS........................... 30
ARTICLE XXIII	- SPECIAL EXPENSE FUND.............................31
ARTICLE XXIV - LABOR-MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE........................32
ARTICLE XXV-A - PRODUCTIVITY ISSUES...............................33
ARTICLE XXV-B - PRODUCTIVITY ISSUES..............................34
ARTICLE XXV-C - NEW PROGRAMS.....................................35
ARTICLE XXVI	- LINE OF DUTY DEATH BENEFIT........................36
ARTICLE XXVII	- DEATH BENEFIT UNUSED LEAVE AND COMPENSATORY TIME..36
ARTICLE XXVIII	- MISCELLANEOUS....................................36
ARTICLE XXIX	- QUARTERMASTER SYSTEM..........................  ..39
ARTICLE XXX	- APPLICABLE LAWS..................................  39
ARTICLE XXXI	- SAVINGS CLAUSE................................. .39
Uniformed Fire Officers Association	Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
FIRE OFFICERS
2000 - 2002 AGREEMENT	j
/	I
AGREEMENT entered into this | J day of NO / 2002, by and between the.City of New York (hereinafter referred to as the “Employer”) and the Uniformed Fire Officers Association, Local 854, International Association of Firefighters, affiliated with the AFL-CIO, (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”), for the thirty month period from July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002.
WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, the parties hereto have entered into collective bargaining and desire to reduce the results thereof to writing;
NOW, THEREFORE, it is mutually agreed as follows:
ARTICLE I	- RECOGNITION
Section 1.
The employer recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for the unit consisting of all Lieutenants, Captains, Battalion Chiefs, Deputy Chiefs except those Deputy Chiefs designated as Deputy Assistant Chief of Department, Assistant Chief of Department and Chief in Charge (hereinafter collectively referred to as “Fire Officers (line)”, Medical Officers and Medical Officers detailed as Chief Medical Officer (hereinafter collectively referred to as “Medical Officers”) (The aforesaid Fire Officers (line) and Medical Officers are hereinafter collectively referred to as “Fire Officers”), Supervising Fire Marshals (Uniformed) and Administrative Fire Marshals (Uniformed) (with certain exceptions) employed by the Employer in the Fire Department of the City of New York.
Section 2.
The terms “employee” or “employees” as used in the Agreement shall mean only those persons employed in the titles described in Section 1 of this Article.
ARTICLE II	- UNION SECURITY
Section 1.
The Employer agrees that all employees may become and remain members of the union in good standing.
0*°
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
1
Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002

Section 2.
The employer further agrees that all new employees hired subsequent to the date of signing this Agreement may become and remain members of the Union in good standing.
Section 3.
It is further agreed that the decision to become or remain members of the Union in good standing shall remain discretionary both with the employees and with the Union subject to the provisions of Section 12-314 of the Administrative Code.
Section 4.
A.	The Union shall have the exclusive right to the checkoff and transmittal of dues in behalf of each employee in the Unit and the City shall checkoff and transmit such dues to the Union, all in accordance with the Mayor’s Executive Order #98, dated May 15, 1969, entitled “REGULATIONS REGULATING THE CHECKOFF OF UNION DUES” and in accordance with the Mayor’s Executive Order #107, dated December 29, 1986, entitled “REGULATIONS GOVERNING PROCEDURES FOR ORDERLY PAYROLL CHECKOFF OF UNION DUES.”
B.	The employee may consent in writing to the authorization of the deduction of dues from wages and to the designation of the Union as the recipient thereof. Such consent if given shall be in the proper form, acceptable to the City, which bears the signature of the employee.
Section 5.
The parties agree to an agency shop to the extent permitted by applicable law, as described in a supplemental agreement hereby incorporated by reference in this agreement.
ARTICLE III - WORK SCHEDULE
Section 1.
All the terms and conditions of Section 15-112 of the Administrative Code of the City of New York, as presently provided therein and hereby incorporated by reference.
B.
(i)	Notwithstanding the above Section 1 (A), the Fire Department shall have the right to schedule Fire Officers (line) assigned to nonfirefighting duties such as the Division of Training, the Bureau of Fire Prevention, Headquarters, and other similar units or administrative functions to duty schedules that do not conform to the Fire Officer duty schedule described in this Article III. For the purpose hereof, any member
0$
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
2
Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31,2002
.	. i
assigned to respond to an alarm and to perform firefighting duty'or supervise firefighting duties shall be deemed to be performing firefighting duties.
(ii)	Prior to an involuntary assignment, the Department shall endeavor to obtain qualified volunteers. The determination of such Fire Officer’s qualifications shall be made at the discretion of the Department, whose decision shall be final. The! involuntary assignment of a Fire Officer shall be limited to one year, but may be extended to two years in such cases where unique and extraordinary skills or functions (are required and where such assignment is of critical importance to the Fire Department.
i
(iii)	Notwithstanding the foregoing no such assignment shall be made on a punitive basis.
C. Communicative Time.
Fire Officers (line) shall report for duty 15 minutes prior to the start of their tour in order to exchange information between the on-duty officer and the relieving officer. Should an alarm occur during that 15 minute period, the relieving officer shall respond to that alarm.
In the event this provision is declared invalid under the law, the parties will reopen negotiations to resolve the issue of any increased cost which may result from such declaration. Such negotiations will be commenced forthwith. If no agreement is reached, an impasse may be declared and subsequent mediation and the impasse proceeding, if any, shall in all respects be conducted on an expedited basis.
Section 2.
Fire Officers (line) when specifically directed by the Commissioner or Chief of the Department or their respective designated representatives to perform work in excess of working hours as provided in Section 1 of this Article III shall be compensated for the same by cash payment at the rate of time and one-half based on the regular salary for Fire Officers (line) for the actual period of overtime worked, except that all Deputy Chiefs and Battalion Chiefs shall be compensated for overtime worked pursuant to this Article III or any other provision of this Agreement in compensatory time off at the rate of time and one-half when such overtime is specifically directed by the Commissioner or Chief of Department or is performed at a fire emergency without prior approval and requests for compensation therefore, after being forwarded through channels together with recommendations, are approved by the Commissioner or Chief of Department or their respective designated representatives for such purposes.
Section 3.
When Fire Officers (line) are not continued on duty but are ordered to report for emergency duty from a scheduled off-tour or a scheduled rest period, they shall be compensated for a minimum of four hours if not assigned to duty and for a minimum of six hours if assigned to duty. Such compensation shall be at the overtime rate of time and one-half, in accord with Section 2 of this Article.
Uniformed Fire Officers Association	3	Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
A
Section 4.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary provided herein, any Fire Officer (line) who is recalled to duty after having completed that employee’s regular tour of duty but before the commencement of the next regular tour and who is assigned to duty or held without assignment for a period which extends into the commencement of that employee’s next regular tour shall be compensated pursuant to the regular overtime provisions of Section 2 of this Article only for the actual time so assigned or held; and the same shall be deemed pre-shift overtime.
Section 5.
A.	The Department has adjusted the work chart applicable to Supervising Fire Marshals so as to provide for an average work week of 40.25 hours.
(i)	The Fire Department shall have the right to schedule Supervising Fire Marshals assigned to Headquarters Special Squads such as Juvenile Firesetters, Modified Red Cap, Day Squads and other similar squads or administrative functions to duty schedules that do not conform to the Supervising Fire Marshal duty schedule referred to in this Article III.
(ii)	Prior to an involuntary assignment, the Department shall endeavor to obtain qualified volunteers. The determination of such Supervising Fire Marshal’s qualifications shall be made at the discretion of the Department, whose decision shall be final. The involuntary assignment of a Supervising Fire Marshal shall be limited to one year, but may be extended to two years in such cases where unique and extraordinary skills of functions are required and where such assignment is of critical importance to the Fire Department.
(iii)	Notwithstanding the foregoing no such assignment shall be made on a punitive basis.
B.	Ordered overtime authorized by the Commissioner or the Chief Fire Marshal as the designated representative which results in a Supervising Fire Marshal’s or an Administrative Fire Marshal’s working in excess of the normal tour of duty shall be compensable in cash at time and one-half.
C.	When Supervising Fire Marshals not continued on duty are ordered to report for Court on a scheduled off-tour or a scheduled rest period, they shall be compensated for a minimum of four hours in cash at the overtime rate. The four hours of compensation shall include any travel time to which they are presently entitled. '
D.	Supervising Fire Marshals shall not be rescheduled when required to appear in court in connection with matters assigned to them.
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
4
Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
I
i i
Section 6.	!
Cash payment for overtime work as provided in Article III, Section 2, of this contract, shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of an employee’s base pay in any fiscal year. Authorized overtime work which would result in a cash payment in excess of this amount shall be compensated for in compensatory time off at the rate of time and one-half.
Section 7,
Newly promoted Fire Officers shall receive either regular compensation or, in the event Of overtime, appropriate overtime compensation for training required by the Department, including! assessment and orientation programs.
Section 8.
Overtime generated by post coverage requirements for company officers shall, to the greatest extent practicable, be equalized among employees in rank. Specifically, allocation of overtime shall be governed by PA/ID 5-75 as amended. This Order is incorporated by reference hereto and shall not be modified, except by mutual consent, during the term of this Agreement. The Department will provide the Union with the number and location of post coverage assignments on a bi-weekly basis.
Section 9.
Notwithstanding anything herein appearing to the contrary, overtime shall continue to be calculated on the basis of 2088 hours per year.
Section 10.
The New York City Fire Department shall not assign a Supervising Fire Marshal to supervise more than twelve Field Fire Marshals. For the purposes of determining span of control for Supervising Fire Marshals, a full duty Fire Marshal shall be considered to be a Field Fire Marshal at all times that he/she is working with the exception of the following:
1.	Time spent in court by off tour members,
2.	Time spent in training,
3.	Time spent at the base while doing paperwork following the conclusion of his/her tour, and
4.	Time spent at the base when assigned to the telephone for the entire tour and no light duty personnel are available.
The Fire Department shall not attempt to evade the provisions of this definition by assigning more than one Fire Marshal to a telephone at the base.
0$
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
5
Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
ARTICLE IV	- UNION REPRESENTATION
The elected officers of the Union shall be permitted to visit all fire units to which employees are assigned on the official business of the Union. The elected official shall announce that official’s presence to the officer in command and carry the function in a reasonable manner, subject to establishing labor relations and the Regulations for the Uniformed Forces.
Time spent by employee representatives to conduct labor relations with the City and on Union activities shall be governed by the terms of Executive Order No. 75, as amended, entitled “Time Spent on the Conduct of Labor Relations between the City and its Employees and on Union Activity.”
ARTICLE V	- SALARIES
Section 1.
The base annual salary rates for Fire Officers shall be as follows:
Class of Positions Or
Detail and Increment Step			
(i) Lieutenant			
	7/1/00	7/1/01	
Maximum	$66,000	$69,300	
3rd Step	$62,258	$65,371	
2nd Step	$61,384	$64,453	
1st Step	$60,504	$63,529	
(ii) Captains			
	7/1/00	7/1/01	
Maximum	$75,759	$79,547	
3rd Step	$71,252	$74,815	
2nd Step	$70,029	$73,530	
1st Step	$68,808	$72,248	
(iii) Battalion Chief			
	7/1/00	7/1/01	
Maximum	$98,645	$103,577	
3rd Step	$89,126	$93,582	
2nd Step	$83,890	$88,085	■	J
1st Step	$78,651	$82,584	
			0*
Uniformed Fire Officers Association	6	Term: July 1,2000 to December 31, 2002	
(iv) Deputy Chief	7/1/00	7/1/01
Maximum	$109,339	$114,806
3rd Step	$103,188	$108,347
2nd Step	$97,029	$101,880
Is* Step	$90,876	$95,420
(v) Medical Officer	7/1/00	7/1/01
Maximum	$85,800	$90,090
5th Step	$83,680	$87,864
4th Step	$81,552	$85,630
3rd Step	$79,428	$83,399
2nd Step	$77,301	$81,166
1st Step	$75,176	$78,935
(vi) Chief Medical Officer	7/1/00	7/1/01
Maximum	$100,534	$105,561
5th Step	$98,406	$103,326
4th Step	$96,280	$101,094
3rd Step	$94,156	$98,864
2nd Step	$92,028	$96,629
1st Step	$89,895	$94,390
(vii) Supervising Fire Marshal	7/1/00	7/1/01
Maximum	$72,177	$75,786
3rd Step	$68,166	$71,574
2nd Step	$67,293	$70,658
1st Step	$66,414	$69,735
Note: A Lieutenant promoted to Supervising Fire Marshal shall be paid at the step of the Supervising Fire Marshal schedule which the employee attained as a Lieutenant.
(viii) Administrative Fire Marshal (Uniformed)
7/1/00 $95,204	7/1/01 $99,964
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
7
Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
Section 2.
An employee shall advance one increment step annually, dating from the anniversary date of appointment.
Section 3.
A. Longevity adjustments shall be paid as follows:
(i)	Effective July 1, 2000
Class of Positions Or
Detail and Increment Step	5 Years	10 Years	15 Years	20 Years
Lieutenant	$3000	$4000	$5000	$6000
Captain	$3000	$4000	$5000	$6000
Battalion Chief	$3000	$4000	$5000	$6000
Deputy Chief	$3000	$4000	$5000	$6000
Medical Officer	$3000	$4000	$5000	$6000
Chief Medical Officer	$3000	$4000	$5000	$6000
Supervising Fire Marshal	$3000	$4000	$5000	$6000
Administrative Fire Marshal	$3000	$4000	$5000	$6000
(ii)	Effective October 1, 2002, the City will increase the longevity amounts on each step by $1,000.
Class of Positions Or
Detail and Increment Step	5 Years	10 Years	15 Years	20 Years
Lieutenant	$4,000	■ $5,000	$6,000	$7,000
Captain	$4,000	$5,000	$6,000	$7,000
Battalion Chief	$4,000	$5,000	$6,000	$7,000
Deputy Chief	$4,000	$5,000	$6,000	$7,000
Medical Chief	$4,000	$5,000	$6,000 •	$7,000
Chief Medical Officer	$4,000	$5,000	$6,000	$7,000
Supervising Fire Marshal	$4,000	$5,000	$6,000	$7,000
Administrative Fire Marshal	$4,000	$5,000	$6,000	$7,000
B.
The term “service” as used herein shall mean service in the Fire Service of the City of New York.
C.
The adjustment after the 5th and 10th years shall not be computed as salary for pension purposes until after completion of 20 years of service. The adjustment after the 15th and 20th years shall not be computed as salary for pension purposes until after completion of 25 years of service. In the event this provision is declared invalid under the law, the parties shall reopen negotiations to resolve the issue of the increased cost of changing the effective date of the pensionability of the above adjustments. Such negotiations will be commenced^ Q
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
8
Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
forthwith. If no agreement is reached, an impasse may be declared and subsequent mediation and the impasse proceeding, if any, shall in all respects be conducted on an expedited basis.
D.	Calculation of the night shift differential shall be based upon the longevity schedules in effect
prior to November 1, 1992.
' i
Section 4.
Each employee shall receive eleven paid holidays annually.	|
Section 5.
■	.	' I
A Lieutenant or Captain assigned to the superpumper system shall receive, in addition to the base annual salary provided in Section 1 of this Article, an annual differential of $600 pro-rated during the term of such assignment.
Section 6.
A Battalion Chief promoted to Deputy Chief on or after July 1,1971 from an incremental level less than the maximum for the Battalion Chief rank shall be slotted, or be deemed slotted, into that Deputy Chief incremental level which is next higher in the amount than the sum of the Battalion Chief incremental level plus the then annual increment, if any, applicable to such Battalion Chief level, provided, however, that in no event shall such promotion result in a salary in excess of the then maximum salary for the Deputy Chief Rank.
Section 7,	General Wage Increase.
A.	(i) Effective July 1, 2000, Employees shall receive a rate increase of 5%.
(ii)	Effective July 1, 2001, Employees shall receive an additional rate increase of 5%.
B.	The general increases provided for in this Section 7 shall be calculated as follows:
(i)	The rate increase in Section 7A(i) shall be based upon the base rates (which shall
.	include salary or incremental schedules) of the applicable titles in effect on June 30,
2000;and
(ii)	The rate increase in Section 7A(ii) shall be based upon the base rate (which shall include salary or incremental schedules) of the applicable titles in effect on June 30, 2001.
C.	The general increase provided in this Section 7 shall be applied to the base rates and salary grades fixed for the applicable titles.
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
9
Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 200z

Section 8.
Paychecks shall be distributed to the employee’s unit by 6 p.m., but not before 3 p.m. on the Thursday preceding payday.
Upon request, the Department will route and deliver a covering Officer’s paycheck to any designated unit within the assigned Division.
Section 9.
A.	Interest on wage increases shall accrue at the rate of three percent (3%) per annum from one hundred-twenty (120) days after the execution of the applicable agreement or one hundred-twenty (120) days after the effective date of the increase whichever is later, to the date of actual payment.
B.	Interest on shift differentials, holiday and overtime pay, shall accrue at the rate of three percent (3%) per annum from one hundred-twenty (120) days following their earning or one hundred-twenty (120) days after the execution of this Agreement, whichever is later, to the date of actual payment.
C.	Interest accrued under A. or B. above shall be payable only if the amount of interest due to an individual employee exceeds five dollars ($5.00).
ARTICLE VI - OUT-OF-TITLE SPECIAL ASSIGNMENT TOURS
Section 1.
The Fire Department will use its best efforts to maintain an adequate number of Fire Officers (line) (as the term is defined in Article I, Section 1 of this Agreement) in each rank to minimize acting out-of-title tours. The Department will fill vacancies in the above ranks by promotions within sixty days unless the Department projects that the filling of these vacancies is not necessary as the Department has minimized acting out-of-title tours and that the conditions shall continue without the filling of these vacancies.
Section 2.
The Department will attempt to eliminate or minimize acting out-of-title, while keeping special assignment officer tours to a minimum. The Department will make a monthly analysis of the number of acting out-of-title tours, and special assignment tours in the Fire Officer (line) ranks described in Section 1.
Uniformed Fire Officers Association	10	Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
I i
.	'	i
The Department will: (i) each month provide the union with data on acting out-of-title and special assignment for the preceding month; and (ii) meet every sixty (60) days with the Union to review the aforesaid data.
Section 3.
Any grievance brought pursuant to this provision shall be initiated at the third step of tlie grievance procedure.
Section 4.
Nothing contained in this Article shall amend, alter or impair any other provision in Article III or Article VII of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII - TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS
Section 1.
Whenever a Fire Officer (line) is assigned to the duties of a higher rank for more than two hours in any tour, that Officer shall be paid cash for the entire tour at the minimum rate of pay for the higher rank in which that Officer served, even though the Department may replace that officer at any time with the appropriate officer. In the case of a Battalion Chief assigned to the duties of a Deputy Chief pursuant to the preceding sentence, that Battalion Chief shall be paid at that rate of pay for the Deputy Chief rank which is next higher than the rate of pay such Battalion Chief receives in that Chiefs Battalion Chief rank. The intent is that the Department shall have two hours to obtain a Fire Officer (line) qualified in the higher rank. If, however, the Fire Officer (line) is replacing a Fire Officer (line) who is attending an authorized meeting of a certified labor organization as a delegate, such Fire Officer (line) replacement shall be paid in cash straight time at the rate of pay for the higher rank only, for the actual number of hours so served. In none of the indicated cases is a Company Officer to be replaced, if missing, by a Firefighter.
Section 2.
Post coverage is to be provided at all times for Company Officers permanently assigned on Departmental orders to a Fire Company. Any time that such a Lieutenant is absent at the outset of a tour that Lieutenant shall be replaced by another Lieutenant. Any time that such a Captain is absent at the onset of a tour that Captain shall be replaced by a Captain. Where a covering Lieutenant or Captain is not available to provide such post coverage, that post coverage shall be provided on an overtime basis to be paid in cash at time and one half. In none of the indicated cases is a Company Officer to be replaced, if missing, by a Firefighter or an acting officer.
03°° S
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
11
Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
Section 3.
No temporary assignment to Fire Officer (line) above the rank of Lieutenant shall be made out-of-title except by a Fire Officer (line) of the next lower Civil Service rank.
Section 4.
Whenever a Captain or Chief Officer is placed on leave after the start of a tour, and no special assignment officer of similar rank is available, the position shall be filled by the next lower rank and that member shall be compensated for the entire tour at the salary rate of the higher rank if assigned to the duties of the higher rank for more than two hours in any tour.
For a Captain Vacancy and no S.A. Captain is Available:
(1)	In a single house the senior Lieutenant on duty in the nearest double house within the same battalion or when not available, then from the nearest available double house, shall be detailed and designated the acting Captain of the unit wherein the original vacancy occurred.
(2)	In a double house the Lieutenant on duty in the unit housed in the same quarters shall be designated the acting Captain and detailed to the unit wherein the original vacancy occurred. That Lieutenant is to be replaced by a S.A. Lieutenant if available; and if not, the by an Acting Lieutenant selected from the quarters which provided the Acting Captain.
(3)	In a double house where both units have a Captain on duty the replacement for the vacancy of one of the Captains shall be treated as in one (1) above.
The unit providing this Acting Captain shall then be staffed by a S.A. Lieutenant if available, and if not available, then by an Acting Lieutenant selected from the quarters which provided the Acting Captain.
When vacancies of this type occur at a scene of operations implementation of these procedures may be delayed until such time as conditions stabilize allowing a smooth transition.
ARTICLE VIII	- NIGHT SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
A.	There shall be a 10% differential continued for all work actually performed by Fire Officers (line), Supervising Fire Marshals (Uniformed) and Administrative Fire Marshals between the hours of 4 p.m. and 8 a.m., provided that more than one hour is actually worked after 4 p.m. and before 8 a.m.
os'1
12	Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
B.	In lieu of the payments to Fire Officers (line) required by Article VIII, Section (a) above, the Employer shall pay all Fire Officers (line), Supervising Fire Marshals and Administrative Fire Marshals pro-rata an annual amount equal to 5.4 percent of the sum bf each such employee’s base annual salary rate plus longevity and adjustments.
C.	In lieu of the payments to Medical Officers required by Article VIII, Section A. above, the Employer shall pay to all Medical Officers pro-rata an annual amount equal to 5.4 percent of the sum of each such employee’s base annual salary rate plus longevity and adjustments.
This benefit shall be computed on the basis of the rates set forth in Article V, plus the longevity adjustment for all Fire Officers (line), Supervising Fire Marshals, Administrative Fire Marshals and Medical Officers.
ARTICLE IX	- FAMILY PROTECTION PLAN FUND
A.	Effective July 1, 2000, the City shall contribute the annual amount of $1,210 for each employee for remittance to the Uniformed Fire Officers Association Family Protection Plan, (“FPP”) pursuant to the terms of a supplemental agreement reached by the parties and approved by the Corporation Counsel.
B.	Effective December 31, 2002, the City will increase the annual contribution to the “FPP” by $200 per active and retired employee for a total of $1,410 per annum.
C.	Pursuant to its commitment, the UFOA will continue to provide benefits to employees’ domestic partners.
D.	Employees who have been separated from service subsequent to December 31, 1970, and who were covered by the Family Protection Plan of the Uniformed Fire Officers Association at the time of such separation pursuant to a supplementary agreement between the City and the UFOA shall continue to be so covered subject to the provisions hereof, on the same contributory basis as incumbent employees. Contributions shall be made only for such times as said individuals are eligible to be primary beneficiaries of the New York City Health Insurance Program and are entitled to benefits paid for by the City through such Program.
E.	Civil Legal Representation Fund
Effective July 1,2000, the City shall contribute $25 per annum for each active Employee to the Welfare Fund to establish a civil legal representation fund pursuant to the terms of a supplemental agreement between the City and Union as approved by the Corporation Counsel. While these funds shall be administered by the applicable Welfare Fund, they are to be maintained in a separate account and shall not be commingled with the other monies received by the Welfare Fund. Only the $25 provided above may be used for civil legal
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
13
Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
representation. No additional monies from the Welfare Fund may be used for civil legal representation.
F.	Such payments shall be made pro-rata by the City every twenty-eight (28) days.
ARTICLE X	- HEALTH AND HOSPITALIZATION BENEFITS
Section 1.
The City shall continue to provide a fully paid choice of health and hospitalization insurance plans for each employee, not to exceed 100% of the full cost of HIP/HMO on a category basis. There will be an annual reopening period during the term of this agreement for active employees to exercise their choice among medical plans.
Section 2.
Retirees shall have the option of changing their previous choice of Health Plans. This option shall be:	'
(a)	a one time choice; and
(b)	exercised only after one year of retirement; and
(c)	can be exercised at any time without regard to contract periods.
The effective date of change to a new plan shall be the first day of the month three months after the month in which the application has been received by the New York City Health Insurance Program.
Effective with the reopener period for Health Insurance subsequent to January 1,1981 and every two years thereafter, retirees shall have the option of changing their previous choice of health plans. This option shall be exercised in accordance with procedures established by the Employer. The Union will assume the responsibility of informing retirees of this option.
Section 3.
A.	Effective November 1, 1990 and thereafter, the City’s cost for each employee and for each retiree under 65 shall be equalized at the Community rated basic HIP/HMO plan payment rate as approved by the State Department of Insurance on a category basis of individual or family, e.g. the Blue Cross/GHI-CBP payment for family coverage shall be equal to the HIP/HMO payment for family coverage.	'
B.	If a replacement plan is offered to employees and retirees under age 65 which exceeds the cost of the HIP/HMO equalization provided in Section 3a, the City shall not bear the additional costs.
os'1
Uniformed Fire Officers Association	14	Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
I '
■	.	I
I
i
C.	The City (and other related Employers) shall continue to contribute on a City employee benefits program-wide basis the additional annual amount of $30 million to maintain the health insurance stabilization reserve fund which shall be used to continue equalization and protect the integrity of health insurance benefits.
The health insurance stabilization reserve fund shall be used: to provide a sufficient reserve; to maintain to the extent possible the current level of health insurance benefits provided under the Blue Cross/GHI-CBP plan; and, if sufficient funds are available, to fund new benefits.
The health insurance stabilization reserve fund shall be credited with the dividends or reduced by the losses attributable to the Blue Cross/GHI-CBP plan.
D.	Pursuant to paragraph 7 of MLC Health Benefits Agreement, notwithstanding the above, in each of the fiscal years 2001 and 2002, the City shall not make the annual $35 million contributions to the health insurance stabilization fund.
E.	In the event that there is a Citywide or program-wide health insurance package which exceeds the cost of the equalization and stabilization fund described above, the parties may negotiate reconfiguration of this package which in no event will provide for costs in excess of the total costs of this Agreement as set forth herein. However, it is understood that the UFO A will not be treated any better or any worse than any other Union participating in the Citywide of Program-wide Health Program with regard to increased health insurance costs.
Section 4.	Health Care Flexible Spending Account.
a.	A flexible health care spending account shall be established after July 1993 pursuant to Section 125 of the IRS Code. Those employees eligible for New York City health plan coverage as defined on page 32, section 4(B) of the 1992 New York City Health Summary Program Description shall be eligible to participate in the account. Participating employees shall contribute at least $260 per year up to a maximum of $5,000 per year. Said contribution minimum and maximum levels may be modified by the MLC Health Advisory Committee based on experience of the plan. Any unfunded balance may be deducted from final salary payments due an employee.
b.	Expenses of the account shall include but not be limited to deductibles, co-insurance, copayments, excess expenses beyond plan limits, physical exams and health related transportation costs for vision, dental, medical and prescription drug plans where the employee and dependents are covered. In no case will any of the above expenses include those non-deductible expenses defined as non-deductible in IRS Publication 502.
c.	An administrative fee of $1.00 per week for the first year shall be charged for participation
in the program. An employee’s participation in the account is irrevocable during a plan year. At the close of the plan year any excess balance in an employee’s account will not be refunded.
Uniformed Fire Officers Association	15	Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
ARTICLE XI - ANNUITY FUND
The City shall continue to contribute the following to the Annuity Fund established by the Union, for each class of positions and detail as follows:
A. Effective July 1,2000:
Class of Positions or Detail	Per Annum Amount
Deputy Chief Battalion Chief Captain Lieutenant Chief Medical Officer Medical Officer Supervising Fire Marshal Administrative Fire Marshal	$2,349.00 $1,991.43 $1,550.34 $1,432.89 $1,706.94 $1,573.83 $1,432.89 $ 783.00
B. Effective October 1, 2002:
Class ofPositions or Detail	Per Annum Amount
Deputy Chief Battalion Chief Captain Lieutenant Chief Medical Officer Medical Officer Supervising Fire Marshal Administrative Fire Marshal	$2,610.00 $2,252.43 $1,811.34 $1,693.89 $1,967.94 $1,834.83 $1,693.89 $1,044.00
C. The City shall continue to contribute for each employee, on a twenty-eight (28) day cycle basis, a pro rata daily contribution for each working day for which such employee is paid by the City which amount shall not exceed the per annum amounts in Sections A and B for each employee in full pay status in the prescribed twelve (12) month period.
Contributions hereunder shall be remitted by the City each twenty-eight (28) days to a mutually agreed upon annuity fund pursuant to the terms of a supplemental agreement to be reached by the parties subject to the approval of the Corporation Counsel.
0^*
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
16
Term: July 1,2000 to December 31, 2002
i
.	i
I
ARTICLE XII - VACATION AND LEAVE	j
I
Section 1.	!
■	.	I
Each Fire Officer (line) shall be entitled to vacation leave as prescribed in the Annual Leave Allowance Program for the Fire Department as established by the Board of Estimate Resolution -6/27/57 - (CAL. NO. 580) as amended to date, and in regulations for the Uniformed Force. Annual Leave Credit shall be pro-rated each year for the Fire Officers (line) appointed after January 1.
A.	An annual leave allowance, based on service in the Department, shall be granted to Fire Officers (line) in accordance with the following:
SERVICE	ANNUAL LEAVE	MONTHLY ACCRUAL
3 years & Over	26 work days (10-9 hr. tours; 8-15 hr. tours)	2-2/12 work days
Less than 3 years	20 work days (8-9 hr. tours; 6-15 hr. tours)	1-8/12 work days
B.	Vacations shall be in accordance with an eight group chart.
Section 2.
Present practice regarding annual leave for Medical Officers, Supervising Fire Marshals, and Administrative Fire Marshals shall continue.
Section 3.
If an employee does not receive, or because of illness or the needs of the Fire Department, is unable to take all or part of the vacation in a calendar year, that employee may be entitled to carry the unused portion over into and take such unused portion during the succeeding year but not beyond.
B.
C.
An employee’s annual leave shall be changed to sick leave during a period of verified hospitalization or if that employee is seriously disabled but not hospitalized while on annual leave. The medical leave provided herein shall be administered in the same way as the medical leave program for employees who are not on leave. The Department’s decision shall be final in granting leave under this paragraph.
All Fire Officers (line) shall have the right with the approval of the commander involved to make mutual exchanges in full or in part of vacation time within a company, battalion or division, or adjoining companies, battalions, or divisions, as the case may be. Present single
os'3
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
17
Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
companies shall be paired by the Department and the foregoing procedures shall apply between the paired companies.
D. All Supervising Fire Marshals and Administrative Fire Marshals shall have the right with the approval of the Chief Fire Marshal to make mutual exchanges in full or in part of vacation time.
Section 4.
Excused time accorded to all other personnel employed by the City such as excusals for the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and the Senator Robert F. Kennedy funerals and the Moon Landing Observation Day, shall be granted equally to employees covered by this agreement. Employees not accorded the day off shall be credited with compensatory time off.
Section 5.
Compensatory days shall be subject to the exigencies of the Department. Where an employee is entitled to receive a compensatory day and is denied the request of that employee’s choice of a compensatory day, that employee shall have the right, in accordance with existing procedures, to take such compensatory time subsequently, or, subject to the discretion of the Department, receive cash, at straight time, for the applicable period in which event payment shall be made as soon as possible. This provision is not applicable to Battalion Chiefs and Deputy Chiefs. The above provision shall not diminish or impair the rights of Battalion Chiefs and Deputy Chiefs to receive compensatory days under existing procedures.
Section 6.
Any employee who is on light duty as a result of a line of duty illness or injury and who has not yet taken a vacation shall not be required to take the vacation while that employee is continued on light duty.
Rescheduling of any such vacation shall be subject to the exigencies of the Department.
Section 7.
Before commencing duty with a new group, a Fire Officer (line) who has completed working two 9-hour or two 15-hour tours and who is entitled to a 48-hour or a 72-hour leave shall be permitted to complete the full 48-hour or 72-hour leave.

Uniformed Fire Officers Association
18
Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
■ !
'	■	I
Section 8.	!
Any employee applying for either ordinary or line-of-duty disability retirement, shall begin to receive all of that employee’s accrued time, including accrued vacation, compensatory time, terminal leave and any other accrued leave, as of the date that employee submits a disability retirement application.
ARTICLE XIII - SAFETY STANDARDS AND EQUIPMENT
Section 1.
The Department shall establish minimum safety standards for vehicles, consistent with the standards of the State Motor Vehicle Bureau for comparable vehicles, and shall have annual inspections to insure the maintenance of these standards.
Section 2.
The Fire Department shall institute a ten year replacement policy for all first line (regularly assigned) firefighting vehicles. The Department shall operate all first line engine, ladder, squad and rescue companies with vehicles less than eleven (11) years of age.
If such vehicle is unavailable, this Section shall not affect the Fire Officer’s (line) duty to respond to fires on available equipment.
ARTICLE XIV	- FACILITIES
All quarters shall have adequate heating, hot water, sanitary and sanitation facilities.
Notice of any claimed violation shall be given to the Department. If the Department does not correct the claimed violation within a reasonable time the Union may file a grievance at Step III of the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE XV	- TRANSPORTATION
The Department recognizes its responsibility to provide transportation to and from fires and in emergencies. When transportation is not made available, and an employee is authorized to use and uses that employee’s personal car, he shall be paid $1.75 for that use. Payment shall be made within a reasonable time.
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
19
Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
ARTICLE XVI	- VACANCIES
Section 1.
In filling vacancies, the Department recognizes the importance of seniority (measured by time in the Rank) provided the senior applicant has the ability and qualifications to perform the work involved. However, the Department’s decision is final.
Section 2.
The Department shall periodically list vacancies in Department Orders.
ARTICLE XVII - INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS
It is the policy of the Employer to secure for all employees their rights and privileges as citizens in a democratic society, consistent with their duties and obligations as employees of the Fire Department and the City of New York. To further the administration of this policy, the following guidelines are established:
Section 1.
Interrogations, interviews, trials, and hearings conducted by duly authorized representatives of the Employer shall be conducted during reasonable hours, preferably when an employee is on duty. If an interrogation, interview, or hearing takes place when an employee is not on duty, that employee shall be compensated by cash payment for the time spent, including two hours of travel time, at the rate of time and one-half. If a trial takes place when an employee who is a witness is not on duty, that employee shall be compensated by cash payment for the time spent including two hours of travel time, at the rate of time and one-half. If a trial takes place when an employee who is an accused is not on duty, that employee shall be compensated by cash payment for the time spent, including two hours of travel time, at the rate of straight time, unless the trial was postponed by the accused for that employee’s convenience or for the convenience of counsel and/or the union representative, in which case the accused shall receive no compensation.
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
20
Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
Section 2.
At the time an employee is notified to appear for interrogation, interview, trial or hearing the Employer shall advise the employee either in writing, when practicable, or orally to be later confirmed in writing of (1) the specific subject matter of such interrogation, interview, trial or hearing; and (2) whether that employee is a suspect or non-suspect. If notified orally, the employee shall be given a written notice before the interrogation, interview, trial or hearing. If an interrogation or interview may lead to disciplinary action, the employee may be accompanied by counsel and/or
a union representative at such interrogation or interview.
Section 3.
Notice of trial shall be in writing at least ten (10) days in advance of such trial, unless the employee waives such notice or unless that employee applies or has applied for a service retirement.
Section 4.
The employee who is the subject of interrogation, interview, trial or hearing shall be advised of the name, rank, and unit of the officer in charge of the interrogation, interview, trial or hearing and the name, rank and unit or other identification of all persons present connected with the interrogation, interview or hearing. The questioning of employees shall be of reasonable duration and the employee shall be allowed time for personal needs, meals and necessary telephone calls. Offensive or profane language shall not be used, nor shall the employee be threatened for failure to answer questions or promised anything if that employee does answer questions.
Section 5.
When an employee is a suspect in a departmental investigation or trial, the officer in charge of the investigation or trial shall give the employee the following warning before that employee is questioned:
I wish to advise you that you have all the rights and privileges guaranteed by the law of the State of New York and the Constitutions of this State and of the United States, including the right not to be compelled to incriminate yourself. You have the right to have an attorney present if you wish. I wish further to advise you that if you refuse to answer any questions relating to the performance of your duties, you will be subject to dismissal from your employment with the City. However, if you do answer questions, neither your answers nor any information or evidence which is gained by reason of such answers can be used against you in any criminal proceeding. You are advised, however, that if you knowingly make any false answers or deceptive statements, you may be subject to criminal prosecution and disciplinary action by reason thereof.
Such employee shall also be advised of the right to union representation. When the interrogating officer is advised by the employee that employee desires the aid of counsel and/or a union,
Uniformed Fire Officers Association	21	Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
representative, the interrogation shall be suspended and the employee shall be granted a reasonable time to obtain counsel and/or a union representative, which time shall be at least two working days.
If it appears that the investigation may result in a disciplinary proceeding based on the Employee’s answer to questions or on the refusal to answer, a stenographic or electronic record of the questioning of the employee shall be made unless the exigencies of the situation prevent such recording.
In the event that an employee is subject to charges by the Department, any such record shall be made available to the employee or the representative. The cost of the recording shall be shared equally by the parties.
Section 6.
A.	An employee shall not be questioned by the Employer on personal behavior while off duty and out of uniform except that the Employer shall continue to have the right to question an employee about personal behavior while off duty and out of uniform in the following areas:
i.	matters pertaining to official department routine or business;
ii.	extra departmental employment;
iii.	conflict of interest;
iv.	injuries or illnesses;
v.	residency;
vi.	performance as volunteer firefighter;
vii.	loss or improper use of department property.
B.	If an employee alleges a breach of subdivision (a) of this Section 6., that employee has the
right to a hearing and determination by the Impartial Chair within 24 hours following the claimed breach. To exercise this right, the employee must request such arbitration at the time when an official of the Employer asks questions in an area which is disputed under subdivision (a) of this section. If the employee requests such arbitration, that employee shall not be required to answer such questions until the arbitrator makes the award.
Section 7.
All employees are reminded that failure to answer relevant questions may result in disciplinary action including dismissal from the Department.
Uniformed Fire Officers Association	22	Term: July 1,2000 to December 31, 2002
i
. !
Section 8.	।
i
In the course of an investigation or interrogation, an employee who is not a suspect is required to cooperate in the investigation of a complaint. Statements the employee has made ill the course thereof may not be used against that employee in a subsequent proceeding in which that employee becomes a suspect.
Section 9.
If an employee is found not guilty in a disciplinary hearing, the record of the proceedings shall not become part of that employee’s personal record. An employee who is found not guilty shall have the right to examine the personal record in the presence of an official of the Department after written request to the Department to ascertain compliance.
Section 10.
If the Employer fails to comply with the provisions of this Article, any questions put to the employee shall be deemed withdrawn and the refusal to answer any such questions shall not be prejudicial to the employee. Withdrawal as herein described shall not preclude the Department from proceeding anew in the manner prescribed herein.
Section 11.
The employee shall have the right, at that employee’s own expense, to have a personal physician consult with the Departmental Medical Board after the examination and interview of the employee, but before the Departmental Board completes its record and makes its recommendation. Present practice regarding filing of medical statements and documents shall continue.
Section 12.
If an employee is subpoenaed to testify before a governmental body up to a maximum of two employees “per day” in a proceeding, the employee shall be compensated by cash payment for the time spent testifying, plus two hours travel time, provided that no compensation shall be paid unless the employee notifies the Department that that employee has received a subpoena within 72 hours after receipt of it; or as soon as that employee has received it if the return date is within 72 hours thereafter. Any amounts received by the employee as witness fees shall be deducted from compensation received by the employee from the Department pursuant to this Section.
ARTICLE XVIII - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 1.
A grievance is defined as a complaint arising out of a claimed violation, misinterpretation or
inequitable application of the provisions of this contract or
of existing policy or regulations of the
01°
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
23
Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
Fire Department affecting the terms and conditions of employment. A direct order, written or verbal, by a Superior Officer, under all circumstances, must be carried out and objections raised at a later date through the formal grievance procedure. The Union has designated the appropriate delegate, as defined in Article XX of this Agreement, as a member’s representative at Step No. I of these procedures. Such Battalion or special Union delegate shall be hereinafter referred to as the delegate. In the event that any employee shall present a grievance, such grievance shall be handled in the following manner:
STEP NO. I
A-l. An aggrieved member initiates the grievance procedure by explaining a problem verbally to that member’s immediate supervisor.1 The immediate supervisor in grievance procedures, for the purpose of verbal presentation, is defined as -
(a)	For Lieutenants - The Captain or other Commanding Officer of the unit involved.
(b)	For Captains - The Battalion Chief who is responsible for the day-to-day supervision.
(c)	For Battalion Chiefs - The Deputy Chief who is responsible for day-to-day
supervision.
(d)	For Deputy Chiefs - The Staff Officer charged with administrative supervision over the division involved.
(e)	For Supervising Fire Marshals and Administrative Fire Marshals - The Deputy Chief Fire Marshal.
(f)	For Medical Officers - The Chief Medical Officer.
(g)	It is possible that such immediate supervisor may not be in a position to alleviate the grievance depending upon its context. However, in all cases the subordinate officer shall consult with the above named immediate supervisor before engaging in any of the further delineated procedures. In addition, such immediate supervisor shall make every effort by consultation with superior officers involved to identify the grievance and remove the cause.
1 In some instances the Commanding Officer will also be the immediate supervisor, in which case the Commanding Officer will participate in the Step No. I as the immediate supervisor. If the matter is not resolved, that Officer will then act as the Commanding Officer.
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
24
Term: July 1,2000 to December 31, 2002
j I
■	I
EXAMPLE: A grievance action by a Lieutenant may arise because of an action by a Battalion Chief. This Lieutenant must consult with that Lieutenant’s Captain before engaging in other procedures outlined. A grievance! action by a Captain may arise because of an action by the Battalion Commander, who is not that Lieutenant’s day-to-day supervisor. This Captain must ^consult with the Battalion Chief who is responsible for the day-to-day supervision before engaging in other procedures outlined.
2.	If the matter is not resolved to the employee’s satisfaction, the aggrieved employee may request the delegate to discuss the matter verbally with the immediate supervisor as noted above.	|
3.	Prior to the formal presentation of the grievance or complaint to the immediate Commanding Officer, who, for the purpose of these grievance procedures, is defined as:
(a)	For Lieutenants - Battalion Commander,
(b)	For Captains - Battalion Commander,
(c)	For Battalion Chiefs - Division Commander,
(d)	For Supervising Fire Marshals and Administrative Fire Marshals - The Deputy Chief Fire Marshal,
(e)	For Medical Officers - Chief Medical Officer, and
(f)	For Deputy Chief - Staff Officer charged with administrative supervision over the
involved division.
Every effort shall be made to find ways and means of identifying and removing the cause of the grievance or complaint.
4.	If the matter remains unresolved following the discussion outlined above, the grievance shall
formally be submitted in writing, on a prescribed form, to the immediate Commanding officer, as noted above. Such formal submission must, in any event, occur within 120 days following the date on which the grievance arose.
B-l.
Upon request of the aggrieved employee, the delegate shall accompany the employee at a meeting with the immediate Commanding Officer, as noted above, who shall specify date, time and place of hearing. Said Commanding Officer shall, within five (5) calendar days of receipt of appeal, notify all concerned of the date, time, place of hearing and details of .	7
grievance.
2 If the grievance relates to a nature of an order issued by a superior, Section 25.1.1 of Regulations for the Uniformed Force shall be complied with.
0^
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
25
Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
2.	The determination of the immediate Commanding Officer passing on the grievance shall be in writing, and a report shall be forwarded on the prescribed form to the Fire Commissioner, the aggrieved and the delegate within three (3) calendar days after the meeting.
3.	If the grievance is not resolved to the satisfaction of the aggrieved, the employee has the right
to proceed to the next step in the grievance procedure.
C-l. Time lost by a delegate or union representative in the adjustment of a grievance shall not be compensable.
2.	Time lost by an aggrieved member in the adjustment of a grievance shall not be compensable.
D-l. Failure to Appeal - Any grievance decision not appealed within five (5) calendar days after receipt of the Department’s answer in the previous step shall be considered as settled on the basis of such an answer and not subject to further appeal. This limitation is applicable to all steps.
STEP NO. II
A member of the Union Executive Board shall be the member’s representative at this step of the grievance procedure. The official to whom the appeal shall be made is designated as follows:
(a)	For Company Officer - The Division Commander.
(b)	For Battalion Chiefs - The Staff Officer charged with administrative responsibility for the involved division.
(c)	For Deputy Chiefs assigned or reporting to the Bureau of Fire - The Chief of Department.
(d)	For all other Deputy Chiefs - The Chief in Charge, Bureau of Personnel and Administration.
(e)	For Supervising Fire Marshals and Administrative Fire Marshals - The Chief of the Department.
(f)	For Medical Officer - The Chief in Charge, Bureau of Personnel and Administration.
A-l. An appeal from the Step I determination shall be forwarded by the aggrieved, in writing, on the prescribed form, to the Officer to whom the appeal is to be made within five (5) calendar days after the aggrieved received a copy of the determination of the immediate Commanding Officer.
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
26
Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
i
B-l. Upon request of the aggrieved employee, a member of the union Executive Board shall accompany that employee at a meeting with the Officer to whom the appeal is to be made who shall specify the date, time, place of hearing and details of grievance.
C-l. The determination of the Officer passing upon the appeal shall be in writing and a report shall be forwarded on the prescribed form to the Fire Commissioner, the aggrieved and the Representative within five (5) calendar days after the hearing.	I
2. If the grievance is not resolved at this level, the aggrieved, either individually or by the representative has the right to proceed to the next step in the grievance procedure.
STEP NO. III.
The President and members of the Executive Board may be designated as the Union representatives on the Department level; no more than four (4) members of the Executive Board are to attend a meeting.
A-l. An appeal from the Step II determination must be forwarded in writing by the aggrieved, on the prescribed form, to the Fire Commissioner within five (5) calendar days after the aggrieved receives a copy of the determination.
B-l. The Commissioner, the Chief of Department, the Chief in Charge - Bureau of Personnel and Administration, and/or their designees, the aggrieved and/or the representatives shall work for a satisfactory resolution of the grievance or complaint through conference, negotiation, and agreement. Such conference shall be held within ten (10) days of the receipt of the appeal. The Commissioner shall within five (5) days after such conference serve the determination, in writing, upon the aggrieved employee and the representative.
STEP NO. IV.
If, after completion of all of the steps provided for above, the grievance has not been resolved, the Union solely shall have the right to bring such grievance to the Impartial Chair for arbitration in accordance with the applicable provisions of the New York City Collective Bargaining Law and Consolidated Rules promulgated by the Office of Collective Bargaining with respect to arbitration. Notice of the Union’s intent to proceed to arbitration shall be served on the Commissioner of Labor Relations within ten (10) days of receipt by the Union and the employee of the decision of the Commissioner or the designated representative. In addition, the Employer shall have the right to bring directly to arbitration any dispute between the parties concerning any matter defined as a “grievance” herein. The Employer shall commence such arbitration by submitting a written request therefore to the Impartial Chair, with a copy to the Union, and the matter shall proceed in accordance with the Consolidated Rules of the Office of Collective Bargaining. The Impartial Chair shall hold a hearing within ten (10) days after the Chair receives a request for arbitration at a time and place convenient to the parties, and the Chair shall issue an award within ten (10) days after the completion of the hearing.
0
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
27.
Term: July 1,2000 to December 31, 2002
Section 2.
The time limits contained in this Article may be modified by mutual agreement. Any grievance decision not appealed within the time limits prescribed in this Agreement after receipt of the determination of the appropriate department official shall be considered settled on the basis of such determination and shall not be subject to further appeal.
In the event that the Department fails to comply with the time limits prescribed herein, the grievance automatically shall be advanced to the next step.
Section 3.
It is understood and agreed by and between the parties that there are certain grievable disputes which are of a department level or of such scope as to make adjustments at Step I and Step II of the grievance procedure impracticable, and, therefore, such grievance shall be instituted at Step III of the grievance procedure. The Union may petition the Impartial Chair for leave to file a grievance involving potential irreparable harm concerning safety and health directly at Step IV. The Impartial Chair shall have the power to permit such grievance at Step IV for good cause shown or direct said grievance to be instituted at Step III. If the Impartial Chair determines that the grievance may be properly filed directly at Step IV, the City retains its right to assert all defenses which may be properly raised at Step IV.
Section 4.
When possible, every effort shall be made to hold grievance hearings when a union representative involved is on duty.
Section 5.
Individual Borough Commands shall not establish policy and/or programs at variance with this Agreement. A copy of every Borough policy directive shall be sent to the Union when issued.
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
28
Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
'	I
ARTICLE XIX	- DELEGATES
The union shall designate a Delegate for each Battalion or following units:
Office of the Chief of Department	!
Division of Fire Prevention
Division of Training	)
Division of Safety	j
Marine Division	I
Division of Repairs and Transportation	|
Community Relations Bureau
Medical Division and Medical Office Fire Emergency Division Bureau of Fire Investigation (2 Delegates)
Each delegate shall perform the regular duties as an employee and shall be considered a representative of the Union.
ARTICLE XX	- NO STRIKE
The Union and the Employees shall not induce or engage in any strikes, slowdowns, work stoppages or mass absenteeism nor shall the Union induce any mass resignations during the term of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXI	- IMPARTIAL CHAIR
As soon as practicable after the execution of this Agreement, the parties hereto will designate an Impartial Chair to act during the term of this Agreement. The Impartial Chair shall serve as arbitrator in all instances where arbitration is called for under the terms and conditions of this Agreement, and, further, he shall be available to serve as mediator in all disputes arising under this agreement or between the Union and the Employer.
Should the Impartial Chair resign, refuse to act or be incapable of acting or should the office become vacant for any reason, the parties shall immediately designate another person to act as such Impartial Chair. If the parties cannot agree on the successor Impartial Chair, then arbitrations under the grievance procedures of this Agreement shall be held pursuant to the Consolidated Rules of the Office of Collective Bargaining.
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
29	Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
ARTICLE XXII	- DETAILS TO OTHER UNITS
Section 1.
A.	In the event that a Company Officer is detailed to a unit other than the unit to which that Officer is permanently assigned, if that Officer is required to report at the other unit at the start of a respective tour (e.g., 0900, 1800, etc.), that Officer shall receive compensation for travel to the unit to which that Officer is detailed at the rate of time and one-half for 45 minutes of travel time if the detailed unit is within the same borough as that Officer’s permanent unit or 1-1/4 hours if the detailed unit is in a different borough than that of the permanent unit.
B.	In the event that a Company Officer is detailed to a unit other than the unit to which that Officer is permanently assigned and that Officer cannot return to the permanent unit within a regular tour of duty (e.g., by 1800, 0900, etc.), that Officer shall receive compensation for travel to the permanent unit at the same rates as stated in paragraph A. hereof.
C.	In any event, if the Department transports such detailed Company Officer, then that Officer shall receive compensation at time and one-half only for the actual travel time outside of the regular tour of duty.
Section 2.
In the event that a Company Officer is detailed for more than a single tour and is entitled to receive compensation for travel time, the Company Officer so detailed shall receive compensation for travel time in the manner prescribed in Section 1 of this Article only for the beginning of the first and the end of the last day of such detail.
Section 3.
A Company Officer shall not be eligible for compensation for travel time as provided in this Article if:
a.	The	detail is for training assignment of any type or to any training location,
b.	The	Company Officer is detailed while on light duty status,
c.	The	Company Officer who is detailed is assigned to the limited service squad,
d.	The	Company Officer is detailed from a staffing pool,
e.	The	Company Officer who is detailed earns overtime on the detail,
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
30
Term: July 1,2000 to December 31, 2002
i
i I
f.	The Company Officer is detailed to a company in the same quarters as that Officer’s own or in adjacent quarters,	I
g.	The Company Officer is a covering officer.
Section 4.
When computing overtime compensation for travel time as required by this Article, the rate excluding all premiums shall be used.
basic hourly
Section 5.
When a covering officer is to be given a one-tour assignment outside the assigned division and there are multiple vacancies, best efforts will be made by the Department to assign that Officer to a division as close as possible to that Officer’s residence.
ARTICLE XXIII - SPECIAL EXPENSE FUND
Section 1.
The Special Expense Fund for Firehouses will be continued in the amount of $100 per unit per year. A Unit for these purposes is defined as a Fire Company, a Rescue Company, a Squad Company, a Marine Company, a Fire Battalion, a Fire Division, a Fire Prevention District Office, and a Super Pumper Company. The purpose of establishing such Special Expense Fund is to enable certain purchases to be made with the least possible loss of time. These purchases shall entail a minor expense and shall be of an emergent nature (that is, cannot practicably be handled by normal requisition procedures).
Section 2.
The maximum expenditure per purchase shall be $25. Expenditures in amounts not exceeding $25 shall be authorized by the Unit Commander. All expenditures shall be subject to the procedures as set forth in PA/ID 2-70, effective January 26, 1970.
Section 3.
Subject to the Comptroller’s approval, units shall only be required to submit annual Special Expense Fund reports, provided that such report is submitted by May 15.
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
31
Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
Section 4.
The Fire Department shall establish a pilot program involving no more than 3 companies, wherein the Special Expense Funds of such companies shall be increased so as to allow for the purchase of necessary supplies and materials for the company quarters from such Funds. The Department shall monitor and evaluate such program and keep the Union advised.
ARTICLE XXIV - LABOR-MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
Section 1.
The Employer and the Union recognize that cooperation between labor and management is indispensable to the accomplishment of sound and harmonious labor relations and agree to jointly maintain and support a Labor-Management Committee (“Committee”).
Section 2.
The Committee shall consider and may recommend to the Fire Commissioner changes in the working conditions of the employees, including, but not limited to, health and safety issues. Matters subject to the Grievance Procedure contained in this agreement shall be appropriate items for consideration by the Committee, but submission of a matter to the Committee shall not affect the right to grieve the matter.
Section 3.
The Committee shall consist of six members. The Fire Commissioner and the President of the Union shall each select three members, and may designate an alternate for each member authorized to act in the absence of a member. Members shall serve for the term of this Agreement, provided, however that the appointing party may remove members that party has appointed at any time. Vacancies shall be filled by the appointing party.
Section 4.
The Committee shall select a Chair from among its members at each meeting. The chair of the Committee shall alternate between the members designated by the Fire Commissioner and the members designated by the President of the Union. A quorum shall consist of a majority of the total membership of the Committee. The Committee shall meet at the call of either the Union members or the City members at times mutually agreeable to both parties. A written agenda of the matters to be discussed shall be provided by the party calling the meeting at least one week in advance of the meeting, and the other party shall provide any additions to the agenda at least one day in advance.
Uniformed Fire Officers Association	32	Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
shall be kept of each meeting with responsibility for keeping minutes altematini
between the members designated by each of the parties. Copies of minutes shall be typed and promptly distributed to all members of the Committee. The Committee shall make its recommendations to the Fire Commissioner in writing.	!
ARTICLE XXV-A - PRODUCTIVITY ISSUES
Section 1.
The Union recognizes that the provisions of this Article XXV-A are matters concerning which the City has the right to act unilaterally. Notwithstanding the above, the parties agree to tire following sections:
Section 2.	Flexible Response.
The Union recognizes the unilateral right of the City to determine the type and level of response, City-wide.
Section 3.	Weighted Response Index (“W.R.I.”)
A.	The impact of the W.R.I. decision is suspended until July 1, 1973.
B.	Between December 31, 1972 and July 1,1973, the Impartial Chair shall study data presented by the parties in order to determine:
(1)	What the data shows with respect to the W.R.I.
(2)	Whether the Impartial Chair wants to make changes in the cut-off numbers in the
W.R.I.
C.	If after July 1,1973 there is an application of the W.R.I. as it is now or may be changed by the Impartial Chair, the 52-week period of measurement referred to in the decision shall be July 1, 1972 to July 1, 1973, or such later period as the Impartial Chair may provide.
D.	After July 1, 1972, the City may make unilateral changes and install programs unilaterally subject to the following:
(1)	Submission of the intended program to the Office of Labor Relations.
(2)	No less than 2 weeks notice of the change is to be given to the Union.
(3)	Within the two weeks the Union is to be given an opportunity to discuss the changes
with the City.
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
33
Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
(4)	If no agreement is reached as a result of such discussion, the City may install the program; and the Union reserves all rights it has to oppose the same.
Section 4.
Runs and workers shall be credited to the relocated working company.
ARTICLE XXV-B - PRODUCTIVITY ISSUES
Section 1.	Attack Units
A. The Union recognizes the right of the Fire Department to establish Attack Units as follows:
1.	In those quarters which at the time of the installation of an Attack Unit house a Tower Ladder and Rapid Water Pumper, the companies in those quarters may be merged (into 1 company) and their designation changed to Attack Unit Company. Each such company so designated and merged as an Attack Unit shall be commanded by a Company Officer of the rank of Captain at all times and on all tours. If the Tower Ladder or Rapid Water Pumper of an Attack Unit is out of service, it will be replaced by a like piece of equipment from available spares of a non-Attack Unit Company as quickly as possible.
2.	Attack Units shall be installed only in quarters currently in Type 7 Hazard	Region,
as that Region is now designated by the Fire Department, and in City Island,	and will
be relocated or interchanged only with other Attack Unit Companies.
3.	The Department may install a maximum of ten (10) Attack Units.
4.	At the time an Attack Unit is installed there will be an increase in quota in the
number of Captains so that there will be a sufficient number to staff such unit and a reduction in the quota of the number of Lieutenants. This provision does not limit quota increases and/or decreases which may result due to other factors or Department policies.
5.	Each Attack Unit shall be assigned clerical help in the rank of Firefighter during the daytime tours, except Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays. Duties to be performed by such Firefighter shall be determined by the Company Commander.
6.	The Attack Unit program shall not be used as a factor in the reduction of response. However, the union recognizes the rights of management to reduce response and to change alarm assignments for other reasons. This shall not change the nature of an Attack Unit as a two-piece response.
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
34
Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
1
7.
8.
The Department shall establish a training program for Officers who are tp be assigned to the Attack Units and shall familiarize the Uniformed Fire Officer^ Association with such training program. Any Company Officer permanently assigned to the Attack Units shall receive training in such training program prior to that Officer’s assignment. Every reasonable effort shall be made to provide prior similar training to Company Officers who will be temporarily assigned to such AttackiUnits.
The Department shall provide the Uniformed Fire Officers’ Association with fourteen (14) days notice prior to the installation of any Attack Unit. Any Company Officer who by virtue of the establishment of an Attack Unit is to be reassigned to another company shall be given a reasonable priority consideration in choice of assignment. However, the Department’s decision shall be final.
Section 2.
Firefighters in an Attack Unit shall not be required to perform duties of a supervisory nature on a regular and recurring basis as a result of establishment of an Attack Unit. If it is found by an arbitrator that a particular duty performed by a Firefighter in an Attack Unit is supervisory the arbitrator may order the cessation of the particular duty found to be supervisory and the arbitrator’s award shall be limited solely to the ordering of such cessation. It is recognized that fire scene supervision is continued by means of a handie-talkie or similar communication by an officer during excursions (such as, without limitation, examining a floor above a fire, examining the front of a building, or attending to other matters that require that officer’s presence) from the fire floor, hose line locations, apparatus locations or other fire scene operational areas. Duties performed by a Firefighter not in the presence of an officer but pursuant to handie-talkie or similar communication with an officer, including (without limitation) relaying of orders received from an officer, do not constitute supervisory work. Officer supervision via a handie-talkie or similar communication is considered to be direct supervision and control of any such operation.
ARTICLE XXV-C - NEW PROGRAMS
The Commissioner may elect to submit a proposed program under the provisions of either Article XXV-A, provided however, that having elected which procedure to follow, the Commissioner may not thereafter resubmit the same program under the alternative procedure. In the event it is determined by the appropriate forum that the Commissioner did not have the right to proceed under the Article elected, the Commissioner may then seek to proceed under the alternative procedure.
Notwithstanding the above, the Union agrees that the Commissioner’s right to implement new programs under Article XXVI-A has in no way been diminished by the inclusion into this agreement of Article XXVI-C.
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
35
Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31,2002
ARTICLE XXVI - LINE OF DUTY DEATH BENEFIT
Section 1.
In the event that a Fire Officer (line) or Medical Officer dies because of an injury incurred through no fault of that Officer’s own while actually responding to, working at or returning from an alarm, or, in the case of a Supervising Fire Marshal or Administrative Fire Marshal, because of an injury directly resulting from a hazard unique to Fire Marshal duty through no fault of that Marshal’s own, a payment of $25,000 will be made from funds other than those of the Retirement System, in addition to any other payment which may be made as a result of such death. Such payment shall be made to the beneficiary designated under the Retirement System or, if no beneficiary is so designated, to the estate of the deceased.
Section 2.
Semi-private hospital accommodations shall be provided for employees injured in the line of duty.
ARTICLE XXVII - DEATH BENEFIT UNUSED LEAVE AND COMPENSATORY TIME
If an employee dies while employed by the City, that employee’s estate shall receive payment in cash for the following as a death benefit:
A.	All unused accrued annual leave up to a maximum of 54 days’ credit;
B.	All unused accrued compensatory time earned subsequent to March 15, 1968 which is verifiable by official Department records up to a maximum of two hundred (200) hours.
ARTICLE XXVIII - MISCELLANEOUS
Section 1.
The City shall continue to maintain in effect for each Fire Officer (line) rank the Limited Service Status quota in effect on September 26, 1975.
Section 2.
Company relocations as provided for on assignment cards will be reviewed after the program is operational. It is intended to relieve the busiest companies from the added burden of routine relocations.
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
36
Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
i
Section 3.
Damaged tools and equipment will be repaired and/or replaced promptly.
Section 4.
Photocopy machines will be provided for each Division.	I
Section 5»
The Fire Department will supply the Union on a regular basis, data necessary to determine compliance with the workload standards referred to in this Agreement.	'
Section 6.
To the maximum extent practicable and consistent with City policy, parking spaces up to a maximum of one space per unit, will be made available for the cars of employees adjacent to, part of, or as close as possible to firehouses, and such spaces will be marked appropriately. The Department will issue appropriate parking permits for the designated areas. The UFOA shall notify the Department, the Transportation Administration, and the Office of Labor Relations of any requests for parking spaces. The City shall have 10 days to respond to such requests. If the response is a denial, it shall be specific as to the reasons. If the UFOA disagrees with any such denial, it shall inform the Office of Labor Relations as to the specific reasons for its disagreement, and may refer the matter to the Impartial Chair for advisory arbitration.
Section 7.
In order to improve the efficiency, productivity, health and morale of officers, existing practices regarding meal periods shall be modified as follows:
Each unit shall be scheduled to receive one half-hour meal period in each tour as described in AUC. Response to fires and other emergencies by a unit during its rest period shall be governed by the provisions of that circular.
Section 8.
The Department shall provide each member with a laminated identification card, including a photograph of each member. In the event the card is lost, the replacement cost shall be bome by the employee. Possession of the identification card shall be voluntary.
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
37
Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31,2002
Section 9.
A.	Each member shall receive a duplicate copy of any medical records made by the Department which are included in the member’s medical/personnel file at the time of the preparation of such records.
B.	The Department shall have a reasonable time to develop and implement the necessary systems and paperwork to comply with the foregoing.
Section 10.
Pursuant to regulations promulgated by the Department, the Employer shall reimburse any employee for property loss or damage sustained to the employee’s personal vehicle when such vehicle’s use is authorized to provide transportation while in the performance of the employee’s duty.
Section 11.
The City shall furnish to each unit a copy of the collective bargaining agreement within 60 days of its final approval.
Section 12.	- Performance Compensation
The City acknowledges that each of the uniformed forces performs an important service that reflects the diverse missions of the City’s uniformed agencies. In order to reward service of an outstanding, exceptional nature, each of the uniformed agencies will establish a performance compensation program to recognize and reward such service, tailored to the unique missions of the individual uniformed agency.
The parties agree that additional compensation may be paid to employees performing outstanding, exemplary, difficult and/or unique assignments. The City will notify and discuss with each affected union of its intent to pay such additional compensation and the individuals to be compensated.
The criteria for the granting of performance-based compensation shall be based upon outstanding performance in the work assigned, and/or performance of unique and difficult work.
The performance-based compensation payments provided for in this section shall be one-time, nonrecurring cash payments subject to applicable pension law. An employee can receive no more than one payment annually.
This provision shall not affect any existing productivity programs covered in any existing collective bargaining agreements. Nor shall this provision be construed to waive any obligation of the City to negotiate over future productivity programs as required by applicable law.
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
.	ARTICLE XXIX - QUARTERMASTER SYSTEM
* !
• Section 1.
Fire Officers will be included in the Fire Department Quartermaster System and receive an annual cleaning allowance of $520 per Fire Officer (line) and Supervisory and Administrative Fire Marshal
and $355 per Medical Officer.
Section 2.
■
Fire Officers, Supervisory and Administrative Fire Marshals and Medical Officers shall be afforded the same tax treatment of the cleaning allowance as currently afforded to Firefighters in the Quartermaster System.
ARTICLE XXX	- APPLICABLE LAWS
The provisions of this Agreement are subject to applicable provisions of law, including the New York State Financial Emergency Act for the City of New York, as amended.
ARTICLE XXXI	- SAVINGS CLAUSE
Should any part of this Agreement or any provision herein contained be rendered or declared invalid by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation, or by any decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidation of such part or portion of this Agreement shall not invalidate the remaining portions thereof.
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
39
Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
WHEREFORE, we have hereunto set our hands and seals this
dayof	2002

CITY OF NEW YORK
BY:
AMES F. HANLEY Commissioner
UNIFORMED FIRE OFFICERS ASSOCIATION, LOCAL 854, INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF FIREFIGHTERS, Affiliated with AFL-CIO
BY:
PETE^ORMAN
President
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
DATE SUBMITTED TO THE FINANCIAL CONTROL BOARD:
OFFICE OF LABOR RELATIONS REGISTRATION
OFFICIAL	CONTRACT
UNIT: FIRE OFFICERS
TERM:	July 1,2000 to December 31,2002
' . NO:	DiAX7>
03°° 5 NOT 2 .1
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
Term: July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
THE CITY OF NEW YORK
Office Of Labor Relations
40 Rector Street, New York, NY 10006 http://nyc.gov/html/olr
JAMES F. HANLEY
Commissioner
PAMELA S. SILVERBLATT
First Deputy Commissioner
Peter Gorman, President
Uniformed Fire Officers Association 225 Broadway
New York, NY 10007
Dear Mr. Gorman:
A medical expert designated by the UFOA and the UFA and a representative designated by the Fire Department shall meet to develop procedures to monitor Firefighters who may be exposed to hazardous materials.
Very truly yours,
JAMES F. HANLEY
AGREED AND ACCEPTED ON BEHALF OF THE UFOA
BY:
THE CITY OF NEW YORK
Office Of Labor Relations
40 Rector Street, New York, NY 10006
http://nyc.gov/html/olr
JAMES F. HANLEY
Commissioner
PAMELA S. SILVERBLATT
First Deputy Commissioner
Peter Gorman, President
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
225 Broadway
New York, NY 10007
Dear Mr. Gorman:
Effective the date of approval of the 2000-2002 UFOA Agreement, employees who have transferred from the uniformed service of the New York City Department of Correction to the Fire Department shall be treated in the same manner as if they had transferred from the uniformed service of the New York City Police Department for the purpose of calculating increments and longevity adjustments.
Very truly yours,
JAMES F. HANLEY
AGREED AND ACCEPTED ON BEHALF OF THE UFOA
BY:
THE CITY OF NEW YORK
Office Of Labor Relations
40 Rector Street, New York, NY 10006 http://nyc.gov/html/olr
JAMES F. HANLEY
Commissioner
PAMELA S. SILVERBLATT
First Deputy Commissioner
Peter Gorman, President
Uniformed Fire Officers Association 225 Broadway
New York, NY 10007
Dear Mr. Gorman:
The parties to the collective bargaining agreement between the Uniformed Fire Officers Association, Local 854, AFL-CIO (“UFOA”) and the City of New York agree as follows:
1 a. The Fire Department will not schedule AFID-AFRD and other outside activities where severe weather conditions such as extreme heat or cold and heavy rain or snow exist. The parties will resolve any problems with the application of such departmental policy in the labor-management committee and such matters will not be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure. In the event that any such problems are not resolved in the labormanagement committee, such scheduling in inclement weather shall be the same as that for Firefighters.
b.	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Fire Department will not regularly schedule AFID to be performed during more than one scheduled period per tour, on weekends, or between 6 P.M. and 9 A.M.
c.	Outside activities in the morning and afternoon shall be scheduled to permit a reasonable meal period in between.
d.	The Fire Department will undertake to review and reduce paperwork required for AFID-AFRD. The Fire Department will advise the UFOA of the process of such review and permit the UFOA to participate therein. Such process and the results thereof shall not be subject to Step IV of the Grievance Procedure.
Peter Gorman, President
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
Page 2
2. The UFOA may utilize its Civil Legal Representation Fund for the purpose of providing another form of benefit to the membership than that currently in effect, subject to the written agreement of the parties as to the nature of such benefit.
Very truly yours,
JAMES F. HANLEY
AGREED AND ACCEPTED ON BEHALF OF THE UFOA
BY:
Peter Gojpfan
THE CITY OF NEW YORK
Office Of Labor Relations
40 Rector Street, New York, NY 10006 http://nyc.gov/html/olr
JAMES F. HANLEY
Commissioner
PAMELA S. SILVERBLATT
First Deputy Commissioner
Peter Gorman, President
Uniformed Fire Officers Association 225 Broadway
New York, NY 10007
Dear Mr. Gorman:
The parties agree to the extension of the fire salvage program to all ladder companies citywide.
Very truly yours,
AGREED AND ACCEPTED ON BEHALF OF THE UFOA
BY:
Peter Gormai
THE CITY OF NEW YORK
Office Of Labor Relations
40 Rector Street, New York, NY 10006 http://nyc.gov/html/olr
JAMES F. HANLEY
Commissioner
PAMELA S. SILVERBLATT
First Deputy Commissioner
Peter Gorman, President
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
225 Broadway
New York, NY 10007
Dear Mr. Gorman:
It is the intent of the City to use its best efforts to secure private room accommodations in a hospital for employees injured in the line of duty. This Section shall not be subject to the grievance procedure.
Very truly yours,
JAMES F. HANLEY
AGREED AND ACCEPTED ON BEHALF OF THE UFOA
BY:	________
Peter Gowfian
THE CITY OF NEW YORK
Office Of Labor Relations
40 Rector Street, New York, NY 10006
http://nyc.gov/html/olr
JAMES F. HANLEY
Commissioner
PAMELA S. SILVERBLATT
First Deputy Commissioner
Peter Gorman, President
Uniformed Fire Officers Association 225 Broadway
New York, New York 10007
Dear Mr. Gorman:
The City and the UFOA recognize pursuant to Administrative Code section 12-127 the City is obligated to pay for the cost of line of duty prescription drugs for UFOA members. The parties further recognize that a significant number of UFOA members have utilized the UFOA Family Protection Plan to pay for reimbursement of these prescription drugs without cost to the City. The UFOA agrees to waive any and all claims retroactively and prospectively against the City for the reimbursement of the cost of line of duty injury prescription drugs incurred in outpatient treatment.
Very truly yours,
HANLEY
AGREED AND ACCEPTED ON BEHALF OF THE UFOA

THE CITY OF NEW YORK
Office Of Labor Relations
40 Rector Street, New York, NY 10006 http ://nyc. gov/html/olr
JAMES F. HANLEY
Commissioner
PAMELA S. SILVERBLATT
First Deputy Commissioner
Peter Gorman, President
Uniformed Fire Officers Association 225 Broadway
New York, New York 10007
Dear Mr. Gorman:
Effective January 1, 1998, the City shall grant additional release time to six UFOA Executive Board members by way of releasing them from all scheduled night tours of duty (6x9). Such additional release time shall be governed by Executive Order 75, (“EO 75”) except insofar as the UFOA has funded the ongoing costs of such additional release time for the term of this Agreement and thereafter out of the settlement costs of this collective bargaining agreement and therefore section 4(1) of EO 75 shall not apply to this additional release time.
Very truly yours,
AMES F. HANLEY
AGREED AND ACCEPTED ON BEHALF OF THE UFOA
BY:	.
Peter Gormjpr
THE CITY OF NEW YORK
Office Of Labor Relations
40 Rector Street, New York, NY 10006 http ://ny c. go v/html/olr
JAMES F. HANLEY
Commissioner
PAMELA S. SILVERBLATT
First Deputy Commissioner
Peter Gorman, President
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
225 Broadway
New York, New York 10007
Dear Mr. Gorman:
The parties agree that during negotiations for the successor agreement to this 2000 - 2002 agreement, they shall negotiate the issue of increasing the City’s contribution to the UFOA Family Protection Plan Fund as the first issue negotiated. The issues to be negotiated shall include the intent of the parties to equalize the City’s total contribution to the Fund with the contributions made by the City to other union health and welfare funds and that the UFOA shall be responsible for such increased contributions.
Very truly yours,
JAMES F. HANLEY
AGREED AND ACCEPTED ON BEHALF OF THE UFOA
BY:______--------------------'______
Peter Gorman
THE CITY OF NEW YORK
Office Of Labor Relations
40 Rector Street, New York, NY 10006 http ://nyc. gov/html/olr
JAMES F. HANLEY
Commissioner
PAMELA S. SILVERBLATT
First Deputy Commissioner
Peter Gorman, President
Uniformed Fire Officers Association
225 Broadway
New York, New York 10007
Dear Mr. Gorman:
The parties shall establish a committee including the First Deputy Commissioner of the Fire Department or his/her representative, a representative of UFOA and a representative of the Office of Labor Relations to address issues of paperwork reduction. The Committee may include others on whom the parties may agree.
Very truly yours,
JAMES F. HANLE
AGREED AND ACCEPTED ON BEHALF OF THE UFOA
BY:
Peter Gorman
!
THE CITY OF NEW YORK
Office Of Labor Relations
40 Rector Street, New York, NY 10006 http ://nyc .gov/html/olr
JAMES F. HANLEY
Commissioner
PAMELA S. SILVERBLATT
First Deputy Commissioner
Peter Gorman, President
Uniformed Fire Officers Association 225 Broadway
New York, N.Y. 10007
Dear Mr. Gorman:
The City reaffirms its commitment to the concept of parity which it defines as basic maximum salary among uniformed employees.
Very truly yours,
James F. Hanley

THE CITY OF NEW YORK
Office Of Labor Relations
40 Rector Street, New York, NY 10006 http:// nyc. gov/html/olr
JAMES F. HANLEY
Commissioner
PAMELA S. SILVERBLATT
First Deputy Commissioner
Peter Gorman, President
Uniformed Fire Officers Association 225 Broadway
New York, N.Y. 10007
Dear Mr. Gorman:
This is to confirm that the parties will jointly support legislation to allow active Tier II employees covered by this agreement to purchase Tier I benefits at their expense through payroll deductions.
This agreement is subject to the parties agreeing upon the costs of these benefit improvements. The cost of these benefit improvements and any additional health insurance costs will be borne entirely by the participating employees without any cost to the City.
A pension labor management committee will be established to agree upon the details of the proposed legislation and its attendant costs.
Very truly yours,
James F. Hanley
Agreed and Accepted on Behalf of the UFOA
BY:
Peter Goprian
UNIFORMED
FIRE DEPARTMENT, CITY OF NEW YORK
FIRE OFFICERS
LOCAL 854, INTERNATIONAL ASSN. OF FIRE FIGHTERS, AFL-CIO
ASSOCIATION
2 25 BROADWAY ☆ NEW YORK, NY 1 0 007 ☆ SUITE 401 TEL: (212) 293-9300 ☆ FAX: (212) 292-1560 ☆ EMAIL: WWW.UFOA.ORG
Commissioner James F. Hanley
Office of Labor Relations
40 Rector Street
New York, New York 10006
Dear Commissioner Hanley:
This letter will confirm our mutual understanding that as a matter of past practice Fire Officers have taken fifteen minutes before their tours to exchange information between ingoing and outgoing officers.
Very truly yourg,

AFFILIATED WITH
NEW YORK STATE AFL-CIO
NEW YORK CITY CENTRAL LABOR COUNCIL AFL-CIO • MARITIME PORT COUNCIL OF GREATER NEW YORK & VICINITY UNION LABEL & SERVICE TRADES COUNCIL OF GREATER NEW YORK & LONG ISLAND • NATIONAL SAFETY COUNCIL
<^838^515
io 4s0
2000 - 2003 Uniformed Forces Coalition Interim Agreement
WHEREAS, the undersigned parties desire and intend to enter into collective bargaining agreements, including a 2000 - 2003 Uniformed Forces Coalition Economic Agreement, and agreements successor to existing unit agreements expiring on: May 22, 2000 (USAA May 31, 2000\fUFA); June 30, 2000 (UFOA,MvUzBA);/July 31, 2000 TCOBK); September 30, 2000 (S©A); November 3 Of 2000 (SBX, LB A ADW/DWA, CCA); April 30, 2001 (CEA); and June 21, 2001 (DEA), respectively, and the unit agreement to be entered into with the Uniformed Sanitation Chiefs Association (“Predecessor Separate Unit Agreements”) to cover the employees represented by the Unions (“Employees”);
and
WHEREAS, the undersigned parties intend to enter into a 2000 — 2003 Uniformed Forces Coalition Economic Agreement to cover all cost-related matters and to incorporate the terms of this 2000 - 2003 Uniformed Forces Coalition Economic Agreement into the Successor Separate Unit Agreements; and
WHEREAS, the parties hereto, the Uniform Forces Coalition have reached agreement on the economic terms to be incorporated into a 2000 — 2003 Uniformed Forces Coalition Economic Agreement and now wish to memorialize that agreement pending completion of that 2000 — 2003 Uniformed Forces Coalition Economic Agreement;


NOW THEREFORE:
1.	Term of 2000 - 2003 Uniformed Forces Coalition Economic Agreement. The term of the 2000 - 2003 Uniformed Forces Coalition Economic Agreement shall be twenty-four (24) months with two (2) three-month extensions.
2.	General Increase. The general increases, effective as indicated, shall be:
a.	Effective on the first day of the applicable Successor Separate Unit Agreement, Employees shall receive a rate increase of 5%.
b.	Effective on the first day of the second year of the applicable Successor Separate Unit Agreement, Employees shall receive an additional rate increase of 5%.
3.	Calculation of General Increase. The increases provided for in paragraph “2,” above shall be calculated as follows:
a.	the increase in paragraph “2(a)” shall be based upon the base rates (which shall include salary or incremental schedules) of the applicable titles in effect on the last day of the applicable Predecessor Separate Unit Agreement; and
b.	the increases in paragraph “2(b)” shall be based upon the base rates (which shall include salary or incremental schedules) of the applicable titles in effect on the last day of the first year of the applicable Successor Separate Unit Agreement.	,
- 1 -
c.	The increases provided in paragraph “2” shall be applied to the base rates t	and salary grades fixed for the applicable titles, except as may be modified
■	in the separate Unit Agreement (other than basic maximum salary).
d.	The funding for 1% of the General Increase provided for in paragraph “2(b)” is generated through a contract extension.
4.	Additional Compensation Funds. Effective the first day of the twentyeighth month of the Successor Separate Unit Agreement, each bargaining unit shall have available funds of 1.5% in rate to purchase recurring benefits, mutually agreed to by the parties, other than to enhance the general wage increases set forth in Section 2. The funds available shall be based on the payroll, including spinoffs and pensions, as of the December 31, 1999 payroll.
5.	Continuation of Terms. The terms of the Predecessor Separate Unit Agreements shall be continued in full force and effect except as modified pursuant to the 2000 — 2003 Uniformed Forces Coalition Economic Agreement and Appendices and the separate Successor Unit Agreement.
6.	Performance Compensation. The City acknowledges that each of the uniformed forces performs an important service that reflects the diverse missions of the City’s uniformed agencies. In order to reward service of an outstanding, exceptional nature, each of the uniformed agencies will establish a performance compensation program to recognize and reward such service, tailored to the unique missions of the individual uniformed agency.
The parties agree that additional compensation may be paid to employees performing outstanding, exemplary, difficult and/or unique assignments. The City will notify and discuss with each affected union of its intent to pay such additional compensation and the individuals to be compensated.
The criteria for the granting of performance-based compensation shall be based upon outstanding performance in the work assigned, and/or performance of unique and difficult work.
The performance-based compensation payments provided for in this section shall be onetime, non-recurring cash payments subject to applicable pension law. An employee can receive no more than one payment annually.
This provision shall not affect any existing productivity programs covered in any existing collective bargaining agreements. Nor shall this provision be construed to waive any obligation of the City to negotiate over future productivity programs as required by applicable law.
7.	This Agreement is subject to the internal ratification procedures of each of the signatory Unions. The undersigned Union representatives and the other bargaining representatives agree to present in accordance with applicable law the terms of this Agreement to their respective membership, or other board or committee which approves collective bargaining agreements.
-2-
8.	Term of This Agreement. It is expressly understood and agreed that the r	parties intend to enter into the 2000 — 2003 Uniformed Forces Coalition Economic
*	Agreement and separate Successor Unit Agreement as soon as practicable. Payment and
terms of any payment of any increases set forth in this Agreement shall be set forth in that 2000 — 2003 Uniformed Forces Coalition Economic Agreement and there shall be no obligation to pay any amount until that Agreement is executed.
9.	Dispute Resolution. Any dispute, controversy, or claim concerning or arising out of the execution, application, interpretation or performance of any of the terms or conditions of this 2000 - 2003 Uniformed Forces Coalition Interim Agreement shall be submitted to arbitration upon written notice therefor by any of the parties to this 2000 — 2003 Uniformed Forces Coalition Interim Agreement to the party with whom such dispute or controversy exists. The matter submitted for arbitration shall be submitted to an arbitration panel consisting of Marlene Gold, George Nicolau, and Daniel Collins, or a mutually agreed to successor, pursuant to Title 61 of the Rules of the City of New York. Any award in such an arbitration proceeding shall be final and binding and shall be enforceable pursuant to Article 75 of the CPLR.
10.	Savings Clause. The failure of any Union to ratify this 2000 — 2003 Uniformed Forces Coalition Interim Agreement, the 2000 — 2003 Uniformed Forces Coalition Economic Agreement, or the successor Unit Agreement, whichever is placed for ratification, shall not impair the validity and enforceability of this 2000 — 2003 Uniformed Forces Coalition Interim Agreement with regard to any Union ratifying.
WHEREFORE, we have hereunto set our hands and seals this 26th day of July 2001.
FOR THE CORRECTION OFFICERS
FOR THE CITY OF NEW YORK
BENEVOLENT ASSOCIATION
NORMAN SEABROOK President
FOR THE UNIFORMED
FIREFIGHTERS ASSOCIATION
KEVIN E. GALLAGHER
President
-3-
FOR THE UNIFORMED FIRE OFFICERS ASSOCIATION
PE R GORM President
FOR THE UNIFORMED SANITATION CHIEFS ASSOCIATION
PETER K^LLY	U
President
FOR THE ASSISTANT DEPUTY WARDENS/ DEPUTY WARDENS ASSOCIATION
SIDNEY SCHWART
President
AUM
-5 -
FOR THE SERGEANTS BENEVOLENT ASSOCIATIO
BERNARD POUND President
FOR THE UNIFORMED
PETER SCARLATOS
President
By:
By:
-4-
By:
FOR THE SERGEANTS BENEVOLENT ASSOCIATIO
BERNARD POUND President
FOR THE UNIFORMED
SANITATIONMEN’S ASSOCIATION
PETER SCARLATOS President
By:
By:
-4-