TABLE OF CONTENTS
BALTIMORE FIRE FIGHTERS, LOCAL 734 MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
ARTICLE 1:	DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLE, POLICIES AND PURPOSE.........2
ARTICLE 2:	RECOGNITION ...........................................2
ARTICLE 3:	CHECKOFF ..............................................2
ARTICLE 4:	DISCRIMINATION.........................................3
ARTICLE 5:	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS......................................4
ARTICLE 6:	GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE ...................4
ARTICLE 7:	UNION STEWARDS AND UNION REPRESENTATION................6
ARTICLE 8:	HOURS OF WORK..........................................7
ARTICLE 9:	OVERTIME...............................................8
ARTICLE 10:	BULLETIN BOARDS.......................................9
ARTICLE 11:	HEALTH AND WELFARE...................................10
ARTICLE 12:	DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE.............................14
ARTICLE 13:	SALARIES............................................ 16
ARTICLE 14:	UNION SECURITY.......................................20
ARTICLE 15:	SAFETY AND HEALTH....................................20
ARTICLE 16:	SAVINGS CLAUSE.......................................23
ARTICLE 17:	NO STRIKE OR LOCKOUT.................................23
ARTICLE 18:	MEAL ALLOWANCE.......................................24
ARTICLE 19:	CLASSIFICATION OF EMPLOYEES..........................24
ARTICLE 20:	LONGEVITY............................................24
ARTICLE 21:	ACTING OUT-OF-TITLE..................................27
ARTICLE 22:	TRANSPORTATION.......................................27
ARTICLE 23:	SENIORITY, CALL BACK, LAYOFF AND RECALL..............28
ARTICLE 24:	FIRE FIGHTERS' BENEFICIAL AND	DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN.32
ARTICLE 25:	PROMOTIONAL SYSTEM ..................................32
ARTICLE 26:	UNIFORMS ........................................... 32
ARTICLE 27:	EMPLOYEE'S PERSONNEL AND MEDICAL FILE................33
ARTICLE 28:	DEATH LEAVE .........................................34
ARTICLE 29:	EDUCATION............................................34
Table of Contents, cont.
ARTICLE 30:	VACATION ..........................................35
ARTICLE 31:	OTHER LEAVE .......................................36
ARTICLE 32:	PENSION COMMITTEE..................................38
ARTICLE 33:	PRINTING...........................................38
ARTICLE 34:	SEVERABILITY.......................................39
ARTICLE 35:	WORK RULES ........................................39
ARTICLE 36:	TERMINATION, CHANGE OR AMENDMENT...................41
ADDENDUM A: HEALTH AND WELFARE BENEFITS ........................ 44
ADDENDUM B-1: TOTAL ANNUAL SALARY SCALES—FY01...................50
ADDENDUM B-2: TOTAL ANNUAL SALARY SCALES FY 02..................51
ADDENDUM B-3: TOTAL ANNUAL SALARY SCALES—FY03...................52
ADDENDUM C: WORK SCHEDULE.......................................53
ADDENDUM D: ARBITRATION SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT FY 1998............54
ADDENDUM E: ARBITRATION SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT FY 1999............58
ADDENDUM F: ARBITRATION SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT FY 2000............62
ADDENDUM G: APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM..............................65
ADDENDUM H: RELEASE FROM WORK..................................66
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
ii
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
FISCAL YEARS 2002-2003
* * * * *
THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF BALTIMORE and
BALTIMORE FIRE FIGHTERS, LOCAL 734 INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF FIRE FIGHTERS
AFL-CIO, CLC
This Memorandum of Understanding is entered into this First day of July, 2001 by and between the Mayor and City Council of Baltimore ("Employer") and the Baltimore Fire Fighters, Local 734, IAFF, AFL-CIO, CLC ("Union"). The terms and conditions of this document shall constitute a mandate to the Mayor of Baltimore City with respect to such matters which can be remedied administratively by him, and as a mandate to the Board of Estimates and the City Council with respect to matters which require legislative action necessary to implement the decision of the Board of Arbitration.
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
1
ARTICLE 1:	DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLE, POLICIES AND PURPOSE
It is the intent and purpose of the Union and the Employer to promote and improve the efficiency of the operations of the City of Baltimore and the Baltimore City Fire Department. In order to render the most efficient public service to the citizens of the City, the Union and Employer agree that this goal can best be achieved through an orderly, constructive and harmonious relationship between them. The parties hereto are in further accord that effective employee relations in the public service requires a clear statement of the respective rights and obligations of labor and management and for this purpose enter into this Memorandum of Understanding.
ARTICLE 2:	RECOGNITION
A.	The Employer recognizes the Union as the certified representative of all eligible employees in the Baltimore City Fire Department pursuant to the provisions of the Municipal Employee Relations Ordinance (Article 12 of the Baltimore City Code (2000)).
B.	Apprentices employed within the Fire Department shall be members of the bargaining unit of Local 734. The Apprenticeship Agreement and trust document shall prevail with regard to working conditions and all other terms and conditions of employment for Fire Department apprentices during the term of the indenture. Except to the extent modified either by the Apprenticeship Agreement and/or trust documents, or by any specific action of the governing body of the Apprenticeship program, wages, benefits and other terms and conditions of employment that appear in this Memorandum of Understanding shall apply to all Fire Department apprentices. Should any of the terms of this Memorandum of Understanding conflict with any term or condition of the Apprenticeship Agreement or trust documents, the Agreement and/or trust documents shall prevail.
C.	The Employer agrees to furnish the Union with the titles, classifications, rates of pay and job description of all employees in the unit upon request.
ARTICLE 3:	CHECKOFF
A.	The Employer agrees to deduct Union dues from the pay of any employee whom the Union is certified to represent and who authorizes such deductions in writing pursuant to the provisions of the Municipal Employee Relations Ordinance. The dues deduction, as authorized, shall be updated on a quarterly basis to reflect adjustments from promotions and otherwise in an employee's total annual salary. The Employer shall transmit all such monies withheld to the Union within 7 days of said deduction.
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
2
B.	The Employer agrees to supply the Union with a dues deduction computer printout on a quarterly basis throughout the term of this Memorandum. Said printout shall include each individual's name, address, location, annual salary and amount deducted per pay period. Said deductions and printout shall be without cost to the Union. In addition, the Employer agrees to supply the Union with employee change notices, i.e., cutoff, promotion, change of address, etc., as they occur, without cost to the Union.
C.	Such authorization shall be continued from year to year unless revoked in writing 30 days prior to the employee's anniversary date.
D.	The Employer shall deduct a service fee from the bi-weekly pay of any employee who the Union is certified to represent who is not a Union member and who has not authorized the City to deduct Union dues from his or her pay. The service fee shall be collected, without the need for a prior written authorization from the employee, pursuant to all applicable provisions of the Municipal Employees Relations Ordinance, as amended, including Article 12, Section 6-2 of the Baltimore City Code. The service fee deduction shall be updated on a quarterly basis to reflect adjustments from promotions and otherwise, in an employee’s total annual salary; and collection of the service fee shall be conditioned on compliance with Article 14, Section B of this Memorandum of Understanding. The Employer shall transmit all funds withheld to the Union within seven days of said deduction.
E.	The Union shall indemnify and save the Employer harmless of any and all claims, grievances, actions, suits or other forms of liability or damages that arise out of or by reason of any action taken by the Employer for the purpose of complying with any of the provisions of this Section, and the Union assumes full responsibility for the disposition of the funds deducted under this Section as soon as they have been remitted by the City to the Union.
ARTICLE 4:	DISCRIMINATION
A.	The provisions of this Memorandum shall be applied equally to all employees in the bargaining unit for which the Union is the certified representative without discrimination as to age, sex, marital status, race, creed, color, national origin, political affiliation, disability as defined in the Americans With Disabilities Act, or sexual orientation.
B.	The Employer and the Union agree that they shall not interfere with employees in the exercise of their rights guaranteed under the Municipal Employee Relations Ordinance.
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
3
C.	All reference to employees or members of this Agreement is intended to include both sexes, and wherever the male gender is used, it shall be construed to include male and female members as appropriate.
ARTICLE 5:	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Subject to the provisions of this Memorandum, the Employer shall have all of the rights set forth in Article VII, Sections 47, 48 (a) and (d) and 51 (b) and (c) of the Baltimore City Charter (1996 Edition) and Article 12, Section 3-2 of the Baltimore City Code (2000), which provisions are incorporated herein by reference.
ARTICLE 6:	GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
A. Subject to any limitation of existing law, any grievance, defined in the Municipal Employee Relations Ordinance at Article 12, Section 1-1(g) of the Baltimore City Code (2000) as a dispute concerning the application or interpretation of the terms of this Memorandum of Understanding or a claimed violation, misinterpretation or misapplication of the rules or regulations of the Employer affecting the terms and conditions of employment, may be settled in the following manner:
Step 1. Within 15 calendar days of the date of the grievance or knowledge by the affected employee of the occurrence giving rise to the grievance, the employee, accompanied by an authorized representative of the Union, shall orally discuss the grievance with his immediate officer. The aggrieved employee and representative shall attempt to resolve the complaint with all parties involved. In the event the grievance is not resolved at this level within 15 calendar days, the employee and his Union representative shall present the grievance in writing to the Senior Officer or House Captain. If the grievance is not resolved at this level within 15 calendar days, the Union Battalion representative shall present the grievance in writing to the Battalion Chief.
Step 2. If the grievance is not satisfactorily resolved within 15 calendar days of presentation to the Battalion Chief, the aggrieved employee shall forward the grievance in writing through a Union Vice President to the Shift Commander. Within 7 calendar days of the presentation, the Shift Commander shall hold a meeting with an appropriate Union Representative to discuss the grievance.
Step 3. If the grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved in Step 2, a written grievance may be taken to the Chief of Fire Department or his designee within 10 days following the completion of Step 2. The Chief or his designee shall meet and discuss the grievance with an appropriate Union Official within 5 days of receipt of the grievance. A written answer to the grievance shall be submitted to the employee and an appropriate Union Official
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
4
within 5 days thereafter. Any grievance concerning the specific action of the Chief of Fire Department or any grievance which affects at least 5 employees may be commenced in Step 3.
Step 4. If the grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved in Step 3, the grievance may be taken to the Office of the Labor Commissioner of the City of Baltimore by the Union President or his designee within 10 days following the completion of Step 3. Within 5 days of receipt of the grievance, the Labor Commissioner or his designee shall meet with the Union President or his designee and the aggrieved employee to discuss the grievance. The Labor Commissioner or his designee shall respond in writing to the President of the Union within 10 days thereafter.
Step 5. If the grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved in Step 4 and the Union's Executive Committee finds the grievance to have merit, a review by an impartial arbitrator may be requested within 7 days following the completion of Step 4 by filing a written notice with the Labor Commissioner or his designee.
(a)	The parties shall attempt to agree upon an arbitrator within 5 days. If such attempt fails, within 7 days after receipt of a panel of 7 names obtained from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service upon the request of either party, the parties shall alternately strike names from that panel until 1 name remains who shall be the arbitrator. The first strike made in selecting an arbitrator shall be alternated between the Union and the Employer from case to case.
(b)	The arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding.
B.
1.	Notwithstanding the grievance steps which are provided in Paragraph A, immediately above, the employee and/or the Union shall file a grievance at the step commensurate with the level at which, as alleged in the grievance, the breach alleged first occurred.
2.	Time limits under this Article may be changed by mutual agreement.
C.	If the finding or resolution of a grievance at any step of the procedure is not appealed within the prescribed time, said grievance will be considered settled on the basis of the last answer provided, and there shall be no further appeal or review. Should the Employer not respond within the prescribed time, the grievance will proceed to the next step.
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
5
D.	The cost of any arbitration proceedings under this Agreement shall be equally divided between the Employer and the Union.
E.	In computing the time limits under this Article, the date of the preceding event shall be counted. Commencing at Step 3, Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall not be counted in computing time limits. The time period for filing a grievance to contest any form of discipline shall not begin until the final administrative action has occurred within the Fire Department and the employee(s) affected have received written notice of such action.
F.	The rights of any employee who is discharged, reduced in pay or position, or suspended for more than 30 days shall be prescribed in Article 12 hereof. The employee shall also be entitled to all rights and remedies which are available to employees under Art. VII, Sec. 100 of the Baltimore City Charter (1996) and which are expressly reserved.
G.	Any employee who is disciplined, but as to whom a due process hearing is not available under Art. VII, Sec. 100 of the Baltimore City Charter (1996) shall be permitted to grieve and/or arbitrate the discipline under this Article; provided, however, that any employee who is suspended for five or more days, but less than 31 days, shall also be permitted to arbitrate a grievance pursuant to this Article. The issue presented, which may be decided by an arbitrator, shall be whether, consistent with Art. 12, Sec. 3-2(3)(i) of the Baltimore City Code (2000), the discipline issued by the Employer was for just cause, and, if not, what shall be the remedy.
H.	The Employer shall print and maintain copies of grievance forms in all units.
ARTICLE 7:	UNION STEWARDS AND UNION REPRESENTATION
A.	The Employer recognizes and shall deal with the appropriate accredited Union Steward in areas to be defined by the parties, and, where provided for in this Memorandum, the Union President and/or representative in all grievances filed under this Memorandum.
B.	A written list of the Union Stewards and alternates shall be furnished to the Employer immediately after their designation and the Union shall notify the Employer promptly of any changes of such Union Stewards.
C.	There shall be no more than 1 Union Steward and alternate in each area referred to in Section A, above.
D.	After appropriate notice to his immediate superior, a Union Representative shall be granted reasonable time off during working hours with pay where he is engaged in
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
6
processing a grievance under Article 6 of this Memorandum, except when granting such leave would adversely affect delivery of emergency services.
E.	Nothing shall abridge the right of any duly authorized representative of the Union to present the view of the Union to the citizens on issues which affect the welfare of its members, or inhibit or hamper any employee's constitutional right of free speech.
F.	The President of the Union shall be detailed to Fire Department headquarters for the duration of this Memorandum, and shall be granted reasonable leave with pay as may be required for the purpose of discharging his official duties as Union President.
G.	Officers of the Union shall not be disciplined for conduct while acting in their official capacity as officers of the Union and shall have the right to file a grievance and arbitration procedure herein for any disciplinary action taken against them for conduct while acting in their official capacity as officers of the Union.
H.	The Union shall be granted access as scheduled by the Fire Academy to address each Fire Academy class shortly before the class graduates. Sufficient time shall be given for the Union to review its contract, City employee programs, dues or service fee check-off procedures and similar matters with the class. The Union recognizes that the rights of "probationary" employees are defined in Section 1-1(2)(iii) at Article 12, Section 1-1(d) of the Baltimore City Code (2000).
ARTICLE 8:	HOURS OF WORK
A.	The regularly scheduled hours of work for employees covered by this Memorandum of Understanding shall not exceed 42 per week. The present procedure of scheduling 10-and 14-hour shifts shall be maintained.
B.
1.	The regularly scheduled work week for all fire suppression and Emergency Medical Services (EMS) personnel shall average approximately 42 hours per week, the aggregate of which shall be approximately 2190 hours annually.
2.	Each employee's day of work shall be 10 hours on day shift and 14 hours on night shift. The basic order of shift rotation shall consist of two 10-hour day shifts followed by two 14-hour night shifts, followed by 4 days off work. Employees shall be scheduled to work in accordance with Addendum C-Work Schedule, attached hereto, which is intended to represent the schedule set forth herein. The Department shall continue to observe its current
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
7
practices and procedures with regard to the start and end of shifts and shift relief.
C.	Employees shall be permitted to exchange at any one time either 1 or 2 vacation choices or turns with employees in the same firehouse. Members may, with the permission of their respective Battalion Chiefs, make exchanges within their Battalions. Members may exchange vacation choices or turns within the Department with the permission of the Battalion Chiefs of the battalions involved. Responsibility for repayment of time or compensation in lieu of repayment of time rests exclusively with the 2 employees agreeing to the exchange of tours of duty. The Fire Department will undertake neither the enforcement nor repayment of the time nor compensation not paid as a result of the said agreement between the employees affected.
If there are enough qualified personnel to fulfill the requirements of a medical unit, it will be permissible for Medical Division personnel to: (1) swap vacation days department-wide with the permission of the Battalion Chief, Medical Division; and/or (2) exchange vacation choices or turns within the respective battalion in which the medical unit is assigned.
Further, employees in the Fire Fighters bargaining unit may exchange vacation opportunities with employees in the Fire Officers bargaining unit.
D.	Employees may exchange work shifts provided no individual may work more than twenty-four consecutive hours except under emergency conditions. Employees who voluntarily swap tours of duty to work longer than their normal shift will not be eligible for meal allowance or overtime under Article 9 of this Memorandum. If the employee who voluntarily works an additional shift is held past that shift due to emergency operations, the employee shall be eligible for the provisions of Article 9. The Employer shall have the right to disapprove any swap of work dates that would invoke the provision of Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) overtime payment for public safety employees.
E.	An employee shall be excused from duty upon proper relief within the 2-hour period prior to the end of his shift, or earlier upon consent of the Company officer.
F.	Before scheduling the work hours of any unit, the Employer shall notify the Union 30 days in advance, so that the parties may have opportunity to further discuss any change prior to implementation. The Chief of Fire Department shall have scheduling authority.
G.	Employees acting as instructors at the Fire Academy shall work a 4-day, 40-hour week.
ARTICLE 9:	OVERTIME
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
8
A.	All hours worked in excess of the regularly scheduled work day or in excess of the regularly scheduled work period shall be considered overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of one and one-half (P/z) times the normal straight time rate of pay. In interpreting or applying the provisions of Article 9 of this Memorandum of Understanding, no employee shall be any less entitled to receive overtime compensation than he or she would have been under the FY 85-86 Memorandum of Understanding between the parties, before the United States Supreme Court decision in Garcia v. San Antonio Mass Transit Administration, 469 U.S. 528, 105 S. Ct. 1005, 83 L. Ed. 2d 1016 (1985) and subsequent legislative amendments to the Fair Labor Standards Act.
B.	The hourly overtime rate shall be paid after an employee has worked a minimum of 15 minutes.
C.	Employees called in to work outside their regular shift shall be paid a minimum of 4 hours overtime at the rate of one and one-half (1x/z) times their normal rate. Any employee called in or required to work prior to or after his regular shift, but annexed consecutively to one end or another thereof, shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half times (1x/z) his regular rate of pay only for the time worked, but in no event less than one (1) hour, and the aforesaid four (4) hour minimum provision shall not apply. Nothing herein shall be construed to mean compounding of overtime. The Union shall be provided the names, companies and shifts of all employees called back within 3 days of the call back.
D.	The Employer shall not vary or rearrange work schedules to avoid the payment of overtime.
E.	Compensatory time shall be granted in lieu of overtime pay at the employee's request.
F.	No employee will lose pay due to a shortening of the actual hours of work caused by the changing of clocks for the observance of Daylight Savings Time.
G.	An employee whose actual hours of work are extended due to the changing of clocks for the return of Standard Time will be eligible for overtime pay for all work performed in excess of the regular work shift.
ARTICLE 10:	BULLETIN BOARDS
The Employer agrees to provide a bulletin board at least 36” x 48” labeled with the Union's name where notices of official Union matters may be posted by the Union. All Fire Department Bulletin Boards shall be used only for official notices of Union matters and Fire Department documents. Only the Chief of the Department has the right to order the removal of any literature not in compliance with the foregoing.
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
9
ARTICLE 11:	HEALTH AND WELFARE
A.
1.	All existing health and welfare benefits shall remain in effect for the duration of this Agreement, except as modified by this Article or by Addendum A, attached hereto and incorporated by reference herein.
2.	The Employer and Employee contributions as of June 30, 2001 shall be maintained during the term of this Memorandum, except with respect to health cost increases occurring during the term of this Memorandum after December 31, 2001. In the event that and at such time as there is an increase in health costs effective as of January 1, 2002, the employer shall assume 85% of the cost increase and the employee shall assume 15% of the cost increase. All cost computations shall continue to be computed in the same fashion as before the date on which this Memorandum took effect.
B.
1.	Effective January 1, 1993, the Employer shall remit an annual payment of $650 (which shall not be treated as a part of total annual salary) to be paid bi-weekly to each employee who, with satisfactory proof of alternative Health Insurance coverage received in another plan, elects not to take any coverage under a City Health Care Plan. If, after waiving coverage under any City Health Care Plan, the employee loses coverage due to the death of a spouse or other person who is a source of coverage, divorce or loss of employment (or such other qualifying event as determined by the Employee Benefits Division), the employee may enroll in a City Health Care Plan and consequently relinquish the waiver payment. An employee must notify the City's Employee Benefits Division within 30 days after a qualifying event occurs in order to enroll in a City Health Care Plan. The Employer shall apportion the payment should an employee either enter or leave a City Health Care Plan within a calendar year.
2.	New enrollees in a City Health Care Plan shall no longer be required to pay higher employee contributions for the first 6 months after enrollment.
3.	No benefits shall be paid for pre-existing conditions, which are an injury sustained, or a sickness for which an employee or dependent is treated or advised by a physician, within 3 months prior to the Effective Date of coverage for the employee. Benefits may be extended for pre-existing conditions after the employee has been enrolled in a City Health Care Plan
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
10
for more than 6 consecutive months. Maternity and pregnancy are excluded from such pre-existing condition limitation.
4.	An employee shall be entitled to a Hospital Bill Audit Gainsharing payment of 33 1/3% of an overpayment (or other billing error resulting in an overpayment to the health care provider), up to a maximum of $500 to the employee for each incident. In order to qualify for the Gainsharing payment, the employee must: (i) identify an overpayment of more than $250 (in the aggregate) in a hospital bill that is presented to an employee or his or her dependent; and (ii) notify the City's Employee Benefits Division of the error within 30 days after receipt of an Explanation of Benefits from the Health Plan. Payment shall be due and made only if the error is verified, and the amount overpaid actually is recovered to the City's benefit.
5.	Employees may transfer between Employer-sponsored health programs during open enrollment periods without penalty or exclusion of benefits; provided, however, that an employee not presently enrolled in the Blue Cross/Blue Shield Traditional Plan may not enroll in such plan after July 1, 1992, nor may an employee who leaves the Traditional Plan return to same. Existing memberships may alter enrollment status (adding and removing eligible dependents) in accordance with Employee Benefits Division guidelines.
C.	The following benefits, in conjunction with Resolutions of the Board of Estimates adopted July 1, 1970 and March 28, 1973, relating to death, accidental death and dismemberment, shall remain in effect as follows for the duration of this Memorandum:
1.	The face amount of the death benefit shall be an amount equivalent to the deceased employee's total annual salary on the date of the employee's death plus $1,500. In the event of the death or accidental death of an employee so covered, the amount of the benefit shall be paid to such beneficiary as the employee shall have, from time to time, specifically designated, or in the event there is no named beneficiary, then the amount shall be paid to his estate. In the event of the accidental death of such employee, such designated beneficiary or his estate shall receive double the said amount in indemnity benefits. The maximum amount provided for double dismemberment shall likewise be increased to an amount equivalent to the injured employee's total annual salary on the date of the employee's injury.
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
11
2.	The additional accidental death benefit provided for in Paragraph (1) immediately above shall not apply to accidental death or dismemberment of an employee in line of duty.
3.	The benefits and coverage provided for in Paragraph (1) above shall be converted upon retirement to a $7,000 death benefit with double the same amount of indemnity benefits in the event of accidental death, payable to the designated beneficiary or his estate, as in Paragraph (1) above. The maximum amount provided for double dismemberment shall likewise be converted to $7,000, with one-half (1/2) of said sum payable for a single dismemberment.
4.	All retirees currently protected by the coverage described herein shall continue to receive same in the amount of $7,000 with double indemnity and dismemberment benefits, as provided for in Paragraph (3) above.
5.	Present retirees who are not covered under (3) or (4) above shall receive a death benefit with double the said amount in indemnity benefits in the event of accidental death, payable to the designated beneficiary, or his estate, as in Paragraph (1) above, in the amount of $7,000.
6.	The provisions of the aforesaid Resolutions of the Board of Estimates shall continue in full force and effect.
D.	The City will provide continued health care coverage at active employees rates for benefit-eligible survivors (spouses and eligible dependents) of those members who were enrolled in City health care plans and were killed in the line of duty at any time prior to or subsequent to January 1, 1995. If survivors or enrolled dependents become eligible for Medicare, they must enroll in the City retiree health care plan for coverage.
E.	The Employer shall continue to assume 50% of the retirees' Blue Cross/Blue Shield premiums.
F.	The Employer shall provide a burial benefit for line-of-duty death up to a maximum of $8,000 as an actual reimbursement for funeral expenses, including a memorial plaque.
G.	Joint Health Care Committee
1.	A joint committee, composed of 4 members named by the Employer and 4 members named by Local 734 and Local 964 jointly, shall be organized to
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
12
examine the cost, delivery and management of health care benefits that are to be provided under the terms of this Memorandum of Understanding. The joint committee shall meet on a routine basis no less frequently than once each month.
2.	Any member of the joint committee shall be entitled to request and receive data the member may find necessary to understand either the cost of any health care benefits that are to be provided under the terms of this Memorandum of Understanding, or the manner in which any of such benefits are delivered or administered. Such requests for information shall be honored within a reasonable time after they are delivered, and shall be available either on a City-wide or Unit-wide basis.
H.
1.	Effective January 1, 1992, the Employer shall adopt and thereafter administer a fringe benefit program which qualifies under Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code (1954 as amended), with the effect that the amount of each employee's contribution, if any, for health care coverage, prescription drug, dental and vision care shall be excluded from the employee's adjusted gross income.
2.	To the extent permitted by federal tax laws, the Employer also shall make available to all unit employees on a before-tax basis those insurance products for which it generally permits payroll deduction. Such privilege shall also include any new insurance products which are of general application among City employees.
I.
1.	The Union and the Employer continue to recognize, as they have in the past in this Memorandum of Understanding, that the cost of health care is a significant problem for labor and management. Indeed, they previously have added to the terms of Addendum A to the Memorandum cost-containment measures and the means to share information on health programs, costs, proposals and experiences.
2.	It is the Employer's desire to develop a City-wide point of service managed-care program to be implemented on January 1, 1995, which shall replace the Traditional and PPN plans. It also is the Employer's desire that a City-wide point of service managed-care program to replace the Traditional and PPN plans will be effective on January 1, 1995 for the Fire Fighters and Fire
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
13
Officers bargaining units, but such program shall be effective for Fire Fighters and Fire Officers only if the same City-wide point of service managed-care program also is effective and replaces the Traditional and PPN plans for the following bargaining units: Fraternal Order of Police (Units I and II); BTU (Teachers); BTU (Paraprofessionals); City Union of Baltimore (all units) and AFSCME (all units).
3.	Therefore, the Union and the Employer agree that they shall immediately form a City-wide Joint Labor-Management Health Care Committee, which shall include among its members one representative each from the Fire Fighters and Fire Officers unions, in order to study, prepare and formulate by January 1, 1994 a Request for Proposals for a City-wide point of service managed-care program, which RFP is to be used to seek bids or proposals from health care providers.
J.	Effective January 1, 1998, optical plan benefits shall apply to current and future fire fighter retirees, widows and dependents. The plan shall include an eye exam every twenty-four (24) months and prescription glasses, if needed.
ARTICLE 12:	DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE
A.	All disciplinary action consisting of discharge, reduction in pay or position, or suspension for more than 30 days shall be governed by the Rules of the Fire Department and the Civil Service Commission, as provided in Art. VII, Sec. 100 of the Baltimore City Charter (1996).
B.	Any employee who is disciplined, but as to whom a due process hearing is not available under Art. VII, Sec. 100 of the Baltimore City Charter (1996) shall be permitted to grieve the discipline under this Article; provided, however, that any employee who is suspended for five or more days, but less than 31 days, shall also be permitted to arbitrate a grievance pursuant to this Article. The issue presented, which may be decided by an arbitrator, shall be whether, consistent with Art. 12, Sec. 3-2(3)(i) of the Baltimore City Code (2000), the discipline issued by the Employer was for just cause, and, if not, what shall be the remedy.
C.	An employee who is charged with a disciplinary infraction shall be entitled to a due process hearing before the appropriate level Referral Officer before such Officer shall recommend any disciplinary adjudication of the charge. The Referral Officer’s recommended adjudication of a charge shall not be altered or modified to result in an increased penalty before the final adjudication without a rehearing of the charge at the Review Officer or Administrative Hearing Officer level. Final adjudication of the charges
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
14
shall be as prescribed and approved by the Chief of Fire Department. The employee shall have the right to grieve to challenge discipline, but the filing of a grievance shall not relieve the penalty prescribed.
D.	Employees of the Department shall be entitled to Union Representation at any disciplinary proceeding, or investigation.
E.	If the Department has reason to reprimand an employee, it shall be done in a place and manner that is appropriate to the circumstance and not abusive.
F.	The Employer shall begin all disciplinary investigations, when it deems such investigations necessary, no later than fifteen (15) days after it acquires knowledge of the misconduct or event for which disciplinary action is proposed. The employee shall be notified when an investigation is begun.
G.	All other penalties and punishments, including suspension for 30 days or less, shall be as prescribed by the Chief of Fire Department subject to the right of the employee to grieve that action, as set forth in Article 12, Paragraph B, above. Persons suspended under this Section who are later cleared of all charges by the Chief of Fire Department shall be reinstated with full back pay.
H.	Twenty-four hours continuous duty shall not be used as a form of discipline or punishment.
I.	In discipline and discharge cases, the Employer shall take into account prior cases with similar circumstances before administering punishment.
J.	During the pendency of a charge against an employee, any additional charge shall require an additional hearing.
K.	Any employee who is to appear before the Administrative Hearing Officer as the subject of a disciplinary or discharge hearing may request that the hearing or portions of the hearing be held in executive session.
L.	Any employee of the Fire Department who is subjected to a suspension of thirty (30) days or less may at his/her discretion forfeit a like number of days from his/her vacation bank in lieu of the suspension; provided, however, that at no time may the Employer require any employee to forfeit vacation time as discipline. The choice to use vacation time instead of serving a suspension, without pay, shall be made solely by the employee affected. The Fire Department shall advise the Union when an employee who is subjected to a suspension elects, instead, to forfeit vacation time.
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
15
M.	An employee’s opportunity to receive call backs shall not be withheld while a suspension is pending, but not yet served.
ARTICLE 13:	SALARIES
A.
1.	Effective July 1, 2001 and for the term of this Memorandum, the employees who are covered by this Memorandum of Understanding shall receive a wage increase in the amount of three and one half percent (3.5%) over their total annual salary for Fiscal Year 2001 as that increased wage is reflected in Addendum B-1, Total Annual Salary Scales. The Fiscal Year 2002 annual salaries are reflected in Addendum B-2.
2.	Effective July 1, 2002 and for the term of this Memorandum, the employees who are covered by this Memorandum of Understanding shall receive a wage increase in the amount of three and one half percent (3.5%) over their total annual salary for Fiscal Year 2002 as that increased wage is reflected in Addendum B-2 Total Annual Salary Scales. The Fiscal Year 2003 annual salaries are reflected in Addendum B-3.
B.
1.	Between July 1, 1994 and June 30, 2001, the Employer and the Union have in each fiscal year, by agreement, included in their Memorandum of Understanding a clause known as the “parity” clause which clause provided as follows:
In the event that the City by virtue of collective bargaining for a Memorandum of Understanding for Fiscal Year 2001, except as a result of any binding arbitration required for the Baltimore City Police by legislation or charter amendment, grants an increase in wages, salaries, benefits or any component of total annual salary for Fiscal Year 2001 to Unit I of the Fraternal Order of Police, and the total value of that increase exceeds the total value of the increase in wages, salaries, benefits and any other component of total annual salary given to the Union's bargaining unit for Fiscal Year 2001 the Employer agrees to grant an equivalent additional increase in Fiscal Year 2001 to all employees in the Union's bargaining unit. This parity provision is further limited by the Arbitrated Settlement for Fiscal Year 2000 Memorandum of Understanding, and it also is limited, to the extent they are carried forward as amended by the Settlement Agreement for the Year 2000, by the prior Settlement Agreements for Fiscal Years 1998 and 1999 which prior agreements are Addendum “D” and Addendum “E” to this Memorandum of Understanding.
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
16
2.	In bargaining for a Memorandum of Understanding for Fiscal Years 2002 and 2003, the Employer and the Union have considered the value of benefits, hours of work, work assignments, etc., as between respective Fire and Police bargaining units. By mutual consent, they agree that these values were considered, and, as a consequence, there shall be no Article 13.B. “parity” clause for Fiscal Years 2002 and 2003. In reaching their present agreement for Fiscal Years 2002 and 2003, neither the Employer or the Union waive the right to bargain over parity in future fiscal years.
3.	The Employer shall not appeal the judgment and/or mandate of the Court of Special Appeals in Mayor and City Council of Baltimore v. Baltimore City Firefighters Local 734 and Baltimore Fire Officers Local 964, No. 0181, September Term, 2000, nor shall the Employer file a petition for a writ of further review of the “parity” and “promotion” issues on appeal; thus to end the litigation between the Employer and the Union.
4.	When the total annual salary for Fiscal Year 2002 for each employee who is covered by this Agreement is determined, the added three and one-half percent (3.5%) increase that is due under Art. 13, Sec. A.1. shall be computed only after the total annual salary for Fiscal Year 2001 is first adjusted to reflect the added 4% wage increase that should have been applied but was not in Fiscal Year 2001 under Art. 13, Sec. B. of the Memorandum of Understanding for that year.
5.	On or before September 18, 2001, the back wages of each employee who was covered by the predecessor Agreement to this Agreement, the Memorandum of Understanding for Fiscal Year 2001 (under Art. 13, Sec. B. of that Memorandum of Understanding for Fiscal Year 2001), shall be paid in a lump sum. This shall include all employees on the payroll during FY 2001 who have retired or who have separated from employment for any other reason. The back wages due shall be computed by multiplying the employee’s total wage earnings (from all sources, including overtime earnings, etc.) for Fiscal Year 2001, from July 1, 2000 through June 30, 2001, by a factor of 4.0%, the product of which shall be the amount owed. If any wages that are due as of July 1, 2001 are unpaid as of September 18, 2001, then the Employer shall pay to each employee interest at the prime rate published for the Baltimore Metropolitan area on all such sums due but not paid, with interest payable on sums unpaid beginning July 1, 2000. The Employer shall meet with the Union, and it shall provide all information needed by the
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
17
Union, to enable the Union to timely audit the Employer’s compliance with its obligations under this Article.
6.	For purposes of wage and service credit under the Fire and Police Retirement System, the total annual salary of each employee shall be adjusted retroactively to July 1, 2000, to reflect the additional 4.0% wage increase due to each employee (past and present) who was covered under Art. 13, Sec. B. of the Memorandum of Understanding for Fiscal Year 2001.
C.	Effective July 1, 1990, Emergency Dispatchers who are assigned to work in the Fire Communications Bureau shall be added to Addendum B to this Memorandum of Understanding as Grade 314. Such Emergency Dispatchers shall receive all terms and conditions of employment which are established under this Memorandum of Understanding on the same basis as all other bargaining unit employees.
D.	The wage increase for all employees classified as Emergency Vehicle Drivers and Pump Operators shall be the sum of the amounts scheduled as the wage increase for Fire Fighters (Grade 334) plus an additional amount as an adjustment for each of the 2 job classifications. The total annual salary for all Emergency Vehicle Drivers and Pump Operators shall include that adjustment. The amounts are reflected in the wage figures displayed in Addendum B.
E.
1.	The parties intend to maintain a relationship in salary structure between an Experienced Level Fire Fighter with no longevity and an Experienced Level First Line Supervisor with no longevity. Likewise, adjustments have been made in order to maintain a similar salary structure relationship in grade between an Experienced Level Fire Fighter with no longevity and all other classifications and ranks within Local 734's bargaining unit. The amounts are reflected in the wage figures displayed in Addendum B.
2.	Effective January 1, 1991, the parties shall maintain the relationship in salary structure between a Maximum Level Fire Fighter with no longevity and a Maximum Level First Line Fire Supervisor with no longevity. Likewise, adjustments have been made in order to maintain a similar salary structure relationship in grade between a Maximum Level Fire Fighter, with no longevity, and all other classification and ranks within Local 734's bargaining unit. The amounts are reflected in the wage figures displayed in Addendum B to this Memorandum of Understanding.
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
18
F.	Paramedics and Cardiac Rescue Technicians shall continue to be paid an annual workload adjustment. The workload adjustment shall be considered part of total annual salary. The amounts are reflected in the wage figures displayed in Addendum B. Personnel classified as Fire Fighter/Paramedic shall, effective July 1, 2001, be paid an additional sum of $500.00 to recognize the State certification that they are obligated to maintain to serve in an ALS capacity. The additional sum of $500.00 shall be made part of the employee’s total annual salary.
G.	All remuneration due to or elected by an employee shall be based on the date on which the employee's anniversary or promotion date falls within the pay period. In the event that the employee's anniversary or promotion date falls within the first half of the pay period, the employee shall receive the payment for the entire pay period. If the anniversary or promotion date falls within the second half of the pay period, the payment shall be made as of the next succeeding pay period.
H.	Whenever the term "adjustment" or "adjustment to base salary" is used in this Memorandum of Understanding, the amounts involved shall be components of an employee's total annual salary in order to compute biweekly, hourly, daily, overtime and acting out-of-title rates of pay, as well as longevity and pension benefits and other salary-related benefits.
I.	In order to compute the hourly rate for a fire suppression or other Group System employee working on a 42-hour schedule, the employee’s total annual salary shall be divided by 2,190.
J.	In order to compute the hourly wage rate for any other employees of the Department working a 40- or 42-hour schedule, the employee's total annual salary shall be divided by 2,080.
K.	Public Safety Officer's Comparability Benefit
Effective July 1, 1995, all employees shall be paid on an annual basis 2% of the salary rates for Fiscal Year 1995, as a Public Safety Officer's Comparability Benefit. The Public Safety Officer's Comparability Benefit shall be considered a component of each employee's total annual salary for all purposes.
L.	Night Shift Differential
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
19
The night shift differential of $320 shall be continued. The night shift differential shall be a component of each employee's total annual salary.
ARTICLE 14:	UNION SECURITY
A.	All employees covered by this Memorandum of Understanding (i) who are employed after July 1, 1976 and elect not to join or remain members of the Union, or (ii) who were employed prior to July 1, 1976 and had previously executed membership or dues authorization cards as members of said Union, but hereafter elect to terminate such membership and/or revoke said dues authorization cards, shall, as a condition of continued employment, following their established probationary period, pay a service fee to the Union in an amount not to exceed the then current Union dues in order to defray the costs incurred by the said Union in the negotiation, administration and implementation of the terms of the Memorandum of Understanding, and all modifications and amendments thereto, including related proceedings before an impasse panel or arbitrators; in the processing of grievances; in the conduct of disciplinary proceedings and in the appeal thereof; in the protection and improvement of Civil Service rights; and in any and all other proceedings and matters for which the Union is the employees' exclusive representative as a result of its certification.
B.	Should the Union desire to implement the collection of a representation fee as permitted under the Municipal Employee Relations Ordinance, the Union then must first follow the rules announced for such procedure by the Supreme Court in Chicago Teachers Union v. Hudson, 475 U.S. 292, 106 S. Ct. 1066, 89 L. Ed. 2d 232 (1986). The Union agrees to develop an appropriate procedure for protecting the constitutional rights of all agency fee payers. The Union may charge for all constitutionally permitted expenses including, but not limited to, those expenses incurred in contract negotiations, grievance handling, lobbying on fire service, pension-related, Civil Service and other matters, discipline and dismissal hearings, arbitration and all other expenses either directly or indirectly related to those statutory functions as a collective bargaining representative.
ARTICLE 15:	SAFETY AND HEALTH
A.	General Principles
The Employer and the Union shall cooperate in the enforcement of safety. Should an employee feel that his work requires him to be in unsafe or unhealthy situations, the matter shall be considered immediately by the Employer. If the matter is not adjusted satisfactorily, it may become the subject of a grievance and will be processed according to the Grievance Procedure.
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
20
B.	Protective Clothing and Equipment
1.	The Employer shall furnish and thereafter maintain at no cost to any employee all respiratory apparatus, gloves, helmets, boots, protective clothing and other protective equipment that are necessary to preserve and protect the safety and health of fire fighters. Protective clothing and equipment shall meet or may exceed Federal OSHA Fire Brigade Standard (CFR 1910.56). In addition, the Employer shall specify the following:
a)	All turnout coats and gloves shall have a lining of Gore-Tex (T/M) or other comparable material.
b)	All turnout coats shall have an outer shell constructed from Pbi (T/M) (polybenzimidazole) or other comparable material.
c)	Issue of protective clothing stipulated in Paragraphs (a) and (b) shall be on a replacement basis where it does not conflict with any existing or future local, state or federal statute.
d)	The Employer agrees to maintain sufficient reserves of protective clothes, equipment and station uniforms so that replacement is accomplished on or before 30 days from the date such item is condemned by the Employer.
e)	At the employee's request, the Employer shall arrange for air mask eyeglass kits at cost to those employees that are required to use selfcontained breathing apparatus.
f)	The Employer shall provide each 1st line apparatus and ready reserve within the Fire Department with appropriate operable flashlights for all positions assigned to the unit.
2.	Only personnel who have been trained and certified by the manufacturer or applicable federal and/or State of Maryland agency shall be permitted to perform maintenance and/or repair on self-contained breathing apparatus, except for routine maintenance presently being performed by Department personnel that does not require such certification.
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
21
3.	On a replacement basis, the Employer shall provide and, thereafter, shall, at no cost to any employee, maintain station uniforms that meet nonflammability criteria that are currently accepted in the industry, which shall be 100% cotton or better, unless the parties mutually agree in writing to a modification thereto.
4.	Beginning on July 1, 1995, the Employer shall pay to each employee, in installments that are part of the employee's biweekly salary, $360 (on average) as an annual personal safety equipment and uniform adjustment. The adjustment shall be a component of an employee's total annual salary and shall be carried forward from year to year thereafter.
C.	Joint Labor/Management Safety and Health Committee
There shall be a Joint Safety and Health Committee composed of an equal number of Employer and Union representatives. The Union representatives shall be selected by the Union, and two members from each local of the Committee will be provided released time to attend pre-scheduled, bi-monthly meetings of the Joint Committee. Reports involving injuries to Local 734, I.A.F.F. members, while working, shall be provided to the Union at each regularly scheduled Committee meeting. The Joint Committee shall make written recommendations for the correction of hazardous conditions or unsafe work methods. Union members of the Joint Committee shall be released from their work obligations in order to attend pre-scheduled Committee meetings, except when granting of such leave would adversely affect delivery of emergency services.
D.	Employee Medical Treatment
When a Fire Department physician is not on duty in the Fire Department Infirmary, all employees who are injured or who become ill and who require medical treatment shall be transported (pursuant to E.M.S. protocol) to the nearest appropriate hospital.
E.	Hearing Conservation
The Department and the Union shall work to develop a hearing conservation program for the benefit of all members of the service. Discussions about such a program shall be conducted in meetings of the Joint Labor/Management Safety and Health Committee. The purpose of the discussions shall be to develop criteria to identify work-related hazards and measures to abate or eliminate any such hazards. Another objective of the program shall be to develop a protocol intended to educate members of the Department about work-related hearing problems.
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
22
F.	Stress Counseling
1.	Effective October 1, 1988, the Department shall adopt the MIEMS protocol (Critical Incident Stress Development Program) to deal with employees' stress resulting from critical incidents and work-related fatalities. The Department shall discuss its understanding of the MIEMS protocol and steps necessary to abate work-related stress in the regular meetings of the Joint Labor/Management Safety and Health Committee. Any procedures adopted shall be shared with the Committee before implementation.
2.	Using the Joint Labor/Management Safety and Health Committee, the Department shall explore means to deliver psychological counseling to deal with stress resulting from fire and emergency service on an employee-by-employee basis outside of the City's generally available Employee Assistance Program.
G.	The Employer shall notify the Union at least 30 days in advance of the implementation of any decision to permanently close a unit of the Fire Department.
H.	The Department and the Unions shall continue to jointly establish a fitness and wellness program as recommended by the Joint Labor/Management Safety and Health Committee.
ARTICLE 16:	SAVINGS CLAUSE
All privileges, benefits and rights presently enjoyed by employees covered by this Memorandum which are not specifically provided for or abridged in this Memorandum, such as, but not limited to, holidays, uniforms, equipment, etc., are hereby included in and protected by this Memorandum.
ARTICLE 17:	NO STRIKE OR LOCKOUT
A.	The Union and its members, individually and collectively, agree that during the term of this Memorandum of Understanding there shall be no strikes, slow-ups, or stoppage of work, and the City agrees that there shall be no lockout.
B.	In the event of an unauthorized strike, slow-up or stoppage, the City agrees that there will be no liability on the part of the Union, provided the Union promptly and publicly disavows such unauthorized strike, orders the employees to return to work and attempts to bring about a prompt resumption of normal operations, and provided further that the
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
23
Union notifies the City, in writing, within 48 hours after the commencement of such strike, what measures it has taken to comply with the provisions of this Article.
C.	In the event that such action by the Union has not effected resumption of normal work practices, the City shall have the right to discipline, by way of discharge or otherwise, any member of the Union who participates in such strike, slow-up or stoppage, and no such disciplinary action shall be subject to the grievance procedure provided for in this Memorandum of Understanding.
ARTICLE 18:	MEAL ALLOWANCE
An employee required to work 3 or more hours immediately preceding a normal full-time work shift or immediately following the completion of a normal full-time work shift shall receive a meal allowance of $5.
ARTICLE 19:	CLASSIFICATION OF EMPLOYEES
A.	The Employer agrees that in the event of a recommended change in the classification of a position in the Baltimore City Fire Department, it will notify the Union at [the] least fifteen (15) days before it delivers the submission of the recommended change to either the Civil Service Commission or the Department of Personnel.
B.	Whenever it plans to create a new job classification or to re-write an existing classification, the Employer shall first consult with the Union about the intended changes and its anticipated effect on the compensation and employment opportunity of employees who are covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 20:	LONGEVITY
A.	Effective July 1, 2001, the following longevity rules shall apply:
1.	Each employee who is covered by this Memorandum and who has attained 5 years of creditable City service shall receive a longevity increment in the amount of 0.5% of the total annual salary at the Maximum Level of an employee’s classification.
2.	Each employee who is covered by this Memorandum and who has attained 10 years of creditable City service shall receive a longevity increment in the amount of 3% of the of the total annual salary at the Maximum Level of an employee’s classification.
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
24
3.	Each employee who is covered by this Memorandum and who has attained 15 years of creditable City service shall receive an additional longevity increment in the amount of 3% of the total annual salary at the Maximum Level of an employee’s classification.
4.	Each employee who is covered by this Memorandum and who has attained 20 years of creditable City service shall receive an additional longevity increment in the amount of 3% of the Maximum Level of the total annual salary of the employee's classification.
5.	Each employee who is covered by this Memorandum and who has attained 25 years of creditable City service shall receive an additional longevity increment in the amount of 3% of the Maximum Level of the total annual salary of the employee's classification.
B.	Effective July 1, 2002, the following longevity rules shall apply:
1.	Each employee who is covered by this Memorandum and who has attained 5 years of creditable City service shall receive a longevity increment in the amount of 1.0% of the total annual salary at the Maximum Level of an employee’s classification.
2.	Each employee who is covered by this Memorandum and who has attained 10 years of creditable City service shall receive a longevity increment in the amount of 3.5% of the total annual salary at the Maximum Level of an employee’s classification.
3.	Each employee who is covered by this Memorandum and who has attained 15 years of creditable City service shall receive a longevity increment in the amount of 3.5% of the total annual salary at the Maximum Level of an employee’s classification.
4.	Each employee who is covered by this Memorandum and who has attained 20 years of creditable City service shall receive a longevity increment in the amount of 3.5% of the total annual salary at the Maximum Level of an employee’s classification.
5.	Each employee who is covered by this Memorandum and who has attained 25 years of creditable City service shall receive a longevity increment in the
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
25
amount of 3.5% of the total annual salary at the Maximum Level of an employee’s classification.
C.	The term “total annual salary” when used in this article shall have the meaning given to it in Article 13 of the Memorandum of Understanding.
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
26
ARTICLE 21:	ACTING OUT-OF-TITLE
A.	Any employee covered by this Memorandum who is acting out-of-title shall, in addition to his total annual salary, receive the difference between the total annual salary of the Maximum Level of the acting class and the total annual salary of the Maximum Level of the employee's class. The term "total annual salary" when used in this Article shall have the meaning given to it in Article 13 of this Memorandum.
B.	Effective January 1, 2002 and January 1, 2003, respectively, the Maximum Level pay rates that are to be used in computing the premium wage for acting out-of-title shall be the wage rates that were in effect on July 1, 2001 and July 1, 2002 respectively, as adjusted.
C.	An up-to-date bulletin containing the sanctioned acting out-of-title pay scale for calendar years 2002 and 2003 shall be supplied to stations in print and distributed by December 1, 2001 and 2002, respectively.
D.	The new acting out-of-title rate shall take effect on the first day of the payroll period in which January 1st falls.
E.	Any employee who acts out-of-title on overtime or call-back time shall be paid at the acting rate for the overtime or call-back period.
ARTICLE 22:	TRANSPORTATION
A.	The Department shall develop and implement a plan to provide at its expense and risk, transportation to and from the fire ground for all employees who are covered by this Agreement. Whenever an employee on duty is required to use his personal automobile for the purpose of transportation to and from fire grounds or for other required departmental business, he shall be paid the sum of $5 for such use; provided however that an employee shall not be compensated for use of his personal automobile to and from his home to the firehouse or where his personal automobile is used for his convenience.
B.	Employees shall not be ordered to use their personal vehicles for Fire Department business, nor shall they be ordered to use or enter any personal vehicle of any other person for Fire Department business.
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
27
ARTICLE 23:	SENIORITY, CALL BACK, LAYOFF AND RECALL
A.	A roster of all members of the bargaining unit shall be compiled and maintained by the Personnel Administrator showing each member of the Fire Department in the order of his length of service with the Fire Department. Company rosters shall be maintained.
B.	Employees called back to duty shall be so called on the basis of company seniority within the appropriate rank, whenever feasible. The officer in charge of field operations shall have full authority and discretion to select companies for emergency call back.
C.
1.	The Employer shall notify the Union of the need to reduce the number of employees who are on payroll within the bargaining unit at least 30 days before the effective date of a layoff. Such notice shall be given in writing addressed to the Union by certified mail. The notice shall disclose the number of positions affected, the rank or classification of each position so affected, and the unit or units, if any, which are to be disbanded. Immediately after issuing the notice, the Employer shall give the Union a reasonable period of time, of no less than 15 days, within which it shall meet and confer with the Union to discuss such an action. The Employer shall respond to any proposals which the Union may make in response to the subject matter of the notice.
2.	Each employee who is to be reduced in rank or laid off as a consequence of a reduction in force or the disbandment of any unit shall be given written notice, at least 21 days before such action is to occur, of the date, purpose and nature of the action that is to be taken with regard to him or her. The notice also shall reasonably state the reasons for the action, and any rights which the employee may have under the Administrative Manual and Department of Personnel Rules or this Memorandum with regard to his or her employment. A copy of the notice also shall be timely delivered to the Union.
3.	All reductions in force shall be established by seniority in the Department. Departmental seniority shall be established from the date that the employee was hired into the Fire Department. Seniority in rank or classification shall be established from the date that the employee was promoted into the rank or classification which he or she currently occupies.
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
28
In the event of a tie in seniority, the tie shall be broken on the basis of the Fire Academy final standing or score upon graduation from the Fire Academy.
There shall be no preference granted for subjective evaluation of performance, skill or ability when determining who to reduce from rank to rank, or who to lay off.
4.	For the purpose of determining either seniority in rank or departmental seniority, the following additional rules also shall apply for layoffs and reductions in rank within the Fire Department. First, should an employee who formerly was employed by the Fire Department return to the service of the Department after a break in service due to an injury or illness causing disability, all time which intervened shall be counted in the employee's favor as if the employee lost no time away from work. Second, should an employee return to the Department after having resigned from the City service or voluntarily transferred from the Fire Department service for more than 6 months, his or her seniority shall begin anew; if less than 6 months, than the employee shall regain previous service time.
5.	In the event a reduction in force is necessary, the reduction shall proceed in the following order:
a)	Employees shall be laid off in reverse order of departmental seniority; the most junior employees within the Department shall be laid off first, without regard to rank or classification.
b)	In the event that a reduction in force results in the need for a redistribution of employees from superior ranks to lesser ranks, such reductions in rank shall be accomplished by reducing in rank those employees with the least tenure in the affected rank, counting from the employee's date of promotion.
c)	An employee who is laid off shall be paid for all accrued but unused leave time, including vacation and holiday leave, based on the employee's total annual salary as of the date of separation.
d)	All employees who are reduced in rank or laid off shall not suffer any loss in benefit or entitlement accrued prior to the date of the action,
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
29
e.g., holidays, vacation, personal leave, pension, and overtime, earned, accumulated and unused at the time of reduction in rank or layoff.
e)	Each junior employee who is bumped out of rank or classification shall, in turn, be reduced only one rank, to the rank or the classification immediately junior. This shall not pertain to layoffs, which shall be consistent with Departmental seniority rights.
6.	Any employee who is reduced in rank and involuntarily transferred into a new unit shall be entitled to acting out-of-title compensation based on the employee's acting certification. Any employee who at first received acting certification in rank and then was promoted, upon return to that rank or classification after demotion, shall retain his or her original acting certification and approval date, and shall enjoy the right to exercise the same.
7.	If the current salary is the same as or greater than the maximum of the lower grade, the employee shall receive the maximum salary for the lower grade. If the current salary is less than the maximum of the lower grade, the employee shall receive the closest salary rate of the lower grade.
8.	The Department of Personnel shall prepare and maintain a list, known as a "Reemployment List", of all persons who are reduced in rank or laid off, by rank or classification. In the event that vacancies occur within the Department while persons remain on the Reemployment List, the order of recall shall be determined by reference to the Reemployment List. The Reemployment List(s) shall remain in effect for 24 months after the date of a layoff (unless extended by the Department of Personnel) and shall be used to offer employment opportunities that may become available by seniority to all persons who have been reduced or laid off, before any employees are promoted from one rank to another or any persons are hired or transferred (from other City agencies) to become new employees of the Fire Department. No person may be hired, nor may any person be transferred from another City agency, while any person in that rank or classification remains in a reduced rank or on the Reemployment List. Any persons who are returned to their former positions shall be placed in the pay grade of their former rank, restored to the level of total annual compensation that they would currently receive had they not been reduced in rank or placed on the Reemployment List. The employee shall receive no credit for longevity while on layoff.
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
30
9.	Notice of recall to the employee's former position shall be given to the employee in writing at his or her last known post office address, it being the employee's obligation to notify the Personnel Administrator, or other designated agent of the Fire Department, of any change in address while laid off or reduced in rank. The notice shall be by certified mail, return receipt requested. The employee shall be given 20 days to accept an offer of reinstatement, in which case written acceptance shall be sufficient if filed in any form with the Personnel Administrator.
10.	Any employee who is reduced in rank, pursuant to this Article, and is on a promotional list when demoted shall remain on the list and remain eligible for promotion until the list expires, subject however to the recall or reinstatement rights of any laid off or demoted employee under the terms of this Article.
11.	The provisions of this Article shall govern to determine the rights of any employee who is demoted or laid off on or after July 1, 1992.
12.	In addition to the rules generally applicable to layoffs under Paragraph C of
this Article 23, the following additional rule shall apply to the Emergency Medical Service Division. For purposes of layoff and reemployment “AM-205-8, “Employee Layoffs” defines “organizational unit”. The Fire Department has three (3) or more organizational levels, the level immediately below the agency is normally designated as a bureau. The organizational level immediately below a bureau is normally designated as a division. “Organizational unit” refers to a division. In this instance, the Emergency Medical Service Division is an organizational unit.
All Emergency Medical Service personnel who are to be laid off shall first be offered an opportunity to fill any vacant position(s) in the Fire Department for which the employees are qualified or for which they may be qualified after a period of training. In the event a reduction in force is necessary in the Emergency Medical Service, but there are fewer vacant positions remaining in the Fire Department than the number of employees to be laid off, the vacancies shall be offered in order of seniority going first to the most senior personnel to be laid off from the Emergency Medical Service.
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
31
ARTICLE 24:	FIRE FIGHTERS' BENEFICIAL AND DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN
A.	The Employer and the Union shall provide for deduction of Fire Fighters' Beneficial payments from payroll and pension checks upon proper authorization, at no cost to the Union.
B.	The Employer shall assume the administrative cost for employees participating in the Deferred Compensation Plan.
ARTICLE 25:	PROMOTIONAL SYSTEM
A.	Consistent with the City Charter, it is hereby agreed that unless ordered to do so by a court of competent jurisdiction, neither the Employer nor any of its constituent agencies will change the present time-in-grade requirements for promotion, nor will they deviate from the present policy of selection of the first candidate on a list, through all grades up to and including Battalion Chief.
B.	Promotion lists shall run for 2 years from posted date and shall not be extended except by agreement of the parties.
C.	Projected vacancies shall be filled from current eligible lists commencing with the following pay period, and other vacancies as soon as possible.
D.	Promotion lists to be maintained in all grades up to and including Shift Commander, and as soon as possible in other classifications as the need arises.
E.	The Employer agrees that representatives of the Union shall be entitled to meet with the Personnel Director (Department of Personnel) or his/her designee on a regular quarterly basis, at times to be mutually agreed upon, to discuss problems of interest to members of Local 734. This will not preclude further meetings which may be mutually arranged by the parties.
ARTICLE 26:	UNIFORMS
A.	Members will be allowed to wear clean work uniforms, as determined by the Chief, dress uniforms, or civilian clothes to and from work.
B.	The Employer shall maintain and replace uniforms on the basis currently followed. Station uniforms no longer serviceable shall be replaced within 30 days of condemnation.
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
32
C.	The minimum issue of station uniforms to all employees on payroll after June 30, 1986 shall consist of:
Four (4) pair of pants
Four (4) short sleeve shirts
Four (4) long sleeve shirts
One (1) dress cap
One (1) insulated winter jacket (with zip-out liner)
One (1) web-style belt
One (1) belt buckle
D.	All clothing issued as uniforms pursuant to Paragraphs B and C of this Article shall conform to the standards described in Article 15, Paragraph B of this Memorandum.
ARTICLE 27:	EMPLOYEE'S PERSONNEL AND MEDICAL FILE
A.	No material relating to an employee's conduct, service, character, personality or medical status shall be placed in the employee's personnel and/or medical file unless it is signed by the person submitting the information and is furnished to the employee involved.
B.	By appointment and after proper identification, an employee or the employee’s designated representative, acting on behalf of the employee with a notarized written statement of authorization signed by the employee, shall have the right to examine his personnel and/or medical file, and the employee and/or his authorized representative shall, in writing, indicate the date of said examination and affix his signature. Personnel and/or medical files shall be read or examined only by those persons so authorized by the Chief of Fire Department, and in the presence of the Fire Department Personnel Administrator or his/her designee who will be responsible for maintaining the security and confidentiality of the file documents during the review process. The Personnel Administrator will safeguard the file documents against alteration, removal, or tampering and insure that no document, record or other material is placed in the file during the review, by requiring that reasonable security procedures be adhered to during the review process. For medical files, the employee will be responsible for usual and customary administrative processing fees and any additional cost associated with the document reproductions.
C.	Departmental Charge Adjudication Forms documenting disciplinary actions approved by the Chief of Fire Department that are adjudicated by written or verbal reprimand, counseling, and/or retraining, with the exception of Adjudication Forms regarding previous violations of the substance abuse and testing policies and procedures and after
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
33
care agreements MOP 336 to 336-9 inclusive, will be removed from the employee’s personnel file record upon written request by the employee, provided no violation of a similar nature occurs within forty-eight months of the date of previous Departmental Charge.
D.	No previous charge over forty-eight months (with the exception of previous violations of the substance abuse and testing policies and procedures and aftercare agreements MOP 336 to 336-9 inclusive) will be considered in the process of adjudicating Departmental Charges.
ARTICLE 28:	DEATH LEAVE
A.
1.	Employees shall be entitled to death leave for death of blood relatives and inlaws set forth in AM-204-8 of the Employer's Administrative Manual in effect on the date of execution of this Memorandum.
2.	In addition, effective July 1, 2001, the Employer shall permit a covered employee to claim and receive one day’s leave, without pay, for the death of a brother-in-law, a sister-in-law, as well as a former mother-in-law or former father-in-law who are grandparents to a child parented by the employee. At the employee’s option, to obtain leave with pay for the death of a brother-inlaw, a sister-in-law, as well as a former mother-in-law and father-in-law who are grandparents to a child parented by the employee. The Employer shall allow the employee to cover the absence with accrued leave, which shall be debited against the employee’s account.
B.	The one day’s leave of absence must be taken within 6 calendar days of the date of death, or on the day of the funeral of the relative if the funeral occurs more than 6 days after the death, as provided in MOP 319 in effect on March 1, 2001.
ARTICLE 29:	EDUCATION
The Employer shall make available the sum of $7,500 in order that the costs of tuition and required books incurred in conjunction with the earning of college credits in job-related courses towards a degree, which are not reimbursed under State funding, may be compensated for up to 75% for “A” (GPA 4.00), 65% for a “B” (GPA 3.00) and 55% for a “C” (GPA 2.00). All reimbursement under this Section is subject to verification.
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
34
ARTICLE 30:	VACATION
A.	A first choice vacation option must be exercised at least 7 days in advance of the vacation opportunity. If members do not exercise such option, the opened dates will be considered available to any member in the unit upon request. First choice vacation as provided for in this Article shall not be subject to cancellation.
B.	The practice of numbering first choice vacation opportunities shall be continued. In order to assign first choice vacation opportunities, all Fire Suppression and EMS employees who are members of the Group System, as provided in Article 8, shall be assigned to 6 number groups. An employee shall be entitled to a first choice vacation opportunity consisting of 4 consecutive shifts when the employee's number appears on the work schedule. Each employee shall receive approximately 30 first choice vacations opportunities within the year.
C.	Second choice vacations will be permitted if sufficient personnel are available; however, once granted, said vacation shall not be canceled unless a 24-hour notice is given.
D.	Regulations pertaining to vacation under Manual of Procedure (MOP) 322 shall remain in effect for employees hired into the Fire Service prior to July 1, 1979.
For those employees hired into the Fire Service after July 1, 1979, vacation leave is accrued in relationship to the length of continuous service with the Employer as follows:
1.	Employees with less than 6 years of service shall earn vacation leave of 1 working day for each month of completed service, or a total of 12 days per year.
2.	Employees who have 6 but less than 11 years of service shall earn vacation leave of 1% working days for each month of completed service, or a total of 15 days per year.
3.	Employees who have 11 but less than 14 years of service shall earn vacation leave of 1^ working days for each month of completed service, or a total of 18 days per year.
4.	Employees who have 14 but less than 19 years of service shall earn vacation leave of 1% working days for each month of completed service, or a total of 21 days per year.
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
35
5.	Employees who have completed 19 or more years of continuous service shall earn vacation leave of 2 working days for each month of completed service, with a maximum of 24 days per year.
6.	Employees will be allowed to accumulate vacation up to the maximum number of days earnable for a 4-year period as determined by the current rate of accrual.
E.	During the term of this Memorandum, no employee shall at any time be compelled to take vacation time.
F.	All leave days shall be considered vacation days for the purpose of this Article.
ARTICLE 31:	OTHER LEAVE
A.	Injury and/or Sick Leave (Non-Line of Duty)
Effective July 1, 1988, no deduction shall be made in the salary of any employee on account of non-line of duty illness or injury, provided such sickness does not last longer than 6 months, and provided further that if an employee shall absent himself from duty on account of non-line of duty illness or injury he shall, before receiving his salary, present or have presented to the unit officer of the company of which he is a member a certificate from the physician employed by the Fire Department, stating that the employee, on account of illness or injury, is unable to perform his or her duties.
B.	Injury and/or Sick Leave (Line of Duty).
Any member of the Fire Department of the City of Baltimore, receiving injury or becoming disabled while in the discharge of his duties, so as to prevent him from following his daily occupation or attending to his duties as a member of said Department, such member shall, for 12 months, provided his disability shall last that time, receive his usual salary.
No employee shall be entitled to receive Workers' Compensation benefits for temporary total disability during the time, or covering the period, that said employee is receiving his or her full salary for job injury leave as outlined above.
C.	Catastrophic Injury or Illness
In addition to leave available in Sections A and B above, should a permanent full-time employee covered by this Memorandum of Understanding sustain a catastrophic injury or illness, and complete medical recovery is reasonably anticipated; however, return to full regular duty requires additional recovery/rehabilitation time, he or she will be allowed to
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
36
use up to twelve weeks of accrued leave time as Family and Medical Leave for serious a health condition provided the following conditions are met:
1.	Certification by a physician licensed by the State of Maryland that the employee has a reasonable prognosis of complete recovery within the additional 12-week period.
2.	Use of accrued leave as provided in this section of the Memorandum of Understanding does not modify the combinations of types of leave specified in City of Baltimore Administrative Manual, AM 203-2 Family and Medical Leave. Use of Family and Medical Leave under the provisions of this section is limited to the 12-week per 12-month entitlement of the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 and the Employee Eligibility criteria specified in AM 203-2.
D.	Retirement Leave
Effective July 1, 1988, all employees shall receive 90 days of leave with pay just prior to retirement.
E.	With prior approval of the Chief of the Department, employees may be granted leave without loss of pay to attend scheduled conferences, seminars, board meetings and conventions. The total amount of this leave available during the term of this Memorandum is equal to 170 days per year.
F.	Third Party Court Appearances
Employees who are subpoenaed by third parties to appear in Court to testify about events which occurred while on duty shall be granted time off with pay if subpoenaed to appear to testify either (i) on the day on which they are scheduled to work (either day shift or night shift), or (ii) on the day on which they have scheduled to take vacation or holiday leave. If assigned to work on the day shift, hours off shall be granted from the beginning of the shift until the employee is released by the Court and has had a reasonable opportunity to report to work for the balance of the shift. If assigned to work on a night shift, which is scheduled to begin in the afternoon of the day to which the subpoena is returnable, all hours off shall be credited hour for hour as compensatory time, to be taken by the employee at the beginning of his or her assigned shift that afternoon. For night shifts, hours shall be credited as measured from the start of the day shift until the employee is released by the Court. No hours off shall be credited for scheduled days off. Vacation leave
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
37
or holiday leave may be canceled, but the employee must notify the Department of the subpoena within a reasonable time after he or she is served.
G.	Subject to approval by the Chief of Fire Department, an employee with banked vacation days may transfer up to two (2) vacation days per calendar year to another employee who is experiencing a personal hardship, providing the following conditions are met:
1.	The recipient has exhausted all of his or her accrued leave including Vacation and Personal leave.
2.	The transfer of vacation days pursuant to this program is strictly a voluntary donation. Vacation days may not be transferred in exchange for cash or other remuneration.
3.	The recipient must be experiencing a hardship for which the transfer of days would provide relief.
4.	All days transferred pursuant to this provision are irrevocable transfers.
5.	An employee may receive no more than thirty (30) transferred days if they are a day-work employee or twenty-eight (28) transferred days if they are a shift work employee.
6.	Use of donated days by an employee on suspension or termination is not permitted.
ARTICLE 32:	PENSION COMMITTEE
The parties agree that the present joint committee to review the existing pension system will continue. Union representation for the joint committee shall be composed of six representatives, two representatives each from and appointed by the following bargaining agents: IAFF Local 734, IAFF Local 964 and the Fraternal Order of Police. It shall be permitted to recommend appropriate pension changes during the term of this Memorandum.
ARTICLE 33:	PRINTING
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
38
The costs of printing copies of this Memorandum of Understanding for distribution to members of the bargaining unit and Fire Department management shall be shared equally by the parties and the printing shall be by a Union shop as selected by the Union. Each Fire Department IAFF Local shall be provided with an appropriately formatted computer diskette or compact disk containing the adopted MOU.
ARTICLE 34:	SEVERABILITY
A.	Should any Article or part of any Article of this Memorandum of Understanding be declared by a Court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unconstitutional, the remainder of this Memorandum of Understanding shall not thereby be invalidated but shall remain in full force and effect to the same end and effect as if such invalid portion had not been included. In such event, the parties agree that at the request of either of them, negotiations will be commenced for a mutually agreeable replacement provision.
B.	If, as a condition for receipt by the City of state or federal grant-in-aid funds or other state or federal allotments of money, a provision of the Memorandum is required by the awarding agency to be deleted or modified, the parties shall promptly meet to discuss compliance with such condition and the adoption of substitute contractual provisions to preserve and protect the rights and privileges of the parties as intended by the provision required to be deleted or modified.
ARTICLE 35:	WORK RULES
A.	Snow Removal
Employees shall not be required to remove snow from company quarters from 2400 to 0700 hours, except in the event that snow has accumulated to such depth that the access and egress of fire equipment is impeded, thus requiring the cleaning of Engine House driveways.
B.	Watch Desk Duty
Departmental Communications will operate in “Silent Dispatch Mode” between 2200 and 0600 hours effective 0700 hours July 1, 1999 for a six month evaluation period prior to permanent implementation effective 0700 hours January 1, 2000. Thereafter, members will be relieved of attended watch duty between 2200 hours and 0600 hours unless “Silent Dispatch Mode” is canceled by the Officer in Charge of Field Operations.
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
39
C.	Clean-up
Employees returning from a fireground or other work assignment shall be allowed 15 minutes for clean-up.
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
40
D.	Night Differential
The Employer has in the past paid a premium of $.25 an hour for night work, which shall be expressed as a $260 wage adjustment. This night differential shall be increased $.05 an hour, which shall be expressed as an additional adjustment of $60.The combined sum of $320 shall be paid to all members on an annual basis, effective July 1, 1986. The night differential of $320 shall be a component of each employee's total annual salary.
E.	Each employee who is covered by this Agreement shall be given 10 days notice in advance of any change in assignment or of any Departmental decision to change their individual shift (including vacation numbers). Any Departmental decision to change an employee’s shift will be based, first, on unit seniority on the shift involved and then on battalion seniority on the shift involved, unless the Department can demonstrate unusual and unforeseen circumstances.
ARTICLE 36:	TERMINATION, CHANGE OR AMENDMENT
A.	This Memorandum of Understanding shall become effective July 1, 2001 and remain in full force and effect until June 30, 2003. It shall automatically be renewed from year to year thereafter unless either party shall give to the other party written notice of a desire to terminate, modify or amend this Memorandum of Understanding. Such notice shall be given the other party in writing by certified mail no later than January 1 of the year involved.
B.	If a substantial and material change occurs in the fiscal status of the City of Baltimore's General Fund subsequent to the formation of the current Interest Arbitration Award or Memorandum of Understanding, then in such event the Mayor may require the reopening of the Interest Arbitration Award or Memorandum of Understanding, as to wages only, upon 20-days written notice to the other party. The Mayor's notice shall be noted in the minutes of the Board of Estimates. Should the parties fail to reach an agreement regarding a change in wages by negotiation, within 20 days following the commencement of negotiation, the parties shall submit the wage adjustment issue to binding interest arbitration, consistent with the procedures set forth in Article II, Section 55(b) of the Baltimore City Charter, 1996 Edition.
The neutral member of the Board of Arbitration shall be a member of the National Academy of Arbitrators.
The issue submitted to the Board of Arbitration will be whether the Arbitration Award or Memorandum of Understanding must be modified in light of substantial and
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
41
material changed fiscal circumstances in the City of Baltimore's General Fund which could not reasonably have been expected at the time of the interest arbitration or prior negotiation. The Board of Arbitration shall have the authority to modify the wage component of the Award or Memorandum of Understanding based upon the final and last positions taken by the parties. Any such modification shall only be prospective. The decision of the Board of Arbitration shall be rendered within 30 days of the commencement of the hearing.
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
42
This Memorandum of Understanding is signed on the ___day of
, 2001,
in Baltimore, Maryland.
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF BALTIMORE:	BALTIMORE FIRE FIGHTERS, IAFF LOCAL 734:
Robert S. Hillman	Richard G. Schluderberg
Deborah F. Moore-Carter	Charles Williams
Carl E. McDonald	Dave Cox
Michael Dalton	Robert J. Sledgeski
Steward D. Beckham	Jerome Robusto
Howard Abrahams	Lenore Festerman
Donald Heinbuch	Henrietta Lewis
APPROVED AS TO FORM AND LEGAL	NOTED BY THE BOARD OF ESTIMATES:
SUFFICIENCY:
Deborah K. St. Lawrence Associate Solicitor
Clerk Date
Page 43 of the Memorandum of Understanding (FY 2001-2003) by and between the Mayor and City Council of Baltimore and Baltimore Fire Fighters, Local 734, IAFF, AFL-CIO, CLC.
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
43
ADDENDUM A
HEALTH AND WELFARE BENEFITS
Employees covered by this Memorandum are eligible for the following benefits as more fully set forth in the City of Baltimore Administrative Manual and appropriate Resolutions of the Board of Estimates.
A.	Basic-Traditional Plan
1.	Blue Cross - 365 days hospitalization (with annual $50 deductible per
person)
2.	Blue Cross - Diagnostic Endorsement #4 (unlimited)
3.	Blue Shield Plan C (with cost-containment provisions as enumerated below).
4.	Major Medical - 100% coverage after $200 deductible, up to $30,000 limit.
50/50 co-pay for covered expenses in excess of $30,000, up to a lifetime maximum of $225,000.Prescription drug deductibles shall not be reimbursed as a Major Medical expense.
5.	Pre- and post-natal care
6.	Sudden and serious onset coverage
7.	Second Surgical Opinion (with cost-containment provisions as enumerated below)
8.	Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Care
(a)	Hospital/Inpatient Care - 30 days per year; 60-day lifetime maximum
(b)	Outpatient Care - 30 visits, 100% covered services; 15 additional visits, 50% covered services
9.	Hospice Care
(a)	Non-Hospital Care - 100%, with $20,000 lifetime maximum
(b)	In-Hospital Care - 80%, with $20,000 lifetime maximum
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
44
10.	Cost-Containment Concept
(a)	The Union and Employer recognize that the cost of health care is a significant problem. They have agreed to try to limit the cost of Health Benefits to the Employer by introducing certain costcontainment measures, as specified below in Paragraph 1. It is understood that work still has to be done to develop additional procedures to implement the cost-containment measures that have been approved. The Employer shall meet and confer with the Union before additional cost-containment measures are adopted.
(b)	The Union and Employer shall explore the development of a Hospital Statement Review Plan.
11.	Cost-Containment Measures
(a)	Pre-admission Testing
(1)	100% coverage for all pre-operative laboratory tests and x-ray
examinations, but only if performed on an outpatient basis, unless it is deemed medically necessary by patient's attending physician or scheduled by physician that test be done on an inpatient basis.
(2)	50% coverage for same, if performed on an inpatient basis but
not medically indicated that it be done as inpatient.
(b)	Ambulatory and Diagnostic Procedures
Non-emergencies - 100% coverage for the procedures certified as outpatient by the Maryland Medical and Chirurgical Faculty (physician's office, ambulatory surgical center, outpatient department of hospital), which procedures effective August 1, 1984 shall at least include:
*Breast Biopsy
*Bronchoscopy
*Colonoscopy
*Cystoscopy
*Diagnostic D & C
*Diagnostic Laparoscopy
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
45
*Excision of Skin Lesion
*Gastroscopy
*Myringotomy
*Vasectomy
Refer to your Health Insurance Open Enrollment Booklet for the full listing.
(c)	Second Surgical Opinion (Item A.7 of this Addendum) must be obtained for certain enumerated elective surgical procedures; which shall include:
*Bunionectomy
*Bypass Surgery
*Cataract Removal
*Deviated Septum Repair
*Hysterectomy
*Knee Operation
*Mastectomy
*Prostatectomy
Refer to your Health Insurance Open Enrollment Booklet for the full listing.
12.	Hospital Admission/Discharge
(a)	No Friday, Saturday, or Sunday admissions under the following conditions:
*	Non-emergency situations
*	Unless surgical procedures are scheduled over the weekend; or
*	Sunday admissions permissible when testing or surgical procedures scheduled on following Monday.
(b)	Discharge from hospital within 24 hours of release by attending physician.
B.	Prescription Drug Program
1.	The parties shall continue to administer a generic prescription drug program. Employees and their dependents shall as a general rule be expected to have prescriptions filled with generic equivalents when
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
46
proprietary drugs are ordered. However, if medically necessary, an employee or dependent may apply for permission to purchase a proprietary drug by name even though a generic equivalent may be available on the market. If an employee or dependent secures prior permission to purchase a proprietary drug in lieu of a generic drug, the employee shall be subject only to a co-pay at the rate of a generic drug. In order to qualify for permission, the employee must first submit satisfactory written medical documentation for review to the Employee Benefits Division of the Department of Personnel. After impartial review by a qualified health care professional, Employee Benefits Division shall either grant, deny or ask for additional information about the application. Employees or beneficiaries who are approved shall be expected to purchase the approved proprietary drug from a participating pharmacist, and to initially pay the cost of the drug out-ofpocket. All covered out-of-pocket expenses shall thereafter be reimbursed by the City.
2.	(a) Employees shall continue to pay $5.00 as a co-payment for each
prescription purchased under the City Health Care Program under this subparagraph. In addition, each employee who participates in the prescription program shall pay a monthly premium of $3.50.
(b)	Effective January 1, 2002, the Employer may implement an increase as provided in Paragraph B.2.c. of this addendum in the co-payment that is required for a prescription purchased under the City Prescription Program, provided, however, that if it does implement a co-pay increase, the Employer shall discontinue the monthly premium of $3.50.
(c)	The co-pays set by the Employer effective January 1, 2002, may be threetiered, that is, in three different classifications; $5.00 for a generic drug; $10.00 for a brand name drug; and $15.00 for a non-preferred drug.
(d)	If it intends to implement a three-tiered co-pay prescription program, then on or before October 1, 2001, the Employer shall provide to the Union a schedule of the drugs classified as generic, brand name and non-preferred. The Employer shall not be arbitrary in its assignment of a drug to one co-pay classification as opposed to another.
3.	The employees represented by the Union shall not receive any terms which are less favorable than those subsequently offered to any other bargaining unit with regard to prescription drug coverage. Should any co-payment be
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
47
less, the employees covered by this Agreement shall pay only the lesser amount required of the other unit(s).
4.	Employees who are enrolled in HMO programs shall be required to utilize the prescription drug card issued by the HMO in which they are enrolled, with a co-pay equal in amount to that mentioned in Subparagraph 2 hereof.
5.	The Employer shall, before October 1, 1995, implement an administrative process which shall equalize the cost of all HMO prescription programs for employees (and dependents) who use maintenance drugs, so as to be comparable to the universal drug program.
6.	Effective January 1, 1997, eligible unmarried dependents who are full-time students shall be covered by Baltimore City's General Prescription Drug and Vision Care Programs until the end of the calendar year the dependents reach age 23 or to the end of the year they cease being full-time students, whichever occurs first. Verification of enrollment must be provided in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Employee Benefits Division.
C.	Health Maintenance Organizations (HMO) Alternative
D.	Request for Documents
1.	The Employer shall make available to the Union copies of all documents which describe and define the provider obligations of each health insurer, health maintenance organization and other entity that is to provide any health service to any bargaining unit members or their dependents. Such documents shall include the Request for Proposal and Specifications and final contract or agreement with the City of Baltimore, and Summary Plan Description prepared or issued relating to the services that are to be provided to the extent such documents are available. Such programs shall include, without limitation, health, major medical, dental, drug and vision care.
2.	For the subsequent health plan year, the Employer shall make available to the Union copies of all documents which describe and define the provider obligations of each health insurer, health maintenance organization and other entity that is to provide any health service to any bargaining unit members or their dependents, as soon as such documents are available.
3.	The Employer shall further make available to the Union copies of any Request for Proposal and Specifications before any such document is
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
48
released for bid. In addition, the Union shall be notified of the time, date, and place of any pre-bid meeting conducted with interested parties on the RFP. If any amendments are drawn to the RFP, copies of such amendment also shall promptly be furnished to the Union. Such documents shall include the Request for Proposal and Specifications and final contract or agreement with the City of Baltimore, and Summary Plan Description prepared or issued relating to the services that are to be provided.
4.	Further, the Employer also shall furnish copies of any midterm amendment or adjustment to the programs before the terms of any such amendment or adjustment are implemented.
E.	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Benefits (Double Indemnity) as set forth in Article 11.
f. Optical Plan (Level II).
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
49
ADDENDUM B-1
TOTAL ANNUAL SALARY SCALES—FY01
Effective - 07/01/00
Grade	Hiring Level	Full Performance	Experienced Level	Maximum Level	LI-4*
314	29,243	30,297	34,327	35,185	880
316	28,563	33,209	44,503	45,616	1,140
317	28,563	33,209	44,503	45,616	1,140
324	26,743	31,121	42,165	43,219	1,080
325	31,368	35,858	46,997	48,171	1,204
334	26,066	30,327	41,227	42,258	1,056
335	26,931	31,337	42,422	43,483	1,087
336	27,871	32,436	43,732	44,826	1,121
337	30,162	35,103	45,023	46,149	1,154
Apprentice Wage Scale
Fiscal Year 2001
Baltimore City Fire Department
Name of Occupation:
Journeyperson's Rate: $41,227
*Journeyperson’s Rate is based on the Experienced Level salary of Fire Fighter, Grade 334.
The progressive wage scale for the apprentices in this trade will be as follows:
Level	Hourly Rate	Annual Rate	Percent of Full Rate
Full Performance A	$11.57	$25,973	63%
Full Performance B	$13.78	$30,920	75%
Experience	$18.37	$41,227	100%
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
50
ADDENDUM B-2
TOTAL ANNUAL SALARY SCALES FY 02
Effective -07/01/01
Grade	Hiring Level	Full Performance	Experienced Level	Maximum Level	LI	L2-5
314	30,267	31,357	35,528	36,416	182	1,092
316	29,563	34,371	46,061	47,213	236	1,416
317	29,563	34,371	46,061	47,213	236	1,416
324	27,679	32,210	43,641	44,732	224	1,342
325	32,466	37,113	48,642	49,857	249	1,496
334	26,978	31,388	42,670	43,737	219	1,312
335	27,874	32,434	43,907	45,005	225	1,350
336	28,846	33,571	45,263	46,395	232	1,392
337	31,218	36,332	46,599	47,764	239	1,433
Apprentice Wage Scale
Fiscal Year 2002
Baltimore City Fire Department
Name of Occupation:
Journeyperson's Rate: $43,170
*Journeyperson’s Rate is based on the Experienced Level salary of Fire Fighter, Grade 334 with a $500 addend for EMT Certification included upon completion of training.
The progressive wage scale for the apprentices in this trade will be as follows:
Level
Full Performance A Full Performance B
Experience
Hourly Rate	Annual Rate	Percent of Full Rate
$11.98	$26,882	63%
$14.26	$32,003	75%
$19.24	$43,170	100%
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
51
ADDENDUM B-3
TOTAL ANNUAL SALARY SCALES—FY03
Effective -07/01/02
Grade	Hiring Level	Full Performance	Experienced Level	Maximum Level	LI	L2-5
314	31,326	32,454	36,771	37,691	377	1,319
316	30,598	35,574	47,673	48,865	489	1,710
317	30,598	35,574	47,673	48,865	489	1,710
324	28,648	33,337	45,168	46,298	463	1,620
325	33,602	38,412	50,344	51,602	516	1,806
334	27,922	32,487	44,163	45,268	453	1,584
335	28,850	33,569	45,444	46,580	466	1,630
336	29,856	34,746	46,847	48,019	480	1,681
337	32,311	37,604	48,230	49,436	494	1,730
Apprentice Wage Scale
Fiscal Year 2003
Baltimore City Fire Department
Name of Occupation:
Journeyperson's Rate: $44,663
*Journeyperson’s Rate is based on the Experienced Level salary of Fire Fighter, Grade 334 with a $500 addend for EMT Certification included upon completion of training.
The progressive wage scale for the apprentices in this trade will be as follows:
Level	Hourly Rate	Annual Rate	Percent of Full Rate*
Full Performance A	$12.40	$27,823	63%
Full Performance B	$14.76	$33,122	75%
Experience	$19.90	$44,663	100%
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
52
ADDENDUM C
WORK SCHEDULE
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
53
ADDENDUM D
ARBITRATION SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT FY 1998
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
54
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
55
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
56
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
57
ADDENDUM E
ARBITRATION SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT FY 1999
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
58
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
59
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
60
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
61
ADDENDUM F
ARBITRATION SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT FY 2000
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
62
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
63
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
64
ADDENDUM G
APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
March 1, 2001
Richard G. Schluderberg, President
Baltimore Fire Fighters Association
Local #734
1202 Ridgley Street
Baltimore, Maryland 21230
Re: Apprentice Program
Dear Mr. Schluderberg:
The Employer reaffirms its commitment to and support of the Joint Apprenticeship Program (“the Program”). To that end, it shall reconstitute the Program Committee, and it shall devote its best efforts to fully effect the Program as it is defined in the Joint Apprenticeship Program’s official standards.
Sincerely,
Robert S. Hillman
Acting Labor Commissioner
ACCEPTED FOR IAFF, LOCAL 734:
Richard G. Schluderberg, President
RSH/DMC/ldj/FF 734 FY 2002.doc
cc:	Denise F. Gregory
Carl McDonald
Deborah F. Moore-Carter
Michael Dalton
Howard Abrahams
William Godwin
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
65
ADDENDUM H RELEASE FROM WORK
March 1, 2001
Richard G. Schluderberg, President
Baltimore Fire Fighters Association
Local #734
1202 Ridgley Street
Baltimore, Maryland 21230
Re: Time Off To Process Grievances and Attend Committee Meetings
Dear Mr. Schluderberg:
Callbacks, except for major emergency incidents, shall not be a reason to deny leave under Article 7 and Article 15 of the Memorandum of Understanding.
Sincerely,
Robert S. Hillman
Acting Labor Commissioner
Accepted For Baltimore Fire Fighters, Local 734, IAFF:
Richard G. Schluderberg, President
RSH/DMC/ldj/FF 734 FY 2002.doc
cc:	Denise F. Gregory
Carl McDonald
Deborah F. Moore-Carter
Michael Dalton
Howard Abrahams
William Godwin
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
66
FF 734 FY 2002-03.doc
67