FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS

/Oh
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
THE CITY OF JACKSONVILLE
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF FIREFIGHTERS
LOCAL 122
(Fire Fighters, Fire Engineers, Fire Lieutenants & Fire Captains)
October 1,2003 through September 30,2005
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS
TABLE OF CONTENTS ARTICLE	TITLE	PAGE
PREAMBLE...................................................1
1	UNION RECOGNITION.......................................3
2	UNION SECURITY AND CHECK OFF............................5
3	UNION ACTIVITIES........................................7
4	BULLETIN BOARDS.........................................9
5	MANAGEMENT SECURITY....................................11
6	SAVINGS CLAUSE.........................................13
7	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS .....................................15
8	STAFFING...............................................17
9	WORK RULES.............................................19
10	SPECIAL MEETINGS.......................................21
11	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME PAYMENT.....................23
12	WAGES..................................................25
13	PROMOTIONS.............................................29
14	EMPLOYEE BENEFITS......................................31
15	UNIFORMS AND EQUIPMENT.................................35
16	SAFETY AND HEALTH....................................  37
17	INJURY IN LINE OF DUTY.................................39
18	HOLIDAYS...............................................41
19	PERSONAL LEAVE (PLANE).................................43
20	PERSONAL LEAVE (PLAN P)................................47
21	MILITARY LEAVE.........................................51
22	DRUG ABUSE POLICY AND PROCEDURES.......................53
23	EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM............................57
24	DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE...............................59
25	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE....................................61
26	SEVERABILITY.........................................  65
27	ENTIRE AGREEMENT.......................................67
28	DURATION OF AGREEMENT..................................69
SCHEDULE A.............................................71
SCHEDULE B.............................................73
SCHEDULE C.............................................75
SCHEDULED..............................................77
SIGNATURE PAGE INDEX
FIREFIGHTERS
CAPTAINS
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS
PREAMBLE
This Agreement is entered into between the City of Jacksonville (the Employer) and Local 122 of the International Association of Fire Fighters, (the Union). The parties entered into this Agreement: 1) to assure sound and mutually beneficial working and economic relationships between the parties; 2) to provide an orderly and peaceful means of resolving any misunderstanding or difference which may arise; and 3) to establish rates of pay, hours, and terms and conditions of employment. No individual arrangement that is contrary to the terms of this Agreement shall be enforceable. The City of Jacksonville is engaged in furnishing essential public services which vitally affect the health, safety, comfort, and general well being of the public. Therefore, both parties recognize the need for continuous and reliable service to the public.
1
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS
ARTICLE 1 UNION RECOGNITION
1.1	The City of Jacksonville recognizes the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining representative for those Fire Fighters that the Union is authorized to represent for the purpose of bargaining collectively concerning wages, rates of pay, and other terms and conditions of employment, unless the Public Employees Relations Commission revokes the Union’s certification pursuant to a vote of a majority of the bargaining unit employees.
1.2	“Employee” is defined as any full-time, classified member of the Jacksonville Fire and Rescue Department, as listed in Section 1.3, who is employed to engage in prevention or suppression of fires, emergency medical services, and other related duties.
1.3	The bargaining unit is comprised of all employees of the Jacksonville Fire and Rescue Department in the following classifications:
FIREFIGHTER
FIRE ENGINEER
FIRE LIEUTENANT
FIRE CAPTAIN
Additional class titles created pursuant to the Civil Service and Personnel Rules and Regulations which entail duties that are now being performed by employees covered by this Agreement shall be included in the bargaining unit.
1.4	The Union President or his/her alternate will be the official spokesman for the Union in any matters pertaining to this Agreement. The alternate shall be selected from one of the Officers listed below and in the order listed:
BUSINESS AGENT
FIRST VICE-PRESIDENT
SECOND VICE-PRESIDENT
SECRETARY-TREASURER
In the event none of the designated alternates will be available, the Union President may appoint a designee to act in this capacity and shall notify the Fire Chief and Chief of Human Resources of said appointment in writing.
A written list of the officers of the IAFF shall be furnished to the Fire Chief and the Chief of Human Resources as soon as practicable after their selection.
3
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS
ARTICLE 2 UNION SECURITY AND CHECK OFF
2.1	The Employer will, within thirty (30) days after ratification of this Agreement, without cost to the Union, place one (1) copy of this Agreement in each working location.
2.2	Upon receipt of a written authorization from an employee, the Employer will deduct from the employee's pay the amount the employee owes the Union for dues and uniform assessments. This provision will provide for twenty-six (26) deductions per year. The Employer will remit the amount deducted to the Union within fifteen (15) days. The Union will certify changes in the Union membership dues rate by notifying the Employer in writing at least thirty (30) days in advance of the effective date of such change. The Union's certification shall include the signature of the authorized officer or officers of the Union. The Employer will assess a charge not to exceed four cents per deduction in each payroll period where such dues or uniform assessments are collected. The Employer's remittance will be deemed correct if the Union does not notify the Employer within two (2) calendar weeks after a remittance is received that the Union believes the remittance is incorrect and the reason for that belief.
2.3	No deduction shall be made from the pay of any employee for any payroll period in which the employee's net earnings for that payroll period are less than the amount of dues to be deducted. The Employer will not be responsible for refunds to the employee if the employee has duplicated a check-off deduction by direct payment to the Union. An employee may revoke his/her authorization for dues deduction by giving the Union and the Employer notice in writing thirty (30) days in advance.
2.4	The Union will indemnify, defend, and hold the Employer harmless against any claim made and against any suit instituted against the Employer on account of any deduction for Union dues.
2.5	All Union activities are protected to the extent they are authorized by law or by this Agreement. Duly authorized representatives of the Union have the right to present the view of Union members.
2.6	All employees covered by this Agreement shall be governed by the applicable Civil Service and Personnel Rules and Regulations and Fire and Rescue Department Rules and Regulations. Any recommended changes in the Civil Service and Personnel Rules and Regulations which affect the employees in this unit will be presented in writing to the Union President a reasonable time before the meeting at which the change/s will be discussed. Likewise, any changes to the Jacksonville Fire and Rescue Department’s rules and regulations proposed by the Union which affect the employees in this unit will be presented in writing to the Fire Chief by the President of the Union within a reasonable time before the meeting at which the change(s) will be discussed.
5
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS
ARTICLE 3 UNION ACTIVITIES
3.1	Employees shall have the right to form, join, and participate in or to refrain from joining or participating in the Union. Employees shall have the right to engage in concerted activities not prohibited by law, for the purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection. Employees shall also have the right to refrain from engaging in such activities.
3.2	Employees may donate to the Union pool annual leave, holiday, or other leave time, other than sick leave, in increments of three (3) hours toward a pool of time which may be drawn upon at the discretion of the Union.
3.3	The Employer will allocate a bank of 9,000 hours per fiscal year to be used for official Union business. Hours not used during the fiscal year can be carried over to the next fiscal year up to 500 hours.
3.4	The pool time provided for in Section 3.2 and 3.3 may be used in the conduct of Union business or related activities, but shall not be used for political activities. Charges against the pool time shall only be made when approved by the President, Business Agent, First Vice President, Secretary-Treasurer, or another official authorized in writing by the President for that purpose. No more than two (2) employees are allowed to use pool time for any one (1) occasion at any one (1) time. When there is a request to use pool time by more than two (2) employees for the same time period, the employees involved shall submit appropriate leave forms at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the use of pool time. No more than two (2) employees from the same company can use pool time at the same time. Employees who request to use pool time must state the reason they are applying for use of Union pool time. The Director/Fire Chief or designee of the Fire and Rescue Department must approve the use of pool time when more than five (5) employees request it for the same time.
3.5	Up to five (5) officers or other representatives of the Union may take reasonable time off during working hours without loss of pay to negotiate with the Employer. Union representatives requesting time off with pay to negotiate must obtain the approval of the Director/Fire Chief, or designee.
3.6	The Union President, Business Agent, First Vice President, Second Vice President, Secretary-Treasurer, or another official authorized in writing by the President will be granted reasonable time off to process grievances upon approval by the Director/Fire Chief or designee provided that the employee's absence will not adversely affect the operation and staffing of the Department.
3.7	The Union may schedule meetings that are pertinent to the Union or Fire and Rescue Department business on Fire and Rescue Department property provided that the meetings are not disruptive of the duties of the employees or the efficient operation of the Department. The Union must obtain permission for such meetings in advance from the Director/Fire Chief or designee. This section shall not be construed to allow regularly scheduled Union meetings on Fire and Rescue Department property.
3.8	There shall be no discrimination against or intimidation of any employee because of the employee's membership or lack of membership in the Union or by virtue of his/her holding office or not holding office in the Union, except that the certified bargaining agent shall not be required to process grievances for employees who are not members of the organization.
3.9	Employees at each working location shall be entitled to a representative who shall be designated as "Steward."
3.10	The Union shall furnish a complete list of Stewards to the Director/Fire Chief and the Chief of Human Resources, and any changes of Stewards shall be promptly reported by the Union to the Director/Fire Chief and the Chief of Human Resources.
7
FIREFIGHTERS
CAPTAINS
ARTICLE 4 BULLETIN BOARDS
4.1	The Employer will allow the Union partial use of bulletin board space in the various work locations.
4.2	In the alternative, the Union shall have the right at its own expense to place a Union bulletin board, not to
exceed four (4) feet by three (3) feet, in available space in the watch room or kitchen area of each station.
4.3	The bulletin board or the Data Dispatch System (DDS) may be used only for the following purposes:
Notice of Union Meetings
Union Bulletins
Reports of Union Committees
Rulings and Policies of the Union
Recreational and Social Affairs of the Union
Actions of Public Bodies
Notice of Elections of Union Officials
4.4	No material, notices, or announcements shall be posted by the Union which contain anything adversely reflecting upon the City of Jacksonville, its Independent Agencies, its employees, or any labor organization among its employees. Any proven violation of this section by the Union shall entitle the Employer to cancel immediately the provisions of this Article and remove that bulletin board or the partial use thereof.
9
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS
ARTICLE 5 MANAGEMENT SECURITY
5.1	The Union and its officers, agents and members agree that they shall have no right to promote, sponsor, or engage in any work stoppage, work slow-down, or strike. Management shall have the right to discharge or otherwise discipline any or all employees who violate the provisions of this section. The only question that may be raised in any proceeding (grievance, judicial or otherwise) contesting such action is whether the provision prohibiting a work stoppage, work slow-down, or strike, was violated by the employee to be discharged or otherwise disciplined.
5.2	All employees shall faithfully perform their duties.
5.3	The Employer and the Union agree that the basic intent of this Agreement is to provide a fan-day's work in return for a fair day's pay and to provide conditions of employment suitable to maintain a competent work force. The Employer and the Union affirm their joint opposition to any discriminatory practices in connection with employment, promotion, or training, remembering that the public interest requires the full utilization of the employee's skill and ability without regard to race, color, creed, national origin, or sex.
5.4	The Employer and Union agree to take all actions necessary to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.
11
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS
ARTICLE 6 SAVINGS CLAUSE
Management retains all rights it had prior to the signing of this Agreement except as such rights are specifically relinquished or abridged in this Agreement. All privileges, benefits, and rights enjoyed by employees in this bargaining unit, which are not specifically provided for or abridged in this Agreement, are hereby protected by this Agreement.
13
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS
ARTICLE 7 MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
7.1	The Employer has the right to unilaterally determine the purpose of each of its constituent agencies, to set standards of service to be offered to the public, and to exercise control and discretion over its organization and operations. The Employer also has the right to direct its employees, take disciplinary action for proper cause, to relieve its employees from duty because of lack of work or for other legitimate reasons, and determine the methods, means, and personnel by which the Employer's operations are to be conducted; provided, however, that the exercise of such rights shall not preclude employees or their representatives from raising grievances, should the practical consequences of a decision on these matters violate this Agreement.
7.2	It is understood by both parties to this Agreement that every incidental duty connected with operations enumerated in job descriptions is not always specifically described, and that employees may be required to perform duties not within their job descriptions if the work is similar, related, or a logical assignment to the position within the Fire and Rescue Department.
15
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS
ARTICLE 8 STAFFING
8.1	The assigned personnel strength of all activities of the Fire and Rescue Department will be at the discretion of the Director/Fire Chief.
8.2	An employee covered by this Agreement assigned to a station may substitute for an employee in the same or another station, provided that the substitution is approved by both the officer in charge of the Company where the duty will be performed and by the District/Battalion Chief.
8.3	Whenever it is determined that Civil Emergency conditions exist, including riots, civil disorders, hurricane conditions, or similar catastrophes, or when such conditions can reasonably be determined to be imminent, excluding the normal operational requirements of major civic/sporting events such as the Super Bowl, the staffing and notification provisions of this Agreement may be suspended by the Mayor during the time of the declared emergency provided that wage rates and monetary fringe benefits shall not be suspended.1
1 The parties have agreed to this provision so that in anticipation of a specific emergency, and for the duration of emergency conditions, JFRD can deploy staff to prepare, respond and recover from the emergency and its aftermath without having to follow nominal notification and similar administrative procedures. This provision does not change the parties’ obligation to observe all terms of the agreement outside of the emergency period.
17
FIREFIGHTERS
CAPTAINS
ARTICLE 9 WORK RULES
9.1	All work rules, regulations, and guidelines shall be in writing.
9.2	Work rules, regulations, and guidelines in effect on the effective date of this Agreement shall remain in force and effect until repealed, or amended by the Director/Fire Chief pursuant to this article.
9.3	Work rules, regulations, and guidelines formulated or amended after the effective date of this Agreement shall not be formally adopted or amended by the Director/Fire Chief until the Director/Fire Chief has first provided a copy of such proposed rule, regulation or guideline or amendment thereto to the Union and given the Union a reasonable opportunity to provide written or oral comments or to meet and discuss the proposed rule, regulation, or guideline or amendment thereto.
9.4	Work rules, regulations, or guidelines or amendments thereto may be drafted by the Director/Fire Chief or a member of his/her administrative or managerial staff. Such work rules, regulations, or guidelines or amendments thereto shall be formally adopted or amended by the Director/Fire Chief in accordance with section 9.3.
9.5	In the event the Director/Fire Chief convenes a committee comprised of Fire Department employees for the purpose of creating or recommending changes to work rules, regulations, or guidelines or for the purpose of considering proposed rules, regulations, or guidelines drafted by the Director/Fire Chief or a member of his/her administrative or managerial staff, the Union President or designee shall be a member of that committee. Participation by the Union President or designee on such a committee shall satisfy the requirements of section 9.3.
9.6	All individual work location rules (such as apparatus day, window day, starting time, etc.) will be as uniform as possible. Individual work location rules shall be adopted by Station Management, and are excluded from the requirements for adoption of work rules, regulations, or guidelines set forth in sections 9.2 through 9.5.
19
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS
ARTICLE 10
SPECIAL MEETINGS
The Employer and the Union agree to meet and confer on matters of interest upon the written request of either party. The written request shall state the nature of the matters to be discussed and the reason(s) for requesting the meeting. Discussion shall be limited to matters set forth in the request or other subjects mutually agreed to, but these special meetings shall not be used to renegotiate this Agreement. Such special meetings shall be held within five (5) calendar days of the receipt of the written request, and at a time and place mutually agreeable to the parties.
21
FIREFIGHTERS
CAPTAINS
11.1
11.2
11.3
11.4
11.5
11.6
11.7
11.8
ARTICLE 11
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME PAYMENT
All staffing requirements shall be determined by the Director/Fire Chief or his/her designee.
Employees shall normally be scheduled to work as follows:
(a)	forty (40) hours per week during a seven (7) day workweek beginning on Monday and ending on Sunday;
(b)	an average of forty-two (42) hours per week during a work period of fourteen days, with the normal work schedule consisting of seven (7) work days of twelve (12) hours each during the period; or
(c)	an average of fifty-six (56) hours per week during a twenty-seven (27) day work period, with the normal work schedule consisting of twenty-four (24) hours on duty followed by forty-eight (48) hours off duty.
(a)	Employees who work a forty (40) hour work schedule shall be compensated at time and one-half (1-1/2) for hours worked in excess of forty (40) per work week.
(b)	Employees on a fifty-six (56) hour schedule shall receive extra compensation at the rate of one-half (1/2) their regular rate of pay for normally scheduled hours worked in excess of two hundred four (204) hours during the twenty-seven day work period. For purposes of this subsection, the term "hours worked" shall only include, in addition to regular duty hours, military leave, Union pool time, and special assignments, and LOA (swap time).
No employee may authorize overtime for him/herself, but shall be entitled to receive overtime as appropriately authorized by his/her supervisor.
It is the responsibility of the Employer to distribute the opportunity for overtime work as equally as possible among the employees.
An employee who has left his/her normal place of work and is called back for overtime work shall be paid for a minimum of two and one-half (2-1/2) hours at time and one-half his/her hourly rate of pay for such overtime work.
The regular rate of pay for overtime purposes shall include the employee's base salary, longevity or service increases, shift differential, out of classification or special assignment pay, supplemental or incentive pay for special certification or completion of college course work. Employee awards or bonuses for attendance or job performance are also included in the regular rate of pay, when such awards or bonuses are required to be included in the regular rate by Fair Labor Standards Act Regulations.
Any employee required to work in excess of his/her normal tour of duty as a result of his/her relief being late shall be paid a minimum of one (1) hour at overtime rates. Any employee required to work in excess of his/her normal tour of duty as a result of a run extending beyond his/her regular work time shall be paid at overtime rates for the actual time worked, unless such time exceeds thirty (30) minutes. If an employee is required to work more than thirty (30) minutes, the employee shall be paid a minimum of two (2) hours at overtime rates.
23
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS ARTICLE 12
WAGES
12 .1 (a) All employees shall be compensated in accordance with the pay plan attached hereto and made a part hereof, referred to as Schedules A through D and the same shall constitute the pay plan for employees covered by this Agreement.
(b) Each employee shall progress in the pay plan as follows:
(1)	An employee who has completed the time requirements in his/her respective step of the pay plan, and is eligible for a one (1) step upward movement in the pay plan, shall receive the next higher rate of compensation. This progression in the pay plan shall be determined by his/her anniversary date within the Fire and Rescue Department. All employees not eligible for movement in the pay plan shall remain in their present step until eligible.
(2)	The Director/Fire Chief shall recommend in writing to the Chief of Human Resources the advancement in salary of each employee who has met the requirements for pay advancement as provided herein. For advancement through the steps of a pay grade to which an employee has been assigned, the employee's step increase shall be automatic, beginning with the first pay period following completion of the required time of service after his/her date of employment in the Fire and Rescue Department, if the following conditions are met:
(A)	The employee is in good health and physical condition and capable of performing the duties required of the job classification.
(B)	The employee's performance in the job is satisfactory for the period required prior to the advancement to the next step.
(C)	If the performance of the employee is not satisfactory, or his/her health is
such he/she cannot perform his/her duties, the step increase may be delayed for a period of six (6) months at which time his or her performance will be reevaluated. If his/her performance has not increased substantially, the delay can be extended for another six (6) months for another evaluation. This process will be repeated until the employee's performance improves to the required standard. On the job injury will not be a satisfactory reason to preclude advancement. Excessive use and/or abuse of personal leave or sick leave for sick use will be considered unsatisfactory performance.
(D)	The employee will be advised in writing as to the reason his/her step increase was denied; and if the employee does not agree, he/she may use the grievance procedure, beginning at Step II.
(E)	All recommendations for salary advancement within grade shall bear the approval and recommendation of the employee's officer in charge and the Director/Fire Chief.
(F)	An employee who is eligible to advance in the steps shall have their time of service calculated from the time they entered on duty as a fire fighter with the City of Jacksonville.
25
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS
12.2	Any employee performing the duties of any classification above his/her permanent
classification and assigned to that higher classification by the Fire and Rescue Department shall receive pay at the rate of that higher classification upon the completion of six (6) hours of continuous duty in that higher classification. The Senior Lieutenant of a company shall not be deemed to have worked above his/her classification until the company Captain has been absent three (3) consecutive tours of duty.
12.3	Evaluation for satisfactory service shall be standard and in writing throughout the Fire
and Rescue Department with each activity using the same accepted evaluation form and procedure. Any employee who is dissatisfied with his/her evaluation may follow the Grievance Procedure set forth in Article 25.
12.4	(a) Pay Incentive for College Credit.
(1)	For the purposes of this section, the term "Fire Sciences" shall mean those subjects as outlined in the Fire Science and Prevention program of study as published in the catalogue of Florida Community College at Jacksonville.
(A)	Each employee in the bargaining unit who has successfully completed at least thirty (30) semester hours toward an Associate of Arts or Associate of Science degree, with at least twelve (12) of said semester hours to be entirely in the Fire Sciences, shall receive a fifty dollar ($50.00) per month pay differential.
(B)	Employees assigned to the Rescue Activity who have successfully completed at least thirty (30) semester hours toward an Associate of Arts or Associate of Science degree with at least twelve (12) semester hours to be entirely job related (in the health field), as attested to by Florida Community College at Jacksonville in accordance with the list of job related courses established for those employees, shall receive a fifty dollar ($50.00) per month pay differential.
(C)	Any pay increment received by an employee after having acquired the initial thirty (30) hours under this college pay incentive plan shall apply only so long as the employee receiving the pay increment continues his/her educational program without any break in enrollments, except for summer sessions. This provision for a continued educational program shall be inapplicable once the employee has acquired the Associate of Arts or Associate of Science degree. The only exception granted shall be for sickness or accidental injury, and only then after asking and receiving exception for such existing condition from a committee to be selected by the Chief of Human Resources and composed of the Director/Fire Chief, one (1) representative from Florida Community College at Jacksonville, and one (1) representative from Local 122.
(D)	Each employee in the bargaining unit who has successfully completed at least sixty (60) semester hours and possesses an Associate of Arts or Associate of Science degree, with at least eighteen (18) semester hours to be entirely in the Fire Sciences, shall receive a one hundred dollar ($100.00) per month pay differential.
(E)	Employees assigned to the Rescue Activity who have successfully completed sixty (60) semester hours and possess an Associate of Arts or an Associate of Science degree with at least eighteen (18) semester hours
27
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS
ARTICLE 13 PROMOTIONS
13.1	All promotional examinations shall be assembled, written, and solely administered by an
outside testing service.
13.2	The passing grade for all promotional examinations shall be seventy percent (70%),
except that when the Chief of Human Resources certifies that the seventy percent (70%) passing score results in an adverse impact (as defined by the Federal Uniform Guidelines on Employee Selection Procedures) on any federally protected class, a new validated pass score shall be established using psychometrically sound procedures that are in accordance with the Federal Guidelines on Employee Selection Procedures.
13.3	The following seniority credit shall be added to all passing scores for the ranks of
Engineer, Lieutenant, and Captain:
(a)	One-half (1/2) point shall be added for each year of continuous service in the Fire and Rescue Department, up to a maximum of five (5) points.
(b)	An additional one-half (1/2) point shall be added for each continuous year in the class or position immediately below the class for which the promotional exam is given, up to a maximum of five (5) points.
(1)	Provided, however, no such credit will be given when a promotional examination is held for any class of employment which is directly above the entrance level.
(2)	The entrance level shall be construed as the lowest entrance level at which the employees or any portion thereof participating in such promotional examination entered the service of the Fire and Rescue Department.
13.4	All persons with a passing score shall be ranked by resulting numerical score, with the
person attaining the highest score ranked first. The top name of the list shall be certified first.
13.5	The life of a promotional list shall be two (2) years.
13.6	Any person may be removed from the promotional list after three (3) offers of a
probationary appointment have been declined.
13.7	Provided there is a position available for such promotion, there shall be no more than six
(6) months between the expiration of a certified promotional examination and the next examination for those positions.
13.8	Line of Promotion is as follows: From Fire Fighter to Engineer to Lieutenant to Captain.
13.9	Standard external reading lists for promotional examinations shall be established for all
promotional classifications within the Jacksonville Fire and Rescue Department. JFRD will furnish all station/work location libraries with copies of reading list books and
29
FIREFIGHTERS
CAPTAINS
14.1
14.2
14.3
14.4
ARTICLE 14 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Employees who are required to use a private vehicle in the performance of their duties shall be reimbursed for the use of that private vehicle at the rate provided by ordinance.
(a)	The Employer shall repair or replace an employee's prescription eyeglasses, contact lenses, and personal watches when all of the following conditions are met:
(1)	the item was damaged or lost as a result of the employee's performance of his/her duties;
(2)	the damage or loss was not a result of the employee's own negligence, or failure to use proper protective equipment;
(3)	the employee immediately reports the damage or loss to the person in charge at the emergency or work location, in writing within twenty-four (24) hours after the occurrence of the damage or loss, on a form provided for this purpose; and
(4)	the person in charge at the emergency or work location certifies in writing that the damage or loss occurred as a result of the employee's performance of his/her duties, and that the employee is entitled to repair or replacement of the item under the provisions of this section.
(b)	When the conditions of Section 14.2(a) are met, the Employer shall either repair or replace the prescription eyeglasses, contact lenses, or personal watch, whichever results in a lower cost to the Employer.
(c)	The Employer shall not be required to repair or replace jewelry (other than the employee's personal watch), telephones, pagers or other electronic devices.
(d)	In no event shall the Employer be required to pay more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) toward the repair or replacement of any item that is covered by this section and no more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) toward the repair or replacement of the employee’s personal watch.
Effective October 1, 2004, any employee utilizing a private vehicle who is required to report to a station other than his/her regular work location, shall be paid a seven dollar ($7.00) transfer payment. Effective September 30, 2005, the transfer payment shall increase to eight dollars ($8.00). This payment will be made for the first transfer to each different station. Payment will not be made for subsequent consecutive transfers to the same work location, providing the employee has been advised of subsequent consecutive transfers. Employees shall receive transfer payments quarterly, within thirty (30) days of the request for such payment.
Employees shall submit quarterly requests for reimbursement for automobile allowance, mileage payments, and tolls. The Employer will reimburse the employee for these expenses within thirty (30) days after submission of the request for reimbursement.
31
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS
14.11 Supplemental Benefit:
(a)	A forty-eight dollar ($48.00) monthly meal allowance payable quarterly shall be paid to employees who work a fifty-six (56) hour work schedule.
(b)	A forty-eight dollar ($48.00) monthly supplemental cleaning allowance payable quarterly shall be paid to employees who work a forty (40) or forty-two (42) hour work schedule.
The supplemental cleaning allowance shall be in addition to the dry-cleaning and laundering allowance provided for in Section 15.5.
(c)	The maximum supplemental benefit payable pursuant to this section shall be forty-eight dollars per month. Under no circumstance shall any employee receive greater than the maximum of forty-eight dollars ($48.00) per month under any provision of this section.
33
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS
	ARTICLE 15 UNIFORMS AND EQUIPMENT
15.1	The Employer shall furnish new employees the entire initial uniform and turnout gear, as set forth by the Fire and Rescue Department Rules and Regulations, Standard Operating Procedures and Standard Administrative Procedures. The issuance, use and appearance of uniforms, turnout gear, personal linen and fire fighting safety equipment shall be governed by Fire and Rescue Department Regulations.
15.2	In subsequent years after initial employment, the Employer shall issue uniforms consistent with JFRD uniform issuance procedures.
15.3	Fire fighting safety equipment issuance (turnout gear, helmet, breathing equipment, boots, etc.) shall not be subject to the provisions of Section 15.2 above. It shall be furnished by the Employer subject to the Fire and Rescue Department regulations governing same. If, for any reason, the Employer cannot provide fire fighting safety equipment as indicated above, the employee shall not be considered as staffing for the day or days he/she is without this equipment and shall not suffer loss of pay or benefits. The Employer shall retain ownership of the fire fighting safety equipment.
15.4	The Employer shall pay a dry cleaning and laundering allowance in the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) quarterly. An employee is eligible for this allowance if he/she has worked or was on paid leave at least ten (10) days in each month of the quarter. Quarterly allowances shall be paid not later than the tenth (10th) day of the next month following the end of the quarter.
15.5	An employee who is on temporary or permanent assignment which requires the use of non-uniform type of clothing during duty hours shall be entitled to a quarterly clothing allowance, but only if he/she has worked or was on paid leave for at least ten (10) twelvehour shifts during each month of the quarter. This clothing allowance shall be the sum of two hundred dollars ($200.00). Any clothing allowance payable under this section shall be paid not later than the tenth (10th) day of the next month following the end of the quarter.
15.6	Upon his/her time service retirement, an employee who has been issued a helmet and turnout gear shall be entitled to keep same without charge.
35
FIREFIGHTERS
CAPTAINS
ARTICLE 16 SAFETY AND HEALTH
16.1	(a) The Employer strives to provide a safe and healthy work environment for employees by
minimizing exposure to known risks and by providing employees with the tools, equipment, protective devices, and training needed to perform their jobs safely.
(b)	Employees have the obligation to maintain themselves in a state of physical and mental preparedness to discharge the rigors of the job; to participate in training sufficient to maintain currency; to properly utilize tools, equipment, and protective devices and to use proper procedures including universal precautions, so as to perform their duties safely.
(c)	It is not the Employer's policy to expose employees to unnecessary hazards in the course of their employment nor to compensate employees for exposing themselves to risks and hazards due to unsafe work practices. Similarly, the Employer has a joint interest with employees in minimizing both the personal injury and harm and the expense that results from accidental injury in the course and scope of employment. The best way to accomplish this is through a mutual commitment to a safe work environment characterized by consistent adherence to safe work practices.
16.2	The parties mutually agree to the following in proactive furtherance of that commitment:
(a)	The Employer will comply with all applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations related to safety, health, sanitation, and working conditions.
(b)	The Employer will designate a Health and Safety Officer in accordance with standards established in National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Standards (1500, 1521, et al). The Health and Safety Officer may make written recommendations to the Director/Fire Chief on matters relating to health and safety and safety equipment, and shall provide copies of the recommendations to the IAFF. Such recommendations may provide the basis for improvements in safety practices, procedures, and equipment.
(c)	The Fire Rescue Department will establish an internal occupational safety committee to which the Union will appoint a member from the Firefighters-Captains bargaining unit and a member from the Fire Chiefs bargaining unit. The Union will notify the Employer of their assigned representatives, including any changes during the life of this Agreement. With prior notice to all members, the Safety Committee shall meet from time to time to research, develop and make recommendations to reduce and eliminate the most frequent and costly occupational injuries and to study and review matters relating to health and safety equipment. Committee recommendations shall be furnished in writing to the Director/Fire Chief and to the IAFF. Such recommendations may provide the basis for improvements in safety practices, procedures, and equipment.
(d)	The Fire Rescue Department will provide protective devices, wearing apparel, and other equipment to protect employees from injury.
(e)	The Fire Rescue Department will provide, on a voluntary basis, at no charge to the employee, inoculations for prevention of Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, Tetanus, and Tuberculosis.
(f)	In accordance with the Department's Rules and Regulations, Standard Administrative Procedures (SAP's), and Standard Operating Guidelines (SOG's), employees will
37
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS
ARTICLE 17 INJURY IN LINE OF DUTY
17.1	In addition to benefits payable under the Workers' Compensation Law of the State of Florida, the Employer shall provide the following benefits to an employee who sustains a temporary disability as a result of accidental injury in the course and scope of employment.
(a)	The City will make a supplemental payment in an amount equal to the difference between his/her net take-home pay and the Workers' Compensation payable for up to the first twenty (20) working days of such temporary disability as certified by the Employer's Workers' Compensation physician. Provided, however, that in no event shall any employee realize more than his/her net after-tax take-home pay as a result of receiving both Workers’ Compensation and supplemental benefit.
(b)	Thereafter, the Director of Fire Rescue/Fire Chief may, in his/her sole discretion (which discretion shall not be subject to contest or arbitration), continue the supplemental pay by incremental periods of up to twenty (20) working days. The extension of supplemental payments by the Director shall be based on criteria developed by the Director. The development of criteria to be used in determining whether there is to be an extension of supplemental payments shall be at the sole discretion of the Director and shall not be subject to contest or arbitration.
17.2	Any supplemental payments received under this Article shall be discontinued upon the earliest date that one of the following events occurs:
(a)	When the employee has been denied an extension of supplemental payments by the Director;
(b)	When the employee has received supplemental payments for twenty-four (24) weeks;
(c)	When the Employer's Workers' Compensation physician makes a medical determination
that the employee can return to full duty or a limited duty assignment; or
(d)	When the Employer's Workers' Compensation physician makes a medical determination that the employee will not be able to return to full duty.
17.3	Following discontinuation of supplemental pay, the employee shall be compensated in accordance with applicable provisions of the Workers' Compensation Laws of the State of Florida, and/or by his/her applicable pension and/or leave benefits.
17.4	An employee injured in the course and scope of employment shall be examined no less often than every twenty (20) working days [ten (10) shifts] by the Employer's Workers' Compensation physician who shall make a determination as to whether the employee is able to return to a limited duty assignment or to full duty. In the event of a disagreement between the employee's personal physician and the Employer's Workers' Compensation physician, the disagreement shall be resolved in accordance with applicable provisions of the Workers' Compensation Laws of the State of Florida. Such resolution shall be final and binding, and not subject to arbitration under the Agreement.
17.5	An employee who is injured in the line of duty, shall be assigned a Workers' Compensation Pay Code and, for administrative and reporting purposes, shall be assigned to a five (5) day, forty (40) hour schedule effective 8:00 a.m. on the start of the next pay period following the date of the
39
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS
18.1
(a)
(b)
ARTICLE 18 HOLIDAYS
The Fire and Rescue Department shall observe1 the following days as legal holidays established by applicable Council ordinances:
Date
Event
January 1st
Third Monday in January
Third Monday in February
Last Monday in May
July 4th
First Monday in September
November 11th
Fourth Thursday in November
Friday after Thanksgiving
December 24th
December 25 th
New Year's Day
Martin Luther King Day
Presidents' Day Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Veterans' Day Thanksgiving
Christmas Eve
Christmas Day
Personal Holiday2
Any day declared a holiday by Ordinance of the Council or Proclamation of the Mayor.
(1)
The holiday shall commence at the designated hour on the date of the holiday and shall continue for twenty-four (24) uninterrupted hours for all shift employees.
Type of Employee
56 hour shift employee 12 hour shift employee (Communication Center) 40 hour employees
Hour of Commencement
0800
0001
0800
(2)
All other employees not defined as shift employees shall take holiday time at the dates and the hours that the City of Jacksonville observes the holidays designated in Section 18.1(a).
18.2	In lieu of the holidays designated in Section 18.1(a), employees assigned to a forty-two
(42) hour work week shall be credited on January 1 of each year with twelve (12) eight (8) hour days as holiday leave.
18.3	In lieu of the holidays designated in Section 18.1(a), employees assigned to a fifty-six
(56) hour work week shall be credited on January 1 of each year with twelve (12) twelve (12) hour shifts as holiday leave.
’For the purpose of this article, "observe" means that the employee will report for duty if scheduled for duty on such holiday, and will thereafter be compensated for having worked a holiday as is provided in this Article.
^he personal holiday shall be taken at the option of the employee, provided scheduling is approved by the appropriate Division Chief.
41
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS
ARTICLE 19 PERSONAL LEAVE (PLAN E)
19.1	This Article shall apply to all permanent, probationary, and provisional employees of the following categories:
(a)	Employees hired on or after October 1, 1968, and prior to July 31, 1989.
(b)	Employees hired prior to October 1, 1968, but who chose not to remain subject to former
sick leave and terminal leave policies in April, 1969.
(c)	Employees hired prior to October 1, 1968, but who chose on or before December 15, 1979, to become subject to this provision.
(d)	Those employees who elected to use their option and participate in the personal leave plan shall remain in said plan until such time as this personal leave plan or policy is changed. Then said employees shall have the right to exercise their option as to which plan they wish to participate in.
19.2	(a)	Employees shall accrue personal leave according to the following schedule on a biweekly basis.	
		Years of Service:	Annual Accrual Rate:
		0 thru end of 4th year beginning of 5th thru end of 9th beginning of 10th thru 14 years beginning 15th thru 19 years beginning 20th thru 24 years beginning 25th years or more	20 days per year 23 days per year 26 days per year 29 days per year 32 days per year 35 days per year
(b)	The rate of accrual shall change to a higher rate on the employment anniversary date.
(c)	Employees shall accrue and be charged for actual hours used in accordance with the following schedule:
56 hour shift employees
40 hour shift employees For all other personnel
one (1) day equals 11.2 hours for accrual, usage, and payoff1
one (1) day equals 8 hours
one (1) day equals 8 hours
19.3	Employees, when eligible and authorized, may use their personal leave for any reason they deem necessary as provided in Section 19.4. Authorization shall not be unreasonably withheld.
19.4	Accrued personal leave for other than vacation purposes may be taken at any time when Authorized by the appropriate officer in charge and the appropriate Division Chief. Requests for * 8
1
1 hr. = .93, 2 hrs. = 1.87, 3 hrs. = 2.80,4 hrs. = 3.73, 5 hrs. = 4.67, 6 hrs. = 5.60,7 hrs. = 6.53,
8 hrs. = 7.46, 9 hrs. = 8.40, 10 hrs. = 9.33, 11 hrs. = 10.26, 12 hrs. = 11.20
43
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS required of the employee's classification. This examination may be conducted on the employee's time, and the Employer will pay for any medical or psychological exam so required.
19.11	Employees may be granted up to four (4) hours off without loss of pay as funeral leave to attend the funeral of an employee of the Fire and Rescue Department, when authorized by the Director/Fire Chief.
19.12	Upon termination, which includes resignation and discharge not for cause, the employee shall be paid for all accrued personal leave, and one (1) day for every two (2) days accrued in the employee's retirement account.
19.13	Upon retirement of an employee (including vesting under the pension law), the employee's personal leave account and retirement leave account shall be used or paid for on a day-for-day basis, up to a maximum of one hundred twenty (120) days in each account, under the following provisions:
(a)	Such leave may be taken either immediately prior to the desired eligible retirement date (which leave may then be used for the fulfillment of time service requirements) or following fulfillment of time service requirements.
(b)	Employees electing to use leave pursuant to subsection (a) above may be maintained on the regular payroll, thereby continuing to avail the employee of payroll deductions, pension contributions, and insurance deductions.
(c)	Requests to be placed on such leave shall be irrevocable.
(d)	While on personal leave, an employee shall accrue personal leave, shall be eligible for legal holidays, any general salary increases, and performance/step increases.
(e)	While on retirement leave, an employee shall not accrue personal leave, but shall be eligible for legal holidays and any general salary increases, but not performance/step increases.
(f)	If the employee elects not to take leave, the leave account shall be paid for in one lump sum, on a day-for-day basis.
19.14	(a) Upon the death of an employee, the employee's next of kin or estate, as determined in accordance with the law, shall be paid for all accrued personal and retirement leave on the basis of one day's pay for each day in said accounts.
(b) At the time of a death of a member of the employee's immediate family (as defined by the Civil Service and Personnel Rules and Regulations)2 a forty-hour employee shall receive up to three (3) days off without loss of pay, and a fifty-six hour employee shall receive a twenty-four (24) hour shift off without loss of pay, as bereavement leave, not otherwise chargeable.
2 The Civil Service and Personnel Rules and Regulations, as revised on March 1,1995, define immediate family as follows:
IMMEDIATE FAMILY - An individual's spouse, children, mother, father, brothers, sisters, half-brothers, half-sisters, aunts, uncles, grandparents, grandchildren, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brothers-in-law, sisters-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, step parents, step children, and other relatives who permanently reside with the individual.
45
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS
ARTICLE 20 PERSONAL LEAVE (PLAN P)
20.1	This Article shall apply to all permanent, probationary and provisional employees employed on or after July 31, 1989.
20.2	Method of Earning and Accruing Personal Leave:
(a) Employees shall accrue personal leave with pay for straight time hours worked in
accordance with the following schedule:
Years of Service:
Days Accrued Per Year:
0 months thru 4 years 5 years thru 9 years
10 years thru 14 years 15 years thru 19 years 20 years thru 24 years
25 years or more
20
23
26
29
32
35
The rate of accrual shall change to the higher rate on the date of the employment anniversary. Employees shall accrue and be charged for actual hours used in accordance with the following schedule:
56 hour shift employees
one (1) day equals 11.2 hours for accrual, usage and payoff1
40 hour shift employees
one (1) day equals 8 hours
For all other personnel
one (1) day equals 8 hours
(b)	Employees shall earn leave time based on time actually worked and time on approved leave with pay.
(c)	Personal leave will be credited to the employee at the rate stated in Section 20.2(a) on a bi-weekly basis. The leave shall be credited on the last day of the pay period.
(d)	The rate of accrual shall change to the higher rate on the anniversary date of employment.
20.3 Personal leave shall accrue to a maximum of seventy-five (75) days. Accrued and unused personal leave over seventy-five (75) days will be forfeited. However, at the end of the fiscal year, accrued and unused personal leave in excess of seventy-five (75) days may be sold back to the Employer to the extent that the employee had timely requested but was not permitted by the Employer to take the leave during that year. Such leave shall be sold back to the Employer at the employee's rate of pay at the end of the fiscal year. Employees shall request leave, and the Employer shall note approval or disapproval of such leave, on a form provided by the Employer. * 8
1 1 hr. = .93, 2 hrs. = 1.87, 3 hrs. = 2.80,4 hrs. = 3.73, 5 hrs. = 4.67, 6 hrs. = 5.60, 7 hrs. = 6.53,
8 hrs. = 7.46, 9 hrs. = 8.40, 10 hrs. = 9.33, 11 hrs. = 10.26, 12 hrs. = 11.20
47
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS
(b) At the time of a death of a member of the employee's immediate family as defined by the Civil Service and Personnel Rules and Regulations1 2 a forty-hour employee shall receive up to three (3) days off without loss of pay, and a fifty-six hour employee shall receive a
twenty-four (24) hour shift off without loss of pay, as bereavement leave, not otherwise chargeable.
1 The Civil Service and Personnel Rules and Regulations, as revised on March 1, 1995, define immediate family as follows: IMMEDIATE FAMILY - An individual's spouse, children, mother, father, brothers, sisters, half-
brothers, half-sisters, aunts, uncles, grandparents, grandchildren, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brothers-in-law, sisters-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, step parents, step children, and other relatives who permanently reside with the individual.
49
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS
ARTICLE 21 MILITARY LEAVE
21.1	■ Employees who are members of the National Guard, or organized military reserves of the United States, and who are ordered to attend annual training for active or inactive duty, shall be allowed not more than seventeen (17) working days of military leave, with pay, annually for this purpose. Military leave shall not be deducted from annual leave. No employee shall suffer loss of privileges or compensation as a result of such leave. For purposes of this Article, each twelve-hour shift or less shall equal one (1) working day of military leave. All other shifts over twelve hours and up to and including twenty-four hours shall equal two (2) working days of military leave.1
21.2	Employees requesting military leave are responsible for notifying their supervisors as soon as possible of the dates for such leave. The employee shall provide his/her supervisor with a copy of the official set of orders at the time he/she requests military leave.
21.3	Employees who are members of the reserve components mentioned above and who are required to attend regularly scheduled training throughout the year in excess of the allowable seventeen (17) working days per year, must apply for leave to attend these military training assemblies when they are scheduled to be on duty. Such leave will be without pay unless the employee takes vacation or other paid leave to which he/she is entitled. Employees who request time off for this purpose are responsible for advising their supervisors at the earliest possible time of the dates when they are scheduled for training assemblies which conflict with their work schedules so that an appropriate substitute may be scheduled or other arrangements made. Official orders shall accompany requests for leave.
21.4	The annual period for purposes of this Article shall be from October 1 through September 30.
TAny time taken that is less than the total daily increment shall be on an hour-for-hour basis.
51
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS
ARTICLE 22
DRUG ABUSE POLICY AND PROCEDURES
Introduction: The Union and the City hereby jointly express their commitment to a Drug-Free Workplace for the health and safety of employees and citizens of the City of Jacksonville. In accordance with this commitment, the parties support a policy of Zero Tolerance for Alcohol and Drug Abuse and further agree that employees violating this policy can and will be disciplined in accordance with JFRD Rules and Regulations.
22.1	Definitions.
(a)	"Drug abuse" means the ingestion of any controlled substance as defined in Section 893.03, Florida Statutes, as amended from time to time, not pursuant to a lawful prescription. The term drug abuse also includes the commission of any act prohibited by Chapter 893, Florida Statutes, as amended from time to time.
(b)	"Illegal drug" means any controlled substance as defined in Section 893.03, Florida Statutes, as amended from time to time, not possessed or taken in accordance with a lawful prescription issued in the name of the employee by a licensed health care practitioner.
(c)	Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) Mandatory Guidelines for Federal Workplace Drug Testing Programs (the DHHS Guidelines) means those guidelines as printed in the June 9, 1994 Federal Register (59 FR 29908), as they may be amended from time to time.
(d)	"Reasonable suspicion” means a suspicion which is based on specific, objective facts derived from the surrounding circumstances from which it is reasonable to infer that further investigation is warranted.
(e)	“Prohibited alcohol use” means using or being under the influence of alcohol or alcoholic beverages, on duty.
22.2	Circumstances When Testing May be Required.
The Employer may require an employee to submit to drug testing under any of the following circumstances:
(a)	As part of the initial screening process for employment applicants.
(b)	As part of an employee's annual physical examination.
(c)	Whenever an employee is promoted.
(d)	Whenever two managerial employees concur that there is a reasonable suspicion that an employee is using, or under the influence of, illegal drugs or alcohol or in possession of illegal drugs while on duty, or that the employee is abusing illegal drugs or alcohol and the abuse either adversely affects his/her job performance or represents a threat to the safety of the employee, his/her co-workers, or the public.
(e)	Whenever an employee is involved in an accident involving personal injury or property damage which could result in liability of, or loss to the Employer.
53
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS
22.4	Rehabilitative/Corrective Action.
(a)	Applicants for employment who test positive for the presence of illegal drugs or alcohol shall not be considered fit to perform the duties of the job sought.
(b)	The Employer may require an employee who has tested positive for the presence of illegal drugs to submit to counseling, or other rehabilitative treatment as a condition of continued employment. This section shall not be construed to limit the Employer's right to take appropriate disciplinary action when an employee tests positive for the presence of illegal drugs.
(c)	Any employee who refuses to submit to substance abuse testing as required by this Article shall be subject to discipline, up to and including discharge from his/her employment.
22.5	(a) The Employer will pay the cost of any physical examinations and tests required by this
Article.
(b)	Physical examinations and/or specimens required by this Article will normally be obtained while the employee is on duty. If an employee is required to submit to examinations or testing other than during normal duty hours, the employee shall be paid for all time required for the examination and/or testing.
(c)	The physical examinations and tests will be performed by medical personnel selected by the Employer.
(d)	Employees who are required by this Article to take a physical examination or test shall be required to sign an authorization releasing the records of such examinations and tests to the Employer.
(e)	The Employer will, to the extent permitted by law, keep the results of any testing required by this Article confidential. Furthermore, any results of positive testing which the Employer later determines have been refuted shall have affixed thereto the subsequent refutation. Test results shall be considered confidential medical records.
22.6	Training.
(a)	Employer and Union representatives shall receive training to ensure that they understand their roles and responsibilities in implementing this Article.
(b)	Such training shall include behavioral observation techniques for detecting reduced job performance, and impairment or change in employee behavior; techniques for recognizing drugs, drug paraphernalia, and the indications of the use, sale, or possession of drugs; and the procedures for referral to the employee assistance program.
(c)	The lack of such training shall not affect the validity of any "reasonable suspicion" determination.
22.7	Union Held Harmless.
This drug-testing program was initiated at the behest of the Employer. The Union shall be held harmless for the violation of any worker rights arising from the administration of the drug testing program, and the Employer shall be solely liable for any legal obligations and costs arising out of the provisions and/or application of this Article.
55
23.1
23.2
23.3
23.4
23.5
23.6
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS
ARTICLE 23
EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
The Employer shall request all recruits to bring their families with them to Employee Assistance Program (E.A.P.) orientation classes at the training academy.
E.A.P. counselors shall not release any information regarding an employee's personal, emotional, or health problems to anyone without the written permission of the employee, except as provided by law.
E.A.P. staff shall not provide anyone with the name of any employee, family member, or dependent who uses E.A.P. services without the written permission of the employee, except as provided by law.
Whenever the Employer determines that it will consider entrance into the E.A.P. as part of any disciplinary action, the Union will be advised so that it may participate and advise the employee at the conference at which the employee elects that option. If the employee elects to participate in the E.A.P. as part of any such disciplinary action, the only information about such participation which may be presented before the Civil Service Board or before any arbitrator in any subsequent proceeding will be a stipulation that the Employer has previously given the employee an opportunity to take corrective action. The fact of the employee's prior participation in the E.A.P. shall not be otherwise disclosed to the Civil Service Board or to any arbitrator, and both the Civil Service Board and any arbitrator shall be prohibited from any further inquiry beyond the stipulation.
The Employer may appoint a Fire Department Chaplain selected by Employer. The Employer shall provide the Chaplain with a pager or a radio for his/her motor vehicle.
A committee comprised of the Director/Fire Chief, E.A.P. Director, Fire Department Chaplain, and Union President or his/her designee shall recommend to the Employer further policies which may govern the E.A.P. for the bargaining unit. The recommendation shall be advisory only. The subject matter which may be included in such recommendation may include, but is not limited to:
(a)	Drug Abuse
(b)	Alcohol Abuse
(c)	Critical Incident Debriefing
(d)	Immediate Family Loss Counseling
(e)	Financial Problems
(f)	Stress
(g)	Marital Problems
(h)	Infectious Disease Exposure
57
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS
24.1
24.2
24,3
24.4
24.5
ARTICLE 24 DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
The procedure for suspensions without pay, dismissals, reprimands, and demotions with reduction in compensation shall be as outlined in the Civil Service and Personnel Rules and Regulations now in effect or as they may be amended from time to time, unless the employee elects to follow the provisions contained in the grievance procedure of this Agreement. An employee who elects to follow the grievance procedure contained in this Agreement waives all rights contained in the Charter of the City of Jacksonville and the rules adopted by the Civil Service Board for administration.
When a member of the Fire and Rescue Department is being questioned in reference to a disciplinary matter, other than during an informal inquiry (as defined below), he/she shall be informed of the following:
(a)	The charges and specifications which are under consideration;
(b)	The identity of the party bringing the charges, including the name of the original
complainant; and
(c)	That he/she is entitled to representation during questioning, and until such time as the matter is resolved.
The individual and his/her representative shall be presented with any and all evidence relating to the matter under question after the commencement of any formal proceeding, and prior to any hearing on the matter.
For purposes of this Article, the term "informal inquiry" shall mean a meeting by supervisory or management personnel with an employee about whom an allegation of misconduct has come to the attention of such supervisory or management personnel, the purpose of which meeting is to mediate a complaint or discuss the facts to determine whether a formal investigation should be commenced.
When an employee is questioned by the Employer and the employee reasonably believes that the questioning may lead to disciplinary action against him/her or may otherwise result in the termination of his/her employment, the employee has the right to request that a Union representative be present at the meeting. When an employee requests Union representation, pursuant to this subsection, and a Union representative is not immediately available, the Employer shall postpone the meeting for a reasonable time in order for the employee to obtain Union representation.
59
FIREFIGHTERS
CAPTAINS
ARTICLE 25 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
25.1
25.2
Any grievance, defined as a claim reasonably and suitably founded on a dispute involving the interpretation, application, or violation of this Agreement, shall systematically follow the three (3) step grievance procedure that is outlined in this Article. Any grievance filed shall refer to all provisions of the Agreement that are in dispute, and shall adequately set forth the facts pertaining to the alleged dispute. The legal interpretation of this Agreement is governed by the case and statutory law of the State, together with the Charter and ordinances of the City of Jacksonville.
An employee having a grievance shall submit it pursuant to the following procedures:
STEP I:
The employee may present his/her grievance orally or in writing to the appropriate division chief. If the grievance is presented in writing, the employee or appropriate division chief may request a meeting to discuss the grievance. The employee or the appropriate division chief may request that the designated Union grievance representative be present at any discussion of a Step I grievance. Discussions will be informal for the purpose of settling differences in the simplest and most direct manner. No employee will leave his/her work for the purpose of discussing a grievance without first obtaining permission from the appropriate division chief. The appropriate division chief shall notify the employee and the designated Union representative of his/her decision regarding the grievance within five (5) business days after the day the grievance was presented. The appropriate division chiefs notification shall be made in the same manner in which the grievance was presented.
STEP II:
If the grievance is not settled at the first step, the employee and/or designated Union grievance representative may present the written grievance to the Director/Fire Chief or his/her designee, within five (5) business days after the employee is notified of the decision at Step I. The Director/Fire Chief, or his/her designee, shall notify the employee and the designated Union representative in writing of his/her decision within five (5) business days of receipt of the grievance.
STEP III:
If the answer from the Director/Fire Chief in Step II is not considered satisfactory by the employee, the employee and/or designated Union grievance representative may present the grievance to the Chief of Human Resources, or his/her designee, within five (5) business days after the employee is notified of the decision at Step II. The Chief of Human Resources, or his/her designee, shall meet with the employee and/or the designated Union grievance representative within ten (10) business days after receipt of the grievance, unless such time is extended by mutual agreement in writing. At this meeting there will be a full disclosure of all facts relating to the grievance. The Chief of Human Resources, or his/her designee, shall render a written decision on the grievance within five (5) business days after the meeting, and furnish a copy of the decision to the employee, the designated Union grievance representative, and the Union President.
61
FIREFIGHTERS
CAPTAINS
(k) Nothing in this Agreement shall be in contradiction of the Fire Fighters’ Bill of Rights.
25.4 Arbitration:
(a)	If the grievance is not settled in accordance with the provisions of Section 25.2, the aggrieved employee or the Union may request arbitration. Requests for arbitration should be made in writing to the Office of Employee Relations within (10) business days after the employee is notified of the Employer's Step JU decision. The request must include a written statement of the specific provision(s) of this Agreement at issue. The written statement cannot refer to information or provisions of the Agreement that were not previously provided to the Employer. A grievance is considered to be withdrawn and settled on the basis of the decision most recently given if not appealed to arbitration within ten (10) business days.
(b)	An arbitrator shall be selected by mutual agreement of the parties to the arbitration proceedings. If an arbitrator cannot be selected by mutual agreement of both parties, then within five (5) business days after receipt of the request to arbitrate, the parties shall jointly request the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS) to furnish a panel of five (5) impartial arbitrators particularly skilled in matters involving local government employee relations. Each party shall have the right to strike two (2) names from the panel. The party requesting arbitration shall strike the first name. The remaining person shall be the arbitrator. The parties will notify the arbitrator or the FMCS of the arbitrator's selection by a joint letter from the Employer and the Union within five (5) business days after the selection. The letter shall request the arbitrator to set a time and a place for the hearing.
(c)	The arbitration shall be conducted under the rules set forth in this Agreement. The arbitrator shall have no authority to modify, amend, ignore, add to, subtract from, or otherwise alter or supplement this Agreement or any part thereof or any amendment thereto. The arbitrator shall consider and decide only the specific issue(s) submitted to him/her in writing by the parties and shall have no authority to consider or rule upon any matter which is not specifically covered by this Agreement. All testimony given at the arbitration hearing will be under oath. The arbitrator may not issue declaratory or advisory opinions and shall be confined exclusively to the question(s) which are presented to him/her, which question(s) must be actual and existing. The arbitrator shall submit his/her decision within thirty (30) days following the close of the hearing or the submission of briefs by the parties, whichever is later. The parties may mutually agree in writing to extend the time limit. Consistent with this subsection, the decision of the arbitrator shall be exclusively based upon specific findings of fact and conclusions based upon thereon, which findings of fact and conclusions shall be the predicate for any decision made by him/her. In rendering any decision, the arbitrator shall only consider the written, oral, or documentary evidence submitted to him/her at any hearing. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on both parties. If any event occurred or failed to occur prior to the effective date of this Agreement, it shall not be the subject of any grievance hereunder, nor shall the arbitrator have the power to make any decision concerning such a matter.
(d)	Taking a grievance to arbitration constitutes an election of remedies and a waiver of all rights by the appealing party to the Civil Service appeals procedure.
(e)	The compensation and expenses of the arbitrator shall be borne by the losing party as determined by the arbitrator. Where the Union does not represent the aggrieved employee in an arbitration proceeding, and the arbitrator decides in favor of the
63
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS
ARTICLE 26 SEVERABILITY
If any provisions of this Agreement shall be found to be invalid by any court having jurisdiction in respect thereof, such finding shall not affect the remainder of this Agreement, and all other terms and provisions shall continue in full force and effect. Upon any such judicial determination, the Employer and the Union will promptly negotiate and endeavor to reach an agreement upon a substitute for the provisions found to be invalid.
65
FIREFIGHTERS
CAPTAINS
ARTICLE 27 ENTIRE AGREEMENT
The parties acknowledge that during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement, each had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or matter not removed by law from the area of collective bargaining, and that the understandings and agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement.
67
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS
ARTICLE 28
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
28.1	Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be effective October 1, 2003, and shall remain in force up to and including September 30, 2005.
It is the parties’ intention during the life of the current agreement to study existing leave plans for members of this bargaining unit and to bring to the table in the next negotiations substantive proposals to make improvements and address problems identified in the existing system.
69
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS
SCHEDULE A CITY OF JACKSONVILLE DEPARTMENT OF FIRE AND RESCUE FIREFIGHTER THIRTEEN (13) STEP PAY PLAN
		FIREFIGHTER			
		Effective January 1, 2004		Effective October 1, 2004	
STEP	TIME COMPLETED	56 HOURS	40 HOURS	56 HOURS	40 HOURS
1	0-12 Months	$2,524	$2,549	$2,613	$2,638
2	1 Year	$2,669	$2,696	$2,762	$2,790
3	2 Years	$2,813	$2,840	$2,911	$2,940
4	3 Years	$2,946	$2,972	$3,049	$3,076
5	4 Years	$3,211	$3,234	$3,323	$3,347
6	6 Years	$3,589	$3,625	$3,715	$3,752
7	8 Years	$3,624	$3,659	$3,751	$3,787
8	10 Years	$3,659	$3,694	$3,787	$3,824
9	12 Years	$3,693	$3,730	$3,823	$3,861
10	14 Years	$3,729	$3,768	$3,860	$3,899
11	15 Years	$3,766	$3,805	$3,897	$3,938
12	16 Years	$3,800	$3,836	$3,933	$3,970
13	17 Years	$3,834	$3,871	$3,968	$4,006
71
FIREFIGHTERS
CAPTAINS
SCHEDULE B CITY OF JACKSONVILLE DEPARTMENT OF FIRE AND RESCUE FIREFIGHTER ENGINEER THIRTEEN (13) STEP PAY PLAN
		FIREFIGHTER ENGINEER			
		Effective January 1, 2004		Effective October 1, 2004	
STEP	TIME COMPLETED	56 HOURS	40 HOURS	56 HOURS	40 HOURS
1	0-12 Months	$3,234	$3,265	$3,347	$3,379
2	1 Year	$3,385	$3,419	$3,503	$3,538
3	2 Years	$3,688	$3,723	$3,817	$3,854
4	3 Years	$3,996	$4,037	$4,136	$4,178
5	4 Years	$4,047	$4,084	$4,189	$4,226
6	6 Years	$4,130	$4,170	$4,275	$4,316
7	8 Years	$4,169	$4,210	$4,315	$4,357
8	10 Years	$4,208	$4,251	$4,356	$4,400
9	12 Years	$4,249	$4,292	$4,397	$4,442
10	14 Years	$4,289	$4,333	$4,439	$4,485
11	15 Years	$4,330	$4,374	$4,482	$4,527
12	16 Years	$4,369	$4,413	$4,521	$4,567
13	17 Years	$4,409	$4,450	$4,563	$4,606
73
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS
SCHEDULE C CITY OF JACKSONVILLE DEPARTMENT OF FIRE AND RESCUE FIREFIGHTER LIEUTENANT TEN (10) STEP PAY PLAN
		FIREFIGHTER LIEUTENANT			
		Effective January 1, 2004		Effective October 1, 2004	
STEP	TIME COMPLETED	56 HOURS	40 HOURS	56 HOURS	40 HOURS
1	3 Years	$4,595	$4,642	$4,755	$4,805
2	4 Years	$4,648	$4,698	$4,811	$4,862
3	6 Years	$4,750	$4,797	$4,916	$4,965
4	8 Years	$4,797	$4,844	$4,965	$5,014
5	10 Years	$4,843	$4,893	$5,013	$5,064
6	12 Years	$4,888	$4,938	$5,059	$5,111
7	14 Years	$4,935	$4,987	$5,108	$5,162
8	15 Years	$4,982	$5,034	$5,156	$5,211
9	16 Years	$5,028	$5,083	$5,204	$5,261
10	17 Years	$5,073	$5,116	$5,250	$5,295
75
FIREFIGHTERS - CAPTAINS
SCHEDULE D CITY OF JACKSONVILLE DEPARTMENT OF FIRE AND RESCUE FIREFIGHTER CAPTAIN TEN (10) STEP PAY PLAN
FIREFIGHTER CAPTAIN
		Effective January 1, 2004		Effective October 1, 2004	
STEP	TIME COMPLETED	56 HOURS	40 HOURS	56 HOURS	40 HOURS
1	3 Years	$5,283	$5,335	$5,468	$5,522
2	4 Years	$5,344	$5,403	$5,531	$5,592
3	6 Years	$5,461	$5,516	$5,652	$5,709
4	8 Years	$5,515	$5,568	$5,708	$5,763
5	10 Years	$5,567	$5,623	$5,762	$5,820
6	12 Years	$5,620	$5,676	$5,817	$5,874
7	14 Years	$5,674	$5,730	$5,872	$5,931
8	15 Years	$5,727	$5,783	$5,928	$5,985
9	16 Years	$5,779	$5,838	$5,981	$6,042
10	17 Years	$5,833	$5,886	$6,037	$6,092
77
FIREFIGHTERS
CAPTAINS
INDEX
SUBJECT	ARTICLE PAGE
COLLEGE INCENTIVE..............................................12.4......27
COMPENSATION.....................................................12......25
OVERTIME..............................................11.3-	11.10..23,24
SPECIAL ASSIGNMENTS...................................... 12.1C1......26
CONTRACT DISTRIBUTION...........................................2.1.......5
CONTRACT TERM....................................................28......69
DATA DISPATCH SYSTEM (DDS)......................................4.3.......9
DENTAL HEALTH PLAN.............................................14.9......32
DEPENDENTS' MEDICAL INSURANCE..................................14.7......32
DISABILITY BENEFITS..............................................17......39
DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE...:.....................................24......59
DRUG ABUSE POLICY AND PROCEDURES.................................22......53
DRUG REHABILirATTVE/CORRECTTVE ACTION..........................22.4......55
dues.......................................................2.2	- 2.3.....5
DURATION OF CONTRACT.............................................28......69
EMERGENCY MEDICAL & PARAMEDIC CERTIFICATION....................12.5......28
EMERGENCY OPERATIONS CENTER....................................12.8......28
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS................................................14......31
EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM......................................23......57
EMPLOYEE'S PERFORMANCE................................ 12.1C2B	- 12.3.26,	27
ENTIRE AGREEMENT.................................................27......67
EXTENDED ILLNESS...............................................19.9......44
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY....................................5.3......11
equipment............................................15.3	-15.4,15.6....35
FIREFIGHTERS
CAPTAINS
INDEX
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
PAY INCENTIVE EMERGENCE MEDICAL TECHNICIAN & PARAMEDIC CERTIFICATION........12.5...28
STATE CERTIFIED MUNICIPAL FIRE INSPECTOR....................12.6.....28
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TEAM....................................12.7.....28
EMERGENCY OPERATIONS CENTER.................................12.8.....28
PAY DIFFERENTIAL............................................12.1C2C.....22
PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS FOR UNION INSURANCE PLANS...................14.8.....32
PAY SCHEDULE (FIREFIGHTER)........................................A.....71
PAY SCHEDULE (FIREFIGHTER ENGINEER)...............................B.....73
PAY SCHEDULE (FIRE LIEUTENANT)....................................C.....75
PAY SCHEDULE (FIRE CAPTAIN).......................................D.....77
PERSONAL LEAVE (PLAN E)..........................................19.....43
PERSONAL LEAVE (PLAN P)..........................................20.....47
PERSONAL HOLIDAY.................................................18.....41
POOL TIME...............................................3.2,3.3 - 3.5....7
PREAMBLE.................................................................1
PROMOTIONS.......................................................13.....29
REASONABLE SUSPICION....................................22.1D, 22.2D,...53
RETIREMENT LEAVE (PLAN E).....................................19.13.....45
RETIREMENT LEAVE (PLAN P)......................................20.8.....48
RIGHTS OF EMPLOYEES.............................................3.1......7
RIGHTS OF EMPLOYEES........................................3.3	- 3.4....7
RIGHTS OF EMPLOYER................................................5.....11
RIGHTS OF EMPLOYER................................................7.....15
RIGHTS OF EMPLOYER................................................8.....17
RIGHTS OF UNION...................................................1......3
RIGHTS OF UNION...................................................3......7
ROLLBACK OF VACATION (PLANE).................................. 19.5C.....44
SAFETY AND HEALTH................................................16......37
FIREFIGHTERS
CAPTAINS
INDEX
SUBJECT	ARTICLE PAGE
voting.....................................................14.5.......32
WAGES........................................................12.......25
WHEN SUBSTANCE TESTING MAY BE REQUIRED.....................22.2.......53
WITNESS DUTY...............................................11.9.......24
WORK SCHEDULES....................................... 11.2-11.3.......23
WORK RULES....................................................9.......19
WORKER'S COMPENSATION........................................17.......39