COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
between
A ThyssenKrupp Automotive Company
and
INTERNATIONAL UNION, UNITED AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE AND AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA
and its
LOCAL 2383
UAW
NOVEMBER 10, 2001 TO FEBRUARY 6, 2005
I
111I1IIII1

TABLE OF CONTENTS
f’
ARTICLE	TJTAL	PAGE
I...........Agreement...........................2
II..........Recognition ........................4
III..................Management Rights..........5
IV..........Union Representation................6
V...........Union Security......................9
VI..........Check-off Dues.....................to
VII.........Bulletin Board.....................11
Vl(l........Separability.......................12
'lx.........Discipline and Discharge...........12
X...........Non-Bargaining Unit Associates.....15
XI............,.......Work Stoppages...........16
XII.........Grievance Procedure................16
XUI.........Seniority List...,,................24
XIV.........Seniority..........................24
XV..........Probationary Associates............28
XVI.........Layoff and Recall..................29
XVII........Job Bidding........................35
XViil.......Temporary Job Assignments..........39
XIX.........Shift Preference ..................39
XX..........Contract Associates and Part Time
Associates.......................„41	■
XXI.... ....Team Concepts and Structure .......44
XXII........Hours of Work .....................50
XXIII.......Overtime...........................52
XXIV........Premium Pay........................59
XXV.........Report-In and Call-In Pay..........60
XXVI........Leave of Absence...................61
XXVII.......Health and Safety..................64
XXVHi.......Holidays...........................66
XXIX........Jury Duty .........................68
XXX.........Funeral Leave....................  69
XXXI........Vacation...........................71
XXXII.......Wage Rates and Job Classifications
and Cost,of Living Allowance.......76
ARTICLE..-TITLE PAGE
XXXIII......Insurance .......................82
XXXIV.......Retirement and Savings Plans....100
XXXV........General ........................102
XXXVI.......Complete Agreement..............111
XXXVII......Duration........................111
Negotiated Rules FMLA Rule...................................114
Excessive Absenteeism Rule..................114
Radio Rule..................................115
Letters of Understanding Weekend Crew.............................. ,116
Tool Replacement Policy for Tooling and Maintenance Associates................  120
Gainsharing Study...........................121
Permanent Arbitrator.........................122
11IIIIIIII
PREAMBLE
The Company and the Union encourage the highest degree of friendly cooperative relationships between their respective representatives at all levels and with and between al) associates. The leaders of the Company and the Union realize that this goal depends on more than words in a Labor Agreement, that it depends primarily on attitudes between people at all levels of responsibility.
We believe that proper attitudes must be based on full understanding of and regard for the respective rights and responsibilities of both the Company and the Union. We also believe that proper attitudes are of major importance in the plant where day-to-day operations and administration of this Agreement demand fairness and understanding. We believe that these attitudes can be encouraged best when it is made clear that the Company and the Union are sincerely concerned with the best interests and well being of the business and the associates.
It is mutually agreed that the Company and the Union have, a responsibility and obligation to maintain and preserve harmonious relations. The Parties desire to fully cooperate tn promoting the interests of the Company, its associates, and the customers by providing for the operation of the Company's business under continuous improvement methods which will further to the fullest extent possible, the well being of the associates and the Company, the economy and efficiency of operations, elimination ofwaste, realization of maximum quantity and quality of output, avoidance of interruptions to production, cleanliness of the plant, and protection of property.
The Union realizes that, in order to provide maximum opportunity for continuing employment, good working

2
ARTICLE t Agreement
conditions, and good wages, the Company must be in a strong marketing position, which means it must produce efficiently and at the lowest possible costs consistent with fair tabor standards. The Union, through its bargaining agency, assumes responsibility for cooperation in the attainment of these goafs.
The Union and the Company will cooperate to operate the business covered by this Agreement as efficiently and economically as possible, improve services and products, preserve equipment, prevent accidents and strengthen good will between the Company and its associates, and the Union, as well as with its suppliers and customers. The parties further recognize that the Company has certain definite and stringent obligations and responsibilities to its customers and suppliers and they agree that they will fully cooperate in the performance and discharge of these obligations and responsibilities.
The commitments contained in this Preamble will be accomplished in accordance with the terms of this Labor Agreement.
Section (1)	This Agreement is made and entered into this (February a, 2002), by and between The Budd Company, Shelbyville, Kentucky Plant, located at 1000 Old Qrunerslown Road, Shelbyville, Kentucky, 4006S (hereinafter called the "Company”) and the International Union. United Automobile, Aerospace, and Agricultural implement Workers of America, UAW. and its Local Union 2383, (hereinafter called the ’ Union"), is hereby approved, accepted, and signed by the duly authorized representatives of the Union and the duty authorized representatives of the Company.
Section (2)	It is the policy of the Company and the Union that the provisions of the Agreement be applied to all Associates covered by this Agreement without regard to race, color, religion, age. sex, national origin or union activity or; disability status or veteran status to the extent such status is defined and protected by applicable state or federal law.
Section (3)	Any reference to associate or associates in this Agreement designates both sexes, and whenever (he masculine or feminine gender is used it is construed to mean both male and famale.
Section (4)	The Union affirms its adherence to principles of a fair day's work for a fair day's pay and agrees to use its best efforts toward this end. both as to work, and as to conduct in its performance.
Section (5} The parties agree to direct their best efforts toward the fuW utilization of associates, which is inherent tn the concept of a “fair day s work far a fair day s pay." The parties recognize that application of this notion requires that each associate exert normal work effort that is fair to both the associate and the Company. Furthermore, such work effort must be in accordance with efficient work practices.
Efficient work praclices presume each associate will perform those tasks he has the knowledge and skill to perform safely. Job classifications are id determine rates of pay. Job classifications are not intended to act as barriers or limit an associate's opportunity to expand personal knowledge and abilities.
The parties agree that the objective of efficient work practices is getting the job at hand completed as quickly as possible. Everyone will work as a team member to achieve this goal

The Parties agree that this Section (5) is intended to describe the unique environment and limited classification structure at the Shelbyville Plant which maximizes the talents and abilities of the associates to achieve the Plant objectives. If either party believes the application of this Section (5) is having adverse consequences on employment opportunities, if not resolved at the local level, it will be referred to the International Union and the Company’s Corporate Human Resource Office for resolution.
ARTICLE II Recognition
Section (1) The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive representative of it's associates for the purposes of collective bargaining with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment and other conditions of employment in the bargaining unit found appropriate in the certification of the National Labor Relations Board rn Case No. 9-RC-17035, dated May 13.1998.
The bargaining unit is described as follows:
Included: All full-time and regular part-time production and maintenance employees, including all technical and production associates and team leaders, employed by the Employer at its Shelbyville, Kentucky facility.
Excluded: All contract associates, support associates, office clerical employees and all professional employees, guards, and supervisors as defined in the Act.
The Company reserves the right to retain limited-term temporary contract associates as business needs require in accordance with Article XX. Such associates shall not be included in the bargaining unit and they shall not be entitled to the benefits or rights provided in
4
1IIIIIIIIIII
tins Agreement unless hired as a tull-time assoc ate as provided in Article XX of this Agreement
Section (2)
It is understood and agreed that • etthtu
party has been induced to enter into this Ag-i: representations or promises made by the nt
v any
not expressly set forth herein, and this dricumuru cum.-cty sets forth the effect of all preliminary negot.arionM. understandings, and agreements, and smio-sed’s ary previous agreement, whether written or ve bai. Him contract shall not be modified, altered, s’lanced. or amended in any respect except by mutual ajieenien'. sft forth in writing and signed by both parties.
ARTICLE » Management Rights
Section p}
Hie 'e’ms of this Api
the relationship between the Company, fie ;r ajn :<;■
reptesented associates. Except to the t" abridged by a specific provision er tms :i Company reserves and retains, solery and of it's rights to manage the business. A Company will meet and confer and nmkt: it: reach a consensus with the Union print changing Company policies relating t conditions of employment. If the parties
fit si
Cnns anr ‘ Utl il.'rC !■:
reach a consensus Article IX section (c) >wi npp-.y. Th-J Company shall make no change in Company policies contrary to the terms of this Agreement exceoi as Oy i’:uUrr>? agreement of the parties.
Section (2)
Associates who claim 3 Molitior >J m.?
collective bargaining agreement in the ernmovefs w of discharge, discipline, layoff, recall, lob bidding. th-j payment of fringe benefits or compensation as set -nrth in this Agreement, or a claimed violation of an asscoate’* seniority rights or any other grievance 3 a s
5

I
I
I
defined in this Agreement, shall have the right to initiate grievances. which may be processed through the grievance procedure, The Union may initiate a grievance involving multiple grievants,
ARTICLE IV
Union Representation
Section (1) The associates shall be represented by union representatives who shall be active associates of the Company who have attained seniority status. The Union shall furnish the Company a written list of Union representatives who have been selected by the Union in accordance with their rules.
Section (2} One production steward may be designated on the (A and 0 shifts combined). (B), and (C) shifts if more than fifty associates are working on the shift. Two additional technical stewards may be elected one (1) each tor the "B" and "C shift if more then forty technical associates are'working on the shift. Any one of the production or technical stewards can represent production or technical associates. In an eight hour day the production stewards win be released the second and third hour for Union business. In an eight hour day the technical stewards will be released the seventh and eighth hour for Union business Stewards may also be released from their regular job to represent associates to handle situations that may result in corrective action. The number of Union stewards may be changed by mutual agreement of rhe parties. (For weerter.u and holiday representation see section (3) of this artiefe]
Section (3) Whenever there is overtime the associates working will be represented as fallows’.
af during daily overtime periods, if the Union steward tot the shift working overtime is not working, associates working overtime shall be represented hy the Union steward regularly
6

'ft


assigned Io the shift preceding o< following their shift.
b) during weekend and holiday overtime periods the Union steward will be available to handle violations of the agreement that occur un rhai day but hours off the job will be limited to no more than (2) two hours per shift. Otherwise, they will work a regular job in their classification arid department. During weekend and holiday overtime periods when the Union steward is not wording, the Union may appoint one of those scheduled to work to be the union steward during the overtime period and the Union will notify a Company representative of the identity of the Union steward poor to ihe start ot the overtime shift.
Section (4)
For purposes of negotiating n collective
bargaining agreement and meeting with the Company as provided for in the grievance procedure, tie associates shall be represented by a Bargaining Committee c (imposed of the President, Vice PresnJen . ?nd ’wo CommiMeepersong who shall be assigned to the day shift for their term of office. In the absence of tie Unmn President, the Vice President will assume the P-esiaenfs duties. In ihe absence of both ihe Union Pres den: and vice President the Union shall appoint and the Company wil! recognize and compensate in accordance wilh this article a replacement for the President position only Tue Union President may request bargaining committee persons be moved to another shift, with a twenty-four hour advance notice to ihe Company. Shift premium will not be paid tor any time worked off shift to any bargaining commjttepersun moved at the request of the Union Preskiem
Section (5)
Members ot the Bargaining Committee
shall be subject to all rules and requirements app i<.-abte to associates. Additionally for the p trpc-e. ot
o inn
7
performing Union business the Bargaining Committee will not be denied access to areas where bargaining unit associates are working. Bargaining Committeepersons will be allowed to work overtime in their regular department and job classification in accordance with Article XXIII, Four (4) bargaining committee persons will be compensated by the Company for a forty (40) hour workweek at their regular rate of pay during straight time working hours while they are in the plant and have recorded their time in the same manner as all other represented associates. If the parties mutually agree to schedule a meeting on premium time the bargaining committee will be compensated in accordance with Article XXIV.
Section (6)	Union stewards shall be subject to all
rules and requirements applicable to associates. Union stewards shall be paid two (2) hours per day at their regular rate at straight time for time spent off the job, in the plant, in connection with their responsibilities assigned in the grievance procedure. Union representatives will contact the group leader in the area where they are conducting grievance procedure business and will cooperate to avoid interruption of operations in such area.
Section (7)	The Company will acknowledge UAW representatives conducting business on behalf of the Union in the area of benefits, chaplain. E.A.P., civil rights, or safety that have been granted a one day in advance Union leave of absence per Article XXVI Section (1) (f) at the request of the President of UAW Local 2383. The Union will no! request more than (3) persons off the job for this Article IV Section (7) purpose on any given day without the mutual agreement of the parties-
Section (8)	Upon completion of a term of office in UAW Local 2383 an associate returning to regular work will return to the shift, team, area, and department they
8


worked prior to their election, providing they have the seniority to hold the shift, team, area and department, if the associate does not have the seniority to hold their former shift, team, area and department they will be allowed to choose a shift and department they have the seniority to hold.
ARTICLE V Union Security
Section(1)	The Company agrees that associates, with seniority, now in the bargaining unit shah, on the thirty-first (31st) day after the signing ot this Agreement, and probationary associates now in the bargaining unit and associates employed after the signing of this Agreement, shall following completion of the probationary period, become and remain members of the Union, provided thet nothing herein shall be interpreted to cause a violation of the Labor-Management Relations Act of 1947 oi any other applicable law. An associate who shall tender the initiation fees (if not already a member) and the pe iodic dues uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership shall be deemed Io meet the condition uf Union Membership Imposed under this section
Section(2)	In the event Section (t) cannot be lawfully enforced the following provisions to the extent that they are lawful shall apply, each associate, with seniority, covered by this Agreement who fails to acquire or maintain membership in the Union, shall be required as a condition of employment on the thirty-first {3lst)day after the signing uf. this Agreement and probationary associates now in the bargaining unit and associates employed after the signing of this Agreement, shall following completion of the probationary period, pay each month a service charge as a contribution toward the administration of this Agreement and the representation of such associate.

The service charge for the month shall be in an amount equal to the Union's regular end usual initiation fee and monthly dues and for each month thereafter in an amount equal to theUnion's regular and usual monthly dues.
ARTICLE VI Check-off Dues
Section (1)	The Company agrees to deduct monthly, from the earnings of its associates who have signed individual authorization cards supplied by the Union, uniform initiation fees, membership dues, and service charges, and to remit the same to the duly designated office of the Union within two weeks thereafter. If the Company does not meet the two week requirement, the Company wifi send a letter of explanation to UAW Local 2383 International Representative and the Corporate Labor Relations Manager.
Section (2)	A written authorization card shall be
furnished by the Union to the Company, which shall be in compliance with the law.
Section (3)	A properly executed copy of such
authorization for check-off of dues form for each associate for whom Union membership dues are to be deducted hereunder shall be delivered to the Company before payroll deductions are made. Deductions shall be made only after authorization for check-off of dues forms have been property executed and are in effect and only so long as this Agreement is in effect.
Section(4)	The Union shall indemnify, exonerate, and save harmless the Company from any claims and/or judgments against the Company and/or the Union based upon any checkoff of Union dues or initiation fees.
10

Section (5)	Any associate who is transferred to a classification not in the bargaining unit, or any associate whose employment is terminated by death, quit, discharge, layoff, retirement, or leave of absence shall cease to be subject to check-off deductions beginning with the month following such termination or transfer.
Section (6)	The Union may advise the Company during the first week of each month of amounts to withhold from associates for Union dues in arrears. The dues deduction authorization shall not be effective after the termination of this contract, unless the parties agree otherwise.
ARTICLE Vil
Bulletin Board
Section (1)	The Company shall furnish and the parties shall agree upon the number and location of bulletin boards for use by the Union. All materials posted on such boards must be provided to the Human Resource
Department. Any material in dispute must be reviewed, and an agreement reached to continue posting the material, by the UAW International Representative and the Corporate Labor Relations Manager. Bulletin board notices must be non-controversial and non derogatory toward the Company or it's management personnel in nature and shall be restricted to official Local or International Union business only. The Union President or his designated representative of the local Union will place the notices on the bulletin board.
Section (2)	There shall be no posting by associates of Union business matters except as provided herein.
Section (3)	The Company shall provide the UAW
Local 2383 an Electronic Bulletin Board for the posting
of notices under the conditions contained in Section 1 of this Article VH. The President of the Local Union or his designated representative will enter the notices on the Electronic Bulletin Board.
ARTICLE Vttt Separability
Section (1)	If any provision or the enforcement or performance of any provision of this Agreement is or shall at any time be contrary to law, then such provision shall not be applicable or enforced or performed, except to the extent permilted by law. Within thirty days of any provision being declared invalid, both parties must meet and negotiate language to replace the language that is determined invalid.
Section (2)	If any provision of this Agreement or the
application of such provision to any person or circumstance shall be held invalid, the remainder of this Agreement, or the application of such provision as to other persons or circumstances, shall not be affected thereby.
Section (3)	H at any time thereafter-such provision or its enforcement or performance shall no longer conflict with the law, then it shall be deemed immediately restored in full force and effect as il it had never been in conflict with the law.
ARTICLE tX
Discipline and Discharge
Section (1)	Violation of any rule or regulation by an associate shall be deemed just cause for discipline up to and including discharge as provided that in the exercise of this right, the company will not act wrongfully or unjustly or in violation of ihe terms of this Agreement The associate will be notified in writing of all disciplinary
12
minium
action other than undocumented disciplinary discussions. A copy of the written disciplinary action shall be given io the Unkjn steward or other Union representative in the absence of the steward, on the day the written disciplinary action is given to the associate. The company win issue corrective action within five business days of the violation or the
' violation is void. If the associate is absent from work during the five-day period, the time limit will be extended accordingly. Except, corrective action that may be excused by FMLA will be hetd pending FMLA approval.
Section (2)	The Company shall continue to have and
exercise the right to make and enforce plant rules and regulations to ensure orderly and efficient operations, to maintain discipline, and to provide for the safety of associates and equipment. Existing rules and regulations, which are to continue in effect at the inception of this Agreement, wilt be printed and distributed by the Company. Probationary associates will have access to the grievance procedure for violations of Article I Section (2| purposes only.
Section (3)	Should the Union wish to contest a rule as being arbitrary, unreasonable or in conflict with the Agreement, the Union must, within a three calendar day period after being notified by the Company in writing to the U.AW. Local 2383 President or his designee of the new or modified rule, protest the specific rule, indicate why the Union believes the rule is arbitrary, unreasonable or the specific provision of the Agreement the proposed rute is allegedly in conflict with, and request an immediate conference and discussion with the Company. If the parlies are unable to agree on the rule, and the Union wishes to arbitrate the disagreement it must within three calendar days of the meeting submit its protest to the Human Resource Manager for expedited arbitration. The arbitrator shall have authority to set aside the proposed rule, but only upon grounds that it is arbitrary, unreasonable, or otherwise in conflict
13
with the terms of this Agreement. <n any event, the proposed
I
protested rule shall not take effect on the date proposed by the Company unless agreed by the UAW International Representative. If the arbitrator does not set aside the proposed rule, it will become effective immediately.
Section (4)	An associate wilt be advised cf his right to
request a Union representative, when the associate is to attend a meeting which could result in disciplinary action involving the associate or another associate.
Section (5)	An associate who is recommended for discharge shall, upon request, be granted a hearing on the matter within two days (Monday through Friday) of the discharge. If none of the bargaining committeepersons are available the hearing may be scheduled at a time agreeable :o both parties. The hearing will involve the Human Resource Manager, the associate, a bargaining 'ommitteeperson(s) and other necessary parties.
Section (6)	An associate will not be required to leave the plant' prior to the hearing, referred to in section (5). except when in the opinion of management, the associate's misconduct threatens the safety of the associate, other associates or Company property
Section (7)	This provision shall be administered on separate tracks for attendance discipline and for all other discipline. If an associate has not been subject to corrective action for a period of nine months all prior iorective action shall be ineffective to progress an associate in the corrective action process. However, the written disciplinary action will remain in the associate’s amoloyment record for the 12 months. As a result of the new negotiated Excessive Absentee Rule, excessive absentee corrective action that fall outside of the 2 in 30 rule upon ratification of this agreement will be removed
14
I
a)
b)
0
g)
t>)
SUSI
from associate's personnel record. Any associate issued a corrective action suspension for excessive absenteeism on or after November 9,2001 and before February 1.2CO2 will be paid for lost time.
the need for the services of a bargaining unit associate. When a customer requests the company to allo* it’s employees or agents in the plant to perform bargaining
to insure that work unit personnel in does no; eliminate
ARTICLE X Non-Bargaining Unit Associates
The purpose of this article Js performed by non-bargaining accordance with items a) through h)
The Company shall have the right to have non-bargaining unit associates, other Budd personnel and nor-Budd personnel perform bargaining unit work at the Shefoyville plant in the following instances, provided the action does not result in the layoff of a then active bargaining unit associate:

For purposes of training associates or themselves.
In emergency situations.
Jobs which are in an experimental, mslallaiion or tryout stage.
In the performance of necessary work when production difficulties are encountered on a job.
Inventory taking.
To perform work incidental to their managerial responsibilities.
After all qualified bargaining unit personnel haw-had an opportunity to work an overtime assignment; a support associate may perfa m trie bargaining unit overtime work.
If the work to be performed is insignifeam. very-small or trifling... de minimis.

unit work the parties will meet to develop a plan to allow bargaining unit associates to work extended hours.
ARTICLE XI Work Stoppages
Section (1)	There shall be no resort to strikes, lockouts or other interruption ot work during the term of this Agreement. Any associate that violates this Article of the Agreement may be subject to disciplinary action up to and including discharge. When an issue concerning a violation of this agreement arises that needs the immediate attention of management and it cannot be successfully resolved at the Third step of the grievance procedure the parties may use the procedure described in Article XII Section (15).
Section (2)	In the event ot an alleged violation of this Article, the Company will institute no action for monetary damages against the officers or representatives of the Union provided that the Union shall immediately direct such associates, both orally and in writing, to resume normal operations immediately and, further, shall immediately take whatever steps are necessary to bring an end to the violation including but not limited to. the local Union officers and representatives, by example, continuing to work to induce all other employees to do so.
ARTICLE XII
Grievance Procedure
Section (1)	Should a grievance, which is a question involving the interpretation or application of this Agreement, occur, both the Union and the Company shall make an earnest effort to ascertain the facts and seek a fair and equitable resolution. The procedures set forth in this Article shall be the exclusive means for the disposition of all grievances arising under this agreement.
16
111111111111
Section (2)	An associate's grievance involving the interpretation or application of this agreement shall be resolved in the following manner;
a)	Step 1 - The associate shall initiate a conference with his group leader within three workdays after the alleged event. The Union steward may or may not be present, at the discretion of the associate. In the absence of the steward a member of the bargaining committee may be present. The group leader will investigate and respond within three workdays. If the group leader’s reply does • not satisfactorily answer the associate's problem, the associate may request his Union steward to proceed to step2.
b)	Step 2 - If the grievance is not resolved at step 1 the associate's Union steward or up to two bargaining committeepersons tn the steward's absence shall within three work days of the group leader's response, discuss the grievance with the department manager or his designee, Either party may request that one member of the Bargaining Committee participate in the discussion at this step. The department manager will investigate and respond within three workdays. If the grievance is not resolved the Union steward shall within one day present a written grievance to the department manager. The written grievance must contain the following information:
•	Nature of the grievance Union Position
•	Act oracts complained of
•	When the acts occurred or became known
•	tdentityofthegrievant(s)
•	Provisions of the Agreement claimed to be violated
•	Where did the acts occur, i.e.: department, shift, line and etc.
17
■B
BWPBBBWWW
) 1
• Remedy sought
The department manager will answer the grievance the next day. The Union steward wilt give the grievance to ihe Unton President or his designee who may pursue the grievance at step 3.
c)	Step 3 »The Union President, bargaining committee and if necessary the steward shall present and discuss the grievance with the Human Resource Manager within three workdays of the written step 2 response. The Human Resource Manager shall place his written answer on the grievance within three workdays of the step 3 discussion.
d)	Step 4 - Within three work days of the step 3 answer, or a mutually agreed upon date not to exceed S calendar days, a meeting wilt be scheduled between the bargaining committee and a Company grievance committee consisting of not less than three members of Management appointed by the Plant Manager. An International Representative of the Union may participate in the meeting at this step. The parties will attempt to resolve any grievance referred to step 4. The Company will provide a verbal answer to the Union at this meeting unless further investigation is necessary and a written answer to the Union within five workdays following the completion of the step4 meeting.
Section (3} Grievances involving discrimination, policy interpretation or a discharge or disciplinary suspension shall be processed beginning at Step 3 of the procedure.
Section(4) Company grievances involving the interpretation or application of this Agreement shall be
18
processed beginning at Step 3 of the procedure, with the Company's presentation of its grievance to the local Union bargaining committee. Within ten workdays after receipt of the Union's answer, the Company may submit the grievance to the UAW International Representative. The UAW international Representative anti the Company's Plant Manager, or their representatives, shall promptly schedule a Step 4 meeting, to be held no later than ten work days following receipt of the Company’s grievance, to attempt to resolve the matter. Within ten workdays after the meeting, the Union shall submit its written answer to the grievance.
Section (5)	A demand for arbitration of any grievance made subject to arbitration by this Agreement shall be made within ten workdays of the Step 4 answer. Failure to demand arbitration wilhin ten workdays shall be deemed a waiver of the right to arbitrate. After receiving a demand to arbitrate, the parties' representatives shall confer within ten workdays, and shall attempt to agree upon an arbitrator. If they are unable to agree, they shall jointly request the Federal Mediation and Conciliatian Service to submit to them a panel of seven arbitrators who are also members of the panel ot the American Arbitration Association. The parties shall alternately strike names from ths panel until one name remains. Either party shall have the right to reject the first or second panel and to request a third panel, provided such rejection is made within six work days of receipt of the panel. If a third panel is requested the parties must select an arbitrator from thai pane). Once selected, the arbitrator shall hold a hearing in Shelbyville, Kentucky.
Section (6)	The parties agree that any rights reserved in the Management Rights Clause (Article HQ or elsewhere in the Agreement as exclusive company prerogatives, unless specifically abridged, delegated, granted or modified by this Agreement, are not subject to and are expressly excluded from the arbitration

19
process. In those cases submitted to an arbitrator, the arbitrator shall not have jurisdiction or authority to add to. 'ake 'ram. nullify or modify any of the terms of this Agreement. The arbitrator shall be bound by the facts and evidence submitted to him and may not go beyond the term of this Agreement in rendering his decision. The decision of the arbitrator shall be in writing and shall be final and binding upontheparties. The arbitrator shall not have the authority to grant a time limit extension to submit briefs without mutual consent of tne parties.
Section (7)	An arbitrator may rule on more tnan one gri* vance at any one arbitration when multiple grievances arose from similar instances. An arbitrator may hear more than one grievance at any one arbitration upon mutual agreement of both parties
'	Section (8) The expenses of the arbitrator and
meeting room shall be borne equally by the parties Each
I	pany shall make arrangements for and pay the expenses of
witnesses, which are called by them. The Company shall not be liable for lost time incurred by the grievant or other as=ociate(sj, except those witnesses called by the Company, due to his or her appearance, preparation for, or parti cipation in an arbitration hearing. Members of the bargaining committee will be compensated for regular straight time hours while attending an arbitration hearing. If i	either party utilizes a transcript of the arbitration proceeding
to prepare post-hearing briefs, it shall make the transcript avadabie to the other party.
Section	When calculating time limits,
workdays shall not include Saturdays, Sundays, or holidays, it no reply to a grievance is received from the responding party within the specified time limits, the grievance shall be deemed to be denied and the initiating party may invoke the next step of the procedure. The time limit for such next step shall start
>s»=
20
immediately upon the expiration of time for the prior -top answer. Any grievance not advanced by the initiating party to step 2 3 or 4 within the time limits contain®! ir. tn>s procedure may. at the option of the initiating party, be automatically advanced lo the next step, providing the initiating party brings it to the attention of the other party within ten days of the date it should have been advanced Any grievance not carried to arbitration or (tie ten-day extension provided above shall be considered settled • md closed upon the basis of the last disposition. Any feme femit in this Article may be extended by written mutual ng: sen-ent of the parties.
Section(1 Q> Should it be determined t tat an associate was disciplined or discharged without just cause as provided in Article IX, Section 1, "Discipline ano Discharge," he shall be restored to his tomiei status (including classification, department and shift orovicedtbey have the appropriate seniority), provided, however. ;.ny interim compensation or remuneration from any source shall be credited to reduce any back pay award.
Section (11)	Either party shall have final autl onty to dispose of any grievance initiated by it. at any step of 'he grievance procedure, in any manner deemed by it to be ;he most prudent, including refusal lo process the grievance further, and the responding party may conclusively f-;ly upon such disposition.
Section (12)	(Grievance Liability) ■ Any clan ns including claims for back wages by an associate or by toe Union, shall not be valid for any time period earlier til stt three days before the date Ihe grievance was first discussed in Step 1. However, if the violation is contin rmu ;-nd toe circumstances of the case made it impossible lor the associate or the Union to know there were grounds tor su a claim prior to the date of the Step 1 discussion, th*- cla m shall be valid for a time period of fifteen working days prior h the date of the Step 1 discussion.
■> i
WWSWIWWIBIWWW
Sc ction 11 ?-t (Grievance Time Limit) - Any grievance or ixnriem net orought ’o ihe attention of Management wihm ’.tire*? work days o' its occurrence shall be considered msoived. the mutter closed and it shall not be a proper subject for ’he grievance procedure If the circumstances of till; shiaiirs'' made it impossible tor the associate or the Union. ’.o know the problem or grievance occurred, the three ■jay time hm.il in, tnis Section (13) shall begin or the day the problem became known or should have become known to (lit‘associateor 'lie Union
Secticm(1<i:	in Ih। s<■■ instances where the
■nt-rnauormi Union, UAW by either its Executive Board, Public s-ieviHw Board, or Constitutional Convention Appeals Ccmmiilrm has found that a grievance disposition was improperly effected by the Union or a Union representative. !hr International Union may inform the Company in writing such grievance is reinstated m the grievance procedure.
flrr Co npany will nor be liable for any claims to.- damages, including back pay claims arising out of the grievance that sillier are already barred under the provisions of the Aymement. at the time ol reinstatement of the grievance or that relate ;o Ilie period between the time or the original ■jirpostioii and the time of ihe reinstatement. Wemstatement ot any grievance shall be conditioned upon prim agreement of the Union and the associate or associates involved that none of them will thereafter pursue such cl Jims for damages against the Company in the jrinvanize procedure or in any court or before any federal, state or municipal agency.
A cecision o’ an arbitrator on any grievance shall continue to je final and binding on the Union and its members, the issocia'e nr associates involved and the Company and iui.ii grievance shall not be subject to reinstatement.
22
ciaim. including claims for back wages.
The provisions of ihis section of Ihe Agreement th<‘ parties obligations to reinstate grievances as p'ovirleJ herein can be terminated by either parly upon thirty «av< notice m writing to the other.
Section(15) When an issue arises teal neir. t!s; immediate attention of management and ;t can io! successfully resolved at the Third step 0’ ihf rmevano* procedure concerning a violation of this ti-intinitnt itr; following steps wtH be fo’lowed
Step 1) A meeting v/iit be held within .v t.'uJ;1 s m ■ mutually agreed date with the UAW mn’in.run,-. Representative. Ihe UAW Local 23b J .‘.:ir i i.i'w: Committee, the Planl Manager and llu; ;i. Hum m Resource Manager to resolve the issue
/
Step 2) If the issue is not resolved al :.iep t H meeting will be held within (3) workdays nr .t inn■■ agreed upon date witn the UAW In torn.‘du m.-» Representative, the UAW Local 2383 Baig hmm; Committee, the Corporate Labor Relations Manage Implant Manager and the Plant Human Resource Maii.iuer resolve the issue.
Step 3) If the issue is not resolved at ibis slept? I tiw. .w.i< will be referred to expedited arbitration.
I
ARTICLE XIII Seniority List
The Company agrees to post and furnish the Union with a seniority list for all associates covered by this Agreement during the first week of each month. The initial seniority list will be posted and provided to the Union within thirty (30) calendar days of ratification of this agreement. Once advised the Company will resolve any discrepancies within three workdays. Such list shall contain the name, badge nurntier, seniority date and current job classification, department and shift of each associate in the bargaining unit. It is expressly understood that the use of such list shall be restricted to appropriate Union representation purposes and the information thereon shall not be disclosed to any third parties.
ARTICLE XIV
Seniority
Section (1) Preferential Seniority
a)	cor layoff and recall purposes, an associate serving as Ihe President or on the Bargaining Committee authorized under Article IV, Section (4), .shall head the seniority list. The President shall be deemed to have greater seniority than members of the bargaining committee.
b)	For layoff and recall purposes, an associate serving as a Union steward authorized under Article IV, Section (2). shall head the seniority list in the area the associate represents.
c)	I r i orde r to e xerc i se pre feren tia I s en iority u nd er th is Section (1) (b) the steward must be capable of performing the work scheduled during the layoff period
24
Section (2) For purposes of this Article references in this Agreement,
and
Seniority shall be categorized as Plant Seniority or Department Seniority.
a) ' Plant seniority shall be defined as an associate s length of continuous service with the The Budd Company - Shelbyville Plant as measurer from the first day actually worked for the The Budd Company - Shelbyville Plant on or after the associate's most recent date of hire or rehire as at associate.
b) Department seniority shall be defined as an associate's length of continuous service in the Maintenance or Tooling department from the firs: day actually worked in the department Department seniority for associates in the P-ess
■ Assembly and Materials departments sfig;f be their plant seniority date.
c) Newly hired associates shall be assigned a classification.
The classifications are.
«	Production Associate
■ Technical Associate
• Apprentice
d) Newly hired associates shall be assigned to a department.
The departments with their areas are:
•	Assembly - Lines, SAP and Service
•	Maintenance - Assembly, Facilities and Press Shop
•	Materials - Crib, P.O. parts, Raii dock. Truck dock. Battery room.
25
I
Housekeeping, Dock coordinator. Press support/yard, Container maintenance
•	Press - Press lines, Meta) finish, Decoiler & Die movement
■	Quality - Statistical process control, and Weld reliability
•	Tooling - Jig S fixture, and Press shop
Management will assign associates to jobs within areas in the Assembly, Press, Quality, Maintenance, Materials and Tooling departments.
e)	Apprentices shall be a separate seniority group within the	Maintenance or	Tooling
departments.	Apprentices shall acquire
Maintenance or Tooling department seniority from their date of entry into the apprentice program upon completion of the program, If more than one associate has the same entry date the associate with the greatest plant seniority will be the most senior associate. Apprentices maintain seniority in their former department until they complete the program.
f)	If more than one technical associate has the same department seniority date the associate with the greatest plant seniority will be the most senior associate,
Section (3f When more than one associate has the same plant seniority date, the associate with the lowest last digit of his Social Security number will be the most senior associate, if a tiebreaker is required, the next digit to the left will be evaluated until the lowest digit is determined and the tie is broken.
26
ri
ri ri ri
*
«
Section (4)	Seniority will be broken and los. and employment shall cease for any of the fol in wing reasons:
a)	Discharge or termination, not reversed in the grievance procedure;
b)	Quit:
c)	Absence from wo rk fo r three co n secutiv e working days without notice to the Company ’the three working day period ends with the end ci the associate's shift on the third working day). un:ess »t can be proven that it was impossioie to notify the Company;
d)	Failure to report to work within three working days after the Company notifies the associate of r »call. unless it can be proven that it was impossible for the associate to report for work due to a reason which is satisfactory to the Company ano, the associate notified the Company ol his i lability to - report prior to the expiration of the three nay period unless it can be proven it was impossible tc-r the associate io provide such notice;
e)	Giving a false reason for any leave request;
f)	Failure to report to work upon expiration of a । ->ave
of absence unless, it can be proven that it was impossible for the associate to report tor wort due to a reason which is satisfactory to the Comaany and the associate notified the Company cf his inability to report within three days aftei the expiration unless, it can be prover it was impossible for the associate to prov do such notice;
Section |1)
tkft'ru
ARTICLE XV Probationary Associates
Act eobny inner employment while an a leave of absence or while receiving disability pay. without the wnitea consent of the Company,

Failure to perform services for the Company due to merliv.ai leave for a period equal lothe associate's semohlv on the last day worked or sixty calendar months, whichever occurs first provided, however, a minimum seniority retention period of twelve months tihali be available to alt associates with seniority as oi the start of the medical leave.
Failure to perform services for the Company due to layoff equal to (he associate's seniority on the last day worked.

Section (5)	Any associate who established seniority in the haigaming unit and, following the effective dale of this Aipcmment. -s transferred to a Management or support associate position, shall retain his seniority accumulated to the dam ot transfer Within the first six months of a promohtm to management or a support associate position Ihp C empany or the management or support associate may eim~.i to return lo ihe bargaining unit. In event of a return lo the rvirqaining unit ihe individual shall be placed on a tm t g 11 m i n g u 11 it io b. । n accord a nee with the ir sen ion ly I f the afteciixi indivirtuol does not have sufficient seniority to return loafvirpainirgunitjob. he wiUbe placed on layoff status and wilt be sutijecl io recall as specified in the layoff and recall piuvi-vans of Article XVI An associate shall not be permitted to return to !be bargaining unit more than once.
All newly hi reri associates slial) be
t:onsi iered to be on probation and not entitled to any
seniority rights until they have been on the active payrnt) of me Company for three calendar mom'ns Being on the "active payroll"" means the associate is nut la id orf and that no more than two-calendar weeks pass w>thotd his actively performing work for the Company :i the associate is absent for two weeks or mom the probationary period will be extended for the same length o! lime. The Company retains the right io assign antitor reassign associates during their probationary period and/or terminate them at the sole discretion of ihe Company. Probationary associates shall ;>ot have recourse to the grievance procedure for any mason except for violations of Article I section (2) purposes only. The Company shaft not be required to re-employ a laid off probationary associate
Section <2)
A probationary associate continued m
the service of the Company after completion o; the probationary period shall become a regular associate, and his seniority shall date from the day three cafcndtr months prior to the date he completed the probationary period.
ARTICLE XVI Layoff and Recall
The following types of situations are provided for in (his. language: indefinite Layoff. Department Manpower Reduction, Temporary Layoff. Voluntary Layoff. Oni Day Layoff, and Recall.
Section (1} Indefinite Layoff.
a} tn the event of a reduction in tome. the following writ apply within the maintenance anc tooling departments;
Step 1 - Contract associates will be imd oh m ihe affected department'.
1
Step 2- Production Associates working as helpers within the department wilt be removed and will exercise their plant seniority in the production associate classification.
Step 3 - Newly-hired associates in the department who have not completed their new hire probationary period will be laid off;
Step 4- Volunteers will be solicited from the affected department.
Step 5 -Technical Associates and apprentices with the least department seniority in the affected department will be laid off. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article XIV, Section (2) e), for purposes of this Section (1) a) apprentices shall be credited with department seniority as of their individual date of entry into the apprentice program.
StepS- Displaced associates will exercise seniority to move to an open job vacancy or replace the junior associate in the department.
b)	A technical associate or an apprentice who is being laid off may use their plant seniority to displace the associate in the production associate classification with the least plant seniority, provided the technical associate has greater seniority.
c)	In the event of a reduction in force in the production associate classification the following will apply:
30
1111111KIKRI
't-
Step 1 -Contract associates and in-week Part .time associates will be laid off in the classification;
Step 2 • Newly-hired production associates who have not completed their new hire probationary period will be laid off;
Step 3 - Volunteers will be solicited from the affected classification in accordance with section (5) of this article.
Step 4- Affected associates in the department that have been reduced will be moved to replace the junior associates in that department on that shift.
SlepS- Production associates with the least plant seniority will then be laid off.
Section (2) Department Manpower Reductions
■
c.- xC . eiT S
s'ii?
Step 5* The junior associate in the affected department will displace the junior associate on the shift in the production classification. If the junior associate does not have the seniority to remain on the shift they will then replace the junior associate in their department across shifts. If the junior associate does not have the seniority to remain in their department they will then displace the junior associate in the production classification.


A J ■:'t


When it is necessary to reduce the number of production associates within a department the rules contained in this section (2) shall apply within the department.
31


Stepl- Contract associates and in-week Part time associates will be reduced in the classification;
Step 2* Newly-hired production associates who have not completed their new hire probationary period will be reduced:
Step 3- Affected associates in the department that have been reduced will be moved to replace the junior associates in that department on that shift.
Step 4- The junior associate in the affected department will displace the junior associate on the shift in the production classification If the junior associate does not have the seniority to remain on the shift they will then replace the junior associate in their department across shifts. If the junior associate does not have the seniority to remain in their department they will then displace the junior associate in the production classification. The junior associate in ihe plant will then fill the vacancy.
Section (3) Temporary Layoff.
A temporary layoff is defined as a reduction in force not exceeding ten regular working days and for any one job may not exceed two layoffs in a twelve-month period unless the parties mutually agree to extend the number oftayoffs in a twelve (12) month periodortheduration of a temporary layoff. Temporary layoffs may be made without regard to the provisions of this
32
I
Article XVI, section (1). Temporary layoffs will be used to accommodate events and conditions beyond the control of the Company such as. equipment and tool breakdowns and customer requirements. The provisions of Section (5) Voluntary Layoff shall be available to associates on the same shift and in the same department affected by the temporary layoff.
Stepl-
Contract associates and in-week Part time associates on the shift are to be laid off.
Step2>
Step 3
Solicit volunteers from affected department and shift.
Section (4)
Stepl-
Absent volunteers, junior associates on the shift in the affected department will be laid off.
One-Day Layoff
If a job or jobs cease operations after the start of a shift, the affected associates will be reassigned to open jobs in seniority order without soliciting other volunteers, if there is no other work available, the Company will solicit senior volunteers in the affected area to go home prior to sending home the junior affected associates in the area.
Affected associates from the line going down are reassigned to open jobs within department in seniority order.

33

Step2- If no vacancies exist within the department then affected associates are reassigned to open jobs outside the department in seniority order
Step 3 If no vacancies exist outside the department contract associates in the department are sent home.
Step 4 Senior volunteers in the affected area will be allowed to voluntarily leave before requiring junior associates to be sent home.
Section (5) Voluntary Layoff,
a)	In the event of an indefinite reduction in force, the Company will provide senior associates in the affected classification the opportunity to request a voluntary layoff. In Maintenance and Tooling volunteers will be solicited from within the affected department.
b)	Any associate who requests a voluntary layoff shall be considered to have agreed to be laid off out of seniority order and to have relieved the Company of any obligation to comply with the normal layoff and recall provisions of this Article.
c)	An associate on voluntary layoff may request to exercise seniority to return to active employment at the end of each four-week layoff period. The first four-week period will begin the week following the week in which the associate last worked. A request to return to active employment form must be given to the Human Resource department by the associate before the end of the third week in the four-week period. The junior associate that would
34
Recall.
Section (6)
Section (1)
ARTICLE XVU Job Bidding
. ’ jieAs
have been laid-off except for the associate volunteering for a layoff wifi be placed on the volunteering associate’s job until a shift preference is used to replace him or the associate returns at which time that cfspiaced junior associate will replace the jurior production associate in the plant or fill « /acancy. if the returning associate’s position Has oeen shift preferences! the reluming associate will be sub|ect to Section (1) (c) steps (4) and (5)
d)	In the event the Company requires addinonal associates within a classification, associates on voluntary layoff shall be recalled
e)	Associates will be recalled from vc >unt;-j y layoff >n reverse order of seniority. (Most junto' associate first)
Associates will be recalled from Icyofl (excluding voluntary layoff) by order of department seniority in the maintenance and tooling departments and plant seniority in the production associate classification. The associate with the highest seniority being (he first recalled.
Management will post openings tor
areas in the Press. Assembly, Quality. Maintenance. Tooling and Materials department, which cannot be tilled through the recall provisions. The bid notice shall be posted on a plant-wide basts for five workdays. Opening-. for maintenance or tooling helpers, positions sho'l also be posted under the provisions of this section
: ri t ;r.b bid wil designate the department, shift and for jobs ■n he Assembly. Materials. Maintenance. Quality Tooling anu P ess departments the area of the job. Associates may sur.'mj! a bid tor the opening in the Human Resources Oeoartment. The department opening will be awarded to the associate with the greatest plant seniority for production, and departmental seniority for technical associates that bid 0,1 >he job and the associate's seniority date will be noted on the bid award The areas, which currently exist in the Assembly department are Lines. Service and SAP The areas, which currently exist tn the Press department, are press lines, metal finish, decoiler and die movement. The areas which currently exist in the Materials department are F’O parts, container maintenance, battery room, housekeeping, truck dock, rail dock, crib, dock coordinator rmd press support;yard. The areas which currently exist in the Quality department are statistical process control, and weki reliability The areas which currently exist in the Tooling oepartrnent are iig & fixture and press shop. T he areas which currently exist in the Maintenance department are assembly, pre<5 prtop and facilities. New or changed areas may be created tn the future after discussion with the Union to provide an opportunity for input and an exploration of alternatives.
Associates successfully bidding on a Maintenance job win hold the new position a minimum of one year, before the Company may reassign the associate for training purposes. The Taming period wilt not exceed six (6) months. After the tram-ng period the associate will be returned to his bid job. Maintenance bid job openings shall not require the movement of more than two associates in total to accomplish the bid process, tf more maintenance moves are required the parties must agree on a schedule to accomplish these moves that prepares the associates for the new job bid : more than two associates move into a single area and the parties do not agree on a training schedule this third or rnont move will not oe granted
36

■ MIII1BII111
Section (2)
><" associate
When, there are job openings on any Assemp?.. shatt tie posted tor bid. Ail pioduUion assr.caii bid on those job openings and the most senior as wilt be awarded the job. ft the job bid is not u/k?J bid procedure the most junior associate ‘re absentee team on the shift will be assignee tr. 'hr
considered lot an opening due technical associate ciassifrcatior consideration with the Human Resource When an opening arises the requests wit and the job awarded to toe senior the requirements for-the job. !t n< requirements for ihe ;rih tbs C-applicant who meets the .mpi^mrr Company. to fils toe jon
Section 13} Idunijgrmiem -vid post » tern; s. :l< t b >. to fik so Opening pryaier; by ^tmocaSO s ..-t.sc.i-te (i more than <;.xty ^eiidai Joys i'Ph lunuArt •. ; w = remain efteetive until i':t; assc’is-’e leh:/ -'- to -w-k ■> after the fifty serrmj wees.. pt dishmctv wnico.^ .■■< first Additionally. associates may bi: a temperm*. ;C-t created by the company for a oenou net io -• w ti«>-(5) months. The Associate filling the temporary ■ C'imc<: wit) not establish seniority right within tne tea t’ < ■ r-c; r> the absent associate returns, the associate .in ??h on a temporary basis will be allowed to f*H am. .":<;<•■ they ha^e the skill and ability ■■"< perform cc the. r;’--replace the junior associate on the shif: im -, ■■•'■.■ currently working When an asset rate re-iuroi. 'hi,-fifty-second week of disability h.ev sna»i	n=
junior associate in oeir department >; ■-•■■■ i does nor have the seniority tc 'email> <« m>;
he will replace the junior associate on lite t-.-m :f tm? associate does nor have ‘he senior tty w.m -r, the shift they will replace the junior associate ?; ‘f;t ;
Section (4)	Openings will be awarded not later than two working days following (he end of the five-day posting period. The associate will be placed on the job within ten (10) working days after the award however, the parties understand training and placement considerations necessary to continued efficient operation may cause delay. The Union may discuss a delayed placement with the Company.
Section (5)	A production or tooling associate awarded a bid under this Article may not bid for another opening for seventeen weeks from the date the bid is awarded. This provision shall not act to restrict an associate from bidding for an apprentice opening or an opening posted under Section 2 or 3 of this Article XVII. An associate awarded a permanent or temporary job bid under this article may not bid on a temporary job posting until after seventeen weeks. However, an associate on a temporary job bid may bid on a permanent job bid opening. A maintenance associate may bid on a new job in his area only after seventeen weeks.
Section (6)	Any decision by the Company under this Article which becomes the subject of a grievance may be submitted to arbitration, provided, however, that the arbitrator shall have authority to set aside the Company's decision only upon grounds that it is arbitrary, discriminatory, or not based on job-related factors.
Section (7)	An opening, which is not filled under the procedures of this Article, may be filled by the Company from the associate force, other Budd employees or new hires. Contract associates or PTA's may be used to fill openings on a temporary basis.
Section (8)	if at any time, in the opinion of the Company, after counseling the associate, with the steward, and a seven day opportunity to improve an associate faits to perform adequately, he will be
38
H11111 ■ ■ w « ■ ■ 1

K2&
The Company may temporarily assign
39
t
ARTICLE XIX Shift Preference
ARTICLE XVttl Temporary Job Assignments
■*»
removed from the job and placed in tine with his seniority. In this event the seventeen-week limitation of Section (5) will no! apply to the associate. The Company's decision shall be subject to challenge through the grievance procedure if the associate believes the job performance was adequate.
■!
Section (1)
associates from one department or area, as defined in Section 1 a) of Article XVI or Section 1 of Article XVII, to another department or area when work is not available, machines are down, to meet an emergency, to expedite work in the department, or other reasons necessary to the efficient operation of the plant. The Company will solicit qualified volunteers before assigning the least senior available qualified associates to the temporary assignment.
, .1
Section (2)	Non-bargaining unit associates and part-time associates will be reassigned prior to any Full time bargaining unit associate being re-assigned from the department or area.
Section (3)	The Company may temporarily assign associates for five (5) days or less from one department or area, as defined in Section 1 a) of Article XVI or Section 1 of Article XVII, to another department or area to cover for excessive absenteeism. The Company will solicit qualified volunteers before assigning the least senior available qualified associates from the department or area to the temporary assignment.
Section(1)	An associate can exercise shift preference in the technical associate classification and
!n the production associate classification. An associate must submit a shift preference request prior to December 15 or June 1. Placement on the preferred shift will be made by Department Seniority in the technical associate classification and on the basis of Plant Seniority in the production associate classification. Placements will occur not later than the first regular workday following the Christmas Period and the vacation shutdown in each year.
Section (2)	The following rules will govern placement
underthis Article XIX:
a)	An associate exercising shift preference will displace the least senior associate in his department on the requested shift and, in the case of a production associate if there is not a junior associate in the department on the requested shift, then the least senior in the classification plantwide on the requested shift.
b)	A production associate must indicate on the shift preference request if placement in other departments is acceptable.
Section (3)	Notwithstanding the language of this Article. Management and the Union agree that at all limes there must be an adequate number of fully trained and skilled associates in order to obtain a uniform degree of quality and productivity, and to maintain the equipment and plant operations on each shift. The exercise of shift preference may not be delayed more than ten (10) working days to accommodate these requirements. If the Union feels the shift preference is unreasonably delayed the parties will meet to resolve the issue.
Section (4)	A team leader may not exercise shift preference to displace a team leaderon another shift.
40
— — ttll
.... -
Se ction (5)	A prod uction associate may a Iso requ e st
a department preference but only during the June shift preference period. Such request will be granted based on plantwide seniority.
Section (6) Maintenance and Tooling associates may also request an area preference in their department but only during the June preference period and no more than two (2) associate's request per shift per department will be granted. Such request will be granted based on department seniority. The associates so moved will remain in the new area for a minimum period of one year at which time the Company may reassign the associate for training purposes. This training period will not exceed six (6) calendar months. After the training period the associate will be returned to his home area. On Saturday, Sunday or Holidays the current practice of assigning associates to the areas they are needed will continue.
ARTICLE XX
Contract Associates and Part -Time Associates
Section (1)	A contract associate is hereby defined as
an individual who is employed through a contract employment company for the purpose of working a limited period of time. It is understood that contract associates are engaged for a limited period, with the understanding that such employment is to terminate at the end of the period. Length of such employment will be at the sole discretion of the Company without recourse to the grievance procedure. Contract associates who express a desire, in writing, for employment as a Part-time Associate (PTA) shall be given preference over new applicants. A contract associate will not work at The Budd-Shelbyville plant for a period in excess of 60 calendar days.
Section (2)	Part-time associates are employed by the Company to work for the purpose of covering in
41
iRW*!>
week vacancies, absenteeism, associates on light duty, and associates on leaves of absence. In addition available Part-time associates can be used for a maximum of sixty (60) days for out of line cycle conditions, breakdowns, tag relief, buitd-aheads, etc before contract associates will be used, A Part-time associate may network more than forty (40) hours in any one work week. Additionally, part-time associates may be used to work weekend vacancies created by full time associates. Part-time associates will only be scheduled to work after all active associates have been given the opportunity to work the Saturday, Sunday or Holiday, A part time associate who has concern regarding their availability and the scheduling at hours they are asked to work may have it reviewed by Human Resources and the Bargaining Committee. Part-time associates will not be allowed to work more than eight hours per day unless active associates have been given the opportunity to work the additional nine or more hours of that shift.
A laid off full time associate may work as a Part-time associate provided the request is received by the Human Resource department by Wednesday of the week the Saturday, Sunday or Holiday work is performed. A laid off full time associate that has notified the company they are available for work wi'l be offered overtime before a part time associate. The full time associate will receive their regular rate of pay for hours worked with the appropriate shift premium and overtime pay as provided tor tn Article XXIV
Part-time associates that work Saturday, Sunday or Holidays shall be paid at a rate equal to the start rate of the production associate classification as contained in Article XXXII, Section (1). Part-time associates that work during the regular workweek (Monday Friday) shall be paid Ten ($10.00) dollars per hour. The parties may mutually agree to increase the $10.00 pay rate for in-week Part-time associates.
42
1


A Part-time associate shall accrue no credit towards acquiring seniority. In the event such Part-time associate is subsequently hired as a full-time associate, he will receive credit for time worked in the last twelve months as a Part-time associate toward the probationary period. The length of time that the associate worked for Budd (seniority date), total hours worked, the amount of experience the associate has established in the department where the opening is to be filled, and the job performance of the associate will be considered by the Company when hiring a permanent associate.
The Company may discharge or terminate a Part-time associate, in which case the associate shall only have access to the grievance procedure in cases of claimed discrimination on account of a reason set forth in Section (2) of Article I.
A Part-time associate shall be entitled to union representation, including access to the regular grievance procedure, subject to the limitation contained in the preceding paragraph pertaining to discharge or termination.
Part-time associates. Other than seniority associates, shall be provided life insurance in the amount of $25,000 and accidental death and dismemberment insurance in the amount of $12,500. An associate shall become eligible tor such coverage beginning the first of the month following the month of hire or rehire provided he performs some work during the month following the month of hire. The Company shaff pay the premium for this coverage for any month in which the associate receives pay from the company for working in such month. This coverage shall cease on the day employment is terminated.
43
*?


Part-time associates that have worked for the Company six (6) months and continue to work at least forty (40) hours in each subsequent month shall be eligible to purchase at their own expense Hospital, Surgical, Medical insurance at the company's group insurance rate effective for that month (cobra rate).
1
" ARTICLE XXI Team Concepts and Structure
J j d
-J
Section (1)	The parties agree that it would be mutually beneficial to the Company, the Union and the associates to continue to develop the full and effective participation of all associates. A critical part of that development is the continuation of a participative style of operation. This participative style acknowledges the important contribution that can be made by soliciting input from associates regarding matters which directly affect them in their work environment and is firmly grounded in the Shelbyville Plant's continuous improvement and waste elimination processes and mindset. This operating style recognizes the need to continue a non-adversartal relationship, based on trust, respect and loyalty, with an aim of enhancing the dignity and self-worth of all associates. In that regard, the parties pledge to resolve or adjust differences that affect their relationship in a manner, which exhibits tolerance, patience and objectivity and avoids confrontation. This participative approach to doing business, coupled with the Company and the Union's acknowledgment that the Company must produce quality products at competitive prices, make the Union's long-term cooperation to continue the principles of flexibility, efficiency continuous improvement and waste elimination absolutely necessary.
Therefore, in order to enhance the long term success of the Shelbyville Plant and to promote the involvement of a!) its associates in the decision-making, problem solving, continuous improvement and waste elimination
44
;■ niillllill!

processes, the parlies agree to continue the team concept in the Plant.
Section (2)	Teams.
Team refers to a group of associates performing all of the work in a department/area or lines or group of lines which might relate to a specific section of the production process, a physical area of the plant or any other logical grouping of jobs that contain associates or provides meaningful purpose within manufacturing process and facility constraints.
Section (3)	Team Size
Appropriate team size will be determined based on a distribution of work, which will permit flexibility, and efficient utilization of the work force. The Company will discuss team size with the Union prior to creating or changing a team in order to provide an opportunity for input and an exploration ofalternatives.
Section (4)	Team Member
Each associate may be a member of a team and shall share team member responsibilities with fellow team members.
Section (5)	Team Member Responsibilities • The following list represents the responsibilities, which any team member may be required to perform , although the parties recognize that some responsibilities will be exercised by only a few team members.
Responsibilities
a)	Participate in daily audits;
b)	Process scrap;
c)	Assist in development	of work
assignments;
45
d)	Correct and also assist others with minor and report major tooling and maintenance problems;
e)	Provide input regarding production
process capability;
f)	Assist in methods planning;
g)	Monitor and control efficient performance
of equipment
h)	Adhere to plant safety rules;
i)	Support and help train team members;
j)	Maintain a clean work area;
k)	Problem solving (quality, productivity,
etc.)
1)	Schedule personal vacation;
m)	Coordin ate with other teams;
n)	Seek technical assistance	where
required;
o)	Know and communicate	with	their
customer whether internal or external to the Company;
p)	Rotate jobs within the team as required;
qj	Become proficient In all jobs assigned to the team;
r)	Participate in team meetings and job improvement processes such as Continuous improvement;
s)	Additional duties as may be required. Should such additional duties become of concern to team members, the Company and the Union will discuss and attempt to resolve the matter.
Section (6)	Cross Training
In those departments where cross training is required to broaden and maintain the knowledge level of associates, the group leaders and team leaders will, after giving full consideration to input they receive from
46
the teams, establish the requirements, length and frequency of training assignments for the department. The teams wifi develop their individual rotation schedule in consultation with their group leader and team leader. Any deviations from the above requirement must be approved by the Company and the Union.
Section (7)	Team Leader
Each" team shall elect one from among them who will be responsible for coordinating the activities of the team.
a)	The team leader will be paid an additional $1.00 per hour over the established rate while assigned as a team leader.
b)	Eligible associates who are members of the team (not temporary team members) may stand for election. The elected team leader must take the team leader assessment and should attend training classes to improve, such training and assessment shall be provided by the company. Following the effective date of this Agreement, the Union may nominate one person to take assessor training who will be added to the list of qualified assessors following successful completion of the training. For the next team leader assessments the Union may select three of the four assessors to be selected from the list of qualified bargaining unit members who have volunteered for the assessment. When selecting assessors for subsequent team leader assessments the Union will select assessors from the list in such a manner as to rotate the assignment among all the volunteer assessors.
c)	The term of office for the team leader position shall be thirty-six months. A team may request
47
a n election after six months provided the following conditions apply to such election:
1.	The group leaderts notified by the team at a team meeting of the specific problem(s), which gives rise to the request for an election.
2.	The team leader is counseled by the group leader and the election takes place no sooner than thirty days aher the notice is received by the group leader.
3.	The team leader shall be removed if a majority of those eligible to vote cast their ballotfor removal.
df The Company may remove a Team leader who fails to fulfill team leader responsibilities. An associate's assessment score may be a factor in the Companies decision to remove a leader but it will not be the only reason. An associate so removed shall be ineligible to stand for election until twenty-four months have passed since removal from the team leader position. The decision to remove a team leader from his position shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
e) If no associate on the team wishes Io be the team leader, the Company will appoint an interim team leader. The interim team leader shall serve until the team requests an election.
48

Section (8)	Team Leader Responsibilities - Thu following list represents the responsibilities, which an/ team leader may be required to perform , although the parlies recognize that some responsibilities are not exercised by an team leaders. Inasmuch as the team leader is the foundation on which the team is built, the responsibilities include those previously listed for al) assouaies and additionally will include:
Responsibilities:
H
VI
II
a) b)
c>
d)
e) n
g)
h)
i)
j)
k)
I)
Be working members ot the team Promote good morale and performance of the team;
provide unscheduled relief to learn members
Evaluate training needs rnd make necessary arrangements to p- ovide proper resources;
Maintain records;
Communicate with group leaders, othet team leaders and team members ti: improve the overall effectiveness jt the team, the departments and the plant: Work toward constant improvements in the effectiveness of the team in the areas of quality, cost and productivity. Be a resource io other teams and group leaders;
Promote new methods, processes ano associate suggestions;
Coordinate team activilies and encourage job rotation within the team; Plan, schedule and conduct team meetings;
Encourage associate particioaticn m team meetings
4d

1
m) Additional duties as may be required. Should such additional duties become of concern to the team leader, the Company and the Union will discuss and attempt to resolve the matter.
1
Section (9)	Team Meetings
a)	Team meetings may be held by each team a maximum of twice a month. At one meeting each month the focus will be on Ci key measures and other work related matters. The other meeting each month may focus on other work related team issues. Team discussions are not to include, discipline, light duty assignments or labor agreement issues, which are properly and exclusively within the purview of the Union or the Company.
b)	Attendance at team meetings will be mandatory. It is understood that the decisions of the majority of the team shall be binding on all members.
c)	Team meetings may be held externa) to the shift time with the consent of the Company. Associates shall not be required to attend such meetings unless the entire team votes to make attendance mandatory.
ARTICLE XXII Hours of Work
Section (1) This Article defines the normal hours of work and shall not in anyway be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week. This section (1) is not meant to negate or nullify Article XXXVSection (13).
i
1
Section (2)
The payroll week shall be the period
Section (3)
The normal workweek will be forty hours
There shall be two ten-minute rest
Section (4)
Section (5)
There shall be a thirty-minute unpaid
lunch period on a regular eight or ten hour shift. In addition, there shall be another thirty-minute unpaid lunch period for an associate that works more than a twelve hour shift.
beginning with the regular starting time of the third shift on Monday (Sunday night) and concluding at the regular end of the second shift on Sunday night.
periods on each eight-hour shift and one additional ten-minute rest period will be scheduled for each additional two hours worked In excess of eight hours on a shift.
consisting of five consecutive eight-hour days, exclusive of lunch period, Monday through Friday or four ten-hour days Monday through Thursday or Tuesday through Friday exclusive of lunch period. Shift starting times may be changed by the Company to meet operating needs and conditions, provided that such changes shall be made known to the Union and posted at least five work days in advance The company will discuss such changes with the Union, in advance of the posting, to provide an opportunity for exploration of alternatives.
Section (6) When the Company determines it is necessary for an associate to work during their regular lunch period the associate shall be provided a lunch period at another time during the shift. If the Company cannot provide a lunch period at a reasonable time during the shift, the associate shall be paid for the lunch period and will be permitted to eat on the job. If the Company requires an associate to work his lunch period without compensation and does not provide a later lunch period for the associate, the associate may go home after completion of the shift instead of remaining
<n the plant for the last thirty minutes of the shift for the unpaid lunch period.
ARTICLE XXHI Overtime
Effective March 4, 2902 for Technical Associate Overtime
Effective April 1, 2092 for production Associate Overtime
Section (1J Overtime Procedure: The Company will be responsible for the scheduling and equalization of ovgrtime,
a)	Before requiring associates to work in-week or Saturday overtime, the following steps will be followed in order, available qualified;
1.	associate volunteers.
2.	part-t im e a ssociates.
X contract associates and
4.	support associate volunteers will be utilized during the overtime period.
b)	Associates will not be required to work more than ten hours per day during the normal workweek and no more than eight hours per day on Saturdays. Associate must be advised before their lunch hour of in-week mandatory overtime unless it is an extreme emergency that will result in a customer shutdown. Associates will be allowed to volunteer for a maximum of sixteen (15) hours per day inweek and weekends. However there must be al least a (7) seven hour spread between the sixteen hours worked and the associate's next regular shift. The associate’s regular shift will
52
take precedence over a sixteen hour work schedule. Associates will work in-week or weekend overtime tn their depart men' bewe volunteering for overtime in other departments of the plant.
c)	Associates will express their availability to work in-week overtime, by signing a sheet Or electronically, by Thursday noon the week prior for the following week's in-week overtime. This overtime work will be awarded to the qualified associate in accordance with section 2 or 3 of this procedure.
d)	Associates will express their availability to work weekend overtime, by signing a sheet or electronically, by the end ot each shift on Wednesday prior to the weekend the overtime is available. This overtime work will be awarded to the qualified associate in accordance with section 2 or 3 of this procedure.
e)	The Company will post mandatory and/or a tentative weekend overtime schedule by ihe end of the department’s lunch for each shift on Wednesday. The final weekend overtime schedule will be posted by the end of their lunct > on Thursday. The Company will post a tentative in-week schedule by lunchtime of the associate's Friday workday.
0 Saturday overtime shall be required if a customer is working such Saturday. The Company will provide Maintenance & Tooling associates with a minimum number of associates that will be required to work such customer Salurday to run production. All work performed on Sundays or Holidays will be voluntary.

a) Associates that do not volunteer for overtime by the time periods listed in this article will not be able to work the in-week or weekend overtime available except to till vacant positions not already filled by other associates, PTA’s, contract associates or support associates. When an associate has prior knowledge of an overtime violation but does not come forward to correct the situation and attempts to attain grievance pay the associate wilt not be compensated for back pay when the grievance is settled.
h) When triggered by a lack of sufficient associates the Company may institute the use of weekend shift crews A weekend shift crew will work twenty-four hours during a weekend and be compensated by payment of thirty-two hours at the straight time wage rate.
1	> A weekend crew associate working less than twenty-four hours shall be compensated at the rate of 1.33 times his base rate for each hour worked.
2)	The weekend crew shall be staffed by the senior associates requesting the assignment or by newly hired associates.
3)	fn establishing the size of a weekend crew the availability of volunteers from the regular (Monday through Friday) work force will be considered.
4)	By mutual agreement the parties may, if circumstances warrant, develop a weekend crew schedule that provides a twenty-four hour schedule that encompasses three workdays including Saturday and Sunday.
5)	To oe prepared to support the customer if sufficient volunteers are not available as
54

.si
Section (2)
described in section (2) (a) and Section ) (a) of this article, the Company will request volunteers for a weekend work crew by a posting.
Production Overtime Guidelines:
Associates will volunteer for available work by seniority:
1. 2, 3.
4.
5.
6.
b)
line affected on the shift area affected on the shift department affected on the shift outside the department on the shift within the classification
plantwide by seniority within the classification plantwide by seniority outside the classificalio
c)
<0
e)
When mandatory in-week overtime is recurred, associates on the shift will be required as Icilows: line effective, area effective and then department effective. When mandatory Saturday overtime :s necessary, the junior qualified associates within the area of the department on the shift will be required to work. Associates working overtime *n the press shop may be moved because of breakdowns, production run ends or unscheduled activities to work other production lines.
Each department will post a list containing ail production associates names in order by shift and area according to their plant seniority.
if an associate has accepted weekend overtime and that overtime is cancelled, senior associates will not be allowed to bump another less senior associate fro m their scheduled weekend wo -k.
Associates who are absent on Friday and wno a e scheduled for Saturday, Sunday and/or
55


Holiday work wifi be permitted to work their scheduled hours on Saturday. Sunday and/or Holiday provided they notify the Company no later than the second hour of their shift on Friday that they intend to work such Saturday. Sunday and/or Holiday.
b) If. on Saturdays due to an emergency situation, additions/ associates within an area of a department are needed to work Sunday and/or Holidays, senior associates on the shift within the area and then the senior associates on the shift in the department working Saturdays wilt be the first ones asked to work the Sunday and/or Holidays,
Section (3) Maintenance and Tooting Overtime Guidelines:
a) Associates will be scheduled for overtime by equalized hours with the low hour qualified associate on the shift within the area of the department getting such work opportunity. Overtime wifi be equalized in Maintenance only within 40 hours within the area of the department on the shift. Tooling associates may continue the practice of working lunch or breaks without providing the opportunity to the low hour associate. For purposes of In-week overtime equalization, all weekend crew associates within a department wifi be considered as one area.
Associates will be scheduled to work in the following priority order:
1,	Area affected on the shift
(a)	Technical Associates
(b)	Apprentices
2.	Area affected off shift
3.	Department affected on the shift
4,	Department affected off shift
5.	Helpers
56
S7

fa) Those associates who are not sufficiency low in hours to work their respective weekend shift, will be allowed to work in their area of their department on a shift other than their own provided these associates make their desire known in wniing tor electronically) to the Company by midnight Wednesday and further provided they have the ability to perform the work required and vacancies remain on the off shift, in case two (21 associates have an equal amount of hours, the senior qualified associate will be scheduled to wont.
c)	Apprentices will be offered overtime by tow hours within an area on the shift after alt technical associates within the area on the shift nave been offered the opportunity to work tne oi'ertime period. If openings exist after ail technical associates and apprentices are asked to work me overtime penod. qualified production associate helpers will be offered remaining overtime opportunities.
d)	tn case two (2) associates have an equal an oun; of hours, the senior qualified associate wiii ce scheduled to work. The associates with tow hours capable of doing the work required who have been offered to work and refused will be charged she overtime hours as if they worked. Associates wiii be charged overtime equal to the rate of gay t ie: one and half hours charged for every ont‘ and a half hours paid and two hours charged for every double time hour paid} for the period offered or worked.
e)	The following associates will be placed on the overtime list with the highest hours:
1.	Newly hired associates after completing ir eir probationary period
1 riS"\ ' -/I*
if?,-’
3.
4.
5*
T.t- *5
58
rs.:
if* 'Jn. -

2.
Associates transferred from one department/area to another department or area3.
Associates returning to work from a thirty (30) or more day lay-off
Associates who are on an approved leave of absence for thirty (30) or more days (including disciplinary suspension)
''	' i
f)	The overtime list for each department and/or area will be placed so as to be available for inspection by the members of the department or area. The overtime hours worked and/or charged in the previous workweek (Monday through Sunday) will be added to the overtime list on Tuesday of the following week. All overtime to be worked from that Tuesday through the following Monday will be based on the accumulated hours of this list. When a holiday occurs on Monday or Tuesday this list will then be posted on Wednesday.

g)	Associates who are absent on Friday and who are scheduled for Saturday, Sunday and/or Holiday work will be permitted to work their scheduled hours on Saturday, Sunday and/or Holiday provided they notify the Company no later than the second hour of their shift on Friday that they intend to work such Saturday, Sunday and/or Holiday. Any such associate who fails to so notify the Company will not be permitted to work the Saturday. Sunday and/or Holiday and will be charged the hours they were scheduled to work An associate absent on Friday who was not scheduled for work on Saturday. Sunday and/or Holiday but had volunteered will be bypassed as an add-on and will not be charged overtime hours.
1111
h> If on Saturdays due to an emergency situation additional associates within an area ot a department are needed to work Sunday and/or holidays, low hour associates on the shift within the area and then the low hour associates on the shift in the department working Saturdays wilt be the first ones asked. If more associates are needed, the low hour associates within the area of the department not working will be asked When vacancies occur due to cancellations or when additions are made to the original overtime list, these vacancies and additions shall be taken from the low hour associates who had volunteered to work in the area on the shift. If vacancies still exist, the order referenced in section (3)(a) above will be followed.
I) At the end of each calendar year, the associate with the lowest hours will be zeroed out. The amount ot hours removed from the associate with the lowest hours will also be removed from all assoc iates on the shift in the area of the department.
ARTICLE XXIV Premium Pay
Section (1)	All associates covered by the piovisions of this Agreement shall be paid time and one-naif for all time worked in excess of eight hours in any one day or on Saturday.
Section (2)	AU associates covered by the provisions of this Agreement shall be paid double lime for all ;ime worked on Sundays and Holidays recognized in Article XXVJI1,
Section (3)	In no event shall overtime or premium pay be pyramided or duplicated for the same hmirs
59
worked on a particular workday or in a particular workweek.
Section (4)	When overtime hours are a continuation of the scheduled shift, the same premium rate of pay wil< -ipply. for example, employees on second shift working from 3:30 PM on Saturday until 2:30 AM on Sunday wifi be paid time and one-half for alt hours worked. Second shift employees working from 3:30 PM on Sunday until 2:30 AM on Monday wifi be paid double time for all hours worked. rhe same rule applies to hours that overlap a plant holiday.
Section (5)	Associates regularly assigned to work on ihe second and third shift shall be paid a 5% premium. Associates temporarily assigned to the second or third shift for less than a full day shall not receive shift premium.
ARTICLE XXV
Report-In and Call-In Pay
Section (1)	Report-In Pay. Any associate or PT. A.
who reports for work at his or her regular scheduled time shah be guaranteed a minimum of four hours' work of whaiever type that ts available, provided, however, that the Company will not be required to guarantee four hours' work if it has given at least one hour advance notice to associates when they are not to report for work on their regular s ched uled work tng da y s. Provided further that this provision shall not apply in the event that the circumstances resulting in the lack of available work are beyond the Company's control, such as acts of God, inclement weather, failure of commercial power supply and labor disputes. This requirement shali also not apply when the associate is absent the day on which notification of no work would have been given.
Section (2)	Call-in Pay. Any production or technical or P.TA. associate who is called to and
60
two
a)
b)
c)
61
an
his
ARTICLE XXVI Leave of Absence
Section (1) associate who
reports back to work before the start of the associate's next shift, after having completed his regular work shift and having left Company premises, shall be paid a minimum of four hours pay
Section (3)	For the amount of pay purposes only -any Part-Time associate that has reported to work as instructed by management or has been called in to work a shift less than four (4) hours and work is not available
will be provided two hours of pay or provided with hours of work.
Upon written application from has successfully completed
probationary period, the Company may grant a leave of absence without pay, and where good cause is shown as follows:
Any associate who is til or injured may apply to the Human Resources department for a medical leave of absence for personal illness or injury. The leave shall not exceec the period set forth in Article XIV, Section (4).
Upon application to the Human Resources Department, a leave of absence may be granted for personal reasons for a period not tc exceed ninety days.
Unpaid personal leaves may be granted in full day increments to extend Funeral Leave cr for inclement weather. When weather conditions which result in the Governor of the state prohibiting travel on public highways cause an associate's absence the associate will be given the option to utilize contractual provisions for paid vacation time off or personal leave without pay
d)
e)
f)
62

An associate called to perform short-term military doty for thirty days or (ess. including annual active duty for training, as a member of the United States Armed Forces reserve or National Guard, upon submission of Military orders, will be granted leave for short-term military duty. While on such leave, if the associate would otherwise have been scheduled to work, for each day partially or wholly spent in performing such duly he shall be paid the difference, if any. between (i) the associate's regular straight-time hourly rate exclusive of shift premium for hours up to eight that he otherwise would have been scheduled to work and (i*> his daily military earnings (including all allowances except for rations, subsistence and travel) The Company’s obligation to pay an associate for performance of military duty under this Section is limited to a maximum of fifteen scheduled working days in any calendar year, except for short-term active duty of thirty days or less performed by associates called to active service in the National Guard by State or Federal authorities in case of public emergency, fo order to receive payment under this section, the associate must furnish the Company with a statement of his military pay while on such duty.
The Company shall grant a military leave of absence tor active duty in accordance with applicable Federal statutes.
Leaves of absence for UAW union activities will be granted for the period of the assignment upon the advance request of the Local Union President or the International Union UAW. When the Union requests less than five associates be granted a leave a one day notice will be provided, when live to ten associates are requested for union leave a three day
h)
notice will be provided to the company. When ten or more associates are requested for union ieav«t a five day notice wifi be provided to the company. The Vice President and two Committeepe,‘sun'» will not be counted in these leave numbers.
Associates elected or appointed to a public position may, upon application, be granted a leave of absence for the period ol active service in such elected office or appointment. No more than two associates at any time elected or appointed to a public position wilt be granted a leave of absence to attend a monthly required meeting.
The Company will continue to comply with the Family Medical Leave Act in accordance with Ihe Company policy and negotiated rules.
The Company will gram a one-day leave o’ absence to associates due to the death < >f ar associate's brother in law or sister in law. vrhici includes their spouse's brother and sister.
Section (2)
General conditions:
a>
b]
In deciding on a personal leave of absence request, the employer will take into consideration (1) the level of business activity: (2) the need fai properly trained personnel: and (3 J the Avafafaiiify of Part-time or contract associates
An associate who works tar another employer during his leave without the written consenl c f the Company or who gives false reason for any leave ot absence shail be disciplined, up to and including discharge.
An associate is expected to return to wotk on the next scheduled workday fallowing expiration of the leave of absence. An associate will be allowed to return to woik prior
6.1
Io trie expiration of the leave with five (5) days notice to the Company.
d)	if an associate lacks the senior-.ty to return to work upon the expiration of a leave of absence the return to work will be governed by the recall provisions of this Agreement.
e)	Seniority will continue to accrue during an approved leave of absence.
ARTICLE XXVtl Health and Safety
Section |1) The Company shall mate reasonable provision for the health and safely of its associates The ■Jnion agrees to cooperate lo the tullest extent tn the promotion of safety and in the maintenance o* safe working conditions and practices. It is the responsibility of management and all associates to observe safely and health rules
Section (2)	Each associate has the responsibility to help assure that workplace accidents are prevented and that tne community is protected from adverse environmental effects of our operations- Each associate must be committed to strict adherence to all renuiremenls of Company policies and procedures pertaining to health, safety and the environment
Section (3)	Health and Safely shall continue to hr- a key measurable for every team. And the Company will continue its policy of reimbursement of 55% but not more than $65 tor the cost of approved safety shoes not more offen than once per year, upon presentation of a satisfactory receipt, in addition the Company will continue its policy of reimbursement for the cost of prescription safety glasses purchased in accordance with Company procedures
Section(4)	Health and Safety Complaint Procedure, in the even! a health and safely issue
64
cannot be resolved between the associate and he t rwi> leader. the associate may fi le a health a n d s a m i y ;om; Ann! with the safety department Within one working diy. a Union Representative and a management memuer < f the Plant Executive Safety Committee shah mvesiyait the complaint and attempt to resolve the matter it t ie matte; remains unresolved, it shall be submitted to ;he Piair. Managerand International Representative ot tne Unitm t’.r resolution. When an issue arises thal needs the hiwm kite attention of management and it cannot be succesUuiiy resolved al ide above step concerning a vioMtiijn <,’• :hi?. agreement the parties may use the procedure dc'..c.rthr <• Article XII Section (15). This shall be the final step ci :h<? procedure. Health and safely complaints are rot Jibjrt::|r,-the grievance and grievance arbitration procediuf
Section (5)
The Company agrees Inai it the
International UriiCin revu'r.Us a member uf its H>.altl' t’<; Safety staff to visit the plant for the purpose < >t <r st,o >:.ng a specific health and safety problem, such •/<>. t ,vl <.»? permitted with reasonable notice. The rer.|ue;t wil bt: made to the Company's Corporate Mameier if Lw.n Relations. Following the visit the Union's fce.itn a rd s; ii'i’y technician will furnish to’the Corporate Umor Hel.v-ons Manager and the Vocal Union a written repor: .?*) u. :u i. atigt concerning the specific health and safety prujtem vm>sh occasioned the visit.
Section 16)
The President of the Local unon -;hatl
be a member of the Plant Executive Safety Cc nrni tec. The member of management responsible fur safety ii ihe plant will meet with the Union President upon .'tgue-;t to review plant safety matters
65
Section (1) For the purpose o( this Agreement, the to iow<ng shall be considered as paid holidays:
1.	Martin Luther King Day
2.	Good Friday
3.	Monday after Easter
A, Memorial Day
5.	Independence Day
6.	Labor Day
7.	Thanksgiving Day
8.	Day after Thanksgiving Day
9.	Christmas Holiday Period
Ure Christmas Holiday Periods during the term of this Agreement shall be:
December 24,2001
December 25,2001
December 26.2001
December 27,2001 December 28.2001 December31,2001 January 1.2002
First Ye ar:
December 23,2002
December 24.2002
December 25.2002
December 26,2002
December 27.2002
December 30.2002 0ecember31.2002
January 1.2003
Second Year:
December 24.2003
December 25,2003
December26,2003 December 29.2003 December 30.2003
essiBSSS!
66
67
Section (2) When a holiday fails on a Sffurd.ty the holiday will be observed the preceding Friday. Whon a holiday falls on a Sunday the holiday will he ob iervcd the following Monday.
December 31. 2003 January 1.2004 January 2, 2004
Third Year:
December 24, 2004
December 27. 2004
December 28, 2004
December 29, 2004 December 30, 2004 December 31.2004
Section (3)	To be eligible for holiday pc-y. t!i»s associate must: a) have completed his h re probationary period prior to the paid holiday or :r e start of the Christmas Holiday Period; b) have worked tic scheduled shift immediately preceding the holiday a the scheduled shift immediately following the hoidav in the same workweek; and c> not have been or layoff from the Company, provided, however, an usiocrrtn shall be entitled to holiday pay if he is laid off witt-m fourteen calendar days prior to the holiday or Christinas Holiday Period or returns from layoff wilhm sev-jn calendar days after the holiday or Christmas Holte a v Period. The following exceptions to the rule tnat m employee must work the days prior to and foUowinc a holiday or the Christmas Holiday Period shall alsr apfJy: jury duty, funeral leave, approved vacations, otl e< approved absences and absences for justifiable leasm . An associate who has made application fcr a uc jical er military leave of absence, and has received approval or such request, will receive pay for a holiday only if he r a < performed work for the Company within fifteen c.iienn.jf days either preceding or following the actual <136 of ho paid holiday or Christmas Holiday Period

Section (4)	f'-ailure to work the Iasi scheduled shift prior to or next scheduled shift following the Christmas holiday Period shaft cause the associate to forfeit holiday pay for the two da/s. which tollownr precede such scheduled shift.
Section (5)
An associate shall be paid his current
1
straight time rate including applicable shift premium tor the holiday An associate's shift shall be determined, by the shut last wo-'ked prior lo the holiday or for the Christmas holiday period the shift worked on the Monday of the week preceding tin’ week in which the holiday period began
Section (6 j	When a holiday occurs during an
associate's vacation, the associate will be perrnlted to take a day off at a later time with the prior approval of the Company, or the associate may select a day’s pay in lieu of an additional day oi vacation. Pay for the day off or day in lieu will be the amount, which would have been paid on the noli da v.
ARTICLE XXIX Jury Duty
Section (1)	Any full-time associate (hat ;s summoned and required to report tor jury duty in any tsderai, slate, county or municipal court will be reimbursed for the difference between his straight lime hourly >aie including applicable shift premium, and any jury duty lees paid to him by the court for a period not to exceed sixty days.
Section (2)	in order to receive pay men I for fury service, ihe associate must provide the Company documentation from the court clerk stating me dates and I iours the associate was engaged in jury duty service and ail compensation received from the court
68
Section (3)
The provisions of this -•nicie ai
applicable to any associate who. without bemo <*.r .nr volunteers tor ju ry d uty
ARTICLE XXX Funeral Leave
Section 1'1)
It is the inter 0 ->t th'S pel
toss when it <s necessary for an associate I ■	.■-•"•I
work to attend the funera! at a member cf t(i< immediate iamily !n the event of a death	: -_-o;
the immedid-e family of ar. associate who	c ,ci;.
his probationary period, tne associate she.■..< ; leave as noted in Section 2 below Po include ’in (■□neral; with eight bourn of straight-time y;v; : a '-ar taken. An associate will be eligible for F on*.? •.
the loss ol t<n ie from wc working days of th? di;t-< sha’'. he o.jto only for c defied; ite-J workweek associates working uc t mav '‘/qiii'st uddiiit;:
X.'jijrs within

circui ns lances of the dea’h ^uo’C- itm
..■S50Ci;={fi tor a Oertod g;
Sc ;lio:12 o' ■ his article .
it er ;«3r-
Section (2)
The Company w<il pay up to erhfit {8) I'c-.:--three (3) consecutive scheduled working :;j;
time due to the death of the:
Employee's: Grandchild Grandparent Sister Brother Stepparent Stepbrother Stepsister
Current Spi use s:
Mot'-
Fartie<
Employee’s^	Current Spouse's:
Half Brother
Half Sister
Great-grandparent
The company wilt pay up to eight (8) hours per day for five (5) con s ecu t ive sc h ed uied worki n g da ys d ue Io tl ie d ea t h of the:
Emp.lpyee^s;
Mother father Husband Wife Child Current Stepchild
Section (3| An associate will receive his current straight-time hourly rate including applicable shift premium multiplied t-y eight hours for each fail day of tt-e paid funeral leave taken.
Section <4J The associate must present to the Company verification of death and/or ot the family relationship of the deceased for any claim made under this provision An associate co an approved vacation leave al the time an eligible funeral leave occurs will have their status Changed to a funeral leave and their vacation time will oe adjusted accordingly.
Section |5i Payment of funeral leave st all be subject to the following conditions:
a) The associate must have seniority on the date the death occurred .
b| Notice of dea-h and leave time neeoerf must oe given io tne Company as soc.i as pens idle,
c) The associate must attend the funerat
70
ARTICLE XXXI
Vacation
Section (1)	Associates shall be entitled to annual vacation based on length of unbroken Budd Company Service as of their anniversary date in that year t'refetence chart A),
CHART A	
Length of continuous Budd Company Service as of the anniversary date	Vacation time an I associate is eligible I to earn in the ■ vacation year
Less than 6 months service in a year	(0) days earned
Hired prior to July 1 of a given year	(5) Five-days iaftei completing 90 fays < of Budd service)	;
At least (1) one year service but less than (3) three years service	(10) Ten-davs
At least (3) three years service but less than (5) five years service	(13) Thirteen-day > I i 	 _	j
At least (5) five years service but less than (15) fifteen years of service	(15) Fifteen-days
At least (15) fifteen years service or more of service	(20) Twenty-days j
Section (2)	Vacation time is earned by wort mg
during the vacation year. An associate will earn 1O\. pftne year's vacation entitlemenUor each 110 straight time hr urs paid or traction thereof. An associate may take >. aca km prior to earning it. An associat*.: who
71
akes mure vacation time than he earns in a year will repay foe Company for the unearned vacation time taken.
Section (3> Vacation time off must de taken; it may nut iff carried over to the next year. Pay-irvlieu of urmse'i earned vacation time off will be paid al the associate's eouesl at any time after September 1. each year. Under no ■jrc.umsrances will any associate be permitted tn cany any eniaining wHitlemen Hot ward into the next calendar year
Section (4) Vacatiuf. will be paid at the straight time warty -ate including applicable shift premium for Ihe Ratification and shift shown on the associate's personnel ecord yrhen the time off is taken or (he reques for pay-in-iet is received.
Section |5) The vacation-scheduling t>e'>od for all departments, will be from January 1 fo February 16 of oac'i ■err. Luring this period, alt associates may submit thei1 mefererce lor vacation time. Requests will ue granted nased on Plant seniority and requests for fuff wueks will be granted prior to requests for partial weeks. Request for mtatior- curing (he periud of January 1,10 February 15 will ue granted on a first come first granted basis Ten percent of a department's work force on a shift may be scheduled In: m-j week. After February !5. vacation requests will be jranted if the department has less than ten percent on mcatioc. gnu further provided Hie request is received more "hO'i one working day prior to the start of the vacation. If a (epartmettr schedules training during a week ip which less hai ter percent have requested vacation, notice will be jiven to foe department mat additional vacations may not be trgnted for the woek
iei.t io n (6 J	All y a c a l ion t ime ofi m ust bo a pp< <>ved by
he associate’s group leader An assO'inte eligible
72
i
tot one but less than tour weeks of vacation mus1 tak>; al least one full week of vacation per year. An arisociaie eligible tor four weeks of vacation mu si take ;wu weeks cd vacation per year in full week mcrernenis. The !ut> week requirement shall not apply to the individual who r 'quests
pay in lieu after September 1.
Section (7)	The Company reserves toe right to designate the time the plan! shall close down lor vacation. Where practicable, the Company will provide -ux:y ii;ws noticeastothedatesofplantshutdown. All associates toi scheduled (o work during plant shutdown must use their vacation during the shutdown. It is mutually und>arstc«i (hat vacation leave will be granted based on the ability to ensure orderly operation ot the plant and Hie sr'.t edu-ed vacation may be preempted by production requiretnerls Associates who are not scheduled to work and <:<' u it n;w« vacation entitlement or who request Iha! they <vi ;i-charged with vacation tor one ot trie shutdown .-i: Ss ! be placed on an unpaid leave of absence.
Section (B)	Associates in an mactwn sin’s >s <T" permitted Io take vacation upto the amount ac=:i .md urmi ■ the inactivation.
Section (9)	An associate will reeuw.? j w ‘v vacation time oft on the norma) payday tor the va<..«;un ur i< taken. The Company will institute advance vu.' ui m p.iv alter the implementation of the new payroll systern rr tgcr-Requesls tor advance vacation pay must De sut-ri iter! it advance under procedures published by the Cr-mpmr. from time (o time.
Section (10)	Accrued unused vacation n-vui i u paid upon termination of employment. Vacatimi imn taki c but not earned will be charged to the asst >r rate up.ii termination of employment.
WAPA.
Section (111 Associates may earn up to an additional twenty-eight hours per year of paid leave in accordance with the following WAPA and WAEPD rules
Work Available Perfect Attendance (WAPA) allows associates to earn one (1) hour paid leave for each full month ot pedect attendance. WAPA hours may accumulate from year to year. Unused WAPA hours will be paid upon termination of employment except that unusen WAPA hours wilt net be paid to associates who voluntarily lerminate and do not provide the Company with two weeks prior notice of tire vo'untary termination
The following are the only exceptions for perfet i attendance
•	Vacation (including WAPA. WAE3D and PAA scheduled >n advance)
•	MifitaryLeave
*	Jury Duty
■	Court Subpoena (to appear as a wilness;
•	Death in Family (maximum 3 « 5 days in accordance with Article XXX) for specific relatives: mother, father, stepfather stepmother, current mother-in-law, current tather-in-law, current spouse, children, grandchildren, brother, sister or current step-children anc grandparent and great grandparent of the associate and the associate's current spouse.
« FMLAcoveredleaves
•	Work-retated injuries
■	Union leaves
WAPA must be scheduled with, and approver; by. the team leader and group leader
tSSBBE
74
Earned Paid Personal Days:
Paid Absence Allowance:
it'.Otl ।
employee absence provided the next absence
Shall be granted to all associates who have o-more years company wide service so [:ece 31 of the prior ye ar providing they in-payroll. An associate who is nn: on I in ।
a| A Paid Absence Allowance iPAZ-calculated on Ihe sanie basts ;n
For each calendar quarter of perfect altemiance an associate earns four hours paid personal Dnm Ur used earned personal time will be paid to you eacl Jm nary Unused earned personal time wilt be paid upon ti rrmration of employment except that unused WAEPO hours wk not be paid to associates who voluntarily terminate : nd ri> no! provide the Company with two weeks prior notice <>1 Ihe voluntary termination.
WAPAand Earned Paid Personal Days mir.;i tie * cho-luted with, and approved by. the team leader ano group leader
Beginning January 1. 1999, Paid Absence AVowanc? w;V be available under the!allowing terms.
live
payroll on January 1. will, if otherwise e ioit.J-r be
n pa poll lull nay irmi ti'irj r:nt> :e is nrjer ,>url
eligible for PAA upon return to the <k iw PAA may be taken in lull week tv increments, schedule requirements r.> providing more than one working days given and it is approved by the gtoug *.. team leader.
However a request for PAA a> eii jcye
made subsequent to en will be approved te' pay* innt such request is maee e wt'mg
working day i-Awr -i uh
This payment sh.n! r ;t mike

such absence an excused absence or preclude the Company from considering such absence as the basis, in whole or in part, (or disciplinary action. However, if the associate presents physicians statement substantiating the associates inability to work, such absence shall be excluded under the Company's attendance policy,
i>) On or after the effective date of the 2002 agreement (3) three PAA days per year, granted under paragraph (r). shall be excused absences except they will not qualify an associate far holiday pay in the event of a concerted action the Company will not excuse such absences.
b,	The prior years unused P.A.A, days will be paid out each January.
c)	Where payment of PAA is authorized in less than a fall week, periods of time must be taken in full day increments.
ARTICLE XXXtl
Wage Rates and Job Classifications
Section (t| Hourly wage rates shall increase on the dates listed below. The hourly wage increase will be:
2001 hourly wage increase $0.55
2002htjurtywageincrease $0.56
2003hoifaywageincrease $0.75
Section (2} After application of the hourly wage increases (he classifications and wages will be as show in the tollowing tables.
76
Twcnfttr U- IWSI
SUd tUo 2*t>s 1*>5 SUd* Itaiv	i| Wuj
PnXueltoi JjjAf	nay y.stfi jksss jir ii* v.
; AfJWOft	_________, __	__	_.	,
'	['*“**'	521 ?? 5?i V J?> 77 JLVD.-
____ASJOCStj
W»«mh*r *1.KM
CtttificAtrWi Start 1 M» 1 Moi IMot fttw fMs« B W i )3 Vos UMci
I Ptudurtc.'	S)ii€	Jisus (1(!g1 Sl,p J .J i, t.K;;
J fesociait_____________
I 1““"*^'	$J1 S3 ® M »? 33 tti yt
1 fcWCHU	_. _____________________ . ,
Noumtir 10,2003
Cl*»irf>cat»n Start 1 Mo 2Moi 3 Mot 0Mo» IMoi 11 Mui ISM'>s. IJMo'
Prtnuttw Wl '^ItcwiLal
Asw zte
Sir, jt
322.55
MM JUX> 5)3■»> V-U’ t'H't St«r-o-
M2 33 SB u«i SB 31
Secttonp} Apprentices shal! be p.3^ a ,erc 3:rt.i<;„j of the maximum rale of the Techr.-t.:,;
Ciassifcation. The apprentice rate p»<x ressum .s contained in the slaoderris for the app'enhcj pr u;,-#n, which are incorporated by reference in this Apr jemjnt tji.f are not subject to the grievance procedure
Section (4)	Hourly wage rale Qtiargt:. x^r o<* effective on the Monday following compieton ;t th.-required time period
Section (5)	The Company wit! maXe a special payment vi the gross amount of $1,000,00 to each ar-ssc ate jf. tV>, • active roti on the effective date of this Agreement Tin-payment will be paid the week of February 25. <00. f thi-company has received notice of catificntiun < ! th< Agreement from the Union during the week of Fi t? u, r, t ft 2002.
section (6) COST-OF’LMNG ALLOWANCE
Payment of Allowance, Effect on OtherPayments
Effective at the beginning of the first pay period commencing on or after the effective date of (his Agreement and thereafter during the period of this Agreement, each associate covered by this Agreement shall receive a Cost-of-Living Allowance as set forth in this Section.
The Cost-of-Living Allowance shall not be added to the base rate for any classification, but only to each associate's straight-time hourly earnings.
The Cost-of-Living Allowance shall be taken into account in computing overtime and shift premiums, and in determining call-in pay and pay for vacations, unworked holidays, jury duty, funeral leave, and short-term military duty.
Basis for Allowance
The amount of the Cost-of-Living Allowance shall be determined and re-determined as provided below on Ure basis of the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners ।	and Clerical Workers (Revised. CPi-W, United States City
Average) published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (1967 1	=1001
i
Continuance of the Cost-of-Living Allowance shall be contingent upon the availability of the Index in its present form and calculated on the same basis as the Index for October, 2001, unless otherwise agreed upon by the parties. If the Bureau of Labor Statistics changes the form or the basis of calculating the Index, the parties agree to ask the Bureau to make available, for the life of this Agreement, a ।	-	monthly Index in its present form and calculated on the same
basis as the Index for October. 2001.
I
78
Re-determinations
Effective Date of
March 4. 2002
Amount of Allowance
79
During the period of this Agreement, adjustments in the Cost-of-Living Allowance shall be made at the following times:
November, December, 2001 and January 2002
February, March, and April 2002 and at three calendar-month intervals thereafter to August, September, ano October. 2002
Based upon Three Month Average of the Consumer Price index for;
The amount of the Cost-of-Living Allowance shall be five cents ($0.05) per hour effective with the effective date of this Agreement and ending March 3, 2002 Elective March 4. 2002_and for any period thereafter as provided
- • T:	!.	1 , * M.

First pay period beginning in June 2002 and at three Calendar-month intervals thereafter toDecember, 2004
Effective with the beginning of Ihe first pay period commencing on or after the effective date of this Agreement but after the application of the wage increase provided in Section (1) of this Article XXXll seventy-five cents ($0.75) shall be deducted from the eighty cents ($0.80) Cost-of-Living Allowance in effect immediately prior to that date and such seventy-five cents ($0.75) shall be added to the base hourly rate for each classification (including minimum, maximum and intermediate rates of each classification). The remaining five cents ($0.05) shall be considered a Cost-of-Living float subject to increase or decrease in accordance with the Consumer Pric e Index
herein, tnc Cos t-ot-Living Allowance Shat- be- io accorrimmo with a table pitwirling tor a one 11) cent aniusunent foi each Vri	11.2C change in the Average Index as calculated i”
,icc Of dance with (he letter of LMerstandrng !t)octimr;ni # ) 1
;	of the 2001} NatioPa) Prod octi on and Mamie nance
Agreement between The Budd Company and Ine i	International Union UAW) and tins Paragraph (Amount of
<*	Allowance) Prior io ihe adjustment on March 4. 2002 ihe
$	parties shall construct a table adjusted so that the actual
?■	three month average Consumer Price index equates to an
allowance of five cents for the period ending March 3.2002.
s-	in determining the- three-month Average of the Index lor 3
i	specified period, the computed average snail be rounded to
-:	the nearest 0.1 index point.
-t	in no event wilt 3 decline in the Ihree-momb Average 01 the
’4	lnde> below the level on March 5, 2002 provide the basis tor
£	a reduction in the wage scale by |ob classification.
I	No ad jus; me nt snail be made <n the Cost'd-Living
Allowance tor iht? quarters beginning September 3. 2002. September 1, 2003. and September 6. 2004. Por each cuaricr m which an increase is required, the amount of increase will be reduced by the total amount of the increase to zero For each adjustment during me twelve (12.) thiee-rionth periods beginning Mai ch 4.21'02. in which an increase in the Cost-ot-Livmg Allowance shall be required according to the procedure, the amount of increase so ;	required each ihtee-munth period, excluding the tlirec-
*	month periods beginning September 2, 2002, September 1.
2003. and September 6, 2004 shall be reduced tour (4/ cents, or by the amount of the increase whichever is less. However, there shall be no reduction as provided herein in eny three-month period in winch the Cost-uf-Livn'.q Atlowance required by the table is equal to or fess than (he a r nnii nt oi Cost-of-Living Ai to wanes provided by the
so

table tn the preceding three-month period -oilcw vig me adjustment for the three-month petiod b<miemng December 6.2004. the total sum reduced during the twelve (12J periods shaft be subtracted trom the ■ lost-o!-Living Allowance fable and the table shall be adjiir.lnd su Ui;.i!. ihe actual three-month Average Consumm Price Index equates to the allowance actually paid dtimig the pr-nod beginning December 6.2004
Adjustment Procedure
in the event the Bureau of Labor Statistics d ies ;>m isr.oe Ihe appropriate Index cn or before the beginning ru <’i'u r >j the pay-periods referred to in the Paragraph headed 'Redeterminations'. any adjustment in Ire .ffuwancn required by suet' appropriate Index shall be cltec’-vn .it t!m beginning of toe firsi pay period after rrt.-‘ the »'(!■•«
No adjustments, retroactive or oiherv.'ice b* the amount ot the Cost-of-Livine Aiiowanc ? due t revision which later may be made tn the publisher’ i1 used in the calculation ot the Consume! Rr»u limo !■ month on the basis ot which the allowance sr nil h mi: determined.
Quarterly Payments
The Cost-of-Living Allowance payaure m li1.;' n><-: provisions of this article shall he pan-, n» the iutiowin-j manner:
(a) The amount due for hours pant m sin t,iin--shall be accumulated and paid aft^r t,>.-.-t::i of t'm following periorts.

Cos t-of-Living Allowance Payment Periods
03-04-02 06-02-02
06-03-02 09-01-02
09-02-02 12-01-02
12-02-02 03-02-03
03-03-03 06-01-03
06-02-03 08-31-03
09-01-03 11-30-03
12-01-03 02-29-04
03-01-04 06-06-04
06-07-04 09-05-04
09-06-04 12-05-04
12-06-04 02-06-05
Payment shall be made by separate check in the second payday following the end of each period.
The amount due for hours worked at overtime premiums, and the amount that results from the inclusion of the Cost-of-Living Allowance in computing shift premiums, will be paid at the time the premium payment is made.
(c) Pay adjustments made in a Cost-of-Living Allowance period applicable to any previous Cost-of-Living Allowance period will include the allowance applicable during the period to which the adjustments relate.
ARTICLE XXXIII Insurance
The Company shall establish and maintain dunng the term of this agreement an insurance program providing the benefits outlined below. The benefits included in this insurance program will not be changed during the term of this Agreement except by mutual consent of the Company and Union. The Company will enter into master policies with an insurance company or insurance companies of ist choosing or, at its option the Company may provide some or all of the benefits through self
82
insurance or such other method as the Company may choose so long as it provides the level of benefits set forth • below. The Company, the Union and all associates covered by this agreement shall be bound by the terms of the master policy or policies or other plan. Associate life insurance benefits, accidental death and dismemberment benefits, weekly accident and sickness indemnity benefits and tong term disability benefits are available for eligible associates only. Eligible associates may elect to cover, in addition to themselves, their eligible dependents for benefits under the hospital, medical, surgical, drug. (HMSD) vision, hearing aid. dental and dependent life insurance coverage's. When an associate becomes eligible for such coverage, the associate may subscribe for such coverage and will at the same time execute and cause to be delivered to the Company such documents as may be required in connection with such coverage.
Dependent, as used in connection with HMSD. dental, vision and hearing aid benefits, shall include an associate's spouse and unmarried children by birth, legal adoption or legal guardianship, while dependent on the associate within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code of the United States. Such children are included until the end of the calendaryearin which they attain age23. provided that a child over 19 years of age must legally reside with or be a member of the household of the associate, and be enrolled as a full-time student, not covered or eligible to be covered for health care benefits through other employment. A child who becomes totally and .permanently disabled while an eligible dependent shall continue to be covered, regardless of age, as long as such child remains principally dependent upon and resides with the associate. An associate may. with the approval of the Company, include sponsored dependents approved by the carrier at his own expense.
S3

associate's dependent who is covered ay similar roverage elsewhere cannot be included m the tiepemleni ■ overage nt thtu insurance program. A hitsbar;.: and wife toth working for the Company cannot carry each other as a dependent for double coverage. Swtiarty. a nt.shand and
cannot cover each other for double benefits t=v enrolling ; t different plan suffered by the Company.
Section 1. Eligibility; Associates on the active roll t O'j -red uy this agreement wiif become eligible ic' coverage .is shown in me fallowing schedule:
(at Associate lite. accidental Jt a th a nd Oismemoemtenf rosy rance and HMSu benefits the first day of ine month coincident with or ne*i following the month in which employ me/it begins.
(bj Opiw>3> contriButwy associate and optional c on t r । but ory d e| >endent We iosu r ance; ;tie fit s t day of Die month coincident with or nnxt tolmwing sixty days ot continuous service .
(c)	Accident and sickness indemnify beret ts: the first day ot rhe momh cninorienl with or next following si* months of service;
(d)	Long- term disability insurance and denial, vision and hearing benefits: the first day m the month co.-ncideni with or next (otto wing the simple hem ot one year of comim/bi/s service.
if me associate is m an inactive status on me date the covet age m increase <{> Coverage would otaorw/se be ■affective the cover age Or increase in coverage 3.1 all become e.ft'idtwe on the sutisequeni dale the a$socia*e e; placed on the; active roll.
Section, 2. Coverage Continuation for Inactive Associates
a) If an associate who has insurance coverage is taut off, aft o’) the insurance coverages will he continueii tor one month after (tie mouth c>l layoff In addition. Life Insurance Accidental
64
Death and Dismemberment tosu.'rincw am Hospital- Medicai-Surgtcal-Drug. Heating A-danit Vision Expense benefits (nut not dental ex; tense coverage; shall be prouder! for a laid off associate without cost 10 him during a layoff on the oasis n the number of months of coverage up to a maximum of eighteen, for which he wivild li> eligible on the Oasis of hrs years of stmionl- as • P the last day worked prior to layoff ins nt the date it layoff tn the case of a returning wdcr.rn) » accorcmnce with the following table:
Years of seniority On Last Day Worked Prior to Layoff
Maximum Numoer of
Months for Wfhtcb Coverage wifi be Provided without Cost toAssociate
Less than 1
1	but less than 2
2	but less than 3
3	but less than 4
4	but less than 5
5	but less than 6
6	but less than It) 10 and over
4
6 <3
18
Such months ot coverage shall be lor months forii >w ng last month tor which coverages were provtumi iiitoer in,' hrs' paragraph of this section. Il the associate rernmns -■< ■ layoff beyond the period (or which coverages an? p jviih ; hereunder, he may continue Life insurance. A;.cden,n Death and Dismemberment Insurance, -imi Huspttt Surgical-Mecficai-Drug. Hearing Aid and Vis ?'- (-nieri,-: benefits (but not Dental Expense benefits? o ut v additional twelve months of layoff by paying iht-; jm ns I toe coverages.
For an associate who >s on layoff and returns to active work with the Company. and who is subsequently 'aid off er disabled prior to the day next following the 6”J pay period for which the associate has earnings from one or more Company plants within a calendar year, the number ot months for which coverage may tie con line erf as of the frret day of the month next following the month in which the associate fas! works, and the number of months (or which the Company shall contribute tor any such continued coverage, shall be equal to the number of such months. respectively. which were available as of the Iasi day of the monlh immediately preceding the date of return to work with (he Company following the indefinite layoff increased by two additional months for which the Company shall pay the tut1 monthly premium charge.
J	b) Continuation ot Coverage Guide
is*
The continuation of coverage provisions contained in ''ft	Section XV of the f995 National Production and
*?	tviaintenance Agreement between The Budd Company and
•Ji	the International Union UAW shall, to the extent such
statuses and coverages exist under this Agreement, apply to ?	associates covered by this Agreement.
r
£	The following chan indicates the provisions for continuation
of coverage as referenced in the above paragraph of this InsuranceArticle:
86
Status	Life Insurance 1,7	| Weekly	
		Accidental | death and i bismem-berment7 ।	Accident Sickness Wage Replacement
Layoff	Co. pairs for	Co. paid (or 1	Co. paid toi 1
	1 mo. after	1 mo. After	month after
	mo. of L.O.	mo. of L 0 *	month o', t.,0
	* up to f 8	tip to 18	
	mas. as	mos. As	
	provided in	provided in	
	this Section	this Section	
	2 * up to 12	2 * up to 12	
	add'), mos.	add'L mos	
	al associate	At associate	
	expense	expense	
Medical	Company	Company	Terminates"
Leaves	pai d for	paid tor	Any benefits
	period of	period of	due under
	medical	medical	Plan are paid
	leave	leave	
Military Leave	Terminates1	Terminates ’	Terminates'
Other	Co. paid tor	Co. paid tor	Co. paid tot i
Company	t mo. after	l mo. After	mo. after mu.
Approved	mo. Leave	mo Leave of	Leave of
Leave of	of Absence	Absence	Absence
Absence (not	starts *■ bat.	starts + bal.	starts * bal. ol
tor medical	of Lv. at	of leave at	Leave nt
(eave)	associate	associate	associate
	expense	i expense	। expense
1
KT
Early Retirement5	Co. paid to end of mo. in which associate reaches age 65. Thereafter in accordance with the Plan	Co. paid to end of month in which associate reaches age 65-at which time terminates	Terminates'
Normal Retirement Age 65 and Over3	In accordance wdh the Plan	Terminates3	Terminates3
P&TD Status under Retirement Plan	Same as for Eady Retirement	Same as for Early Retirement	T erminates (Benefits paid before P&TD starts)
Termination between ages 60-65 (excluding retirement)'	Associate may conbnueto age 65 at own expense	Associate may continue to age 65 at own expense	Terminates
Quits or Discharges	Terminates	Terminates	Terminates’
88
Continuation of Coverage Guide (Conf d J
Statu*	Contributor y Long Term Disability1 D	Long Term Disability	Hospital- | Medical- Surgical- Drug1V
Layoff	Associate may continue coverage by paying full premium while on layoff	Co. paid for 1 month after mo. of L.O. Any benefits due under Plan are paid.	Co. paid tor 1 month after mo. of L.O. + up to 18 mos. as provided in this Section 2 + up to 12 add! mos At
		J expense	
Medical Leave6	Associate may continue coverage by paying full premium while on leave	Terminate s--Any benefits due under Plan are paid	Co. paid tor associate ano eligible deps.tor period ot medical leave
Military Leave	T e rmin ales3	Terminates3	I erminaiesiy
Other Company approved Leave of Absence (not for medical leave) 		Associate may continue coverage by paying full premium while on leave	Terminates5	Associate may continue at own expense for up to 12 months i	
XU

Eariy Retirement*	Terminates1	Terminates3	Co. paid tor retiree and eligible dependents3
Normal Retirement Age 65 and over	Terminates3	Terminates3	Co. paid for retiree and eligible dependents5
P&TD Status under Retirement Plan	Terminates -any benefits due under Plan are paid	TerminateS- -any benefits due under Plan are paid	Co. paid tor associate and eligible dependents3
Termination between ages 60-65 (excluding retirement)4	Terminates	Terminates	Terminates
Quits or Discharges	Terminates3	Terminates3	Terminates7
90
Continuation of Coverage Guide (Confd)
5 Status	Dental Expense Program’	Vision Expense Program'	Hearing ' i Ard Expense Program1
| Layoff 1 J	Co. paid tor 1 month attar month of L.O. then terminates6	Co. paid for 1 month after mo. ot L.O. * up to 18 mos. as provided <n this Section 2 + up to 12 addt mos. at associate expense	Co. paid for 1 month after mo. of L.O, + up to 18 mos. aS pro-vided in this Section 2 • up to 12 add'l. mos. Al associate expense
| Medical U Leave6	Company paid for associate and eligible dependents for period of rredicai1 leave	■ Company paid for associate and eligible dependents tor period of merest leave	Company J paid for	I associate s and eligible [ dependents 1 for period of 0 medical j leave
J Military 1 Leave	Terminates”	Terminates3	Terminates3
| Other [ Company 1 Approved [I Leave of | Absence 1 (not for I medical B leave)	Terminates3'8	Associate may continue al own expense for up to 12 months	Associate may continue at own	] expense for up to 12 months :	,	..
S’

jT-i!?. *w- .u«irf
Si





Early 1 Retirement3	Co . paid for retiree and eligible dependents5	Co. paid for retiree and eligible dependents5	Co. paid for retiree and eligible	n dependents5 |
Normal Retirement Age 65 and over1	Co. paid for retiree and eligible dependents5	Co. paid for retiree and eligible dependents5	Co paid for retiree and eligible dependents5
P&TD J Status | under J Retirement | Plan	Co. paid for associate and eligible dependents5	Co. paid for associate and eligible dependents5	Co. paid for E associate I and eligible S dependents5
II Termination II between 1 ages 60-65 II (excluding U retirement)1	3 B Terminates	Terminates3	Terminates3 n
fl Quits or D Discharges	Terminates16	Terminates3	Terminates3
92
Continuation of Coverage Guide (Cont'd)
Status	Optional Life and AD&D Insurance	Dependent Group Life Insurance
layoff	Associate may continue while on layoff status	Associate may continue white on layoff status
Medical Leave6	Associate may continue for period of medical leave	Associate may continue tor period of medical leave
Military Leave	Terminates3	Terminates
Other Company Approved leave of Absence (not for medical leave)	Associate may continue for duration of leave	Associate may continue for duration of leave
Early Retirement*	Terminates	Associate may remain in Plan to age 70 or termination of employment, if later
Normal Retirement Age 65 and over*	Terminates	Associate may remain in Plan to age 70 or termination of employment, if tater
93
P&TD status under Retirement Plan	Terminates	Associate may remain in Plan to Age 70 or terminalion of employment, if later
Termination between ages 60-6S (excluding retirement/4	Terminates	Terminates
Quits Or Discharges	T erminates	Terminates
Continuation of Coverage Guide - Footnotes
1.	Health Insurance and Life Insurance can be convened within 31 days following termination of employment and coverage by contacting carrier or its agent and paying required premium.
2.	If benefits are payable under Retirement Plan, but does not include former associates with vested deferred pensions.
3.	Coverage terminates on test day worked.
4.	Must have five (51 years of continuous service at age 60 otherwise see ’’Quits or Discharges" before age 60.
5.	Company paid for surviving spouse and eligible dependents.
6.	Associates certified as Company injured are considered on the active payroll for Insurance purposes while on Leave of Absence.
94
fl fl
7.	Associates carrying benefits at their own expense must submit the full monthly premium to the Company by the 10th of the month.
8.	Benefits for Denta! Services approved white coverage is in effect are payable.
9.	Associate may continue coverage for eligible dependents by paying full premiums in advance.
10.
Failure to continue contnbulion will require pfi>cf of continuing eligibility be submitted IO the insurance company upon return to employment if the associate wishes to reinstate coverage.
Section 3. payment of Premiums:
fa) The Company win pay the full cost for associate basic life insurance, basic accidental death and dismemberment insurance, accident and sickness indemnity benefits. basic tong term disability insurance, dental, vision and hearing benefit coverage for eligible associates, and in the event an eligible associate elects to cover his or her dependents for dependent dental, vision and hearing benefits coverage for the term ot this Agreement.
(bj The associate win pay the full cost of optional contributory associate and optional conlhbutory dependent life insurance, optional contributory accidental death and dismemberment insurance and optional contributory long-term disability insurance.
(c) The Company will pay a portion of the cost of die HMSO policy or pian for eligible associates and io the event an eligible associate elects to cover his or her eligible dependents a portion ot the cost for such dependent HMSD coverage for ihe lerm of this agreement The
company portion ot such cos; shall be ihe full cost minus the associate portion which shall be paid weekly and determined as follows
0 J Associates shall pay four percent of the annual cost divided by forty-eight
(2)	Associates who retire after the effective date of this Agreement shall pay zero percenter the annual cost.
The cost for HMSD is adjusted annually up or down on January 1
Section 4. Schedule of Benefits
(a)	Associate. Basic Life-Ins urance: the associate basic life insurance shall be $35,000 and wilt be increased $500 for each year of completed sendee to a maximum of $36,500. Such increases are effective on the first of the month following the month of attainment of each year of completed service, provided the associate is actively at work on such day otherwise on the day the associate returns to the active roH.
(b)	As£ociate„_Basic . Accident al_Death_ and Dismemberment Insurance: the associate basic accidental death and dismemberment insurance shall be equal to one times the amount of each associate's coverage for associate life insurance under section 4 (a).
(c)	Hospital. Surgical. Medical. Drug Benefits (HMSD); the Company shall make HMSD benefits available to associates from one or more providers The prescription drug benefit shall require an associate co-pay per prescription of $5.00 for associates with a HMO coverage option or $5.00 for Generic and $12.00 Brand for associates with a PPO coverage option per prescription.
96
I

(e)
Optional Contributory Associate_ Life and Accidental Death and Qism^m tierm ent
Insurance: the Company shall make available optional contributory associate life insurance. The optional contributory associate lite insurance shall be one, two, three, or four limes the associate's basic life insurance described in Section 4. (a). The optional contributory accidental death and dismemberment coverage associated with this life insurance coverage shall be equal to one-half the associate's amouni of optional contributory associate life insurance.
Optional Contributory Dependent Life Insurance: an associate may enroll his dependents in one of the following plans.
Plan
Plan I Plan II Plan III PfaniV
Coverage - Spouse Coverage per Child
$ 5,000 '	$2,000
$10,000	$2,000
$25,000	$5,000
$50,000	$10,000
The entire cost of this coverage is paid by the associate on a monthly basis as provided below.
Monthly Premium
When Your	PlanJ	Plan II	Plan HI	Plan IV
Age is Less than 30	$.75	$ 1.25	$3 13	$ 6.29
Age 30-34	$.80	$ 1.35	$3.71	$6.79
Age 35 - 39	$.95	$ 1.65	$4.13	$0.29
Age 40-44	$1.30	$2.35	$5.66	$ 11.81
Age 45 - 49	$1.90	$3.55	$ 8.86	$ 17.84
Age 50-54	$2.80	$5.35	$13.78	$ 26.89
Age 55 - 59	$4.20	$8.15	$20.45	$41.12
Age 60-64	$6.10	$12.10	$30.25	$ 60.82
Age 65 - 70	$9.35	$18.60	$46.50	$ 93.79
97
(fl
<g)
|h)
increase
98




k*-*.
Irj
Accident _and_Sickness Benefits^ the level oi benefits for which an associate will be eligible, shall be the benefit level in effect as of the date the disability first commences. Benefits shall be payable on th© eighth day of absence for illness and the first day of absence for an accident provided the associate sees a physician promptly The weekly benefit is sixty-six and two thirds percent of forty times Ihe associate's straight time hourly rate of pay exclusive of shift premium but not more than four hundred fifty dollars per week effective for claims beginning on and after January 1. 2002) (four hundred seveniy-five dollars per week effective for claims beginning on and after January 1. 2003 and five hundred dollars effective for claims beginning on and after January 1. 2004) The maximum period for which benefits will be paid is fifty-two weeks
f-bog Terrn pisabifity Insurance: the Company will(g) pay the full cost of basic tong term disability insurance which shall provide a benefit of 50% of monthly earnings to a maximum benefit of $1,200 per month. Monthly earnings shall be 173 times the associate's straight lime base hourly rate exclusive of shift premium on the associate’s last day worked. All accident and sickness benefits must be exhausted before long term disability benefits begin. Benefits cease at the earlier of age 65 or the end of a time period equal lo >he associate's service on his last day worked minus any lime period for which accidenl and sickness benefits were pard. A shorter duration will apply lo claims, which begin after ihe associates age 62 Optional..Contributory Long Term Disability Insurance.:, an associate may pay the full cosl to
the amount of the long term
(M
disability insurance benefit to 50 or 60 percent of monthly earnings without limitation.
Dental Expense Benefit: the Company wits continue the dental expense benefit plan as m effect November 9. 2001. The plan will aiso provide benefits subject to a $1,300 par year maximum benefit per covered individual for benefits other than orthodontia Orthednntia is subject to a Si.400 lifetime maximum benefit per covered individual. The plan requires associates to pay annual deductibles and cu-paym.euts tor each procedure as specified tn the policy
Vision,. Expense Benefit: Ihe Comuany will continue the vision expense benefit plan .is u; effect August 1. 1998. The plan contains bcmefit maximums, co-payments and limitations us specified in the policy.
firingAid.Expense Benefit: the Company w-ll Continue the hearing aid expense hentpit plan as in effect August 1. 1998. The pian contains benefit maximums, co-payments and limitations as specified in the policy.
Section (5J Retiree insurance.
a)	An associate who retires early, on ano alter the effective date of this Agreement, and under the provisions of the Retirement Plan, will have $32,000 Me insurance and $16,000 AD8D insurance to age 65 and thereafter will have lite insurance in accordance with the following latite, provided by the Company at no cost to ihe retired associate. An associate age 65 or older retiring after the effective date of this Agreement and under the provisions of Ihe Retirement Pine with eight or more years o! credited service, wifi nave life insurance in accordance with (he following table.
mt
Years of Retirement Plan Credited Service
30 or more
25 to 30
20 to 25
10 to 20
8 to 10
Amount of Lite insurance
33 750 $3,500
S3.250 $3,000 $2,000
b)	Retirees and their dependants wifi be covered under the health insurance plans (hat cover active associates.
ARTICLE XXXIV
Retirement And Savings Plans
Section (1)	The Company will continue to provide the Shelbyville Ptant Retirement Security and Savings Plans amended and restated effective January !. 1994. as described in the Summary Plan Description booklets for the {tension and 401 (k} plans
Section (2)	The Shelbyville Plant Retirement Security Plan [Plan) dated November 16,1998 shall be amended as ot the effective date of this Agreement to provide the underlined changes in the following:
a)	The Company wilt amend the Plan to provide a defined pension benefit
b)	The benefit rate tor each year ol credited service shall be 5 30 lor Producliwi Associates and for Technical Associates who retire after the effective date of the Agreement
c)	An early retirement benefit tor associates who have ten yr more years of eligibility service and who are at least sixty years of age or who nave twenty-five years of eligibility service anti are al least fifty-five years 0* age. The retirement benefit for such early retuees snail be
100
actuarially reduced from age 6? i.j ■; ■■ ,i>/ commencementd)
d) An early retirement supplement wiKh v.-lien added to the amount calciilnted under i>| ul shall equal $1700 per month payable ;r-t? month following the attain mt-r.t ci .'ue '<■ im associates retiring atirjr attainment o! tmi ty v< of eligibility service pruvnirig me associate ?\ r. ;> combination ot age and eligibility service wn> h totals 80 or more on the date ot rmimmmi! la.1 supplement provided under mis point ■;<’ subject to apportionment (.etween .kHeient; mm of the company
e)	A joint and 50% survivor annuity wirli an a. -mit reduction of the participant's retirement hert--m provide the survivor benefit t he '■e.tm ’Kto v. ;■ a-seven and one-hail percent c the sl'ihi-h'. m associate are the samp age ihn r increase one-half percent t >r p.i;!i vri.i: ■:«' spouse, is younger time the .i.y.t<;,.ir- -:. d decrease by one-half pen-eu! lor <■ v n ...n ; r spouse is older than the associate t'.s! li:. v ■>.• less than, zero.
f)	The provisions of the ctine;;! c-ao > । i>.- m. ■ •■■■: to the extent required Oyiaw
g)	The individual account r>-utones n ir., .	. .:
Plan wiil remain in the plan F,ooay IK im.t;-v r ■_ amended plan.
h)	All credited service tn the Sheibyvr o Romm- t ■*! Security Plan will count fcr benefit p.>r;,:os.:s u :!•■■• plan as amended by this agreement
i)	The plan will provide a eembfii.y <•.>>111 beneht. which wii) be integrated vtn tn-insurance benefit and workers ; mmi. <.;;i benefits provider! under lav.
j)	Credited Service shall be qrm ted m tin t: wi ^iron leave of absence for Union busn-w-s
fttt
TV'-
k)	The Company will pay one special $5011.00 payment Io retirees with thirty years >jf ino'C of company service in tne week ending Oecembo: 22. 2001.
ARTICLE XXXV General
Section (1)	Physical Examinations and Treatment
(a)	When the Company determines ;l is necessary io ’ have an associate unde'go a physical examination Io evaluate the asseci lie's physical condition o: comply with any stale c federal law. ihe Company wiil provide the examination at .no exist ly !ht; associate An associam will suomit io a drug test when the Company determines that it hasebjecltve evidence to require such drug test. An associate will be provided Union representation during the discussion with the associate oncitug testing If the group leader accompumes Ihe associate to Ihe drug testing site the steward may also accompany the associate to the drug testing site
(b)	It the Company requires an employee to undergo a physical examination to.establish pliysicai fitness fcr work in a case which does not involve Worker's Compensation liability. ihe associate shall have Ihe righ; to submit the report of nis family physician for consideration by the Company's physician A dispute between the Company physician and the associate's physician may be submilled to a third physician acceptable to the associate and the Company. The decision of the third physician shall be binding on the associate and the Company and the Company shall pay the cost of the third physician examination
(c)	An associate who has been involved in an occupational accident and becomes
io;
incapacitated during his regular working hours, as determined by a physician, will be pair' tfrmuyh the end of his regular work shift for that day An associate that has been involved in an occupational accident and becomes incapacitated may agree to a physical examination by the company docior. It the company physician finds tne associate cannot work with medical restrictions the associate wilt he eligible to receive accident & sickness benefits lor Ihe first seven days of the occupational accident If the associate's occupational accident exceeds fifteen days and the associate ts paid workers compensation benefits, the associate agrees to repay to the Company 100% of any acodunt and sickness benefit received.
(d| When the Company send* an associate fry diagnosis or treatment of a work lemted my.iry n-illness, that is a Budd Company responsibility, during his shift, or during a ten hc-ur in-wt.-tjk day the associate wilt be paid for the irne away from work during his working hours at his straight time rate. The Company's obigation under <hi« paragraph shall not be more man ien hours any single day
Section (2)	Pay
(a)	Payday shall continue to be Thursday
(b)	The pay period shall be week!/.
(c)	The associates shall be paid on a 1 nowiy payroll basis effective January 4. 1999
(d)	The Company will issue checks ti e folliiwrriu day for company errors to a pavcheck tan! e>r:i*ed lour hours of pay.
Section (3)	Contract Printing. flu- Company will be responsible tor the printing and dishibutieri ol this Agreement. The Company’s rules will not f-e trrtrted m ihe agreement.
Hi;
Section(4)	Associate Address and Phone Number. An associate is responsible fir- notifying the Human Resources Depart mem of any change in his address or phone number
Section (5)	Outside Contracting Communication
The Company will provide the Union advance notice of outside contracting except in cases ol an emergency. Complete advance communication with skilled trades associates lias resulted in important projects being completed on a competitive basis in terms ai duality cos! and timeliness at the Shelbyville plant. The Union may submit prooosals to management involving outside contractor projects in an effort to retain work m-housc. The Company will review such proposals with regard to quality, cost, timing, eguipmenl needed and committed manpower to complete the project when making it's decision to contract.
It is understood that the Company retains the right to contract or to subcontract any and all work it deems necessary for the most economical conduct of its business. The Company retains the right to remove any work or ;ob or any part of. or allot, its operations at any time it moy select to another operation or facility. The Company will provide the Union with advance notice of these decisions.
There are many and varied factors that may influence any particular decision to perform skilled work in the Shelbyville plant with Budd personnel or an outside contractor. It is not feasible to list genera! criteria however, the parties recognize some of the criteria are reasons such as the need, among other things, to contract work that requires specialized tools and equipment and special skills and the necessity to meet production schedules, model change and rearrangement deadlines. In view of the foregoing, the Company cannot agree to any limitation or restriction on
104
its right and responsibility to decide whether ;<> perioim skilled work tn the plant with Budd personnel o' an outside contractor. However, it is the Company’s policy, in making such decisions, to give proper cons id erat 'on to the operating needs of the business, the efficmncies and economics involved and all other relevant considerations, including the effect ot the decisions on work opportunities for its skilled trades employees.
The Company will provide, except where tune and circumstances prevent tl. to the maintenance and tooling work planning committee the company's pian to let a particular contract involving maintenance oi tcoiing work A continuation and continuous improve meet ol these communications with the associates ano ihe union will benefit the Plant.
A maintenance and tooling work planning ;umn;nifte sK;ill be formed consisting of three memners ■ >f rn.|iia<jeme'it selected by the plant manager anti two skmrd iradns associates and a bargaining committee m?nib selected by the Local Union President. This committee w>;l nit pr as often as necessary, but not less often man momhlv to
discuss work plans for the Mainteniiru e
icoimc
departments, including plans to employ eulside lonlmctn; s in the plant.
The discussions of the committee are intended to focus nut only on the skills of the associates but also ihe suggestions and ideas of the associates and the Union as to how woik can best be accomplished at the lowesl possible cos: with the highest possible quality and on time.
Should it become necessary lo permanuottv outsource work traditionally performed by bargaining unit issociaies the Company will meet with the Union prur to any outsourcing action. Additionally, the bargaining Cumniilletr will be afforded the opportunity to present 'ts pi m (o kot-o said work in house.
105
»“«wr
Section (6)
Education
Section (7)
Clothing
Section (8)
Apprentice
Section (9)
OfficeSpace
The Company will continue to make adequate provision for foul weather apparel and apparel appropriate for extremely dirty jobs. Such apparel shall be available as a eno item for issue to associates when their job necessilaies such apparel.
The Joint Apprenticeship committee and program will continue.
Section (10) Uniforms
The Company will continue its practice of providing uniforms and the associate will continue to pay $3.50 per week
The Company intends to continue its policy of making after hours in-plant educational opportunities available Io interested associates consistent wi'ti the availability of educational resources, associate interest and business needs The Company will continue to make the tuition reimbursement plan for management available to associates. The Local Union will be provided a copy of the letter explaining the tuition reimbursement plan. The grievance procedure set forth in this Agreement shall have no application to, or jurisdiction over, any matter relating to this program
The Company will provide the Union with office space approximately twice the size of the current office in the plant by April 1, 2002 The Company will provide office furniture and phone-mail address. The Company wilt provide a computer for hook up to the plant network. The Union will comply with the Company policies wttn respect to the use of the computer and software The Union will be responsible for long distance phone charges.
106
Section (11)	Vending Machine Revenues
The committee which recommends disbursements from the vending machine revenues to the plant manager shall consist of three persons appointed by the union and three persons appointed by the company.
Section (12)	Light Duty Work
Light duty work must be approved by the Company There is no automatic right to light duly work. As sociates on tight duly work will be assigned work on their shift untess such work is not available. An associate working a light duty job. which is not available on another shift may not be bumped by another associate exercising shift preference irder Article XIX.
a)	Light duty work is normally provided only in cases of industrial injury/illness. Such work will be consistent with the medically prescribed limitations and restrictions. There shall be no requirement that light duty work be consistent with the current classification ol the associate The associate's regular rate of pay shall a-’ply i<>- the duration ol the light duty assignme 4
b)	Industrial injury/iitness shall ia.\e preferrenctr over non-tnduslrial injury. Subject to rhe preceding sentence, wtien two associates have the same restriction and only one suitable job ,s available Ihe senior associate shall be assigned to the job. All light duty work whether for rum-industrial injury/illness or otherwise will tie evaluated on a case-by-case bans by the Company.
c)	Associates on light duty work will not perform work, which results in another associate oertg laid off. unless the injured associate lias greaier seniority
N
1117
di Hours worked by associates <m right duty work shall be consistent with the medically prescribed limitations and r estncttons.
Section (13)	Supplemental Unemployment Benefits
a J During the term at I Ns Agreement the Company will provide Automatic Short Workweek Benefits and Regular Benefits to eligible Shelbyville plant associates. The provisions of the Exhibit "B" of the 1995 National Proluelicn and Maintenance Agreement between rt’« Budd Company and Ihe International Union i :AW (Budd-UAW Plan) shall govern eligibility for a-fo amount of benefits.
b) The Company may p-ovufe these benefits by direct payments, father than from a CualHred trust fund, provided such payment method does not reduce the associates eligibility for or amount of State Unemployment Benefit. When the Company makes direct payments one credit uni! shall be cancelled for each weekly benefit payment and foe financial provisions nf Article Vis ofTheBudd-UAW Plan shall not apply in addition, benefits shall be payable under Artic Ie ;V Separation Payment of The Budd-UAW Piar,
c) In the event the. oa/merts from a Qualified trust fund are required to n lafotain eligibility for or ihe (u’i amount of state ben efit the Company shall draft a SUB Plan containing applicable provisions of the Budd-UAW plan ano establish a trust. In the event this provision is activated all provisions of the Budd-UAW plan will apply.
d’f In the event the Company elects to provide payments from -l qualified least fund, for reasons other than that specified in subparagraph c). the plan shall be drafted as specified in subpaagraph c) and all provisions
of the BUDD-UAW plan will apply Jn the even; this provision is activated the Company will makn an initial contribution to the font m an amouni sufficient to estabfish a Trust Fimd Rosftion or 22% as defined in Article Vii oi die ty.jrfci.ijAW plan.
e) Excerpt from agreement listen in (a) ?c ittuov'-ilt accrual of credit u nits;
Section (14)	Accrual ofCrerfit Units
a.	Credit Units shall be credited ;d thu > are ot i -■? y. Credit Unit (1/4 of a Credit U tit in foe case o: Employee hired or rehired -an or mer Maiii ft 1988 who shall have less han tfl --u'r-inr. (>• seniority) for each Workweek tui ;b-Employee: (1) receives soy pay 1rc»rt Um Company, (2) does not receive nay trom tN-Company but for which he receives a 1. u-.-e-mc Week Benefit, (3) was or- a n>lfo‘.< absence in accordance wirh the p-nve-vm? -v l:v,-Collective Bargaining Agreumecr. c-t l-N lv.! absent from work because o! pcc jpah'-’.iw.: ,;v;v or disease incurred in Ihe axtrse m .vim Employee’s employmen; with ihe Cor;r,m - to on account of such absence rec^veo Wr- t nr Compensation while on Company apr leave of absence.
b.	for the purpose of accruing Cr edd ■' .■’infs -m :■ i I r.. Section:
1.	pay in lieu of vacation shaft br curis>c:;icu payfortheWorkwee!,mwhich iiisosid .»nci
2-	back pay shall be consioereo ,-re nny !<v any Workweek or Workweeks to which >t tnav b< j allocable.
108
109
<1
ARTICLE XXXVfl Duration
No Employee may have to his credit in the aggregate at any one time more than 52 Credit Units.
i'»v. : I ’'
No Employee shall be credited with any Credit Unit prior to the first day as of which he (1) has at least 1 year of Seniority and (2) either is on Active Employment Roll in the Contract Unit (or was on such roll within 30 days prior to such first day), or is absent from work on (or was absent from work within 30 days prior to) such first day solely because of occupational injury or disease incurred in the course of such Employee's employment with the Company and on account of such absence is receiving Workers’ Compensation while on Company-approved leave of absence. As of such day he shall be credited with Credit Units based upon his Workweeks occurring while he is an Employee.
, An Employee who has Credit Units as of the last day of a Week shall be deemed to have them for all of such Week; provided, however, that an Employee who has Credit Units during part of a Week but forfeits them due to breaking Seniority during such Week by reason of death or of retirement under the Retirement Plan established by agreement between the Company and the Union shall be deemed to have Credit Units for all of such Week,
At such time as the amount of any Benefit overpayment is repaid to the Fund, except as otherwise provided in the Plan, the number of Credit Units, if any, theretofore cancelled with respect to such overpayment of Benefits shall be restored . to the Employee except to the extent of the number of Guaranteed Annual Income Credit Units which have been credited to such Employee between the date of such
110
overpayment and the date of such repayment and which would not have been credited had the Credit Units been restored at the time such Guaranteed Annual Income Credit Units were credited to him, and except to the extent that such restoration would raise the number of his Credit Units at the time thereof above 52 and except as otherwise provided with respect to Credit Unit forfeiture under Section 3 of this Article.’*
ARTICLE XXXVI Complete Agreement
The parties acknowledge that, during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement, each had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject matter not removed by law from the area of collective bargaining, and that all understandings and agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity are fully set forth in writing in this Agreement. Therefore, for the life of this Agreement each party voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right, and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated to . bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter referred to or covered in this Agreement, or with respect to any subject or matter not specifically referred to or covered in this Agreement, even though such subject or mailer may not have been within the knowledge or contemplation of either or both of the parties at the time they negotiated or signed this Agreement.
5ection(1) This Agreement shall become effective on the 10* day of November 2001, and shall continue in full force and effect until midnight the 6th day of February 2005. This contract shaft continue in effect
*< i->
The Budd Company
By:/s
113
International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW) end its Local No 2363

from year to year unless either party provides the notice of intent to modify or terminate as set forth in Section 2,
Section (2)	In order to modify or terminate this Agreement, the party seeking such modification or termination must give written notice to the other party of its intention to seek modification or termination of this Agreement at least sixty days and no more than ninety days prior to the date on which this Agreement is due to expire. Failure to provide such timely notice wiil convert this Agreement into a year-to-year contract with said sixty day notice being required before this Agreement can be modified or terminated. Notification concerning reopening the Agreement will be made by certified or registered mail.
Section (3)	In the interest of maintaining harmonious and peaceful labor relations, at least forty-five days prior to the expiration date of this Agreement, the parties will begin negotiations for a new agreement. In the event the parties are unable to reach agreement before the termination of this Agreement, the parties may agree, in writing, to extend this Agreement for the purpose of permitting the parties every opportunity to reach a new agreement
Section (4)	in Witness whereof, the parties hereto have caused their names to be subscribed by their duly authorized officers and representatives the day and year first above written in Article I.

112
1.
By:/s
Terry Thurman Director U.A W Region # 3	Dennis L. Dabney Corporate Labor Relations Manager
Bob Breedlove International Representative	Amy J. Bouque H uman Resou rce Manager
Dennis Weisel President	Jim Gajdzik Manufacturing Manager
Dwayne Gilbert Vice President.	Tom Mancari	— Production Manager
Charles Bivens Committeeperson	Brent Wimsatt Human Resource Group Leader
Mike Carey Committeeperson	
6
115
114
1- occurrence 2* occurrence
2
3
Occurrence Reach 350% level
5* occurrence Discharge incompatible for industrial employment
sig:-.
'if-'-
FMLARULE

?r



When an associate has a chronic illness that necessitates an intermittent FMLA leave from work the Company will review the medical documentation to determine if a different and longer period can be granted before new medical documentation is necessary. This rule is subject to the grievance procedure.
The Company will not require associates to use vacation time to cover FMLA leave time.
The Budd Company - Excessive Absenteeism Rule
Effective upon ratification of this agreement associates at a 3.50% absentee rate as determined by the calculation in this rule and after the associate has an occurrence step (1) of this rule will be issued. After ratification of this agreement associates that reach a 3.50% absentee rate will be issued step (1) of this rule at the time the associate reaches the 3.50% absentee rate. Excessive absenteeism is defined as an absentee rate for a rolling 12 month period that exceeds 3.50%, The absentee rate is calculated by adding the total number of Work Available Absent, Work Available Sick, and one-half (’/3) occurrences divided by the number of total hours worked by the associate. No action will be taken under this program until an associate has reached the 3.50% absentee rate. Then the following will apply:

■4#
Step 1
occurrence
4" occurrence
Actlfin
Verbal Warning & copy of this rule Written Warning Written Warning ♦one week off Written Warning + two weeks off Written Warning + one month off
An occurrence is any one-day absence. Two days absent in a row will be counted as two occurrences. Absence for medical reasons with a doctor's note will not be counted as 7 an occurrence, Once an associate's absentee rate has reached the 3.50% level this excessive absentee rule will '' - apply until the associate has completed nine months of attendance without an occurrence. However, if an associate at step (1) or (2) of this rule completes six (6) months of attendance without an occurrence he shall revert to the regular absentee policy guidelines unless, he again reaches the (3.50%)excessive absentee level.
RADIO RULE
Associates will be permitted to bring small Inconspicuous radios to work and may listen to them while at work. (No ■ • headphones allowed) Radios may not pose a safety, trip or fell hazard or be plugged into electrical or control panels. All radios will be turned off and put away during customer or corporate tours. The Company may suspend the placement,' size or volume of a radio. However, the associate may place the radio in another approved spot, obtain a radio as described above or reduce the volume. Any dispute under this rule will be resolved by the Bargaining Committee and Human Resources within five (5) business days.
Pi 5
January 17,2002
117




Weekend Crew
Mr. Dennis Weisel	,
President, UAW Local 2383
1000 Old Brunerstown Road
Shelbyville, KY 40065
During the 2001 2002 contract negotiations the parties agree to the following:
Hours of work: if required, two 12-hour shifts will operate for the weekend crew. The hours forthe two shifts are 11:00 pm 11 ;30 am and 11:30 am 11:30 pm beginning with the Friday nightand ending Sunday night.
Overtime: An associate will receive time and one-half of the 1.33 rate of pay as defined in Article XXIII Sec. (1), subparagraph d (1) of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, if they work more than 12 hours on Saturday. The Associate will receive double the 1.33 rate of pay if they work more than 12 hours on Sunday. If an Associate works Monday-Friday, they wil) receive time end one half of the regular in-week pay for their classification. If an Associate works a holiday as defined in Article XXVUI, they will receive double time plus holiday pay at the normal in-week Associate pay rate.
Rest Periods: There will be three, 10-minute rest periods and one unpaid 30-minute lunch period during the shift.
116
Insurance:;. Accident and Sickness Wage Replacement Insurance and Long-term Disability will be calculated ,’ based on a base pay of 32 hours of pay. All other insurance as Monday* Friday Associates.
f;	Ji*
£^;';JobB|ddlng/Shift Preference: The 17-week requirement jfftu-'.as ^specified In Article XVII of the Collective Bargaining ^^'^araemefrt'.wM apply to the weekend crew. During the t^g.-tsetnl?annual. shift preference an Associate working the "^^.weekendrcrew can return to a Monday-Friday schedule by ^^;exerclsing seniority for the shift preference.
*7*5155^*'••‘iZz'J*''	"•
fXi?-Reduction or Elimination of the weekend crew: If the i$^weekend crew is reduced or eliminated the Associate can use.theirseniority to return to the area and department they ^f^wprkedjprior to joining the weekend crew, provided they £^f*h?y®£the -seniority to hold a position in the area and 'fr^^departnwnt If an associate does not have the seniority to (j^^™m|to -their area or department, they will return to the ^^^filft'^lfthe associate does not have the seniority to hold the j’^^shiftrMhey will replace the least senior Associate or a contract associate on the shift forwhich they have seniority.
%&£,.The:,weekend crew will be eliminated each year for the ^^Chrislnnas Holiday Period.	>
^>z. Both parties agree that the weekend crew will be reviewed least every three months. In the event that no weekend £3^ overtime: 1$ available for in-week associates in the same R^-departrnent for four (4) consecutive weekends, the weekend crew wilt be eliminated until such time that insufficientvolunteers are unavailable forweekend work.
.Vacations, PAA, WAPA and WAEPD: One weekend day-iofi vacation or PAA = 2.5 days of vacation or PAA.
►’^-One hatf day of a weekend vacation day or PAA= 10

*5
1 «
1
1
5
4
I
hours of vacation or PAA. Use dfWAPA and WAEPD area as specified in Article XXXI Sac (11).
401(k) Savings Plan: Tile Company will match (as defined by the Plan) on up to 32 hours of pay.
Holidays: Associates will be paid 8 hours of the holiday pay for each holiday as defined in Article XXVIII. The pay will be at the normal in-week rate. When the company can get sufficient volunteers for a holiday weekend from the in-week teams, the weekend crew associate may choose to take an ' unpaid leave for the holiday weekend.
Jury Duty: If an Associate is required to serve jury duty on Saturday or Sunday, they will receive jury duty equal to the 1.33 of pay for hours missed.
Funeral Leave: An associate is entitled to Funeral Leave as specified in Article XXX, Section (2) of the CBA. if the associate is entitled to three (3) days funeral leave the following shall apply: If the death occurs, where the associate misses the weekend and the funeral falls on a Saturday, Sunday or Monday, the associate will be paid his regular weekend rate of pay (1.33), for time missed. If the funeral occurs on Tuesday through Friday, the associate may take up to two weekend days off work and receive the normal in-week rate of pay (1.0), for the lime missed, tf the associate is entitled to five (5) days funeral leave, the associate will be paid forty hours at the normal in-week rate of pay (1.0) for time missed. At no time is an associate entitled to receive pay tor more than two weekend days. An associate may request additionally unpaid leave where the circumstances of the death require the absence of the associate for a period greater than days provided far herein. All provisions of Article XXX must be met tor the Associate to receive payment tor Funeral Leave.
118
Shtfl Premium: Associates wit) receive the 5% shift premium for that portion of their shift associated with the B and C shift hours in their department on the Monday-Friday schedule.
Lay-off and Recall: Follow provisions as specified in ArtideXVi,
Military Leave: if an Associate has weekend military leave as defined in Article XXVI, Sec (1), they may elect to work a minimum of 32 hours during the previous Monday-Friday at the normal in-week rate of pay.
Sincerely Yours,
Dennis L. Dabney
Corporate Labor Relations Manager
November 14,2001
Dear Mr. Weisel:
.Sincerely Youra,
!&4"
Dennis L. Dabney
Corporate Labor Relations Manager
Toot Replacement Policy for Tooling & Maintenance Associates
November 1,2001
Mr. Dennis Weisel President, UAW Local 2383 1000 Old Brun eratown Road Shelbyville, KY 40066
Mr.Dennis Weisel ‘President, UAW Local 2383 1000 Old Brunertown Road Shelbyville, KY 40066


ass
v * T


The Company will accept and review claims for broken or damaged tools that are no longer usable. Where it Is determined that personal tools were broken or damaged on Company premises due to conditions beyond the associate's control, such tools will be repaired provided there is no evidence of associate negligence abuse or improper usage. The replacement will be made at ■ equivalent or higher value to the tool that has been broken or damaged.
DeatMr. Dennis Weisel;
'•-•’•S’:.-'.. ; j
.....Will confirm the understanding reached KyT^iduringthenegotiations concerning a gainsharing study at ?v^^ttieShetoyville plant.

The Local Union 2383 and the Company may
Sincerely Yours,
Dennis L. Dabney
Corporate Labor Relations Manager
jWj-enterJnto discussions to study whether gainsharing at the ’^r^facilityrnay be practical and appropriate. Corporate and/or ^'t^Divtsion personnel may participate in the study. The Local k- '^^Uniont^nay. involve representatives of the International
-If the parties jointly recommend the adoption of a ^^gainsharing plan, such recommendation will be subject to ^^reviewand approval by the Region 3 Director and the Vice " y-Rresident, Human Resources of The Budd Company.




120
Permanent Arbitrator
November 1,2001
Mr, Dennis Weisel
President. UAW Local 2383 10000ldBrunerstowr>Road ' Shelbyville, KY 40066	,
DearMr, Weisel:
The parties agree upon ratification of this agreement to select a permanent arbitrator. The permanent arbitrator will also serve as the arbitrator for expedited arbitration matters contained tn this agreement. The parties will solicit panels from the Federal Mediation Conciliation Service (FMCS) until an agreement is reached on which arbitrator is to be approved.
Either party may dismiss the arbitrator with a thirty (30)day notice then another arbitrator will be selected.
In addition this letter of understanding may be cancelled by either party and the parties will return to the procedure contained in this agreement, except a permanent arbitrator must always be selected for expedited arbitration matters.
All procedural matters in connection with the arbitration procedure in this agreement (such as lime limits, witness pay, etc) shall be observed except for the appeal to and selection of an arbitrator provided for in this letter.
Sincerely Yours,
Dennis L. Dabney
Corporate Labor Relations Manager
122
NOTES___________ jg
I i i
I I I
I
I I I I
ThyssenKrupp Budd
A ThyssenKrupp Automotare Company
Brent Wimsatt, phr
Manager, Human Resources
ThyssenKrupp Budd Company - Shelbyville Plant
1000 Old Brunerstown Rd., P.O. Boi 1209140066-1209)
Shelbyville. KY 40065
Telephone: (502) 633-5000 Eit. 215. Fat: (502) 633-2349
Direct Dial: (502) 647-4694
e-mail; wmsatibsCtha-budd.thyssenlrupp.com	ni j , <■
	<n 5tSS“	p t»a=*	* aa^*-	ui B ?t X	« atas-	A	
		Sw Sisa-	X SltSBw	l« was--	x Bits'*	2	
	-|		L\_ Sif-	l-< uas*«		~*s	
			US-*	s|	si B“x-*	4	
»i=*	-E		-x sai>		-r? ujyut*'*	-I	
^55*	”S		* seas-	*	SSm*	*		
	b”	BS3*	L*>	/> BttsA*-	ia	5J3S*	ia	X ~ S'J	in	K> O
	*		* “Sw ®*	$S±*	a gas*-'	*	2
	s aa=-	x BBS—	3	1 SisG"'	*	Xy,	
a^x-	*S K3B-	3 i& 17 ?4 31 or r		3Bw«»	-> ’44 5“	"1	
tS * -*	SB S841-		4g	s§ as:-	si »==-		
		i NtM 42 Zl 5		BBS"-	<sss**	-li	
	ttas*-	■* yac*	’’'	KS-*-	■"	«BS*“	TV		
Sa=-		UI	**	tf£wv»	A	^O*4l	a	ay x^.	in	
							A		p &££»»		p	
				S£*3 “		88a->«		«2«~	* “i^o“		X	
atss<*-	-5	“8G“	-s	acs^vT		traces*'		stjs^-		Gs^ -* ■*	Li	
		232'1	SB				sj	VM»Uh|1			*1	
ixs-		0H3--	“I					“y=:s<-			-5	
m;-*-	5	sstu-**			■n	“ 3u"				Bcyx-		
	a	5i2S<*	in		m	sty X-*	A	ats£*	iA	ass*-	A	hj o
&XX*				at-***	A	ass-	A	»=; 3-	Jh	55 as*		o Qi
li 91 W 41 Ek tc 9 5	1 h DSO L£ a * fir o U 0k r c		-8	i a 4 9 1$ id 22 23 29 30	2 -> e	9Z 1? « K ci 1 9	X	4 5 17 12 19 19 ft »	X	u 12 SL H 1 J 1	X -6	
SSX-		efl St3**		tfSl£l5w			3^n	BBS-	1 M Tf±M		KtJAfiY W I F	
asje;--	-B		4	3 * ►	_.s	Sti5-M				KZ5i-		
		S? sr-				stsa-		at3s*-		tn®m h		
	A		IA		A	Sir-	a	arrs-^	r	as *4 v	r	