Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Connecticut, State of and Connecticut State Employees Association (2001)
K#: 811320
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
EDUCATION PROFESSIONS (P-3B) CONTRACT
Between
STATE OF CONNECTICUT and CONNECTICUT STATE EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION
Effective: July 1,2001
Expiring: June 30,2005
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREAMBLE
ARTICLE 1	- RECOGNITION
ARTICLE 2	- ENTIRE AGREEMENT
ARTICLE 3	- NON-DISCRIMINATION/AFFIRMATIVE ACTION
ARTICLE 4	- NO STRIKES - NO LOCKOUTS
ARTICLE 5	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
ARTICLE 6	- EMPLOYEE BILL OF RIGHTS
ARTICLE 7	- ACADEMIC FREEDOM
ARTICLE 8	- UNION RIGHTS
ARTICLE 9	- UNION SECURITY AND PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS
ARTICLE 10	- SENIORITY
ARTICLE 11	- PERSONNEL RECORDS
ARTICLE 12	- SERVICE RATINGS
ARTICLE 13	- WORKING TEST PERIOD
ARTICLE 14	- TENURE
ARTICLE 15	- DISMISSAL, SUSPENSION, DEMOTION OR OTHER DISCIPLINE
ARTICLE 16	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
ARTICLE 17	- LABOR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
ARTICLE 18	- HOURS OF WORK
ARTICLE 19	- COMPENSATION
ARTICLE 20	- SCHOOL YEAR
ARTICLE 21	- SUMMER WORK
ARTICLE 22	- TRAINING
ARTICLE 23	- PROFESSIONAL LEAVE
ARTICLE 24	- TUITION REIMBURSEMENT
ARTICLE 25	- PROFESSIONAL CONFERENCE AND WORKSHOP FUND
ARTICLE 26	- BOARD OF EDUCATION & SERVICES FOR THE BLIND - CONFERENCE
ARTICLE 27	- SABBATICAL LEAVE
ARTICLE 28	- TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT
ARTICLE 29	- SAFETY AND HEALTH
ARTICLE 30	- INCLEMENT WEATHER
ARTICLE 31	- EARLY CLOSING
ARTICLE 32	- FACILITIES
ARTICLE 33	- SCHOOL CALENDARS
ARTICLE 34	- INTRA-SCHOOL SCHEDULES/ ASSIGNMENTS
ARTICLE 35	- NOTICE OF OPENINGS
ARTICLE 36	- TRANSFERS
ARTICLE 37	- ORDER OF LAYOFF
ARTICLE 38	- HOLIDAYS
ARTICLE 39	- VACATIONS AND PERSONAL LEAVE
- 1 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
ARTICLE 40	- SICK LEAVE
ARTICLE 41	- LEAVE TIME ACCRUAL
ARTICLE 42	- CIVIL LEAVE AND JURY DUTY
ARTICLE 43	- MILITARY LEAVE
ARTICLE 44	- PREGNANCY, MATERNAL/ PARENTAL LEAVE
ARTICLE 45	- GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE
ARTICLE 46	- RETIREMENT
ARTICLE 47	- WORKERS COMPENSATION
ARTICLE 48	- JOB SPECIFICATIONS
ARTICLE 49	- CLASS REEVALUATIONS
ARTICLE 50	- TEMPORARY SERVICE IN A HIGHER CLASS
ARTICLE 51	- PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE 52	- METHOD OF SALARY PAYMENT
ARTICLE 53	- INDEMNIFICATION
ARTICLE 54	- POLICIES
ARTICLE 55	- MISCELLANEOUS
ARTICLE 56	- LEGISLATIVE ACTION
ARTICLE 57	- SAVINGS CLAUSE
ARTICLE 58	- SUPERSEDENCE
ARTICLE 59	- QUALITY OF WORKLIFE
ARTICLE 60	- DURATION OF AGREEMENT
APPENDIX A - LONGEVITY SCHEDULE
APPENDIX B - CLASSIFICATION SERIES
APPENDIX C - CLASSIFICATION APPEAL PROCEDURE
APPENDIX D - JOB SHARING GUIDELINES
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING, EFFECT OF CERTAIN LANGUAGE CHANGES
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING - DOC MEAL MONEY
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING - ARTICLE 12, SERVICE RATINGS
SIDE LETTER - ARTICLE 55, SECTION ONE
SIDE LETTER - DMR ADULT SERVICES POSITIONS
SIDE LETTER - D M R. TEACHER POSITIONS
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING - DMR and DCF
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING - DMHAS
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING - DMR DEINSTITUTIONALIZATION
SIDE LETTER - FLEXTIME AND 4-DAY WORKWEEK, BUREAU OF REHABILITATION SERVICES (BRS)
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING - ARTICLE 16, GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
SIDE LETTER - DOC CERTIFICATION DISCUSSIONS
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING - BIG BROTHERS/BIG SISTERS
SIDE LETTER - ARTICLE 39, VACATION SELECTION DMR NORTHWEST CENTER
-2 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
PREAMBLE
STATE OF CONNECTICUT, acting by and through the Office of Labor Relations, hereinafter called "the State" or "the Employer," and CONNECTICUT STATE EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION, hereinafter called "the Association" or "the Union,"
WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS the parties to this Agreement desire to establish a state of amicable understanding, cooperation and harmony; and
WHEREAS the parties to this Agreement consider themselves mutually responsible to improve the public service through increased morale, efficiency, and productivity;
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties mutually agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1 RECOGNITION
Section One. The State of Connecticut herein recognizes the Connecticut State Employees Association as the exclusive bargaining representative of the State employees whose job titles are placed within the following certified unit by the Connecticut State Board of Labor Relations or by agreement of the parties: The Institution Educators, SE-3323.
Section Two. This Agreement shall pertain only to those employees whose job titles fall within those certifications above cited and shall not apply to non-permanent employees who are appointed on a temporary, emergency, provisional, durational basis not to exceed six (6) months, or seasonal basis. Persons serving a working test period are not excluded. Part-time employees working under twenty (20) hours per week are covered by this Agreement to the extent provided in Article 51.
Section Three, (a) Provisional Employees. A provisional employee is an employee who has been initially appointed to a permanent position pending State examination or examination results. Provisional employees are subject to the requirements of the merit system in all respects, including but not limited to, certification from an examination list and completion of the working test period. Permanent appointment is contingent upon meeting all said requirements, and failure to do so will result in termination of employment without right of appeal except as may be provided by the merit system. In all other respects, this Agreement shall apply to a provisional employee in a permanent position from the date of appointment.
(b) Temporary and Durational Employees. A temporary employee is an employee appointed on a temporary or emergency basis or appointed to a temporary position of six (6) months duration. A durational employee is an employee appointed on a durational basis or to a durational position for a period of six (6) months duration or the length of leave of absence of the employee replaced, whichever is longer. Due to nature of the appointment, temporary and durational employees cannot be guaranteed continued employment beyond the termination date of the appointment. Termination is therefore without right of appeal.
-3 -(P3BK02-05FV)
This Agreement entitles a temporary or durational employee, whether originally appointed for less than or more than six months, to the following after six (6) months of continuous service:
(1)	Vacation, if eligible, accrued from date of hire in accordance with Article 39, use of accrued vacation and payment of unused vacation upon termination.
(2)	Sick Leave accrued from date of hire in accordance with Article 40, and use of accrued sick leave.
(3)	Holiday benefits, if eligible, in accordance with Article 38.
(4)	Participation in group health insurance provided in accordance with Article 45, subject to any waiting period imposed by the insurance carrier.
(5)	Group life insurance in accordance with Section 5-257, Connecticut General Statutes.
(6)	Membership in the employee organization or payment of agency fees in accordance with Article 9.
Time served as a temporary or durational employee shall be credited toward seniority once the employee has completed a working test period in a permanent position provided that there is no break between the periods of temporary or durational employment and permanent employment. This Section shall not be deemed as a waiver of any requirements of the merit system.
ARTICLE 2
ENTIRE AGREEMENT
This Agreement, upon ratification, supersedes and cancels all prior practices and agreements, whether written or oral, unless expressly stated to the contrary herein, and constitutes the complete and entire agreement between the parties and concludes collective bargaining for its term.
The parties acknowledge that during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement, each had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or matter not removed by law from the area of collective bargaining, and that the understanding and agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement. Therefore, the State and the Union, for the duration of this Agreement, each voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right, and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated, to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter whether or not referred to or covered in this Agreement, even though such subjects or matters may not have been within the knowledge or contemplation of either or both of the parties at the time they negotiated or signed this Agreement.
The provisions of this Article are subject to the Miscellaneous Article, and no such provision shall be deemed to have been vitiated by reason of this Article.
-4 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
ARTICLE 3 NON-DISCRIMINATION AND AFFIRMATIVE ACTION
Section One. Both the Employer and the Union recognize their commitment to a policy of affirmative action guaranteeing equal employment opportunity to all persons based upon merit and qualifications. To the extent provided under employment discrimination laws, the parties agree that neither party shall discriminate against any employee on the basis of race, color, religious creed, sex, age, national origin, marital status, lawful political activity, ancestry, criminal record, sexual orientation, mental retardation, learning disability or any physical or mental disability including but not limited to blindness except for bona-fide occupational qualifications. The parties to this Agreement agree in all aspects to follow the provisions of Section 46a-60 of the Connecticut General Statutes regarding the prohibition of discriminatory employment practices.
Section Two. Neither party shall discriminate against an employee on the basis of membership or non-membership or legal activity in behalf of the exclusive bargaining agent.
Section Three. There shall be positive and aggressive affirmative action and upward mobility programs to redress the effects of past discrimination, if any, whether intentional or unintentional, to eliminate present discrimination, if any, to prevent discrimination, and to ensure equal opportunity in the application of this Agreement.
Section Four. The State will provide copies of the contract in Braille, and/or large print to visually impaired employees. The Union will share in the cost of these copies.
Section Five. Notwithstanding any provision of this agreement to the contrary, the Employer will have the right and duty to take all actions necessary to comply with the provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C. 2102, et seq. (ADA). Upon request the Employer will meet and discuss specific concerns identified by the Union; however, this shall not delay any actions taken to comply with the ADA. Issues involving ADA implementation shall be the subject of ongoing discussions at the Labor-Management Committee meetings.
ARTICLE 4 NO STRIKES - NO LOCKOUTS
Section One. Neither the Union nor any employee shall engage in, induce, support, encourage, or condone a strike, sympathy strike, work stoppage, slowdown, concerted withholding of services, sick-out or any interference with the mission of any State agency. This Article shall be deemed to prohibit the concerted boycott or refusal of overtime work but shall be interpreted consistent with any provisions of this Agreement on distribution and assignment of overtime work.
Section Two	. The Union shall exert its best efforts to prevent or terminate any violation of Section One of this Article.
Section Thr	ee. The Employer agrees that during the life of this Agreement there shall be no lockout.
(P3BK02-05FV)
- 5 -
ARTICLE 5 MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Except as otherwise limited by an express provision of this Agreement, the State reserves and retains, whether exercised or not, all the lawful and customary rights, powers and prerogatives of public management. Such rights include, but are not limited to, establishing standards of productivity and performance of its employees; determining the mission of an agency and the methods and means necessary to fulfill that mission, including the contracting out of or the discontinuation of services, positions, or programs, in whole or in part; the determination of the content of job classification; the appointment, promotion, assignment, direction and transfer of personnel; the suspension, demotion, discharge or any other appropriate action against its employees; the relief from duty of its employees because of lack of work or for other legitimate reasons; the establishment of reasonable work rules; and the taking of all necessary actions to carry out its mission in emergencies. Except as otherwise limited by an express provision of this Agreement, inherent management rights are not subject to the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 6 EMPLOYEE BILL OF RIGHTS
Section One. Each employee shall be protected in the full exercise of the rights of freedom of speech, assembly, due process, and equal protection under the provisions of this Agreement and the U.S. Constitution. Additionally, each employee shall be protected under the provisions of Section 4-6 Id of the Connecticut General Statutes. (Whistle Blowing Statute).
Section Two. Each employee shall be expected to render a full and fair day's work in an atmosphere of mutual respect and dignity, and free from significant abusive and/or arbitrary conduct by supervisors.
ARTICLE 7 ACADEMIC FREEDOM
Subject to Departmental policies and applicable statutes and regulations, all bargaining unit members shall be entitled to full freedom of research and the publication of the results.
ARTICLE 8 UNION RIGHTS
Section One. Employer representatives shall deal exclusively with Union-designated stewards or representatives in the processing of grievances or any other aspect of contract administration.
Section Two. (a) The Union may designate up to a maximum of fifty four (54) stewards for this bargaining unit. On an annual basis, the Union will furnish the State employer with a current list of stewards designated to represent any segment of employees covered by this Agreement, specifying the jurisdiction of each steward, and shall keep the list current. The Union will notify the State employer regarding any changes.
-6-
(P3BK02-05FV)
(b)	Union stewards will not be transferred involuntarily outside their designated jurisdiction except if necessary to meet operational needs. Such transfers shall not be made arbitrarily. Grievances under this Section shall be expedited to Step III of the grievance procedure. The Union agrees that it will not designate employees as stewards for the purpose of avoiding a contemplated involuntary transfer.
(c)	Where pay telephones are reasonably available, Union stewards shall use such telephones for Union business calls. If pay telephones are not reasonably available, State telephones may be used for Union business calls, provided that calls are of short duration and that long distance calls are not charged to the State. The Union will cooperate in preventing abuse of this Section.
Section Three. Union staff representatives and officials shall be permitted to enter the facilities of an agency at any reasonable time for the purpose of discussing, processing or investigating filed grievances, or fulfilling its role as collective bargaining agent, provided that they give notice of their presence prior to arrival or upon arrival to the appropriate management official and do not interfere with the performance of duties. The Union shall furnish the State employer with a current list of its staff personnel and their jurisdictions and shall maintain the currency of said list.
Section Four. Role of Stewards in Processing Grievances. Stewards will notify their immediate supervisors when they desire to leave their work assignments to carry out their duties in connection with this Article. Permission to leave will be granted by the supervisor unless the work situation or an emergency dictates otherwise. If the immediate supervisor is unavailable, permission will be requested from the next level of supervision. In the event neither is available, the steward shall contact the facility personnel or business office. Requests by stewards to meet with employees and/or employees to meet with stewards must state the name of the employee involved, his/her work location, and the expected time that will be needed. Stewards thus engaged will report back to their supervisors on completion of such duties and return to their job, and will suffer no loss of pay or other benefits as a result of this Section. In those work sites in which the immediate supervisor is a member of the P-3B bargaining unit, the steward will notify the next level of supervisor whose job title is outside the P-3B unit.
Notwithstanding the above provision, the Union shall not waive its right of grievance when a pattern of denial of release time over a period of time can be shown.
Section Five. Bulletin Board. The State will furnish reasonable bulletin board space in each institution which the Union may utilize for its announcements. Bulletin board space shall not be used for material that is of a partisan political nature or is inflammatory or derogatory to the State employer or any of its officers or employees. The Union shall limit its posting of notices and bulletins to such bulletin board space.
Section Six. Access to Information. The Employer agrees to provide the Union, upon request and within a reasonable period of time, access to materials and information necessary for the Union to fulfill its statutory responsibility to administer this Agreement. The Union shall reimburse the State for the expense and time spent for photocopying extensive information and otherwise as permitted under the State Freedom of Information Law. The Union shall not have access to privileged or confidential information.
Section Seven, (a) Each contract year a maximum of eight hundred fifty (850) hours paid leave shall be granted to Union officials, delegates, representatives, stewards or designees to -7-
(P3BK02-05FV)
attend Union business-related functions, meetings, conventions, meetings of national affiliated organizations, or other affiliated organizations, legislative or agency hearings and steward training sessions. Up to 10% of the annual hours may be carried over into a succeeding contract year, but all leave excesses shall expire on the final date of the Agreement. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, all leave excesses from the prior agreement shall be carried forward to this Agreement, but must be used prior to legislative approval of this Agreement.
(b)	Thirty (30) days notice will be required for the annual CSEA convention. In all other cases, at least two (2) weeks notice will be given, except in an emergency. The Union will send a concurrent notice for union business leave to the employee's agency personnel administrator. If an emergency may prevent the release of an employee, the Office of Labor Relations will notify the Union, and representatives of the Union and the Office of Labor Relations will cooperate in resolving the problem. If, however, there is not an emergency but the usage would cause significant impact on the agency operations, the State and the Union shall discuss the situation and may, by mutual agreement, postpone or cancel the leave usage.
(c)	Not more than one (1) bargaining unit employee selected or appointed to a full-time office or position with the Union will be eligible for an unpaid leave of absence not to exceed one (1) year. An extension not to exceed one (1) additional year may be granted, subject to the approval of the Director of the Office of Labor Relations. Upon return from such leave, the State Employer shall offer said employee a position substantially equal to the former position at his/her former location, if possible and practicable, unless mutually agreed to the contrary. All pay and benefits will be at the rates in force at the time of return from such leave. Upon return from such leave, the employee shall have the right to purchase back retirement credits for the period of the leave, provided that, in addition, the employee or the Union contribute the State's share of the cost of such retirement credits. In the event an employee wishes to return prior to the expiration of the leave, he/she must provide at least thirty (30) days intent notice to the Department.
Section Eight. Orientation. The Union shall provide each new employee with a copy of the collective bargaining agreement then in force and will furnish such employee with the name of his/her steward. During the first month of employment all new employees and their steward shall be released from work, if they so desire, for one (1) hour without loss of pay to attend a Union orientation. The time and location of such orientation shall be determined by mutual agreement of the Union and the employer.
Section Nine. The State will permit use of certain areas within facilities for Union meetings, subject to operating needs, outside of normal work hours. Requests for use of facilities shall be made in advance to the appropriate management official. The Union shall reimburse the State for any additional expense, such as security and maintenance costs, incurred as a result of Union use of facilities.
ARTICLE 9 UNION SECURITY AND PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS
Section One. During the life of this Agreement an employee retains the freedom of choice whether or not to become or remain a member of the Union which has been designated as the exclusive bargaining agent.
- 8 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
Section Two. Union dues shall be deducted by the State employer biweekly from the paycheck of each employee who signs and remits to the State an authorization form. Such deduction shall be discontinued upon written request of an employee thirty (30) days in advance.
Section Three. An employee who fails to become a member of the Union or an employee whose membership is terminated for non-payment of dues or who resigns from membership shall be required to pay an agency service fee under Section Four.
Section Four. The State shall deduct the agency service fee biweekly from the paycheck of each employee who is required under Section 5-280 of the Connecticut General Statutes to pay such a fee as a condition of employment, provided, however, no such payment shall be required of an employee whose membership is terminated for reasons other than non-payment of Union dues or who objects to payment of such fee based on the tenets of a bona fide religious sect. The amount of agency service fee shall not exceed the minimum applicable dues payable to an exclusive bargaining agent or any employee organization constituent thereof.
The deduction of the agency service fee shall be effective with the first payroll check received as an employee covered by this contract.
Section Five. The amount of dues or agency service fee deducted under this Article shall be remitted to the Treasurer of the Union as soon as practicable after the payroll period in which such deductions are made together with a list of employees for whom any such deduction is made.
Section Six. No payroll deduction of dues or agency service fee shall be made from workers compensation or for any payroll period in which earnings received are insufficient to cover the amount of deduction, nor shall such deductions be made from subsequent payrolls to cover the period in question (non-retroactive).
Section Seven. Payroll deduction of Union dues shall be discontinued for other employee organizations not parties to this Agreement.
Section Eight. The State employer shall continue its practice of payroll deductions as authorized by employees for purposes other than payment of Union dues or agency service fees, provided any such payroll deduction has been approved by the State in advance.
Section Nine. In the event that any court of competent jurisdiction orders the employer to pay damages due to deduction of Union agency fees or to rebate to employees any portion of such fees deducted pursuant to this Article, the Union agrees to hold the employer harmless for said damages and deductions by paying the State for said damages and deductions.
Section Ten. The State shall continue the voluntary payroll deduction for the Union's political action organization fund as established under the prior agreement.
Section Eleven. When the State employer believes that an employee has had an excessive amount of union dues and/or agency service fees withheld from his/her paycheck, the State shall notify the employee and the Union of the amount of and the possible reason for the excessive deductions. The method of repayment, if any, shall be mutually agreed between the employee and the Union and the Union shall notify the State if the matter has been resolved and in what fashion.
-9-
(P3BK02-05FV)
If the State determines that an employee has had insufficient deductions being withheld for union dues and/or agency fees, the State shall deduct the amount owed by the employee over the same period of time in which the insufficiency occurred, unless the State is notified that the employee and the Union have agreed to some other arrangement.
ARTICLE 10 SENIORITY
Section One. Seniority shall be defined as length of continuous state service, including war service.
Section Two. An employee's seniority shall accrue during the following periods: (a) Military leave, (b) Paid leave, (c) Workers compensation, (d) Unpaid sick leave, maternity leave, leave for disability, family emergency due to illness, authorized leaves of absence or layoff of up to a maximum of twelve (12) months or the length of the employee's service whichever is less.
Section Three. Employees who seek seniority credit for periods of time described in (d) above must apply for such seniority between October 1, 1990 and December 30, 1990 and no claims for retroactive seniority credit submitted after that date will be considered. Any changes in an employee's seniority resulting from these Sections will only be applied on a prospective basis from the time of crediting. Any increase in seniority credit which is granted for periods of time described in (d) above shall not affect longevity eligibility or vacation accrual or any other economic benefit under this contract which is based on years of service.
Section Four. Seniority shall be deemed broken by: (a) termination of employment caused by resignation, dismissal or retirement; (b) failure to report to work for five (5) working days without authorization.
Credit for seniority up to a break in service shall be restored to an employee who returns to service within one (1) year of a service break. Notwithstanding the above, employees who had a break in service and were rehired prior to July 1, 1979 shall have their seniority restored for all service prior to the break.
An employee who was laid off and was reappointed from the reemployment list within three years of the layoff shall have his/her length of State service and seniority as of the date of layoff restored.
Section Fiv	e. Seniority shall not be computed until after completion of the Initial Working Test Period.
Section Six	. Seniority Lists. Seniority lists shall be maintained and updated no later than August 1 of each contract year, based upon employee seniority calculated as of July 1 of that year.
Section Sev	en. When seniority is utilized in this Agreement or to implement provisions arising out of this Agreement, and if the seniority of two or more employees is exactly the same, the employee(s) with the lower employee number(s) shall be considered to have more seniority.
Section Eig	ht. A permanent employee who has completed the working test period in a permanent position in the bargaining unit shall be entitled to seniority credit for days worked as - 10 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
a State School Substitute Teacher or Instructor provided that the employee averaged twenty or more hours per week while employed as a Substitute and that there was no break in employment between the periods of substitute and permanent employment.
ARTICLE 11
PERSONNEL RECORDS
Section One. An employee's personnel file or "personnel record" is defined as that which is maintained at the agency level, exclusive of any other file or record, provided, however, in certain agencies which do not maintain personnel files or records at the agency level, the defined file or record shall be that which is maintained at the institution level.
Section Two. An employee covered hereunder shall, upon his/her request, be granted reasonable time without loss of pay to examine and copy, at his/her expense, any and all materials in his/her personnel file other than pre-employment material or material that is confidential or privileged under the law. At the agency's discretion, such material may be sent to the employee's worksite for inspection. The State Employer reserves the right to require its designee to be present while such file is being inspected or copied. The Union may have access to the employee's official personnel records upon presentation of written authorization by the appropriate employee. In matters of confidentiality and access to records, the provisions of applicable statutes and regulations shall prevail.
Section Three. No new derogatory material shall be placed in the employee's file unless the employee has had an opportunity to sign it and has received a concurrent copy. Such signature merely indicates that he/she has read the material to be filed, and does not necessarily indicate agreement with its contents. If the employee refuses to sign, a Union steward shall sign indicating receipt. At any time, an employee may file a written rebuttal to any derogatory materials. If an employee fails to attend a meeting scheduled for the delivery of derogatory material, the document(s) may be sent to the employee by certified mail with a copy mailed to the Union.
An employee may file a grievance objecting to any derogatory material placed in his/her personnel file, provided, however, no such grievance shall be arbitrable unless it is alleged by the State employer as just cause for discipline.
Derogatory material which is not merged in the next service rating shall be considered void after two (2) years unless voided sooner or incorporated into an official disciplinary action. For purposes of this section, “voided” means that the document shall be marked “void for employment purposes” or placed in a separate file and shall not be used for any employment-related purposes under this contract.
Section Four. This Article shall not be deemed to prohibit supervisors from maintaining written notes or records of an employee's performance, with the understanding that the accuracy of such notes/records may be challenged when used as the basis for official disciplinary action.
- 11 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
ARTICLE 12
SERVICE RATINGS
Section One. (a) The appointing authority shall cause a service rating report to be filed on a form prescribed by the State in the following instances:
(1)	During any working test period, either promotional or original, the quality of service of any employee shall be reported as either: "satisfactory" or better for satisfactory or better performance, and the form shall be placed in the official personnel file not more than six (6) nor less than two (2) weeks prior to the termination of the period; or "unsatisfactory" for unsatisfactory performance, and the report shall be approved by the appointing authority and placed in the personnel file and reported to the Commissioner of Administrative Services or designee.
(2)	When the performance of an employee with permanent status has been unsatisfactory, in order to preclude an annual increase the report shall be approved by the appointing authority and placed in the personnel file prior to the employee's increase date.
(3)	When the appointing authority wishes to amend a previously submitted unsatisfactory report due to the marked improvement in an employee's performance, such report shall be filed not later than two (2) weeks prior to the increase date and shall restore the annual increase.
(4)	Annually for each permanent employee, said annual rating shall be completed and filed in the personnel file in the office of the appointing authority at least three (3) months prior to the employee's annual increase date.
(5)	At such other times as the appointing authority deems that the quality of service of an employee should be recorded provided that no second "unsatisfactory" service rating shall be given until after the employee has had a reasonable opportunity to correct deficiencies.
(b)	A service rating will be conducted by a qualified management designee who is familiar with the employee's work. No supervisor shall make comments within a service rating where such comments are inconsistent with said rating. However, constructive suggestions for improvement shall not be considered to be inconsistent with the rating. Employees may, if they desire, contribute their written comments as an addendum to the Service Rating document. All unsatisfactory ratings must be discussed with and signed by the employee (indicating he/she has seen it, rather than signifying agreement) within seven (7) days of the issuance of the rating.
(c)	When an employee is issued an "unsatisfactory" service rating, the rating supervisor shall state the reasons and expectation for improvement.
Section Two. Only disputes over unsatisfactory service ratings shall be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure. In any such arbitration, the arbitrator shall not substitute his/her judgment for that of the evaluator in applying the relevant evaluation standards unless the evaluator can be shown to have acted arbitrarily or capriciously.
Section Thr	ee. A rating of "unsatisfactory in one (1) category or of "fair" in two (2) categories shall constitute an unsatisfactory service rating which may be considered grounds for denial of an annual increment. All other ratings shall be considered "satisfactory" or better.
- 12 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
Section Fou	r. Review of existing and new evaluation forms and procedures shall be an appropriate subject of the Labor Management Committee.
Section Fiv	e. For the purposes of teacher evaluation, the State will comply with Section 10-15 lb of the General Statutes, the exclusive representative in this case being the CSEA.
Section Six. As part of the teacher evaluation process, each teacher shall be expected to complete professional development goals, objectives, and/or projects during the school year. The goals will be developed in conjunction with the supervisor or manager as provided in the agency's teacher evaluation plan. Such goals, objectives, and/or projects shall be intended to improve the quality of educational services for the students, to improve the performance and expertise of the teacher, to provide benefits for the school system, and to implement the agency's professional development plan.
ARTICLE 13 WORKING TEST PERIOD
Section One. The Working Test Period shall be deemed an extension of the examination or appointment process. Therefore, a determination of unsatisfactory performance during a Working Test Period shall be tantamount to a failure of the competitive exam or appointment.
Section Two. Any current State employee who has achieved permanent status in State service and is appointed to a position within the bargaining unit shall serve the equivalent of six (6) months of full-time employment for the purposes of completing the Working Test Period requirement. All other appointees to a position within the bargaining unit shall serve the equivalent of twelve (12) months of full-time employment for the purpose of completing the Working Test Period requirement. Employees in the Department of Correction who are not subject to the twelve month working test period shall instead have a working test period of seven weeks for the period at the training center and then six months working at the facility, but the failure to commence training on the first day of employment shall not extend the length of the working test period beyond a total of six months and seven weeks. Notwithstanding the previous sentences, an appointee to a permanent position within the bargaining unit shall be entitled to the benefits of vacation leave and personal leave under Article 39 after the completion of the equivalent of six (6) months of full-time employment.
Such Working Test Period shall begin on the date of appointment from the employment list if the position is competitive. Otherwise, the Working Test Period shall begin on the date of original permanent appointment.
The Promotional Working Test Period for classes covered by this Agreement shall be six (6) months. However, an employee who is promoted within the bargaining unit, within his/her employing agency, shall be required to serve a promotional Working Test Period of only four (4) months.
Upon appointment from the certified list, an employee who is provisionally promoted shall have service in the position in which he/she has served provisionally credited toward meeting the Working Test Period requirements, provided that such service has been satisfactory in the judgment of the appointing authority.
- 13 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
No additional Working Test Period shall be required of an employee who previously served a satisfactory Working Test in the same or in a comparable class within the preceding three (3) years.
Section Three. At any time during the Working Test Period, the appointing authority may remove any employee if, in the opinion of such appointing authority, the Working Test indicates that such employee is unable or unwilling to perform his/her duties so as to merit continuance in such position. The name of any employee so removed, but who is considered to be suitable for employment in some other department, agency, or institution, may be restored to the employment list. For the purposes of this Section, any employee who has served part of a Working Test Period and who is appointed to and serves part of a Working Test Period in a position in a higher classification in a field of work directly related to his/her prior position, from which new position he/she is dismissed, shall, at his/her option, be reappointed to the position which he/she first had, and his/her service in the Working Test Period for such position shall be deemed to include the time spent in the Working Test Period for the higher position.
Section Fou	r. The Working Test Period may with the approval of the Commissioner of Administrative Services or designee, be extended on an individual basis for a definite period of time. Such extension shall not exceed three (3) months.
Section Fiv	e. The provisions of this Article shall not preclude any provisions of Article 14 regarding non-renewal.
ARTICLE 14
TENURE
Section One. Tenure Period. Each bargaining unit employee whose position entitles him/her to achieve tenure under the Rules and Regulations of the State Board of Education shall serve a pre-tenure period of three (3) years for the purpose of achieving tenure within a Department. Commencing with the first day of the fourth year of continuous service, he/she shall be construed to have achieved tenure within the Department. A tenured bargaining unit employee who transfers to a bargaining unit position in another Department shall serve a pretenure period of eighteen (18) months.
Section Two. (a) The contract of a non-tenured employee shall be renewed for a second, third or fourth year unless such employee has been notified in writing prior to March 1st of the school year or ninety (90) days prior to the anniversary date of hire for bargaining unit employees in the Bureau of Rehabilitation Services and the Board of Education - Services for the Blind, that such contract will not be renewed for the following year. Upon the employee's written request, such notice shall be supplemented within five (5) days after receipt of such request by a statement of the reason(s) for such failure to renew.
A non-tenured employee who has been notified that his/her contract will not be renewed may, upon written request filed with the agency head within ten (10) days after the receipt of such notice, be entitled to a hearing to be conducted by the agency head or his/her designated representative and to be held within fifteen (15) days of the receipt of such request.
(b) A non-tenured employee who has been notified that his/her contract will not be renewed shall be considered to have left the service of the Agency in good standing.
- 14 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
Section Three, (a) In the event that official disciplinary actions are incorporated into the statement of the reason(s) for failure to renew, the fifteen (15) day time limit for hearings as specified under Section Two shall be extended until the completion of grievance procedures related to the official disciplinary action.
(b) Any grievance of an official disciplinary action which is incorporated into the statement of reason(s) for failure to renew will be subject to expedited arbitration.
Section Fou	r. Notwithstanding the above provisions, disputes over renewal shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
Section Fiv	e. The procedures outlined in this Article shall be the exclusive procedures and shall supersede any other procedures, regulations or statutes.
ARTICLE 15 DISMISSAL, SUSPENSION, DEMOTION OR OTHER DISCIPLINE
Section One. No permanent employee who has completed the working test period as defined in Article 13 shall be reprimanded, demoted for disciplinary reasons, suspended or dismissed except for sufficient and just cause.
Section Two. Wherever appropriate, disciplinary action will be preceded by warning and appropriate opportunity for corrective action. However, nothing in this Section shall prohibit the Employer from bypassing progressive discipline when the nature of the offense requires. In such cases, the failure to apply progressive discipline shall not in and of itself be cause for overturning the disciplinary action.
Section Three. A permanent employee who receives a written reprimand or written confirmation of an oral reprimand, or who is demoted for disciplinary reasons, suspended or dismissed, shall have the right to appeal such action through the grievance and arbitration process set forth in this Agreement.
Grievances concerning dismissal or suspension shall be submitted directly to Step III of the grievance procedure within fifteen (15) calendar days of the written notice. By mutual agreement, such grievances may be expedited directly to arbitration. All other disciplinary grievances shall be filed in accordance with Article 16.
The grievance procedure shall be the exclusive forum for resolving disputes over disciplinary action and shall supersede all pre-existing forums.
Section Four. Written notice of dismissal, suspension or disciplinary demotion shall be sent to the employee by certified mail or served in person. Such written notice shall state the reason(s) for the disciplinary action, the effective date(s) and notice of the right to appeal. The Employer will mail to the Union copies of any dismissal, suspension or disciplinary demotion within twenty-four (24) hours of the written notice to the employee.
Section Five. Employer Conduct for Discipline. Whenever it becomes necessary to discipline an individual employee, the supervisor vested with said responsibility shall undertake said discipline in a fashion calculated to apprise the employee of his/her shortcomings while avoiding embarrassment and public display.
- 15 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
Section Six. In cases which involve serious misconduct, a criminal investigation or the disposition of a criminal charge, and where it has been determined by the Employer that the presence of the employee at work could be harmful to the public, the welfare, health, security or safety of clients, patients, inmates or state employees or state property, the employee may be placed on a paid leave of absence to permit investigation for a period of up to sixty (60) calendar days. The paid leave under this section may be extended for the period of the pre-discipline procedure and the discipline notice period.
An employee may be placed upon a paid leave of absence during the notice period prior to the effective date of a dismissal.
Provided, however, nothing shall preclude an employee from electing to be placed on an unpaid leave of absence pursuant to the Regulation or for up to thirty (30) days. An employee who elects an unpaid leave of absence may draw upon his/her accrued vacation pay. The employee may continue group health insurance provided that the employee's share of premiums is paid. At the conclusion of the unpaid leave period, the employee shall be either:
(a)	charged with the appropriate violation;
(b)	reinstated and reassigned to other duties determined appropriate by the appointing authority pending completion of the investigation; or
(c)	reinstated from leave.
Section Seven. Interrogation. An employee who is being interrogated concerning an incident or action which may subject him/her to disciplinary action shall be notified of his/her right to have a Union steward or other representative present, upon request, provided, however, this provision shall not unreasonably delay completion of the interrogation or notification of disciplinary action. This provision shall be applicable to interrogation before, during or after the filing of a charge against an employee or notification to the employee of disciplinary action.
The provisions of this Section shall not be interpreted to prevent a supervisor from questioning an employee at the workplace.
Section Eight. Whenever practicable, the investigation, interrogation or discipline of employees shall be scheduled in a manner intended to conform with the employee's work schedule, with an intent to avoid overtime. When any employee is called to appear at any time beyond his/her normal work time and actually testifies, he/she shall be deemed to be actually working. This provision shall not apply to Union stewards.
Section Nine. The State reserves the right to discipline or discharge employees for breach of the No Strike Article. An employee may grieve said disciplinary action directly to Step III. If, in an arbitration proceeding, the Employer establishes that the employee(s) breached the No Strike Article, the arbitrator shall not substitute his/her judgment for that of the Employer as to the appropriateness of the discipline imposed, except that in cases of dismissal, the arbitrator may modify the penalty of dismissal if the Employer's judgment can be shown to be arbitrary, capricious or discriminatory.
Section Ten. Just cause may include, but is not necessarily restricted to, incompetency, inefficiency, neglect of duty, misconduct or insubordination.
- 16 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
ARTICLE 16 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section One. Definition. A grievance is defined as any written complaint involving an alleged violation or a dispute involving the application or interpretation of a specific provision(s) of this Agreement.
Section Two. Format. Grievances shall be filed on mutually agreed upon forms which specify: (a) the facts; (b) the issue; (c) the date of the violation alleged and the location of the affected employee(s); (d) the controlling contract provision; and (e) the remedy or relief sought.
The Union Representative or steward shall make his/her best efforts to clearly and completely fill out the grievance form and to include the specified information. In the event a form filed is unclear or incomplete and not in compliance with this Section, the State employer shall make his/her best efforts to handle the grievance as he/she understands it. A grievance may be amended up to and including Step III, provided that the Union provides notice to the appropriate Management designee of the change no less than seven (7) days prior to the scheduled Step III hearing date.
Section Three. Grievant. A Union representative, with or without the aggrieved employee, may submit a grievance, and the Union may, in appropriate cases, submit an "institutional" or "general" grievance in its own behalf. When individual employee(s) or group of employees elect(s) to submit a grievance on their own behalf without Union representation, the Union's representative or steward shall be notified of the pending grievance, shall be provided with a copy thereof, and shall have the right to be present at any discussions of the grievance, except that if the employee does not wish to have the steward present, the steward shall not attend the meeting. The Union shall be provided with a copy of the written response to the grievance. The steward shall be entitled to receive from the employer all documents pertinent to the disposition of the grievance and to file statements of position.
The State will continue its practice of paid leave time for witnesses of either party at all steps of the grievance procedure.
Section Four. Informal Resolutions. The grievance procedure outlined herein is designed to facilitate resolution of disputes at the lowest possible level of the procedure. It is therefore urged that the parties attempt prompt resolution of all disputes and to avoid the formal procedures through informal resolution.
Section Five. A grievance shall be deemed waived unless submitted at Step I within thirty (30) days from the date of the cause of the grievance or within thirty (30) days from the date the grievant or the Union representative or steward knew or through reasonable diligence should have known of the cause of the grievance. This provision shall not preclude a grievant from having the right to pursue and obtain remedy for any continuing or ongoing violation.
Section Six. The Grievance Procedure.
Step I. A grievance may be submitted within the thirty (30) day period specified in Section Five to the subagency designee who is outside the bargaining unit. Such designee shall meet with the Union representative and/or the grievant and issue a written response within seven (7) days after such meeting, but not later than fourteen (14) days after the submission of the grievance.
- 17 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
Step II. Agency Head or Designee. When the answer at Step I does not resolve the grievance, the grievance shall be submitted by the Union representative and/or the grievant to the agency head or his/her designee within seven (7) days of the previous response. Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of the grievance, a meeting will be held with the employee and a written response issued within five (5) days thereafter.
Step III. Director of the Office of Labor Relations or designee. The parties acknowledge that orderly administration of the contract grievance procedure requires the Director of the Office of Labor Relations to play an active role in the contract grievance procedure. Accordingly, no grievance shall be deemed ripe for submission to arbitration unless and until the Director of the Office of Labor Relations or his/her designee has had an opportunity to resolve the grievance. An unresolved grievance may be appealed to said Director within seven (7) days of the date of the Step II response. Said Director or his/her designated representative shall hold a conference within thirty (30) days of receipt of the grievance and issue a written response within ten (10) days of the conference.
Step IV. Submission to Arbitration. Within fourteen (14) working days after the State's answer is due at Step III or if no conference is held within thirty (30) days, within fourteen (14) working days after the expiration of the thirty (30) day period an unresolved grievance may be submitted to arbitration by the Union or by the State, but not by an individual employee(s), except that individual employees may submit to arbitration in cases of dismissal, demotion or suspension of not less than five (5) working days.
Mediation. If mutually agreed upon by the parties, an unresolved grievance filed for arbitration shall be submitted to a pre-arbitration mediation meeting. The mediation shall be conducted by a mutually acceptable mediator selected by the parties and shall be understood to be a non-binding process. The mediation shall be scheduled within forty-five days, if practicable, after the parties have agreed to mediation. The costs of the mediation shall be shared equally between the State and the Union.
Section Seven. For the purposes of the time limits hereunder, "days" shall mean calendar days unless otherwise specified. The parties by mutual agreement in writing may extend time limits or waive any or all of the steps hereinbefore cited.
Section Eight. In the event that the State employer fails to answer a grievance within the time specified, the grievance may be processed to the next higher level and the same time limits therefor shall apply as if the State employer's answer had been timely filed on that last day.
The grievant accepts the last attempted resolution by failing timely to appeal said decision, or by accepting said decision in writing.
Section Nine, (a) The parties shall establish a panel of up to five (5) mutually acceptable arbitrators. Unless the parties agree to the contrary for a particular case, the arbitrator shall be selected by rotation in alphabetical order from the panel of arbitrators. The parties shall expedite cases involving dismissals, demotions, and suspensions of five (5) days or more.
Submission to arbitration shall be by certified letter, postage prepaid, to the Director of the Office of Labor Relations. The expenses for the arbitrator's service and for the hearing shall be shared equally by the State and the Union, or in dismissal or suspension cases when the Union
- 18 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
is not a party, one-half the cost shall be borne by the State and the other half by the party submitting to arbitration.
On grievances when the question of arbitrability has been raised, either party may request that the arbitrator issue a decision on the issue of arbitrability prior to hearing the merits of the case. In determining whether a grievance shall be deemed arbitrable, the arbitrator shall apply the guidelines embodied in the "Steelworkers Trilogy".
(b)	The arbitration hearing shall not follow the formal rules of evidence unless the parties agree in advance, with the concurrence of the arbitrator at or prior to the time of his/her appointment.
In cases of dismissals, demotions or suspensions in excess of five (5) days, a party may request the arbitrator to maintain a cassette recording of the hearing testimony. Costs of transcription will be borne by the requesting party. A party requesting a stenographic transcript shall arrange for the stenographer and pay the cost thereof.
The State will continue its practice of paid leave time for witnesses of either party. The steward representing the grievant(s) shall also be granted such paid leave time to be present.
(c)	The arbitrator shall have no power to add to, subtract from, alter or modify this Agreement, nor to grant to either party matters which were not obtained in the bargaining process, nor to impose any remedy or right of relief for any period of time prior to the effective date of the Agreement, nor to grant pay retroactivity for more than thirty (30) calendar days prior to the date a grievance was submitted at Step I. The arbitrator shall render his/her decision in writing no later than thirty (30) calendar days after the conclusion of the hearing unless the parties jointly agree otherwise.
The arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding on the parties in accordance with Connecticut General Statutes. Neither the submission of questions of arbitrability to any arbitrator in the first instance nor any voluntary submission shall be deemed to diminish the scope of judicial review over awards, including post-arbitral review of awards on arbitrability, nor to restrict the authority of a court of competent jurisdiction to construe any such award as contravening the public interest.
Section Ten.	Consolidation. The parties may, by mutual agreement, consolidate for hearing by a single arbitrator in a single proceeding two (2) or more grievances arising out of similar fact situations or involving similar issues of contract interpretation or both.
Section Elev	en. Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this Agreement, the following matters shall not be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure:
(a)	Dismissal of employees during the initial working test period;
(b)	Failure of a promotional working test period;
(c)	Service ratings when used as the basis of termination during the initial working test periods or of failure of a promotional working test period;
(d)	The decision to lay off, provided that the Employer shall provide the Union, upon request, supportive data regarding the decision to lay off, or the non-disciplinary termination of
- 19 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
an employee due to lack of possessing or maintaining an appropriate certification or a statutorily required educational degree.
(e)	Notwithstanding the provision of Article 49, classification and pay grades for newly created bargaining unit jobs, provided, however, that this clause shall neither enlarge nor diminish the Union's right to negotiate pay grades;
(f)	Any incident which occurred or failed to occur prior to the effective date of this Agreement, with the understanding that grievances filed which antedate this Agreement shall not be deemed to have been waived by execution of this Agreement.
(g)	Any inherent management right not restricted by a specific provision of this Agreement;
(h)	Health and safety issues which might otherwise be covered by ConnOSHA;
(i)	Affirmative action and alleged discrimination issues where the Commission on Human Rights and Opportunities asserts jurisdiction; for the purposes of this provision, the phrase “asserts jurisdiction” shall denote the point in time in which the CHRO serves the complaint upon the respondent and requests the respondent to answer the complaint.
(j)	Bill of Rights Clause. Those provisions of Section One which otherwise are protected by Federal and State law.
Section Twel	ve. The existing procedures for handling disputes over reclassification shall remain in force.
Section Thir	teen. The conferences of the grievance procedure and arbitration hearings shall be closed to the public unless the parties mutually agree otherwise.
ARTICLE 17
LABOR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
Section One. The parties recognize that labor management forums can serve to improve understanding, cooperation and harmony between the parties. Labor Management Committees may be established on a statewide, departmental, and/or facility level, by mutual agreement of the parties to discuss matters of mutual concern.
Section Two. The parties will continue the B.R.S. Labor Management Committee to discuss matters of mutual concern. Program level committees may be established to discuss issues peculiar to each. The B.R.S. labor management committee will meet every other month, so long as an agenda of proposed topics is presented at least one week prior to the scheduled date. The committee shall not be precluded from meeting more frequently if it is mutually agreed that more frequent meetings are necessary. The Committee shall discuss, among other subjects, methods for improving intake management and/or work load equalization.
Section Three. The Committees will not be used to replace the contract negotiating process or the grievance procedure. It is understood that employees will not suffer loss of pay or benefits as a result of attendance at Labor Management Committee meetings.
-20 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
ARTICLE 18 HOURS OF WORK
Section One. (a) Standard Work Week. The standard work week for full-time employees shall be seven (7) hours per day, normally worked Monday through Friday in five (5) consecutive days, except where different work schedules are in existence.
(b) Unscheduled Work Week. An unscheduled work week for full-time employees shall be thirty-five (35) hours in five (5) days, with starting and ending times determined by the requirements of the position.
Section Two. The State reserves the right to establish work schedules at variance with Section One in order to meet operational needs. Prior to implementing such an alternate schedule, the State will provide the Union with two (2) weeks notice. The above is subject to grievance and arbitration not inconsistent with Article 5.
Section Three. Upon request of an employee and upon approval of an appropriate management designee, the employee's work schedule may be arranged to accommodate needs in such areas as, but not limited to, child care, transportation or participation in an educational program. Except for programmatic and agency operational needs, an employee's request will not be unreasonably denied by the management designee.
Section Four. Meal Periods. Meal Periods shall be scheduled close to the middle of a shift, consistent with the operating needs of the agency. Employees required to be on duty during their meal period shall have such time counted as work time. Employees may make a request to reschedule their meal period to any other time of the day provided that it does not conflict with facility operating needs.
Section Five. Employees within the bargaining unit who perform instructional services for clients shall be entitled to one hundred fifty (150) minutes of preparation time per week. A preparation period will be defined as a daily period of time in which employees who perform instructional services for clients prepare their individual classroom work related to the course or courses for which they hold teaching responsibility. Preparation time will not be considered the employee's free time, but shall not be used for administrative meetings. Administrative meetings shall be defined as those meetings convened by supervisors. In some emergency situations, it may not be possible to grant an employee preparation time.
Section Six	. Subject to the operating needs of any agency, employees shall be scheduled to receive a fifteen (15) minute rest period in each half shift.
Section Sev	en. Alternate Work Schedules, (a) Alternate work plans for B.E.S.B. and flextime or four-day work weeks for B.R.S. have been established in conformance with the parties’ predecessor agreement.
(b)	The establishment of alternate work schedules, including pilot programs, in other agencies may be a subject for discussion at the agency labor management committee.
(c)	Management reserves the right to discontinue or modify any alternate work schedule that adversely impacts upon the effectiveness of the agency.
Section Eight. The parties have agreed to job sharing guidelines, which are provided for in Appendix D.
-21 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
Section Nine. PPT's and OPS's. Every effort will be made to schedule PPT and OPS meetings during normal work hours. An employee who is required to schedule a PPT or OPS meeting beyond the normal workday shall be granted compensatory time off. A minimum of two (2) hours compensatory time shall be granted for employees scheduled for PPT's or OPS's in the evening or on weekends.
Section Ten. (a) In the event a bargaining unit employee is required by management to work beyond the normal work day, he/she shall be compensated at the overtime rate or shall receive compensatory time. The above will be in accordance with existing practice.
(b)	When an Agency determines that certain projects or assignments because of their emergency nature or unusual importance necessitate the assignment of extensive overtime, the Agency may, subject to approval by the Office of Policy and Management or its designee, authorize the lifting of the overtime exemption and the provision of payment at straight time for the duration of the project or assignment. Neither the agency's decision to seek or not to seek the lifting of the overtime exemption nor the decision to grant or deny the Agency's request shall be subject to appeal in the grievance/arbitration procedure or in any forum.
(c)	In the Department of Mental Retardation, Mental Retardation Adult Services Instructors assigned to the redeployment homes shall receive overtime pay at the applicable rate when they are required to remain on duty after their regular hours to provide necessary direct care coverage until appropriately relieved from duty.
(d)	Compensatory time earned in one calendar year must be used by the end of the succeeding calendar year and cannot be carried forward. The employee shall request the use of the compensatory time consistent with the agency procedure for such time or for other paid leave requests. If the employee requests and is denied the compensatory time, the agency will schedule such time for the employee. If the agency is unable to schedule the time off, the agency may request authorization of the Office of Policy and Management, through the Office of Labor Relations, to provide straight time pay for some or all of the compensatory time. If the payment is denied, in whole or in part, by the Office of Policy and Management, the employee will be granted an additional three month period to use the remaining compensatory time.
Section Eleven. Employees shall continue to be paid overtime consistent with this Agreement, although the parties recognize the statutory obligation that eligible employees be paid overtime in compliance with the provisions of the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA).
After the payment of overtime in accordance with the collective bargaining agreement, an employee's additional FLSA payment, if any, shall be computed according to the rules set forth in the FLSA (29, CFR PART 778 et seq.). In determining whether said employee is eligible for FLSA overtime payment, only "hours worked" as defined in the Act, shall be counted. Furthermore, the FLSA liability shall be offset by the amount of overtime payments already paid to said employee in accordance with this agreement and existing practice, for that FLSA work period.
Section Twelve. Subject to the approval of the Office of Labor Relations and the Office of Policy and Management, an agency head or his/her designee may establish forty (40) hour work schedules for designated positions or assignments. Prior to establishing a forty hour work schedule, the agency will provide notice to the Union and will meet, if requested, to discuss any -22 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
Union problems or concerns. Any affected employee shall be provided at least three (3) weeks notice of the schedule change and shall be compensated and earn leave credits based on the forty hour workweek for the duration of the assignment.
ARTICLE 19 COMPENSATION
Section One	. Effective July 13, 2001, the base annual salary for all employees shall be increased by three percent (3%).
Effective July 12, 2002, the base annual salary for all employees shall be increased by three percent (3%).
Effective July 1, 2003, the base annual salary for all employees shall be increased by three percent (3%).
Effective July 1, 2004, the base annual salary for all employees shall be increased by three percent (3%).
Section Two	. Compensation Schedules. In addition to the standard seven (7) step schedule, there shall be the following extended compensation plans:
(a)	Instructor salary schedule which includes the classes of Mental Retardation Adult Services Instructor and Industries Instructor (B.E.S.B.)
(b)	Teacher salary schedules which include the classes of State School Teacher, Pupil Services Specialist, Education Consultant for the Blind (Mobility Instruction), Rehabilitation Teacher 1, Rehabilitation Teacher 2, Correction Department Vocational Instructor, and Correction Recreation Supervisor.
(c)	Supervisor salary schedule which includes the classes of Mental Retardation Education Program Supervisor and State School Department Head, and which provides that employees with a sixth (6th) year certificate in the appropriate area of certification shall be assigned to steps 3 through 11 while employees without such sixth (6th) year certificate shall be assigned to steps 1 through 8.
Section Thr	ee. Instructor Pay Plan, (a) The Instructor Pay Plan shall contain a Step 2 hiring rate for individuals possessing a Bachelors Degree and a Step 3 hiring rate for individuals possessing a Masters degree in a job related area.
(b)	An employee who was a Mental Retardation Worker 1 or 2 and becomes a State School Instructor shall be placed on the Instructor Pay Plan by the traditional mode. An employee who was a Lead Mental Retardation Worker and becomes a Mental Retardation Adult Services Instructor shall be placed on the step of the Instructor Pay Plan closest to, but not less than, his/her prior salary. An employee who was a Supervising Mental Retardation Worker and becomes a Mental Retardation Adult Services Instructor shall be placed on the Step of the Instructor Pay Plan closest to, but not more than, his/her prior salary. For employees whose job titles are other than those listed above, placement on the Instructor Pay Plan shall be based on the comparability of their class with the above listed classes. An Instructor who leaves this class for another position in state service and subsequently returns to an Instructor position shall be paid at the rate of pay which he/she would have arrived at had he/she been serving in the position of an Instructor instead of in the position of the other class.
-23 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
Section Four. Teacher Pay Plan, (a) Effective September 12, 1986, separate Teacher salary schedules shall be established based upon the level of educational achievement in job-related course work: Bachelors degree; Masters degree or Bachelors plus 30 credits; and Sixth Year or Masters plus 30 credits.
Effective July 1, 2002, step 1 shall be deleted from the Teacher’s salary schedules and the salary schedules shall be renumbered. Employees on step 1 of the old salary schedules shall be placed on step 1 of the new salary schedules. Effective July 1, 2004, step 1 shall be deleted from the Teacher salary schedules and the pay plan shall be renumbered. Employees on step 1 of the old salary schedules pay plan shall be placed on step 1 of the new salary schedules.
(b)	Employees who become eligible for advancement to a higher salary schedule due to educational achievement shall be placed on the appropriate schedule as of the effective date of their next annual increment. Such employees shall be advanced one step, if possible, for their annual increment and then placed on the same step of the new pay plan the employee held prior to the placement.
(c)	Employees in the class of Education Consultant for the Blind (Mobility Instruction) shall be assigned to step 1 through 14 of the twelve month pay plan of the appropriate educational schedule.
Employees in the classes of Rehabilitation Teacher 1 and Rehabilitation Teacher 2 shall be compensated on the appropriate educational schedules of the Ten Month Teachers pay plan, with the limitation that employees in the class of Rehabilitation Teacher 1 will be restricted to steps 1 through 7 and shall proceed to step 8 only upon attainment of the experience and training requirements of the Rehabilitation Teacher 2 job specification.
Employees in the classification of Correctional Recreation Supervisor shall be compensated on the Ten Month Teacher Pay Plan. Employees in the classification of Correctional Recreation Supervisor shall be compensated on the Bachelors degree schedule of the Teacher Pay Plan. Effective July 1, 2002 or thirty (30) days after legislative approval, whichever is later, employees in the classification of Correctional Recreation Supervisor shall be eligible to be compensated on the Masters degree or Sixth year schedules of the Teacher pay plan. Employees who have the specified level of educational achievement in job-related coursework shall be placed on the higher schedule as of the effective date of their next annual increment as described in subsection (b) above.
Employees in the classification of Correction Department Vocational Instructor shall be compensated on the Bachelors degree schedule of the Teacher Pay Plan in accordance with their work schedules (i.e. Ten Month Pay Plan or Twelve Month Pay Plan). Effective July 1, 2002 or thirty (30) days after legislative approval, whichever is later, employees in the classification of Correction Department Vocational Instructor shall be eligible to be compensated on the Masters degree or Sixth year schedules of the Teacher pay plan. Employees who have the specified level of educational achievement in job-related coursework shall be placed on the higher schedule as of the effective date of their next annual increment as described in subsection (b) above.
State School Teachers (12 month) and Pupil Services Specialists (12 month) who were employed as of July 1st and remained employed through October 1st shall receive a lump sum payment of five hundred ($500) dollars. Correction Department Vocational Instructors (12 month) shall also be eligible for the lump sum payment under the above conditions.
-24 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
Section Five. Supervisor Pay Plan, (a) Employees who become eligible for advancement on the pay plan due to achievement of a sixth (6th) year certificate in an appropriate area of certification shall be advanced on the effective date of their next annual increment. Such employees shall be advanced two steps after receiving their annual increment. In the event an employee does not receive an annual increment, he/she shall be advanced two steps on their annual increment date.
(b) For purposes of determining the step placement on the Supervisor pay plan for employees promoted from ten month positions, the employee's annual salary will be converted to the equivalent twelve (12) month rate prior to calculating the promotional increase.
Section Six	. Vocational Rehabilitation Supervisors and Vocational Rehabilitation Senior Counselors shall have an eighth step, which will be one (1) percent above the seventh step, added to their respective salary groups.
Effective July 1, 2002, prior to the July 1 annual increment, all employees in the Vocational Rehabilitation (Blind) classification series shall receive the following upgrading:
The Vocational Rehabilitation Assistant Counselor (Blind) classification will have the same pay grade as the Vocational Rehabilitation Assistant Counselor classification.
The Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor (Blind) classification will have the same pay grade as the Vocational Rehabilitation Senior Counselor classification.
The Vocational Rehabilitation Counseling Coordinator classification will be two salary groups higher than the Vocational Rehabilitation Senior Counselor classification.
The Vocational Rehabilitation Supervisor (Blind) classification will have the same pay grade as the Vocational Rehabilitation Supervisor classification.
Employees shall be placed at the step closest to but not less than their current salary.
Section Sev	en. The daily pay rate for Substitute Teachers shall be seventy-five dollars ($75). The daily pay rate for Substitute Instructors shall be sixty dollars ($60).
Effective July 1, 2002, the daily pay rate for Substitute Teachers shall be eighty dollars ($80) and the daily pay rate for Substitute Instructors shall be seventy dollars ($70).
Effective July 1, 2003, the daily pay rate for Substitute Teachers shall be eighty-five dollars ($85) and the daily pay rate for Substitute Instructors shall be seventy-five dollars ($75).
Effective July 9, 2004, the daily pay rate for Substitute Teachers shall be ninety dollars ($90) and the daily pay rate for Substitute Instructors shall be eighty dollars ($80).
Effective thereafter, the daily pay rates for Substitute Teachers and Substitute Instructors shall be increased by the same percentage as any subsequent general wage increase in the P-3B bargaining unit.
Section Eig	ht. Employees will continue to be eligible for and receive annual increments for the 2001-2002 contract year in accordance with existing practice.
Employees will continue to be eligible for and receive annual increments for the 20022003 contract year in accordance with existing practice, except that the increments shall be delayed by five (5) months and paid accordingly in the pay periods which include December 1, 2002 (for those with July increments or June 1, 2003 (for those with January increments).
Employees will continue to be eligible for and receive annual increments for the 20032004 contract year in accordance with existing practice.
-25 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
Employees will continue to be eligible for and receive annual increments for the 20042005 contract year in accordance with existing practice.
Section Nine. Employees shall continue to be eligible for longevity payments for the life of the contract in accordance with existing practice. The longevity schedule in effect on June 30, 1993 shall remain unchanged in dollar amounts for the life of this Agreement and is contained in the Appendix.
An employee's total length of state service including war service shall be utilized to determine longevity eligibility.
Section Ten. For purposes of equating the extended pay plans to the standard seven step schedule in order to calculate longevity amounts or for other personnel reasons, the following shall apply:
Instructor schedule:	Steps 1 through 3, Salary Group 18 Steps 4 through 10, Salary Group 19 Steps 11 and above, Salary Group 20
Teacher Schedule:	Step 1, Salary Group 16 Steps 2 through 5, Salary Group 18 Steps 6 through 9, Salary Group 23 Steps 10 and above, Salary Group 27
Supervisor Schedule:	Steps 1 through 6, Salary Group 28 Steps 7 and above, Salary Group 33
Section Eleven. Recovery of Overpayments. When the employer determines that an employee has been overpaid, it shall notify the employee of the amount of and the reasons for the overpayment. The recovery of such overpayment shall be made over the same period of time in which the employee was overpaid unless the employer and employee agree to some other arrangement. The employer will give due consideration to claims of hardship.
In the event the employee contests whether he/she was actually overpaid, the employer shall not institute the recovery procedure until the appeal is resolved through the grievance procedure.
Section Twelve. During the term of this Agreement if the State wishes to provide additional compensation to certain classifications or for certain assignments for purposes of recruitment and/or retention, the State and the Union will meet and negotiate the proposed increase. If, after thirty (30) days of negotiations, no agreement has been reached, either party may initiate interest arbitration.
Section Thirteen, Shift and Weekend Differential.
(a)	Eligibility for shift differential payments is tied to the shift, not the employees' work schedule. Employees who are regularly assigned to shifts beginning on or after 2:00 p.m. shall be entitled to night shift differential payments. Payment shall be made whether employee works a regular shift or an overtime shift, provided the shift meets the eligibility criteria. Payment will be made for all hours worked during the eligible shift. Shift differential shall not be paid for work which is not part of an established shift, e.g. overtime work which falls between 2:00 p.m.
-26 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
and 6:00 a.m. or which extends the employee's work day more than ten (10) hours. Shift differential shall be included in pay for vacation, holiday, sick leave and personal leave, but not in pay for compensatory time taken in lieu of overtime payment.
(b)	For purposes of this agreement a weekend is defined as the forty-eight (48) hour period beginning at 11:00 p.m. on Friday night and ending at 11:00 p.m. on Sunday night. Weekend differential shall be paid for working a full shift with majority of shift hours falling on the weekend. Weekend differential shall be paid only for employees working at seven (7) day operations and only for hours worked and not for leave time.
(c)	Mental Retardation Adult Services Instructors, State School Teachers, Correctional Recreation Supervisors and Correction Department Vocational Instructors are eligible for shift and weekend differentials.
(d)	The shift differential shall be sixty-five cents ($.65) per hour and the weekend differential shall be forty cents ($.40) per hour.
Section Fourteen. Effective October 1, 1994, Emergency Medical Technicians who are regularly assigned E.M.T. duties shall receive a stipend of $400 on or about October 1 of each contract year.
Section Fifteen. Effective July 1, 2002, an additional step will be added to all P-3B pay plans. The additional step shall be three percent (3%) above the preceding step. Effective July 1, 2004, an additional step will be added to all P-3B pay plans. The additional step shall be three percent (3%) above the preceding step.
Classifications that are upgraded by a specific provision of the 2001-2005 collective bargaining agreement shall not have additional steps added to their pay plan as described above, provided however, the exclusion from the additional steps in this section shall not apply to any upgrading of the Vocational Rehabilitation (Blind) series implemented to achieve parity with the Vocational Rehabilitation series.
Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary, all employees who are eligible for annual increment by virtue of a satisfactory annual service rating and who are at the maximum pay for their pay plan shall be eligible for the additional step movements, e.g. Education Consultants for the Blind, Rehabilitation Teacher 1 and Rehabilitation Teacher 2, and Mental Retardation Education Supervisor and State School Department Head.
ARTICLE 20 SCHOOL YEAR
Section One. The work year for ten (10) month employees shall be one hundred eightyeight (188) days, between the date of September 1 and June 30.
For positions with community-based or non-classroom assignments, the starting date of the school year may be established up to one week earlier than September 1 to meet program needs.
Section Two. In accordance with agency operational needs, bargaining unit teaching or Department of Correction instructional positions shall be divided into both twelve (12) month -27 -(P3BK02-05FV)
and ten (10) month classes. Employees who are employed in the ten (10) month bargaining unit teaching or Department of Correction instructional positions shall work the work year described in Section One above. Employees employed in twelve (12) month bargaining unit teaching or Department of Correction instructional positions shall work that work year described in Section One above plus an additional thirty five (35) days scheduled during the two (2) month period.
Staff appointed to twelve (12) month teaching or instructional positions shall have their base rate of pay computed at a rate of 1/188 (per diem) of their current base rate of pay for each additional day worked under the twelve (12) month teaching schedule.
Section Thr	ee. A Department may convert any ten (10) month teaching or instructional position to twelve (12) months contingent upon funding and agency operating needs. If the conversion will involve a filled position, the department will first seek volunteers among qualified ten month employees in the facility or region.
In the event that two (2) or more employees are equally qualified for conversion to a twelve (12) month position, selection shall be based on seniority as defined in Article 12. Placement on the salary schedule shall not be a factor in the selection process.
If there is no such qualified volunteer, the department will review the qualifications of the ten month employees in the facility or region and will select the least senior employee among those employees qualified to perform the twelve month assignment for the conversion to twelve months.
The State reserves its right to convert vacant ten month positions to twelve month and to fill vacant twelve month positions by qualified ten month employees who have applied for a twelve month position. If there are two (2) or more ten month employees who are equally qualified for a twelve month position, selection shall be based on seniority as defined in Article 12. Any vacant twelve month position for which there is no qualified volunteer may be filled by a new hire.
It is understood that both ten (10) month and twelve (12) month employees will be treated in accordance with Article 6 (Bill of Rights).
Section Fou	r. Employees appointed to twelve (12) month teaching positions shall earn one and one-quarter (1-1/4) sick leave days for each month they are on the payroll for the assigned number of work days for that month. Said employees shall be entitled to all other rights and privileges provided by this Agreement.
Section Fiv	e. Employees who elect to transfer from ten (10) month to twelve (12) month teaching positions may apply for reassignment back to ten (10) month classes. Such requests will be granted depending upon funding and other agency operating needs.
Section Six. It is understood that should circumstances such as lack of physical plant, fuel shortages or Acts of God prevent accomplishment of the school year within the dates prescribed under Section One of this Article, Management and Union will meet discuss methods by which statutory requirements will be met.
-28 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
ARTICLE 21 SUMMER WORK
Section One. When a summer education instruction position is established that entails clearly demonstrable bargaining unit work, employees in the institution involved would first be considered prior to hiring qualified applicants from outside the bargaining unit. In the event that more than one (1) employee volunteers for an available summer position, and is qualified by way of having performed the duties of the summer position during the course of their regular school year, the person with greatest seniority shall be selected.
Section Two. The institution administration shall notify the staff of the intent to establish summer positions no later than April 1. Employees who are interested in such positions must notify the administration of their availability for such positions by April 15.
Section Thr	ee. Teachers and/or instructors who volunteer as herein provided may request part-time or alternate work schedules. Such requests shall be submitted in writing to management for consideration, when giving notice of availability for summer employment.
Employees who make a commitment to work and who fail to fulfill the commitment without providing a reason acceptable to management, may not be considered for future summer assignments.
Section Fou	r. The daily rate of pay for summer work shall be defined as 1/217th of the annual salary of the ten month classification and shall be increased in accordance with any salary increase for the classification.
ARTICLE 22 TRAINING
Section One	. The State recognizes its responsibility to provide relevant training for each new employee and to continue on-the-job training which will enhance employee performance by keeping them abreast of advancements in their respective fields of work.
Section Two	. The State shall cooperate in disseminating information about career programs at State higher education institutions and other training programs, and will encourage employees to participate.
Section Thr	ee. The State will make periodic reviews of in-service training programs in order to update and/or add courses or programs. The Union and/or employee(s) may submit written recommendations concerning such.
When the State acquires new technically advanced equipment or systems, employees who will be required to operate such shall receive training in its operation.
Section Four. Management retains the right to determine training needs, programs, procedures and to select employees for training. Wherever practicable and consistent with training needs, management will select employees for training in a manner intended to allow for participation by all employees.
-29 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
Section Five, (a) To the extent provided by C.G.S. Sec. 10-145b(l)(l), each school district shall determine the professional development activities to be made available with the advice and assistance of the teachers employed by the school district, including Union-designated representatives.
(b)	The Department of Correction will continue to offer CEU's to the employees in the classification of Correctional Recreation Supervisor who hold a Professional Educator Certificate in accordance with current practice.
(c)	In the Department of Mental Retardation, the Unified School District shall offer the opportunity, on a space-available basis, for State School Teachers in the Adult Day Services program to attend the District's CEU activities. The USD's staff shall have first priority for attendance at any such activity. Two weeks prior to the training, available spaces in the training program shall be offered to adult teachers in chronological order, based on the date on which their applications were received in the USD central office.
Those adult teachers who cannot be offered space in the training will have their names maintained in chronological order and will be offered the first opportunity, after USD staff, for the next CEU training program if they submit an application for that training program.
The USD will provide notice of its CEU activities to a designated manager or supervisor and one union-designated steward in each region and at Southbury Training School. Teachers interested in attending these CEU training programs must request release time to attend these trainings through normal procedures. Because of the importance of maintaining certification, reasonable efforts shall be made to provide alternative coverage where program or client needs arise that could otherwise preclude a Teacher from attending CEU activities.
Section Six. The State shall provide and continue to provide all current staff and new employees who have direct contact with or who may be assigned to have direct contact with clients/patients/students with assaultive and/or aggressive behaviors with approximately twenty-one (21) hours of initial training in the prevention and management of assaultive and aggressive behaviors. All training shall be conducted consistent with the principle of the least intrusive appropriate intervention and the safety of clients/patients/students and staff. Thereafter, each employee shall receive an annual five (5) hour refresher course. Attendance at such training will be considered work time.
The State and the Union may meet and agree to other training programs which serve the purposes described above.
ARTICLE 23 PROFESSIONAL LEAVE
All bargaining unit employees shall be granted two (2) professional leave days per contract year, except B.R.S. and B.E.S.B. employees who shall be granted three (3) days, for the purpose of attending conferences and/or workshops or other activity of an educational nature related to their area of expertise.
In no event shall such time be deemed to accrue from year to year or be the basis for compensation on termination of employment. Every effort must be made to request such leave at
-30-
(P3BK02-05FV)
least two (2) weeks in advance. Such leave is subject to approval of the appointing authority, but will not be unreasonably denied.
ARTICLE 24 TUITION REIMBURSEMENT
Section One. (a) Any employee who has completed six (6) months of service and is continuing his/her education in a job-related area, or in an area that will assist the employee in upward mobility or promotional opportunities, shall be eligible for tuition reimbursement for a maximum of nine (9) credits or the equivalent per year.
(b) There shall be seventy five thousand ($75,000) dollars appropriated in each year of the contract for the purpose of tuition reimbursement. Funds which are unexpended in one fiscal year shall carry over into the next fiscal year provided however that the tuition reimbursement fund will expire on expiration of this Agreement. The previous sentence, notwithstanding, applications for tuition reimbursement which are submitted and approved within the final six (6) months of this Agreement may be paid, with the remaining available funds, up to three (3) months following expiration of this Agreement.
Section Two. An employee applying for tuition reimbursement must submit the appropriate forms not less than two (2) weeks prior to the start of the course. After approval has been received, if the employee decides not to take the course(s) or to drop a course(s), he/she shall notify the Employer so that funds may be utilized for another employee. Upon presentation of evidence of payment and successful completion of the course(s), the employee shall receive tuition reimbursement as follows:
(a)	For credit and non-credit courses at accredited institutions of higher education, one hundred (100) percent of the cost of tuition, laboratory fees and community college service fees up to a maximum of seventy-five percent (75%) of the per credit rate for undergraduate and graduate courses at the University of Connecticut at Storrs.
(b)	Tuition reimbursement for external degree programs and for courses offered at nonaccredited institutions shall be subject to prior approval by the Commissioner of Administrative Services or designee.
Non-credit courses will be converted to an equivalent number of credits for the purpose of computing reimbursement. For example, six to fifteen hours of non-credit classroom time will be considered the equivalent of one credit.
ARTICLE 25 PROFESSIONAL CONFERENCE AND WORKSHOP FUND
The State shall appropriate $40,000 in each year of the contract for a Professional Conference and Workshop Fund to be used for defraying expenses incurred for attendance by permanent employees at professional seminars, workshops, or conferences. Funds which are unexpended in one fiscal year shall carry over into the next fiscal year provided, however, that the Professional Conference and Workshop Fund will expire on expiration of this Agreement. The previous sentence notwithstanding, application for funds which are submitted and approved within the final six (6) months may be paid, with the remaining available funds, up to three (3) -31 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
months following expiration of this Agreement. A joint committee shall administer the fund and shall be comprised of two (2) representatives from both the State and the Union.
Time off for attendance by members at committee meetings will be without loss of pay or benefits on the condition that such attendance will not exceed one (1) day per month of release. The committee may develop procedures as are necessary to administer the process consistent with the contract and law. The actions or non-actions of the committee are not precedent-setting nor are they subject to collateral attack in any forum.
Requests for use of the fund shall, after approval by the appointing authority, be submitted to the committee for action at least three (3) weeks in advance. Approval by the appointing authority will not be unreasonably denied. A pattern of unreasonable denial of any employee's request may be appealable to the Director of the Office of Labor Relations. Upon approval by the Committee, the Agency Head shall forward the request to the Comptroller at least two (2) weeks in advance of the date of attendance.
Each eligible employee shall be entitled to a maximum of $500 reimbursement per contract year toward the cost of fees, travel, food and/or lodging related to attendance at such events. An employee may use the fund once in a two year period for an expenditure in excess of $500 but not greater than $1000. Use of the fund for expenditures of less than $500 will not entitle the employee to use the fund for an additional expenditure in excess of $500 in any two year period (no carry over credit). Reimbursement shall be consistent with standard state travel regulations.
Employees who attend training herein will also continue to receive regular pay and benefits. This shall be accomplished by the use of the employee's professional leave days provided in Article 23. The agency may, however, in its discretion, grant permission for attendance at a seminar, conference or workshop which requires additional days if justified by the circumstances.
The parties may allocate monies from this fund, by mutual agreement, for programs to address the legislatively mandated recertification requirements.
ARTICLE 26
BOARD OF EDUCATION AND SERVICES FOR THE BLIND - CONFERENCE
Conferences and Conventions. The State agrees to send two (2) delegates, one from mobility and one from rehabilitation teaching, to the national and/or regional convention of the Association for Education and Rehabilitation for the Blind and Visually Impaired. The State shall pay or reimburse the employee for all reasonable expenses incurred in compliance with State travel regulations.
ARTICLE 27
SABBATICAL LEAVE
Section One. Subject to the approval of the appointing authority, the State will budget two (2) full-time equivalent teaching positions for sabbatical leave in each year of the contract, not to exceed twenty (20) months in any contract year. The Labor Management Committee shall review applications for recommendation to the appointing authority. There shall be an equal -32-(P3BK02-05FV)
number of representatives from the State and the Union on the committee. In the event that the positions are not utilized in a contract year, they will be carried over to the next year, but not beyond the expiration of this Agreement.
Sabbatical leaves may be requested and granted for periods of up to ten months for the two college semesters of the regular school year, or up to five months for the spring or fall college semester or up to two months for the college summer session or other interim session.
Periods of leave shall be deducted from the twenty month yearly maximum based on the number of months, either full or partial, granted to each employee.
Section Two. Sabbatical leaves for eligible employees shall be granted for professional improvement designed to benefit the State of Connecticut.
Section Three. Employees shall become eligible to be granted a sabbatical leave after seven (7) years of continuous State service but may submit an application prior to the completion of the seven years.
Application must be made in writing to the appointing authority no later than January 10 of the school year immediately preceding the proposed leave. Sabbaticals will be granted prior to April 1 of the same year. The dates for the application submission or the sabbatical decisions may be changed by mutual agreement.
Section Four. Each applicant is required to present a written plan of study or a project, the successful completion of which will provide benefit both to the candidate and to the Employer. The recipient must take at least twelve (12) credits per semester or its equivalent.
Leave will not be granted for a program of study that will result only in the completion of statutory requirements for teacher certification as stipulated by the Connecticut State Board of Education.
Section Five. A staff member granted sabbatical leave is obligated to return to the Employer for two (2) years of service. This requirement will not apply should the staff member become incapacitated or should the State of Connecticut waive the requirement.
Section Six. The basic leave compensation will not exceed seventy-five percent (75%) of the regular salary schedule normally covering the candidate during the period of any leave for the two college semesters of the regular school year. The basic leave compensation will not exceed one hundred percent (100%) of the regular salary schedule normally covering the candidate during the period of any leave for a college semester or summer session or other interim session.
Employees who are granted sabbatical leave must agree not to accept gainful employment while on leave. Management may grant exceptions if the teacher on leave is granted a college or university fellowship involving a minor teaching assignment. In such cases, management will implement an appropriate financial adjustment, so that the employee's total compensation does not exceed one hundred percent (100%) of regular salary.
Section Sev	en. The following conditions shall apply to any staff member whose application for a sabbatical leave is approved:
-33 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
(1)	Compulsory payments to the Retirement System will continue to be made for the period of leave.
(2)	Coverage by any group health or medical program or similar benefit approved by the State of Connecticut will be continued in accordance with Article 45 of this Agreement.
(3)	Sick leave and vacation leave will not accumulate during the period of the leave.
(4)	Upon return from a sabbatical leave, a staff member will be granted credit for one (1) year of professional experience.
Section Eig	ht. Upon completion of a sabbatical leave, the candidate shall be required to submit to the appointing authority a written report on the work completed while on leave.
ARTICLE 28
TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT
During the life of the Agreement, any employee who is required to travel on Employer business shall be reimbursed in accordance with the terms, conditions, and rates outlined in the Standard State Travel Regulations in existence on June 30, 2001, subject to such modifications and exceptions as provided herein:
(a)	When authorized in accordance with the Standard State Travel Regulations, any employee who is required to travel on Employer business shall be reimbursed at the following rates:
Effective
7/1/2001
Breakfast	$	6.00
*	Lunch	$	8.00
Dinner	$	18.00
Effective thirty days after legislative	approval or July 1, 2001, whichever is later, the maximum
rates shall be:
Breakfast	$	7.00
*	Lunch	$	9.00
Dinner	$	19.00
Effective July 1, 2002, the maximum rates shall be:
Breakfast	$	8.00
*	Lunch	$	10.00
Dinner	$	20.00
*	Applicable to out-of-state travel or when authorized in accordance with the Standard State Travel Regulations issued by the Commissioner of Administrative Services.
(	1) Taxes on meals shall be fully reimbursed.
(	2) Gratuities shall be reimbursed to a maximum of fifteen percent (15%) of the allowable maximum.
-34-
(P3BK02-05FV)
(b)	An employee who is required to remain away from home overnight in order to perform the regular duties of his/her position may be reimbursed for lodging expenses in accordance with the Standard State Travel Regulations issued by the Commissioner of Administrative Services. Advance approval must be obtained, except in emergencies.
(c)	Mileage reimbursement shall be paid at the current GSA rate. Said figure shall be readjusted within thirty (30) days of the readjustment by the U.S. General Services Administration.
Employees required to utilize a personal vehicle for State business for fifty percent (50%) of the assigned monthly work days (which must be at least nine (9) work days) shall be paid a daily vehicle use fee of $4.25 for each day of required usage which shall be in addition to the mileage reimbursement described above.
ARTICLE 29 SAFETY AND HEALTH
Section One. The employer shall provide a work place free from unsafe or unhealthy conditions subject to recognized occupational hazards and job requirements. The employer shall make every effort to make repairs or to adjust unsafe or unhealthy working conditions as soon as possible after such conditions are reported.
Section Two. Employees shall perform their duties in a safe manner and shall comply with the employer's safety rules and accident prevention measures. Unsafe conditions or actions shall be reported to the employer promptly.
Section Three. No employee shall be required to perform work under unsafe conditions, provided, however, that an employee must follow the rule "work now, grieve later" unless there is imminent danger the employee's or clients' physical well-being.
Section Four. Any and all immunization shots made available to the students shall also be made available to all school personnel, subject to the availability of serums and funds. When the availability of immunization shots is limited, the agency shall offer such immunizations based upon its assessment of the degree of risk and/or exposure to the employee. Employee participation is voluntary.
Section Five. Temperature Variations, (a) The employer will make every reasonable attempt to maintain facility temperatures at healthy and comfortable levels.
(b) When in the judgment of the employer or when the temperature conditions can not be maintained at level proscribed for in statute or when the heat stress level or temperature become severe enough to seriously impair employee health and/or productivity, the employer shall temporarily relieve employees of duty or where practicable, reassign affected employees to a nearby work location. The labor management committee shall meet and establish standards for evaluating temperature and heat stress on employee health and productivity. In situations of the above nature, employees will be released from duty without charge to vacation, personal leave or other earned time.
-35 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
Employees with physical limitations requiring special consideration under extreme temperature conditions must notify appropriate supervisory personnel so that information will be available in deciding work assignments.
Section Six. The employer shall comply with O.S.H.A. disease exposure control standards.
Section Seven, (a) The Department of Mental Retardation shall continue to provide Hepatitis B immunization shots in accordance with the department's policy and practice.
(b) The Board of Education and Services for the Blind shall continue to provide training on blood-borne disease exposure control to interested employees. It is recognized that such training will depend upon the cooperation and scheduling availability of other agencies. The Board, however, will make reasonable efforts to arrange for such training during an employee's first year of employment with the Board.
ARTICLE 30 INCLEMENT WEATHER
When an employee is late for work due to severe traveling conditions caused by inclement weather, the employee shall not be charged for such lateness provided that:
(1)	He/she reports such conditions to the Employer prior to the normal starting time, or as soon as practicable thereafter.
(2)	The employee arrives at work within a reasonable time when compared to other employees traveling to work under similar conditions.
This Article shall not apply if the employee fails to report to work and does not preclude the Employer from applying progressive discipline for abuse of this policy.
Each teacher in the Department of Mental Retardation Unified School District #3 is assigned a regular work station and shall report to that location when client appointments are canceled during inclement weather days.
ARTICLE 31 EARLY CLOSING
Whenever an early closing is declared, such notice shall immediately be given to bargaining unit personnel so that necessary arrangements can be made for client care. As soon as a bargaining unit member is relieved of his/her client responsibility, he/she shall be released from duty for the duration of the closing without loss of pay or benefits. Employees who cannot be released because of client care responsibilities under such conditions shall be granted equivalent time off.
For the purpose of this Article, members of this bargaining unit shall generally be considered non-essential personnel, except in those situations where an emergency exists.
-36-
(P3BK02-05FV)
ARTICLE 32 FACILITIES
Section One	. Subject to the availability of space and funding and where practicable, the State shall provide in each facility the following:
(a)	Space in each classroom in which teachers/instructors may store instructional materials and supplies;
(b)	A workroom containing adequate equipment and supplies to aid in the preparation of instructional or other work-related materials;
(c)	An appropriately furnished room to be used as a staff (faculty) lounge (said room to be in addition to the aforementioned workroom);
(d)	A system whereby employees can effectively and expeditiously communicate with the building office in the event of an emergency;
(e)	Well lighted and clean employee-only restrooms;
(f)	Adequate parking facilities.
Section Two	. Notwithstanding the above, the parties agree that the primary concern should continue to be a safe and secure environment for the clientele served.
ARTICLE 33 SCHOOL CALENDARS
The matter of the school calendar for each contract year shall be a matter of discussion between bargaining unit members and appropriate school administrators. The school administrators will meet with CSEA-designated bargaining unit members of the faculty prior to the conclusion of the school year and prior to the preparation of the school calendar. The administrators will give consideration to the recommendations made by unit members, but reserve the right to make such decisions as deemed necessary regarding such matters. The school calendars for positions with community-based or non-classroom assignments may be at variance with the facility school calendar in order to meet program needs.
ARTICLE 34 INTRA-SCHOOL SCHEDULES AND ASSIGNMENTS
Management recognizes the need for teachers and instructors to express preferences regarding intra-school schedules and assignments prior to the closing of the program year.
An appropriate supervisor shall consider such preferences in the final determination of assignments.
It is recognized that management reserves the right to change assignments in response to the program needs of the facility.
-37-
(P3BK02-05FV)
The State shall not dismiss, terminate or demote employees who fail to meet the certification requirements under 10- 145(b) of the Connecticut General Statutes, if the failure to meet said requirements is a direct result of management exercising their rights to make assignments under this Article.
ARTICLE 35
NOTICE OF OPENINGS
Section One	. Each Agency/Facility shall post on appropriate bulletin boards a listing of those bargaining unit positions or other such positions which reasonably might be expected to provide promotional and lateral transfer opportunities for the bargaining unit members that the Agency or Facility intends to fill at that time.
The Agency/Facility will make every possible attempt to provide such notice as accurately and completely as possible. Notwithstanding the above, such accuracy and completeness shall not be subject to the grievance procedure.
Section Two	. Insofar as practicable, appointments to permanent positions within the bargaining unit shall be made in the following order of preference:
(1)	by promotion of a qualified employee of the agency involved;
(2)	by promotion of a qualified employee of another State agency;
(3)	by original appointment.
No appointment is to be made hereunder until laid off employees eligible for reappointment and qualified for the position involved are offered reemployment. The filling of any such permanent position shall be subject to affirmative action requirements and the Employer's ability to meet the specific requirements of the position in question.
Section Thr	ee. In the event that two or more employees are equally qualified to fill a permanent position, seniority shall be utilized to break the tie.
Section Four. Disputes over Sections Two and Three of this Article may be grieved through Step 3 of the grievance procedure, but are not arbitrable. Unless the Employer can be shown to have acted arbitrarily or capriciously, the hearing officer shall give substantial weight to the judgment of the Employer in applying the relevant evaluation standards. Junior employees cannot grieve the selection of a more senior employee.
Section Five. Sections Two, Three and Four of this Article shall not apply to positions in the classified service or to the BESB titles that were in the classified service prior to July 1, 1996.
-38 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
ARTICLE 36 TRANSFERS
Section One. A transfer is defined as the physical relocation of an employee either on a voluntary or involuntary basis from one facility to another within an agency/department or from one agency/department to another.
In the Department of Mental Retardation, a transfer is defined as the physical relocation from one region to another or from one location to another location in the region where the employee's commuting distance would exceed forty (40) miles beyond his/her current round-trip commuting distance.
Section Two. An employee may request a transfer within an agency to a position in any classification in which he/she has attained permanent status. The employee's request shall be in writing to the designated agency authority. Transfer requests shall remain on file for one (1) year or until the end of the contract year, except in agencies where longer periods have been established or agreed upon.
Section Three. Transfers Within an Agency. Transfers within an agency may be made as follows:
(a)	Permanent and temporary transfers within an agency may be made either by the appointing authority for the good of the service or by request of the employee with the approval of the appointing authority, subject to the provisions of this Article.
(b)	Permanent transfer of any employee from one facility to another in the same agency may be made if the position to which transfer is made shall be in the same or lower salary range and shall have requirements as to knowledge, skill, ability, experience and training substantially the same as the occupied position.
(c)	Temporary transfer of an employee to a position in the same or in a comparable class within an agency for a period not to exceed six (6) months at any one time may be made in order to effect economy or utilize service to meet emergency conditions not warranting the hiring of new employees.
Nothing contained in this Article shall prevent the Employer from reassigning an employee from one work location within a facility to another, on either a temporary or a permanent basis, provided that the Employer shall provide the employee with as much notice as possible of the reassignment and, upon the employee's request, meet to discuss the reassignment.
Section Four. An employee who wishes to transfer to another agency shall make application directly to that agency. The agency shall maintain an application for one (1) year and when a vacancy occurs, shall consider applicants in appropriate classifications. Upon transfer, an employee shall be required to serve a probationary period of thirty (30) working days. A permanent employee who transfers to another agency and whose performance during the thirty (30) working day probationary period is not satisfactory to the new agency shall be returned to his/her former position, or if his/her position is filled, to a comparable position in the same facility from which transferred, with the same pay and without loss of benefits or seniority rights; but failure of this probationary period shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement.
-39-
(P3BK02-05FV)
An employee who has only partially completed a working test period in his/her former position and transfers to another agency shall serve the balance or at least thirty (30) working days in the agency to which transferred.
Employees in the Department of Corrections shall begin their probationary period after completion of initial training at the Center for Training and Staff Development.
Section Five. Leave Accruals and Salary upon Transfer, (a) Any employee transferred shall carry over all unused sick leave, personal leave, earned lieu time and vacation accruals to his/her credit, and the time spent in his/her former position shall be counted towards the completion of his/her time requirements for the purpose of salary increases.
(b) Rate of Pay. An employee transferred to a position in the same salary group shall continue to receive when transferred his/her existing rate of pay.
When an employee, at his/her own request, accepts a transfer to a position in a lower salary range, he/she shall be paid at that lower rate of pay which he/she would have arrived at had he/she been serving in the lower instead of the higher position.
Section Six. The Employer may transfer an employee to another facility whenever such transfer is necessary for the provision of proper client care or for the carrying out of agency programs and responsibilities.
Involuntary transfers shall be governed by the following:
(a)	Volunteers will be solicited at the facility from which employees will be transferred before involuntary transfers are made.
(b)	When two (2) or more employees meet the specific requirements of the job, the selection for transfer shall be governed by the following:
(1)	Commuting distance: should the commuting distance to and from the new duty station exceed forty (40) miles (round trip) beyond the employee's current mileage to and from work, then the employee shall be bypassed for purposes of involuntary transfers. If all the qualified employees would be excluded by commuting distance, however, then inverse seniority shall govern.
(2)	Following consideration of one (1) above, then by order of inverse seniority.
Any employee who is involuntarily transferred and whose commuting distance increases as described above shall be given right of first refusal for the next available opening he/she is qualified to fill and in which he/she holds permanent status at the facility from which he/she was originally transferred.
(c)	An employee may appeal the involuntary transfer through the grievance and arbitration procedure if such transfer creates an unreasonable hardship to the employee with the understanding that the rule of "work now, grieve later" shall prevail.
(d)	The Employer shall not transfer an employee for disciplinary purposes. This Section shall not preclude a transfer designed to fulfill the service needs of clients or the Agency mission.
-40 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
(e)	A minimum of two (2) weeks notice shall be given to the employee selected for transfer.
This Section shall not apply if a work unit is moved from one location to another or in emergency situations, provided that the Employer, as soon as possible but not later than two (2) weeks prior to the move, shall notify the Union of the anticipated move and provide the Union with the opportunity to discuss the move during the two (2) week period noted above.
Section Seven. Dual Assignments, (a) Dual Assignments. The selection of an employee to be assigned to work at two facilities of an agency shall be in accordance with the provisions of Section Six. For employees who are assigned to multiple facilities, the employee's official work site shall be the facility at which the employee is assigned to work the majority of the work week.
Employees shall be eligible for mileage reimbursement for traveling between the two sites during the work day and for the additional mileage for reporting to the secondary site (i.e. mileage in excess of that necessary for reporting to the official work site).
(b)	An agency may decide to assign an employee to work at three facilities of the agency for operating reasons but such decision shall not be made unreasonably. Before such a decision is made, the agency shall consider all reasonable efforts to avoid such assignment. If an employee is assigned to three facilities, the above provisions about selection, official work station and mileage shall apply.
Section Eight. The parties recognize that in the Department of Mental Retardation, State School Teachers and Mental Retardation Education Program Supervisors work in one of two programmatic areas, namely Early Intervention or Adult Day Services. The parties are committed to working together to effect an orderly transition and continuity of programs to the populations served. It is understood that for the purpose of implementing Article 36, the State School Teachers and Mental Retardation Education Program Supervisors in the two program areas shall be treated separately by their current assignment.
In the event that an individual may be adversely affected, the Union shall contact DMR to discuss possible alternatives. In the event that a program may be adversely affected, DMR shall contact the Union to discuss possible alternatives. However, the Employer shall make transfer decisions in accordance with the provisions of Article 36 as amended by this language.
ARTICLE 37
ORDER OF LAYOFF
Section One. A layoff is defined as the involuntary, non-disciplinary separation of an employee from State service because of lack of work or other economic or statutory necessity.
Section Two. No employee shall be laid off except in compliance with this Article. Employees who have not attained permanent status in the classification in which the layoff is to occur shall be removed before any permanent employee in the classification. Employees so removed may, if applicable, exercise their bumping rights under Section Five.
-41 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
Section Three, (a) For the purposes of layoff, seniority as defined in Article 10 shall prevail.
(b)	An employee whose last service rating was unsatisfactory shall be treated for layoff purposes as having lost up to one (1) year of seniority.
Section Four. Layoff Procedure, (a) When layoff become necessary, the agency will select within a facility or D.M.R. region the least senior employee within the classification series and certification to be eliminated. The incumbent will be provided with as much notice as possible but not less than four (4) weeks.
(b)	The agency shall arrange to have the employee transferred to any funded approved vacancy in the same classification or other bargaining unit position in a lower class for which the employee qualifies within the agency in which the employee works.
(c)	Should the commuting distance to and from the new duty station where a vacancy in the same classification is located be within forty (40) miles (round trip) beyond the employee's current mileage to and from work, and the employee refuses such offer in lieu of layoff, the employee shall be placed on the appropriate reemployment list in accordance with Section Seven. If no such vacancy in the same classification exists, the employee shall have bumping rights as specified in Section Five.
Section Fiv	e. Bumping. Within two (2) weeks of notice specified in Section Four, the employee shall provide written notice of whether he/she elects to exercise bumping rights and, if so, the position he/she has selected. This election shall be binding on the employee and failure to elect shall constitute a waiver of bumping rights.
The original displaced employee may bump into the position occupied by the least senior employee in the agency in the same classification series and in the same certification area in which the original displaced employee and the bumpee are working.
The bumpee shall have the same rights of the employee who was originally designated for layoff with respect to (b) and (c) in Section Four, but shall have no bumping rights. The bumpee will receive as much written notice as possible, but not less than ten (10) calendar days.
In accordance with the provisions of this Section, within the State School Teacher series, the original displaced employee shall have the option of selecting a position for which he/she qualifies by displacing the least senior employee in either a ten (10) or a twelve (12) month teaching position.
An original displaced and tenured employee who has multiple certifications, and who has no least senior employee in the Department to bump in the classification and certification in which he/she is currently working, may utilize his/her multiple certification to bump the least senior employee in the area of certification under which the prospective bumpee is working.
If the seniority of two or more employees is exactly the same, the employee(s) with the lower employee number(s) shall be considered to have more seniority for purposes of the selection for layoff. If the seniority of two or more employees is exactly the same for purposes of bumping, the original displaced employee shall have the right to select the facility into which he/she wishes to bump. If the prospective bumpees are in the same facility, however, the
-42 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
selection shall be determined by considering the bumpee with the lower employee number as having more seniority for the purpose of breaking the tie.
An employee may bump into a lower classification and certification in which the employee had permanent status and for which the employee is still qualified. An employee bumping into a lower classification shall bump the least senior person in the agency in the lower classification and certification, provided that the bumper has more seniority than the bumpee. The bumper shall be paid for service in such lower class as provided for in Regulation 5-239-2(f).
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section, employees, who have been administratively relocated from one State agency to another State agency, may bump into a position occupied by the least senior person in their former Agency in the same classification and in the same certification area in which the original relocated employee and the bumpee are working.
Section Six	. For those employees whose positions require certification, the qualifications shall be determined by their classification and the area in which certification is held. For all other employees, qualifications shall be determined by the requirements of the class specifications.
Section Seven. Laid off employees shall be placed on the reemployment list for a period of up to three (3) years for the classification and certification from which the employee was displaced and any other classification which, in the judgment of the Commissioner of Administrative Services or designee, the employee is qualified to fill.
For the purpose of re-call to a classification within the bargaining unit, length of time in bargaining unit classifications shall be utilized before consideration of State seniority.
When a Substitute Instructor vacancy occurs, it shall be offered to laid off Mental Retardation Adult Services Instructors on the reemployment list who have indicated a willingness to accept such vacancies. If placed in the Substitute Instructor title, the employee shall be treated and compensated as a Substitute Instructor but shall remain on the reemployment list for Mental Retardation Adult Services Instructor positions. Three waivers of Substitute Instructor vacancies shall result in removal from further consideration for such vacancies.
Section Eight, (a) During the life of this Agreement, no full-time permanent employee will be laid off as a direct consequence of the exercise by the State Employer of its right to contract out.
(b)	The State Employer will be deemed in compliance with this Section if:
(1)	the employee is offered a transfer to the same or similar position in which, in the Employer's judgment, he/she is qualified to perform, with no reduction in pay; or
(2)	the Employer offers to train an employee for a position which reasonably appears to be suitable based on the employee's qualifications and skills. There shall be no reduction in pay during the training period.
-43 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
(c)	Sunset Clause. The provisions of this Section Eight expire automatically upon termination of this Agreement. Either party may renegotiate for the inclusion of this provision or any modification thereof in any successor agreement.
Section Nine. An employee appointed from a reemployment list to a position in his/her former salary group will be appointed at the same step in such group as he/she held when he/she last worked in State service. An employee appointed to a position in a lower salary group will be appointed at the same step in the salary group as he/she held when he/she last worked in State service.
Section Ten. Excluding employees whose work performance has been evaluated as unsatisfactory by the most recent State Rating Report, there shall be no appointment from outside State service until laid off employees eligible for rehire and qualified for the position involved are offered reemployment. This Section shall not be construed to restrict laid off employees with recorded unsatisfactory work performance from consideration for rehire from the reemployment list.
Section Eleven. In the event that a layoff or bumping by seniority may have a negative impact on the affected agency's affirmative action or upward mobility program, the Employer shall notify the Union as soon as possible, but no later than thirty (30) days prior to layoff, and the Union and the Employer shall discuss alternatives to the above layoff selection and bumping procedure.
Employer decisions shall be subject to expedited arbitration, provided however, that no back pay remedy shall accrue to any individual employee.
ARTICLE 38
HOLIDAYS
Section One. For purposes of this Article, holidays for each twelve (12) month employee (except those twelve (12) month State School Teachers established pursuant to Article 20) are as follows: New Year's Day, Martin Luther King Day, Lincoln's Birthday, Washington's Birthday, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day.
Section Two. Each twelve (12) month employee (except those twelve (12) month State School Teachers established pursuant to Article 20) whose job does not require him/her to work on a holiday shall ordinarily receive the holiday off and shall receive his/her regular week's pay for the week in which the holiday falls. When such employee is called in to work on a holiday, he/she shall receive compensatory time or compensation, subject to the existing practice of the agency.
Section Three. Employees in the Department of Mental Retardation who are required to work on premium holidays as part of the chicken farm or greenhouse assignments shall be compensated for such holiday work as follows:
(a)	Each such full-time employee required to work on a premium holiday shall receive time and one-half pay for hours worked on the holiday and shall receive a compensatory day or a regular day's pay in lieu of the holiday in accordance with existing practice.
(b)	Premium holidays shall include New Years Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas.
-44 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
ARTICLE 39 VACATIONS AND PERSONAL LEAVE
Section One. Length of continuous State service, including war service but not including unpaid leave periods described in Article 10, Section Two, shall be used to determine years of service for vacation accrual eligibility.
Section Two. Eligible employees who were on the State payroll as of June 30, 1977 shall accrue one and one-quarter (1-1/4) vacation days per month, except that employees who have completed twenty (20) years of service shall earn paid vacation credits at the rate of one and two-thirds (1-2/3) work days for each completed calendar month of service.
Vacation leave shall not accrue for any calendar month in which the employee is on leave of absence without pay an aggregate of more than five (5) working days.
Section Thr	ee. Effective July 1, 1980, for eligible employees hired on or after July 1, 1977, the following vacation leave shall apply:
0 to 5 years, 1 day per month; over 5 and under 20 years, 1-1/4 days per month; over 20 years, 1-2/3 day per month.
Section Fou	r. No employee will carry over more than ten (10) days of vacation leave to the next year without agency permission. Such permission shall not be unreasonably denied.
For eligible employees hired on or before June 30, 1977, the maximum accumulation of vacation shall be one hundred twenty (120) days. For employees hired on and after July 1, 1977, the maximum accumulation shall be sixty (60) days.
Section Fiv	e. In the event that more employees request the same vacation time off than can reasonably be spared for operating reasons, vacation time off will be granted based upon seniority as defined in Article 10.
Once vacation schedules are posted or a vacation is approved, there will be no bumping on the basis of seniority. The employer will not change scheduled vacations except in the case of emergency.
Section Six. In addition to annual vacation, each full-time permanent employee who has completed six (6) months of continuous service shall be granted personal leave with pay in each calendar year. Employees who work a year round or twelve-month schedule shall be granted three (3) days of personal leave in each calendar year and employees who work a ten-month schedule shall be granted two and one-half (2.5) days of personnel leave in each calendar year.
Personal leave days not taken in a calendar year shall not be accumulated. Such personal leave shall be granted as requested by the employee, subject to the approval of the appointing authority.
Section Seven. Normally vacation and personal leave will be requested ten (10) days in advance, except in emergency situations.
-45 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
ARTICLE 40 SICK LEAVE
Section One	. Each full-time eligible employee shall accrue one and one-quarter (1-1/4) days sick leave per completed calendar month of continuous service in accordance with existing practice.
Section Two	. Eligible employees shall have unlimited year-to-year accrual of sick leave.
Section Thr	ee. Employees may use sick leave:
(a)	When incapacitated for duty.
(b)	For medical, dental, or eye examinations, or treatments, for which arrangements cannot be made outside of working hours.
(c)	In the event of death in the immediate family, when as many as three (3) working days leave with pay may be used for those eligible for vacation, and five (5) days for those who are not. Immediate family means spouse, parent, siblings, children, domestic partner and also any relative who is domiciled in the employee's household. For purposes of this section, domestic partner is a person who has qualified for domestic partnership benefits under the parties’ pension and health care agreement.
(d)	In the event of critical illness or severe injury of a member of the immediate family who requires the attendance of the employee, provided that not more than five (5) days of sick leave per calendar year shall be granted therefor.
(e)	For going to, attending, and returning from funerals of persons other than members of the immediate family, provided that not more than three (3) days of sick leave per calendar year shall be taken therefor. For employees who work a school calendar schedule and are not eligible for vacation, the maximum granting of sick leave per calendar year for this reason shall be four (4) days for ten month employees and five (5) days for twelve month employees.
Section Four, (a) It is recognized that abuse and/or excessive use of sick leave benefits places a hardship on the employer and employees alike, and that abuse of sick leave benefits is of mutual concern to both the State and the Union.
(b)	In reviewing an employee's record to determine whether the employee is abusing and/or excessively using sick leave, the employer shall consider all of the following factors, but is not limited to such factors:
(1)	The number of days taken, together with the number of occurrences.
(2)	Patterns of usage.
(3)	The employee's past record.
(4)	Reasons for usage.
(5)	Extenuating circumstances.
-46 -(P3BK02-05FV)
(c)	Prior to taking steps to restrict an employee's use of sick leave, the employer shall first counsel the employee and send a notice of such counseling to the official personnel file and the employee involved. Such notice shall be considered a warning.
(d)	Prior to the implementation of a required medical certificate, the employer shall notify the employee in writing of the medical certificate requirement, stating the effective date of such requirement.
(e)	A warning or a medical certificate requirement shall be subject to review not later than six (6) months from date of issuance, in accordance with Section Four (b) above as the basis of such review.
(f)	For the purpose of preparing service ratings, the use of the number of sick time incidents shall not be the sole determining factor, and each case shall be considered on an individual basis.
(g)	Employees will be required to present acceptable medical certification for the following reasons:
(1)	Any period of absence of thirty-five or more consecutive working hours.
(2)	To support request for sick leave of any duration during vacation.
(3)	Leave of any duration if absence from duty recurs frequently or habitually as provided under Section Four (b) - (d).
(4)	Leave of any duration when evidence indicates reasonable cause for requiring such a certificate.
Section Five. Upon the death of an employee who has completed more than ten (10) years of State service, the employer shall pay to the beneficiary one-fourth (1/4) of the deceased employee's daily salary for each day of sick leave accrued to his/her credit as of his/her last day on the active payroll, up to a maximum payment equivalent to sixty (60) days pay. The provisions of this Section shall take effect July 1, 1980.
Section Six. Payment for unused sick leave days upon retirement shall be in accordance with existing practice. Upon retirement, all employees in the bargaining unit, covered under the Teachers' Retirement System and Alternate Retirement System, shall be paid one-fourth of his/her daily salary for each day of sick leave accrued to his/her credit as of his/her last day on the active payroll, up to a maximum of sixty (60) days' pay as provided for under Public Act 87467.
For purposes of calculating the employee's daily rate when determining the amount of payment upon retirement for the appropriate amount of the employee's accrued sick leave, the daily rate for a State School Teacher (Ten Month) or other classifications which work a ten month school calendar shall be calculated based upon one day being equal to 1/217 of the employee's annual salary.
Section Seven. No sick leave shall accrue for any calendar month in which an employee is on leave of absence without pay an aggregate of more than five (5) working days.
-47 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
Section Eight. Sick Leave Bank, (a) There shall be an Emergency Sick Leave Bank to be used by full-time permanent employees and by part-time employees who are scheduled for thirty-four (34) hours per week.
(b)	To be eligible to use sick leave bank benefits the employee must:
1.	have	been employed by the State for two (2) or more years
2.	have	exhausted all sick leave and personal leave
3.	have	exhausted vacation leave in excess of sixty	(60) days
4.	have	exhausted any other compensatory time
5.	have an injury or illness which is not covered by Workers’ Compensation
6.	have an acceptable medical certificate supporting continued absence on file and
7.	have not been disciplined for sick leave abuse during the two (2) year period preceding application; provided, however, the committee may waive this requirement.
(c)	The benefit amount shall be paid at a rate of one-half (1/2) day for each day of illness or injury. Payments shall begin on the sixteenth (16th) work day after exhaustion of leave and/or Workers’ Compensation as referenced in item 2 above. An employee may draw from the bank only once per contract year and a maximum of 200 one-half (1/2) days. No accruals for vacation or sick leave will be provided to employees receiving this benefit. No eligibility will occur for holidays or other paid leave benefits while receiving this benefit.
(d)	The employing Agency will hold the employee's position for a period of not less than forty (40) calendar days when the employee is placed on sick leave bank. If the employee remains on sick leave bank following the fortieth (40th) day, he/she will be entitled to an equivalent position pursuant to the provisions of CGS Sec. 5-248a provided he/she returns to work within twenty-four (24) weeks of initial placement on the sick leave bank. Benefits under the sick leave bank shall be considered to run concurrently with both or either State or Federal Family Leave Acts.
(e)	The fund shall be established by donations from each P-3B unit employee, who is eligible to utilize the bank, of one day of sick leave from the employee's individual sick leave balance. Contributions will only be required from those P-3B unit employees who have two (2) or more years of service. Those employees who have less than two (2) years of State service will be required to contribute to the bank when they obtain two (2) years of service. If at any time the bank should be depleted, each eligible employee shall be assessed one day from his/her accrued sick leave.
(f)	The fund shall be administered by a two person committee. The two persons shall be appointed for the term of the contract: one appointed by the Union and one appointed by the State. If there comes a time when there is a vacancy on the committee, the respective party (Union or State) shall make a replacement appointment. The committee will be authorized to develop guidelines for use in sick leave bank administration. Proposed guidelines shall be subject to the approval of the Union and of the State. The actions or non-action of the committee shall in no way be subject to collateral attack or subject to the grievance/arbitration process.
(g)	This Section supersedes Regulations 5-247-5 and 5-247-6.
-48 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
ARTICLE 41
LEAVE TIME ACCRUAL
All leave accrual will continue at the same rate, in days per month, as provided elsewhere in this Agreement.
All leave time shall be recorded in terms of hours or days earned and used per month.
In those agencies which keep leave records on the basis of hours, the contractual leave accrual rates and holiday benefits shall be calculated based on one (1) day equaling seven (7) hours and the leave usage amounts shall be charged based on the scheduled length of the workday (s).
In the event that the State should change the unit of leave posting, the true value of accrued leave shall not be diminished nor enhanced.
ARTICLE 42
CIVIL LEAVE AND JURY DUTY
Section One. Civil Leave, (a) If an employee receives a subpoena or other order of the Court requiring an appearance during regular working hours, time off with pay and without loss of earned leave time shall be granted. This provision shall not apply in cases where the employee is a plaintiff or defendant in the Court action.
(b) If a Court appearance (not jury duty) is required as part of the employee's assignment, time spent shall be considered as time worked. If the appearance requires the employee's presence beyond his/her normal work day, all time beyond the normal work day shall be compensated for in accordance with Article 18.
Section Two. Jury Duty. An employee who is called to serve as a juror will receive his/her regular pay less pay received as a juror for each work day while on jury duty. This provision shall not apply to "on call" jury time when the employee is able to be at work.
Upon receipt of a notice to report for jury duty, the employee shall inform the personnel office immediately. The employer may request that the employee be excused or exempted from jury duty if, in the employer's judgment, the employee's services are needed at that time.
Time spent on jury duty shall not be considered time worked for the purpose of completing a Working Test Period or trainee requirements.
ARTICLE 43
MILITARY LEAVE
The present military leave policy shall remain in force, except that paid leave for military callups shall be limited to emergencies.
ARTICLE 44
PREGNANCY, MATERNAL AND PARENTAL LEAVE
-49 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
Section One. Health insurance coverage for disabilities resulting from or contributed to by pregnancy shall be available, consistent with the requirements of applicable law. Maternity benefits shall be provided to eligible bargaining unit members in accordance with the provisions of the particular health care plan selected by the employee under the terms of the agreement cited in Article 45.
Section Two. Disabilities resulting from or contributed to by pregnancy, miscarriage, abortion, childbirth or maternity, defined as the hospital stay and any period before or after the hospital stay certified by the attending physician as that period of time when an employee is unable to perform the requirements of her job, may be charged to any accrued paid leaves. Upon expiration of paid leave, the employee may request, and shall be granted, a medical leave of absence without pay, position held. The total period of medical leave of absence without pay with position being held shall not exceed six (6) months following the date of termination of the pregnancy. A request to continue on a medical leave of absence beyond this period must be in writing. If granted, the position may or may not be held for this extended period, subject to the appointing authority's decision.
Up to five (5) days of paid leave, deducted from sick leave, will be provided to a spouse in connection with the birth, adoption or taking custody of a child, or the prenatal or postnatal care of a spouse. Vacation or personal leave may also be used for such purposes, subject to the approval of the appropriate agency official.
Section Three. The parties agree to be bound by CGS Sec. 5-248a and its appurtenant regulations, and any amendments thereto. An employee who is granted a statutory non-disability leave may request and shall be granted the financial benefits of accrued vacation leave, personal leave and/or compensatory time during the period of statutory leave; however, such time, if taken during the period of statutory leave, shall not be utilized to extend the same leave for a period in excess of that described in the request for such leave or the statutory maximum.
Holidays which occur during the period covered by the leave provisions of CGS Sec. 5-248a shall not be compensated unless the employee is concurrently utilizing paid vacation, compensatory time or personal leave as may be permitted above and consistent with current practice.
ARTICLE 45
GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE
The terms and conditions of the health insurance coverage for employees covered by this agreement are the subject of a separate agreement between the parties.
ARTICLE 46 RETIREMENT
The terms and conditions of employee retirement benefits are the subject of separate negotiations and a separate agreement between the parties.
- 50 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
ARTICLE 47 WORKERS COMPENSATION
Section One. Workers Compensation Coverage and Payments. Where an employee has become temporarily totally disabled as a result of illness or injury caused directly by his/her employment, or sustained in the course of his/her employment, said employee may, pending final determination as to the employee's eligibility to receive workers compensation benefits, charge said period of absences to existing leave accounts. Where a determination is made supporting the employee's claim, State authorities shall take appropriate steps to rectify payroll and leave records in accordance with said determination. Upon final and non-appealable decision by appropriate State authority that an employee is entitled to receive workers compensation benefits, said employee shall receive his/her first payment no later than four (4) weeks following such determination. Accrued leave time may be used to supplement workers compensation payments up to but not beyond the regular salary.
Section Two. Communicable and Contagious Diseases. Upon a final and non-appealable finding by an appropriate State authority that an employee has contracted a communicable or contagious disease in the course of his/her employment, the employee shall receive workers compensation benefits for the duration of his/her incapacity. Such benefits will be equal to those specified for bodily injury in Section 5-142(a) of the General Statutes.
ARTICLE 48 JOB SPECIFICATIONS
Section One	. Each employee shall be provided with a copy of his/her current job specification upon request. Work assignments shall be in accordance with that job specification.
Section Two	. Whenever the phrase "...and performs related duties as required" appears in job specifications for job classifications, within the bargaining unit, the term "related duties" shall be interpreted to mean duties and responsibilities which could normally or reasonably be expected to be required in accordance with the over-all job specification.
Section Thr	ee. Section Two of this Article shall not be construed to restrict the principle of "Work now, grieve later," except in those instances where the health or safety of the employee is in imminent jeopardy.
Section Fou	r. The Union, but not any individual employee, shall have the right to file "institutional grievances" for alleged violations of Section Two of this Article.
Section Fiv	e. Disputes over an employee's job classification shall be subject to the classification appeal procedure outlined in Appendix C.
ARTICLE 49
CLASS REEVALUATIONS
Section One. The procedure set forth in this Article supersedes the provisions of 5-200(p) relative to the right of employees or their representatives to appeal for class reevaluation (upgrading).
- 51 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
Section Two. The Union, but not any employee, shall have the right to appeal in writing by submitting data, views, arguments, or a request for a hearing relative to reevaluation of a class or classes of positions allocated to the appropriate Compensation Plan. Within sixty (60) days after the receipt of such written data or holding the requested hearing, the Director of the Office of Labor Relations or designee shall answer the appeal.
Section Three. The Director shall judge the appeal only with respect to the following criteria:
(a)	Whether there was a change in job duties of the class appealed substantial enough that it should have the effect of changing its compensation grade. The Director will not look to changes which occurred prior to the effective date of this Agreement.
(b)	Having found a substantial change in job duties, then internal consistency among classes covered by this Agreement and among comparable classes in State service.
Section Four. In any arbitration case arising from such appeal, the mutually agreed upon arbitrator or permanent umpire, who shall be experienced in public sector position classification and evaluation, shall base his/her decision on the criteria set forth in Section Three above. Pay comparability for equal work in other jurisdictions or outside the scope of this Agreement shall not be a basis for the arbitrator's or umpire's decision hereunder.
Section Five. Nothing in this Article shall be deemed to prevent the State from instituting a class reevaluation on its own initiative. The Union will be given two (2) weeks notice prior to a class reevaluation. Any dispute shall be subject to arbitration in accordance with this Article.
ARTICLE 50 TEMPORARY SERVICE IN A HIGHER CLASS
Section One. An employee who is assigned to perform temporary service in a higher class shall, commencing with the thirty-first consecutive working day, be paid for such actual work retroactive to the first day of such work, at the rate of the higher class as if promoted thereto, provided such assignment is approved by the Commissioner of Administrative Services or designee.
Section Two. Such assignments may be made when there is a bona fide vacancy which management has decided to fill, or when an employee is on extended absence due to illness, leave of absence, or other reasons. Extended absence is one which is expected to last more than thirty (30) working days.
Section Three. An appointing authority making a temporary assignment to a higher class shall issue the employee written notification of the assignment and shall immediately forward the appropriate form seeking approval of the assignment from the Commissioner of Administrative Services or designee in writing.
Section Four. If on or after the thirty-first consecutive working day of such service, the Commissioner of Administrative Services or designee has not approved the assignment, the employee, upon request, shall be reassigned to his/her former position, subject to the provisions of Section Five.
- 52 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
Section Five. In the event the Commissioner of Administrative Services or designee disapproves the requested assignment on the basis of his/her judgment that the assignment does not constitute temporary service in a higher class, the employee shall continue working as assigned with recourse under the appeal procedure for job classifications.
Section Six. Temporary assignments to a higher class for periods of thirty (30) working days or less shall not be utilized to defeat the basic contractual obligation herein.
ARTICLE 51
PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
Section One. Permanent part-time employees will continue to receive wages and fringe benefits on a pro-rated basis to the extent provided under existing rules and regulations (except as modified by this Article).
Section Two. During the life of this Agreement, no full-time bargaining unit position shall be fractionated in such a manner as to diminish the number of bargaining unit positions, provided that qualified applicants are available.
Section Three. A permanent full-time employee may request of management that their position be adjusted to a part-time status of not less than half-time. If granted, the reduction to part-time shall be considered a temporary arrangement and the employee shall remain in the bargaining unit and be covered by the terms of this Agreement. A request to work part-time will not be unreasonably denied by the Employer.
A permanent full-time employee who is granted an adjustment to under twenty (20) hours per week under this Section shall continue to have layoff and bumping rights determined in accordance with Article 37, Order of Layoff, and shall not be covered by Section Four (a) of this Article.
Section Four. Permanent part-time employees working under twenty (20) hours per week (excluding retired-reemployed and unscheduled intermittent employees) shall be eligible for all benefits currently provided to over twenty (20) hour per week permanent part-time employees except as follows:
(a)	Permanent part-time employees working under twenty (20) hours shall, in the event of layoff, have seniority pro-rated and may exercise any bumping rights only to another part-time under twenty (20) hour position. The employee will be given as much notice as possible. The minimum notice periods in the event of layoff, however, shall be two (2) weeks for the employee selected for layoff, two (2) business days for the election of bumping rights, if any, and one (1) week for the notice to the bumpee.
(b)	Permanent part-time employees working under twenty (20) hours per week shall be eligible for vacation leave, if applicable, and sick leave accrued on a pro-rata basis in accordance with existing practice but shall not be eligible for personal leave days.
(c)	It is expected that permanent part-time employees working under twenty (20) hours per week who become involved in union or steward activities or who seek attendance at employee-initiated workshops or conferences will make every effort to conduct such activities on - 53 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
their own time rather than on paid State time. This provision does not pertain to vacation usage or absence from work during an approved leave of absence.
Section Five. Health insurance coverage under Article 45 shall be available only to those permanent part-time employees who are regularly scheduled to work at least 17.5 hours per week. This provision shall be applicable to those part-time employees who on or after May 1, 1992, acquire part-time under 17.5 status.
ARTICLE 52
METHOD OF SALARY PAYMENT
Section One. Advanced Vacation Pay. Upon written request to the Agency, no later than four (4) weeks prior to the commencement of a scheduled vacation period, an employee shall receive such earned and accrued pay for vacation time as he/she may request, such payment to be made prior to the commencement of the employee's vacation period. Such advances shall be for a period of not less than one (1) pay week nor more than the total amount of requested vacation.
Section Two. In all other respects, the method of salary payment on June 30, 1997 shall continue in force.
ARTICLE 53 INDEMNIFICATION
During the life of this Agreement, the State employer will continue to indemnify persons covered by this Agreement to the extent provided by Sections 4-165, 10-235, and 19a-24 of the Connecticut General Statutes.
In deciding whether to provide counsel to a professional employee being sued for malpractice, the question of whether such employee was acting within the scope of his/her employment shall be sympathetically considered, consistent with the purpose of the indemnification statutes.
ARTICLE 54 POLICIES
The State shall provide to the Union at least one (1) copy of all approved agency personnel policies prior to September 15 of each school year, or within thirty (30) school days of the approval of the policy subsequent to September 15 of each school year.
ARTICLE 55 MISCELLANEOUS
Section One	. Printing of Agreement. The parties will share the cost of printing the Agreement in booklet form.
- 54 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
Section Two	. Except where varied in this Agreement, the State will continue in force its written rules and regulations with reference to: (a) eligibility for meals or reimbursement therefor; (b) sick leave, personal leave, or other paid or unpaid leave of absence.
Section Thr	ee. Uniforms and Equipment. During the life of this Agreement, the State will not increase the cost to employees for uniforms and equipment.
Section Four. Blue Book. References in this Agreement to "rules and regulations" refer to the "Blue Book," Regulations of the Personnel Policy Board effective July 1, 1975, and as amended thereafter. Such references include also all applicable General Letters and Q-Items.
Section Five. Hazardous Duty. The Union, and not any individual employee shall be granted upon request a hearing concerning a claim for hazardous duty pay differential for work hazards which may be beyond the scope of duties inherent in the job. Said hearing shall be before a panel composed of one (1) personnel analyst and one (1) agency personnel administrator or officer, both of whom shall be selected by the Director of the Office of Labor Relations, and one (1) designee of the Union. Disputes under this Section shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement.
Section Six. State Examinations. Employees shall be allowed time off with pay and without loss of earned leave time for the purpose of taking State merit system examinations at the appropriate center, provided due notice is given to the appointing authority. Time off with pay shall also be allowed when an employee is scheduled for a job interview as a result of being certified from a merit system list to another agency, provided due notice is given to the appointing authority.
Section Sev	en. Damage to Personal Property. The employer will process as expeditiously as possible claims for the payment of the cost of replacement or repair of property or prosthesis of an employee when such items are lost or damaged in the line of duty without fault of the employee.
Section Eig	ht. Meals and Housing, (a) Meals. The rates charged to employees for meals shall be as follows:
Breakfast	$	3.00
Lunch	$	5.00
Dinner	$	5.00
The State expressly reserves the right to provide or not provide meals to any employee who is not in "loco parentis" status and to terminate such services with sixty (60) days notice.
(b)	Housing. The State shall have the right to establish rental rates for employees in State-owned housing. Such rental rates shall be based upon appraisals conducted by or for the State which will establish fair market values for the properties.
The rental values established by the State for employee housing shall not be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure.
The State expressly reserves the right to provide or not provide State-owned housing to any employee, including the selection among applicants and the termination of occupancy in
- 55 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
accordance with the Regulation on Assignment and Termination of State Housing as they may be amended from time to time.
The Employer shall not remove an employee from housing or refuse to consider an application for housing as a form of discipline for matters unrelated to housing, but this provision shall not restrict the Employer's right to remove from housing an employee whose employment is terminated.
Section Nine. Parking will be provided to employees within the limits imposed by available physical space. The responsibility for regulating parking of private vehicles on State-owned or leased property shall be the sole responsibility of the Employer. The issues involved in the Clean Air Act will be resolved as part of coalition negotiations, as required by statute.
Section Ten. DOC Employee Drug Testing/Screening. (a) Effective within six months of Legislative approval of this Agreement there shall be a drug testing/screening program for Department of Correction P-3B employees. The program to be implemented shall approximate the DOC Drug Testing Policy that was effective December 1, 1997. Discussions with the Union shall take place within the six month period to review and discuss possible modifications to said policy.
(b)	An employee shall be subject to an immediate drug test if probable cause of drug use exists as determined by his/her supervisor, Warden, or designee. Such drug testing shall be administered by a qualified physician of the Department’s choice. The initial method of testing shall use an immunoassay. All specimens identified as positive on the initial test shall be confirmed using the chromatography/mass spectrometry test. If such test is again positive, a third more complex test on the same specimen can be administered at the request and expense of the employee. All initial tests shall be paid for by the Department.
(c)	Termination will result if the employee refuses to be administered the test. Positive findings from both the drug tests administered will result in the employee being relieved of duty and placed on sick or vacation pay, pending completion of departmental-approved drug rehabilitation program.
(d)	Termination of the employee will result if he/she refuses to participate in or to complete such program.
(e)	Upon return to duty after successfully completing the drug rehabilitation program, the employee will be subject to drug screening based on probable cause for a period of two years during which time if the employee tests positive for drug use he/she will be subject to termination. Any employee refusing to be administered a drug test during this two year period when requested to by his/her supervisor, Warden, or designee, based on probable cause, shall be terminated.
ARTICLE 56 LEGISLATIVE ACTION
The cost items contained in this Agreement and the provisions of this Agreement which supersede pre-existing statutes shall not become effective unless or until legislative approval has been granted pursuant to Section 5-278 of the Connecticut General Statutes, or as otherwise provided by said Section. The State employer shall request approval as provided in Section 5- 56 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
278 of the Connecticut General Statutes. If the legislature rejects such request as a whole, the parties shall return to the bargaining table.
ARTICLE 57 SAVINGS CLAUSE
Should any provision of this Agreement be found unlawful by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of the Agreement shall continue in force. Upon issuance of such a decision, the employer and the Union shall immediately negotiate a substitute for the invalidated provision.
ARTICLE 58 SUPERSEDENCE
The inclusion of language in this Agreement concerning matters formerly governed by law, regulation, or policy directive shall not be deemed a preemption of the entire subject matter. Accordingly, statutes, rules, regulations, and administrative directives or orders shall not be construed to be superseded by any provision of this Agreement except as provided in the Supersedence Appendix to this Agreement or where, by necessary implication, no other construction is tenable.
ARTICLE 59
QUALITY OF WORKLIFE
There shall be a Quality of Worklife Fund. The purpose of the fund shall be to establish and support programs which will improve the work environment, skills and morale of employees, such as day care, safety, training, absenteeism, impact of deinstitutionalization and other mutually agreed upon projects. A statewide committee composed of a CSEA representative, a State representative and four members each of labor and management shall meet, discuss and act upon proposals. The CSEA representative and the State representative shall function as the spokesperson for their committee members and shall articulate their party’s view of the proposal, whether approval, disapproval or a need for further information. Proposals receiving approval by the committee shall be forwarded to the Department of Administrative Services for disbursement in accordance with its procedures.
Time off for attendance by the four P-3B members at committee meetings will be without loss of pay or benefits provided such attendance does not exceed one (1) meeting every other month. Release time will also be authorized for one P-3B employee from the agency or facility that is submitting a proposal at the committee meeting.
There shall be sixty thousand dollars ($60,000) appropriated in each year of the contract for the Quality of Worklife fund.
Funds which are not used in one contract year shall be carried forward into the next contract year and added to that year's allocation, provided, however, that the quality of work life fund will expire on expiration of this agreement. The previous sentence notwithstanding, application for funds which are submitted and approved within the final six (6) months may be
- 57 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
paid, with the remaining available funds, up to three (3) months following expiration of this agreement.
ARTICLE 60
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall be effective on July 1, 2001 and shall expire June 30, 2005.
On or after January 16, 2005, either party may request the other to negotiate a successor agreement by mailing such request to the other party, whereupon negotiations shall commence as soon as practicable.
- 58 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
APPENDIX A
LONGEVITY - SEMI-ANNUAL PAYMENT (July 1,1997 through June 30, 2001)
Salary Group	10 Years	15 Years	20 Years	25 Years
1-11	75.00	150.00	225.00	300.00
12	75.25	150.50	225.75	301.00
13	92.00	184.00	276.00	368.00
14	94.75	189.50	284.25	379.00
15	97.50	195.00	292.50	390.00
16	100.50	201.00	301.50	402.00
17	103.25	206.50	309.75	413.00
18	106.00	212.00	318.00	424.00
19	109.00	218.00	327.00	436.00
20	111.75	233.50	335.25	447.00
21	114.75	229.50	344.25	459.00
22	136.25	272.50	408.75	545.00
23	142.00	284.00	426.00	568.00
24	147.75	295.50	443.25	591.00
25	153.25	306.50	459.75	613.00
26	159.00	318.00	477.00	636.00
27	164.50	329.00	493.50	658.00
28	170.25	340.50	510.75	681.00
29	187.50	375.00	562.50	750.00
30	193.00	386.00	579.00	772.00
31	198.75	397.50	596.25	795.00
32	204.25	408.50	612.75	817.00
33	210.00	420.00	630.00	840.00
34	215.75	431.50	647.25	863.00
35	221.25	442.50	663.75	885.00
36	227.00	454.00	681.00	908.00
37	233.00	466.00	699.00	932.00
38	238.50	477.00	715.50	954.00
39	244.25	488.50	732.75	977.00
40	249.50	499.00	748.50	998.00
41	255.50	511.00	766.50	1022.00
42	261.25	522.50	783.75	1045.00
43	266.75	533.50	800.25	1067.00
- 59 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
APPENDIX B
CLASSIFICATION SERIES
Each of the following shall constitute a classification series for the purposes of Article 37, Order of Layoff.
1.	Corrections Recreation Supervisor
2.	Educator Intern
3.	Industries Instructor (BESB)
4.	Mental Retardation Education Program	Supervisor (Recreation)
5.	Mental Retardation Education Program	Supervisor (Functional)
6.	Mental Retardation Education Program	Supervisor (Vocational)
7.	Mental Retardation Adult Services Instructor
8.	Mental Retardation Adult Service Program Specialist; Mental Retardation Adult Service Program Coordinator
9.	Rehabilitation Teacher 1; Rehabilitation Teacher 2
10.	Supervisor of Rehabilitation Teachers
11.	Education Consultant for the Blind (Mobility Instruction)
12.	State School Department Head
13.	State School Teacher (10 Month); State School Teacher (12 Month); Pupil Services Specialist
14.	Vocational Rehabilitation Supervisor
15.	Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor Intern 1; Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor Intern 2; Vocational Rehabilitation Assistant Counselor; Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor; Vocational Rehabilitation Senior Counselor
16.	Vocational Instructor
17.	Vocational Rehabilitation Assistant Counselor (Blind); Vocational Rehabilitation
Counselor (Blind); Vocational Rehabilitation Senior Counselor (Blind); Vocational Rehabilitation Counseling Coordinator (Blind), Vocational Rehabilitation Supervisor (Blind).
-60-
(P3BK02-05FV)
APPENDIX C CLASSIFICATION APPEAL PROCEDURE
Section One	. Any individual permanent employee alleging the performance of the duties of a specific higher classification shall submit an appeal directly to the agency's appointing authority or his/her designee.
Such appeal shall be on the prescribed form and shall include:
1.	The name of the employee.
2.	Current official class title.
3.	Current agency/division/section and/or shift.
4.	Date of alleged assignment of the higher level duties.
5.	Specific classification remedy requested.
a. If reclassification or temporary service remedy is sought, specific class title alleged appropriate.
6.	Employee signature and date.
7.	Completed duties questionnaire Form A or B, as applicable.
Section Two	. (a) Within ten (10) days of receipt of such appeal, the agency's appointing authority or designee shall respond to the employee and/or union on the appropriate place on the form to either:
1.	Continue the performance of the alleged higher level duties; or
2.	Deny that the duties include higher level duties, and/or constitute a basis for reclassification or temporary service; or
3.	Remove the alleged specified higher level duties forthwith.
(b)	Responses as above shall not automatically prejudice either party's position on the proper classification as determined by the Commissioner of Administrative Services or designee.
Section Three, (a) Concurrent with the response to continue the assignment (#1 above), the appointing authority shall submit, on the appropriate form, a request for approval of such assignment with copies of the appeal procedure form and any other appropriate justification to the Department of Administrative Services. Such request may be in the form of either a request for reclassification or temporary service in a higher class. The DAS Commissioner or designee shall review and answer such request within fifteen (15) days of receipt.
-61 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
(b)	The DAS Commissioner, with the concurrence of the Secretary of OPM, has sole discretion for determining whether approval will be for reclassification or temporary service, and/or whether higher level duties must be removed.
(c)	Payment for performance of higher level duties determined to constitute a basis for reclassification or temporary service shall accrue not earlier than thirty (30) days from the date the appeal was submitted to the appointing authority only if merit system conditions permit. Payment for performance of higher level duties which should be removed will accrue in the same manner and consistent with merit system conditions only if such duties constitute a significant portion of the overall job. Approval action under this section shall constitute a final and binding resolution of the appeal.
Section Four, (a) Appeal to a response from the appointing authority denying the request (#2 above) or removing the duties (#3 above), or failure to respond within the time frames provided may be submitted to the DAS Commissioner or designee within seven (7) days of the date of such response or due date. A meeting shall be held and an answer to such appeal will be issued within thirty (30) days of the date the appeal was filed with the DAS Commissioner or designee.
(b)	Appeals to the decision of the DAS Commissioner or designee under this section may be submitted to the Classification Panel within ten (10) working days of the date of the response from the DAS Commissioner or designee or within ten (10) working days of the due date.
(c)	The appeal shall not be modified or expanded except by specific agreement of the DAS Commissioner or designee and the Union.
Section Five, (a) The Classification Panel shall be comprised of two designees of the State, one of whom shall serve as Chairperson, and one designee from the Union, all of whom shall be experienced in job classification. The panel shall schedule and conduct a hearing within thirty (30) days of receipt of the appeal package and shall render a decision within ten (10) days of the close of the hearing. Time limits for scheduling and response may be extended by agreement of the panel only for good cause. The Panel Chairperson shall authorize paid leave for a reasonable number of witnesses to attend and present testimony, including the grievant and steward.
(b)	The panel shall base its decision only on whether the factual material presented at earlier stages of the appeal process indicates there was substantial addition of duties of the specific higher job classification. The burden shall be on the grievant to establish such proof and that the decision of the DAS Commissioner or designee was arbitrary and capricious.
(c)	The panel's decision shall be by majority vote. The panel's decision shall be in writing, signed by the Chairperson, shall include brief findings of fact and shall be binding on the parties provided the decision is consistent with the conditions set forth herein and otherwise not inconsistent with merit system conditions. Such decision shall be forwarded to the DAS Commissioner or designee with copies to the grievant or his representative, the appointing authority, and the personnel services analyst.
(d)	Pay retroactivity, if warranted, may not apply earlier than thirty (30) days prior to the date of the filing of the appeal at the earliest step.
-62-
(P3BK02-05FV)
(e)	The panel may not add to, subtract from, alter or modify the appeal or grant either party a remedy inconsistent with the terms and conditions outlined herein.
Section Six	. The appeal process outlined herein shall be the exclusive forum for appealing classification issues.
Section Sev	en. Decisions of the DAS Commissioner or designee or the Classification Panel shall not automatically constitute a precedent regarding the internal comparability of the appealed position to positions not subject to the original classification appeal.
Section Eig	ht. Nothing herein shall prevent the settlement of an appeal at any point in the process, or without resorting to formal channel providing such settlement has the concurrence of a designee of the DAS Commissioner.
Section Nin	e. Failure to appeal to a higher level consistent with the time elements outlined above will constitute a waiver of the appeal.
APPENDIX D JOB SHARING GUIDELINES
Section One	. Scope of Program. Job sharing is defined as two individuals sharing one full-time position, and the responsibilities of that position.
These guidelines were jointly developed pursuant to a contract negotiated between the parties. The program is viewed as an added benefit for current employees and shall be limited to permanent state employees covered by the P-3B Agreement and shall be administered on an intra-agency basis. An analysis of other programs indicates that a minimal number of employees might wish to participate in a job sharing partnership. Whether the partnership has an ending date or is open-ended, it is envisioned as basically a temporary arrangement. An employee's bargaining unit status will not be affected by entering into a job sharing partnership.
Section Two	. Establishment of Partnership.
A.	Program Communications.
1.	Accurate, timely and continuing communications are the life-blood of every successful program. Both the union and the employer should share responsibility for this crucial activity. A copy of the program guidelines should be provided to employees who express an interest in forming a job sharing partnership.
2.	Each participating agency shall identify a designee(s) responsible for disseminating information on the job sharing program to its employees - management as well as bargaining unit members. The agency designee shall act as a coordinator for those bargaining unit employees who wish to participate in the job sharing program (e.g., putting interested employees in touch with each other; informing them of locations where job sharing may be particularly appropriate; providing copies of other partnership agreements existing in the agency, etc.). However, it is
-63 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
essential that the interested employees do not feel the agency is actually matching job sharing partners.
B.	Selection of Partners.
1.	Both of the employees in the job sharing partnership must hold the same job classification title and appropriate certification, where applicable. The partners must be employed by the same agency but they do not necessarily have to be from the same facility. While the partnership would generally be expected to involve "tenured" employees, untenured employees may be considered when there are special qualifications or circumstances.
2.	Selection of mutually compatible partners should be done voluntarily by the employees interested in participating in job sharing. It is recognized that the success of the partnership will depend upon the amount of cooperation and compatibility between the partners and the extent of commitment by the individual partners. The responsibility for maximizing this effort appropriately lies with the participating employees.
C.	Scheduling.
1.	Scheduling should be the result of a cooperative effort between the agency and the potential job sharing partners. Generally, the responsibilities and work schedule of the position will be shared on an equal basis between the partners though, in certain circumstances, a 60%-40% division may be appropriate. Provided that the agency's general needs and the responsibilities of the full-time position are met by the scheduling proposal, the participating agency should be flexible in reviewing partnership scheduling proposals to consider employee concerns.
2.	The agency shall determine at the outset of each job sharing proposal whether the time frame of the partnership will be open-ended or have an ending date.
D.	Partnership Agreement.
1.	The job sharing partners, in cooperation with agency officials, shall develop a partnership agreement. The agreement shall describe the work schedule and the sharing/division of responsibilities. It shall also include consultation requirements and/or meetings between the partners and with agency supervisors and attendance at other required meetings (e.g., staff or team meetings, in-service training, etc.). The agreement shall be tailored to the needs of the particular position and agency. The partnership agreement shall be submitted at least four (4) weeks in advance to the appropriate agency official.
2.	Prior to the final approval of the partnership agreement by the agency head or his/her designee, a copy of the partnership agreement shall be provided to the Union and the Union shall have three (3) days after receipt to respond with any comments or suggestions.
3.	The job sharing agreement will be revised as needed if the sharing/division or responsibilities are to be changed or if the responsibilities assigned to the shared position are to be changed.
-64-
(P3BK02-05FV)
4.	The job sharing agreement shall be considered to incorporate the provisions of the job sharing program guidelines, as currently drafted and as may be amended.
E.	Agency Discretion.
1.	The parties recognize that the employer retains all the lawful and customary rights, powers and prerogatives of public management, including but not limited to, establishing standards of productivity and performance of its employees, determining the mission of an agency as well as the methods and means necessary to fulfill that mission. Therefore, each agency participating in the job sharing program does so voluntarily and only after assessing how/whether each proposal can meet those needs.
2.	Division of responsibilities for a given position shall be a cooperative effort between the agency and the job sharing employees, recognizing, however, that the agency does not relinquish any of its authority to control its own destiny. Each set of circumstances may require an individual solution. The agency has flexibility and authority to tailor each partnership proposal to the unique needs of the agency.
3.	The agency reserves the right to terminate any partnership with reasonable notice to the job sharing employees upon agency determination that the partnership is not functioning as anticipated or required.
Section Thr	ee. Benefits During Partnership.
A.	Leave Time and Holidays.
1.	Each job sharing partner who works at least half time shall be entitled to sick leave and, when eligible, vacation leave on a pro-rated basis (e.g., each employee who works one-half the normal schedule shall receive one-half of the normal sick leave and/or vacation time).
2.	Any job sharing employee shall be granted time off with pay for any legal holiday granted to full-time permanent employees provided: (a) the holiday falls on a day when the employee would normally have been scheduled to work; and (b) the pay received shall be for the numbers of hours the employee would have been scheduled to work. Holidays shall be granted to an individual employee as they occur in the schedule unless other arrangements are made between the agency and the job sharing employees.
B.	Insurance.
1.	Each job sharing partner, who works at least half time, shall receive health insurance coverage under Article 45. This provision shall not be interpreted as expressly waiving either partner’s ability to qualify for medical insurance when he/she retires.
2.	Each job sharing partner shall be eligible for life insurance benefits, though the insurance level will be based upon the salary earned while job sharing.
C.	Retirement. The reduction in hours and income while job sharing may have a significant impact on the credit for retirement purposes and the accrual of retirement benefits.
-65 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
Generally, the job sharing employee would contribute on a proportionate basis to the retirement fund and have the time credited on a pro-rated basis.
However, it is essential that employees interested in job sharing be informed how each may be individually and actually affected, especially given the different retirement plans. Therefore, prior to the implementation of a partnership agreement, the agency shall advise the interested employees of the possible affect on retirement benefits and shall refer the employee to a retirement counselor in the Retirement Division of the Comptroller's Office.
D.	Tuition Reimbursement. Each job sharing employee shall be eligible for tuition reimbursement at the same rate as full-time employees.
E.	Seniority.
1.	Each job sharing employee shall receive credit for seniority purposes on a pro-rated basis.
2.	Job sharing employees shall be integrated into the seniority lists for full-time employees in the appropriate ranks.
Section Fou	r. Monitoring of Partnership.
A.	Communications.
1.	The crucial elements in a job sharing program are the communication and cooperation between the partners. The partners have a mutual responsibility to meet and confer on a regular basis to plan, modify, critique and improve their collective endeavor to meet the demands of the position they share.
2.	The job sharing partners shall confer regularly with an agency designee regarding problems, progress, etc. in their shared position.
B.	Evaluation.
1.	While job sharing partners may influence each other's performance, an individual partner can only be held accountable for the work he/she performs or controls. For purposes of the official performance evaluations described in the P-3B contract, the individual partner shall be rated only upon his/her individual performance.
2.	The agency may, at its discretion, evaluate the overall functioning of the job sharing partnership. However, this evaluation would be an informal document to be used in a cooperative effort to assess or improve the performance of a given partnership.
Section Fiv	e. Continuation/Termination of Partnership.
A.	Coverage for Absences. The partners will fill in for one another's absences, whenever possible. The partners may agree, with the agency's concurrence, to a temporary change in the division of the work schedule to accommodate absences.
-66-
(P3BK02-05FV)
B.	Maternity or Extended Sick Leave. In the event one of the partners requires either maternity or extended sick leave, the partners will decide which one of the following options will best meet the needs of the remaining partner and the agency:
(a)	The remaining partner will assume the responsibilities of the departing partner for the duration of the leave, thereby retaining the job sharing partnership for the absent partner's return.
(b)	The partnership will be terminated and the provisions described in Section E will apply.
C.	Layoff.
1.	In the event a layoff affects one or both of the job sharing partners or the shared position, the provisions of Article 37 of the P-3B Agreement shall apply and both partners shall receive notification of the agency action.
2.	If a job sharing partnership is terminated due to a layoff affecting one of the partners, the remaining partner shall have the option of finding a replacement. In the event a replacement partner acceptable to the agency cannot be found within the requisite time, the remaining partner will have the following options:
(a)	reversion to full-time employment
(b)	voluntary resignation in good standing from state service
(c)	In the event the employee fails to exercise any of the above options, the employee shall be deemed to have voluntarily resigned in good standing as of the date of the layoff.
(d)	The above procedure shall not be interpreted to restrict the employee's ability to request part-time employment under the terms of Article 51 of the P-3B Agreement or to limit the agency's discretion in reviewing such a request.
3.	If another employee has a contractual right for bumping which could be exercised to bump one of the job sharing partners, that employee must meet the requirements of the job sharing program guidelines before any such bumping could occur.
D.	Termination of Partnership By One Partner. If one partner seeks to terminate the partnership, in order to resign or to accept another position, that partner will provide at least two (2) weeks notice to the remaining partner and to the agency. The remaining partner shall have four (4) weeks from the date of notice to find a replacement partner. During the four week period (after the departure of the other partner), the remaining partner shall assume the full-time duties of the position. The selection of a replacement partner shall be subject to management approval. If an acceptable replacement partner cannot be found within the four-week period, the remaining partner shall have an additional two (2) week period, while continuing to work fulltime, in which to decide whether to resume the full-time position or to resign in good standing. If no decision is made, the employee shall be considered to have resigned at the conclusion of the two-week period. The above procedure shall not be interpreted to restrict the employee's ability
-67-
(P3BK02-05FV)
to request part-time employment under the terms of Article 51 of the P-3B Agreement or to limit the agency's discretion in reviewing such a request.
E.	Termination of Partnership By Both Partners or By Agency. If the partnership is to be terminated as a result of a decision of the partners or a decision of the agency, and both partners are willing to resume full-time positions, the following procedure shall apply:
1.	The shared position shall be offered to the partner specified in the partnership agreement, or, if the agreement is silent, to the more senior partner.
2.	The other partner shall be offered an available vacancy in the same class title within the same facility or district that he/she is qualified to perform.
3.	If the partner is not placed in an existing vacancy under 2, the partner shall be entitled to agency reemployment rights for the next available vacancy in the same class title that he/she is qualified to perform (subject only to the priority reemployment rights of a laid off employee under Article 37). This reemployment right shall be in effect for a period of three (3) years or until the partner is reemployed in a position in the same or an equivalent class.
4.	The employee may request and the agency will consider the partner for vacancies which may exist in other classes (at the same or lower levels) that he/she is qualified to perform within the agency.
Section Six. Evaluation of Program. The parties shall meet at least yearly to review the program guidelines and existing job sharing agreements and to discuss the successfulness of the program and any problems or clarifications which need to be addressed. The parties agree that the job sharing committee shall be the exclusive forum for addressing any questions, concerns or disputes regarding the program guidelines. The implementation or interpretation of the job sharing program shall not be subject to the grievance procedure; however, this shall not abrogate the parties' rights contained in the collective bargaining agreement.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
EFFECT OF CERTAIN LANGUAGE CHANGES
The parties have agreed to the following concerning the effect of certain changes in contractual languages:
1.	The implementation of language changes will be done on a prospective basis after legislative approval has been granted pursuant to Section 5-278 of the Connecticut General Statutes or as otherwise provided by said Section, and if any grievances are filed alleging retroactive application, they shall be considered without merit and shall not be pursued by the Union. The above shall not apply if the contract contains a specific effective date for a specific change or benefit (e.g., salary increase).
2.	The deletion of the Grandparent Clause contained in Article 43, Section Eight of the 1982-1985 Agreement shall not be interpreted to affect any employee who may have qualified for its provisions; however, the reference to Step eleven (11) would be adjusted to reflect the
-68 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
implementation of the September 1986 Teacher pay plans, the Enhancement Act negotiations of 1987, and any subsequent negotiations.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTION MEAL MONEY
Section One. Employees in the Correction Department Vocational Instructor job classification shall be eligible for the department of correction meal allowance in those correctional facilities in which the employees have opted for the meal allowance. The meal reimbursement shall be five dollars ($5.00) per meal for each shift actually worked and shall be adjusted in accordance with the rate provided to the majority of correctional employees.
Section Two. The minimum time for eligibility for such reimbursement shall be equal to one-half (1/2) of the regular shift, except for employees working unanticipated overtime after their regularly scheduled shift a sandwich and a beverage will be arranged for and provided in such instances, prepared by a staff member. The meal reimbursement shall not be combined with or added to any other meal reimbursement.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING ARTICLE 12, SERVICE RATINGS
The parties recognize that it is practical and desirable to evaluate State School Teachers and Pupil Services Specialist in the Department of Children and Families and the Department of Correction over the span of the school year.
It is therefore agreed that an Evaluation Conference Form shall be utilized to serve as the official service rating report, pursuant to Article 12. This form contains eight (8) categories of "Professional Performance Criteria" which are linked to the employee's functional job description. A five (5) point rating key will be utilized to evaluate work performance under each performance criteria category. One or more ratings in Column 5 (has not met) shall constitute an unsatisfactory rating. Two or more ratings in Column 4 (developmental) shall similarly constitute an unsatisfactory rating.
It is further agreed that the filing of an Evaluation Conference Form for each affected employee on or before June 1 of each school year will comply with Article 12, Section One, subsection (4), PROVIDED HOWEVER no employee's annual performance shall be rated unsatisfactory for purposes of complying with the annual service rating report without the requisite three months' notice. This will guarantee that the employee has reasonable time for improvement and amendment of the annual service rating report, where appropriate, prior to the employee's annual increase date.
The parties agree to adopt the above Teacher Evaluation Plans for use in the Department of Correction.
Notwithstanding any of the above, this agreement does not alter any provision of Article 12 of the P-3B contract, either as it guarantees protection of bargaining unit members or as it allows discretion or prerogative to the Employer.
-69-
(P3BK02-05FV)
SIDE LETTER
ARTICLE 55, SECTION ONE
For printing of the current contract booklet, the parties agree to the following:
The Union will be responsible for printing a mutually agreed number of contract booklets and the State will reimburse the Union at the rate of forty-seven cents ($.47) for each such booklet.
SIDE LETTER
DMR ADULT SERVICES POSITIONS
During the 1997-2001 contract, the DMR revised specifications for M.R. Adult Services Instructor (Instructor Pay Plan) and M.R. Adult Services Specialist (S.G. 22) and a new classification of M.R. Adult Services Supervisor (S.G. 25). The Union agreed not to challenge the salary levels specified for these three titles or to seek bargaining or arbitration about these salary levels. This provision shall not be interpreted as precluding the Union from seeking a class reevaluation appeal under Article 49 about the Specialist title. The Supervisor title shall be evaluated under the process described in Section Two.B. of the SCOPE agreement for new classes.
The implementation of these new or revised titles will not result in the involuntary demotion of any State School Teachers or Mental Retardation Education Program Supervisors. It is understood, however, that any O.J.E. review of the M.R. Adult Services titles will not consider the fact that employees in different classes (e.g. State School Teachers) may be performing Adult Services Instructor, Specialist or Supervisor duties.
SIDE LETTER
D.M.R. TEACHER POSITIONS
When a general fund State School Teacher vacancy occurs in the Early Intervention program of the Department of Mental Retardation and there are no qualified laid off employees on the reemployment list, the position will be posted within the Department prior to any consideration of an original appointment.
Any State School Teacher in the Adult Day Services program, who possesses the valid and appropriate certification, may apply for the vacancy, and the Department will make a selection based on applicant qualifications.
Upon selection, the Teacher will be provided with the USD #3 Teacher Development Manual and will be assigned a mentor. The Teacher will work will the supervisor to revise his/her calendar, if necessary, for the remainder of the fiscal year.
The selected Teacher will have a six (6) work week assessment period, during which either party may decide that the Teacher should return to his/her original position. The Region
-70-
(P3BK02-05FV)
shall provide reasons in writing, with a copy to the Teacher, who shall have the opportunity to respond in writing. Any disagreement by the Teacher concerning the decision to be returned to the original position will be reviewed by the USD Superintendent of Schools and a designee of the Department Personnel Unit.
Note: Under current certification law, Comprehensive Pre-K through 12 Special Education is considered appropriate certification for Early Intervention.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING Department of Mental Retardation and Department of Children & Families
Section One. The State of Connecticut, Department of Mental Retardation and Department of Children & Families, and the Connecticut State Employees Association (P-3B Unit members in DMR & DCF), as a result of facilitation regarding the provision of year round or twelve month programs, have agreed to the following addendum to the P-3B agreement:
A.	This memorandum shall continue through the 2001 successor P-3B agreement. Should the expiration date of the successor agreement be reached prior to the date of legislative approval of the subsequent successor agreement, this memorandum shall remain in effect.
B.	During the term of this memorandum, the following provisions shall apply in DMR and/or DCF, as specified, and shall supersede any conflicting provisions of Article 20.
Section Two	. Department of Mental Retardation Provisions;
A.	In the DMR, there shall be two work years for State School Teachers. The work year shall be scheduled between July 1 and June 30 and shall be either: (a) 208 work days or (b) 223 work days. The current ten month (188 work day) schedule shall no longer exist in DMR.
B.	The year-round work calendars for all teachers shall be developed by May 15 of each year for the following contract year (July 1 to June 30), according to the following procedures:
1.	Unified School District: In the Unified School District 3, a standard work calendar containing 223 work days and five recess weeks shall be developed by April 30 in each region between teachers and school administrators, as provided in Article 33.
The teachers on the 208 day schedule will have a calendar with an additional fifteen (15) recess days. The teachers on the 223 day schedule may substitute up to ten (10) individually scheduled recess days in order to have a calendar with a comparable number of recess days. The additional recess days and the alternative recess days shall be scheduled through mutual agreement between the teacher and supervisor, consistent with program needs. If no agreement is reached, the dispute shall be resolved through the dispute resolution process outlined in this memorandum.
2.	Adult Services: For teachers in adult services, individual calendars shall be developed by May 15 of each year for the following contract year. The individual calendars shall be developed through mutual agreement between the teacher and supervisor, consistent with program needs. If no agreement is reached, the dispute shall
-71 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
be resolved through the dispute resolution process outlined in this memorandum. In some programs these calendars will be developed in cooperation with other teachers where shared responsibilities or teams provide program coverage.
C.	Changes in Calendar: Any modification of the approved individual calendar for any teacher, if required by extraordinary circumstances, shall be decided by mutual agreement of the teacher and the supervisor. Requests for calendar modifications shall not be subject to the grievance and/or mediation process. Any such calendar modification shall be submitted to the designated regional officials as specified in subsection B.
Section Thr	ee. Department of Children & Families Provisions:
A.	In the DCF, there shall be two work years for State School Teachers and Pupil Services Specialists. The work year shall be either: (a) 205.5 work days or (b) 223 work days. The current ten month (188 work day) schedule shall no longer exist in DCF.
B.	The school calendars for the District and/or for each facility shall be developed as provided in Article 33.
C.	The 205.5 day work year shall consist of 188 work days between September and June and 17.5 work days between July and August. Each employee on a 205.5 day schedule will work one half of the summer session, either the first 17.5 days or the last 17.5 days. The schedule will be structured so that each such teacher has 1/2 non-contact day during the summer session and each teacher will be allowed 1/2 holiday compensatory day (3.5 hours) during the summer session.
D.	Each employee on a 205.5 day schedule shall be surveyed concerning their preference about working the first half or the last half of the summer session. The scheduling of the session assignments shall be determined through mutual agreement of the teacher and supervisor, consistent with program needs. If no agreement is reached, the dispute shall be resolved through the dispute resolution process outlined in this memorandum.
E.	All current twelve month teachers shall have the option of five (5) unpaid leave days during the school calendar. A teacher may only choose between no unpaid leave days and five unpaid leave days; there is no option for choosing a lesser or greater amount. Each twelve month teacher shall be surveyed concerning their selection of this option and their preference regarding the particular days desired for unpaid leave. While it is anticipated that there is likely to be more interest in unpaid leave days during the summer session, the scheduling of the unpaid leave days shall be determined through mutual agreement of the teacher and supervisor, consistent with program needs. If no agreement is reached, the dispute shall be resolved through the dispute resolution process outlined in this memorandum.
F.	The DCF will investigate the possibility and/or practicality of a substitute mentoring program if necessary to improve the recruitment of substitute teachers.
G.	The DCF will solicit volunteers from the 205.5 day employees who are willing to be converted to the 223 day schedule contingent upon funding and operational needs. In addition, the parties shall undertake discussions about other measures for increasing the quality and
-72-
(P3BK02-05FV)
coverage of the summer session by mutual agreement. The discussions may also include resolving any problems in the terms of this Memorandum applicable to DCF.
Section Fou	r. Common DMR & DCF Provisions:
A.	There shall be no involuntary conversions to twelve month (223 day) schedules.
B.	All standard and approved individual calendars or individual work schedules shall be in writing and in a consistent format and shall be submitted by May 15 of each year to the designated regional or school official and to the appropriate personnel and payroll offices for record-keeping purposes.
C.	The pay rates for the new 208 day and 205.5 work years shall be calculated based on the ten month (188 day) pay plan plus the specified number of additional days at 1/188 (per diem) of the ten month pay plan. Employees shall be placed on the same step of the new pay plans as they held on their current pay plan.
D.	Dispute Resolution Process: In the event of a dispute regarding the development of individual calendars (DMR) or the determination of summer session assignments or the scheduling of unpaid leave days (DCF), the following procedure shall apply:
1.	In the event that more teachers request the same recess days (DMR), or the same summer session or the same unpaid leave days (DCF), than can reasonably be spared for operating reasons, the requests will be granted based upon certification, if applicable, and seniority as defined in Article 10.
2.	In the event of a dispute concerning the number of teachers that could reasonably be spared for operating reasons and/or a claim that management was arbitrary and capricious in assessing program needs, the parties will attempt to resolve the matter at the regional or facility level. If the dispute is not resolved, it shall be reduced to writing on a grievance form within 5 working days of the denial and filed to Step 2. The grievance will be handled expeditiously and, if it is not resolved, it will be filed to Step 3.
3.	Grievance Mediation. If there are unresolved grievances after Step 3, they will be subject to a grievance mediation step. The parties will mutually agree upon a grievance mediator who shall have experience as a grievance arbitrator. All of these grievances will be scheduled on the same day, to the extent practicable, and shall be the subject of a brief conference and discussion before the mediator. The mediator may attempt to mediate the dispute and/or may verbally indicate his advisory opinion regarding an appropriate disposition of the grievance.
4.	Arbitration. If there are unresolved grievances after the mediation process, they may be filed for arbitration by the Union. To the extent practicable, these grievances will be consolidated into one arbitration hearing.
Section Five. While superseded in the specified agencies (DMR & DCF) by this memorandum, Article 20 shall not be considered as having been removed from or replaced in the P-3B contract.
-73 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
Section Six. The employees who work on the 205.5 or 208 day schedules shall be considered as working a twelve month schedule for purposes of applying the terms of Article 39, Section Six (Personal Leave) and Article 40, Section Three (d) (family illness). For purposes of granting sick leave accruals under Article 40, Section One, the employees who work on these schedules shall accrue the monthly sick leave rate on an eleven-month basis, i.e. sick leave shall not accrue in the month of July for these employees.
Section Seven. For purposes of calculating the employee's daily rate when determining the amount of payment upon retirement for the appropriate amount of the employee's accrued sick leave, the daily rate for a employee on the 205.5 or 208 day schedule shall be calculated based upon one day being equal to 1/239 of the employee's annual salary.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING DEPARTMENT OF MENTAL HEALTH & ADDICTION SERVICES
By mutual agreement of the State and the Union, State School Teachers (Ten Month) in the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services may be converted to the 205.5 day work year. The 205.5 day work year shall consist of the 188 work day calendar as provided for ten month teachers with the addition of 17.5 work days during the summer session in July and August. Any such converted Teachers shall be compensated on the 205.5 day salary plan and shall be covered by the terms and conditions applicable to the 205.5 day teachers in the Department of Children & Families under the Memorandum of Understanding for DMR and DCF year round and twelve month educational programs. Any changes that are implemented in the DCF concerning the 205.5 teachers may also be applied by mutual agreement to the 205.5 day teachers in the Department of Mental Health & Addiction Services.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING D.M.R. DEINSTITUTIONALIZATION
The Department of Mental Retardation may be undertaking initiatives to significantly reduce or deinstitutionalize the residential population at the Southbury Training School or other residential facilities. It is recognized that P-3B members will continue to play a vital role in the delivery of agency services to clients in the community and, while there may be changes in the processes for service delivery job opportunities will continue to exist, provided employees avail themselves of these opportunities. The State and the Union are committed to working closely together in order to effect an orderly transition and continuity of employment. If the Department of Mental Retardation undertakes an initiative for deinstitutionalization of the clients at Southbury Training School or another residential facility, the provisions of this memorandum shall apply.
In order to facilitate an orderly transition to new employment opportunities and to ensure adequate communication, the parties will establish a labor management committee. The labor management committee will share pertinent information and develop guidelines and/or procedures for actions taken in accordance with this Memorandum. A transfer list system within the Department shall be developed for the filling of vacancies outside of the affected residential facility. If there is no transfer list that would apply to a particular bargaining unit vacancy, the Department will make a good faith effort to post the vacancy at a central location at each facility
-74-
(P3BK02-05FV)
subject to the provisions of this memorandum. If a particular vacancy or position is being established as a result of the deinstitutionalization and redeployment of the affected facility's residential clients, the vacancy or position shall not be offered to employees outside the affected facility unless the vacancy remains unfilled after the procedure specified in sections (a) to (e) has been followed.
The State and the Union will identify retraining opportunities which will assist employees in preparing for emerging or alternative job opportunities.
In the event a reallocation or reduction in the workforce becomes necessary at the Department of Mental Retardation as a result of the change to community based programs (deinstitutionalization), the provisions of this Memorandum shall apply to all Department of Mental Retardation employees with permanent status on or before July 1, 1995.
(a)	All such permanent employees affected by deinstitutionalization shall be offered employment in the same or comparable classification at no reduction in salary grade as provided in this Section. All positions and vacancies within the affected agency shall first be filled through voluntary transfers. If there are no volunteers for a particular position or vacancy, it shall be filled by offering it to the least senior employee in the classification from the affected facility. Full time employees shall be offered a full time position and part time employees shall be offered a part time position.
If the least senior employee refuses, the employee shall be laid off or may have rights as described in (b) below. If the position or vacancy remains unfilled, it may be offered to the next two least senior employees, in reverse order of seniority. If one or both of those employees refuse, that employee shall be laid off (in order of seniority) or may have rights as described in (b) below. However, no permanent employee covered under this Section shall be laid off as long as there is a less senior employee in the same classification series and certification at the affected facility who has no rights under this Section.
(b)	Any employee who refuses an offer and is scheduled to be laid off as described above shall be deemed to have waived any rights to additional offers in the future under paragraph (a) above, but shall retain the right to bump the least senior employee in a lower class at the facility in the same classification series as provided by Article 37, Section Five, seventh paragraph. Such bumping rights shall exclude any positions scheduled to be eliminated.
(c)	For the purposes of this Memorandum, the regions within D.M.R. shall be defined as they existed on July 1, 1993 and the offer to an eligible employee shall be within the region where the facility is located or in one of the contiguous regions. However, for Southbury Training School, if the offer is in a contiguous region, it shall be west of the Connecticut River. The State and the Union agree to meet and discuss additional geographical limitations on offers for other locations as necessary.
(d)	An employee shall not be considered qualified or eligible for a vacancy or position unless the employee possesses the required certification. Therefore, all terms of this Memorandum shall be interpreted consistent with the certification requirements for the particular job classification and assignment.
It is understood that State School Teachers currently assigned to Adult Day Services at a DMR facility covered by this Memorandum would be considered as possessing the required certification for redeployment Teacher positions in DMR Adult Day Services.
-75 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
(e)	Notwithstanding any contrary provisions of the P-3B contract, individuals on the reemployment list as a result of refusal of an offer under the provisions of this Memorandum shall not have preference for a vacancy in their former agency over an employee who has yet to receive an offer. This provision would apply only to vacancies in the individual's former agency and would not affect their recall rights to any other agencies.
(f)	At any facility/institution covered under the provisions of this Memorandum, the parties shall meet and develop a process for internal movement of employees to facilitate the closing of individual units or departments within the facility/institution.
(g)	The parties agree that an expedited arbitration process shall apply to disputes over whether this Memorandum is applicable to a particular reallocation or reduction in the workforce situation.
SIDE LETTER
FLEXTIME AND 4-DAY WORKWEEK BUREAU OF REHABILITATION SERVICES (BRS)
In accordance with Article 18, Section 7, the following guidelines were jointly developed by the BRS Labor Management Committee to implement flextime and 4-day work week in BRS.
The employee initiated flextime or 4-day work week proposal shall be submitted at least one week in advance to the appropriate management designee for review. The proposal and supervisory review will conform with the following guidelines.
Section One	. Flextime
(a)	The employee must account for 7 hours per day on a 5-day (Mon.-Fri.) calendar week.
(b)	Coretime—is established from 9:30 A.M. to 3:00 P.M. and is the time during which an employee is expected to be on the job except for illness, lunch, vacation, holidays or other approved leave.
(c)	Bandwidth hours—the hours during which the office will be open from 7:00 A.M. to 5:30 P.M.
(d)	A fifteen minute "grace period" will be allowed with respect to starting and ending work time provided that each employee accounts for 7 hours of work or approved chargeable leave for that day. Adherence to bandwidth and coretimes must be observed. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, upon request of an employee and approval of an appropriate management designee, an individual exception to the hours restriction may be granted to accommodate needs in such areas as, but not limited to, child care, transportation or participation in an educational program.
(e)	Seventy hours (70) must be accounted for during a pay period. Lunch periods will be prescheduled for either one-half or one hour.
Section Two	. Four-Day Work Week
(a)	The employee must account for 8 3/4 hours per day on a 4 day (Mon.-Thurs. or Tues.-Fri.) work week.
-76-
(P3BK02-05FV)
(b)	Coreweek—is established as Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday when the employee is expected to be on the job except for illness, lunch, vacation, holiday, or other approved leave.
(c)	Schedules must assure equitable staffing on both Monday and Friday.
(d)	Bandwidth hours are the hours during which the office will be open and are established from 7:00 A.M. to 5:30 P.M.
(e)	A fifteen minute "grace period" will be allowed with respect to starting and ending times. An employee scheduled to begin work at 8:00 A.M. may begin work at 7:45 A.M. or 8:15 A.M. so long as he/she accounts for eight and three-quarters hours of work or approved chargeable leave for that day. Adherence to bandwidth, coretimes, and coreweek must be observed. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, upon request of an employee and upon approval of an appropriate management designee, an individual exception to the hours restriction may be granted to accommodate needs in such areas as, but not limited to, child care, transportation or participation in an education program.
Section Thr	ee. General Provisions.
The underlying premise in establishing the alternate work schedule is to satisfy the mission of the Bureau while capitalizing on the benefits that accrue to clients, management, and employees. In keeping with these concerns, Division of Rehabilitation Services offices with P3B Contract employees must be open from 8:30 A.M. to 4:30 P.M. Monday through Friday and shall be staffed adequately to handle normal business, i.e., telephone calls and client appointments/visits.
Conflicts in proposed work schedules which occur between employees will be resolved on the basis of seniority (see Article 10) with the more senior employee having preference over a less senior employee. Where the vocational rehabilitation counselor is a guest, e.g., rehabilitation facility, school, etc., his/her work schedule and work hours must accommodate the host. Such an employee may request a transfer based on the inability of a host to accommodate the proposed alternate work schedule, but such request will be treated as any other request for transfer.
No "make-up" provision is contemplated under the alternate work schedule; an employee scheduled to work on a certain day who is not present for work will be charged the appropriate leave for his/her absence.
An employee on a four (4) day workweek schedule will have the following options if a holiday occurs during the workweek:
1.	Work a seven (7) hour day, four (4) days, 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. standard workweek on the four (4) non-holiday days of that week; or
2.	Work eight and three-quarters (8 3/4) hours per day for three (3) days, total of twenty-six and one-quarter (26 1/4) hours and charge one-quarter (1/4) day to approved leave.
Coffee breaks (see Article 18, Section 6) are for breaks only; such time is not accruable or transferable to starting or ending the work day.
New employees will be permitted to select a standard workweek or flextime work schedule but will not be permitted to select a four (4) day work week schedule for a period of six (6) months.
-77-
(P3BK02-05FV)
Attendance records will be maintained daily on a calendar week (Mon.-Fri.) basis as is currently being practiced. The reporting of attendance to the Personnel unit will reflect the number of hours and days worked in addition to showing charged leave, on a pay period basis (biweekly Friday through Thursday). Attendance forms will be devised for use within the Bureau to establish the basis of verification of time worked. The provision that an employee must account for seventy (70) hours during a pay period will attend to the discrepancy between calendar week and pay week. Alternate work week scheduling will be accomplished with this provision in mind.
It is intended that employees eligible for education leave will continue to be able to use this time in the BRS Labor Management Agreement subsequently published as BRS policy.
Management will try to schedule and convene meetings and/or training sessions during coretime and/or coreweek; however, where necessary, management reserves the right to call meetings for times other than coretime and/or coreweek in which event a change in work schedule will be permitted, This is expected to be an exceptional occurrence; however, when meetings and/or training is scheduled by management well in advance, such meeting and/or training session will be included in the employee's proposed alternate work schedule.
These guidelines are not intended to supersede or replace the terms of the Education Professions P-3B contract.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING ARTICLE 16, GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Effective with the Legislative approval of this Agreement, the parties shall agree upon the arbitrators to serve on the P-3B arbitration panel. An arbitrator who is new to the P-3B panel may be removed from the panel by either party anytime after he/she issues his/her first, second or third award, and be replaced with another jointly agreed upon arbitrator with the same conditions. If the arbitrator is not dropped after his/her third award, he/she will serve for the term of the Agreement. Notwithstanding the above, the parties may by mutual agreement remove any arbitrator from the panel during the term of this Agreement.
In an effort to improve arbitration scheduling, the parties, through their respective designees, shall meet regularly to schedule those grievances submitted for arbitration per Section 9(a). The scheduling meeting will involve assigning the designated grievance(s) to the identified arbitrator on a date provided by that arbitrator as being available. The scheduling meeting may involve other CSEA-represented units, if the same arbitrator is on more than one panel. This shall not preclude the use of the existing scheduling process when there are a limited number of pending cases to be scheduled.
SIDE AGREEMENT
DOC CERTIFICATION DISCUSSIONS
The Department of Correction will communicate with the Union regarding the status of the certification discussions with the State Department of Education and the Department of Administrative Services.
-78 -
(P3BK02-05FV)
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BIG BROTHERS/BIG SISTERS - CSEA (P-3B)
The State of Connecticut (hereinafter referred to as the “State”) and the Connecticut State Employees Association P3B Unit (hereinafter referred to as “Union”) have herein agreed that Union members employed by the State of Connecticut may participate in Big Brothers or Big Sisters programs as provided by P.A. No. 98-257 and amended by P.A. No. 99-1. There shall be no expansion of benefits for such participating employees beyond those specifically provided within the Act. The general guidelines applied for participants shall be:
1.	The participating employee must have a minimum of one year of state service.
2.	The employee must be a full time employee with permanent status.
3.	Following each calendar year of active participation in the Big Brother or Big Sister program the employee will be granted one week of additional annual vacation.
4.	For purposes of the program effective January 1, 2000, the year period shall be measured annually from January first of each year.
5.	Failure to complete a full year of program participation will constitute basis for denial of the grant of the additional vacation. Failure to satisfy expected time commitments associated with the program will also constitute denial of the grant of the additional vacation.
6.	Big Brothers or Big Sisters will be totally responsible for the program and shall provide the State employer with certification of participants.
7.	The grant of the additional vacation will be by 0PM and shall not be subject to any appeal. The regulations regarding the utilization of vacation shall govern the utilization of the additional time earned under this program.
8.	No activities performed by state employees with Big Brothers or Big Sisters shall be on state time and such activities shall be outside the scope of their employment.
9.	In light of the fact that covered employees within this bargaining unit work during the school year as defined in Article 20 there is a lack of eligibility for vacation entitlement. Therefore those who participate in the Big Brothers or Big Sisters as provided in this agreement shall be credited with the vacation as stated in item 3 but shall not be entitled to take such vacation until or unless they transfer to another unit where vacation entitlement is provided. In that circumstances any such credited vacation will be transferable for use at the new designated position. In no event shall this vacation credit be payable upon retirement by the individual.
SIDE AGREEMENT
ARTICLE 39, VACATION, SECTION FIVE:
At the DMR Northwest Center in Torrington, the MR Adult Services Instructors shall be allowed to submit their requests for vacation at the same time as the State School Teachers submit their proposed calendars for the following school year in order that the requests of any of the P-3B members in the same work unit can be considered, subject to agency operating needs, before any calendars are approved or any vacation requests are granted. If more employees request the same calendar recess days and/or vacation time than can reasonably be spared for operating reasons, the granting of the recess days or vacation time will be based upon seniority as defined in Article 10.
-79-
(P3BK02-05FV)
SIDE AGREEMENT(S) ARTICLE 8, UNION RIGHTS
The parties will sign a side agreement indicating recognition that the State’s withdrawal of its proposals, in full or in part, in the above provisions shall be without prejudice for and shall not be introduced in any future disputes between the parties.
The parties also agree that the agencies will, upon request, advise the Union or the steward(s), as applicable, of the appropriate management official to be contacted under the above provisions.
The Union will withdraw without prejudice any pending grievances or prohibited practice complaints involving union access or release issues, except those relating to the release of stewards that would be covered by the State’s proposal in Issue 4.
SIDE AGREEMENT
ARTICLE 59, QUALITY OF WORKLIFE
The parties will sign a side agreement that provides for the carryover of the funding for the 2000-2001 year into the successor 2001-2005 contract for purposes of funding proposals by mutual agreement that had been submitted during the 1997-2001 contract term and which had expenditures made or obligations incurred during that period.
- 80 -
(P3BK02-05FV)