m M Cornell University UxlSteJ/J ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Glendale, City of and Glendale City Employees’ Association (2001) (MOA)
K#: 811425
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.comell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
F* il ^5
CITY - GCEA
(2^-1 n 6G^G<Jb- " trC&^G-
NEW/g^J^)
f t l_ C\) <2-Wy^
\ ---------------------------------------
\
1 MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
■f'
3 j	-------------------------------------
*
FOUR-YEAR AGREEMENT
V
JULY 1,2001 -JUNE 30, 2005
S:\Personel\Docs\LBRRELA\GCEA\Councii4-yeannou071701 .doc
CITY OF GLENDALE
INTERDEPARTMENTAL COMMUNICATION
DATE: July 23, 2001
TO:	All Holders of City - GCEA Memorandum of Understanding
FROM:	John F. Hoffman, Director of Personnel and Employee Relations
SUBJECT:	Summary of Significant Negotiated Language Amendments
New City-GCEA Four-Year Memorandum of Understanding (July 1, 2001 - June 30, 2005)
BACKGROUND
Recently, the City and Glendale City Employees’ Association (GCEA) ratified a new four (4)-year Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) covering the period July 1, 2001 through June 30, 2005. A number of economic and non-economic changes were agreed to in the new contract.
SUMMARY OF CHANGES
Attached for your review is a brief summary of the significant changes in the new MOU. The subject, article, section and page numbers as well as brief description are provided.
ATTACH TO YOUR MOU
You should attach this summary of changes to your copy of the MOU for future reference.
CONTACT PERSONNEL DIVISION
Should you need further information, interpretation or clarification regarding any of the MOU language, please contact the Personnel Division staff.
EMPLOYEE RELATIONS AND CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION
Good employee relations and contract administration are developed and maintained through trust, respect, open lines of communication and a clear understanding of the terms and conditions of the MOU as well as divisional rules and regulations. I hope this information provided is of some assistance towards our mutual goal of a continued positive employee relations program.
Director of Personnel & Employee Relations
S:\Personel\Docs\LBRRELA\MOUS\GCE\01SigChangesSununaryMemo.doc
CITY OF GLENDALE SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT NEGOTIATED LANGUAGE AMENDMENTS CITY-GCEA MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
NEW FOUR-YEAR MOU (July 1, 2001- June 30, 2005)
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	SECTION	PAGE	BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF CHANGES
Term of Agreement	Nine	VII	101	Four Years July 1, 2001 - June 30, 2005
Agency Shop Provision - Refer to Appendix “Bn Agency Shop MOU in back of new MOU	One	IV	2	Agreement regarding procedures for the implementation and administration regarding Agency Shop requirements for all unit employees.
Salary Schedule Adjustments Salary Schedule: July 1, 2001 - June 30, 2002 Salary Schedule: July 1, 2002-June 30, 2003 Salary Schedule: July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004 Salary Schedule: July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005	Two	II-V	9-10	1st Year: Effective 7/1/01, all general employees shall receive a 3.7% salary increase. 2nd Year: Effective 7/1/02, all general employees shall receive a 3.5% salary increase. 3rd Year: Effective 7/1/03, all general employees shall receive a 3.5% salary increase. 4th Year: Effective 7/1/04, all general employees receive minimum 1.5% to maximum 7% salary adjustment based on CPI April 2003-April 2004.
M-Step - Not Appealable to CS Commission M-Step removals are not appealable to the Civil Service Commission (based on City Attorney legal opinion 2001)	Two	XA8	12	M-Step removals are not appealable to the Civil Service Commission.
Water Stand-By Assignment Assignment Pay	Two	XVI	16	Water stand-by coverage to be distributed on an equitable basis, as approved by management.
S:\Personel\Docs\LBRRELA\MOUS\GCE\01SigChangesSummary.doc
1
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	SECTION	PAGE	1 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF CHANGES
Police Communications CSO -Prisoner Search Assignment j	Two	XXVI A-B	25	Trained rnd gualified CSO Communications Operators, CSO general employees, and Communications Shift Supervisors shall receive $50.00 per search of a prisoner as ' reguired, not to exceed a total of $100 per employee’s work schedule per day.
Acting appointment eligibility -expanded ■ r -v-p	■	. ! v :■ •	. v	Two ( ’'	XXVII A-2 *■*.’!* t < • • • r ’ A ; t	25	A unit employee may be eligible for an acting pay assignment if they fill a vacant position when a unit employee has been transferred to another job assignment in a different section of the same division.
Meet and Discuss-PERS Retirement Benefit Options	Two	XXXA	27-28	The City and GCEA agree to meet and discuss existing or new PERS retirement benefit options that are made available but NOT limited to PERS COLA adjustment.
Meet and Discrss - Impact of state actions /i-	<, i' <	Two	XXXB	28	The Caty and GCEA agree to • meet and discuss the impact i n the City of any actions on the part of the state that would significantly impact the City’s ability to fund its budget during the term of this agreement.
CompcTime In Excess of 64 Hours - Transfer to RHSP ’ .V»..	.* i K . i	.	Three	XE r	47	Unit employees must transfer any comp time over 64 hours at the employee’s cunent rate of pay to the employee s RHSP.
Medical Insurance Premiums Effective-Augest 1, 2001	Four	II B	50 ■ ? ■> "	1" year: Effective 8/1/01, the employees and City medical insurance monthly contribution shall be as follows:
S:\Personel\Docs\LBRRELA\MOUS\GCE\01SigChangesSummary.doc
2
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	SECTION	PAGE	BRiEF DESCRIPTION OF CHANGES
Medical Insurance Premiums Effective August 1 ,->2001 (Cont'd.) , f ,*	' • • » r	EMPLOYEE	CITY Contribution	Contribution Prudent Buyer Indemnity PPO Plan Employee	$12.16	$168.59 Employee+ 1	$42.78	$417.87 Employee + family	$63.90	$592.34 California Care - HMO Plan Employee	$34.28	$143.26 Employee +1	$83.98	$288.90 Employee + family	$113.74	$418.92 ,t >	•.	,	7	, . ..	..	... v CIGNA HMO Plan	; Employee	$31.00	$144.28	‘	' Employee +1	$66.88	$279.85 Employee + family	$92.94	$371.65 KAISER HMO Plan	, Effective 8/1/01	Effective 9/1/01 Employee	$27.38	$142.72	$12.92	$142.72 Employee+1	$54.90	$285.30	$25.98	$285.30 Employee + family	$77.48	$403.90	$36.56	$403.90 »	. J	«.	।			
Medical Insurance Premiums Effective Augusi 1,2002 ■ . .•«	Four	II D	51	2na year: Effective 8/1/02, City shall pay up to 50% of any medical insurance premium increase or receive 50% of any premium decrease.
Medical Insurance Premiums Effective August 1,2003	Four	II E	51	3ra year: Effective 8/1/03, City shall pay: up to 50% of any medical insurance premium increase or receive 50% of any premium decrease.
Medical.Insurance Premiums Effective August 1, 2004	Four	II F • .» •	51	4th year: Effective 8/1/04, City shall pay up to 50% of any medical insurance premium increase or receive 50% of any •premium decease.
Medical lnsurar :e Indemnity Plan Coverage -	'	•*'	1	Four	II G 2 h	52 ■’ *	Mental and nervous (mental health care) benefits shall be included in the Indemnity Insurance Plan and paid same as oth 'r ’Hnesses..
Retiree Health Savings Plan (RHSP) - Employees retiring on or after July 1, 2001	Four	III F 1	54	New RHSP shall be implemented by or before 12/15/01. Employees who retire on or after 7/1/01 will be eligible for RHSP.
RHSP - Sick Leave Conversion Rate	Four	III F2a	54	Each unused accumulated sick leave hour at retirement shall be converted at $20/hr. and placed in eligible retired employee’s RHSP.
S:\Personel\Docs\LBRRELAWIOUS\GCE\01SigChangesSummarydoc -	-	;	.3,
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	SECTION	PAGE	BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF CHANGES
RHSP - Limitations	Four	III F 3a	54-55	Employees who terminate prior to retirement age (50) or do not retire from City are not eligible for this benefit. 1
•	Four	III F 3 b	55	Employees who retire must have their accumulated vacation leave paid at their current rate of pay and placed in their RHSP. (See Article Five, Sec. 3, E2-3)
* t	‘	Four	III F 3 c	55	Employee must have their comp time in excess of the limits set forth in MOU transferred to their RHSP.
: • * '»	Four	III F3d	55	Employee pays for any post retirement RHSP fees.
	Four	III T 3 e	55	Employees who retire on or after July 1, 2001 prior to RHSP implementation shall participate in the current sick leave conversion, then convert to RHSP upon its implementation.
•	. t	- -	-	.	Four	III F 3 e-h	55	The current sick leave conversion plan associated 56% cash-out provision which shall no longer be available to retiring employees.
Retiring City Employees - PERS Sick ueave Service Time Conversion j	9 J	; t	I ' ", . , • .. ' ' 1 .. 1	Three	III G 1-4	55-56	Prior to participation in Retired Sick Leave Medical Insurance Conversion Plan or RHSP, retiring employees may apply any of their remaining accrued sick leave hours towards PERS service time subject to procedure that complies with IRS regulations unless: It is determined the PERS sick leave to PERS service time conversion conflicts with IRS regulations. Then, the PERS sick leave conversion to sick leave service credit shall no longer be available to unit employees upon implementation of RHSP.
S:\Personel\Docs\L8RRELA\MOUS\GCE\01SigChangesSummary.GOC
4
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	SECTION	PAGE	BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF CHANGES
.Sick Leave Deduction	Three	H 1	56	Effective 7/1/2001, retiring employees shall have the 380 hrs. (reduced from 760 hrs.) deducted from their accrued sick leave bank upon their retirement.
	Three	H 2	56	Effective 7/1/02, there shall be no sick leave deducted (reduced form 380 hrs. to 0) from retiring employee’s accumulated sick leave bank.
Long-Term Disability (LTD) Insurance «.1	..	j«..	Four	VII A 1&2	59	Effective 7/1/02, the City shall pay 100% of the LTD monthly insurance premium for unit employees who are members of the GCEA. The City has the-, right to select insurance carrier.
Mileage Reimbursement Plan -Limitations , 1."* < * ■ r	. - -r % *•’**-. *	Four	XIII 2 b	67	Any unit employees using their own personal vehicle for City business and who receives a mileage reimbursement on monthly auto allowance must maintain a valid California Drivers License and automobile insurance on the vehicle they use for City business and must show proof of such upon reguest of supervision or management.
Police Division Employees Assigned to Support Services Division, Traffic Bureau, Parking Enforcemen t Detail	Five	I M2d(1)	74	Parking enforcement detail employees shall not have the Friday after Thanksgiving as a mandatory holiday for their employees.
..Vacation Cash-Out at Retirement -RHSP ' J*	: >	Five	III E 2-3	80	Unit employees who plan to retire must notify the Finance Division’s Payroll Section six (6) mos. prior to their official retirement date if they wish to use any or all of their accumulated vacation time cashed-out upon their retirement from the City. Employees who do not put in a reguest to Finance for vacation hours placed into their RHSP account upon their retirement subject to procedures that comply with IRS regulations.
S:\Per3onel\Docs\LBRRELA\MOUS\GCE\01SigChangesSummary.doc
5
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	SECTION	PAGE	BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF CHANGES
General Service Classifications	Appendix A		104	Updated General Service Classifications and Employee Relations Confidential Designated Classifications positions.
< 4	'				
Agency Shop MOU	Appendix B		111	Hew Agency Shop provision for all unit employees.
S:\Peraorifil\Docs\LBRRELA\MOUS\GCE\01 SigChangesSutnrrwry.doc t... -	....>•	>	$
Adopted
7-17-01
Weaver/Manoukian
All Ayes	RESOLUTION NO. 01-124
A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY OF GLENDALE APPROVING AND ADOPTING A FOUR-YEAR MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE CITY OF GLENDALE AND THE GLENDALE CITY EMPLOYEES' ASSOCIATION (GCEA)
COMMENCING ON JULY 1, 2001 AND TERMINATING AFTER JUNE 30, 2005
WHEREAS, the City of Glendale (hereinafter referred to as "City") and the Glendale City Employees’ Association (hereinafter referred to as "Association") have met and conferred over wages, hours, terms and conditions of employment pursuant to Government Code 3500, as amended; and
WHEREAS, the City and the Association have agreed to and signed a Memorandum of Understanding for the period of four years commencing on July 1, 2001 and terminating after June 30, 2005; and
WHEREAS, the City Council intends to enact ordinances covering the
•»
financial portion of the Memorandum of Understanding.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF GLENDALE:
Section 1.	The City does hereby approve, ratify, and authorize the implementation of each economic and non-economic benefit and right set forth in the Memorandum of Understanding between the City and Association, attached hereto and incorporated herein as Exhibit "B", and said economic and non-economic benefits and rights shall be implemented to the extent the City may legally do so in accordance with the time constraints of said Memorandum of Understanding.
Section 2.	The City Council does further resolve that hereafter any motion or resolution of this Council, having for its object the appropriation,
S:\PencmeI\Docs\LBRRELAUjCEA\Council4-ycannou07nOl.doc i;	‘" I - -
expenditure or use of public funds of the City of Glendale, may be reflected upon the
Council minutes.
Section 3.	The City Council further authorizes the City Manager and the
Director of Personnel and Employee Relations to negotiate and implement amendments to this Memorandum of Understanding affecting wages, hours, terms and conditions of employment subject to prior approval by the City Council.
Section 4.	Any provision set forth in said Memorandum of
Understanding which is inconsistent with any provision of the Municipal Code shall
prevail and supersede the inconsistent provisions of the code.
Adopted this 17th day of July, 2001.
Mayor
ATTEST:
City Clerk
STATE OF CALIFORNIA )
) ■ • •;
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES )
I, Doris Twedt, City Clerk of the C’ty of Glendale, certify that the foregoing resolution was adopted Fy *he Col ncil of ili City of Glendale, California, at a regular meeting held on the 17th	iay of JuXy__________, 2001,
and that the same was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes:	Manoukian, Quintero, Weaver, Yousefian, Gomez
Noes:	None
Absent: None
TABLE OF CONTENTS City-GCEA MOU
ARTICLE	SUBJECT	PAGES
ARTICLE ON	E	RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES....................1-	8
ARTICLE TW	O	SALARIES AND COMPENSATION...................9-28
ARTICLE TH	REE	WORK PERIODS, SCHEDULES AND
OVERTIME...................................29-47
ARTICLE FO	UR FRINGE BENEFITS..,............................M..48-69
ARTICLE FI	VE	LEAVE POLICY.....,.............  ..........70-88
ARTICLE SI	X	VERDUGO FIRE COMMUNICATIONS CENTER .........89-94
ARTICLE SE	VEN	WORKING CONDITIONS ......................  95-97
ARTICLE EI	GHT	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE........................98-99
ARTICLE NI	NE	GENERAL PROVISIONS.......................100-102
SIGNATURE PAGE...............................................     103
APPENDIX A	GENERAL SERVICE CLASSIFICATIONS
CONFIDENTIAL EMPLOYEE RELATIONS ' ‘
CLASSIFICATIONS/POSITIONS................104-110
APPENDIX B	MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
f	BETWEEN THE CITY OF GLENDALE AND THE
y-C !	< GLENDALE! CITY EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION ■ '
REGARDING AGENCY SHOPhi......vi^....7..........j..:.. 111-118
> r .. .’A r ■	■
INDEX.........................................................    119
article one
ARTICLE ONE
I.	PARTIES TO MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
This Memorandum of Understanding (herein referred to as MOU or Agreement, interchangeably) has been prepared pursuant to the terms of the City of Glendale Employee Relations ordinance, as amended, which is hereby incorporated by reference. This Agreement has been executed by representatives of the City of Glendale (hereinafter referred to as "City") on behalf of the City Manager and by representatives of the Glendale City Employees’ Association (hereinafter referred to as "Association") pursuant to Government Code 3500, as amended, et seq., and hereby satisfies the City's duty to meet and confer with the Association during the life of this agreement.
II.	GENDER
The terms "they" and "their" may be used in this agreement as substitutes for the terms "his", "hers", "his/her", "he", "she", or other terms which would indicate masculine or feminine gender.
III.	RECOGNITION
A.	GCEA - Recognized Employee Organization
Pursuant to the provisions of the Employee Relations Ordinance of the City of Glendale, as amended, the City recognizes the Glendale City Employees' Association as the exclusive recognized employee organization on behalf of all full-time salaried non-management and non-mid-management general employees of the City of Glendale.
B.	Exclusions
Those classifications and positions excluded include employees designated as confidential, executive, management, mid-management, or hourly.
C.	Classifications Recognized
Specific classifications recognized by the City of Glendale being represented by the Glendale City Employees' Association are listed in Appendix "A" of this agreement.
D.	Certification of Representative (GCEA) - Bonafide Under FLSA
1.	The GCEA has been certified as the bonafide representative by the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) under the Fair Labor Standards Act. As a consequence of this certification, some of the wages, hours, terms and conditions of employment stated in this memorandum of understanding were negotiated that otherwise would not have been changed.
2.	If, at any time the GCEA is voluntarily or involuntarily decertified as bonafide representative by the NLRB, the GCEA shall be obliged to inform the Director of Personnel and Employee Relations immediately of this fact in writing and
01ART1
ARTICLE ONE
those wages, hours, terms and conditions of employment that are affected by this decertification, namely, those sections affected by the Fair Labor Standards Act shall be null and void and subject to immediate renegotiation.
IV.	AGENCY SHOP
The City and the Association have a mutual agreement regarding the implementation and administration of Agency Shop. The c'atails of this agreement are set forth in Appendix “B” of this Memorandum of Understanding.
V.	COMMITMENT TO EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY/VALUING DIVERSITY
v ■ cr *:>■	;	1	•. •
The City and the Association are committed to working together to support a work environment characterized by fair beutmcnt and access to equal opportunities for all protected groups under the law.
The City and the Association further agree to support encourage, nurture and value the cultural, ethnic and gen-,’ or diversity of our City's workforce.
V’. ASSOCIATION AND EMPLOYEE RIGHTS AND aLJPONSIBILITIES
A.	Association and Employee Rights
The City and the Association shall comply with the provisions of the Meyers-Milias-Brown Act (MMB) or any subsequent State law governing meet and confer rights of employee organizations. The parties further agree that during the term of this f Memorandum of Understanding, each pjrty shall retain those rights respectively vested by local, state and federal law which cannot otherwise be waived by this agreement.
B.	Payroll reduction
” The City shall, during the term of this Agreement, deduct monies for membership -i dues and insurance premiums on a monthly basis from unit employees whose classification and position are recognized to be represented by the Association and who voluntarily authorize the deduction in writing, on forms approved by the City. The City shall not bu obi .. sd m ; 1 into Tftrt any new, changed, or discontinued deduction until the pay period commencing thirty (30) days after receiving the request. The City shall remit the monies from authorized deductions made in s accordance with procedures uet forth by the City.
C.	Indemnification ‘	’
The Association agrees to hold City harmless and indemnify the City against any - - claim, causes of action, or law suits arising out of the deduction or transmittal of such . furids to the Association, except the failure of the City to transmit monies legally deducted from employees pursuant to this article to the Association.
1	■ :	. • •."» T. ..	. *	.	.*/
2
GCEA
01ART1
ARTICLE ONE
D.	Association Representation Responsibilities
The Association agrees and shall assume its responsibilities as recognized designated representative to represent all unit employees without discrimination, interference, restraint, or coercion, and to comply with: exclusive representation responsibilities as set forth in the City's Employee Relations Ordinance as amended.
E.	Association.Release Time * Meeting and Conferring / •
1.
Time off for meeting and conferring
?■*!.21	...	_'' - I 111'- ■
a.	The City and Association recognize that it is of benefit both to the City and Association that representatives designated by the Association to serve as the^Association negotiating oommitteecbe granted leave from duty with full pay during scheduled working hours.to;participate in meet and confer sessions as requested by the City.
b.	The Association negotiating corc'.nittee shall be allowed release time as approved by management in order to prepare for meet and confer sestons required for1 subse^iuent new Memorandums, of understanding. ’
c.	Individual negotiating committee members shall give management as much advance notice as possible about the dates, times, and
. „■■■• * duration).of the requested release time.:
d.	Unless otherwise agreed tp. by both parties, the negotiating teams for the Association and Qity shall not exceed six (OJmembers each.
e.	Full pay, as stated, shall mean the employee's current base salary, fringe benefits, and any assigned bonus.	•... ?•	.>
f.	Each party shall provide the other a list of representatives at least two weeks.prior to the.date set for meeting and conferring unless both .2' s	parties agree suph notice, is impractical., Vj •
4’ < C ..	*.
F.	Release Time - Board of-Dfa^ctor	1
i	r«-. -yvir I*.;;- . r:;r» •	■	•/>■,
1.	Subject to lim^atiops set forth in this agreement, each on-duty member of the Association’s Board pf Doctors <or- their designated alternate with prior notification shall be granted release time from their assigned duties to attend regular or special called Board meetings ef the Association unless an emergency staffing need occurs.
2.	. By January 30 of each qalendar' ^ar, the Association shall provide to the Director of Personnel and Emr e Relations the following:
a.	A list of names and clas;	ill officers and Board Members
and their alternatives.
01ART1
3
ARTICLE ONE
b.	A list of all dates and times of all planned Board of Director's Meetings for the calendar year.
Release Time - Reprosentation/Buslness/Recreational Issues
1.	Release time from their assigned duties for on-duty Association Officers, Board of Directors or other unit employees for all other representation and business and/or social/ recreational issues may be granted by Management with prior notification to a supervisor unless an emergency situation occurs which prevents such prior notification. - ;
2.	In these emergency situations the affected employee must notify a , - . .. supervisor as scon as possible. .
Association Office Space -
■ ■ ’ •, ■■ •	—< < .
1.	The City agrees to provide an office space which is-available and not needed for City functions and activities for the Association. The location and size of such office space shall conf nue to be designated by the City and may be changed by the City upcn prior notification to-the Association.
2.	« The Association, therefore, agrees that City maintains the right of access without notice under emergency conditions as set forth in Article Nine of the Memorandum of Understanding between the parties and has the right to periodically inspect !h?s. space for maintenance of condition provided that a 24 hour prior notice is given to the President or Vice President and the Association has the opportunity to have a representative in attendance during inspection.
Revocation
City reserves the right to revoke Association's use of any facility, space, or equipment for any reason upon prior notification of sixty (60) days to Association. In the event of an emergency, as set forth in Article Nine, the notification provision is waivsd.	. ;
Indemnification
1.	In lieu of charging a rent’ll f~e, the Associatjpn agrees to hold City harmless and indemnify the City agai-. st any chim, causes of action, or lawsuits arising out of any Association's use, placement,«installation, operation, goods, services, or devise or any publication of libelous matter on Association
•. , , bulletin board or any use, placement, installation of any equipment, furniture, floor ccverir -x- or other personal property not owned by City.
2.	As^’	agrees to reimburse City for any costs of repair to any
bi ||f	a.xucture provided to them by the City under the terms of
tt-	Lilting from the deliberate, malicious, or negligent act of
;	■. r	pyees related to the Association use of such facilities.
ARTICLE ONE
K. Limitations
The Association, its officers, representatives, and/or members shall conduct Association business, including employee relations matters, as set forth in this Agreement, or with the approval of management, c
VII.	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
A.	Management Rights	’	a .
The City continues to reserve, retain, and is vested with, solely and exclusively, all rights of management, regardless of the frequency of use, which have not been expressly abridged by specif^ provisions of the Memorandum of Understanding or by law, to manage the City fofthe citizens ofGlehdale, as such rights existed prior to the execution of the Memorandum of Understanding. The City continues to reserve and retain solely and exclusively all rights of management,' ircur'ing those City rights set forth in the City's Employee Relations Ordinance as amended, and including but not limited to the following rights:	:.'
1.	To managethe City and to determine policies arid procedures and the right ’ • to ntanage the affaFrs of the City. < '
2.	' To take into consideration the existence or non-existence of facts which are
•'* tie basis of the management detisidn.
3.	> To determind the- necessity, organization, and implementation and
termination of any service Or activity conducted by the City or other governmental jurisdictions, and to expand or diminish services.
4.	To determine nature, manner, means, type, time, quantity, quality, technology, standards, level, and extent of services ib. be provided to the public.
5.	To determine methods of financing:	n
: ’	<	.	A I*	■ - '< J •••.< >■'
6.	To determine quality, quantity, and types of equipmenVor technology to be used.
7.	To determine and/or change the facilities, methods, technology, equipment ’	and apparatus,'mea^s, Operations to-be performed, organizational structure,
sue, and‘composition of th‘e work force and allocate and assign work by
•	which the City operations and services are to be conducted.
8.	To plan; determin**, and manage City budget which includes, but is not limited to, changes in the	ye,'locations, relocations, and types of
operations, processes, ano jloyes Is to be used in carrying out all City functions,< including therigt , ,, ■	' ^-or subcontract any work or
operation of the City. -	'■> sifications of &'■&•
n * t	i,-
9.	To assign work to and schedu	'scordance with requirements
as determined by the City as tc	;hanges to work hours, wok
01ART1	5	GCEA
ARTICLE ONE
schedules, including call back, standby, and .overtime, and assignments except as otherwise listed by this agreement.
10.	To lay off employees of the City from duties because of lack of work or funds, or under conditions where continued work would be ineffective or nonproductive or not cost effective as determined by the City.
11.	To establish and modify goals and objectives related to productivity and '	.. performance programs and standards, including, but not limited to, quality
.... s and quantity, and require compliance thereto.
12.	To direct, supervise, recruit, select, hire, evaluate, promote, transfer, discipline, discharge, terminate, suspend, demote, reprimand, reduce or withhold salary increases and benefits, and otherwise discipline employees , for cause.?/. ..	....
13.	To determine qualifications, skills, abilities, knowledge, selection procedures and .standards, jcb classifications, and to reallocate and reclassify employees.
14.	To hire, transfer intra- or inter-division, promote, reduce in rank, demote, reallocate, and terminate.cmplcye^s and take other personnel action for non disciplinary reasons in accordance with this Agreement and Civil Service Rules and Regulations..
15.	To determine policies, procedures, and standards for selection, training, and promotion of employees.
16.	To establish employee performance standards, including quality, and ? , quantity standards, and to require compliance therewith.
17.	To maintain order and efficiency in its facilities and operations.
18.	To establish, implement, and/or modify rules and regulations, policies and procedures related to productivity, performance, efficiency, standards of ethics, conduct, safety, health, and order in the City and to require compliance therewith.
19.	To restrict the activity of an employee organization on City property and facilities and on City time except as set forth in this agreement.
20.	To determine the issues of public policy and the overall goals and objectives of the City's divisions and to take necessary action to achieve the goals and objectives of the City's divisiqns. .
21.	To require the performance pf other services not specifically stated herein in the event nf emergency or disaster as deemed necessary by the City.
01ART1 • ••?,	„	6
ARTICLE ONE
22.	To take any and all necessary steps and action to carry out the service requirements and to determine the issues of public policy and the overall mission of the City and the mission of the Agency in emergencies or any other time deemed necessary'by the City not specified above.
B.	Authority of Third Party Neutral
All management rights, powers, authority, and functions, whether heretofore or hereinafter exercised,5 shaH remain vested exclusively with City. No third party neutral shall have the authority to diminish any of the management rights which are included in this Agreement.
’	•	>.	-	A A :	'	' ■' '■
C.	Impact of Management Rights
The City agrees to meet and confer with the Association, except in emergencies as defined elsewhere in this Agreement, over the exercise of a management right which directly impacts upon the wages, hours', and terms and conditions of employment of unit employees, unless remedies for the impact Consequences of the exercise of a management right upon unit employees are provided for in this Agreement, Civil Service Rules and Regulations, or Departmental Rules and Regulations.
VIII.	NO STRiXE/JeB ACTION PROVISION
ee'	■■■ ..	’ •
In addition to the no strike/job action provisions and penalties in the City's Employee Relations Ordinance, the following provisions shall apply.
A.	Prohibited Conduct
The Association, its officers, agents, representatives, and/or members when on duty, agree they will not call, cause, engage, oi condone ar.y strike, walkout, sit down, work stoppage, slowdown, sickout, blue flu, pretended illness, or engage or honor any other form of ty pes of job action by unit employees or by any other employees of the City or employees of any other employer by withholding or refusing to perform services or honor any type or form of picket iine of any union or employee organization.	.■ a;
B.	Employee Termination
Any employee who participates in any conduct prohibited in Section A above shall be considered 6n unauthorized absence and shall be subject to discharge or other disciplinary action by the City, regardless of whether the Association carries out in good faith its resporisibftities set forth below.
C.	Association Responsibilities
1.	In the event that the Associatlbn, its officers, agents, representatives, and/or members engagein any of the conduct prohibited in A, Prohibited Conduct, above, the Association shall immediately instruct any persons engaging in such conduct that their conduct is in violation of this Memorandum of Understanding and unlawful, and they must immediately cease engaging in conduct prohibited in A, Prohibited Conduct, above, and return to work.
01ART1	7	"	GCEA
’ . >	CITY,<>^
ARTICLE ONE
2.	If the Association performs all of the responsibilities in good faith set forth in C(1) above, its officers, agents, artd representatives shall not be liable for damages for prohibited conduct performed by employees who are covered by this Agreement in violation of A, Prohibited Conduct, above.
IX.	BI-MONTHLY MEETING - CiTY-GCEA
A Division head and Director of Personnel shall meet bi-monthly with three (3) representatives of the Association appointed by the Association's president. The purpose of . ,r. said meeting is to discuss employee relations matters.
GCEA
01ART1
8
ARTICLE TWO
ARTICLE TWO
SALARIES AND COMPENSATION
I.	SALARY SCHEDULES
All Salary Schedules for unit employees for July 1,2001 through June 30,2005 are set forth in this Article.	'■	~	; ;
II.	SALARY SCHEDULE - July 1 2001 through June 30, 2002	,
Effective July 1,2001 through Jurie 30,2002, all the classifications in the unit shall receive a three and seventy hundredths percent (3.70%) salary adjustment above their classification's current assigned salary range which was in effect in the salary range schedule on June 30, 2001.
III.	SALARY SCHEDULE - July 1, 2002 through June 30, 2003
Effective July 1,2002 through June 30,2003, all the classifications in the unit shall receive a three and one-half percent (3.5%) salary adjustment above their classification's current assigned salary range which was in effect in the salary range schedule on June 30, 2002.
IV.	SALARY SCHEDULE - July 1, 2003 through June 30, 2004
Effective July 1,2003 through June 30,2004, all the classifications in the unit shall receive a three and one-half percent (3.5%) salary adjustment above their classification's current assigned salary range which was in effect in the salary range schedule on June 30, 2003.
V.	SALARY SCHEDULE - July 1, 2004 through June 30, 2005
A.	CPI Salary Adjustment - Maximum - 7.0%
Effective July 1, 2004 through June 30, 2005, all the classifications in the unit shall receive salary increases above each classification's current assigned salary range which was in effect in the salary range schedule on June 30, 2004, as determined by the following conditions: Classifications in this unit shall receive salary adjustments based on the nearest rounded one quarter percent (.25%) increment change of the Consumer Price Index (CPI) All Urban Consumers Index (U) for the Los Angeles-Orange County - Riverside area (1982-84 = 100 base) for the period of April, 2003 through April, 2004 to a maximum salary increase not to exceed seven percent (7.0%).
B.	CPI Salary Adjustment Minimum -1.5%
Should the Consumer Price Index (CPI) All Urban Consumer Index (U) for the Los Angeles - Orange County - Riverside area (1982-84 =100 base) for the period of April, 2003 through April, 2004 be less than one and one-half percent (1.5%), all unit employees shall receive a one and one-half percent (1.5%) salary adjustment in lieu of CPI.
C. Examples
Examples of the CPI adjustment are as follows:
01ART2
9
ARTICLE TWO
1.	Should the CPI as set forth in this agreement change one and twelvehundredths percent (1.12%), the total salary adjustment would be one and one-half percent (1.5%).
2.	Should the CPI as set forth in this agreement change five and twelvehundredths percent (5.12%), the total salary adjustment would be five percent (5%).
r' •
3.	Jf the CPI change would be seven and thirteen-hundredths percent (7.13%), the total salary adjustment would be seven percent (7%).
VI.	SALARIES ROUNDED OFF	...
./	• All scarier sMI be rounded to the neares* v'h-'s ciollcr.
VII.	DEF^RED CQ^'.PicNSATIQH - EMPLOYER PAID
A.	Effective July 1,1033 y ... .
1	. Effective July 1, 1993, the City agrees to pay or a percent (1%) above the Unit Employees' base salary into the Unit Employees' deferred compensation ,	account , Such account shall be established and administered in
conformance with the provision set forth in the City's Supplementary Benefit Ordinance in effect the date this Agreement became effective.
2	This special benefit ■«- provided to Unit Employees to assist in their supplemental retirement allowance benefits.
B.	. Included in Base Salary - Effective July 1,1997
1.	Effective July 1, 1997, ?he City shall cease to pay one percent (1 %) of the unit employees base salary into a deferred compensation account.
2.	. .... Effective July 1, 1997, the unit employees salary, as stated in the City’s salary Ordinance, shall include the one percent (1%) of base salary previously paid into a deferred compensation account.
C.	Salary Comparisons , -. ,
It is understood and agreed that this City-paid deferred compensation shall be included in al! salary and compensation enmoapsons.
VIII.	- APPRENTICESHIFSfrLAflY ^CHFRUL^
. X- . •	... .	.. ■	• • • • •	-
A.	Falary Schedule ~. >
All apprenticeship classifications shall be paid a salary schedule as set forth in the salary ordingope effective July. 1, 1997 and as gm^pded by this agreement.
... -
01ART2.doc	10	GCEA
city
ARTICLE TWO
B.	Relationship to Journey Classifications
The Apprenticeship Classifications have their salaries set in relationship to journey classes as follows:	-
Apprenticeship Classification
Electrical Mechanic Apprentice
Electrical Line Meeh: Apprentice ■ ' '>■ <
Powerline Apprentice
Power Plant Mechanic Apprentice
Power Plant Control Operator Apprantice.
Water System Apprentice , . ... , ; ,
Joumev Classifications
Top Step-85% of M Step (Step 6) of Base Salary of , Electrical Mechanic
Top Step-85% of M Step (Step 6) of Base Salary
of Electrical Line Mechanic
Top Step-85% of M Step (Step 6) of Base Salary of
Powerline Mechanic , - ■	"
Top Step*85% of M $tap(^tep^fbf Base Salary
of Power Plant Mechanic
Top Stepr85% of M Step (SfSp 6) 6f Bsse Salary of Power
Plant Control Operator
^Top Step-8^%ptMS^^StepI&) qf^£e Salary of Water
IX.	STEP ADVANCEMENT IN RATE OF COMPENSATION
A. Salary Steps . - '	:	• *
;.:i ciry ' ; £	\ :
- 1. Step ! - Shall be entry-level step for new employees in all classifications in
•' trtsunit. '	’ " • •	■
• •• S;, 7 ■’ I .. ■	.-•» *	3 7	•.
2.	Step 2 - A unit employee who receives an evaluation that meets or exceeds Standards should-receive this step after the completion of six (6) months of service in;Step; 1 in the^amd classification?'
3.	Step 3 - 'A'unit employee ttilid received an-^aluaiion thd*meets dr exceeds
standards should receive this step after the completion of one (1) year of service’in Step 2 irr the same 'classification. '•
k • S ■ ;■ .	•
4.	Step 4 - A unit employee whoreceives an evaluation that meets or exceeds
standards should receive this step after the completion of one (1) year of
*-■	service in Step 3 ih^he sai^e classification. '	’
»;if ?<	?• L',i. •. o.'> "y mt
5.	Step5 - A unit employee who receives an evaluation that meets or exceeds
standards should receive this step after thd completias>-of one (1) year of service in Step 4 in the same classification.
6.	BelowStacdardsEvaiuation-A unit errfpfoyee who receives an evaluation that is below standards shall not be advanced to the next step until they receive an evaluation that fleets or exceeds^tandards of performance. Unit employees so affected shall be reevaluated within ninety (90) days. Any employee denied a step increase shall be notified in writing of reasons for denial.
7.	Step 'M (Step 3)- should be reseived as a reward for jobperformance which exceeds standards of performance. An employee should normally not be considered for this step until they have completed one (1) year of service in Step 5 in the same classification and the City Manager should
01ART2.doc	11	GCEA
J -. '	city
ARTICLE TWO
require division heads to furnish convincing proof of the qualifications of employees before granting this increase.
8.	Removal of "IV!" Step (Step 6) - If subsequently an employee receives an evaluation which i? Below Standards or lower, the employee may be reduced to Step 5. M Step (Step 6) may be reinstated after one (1) year or at a lesser time as permitted by management with an evaluation that Exceeds Standard of Performance. M Step removals are not appealable to the Civil Service Commission.
9.	Step Advancement - Apprenticeship Classifications
; Step advancement for unit employees holding Apprenticeship classifications, as listed ir VIH B above, shall be determined by the v - respective Apprenticeship Committee, in compliance with the State-certified Apprenticeship Standards.
B.	Effective Date of Step Increases and Extra Compensation
All step increases and extr? compensation shall bo made effective at the start of the next regular pay period.
C.	Right to Raise Salaries, Other Compensation and Benefits
The City reserves themght tc raise salaries, other? compensation, and benefits during the term of this agreement. The City will meet and consult with the Association prior to implementing increased compensation and benefits.
1.	When a personnel action, such as a demotion due to layoff, reallocation, or reclassification, or job rehabilitation results in the lowering of the
. ’	incumbent unit employee's, salaryjange, the affected incumbent's salary
may be "Y-rated" by the City.
2.	"Y-rated" shall mean the maintenance of the incumbent employee's salary rate at the level effective the day preceding the effective date of the personnel action in lieu of placing the employee in a lower salary range.
3.	. The employee's base, salary shall remain at the same level until the salary range of the new classification equals or exceeds the Y-rated salary.
4.	Those unit employees on a job rehabilitation shall be Y-rated upon written agreement and mutual consent between the affected employee and the City.. > ■- . .	, • r
E.	Base Salary
Base salary shall mean only the assigned salary to any unit classification exoluf ;v© of any other type of form of compensation.
01ART2'	-	12
ARTICLE TWO
F.	Extra Pay/Compensation • '
Extra pay shall be defined as compensation above the unit employee's base salary for special assignments; differentials, and bonuses.
X.	ONE-PERSON REFUSE TRUCK ASSIGNMENT
A.	Assignment	•
Unit employees in the classifications .of Integrated Wasf? Truck Operator or qualified designated-lntegrated Waste workers in the integrated Waste Management Section of the Public Works Division who are assigned by management to one-person operation of a refuse collection truck shall receive extra.compensation.
B.	Compensation
* » '•	■< ’«	... • . * ~ . ... * •
1.	This extra compensation shall be one hundred and sixty dollars ($160.00) per rrx.'.th obove their base salary.
2.	It is not the intention of this provision to permanently replace the Integrated • ' i Waste Truck Operators' positions, but instead to pay the one person refuse truck assignment to the Integrated Waste Worker on those occasions when ■ ..i . •-'> •= •' ■ their services in this assignment are needed as qualified by this section.
C.	Litn itaCicr.	’	’ f’ >
This extra compensation shall be paid only during those periods or portions thereof when such employees are actually engaged in the one-person operation of a refuse .	. . truck.	•-
XI.	PUBLIC WORKS/INTEGRATED WASTE MANAGEMENT SECTION- COMMERCIAL REFUSE ASSIGNMENT PAY
• Assignment	• • <•	. •
Unit employees in the classifications of Integrated Waste Truck Operator or Integrated Waste Worker in the Integrated Waste Manager Section of the Public Works Division, who aro assigned by Management tr "Hal refuse collection duties asd/c; the “hustler” driver assignment, shai	a compensation.
B.	Compensation	<	.
"SV*’	'	*,i:*.**	*r-
Effective July 1, 1999, this extra comnen*'' month above their base salary.
C.	Limitation
This extra co;>*.pensdtion t when such employees are and/or “hustler” driver assii
01ART2.doc
jllars ($30.00) per
ortions thereof
llection duties
ARTICLE TWO
XII.	PUBLIC WORKS INTEGRATED WASTE TRUCK MECHANICAL MAINTENANCE ASSIGNMENT
A. Assignment
Unit employees in the classifications of Senior Equipment Mechanic, Equipment Mechanic I, Equipment Mechanic II, Equipment Welder, Equipment Mechanic Helper and Equipment Service Worker, who are assigned to the Public Works Mechanical Maintenance Section and perform maintenance on Integrated Waste trucks shall receive extra compensation. The trucks being maintained under this provision - >	..■■■ ircludo all Integrated Waste packer units (front-loaders, rear loaders, automated side
. . Io rte’^s and manual side loaders). ;
B:	Coh x^sation u	-
C *	1
This extra compensation shall be in the amount of eighty-five dollars ($85.00) per month above their base salary.	>... ■
C. Limitation	'	'■ ’	•
This extra compensation shall be paid only during those periods or portions thereof when such unit employees are actually assigned to the Public Works Mechanical Maintenance Section and perform maintenance on the Sanitation trucks describecfin ...A above, on a regular bnsis. ..	’
XIII.	UTILITY WELDER ASSIGNMENT
A. Assignment
Unit employees, exclusive of those in the classification of Utility Welder, who receive certification 'ey the California State Division of Industrial Safety to do electric arc and gas welding under Section IX of ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, and who are assigned in writing by management to perform this certified welding on an as-needed basis shall receive extra comD^ns£t:?n.
•; B.	Cc*-jen -	_>•.	... '
-it' /•'
. ....	it- \mpensutior. shall be in the amount of $1.60 per hour above their base
f	if ich hour worked in said assignment; with a minimum guarantee of
" 1 e oa; J on!” during those periods or portions thereof
?	s- signed and certified to perform certified
01ARTl>
d
ARTICLE TWO
XIV.	SUPERVISOR ASSIGNMENT PAY - POWER PLANT
A.	Assignment
Employees in the classifications of Power Plant Control Operator and Power Plant Mechanic, who are assigned in writing by management to fill in for Power Plant Shift Supervisors or Power Plant Mechanic Supervisors, on a temporary basis, shall receive extra compensation.	, r <
B.	Compensation r -	.. ..»> .
This extra compensation shall be in the.amountof $1.40 per hour above their base hourly rate for each hour worked Ji vsaid assignment; This esdra compensation shall be adjusted by the same annual percentage salary range adjustment granted to the classification of Power Plant Control Operator and PowenRjant Mechanicias set forth in this article.
• ,	/' U J, *»	.	.	' *	•’	■
C.	Limitations	«	■ ;
This extra compensation shall be paid only during those periods or portions thereof when such employees are actually assigned to the supervisory duties. Such unit employees shall not be eligible for any acting pay compensation as set forth in this ; article, while also receiving this assignment pay.
XV.	FORTY-TWO (42) HOUR WORK WEEK - ASSIGNMENT PAY - PUBLIC SERVICE DIVISION EMPLOYEES
A.	Assignment
The Director of Public Service, with the approval of the City Manager, may assign employees in the Public.Service Division topwork schedules, under which each employee averages, forty-two (42) working frours per week; in which event the work time so scheduled shall be> consideredithe regular employmentwork schedule.
B.	42-Hour Work Weafe Alignment Pay <, 5 <	. -a.
1.	Compensation - Holiday-In-Lieu Pay:	Sty^ic^ Division
^.iieni
During such time ®s an employee is schedule commerc >2 hour work week rssignment as.provided in this section, thfj receive extri. II receive a twelve percent (12%) assignment pay above	y rate otherwise
applicable to the classification as sole ar	-ation paid for the
extra two (2) hours worked per week a	.a work cycle at an
overtime pay rate oftime-and-a-^lf. Th. eivcp: ht (12%) assignment '	.	pay for the 42-|^ur.work vmkit	not pr, dud© pv^cwne payment for hours
worked in excess of the 42-ht>ur work wuek schedule as defined in this agreemer	. ...
01ART2.doc
gcea
ARTICLE TWO
2.	Limitations
This 42-hour work week assignment pay shall be the sole and entire payment in lieu of the Holiday sections of this agreement, which shall not apply to such employees, and the vacation allowance shall not exceed the vacation policy as set forth in this agreement.
XVI.	WATER.STAND-BY ASSIGNMENT PAY - PUBLIC SERVICE DIVISION
A. Assignment • - r	,
1.	Unit employees of the Public Service Watei Section assigned to Water Stand-By duties acknowledge and agree to provide year-round "stand-by" • coverage.	■- it
2.	Year-round standby coverage is limited to the hours between 4:00 p.m. to 6:30 a.m.
3.	Coverage to be distributed on an equitable basis, as approved by management.
4.	Stand-by coverage shall include, but is hot limited to providing year-round stand-by coverage including equitable distribution ^vacations, sick leave, and all other leaves. } ....t
B- > h Compensation Lf^u of Water Stand-By Assignment Pay
i . Unit omployees assigned to Wa'er Stand-By duties shall receive an assignment pay . of six hundred fifty dollars ($650.00) per month over their base salary in lieu of any ether stand-by assignment pay for this classification.
XVII.	ASSIGNMENT PAY - ELECTRICAL LINE MECHANIC APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
A. Compensation
Unit employees in the classification of Electrical Mechanic Supervisor I or Powerline Supervisor I shall receive an extra assignment pay of two and one-half (2.5%) percent above their current base salary while they are enrolled in the Electrical Line Mechanic Apprenticeship Program and assigned to a crew performing “crosstraining” activities. This assignment pay will cease once the employee either . • • completes the program and is cremated to the classification of Electrical Line
Mechanic Supervisor I, or terminates from the Program.
XVIII.	ASSIGNMENT PAY - ELECTRICAL SECTION 12KV RUBBER GLOVING
A.	Compensation Upon Comnl»t»nr ^<Te9>»n>nq Program
V
U"!.t employees in tho c^rsif c .. E irtricr’I
■ ■. L ?cha
three p
/al Line Mechanic Apprentice, nic Supervisor I, Powerline ieive an extra assignment pay of ’ary following the completion of a
GCEA
CITY
01ART2.doc
ARTICLE TWO
formalized training program on maintenance and construction work on energized 12kV power lines using insulate / isolate procedures with rubber gloves.
B.	Compensation While Assigned to Crew
Unit employees in the classifications'of Electrical Line Mechanic Apprentice, Electrical Line Mechanic, Electrical Line Mechanic Supervisor I, Powerline Mechanic and Powerline Supervisor I, shall receive an additional assignment pay of three percent (3%) aoove their current base salary, for a total of six piercent (6&) rar each day assigned to a crew performing maintenance and construction work on energized 12kV power lines using insulate/isolate procedures with rubber gloves.
' C. Limitations	:	t J
. r • .<• >.
1.	When unit employees are assigned to the, duties set forth in “B" above during normal work hours, the assignment pay as set forth in UB” above shall apply for all normal work hours of that work day.	. rt
2.	When unit employees are assigned to the duties set forth in “B” above during overtime work, the assignment pay as set forth in “B" above shall apply for all hours of overtime worked'.	\ .
XIX.
SENIOR COMMUNITY SERVICE OFFICER PROGRAM
A.	v . Purpose	?
The purpose of the Senior Community Service Officer Program is to select and recognize those non-swom employees in the position of Community Service Officer in general,'coiTimunications or/aik' assignments, Who eiky -receive difficult and challenging assignments or are required to work independently with a minimum of supervision. These unit employees' shalKprovide leadership, direction and training for other unifemployees? Additionally, they may be required to assist the Police Department in a wide variety of other duties and responsibilities including but not limited to providing performance evaluation input.
B.	Compensation
f'ti. .
Extra Pay
Community Service Officers 'assigned as "Seniors""shall receive extra compensation in the amount of one hundred fifty dollars ($15(3) per month over their base salary. ’•"> y ?,:; ■>	■■	.■ ■- ■<
C.	Aoministr^tion ''
The Senior Community Service Officer Program shall be administered as follows:
1.	Eligibility
'	.	~	■■	3	. ‘I " ’	.•’‘•S ...
a. CSO Communications/Jail/General Parking Assignment
FM	■*•■***■ ***-4i-*•	J L «?•’. /K'j
nt.
A:	>r\'5pe Officer in'the Comnunications, Jail or
• C	n '*'**‘t A&signmentswh .meets the following
sidered by Polia Y management for ‘ ’-abo^nihent as e Senior COihmunity Setvice Officer:
17 GCEA
CITY
01ART2
ARTICLE TWO
1)	Job performance is rated "exceeds standards" or above.
2)	Has three (3) years job experience in the specific field for which application is made.
3)	Has a minimum of two years experience with the Glendale Police De^rfment in the specific field for which application is made.
♦
b.	CSO General/Special Assignment
Any Community Service Cfficor in general assignment whose job performance exceeds sAandards, shall be considered by Police management for assignment as a Senior Community Service Officer if they possess the commensurate aptitude, skill and expertise necessary for such assignment. Such assignments are not subject to any review committee.
,	»	'	>	«■	f.>»
c.	Modification - Minimum Experience
The minimum experienoa necessary for either "Senior" assignment may be temporarily modified whenever Police management determines the ainsufficient amount of candidates possessing the required expertise for specialized assignments or eligibility standards within Ah?. department from which to select. Modification s<ecomir.rrda‘i. as may be made by the review committee for approval by Police management.
d.	Review Committee
1)	Committee Size
A review committee of five (5) persons appointed by the Chief of Police shall establish selection criteria, screen, rank, and recommend qualified candidates for the position of Senior Community Service Officer.
2)	Committee Composition
The Committee will consist of the appropriate division commander and a total of four (4) managers and/or supervisors with demonstrated knowledge of the particular function being applied for. The GCEA President or designee shall also se-vo cn the Committee as a non-voting member.
e.	gevoc^t^*) \
1)	? Written Notification
Upon review by the "Senior Community Service Officer ■ ;	Committee", this assignment is revocable at any time by the
Poli -j Chi*,' if such determination is accompanied by written nofi-fK ation stating the reasons for the revocation of the ...-•i/ .	,	, ,iigr.7n8At.
01ART2.doc
18
ARTICLE TWO
2)	N jn-Appiicable Specialized Assignment
This provision does not apply to assignments made by Police management as a specialized assignment, pursuant to the aforementioned paragraph.
f.	Authorization
The total number of non-sworn Senior Community Service Officer assignments authorized, within the various Police Department work sections-shalt be determined bjy the City.
g.	Reavaluation v
A reevaluation of the assigned Senior Community Service Officer's performance shall be conducted by the Review Board every six . months. .
h.	Assignment ’»«
— -	1) Responsibilities and Duties
■ '1 Non-svwxh -wnpioyoes assigned as Senior Community ■ < >	*■ Service Officer shall be given responsibilities and duties as
defined1 and recommended by the Police Review Board and approved by Police management.
2) Additional Responsibilities
As part of their routine assignment, Senior Community
J	Service Officers may assist their direct supervisor in
preparing personnel performance evaluations, and act as that unifcsupervisorduring short-term absences.
i.	Limitation
1)	Functioning in Assignment
.	•	*	».*.*.	V ' .o'*1’.'	■ • i i
The extra’compensation shall be paid only during those <	=■ -' v> periods' or portions thereof, when such employees are
aC dally assigned and functioning as a Senior Community Service Officer.
2)	Non-Job Rela^JJMnes? or Injury
However,' should an employee assigned as a Senior
<’	■ c Community Service Officer be unable to perform that function
due to anon-job related illness or injury for a period of fifteen ■	(15) wdrking^ays or more, this assignment compensation
"	■ < shall be suspended for all scheduled work days not worked in
excess of the firs* ifteen (15) working days and until the day
01ART2.doc	19	GCEA
' .’	CITY
ARTICLE TWO
he/she returns to full duty assignment.
3)	Special 3hort-T( m Assignments
Periodically the need for additional Senior Community Service Officer assignments may occur throughout the Department to address special staffing requirements. Police management shall have the authority io fill those assignments with temporary Senior Community Service Officers on a short-term basis, as approved by City management. When a special short-term position is needed, the temporary assignment will be offered to the next employee on the
7 v . .. . ! / eligibility list which was created by the Review Committee.
4. Tempon? Assignments
Senior Community Service Officer assignments are temporary assignments, not a separate job classification. It does not have Civil Service status, and is not subject to Civil . s	Service selection procedures, appeals, or seniority; it is not a
t: property right and may be revoked by Police management at any time for job-related re. sons or operational necessity.
XX.	POLICE COMMUNICATIONS ASSIGNMENT PAY
c A. • Gomr creation	. ’	.	.	< ■ ■
? : Unit employ’ 'j in the classification of Community Service Officer and ■ fC Communications Shift Supervisor who ere assigned to police communications > “• operations shall receive an extra assignment pay of one hundred and forty dollars “ ■ ■ ■ ($140) per month over ti ieh base salary.
XXI.	JAIL ASSIGNMENT PAY
• C tC ’	"v •	V. ...
-A. Compensation r
i’GX-’ V “■ - Vf	“	-i;
Unit employees in the classification of Community Service Officer and Jail Shift Supervisor who are assigned to Jail Operations shall receive an extra assignment t st ' £>ay of one hui jdred and thirty.uollars (SI 30) per month over their base salary.
XXII.	POLICE RECORDS ASSIGNMENT PAY
A. Compenjation
1. Unit employees in the classification of Police Records Specialist and Police Records uh,ft Super . isor who ate assigreC to work the Police Records Bureau shall receive an extra assignment pay of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per month over their base salary.
GCEA
CITY
01ART2.doc
20
ARTICLE TWO
XXIII.	SHIFT PAY
Unit employees who are assigned to certain shifts shall receive extra pay as follows:
A.	Evening Shifts
Unit employees who are assigned to work any hours that begin on or after 3:00 p.m. but before 12:00 a.m. shall receive seventy cents ($0.70) per hour extra above their ba'e hourly rate for each hour worked within this time period.
f •	l ■	■■■	• . ■<	:.v
B.	Hight Shifts
- • Unit employees who are assigned to work any hours that begin on or after 12:00 a.m. but before 8:00 a.m. of the next following day shall receive seventy-five cents ($0.75) per hour extra above th^ir base hourly rate for each hour worked within this time period.
C.	Eli^ibility/Limitations , •.**
1.	Unit employees, except those working the night shift in the Police Record Bureau on or after 4:00 a.m. and on or before 7:00 a.m., must work a ' minimum of four (4) hours within either shift or a combination of both shifts to be eligible to receive shift pay extra compensation as provided for in this section.	A .. '	- a >
2.	In the Police and Fire Divisions only unit employee© in theclassi Jcations of Community Service Officers, Office Specialist I, Office Specialist II, Senior Office Specialist, Office Services Specie^ J, Office Services Specialist II, ;Senior Office Services Specialist, Police Redfords Specialist, Office Services
Secretary, Office Services Secretary <Steno); . Senior Identification Technician, Identification Technician, and Police: Records Shift Supervisor shall be entitled to receive the extra compensation provided for in this article.
3.	Unit employees receiving compensation for overtime, standby, call back or Communications Assignment Pay or Jai! Assignment Pay shall not be entitled to receive the shift pay extra compensation provided for in this section.	.	o •
XXIV.	FOREiCN LANGUAGE OR SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETER PRQFICENCY PROGRAM
A. Purpose
1.	The purpose of the Foreign Language Proficiency Program is to provide linguistic assistance for non-English speaking person(s) who represent a large segment of the Glendale Community, and for hearing impaired individuals vyho make use of sign language.
2.	This service is provided through certain selected unit employees who have been certified as proficient in a designated foreign language or approved sign language for the hearing impaired.
GCEA
CITY
01ART2.doc
21
ARTICLE TWO
B. Compensation
1.	Unit employees assigned to the Foreign Language or Sign Language Interpreter Proficiency Program shall receive extra compensation of eighty dollars ($50.00) per month above 'heir base salary.
2.	This extra pay compensation shall become effective the first pay period following receipt of approval by the Director of Finance and Administrative Services. Thin extn compensation shall terminate immediately upon the day the assignment is revoked by division management.
C. ■■ r Administration
The City's Foreign Language c? Sign Language Interpreter Proficiency Program shall be administered as follows:;	<
* n • <. Qualifications
’	’O’ "	.i‘	*	,. ■>, ••	•	,	. »	:
A unit employee may Le authorized and may qualify for the program upon the determination of City Manager, ient that the employee possesses the following qualifications:
a.	The employee possesses and exercises:
1)	Linguistic skills a; id abilities in both English and in a designated foreign language; including sign language;
2)	Knowledge of and sensitivity toward the culture and needs of the foreign language speaking group.
b.	The specific assignment of the employee requires a demonstrated f -	ability in both English and in a designated foreign language used by a
large segment of the residents o'.the community which the City serve s,. or fcy hearing impaired individuals in need of City Services.
c.	The specific assignments must require the use of both languages by the employee on a coniincing, frequent, rnd recurring basis in order to meet the service demands and fulfill the mission, goals and responsibilities of the division in which the employee is employed.
r • . ■ . • t.r.	7 ;■> ;
d.	The specific assignment may require the employee to assist in '-■■■ :	interviews and interrogations of persons in criminal investigations or
any other interactions with customers requiring the use of both languages.
-	e. The specific assignment will subject designated employees to being
subpoenaed to testify in a criminal or administrative proceeding regarding information recei’ .d through translation, interrogation, or any other interaction with customers.
GCEA
CITY
01ART2.doc
22
ARTICLE TWO
f.	The employee's annual performance and record of efficiency evaluation has and continues to be rated at meets standards or
.	above.	r-
-J •’'»’>	>	;	•	.
•	. •.	> f •	. I	I
g.	Unit employees receiving this assignment pay shall be available to provide their language skills in any City assignment or Division where * the need for these skills arises.
2.	Foreign Language or Sign Language Fluency Certification
a.	Unit employees meeting the qualifications of the program and who wish to be placed in the Foreign Languageinterpreter Proficiency Program must first apply, test, and successfully demonstrate fluency in the givan language or fluency, in sign . language through examinations administered by the Personnel Division.
b.	The Personnel Division shall then certify to the appropriate division head the names of employees who have successfully demonstrated «.foreign language fluency skills and abilities or sign language skills
. ..<■!■ :	and abilities. 5, t- • '
■ J...-:-
3.	Application
Unit employees who have been certified in foreign language skills and ? :	abilities and seek consideration for assignment to the Foreign Language or
Sign Language Interpreter Proficiency Program shall submit an application requesting consideration for the program. Application should be submitted to the employee's division head through the ' smployee's section management.
4.	Eligibility Criteria
When qualified and certified unit employees submit application for < << consideration to be placed in, the Foreign Language or Sign Language
■I ’	Interpreter Proficiency. Program, tho following eligibility criteria shall be
utilized in determining which employees shall be selected:
■;>	«	The most appropriate position in terms of specific job assignment.
-	b.	Employees who have most frequently utilized foreign language
interpreter skills on job assignments in the past.
j	c.	;E:nployee's total seniority in time spent as a regular employee with
. •	* lite City of Glendale. •
d. Employees found to be eligible on an equal basis may be given consideration for assignment appointments on a semi-annual basis.
.	.	5. . ’ ApfrJinbneBt - .
a.	The division head shall be responsible for determining appointments to the Foreign Language or Sign Language Interpreter Proficiency
GCEA •
CITY
01ART2.doc
23
ARTICLE TWO
assignments based on the qualifications, certification, and eligibility requirements set forth for this program.
b.	A re-evaluation of each appointment may be made atany time and may be revoked at any time by division Management.
6. Total Number of Authorized Assignments
The total number of positions authorized and filled at any time is the sole ' >	discretion of City Management.	,
D.	Interpreter Skills of All Employees
1.	Afl unit employees who have foreign language skills or sign language skills are not necessarily entitled to an appointment for a Foreign Language or Sign Language Interpreter Proficiency, assignment.
■	'1	>1 I.:	. • . • -	'
2	Therefore, nothing herein is intended to relieve or diminish in any way unit employees possessing these skills and abilities,from any responsibility and duty to utilize and exercise these skills and abilities in linguistic communication in the performance of their required duties.
3.	Employees possessing such language skills will continue to use these skills without additional (Compensation on an occasional,as needed basis.
E.	Limitation	. .■• -
b ~
1.	This extra compensation shall be paid only during those periods or portions thereof when such employees are actually assigned to the Foreign Language or Sign Language Interpreter Proficiency Program and are performing the assignment in *heir<dailyscheduled duties.
2.	However, shga|d .a upit ,employee assigned to the Foreign Language Interpreter Program pr Sign, Language Interpreter Proficiency Program be s. unable to perform th$t function due to a nqn-job related illness or injury for a period cf twenty-one (21) calendar days, this assignment compensation shall be suspended for all scheduled work days not worked in excess of the first twenty-one (21) calendar days and until the day he/she returns to this full duty assignment. .. a., - s	~
F.	Temporary Assignments ‘V. ’	’f;	■ <5 ; •> •
Foreign Language Interpreter ProT^iency a nd Sigr^Language. Interpreter Proficiency Program assignments are temporary assignments, not a separate job classification; they do net have Civil Service status, and are not subject to Civil Service selection procedures, appeals,;cr seniority; they are. not a property right and may be revoked by Management at any time for job^related reasons or operational necessity.
GCEA
CITY
01ART2.doc
24
ARTICLE TWO
XXV.	FIRE COMMUNICATIONS OPERATORS - LEAEWORKER ASSIGNMENT
A. Compensation
Unit employees in the classification of Fire Communication Operator who are assigned as a ieadwoAer shall receive eighty, cents ($0.80) per hour above their base hourly rate for each hour worked as a lead worker.
XXVI.	CSO POLICE COMMUNICATIONS OPERATORS- PRISONER SEARCH ASSIGNMENT
A.	Eligibility	> ;' 4.	.:. *.: /	■_ !
Unit employees in the classifications of CSO Communications Operators, CSO general employees, and Communications Shift Supervisors who have been trained and certified in prisoner search techniques, car, be required to search prisoners when sworn police employees or jail custodial staff are not available, and when no CSO Communications Operators, CSO general employees, or Communications Shift Supervisors volunteer to search prisoners as required by management.
B.	Compensation	'
Any CSO Communications Operator, CSO general employees, er Communications Shift Supervisors who conducts a prisoner search of a prisoner as required, shall receive fifty dollars ($50.00) above their base pay per each prisoner search but shall not exceed more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) per er. eluyees’ work schedule per day, regardless of number of searches conducted.
XXV.I. AC i ING ASSIGNMENT
A.	Eligibility -10 Consecutive Calendar Days
1.	A unit employee, only after receiving written direction from the division r	head stating they shall ae granted an acting assignment, and after having
been performing me duties of a Vacant position for at least ten (10) consecutive calendar days, shall be giveri an acting assignment.
2.	A vacant position is one in which the incumbent is on some form of leave, or has terminated, or a newly created position; A vacant position may also be when a unit employee has been transferred to another job assignment in a differ mt section of the same division.
B.	‘ Fulfill Responsibilities of V'car.t Position	u
\	- » “	”	~	•	.3 t.-i ■ '	' p
Acting assignments may be made only to fulfill the responsibilities of the vacant position Until such time uu an appointment is >made or until such time as the s incumbent has returned to duty; ' "
C.	Assignment Limitations
GCEA
CITY
01ART2
25
ARTICLE TWO
Upon the approval of the division head and the notification of the Finance Division and Personnel Division, acting assignment may be granted for a period not greater than ninety (90) calendar days. Extension of acting assignments beyond ninety (90) calendar days must be approved by the City Manager.
D.	One Move-Up per Vacancy
1.	Acting assignments are limited to one (1) move-up per vacancy. Vacant positions created by acting assignments shall not be deemed vacancies for the purposes of this provision.
2.	' A unit employee who is assigned to fill a vacancy in management or mid-management shali be eligible for Acting Assignment. Such acting ’ •••	assignment shall be limited to the first move-up to management or mid-
management vacancies by a unit employee.
E.	Compensation	.
Upon assignment of an acting appointment, an employee will begin to earn a salary which is equal to Step A of the salary range of the position assigned to, but shall receive at. least a salary five percent (5%) above the current base salary of the employee's permanent position, unless the 5% exceeds the M step of the acting assignment classification. In this event the acting assignment salary range shall be
■ the M step of the acting assignment classification.
F.	Timo Accrues Towards Salary Step increases •
While working in an acting capacity, an employee will continue to accrue time toward •'	’ salary step increases in their permanent position.
XXVIII.	LIMITATION ON ASSIGNMENTS
•	• •	I	-
Assignments to extra pay positions are temporary, not a separate classificationand do not have Civil Service status and are not subject to Civil Service selection procedures, appeals, or seniority. Assignments are not a property right.
XXIX.	RETIREMENT
A.	PERS
The City provides unit employee retirement coverage through the PublicEmployees' Retirement System (PERS).
B.	Employer Contribution Rate
The City contributes approximately 0.00% of the employee's salary, exclusive of overtime and reimbursement compensation. The contribution rate is established and adjusted annually for the employer by PERS Board of Administration.
C.	Employee Contribution Rate
01ART2.doc
26
CITY
ARTICLE TWO
1.	Employees contribute 7.0% of their salary. The contribution rate for the , employee is governed by State legislation.
2.	It is understood that this total of seven percent (7.0%) added to salaries by the City shall be included in all salary and compensation comparisons.
. „ i	1.
3.	Should Federal and State laws and regulations require the withholding of personal income taxes, the City will withhold such income taxes which are applicable.
4.	The City shall "pick up" the employees' required PERS contribution. This "pick up" shall be . in. accordance with Section 414(h)2 of the Internal Revenue Code and Section 20615 of the State .of California Government Code whereby employee contributions shall be tax deferred (not subject to taxation until time of constructive receipt).
D.	Additional Retirement Benefits
1.	"2% at 60" formula as adopted by the City, effective July 1, 1971.
2.	■■	1959 Survivors Benefit Level Three as adopted by the City, effective
Novembers, 1994. .
3.	Survivors Continuance benefit as adopted by the City, effective July 1,1971.
4.	One time 5% increase for employees retired prior to'January 1, 1971, adopted by the City, effective July 1,1975.
5.	One year highest compensation formula as adopted by the City, effective September 1,1976.
6.	One time 15% increase for employees retired prior to July T, 1971, adopted ,	by the City, effective October 1, 1977.	.....
i ’	’	•••„	-	e".	. ■ ■
7.	Post retirement survivors allowance to continue after re-marriage, effective August 13,1985.
8.	Military buy back effective November 8, 1991.
9.	“2% at 55" Formula as adopted by the City effective October 1, 1994.
10.	1959 Survivor’s Benefit - Level Four- as adopted by. the City effective
October, 1997.
11.	Unused Sick Leave Credits (Gov’t. Code 20965) effective June 30,1998.
XXX.	AGREEMENTS TO MEET AND DISCUSS	'
A.	Meet and Discuss - PERS Retirement Benefits
The City and GCEA agree, per the request of either party, for the purpose of
01ARTZ.doc
27
ARTICLE TWO
discussing any existing or new PERS retirement benefit options which are made available during the term of this agreement, including but not limited to the PERS COLA adjustment.
B.	Meet and Discuss - Impact cf Sta*e Actions
The City and GCEA agree to meet and discuss the impact on the City of any actions on the part of the State that would significantly impact the City’s ability to fund its budget during the term of this agreement.
GCEA
CITY
01ART2
28
ARTICLE THREE
ARTICLE THREE
WORK PERIODS, SCHEDULES AND OVERTIME
II.
WORK PERIODS *• ’
A.	7-Day Work Period
The work hours for unit employees shall be a fixed and regularly recurring period of 168 consecutive hours consisting of seven (7) consecutive 24-hour periods.
B.	7-Day Work Period for Employees On Other Than 9/80
Work Schedule, Beqinninq/Ending
The seven (7) -day work period shall begin on Monday at 12:00 a.m. and end on Sunday at 11:59:59 p.m. except as modified by management.
C.	7-Day Work Period For Employees on the 9/80 Work Schedule, Beginning/Ending
The seven (7) -day work period shall begin on Friday at 12:00 p.m. and end on Friday at 11:59:59 a.m. except as modified by Management.
D.	7-Day Work Period - Fixed and Regularly Recurring
THEREAFTER, the work periods shall be fixed and regularly recurring 7-day work periods as set forth in the aforementioned.
E.	28-Day Work Period Fixed and Regularly Recurring
Community Service Officers assigned to 3/36 work schedule shall work a fixed and regularly recurring 28-day work period of 168 work hours.
TIME WORKED
A.	Maximum Time Worked - 7-Day Work Period
The maximum time worked per each 7 day work period which is paid at the straight time rate of pay shall be 40 hours inclusive of breaks and exclusive of time not considered work time.
B.	CSO Maximum Time Worked - 28-Day Work Period
Community Service Officers working the 3/36 work plan shall work a 28 day work period. The maximum time worked per each 28 day work period shall be 168 hours
29
GCEA
CITY ,
01ART3
ARTICLE THREE
inclusive of breaks and exclusive of time not considered work time.
B3I. TIME NOT CONSIDERED AS WORK TIME
A. Activities Not Considered Work Time
The following activities shall not be considered time worked, except as provided for in this agreement.
1.	> Meal breaks.	!
2.	Leave of absence taken without pay.
3.	Travel time to work and returning home in either personal or City vehicle.
4.	Time in off-duty training assignments (homework, study time, meal time, sleep time, etc.) :	‘
5.	Off-duty travel to training sites and returning heme.;
6.	Off-duty time putting on and taking off uniforms.
v 7. Off-du'y time for personal preparation and clean-up.
8.	Off-duty time spent in the maintenance of City vehicles or equipment.
9.	Time worked for which unit employees have already been paid at one and
one half (1 1/2) times their regular rate of pay within assigned 40 or 42-hour work period. i
10.	Off-di >ty tine spent on court standby time.
11.	Any time not authorized as work time.
12.	Any time spent in and related to o'gonized school program of related supplemental instruction by apprenticeship employees working under a bona fide apprenticeship program.
• 13. Any time spent by employees r accomplishing voluntary or mandatory Employee Assistance PTrtion Program (SAP).
B. CSO - 3/36 Work Plan - Work Time
... < ,
The tot; I of 104 hours per year of paid sick leave, holiday, vacation, jury duty, bereavement leave and/or compensatory time may be deducted from the work time
30
01ART3
ARTICLE THREE
bereavement leave and/or compensatory time may be deducted from the work time of Community Service Officer working the 3/36 plan in order to provide straight time overtime for hours worked between 161 and 168 in a twenty-eight (28) day work period.
IV.	MEAL TIME	'	~‘
:	’ ' ■	•	!	i.	■
A.	Meal Time - Non-Work Time
All unit employees shall be entitled to one meat time for eight or more consecutive hours of time worked. One meal break per scheduled work day, exclusive of overtime worked. • ,v
B.	Meal Time schedule	.	’ .
A’l meal time taken is considered non-work time and to be without pay. The schedule for meal breaks shall be determined by management, taking into consideration the continuity of services provided to the public, and the convenience of the employee, r- . ■	•	.■ —
C.	Meal Time-Length ..:••••*	-	.
In no case will meal breaks be permitted to exceed one hour, nor can they be taken at the beginning or end of a work schedule.
D.	One Hour Meal Break
Except for some field and 24- hour oport tions, as specified by City Management, the normal unpaid meal break shall be one hour in length - the purpose being to allow employees the opportunity to rest from work duties, exercise, socialize with coworkers and avail themselves of noon-time informational and training programs.
E.	Half-Hour Meal Break Exception
Employees normally assigned a one-hou/ meal break may request and be granted by management, permission to have a one-half (1/2) hour meal break under certain conditions as follows:	fie	•
1.	Service to the public, accomplishment of the City's operational mission and the staffing and worlc-secds of the employees, co-workers and supervisor will take precedence over any one-half (1/2) -hour lunch requests.
2.	All such requests when granted, shall be considered temporary in nature and subject to revocationby the supervisor at any time.
GCEA
CITY
01ART3
ARTICLE THREE
Employee personal obligations may be considered in one-half (1/2)-hour meal break requests; however, in granting such requests, first consideration will be given to those employees who have urgent personal emergency concerns such as serious documentable dependant care problems or ridesharing obligations.
V.	BREAKS - REST PERIODS
A. Two 15-Min.- e Breaks -Rest Periods
/! • 1.	Uni*.	'jes may receive two break-rest periods for each scheduled work
. \ . . " . ■	Jy worked, and a break-rest period of 15 minutes for each four
consecutive hours cf overtime worked.
2.	Non-accumulative
-	‘ Rest periods are not accumu1 Jive and shall not be added to any mealtimes,
vacation, or any other form of authorized absence from work.
3.	These breaks may not be used at the beginning or the end of work shift unless authorized by Management. ’
B. z- Benefit - Mot Riuht ;
- Break rest periods are a benefit and not a right; and time must be earned as any other benefit and is computed at the rate of fifteen minutes per four hours worked, or major fraction thereof.
G. * ? Rest Period Pruceduzo
1.	Schedi .	ito Imp Jr Service
Rest periods are scheduled or rescheduled by management as job requhemen.. licta'j. .
2.	Length of Rest Period ‘-
The .est period shall consist of fifteen minutes cessation of work and will include time involved in going to and coming from a rest area.
3i' Employees ;
a.	During rest periods, employees may remain and have non-alcoholic beverages at their desks or other division approved work areas other ■rt"	than a public counter.
ARTICLE THREE
b.	Civic Center employees are encouraged to use the City-provided break areas for rest period when they wish beverages and food.
WORK SCHEDULES
A. City Work Schedules
City work schedules shall bs as herein defined extopt as otherwise provided for:
1.	5/40 Work Schedule; The5/40 sohe ball consist of a forty (40) work
>,	hour week schedule consisting of five . ght (8) paid work hour days in
seven (7) consecutive calendar day period exclusive of any meal periods assigned by management.
...	v
2.	9/80 Schedule: The 9/80 work schedule shall consist of an eighty (80) work
hour two week schedule consisting of eight (8) nine (9) hour days and one eight (8) hcur working day.in a eighty (80) work hour work period in fourteen (14) consecutive calendar days. This schedule shall be divided into two forty . , (40) work hour work periods segments exclusive of any meal periods as assigned by management. . -. ? .
3.	4/40 Work Schedule: The 4/40 work schedule shall consist of n forty (40)
work hour week schedule consisting of four (4) ten (10) paid work hour days ■ in a seven consecutive calendar day period exclusive of any meal periods assigned by management. c.. .''.?<• -it..
? -U * -
4.	3/36 Work Schedule: The 3/36 work schedule shall consist of one hundred
and sixty eight (168) work hour schedule consisting pf fourteen (14) twelve (12) work hour work days in a twenty eight (28) consecutive calendar day work period exclusive of any meal l^sassjgned by management, except as otherwise providedTor iri this agreement.
5.	3/36 Work Schedule: Police; Divbc'pnTrafficSection: Unit employees
assigned to work in the Police Division Traffic Section shall work a 3/36 work schedule as follows:	; V ■	-/. v J'&ne
w	... - A* U.K
a.	The work period shall be a fixed and regularly recurring period of time consisting of fourteen.(,14) days. ■<.
b.	In the first seven (7) days of thye fourteen (14)-day work period, unit employees will work three (3) twelve (12)-hour days, for a total of thirty-six (36) hours. -
c.	In the second seven (7) days "of the fourteen (14) -day work period,
ARTICLE THREE
unit employees will work three (3) twelve (12)-hour days and one (1) eight (3) -hour “payback" day for a total of forty-four (44) hours.
6.	Division 9/80 and 3/36 Work Period Schedules Defined
_ • ■ • '	. •*	*•' • •
Fer the purpose of documenting a permanent reference point for the 14 day and 28 day work period involving the 9/80 and/or 3/36 work schedule in the Police Division, December 31,1994 shall be the end of the preceding work period and January 1, 1995 shall be the beginning of the new work period which shall establish a period of consecutive 14 and 28 days works period thereafter.
, Vr • ’.* At*	> v •	«• •	f
EV Telecomm itinq '	. 4
City employees may be eligible to participate in Telecommuting as part of their work schedule upon meeting the requirements of the City's Telecommuting Policy as set forth in the Admin: trative Policy Manual and approved by Management.
C.	Work Schedule - Police C> .nmur.uMtioiis t
,• • •' ‘ - , . ■ -
The work hours for unit employees assigned to work th a communicationsoperations of the Police Division shall consist of the 3/36 work schedule consisting of the 168 work hours in a twenty eight (28) day work per-'dr-.v';jsiye of any meal period assigned by management, except as otherwise provided in this agreement.
D.	Wc»k Schedule - PoCico
1.	Unit employees asr ed to work the jail operations section of the Police Division shall:
a.	Work hours of a 3/36 modified work schedule consisting of 168 work hours in a twenty j.^ht (28) consecutive calendar days work period.
b.	Work a daily work; hift of ♦welve and one-half (12-1/2) hours per day. This includes: (a) a fifteen (15) minutes of briefing time before the start of work t'd fifteen (15) r .inutes after th® end of the work shift and; (b) one-half (1/2) hour meal period per daily work shift.
c.	If an employee does not receive the one-half (112) meal period during their dgily work shift, they shall be compensated for one-half (1/2) hour paid at one and one-holf (1 -1/2) times their base hourly rate for each daily one-half (1/2) hour meal break not received.
d.	Be allowed to take their daily one-half (1/2) hour meal break outside of the Police Division Buildir q.
34
GCEA
CITY
01ART3
ARTICLE THREE
e.	Be allowed to eat same food as provided for jail inmates if an employee is required to eat their meal in the jail premises.
2.	Only Police Management, Police Jail Shift Supervisors or their designees are authorized to schedule meal breaks and Co determine if work load precludes s	unit employees assigned to work in the jail from taking a one-half (1/2) hour
; >-	■ meal break. •'	..	■ ■■:<• -
E.	Work Schedule - Fire Communications
1.	The work schedules, administration of leave benefits, overtime, meal and rest periods, and other related provisions covering the unit employees in the Fire Communication 4/42 work schedule are set forth in Article Six of this agreement. :	'? r- = .o-.	•. >:
2.	All items covered in Article Six are inclusive for Fire Communications Shift Supervisors, Senior Fire Communication Operators and Fire Communications Operators; jnd any other benefits that are included in this agreement (MOU) that relate to items in Article Six shall not apply to these
••‘T. .< unit employees.r
■u. F. Work Srfr?dufe -j Meter Reader -<
>	■	;■ 1 •;'	<!-.	t.-.’	\	< •» ... ■ s
As determined by management, Meter Readers in the Public Service Division may be assigned to an incentive work schedule that is predicated or,the completion of all assigned work assignments and tasks and not based on total hours worked per week, provided their work .week d; ienot exceed 40 hours per work week.
G.	Work Schedule - 42 Hour Work Week Assignment
Certain unit employees Of th<7: otic Set vice Division may be designated to work a work schedule that averages 42 hours per week. Such employees work all holidays that occur during this work Schedule. . , i:
i.a	’ ‘i -■	S'" ’	.,
H.	Apprenticeship Training Proqrrm r ’ ■ ••• ' ■>'
1.	Recognition
-}*• an- :.v->?■ ,c' j •* • <*" . •> -•
• The City* and Association recognize the City of Glendale's apprenticeship training proghfims Covering certain Crafts.
2.	ApprenticenhipStandards ■
• 35
GCEA
CITY
01ART3
ARTICLE THREE
Apprenticeship standards for each craft have been adopted and agreed upon by both parties. These apprenticeship standards shall govern the u employment and training of the apprentices in the crafts.
3.	Apprenticeship Training - Non-work Time
Both parties agree that time spent in and related to an organized school program of related, supplemental instruction by any apprentice employees shall not be counted as^irne worked, and are hereby declared "exempt" from the provisions of the Fair labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended.
I ' ResidentCaretakerProprcm
The City and Association, and -all unit employees serving in the capacity of Parks, Recreation and Community Services caretakers agree to the following regarding the working conditions and work schedule for resident caretakers:
1.	The Parks, Recreation and Community Services caretakers agree to perform the duties of a resident caretaker per specific "City of Glendale and Caretakers Agreement." Typically thirty (30) hours per month are required to perform such services in lieu of rental fees for caretaker’s residence.
2.	Said compensation is considered by all parties to be full and complete compensation for any and all services rendered by employees serving in the capacity of Park Caretakers.
3.	In addition to this Memorandum of Understanding, the relationship between the caretakers and the City is governed by the separate Caretaker Agreement executed by the caretakers and the City. Any conflicts between this MOU and the separately executed Caretakers Agreement shall be controlled by the Caretakers Agreement separately executed between the City and the caretakers.:
J.	Work Schedules • Starting/Ending Time . k •: . ;; ■' ■	\
Unit employees shall be assigned by management daily starting and ending work time?.
K.	Daylight Savings Work Schedules
1.	Employees Asr.ignecl Shift
Unit employees who ere assigned and work the night shift during which the ■= day’ight savings change occurs shall: .
36
GCEA
CITY
01ART3
ARTICLE THREE
a.	In the spring, when the time is advanced ahead by one (1) hour, - J modify their hours worked to begin work one (1) hour earlier. In this way the total hours worked for the normal shift shall remain the same.
b.	In the fall, when, the time is turned back, by one (1) hour, those individuals who work a full tour of duty of nine (9) hours shall be compensated by one (1) hour of overtime.
2.	Employee Assigned Ail Gmer Shifts.
All other unit employees assigned and working a shift determined by management during which th, "Daylight Savings" time change occurs (either spring or fall) shall work a full eight (8) hour shift regardless whether the clock timeis advanced or set back.
‘	. t' "., •	••	■. - ..i'-'c . ■:	■;	■
VII. OVERTIME DEFINITIONS -
The following is time worked which shall be considered o/ertime, except as otherwise specified in this agreement. --
A.	Regular Overtime	. . .
1.	Time Worked in Excess of 8 hours
Overtime for unit employees on the 5/40 work weak schedule is time worked in excess of eight (8) paid hours in a work day except as set forth in this agreement. -	■
2.	Time Worked in Excess of 9 Hours
Overtime for'unit employees on a 9/80 work schedule is time worked in excess of nine (9) paid hours ir. a work day except for any scheduled eight (8) paid hour work day as set forth in this agreement.
7	■	:: ■. ■■■ ... ■" ;
3.	Time worked in excess of 10 hours
Overtime for unit employees on a 4/40 work week schedule is time worked in excess of ten (10) paid hours in a work day except as set forth in this agreement. *'4 '	.'. • . ... ’ ■ > '
4.	Time worked in Exce'^s^f'14lpur§ ■
O ,ertim(i for unit employees oh a 3/36 work schedule is time worked in excess of twelve (12) paid hours in a v?ork day",1 except as set forth in this
37
GCEA
CITY
01ART3
ARTICLE THREE
agreement.
5.	Time Worked in Excess of 40 hours
a. 5/40 or 4/40 Work Schedule
Overtime for uni- employees on a 5/40 or 4/40 work week schedule is time worked in excess of forty (40) paid hours in a 7 day work week '	'	period except as set forth in this agreement.
b.'	9/60 Work Schedule
Overtime for unit employees on a 9/80 work week schedule is time worked in excest of forty-four (44) paid hours in a 7 day work week period or eighty (80) paid hours worked in a 14 day work period as • ’	set forth in this agreement.
c. 3/36 Work Schedule
Overtime for unit employees on a 3/36 work week schedule is time worked in excess of fifty six (53) paid hours of seven consecutive calendar days, except as set forth in this agreement.
6.	Time Worked - Flexible Work Schedules
Overtime for unit employees who work flexible (staggered) work schedules by mutual agreement between supervisor and unit employee shall be paid overtime only for hours worked in excess of 40 hours per work week.
7.	Time Worked in Excess of 42 Hours
Overtime for unit employees on a 42 hour work schedule is time worked in excess of forty-two (42) paid hours in a 7 day work week period, except as set forth in this agreement. :-
8.	More Than 12 Hours in Day
Unit employees working the four (4)-day on / four (4)-day off work schedule ! shall b^ paid at one and one-Sv'lf (1-1/2) times th® employee's regular rate of pay for al! hours worked in excess of twelve (12) hours in a work day.
9.	• Police D’visbn: Jcmmur.ity r.fcivice Officers 3/36 Work Schedule
a.	Effective July 1,1998, Community Service Officers assigned to the 3/36 ‘ vork cheJshall work 168 p?id work hours in a 28-day work
38
GCEA
CITY
01ART3
ARTICLE THREE
period. The eight (8) hours worked beginning from 161 to 168 shall be straight time overtime.
b.	Effective July 1, 2000, Community Service Officers assigned to this schedule shall be compensated for the eight (8) hours at the rate of time and cne-quarter (1-1/4).*
c.	* Community Service Officers working the 3/36 schedule shall be reimbursed for hours between 161 and 168 with accumulated compensatory time., or a combination of compensatory time and pay, of which up to one-half of such reimbursement may be pay.
•'.■ .*<( • . ■
10.	Time Worked - Scheduled or Extended Shift Overtime »•	>'f.	‘	j::.
a.	Unit employees who are required to work either scheduled overtime or extended shift overtime are defined as working regular overtime.
b.	The City shall attempt,'when feasible, to have 8 hours of rest before , • starting their normal workday? for unit employees required to work either extended shift or scheduled overtime in non-emergency situations. It is understood that these 8 hours of rest may not always be practical due to operational necessity.
'• •.* ’i -A	’ * S • .» • 'r<
B.	Call Back Overtime (Unscheduled)
1.	Call back work is unscheduled time worked performed by an off-duty unit employee called back to work after they have completed their normal work schedule and have left work or are on their day off. Unit employees must physically return to the, worksite in order to receive callback pay. Travel time to work and returning home shall not be counted as time worked.
2.	The City shall, when possible, make available to qualified employees an equitable distribution of callback overtime within their assigned section.
C.	Court Time
Court time is work time.reqyired, of a unit employee to attend court in response to a "go" subpoena, a coroner’s.inquest, er a hearing or trial in a civil or criminal case, at a time other than the employee's assigned work shift schedule, for the purpose of testifying as, to knowledge acquired or claimed to have been acquired by such employee in the’ course of employment with Ihe Cityl, Travel time to work and returning home shall not be counted as time worked.
•r-	.	».	'•r	■
D.	Court Stand-By "OnTOall" Time-Assignment
01ART3	GCEA
ARTICLE THREE
1.	Available Via Phone - Non-Work Time Assignment
Court stand-by on-call time is non-work time required of an off-duty unit employees authorized by the tribunal ordering the affected employee to appear or to stand-by on-call and be available for such purpose at a location other than the location s*. acified in the subpoena, between the hours of 8:45 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., unless other stand-by times are ordered by the court or administrative tribunal.
' v 2. Must Provide Phone Number
.	• Unit employees placed on court stand-by time "on call" during their off duty
v •, time are require'’ to be accessible by telephone or other methods approved by management. They can appear at court in a reasonable amount of time if so ordered by the court or administrative tribunal.
E.	- Stand-by Assignment :	.
•J	i	Sv ’	’■	‘
Stand-by assignment is required of certain off duty Public Service Division unit employees c'osignated by management. Designated employees are to be accessible by phone or other methods approved by management and must reside within thirty (30) miles from the Corporate Yard.
VIII. OVERTIME COMPENSATION RATE
’ A. Regular Overtime	t
•	r r *	-■'*.
1.	Payment
Overtime shall be paid at one and one-half (1- 1/2) time the employee's regular hourly rate of pay.
2:	Comp Time in Lieu uf Payment
a.	Unit employees may choose in lieu of cash payment to be compensated ter overtime by the accumulation of compensatory time, on the ratio of one and one half (1-1/2) hours earned in compensatory time for each hour worked; or
b.	Stand-by assignment straight time pay may be converted to straight time compensatory time on an hour for hour basis.
* c. Restrictions on accumulation and payment are outlined in this Article.
B.	Call-Back Overtime
01ART3 V *	GCEA
CITY .^7^0
ARTICLE THREE
1.	Call-Back - Minimum Hours Granted
a.	Effective July 1, 1998, Public Service Division, Public Works Division, field and operations, Police Division Identification Technicians and Information Services Division - Computer Operations unit employees called back to work who are not > assigned to standby shall be granted a minimum of four (4) hours of overtime except as set forth in Section VIII, B-3.
b.	Parks, Recreation and Community Service Division field and operation unit employees, Community Dgvelopment/Neighborhood Services unit employees and Fire and Police Division unit employees otherthan Identification Technicians, called back to v.ork, who are not assigned to stand-by, shall be granted a minimum of two (2) work time hours of overtime.
c.	Effective July 1,1999, Parks, Recreation and Community Services Division field and operations l Tt employees, Community Development/Neighborhood Services unit employees and Fire and -	- Police Division unitr mployeeo called back to work, who are not
assigned to . tendby, shall be gianhJd a minimum of four (4) work se	time hours of overtime.	. ->,
d.	Additional hours may be guaranteed by division heads as needed.
e.	All call back overtime shall be paid at one and one-half (1 1/2)
times the employee's regular hourly rate cf pay for all hours of call back overtime except as otherwise stated in this article.
2.	Call-Back Between 12:00 a.m. - 8:00 a.m.
a.	Unit employees shall be paid double (2 times) the employee's regular hourly rate of pay for every hour of call-back overtime actually worked between 12:00 p.m. midnight and 8:00 a.m. or the beginning of the next work shift, whichever comes first.
b.	Only unscheduled time worked between 12:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. ■ - can be eligible for paid double time.
3.	Limitations
Unit employees while on stand-by assignment, and then given a call back assignment shall, upon receiving call back assignment, cease receiving stand-by pay and sh?l! receive call back assignment compensation as
01ART3
ARTICLE THREE
outlined in this Article.
C.	Court Time * "Go Subpoena"
1.	Payment
Unit employees shall be compensated for court time at straight time or at one and one half (1-1/2) times the employee's regular hourly rate for time actually spent at the location specified in the "go" subpoena and until ~ > released by the court, end exclusive of a one (1) hour break when the court adjourns for lunch. The payment of straight time pay or one and one half (1 -1/2) pay shall be determined by the total hours worked as set forth in Article ? ...	Three, Secticn V!t. Artime Definition.
2.	Wort schedule C ^ck’dej at 7:00 a.m. - Minimum Hours Granted
Unit employees whose work schidulu concludes at 7:00 a.m. and who are in receipt of a "go subpo . a" which mandatorily requires their attendance in court or administrative tribunal within the next seven (7) hours shall be compensated a minimum of two (2) work time hours for court time during any of these off duty hours.
D.	Holiday Overtime
1.	Payment - Compensation Time
. 5 ■ '? Unit employees, \ .cept ti.e Police Division .and Park Rangers and as otherw'se modified _y this agreement, required to work on a designated holiday, at the employee's option, may choose in lieu of cash payment to be compensated by the accumulation of compensatory time on the ratio of one and one-half (1 1/2) hours earned in compensatory time for each hour worked, or portion of hours worked.
? 2. Payiir MivOush '
All time wc; kcd cn designated I .olidays shall not exceed pad overtime at two and one half (2 1/2) tishea the emp'oyse's regular hourly rate of pay. This paid overtime at two ..id one-half (2-1/2) times consists of the designated holiday payment at straight time and any actual time worked on the designated holiday paid at one and one-half (1-1/2) times.
E. Court Standby Time "On Call" Assignment
42
01ART3
ARTICLE THREE
1.	Payment/Police Division and Park Rangers
Unit employees of the Police Division and Park Rangers shall be compensated for court stand-by "on call" assignment time at the rate of one hour paid straight time, or one hour straight time compensatory time for every two (2) hours of time spent in the stand-by status, exclusive of a one-half hour break when the court adjourns for lunch. Unit employees of the Police Division and Park Rangers shall only -be compensated for one (1) "on-call" subpoena regardless ef the number of subpoenas received during this same period of time. ’ •. ■	.
•	ji. 3c SiV; ■"*£.	\
2.	Payment/Minimimi Hour ^ranted/Afl Other Unit Employees
b. All other uhitemptoyeea subpoenaed intocourt or placed on stand-by time "on call" on job-related matters, during their assigned off duty time between weakly work periods win be granted a minimum of four (4) hours work time. ■ • ’
b. If the unit employee is placed on court stand-by time "on call" on the day they are scheduled to return to duty, the guaranteed minimum time will apply only if there is at least a four hour period between the time indicated on the subpoena and the.time the person is required to report for duty.
■ T!.','	«...
F. Recall (Pager) Devices - Standby Assignments ,I.D. Technicians, Senior I.D. Technicians, Senior Computer operator, 'Computer Operator, Systems Specialist, Commryiipations Technicians, and Community Service Officer, Administrative Associate to Police Chief - .
.. I.	.	U.,	' v
1.	Eligibility	’ ■'
Unit employees in the classifications of Identification Technician, Sr. Identification Technicians, Sr. Gsmpute^Operator, Computer Operator, Systems Specialist, Communication technician, Community Service Officers ar.d Administrative Associate. tooPelioe Chief assigned recall devices on standby ^assignment, except 'as .modified by this agreement, shall be compensated for such assignment, " ■■
. •' a. .	’-pH "	■ ’■•ri;’, ;	.
2.	Payment? , r v t •;	<
Any of these eligible unit employees as set forth in F.1 of this section shall be compensated for such assignment if required by Management to serve as follows:
’ "i j. ■
•	.•«	-	w- ’ w	if	1.* .	• V	•
43
CITY
01ART3
ARTICLE THREE
a.	Weekend (Scheduled Days Off)/Holiday Recall Device Standby Assignment
1)	If assigned to a weekend or holiday, recall device-standby assignment, such eligible unit employees shall receive five (5) hours of straight pay at the employee's hourly rate or five (5) hours of compensatory time for each 24 hours of time on ' scheduled day off/holiday assignment.
2)	The term “weekend" refers to the unit employee’s scheduled days cff. The terra “holiday” means Saturdays, Sundays, holidays and the Fridays the City is closed on the 9/80 Work Schedule.
.? 3) Unit employees who are not required to observe a mandatory . r i ■ holi fay and/or who are norma'ly scheduled to work on days 'J • ..	.. . defined as “holidays” in a. 2) above, shall be compensated for
a recall device standby assignment at the “weekday” rate, : ’ ■	•' except on those days declared as their “weekend” of
scheduled days off.
b.	Weekday (Scheduled Workday) Recall Device - Stand-By Assignment
If assigned to a weekday reccil device-standby assignment such eligibie unit employees shall receive:
1)	Four (4) hovrs of st. iig' jt pay at the employee's hourly rate or
four (4) hours straight time compensatory time for each 24 hours on weekday assignment.
2)	Two (2) hours of straight pay at the employee's hourly rate or two (2) hours straight time compensatory time for each 12 hours on weekday assignment.
3)	The term "weekday (scheduled workday)" means Monday through Friday excluding the Fridays the City is closed on the ’ ,=9/80 work schedule.
4)	Should an employee in the future be scheduled off on a weekday and assigned on that day to a recall device-standby assignment, the employee shall be compensated under 2 a ,-i'	(1) above.
. . ■ . . . •••■- -. ; ■
c.	If any of these eligible unit employees are required to respond to
44
CITY
01ART3
ARTICLE THREE
work, one (1) hour of straight time pay at the employee's hourly rate shall be deducted for every six (6) hours of straight time pay accumulated as compensation work during the recall device-standby assignment.
3. Limitation •>. y
Unit employees on standby assignment or recall device must remain within a 40-mile radius from the employee's worksite.
G.	Stand-By Assignment - Public Service
1.	Payment	tv
Public Service unit employees assigned to off duty standby assignment, excluding Water Section employees assigned to Water Stand-By duty shall be paid an assignment extra pay equal to 35% of their hourly rate of pay for esch hour pn standby during the hours between the end of the normal field work schedule and the start of the next normal field work schedule.
2.	Public Service - Water Assignment Pay
Si	>•	3 'if < :	< I *.	, I >	; ••
Public Service unit employees in the classification of Senior Water System Mechanic shall not be entitled to standby pay as defined in this section. In < lieu, of standby, pay;: Senior Vifeter System Mechanics shall receive an assignment pay, as defined^ Article Two.
H.	Standby AssignmentLimitaiions •.«
1.	Limitations ~ s;_ t
'•> ■ -	Eligible unit employees shall receive standby pay only for those hours on
■standby assignment duty and shall not receive standby pay for any overtime worked during those-assigned standby hours.
2.	Non-Work Time < ;
>■ ■■■£ 'V	■	’ r,„j -x
It is understood that such ti..ie un standby assignment is non-work time for the purposes of determining overtime compensation.
3.	Full and Entire CompenstdicT.
■ ' .»' , ■ ’ ■ ' ■ > ». • • ‘
Except as otherwise provided for in this article, this compensation shall represent full and entire compensation for stand-by assignment.
45
01ART3
article three
IX.	TIME WORK INCREMENTS
A. Increments - Less Than One Hour
All authorized time worked which is beyond the unit employee's work shift schedule which is less than one-hour increments shall be compensated in the following manner:
Time 0-10 minutes 11-20 minutes tti'j 21-30 minutes
.	31-50 miniites
51 - 60 minutes
F. Increments Over One Hour n
Time Worked
-0-
1/4 hour
1/2 hour
3/4 hour
1 hour
Any time work increments which are over one hour shall be compensated in the same procedure as mentioned herein.
X.	OVERTIME "COMPELS ~ORY TIME"d-CCL* 4ULATED AND PAYMENT
•	■	'7	■
■ A. y Eligibility <
Unit employees may choose, in lieu of overtime payment, to have overtime hours worked converted to a compensatory time bank.
B.	Conversion
' ' 1 Overtime designated for compensatory ti...e may be converted and banked at the rate of Uraiyi 4 time, one and one halftime, double time, double time and one half or half time at the mutual agreement between die Management and the employee.
Comp. Time
Example:	Overtime Worked	Conversion
<. •	Half-Time	,1	hr.	0.5 hrs.
•••«. h- .Straight Time	1 hr. - ■	1.0 hrs.
One & one half	1	hr.	1.5 hrs.
Double Time	1	hr.	2.0 hrs.
C.	Accumulation
1.	Tctal 64 Hours Comp Time
Unit employees may accumulate up to a total of 42.66 overtime hours
01ART3
46
GCEA
CITY
ARTICLE THREE
worked which converts to a total of 64 compensatory hours, unless otherwise set forth in this agreement.
D.	Use of Compensatory Time
Accumulated compensatory time may be utilized as paid leave on a straight time hour for hour basis at the mutual convenience of management and employee. All compensatory time utilized as paid leave by an employee shall be debited from their accrued compensatory time bank.
E.	Pay Out - Compensatory Time	<
1.	Compensatory Time- In Excess of 64 Hours Transfer to RHSP
a. Unit employees must transfer unused accumulated compensatory time over sixty-four (64) hours compensatory ticte at the employee’s current rate of pay to the employee’s RHSP account ??•; •	subject to the development of procedures that comply with IRS
regulations. • ,	• - ■....	■ ■ ■ -i:,
■ i Jy.v b. Unit employees haying a compensate ry time bank lass than the sixty-four (64) hours’ as authorized by this agreement, shall be able to transfer any unused accumulated compensatory time in excess of their lower compensatory time bank to the employee’s
- .	. RHSP.account sybject to the development of procedures that
comply with IRS regulations.-., •
2.	Compensatory Time at Termination
.	All accumulated compensatory time w&ch has no,t been utilized prior to a
'	•	unit employee's employment termination frem ths City shall be paid off on a
■... 11	straight time basis at the employee's current hourly rate of pay.
3.	Compensatory Time - Change in Classification ‘;'r
Any unit employee who changes classification and who has accumulated any hours of compensatory time shall have all ttzeir accumulated compensatory hours paid off at their current hourly rate of pay,
XI. EMERGENCY OVERTIME REQUIREMENT
The City reserves the right to require unit employees to work overtime in an emergency as set forth in Article Nine.	1	'.S
47
GCEA
CITY
01ART3
ARTICLE FOUR
ARTICLE FOUR
FRINGE BENEFITS
I.	FRINGE BENEFITS ADMINISTRATION PROVISION
A.	Administration
The City reserves the right to select, administer, or fund any fringe benefits programs involving insurance that now exist or may exist in the future.
B.	Selection and Funding
1.	In the administration of fringe benefits programs involving insurance, the City shall have the right to select any insurance carrier, self insure, or other method of providing coverage to fund the benefits provided, as long as the benefits of the plan are substantially the same.
2.	The City may choose to exercise its right to select the insurance carrier and select Medicare as the City's Retirement Insurance Carrier for eligible unit employees and retirees. In such case, employeesand retirees will be required to enroll in Medicare to be eligible to participate in other City medical plans.
C.	Changes
The City shall meet with the Association prior to any change of insurance carrier or method funding coverage for any fringe benefits listed in this article.
D.	Limitations
1.	The City shall not pay any costs for any fringe benefits provided in this agreement for any person who is on leave of absence without pay for more than 50% of the payroll period unless the affected employee is qualified under the Family and Medical Care Leave Policy.
2.	The City shall pay all of its portion of the medical insurance premium from the
first day of the last month worked by a terminating employee regardless of how many days the terminating employee works in their last month of employment.
3.	The employee shall be notified and billed for the monthly insurance premium by the City.
4.	For an employee qualified under the City's Family and Medical Leave Policy, the City shall continue to pay the City's portion of the medical insurance premiums as set forth in this article of this agreement, not to exceed that required by law.
48
01ART4
ARTICLE FOUR
E.	Employee Changes in Benefit Coverage
Where optional choice of fringe benefit plans and/or insurance carriers is available to employees, changes in benefit plans and/or insurance carriers may only be made during the open enrollment period established by the City.
II.	MEDICAL INSURANCE
A.	Medical Insurance - Effective August 1, 2000
Effective August 1, 2000, the employees shall contribute the following amounts towards the monthly medical insurance premiums for employees and qualified dependents who elect to enroll in either the group Indemnity PPO medical plan, or HMO-IPA or HMO-Staff medical plans. The City shall pay the remaining portion of the monthly medic°l insurance premiums.
Prudent Buyer Indemnity PPO Plan
Employee's Monthly Contribution a.	Employee	$7.90 b.	Employee plus one dependent	$31.95 c.	Employee plus two or more	$48.49 dependents California Care - HMO Plan Employee's Monthly Contribution a.	Employee	$27.42 b.	Employee plus one dependent $69.58 c.	Employee plus two or more	$93.15 dependents	... CIGNA HMO nlan •	» *.»	*‘l ' ' r Employee's Monthly Contribution a.	Employee	$25.28 b.	Employee plus one dependent $55.55 c.	Employee plus two or more	$77.75 dependents •, _ KAISER HMO Plan Employee's Monthly Contribution a.	Employee	$19.17 b.	Employee plus one dependent	$38.47 c.	Employee plus two or more	$54.23 49	City's Monthly Contribution $160.70 $397.75 $563.69 City's Monthly Contribution $133.56 $268.52 $339.83 City's Monthly Contribution $138.54 $268.51 $356.45 City's Monthly Contribution $134.49 $268.85 $380.63 GCEA wfy CITY "
01ART4
ARTICLE FOUR
B.	Medical Insurance - Effective August 1, 2001
Effective August 1, 2001, the empfoyees shall contribute the following amounts towards the monthly medical insurance premiums for employees and qualified dependents who elect to enroll in either the group Indemnity PPO medical plan, or HMO medical plans. The City shall pay the remaining portion of the monthly medical insurance premiums.	(
Prudent Buyer Indemnity PPO Plan
	Employee's Monthly	City's lyionthly Contribution	Contribution
a. Employee	$12.16	$168.59	'
b. Employee plus one dependent $42.78	-	■- $417.87
c. Employee plus two or more dependents	.	■*	$63.90	$592.34 California Care - HMO Plan . •	*•*f	*• Employee's Monthly	City's Monthly Contribution	Contribution
a. Employee	$34.28	$143.26	.
b. Employee, plus one dependent $83.98	$288.90
c. Employee plus two or more dependents	$113'74	r:	$418.92
T CIGNA HMO Plan
Employee's Monthly City's Monthly Contribution	Contribution a? Employee	$34-.00	-	$144.28 b.	Employee plus one dependent $60.88	$279.85 c.	Employee plus two or more $92:94	>•	$371.65	. dependents	•.* KAISER HMO Plan	' •		
Ex^loySee’s Monthly Contribution Eff. 8/1/01 a.	Employee	$27-38 b.	Employee plus one dependent $54.90 c.	Employee plus two or more $77.48	City’s	Employee’s Monthly	Monthly Contribution Contribution Eff. 8/1/01	Eff. 9/1/01 $142.72	$12.92 $285.30	$25.98 / $403.90	$36.56	City’s Monthly Contribution Eff. 9/1/01 $142.72 $285.30 $403.90
C. Medical Insurance 50/50_Split -	Effective August 1, 2001	
Effective August 1, 2001, ail unit employees and the City shall each pay for 50% of the medical premium increases or receive 50% of any premium decreases that are effective August 1, 2001 toward the monthly medical
50
GCEA
CITY
01ART4
ARTICLE FOUR
insurance premiums.
2.	In the event 50% of any year’s premium decrease exceeds the employee monthly medical premium such contributions shall be $0.00 until such time as medical premium increases occur in the future.
D.	Medical Insurance - Effective August 1, 2002
• 1. . < Effective August 1, 2002, all unit employees and the City shall each pay for 50% of the medical premium increases or receive 50% of any premium decreases that are effective August 1, 2002 toward the monthly medical insurance premium; .	... v
2. In th’ event 50% of any year’s premium decrease exceeds the employee . nor hly radical premium such contributions shall be $0.00 until such time as medical pre niura increases occur in the future.
E.	Medical Insurance - FO/JC Split ~ Efe "tire. August 1, 2003
1.	Effective August 1, 2003, all unit employees and the City shall each pay for 50% of the medicu1 premium increases or receive 50% of any premium decreases that ate cff<’/Jve August 1, 2003 toward the monthly medical insurance premiums.	;
2.	In the event 50% of any year’s premium decrease exceeds the employee > i‘	m>nt! !y dir-I premium such jontritvtions shall be $0.00 until such time
as medical premium increases oc'jr in the f'ture.
F. ■ Medic J In^gr .'.wc - 'O/F* S; - Effective August 1, 2004
1.	Effective August 1, 2004, r1! f’-it employees and the City shall each pay for 50% of the medical premium increases or receive 50% of any premium .	eases 'hat are effective A 'gust 1, 2004 toward the monthly medical
. int iicu premiums. h :
2.	In the event 50% of any year’s premium decrease exceeds the employee monthly modieol pr: ium such contrib ;tions shall be $0.00 until such time as medical premium increases occur in the future.
• •• ®. Medical Insurance - Irth ~ *ty FLui Coverage
•£ 1: ?lar. Pre.. — Rafa
The indemnity plan premium inclu us 'he rate charge for medical insurance coverage and is based on (a) the plan's group experience including mental i	health cc/e; (b> cost cfadi.li'.lstering the cteinu;(c) excess claims stop loss
. >' insurance, ucd |d) cost cf Prescription Dr y Card Program.
01ART4
ARTICLE FOUR
2.	Coverage
The indemnity plan coverage shall include the following coverage:
a.	One common plan;
b.	$10,000 stop loss co-insurance;
c.	Deductible of $200 per individual not to exceed aggregate total of $400 per employee and dependents,
d.	No deductible is applied to special accident benefits;
e.	Pre-authorization .fdr hospitalization and outpatient services over $500.	- e f 3
f.	1) Ail charges in the-designated PRO-Network shall be covered at 80% subject to the annual deductible, f.
2)	All charges outside designated PPO Network shall be covered at 7Q% subject to the annual deductible;
g.	Maternity benefits for employes^ ant.dependent spouses;
h.	Mental and nervous (mental healthcare ^benefits shall be included in
the indemnity insurance plan and paid the same as other illnesses.
i.	Home health care plan;
j.	Preferreri Provider Opfipn (PPO); -	-■
k.	Medical case management;
. .. .I.	Nursery care for newborn infants;
m. Prescription Drug Casd Program (five dollars ($5.00) co-pay for generic drug prescriptions and-;twenty dollars ($20.00) co-pay for non-generic drug prescriptions)
n. $2,000,000 lifetime plan maximum.
‘	■ . <»•> " • i >•	.
K. HMO MftdicaLPIans- Irrpatientand Qutagtient Psychological Services (Mental Health Care) Benefits	--	»
Provided per the terms andj3<^djtiqnS ;<^ the madical h6jilth care plans’.
I.	Medical Insurance ^friEtanraity/HMO Plan.Bengfits Booklet . k	■"■. .pc.k.; •• a •
The specific details ef the indemnity and HMD plan ’’ radical insurance benefits are set forth in the Medical Insurance Plan Benefits jsoklet available in the City's Personnel Division. All benefit descriptions included herein are subject to the individual insurance carriers’, benefit provisions as described in the respective Explanation, of Benefits (EQB) for mesh carrier. >
J.	Paid Industrial Leave - Medical Insurance Premium
Unit employees on paid industrial leave absent from duty because of injury or illness arising out of and in th^oQ^ej'g^pptoyment’Shall have the City p vd portion of their monthly insurance premium paid. This paid premium shall continue for a period up to 2080 work hours and exhaustion ov'uut lity-paid leave benefits.
K.	Meet and Confep-ftfedical Premium Increases <
. .	<>■■■", enyi'. i.£ • • b■■■■c** ii ,	5$a
The City agrees to meet and- confer over the in^ease of medical premiums with the understanding that premium increases on either the indemnity or pre-paid (HMO) plans can be modified through benefit modification agreed to by the City and
52 GCEA
01ART4
ARTICLE FOUR
Association.
Ill MEDICAL INSURANCE - RETIRED EMPLOYEES
A.	City Contribution - Sick I. eave Canvfersioi Plan
1.	Sick Leave Conversion for City Employees Retiring Prior to Implementation of tho Effective Date of the RHSP
a.	Effective July 1, 2001, w< n current unit employees retire from the City prior to implementation of the effective date of the RHSP, the City, shall cu .tribute up to t ro hundred thirty-three dollars and fifty-five cents ($233.55) per retired unit employee per month toward the ?	moriu iiy medical insurance premium for the medical plans they are
elig:ble for in accordance with the current sick leave conversion policy set forth in this article.
b.	Employees who retire prior to the effective date of RHSP and who participate in the current sick leave hours conversation plan shall have their sick leave debited by eight (8) sick leave hours per month for each monthly medical premium contribution, as defined in this article, made by City for retired employee.
2.	Retired City Employees- One Time Sick Leave Conversion “Catctmp” Provision
Elective July 1, 1998; all retired unit employees who continue to utilize the sick ieave conversion poiicy towards monthly medical insurance premiums shall be eligible to receive up to the full one hundred ninety dollars ($190) towards monthly medical insurance premiums. This is a one-time catch-up provisicn for retired on?’*’- . 5 utilizing the sick leave conversion plan who previously received less than one hundred ninety dollars ($190) towards ■ monthly medical insurance premiums.
r- -3. Seek Leave Conversion Amount
City employees who ret’red prior to July 1, 2001 shall receive a sick leave credit conversion amount in effect at the time of their retirement or one hundred ninety dollars ($190.00), whichever is greater.
//. 4. Cash-Out Provision
Retiree unit employees who retire prior to implementation of theRHSP and
> ,	. .. . sleet not to participate in the City medical insurance plan may receive 50%
of the Retired Unit Employee Medical Insurance Premium Contribution for the insurance plan rate they are eligible for (minimum $100.00) and in accordance with the current sick leave conversion policy set forth in this agreement.
B.	Retired Medical Insurance Premium Shared Cost Provision Cost Sharing-^mptoyaes Retiring Prior to Implementation of RHSP
53	GCEA/^_
CITY/
01ART4
ARTICLE FOUR
1.	Effective August 1,1998, the City shall pay up to 50% of the increase (if any) in the medical prerniurhsor receive 50% of any medical premium decreases (if any) for retired employees who are participating in the Sick Leave ConversatioBkPlan, Eligible retired employees pay the t emaining 50% of the annual premium increase (if any).
2.	In the evesat 50% of any premium decreases exceeds the eligible retired employee’s monthly medical premium, such contribution shall be $0.00 until such time medsral premium increases occur in the future.
C.	Covered Under Another GroupiMcdicai Insurance Program
.? .
Should retired employee be, covered under another group medical insurance program after retiring frpm Qity, tfie City's, medical insurance plan shall be considered secondary coverage. . * r
D.	All Sick Leave Debited - MayChoose to Personally Maintain Medical Plan
When all accumulated-sick leave hours have been debited, the City's contribution shall cease, but the reWdd employee may elect to pay personally the full monthly medical premium or terminate the medical plan coverage.
E.	Eligibility
.. ।	•	;*	*** _ z;	... ■
This Benefit applies only TO those employees who arranged to participate in the retired employee medical plan prior to the effective date of their retirement.
F.	Retiree Health Saving^ Plan (RHSfr)- Employees Retiring On or After July 1,2001
■ 1. Implementation '	.;* ??•• n? '
A new Retiree1 .swings Plan (RHSP)<shall be implemented by or before December 15, 2001 and will be available to all unit employees retiring on or after July 1, 2001 upon the effective date of the implementation of the RHSP, and subject to the development of a process that is consistent with IRS regulations forThe.enrcltme.nt of su&'i retirees in the RHSP.
2.	Sick Leave Conversion Rate ,
a. Following thp effective .date^pf the RHSP, retiring City employees shall have each eligible hour of accrued unused sick leave hours converted at the rate of twenty dollars ($20.00) per hour which will be placed in each employee's'individual'Retired Health Savings Plan (RH§P) effective the employee’s official date of retirement.
- b. The twenty dollars ($20:00) per hodr RHSP payment at retirement shall be the 6nly compensation for Unused accumulated sick leave for the reminder of thia Memorandum of Understanding. All previous cost sharing-provisions do hotapply except as noted in this Article.
n -"Ps?
3.	Limitations
' ’ a.	The RHSP'Cohvefsidn i^iiuly SvaHaeid.«Q-Wptt>yees who retire on or
54	GCEA
CITY
01ART4
ARTICLE FOUR
after July 1, 2001 and on or after the implementation date of the RHSP at the time of retirement. Employees who terminate prior to retirement age (fifty years of age) or do not retire from the City of Glendale are not eligible to receive or convert any unused accumulated sick leave.
b.	Unit employees must have their unused accumulated vacation leave paid at the current base rate of pay to the employee’s RHSP account upon retirement subject to the development of procedures that comply with IRS regulations.
■c. Unit employees must transfer unused accumulated compensatory JtimG in excess of the limit set forth in this agreement at the current regular rate of pay to the employee’s RHSP account, subject to the development of procedures that comply with IRS regulations.
d.	The employee is responsible for paying any post retirement RHSP sen/ice fees and holds the City harmless for any taxes incurred from their utilization of the RHSp.
e.	Employees retiring after July 1,2001 but before the effective date of the implementation of the RHSP are eligible to participate in the current s*ck leave conversion plan until RHSP is implemented.
f.	Upon the effective date of the implementation of the RHSP, any remain’ng accumulated unused sick leave time will be converted to the RHSP consistent with the terms of this agreement subject to the development of procedures that comply with IRS regulations.
g.	Upon the effective date of the implementation of the RHSP, the RHSP shall be the only sick leave conversion benefit available to employees. The City’s current Sick Leave Conversion Plan and associated 50% cash out previsions shall no longer be available to retiring employees.
h.	Employees must participate in the RHSP with its effective date of ■implementation.	”	'	•
4.	All RHSP Exh< usted - May choose to personally maintain medical plan
When all RHSP funds have been exhausted, retired employees may elect to pay personally the full monthly medical premium or terminate the medical plan coverage.
G.	Retiring City Employees - PERS Sick Leave Service Time Conversion
1.	Retiring employees., prior to participation in the City’s sick leave medical insurance conversion plan, or RHSP, may apply any portion of their remaining accrued unused sick leave hours towards PERS service time credit under Section 20965 of the government code and subject to the development of procedures that comply with IRS regulations.
•J	55
01ART4
ARTICLE FOUR
2.	Any remaining sick leave hours after the PERS sick leave conversion to service time deduction may bd used for the City’s Sick Leave Conversion Plan consistent with the terms of this agreement and subject to the development of procedures that comply with IRS regulations.
3.	If it is determined that the PERS sick leave to service time conversion is excluded as a retirement option because it is in conflict with IRS regulations related td RHSP plans, then the PERS sick leave to PERS service time conversion shall no longer be available to unit employees as of the effective date of the implementation of the RHSP.
4,	However, the sum total of all sick leave applied to all conversion in aggregate shall not exceed the sym total of unused sick leave hours the employee has accrued. ..... =. < - ;
'	...•	’J F •. ’ .?»	••
H.	Sick Leave Deduction
1.	Effective July 1, 2001 through June 30, 2002, retiring employees participating in either the sick leave conversion plan or RHSP will first deduct 380 sick leave hotirs from their remaining accrued unused sick leave hours. The sick leave hours remaining after the 380-hour deduction may be applied to the sick leave conversion plan or RHSP consistent with the terms of this Memorandum of Understanding and subject to the development of a process that is consistent with IRS regulations for the enrollment of such retirees in the RHSP.
2.	Effective July 1, 2002, there will he no sick hours deducted from the retired employee’ accumulated sick leave, and all retiring City employees shall convert all remaining accrued unused sick leave to the RHSP consistent with the terms of this Memorandum of Understanding.
iy-c MEDICARE .	. .. ; /	<
r .	. X •	•	■ <.- ■.•»••***	••
A.	Retired Employee? - Eligible for Medicare
Retired unit employees and/or their qualified dependents who are eligible to be covered by Medicare lender Subchanter ^y|ll nf Title 42 ofthe United States Code (relative to Health Insurance for the Aged) are deemed to be within the Modified and Supplemental group insurance coverage.
•‘j •	■	' f	v	r' it'- .	■ r	».
B.	Retired Employees - Medicare
1.	The retired unit employee and/or qualified dependent entitled to receive City paid Part "A": Medicare shall enroll in Part "A" (Hospital) Medicare upon becoming eligible for Medicare coverage.
2.	Retired unit employees and/or their qualified dependants who are not entitled
to receive City paid Part A Medicare benefits may berequired to enroll in Part A (Hospital) Medicare benefits as a condition of participating in the City’s retired employee medical insurance plans.
3.	These retired City employees shell have their Part A Medicare benefits paid for by’the City when they are participating in the City's medical insurance
01ART4
ARTICLE FOUR
plan and shall continue to pay the City Medical insurance premiums, and Part “B” Medical as designated by the City.
4.	Eligible retired City employees and their qualified dependents who fail to enroll in Part A Medicare benefits may be barred from participation in Retired Employee medical Insurance plans. This Medicare enrollment requirement may be modified or rescinded by the City at any time.
•5 Retired City employees participating in the City's medical insurance plan shall eriroll in Part “B” Medical.
V. DENTAL INSURANCE
A- Premium Payment ..... , ,
1.	Indemnity Dental Plan
The City sh~.ll pay up to a maximum of $89.69 for the indemnity dental plan per month per employee for a dental plan for employees and their qualified .	dependents. . ... £ .
2.	DMO Dental Plan f •'	• •	• • , .	, ...
Effective August i, 20(11, the following are tne City and employee contributions for DMO Dental Plans.
*	k •;	-	• •	•	t	Employee	City
.	>' .	3	Monthly	Monthly
Delta Dental Premier	(Indemnity) Contribution	Contribution
a. Employee	$0	$38.03
b. Employee plus		
;v one dependent	.... - $0	$63.55
c Employee plus two.	. . ..	
or more dependents	K-	• $0	$89.69
DeltaCare (DMO)		
.	a. Employee	; ... ...	$0	$11.87
b. Employee plus	• 4	... ,J	;	
. one dependent	$0	$20.19
c. Employee plir» two	“fi	•> -.	,. .	• • ,	,	
or more dependents	$0	$30.87
B.	Premium Increases
1.	Indemnity, Delta Dental Plans
Any premium increases on the Indemnity or DMO dental plans which occur during the term of this agreement shall be paid by the City.
. 57	GCEA
CITY
01ART4
ARTICLE FOUR
C.	Dental Plans
The following are the two dental plans which are provided for the unit employee.
i.	City of Glendale Indemnity Delta Premier Dental Plan
Employees covered under the City of Glendale indemnity medical plan may enroll in either the Indemnity Plan or the DMO Dental Plan during open enrollment only. *	u‘‘
2.	DMO Dental Plan	*
a.	Unit employees covered under the DMO medical plan are restricted to dental coverage under the DMO dental plan.
i " .'.‘X,/'
b.	Dependents not enrolled in the DMO medical plan shall not be eligible for the coverage in DMO dental plan.
3.	Unit employees waiving Medical Insurance* may participate in Dental Insurance Plans.
VI. OPTICAL INSURANCE - ASSOCIATION PLAN
A.	Premium Payment	;
Effective July 1,1999, the City shall pay the monthly insurance premium rate for the Association’s Optical Insurance Plan for the “employee only” category. All premium costs for dependents shall be paid for solely by the erhpldyee.
B.	Mandatory 12/24 Plan
i • •. ,	> •...
This Optical Insurance Plan shall be a mandatory plan, which shall include one (1) examination every twelve (12) months and one (1) set of prescription eyeware every twenty-four (24) months. Such a plan is commonly referred to as a “12/24” Plan.
C.	Premium Increases	<	;
Any premium increases on the optical plan which Occur during the term of this agreement shall be paid 50% by the City and 50% by the employee. Any changes in the levels of benefit proposed by the Association, Which impact the Optical Insurance premiums, must be approved, in advance, by the City. * '
D.	Plan Limitations
The Optical Insurance benefit is only available tc Association members, and may only be applied to the optical insurance plan selected by the Association and approved by the City. - : . V •
-;■>	.	•	■	.0 ' ' ■■	».„• I . ..■»	•. •
.. -J V 7	„ ..	■ .. J.
'. . .	• 5	- 58	GCEA 4?^
CITY
01ART4
ARTICLE FOUR
VII. LONG-TERM DISABILITY (LTD) INSURANCE - ASSOCIATION PLAN
A. Premium Payment
1.	Through July 30, 2002, the City shall pay one-half (50%) of the monthly insurance premium rates for the Association's Long-Term Disability Insurance Plan for unit employees, provided that a minimum of 75% of the unit employees enroll in the plan.
2.	Effective August 1, 2002, the City shall pay for one hundred percent (100%) of the monthly insurance premium rates for the Cityadministered Long-Term Disability Instance Plan for unit employees who are members of the Glendale City Employees’ Association. The City has the right to choose the insurance carrier.
B.	Plan Benefits	4 ;
•• • • •	c J ' •	*
1.	Said insurance policy shall cover 50% cf pre-disability earnings with a maximum paid benefit of $2500 p r month find a sixty (60) day elimination period, and after all sick leave accrued by the affected unit employees has been first utilized.	.. ?
2.	The benefits provided in the City-administered Long-Term Disability Plan (LTD) shall be the same that were in effect as in the Association LTD Plan July 30, 2002.	'	:
C.	Leave Without Pay
When a unit employee enrplled in The Plan is not working and files a claim for the LTD Benefit, the City and GCEA shall share equally (50/50) in the payment of the premium for a period that does not exceed two (2) months of premiums (60 days).
D.	Exceptions - Family agdLMedical C »re ?.
Notwithstanding the above; whenever n unit employee becomes qualified for coverage under the City Family and Medical Care Leave Policy, the City shall continue to pay medical premiums as set forth in this article, not to exceed that required by law.
E.	Limitations	...	- .;
1.	Plan benefits are provided for us... । sployees insured by the Plan up to age 65 for earnings lost for off the job i'Jnass of injury up to age 65 per the provisions of the Plan.
2.	Compensation from LTD Insurance Benefits and accrued leaves may not exceed the employees teu (.’-Jay
3.	Employees may coordin. te accrued leaves’With LTD Benefits as permitted by the LTD Insurance Policy.
59	GCEA yffe
CITY
01ART4
ARTICLE FOUR
VIII. UNIFORMS
A. Uniforms Provided
1.	Eleven Sets of Uniforms -
The City shall provide eleven- (11) sets of uniforms to the following list of classifications: Building Repairer (Public Works-Facilities/Public Service-Water) Carpenter Communication Technician Custodial Worker (Public Works-Facilities/PuUic Service-Water) Electrical Mechanic (Power Plant) -	.
Electrical Mechanic Supervisor I (Power i iaat) Electrician Equipment Maintenance Supervisor	i
Equipment Painter and Body Repairer Equipment Welder <«*'' -	-
HVAC Mechanic ' Maintenance!'Worker (Power Plant, Public Works-Signing and Striping) Meter Reader Painter Parking Meter CdHector/Repairer
.	* 'Pesticide Applicator ‘ ' :	;
Plumber	*
Power Plant Mechanic Apprentice Power Plant Mechanic Supervisor Power Plant Mechanic Power Plant Mechanic Assistant	«
Power Plant ’Meohanic Helpcr -	5	>
Power Plant TechnfcSans' '	-
Senior Building Repairer (Public Works, Facility Services) Senior Com^rwc&ion Technici r. . Senior Survey Technician Senior•Custodial Worker(Public Works, Faciliirac) Senior ParklngMeter.Coliector/ReptJur s"	Senior Powdr Plant Technicians -
Senior Traffic Painter	f •
Sewer Crew Supervisor Sewer Maintenance Worker Survey Party Chief Survey Supei^iiaor ■r. Survey Technician >;	.	/	<
Traffic Painter/	•«'	r *;.•
Utility Welder I	(
■ :	...	■'	"V. t r. .i 1;	E:.. .
2.	Twelve Sets of1'	:
The City shall pro. classifications.
. -es of uniforms to the following list of
bu
01ART4
ARTICLE FOUR
Eqit Mechanic
Equipment Mechanic Helper Equipment Service Worker Helicopter Mechanic
Senior Equipment Mechanic
3.	Uniforms by Assignment
Unit employees in the classifications of Building Repairer, Carpenter, Electrical Mechanic (Power Plant), and Maintenance Worker, or unit employees " 1 to the sewer crew on a regular basis will receive uniforms only if sunned to Public Worku - Facilities, Mechanical Maintenance; Public A/orks - Sewers; or Public Service - Power Plant Sections.- *
4.	Coveralls
Coveralls are to be made available in the Public Service and Public Works garages, Public Service Power Plant, employees assigned to Water Section chlorinating duty, and to the unit employees in the classifications of Painters, Identification Technician and Senior Identification Technician. Quality and quantity are to be determined by the City.
5-	' Ram	■' ..V
The City shall provide rain boots for the classification of Public Works Building Repairer ?.nd Public Service Meter Readers.
‘ 6: F eld Employ 3e Safety T-Shirt Program
a.	The Field Employee Orange Safety T-Shirt Policy & Procedure
■' -	became effective January i, 1992. Details ofthe policy & procedure
<	• are available in the Personnel Division or in the Association Office.
b.	The City-issued Safety T-Shirts are considered to be a City-issued uriaorm and employees are required to comply with uniform requirements.
B.	Uniform, Clothing and Equi'~ aent Aliowance In Lieu of Issue
1.	Annual Unifc m Allow, nee - Certain Classes
Unit employees ir» the classifications of Fire Communications Shift Supervisor, Senior Fre Coinmuncations Operator, Fire Communications Operator, Nr1' Safety Environmental Specialist, Fire Protection Engineering Associate '* ' •••*» C 'er, Senior Identification Technician, and Identifier..	’*s' 'jieive an annual uniform allowance as
>	specified:.	re huse and maintenance of the required
uniform ar. s=.	-uT.ieLi purchase in lieu of issue, authorized
».	by Ci/ision k >ncy.
- -'61	GCEA
CITY/^y^
01ART4
ARTICLE FOUR
Fire Communications Shift S -Jsor, Senior Fire Communications Operator and Fire Communications Operator- $580 Uniform Allowance
■	_• r
a.	Employees in the classifications of Fire Communications Shift Supervisor and Senior Fire Communications Operator and Fire Communications Operator shall receive an annual uniform, clothing and equipment allowance in lieu of issue of five hundred eighty dollars ($580.00) per year.
b.	This uniform and/or clothing and equipment allowance shall be used toward the purchase 5^'\ maintenance of items including, but not limited to the following r ;
Long Sleeve ,-ightBlue Shirt '
Short Sleeve Light Blue Shirty. ...
Pants
Belt	/
Skirt
Sweater .
Shoes ~	:»
... .«• s Socks ' ••• ■ .
...	. . Sweat outfit (regulation) for nights
Patches >	•-v ,,
Fire Non-Safety Environmental ^gecialist and Fire Protection Engineering Associate - $580 Uniform Allowance
•	■'	'? / - ->r<7
a.	Employees in the. classifications of-Fire Non-Safety Environmental Specialists, and Fire Protection Engineering Associate shall receive an annual uniform clothing and equipment allowance in lieu of issue of five hundred eighty dollars ($580.00) per year.
b,	. This untforrn aQd/or.clothing and equipment allowance shall be used toward the purchase and maintenance of items including, but not limited to the following:
Command Jacket. r . ;
>	White Uniform Shirt (Short Sleeve)
Black Tie	- , ,
Silver Tie Bar
4 Namq.P-le^ . . ? • •« ? ,Ht.
Wool Trousers (Black)
,	., -Unifomt ^elt (^lack)^-.7
Glendale .-ire Department Belt Buckle Uniform Shoes (black)
, - .h £gqks.(blaclf|) ?i.
4.	4aii Shift Sufrwfaoji ~ ^^-r^cation Shift Supervisor and Community .. Service Office ^atetms ■
a. « Employ ».*	dtions .of Jail Shift Supervisor,
Cotnrm. •'vid >n S ia;» ''pil and Community Service Officer shall receive an annual uniform, bathing and equipment allowance in lieu of issue of six hundred and thirty dollars ($630).
62	GCEA
CITY
01ART4
ARTICLE FOUR
	b. This uniform and/or clothing and equipment allowance shall be used toward the purchase and maintenance of items including, but not limited to the following: Long Sleeve Shirt Short Sleeve shirt Pants Belt Shoes Sweater Socks Patches Field jacket Hand cuffs Hand cuffs' case
	~	?	Key flap . *. • 5.	Senior Identification Technician and Identification Technician- $325 Uniform Allowance a. Unit employees in the classifications of Senior Identification c	Technician and Identification Technician shall receive an annual • ■ uniform/clothing and equipment allowance of three hundred and twenty - five dollars ($325) per ye~x.
	. . , ' b. ■. This uniform and/or clothing and equipment allowance shall be used toward the purchase and maintenance of civilian items for office and/or field duty in compliance with City and Division dress and
- ■ •	#	r. ‘ J> •	- appearance standard and policies. 6.	Park Ranger and Senior Park Ranger- Uniform Allowance & Equipment Replacement a.	Immediately upon hire, unit employees in the classification of Park > •'	- Ranger and Senior Park Rcinrer shall be provided with uniforms and ,r e<(dipment. necessary to safely perform the duties of their job, indi’dirig but not limited to the items listed in the following sections 6b and 6c. b.	Unit employees in the classification of Park Ranger and Senior Park Ranger shall receive an annual Uniform/Clothing allowance of six hundred and fifty dollars ($650 ) per year. The allowance shall be
?! )Jsz t	used towards the purchase and maintenance of clothing items including but not limited to th© following: Long Sleeve Shirts Short Sleeve Shirts Pants	:y. . i!	/ Shorts
i i	Belt
... “■	ji.	Shoes '	Socks ..	...	. . t Hold Jacket	..	. =>	_ -	...	63	GCEA
01ART4	//
ARTICLE FOUR
c.	The City will provide the following equipment items as needed: Bullet-proof vest Sam Browne Beit Handcuffs Handcuff Case Firearm Holster
Speed Loadei-s & Cases Smokey Bear Hat Baton Baton Ring c Cold Weather Jacket
d.	Employees who fail their probationary period or resign within the first year of employment, must pay back all uniform allowance and equipment costs expended onjoehalr of the employee.
C.	Uniform Allowance Payment
1.	Such uniform allowance shall be paid in two equal installments on the first scheduled payday immediately following the fifteenth (15th) day of July and the fifteenth (15th) day of January each year. Proration of the aforementioned specified allowances shall be done in cases where a new employee is hired into the appropriate classification at dates different from those shown in this section.
2.	When a new employee is hired in 3 month other than January or July, the uniform allowance is to be prorated on a 1 /6th basis.
’■	c! ‘ -s ■
D.	Uniform Requirements	• j
Unit employees who are required to wear uniforms or who are provided uniform allowance must weqr uniform while on tSuiy un' \ss permission to do otherwise has been received from the immediate supervisor. Employees who are on duty and do not comply with uniform requirements chi 1 be subject to disciplinary action.
•	■'	y
Uniform Allowance Limitations
No unit employee shall beelrgible to receive any payment of any allowance if such employes has for any reason been absent from active service or on industrial accid ent or sick leave or on a leave of a' sence v.-'thout pay for any time in excess of one-half (1/2) of the six ?((5)-month period immediately prior to the time when an installment payment is otherwise due.
Termination Prior to Completion of Probation
1.	Any unit employee who voluntarily terminates prior to or fails probation prior to completion of their probation, shall reimburse the City for all uniforms purchased by the employee allowance received, not to exceed the total amount of uniform allowance received.
64
GCEA
CITY
01ART4
2.	Failure to reimburse the City uniform allowance previa provisions of this article shall require the Citytowithhc from sums owed to employee by City at timeoHemw
IX.	SAFETY ITEMS
Unit employees shall comply with all applicable safety requi management. Disciplinary action shall be taken for noncoir requirements.
X.	MEAL RE'^JRSER'ENT
A.	Meal eim' !rsewv*n2 Per Dfom
- ... • ■ . ~.— - -
Effective December 1,2C00, a per diem rate r' i to unit employees of the operational and ir (GWP), Public Works/Facilitios Services, Services Divisions who meet one (1) of t supervisor prior to p 'vrr. □rA nail approve
I
1.	Emergency Call Back	<
In excess of four (4) hours and w ■	meal r’rbursomer.t shall	be p
; ' excess our (4) hours worked
2.	'	Esrtv Ca’ ‘
Meal - jment 3ha"
less >	52) hou
3.	Ext*
’•	Met
of th • for
... ;	■	' ■	0	•,
B.	Set
Nfk 5in.-»	•<>.
cal t-ack in sss c fT:
XI.	EDUCl TIC JmL REI, .3LRG
A. ' sliqluiiitv
Mien any unit employe liversity course or otht
1tited to such employe:	=	_____
■P f d, payment of one-han
*'■' for same maybe madw cou.oe.	• ,	\
65
m ART 4
article four
B.
Limitations
1.	However, the aggregate total a unit employee may be reimbursed by the City ' for all their entire educational courses may not exceed $10,000 per each 10 years of their full-time salaried employment with the City. Beginning with the first day of employment, employees are eligible to receive $10,000 for each 10-year cycle (1-10, 11-20, 21-30, and 31-40).
2.	. This benefit is non-accumulative and must be used within each 10 year cycle.	.
C. Repayment to City if Terminated Within thetYftar of S&wfyi. x
In the event such reimbursed employee leayes.the'implf'^/men' of the City for any reason, except layoff, within a period of one year ioHowing the completion of such course of study, the amount paid .by the City for such tuition and books shall be repaid to the City by having the. Director of Finance deduct same from the severance pay or last salary, paycheck of such employee. . ... .;
<	.* •	'y • :•	; *r r*
XII.	HEALTH MAINTENANCE ^ CLUB REIMBURSEMEN T : <
A.	Eligibility	_	* 1
e
Effective July 1, 1998,. unit employees swbo onr^l in the health maintenance club selected by the Association, shall, after having jen certified by the Association that they have utilized the club for the purpose of .xercise a minimum of fifty (50) visits within each fiscal year (July 1 through June 3 f reest’-e payment of the cost of the .4 membership up toonehundredand fifty dalkL-s ($150'.
<• S -< . ■■■■ ?
B.	Limitations
1.	The health maintenance club reimbu^ment benefit is only available to Association members. and may onii^Zyplied to the health maintenance . '■<•	club selected by the Association.	«.«•••
2.	Unit employees qualifying for reimbursement .shall be reimbursed for all covered expenses once per year upon submission of receipts and documentation from the Association. .	»
3.	Reimbursement will be based on-e^gipp	as set forth in this section
not to exceed one hundred andfifty doln X$150) per each fiscal year.
4.	A one-time-only initiation fee w^'-be.p.aipi^y the Gify, n<;t to exceed $2000. This will cover the entire GCEA Membership. All future i nitiation fees will be paid only by the individual C^-EA members enrolled in \ « plan.
XIII.	MIL EAGE REIMBURSEMENT PLAN	hl>vn	,<
, •• '	- •.	■	.?	x.*>iur f	r b.- \
A.	Formula	<•» c•-.£ <	.« oi
'	■	»'	. .	‘-'O f'f ■ ’O S‘> '	i jgf ,[-i- 1
y	The following planjs the mileage reimbursement for City eesusing personal
vehicles for authorized City business approved by management.
66	GCEA
CITY
01ART4
ARTICLE FOUR
1.	Reimbursement Rate •
The mileage reimbursement shall be thirty cents ($.30) permile for the first 500 miles and twenty-five cents ($.25) per mile for all miles driven over 500, per month. M:leage records shall he maintained on forms approved by management.
2.	Limitations
a.	Mileage reimbursement should not be interpreted as being he rate of reimbursement received for travel as set forth in the City's Administrative Policy Manual.
b.	Any unit employee using their cwn personal vehicle for City business and receives a mileage reimbursement or monthly auto allowance -	. must maintain a valid California drivers license and automobile
insurance on the vehicle they use for City business and must show proof of such upon request of supervision or management.
B.	Monthly Auto Allowance
1.	The following uni* classifications are designated by the Cty Manager and are eligible to receive monthly automobile allowance for using their personal vehicles for authorized City business as approved by management.
Classification	Monthly Rate
Meter Reader ...	. .. -	$325
Resource Efficiercy Advisor	' <■	$325
♦ Con ’uctier. Inspects \ . ..	$325
Building'"specter	t	;	$325
Electrical hspejtor -	. • i .	$325
HVAC inspector	'	$325
License Investigator .	■-	$325
Neighborhood Services Insp.	$325
Plumbing lL.?pe.ctor	•$325
Sr. Building Inspector	$325
2.	Thfe a'lowcacc will cease when any unit employee receiving an auto allowance is assigned a City vehicle to conduct his/her City business.
■..	:' ' f - ■ / ., ‘
C.	Limitations	V
Unit employees ’ rneiving monthly automobile allowance shall not be entitled to such . j	allowance v/b /er absent from vr xk cn a leave of absence without pay or not
using the ir	»-«al vehicle for City business tor more than (87 hours) 50% of their
work schedu* ring a given a ’ v.dar month.
XIV.	ZMV LiCENSiNG REI^BURX "POLICY
r- • .■ '■ ■ " ,	■■■'	f-v r ..... :
A.	Purpose
1.	The purpose cf the i y is to outline the reimbursement procedures for DMV driver's licenses requirements affecting certain classifications, positions, and employees ., the City of Glendale.
St > '« • ■.	:•:> '	.	■■ .■■ •.	• . ■ ■ : r. t .-.
'	<67	GCEAZgW^ x
..	city
01ART4
ARTICLE FOUR
2.	Employees who are required to upgrade their driver's license and/or are required to get special endorsement, due to Department of Motor Vehicles regulations, will receive reimbursement of fees as set forth in the following.
B.	Reimbursement for Requirad New DMV Driver License Requirements:
1.	Employees whose job specifications did not require a commercial drivers license or special endorsement to perform *ieir driving responsibilities prior to DMV regulation changes and, as a result of these changes, now require this licensing.	•
2.	Employees will be reimbursed, on a one-time basis, for fees required by the DMV to upgrade their driver's license.
3.	License renewal fess, minus regular Class C licensing fees, will be paid for by the City. :-r-- ■
4.	DMV receipts must be submitted for reimbursement.
5.	Additional fees that may be incurred by an employee as a result of failing a
test will not be .umbursed by the.City.
C.	Reimbursement if New DMV Driver's License is Requested by Management
1	. Employees hired into or promoted to classifications which state in the job specifications: "May require a1 commercial driversdicease and/or specific endorsement", will be reimbursed fo> DMV fees if rtPh a license is requested by Management. Employees who obtain commercial driver’s licenses and/or specific endorsements, whose job specifications do not require said license will be reimbursed for DMV fees if Management utilizes their commercial driving abilities on a regular basis. 4
2	. Employees in these classifications, who are requited by Management to have a commercial drivers license and/or special endorsement, will be reimbursed the difference in renewal fees between regular licensing and commercial and/or special endorsenvent licensing.
D.	No Reimbursement If Promoted/Hired Into Position With DMV Driver License Requirements	v-
’	-V	.'3* i ■ *
1.	En .pl yees promoted or bred into post whose jot s,>ecifications require a commercial and/or special enddreem	jdv^s licence are excluded from
this policy and are tespsosiUe for the.. .c tin licensing fees.
2.	Exceptions are employer _)(€d_6<'hiredinto portions prior to specification changes br< oout by DMV licensing revision.
E.	Fai'tre to Obiah DMV LicenvH^; Requirement
In the e.nnt on incumbent employee is unable to obtain the commercial license, and/or specific certification required, every effort will be made to reassign that
68	GCEA/ftWT
01ART4
ARTICLE FOUR
individual to a position, not requiring a commercial license and if necessary that employee’s salary will be "Y" rated until they are able to obtain their commercial license or transfer to another classification/position which does not require a commercial license or special certification.
F.	Compliance Standards
Compliance to DMV commercial driver’s license for all City of Glendale employees must be in keeping the DMV California Commercial River Standards Handbook, Section One, Commercial Driver License Program Qualifications and Sanctions.
XV.	EMPLOYEE DRIVER S LICENSE REQUIREMENTS
A.	Driver's License Requirements
. . \ ; >; Unit employees who are in a classification which requires the possession and maintenance of a valid California driver’s license and/or are required to drive a vehicle for the City are required to inform their division management on the first working day after official notification of a conviction which results in a restriction, suspension, or revocation of their said driver's license.
B.	Vehicle Code Violations	v
Any unit employee covered in "A" above shall be required, when convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs or receives a license restriction, suspension or revocation oftheir said driver's license on or after 7/1/87, shall meet at least once with the City employees' assistance counselor for substance abuse counseling. EAP counseling sessions are further defined in Article Seven, Section 1-D.
C.	Consequence of Non-compliance
•r / 'SL .e *££ L
Failure by unit employees to comply with any of the provisions set forth in this Section (XVI, A, B) shall be grounds Tor disciplinary action up to and including x '	removal:'	•'■■■'	■
XV,. AIR QUALITY MANAGEMENT DISTRICT (AQMD, REGULATIONS
It is acknowledged that both parties understand that the City must comply with the regulations issued by the Air Quality Mana^smant Die., let (AQMD). It is further understood the City must meet and confer with the GCEA before implementing any necessary changes to meet these regulations.	•' v ’ ~!’
XVII. MISUSE OF BENEFITS
Unit employees who fraudulently gain or fraudulently attempt to gain for themselves or others by deception, omission, or fraud the benefits of i. .a City’s Workers' Compensation, retirement, meoical, dentd, or'psychological insurance policies or any other benefit which they would not otherwise be entitleu to ohaii be subject to: a) denial of requested benefits; and/or b) disciplinary action up to and including removal.
69
01ART4
ARTICLE FIVE
LEAVE POLICY
I. HOLIDAYS
A.	Holiday Leave Hours
Each January 1st,-full-time unit employees, excluding unit employees who receive holiday-in-'ieu pay, upon becoming eligible,-are eligible for up to 106 hours of paid holiday leave per calendar year to be used for ten (10) City designated holidays as they occur and Floating Holiday hours and as farther defined in this article. a
B.	City Designated Holidays
The following are designated holidays which holiday leave time hours are deducted from employee's holiday leave timeas they occur except as otherwise specified by this article.	. -	,	•
.	'	........ J .	J. .	. .	• . . .
New Year’s Day (first day of January)
Martin Luther King, Jr. (third Monday of January) Washington's Birthday (third Monday in February) Memorial Day (last Monday in May)
’ Independence Day (fourth dgy of July),. - . t.
ii; .	, Lrbor Day (first Monday in September)	.- .r-
> Veteran's Day (eleventh day of November) - -Thanksgiving Day (fourth Thursday in November) ,< Frday following Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day (twenty-fifth day of December)
. ■ , ••	:• ■: r> .	■. --	’ ■
C.	Use of Designated Holidays Leave Hours
Unit employees who receive holiday leave for city designated leave holidays shall use holiday leave from their holiday leave hours as the City, designated holiday occurs in amounts appropriate to their regular scheduled work shift. For example 8 hours on a 8 hour shift, 9 hours on a 9 hour shift, 10 hours on a 10 hour shift and 12 hours on a 12 hour shift.
•i >	-J-	<•'	? . .	■
D.	Floating Holidavt^eave.H^rs ■	■■■
Any remaining holiday leave hours not used for these designated^City holidays shall be used in a manner consistent with floating leave policy as set forth in this article.
./ ’ • .. .
E.	Friday After Thanksgiving Day
1.	Wheml^e Friday after Thanksgiving falls on a Friday whM the..City is closed
due tp the.9/8Q work ^schedule, employees will rebin nine. .(9) hours of holiday . leave for use of floating leave, providing that their nbqpal work schedule
GCEA
70	CITY
ARTICLE FIVE
includes this Friday as a holiday and they are also normally scheduled to be off this Friday.
2.	Unit employees, excluding unit employees in the Police Division, scheduled to work on the Friday after Thanksgiving Day shall receive holiday overtime unless employee requests to take time worked on said day to be earned as compensatory time as set forth in this agreement.
f" •	•• J- ’ • •
F.	Public Works DjyifMon-lnteqrated Waste Section
Designated Integrated Waste unit employees will work all designated holidays . ■. except Christmas as outlined in this Article, Section l-B, and receive holiday overtime.	?
G.	Christmas/Nqw Years Day - Public Works Integrated Waste and Mechanical Maintenance Sections
, J, . ,	,
1.	When Christmas or New Years Day holiday does not fall on a weekend, both the Public Works Integrated Waste and Mechantaal Maintenance employees shall not work that day, except on emergency. The work load would then be rr-xde up cn the following Saturday.
2.	On that Saturday, the regular Mechanical Maintenance staffing level which is required to service and repair refuse trucks on Saturdays and holidays shall continue to be worked and staffed. The other holidays shall be worked as . scheduled. .
H.	Floating Holiday Leave Utilization
T- J *
1.	Floating holiday leave time not expended for the nine city designated holidays shall be floating holiday leave. Floating leave shall be approved at such time as is mutually agreeable to the employee and the employee's division head. Leave payment shall be charged against employee available holiday leave hours accrued.
2.	A new unit employee must be employed sixty (60) calendar days in a calendar year and must be evaluated to be receiving at least meeting standards of performance before becoming eligible for floating holiday leave.
3.	Unit emptoyeec who terminate their employment with the City may utilize any
floating holidays up to their last day of employment with the City.
4.	The appropriate use of floating holiday leave shall be the employees responsibility to monitor. Any employee using so much floating leave that
gcea
’>71	CITY
ARTICLE FIVE
insufficient leave remains to cover the nine city designated holidays shall be required to utilize vacation, compensatory time oruapaid leave of absence to cover the designated holiday.
I-	Floating Holiday Cashout
1.	The City shall pay unit employees up co eighteen (18) hours of floating holiday leave when management is unable to allow unit employees to take their floating holiday leave because of .'“era' ’ Jtial nbcr.rsjty or other related reasons before December 31 of each calendar year.
2.	This cashout is limited to eighteen (18) hours of floatii ig holiday leave at the base rate of pay in effect on such day.
3.	This excludes Police Divisi on unit employee.
J.	Holiday Occurrence on Saturday or Sunday
1; ' F/.day Holiday
The Friday immediately preceding a. .y regu.jr holiday that falls on a Saturday shall be deemed to be a holiday.
2. Monday Holiday	.
The Monday immediately following any regular hcliday that falls on a Sunday shall be deemed to be a holiday.
K.	Holiday Policy on Scheduled Pay Off
1.	When a holiday falls oh a day whicl । is pa;t of the employees scheduled days off, ernployu.es shaH not be required to use holiday leave time from their holiday leave bank. • , h ‘
2.	When a holiday occurs on a day on which an employee is scheduled to work, the employee shall take such holiday leave as is appropriate to their work Schedule. .	-
L.	Holiday Scheduling
The City reserves the right io require employ^ee tc work on designated holidays.
GCEA
CITY
72
ARTICLE FIVE
POLICE DIVISION AND PARK RANGER PROGRAM
1.	Holiday Bank
a. 1) On January first of each year, unit employees currently employed shall be granted a holiday time bank of one hundred and six (106) hours holiday leave for the current calendar year. 2) Such holiday time off shall be taken with the approval of Management.
b- The parties to this memorandum, including the unit employees, will endeavor, in good faith, to avoid accumulation of holiday time which
- may result in scheduling problems and/or loss of holiday time if not taken during ihs calendar year.
c.	Unit employees shall utilise holiday time when taking time off on a City designated hclidry and
-	the holiday time bank shall be debited for the numberof hours in their
scheduled work shift.
d.	Unit emp'o; ^e, in the Police Division ’signed io the Operations, Jail, and Records sections and Pary, Recreation and Community Services Park Ranger Program who are required to work on a designated holiday sh J.not-be debited their holiday leave time bank nor shall they receive any additional compensation for working the designated holiday. The use of this holiday time bank will be scheduled by Management and the affected unit employee, taking into consideration the staffing needs of the Division.
2. Police Division Designated Ulandatory Holidays
a.	All other unit employees in the Police Division required to work the following seven (7) designated mandatory holidays 1)first day of January (New Year's Day); 2) third Monday of January (Martin Luther King, Jr. Hpliday); 3) last Monday of May (Memorial Day); 4) fourth of July (Independence Day); 5) first Monday in September (Labor Day);
6)	fourth Thursday in^o/ombor (Thanksgiving Day); and 7) 25th day of December (Christmas Day) shall receive one-and-one-half time overtimepay. ■,
b.	Affected unit emplanes' holiday time bank shall not be debited as follows:	■ •
1)	When required to work on any of these designated mandatory holidays nr;
GCEA >
73	CITY/
ARTICLE FIVE
2)	While on IOD status and not administratively assigned.
c.	If the IOD status is projected to exceed the next full pay period, the unit employee will be administratively assigned and subject to Designated Mandatory Holiday debit.
d.	1) Police Division employees assigned to the Support Services Division, Traffic Bureau, Parking Enforcement Detail, shall observe those mandator/ holidays identified by Glendale Municipal Code Section 3.08.010 A with the exception of the Friday after Thanksgiving which shall not be a mandatory holiday for the^e'-employees.
2) Section -3.08.010 C, referring to designation of Friday or Monday as a holiday, when actual holiday falls on Saturday or Sunday; Shall specifically not apply to these same unit employees. >• c.
3. P Uce Division and Part?-hunger P
New Unit Employees -
Holiday Bank ’ > w -'
v .	•<£■ I ’ .£ 1 . . -
New unit employee^ hired In the Police Division or Park Ranger Program after January 1 of eact? calendar year shall receive a proportion of the holiday bank based!on the following schedule:
Month of Hire January February
Total Hrs. Month of
Banked
March April
May ■
June
100.
97
90 '
81 >-
72
63
Hire
; JSIy August September October November December
Total Hrs. Banked
54
45
36
27
18
9
4. Holiday Compensation - Police Division and Park Ranger Program Only • » r •	•>	*• •• > e
a.	On December 31st of each year, the City shall pay Police Division unit employees and employees in the Park Ranger Program up to but not to
'	exceed thirty t&o (32) hours of unused holiday time at the base rate of pay in
effect on such day. Any unused holiday time in excess of thirty-two (32) hours shall be forfeited.
<<•
b.	All holidays earned‘ are based upon the occurrence of the holidays recognized by the City which have occurred during the current calendar year
GCEA
CITY
ARTICLE FIVE
prior to the employee's last day of employment with the City.
c.	All holidays earned but not taken up to and including the last day of employment with the City shall be forfeited.
N. Twenty-Fourth of December
1.	■ City Offices Open
a. When December 24th occurs on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday , or Friday when City offices are scheduled to be opened, all City offices including Libraries, shall close at 12:00 p.m.
*	‘ b. Only unit employees working on this day as part of a daytime work
■	schedule starting on or after 6:00 a.m. and ending not later than 6:00
■	•	■ -J p:m. or 6:30 p.m. for employees assigned to the Police Division,
•	■■■■'	Traffic Section 3/36 work schedule, shall be considered eligible for
this holiday provision. Unit employees in the PublicWorks Custodial
> Section who are normally assigned to the evening shift may request to flex their woik schedule^ oh December 24th which would enable
• them to meet the eligibility for this half-day holiday subject to management approval.
c. Unit employees eligible for this holiday leave shall work onehalf (1/2) of their normally scheduled work shift on this day. This leave shall
• '■	amount to fcur (4) hours for employees on a 5/40 work schedule; four
and one-half (4-1/2)-hours for employees on a 9/80 work schedule; five (5) hours for employees on a 4/40 work schedule or six (6) hours for employees assigned to the Police Division, Traffic Section 3/36 work schedule.
. ~ •; c i'.. • ‘ ..
’ '2.' Limitations -
*	a. That part of December 24th from 12:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. shall be
- ' < and is hebeby designated a holiday; provided, however, that said holiday shall not apply to the unit employees in the operation of the Fire and Police Division, .vtose functions are essential to the public welfare as designated by management.
b.	Integrated Waste Section employees who work the irregularly scheduled 9/80 shift on December 24th should be eligible for four and one-half (4 1/2) hours of compensatory time to be taken at another time mutually agreed to by the employee and management.
75
ARTICLE FIVE
c.	Those unit employees receiving December 24 holiday time off shall work no later than 12:00 p.m. Employees receiving this benefit shall not receive a meal break on this day.
3. Non-Cumulative
a.	This twenty-fourth day of December holiday provision is non-cumulative, and if not utilized for any reason as set forth in this section, it may not be taken at a later time except as provided herein.
b.	Only unit employees actually scheduled to work on December 24th are eligible for the holiday. •. •
c.	Unit employees eligible to. receive the December 24th holiday leave, with the approval of management, may combine a maximum of four (4) hours on.a 5/40, four and one-half (4-1/2) hours on a 9/80, five (5) hours on a 4/40, or six /©) hours on the Police Traffic 3/36 schedule of December 24th leave with compensatory time or vacation or floating holiday leave or sick leave to receive a full shift off on December 24th. Leaves of absence without pay or temporary disabil’ty may not be combined with the December 24th holiday leave.
0.	Hnl: day Leave Limitation
1.	No unit employee shall receive any holiday pay if they use more than four hours (4) of leave of absence without pay either the work day before or the work day after the holiday except as set forth in City Family and Medical Leave Policy.
2.	Unit employees who terminate employment before the end of the calendar year shall only be eligible to receive holiday have hours covering those holidays chronologically occurring prior to their termination and shall also receive upto 18 hours cashout of unused floating holiday leave. All » . ■ mandatory holidays occurring after termination shall be forfeited.
• * •• - % <• :•
P.	Holiday Leave Hourly Utilization
Accumulated holiday leave time may be taken in increments of one (1) hour or more as approved by management.
GCEA
76
ARTICLE FIVE
II. SPECIAL DAY3 OF OBSERVANCE
A, Definition
A special day of observance, day of mourning, or a like day of participation, when so declared by Council by resolution, shall have the same legal effect as a holiday, and during such day or portion thereof so declared, City offices shall be closed, except those offices providing services essential to the public welfare.
B.Schedule
Unless specifically declared otherwise by the City Council, such day shall be between the hours of 7:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m.
•' C. Eligibility ; - '	••••
Only unit employees working on a special day of observance and not rendering essential services shall have the day off with pay.
, •	l.-.i	<	-
D. Compensation ' . ’v
1,	Employees whose services are declared essential by the City Manager shall work during such day, or portion thereof, arid shall be compensated therefor as by this section specifically provided as follows:
2.	Unit employees working in the Integrated Waste Section shall receive straight time in addition to regular pay for each hour worked during such day or period specified by the City.
3.	Unit employees required to perform essential services on such a day between the houis of 7:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m., or such other period as specified by the City, shall reOeive straight time pay in addition to regular pay for each hour worked ddring such day or period as declared by the City Council.
III.	VACATION
A. , Vacation Earned z	Z.
Unit employees compensated on a monthly basis snail be provided with vacation earnings to be based on the following schedule:
GCEA ,
city
77
ARTICLE FIVE
Years of Full-Time Service	Annual No. of Hours Eligible to Earn	< Monthly Accrual # of Hours Per Month
Year 1 through 4	1-4	80 hours	6.667 hours
(start through 48 months)	*- ‘ > • ■».	
Beginning year 5	"	4-14 (49 months through 168 months)	120 hours	10.000 hours
Beginning year 15	14 (169 months and after)	160 hours „	'■ 13.333 hours
B. Limitations	>		■k >
1.	Effective October 1,1994 vacation will be earned and ayvarded monthly and will be computed on the basis of the annual hours divided by the number of months per year.	... , , ,	.
2.	No vacation hours shall be credited for a month in which the employee has been on a leave of absence without pay, excluding disciplinary suspensions without pay, during the majority (50%+) of the month.
3.	All vacations shall be taken at such time as approved by the division head for which the emoloyee works...	‘
4.	Vacation leave may be taken in increments of one-half (1/2) hour or more approved by management.
5.	New unit employee will accrue vacation time commencing with the firi day of employment as a salaried unit employee but this vacation time is not vested nor may it be taken or cashed-out unless the unit employee completes one (1) year of service with the City. This means on the thirteenth (13th) month of salaried full-time service with the City the eligible new unit employee will have iaccumulated and be eligible to use 8(fhrs. and accrue vacation time on a monthly basis thereafter.
6.	Any unit employee who is laid off during their first year of einpioyment and is then rehired within a one (1) year time period, shall have their prior service time earned prior to their lay off apply toward their service time eligibility for vacation benefits earned. ,.
7.	Unit employees working any schedule, including other than a regular 40hour
schedule, shall be subject to the exact same vacation policy as all other unit employees.
GCEA
CITY
78
ARTICLE FIVE
8.	Vacation leave .balance shall be the employee's responsibility to monitor. Any employee using vacation leave in excess of the employee's accrued leave shall be required to utilize floating holiday leave, compensatory time or unpaid leave of absence to cover excessive vacation leave taken.
C.	Prior Service
For the purpose of computing additional vacations allowed after five years, "total service" means and includes all full-time service with the City prior to any resignation .,>?•, or retirement as well as the service of a unit employee following reemployment.
; v it-; . •	•	-
D.	. Vacation <\cc-jmuk.t»on .
r.	■ •	-o’	;	:	■ •	” -
All unit employees shall accumulato and ma vacation time earned as follows:
1.	Unit employees may accrue a maximum of two (2) years of vacation leave without Division Head approval. Vacation leave earned in excess of the two (2) years of accumulated vacation leave must be used monthly as earned.
2.	A unit employee who is unable tc take a vacation in accordance with the first provisions of this section due to the fact that such employee's continued service is in the best interest of the C ty, shall, with the approval of the employee's Division Head, be entitled to accrue a maximum total of three (3) years of vacation time. Vacation leave earned in excess of the three (3) years of accumulated vacation leave must be used monthly as accrued.
3.	Once three (3) years of accumulated vacation leave is accrued, the unit employee stops accruing additional vacation time until the leave is utilized and the accun dated time is reduced to below the maximum accrual limits. This accrual stops when the unit employee reaches maximum accrual limits
• ; of either 240 hours (1 to 4 years of full time service), 360 hours (5 to 14 vears of full time service), or 480 hours (15 or more years of full time service).
4.	A unit employee who is unable to return to work due to a serious and prolonged illness or injury which prevents such person from taking earned vacation time during the calendar year and the limits set forth in this Section D1 and 2 above, may, with the approval of the City Manager, carry over such vacation time to the next succeeding calendar year.
5.	Accumulation apd use of vacation leave beyond any succeeding calendar year and the limits set forth in this Section D 1 and 2 above, may be granted at the discretion of the City Manage’’ in special or unusual circumstances.
6.	A unit employee who has been military leave of absence for a least thirty
79
ARTICLE FIVE
(30)	consecutive days during the calendar year in which such person would otherwise be entitled and required to take a Vacation, may take said vacation during the twelve calendar months immediately following the calendar month of termination of said military leave but in no way shall such unit employee be entitled to take said vacation or receive any compensation for same after this last stated time.
E.	Vacation Cash-Out at Termination / Retirement - RHSP j ' ‘	-s'	' ‘ •' ■’ ?	’	.
1.	Any unit employee who has completed at least brie year of service with the City prior to termination shall be paid at the base hourly rate then being received for the vacation to Which tha employee would otherwise be entitled and also for vacation days earned by reason of months worked in the cuirent calendar year, provided said Vacation days have not been taken at or prior to the date of separation.
si •	•	: ,r
»	2. Unit employees who plan to retire must notify the Finance Division /
Payroll Section six (6) moriffis prior to their Official retirement date if they wish to have any or all of their accumulated vacation time cashed-out
■■■■» upon their retirement from the City: Employees who do NOT put in a
- request to Finance fol vacation time caSh-cdt as set forth above, will have aE of thdlr accumulated Vacation hours placed into their RHSP account
• upon their retirement-subject to the development of procedures that comply with IRS regulations. '
3. Further details on unused accumulated vacation leave and RHSP are set -	forth in Article Four of this agreement.
IV. LEAVE QI ABSENCE - SWEARING-IN CEREMONY - U.S. CITIZENSHIP
•'	/ 7 r 1 Z11	'"S .?<.
In recbgn.tion of unit employees receiving their United States citizenship, the City proudly recognizes their new citizenship status and eligible employees shall be granted leave of absence with pay to attend the Swearing-In Ceremonies.
V. SICK LEAVE
A. Sick Leave Benefit <V'	.
1.	Sick leave is a bene'
are unable to work couise of thteir emp
. right and is to be utilized by employees who ause of an injury or illness not arising out of the iient, except as provided otherwise in this article. Tol
2.	The sibk leave benefit shouio be thought of as an insurance policy; it insures and protects employees from a loss in wages when they are unable to work because of ah ihYiess or injuiy.
GCEA
CITY Oft®
80
ARTICLE FIVE
3.	The City considers good attendance to be a very important part of a unit employe Vc overall perfonnance. Absenteeism creates a hardship on City operations arid co-workers, resulting in work schedule disruptions and added costs.
Sick Leave Accumulation Plan
1.	Employees shall accrue eight (8) hours sick leave for each major portion of a * month worked in a calendar year.
2.	The maximum sick leave hours which can be accumulated each calendar year shall be ninety-six (96) hours.
3.	For each month, or more than 50% portion thereof, during which a full time unit employee is compensated on a monthly basis, said unit employee shall be allowed a sick leave of absence’with full pay for eight (8), nine (9), ten (10), or twelve (12) hours, depending upon such employee’s assigned work schedule to be taken only when employee is unable to work on account of illness or injury, including pregnancy. Said amount of sick leave hours shall be debited in full from the affected employee’s sick leave accrual bank.
4.	Service time prior to any resignation, retirement, or removal from employment of the City shall not thereafter be considered for any leave accumulation (credits) except in the case of a unit employee reinstated. Unit employees reinstated subsequent io resignation shall have reinstated to heir credit any accumulated sick leave hours lost because of such resignation.
Limitation	■'
! ■	I '
1.	No such leave of absence shall be credited for time during which unit
j	employee is on leave of absence from duty without pay.
2.	Sick leave shall be approved by management based on the sick leave policies o; the City.	.• >
3.	A unit employee w’ ’ble to work on account of illness or injury shall abide by the sick k	» and procedure estab’.’sh; J by the City. A unit
employee shall ।	,, knitted to return to duty until examination by
Employee Heaiu >	physician approved by the City and must be
/' - found to be sufficit. ,i>	ierad from such illness or injury. The City may
’	; deny a re.vi.se fre a	’can and sand em ployee to a City approved
physician. The C.y r^G/vas the hgM to bend a unit employee for ’examination to ven., meutcul rc.ajt.3; nor to authorizing the employee to
return to work.
GCEA
CITY
81
ARTICLE FIVE
4.	A unit employee with an- absence of five (5) full working days or less may return to duty without such examination, approval, and finding when permitted by management as outlined in this section.
5.	Any illness or injury extending more than five (5) full working days for unit employees must be verified by a physician or Employee Health Services.
6.	Unit employees reemployed from a lay-off list established after July 1,1978,
shall have all previously accrued sick leave credit added to their accumulated sick leave balance.
D. Division Notification
1.	Unit employees who are absent from.-work due to illness or injury shall promptly notify their supervisor or division head daily of this fact, in advance. Ec ch division may have further requirements regarding the reporting of .	• j absences from work due to illness or injury. This may include requiring the
employee to provide, proof of illness or injury to Employee Health Services,
> x based on the sick leave policies of the City.
.2. Management shall exempt employees from these requirements providing the »	:•> unit employee: -.	•* •?•	i.
a.	is in a medical facility; or •
b.	has an industrial disability which has been determined
to be permanent and stationary by a Ppensed medical physician and prohibits return to duty; or
' . '..i'	- J'.. '	' .•• OX'
c.	other arrangements, locations, or conditions have been authorized by management.
* *
•	*	f	<	• i	•»
3. Failure to comply with the requirements^ ofthis article shall be grounds for disciplinary action, which ^uld include dismissal from the City.
• .... •: Z ’ \ fl -.'J-
E. Misuse of Sick Leave £r'
•. ;<< >■ r' Trt and ;ioi a ’f	.
- No unit employee sh&T-nt; beer «*i:d/or misrepresent any illness or injury or deceive any other empicys.ioyr v sor. or any representative of the City as to their rec । condition for the. purp©’	ei. .ntng from-scheduled work assignments.
Should this misuse,; feigni^ iar nv< representationt of illness or injury be proven, disciplinary actio be taken, whfeh could include dismissal from the City.
82
ARTICLE FIVE
Use of Accumulated Sick Leave
In addition to illness or injury, accumulated unused sick leave may be used by a unit employee for:
, 1. Temporary disability as outlined in this agreement.
2.	Medical insurance premiums upon retirement as outlined in this agreement.
3.	A cash payment upon retirement of fifty per cent (50%) of the value of the
retired medical insurance premiums as outlined in this agreement, for accumulated sick leave days in excess of 800 hours (or 760 hours, effective t July 1, 2000)..	.
4.	Family care leave as outlined in this agreement
5.	At retirement, accumulated sick leave hours will be transferred to the RHSP account as set forth in Article Four.
Family Care Leave with Pay - Utilize Sick Leave
1.	Definition	v ..
Family care leave shall be defined as whenever the unit employee's presence with the family is needed because of illness or medical conditions '	with’their spouse or family.
2.	Sick Leave With Pay
a.	Unit employees riiayuptn request be granted in eachcalendar year up to a maximum of thirty-six (36) sick leave hours.
b.	Unit employees may, upon request, be granted in each calendar year up to a maximum of forty-eight (48) sick leave hours.
c.	Family Illness leave and such time taken shall be charged against the unit employee's accumulated sick leave.
3.	Facts Justifying Absence
Management must be furnished reasonable evidence of the illness.
4.	Family
Farriily shall mean spouse, employee's child or stepchild, parent or any other relative residing in the same household as employee.
83	C&K
gcea
city
ARTICLE FIVE
H- Additional Leave Without Pay
Additional leaves of absence without pay on account of ill. less or injury may be granted in the same manner and for such period of time as is provided in the case of other leaves of absence without pay, as set forth in this article or as provided by the City's Family and Medical Care Leave Policy.
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
A.	Definition \
Bereavement leave shall be defined as whenever any unit employee has experienced a death, or critical illness where death appears to be imminent in the immediate family, defined as the spouse, the employee's or employee's spouse's mother or father, stepmother or stepfather, brother or sister, child, grandparents, grandchildren, son-in-law, daughter-in-iaw, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, "step" relatives as described above, or any other relative of the employee or employee's spouse residing in the same household or who has resided with the employee in the same household for thrco but of the last five(5) yaarc.
B.	Leave With Pay
Such unit employee may be .granted bereavement leave with full pay not to exceed a total of three working days per occurrence as approved by division management.
C.	Facts Justifying Absence
The unit employee must , submit an approved declaration or other evidence acceptable to divi ion management, justifying such absence.
D.	- hot Apply ir on Sack Leave	”
Bereavement leave shall not apply to unit employees on sick leave at the time of the incident.
WORKERS' COMPENSATION
A.	Workers' Compensation Leave-Effective July 1,1999
Effective July 1,1999, unit employees compelled to be absent from duty because of injury or illness arising out of and in the course of employment occurring on or after July 1; 1999, shall receive a paid leave of absence not to exceed three hundred twenty (320) hours (8 weeks),.
'	•	••	• • '•	*	■	- ’	‘	4; z •
ARTICLE FIVE
B.	Temporary Disability
1.	If a unit employee is entitled to receive temporary disability indemnity under
Division 4 of the California Labor Code, such unit employee may elect to supplement statutory disability payments with any accumulated sick leave, compensation time and/or vacation leave benefits when added to the temporary’ Usability indemnity will result in a payment equal to full salary and City paid Deferred Compensation.
2.	This full salary shall not exceed the employee's base earnings and City paid Deferred Compensation that were in effect as of the date of illness or injury.
3.	When a unit employee uses paid leave, to augment full salary paid leave benefits, including sick leave, vacation leave, compensation time, holiday leave time, continue to accrue, consistent with these leave policies.
C.	Additional Tempqrary.Disability Benefit
1.	After a unit employee exhausts all the benefits they are eligible for in Article Five, Sections VII, A and B, and the employee continues to be temporarily disabled, he/she shall receive, for a period not to exceed six months, additional compensation which whon added to the statutory disability rate a?.	. results in a p-yrrent equal to two-thirds of full base salary and City paid
- - • Deferred Compensation for such period.
2.	This full salary shall not exceed the employee's base earnings and City paid Deferred Compensation that were in effect as of the date of illness or injury.
3.	Unit employe^ may elect to not use all of their accrued vacation time up to eighty (80) tc jp.l hours before being eligible for this benefit.
D.	Statutory Benefits Follow Additional Benefits
Its unit employee has exhausted his/her benefits under Article Five, Sections VI. A,B and C, and i* the employee is still temporarily or permanently disabled, he/she shall receive statutory temporary disability benefits in effect at the date of illness or injury.
E.	Outside Employment and Medical Limitations
1.	All outside srrploymc.it must bs approved by management pursuant to City and divisional rules and regulations.
i ,Ci
2.	During convalescence and s modified work assignment, it shall be expressly ;! forbidden for t. unit empk’, ^*p engage in any outside employment that . - would interfere with their ennv* eecenp^ ;	,
GCEA
CIT
85
ARTICLE FIVE
F.	Sick Leave Augmentation of Temporary Disability
, ¥ i ■
1.	When a unit employee uses sick leave credit to augment temporary disability indemnity because of an injury compensable under the State Labor Code and the City is reimbursed by a third peroon for its damages by reason of such use, there shall be credited to tho employee's sick leave account, sick leave equivalent to the amount so used or proportionately, if reimbursement is only in part.
2.	If the City does not collect from the third person the full amount of the compensation paid and other damages to which it is entitled, and if the amount collected is not itemized so that there may be ascertained the amount collected in reimbursement for the sick leave used, the sick leave to be credited shall be in the same ratio to the sick leave used as the total amount collected bears to the total amount of the City's damages.
VIII.	JURY DUTY
"	•<	•	.	je j>’;'	J- ’	i. .	..	■' ?	»
A.	Hotification/Summohed-	-	;
. • ■'•} 'j . ’	jjify ‘. V • '■ '**.	. ..
Any unit employee who is summoned to servo oh jury duty shall immediately notify their supervisor and provide-Written evidence oF notice or of summons. The employee shall receive their regular salary iimited to ten (10) working days annually.
B.	Accommodation of Jury Leave	<
• • *' • *■
The unit employee's Division Management will attempt to accommodate their employee's wdfk schedule while assigned Jury Duty, such as being assigned to day shift (Monday through Friday - 6:30 aM - 6'30 p.m.).
C.	Jury Duty Call-In V. s ■■ .L. LJ. - J
Unit employees participating ih the juror telephone call-in system shall immediately notify their supervisor of their ndxt-day jury duty-obligation when known and make appropriate mutually agreed to work schedule changes
D.	Jury Duty Stand-by
V.-. •	- f :■ r
Unit employees placed on jury duty stand-by will immediately notify supervisors of stand -by status so aCcommorMlorfS CSh be made.
: .r f • -n n g h
E.	Return of Jury Fees
:	v Arr• : i .. ? i.so jap.
The City will Withhold e’ ii&afrit fees received by- Unit employees as jurors, in exchange for their reguR^'play, Excluding mileage fees, in the second pay period
gcea
sh’86	CITY {
ARTICLE FIVE
following reported completion of jury duty service. In the event of employee termination, all amounts not yet withheld will be collected from affected unit
•. employee.
F.	Jury Time Extension
This jury time may only be extended should a formal request be submitted to the City Manager by the Jury Commissioner.
.»	’ i'." i 2	‘	, .9	;
.	‘	>'r'V	‘J- .hT	> .' J =
' -nw n ..»।.. ;	■
IX.	MILITARY LEAVE
A.	Eligibility -
1.	Military leave of absence with pay i shall be granted to permanent unit employees who have been employed with the City for one year or more when called to active military duty.	_• •'
2.	Unit employees with less than- one year shall receive military leave of absence without pay.
• •	• • /	■ / • • •: \ »	.•	.	J ? 4	; J? •	'	.	, > »
3.	Military leave with pay shall not b© granted to unit employees on weekend assignment or advance party on .weekend assignment and inactive duty training.
B.	Length of Military Leave with Pay
• < .Eligible ur.it employees shall be entitted to military teave of absence with pay for the first thirty (30) days of active military duty. • r
X.	OTHER LEAVER - WITI IT PAY 4 j
k. Leave of Absence Wlfiioi -Up t37’ Cays £■' r. . <• > . '■! j' >r-.	'».V	'
Division head may grant a leave of absence without pay to unit employees for periods up to seven (7) calendar days in any month.
B.	Leave of Absence Without Pay - Excess of 7 Days
Division head may grant leaves of absence without pay to unit employees in excess of seven (7) calendar days in any month, with the approval of City Manager.
GCEA
CITY
87
ARTICLE FIVE
C.	Leave of Absence Without Pay - Early Return
Any unit employee granted a leave of absence without pay r.,ay, with the approval of the division head and the City Manager, return to duty prior to the time fixed for the expiration of such leave.
D.	Leave of Absence - Excess of 6 Months
Any unit employee returning to work from any leave of absence in excess of six (6) months shall not be permitted to return to work until completing a physical examination and being released by the City Medical Examiner and the Personnel Division, Workers' Compensation Section, to return to work.
E.	Limitations	J’*.*;
Unit employee shall first utilize all of their accrued vacation, holiday, and compensatory time before a leave of absence without pay is granted, except as approved by division h'ad.	i
XL ELIGIBLE LEAVE BENEFITS	’	-
A.	Accr-iaL’Usauj cf LbuVO Benefits • ’ 1 ■
All leave benefits (vacation, holidays, sick leave, bereavements or any other leaves shall be accrued and taken in hourly (Lou earned, hour taken) increments based on current benefit accruJ rates.	v
B.	Example
A unit employee who works a 12-hour shift work schedule accrues sick leave time at the rate cf oijht (3) h.urs p jf month, and if they take a sick leave day, they shall be debited 12 hours from their sick leave accmal. ■ <
C.	Leave of Absence - Family and Medical >av3 r
Unit employees re, i np^Jymty and	Leave wili be granted
leave pursuant to the City's Family and Medical Care Leave Policy.
.r-, •
88
ARTICLE SIX
7-DAY WORK PERIOD -12 HOUR WORK SCHEDULE
VERDUGO FIRE COMMUNICATIONS CENTER
I.	WORK SCHEDULE - FIRE COMMUNICATIONS
This Article describes the work schedule, administration of leave benefits, overtime, meal and rest periods, and other related provisions covering the unit employees in the Verdugo Fire Communications Center, and is in lieu of other such provisions as set forth in this agreement.
A.	7-Day Work Period - Beqinninq/Endinq
The seven (7) day work period shall begin on Sunday at 0630 hours and end on the following Sunday at 06299 hours, subject to changes by management, after prior notification, based on operation needs of the Fire Division.
B.	7-Day work Period - Fixed and Regularly Recurring
The work period shall be a fixed and regularly recurring period of 168 consecutive hours consisting of seven (7) consecutive 24-hour periods.
C.	Forty-Two (42) Hour Work Week Schedule
1.	ROTATING SCHEDULE - Fire Communications Operators, Senior Fire Communications Operators and Fire Communication Shift Supervisors assigned to work the rotating forty-two (42) hour work week schedule shall work a rotation consisting of two (2) consecutive day shifts (0630-1830) with 24 hours off, and two (2) consecutive night shifts (1830-0630) with four days off.
2.	NON-ROTATING SCHEDULE- Fire Communications Operators, Senior Fire
Communications Operators and Fire Communication Shift Supervisors assigned to work the non-rotating forty-two (42) hour work week schedule may work four (4) consecutive day shifts such as, but not limited to 0630-1830, with four (4) days off or three (3) consecutive day shifts such as, but not limited to 0630-1830 one (1) work week with four (4) days off and four (4) consecutive day shifts such as, but not limited to 0630-1830 the following work week with three (3) days off.
3.	EIGHT WEEK PERIOD - This work schedule over an eight (8) week period equals four (4) thirty-six (36) hour weeks and four (4) forty-eight (48) hour weeks.
GCEA
CITY
01ART6
89
ARTICLE SIX
D.	Forty (40) -Hour Work Week Schedule
Those Fire Communications Operators, Senior Fire Communications Operators and Fire Communication Shift Supervisors not assigned to work the forty-two (42) hour work week schedule may be assigned to a forty ;(40) hour work week schedule either five (5) days, eight (8) hours per day or four (4) days, ten (10) hours per day in any seven (7) consecutive day work period. The scheduled days and times of the forty (40) hour work schedule are subject to change by management, after prior notification, baved'on operational needs of the Fire Division.
II.	OVERTIME
• • • . > • ; ;* * •
A.	48-Hour Work Week
1.	A unit employee assigned to work the four (4) -day cycle (48-hour work • '	week) shall be compensated at one and one-half (1 -1/2) times their regular
rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of forty-eight (48) hours within the seven (7) day work period.
2.	The eight (8) hours worked beyond 40 hours in the 48-hour work week shall be compensated at straight time and included in the employee’s base salary.
B.	' 36-Hour Work Week
1. A unit employee assigned to work the three (3) day cycle (36 hour work week) shall be compensated at straight time at their regular rate of pay for all hours worked up to a total of forty (40) hours worked in that seven (7) day work period.
v	“2.' Ail hours worked in excess of forty (40) in that seven (7)-day work period
’ shall be considered overtime and be compensated at time and one half (1-1/2) their regular rate of pay.
C.	Additional Compensation In-Lieu of Guaranteed Overtime
Effective July 1,1996, unit employees in the classification of Fire Communications Operator (42 hr. wk.), Senior Fire Communications Operator and Fire Communications Shift Supervisor will receive a one-time base salary increase equivalent to the amount of compensation previously earned as guaranteed overtime. The former “guaranteed overtime” provision referred to the time worked in_
excess of 40 hours in the four (4)-day (48-hour work week), which amounted to eight (8) hours per week, or sixteen (16) hours per month. For purposes othis agreement, this eight (8) hours worked above forty (40) during the 48-hour work week will no longer be considered overtime, and shall ba compensated at straight time.
01ART6
GCEA ZlStZ
90
ARTICLE SIX
D.	More Than 12 Hours Worked in Day
Unit employees working the four (4) day on, four (4) day off- 12-hour work schedule shall be paid at one and one-half (11/2) times .the employee's regular rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of 12 hours in a work day.
III.	SALARY ADJUSTMENT J ,	. /J '
A.	Salary Inequity Adjustment - Fire Communications Operator
It is understood that the classification of Fire CommunicationsOpeatorwill receive a 4.0% salary inequity adjustment effective July 1,1996.
B.	Salary Increase In-Lieu of Guaranteed Overtime **
1.	It is understood by the. City pnd the Association that effective July 1, 1996 unit employees in the glassification of Fire Communications Operator (42 hr wk), Senior Fire Communications Operator and Fire Communications Shift Supervisor will receive a one-time base salary increase equivalent to the amount of compensation previously earned as guaranteed overtime.
2.	This former “guaranteed overtime” provision referred to the time worked in excess of 40 hours in the four (4)-day, (48 hour work week), which amounted to eight (8) hours per week, or sixteeh{16) hours per month.
, ' ■	3. Fer purposes of this agreement,this eight (8) hours worked above forty (40)
during the 48rhour:work week wilj no Ipnger be considered overtime, and shall be compensated at straight time.
4.	This salary adjustment in-lieu qf .guaranteed overtime shall be added to the salary range pf the Fire Communications Operator after the salary inequity adjustment of 4.0% has been applied, as set forth in Article Six, Section A above.
IV.	HOLIDAYS	' 1
A.	Holiday LeaveHours ,	.	>
Unit employees working in Fire Communications are eligible for 106 holiday leave A	hours per calendar year. ■	v.
B.	Flinlbllity < / J '	'
This holiday time shall be granted,as follows:
01 ART 6	GCEQ^J
91	CITY^^J
ARTICLE SIX
1.	Holiday-in-Lieu Pay
Fire Communications Operators shall be paid eighty-two (82) hours annually at straight time at the employee's regular rate of pay prorated per calendar month, in lieu of l.rliday time off.
2.	Floating Holiday Leave
Twenty-four (24) hours annually shall be grar. ed as floating holidays.
3.	Total Hciiday Leave
Total Holiday Leave time including holiday tn lieu pay and floating holiday leave shall not exceed 97 hours and effective January 1,1995, shall increase to 106 hours.
a.	Ten-Hour Employees
For ten-hour employees, three (3) eight-hour floating holidays are granted to provide two ten (10)-hou; days with a balance of four (4) hours, which shall be taken in increments of two ten (10)-hour holidays ard vne four-hour segment to be taken by itself or combined v;ith vacation time to constitute one ten-houi day.
b.	Eight-Hour Employees
For eight (8) hour employees, three (3) eight-hour holidays are '■	grunted.
C.	APPROVAL OF FLOATING HOLIDAYS
1.	Floating bol! lays st .»f, ■” a. provod at such time as is mutually agreeable to the employee and e Management. All other provisions of the Memorandum of Unde . at ling on floating holidays shall continue to gjvem.
<% -	2. All ou'' ? provisions of this agreement on floating holidays shall continue to
be grunted tc Fire Communication Operators.
V.	TRADES
A.	Maximum (Two) 2 Trades Per Month
>■■■ Qualified unit employees mu, request to initiate a maximum of two (2) trades per month with another qualified unit employee. This request shall be made to Fire management, who shall have the authority to approve or deny trades based on operational necessity or staffing needs of the Fire Communication Center.
01 ART 6	GCEA ZfW
92	CITY^^
ARTICLE SIX
B.	Trades Repaid
Trades must be repaid within a one (1) calendar year period from the date the trade was executed. Each trade and payback is the sole responsibility of the affected employees. The City and Fire Management are not responsible nor liable for any non-payback trades.
C.	Limitation?
1.	Trades can only be made bejvynen the: unit employees who work the same hourly schedule: 12-hour with 12-hour unit employee; 10-hourwith 10-hour unit employe;?; 8-hour with 8-hour, unit employee.
2.	Trades can only be made between unit, employees who share the same classification series, unless approved by management.
VI.	COMPENSATORY TIME
A;	< Bin k «■ 36 hours	. ,	.
..	A total of thirty six (36> hours mayb^ tanked as compensatory time. This thirty-six
hour block of time is good for one calendar year and may not be replenished during that year. This time shall be used in no less than one-hour increments.
B.	Requests to use Comp Time
Requests for the use of compensatory time shall be made to Fire Management, who shall have the authority to approve or deny its use based on operational consideration and the neadjrof the Center.	? <■
VIL	LEAVE BENEFIT -12 HOUR SHIFZiWf SCHEDULE
i •:.•	'	. -,iv a-4 ’j:.
A.	Accrual/Usaqe of Leave B^rieuv >n
All leave benefits,-.sick, vacation^holiday(,bereayq§?ent, or any other laves, shall be accrued and taken in hourly XhouFjearnod; hour taken) increments based on current benefit accrual rates as for all other unit employees.
B.	Example
A unit employee accrues sick leave time at the rate of 8 hours per month, and if they take a sick leave day, they shall bo^ebited 12 hours from their sick leave accrual.
------	;——:—uv; •< ':S—.••<_	~ ■	•. .< ?j»w i ' . ••• ' - .?'-------------------------------------------------■’ 4;h"in.:5	--er. .	•
•?.	. ■	'• trj.ri.-v j. jfr v'.j? < • • - 3.	..v?
01ART6	GCEA
93	CITY^Zz7
ARTICLE SIX
VIII.	MEAL OR BREAK PERIODS
Meal or break periods are not scheduled or guaranteed, but they may be taken when workloads permit. When meal or breaks are taken, the employee may not leave Fire Station 21, except with the permission of management.
IX.	BENEFIT ELIGIBILITY
A.	Unless modified, limited or excluded by this agreement, including Article Six, Fire Communicatidns Shift Supervisors, Senior Fire Communication Operators and Fire Communication Operators are eligible for the same benefits as other unit employees.
B.	All items covered in this Article apply only for Fire Communications Shift Supervisors, Senior Fire Communication Operators and Fire Communication Operators and any other benefits that are included in this agreement (MOU) that relate to items in this Article shall not apply to these unit employees. *
:	.5: r	'	'
X.	CHANGES AND MODIFICATIONS TO SCHEDULE
It is understood that management reserves the right to change and/or modify work hours, Work schedules and assignments, subject tb the terms and conditions of this agreement.
.01 ART 6
94
ARTICLE SEVEN
WORKING CONDITIONS
ALCOHOL AND SUBSTANCE ABUSE ,
A. Mutual Agreement
City and Association agree to mutually work together for the prevention of alcohol and substance abuse in the workplace for the benefit of the employees, City, and its citizens. ,	,	.
E. Determent Detection and Treatment .... .	v
The City and Association also will work together to support the City programs, policies, and procedures currently implemented to deter, detect and treat the problems of alcohol and substance abuse in the workplace, provided that such programs are consistent 'vith the law. Such policies, programs, and procedures include but are not limited to the City's Employee Assistance Program, Medical Standards, Dnjg and Alcohol Educational apd Training Programs, Policy of Consumption of Alcoholic Beverages and Illegal or Controlled Substances, Drug Screening for pre-placement candidates, promotional candidates, employee renewal of Class "A" and "B" Driver's licenses, and reasonable suspicion of employees under the influence on work time.
C.	Support of EAP
The City and Association agree to encourage and support the rehabilitation of employees with alcohol and substance abuse problems through the constructive use of the Employee Assistance Program.
D.	EAP Counseling
It is understood Voluntary EAP counseling sessions are confidential. Records kept under the Mandatory EAP Rehabilitation program shall be available only to those persons who administer the program or monitor and/or manage employees participating in the program.
TEMPORARY MODIFIED WORK PROGRAM
A.	Eligibility
The City has a Temporary Modified Work Program for temporarily disabled and convalescing unit employees. Any unit employee who is temporarily incapable of performing his/her normal assigned duties because of an illness or injury may request assignment or be required by City management to participate in the
ARTICLE SEVEN
temporary modified work program.
B.	Limitations
Participation in the program is limited to unit employees who shall not:
1.	Have an industrial disabling injury, disease, or sickness that exceeds a projected recovery date of 26 weeks from the date such temporary modified work program is scheduled to commence; or
2.	Have a non-industrial disabling injury, disease, or sickness that exceeds a projected recovery date of 13 weeks from the date such temporary modified work program is scheduled to commence; or
3.	Be in a Vocational Rehabilitation Plan approved by the City.
C.	Application and Acceptance
Application for the program shall be in writing by the unit employee when consideration is requested for the work program and by written direction when management requires the employee to participate. City management shall make a determination of admission to the program based upon such factors as:
1.	The attending physician's release to temporary modified work program;
2.	Availability of City-wide work stations suitable to accommodate the employee's specific limitations; and
3.	The employee's ability to perform satisfactorily in a selected temporary assignment.
D.	Outside Employment
During convalescence and/or modified work assignment, it shall be expressly forbidden for the employee to engage in any outside employment that would interfere with their convalescence.
E.	Final Decision
The division head shall make the final decision based upon stated criteria, and the affected unit employee shall be notified in writing.
III.	PERMANENT MODIFIED WORK PROGRAM
The City offers a permanent modified work program, calling for either voluntary or mandtory program participation, for unit employees who have incurred job related illness or injury that has rendered them medically incapable of performing the full range of duties within their
01ART7
■ '	GCEA.y/^y
96	CITY^ZF’
ARTICLE SEVEN
classification. This program is contingent upon employees meeting the minimum requirements for alternative positions. The program provides an opportunity for unit employees to continue employment within the City when alternate positions are determined by the Personnel Division to be available.
IV.	PERSONAL APPEARANCE/DRESS STANDARDS
The City reserves the right to establish and/or modify personal appearance standards for City employees.
CITY7^
97
ARTICLE EIGHT
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
I.	CITY'S GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE - REPRINTING
Unit employees who need to resolve a dispute relating to work related matters may utilize the City's grievance procedure, provided that the subject matter of that grievancdalls within the definition of a grievance, provided in the following section. The City's Grievance Procedure is reprinted from the City's Employer-Employee Relations Ordinance here solely for the convenience of unit employees and management.
II.	GRIEVANCES
A.	Definition
A grievance is any dispute concerning the interpretation or application of this Memorandum of Understanding or of rules or regulations governing personnel practices or working conditions.
B.	Grievance - Informal - Verbal
When an employee feels he/she has been unfairly treated or does not agree with his/her supervisor on policy interpretation, he/she may initiate formal action to secure review of the grievance by top management. Such action should be used, however, only after informal appeal through discussion with the immediate supervisor has not been successful. It is the spirit and intent of this procedure that all grievances be settled quickly and fairly, without any subsequent discrimination against employees who may seek to adjust a grievance, real or imagined.
C.	Grievance - Formal - Written
If the informal answer given by the employee's supervisor is not satisfactory, the employee may appeal his/her grievance in the following manner:
1.	Step I - Supervisor
Within fourteen (14) calendar days following the occurrence of the alleged grievance, the employee will present his/her views to his/her supervisor on a grievance form, in duplicate, obtainable from the Personnel Division. The supervisor will, within seven (7) calendar days, enter his/her decision and the reasons for it and return it to the employee. If the employee is not satisfied with the answer given, he/she may appeal as follows:
2.	Step II - Division Head
Within seven (7) calendar days of receipt of the supervisor's answer, the employee will forward the grievance to his/her division head. The division
01ART8
98
ARTICLE EIGHT
head will, within seven (7) calendar days, enter his/her decision, the reasons for it and return it to the grievant. If the employee is not satisfied with the decision, he/she may appeal as follows:
3.	Step ill - City Manager
Within scvan (7) calendar days of receipt of the division head’s answer, the employee will forward the grievance to the City Manager. The City Manager will, within seven (7) calendar days, enter his/her decision, the reasons for it and return it to the employee. The decision of the City Manager is final and binding pn all parties.
•• r ?	:	• .	.•■ * *	••	. .
D.	General
•	-	- •<	* J '	’	r
1.	Time Limits
.,	If the time limit at any step should elapse, the decision rendered at the
previous step will be understood to have been accepted. For example, if an employee does not forward a Step I decision to Step II within seven (7) calendar d*' 's, it is understood that he/she has accepted the Step I decision and the matter is c!c~ed. Time limits may be extended by mutual consent.
2.	Grievance Settled - Form Distribution
When a grievance is settled, the employee will keep the duplicate of the form and the original will!' n y..:-.ced in the grievance file in the Personnel Division.
3.	Reprfif^r.tatmn
An employee utf’zinq this procedure may be represented or assisted by, not to exceed three, authorized representatives in the preparation, presentation and hearing of a grievance. The supervisor, division head and City Manager may also be accompanied by other persons in conferences or hearings. Witnesses may be called and questioned by both parties.
4.	Time of Hearing . •
All grievances will be heard during working hours if practicable. Aggrieved employees, their representatives, and all witnesses will be given reasonable time off without loss of pay, vacation or other time credits for the purpose of presenting grievances.
5.	Grievances- Non-Appealable to Civil Service Commission
The gnevance procedure is not intended as a means of appealing actions , under the jurisdiction of the Civil Ser/ice Commission.
01ART8
GCEA
CITY
99
ARTICLE NINE
ARTICLE NINE
GENERAL PROVISIONS
I. WAIVER PROVISION ON BARGAINING DURING TERM AGREEMENT
• ... p	i.	:> .v-. c •.	\
Except as specifically provided for iri this Agreement or by mutual agreement in writing •during the terms of this Agreement, the Association hereby agrees not to seek to negotiate or bargain with respect to any matters pertairilrtg to rates, wages, hours, and terms and conditions of employment covered by this Memorandum of Understanding.
M > jtr	; .
II.	EMERGENCY WAIVER PROVISIONS
■ £'• 'TUs1
In the event of circumstances beyond the control of the City, such as acts of God, fire, flood, u ; insurrection, civil disorder, national emergency, orsimilar circumstances as determined by management, the provisions of this memorandurri of Understanding which restrict the City's ' > ability to respond to these emergencies shall be Suspended for the duration of such emergency. After the emergency is bvertffte Association shah have the right to meet with the City regarding the impact on employee of the'suspension of these provisions in this Memorandum of Understanding.
III.	SEVERABILITY PROVISION
. f a, Jf ....
A.	MOU Remains in Full Force FTfect
Should any article, section, subsection, subdivides, sentence, clause, phrase or provision of this Memorandum of Understanding be found to be inoperative, void, or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, all other provisions of this Memorandum of Understanding shall remain ih-fulh force and effect for the duration of this Memorandum of Understanding.'’-”
B.	Successor Provision ’ *1'>
In the event any provision shall have be^sn found tc he inoperative, void or invalid as aforementioned, the City and the Association shall, upon the request of either party, meet and confer in £n effort to agree Upon a successor provision.
IV.	y PROVISIONS OF MEMORANDUM ”	;
* • •;
A.	Sole and Entire Memorandum of Understanding
It is the intent of the parties hereto that the provisions of this Memorandum of Understanding shalP supersede all prior agreements and Memorandums of Understariding, oral oriwriften; expressed orifnplied, between the parties, and shall govern their entire relationship of any and all rights or claims which may be asserted
01ART9	100	CITY
ARTICLE NINE
hereunder or otherwise. This Memorandum of Understanding is not intended to cover any matters preempted by Federal or State law or City Charter.
B.	Civil Service and Departmental Rules and Regulations
1.	It is undorstood and agreed that there exist within the City, in written form, '•	- Civil Servos and Departmental Rules and Regulations.
2.	Except as specifically modified by this Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), these rules and regulations and any subsequent amendments thereto, shall be in full force and effect.
3.	Before any new or subsequent amendments to these Civil Service and/or : r departmental njies and regulations which, directly affect wages, or significantly alter hours, and terms and conditions of employment, are implemented, the City shall meet and confer with the Association regarding such changes.
4.	Nothing provided herein shall prevent the City from implementing such rules and regulations provided it has met with the Association as required.
V.	AMENDMENTS TO MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
The provisions of this Memorandum of Understanding can be amended, supplemented, rescinded or otherwise altered only by mutual agreement in writing, hereafter signed by the designated representatives of the City and the Association.
VI.	RESOLUTION OF IMPASSE
Should disagreement over the interpretation or application of this Agreement occur between the City and Association, and should there be a failure to resolve the disagreement, the City and Association shall meet and confer to establish an impasse procedure to resolve the disagreement.
VII.	TERM OF MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
The term of this Memorandum of Understanding shall be for the period of four years commencing on July 1, 2001, and terminating after June 30, 2005.
VIII.	RATIFICATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.	Acknowledgment
The City and Association acknowledge that this Memorandum of Understanding shall not be in full force and effect until ratified by those Association members voting who are in classifications represented by the Association set forth in this Agreement
01 ART, 9	’ '	101
CITY GCEA*
ARTICLE NINE
and adopted in the form of a resolution by the City Council.
B.	Mutual Recommendation
This Agreement constitutes a mutual recommendation by the parties hereto, to the » City Council, that one or more ordinances and/ot resolutions be adopted accepting its provisions and effecting the changes enumerated herein relating to wages, hours, fringe benefits, and other terms and conditions of employment for unit employees represented by the Asscciat’on. _ -
C.	Ratification	- ;	'•
Subject to the foregoing, this Memorandum of Understanding is hereby ratified by rthe authorized rep: esentatives of the City and Association and entered into on this
first day of July, 2001.	,
PARTIES TO THE AGREEMENT
GLENDALE CITY EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION (GCEA)
Ralph E. DeSimone, GCEA Business Representative ~
rank A. Coronado, President
Kepler,
President
Dwaine E. Mackey, GC!=A F^eprdsenfative
CITY OF GLENDALE, CALIFORNIA
oyee
CityTVIanager
ssis
tor of Personnel &
M. Patt , Assistant Director of   ' Personnel & Employee Relations
Gifai M. Moore,
r/A. Vos, Publitfworks, Maintenance 'ervices Administrator
Representativ
[LdL
Myrna E/J^elley, GCEA Representative
Joseph F. Wilke Jr., GCEA Representative
Yasmin Kamria, Deputy City Manager
Matthew E. Doyle, Serjibr Personnel Analyst
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed this Seventeenth Jay of July, 2001
103
APPENDIX "A” CITY OF GLENDALE GENERAL SERVICE CLASSIFICATIONS
	As of July 2001
A.	DESIGNATED CLASSIFICATIONS
The following are the City of Glendale's general service classifications:
	Accountant Accounting Services Specialist Accounting Technician Administrative Assistant Administrative Associate Administrative Intern (full time) Administrative Trainee Arborist Crew Supervisor Assistant Construction Inspector Assistant Engineering Technician Assistant Programmer Analyst Assistant Project Coordinator Auditorium Coordinator Auditorium Specialist Bookmobile Operator Broadcast Production Assistant Broadcast Production Associate Building Inspector Building Repairer Building Repair Crew Supervisor Business Account Representative Buyer Carpenter Cement Worker Finisher Civil Engineer I Civil Engineering Assistant Civil Engineering Associate Communication Technician Community Outreach Assistant Community Outreach Associate Community Service Officer Community Ser '	oordinator Community Sr	ecialist Computer Op	\ Construction	V Custodial W< Customer Se> . <ue Assistant Customer Service Field Technician Customer Services Field Representative Customer Services Representative Customer Services Utility Representative I Customer Services Utility Representative II
01APPENDIXA	GCEA 104	CITY
Customer Services Utility Representative III
Data Entry Oparator Display Ariist Duplicating Machine Operator Duplicating Shop Operator Electrical Conduit Mechanic Electrical Conduit Mechanic Supervisor Electrical Engineer I Electrical Engineering Assistant Electrical Engineering Associate Electrical Helper Electrical Inspector Electrical Lin? Mechanic Electrical L:ne Mechanic Apprentice Electrical Line b'achanic Supervisor I Electrical Mechanic Electrical Mechanic nprentice Electrical Mechanic Assistant Electrical Mechanic Supervisor I Electrical Service Planner Electrical System Dispatcher Electrical Test Assistant Electrical Test Technician I Electrical Test Technician II Electrician Engineering Aide Engineering Technician Environmental Inspector Environmental Technician Equipment Mechanic I Equipment Mechanic II Equipment Mechanic Apprentice Equipment Mechanic Helper Equipment Operator I Equipment Cpecaror II Equipment Painter & Body Repairer Equipment Service Worker
i Equipment Welder Ereeutive Secretary Executive Secretary (Steno)
-i‘-	...	■
Fire Co^Q " its Operator
Fire Cc	S* Shirt Supervisor
Fire/E -------------qO ilist
Fire Pi &	rtfer
Fire Prote>	ft r
Fire Protec	.rin« Assistant
Fire Protec.1?;' En 'Coring Associate
Gardener
Graphics Illustrator
01APPENDIXA
GCEA
CITY
105
APPENDIX "A”
Hazardous Materials Specialist
Heavy Equipment Mechanic
HVAC Inspector
HVAC Mechanic
Helicopter Mechanic
Housing Technician
Identification Technician
Industrial Waste Inspector
Information Services Associate
Instrument Technician
Integrated Waste-Truck Operator
Integrated Waste Worker
Internal Audit AssW,iate
’’\'A
Jail Shift Sup /rvisor~
Laborer *•’
Legal Executive Secretary ।
Legal Secretary : *
Legal Systenrs-Associate
Librarian > • . • ' •
Library Assistant ’	'
Library Technician
License Investigator	’>*'
Machinist
Mail Services Specialist
Maintenance Worker •
Mechanical Engincrr I ’
Mechanical Engineering Assistant
Mechanical Engineering Associate Meter Reader
Motor Sweeper Operator ■ w	if . 'r
Neighborhoodservices Ffeld Representative Neighborhood Services Field Technician Neighborhood Service Inspector
Network Specialist '•< -
Network Specialist Assistant
Office Specialist In
Office Specialist II 0
Office Openers Svwvisor
Office Ser\z 0. ;•' rfat I
Office §erw rvrc? <,antlt
Office Servfcuu jSeci atary (
Office Services Secretary (Steno)
Painter
Park Maintenance Supervisor
GCEA cip*
01APPENDIXA
106
APPENDIX "A"
Park Ranger
Parking Meter Collector/Repairer
PC Specialist
PC Specialist Assistant
Permit Service Technician
Personnel Assistant
Personnel / 'sociate
Personnel Technician
Pesticide Applicator
Plan Checker
Plan Check Supervisor
Planning Assistant
Planning Associate
Plumber r ■ v . • •
Plumbing.Inspector •	v
Police Communications Shift Supervisor
Police Custody Shift Supervisor <
Police Records Specialist
Police Records Shift Supervisor
Power Line Apprentice
Pcwer Line Mechanic
Power Line Supervisor i
Power Line Truck Operator
Power Plant Auxiliary Operator
Power Plant Control Operator >
Power Plant Mechanic 1 ■
Power Plant Mechanic Apprentice
> ■ ' Power Plant Mechanic Assistant
Power Plant Mechanic He'per r .
Power Plant Operator
Power Plant Op_ rater Apprentice
Power Plant Technician
Power Scheduler
Principal Engineering Technician
Principal Instrument Technician
Production Artist
Principal Muter Quality Specialist
Program Coordinator s
Program Specialist - o?
Programmer Analyst ' •
Public EduaJio/r Coordinator
Real Property Agent f-r
Recreation 1 Community Services Coordinator
Resource E. Hciency Advisor ’■
' V ' ‘•>;	•!?	•.
Safety Assistant ’
Secretary I .
Secretary to City Clerk
Secretary to City Clerk (Steno) ;
Senior Accounting Services Specialist
01APPENDIXA
GCEA
CITY.
107
APPENDIX "A”
Senior Accounting Technician
Senior Buitding Inspector
Senior Building Repairer
Senior Buyer
Senior Communication Technician
Senior Computer Operator
Senior Construction lrr*pector Senior Custodial Worker
Senior Customer Service Field Rep.
Senior Customer Service Field Technician Senior Customer Service Rep.
Senior Customer Service Uti’ity Rep.
Senior Data Entry Operator
Senior Electrical Service Planner!
Senior Electrical Systems Control Specialist Senior Electrical Systems Dispatcher Senior Electrical Test Technician Senior Engineering Technician’ Senior Environmental Technician
Senior Equipment Mechanic ■ ■
Senior Fire Communications Operator Senior Gardener-t ■ . -r • ?v.
Senior Identification Technician Senior Industrial Waste Inspector Senior Information Services Associate Senior Instrument Technicians *
Senior Meter Reader .;	• * c ;
Senior Neighborhood Services Inspector Senior Network Specialist Senior Office Specialist- .
Senior Office Sendees Specialist
Senior Parking Meter Collettor/Repairer
Senior Park Ranger ,■
Senior PC Specialist
Senior Power Plant Technician
Senior Survey Technician^
Senior Telecommunications Technician Senior Traffic Painter
Senior Tree Trimmer < , Senior Wastewater Technician Senior Water Facilities Operator Senior Water Meter Repairer Senior Water Quality Specialist Senior Water System Mechanic Sewer Crew Supv.visucE Sewer Maintenance Worker Sign Painter Special Collections Librarian Station Electrician Station Electrician Supervisor I Stor: keeper 2 ■
GCEA
cityZ
01APPENDIXA
108
APPENDIX "A"
Storm Water Specialist
Stores Clerk
Street Crew Supervisor
Street Maintenance Worker
Structural Engineer I
Structural Engineering Assistant
Structural Engineering Associate
Survey Patty Chief <>... -
Survey Technician
Systems Specialist
Technical Staff Assistant
Technical Staff Associate	» <■
Telecommunications Technician
Traffic Engineer I
Traffic Engineering Assistant
Traffic Engineering Associate
Traffic Painter
Traffic Signal Maintenance Technician
Transformer Shop Technician
Transit Field Inspector
Tree Trimmer
Utility Welder
Wastewater Technician
Water Engineering Supervisor
Water Facilities Operator
Water Meter Repairer
Water Facilities Operator
Water Quality Specialist
Water System Apprentice
Water System Equipment Operator
Water System Helper
Water System Mechanic
Water System Supervisor I
Workers Comp. Adjuster I
Yard Attendant
Youth Outreach Service Worker
B.	CONFIDENTIAL EMPLOYEE RELATIONS CLASSIFICATIONS/POSITIONS
The following general service classifications/positions designated as confidential for employee relations purposes per the City's Employer-Employee Relations Ordinance.
Administrative Assistant - Personnel Division
Administrative Assistant/Benefits - Personnel Division
Executive Secretary (Steno) - Finance & Administrative Services Division
Executive Secretary - City Manager’s Office
01APPENDIXA
GCEA
CITY
109
APPENDIX "A"
Executive Secretary (Steno) - Personnel Division
Office Operations Supervisor - Personnel Division
Office Services Secretary - City Manager’s Office
Senior Accounting Technician (Payroll Assignment) - Finance & Administrative Services Division
Senior Office Services Specialist - (Benefits) - Personnel Division
:	** Z'.	\
DESIGNATING CONFIDENTIAL CLASS.rlCATIONS/POSITlONS
■ .-■a	*
In addition, to the classifications/positions listed in "B'' above, other positions within certain classifications may later be designated as Employee Relations confidential per the City's Employer-Employee Relations Ordinance should finding be made their positions are confidential for employee relations purposes.
01APPENDIXA
GCEA
CITY
110

APPENDIX "B" MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE CITY OF GLENDALE AND THE GLENDALE CITY EMPLOYEES’ ASSOCIATION REGARDING AGENCY SHOP
I.	PREAMBLE
This Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) is entered into by the City of Glendale (hereinafter “City”) and the Glendale Employees’ Association (hereinafter “Association”) as a mutual agreement regarding the procedures for the initial implementation and subsequent administration of any agency shop arrangement entered into by the parties as authorized by Government Code Section 3502.5 (a), (c), (d), (e) and (f) (Meyers-Milias-Brown Act) through amendments effective January 1, 2001 by Senate Bill 739.
II.	PURPOSE
The City and the Association mutually understand and agree that all affected employees have the right to join or not join the Association. It is the purpose of this MOU to establish fair and equitable procedures for the determination of any agency shop arrangements that may be properly approved by the City employees in eligible job classifications in the unit represented by the Association and the City.
III.	ELIGIBLE AND EXCLUDED EMPLOYEES
A.	Excluded Employees
Pursuant to G. C. 3502.5 (e), an agency shop arrangement shall not apply to management, confidential or supervisory employees. Therefore, the supervisory employees who are not designated as a mid-management supervisory classification or designated “Employee Relations Confidential”: employees, in the unit are excluded from any requirement to participate in an agency shop arrangement.
B.	Identification of Included and Excluded Classes
Employees in classifications in the unit are eligible for inclusion in any agency shop arrangement except for employees in current and future classifications that are supervisory who are not designated as a mid-management supervisory classification or designated “Employee Relations Confidential” employees as determined by the City.
IV.	ASSOCIATION AND EMPLOYEE RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
A. Prior Notification to Employees
Prior to the implementation of an agency shop provision agreement pursuant to G. C. Sec. 3502.5 (a), the parties shall notify all employees in the applicable unit
111
01APPENCHXB
of the Agency Shop agreement and shall provide sufficient information to fully inform all affected employees of the purpose of the agreement. This notice shall include a full disclosure of the amount of potential Association fees and service fees that will be deducted from each employees pay as a result of the implementation of an agency shop agreement.
«. C ’	'
7 B. Employees’Responsibilities
' ; ■. >. 1 • . 1 •
Sixty (60) calendar days following the commencement of an agency shop arrangement pursuant to an agreement, employees shall have the choice of either becoming a member of the Association, or being a non-member and paying a service fee.
C. Implementation of Agency Shop
'	1. Notice to Employees n.	< • -
Within sixty (60) calendar days of the agreement for an agency shop arrangement, the City will'provide employees in the unit, and any employees hired thereafter into classes in the affected unit, with an authorization notice advising them that an agreement has resulted in an
’ Agency Shop arrangement and that all employees must either join the Association, pay a service fee to the Association, orexecute a written declaration claiming a religious exemption from this requirement. Such ■	■	notice shall include a form for the employee’s signature authorizing
■payroll deduction of Association fees or a Service fee,"Or a charitable contribution equal to the service fee. Affected employees shall have thirty (30) calendar days from the date they receive the form to fully execute and return it to the City.
2.	New Hires
-	Once the agency shop agreement has been implemented, each newly
hired unit employees shall have thirty (30) calendar days to decide whether they will pay the Association membership fee or pay a service fee only.
Z. Sufficiency Of Employees’ Earnings
The employee’s eaf nings must tr sufficient, after all other legal and required deductions ere made', to cover the amount of the dues or fees
( authorized. When an employee fe in unpaid status for an entire pay
- period, no wftht lotdinc will be made to cover the pay period from future earnings. In the case of an employee in an unpaid status during part of a pay period, whose salary is insufficient tocov er the full withholding, no deduction shall be m?u^. Ail othef legal and required deductions, including health care deductions, shalfhave priority over dues and
i. 5.	. ... ■-.servicefees.ri	if
- i.
D.	Employees’ Rights of Conscientious Objection
112
01APPENDIXB
An employee who is a member of a bona fide religion, body or “uect" that has historically held conscientious objections to joining or financially supporting public employee organizations shall not be required to join or financially support any public employee organization as a condition of employment. (“Sect" shall mean a party or body of persons who unite in holding certain special doctrines or opinions concerning religion, which distinguish them from others holding the same general religious belief.) The employee shall be required, in linu of periodic dues, initiation fees, or service fees, to pay sums equal to the service fees to a non-religicus, non-labor charitable fund exempt from taxation under Section 501 . (c) (3) of the Internal Revenue Code chosen by the employee from a list of at least three (3) cf these funds as designated in this agreement, Section III E.
•	' f: ■ iv- ■
E.	Designation of Non-Religious, Non-Labor Charitable Funds
Employees covered by IV. D. (above) may designate one (1) of the following three (3) non-religious, non-labor I.R.C. 501(c)(3) charitable funds to which his/her applicable payments will be paid: (1) United Way, (2) Glendale Community Foundation or (3) Salvation Army, Charitable contributions shall be made by regular payroll deductions only.
Declarations of, or applications for religious exemption and any other supporting documentation shall be forwarded to the Association within fourteen (14) calendar days of receipt by the City. The Association shall have fourteen (14) - • calendar days after receipt of a request for religious exemption to challenge any - exemption granted by the City. If challenged, the deduction to the charity of the employee’s choice shall commence but shall be held in escrow by the City pending resolution of the challenge. The challenge shall be resolved by procedures established by the Association.
F.	Association Membership or Service Fee
-i'r
Employees shall not be required, as a condition of continued employment, to join the Association. Instead, an agency shop arrangement requires the employee, as a condition of continued employment, either to join the Association, or to pay a service fee in an amount not to exceed the standard initiation fee, periodic dues, and general assessments of the Association.
G.	Permissible Uses of Ser ricr Pee l Chargeable Expenses
The service fe?s charged.by the Association’s non-members covered by an agency shop arrangement may oply encompass expenditures that are necessarily or rcnsonnply incurred for the purpose cf performing the duties of the Association in its dea'ings with thf-emplcyar on labor management issues. Under this standard, non-memben agency fee payers may be compelled to pay their fair share of the. direct costs of negotiating and administering a collective bargaining agreement and settlinggrievances, and the expenses of activities reasonably employed to effectuate th® Association’s duties in representing the bargaining unit employees. Expenses associated v/<th the following activities are charg.eakl£L
113 i
01APPENDIXB
1.	Gathering information in preparation for the negotiation of bargaining agreements, including gathering information from employees concerning bargaining positions.
I
2.	Negotiating Memorandum of Understandings covering wages, hours, terms and conditions of employment.
3.	Administration of ballot procedures on the ratification of negotiated agreements.	.
4.	Public advertising of GCEA positions on the negotiation, ratification, or implementation of Memorandum of Understandings.
5.	Adjusting grievances pursuant to the provisions of Memorandum of Understandings, enforcing those agreements, and representing employees .in proceedings under civil service laws or regulations.
S.	P ’rcharng publications used in negotiating and administering Memorandum of Understandings.
7.	Paying specialists in labor law, economics, and other subjects for services used in negotiating and administering Memorandum of Understandings.
8.	Membership meetings and conferences held at least in part to determine the positions of the employees on bargaining issues, contract administration, and other matters affecting wages, hours, terms and conditions of employment, including the cost of sending representatives to such meetings and conferences.
9.	Internal communications which concern bargaining issues, contract administration, public employment generally, employee developnr nt, unemployment, job opportunities, award programs, and other matters affecting wages, hours, and terms and conditions of employment
10.	Impasse procedures over provisions of collective bargaining agreements end the administration thereof, so long as they are legal under s'ate law. * ’	, ■
11.	Lobbying for the negotiation, ratification or implementation of a bargaining agreement.
12.	The prosecution or defease, litigation, or charges to obtain ratification, :<3terprf-tation, implementation, or enforcement of
. negotiated Mcrwrsncfeim of Understanding; and any other litigation before agencies in the courts which concerns bargaining unit employees and is normally conducted by an exclusive representative. .
•
114
01APPENDIXB
13.	Other expenses that may be incurred for printing services related to employer/employee labor management issues.
Expenses associated with the following activities are chargeable to the extent that they are germane to collective bargaining activity:
1.	Purchasing books, reports, and advance sheets used in activities - or for purposes other than negotiating Memorandum of Understanding agreements end processing grievances.
>	2. Paying specialists in labor law, economics, and other subjects for
services used in activities other than negotiating and administering Memorandum of Understandings, and processing grievances.
3,	Membership meetings and conferences held for purposes other than to determir.e the positions of the employees on bargaining issues, contract administration, and other matters affecting wages, houis, and terms and conditions of employment, including the cost of .ending representatives to such meetings and conferences.
4.	Internal communications which cot icem subjects other than -	collective bargai. ting issues, contract administration, public
employment generally, employee development, unemployment, job opportunities, award programs, and other matters affecting wages, hours, terras and conditions of employment.
5.	Prosecution or defease of arbitration, litigation, or charges involving natters other than the ratification, interpretation, implementation or enforcement of Memorandum of Understanding or which relates to the maintenance of the Associations' institutional existence.
6.	Social and recreational astivities.
7.	Payments for insurance, medical care, retirement, and related benefits for Association employees.
8.	Administration activities and expenses allocable to Association activities and expense ; for which agency fee payers are charged.
H.	Prohibited Uses cf Sor'.s Fees / Non-Chargeabla Expenses
The amounts of service fees collected by the Association from non-members shall not includu any	incuned for political action, social activities,
organizing 04.3t.sas or any other expenses not directly related to Association activities of representing tho be rg lining unit employees. Expenses associated with the following ac .vifias are not cl artiva^le:
1.	Training in voter regie' ’a-k n, get-out-the-vote, and political campaign techniques.
115
01APPENDIXB
2.	Supporting and contributing to charitable organizations, political organization, candidates for public office and initiative measures, ideological causes, and international affairs.
3.	Public advertising of Associations’ positions on issues other than negotiation, ratification, or implementation of Memorandum of Understandings.
4.	Lobbying for purposes other than the negotiation, ratification, or implementation of a Memorandum of Understanding agreement.
5.	Organizing bargaining units of employees whose wages, hours, and terms and conditions of employment have no impact, direct or indirect, upon the wages, hours, and terms and conditions of employment of employees represented by the Association.
6.	Any other activities that are considered political, social or unrelated to the representation of employees by the bargaining unit.
I.	Procedure for Challenging Amount cf Service F. c
The Association agrees to assume fuil responsibility to ensure full compliance with the requirement laid d “ vn by the United States Supreme Court in Chicago Teachers Union v. Hudson, 1O6.Ct. 1066 (1986), and any other applicable legal authority, with r^cpect to the constitutional rights of ncr.-member service fee payers. Accordingly, the Association agrees to do the following:
1.	Give sixty (60) calendar days advance notice to non-member service fee payers of the amount of the fee and a full explanation of tire basis for the fee, ■■■ including the major categories of expenses, as well as verification of same.
2.	Advise non-member service fee payers of an expeditious and impartial decision-making process before an impartial decision-maker mutually selected by the parties, whereby non-member service fee payers can object to the amount of the service fee.
3.	Place the amount in dispute into an escrow account pending resolution of any objections raised by non-member service fee payers to the amount of the Service fee.	. -
Any dispute concerning the amount of the service fee and/or the responsibilities
- of the Association with respect to service fee payers shaH not be subject to
' appeals to tire Civil Service Commission or the grievance procedures contained in a comprehensive Memorandi m of Agreement between the parties.
J.	City Responsibilities for Ccilectior. cf
1? The Finance and Administrative Services Division shall cause the amount of the membership fee or service fee tc be deducted from semi-monthly payroll checks of each unit employee as specified by the Association under the
116
01APPENDIXB
terms contained herein. “Membership fee” as distinct from “service fee” shall be the result of voluntary consent in the form of a payroll deduction card signed by the individual employee.
2.	Remittance of the aggregate amount of all dues, fees and other proper deductions made from the salaries of employees hereunder shall be made to the Association by the Finance and Administrative Services Division within thirty (30) working days after the conclusion of the month in which said dues, fees ar.d/or deductions were deducted.
3.	The Finance and Administrative Services Division shall also apply this provicion to every permanent employee who becomes an employee of this representation unit through reassignment or transfer within sixty (60) calendar days of the effective date of said reassignment or transfer. Such deduction chai! be a condition cf continued employment.
4.	The Finance and Administrative .Services Division will provide to the Association quarterly the name, home address, and employee number of each unit employee.
5.	The Finaace and Administrative Services Division sl'.all notify the Association within sixty (60) calendar days of any unit employee who, because of a charge in employment status, is not longer a	of the representation
unit or subject to the provisions ofdhis article, .r
r. ■•. • y. <	■?. '	■'	■ >	■ •...•
K.	Financial Reporting Requirements of the Association
The Association shall keep an adequate itemized record of its financial transactions and shall make available, .annually to the City, the employees who are covered by an agency shop arrangement, within sixty (60) calendar days after the end of its fiscal year, a detailad written financed report thereof in the form of a balance sheet and an operating statement, certified as to accuracy by a certified public accountant. x*	.■	;
0 ’	' ' ?	• if.
L.	Process for Rescinding Agency Shop ,	. <
/ • •'	. j •?,	•* ;.r	.	. *t
An agency shop arrangement may be rescinded by a majority vote of all the employees in the unit, provided that:
.	• .	■>.	i'„ u«*.	’
1.	A request for«$uch a vote-is supported by a petition filed with the City Employee Relations’ Officer containing the signatures of at least thirty percent (30%) of the. employees in the appficable unit; and >
2.	The vote is by' ret ballot;and.	.. - .« •
3.	The vote may be taken at anytime during the term of the Memorandum of Agreement, but in not event shall there be more than on vote taken during
117
01APPENCHXB
any one consecutive one-year period during the term of that Memorandum of Agreement.
V.	ASSOCIATION INDEMNIFICATION
The Association shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the City and its officers, managers and employees from and against any and all claims, demands, suits, causes of action, costs, injunctions, writs or other liability that may arise relating to the City’s compliance with the agency fee obligation.
VI.	ASSOCIATION DUTY OF FAIR REPRESENTATION
An employee who pays a service fee shall be entitled to fair and impartial representation by the Association. A breach of this duty shall be deemed to have occurred if the Association’s conduct in representation is arbitrary, discriminatory, or in bad faith. Allegations by an employee or group of employees of a failure by the Association to carry out its duty of fair representation shall be filed with the Public Employees’ Relations Board (PERB).
VII.	EFFECT OF LEGISLATIVE OR JUDICIAL REVISION, REVERSAL OR INTERPRETATION
In the event that the agency fee provisions contained in Govt. Code Sec. 3502.5 are reinterpreted, revised or reversed by action of the California Legislature or by Judicial determinations pursuant to legal challenges, this MOU shall be revised or nullified accordingly in whole or in part.
118
01APPENDIXB
INDEX
Acting Assignment.....................................................................25-26
Accrual of Time...................................................................    26
Compensation.................>.,...............<...................;................. 26
Eligibility -10 Consecutive Calendar Days....................r........;...............25
Limitations....................................................................    25-26
One Move-up per Vacancy...............................................................26
Responsibilities..............'.'.......................  ?;..........................25
Activities not considered work time......................................................30
Additional Retirement Benefits...........................................................27
Agency Shop.,.................................................,...................  111-118
Agreements to Meet and Discuss........................................................	27-28
Air Quality Management District (AQMD) Regulations..........................  .-.........69
Alcohol and Substance Abuse...........................................;................  95
Determent, Detection and Treatment....................................................95
EAP Counseling ................;...........................................           95
Mutual Agreement .............................................................^.....  95
Support of EAP Program..................  ,.......................................    95
Amendments to .Memorandum of Understanding ...... ................................      101
Apprenticeship Salary Schedules.............................................^..r......10-11
Relationship to Journey Classifications...............................................11
Apprenticeship Standards..............................................................35-36
Apprenticeship Training Programs/Work Schedules..........................................35
Assignment, Limitations on...............................................................26
Assignment Pay
Commercial Refuse (Public Works)......................................................13
Electrical Line Mechanic Apprenticeship Program.......................................16
Electrical 12KV Rubber Gloving (Public Service)....................................16-17
Forty-Two (42) Hour Work Week Assignment Pay (Public Service)......................15-16
Mechanical Maintenance (Public Works).................................................14
One-Person Refuse Truck (Public Works)................................................13
Supervisor - Power Plant .............................................................15
Utility Welder........................................................................14
W ater Stand-by.......................................................................16
Association and Employee Rights and Responsibilities......................................5
Association Office Space.............................................................  4
Association Release Time - Meet and Confer...........................................3-4
Association Representation Responsibilities..............................................3
Indemnification, Association Office Space..............................................4-5
Indemnification, Payroll.................................................................2
Limitations, Association Office Space....................................................5
Payroll Deduction........................................................................2
Release Time - Board of Directors Meetings...............................................3
119
Release Time - Representation/Business/Recreational Issues...............................4
Revocation of Association Rights.......................................................  4
Association Release Time..................................................................3-4
Association Representation..................................................................3
Association Responsibilities-No Strike/Job Action Provision.............................. 7-8
Authority of Third Party Neutral, Management Rights  ........................................7
Auto Allowances....................................„.......................................67
Limitations.........................................................................    67
-B-
Below Standards Evaluation.................................................................11
Bereavement Leave...............................................................,..........84
Definition........................................................:....................  .84
Facts Justifying Absence..................................................................84
' Leave With Pay.........................................................................  84
Not Apply if on Sick Leave.................................................................................84
Bi-Monthly Meeting - City-GCEA..........................................................    8
Board of Directors - Release Time.......................................................... 3
Breaks - Rest Periods..........................................   ...................   32-33
Benefit - Not Right...........................;................................    <....32
Non-Accumulative........................................................................32
Rest Period Procedure.....................:..........................................32-33
Two - 15 Minute Breaks....................................................................32
-C-
Call Back Overtime..................................................................  .....41
Between 12am-8am......................................................................  41
Limitations..........................................................................41 -42
Minimum Hours Granted.....................................................................41
Unscheduled.............................................................................39
Certification of Representation - Bonafide Under FLSA.....................■........................... 1-2
City Designated Holidays ................................................................  70
City Work Schedules-Defined.......................................................    »....33
Classifications Recognized-Memorandum of Understanding....................................  1
Commitment to Equal Employment Opportunity - Valuing Diversity............................. 2
Community Service Officer	L:- '
Jail Assignment Pay...................../.......u..;; ...................;..............20
Police Communications Assignment Pay................................................... 20
Prisoner Search Assignment Pay.......................................................   25
Senior CSO Program...................;.......................  .......;..............17-20
$630 Allowance Per Fiscal Year- Uniforms....................i............;..............62
3/36 Work Plan,.........................................................     ;.......30-31
3/36 Work Schedule Overtime..........................................................38-39
28-Day Work Period..............................................................     29-30
120
Compensation Acting Assignment........................................................................26
Fire Communications Operator Leadworker.......................................................25
Foreign Language.............................................................;..............  22
Jail Assignment...............................................................................20
One Person Refuse Truck..................................................  :................  13
Police Communications.........................................................................25
Police Records................................................................................20
Senior Community Service Officer..............................................................17
Supervisor - Power Plant ..........................................................   ........15
Utility Welder......................................................  .-.......;.x............14
Water Stand-by Assignment...............................................:x....................16
Compensatory Time....................................................... ...;■.___46-47
Court Time................................................................................    39-43
“Go Subpoena”, Overtime Compensation Rate.............................................        42
Overtime Definitions....................................................................     .39
Stand-by Assignment.........................................:....-..........................  40
Stand-by "On Call" Time Assignment.........................................:.............  39-40
Stand-by "On Call" Time Assignment, Overtime Compensation Rate.....................„•...42-43
. -D-	'•
Daylight Savings Work Schedule..............................................................  36-37
Deferred Compensation - Employer Paid............................................................10
Included in Base Salary - Effective July 1, 1997..............................................10
Salary Comparisons...................................................................—10
Dental Insurance Plans......................................................................  57-58
DeltaCare (DMO)...........................................................................;...57
Delta Premier......................................................    •.......i.t.57
Indemnity, Delta.......................................................................... 57-58
Premium Increases........................................................................    .57
Premium Payment................................................................<....:.....57
Disability, Long Term Insurance-Association Plan......................  .........................59
DMV Licensing Reimbursement Policy........4.......... ..............  j.--------.—...........67
Compliance Standards   .T.....................i^.v....-...............................>..  ...69
Failure to Obtain DMV Licensing Requirements...............................................68-69
No Reimbursement If Promoted/Hired Into Position w/DMV Driver License > . : '
Requirements..........................................................................   .68
Purpose....................................................................i.i...........  67-68
Reimbursement For Required New DMV Driver License Requirements............................... 68
Reimbursement If New DMV Driver License is Requested by Management............................68
Dress Standards/Personal Appearance......................................................... ....97
* ' ... . . • . , -• '. *: 1 ' * • ’ Driver's License Requirements - Employee.................................  ;.....................69
121
Consequence of Non-Compliance.....................................................69
Vehicle Code Violations...........................................................69
-E-
EAP Counseling.....................................................................  95
Educational Reimbursement.......................................................  65-66
Eligibility...:..............................  ;................................  65
Limitations.................................................... :.................66
Repayment to City if Terminated Within the Year of Study........................  66
Effective Date of Step Increases and Extra Compensation............. ................12
Electrical Line Mechanic Apprenticeship Program......................................16
Compensation............................................................      16
Electrical 12 KV Rubber Gloving Assignment......................................  16-17
Eligible Leave Benefits......................................:.....................  88
Accrual - Usage of Leave Benefits.................................................88
Example.........................................................................  88
Leave of Absence-Family and Medical Care Leave....................................88
Emergency Overtime Requirement..................  :................................  47
Emergency Waiver Provisions..................................;.......................100
Employee Contribution Rate-Retirement.........................................    26-27
Employee Rights and Responsibilities............v...................................  2
Employer Contribution Rate-Retirement.............................................   26
Equal Employment Opportunity/Valuing Diversity........................................2
Evening Shift Pay....................................................................21
Extended Shift Overtime..............................................................39
Extra Pay/Compensation...............................................................13
-F-
Family Care Leave With Pay - Utilize Sick Leave......................................83
Family and Medical Care Leave......................................................  88
Fire Communications Operations - Verdugo......................................... 89-94
Fire Communications Operators - Lead Worker Assignment Compensation..................25
Fire Communications -Work Schedule.......:...........................................35
Fire Employees - Uniform Allowance................................................61-62
5/40 and 4/40 Work Schedule Overtime...............................................  38
Flexible Work Schedule.............................................................  38
Floating Holiday Leave..........................................................  70-72
Cash-Out.......................................................................   72
Utilization....................................................................71-72
Foreign Language or Sign Language Interpreter Proficiency Program.................21-24
Administration................................................................    22
Application..................... .............................................   23
Appointment................................'................................   23	-24
Compensation................................................................  ...22
Eligibility......................................................................23
122
Interpreter Skills of All Employees...........................,...........................  24
Limitations.................................................................................24
Purpose.....................................................................................21
Qualifications...........................................................................22-23
Sign Language Fluency Certification.........................................................23
Temporary Assignments................................................................,......24
42-Hour Work Week............................'..............’........................15-16,	89-90
Assignment ...............................................................................  15
Holiday-In-Lieu Pay..................................................................15
Limitations..............................................,..............................16
Overtime, Verdugo Fire ...............................................................................  90
Public Service ..............................................................       ........15
Schedule...............................................................................     35
Verdugo Fire ......................................................................      89-90
4/40 Work Schedule............................................................. ,.....,.....,..33
Overtime......................................................................  ............38
Fringe Benefits.........................................................................    48-69
Fringe Benefits Administration Provision .............................................      48-49
Administration...................................................................    .......48
Changes...............................................................................      48
Employee Changes in Benefit Coverage....................................................    49
Limitations.......................................................,,....................... 48
Selection and Funding...............................................................     ...48
Gender, Definition.............................................................................. .1
General Provisions..............................................................................100
General Service Classifications.............................................................104-110
Grievance Procedure...........................................................................98-99
Definition..................................................................................  98
Formal Grievance - Written...............................................................  98-99
General................................................................................       99
Informal Grievance- Verbal............................  .,.................................   98
Reprinting................................................r...................................98
-H-
Health Maintenance - Club Reimbursement..................................................,,......66
Eligibility...................................................................................66
Limitations.................................................................................  66
Holiday Overtime............................................,.,......,.............     ,........42
Holidays........................7...................... ;...............  7.................. 70-76
Christmas/New Years Day- Integrated Waste & Mechanical Maintenance Sections...................71
City-Designated Holidays..................................................................,...70
City Offices Open.............................................................................75
123
Floating Holiday Cash-Out................................................................72
Floating Holiday Leave Hours.............................................................70
Floating Holiday Leave Utilization........■...........................................71-72
Friday After Thanksgiving..........................................................70-71
Friday Holiday.......................................................................    72
Holiday Leave Hourly Utilization.......,................................................ 76
Holiday Leave Hours.................,..................................................  70
Holiday Occurrence on Saturday or Sunday...............................................  72
Holiday Policy on Scheduled Day Off....................................................  72
Holidays Scheduling.................................................................     72
Limitations.........................................................i.................75-76
Monday Holiday...........................................................................72
Police Division and Park Ranger Program - Holiday Bank..............................  73-74
Police Division Designated Mandatory Holidays.........................................73-74
Public Works Division - Integrated Waste Section.....................................    71
Special Days of Observance.............................................,,................77
24th of December....................................................................     75
Use of Designated Holiday Leave Hours........................................  ..........70
-I-l*p', ,?	;	' ’
Impact of Management Rights..................................................................7
Impasse, Resolution of.....................................................................101
Indemnification
Office Space..........................................................................    4
Payroll................................................................................   2
Industrial Leave - Medical Insurance Premium................................................52
Insurance
Dental............................................................................    57-58
Long Term Disability................................................................     59
Medical,..................................,...............................,...........49-53
Medicare....................................................................          56-57
Optical...............................................................................   58
Retired Medical...,.,,..........................................,.................    53-56
-J-
Jail Assignment Pay.....................................  ................................  20
Compensation.....................,.................................................      20
Jail Shift Supervisor, Uniform Allowance...,............................................ 62-63
Jury Duty........................................................................        86-87
Accommodation of Jury Leave..........................................................    86
Call In..................................................................................86
Extension....................................................................            87
Notification/Summoned.....................................................  ,,...........86
Return of Jury Fees...................................................................86-87
124
Stand-by.................................................................................;....86
-L-
Leave Benefits (Eligible)...................................................................... 88
Leave of Absence - Swearing-In Ceremony - U.S. Citizenship....................................  80
Leave Policy.............................................•................................... 70-88
Leave, Sick..............................................  ..."....'................  :....	80-84
Leaves Without Pay.....................................  '....................   ■...........87-88
Early Return...............................................................................  88
Excess of 6 Months.......................................................................... 88
Limitations..................................................................................88
Without Pay - Excess of 7 Days.............................................:.......A........ 87
Without Pay - Up to 7 Days..................:......................... ‘Ji...............    87
License Requirements (Driver's)......;........-...•..■........................................  67
Long Term Disability Insurance - Association Plan.....................:.................................... 71-72
Exceptions - Family and Medical Care Leave...........................................   .....59
Leave Without Pay...............................................;....;...........'...........59
Limitations..................................................................................59
Plan Benefits................................................................................59
Premium Payment..............................................................................59
-M-	••	‘
"M" Step (Step 6).........................................................................>..11-12
Management Rights..........................................................................    5-7
Management Rights and Responsibilities....................................................     5-7
Authority of Third Party Neutral..............................................................7
Impact of Management Rights.................................................................  7
Meal Reimbursement...............................................................  .'.........  65
Early Call-In......;...........................................................>.............65
Emergency Call-Back........................................................................„.65
Extended Shift..........................................................................  ...65
Maximum Paid........................................................  >......................65
Per Diem.....................................................................................65
Scheduled Call Back......................................................................... 65
Meal Time....................................................................................31-32
Half-Hour Meal Break Exception...........................................................   .31
Meal Time Length....................................................................   ...1..31
Meal Time Schedule................................................    >..................;......31
Non-Work Time............................................................................:...31
One Hour Meal Break..................................................................        31
Medical Insurance...................................................     >.................  49-53
California Care HMO Plan..................................................................49, 50
CIGNA HMO Plan...............................................      :..............   .....49,	50
125
Effective August 1, 2000.................................................................. 49
Effective August 1, 2001 .............................................................  50-51
Effective August 1, 2002 ................................................................  51
Effective August 1, 2003 ...............................................................51
Effective August 1, 2004................................................................51
HMO Medical Plan - Inpatient and Outpatient Psyche Services (Mental Health Care Benefits..............................................................................52
HMO Plans - Medical Insurance 50/50 Split...............................................50-51
Indemnity/HMO Plan Benefits Booklet......................................................  52
Indemnity Plan Coverage....................................................................52
Indemnity Plan Premium Rate.............................................................51
Industrial Leave - Medical Insurance Premium...............................................52
Kaiser HMO Plan......................................................................49, 50
Meet and Confer on Medical Increases....................................................52-53
Paid Industrial Leave.,,.................................................................  52
Prudent Buyer Indemnity Plan........................................«................49, 50
Medical Insurance, Retired Employees.......................................................53-56
City Contribution - Sick Leave Conversion Plan	Amount...................................  53
City Contribution - Sick Leave Conversion Plan	“Catch-Up” Provision.....................  53
City Contribution - Sick Leave Conversion Plan	Prior to RHSP	Implementation...............53
Premium Shared Costs	,	■ ■.
Cash-Out Provision..................................................................    53
Cost Sharing..............................................................  ;........53-54
Covered Under Another Group Medical Insurance Program.................................  54
Eligibility...........................................................................  54
Meet and Confer, Premium Increases.................................................  52-53
Prior to RHSP.....................................................................  53-54
Retiree Health Savings. Plan.......................................................  54-56
Sick Leave Debited - May Choose to Personally Maintain Medical Plan....................54
Medicare...................................................................................56-57
Retired Employees - Eligibility............................................................56
Retired Employees - Medicare Part "A"............................ <.................    56-57
Retired Employees - Medicare Part "B"...........................  «........................57
Meet and Confer, Medical Premium Increases................................................ 52-53
Meet and Discuss PERS Retirement Benefits...........................................................  27-28
Impact of State Actions...............................................................     28
Mental Health Care Benefits...................................................................52
Meter Reader - Work Schedule.......c.^........................................................35
Mileage Reimbursement Plan...........................................................      66-67
Formula.................,............................    .-A...............................66
Limitations.................................................    ...........................67
Monthly Auto Allowance...............................................................      67
Rates of Auto Allowance - Certain Classifications ...............'...  ..................  67
Reimbursement Rate................................................      .................  67
Military Leave.............................................................................   87
126
Eligibility.........................................................................................  87
Length of Military Leave with Pay................................................................     87
Misuse of Benefits.......................................................................................69
Misuse of Sick Leave.....................................................................................82
-N-
Night Shift Pay..........................................................L;....u.......................  21
9/80 Work Schedule.......................................'...................................u.,33, 34
9/80 Work Schedule Overtime..............................................,......'..4:......u.............38
No Strike/Job Action Provision.................................................................         7-8
. . . . ' -.'i , •	f ■ :	■ ■ S tU'.C ‘.i
-o-	•
■ .	■ .	'• ' ! i'i. : ..W
Office Space-Association.....................................   ,.....................4..u..'.'...u-.J}u..4
One Move-Up per Vacancy..............................................................i..........;.........26
One-Person Refuse Truck Assignment................................7.........../........................  13
Assignment..........................................................  .............................   13
Compensation......................................f..............................................     13
Limitation............•:.......................‘.............. ...................................13
Optical Insurance - Association Plan.......................................:..........................   58
Mandatory 12/24 Plan...............................................................................   58
Plan Limitation..............................................................................;........58
Premium Increases.................................................................................    58
Premium Payment.......................................................................................58
Overtime Compensation Rate.....................................................:......................40-42
Call Back Overtime...............................................................................  40-42
Comp Time In Lieu Of Payment..............................................................'...........40
Court Standby Time "On Call" Assignment-Police Division, Park Rangers..............................42-43
Court Time - "Go Subpoena"............................................. ;.............................42
Holiday Overtime......................................................................................42
Recall Devices - Standby Assignments - Police Division I.D. Techs., Sr. I.D. Techs., Sr. Computer Operators, Computer Operators, Systems Specialists, ’ Community Service Officers, Communications Technicians and
Administrative Associate to Police Chief..............................................’......43-45
Regular Overtime.........................................................................       '.....37
Stand-by Assignment Limitations...........................................................ci.uv...45
Stand-by Assignment - Public Service/Water....................................................    ^...45
Overtime "Compensatory Time" Accumulated and Payment......................;.....................      46-47
Accumulation...........................................................i....................;. 46-47
Compensatory Time, Pay Out....................................................................I.....47
Conversion/Example..............................................................................      46
Eligibility...........................................................       .'................  U....46
Use of Compensatory Time........................................................................      47
Overtime Definitions...........................................................................£ 37-40
Call Back Overtime (unscheduled)...........................................................      .....39
127
Court Stand-by Time "On Call" Assignment.................................................39-40
Court Time..................................................................................39
5/40 or 4/40 Work Schedule................................................................  38
9/80 Work Schedule....................................................'...................  38
Regular Overtime.......................................................................  37-39
Stand-by Assignment.......................................................................  40
3/36 Work Schedule...............................  .......................................  38
Overtime, Emergency Requirement.............................................................   47
-P-
Park Ranger - Uniform Allowance.............................................................63-64
Parties, Memorandum of Understanding..........................................................  1
Payroll Deduction ..........................................................................    2
Permanent Modified Work Program.......................................................      96-97
PERS
Sick Leave Service Time Conversion........................................................  55
2% at 55 Option...............................................................................27
2% at 60 Option.........................................................................    27
Personal Appearance/Dress Standards........................................................    97
Police Communications
Assignment Pay........................................................'...................................20
Compensation..............................................................'...........      20
Overtime.........i.....................................................................  38-39
Police Division and Park Ranger Program - Holiday Bank.........................................73
Police Division and Park Ranger Program - Mandatory Holidays...................................73
Police Jail - Work Schedule...............................................................  34-35
Police Records Assignment Pay................................................................  20
Compensation..........................................................................      20
Power Plant-Supervisor Assignment Pay..........................................................15
Prohibited Conduct, No Strike Provision...................................................... 7-8
Provision, Successor.................................................................... .....100
Provisions of Memorandum..................................................................100-101
Civil Service and Departmental Rules and Regulations.......................................101
Sole and Entire Memorandum of Understanding............................................100-101
Public Works/Integrated Waste Section - Commercial Refuse Assignment Pay.......................13
Assignment..............................................................................    13
Compensation................................................................................13
Limitation............................................................................      13
Public Works Integrated Waste Truck Mechanical Maintenance Assignment Pay......................14
Assignment.............................................................................     14
Compensation............................................................................    14
Limitation................................................................. '...............14
128
-R-
Ratification and Implementation..................................................................101
Acknowledgment............................................................................101-102
Mutual Agreement............................................................................  102
Ratification..............................................................................’...102
Recall Devices - Standby Assignments - Police Division I.D. Techs, Sr. Computer Operators, Computer Operators and Communications Technicians..............................  ...43
Recall Devices - Stand-by Assignment Limitations.................................... ;.............44
Recognition.......................................................................................1-2
Apprenticeship Training Programs.............................................................35
Certification of Representation - Bonafide Under FLSA.........................................1-2
Classifications - Recognized........................................'...........................1
Exclusions of Recognition.....................................    ........................      1
GCEA - Recognized Employee Organization.........................................'...............I
Regular Overtime, Overtime Compensation Rate.....................................................  40
Regular Overtime, Overtime Definitions..........................................................37-39
Release Time
Board of Director’s Meetings.................................................................3-4
Meet and Confer Sessions..................................................................      3
Representation, Business & Recreational.......................................................  4
Removal of "M" Step (Step 6)....................................................................   12
Resident Caretaker Program...............................................................          36
Resolution of Impasse............................................................      ...........101
Rest Periods/Breaks.................'...................................................'..................................... 32-33
Retiree Health Savings Plan.........,...................................................        54-56
Exhausted, Choice to Maintain Plan.....................'............................................................55
Implementation..........................................................................................54
Limitations...........................'............................  '.....................    54
PERS Sick Leave Service Time Conversion......................................................  55
Sick Leave Conversion Rate........................................................  .’............54
Sick Leave Deduction....................................................................  .....56
Retirement................................................................      ........26-27
Additional Retirement Benefits...............................................          '.......27
Employee Contribution Rate........................................................          26-27
Employer Contribution Rate....................i................................................26
Meet and Discuss	.
PERS..............................................................................      27-28
Impact of State Actions...........................'..................................... ..28
PERS...............................................................................     ’....27
Retiree Health Savings Plan................'..'.......................'.....................54-56
Survivor Benefit - Level Four......................................  ....27
Two Percent (2%) at 55 / 60 Formulas...........................................................27
Unused Sick Leave Credits ....„....................  .'......................................  27
Revocation of Association Rights....................................................................4
RHSP..........................................................................................54-56
129
Right to Raise Salaries, Other Compensation and Benefits....................................12
-S-
Safety Items..............................................................................  65
Salaries and Compensation..................................................................  9
Salaries Rounded Off.................,..........................,.......................    10
Salary Schedule, Apprenticeship Program....................................   ,..........10-11
Salary Schedule - July 1,2001 through June 30, 2002.,....................................,...9
Salary Schedule - July 1, 2002 through June 30, 2003.....................................    9
Salary Schedule - July 1,2003 through June 30, 2004.........................................9
Salary Schedule - July 1, 2004 through June 30, 2005..............................:.......9-10
Salary. Steps (1 through 6)..................................................            11-12
Senior Community Service Officer Program...,..........................................   17-20
Administration,,....,........................  ,.................................    17-20
Assignments.............................................I..........  ...,............i.......................19
Authorization.......................................................................    19
Compensation/Extra Pay..................................................................17
CSO General/Special Assignment.....................................................   ..18
Eligibility................................................................          17-18
Limitations....................................................................      19-20
Modification......................................................................... 18
Purpose.................................................    ,...........................17
Reevaluation...............................    ,..................................      19
Review Committee..................................................................      18
Revocation.........................................................................  18-19
7-Day Work Period.........................................................................  29
Severability Provision................v.,................................................100
MOU Remains in Full Force and Effect...........,........................................100
Successor Provisions.................................................................. 100
Shift Pay..................................................................................  21
Eligibility/Limitations............................................................         21
Evening Shifts.............................................    .........................21
Night Shifts.......................................................  ,...............   21
Scheduled or Extended Shift Overtime.................................................   39
•Sick Leave............................................................................. 80-84
Accumulation Plan................................................................       81
Additional Leave/Without Pay......................................................      84
Division Notification................................................................   82
Family Care Leave with Pay - Utilize Sick Leave....................................  83-84
Limitations......................................................................       81
Misuse of Sick Leave............................................................        82
Sick Leave Benefit......................................................................80
Unused Credits-Retirement...............................................................27
Use of Accumulated Sick Leave...........................................................83
Sick Leave Augmentation of Temporary Disability - W/C...................................    86
130
Sick Leave Conversion Options	at Retirement....................................................54-56
Sick Leave Deduction - Retiring	Employees.....................................................56
Sick Leave Policy..............................................................................80-84
Signature Page.................................................................................  103
Special Days of Observance..................................................................<.....77
Compensation...........................................................................       .77
Definition...;...................................................................          ....77
Eligibility........................................................................      ...U..77
Schedule......................................     .L...........:..u/.........................;77
Standby Assignment	■-	1	‘	■
Court Time “On Call”...................................................................     42-43
Limitations, Overtime Compensation Rate........................................................41
Overtime Definitions................................;.............................     ........40
Police and Park Rangers.....................................................      .Li..:.......43
Public Service, Overtime Compensation Rate................................................     45
W eekday......................................................................... i-x......./.....
Weekend..............................................................................v..„.........
Statutory Benefits - Workers’ Comp..........................................................      85
Step Advancement-Apprenticeship Classifications..........................................'........12
Step Advancement in Rate of Compensation....................................................   11-13
Base Salary....................................................................................12
Below Standards Evaluation.......................................................   ....;..,L....l	1
Effective Date of Step Increases and Extra Compensation....................................... 12
Extra Pay/Compensation................................................ :......Jxx..............13
"M" Step (Step 6)........................................................................... 11-12
Removal of "M" Step (Step 6)..................................................i.:,.................,:....12
Right to Raise Salaries, Other Compensation and Benefits...................................    12
Salary Steps 1 through 6.................,........................................          11-12
Step Advancement - Apprenticeship Classifications ............................................ 12
Y-Rating...........................................................  .........,...V.'....'.u...l2
Strike/Job Action Provision...........................................................L..^.......:.. 7-8
Association Responsibilities.............................................................     7-8
Employee Termination....................................•......................  '............  7
Prohibited Conduct........................................................;........     .i......7
Successor Provision...................................................... 101
Supervisor Assignment Pay - Power Plant.......................................................    15
Assignment.....................................,..........................................     15
Compensation...............................................,i.......x... ......................15
Limitations..........................................................................          15
Survivor Benefit - Level Four..............................................................     ..27
Swearing-In Ceremony - U.S. Citizenship...............................;...................j...i...80
-T-	. ■	■ •'
Telecommuting..........................   ...........u......................................      34
131
Temporary Disability.............................................................................  85
Temporary Modified Work	Program...........................................................95-96
Application and Acceptance...................................................................  96
Eligibility....................................................................................95
Final Decision.................................................................................96
Limitations................................................................................    96
Outside Employment...............................................;.............................96
Term of Memorandum of Understanding.......................;..................................................101
Termination, No Strike/Job Action Provision.......................................................  7
36-Hour Work Week Overtime, Verdugo Fire...........;...........................................    90
3/36 Work Schedule....................;........................................................    30
Time Not Considered As Work Time................................................................................30
Activities Not Considered Work Time..........................................................  30
CSO - 3/36 Work Plan - Work Time............................................................30-31
Time Work Increments ...............................................................            ...46
Increments - Less than 1 Hr.................................................................   46
Increments - Over 1 Hr.........................................................................46
Time Worked................................;....................................................29-30
CSO Maximum Time Worked - 28-Day Work Period.............................................'.	29-30
Maximum Time Worked - 7-Day Work Period.............................;...;....................  29
Scheduled or Extended Shift Overtime...................................;................:...........39
28-Day Work Period - CSO........................;...............................I.:..............  29
24th of December..........................................;..............................................;......75
2% at 55 / 2% @ 60 Retirement Formula...........................  :................................27
-U-t
Uniforms......................................................................................  60-65
Annual Uniform Allowance-Certain Classes................................:..................................61
Fire Communications Shift Supervisor, Sr. Operator and Operator $580 Allowance Per Fiscal Year.........................................................      62
Fire Non-Safety Environmental Specialist & Hazardous Specialist $580 Allowance Per Fiscal Year......................:.............................. .......'.62
Jail Shift Supervisor, Communication Shift Supervisor, Community Service Officer $630 Allowance Per Fiscal Year..........................................................  62-63
Limitations, Allowance...................................................................      64
Park Rangers - Sr. Park Ranger Uniform Allowance and Equipment Replacement $650 Per Fiscal Year.....................................................................  :....	63-64
Senior Identification Technician and Identification Technician $325 Allowance Per Fiscal Year..................'............................................63
Termination Prior to Completion of Probation...................................................64
Uniform Allowance Payment....................................'...:...................  ........64
Uniforms, Clothing and Equipment Allowance in Lieu of Issue...............................  61-64
Uniforms Provided..................................................................         60-61
Coveralls.............................................’.L...J..................;...........61
Eleven Sets - Classifications............;...........-....i...........................  '...............60
" 132
Field Employee Safety T-Shirt Program.............................................61
Rain Boots........................................................................61
Twelve Sets - Classifications............................................      60-61
Uniforms by Assignment............................................................61
Uniform Requirements....................................................................64
Unscheduled Call-Back Overtime........................................................39
Unused Sick Leave Credits for Retirement............................................  27
Utility Welder Assignment...........................................................    14
Assignment...............................................................  ..,,,.....14
Compensation................................................................. ,..,j..44
Limitations...............................................................,..........14
-V-
Vacation.......................................................................      77-80
Accumulation...................................................................   79-80
Cash-Out at Termination..............................................<.............. 80
Earned....................................................................  ,...,..,.77
Limitations............................. ,...«.................................   78-79
Prior Service...................................................,,.................  79
Verdugo Fire Communications Center................................................   89-94
Approval of Floating Holidays......................................,............  ...92
Benefit Eligibility............................................................,.v.-.v.94
Changes and Modifications to Schedule.......................................   ......94
Compensation In Lieu of Overtime.....................................................90
Compensatory Time....................................................................93
40-Hour Work Week Schedule...........................................................90
. 48-Hour Work Week Overtime......................................................... 90
42-Hour Work Week Schedule......................................................     89
Holidays.....................................,.......................    ,,.......91-92
Leave Benefit - 12 Hour Shift Work Schedule.......................................   93
Meal or Break Periods.......,.................................................94
Overtime...........................................................    ~..........90-91
Salary Adjustment................................................................    91
7-Day Work Period.....................................-...,......................    89
36-Hour Work Week, Overtime......................................................,...90
Trades........................      ,,,...,......................................».. 92-93
Work Schedule - Fire Communications.............................................  89-90
..	-W-	.	. ........
Waiver Provision on Bargaining During Term Agreement................................ 100
Water Stand-by Assignment Pay - Public Service....,,.......,............................16, 45
• Assignment............................................................    r.........16
Compensation In Lieu of Water Stand-by Pay.............................................16
Weekday Recall Device Stand-by Assignment.............................................  44
133
Weekend Holiday Recall Device Stand-by Assignment...................................44
Workers' Compensation............................................................84-86
Additional Temporary Disability Benefit..........................................85
Leave - Effective July 1, 1999...................................................84
Outside Employment and Medical Limitations.......................................85
Sick Leave Augmentation of Temporary Disability................................  86
Statutory Benefits Follow Additional Benefits....................................85
Temporary Disability.............................................................85
Working Conditions...............................................................95-97
Work Periods, Schedules and Overtime..............................................  29
7-Day Work Period................................................................29
7-Day Work Period - Fixed and Regularly Recurring................................29
7-Day Work Period - 9/80 Work Schedule...........................................29
7-Day Work Period Other Than 9/80 Work Schedule..................................29
28-Day Work Period - Fixed and Regularly Recurring...............................29
Work Schedules...................................................................33-37
Apprenticeship Training Programs..............................................35-36
City Work Schedules.............,................................................33
Daylight Savings Work Schedules...............................................36-37
Fire Communications........................................................35,	89-90
Five/Forty (5/40) Work Schedule..................................................33
Forty-Two (42) Hour Work Week Assignment.........................................35
Four/Forty (4/40) Work Schedule..................................................33
Meter Reader.....................................................................35
Nine/Eighty (9/80) Work Schedule..............................................33, 34
Police Communications............................................................34
Police Division - 9/80 & 3/36 Work Schedule......................................34
Police Jail...............................................................    34-35
Resident Caretaker Program.......................................................36
Starting/Ending T ime..........................................................  36
Telecommuting....................................................................34
Three/Thirty Six (3/36) Work Schedule............................................33
Weekday Recall Device - Stand-by Assignment......................................44
Weekend Holiday Recall Device Stand-by.........................................  44
-Y-
Y-Rating........................................................................12
134