Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Moreno Valley Unified School District and California School Employees Association (CSEA), Chapter 410 (2002)
K#: 811456
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us: Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
g ) I 4 SG [2, J?
MORENO VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
25634 Alessandro Boulevard, Moreno Valley, CA
CLASSIFIED EMPLOYEES COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE
MORENO VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
AND
CHAPTER 410 CALIFORNIA SCHOOL EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION
July 1,2002 through June 30,2005
An Affirmative Action / Equal Opportunity / M-F / Disabled Persons Employer
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. RIGHTS, OBLIGATIONS, AND WORK...........................................1
ARTICLE 1	- DESIGNATION....................................................1
ARTICLE 2	- RECOGNITION.:..................................................1
ARTICLE 3	- DURATION AND TERMINATION.......................................1
ARTICLE 4	- EMPLOYER-EMPLOYEE RELATIONS....................................1
ARTICLE 5	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS..............................................2
ARTICLE 6	- ASSOCIATION RIGHTS.............................................2
ARTICLE 7	- ASSOCIATION DUES AND PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS........................5
ARTICLE 8	- BARGAINING UNIT WORK...........................................6
ARTICLE 9	- NON-DISCRIMINATION.............................................8
II.	EMPLOYMENT...........................................................  9
ARTICLE 10	- RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION OF PERSONNEL........................9
ARTICLE 11	- GENERAL EMPLOYMENT REQUIREMENTS...............................9
ARTICLE 12	- PHYSICAL AND MENTAL EXAMINATIONS.............................10
ARTICLE 13	- PROBATIONARY AND PERMANENT STATUS.............................10
ARTICLE 14	- SENIORITY....................................................11
ARTICLE 15	- PROMOTION....................................................11
III.	HOURS AND ASSIGNMENTS................................................13
ARTICLE 16	- TERM OF EMPLOYMENT...........................................13
ARTICLE 17	- ASSIGNMENT AND RECLASSIFICATION OF BARGAINING UNIT MEMBERS...................................................14
ARTICLE 18	- HOURS AND ASSIGNMENTS OF BARGAINING UNIT MEMBERS...................................................18
ARTICLE 19	- GUIDELINES FOR OVERTIME WORK.................................20
ARTICLE 20 - YEAR ROUND EDUCATION (YRE)...................................21
ARTICLE 21	- EXTENDED/SUMMER ASSIGNMENTS.................................22
ARTICLE 22	- TRANSFERS...................................................23
IV. SUPERVISION AND EVALUATION...........................................28
ARTICLE 23	- PERSONNEL FILES.............................................28
ARTICLE 24	- PERFORMANCE EVALUATION......................................28
ARTICLE 25	- WRITTEN REPRIMANDS, CORRECTIVE ACTION AND DISCIPLINE FOR PERMANENT UNIT MEMBERS.....................................30
ARTICLE 26	- COMPLAINTS FROM THE PUBLIC..................................33
V. SALARIES..............................................................35
ARTICLE 27 - SALARIES....................................................35
VI. UNIT MEMBER BENEFITS.................................................37
ARTICLE 28	- HEALTH AND WELFARE...........................................37
ARTICLE 29	- HOLIDAYS............................................................38	|
ARTICLE 30	- VACATIONS...................................................39
ARTICLE 31	- PAID LEAVES OF ABSENCE......................................41
ARTICLE 32	- NON-PAID LEAVES OF ABSENCE............................................45
ARTICLE 33	- RETIREMENT......................................................46
VII. WORK PLACE SAFETY AND TRAINING..........................................47
ARTICLE 34	- ORIENTATION AND INSERVICE.......................................47
ARTICLE 35	- WORK PLACE PROVISIONS...........................................47
ARTICLE 36	- UNIT MEMBER SAFETY...............................................48
ARTICLE 37	- SUPERVISION OF PAID AND NON-PAID STUDENT AND VOLUNTEER WORKERS.............................................................48
ARTICLE 38	- PROFESSIONAL GROWTH............................................49
VIII.	LAYOFF..................................................54
ARTICLE 39 - LAYOFF AND REEMPLOYMENT/REINSTATEMENT........................54
IX.	GRIEVANCE
57
ARTICLE 40 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE...........................................57
X.	NEGOTIATIONS...........................................................60
ARTICLE 41	- WAIVER OF FURTHER BARGAINING RIGHTS...........................60
ARTICLE 42	- NO STRIKE-NO LOCKOUT..........................................60
ARTICLE 43	- STATUTORY CHANGES.............................................60
ARTICLE 44	- REOPENER NEGOTIATIONS.........................................61
ARTICLE 45	- NEGOTIATION PROCEDURES........................................61
XI.	SUPPLEMENTS............................................................63
APPENDIX A	- CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE.......................................65
APPENDIX B	- SALARY SCHEDULE...............................................69
APPENDIX B-1 - SUBSTITUTE SALARY SCHEDULE..................................73
APPENDIX C	- CALENDARS.....................................................81
APPENDIX D	- SIDE LETTER - DOT RANDOM DRUG TESTING/AR 4020.................97
SIDE LETTER - ASSOCIATION RIGHTS...............................107
SIDE LETTER - CHILD DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANT......................108
SIDE LETTER - INSTRUCTIONAL ASSISTANT - TLP.....................109
EFFECTS AGREEMENT - YRE 3-00....................................111
EFFECTS AGREEMENT - YRE 3-01...................................113
EFFECTS AGREEMENT - YRE 2-02...................................115
APPENDIX E	- EVALUATION FORMS.............................................117
INDEX?....................................................................119
iii
I. RIGHTS, OBLIGATIONS, AND WORK
ARTICLE 1	- DESIGNATION
THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into this 1st day of July, 2002, by and between the Moreno Valley Board of Education (hereinafter called the "Board") on behalf of the Moreno Valley, Unified School District (hereinafter called the "District") and the California School Employees Association, Moreno Valley Chapter 410 (hereinafter called the "Association").
ARTICLE 2	- RECOGNITION
The Moreno Valley Unified School District hereby grants recognition to the California School Employees Association, Moreno Valley Chapter 410, for the employees in the unit described below.
Section 1. Description of unit: All classified employees employed by the District, including but not limited to the following major groupings of jobs: nutrition services, clerical and secretarial, maintenance and operations, instructional assistants, and transportation, and excluding all management employees as designated by the Board, supervisory employees, confidential employees, substitute employees, certificated employees, part time playground supervisors whose sole duties are to supervise students on the playground in order to provide certificated personnel with duty free periods, students employed part time, or part time students employed part time, apprentice positions, professional experts on temporary basis. The classifications of those employees currently are set forth in Appendix A. All newly created positions, except those that lawfully are certificated, management, confidential, supervisory, or otherwise lawfully excluded from the unit, shall be assigned to the bargaining unit.
Section 2. The designation of management, supervisory, confidential, certificated, and other classifications of employees shall be made by the District. The District agrees to notify the Association of such proposed designations. In disputed cases, the Association may submit to the Public Employee Relations Board (PERB) for resolution.
Sections. The parties agree that the unit, as described in the foregoing paragraphs, is appropriate and that neither party will seek clarification or amendment of the unit, either as to specific exclusions or the enumerated inclusions, unless as to the exclusions, there is a significant change in the duties of the incumbent.
ARTICLE 3	- DURATION AND TERMINATION
Except as otherwise set forth herein, this Agreement shall be and remain in effect upon ratification and adoption from July 1, 2002 to and including June 30, 2005, and be renewed on a day to day basis, subject to the provisions of Government Code Section 3540.1(h).
ARTICLE 4	- EMPLOYER-EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
CSEA and the District are committed to maintaining a relationship based on mutual trust and respect. The parties agree to use Interest Based Bargaining concepts with training from the California Foundation for Improvement of Employer-Employee Relations (CFIER) for problem solving and negotiations.
Section 1. Upon the request of either party, the Superintendent or designee shall meet at reasonable times, mutually agreeable to the parties, with release time provided as necessary, with a committee of not more than three (3) Association members appointed by the Association to discuss
1
employee-employer relations matters of mutual benefit and concern, including the operation of this Agreement. Such meetings are intended in no way to impose a duty to bargain on either party during the term of this Agreement or to affect any waiver of the duty to bargain otherwise agreed to by either party.
ARTICLE 5	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Section 1. All matters not within the scope of representation as set forth in the Government Code, Section 3543.2, or not limited by the express terms of this Agreement, are reserved by the District. Except as limited by the express terms of this Agreement, it is agreed that such reserved rights include, but are not limited to the exclusive right and power to discontinue, in whole or in part, temporarily or permanently, without further bargaining as to the decision or the effects thereof, any of the following: the Board’s sole right to manage and direct the work of its employees; to determine the method, means, and services provided; to determine the staffing patterns and the number and kinds of personnel required; to determine the assignment, goals, objectives, and performance standards; to decide on the building, location, or modification of a facility; to determine the budget and methods of raising revenue; to subcontract work or operations except where expressly forbidden by law; to maintain order and efficiency; to hire; to assign; to evaluate, promote, discipline, discharge for cause, layoff for lack of work or lack of funds; and transfer employees. The foregoing rights of management are not intended to be an all inclusive list, but do indicate the type of matters which are inherent to management.
Section 2. The District retains its right to suspend or modify any provision(s) set forth in this Agreement in cases of emergency. An emergency is a sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or occasion requiring immediate action, such as an emergency due to an act of God or due to interference by a third party beyond the control of the District. In the event of any such action, the District agrees to negotiate with regard to such suspension or modification or successor provisions as soon as reasonable after demand by the Association.
Section 3. Any dispute arising out of or in any way connected with either the existence of or the exercise of any of the rights of the District as expressly set forth in this Article, not expressly limited by other specific provisions of this Agreement, or arising out of or in any way connected with the effects of the exercise of any such rights, is not subject to the grievance and arbitration provisions of Article 40, unless the grievance in question is a complaint that the District has violated an express provision of some other article of this Agreement, which article is itself subject to arbitration.
ARTICLE 6	- ASSOCIATION RIGHTS
Section 1. The Association may request of the District the use of school equipment, buildings, and facilities at reasonable hours. The conditions of such use shall be consistent with applicable law and previous practice, and permission shall not be unreasonably withheld. For example, such equipment may include typewriters, mimeograph machines, duplicating equipment, calculating machines, and audiovisual equipment when such equipment is not otherwise in use for educational purposes. The Xerox 9400 or its successor may be used for Association publications at the same cost charged to school programs.
Section 2. The Association shall have the right to post notices of activities and matters on designated unit member bulletin boards. The Association may use unit member mail boxes for communications with the unit members. The District will provide unit member mail boxes. All general notices distributed by the Association shall be clearly identified as CSEA material by either official identification or the signature title of the authorized CSEA official. A copy of any general distribution notices shall be given to the site level manager no later than the time of distribution or posting or, in the
2
alternative, CSEA will provide the Human Resources Division with fifteen (15) copies of general notices the day prior to posting or distribution. It shall be the sole right of the Association to remove unauthorized material from designated CSEA bulletin boards. A copy of general notices distributed or posted by the District shall be provided to a designated CSEA representative of each site prior to posting or distribution, or in the alternative, the District will provide the CSEA Chapter President with fifteen (15) copies the day prior to posting or distribution.
Sections. The parties agree that any one (1) of the eleven (11) members of the Association Executive Board shall have reasonable access to unit members during working hours when urgent circumstances make it impractical to see such unit members at other times and only when prior approval is given by the unit member’s management supervisor. Such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. Such meetings shall not cause the unit member involved to miss more than thirty (30) minutes of work time in any one day. The Association shall make every reasonable effort to conduct its business during unit member breaks or before or after working hours.
Section 4.	Notices required by this Agreement or by law shall be delivered either by hand or Certified U.S. Mail to the last known address of the President of CSEA Chapter 410 and the assigned CSEA Labor Relations Representative.
Section 5.	A copy of the Agreement will be provided by the District to each unit member. The cost thereof shall be borne by the District.
Section 6.	The District shall release duly elected unit member delegates to take a maximum of five (5) days paid leave of absence annually, if necessary, to attend the annual California School Employees Association Conference. If the person attending such conference is not in a paid status prior to such conference, the leave of absence provision in this paragraph shall not be applicable. The Association will give the District at least a 30 calendar day notice of duly elected delegates in order for the District to coordinate advanced planning.
Section 7.	Each year, the District shall provide the Association with a list of unit members, the District Directory, designated work sites, and salary classifications. The District shall also make available to the Association, as soon as reasonably possible following each meeting of the Board of Education, a copy of the Human Resources minutes of the meeting. Furthermore, the District shall send the Association President a Board of Education agenda prior to each Board of Education meeting, accompanied by the unapproved draft of the minutes of previous meetings. In addition, the District shall make available to the Association two (2) copies of the tentative budget and two (2) copies of the adopted budget at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the Board meeting at which they will be submitted.
Section 8.	The Association shall have the right to review those District documents in the District’s possession which are open by law to public inspection provided that such review occurs during business hours and is scheduled at the mutual convenience of the Association and the District representatives.
Section 9.	The Association shall be entitled to seek and obtain assistance from CSEA staff personnel for the purpose of processing grievances and matters related thereto and other reasons relating to wages, hours, and terms and conditions of employment as provided by law.
Section 10.	Selection of Job Stewards: The Association shall notify the District in writing of the names of a reasonable number of Job Stewards and the group they represent. If a change is made, the District will be advised in writing of such change.
3
1
(a)	Release Time: After notifying his/her first line management supervisor, a Job Steward for the group that Steward represents shall be permitted to leave his/her normal work area during reasonable times in order to assist in on site investigation and presentation of a grievance. The Job Steward shall advise the supervisor of the grievant of his/her presence. The Job Steward is permitted to discuss any problem with the grievant immediately concerned and, if appropriate, to attempt to achieve settlement in accordance with the grievance procedure.
(b)	If, due to an operational requirement, an adequate level of service cannot be maintained in the absence of a Job Steward at the time of the notification mentioned above, the Job Steward shall be permitted to leave his/her normal work area no later than two (2) hours after the Job Steward provides notification, except in cases of emergency.
Section 11.	The District shall provide for the release of the CSEA Chapter President or bargaining unit member designee (if approved by the District), effective January 1 through December 31 on the same terms as provided for in Section 45210 of the California Education Code, except that CSEA’s requirement to pay the cost of such release time shall have been satisfied by the District’s providing a .2% less salary increase for the 1991-92 school year. The Districts approval of a CSEA designee shall not be withheld arbitrarily or capriciously. The District will not release more than one person during any one calendar year. Said released bargaining unit member shall continue to receive general salary increases he/she would have received but for the release, and any other increases associated with his/her employment classification.
The release of the bargaining unit member will be without loss of compensation, benefits or seniority that the bargaining unit member would have received but for the release. The District will provide eight (8) hours pay per day for the released bargaining unit member, for a twelve (12) month work year.
Upon fulfillment of the term(s) of the released bargaining unit member, the District shall place said bargaining unit member within the unit member’s last classification, at the same number of hours he/she previously held, if such a position exists. If such position does not exist at the time of the expiration of the leave, the District shall, to the extent practicable, place the bargaining unit member in any other available position within the unit member’s job family for which the unit member meets the minimum qualifications, or the District shall place the unit member in any other position for which the unit member is qualified. A bargaining unit member not placed in a position of his/her former classification as a result of the above shall not suffer any loss of compensation, benefits, or seniority that he/she would have received in the former classification, and shall have the opportunity to return to a position within the former classification upon a vacancy becoming available prior to any other bargaining unit member movement or outside hire.
The District shall reimburse the Association for up to fifteen ($15) dollars per month to facilitate the District’s communication with the CSEA designated released bargaining unit member.
Section 12.	Additional Release Time
The District shall provide for the release of bargaining unit members) designated by the Association to complete official Association business as designated by the Chapter President or designee. The Association’s requirement to pay the cost of such release time shall be satisfied by District/Association negotiated monies used in accordance with Article 27, Section 12, as per Section 45210 of the California Education Code.
4
ARTICLE 7 - ASSOCIATION DUES AND PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS
Section 1. The District will make payroll deductions on behalf of the Association for unit members who have authorized said deductions. The unit members shall sign and deliver to the District an assignment authorizing deductions of membership dues and fees. Such authorization shall continue unless revoked in writing.
Section 2. Upon written authorization from the unit member, the District shall deduct from the salary of such unit member and make appropriate remittance to credit unions, annuity plan, the United Fund, or any other plans or-programs jointly approved by the Association and the District. Furthermore, the District shall have no responsibility for these funds beyond transmittal in accordance with this Article. The unit member must give not less than two (2) weeks written notice to commence or terminate the deductions covered in this Article.
Section 3.
(a)	Any unit member covered by this Agreement, within thirty-one (31) days after the execution of this Agreement or within thirty-one (31) days after hire, shall, as a condition of employment, either become a member in the Association, continue membership in the Association, or pay a service charge to the Association equal to the regular monthly dues, standard initiation fee, and general assessments of the Association (but not including fines) uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership. This obligation shall continue for the duration of this Agreement. In the event that a unit member shall not pay such fee directly to the Association or authorize payment through payroll deductions, the District shall immediately, upon notice from the Association, commence involuntary payroll deduction of said fee.
(b)	The District need not terminate any unit member for failure to maintain his/her membership or pay service charges unless he/she fails or refuses to cure his/her dues or service charge delinquency within ten (10) days after the Association has given a written notice by registered mail requesting such termination. Before sending the District such request, the unit member shall first be given notice in writing by the Association to pay his/her delinquent dues or service charges.
(c)	In the event that any unit member has a religious objection pursuant to Government Code Section 3546.3 as it existed on January 1,1983, or its successor, if any, which conflicts with the membership or service fee requirement of this Article, such unit member, upon *	submitting a statement in writing as to his/her religious objection, shall be required to pay an
amount equal to the service charge into one of the following non-religious, non-labor organizations, whose charitable funds are exempt from taxation under Section 501 (c)(3) of Title 26 of the Internal Revenue Code:
(1)	Moreno Valley Friends of the Library;
(2)	Volunteer Fire Department (City of Moreno Valley);
(3)	Moreno Valley Youth Federation.
Such money shall not be used by the Association for any other purpose and shall be considered as a total fulfillment of the membership requirements of this Agreement.
(d)	The Association does hereby agree to defend, if requested by the District, as well as indemnify, and shall save the District harmless against any and all claims, demands, disputes, suits, or other form of liability that may arise out of, or by reason of, any action
5
1
taken or not taken by the District in compliance with this Article, including the reasonable cost of any defense made necessary by any such claim, demand, dispute, suit, or other form of liability.
Section 4.	The California School Employees Association agrees to defend, indemnify and hold harmless the District against legal action by any unit member of the District challenging the legality of any action taken by the District at the request of the Association in compliance with this Article.
ARTICLE 8	- BARGAINING UNIT WORK
Section 1.	The District may subcontract work or operations except where expressly forbidden by law. The District agrees not to subcontract out work normally, routinely, or customarily performed by unit members in the Bus Driver classification except to the extent that such work has been contracted out in the past.
Section 2.	The District may continue its lawful past practice of utilizing non-bargaining unit members to perform work regularly assigned to unit members covered by this Agreement under the circumstances under which such non-bargaining unit members have done so in the past, and also to perform such work in cases of emergency, for purposes of training, inspection, instruction, in cases where safety is involved, or where bargaining unit members are not available to perform the work in the time required.
Section 3.	Non-bargaining unit substitute employees shall be used only to replace bargaining unit members who are absent from work or to fill positions for a reasonable period of time after a bargaining unit position has been vacated and a regular replacement has not been recruited to occupy the vacancy, so long as the District is actively attempting to recruit a replacement, or to fill a newly establishment position for a reasonable period of time necessary to recruit a regular unit member for the vacancy. Any person improperly designated substitute status shall be considered a bargaining unit member entitled to all rights, benefits, and burdens accruing there from.
Section 4.	The District may employ short-term employees as follows:
(a)	Consistent with applicable provisions of the Education Code, short-term employees perform services to the District which, upon completion, the services required or similar services will not be extended or needed on a continuing basis. Thus, employees in positions not requiring certification qualifications who are hired for a specific work project, which when completed shall no longer be required, and which is work not normally, routinely, or customarily performed by bargaining unit members, shall be excluded from the bargaining unit and the provisions of this Agreement, unless an individual so hired works in excess of seventy-five percent (75%) of a school year.
(b)	The District shall comply with Education Code requirements regarding hiring and retention of short-term employees. If a bargaining unit member works during his/her off time as a short-term employee, the unit member will earn sick leave and vacation (prorated), as per past practice.
(c)	Short-term positions or employees subject to the provisions of Section 1 and paragraph (b), above, shall not be used in a manner which results in the displacement of bargaining unit members, or in a manner which deprives bargaining unit members of regular pay or benefits.
6
(d)	The establishment of a short-term position not in compliance with (a) and (b), above, shall cause the position to be considered within the bargaining unit, if otherwise applicable, and the position shall be classified and occupied by a bargaining unit member in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
(e)	The District does hereby agree to defend, if requested by the Association, as well as indemnify and shall save the Association harmless against any and all claims, demands, disputes, suits, or other form of liability that may arise out of, or by reason of, any action taken or not taken by the District in compliance with this Article, including the reasonable cost of any defense made necessary by any such claim, demand, dispute, suit, or other form of liability.
Section 5.	Every position not requiring certification qualifications and not specifically excluded from the bargaining unit by the terms of this Agreement shall be classified and included in the bargaining unit. The assignment of a title to a position which otherwise would be considered within the bargaining unit shall not serve to remove the position from the bargaining unit. The District shall notify the Association, in writing, of the use of any short-term employee, and shall exercise its best effort to so notify the Association of the use of any independent contractor who provides services to the District which, under normal circumstances, would be performed by bargaining unit members.
Regarding substitute employees, notification shall be made not later than five (5) working days after the employee(s) has worked more than twenty (20) consecutive days in substitute status.
Section 6.	Any dispute regarding the proper utilization of non-bargaining unit individuals providing services to the District normally, routinely, or customarily performed by bargaining unit members shall be grievable by a unit member in the job family in which the services are performed.
Section?. The District will use its best efforts to hire a substitute under the following circumstances on the first day of absence:
(a)	When it is known that a unit member will be absent for an extended period time, excluding vacation time.
(b)	School Secretary II or 111 positions at elementary (K-5) or middle school sites (K-8 or 6-8).
(c)	Instructional Assistants - CH and SED only.
Section 8.	No substitutes shall be employed for more than fifty (50) working days while the District is actively recruiting a vacant position.
The District may fill the vacant position with a substitute for longer than fifty (50) working days if (1) the District has hired a unit member prior to the fiftieth day and the unit member needs additional time (up to two (2) weeks) to leave his/her prior position, or (2) if the District has posted a position twice (or more) during the fifty-day (50) period and less than five (5) qualified persons, as determined by the District, have applied for the position. If the vacant position has been offered to a candidate and if the candidate has accepted but later rescinded, the District’s time to fill the position shall begin to run on the date on which the candidate rescinded. At no time shall a vacant position be filled for more than seventy (70) working days under this Agreement.
7
ARTICLE 9	- NON-DISCRIMINATION
Neither the Board nor the Association shall, in violation of the law, discriminate against any unit members on the basis of race, color, creed, age, sex, sexual orientation, place of residence, national origin, political affiliation, disability, membership or lack thereof in the activities of the unit member organization, or because of the unit member’s exercise of his/her lawful rights with respect to matters covered by this Agreement.
8
II. EMPLOYMENT
ARTICLE 10	- RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION OF PERSONNEL
Section 1.	Notices of all job openings will be distributed to principals, heads of services, and building representatives of CSEA, who will be responsible for posting them on the classified bulletin board.
Section 2.	The job vacancy notice shall include: the job title, a brief description of the position and duties, the minimum qualifications required for the position, the salary range, and the deadline for filing to fill the vacancy.
Section 3.	Notices concerning tests, vacancies, assignments, etc., must be posted for at least five (5) working days, and if changes might affect a unit member not working because school is not in session, notices shall be mailed to probationary and permanent unit members who may be affected by changes and who will not be reporting for work during periods when such unit members are not normally required to work, and who have previously requested the information, or who requested such information in writing.
Section 4.	The District shall not employ any students under any secondary school or college work-study program, or in any state or federally funded work experience program in any position that would, directly or indirectly, detrimentally affect the wages, hours, transfer, or reassignment of any unit member in the bargaining unit.
Section 5.	After employment, for each change in classification, each affected unit member shall receive a copy of the job description, a specification of the monthly and hourly rates applicable to his or her position, a statement of the duties of the position, a statement of the unit member’s regular work site, regularly assigned work shift, the hours per day, days per week, and months per year.
ARTICLE 11	- GENERAL EMPLOYMENT REQUIREMENTS
Section 1.	In the event it is necessary to fingerprint a current employee, all costs for fingerprinting shall be paid for by the District at a location determined by the District.
Section 2.	Each candidate for a probationary appointment may be required to pass a medical examination conducted by a physician designated and paid by the School District. All bus drivers must have a physical examination at the District’s expense at least once every two (2) years.
Section 3.	DOT Drug Testing.
Unit members whose duties include the driving of a commercial motor vehicle where a class A or class B driver’s license is required as identified in District Administration Regulation 4020 (AR 4020) are subject to testing for controlled substances and alcohol in compliance with the requirements for such tests as set forth in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Part 40. The District shall adhere to the Side Letter of Agreement (side letter) between the parties and AR 4020 which are a part of this agreement as Appendix D. All costs related to administration of DOT Drug Testing, except as provided for in the side letter, shall be borne by the District.
9
ARTICLE 12	- PHYSICAL AND MENTAL EXAMINATIONS
Section 1.	Each unit member is required to provide evidence that he/she is free from tuberculosis. This may be in the form of a chest x-ray, Purified Protein Derivative (PPD) test, and/or a statement from a medical doctor that tuberculosis is not evident. A report of this examination shall be on file in the Human Resources Division every four (4) years. The District will pay the fee for each x-ray given to a unit member.
Section 2.	The District may require a unit member to submit to a psychiatric examination when reasonable cause exists to believe that the unit member is suffering from mental illness of such a degree to render the unit member incompetent to perform assigned duties. Such examination shall be conducted at District expense by a physician selected by the District. The District will arrange for the appointment and, if possible, have it scheduled during the unit member’s normal workday.
Section 3.	The District may require a unit member to submit to a complete physical examination to be paid by the District, by a physician selected by the District, when good cause exists to believe that the health of the unit member is a detriment to the performance or professional responsibilities. The District will arrange for the appointment and, if possible, have it scheduled during the unit member’s normal workday.
Section 4.	Time spent in conjunction with the examinations specified in Sections 2 or 3 above shall be time in paid status at the straight time rate. Additionally, the District shall reimburse the unit member for any mileage (unless the District offers to provide transportation).
ARTICLE 13	- PROBATIONARY AND PERMANENT STATUS
Section 1.	All original appointments of unit members, after November 30, 1979, shall be to a probationary period of one hundred ninety-five (195) days in paid status. Such probationary period shall be extended for any paid or unpaid leave longer than ten (10) days, so long as the probationary period does not extend beyond one (1) year.
Section 2.	Such probationary unit member may be demoted, suspended, or dismissed at such time during the probationary period and such action shall not be subject to the grievance/arbitration procedure or to Article 25. Any dismissal notices under this section shall indicate only that the dismissal is a probationary release. Any discussions between the District and the Association regarding the probationary release shall not be cited by either party in any action which may challenge the probationary release.
Section 3.	A unit member who is promoted shall serve a probationary period of one hundred thirty-two (132) days in paid status, exclusive of all leaves except paid holidays and vacations. The probationary period for a promoted unit member may be extended an additional period of time in paid status with the written consent of the District, the Association, and the affected unit member.
Section 4.	A permanent unit member who is serving a probationary period as a result of promotion and who is found unsatisfactory in the higher position shall be reinstated in permanent status in his/her former position unless there is cause for dismissal from the former position. Reinstatement to a unit member’s former position shall not be grievable or subject to Article 25, but any dismissal shall be grievable under Article 25.
Section 5.	Employees who are employed with special funds (such as federal grants) are classified unit members, regardless of the source of funds which sustain or support their position.
io
ARTICLE 14	- SENIORITY
Section 1.	Seniority rights for unit members shall be established by date of hire. Seniority shall be broken by permanent separation of employment.
Section 2.	Seniority Lists.
During September of each year, the District will compile an accurate seniority list covering each unit member and class under this Agreement. The seniority list shall indicate current classifications and class seniority as of June 30th of the previous school year. This seniority list shall be posted on the CSEA, Chapter 410, bulletin board at each school site and work location and five (5) copies shall be provided to the CSEA, Chapter 410 President.
Section 3.	“Seniority” for the purpose of this Article is defined as follows:
(a)	Seniority for persons hired on or before June 30, 1971, is secured by "date of hire," regardless of number of total hours worked.
(b)	The District Seniority List, in effect on November 7, 1989 shall be frozen for all bargaining unit members as of that date.
(c)	The District will assign seniority numbers to bargaining unit members hired after November 7, 1989 based upon those members' date of hire. "Date of hire" shall mean the unit member's first date of paid service in a probationary position. If two (2) or more unit members have the same date of hire, the District will assign seniority numbers by lot.
ARTICLE 15	- PROMOTION
Section 1.	Unit members who meet the minimum qualifications in the job announcement and who score 70% or above on the written test shall be given an interview for any job vacancy within the bargaining unit which can be considered a promotion. For the purpose of this Article, a promotion shall be defined as any change of classification, except reclassification, which results in placement at a higher salary range.
Section 2.	The interview panel for each position vacancy as it occurs shall remain the same for all interviews for that position. The interview panel shall consist of at least three (3) persons and shall include a bargaining unit member, an administrator, and a person familiar with the duties of the position.
Section 3.	A bargaining unit member shall be selected for a vacant position when:
(a)	the unit member successfully completes the interview process,
(b)	the unit member is as qualified as any other candidate, within the rule of reason, and
(c)	the unit member satisfies the following criteria:
•	Job related education/training
•	Recent professional growth
•	Overall performance evaluation
•	Specific experience
•	Preferred skills
11
•	Interests/motivation
•	Satisfactory or better references
•	Certifications/licenses
If more than one unit member meets all of the criteria, the most senior unit member shall be selected.
Section 4.	Following completion of each phase of the application process, Human Resources will notify the applicants of the status of their application.
Section 5.	Any permanent- bargaining unit member may request and shall receive a written explanation regarding the District's decision. Upon request, the Association shall be notified in writing of the names of the bargaining unit members who applied for a promotional vacancy and who have not been selected. Such response is to be received within twelve (12) days of the request.
Section 6.	Probationary unit members (including permanent unit members in probationary promotional positions) shall remain in a position for at least one (1) year before a promotion will be approved, except as mutually agreed by the District and the Association. Unit members promoted shall receive no less than a ten percent (10%) increase.
12
■
III.	HOURS AND ASSIGNMENTS
ARTICLE 16	- TERM OF EMPLOYMENT
Section 1.	The workday and the work year for each unit member classification is set forth in Appendix A attached.
Section 2.	Prior to the end of each academic year, the District shall notify each unit member who works less than twelve (12) months of a tentative date he/she shall return to work in the succeeding school year. Said unit members shall be entitled to notification of a definite date for return to work not later than seven (7) days after Board of Education adoption of a calendar or resolution setting the first school session day, or by July 1 of each year, whichever occurs first.
Section 3.	The school calendar, when adopted by the Board, shall be incorporated by reference herein and shall provide for a ten (10) day Winter Recess and a five (5) day Spring Recess, and shall include any holidays that may occur during the recess periods. The calendar shall also include not less than two (2) additional student non-attendance days during the academic year designated as conference or inservice days, which shall be days in paid status for unit members.
(a) The YRE calendar need not provide for a ten (10) day Winter Recess and a five (5) day Spring Recess.
Section 4.	The academic year is defined as beginning with the first school in session day and ending the last school in session day of each school year. The school year is defined as beginning on July 1 and ending on June 30 of the succeeding calendar year.
Section 5.	Unit members in classifications designated in Appendix A working twelve (12) months per year shall work a standard workweek of five (5) consecutive days beginning with Monday of each workweek throughout the calendar year.
Sections.	Unit members designated as less than twelve (12) month unit members shall be assigned to work the academic year plus or minus the number of workdays set forth in Appendix A. During such unit member’s annual term of employment, he/she shall work a standard workweek of five (5) consecutive days beginning with Monday of each full workweek during his/her term of employment.
Section 7.	The District may extend the work year of an individual unit member or classification if required by the needs of the service, with written notice (no less than ten (10) workdays) to the Association and the individual unit member. A unit member who is offered the opportunity to extend his or her work year (not including positions extended as the result of YRE), in seniority order based upon date of hire, and who consent to extend the work year, shall be paid at the regular rate of pay (including overtime where applicable) during the extended work year.
13
ARTICLE 17-
ASSIGNMENT AND RECLASSIFICATION OF BARGAINING UNIT MEMBERS
Section 1. Assignments.
(a)	The District shall have authority to assign each new classified unit member. Such assignment shall be made in accordance with the unit member’s qualifications and needs and/or in the best interests of the school district. Each bargaining unit member shall be assigned a fixed, regular minimum number of hours per day, days per week, and/or months per year on a schedule not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement and applicable law. The District may change the shift hours of unit members. However, prior to making such a change, the District shall provide an opportunity to the affected unit member to meet with the Director of Classified Employee Services or designee and provide input and express the possibility of alternatives, before the District implements such a change. If the affected unit member declines the shift change, the District shall then seek volunteers within the affected classification Districtwide, and shall award the shift change to the most senior unit member within the affected classification who volunteers. If the District receives no volunteers, then it shall designate the least senior unit member within the affected classification Districtwide for the shift change (and location change if applicable), and shall provide that unit member with at least 30 working days notice to meet with the District and discuss alternatives, accommodations, or other recommendations. If, at the end of the 30 working day period, no agreement has been reached with the unit member, the unit member shall be moved pursuant to the noticed change in assignment. The District’s initial 30 working day notice to the unit member shall contain, where applicable, the new position, hours, work schedule and/or shift, and the reason for the change. Notwithstanding the foregoing, permanent transfers of current unit members shall be made only in accordance with the transfer article of this Agreement. If, following a shift change pursuant to this subsection, the District subsequently reestablishes a vacant position at the same site, in the same classification, and at the original shift, it shall offer that shift to the unit member whose shift was originally changed, prior to filling that vacant position. The District shall make every reasonable effort to prevent the involuntary shift change of any unit member whose shift has previously been changed within the past two (2) years. Unit members shall have the right to be represented by the Association at any of the above meetings. The District shall not arbitrarily or capriciously change the shift hours of any unit member nor shall shift hour changes be punitive. Shift hour changes shall not be made for the purpose of transferring bargaining unit work to non-bargaining unit employees in accordance with Article 37, Section 4(b). Any proposed shift hour changes not already provided for in this Article having a generalized effect (as defined by PERB) shall be negotiated with the Association in accordance with applicable law. The District may only involuntarily change the shift hours of unit members who were hired into the affected classification after July 1, 1989 in accordance with this Article. However, on a case by case basis should there not be any unit member employed in the affected classification after July 1, 1989, and there is a demonstrated need for a change in those shift hours, the District shall notify the Association in writing and the parties shall meet and negotiate the decision and effects of the District’s proposal.
(b)	No unit member shall, without the unit member’s voluntary written consent, be assigned the duties of a position other than their regularly assigned position for more than ninety (90) working days in any twelve (12) month period.
14
Section 2.
Temporary Out of Class Assignments.
(a)	The Superintendent or designee may temporarily assign a unit member outside of his/her classification for a period not to exceed ninety (90) workdays. Any unit member working out of classification for a period in excess of five (5) working days during any 15 calendar day period shall receive payment for the entire period the unit member works out of class, at a step on the salary schedule that ensures the unit member no less than a 10% increase in salary, except where the unit member is at the top step of his or her classification and the top step of the higher classification is not at least 10% above his regular rate of pay, in which case the unit member shall receive payment based upon the top step of the higher classification. A unit member assigned to work in a classification that has an equal or lower salary range shall receive no salary adjustment.
(b)	In making decisions regarding the temporary assignment of out of class work pursuant to Section 2(a), above, the Superintendent or designee shall consider factors including, but not limited to: (1) the site and department involved; (2) unit member availability, qualifications, and experience; (3) equal opportunity; (4) rotation; and (5) seniority. No unit member shall, without the unit member’s voluntary written consent, be temporarily assigned the duties of a position other than their regularly assigned position for more than ninety (90) working days in any twelve (12) month period.
(c)	The grievance and arbitration procedure of this Agreement shall be used for claims for pay for temporarily working out of classification, but not for proposals that position(s) be reclassified. However, if at any level of the grievance procedure the parties agree that the issue involved is one of reclassification rather than out of class work, the time limits in the grievance procedure shall be held in abeyance to allow the parties to implement Section 4 below. Should such be unsuccessful, the grievance and arbitration procedures of this Agreement may then again be used to continue to pursue the issue of "working out of classification.”
(d)	Unit members may be assigned duties that may be outside the job classification. Such assignment shall be reasonable and limited and may include responsibilities for maintaining the safety and well being of students. Such assignments shall be in accordance with this Article.
Section 3.	Reclassifications.
(a)	Whenever the regular ongoing duties performed by an incumbent for more than ninety (90) days are not fixed and prescribed for the position or reflected in or reasonably related to the specific statement of duties required to be performed as set forth in the job description for the position, the unit member shall, upon written request, be reclassified. It is the intent of this section to provide for reclassification only where there has been a substantial or significant increase or change in the duties being performed by an incumbent in such a position, and where such increases or changes are not temporary in nature. Reclassification is not appropriate based only upon an increased volume of work or based only upon an incumbent’s special or unusual skills or qualifications (unless the unit member is required to use such skills or qualifications in the position).
(b)	Reclassification of positions and the effects on incumbents shall take place only in accordance with Section 4 below.
15
(c)	Reclassification is distinct and separate from the upgrading of salary ranges of positions where the duties have not substantially or significantly increased or changed. Such upgrades are not subject to the provisions of this article, but shall be subject to the collective bargaining process when salaries are next open for negotiation.
Section 4.	Reclassification Resolution
(a)	The parties shall meet and consult regarding any reclassification matters that arise under Section 3 above. If agreement is reached between the parties, the result shall be submitted to the Board of Education and, if ratified, shall be implemented. If as a result of the reclassification a new classification is created, that new classification shall be incorporated into the Agreement.
(b)	The following procedure shall be used for reclassification of positions as defined in Section 3 above. Requests for reclassifications of positions shall be submitted to the Reclassification Committee on a form(s) approved by the Committee. The Reclassification Committee will consist of four (4) representatives from the Association and four (4) representatives from the District. The members of either the District’s team or Association’s team may be changed. In addition, either team shall be allowed to include in its discussions individual members of the bargaining unit who would be directly affected by any outcome of the reclassification issue. The Reclassification Committee will follow mutually agreed upon guidelines. Disputes shall be subject to Section 4 (c) of this Article.
(c)	In the event the reclassification issue is not resolved by the Reclassification Committee, the Association and/or District may submit the remaining outstanding reclassification issue to a mediator from the California Mediation and Conciliation Service. The mediator to be used shall be selected by striking names, as provided in Article 40, Section 6. The decision of the mediator shall be final and binding.
Section 5.	The District will comply with PERB law when it establishes or creates a new job classification or makes a significant change in the duties of an existing classification to which this Agreement applies.
Section 6.	When a position is reclassified, the incumbent shall be entitled to serve in the new position, and shall be assigned the same step that the unit member held prior to reclassification.
Section 7.	Any involuntary downward adjustment of any position or class of positions shall be considered a demotion and shall take place only as a result of following the layoff or disciplinary procedures of this Agreement.
Section 8.	Voluntary Demotions.
(a)	A unit member may voluntarily demote into an assignment in a position in a classification at a lower salary range for which the unit member meets the minimum qualifications, provided there exists a vacancy that would otherwise be filled by transfer, promotion or outside hire, and further provided the District agrees to such a demotion. The District shall not withhold its agreement to such a demotion arbitrarily or capriciously, and will provide reasons for denying any demotion upon a written request from the unit member submitted to the District within ten (10) calendar days of transmittal of the denial of the demotion to the unit member.
(b)	A unit member who voluntarily demotes into a lower classification in which he/she previously passed probation shall not be required to pass an additional probationary period.
16
1
A permanent unit member who voluntarily demotes to a classification in which he/she has not previously passed probation shall be required to serve a probationary period of one hundred thirty-two (132) days in paid status, exclusive of all leaves, except paid holidays and vacations. The probationary period may be extended by mutual agreement among the District, the Association, and the unit member. Article 13, Section 4 shall apply to permanent unit members who are voluntarily demoted in the same manner as though the unit member had failed a promotional probationary period.
(c)	All applications for voluntary demotions shall be submitted and processed in accordance with the procedures for voluntary transfers as set forth in Article 22.
Section 9.	If a unit member is reassigned to a different classification (in the same salary range) in which the unit member has not previously passed probation within said classification, the unit member shall serve a probationary period of one hundred thirty-two (132) days in paid status, exclusive of all leaves except paid holidays and vacations. The probationary period may be extended by mutual agreement between the District, the unit member, and the Association. Article 13, Section 4 shall apply to such reassigned unit members.
Section 10.	The salary range for a Nutrition Assistant I shall be "5" for the first year of employment, and shall be raised to "7" after the unit member successfully completes one (1) continuous year of District employment as a Nutrition Assistant I and one (1) course in sanitation, food services, or other similar course. All course work shall be pre-approved by the Director of Nutrition Services, and shall be done on non-work time. (All Food Service Assistant I unit members hired on or before January 1, 1985, shall move to Salary Range 7 effective January 1, 1985, upon proof of compliance with the course requirement set forth above. Such unit members shall remain in their current column placement until their next regular anniversary date.) The Association and the District shall submit a list of approved courses to the Director of Nutrition Services.
Section 11.	Flexible Scheduling.
(a)	A permanent unit member may be permitted to exchange workdays with another permanent unit member in the same classification.
(b)	An exchange contract will be agreed to between the two (2) unit members and signed by each.
(c)	The signed agreement shall then be submitted to the immediate supervisor for approval at » least ten (10) workdays prior to the beginning of the exchange. The immediate supervisor shall not disapprove a proposed exchange arbitrarily or capriciously. If disapproved, the reasons for disapproval shall be in writing.
Any unit member who does not fulfill his/her responsibilities under the exchange shall be subject to discipline. The unit member scheduled to work under the exchange agreement will be held responsible if neither unit member appears for work.
(d)	Unit members may take the opportunity to attend conferences, workshops, or meetings which have been scheduled during periods of time when traditional calendar unit members are on recess. Unit members wishing to participate in such events will be able to exchange days with off track unit members. The on track unit member will then arrange to cover an equal number of days for the cooperating unit member.
17
1
(e)	Applications for exchange days should be filed with the site administrator as soon as practicable but in no event later than five (5) working days before the exchange. Specific arrangements will be noted on a standard District form.
(f)	Failure to carry out the service obligations under the approved exchange agreement shall result in a loss of pay for the unit member who fails the contractual agreement, unless otherwise on approved leave of absence pursuant to this Agreement.
Section 12.	YRE Days of Work.
YRE unit members on an academic year calendar (182 days) shall be assigned the same number of days of work as unit members in the same job classification on a traditional calendar, subject to the provisions of the collective bargaining agreement, unless the District and the Association agree otherwise.
Section 13.	Work Load.
The District will make a reasonable effort to maintain parity of work load among positions within each classification.
Section 14.	Split Shift.
Any unit member may be required to work a split shift and to work at more than one school. A split shift for the purpose of this Agreement is an unpaid, non-working period between two (2) paid work periods, not to exceed a two (2) hour duration, not including the meal break of the affected unit member. In any instance where a unit member is required to work at more than one school and the period between shifts is one-half (V2) hour or less, such time shall be time in paid status for the period of time required to transit from one school to another. The standard mileage reimbursement shall be provided only for required travel to the second school.
ARTICLE 18-HOURS AND ASSIGNMENTS OF BARGAINING UNIT MEMBERS
Section 1.	A unit member shall be given annual notice of his/her work assignment for the forthcoming year by July 1. In the event that changes in such assignment are proposed, the unit member affected shall be notified promptly. Any change shall be in accordance with applicable law.
Section 2.	The workday and workweek of regular, full time employment shall be eight (8) hours per day exclusive of meal time, and forty (40) hours per week. The workweek starts on Monday at 12:01 a.m. and ends Sunday at 12:00 midnight. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the regular workweek for unit members shall be from Monday through Friday, except as set forth below. The District may employ persons in bargaining unit positions who have a regular, minimum assignment of less than eight (8) hours per day and/or forty (40) hours per week; such positions shall be deemed "part time" positions. The District may, through authorized management/supervisory personnel, order and authorize unit members to perform extra work in addition to such unit member’s regular, minimum assignment. Extra work so ordered and authorized shall be compensated at the unit member’s regular rate of pay, unless such results in overtime as set forth in this Agreement. The District may assign a workweek different than Monday through Friday under the following circumstances:
(a)	Current unit members who voluntarily consent to such reassignment;
(b)	New unit members may be so assigned initially;
18
(c)	Current unit members may be offered such in lieu of layoff in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement;
(d)	Current unit members already so assigned.
Section 3.	The District shall be permitted to fill vacant positions below the minimum daily hours required by Appendix A.
Section 4.	Reduction in the daily hours of a unit member or an occupied position (whether voluntarily in lieu of layoff or involuntarily) shall not exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the hours assigned to the position at the time of reduction, shall not result in assignment below the minimum required by Appendix A, and shall be accomplished in reverse order of seniority based on District date of hire.
(a)	Unit members thus reduced in hours and unit members working at less than the maximum hours set forth in Appendix A shall, wherever practicable and consistent with the needs of the District, be offered increased hours in classification, in order of seniority based upon District seniority number, as additional hours become available, prior to the District hiring new unit members in that classification.
(b)	A unit member reduced in hours for whatever reason shall continue to receive District provided unit member benefits at the same level received when working the daily hours previously assigned for a period of one calendar year.
Section 5.	Unit Members:
(a)	Shall attend all meetings called by their supervisors provided same is within their job station time allocation.
(b)	Whose hours of assignment are less than eight (8) hours per day, who have completed probation, and who meet District substitute requirements for the particular position may work in substitute positions or short term assignments that are limited to 19 consecutive days in the same position/assignment and do not exceed eight (8) total hours per day, 40 hours per week, including their regular assignment. Substitute positions or short term assignments shall not be in conflict or in lieu of the unit member’s regular assignment. Other than provided for in Section 2 of this Article, unit members shall have the option to • accept or decline substitute positions or short term assignments. Compensation shall be at established rate for the particular position or assignment. Hours worked in substitute positions or short term assignments shall not be included for calculation of statutory/medical benefits.
Section 6. If a part time unit member works a minimum of thirty (30) additional minutes or more in excess of his part time assignment for more than twenty (20) consecutive workdays, the position will be changed to reflect the longer hours.
Section 7.	All unit members who work five (5) hours or more during a workday covered by this Agreement, shall be entitled to a meal period of not less than thirty (30) minutes, or more than one (1) hour, uninterrupted, to be assigned by the immediate supervisor. In no case shall a unit member work more than four and one-half (41/z) consecutive hours without being assigned a meal break. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a unit member assigned no more than six (6) hours during the workday
19
may, with the mutual consent of the District, waive the meal period. If the management supervisor and nutrition service personnel mutually agree, the provisions of this paragraph may be waived.
Section 8.	Unit members shall be entitled to break time in accordance with the below.
3	hour unit members will be given a 15 minute break.
4	hour unit members will be given a 15 minute break.
5	hour unit members will be given 20 minutes of break time.
6	hour unit members will be given 25 minutes of break time.
7	and 8 hour unit members will be given 30 minutes of break time.
No break shall exceed fifteen (15) minutes. No unit member shall be assigned more than two (2) break periods per workday not counting the meal break. The above schedule is for all unit members covered under this Agreement. It is understood that the break periods cannot be combined, nor can they be so scheduled to increase a meal break or shorten the workday.
Section 9.	Any unit member whose regular, eight (8) hour work schedule includes working three (3) hours or longer of any shift after 5:00 p.m. or three (3) hours or more of any shift before 8:00 a.m. shall receive a nine percent (9%) differential in pay.
Section 10.	The District shall make available at each work site adequate lounge, restroom, and lavatory facilities for unit member use. Each unit member shall ordinarily utilize the lounge, restroom, and lavatory facilities nearest their daily assigned work areas.
Section 11.	If a unit member’s work schedule is such that it does not allow sufficient time to vote in any federal, state, or local election in which the unit member is entitled to vote, the unit member shall request sufficient time in advance for the District to arrange for such voting by the unit member, if possible, without loss of pay.
Section 12.	Any unit member called in to work to return to duty station after hours or to work on a day when the unit member is not scheduled to work shall receive a minimum of two (2) hours at the appropriate rate of pay under this Agreement. To receive such pay, the District may require the unit member to perform duties within their job classification for two (2) hours.
ARTICLE 19 - GUIDELINES FOR OVERTIME WORK
Section 1. In determining a unit member’s eligibility for pay at the overtime rate, all paid status time must be considered as time actually worked. This includes sick leave, industrial accident leave, paid vacation and holidays, or any other paid leave, in addition to actual time worked.
Section 2. The normal workday shall be eight (8) hours; the normal workweek forty (40) hours. Hours worked above eight (8) hours in any day are overtime, even though the total hours for the workweek are not over forty (40). The District will compensate for overtime at a rate of one and one-half (11/z) times the hourly rate set forth in Appendix B.
Section 3. The workweek is five (5) consecutive days for unit members. Work on the sixth (6th) and or seventh (7th) day will be compensated at one and one-half (11/z) times the hourly rate set forth in Appendix B. Unit members whose average workday is less than eight (8) hours per day shall be paid straight time up to eight (8) hours per day for five (5) days and will be compensated at time and one-half (1 Vz) for work on the sixth (6th) and seventh (7th) consecutive day.
20
Section 4.	When compensation time off is authorized, in lieu of cash compensation, such time must be approved by the immediate supervisor. Unit members may elect cash compensation in lieu of accepting compensatory time off. The election shall be made in the pay period in which the overtime was worked.
Section 5.	Overtime shall be offered in such a manner as to distribute as equally as is practical.
Section 6.	Overtime or extra time must be ordered and authorized by the District before
compensation or compensatory time off is approved.
Section 7.	The District shall not allow unit members to perform overtime or extra time work without the payment of compensation at the applicable rate of pay. Unit members who perform work in variance with this provision may be subject to disciplinary action.
Section 8.	Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2 of this Article, the District may establish a ten (10) hour per day, forty (40) hour, four (4) consecutive day workweek for all, for certain classes of the bargaining unit, or for unit members within a class when, by reason of the work location and duties actually performed by such unit members, their services are not required for a workweek of five (5) consecutive days, provided the establishment of such a workweek has the concurrence of the concerned unit member(s) as determined by the Association. When a four (4) day workweek is established, the overtime rate shall be paid for all hours worked in excess of the required workday, which shall not exceed ten (10) hours. Work performed on the fifth (5th), sixth (6th), and seventh (7th) days shall be compensated for at a rate equal to one and one-half (114) times the regular rate of pay of the unit member designated and authorized to perform the work.
ARTICLE 20 - YEAR ROUND EDUCATION (YRE)
Section 1.	General: The District implemented Year Round Education (YRE) schools in the 1990-91 school year at the K-5 levels. The District will provide no less than one hundred (100) workdays’ notice to the Association prior to implementing YRE education at any particular site in order that the Association can participate in planning and providing input prior to decision making.
In addition, if the District decides to implement YRE schools at grade levels other than K-5, it will give one hundred (100) workdays’ notice of such intent to the Association and will meet and negotiate in good faith regarding issues arising because of the implementation at the additional grade levels. The parties will make reasonable efforts to meet at least twice a month during the one hundred (100) workday period subject to the availability of the parties. If the District and the Association have not reached agreement by the end of the one hundred (100) workday period, the parties will continue to meet and negotiate in good faith, and both parties retain all PERB rights in regard to the implementation. Upon mutual consent, the District and the Association may meet and negotiate new matters arising as a result of the implementation of YRE programs during the term of this Agreement.
Section 2.	Communications.
(a)	Each YRE site administrator shall make reasonable efforts to communicate appropriate District announcements to unit members who are off track. Examples include information regarding application for transfers and leaves, extra duty assignments, school events such as Open House, Back to School, holiday observances, and staff election matters.
(b)	The District shall, upon request by a unit member, make reasonable efforts to notify that unit member during intervention or off track assignment of any appropriate posted openings
21
which may arise during intervention or off track assignment. The unit member’s request shall be in writing and will include a mailing address.
Section 3.	Program Termination.
If the District decides to eliminate YRE at one (1) or more sites, the District will provide the Association no less than one hundred (100) workdays notice.
Section 4.	Closing Language.
This Article specifically addresses the YRE program. Benefits, compensation, or privileges that have been omitted in this Article will revert to the appropriate articles in this contract.
ARTICLE 21	- EXTENDED/SUMMER ASSIGNMENTS
Section 1.	Anticipated staffing needs for summer assignments and summer school programs will be posted by the District on unit member bulletin boards. The listing will be posted as soon as reasonable.
Section 2.	Job posting as described above in all cases shall be contingent upon the needs of the summer programs. Employment offers for summer appointment may be rescinded if there is insufficient enrollment and/or lack of need for the program.
Section 3.	No unit member shall be required to work summer assignments unless such unit member is a twelve (12) month unit member.
Section 4.	When the abilities and competence of two (2) or more unit members seeking the same summer assignment are equal, the senior unit member shall be selected.
(a)	Seniority shall be based on latest date of hire with the District and is the tiebreaker in each of the categories set forth in (b) below.
(b)	Applicants shall be considered in the following order:
First, from applicants who either hold the classification or have previously held the classification;
Second, from applicants in related classifications; and
Third, from applicants in other classifications.
Section 5.	A unit member shall, for work performed in a classification during the summer, receive on a prorated basis the salary and benefits which are applicable to work performed in the same classification during the regular academic year. However, health and welfare benefits shall not be payable for summer assignments.
Section 6.	A unit member shall be given preference over a short-term employee under Article 8, Section 4, for work performed in the same classification during the summer and, if qualified, for work performed in a different classification during the summer. A unit member who performs summer work in any classification within the same job family as that unit member’s permanent assignment shall accrue seniority for the summer work.
22
Section 7.	A unit member who works as a substitute in a position within the same classification during his/her non-work year, i.e., off track or summer, shall be paid 120% of the substitute rate for that classification (see Appendix B-1).
Section 8.	Extended Year Assignment.
(a)	The District will post openings for intervention assignments if it determines such sessions will be held. Unit members shall apply for intervention assignments and selections for assignments shall be made as set forth in this Article.
(b)	The District may extend the work year of an individual unit member or classification, if required by the needs of the service, with written notice (no less than ten (10) workdays) to the Association and the individual unit member. A unit member who is offered the opportunity to extend his or her work year, in seniority order based upon date of hire, and who consents to extend the work year, shall be paid at the regular rate of pay (including overtime where applicable) during the work year. In the event some YRE positions are longer than the contract work year, these positions will be filled by the incumbents or, if vacant, by following the transfer, promotion, and selection procedures provided in the collective bargaining agreement and District policies and procedures, including but not limited to the seniority procedures in the collective bargaining agreement.
Section 9.	Substitutes/lntervention.
(a)	A unit member not on duty status will be allowed but not required to substitute, subject to the approval of the immediate supervisor. If the supervisor does not approve, he/she will provide reasons in writing upon the request of the unit member.
(b)	The District will follow the requirements of this Article in employing unit members for any interventions that the District decides to hold.
ARTICLE 22	- TRANSFERS
Section 1.
(a)	For the purposes of this Article, “transfer” shall consist of a temporary or permanent change in work location of a bargaining unit member from one (1) work site to another work site or one (1) District division to another within the same classification within the District. Such a transfer does not encompass the process of assignment or reassignment of a specific position, responsibilities within the department or work location. Transfers do not include any redistribution of work consistent with Article 17, Section 13. A bargaining unit member assigned to more than one (1) work site shall be considered as being transferred only when one (1) or more of the bargaining unit member’s assignment is changed from one (1) work site to another. Involuntary transfers shall not be made outside the classification of the unit member unless by mutual consent between the unit member and the District.
(b)	Probationary unit members (including unit members in probationary promotional positions) shall remain in a position for at least one (1) calendar year before a transfer request will be approved, except as mutually agreed by the District and the Association.
Section 2.	Voluntary Transfers.
(a)	Unit members may request a transfer to positions of the same classification.
23
(b)	Any vacancies, including full or part time and newly created positions, shall be posted by the District for not less than five (5) working days at all work sites prior to being filled on a permanent basis. Unit members requesting a voluntary transfer must participate in a screening and informal interview process. To determine candidate eligibility, the following criteria shall be utilized:
•	Job description
•	Satisfactory or better performance evaluations
•	Specific experience
•	Preferred skills
•	Interest/Motivation
•	Satisfactory or better reference (s)
If more than one (1) unit member meets all of the criteria, the most senior member shall be selected.
(c)	The request for transfer will be sent to the District Human Resources Division. A request for transfer shall remain active for a one (1) year period.
(d)	No unit member shall be overtly or indirectly pressured by the District to seek a voluntary transfer.
(e)	In the event that a voluntary transfer request is denied, the Unit member shall, upon written request submitted to the District within ten (10) working days of the denial, be informed of the specific reasons for such a denial in writing. The District’s written response shall be provided to the unit member within ten (10) working days of receiving the unit member’s written request.
Sections. Involuntary Transfers.
(a)	An involuntary transfer is any transfer not sought, requested or agreed to by the unit member transferred. Involuntary transfers shall not be punitive or disciplinary in nature, absent due process.
(b)	The District shall make involuntary transfers at any time for the following reasons only:
(1)	to establish or maintain necessary capabilities at any school or program of bilingual instruction;
(2)	whenever such transfer will benefit the educational program or service;
(3)	to accommodate the addition or deletion of program(s) at any school;
(4)	to accommodate emergencies by temporary transfers;
(5)	disciplinary transfers in accordance with Section 3, subsection (a) above; and,
(6)	to establish or maintain a mix of experience of such staff.
24
(c)	Where practicable, the District will consider voluntary transfer requests before involuntarily transferring a unit member. However, involuntary transfers may take precedence over voluntary transfers for the good of the employees or the needs of the District.
(d)	The District will make every reasonable effort to prevent the involuntary transfer of any unit member previously transferred within the past two (2) years, unless the previous transfer was for disciplinary reasons as provided in Section 3, subsections (a) and (b) above. >
(e)	In the event that circumstances required that a unit member may be involuntarily transferred, the unit member shall be informed of the reason(s) for the transfer in writing at least ten (10) working days prior to such action if feasible, but in no event less than five (5) working days prior to the effective date of the transfer. The unit member shall be afforded the opportunity to meet with a representative from Human Resources Division regarding the proposed transfer as soon as practicable.
(f)	If there are two (2) or more unit members at a site who are to be considered for a transfer based upon the factors listed in Section 3, subsection (b) above, and all other factors are reasonably equal, then the least senior unit member (on a District seniority basis based upon seniority number) shall be selected.
(g)	An involuntary transfer shall not result in the loss of compensation or fringe benefits to the unit member.
(h)	A unit member may be involuntarily transferred for cause. In such an instance, the cause stated for the transfer shall be part of the unit member’s evaluation or a written notice defining the cause leading to the transfer shall, upon request, be sent to the unit member.
(I)	In cases other than involuntary transfers for cause or for disciplinary reasons as provided for in Section 3, subsections (a) and (b) above, if the transferred unit member requests a transfer pursuant to Section 2 of this article, that unit member will receive top priority in filling the open position.
Section 4.	Medical Transfers.
(a)	Notwithstanding the other provisions of Article 22, if a unit member is medically unable to satisfactorily perform his/her regular employment duties, the District shall have the option to . assign the unit member to an alternate assignment which the unit member is medically capable of performing, after consultation with the unit member. The hours associated with the alternate position shall be no more than approximately the hours formerly worked without the consent of the unit member, but may be less than the hours formerly worked. The unit member's salary shall be the same as that assigned to the unit member's former position, unless the salary for the new position is higher than that of the former position, whereby the unit member shall receive the higher salary. Health and welfare benefits and sick leave will be calculated according to the actual hours worked or the number of hours in the former position, whichever is greater. As positions become available, if medically capable, the unit member shall be reinstated to his/her former classification.
(b)	A unit member who refuses assignment to an alternate assignment which the unit member is medically capable of performing is subject to immediate termination.
25
(c)	In the case of layoffs, layoffs shall be in accord with applicable law. However, in no case shall a unit member receive priority on the layoff list solely due to the fact that the unit member was placed on medical leave prior to being placed on the layoff list.
(d)	When a unit member has been transferred to an alternate assignment pursuant to the provisions of this section, and the period of time has elapsed during which that unit member would have been entitled to receive paid leave, if the unit member is still not medically capable of returning to his/her former assignment, the District may offer the unit member continued employment in the unit member’s alternate assignment. The salary at that time will be the salary associated with the alternate assignment, and all fringe benefits, including health and welfare benefits and sick leave, will be calculated according to the actual hours worked. The unit member at this time shall have the option to reject further assignment in the new position. If that occurs, the unit member’s employment with the District shall cease, but the unit member shall retain all reemployment/reinstatement rights provided under applicable law.
Section 5.	Transfer To and From Year Round Education.
(a)	The District shall make every reasonable effort to have participation in the YRE voluntary on the part of all unit members.
(b)	Unit members presently assigned to schools designated as YRE shall have the right to remain at those sites unless they become subject to involuntary transfer pursuant to this Article.
(c)	YRE transfer requests shall be done in accordance with the provisions of this Article of the Agreement, except as provided below:
(1)	The District shall make every reasonable effort to transfer those unit members who do not wish to work in schools designated as YRE sites. Such unit members shall be given the first opportunity to transfer to vacancies in traditional school program sites.
(2)	The District shall make every reasonable effort to make transfers to, from, and within YRE prior to consideration of other transfer requests or the hiring of outside applicants. Seniority will be used as provided in this Article and any article utilizing seniority as a reference in this Agreement will be modified as follows: Seniority number will be used in place of hours in paid status. Hours in paid status, as a reference of seniority, will be frozen as of November 7,1989, and date of hire seniority computation will begin from that date.
(d)	Within ten (10) workdays after the District notifies all unit members that a particular school has been designated as a YRE site, a unit member who wishes to leave must notify, in writing, the site administrator of his/her intention. The District shall provide the unit member with a list of all openings at traditional school program sites.
(e)	Within fifteen (15) workdays after the District announces that a particular school has been designated as a YRE site, the District shall post, at all school sites, any available openings at YRE sites. Unit members interested in being transferred to a particular opening shall notify the Human Resources Division in writing within ten (10) workdays from the date of posting.
26
(f)	The District will provide four (4) hours release time to a unit member involuntarily transferred to, from, or within YRE in cafeteria, custodial, library, or clerical classifications for the purpose of relocating.
(g)	The District will make every reasonable effort to avoid involuntarily transferring a track based unit member after the beginning of the track to which the unit member is assigned.
27
IV. SUPERVISION AND EVALUATION
ARTICLE 23	- PERSONNEL FILES
Section 1. The Board shall maintain the personnel files of unit members at the District Central Offices. Such files shall be available for inspection as set forth hereafter. There shall be no right of inspection to any other files relating or pertaining to unit members which may be kept by building administrators or others, but any disciplinary action taken against a unit member may be based only on materials which are contained or placed in the District Office personnel file. Unit members shall be provided with copies of any derogatory written material ten (10) workdays before it is placed in the unit member’s personnel file. The foregoing shall not preclude the imposition of discipline including termination prior to the expiration of the ten (10) day period.
Section 2. Every unit member shall have the right to inspect his or her personnel file upon request provided that the request is made at a time when such person is not actually required to render services to the Board and when the Human Resources Specialist responsible for the unit member files is available to be in attendance. Personnel files, which may be inspected, shall not include such materials as rating, reports, or records which were obtained prior to the employment of the person involved or were prepared by identifiable examination committee members or were obtained in connection with a promotional examination.
Section 3. Information of a derogatory nature, except materials mentioned in Section 2 above, shall not be entered or filed unless, and until, the unit member is given notice in accordance with Section 1 of this Article. A unit member shall have the right to enter and have attached to any such derogatory statement his/her own comments thereon. Such review shall take place during business hours, and the unit member shall be released from duty during other than student hours for this purpose without salary reduction.
Section 4.	All unit members who want to inspect their personnel file shall make an advance appointment. Personnel files shall be available for inspection during regular office hours each day the office is open for business and during the District Office lunch hour at least two (2) days per week.
Section 5.	For the purpose of confidentiality, each personnel file at the District Office shall have a sheet provided therein for any person who inspects the file to indicate his/her name and the date of inspection. The District shall issue instructions that all persons, except clerical personnel, shall sign and date such sheet.
Section 6.	All material of any evaluative or derogatory nature placed in a personnel file shall indicate the date it was prepared or placed in the file and who was responsible for its preparation.
Section?. The Association has the right to inspect a unit member’s personnel file upon presentation of written authorization from that unit member. Such inspections shall be at reasonable times and in accordance with Sections 2 and 5 of this Article.
ARTICLE 24	- PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
Section 1.	The performance of unit members shall be reviewed and evaluated periodically.
(a)	Permanent unit members shall receive a written evaluation at least once each year. The district may elect to evaluate permanent unit members every other year when they meet or exceed expectations in the prior year’s written evaluation. The District will notify unit
28
members that they will not be evaluated in the year of (appropriate year) due to their rating of meets or exceeds expectations on the prior year’s evaluation.
(b)	Probationary unit members are subject to written evaluation at the end of the second month and each third month thereafter during the probationary period and shall be evaluated at the end of the probationary period.
Section 2.	The evaluation of unit members shall be conducted by the unit member’s immediate supervisor.
(a)	All persons responsible for evaluation will be trained periodically in the skill of evaluation.
(b)	All evaluations conducted by persons not designated as management shall be reviewed and
countersigned by the designated management person to the area of employment of the unit member in question.
(c)	The evaluator and the unit member shall discuss the evaluation, the unit member being evaluated, and the management supervisor if the evaluator is not a designated management person. The unit member’s signature indicates only that the unit member has seen the evaluation, and does not necessarily indicate concurrence with the evaluation.
(d)	Every effort shall be made to complete all evaluations no later than May 30 of each year. Unit members shall be given a copy of their proposed evaluation at the time the unit member signs it or is given an opportunity to sign it.
(e)	A copy of each evaluation shall be placed in the unit member’s personnel file. The unit member may submit an attachment to the evaluation if it is believed that clarification of the unit member’s position is desired or if the unit member believes statements on the evaluations are incorrect. No evaluation shall be placed in any personnel file without an opportunity for discussion between the unit member and the evaluator.
(f)	In the event the evaluator assigns a rating of "Needs Improvement", the evaluator shall include an explanation of the reason(s) for such marking(s) and provide recommendation(s) for ways to improve performance or develop an improvement plan with the unit member to correct the deficient area(s).
, (g) In the event the evaluator assigns a rating of "Unsatisfactory", the evaluator will develop an Improvement Plan with the unit member to correct the deficient area. For a probationary employee, the foregoing shall not apply if the evaluator recommends termination.
Section 3.	Unscheduled performance evaluation reports recognizing outstanding or significantly improved performance may be made at any time by the unit member’s supervisor. Such reports may be made a part of the unit member’s personnel file with the unit member’s permission.
Section 4.	Only the evaluation process and not the evaluation itself shall be grievable under this Agreement.
Section 5.	Notwithstanding Section 4 above, alleged false statements of fact may be appealed to the Superintendent or his/her administrative designee, whose determination shall be final.
Section 6.	Evaluations for unit members are meant to be corrective in nature rather than punitive and not to be used as a means of disciplining a unit member, but rather as a means of formal
29
notification of performance which, if deficient, and if the deficient performance continues, may lead to disciplinary action. The use of performance evaluations in disciplinary action shall be limited to a showing that the District has notified the unit member of perceived deficient performance, and the unit member’s rebuttal, if any, shall be considered in determining the applicability of the evaluation to the proposed discipline.
ARTICLE 25	-
WRITTEN REPRIMANDS, CORRECTIVE ACTION, AND DISCIPLINE FOR PERMANENT UNIT MEMBERS
Section 1.	General Definitions.
The continued employment of permanent unit members is contingent upon proper performance of assigned duties and personal fitness for service. For purposes of this Article, the following definitions apply:
(a)	Written Reprimand. A written reprimand is a statement in writing, other than an evaluation, that gives notice to a unit member of improper performance of assigned duties or unfitness for service, without imposing a corrective action, suspension without pay, demotion or termination. Letters of Concern, Letters of Warning and Letters of Reprimand are all considered written reprimands. Written reprimands may be challenged or appealed only as set forth in Section 2 below.
(b)	Corrective Action. A corrective action is defined as suspension without pay for five (5) days or less. Corrective actions may be challenged or appealed only as set forth in Section 3 below.
(c)	Discipline. Discipline is defined as suspension without pay for more than five (5) days, involuntary demotion, or involuntary termination. Discipline may be challenged or appealed only as set forth in Section 4 below.
Section 2.	Written Reprimands.
(a)	The affected unit member may request a conference with the supervisor issuing the written reprimand within five (5) workdays of receiving the written reprimand. The unit member may, at the unit member’s request, be represented by the Association at this conference. The District shall inform a unit member in writing of any written reprimand to be placed in the unit member’s personnel file prior to placing in the file.
(b)	In accordance with the rights contained in Article 23 - Personnel Files, the unit member shall have the right to attach a written rebuttal or response to any written reprimand.
Section 3.	Corrective Action.
(a)	Corrective action shall be initiated at a management level not lower than the Director, Classified Employee Services.
(b)	Prior to imposing a corrective action upon a unit member, the District shall serve upon the unit member either in person or by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice of proposed corrective action, including notice of the cause of the corrective action, the proposed length of the corrective action, and the date(s) on which the corrective action shall begin. The notice shall inform the unit member of his/her right to an informal conference,
30
and shall state that he/she must request an informal conference within five (5) workdays of the service of the notice and that failure to request an informal conference within the time limits waives the unit member’s right to challenge the proposed corrective action. The unit member may appeal the proposed corrective action to the Assistant Superintendent, Human Resources or designee by notifying the Assistant Superintendent, Human Resources in writing of the appeal within five (5) workdays of the date of the notice of proposed corrective action. The Assistant Superintendent, Human Resources or designee shall issue a written decision and shall serve such decision on the unit member as provided above. The District may then impose the corrective action. In no case shall the outcome of this conference be more severe towards the unit member than that originally proposed in the notice of proposed corrective action. The unit member may appeal the decision of the Assistant Superintendent, Human Resources or designee to the Board of Education whose decision in the matter shall be final. The unit member’s notice of appeal to the Board of Education must be received by the Assistant Superintendent, Human Resources within five (5) workdays of the date of the Assistant Superintendent, Human Resources’ written decision. In no case shall the designee be the same person who initiated the corrective action or discipline.
If the unit member does not request an informal conference as above provided, or if the unit member fails to participate in the informal conference when scheduled, the notice of proposed corrective action shall be the final and binding decision of the corrective action to be imposed.
Section 4.	Discipline.
(a)	The District may impose corrective action or discipline on permanent unit members for just cause. Grounds for corrective action or discipline shall include but not be limited to the following:
(1)	Incompetence, inefficiency, inattention to or dereliction of duty, lack of ability, or failure to perform the assigned duties in a satisfactory manner.
(2)	Insubordination, failure to obey reasonable direction or observe reasonable rules of School District superiors, or willful and/or persistent violation of the provisions of the District policies and the Education Code.
(3)	Conviction of any felony, conviction of a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, dishonesty harmful to public service, immoral conduct harmful to public service, drunkenness on duty, addiction to or use of narcotics, or fraud in obtaining employment with this School District.
(4)	Political activity during the assigned hours of duty.
(5)	Willful failure of good conduct tending to injure the public service.
(6)	Physical or mental incapacity, consistent with law.
(7)	Absence from duty without leave, including excessive tardiness, or falsification of any request for sick leave pay.
(8)	Violation of Article 42 of this Agreement.
31
(9)	Abandonment of position, upon the unit member’s absence without notification to the District for three (3) or more days, unless the unit member was totally incapacitated during the notice period (3 days).
(b)	The District shall serve on the unit member and the Association a notice of proposed discipline. Such service may be in person or by certified mail, return receipt requested. The notice shall include at least the following:
(1)	A statement of the cause for the proposed discipline, including the specific cause for discipline as set-forth in Paragraph (a) above.
(2)	A statement of the unit member’s right, upon request, to an informal conference with the Assistant Superintendent, Human Resources or designee.
(3)	A statement that the unit member must request in writing the informal conference within ten (10) workdays from the date the notice is mailed via United States Certified Mail to the unit member’s address of record or within five (5) workdays of actual receipt, whichever is shorter, and a statement that failure to request an informal conference within the time limits waives the unit member’s right to challenge the proposed discipline.
(c)	If the unit member requests an informal conference as described in Paragraph (b)(2) above, the Assistant Superintendent, Human Resources or designee (other than the initiator of the action) shall conduct the conference. The unit member may request Association representation at the informal conference. The District shall notify the unit member in writing within five (5) workdays of the informal conference as to whether it intends to impose the discipline specified in the notice of proposed discipline, to withdraw the notice, or to impose some lesser discipline, written reprimand, or corrective action. In no case shall the outcome of this conference be more severe towards the unit member than that originally proposed in the notice of proposed discipline. If the unit member does not request an informal conference as above provided, or if the unit member fails to participate in the informal conference when scheduled, the notice of proposed discipline shall be the final and binding decision of the discipline to be imposed.
(d)	If the unit member is dissatisfied with the decision of the Assistant Superintendent, Human Resources or designee at the informal conference, he/she may request a formal hearing. Such request must be received by the District within ten (10) workdays of the date of service of the Assistant Superintendent, Human Resources’ or designee's decision.
If the decision of the Assistant Superintendent, Human Resources or designee following the informal conference is to discipline the unit member, and if the unit member makes a timely request for a formal hearing, the District shall schedule a formal hearing before an impartial hearing officer mutually selected by the District and the Association, as provided in Article 40, Section 6(b). The fees of the impartial hearing officer shall be borne equally by the District and the Association.
In all cases, hearings shall be scheduled as soon as reasonably practicable after receipt of demand for a hearing.
(e)	If the unit member does not request or does not participate in the informal conference, he/she may not request a formal hearing, unless the unit member was prevented from
32
E
requesting or participating in the informal conference due to circumstances beyond his/her control.
(f)	No discipline shall be imposed for any cause which arose prior to the unit member becoming permanent, nor for any cause which arose more than two (2) years preceding the date of the filing of notice of proposed discipline, unless such cause was concealed or not disclosed by such unit member when it could be reasonably assumed that the unit member should have disclosed the facts to the District.
(g)	Upon completion of the formal hearing, the hearing officer shall prepare a written advisory decision, including Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law. The Board of Education shall review the advisory decision of the hearing officer and shall render a written decision. The decision of the Board of Education shall be final, except as provided by law.
Section 5.	Time Limits.
All time limits contained in this Article may be waived or modified by mutual written agreement of the parties.
Section 6.	Burden of Proof.
The burden of proof shall remain with the District.
Section 7.	Immediate Suspension.
Notwithstanding any of the provisions contained in this Article, the parties agree that in circumstances where the conduct of a bargaining unit member is reasonably believed by the District to constitute a threat to the person or property of the District, its unit members, students, or members of the community, an immediate suspension is justified. Whether such suspension is with or without pay shall be in accordance with applicable provisions of the Education Code.
Section 8.	Suspension Upon Arrest for Sex or Drug Offenses.
A unit member charged with the commission of any sex offense as defined in Section 44010 of the Education Code, or any narcotics offense as defined in Section 44011 of the Education Code, by complaint, information, or indictment filed in a court of competent jurisdiction may be suspended as provided for in Section 45304 of the Education Code. Such suspension will be processed as involuntary personal leave. The unit member may receive compensation as provided for in the Code sections. Such suspension shall be reviewed by the Board of Education at least every ninety (90) calendar days.
ARTICLE 26	- COMPLAINTS FROM THE PUBLIC
Section 1.	Any citizen or parent complaint concerning a unit member shall be reported to the unit member by the administrator receiving or having knowledge of the complaint, if the complaint is deemed substantial.
Section 2.	Should either the involved unit member or the immediate supervisor of the unit member and/or other District level administrator believe that such complaint warrants a meeting with the complainant, a meeting with the complainant shall be attempted to be arranged. Any meeting between a unit member and a complainant regarding a complaint reported to the unit member by an administrator shall be with the prior knowledge of the immediate supervisor, and the immediate
33
supervisor and/or other District level administrator may be present at any such meeting. The affected unit member shall be entitled to make a reasonably appropriate response to the complaint at this time.
34

V. SALARIES
ARTICLE 27	- SALARIES
Section 1.
(a)	The salary schedule for all classified unit members is set forth in Appendix B attached.
(b)	Effective September-1, 1985, and each month thereafter, the District shall pay each
participating unit member’s contribution to the Public Employees Retirement System (PERS).
(c)	If other District employee groups receive a salary and/or benefit increase (on or off schedule) during the term of this agreement which exceeds the salary and/or benefit increase contained in this agreement, the difference shall be provided to CSEA unit members. The intent of this section is to maintain salary and/or benefit parity between CSEA and other District employee groups. Reclassifications of other District employees does not invoke this section.
Section 2.	Guidelines for computing the amount of each salary payment:
(a)	Paychecks for all unit members working regular assigned hours will be computed accordingly. Bargaining unit members working a full month shall be paid according to the monthly salary chart using the appropriate percentage: 8 hours = 100%, 6 hours = 75%, 4 hours = 50%.
(b)	Any unit member who works a partial pay period will be paid only for those days (or hours) worked and/or in other days (or hours) in paid status.
(c)	The paycheck for the last pay period in which a unit member is in a paid status will reflect payment only for the hours worked and any and all necessary adjustments.
(d)	For purpose of this Article, a part time unit member is any unit member who works less than eight (8) hours per day.
Section 3.	Unit members who must travel in the course of employment between duty stations in their own vehicle during duty hours will receive compensation for mileage at the rate provided for by the Internal Revenue Code (at the time the mileage is driven).
Section 4.	Salary warrants are available to unit members as follows:
(a)	Cafeteria workers working six (6) or less hours per day are paid semi monthly.
(b)	Hourly transportation workers are paid semi monthly.
(c)	Part time unit members working regularly assigned hours are paid on or before the last working day of the month.
(d)	Full time unit members are paid on or before the last working day of the month.
35
Section 5.	Unit members shall receive a statement of correction and supplemental payment within five (5) workdays from the time an error in pay is detected or reported by the unit member.
Section 6.	Members of the bargaining unit paid out of other than unrestricted funds shall be treated comparably with other unit members affected by this Article.
Section 7.	No privileges, compensation, or benefits of any kind in excess of those specifically set forth in this Agreement or not specifically provided for in this Agreement are required to be granted to unit members. However, the District may at its discretion voluntarily extend such hereafter.
Section 8.	Changes in salary and health and welfare benefits shall be given effect as set forth in this Agreement, but all language in the Agreement shall be given prospective effect from the date this Agreement is executed by the parties.
Section 9. Effective January 1, 1985, unit members who have completed nine (9) or more years of continuous District service shall be paid an additional salary stipend of $20.00 per month, commencing the first month of their tenth year of employment, after January 1, 1985, and unit members who have completed fourteen (14) or more years of continuous District service shall be paid a total additional salary stipend of $50.00 per month ($20.00 for 10 years plus $30.00 for 15 years), commencing the first month of their fifteenth year of employment after January 1,1985.
Section 10. The anniversary date for any unit member hired on or before November 30,1979 shall be July 1. The anniversary date for a unit member hired on or after December 1, 1979 shall be the date on which the unit member obtained permanent status.
Section 11.	YRE Salary.
(a)	A unit member assigned to a YRE position shall be compensated on the appropriate hourly or monthly salary schedule as set forth in Appendix B.
(b)	If a unit member transfers to, from, or within a YRE site and in the process changes his/her pay cycle, the District will make reasonable efforts to accommodate the unit member’s pay cycle to minimize interruption of regular pay warrants.
Section 12. In accordance with Section 1 (c) of this Article and the November 5, 1997, Memorandum of Understanding regarding salary parity with CSEA and other District employee groups, the parties agree: effective July 1, 1997, an additional ongoing .1% of the total classified unit salary cost shall be used for retirement enhancement and additional release time for a bargaining unit member or members designated by the Association. The monies shall be allocated annually at the end of each fiscal year beginning with the 1997-1998 school year.
(a)	Fifty percent (50%) of the .1% ongoing monies shall be allocated toward retirement enhancement. This amount will be equally distributed among the total retirees, not to exceed $500 per retiree. This retirement enhancement shall be provided only once to each unit member who fully retires from the District and who is fifty (50) years of age or older and who has served the equivalent of five (5) years in the District.
(b)	Fifty percent (50%) of the .1% ongoing monies and the balance of any unused portion of retirement enhancement monies shall be allocated toward additional Association release time. See, also, Article 6 - Association Rights, Section 12 - Additional Release Time.
36

VI. UNIT MEMBER BENEFITS
ARTICLE 28 - HEALTH AND WELFARE
Section 1.	For the duration of this Agreement, the District shall contribute to each full time unit member covered by this Agreement an amount equal to the combined cost of Kaiser family coverage, Delta dental insurance as provided in Section 2 below, and life insurance as provided in Section 3 below toward the purchase of unit member benefits set forth in this Article. Such benefits shall be paid in ten (10) monthly installments which will provide coverage from July 1 to the following June 30 of each contract year.
Section 2.	Each unit member shall have deducted from the above amount a sum equal to the composite premium for the Delta dental insurance program with a one thousand, five hundred dollar ($1,500) cap per year. It is required that all unit members participate in this program.
Section 3.	Each unit member shall have deducted from the above a sum equal to the premium for a five thousand dollar ($5,000) term life insurance policy. It is required that all unit members participate in this program.
Section 4.	Each unit member shall have deducted from the above amount a sum equal to the premium for a short-term disability plan with American Fidelity Assurance Company. It is required that all unit members participate in this program. (Unit members may elect to pay this premium through a payroll deduction rather than deducted from the fringe benefit amount).
Section 5.	Unit members may elect to have the remaining amount (the amount set forth in Section 1 less dental insurance and life insurance premiums) and disability premium, if paid from benefit package, credited to the premium cost of the health insurance and/or income protection plan(s). Unit members may elect a health insurance plan offered by the District. Any additional premium cost of the health plan shall be borne by the unit member if it exceeds the amount contributed to the unit member under Section 1. The District may add additional health insurance carrier(s) at its option.
Section 6.	Unit members upon proof of medical coverage and who do not select a Group Health plan may elect to request that the balance in Section 5, above, be credited to a program of Tax Sheltered Annuity purchase. Tax Sheltered Annuities shall be of the unit member’s choice. If such an election is the choice of the unit member, the unit member shall show evidence of health insurance coverage from another source. Tax Sheltered Annuities purchase may be made with that portion of the Group Health plan not utilized by the participating unit member. TSAs shall be calculated in relation to full family Kaiser (as previously calculated), with caps set as follows:
Life, Medical, & Dental Insurance $4841
TSAs $3540
If the cost of the fringe benefits exceeds these amounts, the District and the Association will meet again to discuss options in terms of how to fund the additional cost of fringe benefits. The District will not pay any additional monies. Options would be to cut benefits, find another carrier, or relocate monies that are already committed.
The total amount of TSAs due a unit member shall be paid in one lump sum by July 30 of the year in which the TSA was accrued.
37
Section 7.	Unit members on leave without pay shall have the option of continuing health, dental, and life insurance premiums at their own expense during the period of the unpaid leave.
Section 8. Those unit members on the payroll as of November 23, 1976, who work less than eight (8) hours per day but four (4) hours or more per day shall receive the full benefits set forth in Section 1 of this Article. Unit members who work less than four (4) hours per day shall receive no contributions under this Article. Unit members hired after November 23,1976, who work four (4) hours or more shall receive a prorated amount based on a ratio in which the numerator is the number of hours worked per day and the denominator is eight (8). Thus, by way of example, a four (4) hour unit member is entitled to a maximum contribution that is fifty percent (50%) of the sum set forth in Section 1.
Section 9. YRE Insurance.
(a)	Unit members in the YRE that have individual payroll deductions for insurance premiums will have premiums deducted during their scheduled pay periods so as not to break the continuity of coverage, provided the County payroll system will make such accommodation. If the County does not make such accommodation, the District will consult with the Association within thirty (30) days of the County’s notification.
(b)	The District will make every reasonable effort to ensure that deductions for insurance premiums will be calculated on a tenthly (10) basis during the school year and not deducted during an intervention period, provided the County payroll system will make such accommodation. If the County does not make such accommodation, the District will consult with the Association within (30) days of the County’s notification.
ARTICLE 29	- HOLIDAYS
Section 1.	All unit members who are part of the classified service shall be entitled to the following paid holidays, provided they are in paid status during any portion of the working day immediately preceding or succeeding the holiday: New Year’s Day, Martin Luther King Day, Lincoln’s Day, Washington’s Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Admissions Day, Veteran’s Day, Thanksgiving, Friday following Thanksgiving, Day before Christmas, Christmas, and Day before New Year’s. Regular unit members who are not normally assigned to duty during any recess period other than summer recess shall be paid for any holiday falling therein, provided that they were in a paid status during any portion of the working day of their normal assignment immediately preceding or succeeding the holiday period.
(a) Unit members whose hours of assignment are less than four (4) hours per day shall be entitled to prorated holiday benefits.
Section 2.	Every day declared by the President of the United States, or Governor of this State, as a public fast, thanksgiving, or holiday, or any day declared a holiday by the Governing Board under applicable Education Code sections shall be a paid holiday for all unit members, provided the requirements of Section 1 are met.
Section 3.	Time during which a unit member is excused from work because of holidays, sick leave, vacation, compensating time off, or other paid leave of absence shall be considered as time worked by the unit member for the purpose of determining paid status.
Section 4.	When a holiday herein falls on a Saturday, the preceding workday not a holiday shall be deemed to be the holiday.
38
Section 5.	When a holiday herein listed falls on a Sunday, the following Monday shall be deemed to be the holiday.
Section 6.	When any unit member is required to work on any of the said holidays, he/she shall be paid double time and a half (21£) for such work.
Section 7.	The District may provide a substitute holiday for Admission's Day so long as no unit member is deprived of holiday pay thereby and so long as the substitute holiday provides for at least a three (3) day weekend for unit members affected.
Section 8.	Notwithstanding Section 5, above, if the New Year's Day holiday falls on a Sunday, the District may designate the preceding workday not a holiday to be the holiday.
Section 9.	Holidays.
Unit members assigned to YRE and/or to modified schedules shall receive no fewer holidays than members assigned to a traditional school year schedule and any additional holidays declared by the President of the United States, the Governor of California, or the Governing Board.
ARTICLE 30	- VACATIONS
Section 1.	Permanent and probationary unit members in twelve (12) month positions shall accrue fifteen (15) days of vacation per year. Unit members in less than twelve (12) month positions shall accrue vacation credit at the rate of .0608 hours of vacation credit per hour of paid service, excluding overtime. Paid service includes hours worked during the unit member's assigned work year and paid holiday hours (per the unit member's regular assignment). Paid service shall not include days in unpaid status, such as during winter or spring break, unless such days are paid holidays under this Agreement. After completion of eight (8) years of employment the unit member shall accrue one (1) additional vacation day (the same length as the unit member's assigned workday) per year until the unit member has reached an accrual of five (5) additional days.
(a) Unit members whose hours of assignment are less than four (4) hours per day shall be entitled to prorated vacation benefits.
Section 2.	Probationary unit members have no vested interest in their accrued vacation and may not take vacation until completion of the initial six (6) months of employment.
Section 3.	The District and unit members bear an equal responsibility in scheduling vacations. During the months of April and May each year unit members shall submit to the District a written vacation request on a multi copy District form requesting a vacation schedule for the following year. Vacations shall be scheduled at the convenience of the District and with the pre-approval of the unit member’s supervisor. If a unit member has made reasonable effort to schedule vacation for reasonable times that are consistent with the needs of the District, nothing in this section shall operate to cause a unit member to forfeit accrued vacation. The District shall provide written notice to each unit member by July 15, either approving or denying the unit member’s vacation request for the upcoming year. Once an April/May vacation request has been approved it shall not be revoked by the District except under unanticipated and exceptional circumstances in which the employee’s absence from the District would cause an undue hardship.
Section 4.	Vacations are not cumulative and must be completed in the fiscal year following the year earned, except a unit member may elect to carry over up to five (5) days of earned vacation to the
39
following fiscal year. Commencing with the 1995-96 school year, unit members who fail or refuse to schedule earned vacation in excess of their carryover may be required by the District to take any or all earned vacation in excess of their carryover amount.
Section 5.	Unit members shall be paid at the rate that is in effect when the vacation is taken or when the accrued vacation is paid off.
Section 6.	A permanent unit member terminating for any reason shall be paid for any unused vacation earned. Such payment shall be at the rate in effect on the unit member’s last working day before termination.
Section 7.	Permanent unit members only may interrupt or terminate vacation leave in order to begin another type of paid leave without a return to active service, provided the unit member supplies adequate notice and relevant supporting information regarding the basis for such interruption or termination.
Section 8.	If a holiday falls within a unit member’s scheduled vacation, such holiday shall be paid as a holiday, and such day(s) shall not be counted as vacation day(s) used.
Section 9.	A permanent unit member may take vacation time before it is actually earned when such is expressly approved by the unit member’s supervisor and the Assistant Superintendent of Human Resources and is deemed to be in the best interest of the District. If the unit member terminates employment prior to earning such vacation, the District shall deduct amounts advanced from that unit member’s final paychecks.
Section 10.	If there is any conflict between unit members who are working on the same or similar operations as to when vacations shall be taken, pursuant to their April/May request, the unit member with the greatest District seniority shall be given his/her preference. Initial requests for vacation submitted after May pursuant to Section 3 above and requests to change vacation schedules previously submitted shall be considered on a first come, first served basis, subject to approval of the unit member’s immediate supervisor. However, vacation requests or changes submitted after May shall not affect previously scheduled vacations of any other unit member.
Section 11. Unit members whose assigned work year is less than twelve (12) months shall accrue vacation credit as provided in Section 1 above, but shall not schedule vacation time off, except with prior approval of their immediate supervisor. The District may require that less than twelve (12) month employees take annual vacation leave at times convenient to and in the best interest of the District, such as during Winter Recess, Spring Recess and, in instances where the unit member has vacation in excess of their carryover amount as set forth in Section 4 above plus that taken during Winter and Spring Recess, on days when students are not in school.
Section 12.	Pay for a day of vacation shall be the same as had the unit member worked his/her regular minimal assignment on such day.
Section 13.	The District shall permit a unit member to exhaust his/her paid vacation prior to being placed on a thirty-nine (39) month reemployment/reinstatement list pursuant to Section 45195 of the Education Code, when required to do so by state or federal law.
Section 14.	Bargaining unit members assigned to YRE schools may need to schedule vacations at times when school is in session.
40
Section 15.	The District will not deny requests for vacation time arbitrarily or capriciously, and administrators will use reasonable efforts to accommodate the scheduling of vacations as provided in this article.
Section 16. If the District elects to close down the District, or any portion thereof, during the Winter Recess period of each year, the District will ensure than any twelve (12) month unit member who so elects will be able to work during the closure. Typically, the unit member shall work in his or her current classification at the site to which the unit member is regularly assigned. However, if the unit member’s site is closed, or if work within the unit member’s classification is not available at the assigned site during the closure, the unit member shall work at another District site completing work within the unit member’s own job classification, or if no work is available within the unit member’s classification, the unit member shall work in a similar or closely related classification to the extent possible.
ARTICLE 31	- PAID LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section 1.	The only leaves of absence for which compensation may be paid are set forth below.
Section 2.	All unit members shall be entitled to sick leave benefits and such sick leave benefits
shall be accumulative and transferable. Such sick leave benefits may be used for personal illness and personal necessity as established in this Agreement.
Section 3.
(a)	For unit members in twelve (12) month, eight (8) hour per day assignments, the District shall credit eight (8) hours of sick leave per month, for an annual credit of 96 hours. For unit members in twelve (12) month assignments at less than eight (8) hours per day, the District shall credit the number of hours of the assignment times twelve (12) for the unit member's annual sick leave. Thus, a twelve (12) month, six (6) hour unit member would be credited with seventy-two (72) hours annually.
(b)	For unit members in eight (8) hour per day assignments for less than twelve (12) months per year, the District shall compute the number of annual sick leave hours to be credited by multiplying the unit member's assignment year (the number of assigned workdays plus paid holidays) times .0487. For unit members in assignments with less than eight (8) hours per day and less than twelve (12) months per year, the District shall compute the annual sick leave by multiplying the assignment year by .0487, and then prorating for the reduced hours. For example, a unit member assigned to a six (6) hour position would be credited with % the number of annual sick leave hours credited to a unit member assigned to an eight (8) hour position with the same assignment year.
(c)	Unit members whose hours of assignment are less than four (4) hours per day shall be entitled to prorated sick leave benefits.
(d)	All sick days earned from regular or summer assignments are applied to accumulative sick leave of the unit member.
(e)	Accumulated sick leave may be used for illness absences from regular or summer special assignments.
Section 4.	The District shall comply with the provisions of the first five paragraphs of Section 45191 of the California Education Code, as said section is amended from time to time.
41
Any unit member may be entitled to convert unused sick leave to be used for retirement credits in accordance with applicable law.
Section 5.	An illness absence shall be an absence of the unit member due to illness or disabling condition which prevents the unit member from performing his or her assigned functions, including but not limited to the following: physical or mental illnesses, medical, dental or psychiatric appointments that cannot be reasonably met during out of work hours, and any physically disabling condition which prevents the unit member from performing assigned duties.
Section 6.	A doctor’s certificate or other proof of illness or disabling condition may be required by the District for any illness or disabling condition in which the absence is three (3) days or more or when under reasonable circumstances the unit member has been informed that verification for future absences will be required. Such verification statements may be required by the Human Resources Division.
Section 7.	When a unit member is absent from his/her duties on account of illness or accident for a period of five (5) school months or less, and accrued sick leave is exhausted, the amount deducted from the salary due him/her for any month in which the absence occurred shall not exceed the sum which is actually paid a substitute employed to fill their position during the absence.
Section 8.	In lieu of entitlement of extending sick leave pursuant to Section 7, above, unit members with at least five (5) years of continuous service shall be entitled to the following:
(a)	For the first five (5) consecutive days of each such absence, the unit member shall receive the difference between the unit member’s salary and the salary actually paid a substitute, and
(b)	After the first five (5) consecutive days of an absence in paragraph (a) above, the unit member shall receive extended sick leave benefits at fifty percent (50%) of the unit member’s regular rate of pay, as provided below. Unit members shall once each school year be credited with a total of one hundred (100) days of extended sick leave including days to which he/she is entitled under Sections 3 and 7, above, including accumulations. For example, if a unit member out ill for fifty (50) days has ten (10) days of accumulated sick leave when the illness starts, the unit member will receive regular pay for the first ten (10) days, differential pay for the next five (5) days, and fifty percent (50%) pay for the remaining thirty-five (35) days. If later in the school year the unit member is out ill for another fifty (50) days, the unit member will receive differential pay for the first five (5) days and fifty percent (50%) pay for the remaining forty-five (45) days.
Section 9.
(a)	The District shall provide for a leave of absence from duty for the unit member who is required to be absent from duties because of pregnancy, miscarriage, childbirth, and recovery there from. The length of the leave of absence, including the date on which the leave shall commence and the date on which the unit member shall resume duties, shall be determined by the unit member and the unit member’s physician.
(b)	Disabilities caused or contributed to by pregnancy, miscarriage, childbirth, and recovery there from are, for all job related purposes, temporary disabilities and shall be treated as such under any health or temporary disability insurance or sick leave plan available in connection with employment by the District. Except as provided herein, written and
42
unwritten employment policies and practices of the District shall be applied to disability due to pregnancy or childbirth on the same terms and conditions applied to other temporary disabilities.
Section 10.	Unit members may use at their election accumulative sick leave not to exceed seven (7) days per year or any additional days provided for in Education Code § 45207 for cases of personal necessity for the following reasons using the procedures below.
(a)	Personal necessity not requiring advance notification to be absent from duty, but must show proof of need for use of personal necessity:
(1)	Serious illness or death of a member of the immediate family beyond that provided under Section 11 below. Immediate family is defined as inclusive of all those relatives so listed under bereavement leave in this Agreement.
(2)	Accident involving their person or property, or the person or property of a member of the immediate family.
(b)	Personal necessity requiring advance notification before being absent from duty:
(1)	Appearance in court or before any administrative tribunal as a litigant, party, or witness under subpoena or any order made with jurisdiction.
(2)	Personal business not to exceed three (3) days per year. In order to take personal business leave a written request must be made at least three (3) working days prior to the date of such leave, unless urgent and unforeseen circumstances preclude this. Such leave may not be taken the first five (5) and the last five (5) days of any school semester or the day before or after a holiday or vacation, except with the express written approval of the Superintendent or designee for situations requiring the unit member's absence and which cannot be scheduled at a different time. Personal business leave must be taken in at least one half (1/z) day increments. The number of unit members on personal business leave on any day may not exceed ten percent (10%) of each department or school. The foregoing shall not preclude personal business leaves requested by a unit member in departments with ten (10) or less unit members. Approval of a personal business leave request is subject to the reasonable approval of the District.
(3)	Paternity and/or maternity absences of two (2) days per year shall be granted provided such absences are taken just before, during, or immediately following the birth of the child or the adoption of a child.
(4)	Religious holidays normally standardized by the religious denominations may be observed by unit members upon request as long as the total number of personal necessity days is not exhausted.
Section 11.	Unit members shall be granted bereavement leave without loss of pay for a period not to exceed five (5) days in the event of death in the immediate family or in-laws. ("Immediate family" means those relatives or step-relatives bearing the following relationship to unit member claiming bereavement leave, or to the unit member's spouse: mother, father, son, daughter, brother, sister, grandparent, grandchild, or any person living in the unit member's household). With respect to the death of a foster parent, or foster children, the unit member may utilize available personal necessity leave. Unit members who use more than their bereavement or available personal necessity leaves shall be in unpaid status for such additional leave.
43
Section 12.	Unit members under this Agreement who are absent from duty because of industrial illness or injury qualifying for Workers’ Compensation and who have been continuously employed by the District for at least two (2) years are granted Industrial Accident and Illness Leave. Such leave shall apply from the first day of any such absence from duty to and including the last day of such absence from duty, but not exceeding sixty (60) working days in any fiscal year for the same industrial accident or illness. Such leave shall not be accumulative from year to year.
(a)	The amount of salary paid to unit members on Industrial Accident or Industrial Illness Leave shall be the same as-the individual normally received prior to the accident. In such cases, the unit member shall endorse to the District wage loss benefit checks received under the Workers’ Compensation laws.
(b)	Upon termination of sixty (60) days of absence because of industrial accident or illness, whether they are receiving Workers’ Compensation benefits or not, unit members may use that portion of accumulated sick leave, compensating overtime, and/or vacation, so as to maintain their income, not to exceed their regular salary and accumulated compensatory time and/or vacation.
(c)	During the period of Industrial Accident or Illness Leave, the District shall issue unit members appropriate salary warrants and shall deduct retirement and other authorized contributions from such warrants.
(d)	Any unit member receiving benefits under this section shall, during the period of injury or illness, remain within the state of California unless otherwise authorized by the District.
(e)	Reporting industrial accidents and/or industrial illnesses shall be the responsibility of the unit member so inflicted within twenty-four (24) hours of the time of said accident or illness and/or such time as twenty-four (24) hours relates to the next working day, if physically able, and in any case as soon as possible.
Section 13.	When unit members are called to temporary military service, they shall be released without loss of salary as required by applicable law.
Section 14. A unit member shall be entitled up to thirty (30) calendar days of paid leave or such additional paid leave as required by law, determined by a court of competent jurisdiction, for jury duty when legally summoned to such duty. Any salary received for jury duty services shall be reimbursed to the District. A unit member called to jury duty but released with at least two (2) workable hours of his/her normal assignment shall report immediately to his/her job site supervisor and serve for the remainder of the workday. However, any unit member whose regular assigned shift begins between 4:00 p.m. and 3:00 a.m. shall not be required to report to work on any day on which the unit member is required to serve the entire day on jury duty. Nothing in this section shall have as its purpose or effect a tendency to encourage unit members to seek exemption from jury duty.
Section 15.	All unit member leaves under this Article shall be considered leaves with pay and a continuation of all job benefits shall be paid by the District, and seniority shall continue to accrue during periods of leave with pay.
Section 16.	When all available paid leaves of absence have been exhausted and if the unit member is not immediately able to assume the duties of the unit member’s position, the unit member shall be placed on a reemployment/reinstatement list for a period of thirty-nine (39) months. When available, during the thirty-nine (39) month period, the unit member shall be employed in the first
44
vacant position in the class of the unit member’s previous assignment, subject to the provisions of Article 22. A unit member on a reemployment/reinstatement list who has been medically released to return to duty and who fails to accept an assignment in the previous class within ten (10) working days shall be dismissed.
ARTICLE 32	- NON-PAID LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section 1.	All leaves described under this Article shall be without pay during the term of leave, when approved by the Board of Education. The regular pay received by the unit member on leave and all benefits from employment shall be discontinued.
Section 2.	Whenever feasible, a unit member returning from a non-paid leave of absence approved by the Board of Education will be returned to the job classification and site to which the unit member was assigned before the approved leave. If it is not feasible to return the unit member to this exact job site, the District will attempt to return the unit member to a position as similar to the one the unit member left as feasible.
Section 3.	Personal leave of absence may be requested by the unit member. Leaves of absence for personal reasons, five (5) days or less, may be approved by the Superintendent. All requests for personal leave greater than five (5) days shall be submitted to the Board of Education for its consideration. The granting of any such leave is solely at the discretion of the Board or of the Superintendent, as the case may be.
Section 4.	The Board may approve a leave of absence not to exceed one (1) year and not to be less than one (1) academic semester for the purpose of attendance and enrollment of the unit member in a course of study at an accredited institution in an area relating to the general assignment or for the purpose of study or retraining.
Section 5.	Unit members shall be granted military leave as required under applicable law and shall retain those rights and privileges guaranteed under such law.
Section 6.	A leave for the purpose of child care (post maternity) may be approved by the Board of Education upon request of a unit member. A child care leave may be requested to begin at any time after the beginning of the term of pregnancy and as late as that date established by the unit member’s physician as the time at which the unit member is defined as disabled and unable to perform her assigned functions. In no case shall child care leave be approved for a period longer than two (2) consecutive semesters. The child care leave is designed primarily for the postnatal care of an infant and may ordinarily only be approved for that purpose.
Section 7.	An extended illness leave may be approved by the Board upon the request of a unit member whose condition of health is determined by a licensed physician as such that the unit member is prevented from performing his/her professional functions. Such determination shall be provided to the District in a written statement from a licensed physician. Any such leave shall not be more than six (6) months unless the Board provides otherwise. Request for early return is subject to approval by the Board.
Section 8.	When no other leaves are available and when prior request has been submitted setting forth reasons for such leave, the District may grant a unit member a leave not to exceed one (1) working month.
45
Section 9.	Unit members on approved unpaid leave for a period greater than fifty percent (50%) of a given unit member’s work year shall not receive credit for an annual salary increment for the year of the leave.
ARTICLE 33	- RETIREMENT
Section 1.	The District agrees to continue for the duration of this Agreement those contributions toward retirement benefits as required by law.
Section 2.	Nothing within this contractual Agreement shall prevent a classified unit member from retiring as early as age fifty (50) if completed at least five (5) years of service.
Section 3.	When a unit member regularly works four (4) hours or more daily, or eighty-seven (87) hours or more monthly, a deduction will be taken from his/her salary for OASDI (Social Security) and the Public Employees Retirement System.
Section 4. Unit members who fully retire from the District and who are fifty-five (55) years of age or older and who have served the equivalent of ten (10) years in a full time classified capacity (twelve (12) months, eight (8) hours per day) shall be entitled to receive individual coverage under a District health plan at the expense of the District for a period not to exceed ten (10) years, or until the unit member reaches age sixty-five (65), whichever is earlier.
(a)	Portability. Unit members residing outside the District health providers’ service radius shall be entitled to:
•	payment to health plan provider of unit member’s choice and/or
•	reimbursement to unit member from the District upon submission of original invoice or itemized receipt from health provider for benefits.
(b)	Portability payment/reimbursement shall be limited to the cost of individual coverage currently available to unit members under the District health care plan.
Section 5. Unit members shall be entitled to a retirement enhancement in accordance with Article 27, Section 12.
46
VII. WORK PLACE SAFETY AND TRAINING
ARTICLE 34	- ORIENTATION AND INSERVICE
Section 1.	All orientation and inservice training of unit members shall be conducted during the period designated as the workday and work year for those designated unit members. If mandatory orientation and inservice training is conducted outside the workday or work year, the District will pay those unit members who participate at their regular rate of pay (including overtime where applicable).
Section 2.	The hours of service for unit members on days designated for orientation or inservice activities shall be at the same rate of pay as if the unit member was at the job station.
Section 3.	The District agrees to provide inservice training programs where appropriate with the purpose of enhancing the skills, knowledge, or abilities of unit members in their current jobs. Inservice training for permanent unit members shall include a program for obtaining Red Cross or any other first aid certificate, or any certificate renewal as required by the District or by law as a condition of continued employment. In addition, the District shall reimburse unit members any fee for renewal of any certificate required by the District as a condition of employment. Unit members are encouraged to continue training for the purpose of advancement and promotion.
(a) The District will pay school bus drivers currently employed at their regular rate of pay (and will provide the necessary equipment) when such bus drivers are driving school buses at District direction, including time spent complying with testing requirements for the bus driver certificate (not driver’s license).
Section 4.	District inservice and preservice programs shall be planned by the District. The District will meet, upon request, with representatives of the Association to discuss such matters.
Section 5.	Unit members regularly scheduled to work shall be provided paid release time for the District’s Orientation Program, if held by the District. Unit members not regularly scheduled to work but who attend shall be paid for such attendance at the unit member’s regular rate of pay. Payment to all unit members is to be on a straight time basis only. The District shall allow the Association one hour during such program to meet with bargaining unit members.
Section 6.	For Nutrition Service, the District agrees to pay the cost for the Food Handler’s examination, if such is required. The District will endeavor to have the examination offered at a District site, and will endeavor to schedule it shortly before the opening of school. Unit members shall be paid at the applicable rate for time spent in complying with this section, and the District shall reimburse the cost of travel and meals if out of District travel is required.
Section 7.	In the event the District requires a unit member’s attendance at training sessions or workshops conducted by organizations other than the District, it shall reimburse the unit member the reasonable cost of travel, meals, and lodging, if needed.
ARTICLE 35	- WORK PLACE PROVISIONS
Section 1.	The Board agrees to furnish to unit members equipment necessary for performing their assigned duties. In addition, the Board will make available to unit members the following:
(a)	A location where coats and other personal items, such as handbags, may be stored.
47
(b)	Parking space in each major area of job location.
(c)	A place at each work site where District materials might be stored unless such materials are required at multiple sites, in which case, storage and equipment will be transportable by means of District transportation.
Section 2.	If the District requires uniforms of any unit member, the District shall bear the cost of providing such uniforms.
Section 3.	In those cases where the Superintendent or his/her designee has given prior specified written authorization on the District form, for a unit member to use his/her own tools or equipment, the District agrees to provide a safe place to store and agrees to pay for any loss or damage resulting from the authorized use of the tools or equipment.
ARTICLE 36	- UNIT MEMBER SAFETY
Section 1.	The District shall, upon reasonable request of a unit member, investigate reported cases of contagious and/or infectious diseases or other health/safety problems which are likely to be detrimental to the health and welfare of the unit member.
Section 2.	The District shall provide safe working conditions for unit members.
Section 3.	Unit members shall immediately report cases of verbal threats and assault or battery
suffered by them in connection with their employment to their immediate supervisor, who shall according to the statute report the incident to the local law enforcement authorities.
(a) Unit members injured as a result of Section 3 above shall be entitled to receive full pay less any workers’ compensation pay received during the term of absence from duty provided same does not exceed one (1) year.
Section 4.	All cases of verbal abuse shall be immediately reported to the unit member’s management supervisor or to the Superintendent’s designee.
Section 5.	The District will provide all safety equipment required by the District. Such equipment will remain the sole property of the District.
Section 6.	Immediately, if possible, upon encountering a condition which presents an imminent hazard to his/her safety, the unit member shall notify his/her immediate supervisor. The supervisor shall make a determination as to the extent of the hazard and shall give the unit member reasonable instructions in light of this determination. Failure to obey such instruction may subject the unit member to discipline under Article 25, which the unit member may challenge under the provisions of that article. "Reasonable instructions" shall include instructions that give priority to the safety of students.
Section 7.	No unit member shall be in any way discriminated against as a result of reporting conditions believed to be health/safety hazards.
ARTICLE 37	-SUPERVISION OF PAID AND NON-PAID STUDENT AND VOLUNTEER WORKERS
Section 1.	The District may assign a paid student worker to assist a unit member. In such an event, the unit member shall be responsible for the supervision of the student.
48
(a)	The unit member shall share with the immediate supervisor the responsibility for the evaluation of the paid student helper.
(b)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, no such assignment will be made without the voluntary consent of the individual bargaining unit member.
(c)	Paid student workers will not be assigned to perform work traditionally performed by bargaining unit members unless such student work is funded by an external source, and does not result in less hours of work for the bargaining unit member than had existed prior to such assignment. -
Section 2.	The District may assign a non-paid volunteer student helper to a unit member.
(a) The unit member shall have the opportunity to be consulted upon the placement of non-paid student workers prior to the assignment to the unit member’s work station.
Section 3.	The District will work cooperatively with unit members on the assignment of student helpers from local training programs.
(a) No student helper will be assigned to work with a unit member without a unit member’s approval.
Section 4.
(a)	The District may not abolish any bargaining unit position and use volunteer workers in lieu of bargaining unit members who are laid off as a result of the abolition of a position. In addition, the District may not refuse to employ a person in a vacant bargaining unit position and use volunteer workers in lieu thereof, except upon the mutual agreement of the District and the Association.
(b)	It is the intent of the parties to encourage the District to use volunteer workers to enhance its educational program, but not to permit displacement of bargaining unit members, nor to allow the District to utilize volunteers in lieu of normal employment requirements.
(c)	It is further the intent of the parties that the interpretation of this section conform to the intent of Education Code Section 35021, as it existed on January 1, 1983, and to be consistent with 35021 or its successor, if any.
(d)	This section applies to both non-employee volunteer workers and bargaining unit members who perform volunteer work beyond their regular work schedule.
(e)	The District shall not coerce or otherwise encourage or discourage bargaining unit members to perform volunteer work in addition to their regular classified assignment.
ARTICLE 38	- PROFESSIONAL GROWTH
Section 1.	Professional growth is the continuous, purposeful engagement in study and related activities designed to retain and extend the high standards of the classified unit members.
(a)	Description. Professional growth includes experiences that:
49
(1)	reflect increased knowledge, understandings, and skills in the participant’s assignment or;
(2)	reflect increased knowledge, understandings, and skills in another classification that would provide upward mobility or;
(3)	enhance human relations skills; or
(4)	assist in fields closely related to the activity in which engaged.
(b)	Participation categories. Professional growth may be achieved through participation in:
(1)	accredited college/university and vocational/technical school courses/ examinations;
(2)	public education institution sponsored workshops/inservices;
(3)	adult education program courses;
(4)	CSEA Chapter 410 as an elected officer and/or negotiation team member.
(c)	Review Committee. A Review Committee shall be established consisting of the Assistant Superintendent, Human Resources or designee, and Director of Classified Employee Services or designee, the CSEA Chapter 410 President or designee, and the CSEA Chapter 410 1st Vice President or one other unit member selected by CSEA. The Review Committee shall meet in March (additional meetings may be scheduled as needed, upon mutual agreement). The Review Committee shall consider unit members’ submission of professional growth documentation. The Review Committee shall have sole authority to determine whether or not the professional growth meets the criteria.
(d)	Criteria. The following criteria are applied in determining approval of courses taken by unit members:
(1)	The subject matter of the course must relate directly to the position currently occupied by the unit member or;
(2)	The subject matter of the course must meet the requirements of the position for which the unit member is training or;
(3)	The course or activity which does not meet the requirements of either "1" or "2" above must be approved by the Review Committee.
(e)	Professional Growth Point Calculation and Verification
(1)	One semester unit equals one point for a university, community college, or vocational/technical school. Units’ received from a university, community college, or vocational/technical school on a quarter system shall be converted to semester units utilizing the factor of conversion in place at the quarter system school. One semester unit equals one-half (1/z) point for an adult school course. A certificate of satisfactory completion, transcript and/or grade report shall be required as verification of course completion.
50
(2)	Each public education sponsored inservice course equals one-quarter (14) point for each hour. Five (5) of the 15 growth points may be earned in public education sponsored inservice. Proof of the number of hours completed for each public education sponsored course must be submitted.
(3)	Attendance at professional conventions or workshops may be considered for professional growth. No credit will be allowed if the District participates in 50 percent or more of any expense including utilization of the Jobs Skills Enhancement Reimbursement. A total of three (3) hours of programmed attendance is required for one-half (14) growth point. No more than one and one-half (114) growth points may be earned annually through convention or workshop attendance. A report of attendance, proof of hours, and conference proceedings must be submitted for credit.
(4)	Holding an elected office in the California School Employees Association (CSEA), Chapter 410 may be counted for one growth point annually. Elected officers are defined as the Chapter President, executive board member, and negotiating team member.
(5)	Fifteen professional growth points must be earned for each stipend. Proof of course completion must be submitted no later than January 31st.
(f)	Limitations. No unit member shall receive credit for professional growth activity if the District provides compensation, reimbursement, or payment for the cost of the activity. However, this limitation shall not apply to unit member(s) who participate in a professional growth activity while on paid vacation or when the District is reimbursed by the Association through release time provisions for the unit member(s).
(g)	Effective date. Courses or activities beginning .after July 1,1998 will be considered for point accumulation.
(h)	Stipend. The stipends for professional growth are as follows:
Initial stipend Second stipend Third stipend Fourth stipend
$225
$200 ($225+$200 = $425) $175 ($425+$175 = $600) $175 ($600+$175 = $775)
Stipends are cumulative. No unit member may earn more than four (4) stipends for professional growth. A unit member may start working toward the next stipend after the 15 points are completed. Points beyond 15 will carry forward to the next stipend.
The professional growth stipend will be paid annually in one lump sum. Those unit members completing 15 points no later than January 31 will be paid in July of that year and each year thereafter.
Section 2.	Job Skills Enhancement Reimbursement. The District shall maintain a workshop, conference, course and seminar reimbursement program for members of the bargaining unit so as to enable unit members to achieve professional growth. The following provisions will apply to said program:
(a)	Funding. The District shall contribute ten thousand ($10,000) dollars for the 1994-95 school year and an additional ten thousand ($10,000) dollars for the 1995-96 school year and five thousand ($5,000) dollars for the 1998-99 school year. These funds will be used to
51

reimburse unit members for the cost of fees, books, and materials incurred while attending workshops, conferences, seminars, and courses at qualifying institutions as determined by the Review Committee. Such programs are to be reasonably related to positions within the District for which the unit member is or could expect to become qualified. On July 1, 1999 and each year thereafter, the District shall contribute an amount not to exceed $5,000 in the account to maintain a balance of $5,000. The allocation of the funds to unit members for use in attending training programs shall be on a first come, first served basis, subject to approval by the Review Committee.
(b)	Review Committee. - A Review Committee shall be established consisting of the Assistant Superintendent, Human Resources or designee, the Director of Classified Employee Services or designee, the CSEA Chapter 410 President or designee, and the CSEA Chapter 410 1st Vice President or one other unit member selected by CSEA. The Review Committee shall meet quarterly. At its quarterly meetings, the Review Committee shall consider unit members’ advance written requests to attend training programs and shall approve or disapprove such requests. The Review Committee shall have sole authority to determine whether or not a training program is reasonably related to a unit member’s current position or one for which the unit member could expect to become qualified.
(c)	Guidelines.
(1)	Advanced Written Requests. Requests must be submitted in writing on a form approved by the Review Committee. It is desirable, but not required, for unit members to obtain advance approval. Eligibility for reimbursement is not guaranteed if approval is not secured in advance.
(2)	Approval of Requests. A majority of Review Committee members must be in agreement for approval of request for reimbursement.
(3)	Amendments. The Review Committee has complete flexibility to amend guidelines and adopt procedures to administer this program, including the establishment of limits and criteria as needed based on usage of the program.
(4)	Amount. A maximum of $200.00 per request may be authorized. However, the Committee may change the maximum amount.
(5)	Frequency of Request. A maximum of two (2) requests per school year per person will be accepted. However, the Committee may change the maximum requests.
(6)	Proof of Successful Completion. Reimbursement will not be made until submission to the Review Committee of receipts and proof of successful completion.
(7)	Qualifications of Workshops, Conferences, Courses, and Seminars. Qualifications based on licensing, accreditation, and reputation will be considered when evaluating workshops, conferences, and seminars. Mandatory District programs are not qualified for reimbursement unless requested and authorized by the Review Committee.
(8)	Quarterly Meetings. April, July, October, and January. Meetings may be scheduled more frequently or rescheduled as determined by the Review Committee.
52
(9)	Release Time. Approval of reimbursement does not guarantee release time. If release time is needed, it must be pre-approved by the supervisor.
(10)	Rules of Committee. At the first quarterly meeting of the Review Committee, the Chairperson shall be the CSEA Chapter 410 President or designee. The Co-Chairperson shall be the Assistant Superintendent of Human Resources or designee. The Chairperson and Co-Chairperson will alternate between CSEA and the District at subsequent quarterly meeting.
(11)	Submission of-Applications, Receipts, Proof of Completion, and Other Related Information. All required information shall be submitted to the CSEA Chapter 410 President or designee.
53
VIII. LAYOFF
ARTICLE 39 - LAYOFF AND REEMPLOYMENT/REINSTATEMENT
Section 1.	For the purpose of this Article, the following definitions shall apply:
(a)	"Layoff" is defined as in the Education Code. Layoff shall occur only for lack of work or lack of funds.
(b)	"Class" is defined as job classification such as those listed in Appendix A.
(c)	“Lower Class" is defined as a job classification with a lower hourly salary range.
(d)	"Equal Class" is defined as a job classification with an equal hourly salary range.
(e)	The classification of Instructional Assistant-Classroom, Infant Center Aide, Pre-School Aide, and Special Friend shall be considered one classification for purposes of layoff and reemployment.
Section 2.	The District shall notify in writing permanent unit members subject to layoff at least thirty (30) calendar days in advance of the effective date of layoff. The District may release probationary (other than promotional and/or transferred probationary) unit members at any time. Any notice of layoff shall inform the unit member of his/her effective date of layoff, his/her displacement rights (if any) and his/her reemployment/reinstatement rights.
Section 3.	The District shall not lay off permanent unit members from any classification until it has released probationary unit members and any substitute or short-term employees serving in a vacant position within the classification. Substitute and short-term employees serving in a vacant position shall be released first, and then probationary unit members.
Section 4.	Layoffs shall be effected within a classification. The District shall determine the order of layoff within a classification by seniority, as defined in Section 1 above, and shall lay off permanent unit members by seniority in the classification plus higher classification.
Section 5.	A unit member laid off from his/her position within a classification may elect, in lieu of layoff, assignment by seniority to a position within the same classification with fewer assigned hours or a shorter work year. Alternatively, the unit member may elect, in lieu of layoff, assignment by seniority to a position in any other classification in which the unit member has seniority rights (by virtue of having attained probationary or permanent status in the other classification and not having been dismissed or demoted therefrom).
(a)	A unit member on layoff status shall have the right to participate in promotional examinations with the District during his/her reemployment/reinstatement period.
(b)	A unit member in (or previously in) a classification that has been reclassified, resulting in a title and/or salary change, shall maintain the seniority earned in such classification.
Section 6.	In the context of a layoff within a unit member’s classification, a permanent unit member may volunteer for layoff, and shall be granted layoff if the District agrees. In such cases, the unit member shall retain his/her reemployment/reinstatement rights. A unit member who does not
54
exercise his/her bumping rights and is therefore laid off retains his/her reemployment/reinstatement rights under this Agreement.
Section 7.	Laid off persons are eligible for reemployment/reinstatement in the class from which laid off for a thirty-nine (39) month period and shall be reemployed/reinstated in the reverse order of layoff. Their employment shall take precedence over new applicants.
In addition, they shall have the right to apply for promotional positions within the filing period specified in the posting. Upon written request by the unit member, a unit member on a reemployment/reinstatement list shall be notified of promotional opportunities.
Section 8.
(a)	Pursuant to Section 45298 of the Education Code, unit members who take voluntary demotions or voluntary reductions in assigned time in lieu of layoff or to remain in their present positions rather than be reclassified or reassigned shall be granted the same rights as persons laid off and shall retain eligibility to be considered for reemployment/reinstatement for an additional period of up to twenty-four (24) months; provided, that the same tests of fitness under which they qualified for appointment to the class shall still apply.
(b)	Pursuant to Section 45298 of the Education Code, unit members who take voluntary demotions or voluntary reductions in assigned time in lieu of layoff shall be, at the option of the unit member, returned to a position in their former class or to positions with increased assigned time as vacancies become available, and without limitation of time, but if there is a valid reemployment/reinstatement list, they shall be ranked on that list in accordance with their proper seniority.
Section 9.	Any unit member in the bargaining unit may elect to accept a service retirement in lieu of layoff, voluntary demotion, or reduction in assigned time, as provided by law. Such unit member shall within ten (10) workdays prior to the effective date of the proposed layoff submit a request to the District for this purpose.
Section 10. The unit member shall then be placed on a thirty-nine (39) month reemployment/reinstatement list, as provided by law. However, the unit member shall not be eligible for reemployment/reinstatement during any other period of time except as may be specified by pertinent Government Code sections.
Section 11.	The District agrees that when an offer of reemployment/reinstatement is made to an eligible person retired under this Article, and the District received within ten (10) working days a written acceptance of the offer, the position shall not be filled by any other person, and the retired person shall be allowed a reasonable time to terminate his/her retired status.
Section 12.	If a unit member declines an offer of reemployment/reinstatement to a position in the classification from which he/she was laid off, with (1) at least the same number of assigned hours, (2) at least the same number of assigned days in the work year as the position from which laid off, and (3) the same work week (such as Monday through Friday), the unit member shall be deemed to have resigned from that classification and all reemployment/reinstatement rights in that classification are extinguished.
Section 13.	Any election to retire after being placed on a reemployment/reinstatement list shall be retirement in lieu of layoff within the meaning of this section, as provided by law. However, time
55
I
already on reemployment/reinstatement lists counts as part of the thirty-nine (39) month period set forth in Section 10.
Section 14.	Any unit member who is laid off and is subsequently eligible for reemployment/reinstatement shall be notified in writing by the District of any opening. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail to the last address given to the District by the unit member, and a copy shall be sent to CSEA by the District, which shall fulfill the notification responsibility of the District.
Section 15.	A unit member shall notify the District of his/her acceptance or rejection of reemployment/reinstatement within ten (10) workdays of the date the notice is mailed via United States Certified Mail to the unit member’s address of record or within five (5) workdays of actual receipt. If the unit member accepts reemployment/reinstatement, he/she shall report to work within fourteen (14) workdays of the acceptance, or on the reporting date specified by the District, whichever is later.
Section 16.	Upon reemployment/reinstatement within the recall period, the unit member shall have the same seniority date as he/she had prior to layoff.
Section 17.	The District shall provide the Association with an appropriate seniority roster as far in advance of the implementation of any layoff as is reasonable under the circumstances.
Section 18.	Unit members who accept a position in a lower classification in order to return to paid status shall retain the rights in this Agreement to return to the position from which they were laid off.
Section 19.	If the District changes a unit member’s shift assignment as a result of a layoff, the District shall offer such unit member any available position at his/her site with the prior shift assignment, in the unit member’s classification, prior to offering such position to a laid off unit member.
Section 20.	With respect to the classification of Instructional Assistants, the District agrees that it will not reduce the hours of any individual Assistant on the payroll as of the date of this Agreement, but instead will follow the layoff procedure provided for in this Agreement should a reduction in total Assistant hours be appropriate. Where an existing Assistant is terminated from the payroll for whatever reason, the District may replace the terminating unit member with an Assistant who works fewer hours or with two (2) Assistants, each of whom works fewer hours than the terminating Assistant. If any Assistant is on layoff at the time an Assistant on the District payroll as of the effective date of this Agreement terminates and the District intends to replace such person, the right of recall of the Assistant on layoff shall not be to an Assistant position with the number of hours as the terminating Assistant, but rather to an Assistant position with the same number of hours as established by the District in its discretion. However, if the Assistant on layoff worked the same number of hours or greater number of hours as the Assistant being terminated and was a unit member of the District on the effective date of this Agreement, then any right of recall shall be to an Assistant position with the same number of hours as the terminating Assistant.
56
IX. GRIEVANCE
ARTICLE 40	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 1.	The purpose of this grievance procedure is to provide an inexpensive and expeditious procedure to resolve disputes arising under this Agreement.
Section 2.	A grievance is defined as a claim by a unit member or the Association that a provision of this Agreement, or a provision-of any written agreement between the parties which is either attached to this Agreement or is grievable by its terms (such as memoranda of understanding or side letters), has been violated by the District. A grievance shall not include any claim or request to challenge, change, amend or add to existing policy, rules or regulations, or to adopt or negotiate new or different terms of this Agreement or to challenge the provisions of this Agreement that are specifically excluded from the grievance procedure. A grievance shall not include Article 25 on suspension, demotion, and dismissal or other rules and regulations of the Board of Education.
Section 3.	The District shall not take the position in any grievance proceeding pursuant to this Article that the fact that an individual unit member has not grieved a particular District act or omission establishes that the Association has acquiesced to such District conduct. This provision does not preclude either the District or the Association from using "past practice" in an arbitration.
Section 4.	Should a grievance arise, it shall be handled in the following manner:
(a)	A unit member’s grievance must be submitted orally in an informal conference to the unit member’s immediate management supervisor within twenty (20) working days after the grievant knew or reasonably should have known of the act or omission giving rise to the grievance. However, under no circumstances may a grievance be initiated any later than six (6) calendar months after the occurrence of the act or omission giving rise to the grievance. If the matter is not resolved at the informal conference, the grievant may within ten (10) working days after the informal conference, whether or not there is an informal response, present his or her grievance in writing to his or her immediate management supervisor.
(b)	The grievance shall be reduced to writing and signed by the grievant and shall state the circumstances on which the grievance is based, the date of occurrence, the identity of the unit member or unit members who claim to be aggrieved, the specific sections and terms of this Agreement allegedly violated, and the remedy sought. A grievance may include more than one (1) unit member provided the issue is identical for each, and all unit members affected thereby sign the grievance form, if possible.
(c)	The management supervisor shall answer the grievance in writing within ten (10) working days after receipt.
(d)	In the event the grievant is not satisfied with the answer given, the grievant may appeal the decision on the form mutually agreed to by the Association and the District to the Superintendent or his/her designee within ten (10) working days after the receipt of his or her management supervisor’s decision. The Superintendent or his/her designee will communicate a decision in writing within ten (10) working days of receipt.
(e)	Any grievance not processed by a unit member and/or the Association in accordance with the time limits set forth herein shall not be subject to binding arbitration and shall be
57
considered settled on the basis of the decision last made by the District. If at any step the District fails to respond in a timely manner, the grievant may proceed to the next step.
(f)	A grievant shall be entitled, upon request, to representation by the Association at any grievance meetings. A unit member covered by this Agreement may present a grievance directly and have such grievance adjusted without intervention of the Association as long as the adjustment is not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement. The Association shall be provided with a copy of any grievance filed by a unit member directly and any response by the District prior to resolution of any grievance.
(g)	A reasonable amount of release time will be granted to one (1) Association representative to process any grievances.
(h)	No reprisals of any kind will be taken by the District or the Association against any grievant, the Association or any participant in the grievance procedure because of the fact of such participation.
(i)	Grievance forms and other forms necessary to the operation of the grievance procedure shall be agreed upon by the District and the Association. The costs of typing and reproducing such forms shall be borne by the District.
G)	If a grievance involves significant numbers of unit members or districtwide application of this Agreement, the grievance shall be submitted by the Association at Section 4(d). The Association must initiate all grievances in accordance with the time limits set forth in Sections 4(a) and 4(d).
(k)	For grievances filed by a unit member, "working days" shall mean days on which the grieving unit member is scheduled to perform services for the District and on which the District’s offices are open. For grievances filed by the Association or by a significant number of unit members as provided in G) above, "working days" shall mean days on which the District’s offices are open.
Section 5.	If the grievance is not resolved by the procedures in Section 4 above, the Association may appeal the grievance to mediation with a mediator appointed by the State Mediation and Conciliation Service. Such appeal must be provided to the District in writing within ten (10) working days of receipt of the District’s decision from the previous level. Either the District or the Association shall request of the State Mediation and Conciliation Service an appointment of a mediator within five (5) working days after an appeal to mediation.
(a)	The time, date, and location for a grievance mediation shall be mutually determined by the District, the Association, and the appointed mediator.
(b)	Settlement offers made in the mediation process shall not be referred to in subsequent arbitration proceedings.
Section 6.	Binding Arbitration.
(a)	Grievances not resolved by the procedures above may be appealed by the Association to binding arbitration, provided that written notice of such appeal is given to the District within twenty-two (22) working days following conclusion of the mediation process as determined by the mediator.
58
(b)	Upon receipt of the Association appeal, the District and the Association shall meet in an attempt to select an arbitrator. If attempts to mutually agree upon the selection of an arbitrator prove unsuccessful, the District and the Association shall alternately strike names from the following list of arbitrators until only one (1) name remains, who shall be the arbitrator. The party who strikes the first name shall be determined by lot.
Howard Block
Richard Calister
Thomas Christopher Julius Draznin -Joseph Gentile Thomas Roberts Lou Zigman
(c)	The fees of the arbitrator shall be shared equally by the parties. Either party may request a transcript of the proceedings and the party requesting such transcript shall bear the cost. Each party shall bear the expense of the presentation of its own case. The Board shall provide reasonable release time for the Association representatives, the grievant, and the Association witnesses for any time spent at any arbitration. However, the Association will make every reasonable effort to call only necessary witnesses and to avoid cumulative testimony. Furthermore, every reasonable effort will be made by the Association to call witnesses on a staggered basis so as to avoid one (1) or more witnesses waiting to testify while another witness is testifying. Witnesses called by the Association will only be entitled to reasonable release time for periods of time they are waiting to testify in those instances where such waiting time is not reasonably avoidable. No compensation will be paid to witnesses called by the Association for any time required to attend an arbitration proceeding other than during normal scheduled working hours. Arbitration shall be conducted, taking into consideration the calendar of the arbitrator, at reasonable mutually agreeable times.
(d)	The decision of the arbitrator shall be binding, except to the extent limited by applicable law.
(e)	The arbitrator shall have no power to alter, amend, change, modify, add to or subtract from
any of the terms of this Agreement. The decision of the arbitrator shall be based solely upon the evidence and arguments presented to him/her by the respective parties in the presence of each other, as well as briefs, if any, submitted by the parties. No finding shall be retroactive and the arbitrator shall have no authority to hear and issue a finding upon more than one (1) grievance at a time, unless the District and the Association expressly agree otherwise.
Section 7.	Time Lines.
All time lines contained in this Article may be extended and/or modified by the mutual agreement of the parties.
59
X. NEGOTIATIONS
ARTICLE 41	- WAIVER OF FURTHER BARGAINING RIGHTS
Section 1.	The parties acknowledge that during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement, each had an unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or matter which was or could have been subject to negotiation, that the understanding and agreement arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement and therefore each waives the right to further negotiations on any subject or matter covered or not covered under this Agreement during the term hereof. However, by mutual agreement, the parties may agree to engage in further negotiation on any subject.
Section 2.	Except as provided in Article 5, any additions or changes in this Agreement shall not be effective unless reduced to writing and properly ratified and signed by both parties.
ARTICLE 42	- NO STRIKE-NO LOCKOUT
Section 1.	During the term of this Agreement, neither the Association, its officers, agents, members, nor any unit member will authorize, instigate, encourage, aid, condone, participate in, or engage in a strike, work stoppage, slowdown, sick out, boycott, picket line, mass absenteeism or any other interruption of or interference with the operations of the District, regardless of whether there is a claim by the Association of breach of this Agreement or of federal or state law by the District. Any unit member or unit members who violate the provisions of this Article may be discharged or otherwise disciplined depending on the severity of the violation. In the event any discipline is recommended for a violation of this Article, said discipline shall be administered consistently and the appropriateness of the discipline shall be subject to the discipline article of this Agreement.
Section 2.	In the event of a strike, work stoppage, slowdown, sick out, boycott, picket line, mass absenteeism, or other interruption or interference with the operations of the District, or any anticipated violation of this Article, the Association shall immediately notify the unit members that such action is unauthorized and promptly order its members to return to work, and to take every reasonable effort to terminate the unauthorized action.
Section 3.	Respecting any picket line established for any reason at any facility of the District by the Association or any unit member, in concert or alone, during the term of this Agreement shall constitute a violation of this Article and may result in disciplinary action up to and including discharge.
Section 4.	The Board agrees that during the term of this Agreement, it will not engage in any lockout of its unit members.
ARTICLE 43	- STATUTORY CHANGES
If any provision(s) of this Agreement is held to be contrary to law by a court, that provision(s) shall be deemed invalid, but all other provisions shall continue in full force and effect.
In the event future court rulings in PERB decisions render any provision(s) of this Agreement beyond the scope of bargaining, the parties shall meet and negotiate within thirty (30) days after notification by either party for the purpose of arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement for such article or section.
60

If the Legislature, during the term of this Agreement, expands the scope of negotiations, the parties shall meet and negotiate, upon the request of either party, regarding the subjects thus added to the scope of negotiations.
ARTICLE 44	- REOPENER NEGOTIATIONS
Section 1.	This Agreement becomes effective July 1, 2002, and shall continue in effect to and including June 30, 2005.
Section 2.	The parties are-committed to the Interest Based Bargaining (IBB) concept and to a “living contract” philosophy. While working under the IBB model, the parties have the opportunity to bring in issues as they arise and shall not be limited to a specific number of reopeners.
Section 3.	If at any time during the life of this Agreement it is decided to forfeit the IBB model and return to a traditional style of collective bargaining, the limitation on reopeners shall apply for the 2003-04 and 2004-05 school years with only the following items to be reopened: salary, fringe benefits, vacation, calendar, and one article chosen by each side.
Section 4.	Should the District add an additional health plan to those listed in Article 28, the Association may reopen negotiations regarding whether the District should continue to offer the additional health plan as an option. Such reopener would be in addition to those allowed in Section 3 above.
Section 5.	The District and the Association may, during the term of this Agreement, meet and consult regarding the development of unit member handbooks for specific groups of unit members. The portions of said handbooks which the parties identify therein of being within the scope of representation shall, upon ratification by both parties, be incorporated into this Agreement and shall prevail over any provision of this Agreement which may conflict. Meeting and consulting under this section shall not be subject to the unfair practice impasse procedure of the Educational Employment Relations Act (EERA). Sections A and B of Article 4 of the Bus Drivers1 Handbook are incorporated herein by reference.
ARTICLE 45	- NEGOTIATION PROCEDURES
Section 1. Not earlier that one hundred twenty (120) days and not later than ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of this Agreement, both parties shall commence meeting and negotiating in good faith on negotiable items. Any agreement reached between the parties shall be reduced to writing and signed by them.
Section 2.	Either party may utilize the services of outside consultants.
Section 3.	The Board and the Association may discharge their respective duties required by this Agreement by means of authorized officers, individuals, representatives, or committees.
Section 4.	Negotiations shall take place at reasonable mutually agreeable times and places. Pursuant to Section 3543.1(c) of the California Government Code, the Association and the District agree that the maximum number of representatives of the Association to receive reasonable release time without loss of compensation for the purpose of meeting and negotiating shall be seven (7).
Section 5.	The District shall furnish upon request of the Association one (1) copy of public materials or documents in existence provided that such requested materials are relevant to negotiable
61
items. This section shall not be construed as a waiver of any legal right the Association may have to receive other District documents relevant to negotiable items.
62
XI. SUPPLEMENTS
Appendix A - Classification Schedule
Appendix B - Salary Schedule
Appendix B-1 - Substitute Salary Schedule
Appendix C - Calendars
Appendix D - Side Letter - Dot Random Drug Testing/AR 4020 (see Article 11, Section 3) March 26,1996
Side letter - Association Rights (see Article 6, Section 11, Paragraph 3) December 3,1998
Side letter - Child Development Assistant February 10,1999
Side letter - Instructional Assistant TLP November 4,1999
Effects Agreement - Year Round Education March 10, 2000
Effects Agreement - Year Round Education March 23, 2001
Effects Agreement - Year Round Education February 28,2002
Appendix E - Evaluation Form
Index
63
1
64
APPENDIX A
CY: Calendar Year	PY: Program Year AY: Academic Year
Classification Title	Hours	Work Year	Salary
Business			
Purchasing Agent	8	CY	27
Accountant	8	CY	26'
Accounting Technician	8	CY	23
Purchasing Technician	8	CY	23
Bookkeeper	8	CY	21
Payroll Clerk	8	CY	21
Account Clerk III	8	CY	19
Demographics Clerk	8	CY	19
Data Clerk III	8	CY	17
Printing Services Technician	8	CY	17
Account Clerk II	4-8	CY	16
Photo Lab/Graphics Technician	8	CY	16
Publications Clerk II	8	CY	14
Account Clerk 1	8	CY	13
Publications Clerk 1	8	CY	11
Purchasing Clerk	8	CY	11
Maintenance/Operations			
Maintenance Worker IV	8	CY	29
Electronic Technician III	8	CY	28
Maintenance and Operations	8	CY	28
Coordinator			
Maintenance Foreman	8	CY	28
Maintenance Worker III (Lead)	8	CY	28
Operations Foreman	8	CY	28
Electronic Technician II	8	CY	27
Electronic Repairperson/TV Production	8	CY	26
Air Conditioning and	8	CY	24
Refrigeration Mechanic III			
Carpenter III	8	CY	24
Electrician III	8	CY	24
Gardener III	8	CY	24
Locksmith III	8	CY	24
Painter III	8	CY	24
Plumber III	8	CY	24
Warehouseperson III	8	CY	24
Irrigation Specialist	8	CY	22
Air Conditioning and	8	CY	21
Refrigeration Mechanic II			
Carpenter II	8	CY	21
Electrician II	8	CY	21
Locksmith II	8	CY	21
Painter II	8	CY	21
Plumber II	8	CY	21
Head Custodian III	8	CY	20
Head Custodian II	8	CY	17
Maintenance Worker 1	5-8	CY	17
Gardener II	8	CY	15
65
Classification Title	Hours	Work Year	Salary
Maintenance/Operations cont.			
Head Custodian 1	8	CY	15
Warehouseperson II	8	CY	15
Custodian II	8	CY	13
Gardener 1	8	CY	13
Warehouseperson 1	8	CY	13
Custodian 1	3-8	AY/CY	12
Media & School Aides			
Occupational Therapist	8	CY	34
T elecommunication/Networking	8	CY	28
Technician			
Library Specialist	8	CY	27
Audio-Visual Technician	8	CY	26
Media Production/Micro Computer	8	CY	26
Specialist			
Career Development Facilitator	6	CY	22
Curriculum Lab Specialist	8	CY	22
Healthy Start Project Liaison	8	AY+ 19	22
Assessment Technician	8	CY	21
Instructional Media Technician	8	CY	18
Library Media Assistant III	7-8	AY + 8/AY + 13/CY	18
Attendance Specialist	8	AY+ 19	17
Computer Technician	8	CY	17
Curriculum Lab Assistant	8	CY	16
Book Depository Stock/	6-8	CY	15
Delivery Person			
Campus Supervisor II	4-8	AY/CY	15
Library Media Assistant II	7-8	AY + 8/CY	15
On-Campus Detention Supervisor	8	AY	15
Library Media Assistant 1	3-7	AY + 8/AY+ 13/CY	13
Instructional Assistant - Severely	6	AY	12
Disabled Students Level II			
School Community Liaison Aide	3-8	AY	12
Workability Job Developer	3-8	AY	12
Campus Supervisor 1	4-8	AY	11
Library Media Trainee	3-7	AY+ 8	11
Paraprofessional for	3-8	AY	11
Handicapped Students			
Child Development Assistant II	3-5	PY	10
Instructional Assistant -	6	AY	10
Non-Severe Level II			
Instructional Assistant-	3-8	AY	10
Severely Disabled Students			
Instructional Assistant-EL	3-7	AY	10
Child Development Assistant 1	3-5	PY	9
Infant Center Aide	3-6	AY	8
Instructional Assistant-Classroom	3-7	AY	8
Instructional Assistant-Sign Language	3-7	AY	8
Interpreter			
Special Friend-Child Aide	3-8	PY	8
66
Nutrition Service			
Accountant - Nutrition Service	8	CY	26
Nutrition Assistant III	8	AY + 3/CY	15
Nutrition Service/Cook Manager	8	AY+ 3	15
Cafeteria Lead Person II	8	AY/CY	13
Nutrition Service Utility Driver	8	AY/CY	13
Utility Driver/Food Production Worker	8	CY	13
Nutrition Service Delivery Driver	6	AY	12
Nutrition Assistant II	3.5-8	AY/CY	10-
Nutrition Assistant 1	2-8	AY/CY	5-7
Secretarial/Clerical			
Nurse's Assistant	4-8	AY+ 19	25
District Translator	8	CY	19
Information Systems Technology Asst.	8	CY	19
Maintenance Secretary/Dispatcher	8	CY	19
Registrar	8	CY	19
School Secretary III	8	AY + 40/CY	19
(Middle School)			
School Secretary III	8	CY	19
(High School)			
Secretary/Dispatcher	8	CY	19
Secretary III	8	CY	19
School Secretary II	8	AY + 19/CY	18
Secretary II	4-8	CY	18
(District Office)			
Secretary II	8	CY	18
(H.S. Counseling)			
Secretary II	8	AY+ 29	18
(H.S. Asst. Principal)			
Secretary II	8	AY+ 19	18
(H.S. Asst. Principal)			
Guidance Assistant	8	AY/CY	17
Word Processor	8	CY	17
Health Clerk Technician	8	AY + 2/CY	15
Student Body Accounts Clerk Typist	8	AY + 19/CY	15
School Secretary 1	8	AY+ 19	14
Secretary 1	6-8	AY+ 19	14
Clerk Typist III	8	AY + 19/CY	13
Clerk Typist II - Bilingual	3-8	AY + 19/CY	12
Switchboard Operator/Receptionist	6-8	CY	12
Clerk Typist II	8	AY + 19/CY	11
Clerk Typist 1	3-8	AY + 19/CY	9
Transportation			
Automotive/Diesel Mechanic III	8	CY	28
Automotive/Diesel Mechanic II	8	CY	23
Bus Driver/Bus Driver Trainer	8	AY + 10/CY	19
Dispatcher	8	AY	19
Automotive/Diesel Mechanic 1	8	CY	18
Bus Driver	4-8	AY/CY	15
Refuse Equipment Operator	8	CY	15
67
68
APPENDIX B
CLASSIFIED HOURLY SALARY SCHEDULE 2/01/2003
HOURLY SIX STEP RATES
Range	A	B	C	D	E	F
04	9.122	9.677	10.268	10.892	11.555	12.259
05	9.395	9.967	10.576	11.217	11.901	12.626
06	9.677	10.268	10.892	11.555	12.259	13.006
07	9.967	10.576	11.217	11.901	12.626	13.395
08	10.268	10.892	11.555	12.259	13.006	13.798
09	10.576	11.217	11.901	12.626	13.395	14.211
10	10.892	11.555	12.259	13.006	13.798	14.638
11	11.217	11.901	12.626	13.395	14.211	15.077
12	11.555	12.259	13.006	13.798	14.638	15.530
13	11.901	12.626	13.395	14.211	15.077	15.994
14	12.259	13.006	13.798	14.638	15.530	16.475
15		12.626	13.395	14.211	15.077	15.994	16.970
16		13.006	13.798	14.638	15.530	16.475	17.478
17		13.395	14.211	15.077	15.994	16.970	18.003
18		13.798	14.638	15.530	16.475	17.478	18.544
19		14.211	15.077	15.994	16.970	18.003	19.099
20		14.638	15.530	16.475	17.478	18.544	19.672
21		15.077	15.994	16.970	18.003	19.099	20.262
22		15.530	16.475	17.478	18.544	19.672	20.870
23		15.994	16.970	18.003	19.099	20.262	21.499
24		16.475	17.478	18.544	19.672	20.870	22.141
25		16.970	18.003	19.099	20.262	21.499	22.806
26		17.478	18.544	19.672	20.870	22.141	23.489
27		18.003	19.099	20.262	21.499	22.806	24.193
28		18.544	19.672	20.870	22.141	23.489	24.921
29		19.099	20.262	21.499	22.806	24.193	25.667
30		19.672	20.870	22.141	23.489	24.921	26.442
31		20.262	21.499	22.806	24.193	25.667	27.233
32		20.870	22.141	23.489	24.921	26.442	28.054
33		21.499	22.806	24.193	25.667	27.233	28.894
34		22.141	23.489	24.921	26.442	28.054	29.766
35		22.806	24.193	25.667	27.233	28.894	30.656
36		23.489	24.921	26.442	28.054	29.766	31.581
37		24.193	25.667	27.233	28.894	30.656	32.526
38		24.921	26.442	28.054	29.766	31.581	33.508
						
69
APPENDIX B
APPENDIX B
CLASSIFIED MONTHLY SALARY SCHEDULE 2/1/2003
MONTHLY SIX STEP RATES
Range	A	B	C	D	E		F
04		1581.23	1677.44	1779.80	1888.00	2002.98	2124.86
05		1628.43	1727.58	1833.13	1944.39	2062.96	2188.62
06		1677.44	1779.80	1888.00	2002.98	2124.86	2254.33
07	1727.58	1833.13	1944.39	2062.96	2188.62	2321.86
08		1779.80	1888.00	2002.98	2124.86	2254.33	2391.69
09		1833.13	1944.39	2062.96	2188.62	2321.86	2463.35
10		1888.00	2002.98	2124.86	2254.33	2391.69	2537.28
11	1944.39	2062.96	2188.62	2321.86	2463.35	2613.41
12		2002.98	2124.86	2254.33	2391.69	2537.28	2691.87
13_ _	2062.96	2188.62	2321.86	2463.35	2613.41	2772.32
14		2124.86	2254.33	2391.69	2537.28	2691.87	2855.66
15		2188.62	2321.86	2463.35	2613.41	2772.32	2941.41
16		2254.33	2391.69	2537.28	2691.87	2855.66	3029.56
17		2321.86	2463.35	2613.41	2772.32	2941.41	3120.48
18		2391.69	2537.28	2691.87	2855.66	3029.56	3214.33
19		2463.35	2613.41	2772.32	2941.41	3120.48	3310.48
20		2537.28	2691.87	2855.66	3029.56	3214.33	3409.79
21		2613.41	2772.32	2941.41	3120.48	3310.48	3512.15
22		2691.87	2855.66	3029.56	3214.33	3409.79	3617.52
23		2772.32	2941.41	3120.48	3310.48	3512.15	3726.50
24		2855.66	3029.56	3214.33	3409.79	3617.52	3837.71
25		2941.41	3120.48	3310.48	3512.15	3726.50	3952.97
26		3029.56	3214.33	3409.79	3617.52	3837.71	4071.48
27		3120.48	3310.48	3512.15	3726.50	3952.97	4193.49
28		3214.33	3409.79	3617.52	3837.71	4071.48	4319.69
29		3310.48	3512.15	3726.50	3952.97	4193.49	4448,93
30		3409.79	3617.52	3837.71	4071.48	4319.69	4583.19
31		3512.15	3726.50	3952.97	4193.49	4448.93	4720.32
32		3617.52	3837.71	4071.48	4319.69	4583.19	4862.75
33		3726.50	3952.97	4193.49	4448.93	4720.32	5008.25
34		3837.71	4071.48	4319.69	4583.19	4862.75	5159.37
35		3952.97	4193.49	4448.93	4720.32	5008.25	5313.75
36		4071.48	4319.69	4583.19	4862.75	5159.37	5474.09
37		4193.49	4448.93	4720.32	5008.25	5313.75	5637.88
38		4319.69	4583.19	4862.75	5159.37	5474.09	5808.03
						
CLASSIFIED HOURLY SALARY SCHEDULE 7/01/2002
HOURLY SIX STEP RATES
Range	A	B	C	D	E	F
04	9.032	9.582	10.167	10.785	11.441	12.138
05	9.302	9.868	10.471	11.107	11.784	12.502
06	9.582	10.167	10.785	11.441	12.138	12.877
07	9.868	10.471	11.107	11.784	12.502	13.263
08	10.167	10.785	11.441	12.138	12.877	13.662
09	10.471	11.107	11.784	12.502	13.263	14.071
10	10.785	11.441	12.138	12.877	13.662	14.494
11	11.107	11.784	12.502	13.263	14.071	14.928
12	11.441	12.138	12.877	13.662	14.494	15.377
13	11.784	12.502	13.263	14.071	14.928	15.836
14	12.138	12.877	13.662	14.494	15.377	16.312
15	12.502	13.263	14.071	14.928	15.836	16.802
16	12.877	13.662	14.494	15.377	16.312	17.305
17	13.263	14.071	14.928	15.836	16.802	17.825
18	13.662	14.494	15.377	16.312	17.305	18.361
19	14.071	14.928	15.836	16.802	17.825	18.910
20	14.494	15.377	16.312	17.305	18.361	19.477
21	14.928	15.836	16.802	17.825	18.910	20.062
22	15.377	16.312	17.305	18.361	19.477	20.664
23	15.836	16.802	17.825	18.910	20.062	21.287
24	16.312	17.305	18.361	19.477	20.664	21.922
25	16.802	17.825	18.910	20.062	21.287	22.580
26	17.305	18.361	19.477	20.664	21.922	23.257
27	17.825	18.910	20.062	21.287	22.580	23.954
28		18.361	19.477	20.664	21.922	23.257	24.675
29		18.910	20.062	21.287	22.580	23.954	25.413
30		19.477	20.664	21.922	23.257	24.675	26.180
31		20.062	21.287	22.580	23.954	25.413	26.963
32		20.664	21.922	23.257	24.675	26.180	27.777
33		21.287	22.580	23.954	25.413’	26.963	28.608
34		21.922	23.257	24.675	26.180	27.777	29.471
35		22.580	23.954	25.413	26.963	28.608	30.353
36		23.257	24.675	26.180	zirri	29.471	31.269
37.		23.954	25.413	26.963	28.608	30.353	32.205
38		24.675	26.180	27.777	29.471	31.269	33.177
70
71
APPENDIX B
CLASSIFIED MONTHLY SALARY SCHEDULE 7/01/2002
MONTHLY SIX STEP RATES
[Range	A	B	C	D	E	E
104	 |05		1565.57 1612.31	1660.83	1762.18	1869.31	1983.15	r 2103.82
		1710.48	1814.98	1925.14 1983.15	2042.53 2103.82	2166.95 99^9 ni
|06		1660.83	1762.18	1869.31			
|07	1710.48	1814.98	1925.14	2042.53	2166.95	2298.87 2368.01 94^ft Q6
|08		1762.18	1869.31	1983.15	2103.82	2232 01	
|09		1814.98	1925.14	2042.53	2166.95	2298.87	
110	1869.31	1983.15	2103.82	2232.01	2368.01	2512 16
111	1925.14	2042.53	2166.95	2298.87	2438 96	9557 55
112	1983.15	2103.82	2232.01	2368.01	2512.16	ZaJOZ 9665 99
|13		2042.53	2166.95	2298.87	2438.96	2587.53	9771/1 R7
|j4		2103.82	2232.01	2368.01	2512.16	2665 22		Z.Z ‘Hxt.O/ 2827.39 9Q19 90
|15		2166.95	2298.87	2438.96	2587.53	2744 87	
116	2232.01	2368.01	2512.16	2665.22	2827.39	___ z.y 1 z.zy 9QQQ RA
|17		2298.87	2438.96	2587.53	2744.87	2912.29		z-yyy.uo 3C15Q 55
■18		2368.01	2512.16	2665.22	2827.39	2999.56	uuoy.uo 3159 50
|J9		2438.96	2587.53	2744.87	2912.29	3089.58 3182.50	3277.70 557A A5
|20		2512.16	2665.22	2827.39	2999.56		
|21		2587.53	2744.87	2912.29	3089.58	3277.70	ooz o.uo 3477.38 3551 70
[22		2665.22	2827.39	2999.56	3182.50	3376.03	
[23		2744.87	2912.29	3089.58	3277.70	3477.38	3689 60
|24		2827.39	2999.56	3182.50	3376.03	3581.70	WW Z iWV 379Q 71
|25		2912.29	3089.58	3277.70	3477.38	3689.60	W/ 77.Z 1 3913 83
[26		2999.56	3182.50	3376.03	3581.70	3799.71	w7 1 O.QQ 4031 17
|2Z		3089.58	3277.70	3477.38	3689.60	3913 83	4151 Q7
[28		3182.50	3376.03	3581.70	3799.71	VZ Z 1 VIX/W 4031.17	*4 i u 1 ,yz 4976 09
29		3277.70	3477.38	3689.60	3913.83	4151.97	4z.zu,yz. 4404 88
30		3376.03	3581.70	3799.71	4031.17	4276.92	4537 51
31		3477.38	3689.60	3913.83	4151.97	4404.88	4673 55
32		3581.70	3799.71	4031.17	4276.92	4537.81	4814 60
33		3689.60	3913.83	4151.97	4404.88	4673.58	4055 66
34	3799.71	4031.17	4276.92	4537.81	4814.60	5105 90
35	3913.83	4151.97	4404.88	4673.58	4958.66	5961 14
36	4031.17	4276.92	4537.81	4814.60	5108.29	1,1*4 5410 50
37	4151.97	4404.88	4673.58	4958.66	5261.14	1 y.oy 5559 06
38	4276.92	4537.81	4814.60	5108.29	5419.89	5750.52
9/27/02
MORENO VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
APPENDIX B-1
CLASSIFIED EMPLOYEE SUBSTITUTE SALARY SCHEDULE EFFECTIVE 2-01-2003
Range	Hourly Rate	Position
04	$10,398	
05	$10,710	Nutrition Assistant I
06	$11,031	Nutrition Assistant I
07	$11,361	Nutrition Assistant I
08	$11,704	Infant Center Aide, Instructional Assistant-Classroom, Instructional Assistant-Sign Language Interpreter, Special Friend - Child Aide
09	$12,056	Child Development I, Clerk Typist I
10	$12,416	Child Development II, Nutrition Assistant II, Instructional Assistant-Non Severe Level II, Instructional Assistant-Severely Disabled Students, Instructional Assistant - EL
11	$12,787	Campus Supervisor I, Clerk Typist II, Library Media Trainee, Paraprofessional for Handicapped Students, Publications Clerk I, Purchasing Clerk
12	$13,172	Clerk Typist II - Bilingual, Custodian I, Nutrition Services Delivery Driver, Instructional Assistant-Severely Disabled Student Level II, School Community Liaison, Switchboard Operator/Receptionist, Workability Job Developer
13	$13,567	Account Clerk I, Cafeteria Lead Person II, Clerk Typist III, Custodian II, Nutrition Services Utility Driver, Gardener I, Library Media Assistant I, Utility Driver/Food Production Worker, Warehouseperson I
14	$13,975	Publications Clerk II, School Secretary I, Secretary I
15	$14,392	Book Depository Stock/Delivery Person, Bus Driver, Campus Supervisor II, Nutrition Assistant II, Nutrition Services Cook/ Manager, Gardener II, Head Custodian I, Health Clerk Technician, Library Media Assistant II, On-Campus Detention Supervisor, Refuse Equipment Operator, Student Body Accounts Clerk Typist, Warehouseperson II
72
73
16	$14,826	Account Clerk II, Curriculum Lab Assistant, Photo Lab/ Graphics Technician
17	$15,270	Attendance Specialist, Computer Technician, Data Clerk III, Guidance Assistant, Head Custodian II, Maintenance Worker I, Printing Services Technician, Word Processor
18	$15,729	Automotive/Diesel Mechanic I, Instructional Media Technician, Library Media Assistant III, School Secretary II, Secretary Il-District Office, Secretary Il-High School Counseling, Secretary Il-High School Assistant Principal
19	$16,200	Account Clerk III, Bus Driver/Bus Driver Trainer, Demographics Clerk, Dispatcher, District Translator, Information Systems Technology Assistant, Maintenance Secretary/Dispatcher, Registrar, School Secretary Ill-Middle School, School Secretary Ill-High School, Secretary/Dispatcher, Secretary III
20	$16,687	Head Custodian III
21	$17,187	Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Mechanic II, Assessment Technician, Bookkeeper, Carpenter II, Electrician II, Locksmith II, Painter II, Payroll Clerk, Plumber II
22	$17,703	Career Development Facilitator, Curriculum Lab Specialist, Healthy Start Project Liaison, Irrigation Specialist
23	$18,232	Accounting Technician, Automotive/Diesel Mechanic II, Purchasing Technician
24	S18.781	Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Mechanic III, Carpenter III, Electrician III, Gardener III, Locksmith III, Painter III, Plumber III, Warehouseperson II
25	$19.345	Nurse’s Assistant
26	$19.924	Accountant, Accountant-Nutrition Services, Audio-Visual Technician, Electronic Repairperson/TV Production, Media Production/Micro Computer
27	$20,522	Electronic Technician II, Library Specialist, Purchasing Agent
28	$21,139	Automotive Diesel Mechanic III, Electronic Technician III, Maintenance and Operations Coordinator, Maintenance Foreman, Maintenance Worker III - Lead, Operations Foreman, T elecommunications/Networking T echnician
29	$21.772	Maintenance Worker IV
74
■H
30	$22,425
31	$23,097
32	$23,791
33	$24,508
34	$25,240
35	$25,998
36	$26,776
37	$27,579
38	$28,410
Occupational Therapist
75
76
r ’
MORENO VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
APPENDIX B-1
CLASSIFIED EMPLOYEE SUBSTITUTE SALARY SCHEDULE EFFECTIVE 07/01/2002
Range
04
05
06
07
08
09
10
11
12
13
14
1 5
Hourly
Rate	Position
$10,296
$10,604	Nutrition Assistant I
$10,924	Nutrition Assistant I
$11.250	Nutrition Assistant I
$11.591	Infant Center Aide, Instructional Assistant-Classroom,
Instructional Assistant-Sign Language Interpreter, Special Friend - Child Aide
$11.936 Child Development I, Clerk Typist I
$12,295 Child Development II, Nutrition Assistant II, Instructional Assistant-Non Severe Level II, Instructional Assistant-Severely Disabled Students, Instructional Assistant - TLP
$12,662 Campus Supervisor I, Clerk Typist II, Library Media Trainee, Paraprofessional for Handicapped Students, Publications Clerk I, Purchasing Clerk
$13,043 Clerk Typist II - Bilingual, Custodian I, Nutrition Services Delivery Driver, Instructional Assistant-Severely Disabled Student Level II, School Community Liaison, Switchboard Operator/Receptionist, Workability Job Developer
$13.434 Account Clerk I, Cafeteria Lead Person II, Clerk Typist III, Custodian II, Nutrition Services Utility Driver, Gardener I, Library Media Assistant I, Utility Driver/Food Production Worker, Warehouseperson I
$13,837 Publications Clerk II, School Secretary I, Secretary I
$14.252 Book Depository Stock/Delivery Person, Bus Driver, Campus Supervisor II, Nutrition Assistant II, Nutrition Services Cook/ Manager, Gardener II, Head Custodian I, Health Clerk Technician, Library Media Assistant II, On-Campus Detention Supervisor, Refuse Equipment Operator, Student Body Accounts Clerk Typist, Warehouseperson II
77 - -
16	$14,680	Account Clerk II, Curriculum Lab Assistant, Photo Lab/ Graphics Technician
17	$15,120	Attendance Specialist, Computer Technician, Data Clerk III, Guidance Assistant, Head Custodian II, Maintenance Worker I, Printing Services Technician, Word Processor
18	$15,575	Automotive/Diesel Mechanic I, Instructional Media Technician, Library Media Assistant III, Maintenance Worker l-Pool, School Secretary 11, Secretary Il-District Office, Secretary Il-High School Counseling, Secretary Il-High School Assistant Principal
19	$16,040	Account Clerk III, Bus Driver/Bus Driver Trainer, Demographics Clerk, Dispatcher, District Translator, Information Systems Technology Assistant, Maintenance Secretary/Dispatcher, Registrar, School Secretary Ill-Middle School, School Secretary Ill-High School, Secretary/Dispatcher, Secretary III
20	$16,523	Head Custodian III
21	$17,018	Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Mechanic II, Assessment Technician, Bookkeeper, Carpenter II, Electrician II, Locksmith II, Painter II, Payroll Clerk, Plumber II
22	$17,530	Career Development Facilitator, Curriculum Lab Specialist, Healthy Start Project Liaison, Irrigation Specialist
23	$18,053	Accounting Technician, Automotive/Diesel Mechanic II, Purchasing Technician
24	$18,595	Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Mechanic III, Carpenter III, Electrician III, Gardener III, Locksmith 111, Painter III, Plumber 111, Warehouseperson II
25	$19,154	Nurse’s Assistant
26	$19,728	Accountant, Accountant-Nutrition Services, Audio-Visual Technician, Electronic Repairperson/TV Production, Media Production/Micro Computer
27	$20,321	Electronic Technician II, Library Specialist, Purchasing Agent
28	$20,932	Automotive Diesel Mechanic III, Electronic Technician III, Maintenance and Operations Coordinator, Maintenance Foreman, Maintenance Worker III - Lead, Operations Foreman, Telecommunications/Networking Technician
29	$21.558	Maintenance Worker IV
78
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
$22,204
$22,871
$23,557
$24,268
$24,991 Occupational Therapist
1
$25,741
$26,513
$27,307
$28,129
79
MORENO VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT YEAR ROUND EDUCATION K-5 CALENDAR 2002-2003
Board Approved: 12/04/01
JULY
AUGUST
SEPTEMBER	OCTOBER
NOVEMBER	DECEMBER
JANUARY	FEBRUARY
MARCH	APRIL
MAY	JUNE
Track A	Track B |	Track C
Track D
■
00 ts>
JULY
DEC 2	TRACK D RETURNS 13	PROGRESS REPORTS - TRACKS A, B 20	LAST DAY-TRACK B MINIMUM DAY - TRACKS A, B, D 23	WINTER BREAK BEGINS	NOV 1	PARENT CONFERENCES - TRACKS B, C, D 4	TRACK A RETURNS 11	VETERAN’S DAY (HOLIDAY) 27	LAST DAY-TRACK C MINIMUM DAY-TRACKC 28	THANKSGIVING DAY (HOLIDAY) 29	THANKSGIVING RECESS (HOLIDAY)	OCT 25	END OF FIRST TRIMESTER - TRACKS B, C, D 30	LAST DAY-TRACK D MINIMUM DAY-TRACK D 31	PARENT CONFERENCES-TRACKS B,C,D REPORT CARDS - TRACKS B, C, D	SEPT 2	LABOR DAY (HOLIDAY) 13	PROGRESS REPORTS - TRACKS C, D 25	END OF FIRST TRIMESTER-TRACK A LAST DAY-TRACK A MINIMUM DAY-TRACK A 26-27 PARENT CONFERENCES-TRACK A REPORT CARDS-TRACK A 30 TRACK B RETURNS	AUG 2	LAST DAY-TRACKC MINIMUM DAY-TRACK C 5	TEACHER PREP DAY - TRACK D 6	STUDENTS RETURN - TRACK D 16	PROGRESS REPORTS - TRACKS A, B 29-30 NEW TEACHER ORIENTATION (YRE-TRACK D & TRADITIONAL 30	LAST DAY-TRACK B MINIMUM DAY TRACK B	JUL 1-2 NEW TEACHER ORIENTATION/STAFF DEVELOPMENT 4	INDEPENDENCE DAY (IN LIEU OF LEGAL HOLIDAY) 8	TEACHER PREP DAY - TRACKS A, B, C 9	STUDENTS RETURN - TRACKS A, B, C
JUN 2 TRACK B RETURNS 13 MINIMUM DAY -TRACKS B, C, D 20	END OF THIRD TRIMESTER - TRACKS B, C, D LAST DAY OF INSTRUCTION - TRACKS B, C, D MINIMUM DAY-TRACKS B, C, D REPORT CARDS - TRACKS B, C, D MINIMUM WORKDAY - ALL CERTIFICATED	MAY 1	LAST DAY-TRACK B MINIMUM DAY-TRACKB 2	TEACHER PREP DAY - TRACK C 5	TRACK C RETURNS 9	PROGRESS REPORTS - TRACKS C,	D 23	MINIMUM DAY-TRACK A 26	MEMORIAL DAY (HOLIDAY) 30	END OF THIRD TRIMESTER-TRACK	A LAST DAY OF INSTRUCTION - TRACK A MINIMUM DAY-TRACK A REPORT CARDS-TRACK A	APR 1 LAST DAY-TRACKC MINIMUM DAY-TRACK C TEACHER PREP DAY - TRACK D 2 TRACK D RETURNS 11	PROGRESS REPORTS - TRACKS A, B	MAR 3 TRACK A RETURNS 14 ADMISSION’S DAY (HOLIDAY IN LIEU OF)	FEB 3 TRACK B RETURNS 14 LINCOLN’S BIRTHDAY (HOLIDAY) 17 PRESIDENTS DAY (HOLIDAY) 28	END OF SECOND TRIMESTER - TRACK B, C, D LAST DAY-TRACK D MINIMUM DAY-TRACK D REPORT CARDS - TRACKS B, C, D TEACHER PREP DAY - TRACK A	JAN 1-3	WINTER BREAK 6 TRACKS A, C.D RETURN 17 PROGRESS REPORTS - TRACKS C, D 20 MARTIN LUTHER KING DAY (HOLIDAY) 31	END OF SECOND TRIMESTER-TRACK A LAST DAY-TRACK A MINIMUM DAY-TRACK A REPORT CARDS-TRACK A TEACHER PREP DAY - TRACK B
MORENO VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT YEAR ROUND EDUCATION 6-8 CALENDAR 2002-2003
Board Approved 12/04/01 AUGUST
SEPTEMBER
OCTOBER
NOVEMBER
DECEMBER
JANUARY
00
FEBRUARY
MARCH
APRIL
MAY
JUNE
Track A
Track B
Track C g|
Track D £

2002-2003 YRE CALENDAR 6-8 CURRENT SCHEDULE (IMPORTANT DATES)
JUL 1-2 NEW TEACHER ORIENTATION/STAFF DEVELOPMENT 4	INDEPENDENCE DAY (IN LIEU OF LEGAL HOLIDAY) 8	TEACHER PREP DAY - TRACKS A, B, C 9	STUDENTS RETURN - TRACKS A, B, C	JAN 1-3 WINTER BREAK 6	TRACKS A, C, D RETURN 17	PROGRESS REPORTS - TRACKS C, D 20	MARTIN LUTHER KING DAY (HOLIDAY) 30	END OF SECOND TRIMESTER-TRACK A LAST DAY-TRACK A MINIMUM DAY-TRACK A 31	PARENT CONFERENCE-TRACK A REPORT CARDS-TRACK A TEACHER PREP DAY - TRACK B
AUG 2	LAST DAY-TRACK C 5	TEACHER PREP DAY - TRACK D 6	STUDENTS RETURN - TRACK D 16	PROGRESS REPORTS - TRACKS A, B 29-30 NEW TEACHER ORIENTATION (YRE-TRACK D & TRADITIONAL 30	LAST DAY-TRACK B	FEB 3 TRACK B RETURNS 14	LINCOLN'S BIRTHDAY (HOLIDAY) 17	PRESIDENTS DAY (HOLIDAY) 27	END OF SECOND TRIMESTER - TRACKS B, C, D LAST DAY-TRACK D MINIMUM DAY-TRACKS B, C, D 28	PARENT CONFERENCES - TRACKS B, C, D REPORT CARDS - TRACKS B, C, D TEACHER PREP DAY - TRACK A
SEPT 2	LABOR DAY (HOLIDAY) 13	PROGRESS REPORTS - TRACKS C, D 26	END OF FIRST TRIMESTER-TRACK A LAST DAY-TRACK A MINIMUM DAY-TRACK A 27	PARENT CONFERENCES-TRACK A REPORT CARDS-TRACK A 30	TRACK B RETURNS	MAR 3	TRACK A RETURNS 14 ADMISSION’S DAY (HOLIDAY IN LIEU OF)
OCT 31	END OF FIRST TRIMESTER - TRACKS B, C, D LAST DAY-TRACK D MINIMUM DAY - TRACK B, C, D	APR 1	LAST DAY-TRACK C MINIMUM DAY-TRACK C TEACHER PREP DAY - TRACK D 2 TRACK D RETURNS 11	PROGRESS REPORTS - TRACKS A, B
NOV 1	PARENT CONFERENCES - TRACKS B, C, D REPORT CARDS-TRACKS B, C, D 4	TRACK A RETURNS 11	VETERAN’S DAY (HOLIDAY) 27	LAST DAY-TRACK C 28	THANKSGIVING DAY (HOLIDAY) 29	THANKSGIVING RECESS (HOLIDAY)	MAY 1	LAST DAY-TRACKS 2	TEACHER PREP DAY - TRACK C 5	TRACK C RETURNS 9	PROGRESS REPORTS - TRACKS C, D 23	MINIMUM DAY-TRACK A 26	MEMORIAL DAY (HOLIDAY) 30	END OF THIRD TRIMESTER - TRACK A LAST DAY OF INSTRUCTION - TRACK A MINIMUM DAY-TRACK A REPORT CARDS-TRACK A
DEC 2	TRACK D RETURNS 13	PROGRESS REPORTS - TRACKS A, B 20	LAST DAY-TRACK B MINIMUM DAY - TRACKS A,	B, D 23	WINTER BREAK BEGINS	JUN 2 TRACK B RETURNS 13 MINIMUM DAY - TRACKS B, C, D 20	END OF THIRD TRIMESTER - TRACKS B, C, D LAST DAY OF INSTRUCTION - TRACKS B, C, D MINIMUM DAY - TRACKS B, C, D REPORT CARDS - TRACKS B, C, D MINIMUM WORKDAY - ALL CERTIFICATED
6-8 YRE 2002-03 revised: 11/28/01
Board Approved: 12/04/01
67-REVISED-A
84
									
	JULY	AUGUST	SEPTEMBER	OCTOBER	NOVEMBER M T W lb F M T W Th F	T W ~Rh F M T W Th F	M T W Th F						DECEMBER M T W Th F		
	1 2 3 (4J 5	1 2	(2) T T A 6	1234	1 8	9 10 11	12	5 6 7 8 9	9	10 11 12 13	7	8 9	10	11	4 5 6 7	8 15	16 17 18	19	12 13 14 15 16	16	17 18 19 20	14	15 16	17	18	® 12 13 14	15						2	3	4	PC	PC 9	10	11	12	13 16	19	M		
	22 23 24	25 26	19	20 21 22 23	23	24 25 26 Z1 21 22 23	24	25	18	19	20 21 22 29 30 31	26	27 28 29 30	30	28 29 30	31	25	26	M (28)Qs*						23 ® 0 26 27 30 ®		
	JANUARY	FEBRUARY	MARCH	APRIL	MAY M T JV Th F M T W Th F M T W Th F M T W Th F	M T W Th F						JUNE M T W Th F		
	UJ 23134562	3	4 5 11 12 F 18 19 2 25 26 2	5 JL	12 3 4		1 2		2	3 4 5 6		
	6 7	8	9	10	10	11	12	13	(g)-	10 13 14	15	16	17	®	18	19	20	21	17 @) 21	22	23	24	24	25	26	27	28	24 27 28 29 30 31	31		A	| 7 8 9 10 11 |	5 6 7 8 9	9 10 11 12 M 0	21	14	15	16	17	18	12	13	14	15	16	16	17	M	19	20 7	28	21	22	23	24	25	19	20	21	22	23	23	24	25	26	27 	28	29	30	(26)	27	28	29	30	30							
	Students Return	Legal Holiday	Local Holiday IMPORTANT DATES Jul	4	Independence Day (legal holiday) Aug	29-30	New Teacher Orientation Sep	2	Labor Day (legal holiday) Sep	3-4	Teacher Prep Days	| [ School Recess T Teacher Prep Day	M Minimum Day PC Parent Conference SUMMER SCHOOL 2003 Jun 23-24 Teacher Prep Days Jun	25	Summer School Begins Jul	31	Summer School Ends Possible Double Sessions							
Sep	5	STUDENTS RETURN Nov	11	Veterans Day (legal holiday) Nov	27	END OF 1ST TRIMESTER Minimum Day Nov 28*29 Thanksgiving Recess (legal/local holiday) Dec	5-6	Parent Conferences Dec	20	Minimum Day Dec	23	Winter Recess	Begins Dec	24	Christmas Eve	(local holiday) Dec	25	Christmas Day	(legal holiday) Dec	31	New Year's Eve (local holiday) Jan	1	New Year's Day (legal holiday) Jan	6	Return to School Jan 20 Martin Luther King Day (legal holiday) Feb	14	Lincoln's Day (local holiday) Feb	17	President's Day (legal holiday) Mar	13	END OF 2ND TRIMESTER Minimum Day Mar	14	Admission's Day (in lieu of legal holiday) Apr	7-11	Spring Recess May	26	Memorial Day (legal holiday) Jun	13	Minimum Day Jun	18	LAST DAY OF INSTRUCTION Minimum Day Minimum Workday, All Certificated		School Month	Dates	Teaching Days					
				Traditional K-5 6-8 9-12	YRE 6-8 A B C 0	YRE K-5 A B C D			
		1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14	07/01 • 07/26 07/29 - 08/23 08/26 - 09/20 09/23-10/18 10/21-11/15 11/18-12/13 12/16-01/10 01/13-02/07 02/10-03/07 03/10-04/04 04/07 - 05/02 05/05-05/30 06/02-06/27 06/30-06/30 TOTALS	0	0	0 0	0	0 17	17	17 20	20	20 19	19	19 16	17	18 10	10	10 19	19	18 18	18	18 19	18	19 15	15	15 19	19	19 8	8	7 0	0	0 180 180 180	14 14 14 0 20 20 5 14 19 5 14 19 4 14 20 20 9 18 18 8 18 18 8 10 10 5 5 10 13 5 19 19 5 17 17 12 19 19 16 3 20 20 0 20 19 0 19 19 0 15 15 15 0 0 0 0 170 170 170 170	14 14 14 0 20 20	5	14 19	5	14	19 3 15 20 20 9 17 17 8 18 18	8	10 10	5	5	10 14	5	19	19 5 18 18 13 19 19 16 3 20 19	0	20 19	0	19	19 0 15 15 15 0	0	0	0 170 170 170 170			
Board Approved: 12-04-2001
85

JULY	AUGUST	SEPTEMBER	OCTOBER	NOVEMBER	DECEMBER M T W Th F MT W Th F Jfl. T W Th F M T W Th F	M T W Th F	M T W Th F j						
123(4)5	1 2	(2J T T A 6	1234	1 8	9	10	11	12	5	6	7	8	9	9	10	11	12	13	7	8	9	10	11	4	5	6	7	8 15	16	17	18	19	12	13	14	15	16	16	17	18	19	20	14	15	16	17	18	(jl)	12	13	14	15 22	23	24	25	26	19	20	21	22	23	23	24	25	26	27	21	22	23	24	25	18	19	20	21	22 29 30 31	26 27 28 29	30	30	28 29	30	31	25 26	M @Qg) JANUARY	FEBRUARY	MARCH	APRIL	MAY M T W	Th F M T W Th	F	M	T W Th F M T	W	Th	F	M T	W Th F					2	3 9	10 16 17	4 5 6 11 12 PC 19 M
						
					Rag*	l (25) 26 27
					JUNE M T W Th F	
— - -q-j 2"-3]	3456^	3	4 5 11 12 18 19 2 25 26 2	6 7	1 2	3	4		1	2	2	3	4	5	6 i	6	7	8	9	9	10	11	12	M 2	13	14	15	16	16	17	M	19	20 9 20 21 22 23	23 24 25 26 27 |) 27 28 29 30	30		
6 7	8	9	10	ID	11	12	13	(gj	10 13 14	15	16	17	©	18	19	20	21	17 (5g) 21	22	23	24	24	25	26	27	28	24 27 28 29 30 31	31		VI	| 7 8 9 10 11 |	5 !0 PC	14 15 16 17 18	1! .7 28	21 22 23 24	25	1! 28 29 30	(5i				
/y Students Return (J) Legal Holiday	Local Holiday [_J School Recess T Teacher Prep Day M Minimum Day PC Parent Conference SUMMER SCHOOL 2003 Jun 23-24 Teacher Prep Days Jun 25 Summer School Begins IMPORTANT DATES	Jul 31 Summer School Ends Jul 4 Independence Day (legal holiday)	Possible Double Sessions Aug 29*30 New Teacher Orientation Sep 2 Labor Day (legal holiday)								
Sep	3-4	Teacher Prep Days Sep	5	STUDENTS RETURN Nov	11	Veterans Day (legal holiday) Nov	27	END OF 1ST TRIMESTER Minimum Day Nov 28*29 Thanksgiving Recess (legal/local holiday) Dec	13	Parent Conferences Dec	20	Minimum Day Dec	23	Winter Recess Begins Dec	24	Christmas Eve (local holiday) Dec	25	Christmas Day (legal holiday) Dec	31	New Year's Eve (local holiday) Jan 1	New Year's Day (legal holiday) Jan	6	Return to School Jan 20 Martin Luther King Day (legal holiday) Feb	14	Lincoln's Day (local holiday) Feb	17	President's Day (legal holiday) Mar	13	END OF 2ND TRIMESTER Minumum Day Mar	14	Admission's Day (in lieu of legal holiday) Mar	21	Parent Conferences Apr	7*11	Spring Recess May	26	Memorial Day (legal holiday) Jun	13	Minimum Day Jun	18	LAST DAY OF INSTRUCTION Minimum Day Minimum Workday, All Certificated	School Month	Dates	Teaching Days			
			Traditional K-5 6-8 9-12	YRE 6*8 A B C D	YRE K-5 A B C D	
	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14	07/01-07/26 07/29 - 08/23 08/26 - 09/20 09/23-10/18 10/21-11/15 11/18-12/13 12/16-01/10 01/13-02/07 02/10-03/07 03/10-04/04 04/07 - 05/02 05/05 - 05/30 06/02-06/27 06/30 - 06/30 TOTALS	0	0	0 0	0	0 17	17	17 20	20	20 19	19	19 16	17	18 10	10	10 19	19	18 18	18	18 19	18	19 15	15	15 19	19	19 8	8	7 0	0	0 180	180	180	14 14 14 0 20 20 5 14 19 5 14 19 4 14 20 20 9 18 18 9 18 18 8 10 10 5 5 10 13 5 19 19 5 17 17 12 19 19 16 3 20 20 0 20 19 0 19 19 0 15 15 15 0 0 0 0 170 170 170 170	14 14 14 0 20 20	5	14 19	5	14	19 3 15 20 20 9 17 17 8 18 18	8	10 10	5	5	10 14	5	19	19 5 18 18 13 19 19 16 3 20 19	0	20 19	0	19	19 0 15 15 15 0	0	0	0 170 170 170 170	
Board Approved: 12-04-2001
86
x"'	7 ~ ”,r. ’■' -	vr* --v -. '	-*• -- sx , ”■-,■.	'■,''■■■ ”" ■■■”■"	*wv>** *	s,	<■, - -Ase't '	-■» *	••, ' -. "»
“TjOdKi©^
JULY	AUGUST	SEPTEMBER	OCTOBER	NOVEMBER	DECEMBER
M T W	Th F M T W Th F	M T W	Xh F M T W Th F	M T W	Th F	M T W Th F
1 2 3	XJ) 5 			1 i	(22 T T	/5\ 6	12 3 4		1	2 3 4 5 6
8 9 10	11 12	5 6 7 8 9	9 10 11	12 13	7 8 9 10 11	4 5 6	7 M	9 10 11 12 13
15 16 17	18 19	12 13 14 15 16	16 17 18	19 20	14 15 16 17 18	Qj) 12 13	14 15	16 K 19 20
22 23 24	25 26	19 20 21 22 23	23 24 25	26 27	21 22 23 24 25	18 19 20	21 22	‘13-®r@ 26 27 30 gQ 	
29 30 31	26 27 28 29 30	30	28 29 30 31	25 26 27	
JANUARY	FEBRUARY	MARCH	APRIL	MAY	JUNE
M T JfiJ	Th F M T W Th F	M T W	Th F M T W Th F	M T W	Th F	M T W Th F
	2 3 | '3“4 5 '6 7	3 4 5	6 7	1 2 3 M		12	1 3 4 S 6
A 6 1 8	$ 10	10 11 12 13 0 16 17	(jj) 18 19 20 21	10 11 12	13 R 'S ~9 ' l6 '111	5 6 7	8 9	9 10 11 12 13
13 14 15		‘ 17 18 19	20 21	14 16 16 17 18	12 13 14	15 16	16 17 NSD 19 20
@ 21 22	23 NSD 24 25 26 27 28	24 25 26	27 28	21 22 23 24 25	19 20 21	22 23	23 24 25 26 27
27 28 29	30 31	31	28 29 30	O 27 28	29 30	30
Students Return Qy Legal Holiday Local Holiday | | School Recess T Teacher Prep Day M Minimum Day PC Parent Conference
IMPflBIANIDAIES
SUMMER SCHOOL 2003
Jul	4	Independence Day (legal holiday)
Aug 29-30		New Teacher Orientation
Sep	2	Labor Day (legal holiday)
Sep	3-4	Teacher Prep Days
Sep	5	STUDENTS RETURN
Nov	8	END OF FIRST QUARTER Minimum Day
Nov	11	Veterans Day (legal holiday)
Nov 28-29		Thanksgiving Recess (legal/local holiday)
Dec	23	Winter Recess Begins
Dec	24	Christmas Eve (local holiday)
Dec	25	Christmas Day (legal holiday)
Dec	31	New Year’s Eve (local holiday)
Jan	1	New Year’s Day (legal holiday)
Jan	6	Return to School
Jan	20	Martin Luther King Day (legal holiday)
Jan	24	END OF FIRST SEMESTER Non Student Day Semester Grading
Feb	14	Lincoln’s Day (local holiday)
Feb	17	President’s Day (legal holiday)
Mar	14	Admission’s Day (in lieu of legal holiday)
Apr	4	END OF THIRD QUARTER Minimum Day
Apr	7-11	Spring Recess
May	26	Memorial Day (legal holiday)
Jun	16	Graduation - CSHS, MMHS
Jun	17	LAST DAY OF INSTRUCTION Graduation-MVHS, WHS Graduation - Bayside, Charter
Jun	18	Non Student Day Semester Grading Minimum Workday, All Certificated
Jun 23-24 Teacher Prep Days (All levels)
Jun	25	Summer School Begins
Aug	7	Summer School Ends
Possible Double Sessions
		Teaching bays		
School		Traditions	YRE 6-8	YRE K-5
Month	Dates			
		K-5 6-8 9-12 I	( BCD	A B C D
1	07/01 -07/26	0 0 0	14 14 14 0	14 14 14 0
2	07/29-08/23	0 0 0	20 20 5 14	20 20 5 14
3	08/26-09/20	17 17 17	19 5 14 19	19	5 14 19
4	09/23- 10/18	20 20 20	4 14 20 20	3 15 20 20
5	10/21-11/15	19 19 19	9 18 18 9	9 17 17 8
6	11/18-12/13	16 17 18	18 18 8 10	18 18 8 10
7	12/16-01/10	10 10 10	10 5 5 10	10	5 5 10
8	01/13-02/07	19 19 18	13 5 19 19	14	5 19 19
9	02/10-03/07	18 18 18	5 17 17 12	5 18 18 13
10	03/10-04/04	19 18 19	19 19 16 3	19 19 16 3
11	04/07-05/02	15 15 15	20 20 0 20	20 19 0 20
12	05/05-05/30	19 19 19	19 0 19 19	19	0 19 19
13	06/02-06/27	8 8 7	0 15 15 15	0 15 15 15
14	06/30-06/30	0 0 0	0 0 0 0	0 0 0 (J
	TOTALS	180 180 180	170 170 170 170	170 170 170 170
1ST SEMESTER EXAM SCHEDULE 9-12JAN.21,2003 JAN.22.2003JAN.23,2003				
7:50-9:50;				MW-;-
				
				fWod4'J 'Periods,.:'-
12:00-12:40Uinch		- s \ J		
12:40-2*0			PeirfcicIT'-	
2ND SEMESTER SCHEDULE (SAME AS 1ST SEMESTER!-JUN. M; JUN.16, JUN. 17.2003	7				
Summer School Exams: August 6,2003				
Board Approved: 12-04-2001
87
00 00
MORENO VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT YEAR ROUND EDUCATION K-5 CALENDAR 2003-04
JULY
AUGUST
2 3 4 5
6
7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
A
B
o
H
H
H
H
SEPTEMBER
TH
T
y____\ \
P
10 11 12 13 14 15
16
17 18 19 20 21 22 23
24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
IS
21
18
18
21
OCTOBER
NOVEMBER
DECEMBER
16 17 18 19 20 21 22
JANUARY
FEBRUARY
10 11 12 13 14
15
oo kO
8
H
H
c
D
WBlIi
H
H

23 24
25 26 27 28 29 30
31
6
7
8
14
15 16 17 18 19 20
13
21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29
H i
H
H
H
9 10 11 12
2 3 4 5
H
0
18
H
H
19
18
H
H
19
18
H
H
MARCH
APRIL
9 10 11 12
MAY
JUNE
21 22 23 24 25 26 27
28 29 30 31
2
8
13
14 15 16 17 18 19 20
6
11 12
13 14 15 16
20 21 22 23 24
25 26 27 28 29 30
H
H
o
3 4 5
o
14
19
14
20
14
M MINIMUM DAY FOR STUDENTS
T « TEACHER PREPARATION DAY
H = HOLIDAY
PC-PARENT CONFERENCE
A shaded area Is a regular school day and those days marked by an M are minimum days for students. Board approved: 02/12/02
H
H
Track A
Track B
Track C
■
Track D £
2003-2004 YRE CALENDAR K-5 CURRENT SCHEDULE (IMPORTANT DATES)
JUL 2-3	NEW TEACHER ORIENTATION/STAFF DEVELOPMENT 4	INDEPENDENCE DAY (LEGAL HOLIDAY) 7	TEACHER PREP DAY - TRACKS A, B, C 8	STUDENTS RETURN - TRACKS A, B, C	JAN 5 TRACKS A, C.D RETURN 16	PROGRESS REPORTS - TRACKS C, D 19 MARTIN LUTHER KING DAY (HOLIDAY) 30	END OF SECOND TRIMESTER - TRACK A LAST DAY-TRACK A MINIMUM DAY-TRACK A REPORT CARDS-TRACK A TEACHER PREP DAY - TRACK B
AUG 1	LAST DAY-TRACK C MINIMUM DAY-TRACKC TEACHER PREP DAY - TRACK D 4	STUDENTS RETURN - TRACK D 15	PROGRESS REPORTS - TRACKS A, B 28-29 NEW TEACHER ORIENTATION (YRE-TRACK D & TRADITIONAL 29	LAST DAY-TRACKB MINIMUM DAY TRACK B	FEB 2 TRACK B RETURNS 13 LINCOLN’S BIRTHDAY (HOLIDAY) 16 PRESIDENTS’DAY (HOLIDAY) 27 END OF SECOND TRIMESTER - TRACK B, C, D LAST DAY-TRACK D MINIMUM DAY-TRACK D REPORT CARDS - TRACKS B, C, D
SEPT	1	LABOR DAY (HOLIDAY) 2	TRACK C RETURNS 12	PROGRESS REPORTS - TRACKS C,	D 24	END OF FIRST TRIMESTER - TRACK A LAST DAY-TRACK A MINIMUM DAY-TRACK A 25-26	PARENT CONFERENCES - TRACK A REPORT CARDS-TRACK A 29	TRACK B RETURNS	MAR 1	TEACHER PREP DAY - TRACK A 2	TRACK A RETURNS 12	ADMISSION DAY (IN LIEU OF LEGAL HOLIDAY) 31	LAST DAY-TRACK C MINIMUM DAY-TRACK C TEACHER PREP DAY - TRACK D
OCT 29	END OF FIRST TRIMESTER-TRACKS B,C,D LAST DAY-TRACK D MINIMUM DAY-TRACKD 30-31	PARENT CONFERENCES - TRACKS B, C, D REPORT CARDS - TRACKS B, C, D	APR 1 TRACK D RETURNS 9	PROGRESS REPORTS - TRACKS A, B 30	LAST DAY-TRACK B MINIMUM DAY - TRACK B
NOV 3	TRACK A RETURNS 11	VETERANS’ DAY (HOLIDAY) 26	LAST DAY-TRACK C MINIMUM DAY-TRACKC 27	THANKSGIVING DAY (HOLIDAY) 28	THANKSGIVING RECESS (HOLIDAY)	MAY 3	TEACHER PREP DAY-TRACKC 4	TRACK C RETURNS 14	PROGRESS REPORTS - TRACKS C, D 21 MINIMUM DAY-TRACK A 28	END OF THIRD TRIMESTER-TRACK A LAST DAY OF INSTRUCTION - TRACK A MINIMUM DAY-TRACK A REPORT CARDS-TRACK A MINIMUM WORKDAY - TRACK A CERTIFICATED 31 MEMORIAL DAY (HOLIDAY)
DEC 1	TRACK D RETURNS 12	PROGRESS REPORTS - TRACKS A, B 19	LAST DAY-TRACK B MINIMUM DAY - TRACKS A, B,	D 22	WINTER BREAK BEGINS	JUN 1 TRACK B RETURNS 11 MINIMUM DAY - TRACKS B, C, D 18 END OF THIRD TRIMESTER -TRACKS B, C, D LAST DAY OF INSTRUCTION - TRACKS B, C, D MINIMUM DAY-TRACKS B, C, D REPORT CARDS - TRACKS B, C, D MINIMUM WORKDAY - ALL CERTIFICATED
90
K-5 YRE 2003-04 Board Approved: 02/12/02
91
2003-2004 YRE CALENDAR 6-8 CURRENT SCHEDULE (IMPORTANT DATES)
JUL 2-3	NEW TEACHER ORIENTATION/STAFF DEVELOPMENT 4	INDEPENDENCE DAY (LEGAL HOLIDAY) 7	TEACHER PREP DAY - TRACKS A, B, C 8	STUDENTS RETURN - TRACKS A, B, C	JAN 5 TRACKS A, C,D RETURN 16	PROGRESS REPORTS - TRACKS C, D 19	MARTIN LUTHER KING DAY (HOLIDAY) 29	END OF SECOND TRIMESTER-TRACK A LAST DAY-TRACK A MINIMUM DAY-TRACK A 30	PARENT CONFERENCES - TRACK A REPORT CARDS-TRACK A TEACHER PREP DAY - TRACK B
AUG 1	LAST DAY-TRACK C MINIMUM DAY-TRACK C TEACHER PREP DAY - TRACK D 4	STUDENTS RETURN - TRACK D 15	PROGRESS REPORTS - TRACKS A, B 28-29 NEW TEACHER ORIENTATION (YRE-TRACK D & TRADITIONAL 29	LAST DAY-TRACK B	FEB 2 TRACK B RETURNS 13	LINCOLN'S BIRTHDAY (HOLIDAY) 16	PRESIDENTS’ DAY (HOLIDAY) 26	END OF SECOND TRIMESTER - TRACK B, C, D LAST DAY-TRACK D MINIMUM DAY-TRACKS B, C, D 27	PARENT CONFERENCES - TRACKS B, C, D REPORT CARDS - TRACKS B, C, D
SEPT	1	LABOR DAY (HOLIDAY) 2	TRACK C RETURNS 12	PROGRESS REPORTS - TRACKS C, D 25	END OF FIRST TRIMESTER-TRACK A LAST DAY-TRACK A MINIMUM DAY-TRACK A 26	PARENT CONFERENCES - TRACK A REPORT CARDS-TRACK A 29	TRACK B RETURNS	MAR 1	TEACHER PREP DAY - TRACK A 2 TRACK A RETURNS 12 ADMISSION DAY (IN LIEU OF LEGAL HOLIDAY) 31	LAST DAY-TRACK C TEACHER PREP DAY - TRACK D
OCT 30	END OF FIRST TRIMESTER-TRACKS B,C,D LAST DAY-TRACK D MINIMUM DAY - TRACKS B, C, D 31	PARENT CONFERENCES - TRACKS B, C, D REPORT CARDS - TRACKS B, C, D	APR 1 TRACK D RETURNS 9	PROGRESS REPORTS - TRACKS A, B 30 LAST DAY-TRACK B
NOV 3	TRACK A RETURNS 11	VETERANS’DAY (HOLIDAY) 26	LAST DAY-TRACK C 27	THANKSGIVING DAY (HOLIDAY) 28	THANKSGIVING RECESS (HOLIDAY)	MAY 3	TEACHER PREP DAY - TRACK C 4 TRACK C RETURNS 14	PROGRESS REPORTS-TRACKS C,D 21 MINIMUM DAY-TRACK A 28	END OF THIRD TRIMESTER-TRACK A LAST DAY OF INSTRUCTION - TRACK A MINIMUM DAY-TRACK A REPORT CARDS - TRACK A MINIMUM WORKDAY - TRACK A CERTIFICATED 31 MEMORIAL DAY (HOLIDAY)
DEC 1	TRACK D RETURNS 12	PROGRESS REPORTS - TRACKS A, B 19	LAST DAY-TRACK B MINIMUM DAY - TRACKS A, B, D 22	WINTER BREAK BEGINS	JUN 1 TRACK B RETURNS 11	MINIMUM DAY - TRACKS B, C, D 18 END OF THIRD TRIMESTER-TRACKS B,C,D LAST DAY OF INSTRUCTION - TRACKS B, C, D MINIMUM DAY-TRACKS B, C, D REPORT CARDS - TRACKS B, C, D MINIMUM WORKDAY - ALL CERTIFICATED
92
6-8 YRE 2003-04 Board Approved: 02/12/02
Moreno Valley Unified School District Traditional Year (K 5) Trimester Calendar 2003-04
JULY	AUGUST	SEPTEMBER	OCTOBER	NOVEMBER	DECEMBER M T W Th F M T W Th F Jfl T W ^1 F MTWThF	MTWThF	MTWThF
— 1 2 3 Q)	1	(J) T T & 5	123	123 PC PC 7 8	9 10 Tl	45678	89 10 11 12	6789	10	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12 14 15	16 17 18	11 12 13 14 15	15 16 17 18 19	13 14 15 16	17	10 0	12	13	14	15	16	17	J8	M
21 22	23	24	25	18 19 20 21 22	22 23	24 25 26	20	21 22 23	24	17	18	19 20 21	22	23	WA 0 26 28 29	30	31	25 26 27 28 29	29 30	27	28 29 30	31	24	25	M I C2p (2®l	29	30		
JANUARY	FEBRUARY	MARCH	APRIL	MAY	JUNE M T W Jh F MTWThF MTWThF MTWThF	MTWThF	MTWThF
It) 2 I 23456	12345	12	34567	1234
’5 6	7	8	9	10	11	12	@	8	9-10	mQ)	|	5	6	7	8	9 |	10	11	12	13	14	7	8	9	10	M 12 13	14	15	16	®	17	18	19 20	15	16 17	18 19	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	14	15	M	17	18 ® 20	21	22	23	23	24	25	26 27	22	23 24	25 26	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	21	22	23	24	25 2? 27 28 29 30	29 30 31	26 27 28 29 30	(S)	28 29 30
Students Return Qj Legal Holiday Local Holiday | | School Recess T Teacher Prep Day M Minimum Day PC Parent Conference
gUMMEKSCHOJllflOA
Jun 24*25 Teacher Prep Days (All levels)
Jun	28	Summer School Begins
Jul	30	Summer School Ends
IMPORTANT DATES	Possible Double Sessions
Jul 4 Independence Day (legal holiday)	_____________________________________________________________
Aug 28*29 New Teacher Orientation			Teaching Days		
Sep 1 Labor Day (legal holiday)	School		Traditional	YRE 6-8	YRE K-5
Sep 2*3 Teacher Prep Days	Month	Date:			
Sep 4 STUDENTS RETURN			K-5 6-8 9-12	A B C D	A B C D
Nov 11 Veterans Day (legal holiday)					
Nov 26 END OF 1ST TRIMESTER	1	07/01-07/25	0 0 0	14 14	14	0	14	14 14	0
Minimum Day					
Nov 27*28 Thanksgiving Recess (legal/local holiday)	2	07/28-08/22	0 0 0	20 20	5 15	20 20	5 15
Dec 4*5 Parent Conference					
Dec	19	Minimum Day	3	08/25-09/19	12 12 12	19	5	14 19	19	5 14 19
Dec 22 Winter Recess Begins					
Dec 24 Christmas Eve (local holiday)	4	09/22-10/17	20 20 20	4 15	20 20	3 15 20 20
Dec 25 Christmas Day (legal holiday)					
Dec 31 New Year's Eve (local holiday)	5	10/20-11/14	19 19 19	9 18	18	9	9	17 17	8
Jan 1 New Year's Day (legal holiday)					
Jan 5 Return to School	6	11/17-12/12	16 17 18	18 18	8 10	18 18	8 10
Jan	19	Martin Luther King Day (legal holiday)					
Feb 13 Lincoln's Day (local holiday)	7	12/15-01/09	10 10 10	10	5	5 10	10	5	5 10
Feb 16 President's Day (legal holiday)					
Mar 11 END OF 2ND TRIMESTER	8	01/12-02/06	19 19 18	13	5	19 19	14	5 19 19
Minimum Day					
Mar 12 Admission's Day (in lieu of legal holiday)	9	02/09-03/05	18 18 18	4 17	17 12	4	18 18 13
Apr 5*9 Spring Recess					
May 31 Memorial Day (legal holiday)	10	03/08-04/02	19 18 19	19 19	17	2	19	19 17	2
Jun 11 Minimum Day					
Jun 16 LAST DAY OF INSTRUCTION	11	04/05-04/30	15 15 15	20 20	0 20	20 20	0 20
Minimum Workday, All Certificated					
	12	05/03-05/28	20 20 20	20	0	19 20	20	0 19 20
	13	05/31-06/25	12 12 11	0 14	14 14	0	14 14 14
	14	06/28-06/30	0 0 0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0
Board Approved: 02/12/02		TOTALS	180 180 180	170 170 170 170	170 170 170 170
93

JULY			AUGUST						SEPTEMBER					OCTOBER					F	NOVEMBER			Th	F	DECEMBER				
M	T	W	Th F		M	T	W	Th	F	JVJ	T	W Xh		F	M	T	W	Th		M	T	W			M	T	W	Th	F
	1	2	3						1	U)	T	T	&	5			1	2	3						1	2	3	4	5
7	8	9	10	11	4	5	6	7	8	8	9	10	11	12	6	7	8	9	10	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	PC
14	15	16	17	18	11	12	13	14	15	15	16	17	18	19	13	14	15	16	17	10	CD)	12	13	14	15	16	T7		19
21	22	23	24	25	18	19	20	21	22	22	23	24	25	26	20	21	22	23	24	17	18	19	21,		22	23	ISM	(20	26
28	29	30	31		25	26	27	28	29	29	30				27	28	29	30	31	24	25	M L	@ (2§>l		29	30	rd		
JANUARY					FEBRUARY					MARCH					APRIL					MAY					JUNE				
M	T	W	JU	F	M	T	W	Th	F	M	T	W	Th	F	M	T	W	Th	F	M	T	w	Th	F	M	T	w	Th	F
5	6	7	19 2 8 9		2 A	3 10	4 11	5 12	db	1 8	2 9-	3 10	4 M	03) I	15	6	7	1 8	2 9 |	3 10	4 11	5 12	6 13	7 14	7	1 8	2 9	3 10	4 M
12	13	14	15	16	de)	17	18	19	20	15	16	17	M	PC	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	14	15	M	17	18
	20	21	22	23	23	24	25	26	27	22	23	24	25	26	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30						29	30	31			26	27	28	29	30						28	29	30		
A	Students Return				) Legal Holiday			(^)	Local Holiday				School Recess			T	Teacher Prep Day			M	Minimum Day			PC Parent Conference					
SUMMER semi2004
			Jun 24-25 Teacher Prep Days (All levels)		
			Jun	28	Summer School Begins	
IMPORTANT UAJES			Jul	30	Summer School Ends	
Jul 4 Independence Day (legal holiday)				Possible Double Sessions	
Aug 28*29 New Teacher Orientation					
Sep 1 Labor Day (legal holiday)				Teaching Days	
Sep 2*3 Teacher Prep Days	School		Traditional	YRE 6-8	YRE K-5
Sep 4 STUDENTS RETURN	Month	Dates			
Nov 11 Veterans Day (legal holiday)			K-5 6-8 9-12	A B C D	A B C D
Nov 26 END OF 1ST TRIMESTER					
Minimum Day	1	07/01-07/25	0 0	0	14 14 14	0	14 14	14	0
Nov 27*28 Thanksgiving Recess (legal/local holiday)					
Dec 12 Parent Conference	2	07/28-08/22	0 0	0	20 20	5	15	20 20	5 15
Dec 22 Winter Recess Begins					
Dec 24 Christmas Eve (local holiday)	3	08/25-09/19	12 12 12	19	5 14	19	19	5	14 19
Dec 25 Christmas Day (legal holiday)					
Dec 31 New Year's Eve (local holiday)	4	09/22-10/17	20 20 20	4 15 20	20	3 15	20 20
Jan 1 New Year's Day (legal holiday)					
Jan 5 Return to School	5	10/20-11/14	19 19 19	9 18 18	9	9 17	17	8
Jan 19 Martin Luther King Day (legal holiday)					
Feb 13 Lincoln's Day (local holiday)	6	11/17-12/12	16 17 18	18 18	8	10	18 18	8 10
Feb 16 President's Day (legal holiday)					
Mar 11 END OF 2ND TRIMESTER	7	12/15-01/09	10 10 10	10	5	5	10	10	5	5 10
Minimum Day					
Mar 12 Admission's Day (in lieu of legal holiday)	8	01/12-02/06	19 19 18	13	5 19	19	14	5	19 19
Mar 18 Minimum Day					
Mar 19 Parent Conference	9	02/09-03/05	18 18 18	4 17 17	12	4 18	18 13
Apr 5*9 Spring Recess					
May 31 Memorial Day (legal holiday)	10	03/08-04/02	19 18 19	19 19 17	2	19 19	17	2
Jun 11 Minimum Day					
Jun 16 LAST DAY OF INSTRUCTION	11	04/05-04/30	15 15 15	20 20	0	20	20 20	0 20
Minimum Workday, All Certificated					
	12	05/03-05/28	20 20 20	20	0 19	20	20	0	19 20
	13	05/31-06/25	12 12 11	0 14 14	14	0 14	14 14
	14	06/28-06/30	0 0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0
Board Approved: 02/12/02		TOTALS	180 180 180	170 170 170 170	170 170 170 170
94

JULY	AUGUST	SEPTEMBER	OCTOBER	NOVEMBER	DECEMBER M T W Th F M T W Th F JU T W > F MTWThF	MTWThF	MTWThF
"12 5(4)	1	(1) T T A 5	123	12345 7	8	9 10 11	4	5 6 7	8	8	9	10	11	12	6 7	8	9	10	3	4	5	6	M	8	9	10	11	12 14	15	16 17 18	11	12 13 14	15	15	16	17	18	19	13 14	15	16	17	10 0	12	13	14	15	16	J7	1j	19
21	22 23 24	25	18	19	20 21 22	22	23	24 25 26	20 21	22	23	24	17	18	19 20 21	22	23	U®	(2§) 26 28	29 30 31	25	26	27 28 29	29	30	27 28	29	30	31	24	25	261 <2Z> C2g> I	29	30	ffi)	
JANUARY	FEBRUARY	MARCH	APRIL	MAY	JUNE M T W J F MTWThF MTWThF MTWThF	MTWThF	MTWThF
CD 2 |	23456	12345	1 M	34567	1234
5	6	7	8	9	9	10	11	12	®	8	-9	10	11	Qj)	|	5	6	7	8	9	|	10	11	12	13	14	7	8	9	10	11 A2 13	14	15	16	@	17	18	19	20	15	16	17	18	19	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	14	15	NSD	17	18 Qp 20	21	22	NSD	23	24	25	26	27	22	23	24	25	26	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	21	22	23	24	25 26 27 28 29 30 	 29 30 31	26 27 28 29 30	(3l)	28 29 30	
/ \ Students Return Q Legal Holiday	Local Holiday | | School Recess T Teacher Prep Day	M Minimum Day PC Parent Conference NSD Non-Student Day
IMPORTANT DATES	SUMMER SCHOOL 2004
Jul	4 Independence Day (legal holiday)	Jun 24-25 Teacher Prep Days (All levels)
Aug 28-29 New Teacher Orientation	Jun 28 Summer School Begins
Sep 1 Labor Day (legal holiday)	Aug 6 Summer School Ends
Sep 2-3 Teacher Prep Days	Possible Double Sessions
Sep 4 STUDENTS RETURN
Nov	7	END OF FIRST QUARTER			Teaching Days										
Nov Nov	11 27-28	Minimum Day Veterans Day (legal holiday) Thanksgiving Recess (legaldocal holiday)	School Month	Dates	Traditional K-5 6-8 9-12			A	B	YRE 6-8 C	D	A	B	YRE K-5 C	D
Dec Dec Dec Dec Jan Jan Jan Jan Feb Feb Mar Apr Apr May Jun Jun Jun	22 24 25 31 1 5 19 23 13 16 12 2 5-9 31 14 15 15	Winter Recess Begins Christmas Eve (local holiday) Christmas Day (legal holiday) New Year's Eve (local holiday) New Year's Day (legal holiday) Return to School Martin Luther King Day (legal holiday) END OF FIRST SEMESTER Non Student Day Semester Grading Lincoln's Day (local holiday) President's Day (legal holiday) Admission's Day (in heu of legal holiday) END OF THIRD QUARTER Minimum Day Spring Recess Memorial Day (legal holiday) Graduation - CSHS. MMHS Graduation • MVHS, WHS Graduation - Bayside. Charter	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14	07/01-07/25 07/28-08/22 08/25-09/19 09/22-10/17 10/20-11/14 11/17-12/12 12/15-01/09 01/12-02/06 02/09-03/05 03/08-04/02 04/05-04/30 05/03-05/28 05/31-06/25 06/28-06/30 Totals	0 0 12 20 19 16 10 19 18 19 15 20 12 0 180	0 0 12 20 19 17 10 19 18 18 15 20 12 0 180	0 0 12 20 19 18 10 18 18 19 15 20 11 0 180	14	14	14 20	20	5 19	5	14 4	15	20 9	18	18 18	18	8 10	5	5 13	5	19 4	17	17 19	19	17 20	20	0 20	0	19 0	14	14 0	0	0 170 170 170			0 15 19 20 9 10 10 19 12 2 20 20 14 0 170	14	14	14	0 20	20	5	15 19	5	14	19 3	15	20	20 9	17	17	8 18	18	8	10 10	5	5	10 14	5	19	19 4	18	18	13 19	19	17	2 20	20	0	20 20	0	19	20 0	14	14	14 0	0	0	0 170 170 170 170			
Jun	16	LAST DAY OF INSTRUCTION Non Student Day Minimum Workday. All Certificated	1ST SEMESTER EXAM SCHEDULE 942	JAN. 20.2004	JAN. 21.2004 JAN. 22.2004 7:5M:50 • ■	■Pernell ■	Periods • Periods..:.. 9:50-10:00 (Passing) • . .	■/•'•.	. 10:00-12:00	RerWV. . 1WU . Periods 12:00-12:40Lunch	■ , : 12:40-2:40 :	"Period? • • ■'. Period8 2ND SEMESTER SCHEDULE (SAME AS 1ST SEMESTERMUN 11.2004: JUN 14.2004; JUN 15.2004												
			Summer School Exams: August 5,2004												
Board Approved: 02/12/02
95
96
APPENDIX D
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN MORENO VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT AND CALIFORNIA SCHOOL EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION MORENO VALLEY CHAPTER 410
DOT DRUG TESTING
CONSEQUENCES OF A REFUSAL TO TEST AND OF A CONFIRMED POSITIVE TEST
It is the intent of the parties that this Agreement supplement District Administration Regulation AR 4020 (policy) and takes precedence where more comprehensive. The policy is attached to this Agreement. AU tests for alcohol or controlled substances must comply with the requirements for such tests set forth in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Part 40. A covered unit member who refuses to be tested in accordance with this policy shall be dismissed from employment in accordance with the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) and applicable law. No applicant for a covered position as defined in this policy shall be employed who produces a confirmed positive test for controlled substances. A covered probationary unit member serving the initial probationary period of employment who produces a confirmed positive test for alcohol or controlled substances shall be dismissed from employment. A covered permanent unit member or a permanent unit member applying for a covered position, including a unit member serving a secondary probationary period following promotion or transfer, who produces a confirmed positive test shall be treated as follows:
A Alcohol
1.	A unit member who produces a first confirmed positive test of .02 or greater, but less than .04 shall be removed from all safety-sensitive functions for a period of 24 hours or the next regularly scheduled shift which ever is longer.
2.	A unit member who produces a confirmed positive test of .02 or greater, but less than .04 and who produces such a test within two years of an earlier test within these parameters shall, in addition to being removed from all safety-sensitive functions for a period of 24 hours or the next regularly scheduled shift which ever is longer, be subject to retum-to-duty testing and receive a suspension from duty without pay of three working days.
3.	A unit member who produces a first confirmed positive test of .04 or greater, or a third confirmed positive test of .02 or greater within two years of a previous test of .02 or greater, shall be dismissed from employment, subject to the availability of future modification as provided in Section C below. A unit member who produces a confirmed positive test for alcohol of .02 or greater at any time after successfill completion of a program provided for in Section C below shall be dismissed from employment
97
4.	All confirmed positive tests shall be certified by the forensic laboratory used. The forensic laboratory shall be certified for such testing by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The unit member shall be provided with a copy of the laboratory certification including certification that the specimen was untampered with and that the chain of custody was maintained.
B.	Controlled Substances
1.	A unit member who produces a first confirmed positive test for controlled substances shall be dismissed from employment, subject to the availability of future modification as provided in Section C below. A unit member who produces a confirmed positive test for controlled substances at any time after successful completion of a program provided for in Section C below shall be dismissed from employment.
2.	All confirmed positive tests shall be certified by the forensic laboratory used. The forensic laboratory shall be certified for such testing by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The unit member shall be provided with a copy of the laboratory certification including certification that the specimen was untampered with and that the chain of custody was maintained.
C.	Modification of Dismissal Action
1.	A unit member who has been dismissed from employment subject to future modification may, within five (5) working days of notification of dismissal, request in writing that s/he be referred to an SAP for evaluation of a positive chemical dependency. If an evaluation is requested the District wffl refer the unit member to an SAP. The service of the SAP wffl be paid for by the District
2.	If the SAP recommends to the District and the unit member in writing that the unit member participate in a comprehensive in or out-patient chemical dependency treatment program, the unit member must enroll in the recommended program within thirty (30) calendar days from the date of recommendation. The unit member must comply with the recommendations of the SAP including attending all meetings. The District shall place any proposed dismissal in suspension if the unit member has not been subjected to dismissal for a confirmed positive test during the two year period preceding, and may grant a dismissal to be placed in suspension if the unit member has been subjected to dismissal for a confirmed positive test during that period. If the unit member fails to comply with the recommendations of the SAP, after receipt of written notification from the SAP attesting to non-compliance of the unit member, the District may reinstate the proposed dismissal subject to the CBA and applicable law.
3.	Participation in the treatment program is at the unit member's expense, beyond any reimbursement provided by a group health plan maintained at the unit member's expense under the provisions of COBRA
98
4.	Upon satisfactory completion of a comprehensive chemical dependency treatment program, as certified to the District in writing by the SAP, the unit member shall be reinstated to his/her former position or to an equivalent position, subject to follow-up testing.
5.	If the unit member produces a confirmed positive test during the sixty (60) month.period following reinstatement, the dismissal shall immediately be effective. If the unit member provides negative tests during the six (6) month period following reinstatement, the District shall pay the unit member at his/her regular rate of pay for the period of time, up to a maximum of twenty-five (25) workdays, spent in treatment, not including the period of time between the initial dismissal and commencement of the treatment program. If the unit member provides negative tests for a period of sixty (60) months following reinstatement, the dismissal shall be stricken from all District records.
D.	Dismissal
1.	Permanent unit members shall only be subject to dismissal in accordance with the CBA and applicable law.
This is a tentative agreement and is subject to ratification by CSEA Moreno Valley Chapter 410 members and approval of the Moreno Valley Unified School District Board of Education.
99
AR 4020 (a)
All Personnel
Drug and Alcohol Testing
A.	Application
The provisions of this article apply only to workers whose duties include the driving of a commercial motor vehicle where a class A or class B driver's license is required. Bargaining unit classifications with such duties are limited to employees of the Moreno Valley Unified School District who hold a commercial driver’s license which is necessary to perform job related duties such as operating a commercial motor vehicle.
B.	Notice
All driver’s subject to testing for controlled substances and alcohol shall be individually notified, in writing, in advance, that they are subject to reasonable suspicion, post-accident, random, return to duty and follow-up testing while on duty as set forth under Federal law.
C.	Pre-emplovment Testing
All prospective bargaining unit members whose duties shall include that of driving a commercial motor vehicle where a class A or Class B driver's license is required and who possess a commercial driver’s license necessary to perform these job related duties such as operating a commercial motor vehicle will be subject to Pre-employment testing for controlled substances as set forth under Federal Law.
D.	Reasonable Suspicion Testing
1.	A reasonable suspicion test must be based upon specific, contemporaneous, articulable observations concerning the appearance, behavior, speech or body odors of the driver. For suspicion of cortfrolled substance use only, the observations may also include indications of the chronic and withdrawal effects of controlled substances.
2.	The observations must be made by a supervisor who has received at least one hour of training in identifying indicators of alcohol misuse phis at least one hour of training in identifying indicators of controlled substance use.
3.	Reasonable suspicion observations must be contemporaneous, i.e., they must be made just before, during or just after the driver's performance of a safety-sensitive duty.
4.	Drivers for whom a reasonable suspicion determination has been made will be placed on paid administrative leave pending test results.
100
AR 4020(b)
All Personnel
Drug and Alcohol Testing
Reasonable Suspicion Testing (Continued)
5.	Tests based on reasonable suspicion of alcohol misuse shall be promptly administered. If the test is not given within two hours following the reasonable suspicion determination, the employer shall prepare and file a statement of the reasons as to why the test was not promptly administered. Said statements in number 5 & 6 shall be provided to the employee on request, prior to any disciplinary action. No test based on reasonable suspicion of alcohol misuse will be given that is not within eight hours of the reasonable suspicion determination. If test is not given within eight hours, the employer shall prepare and file a statement of the reasons as to why the test was not promptly administered.
6.	A written record of the reasonable suspicion observations, dated and signed by all supervisors making the observations, must be made within 24 hours or before the results of the test are released, whichever is earlier.
7.	The supervisor who makes the reasonable suspicion observations shall not conduct the test.
E.	Post-accident Testing
1.	A post-accident test must be based upon an accident for which the driver received a citation for a moving traffic violation arising from the accident or where there was a loss of human life.
2.	No post-accident test for alcohol wiS be given more than eight hours after the accident. No post-accident test for controlled substances will be given more than 32 hours after the accident. Post accident tests of alcohol misuse shall be promptly administered or the employer will prepare and file a statement as to the reasons why the test was not property administered.
3.	Prior to the initial operation of a District vehicle, all drivers shall be given necessary postaccident information, procedures and instructions by the employer.
4.	A driver who is subject to post accident testing shall remain readily available for such testing
5.	Results of tests conducted by law enforcement having independent authority shall meet the requirements under these regulations.
101
AR 4020(c)
All Personnel
Drug and Alcohol Testing
Post-accident Testing (Continued)
F.	Random Testing
1.	The annual percentage rate for random alcohol testing is 25% of the average number of driver positions. The annual percentage rate for random controlled substance testing is 50% of the average number of driver positions. These rates, which are required by FHWA regulations, will be automatically adjusted to be consistent with changes, if any, in the minimum rates required by these reflations. (See 49 C.F.R 382.305, subd, (a).)
2.	The pool of persons subject to random testing shall include all persons •who actually drive a commercial motor vehicle for the employer, where a class A or B license is required, during the month when the random selection occurs. Drivers will not be recalled from approved leaves of absence for the purpose of alcohol or controlled substance testing.
3.	The employer may conduct random testing through a consortium with other employers, but in that case, the number of drivers to be tested must be based on the total number of drivers covered by the consortium who are subject to testing. The particular drivers randomly selected must be selected as if all drivers covered by the consortium worked for a single employer.
4.	The selection of drivers for random testing must be solely by chance utilizing a random number table of a computer-based random number generator matched with social security numbers, payroll identification numbers or other comparable identification numbers.
5.	The dates for random tests shall be unannounced and spread reasonably throughout the year. Each person in the random pool must have an equal chance of selection each time random selections are made, regardless of whether the person was previously tested that year.
6.	Drivers selected shall report to the testing site immediately and shall cease all safety sensitive driving functions.
102
AR 4020(d)
All Personnel
Drug and Alcohol Testing
Random Testing (Continued)
G.	Testing Procedures
All tests for alcohol or controlled substances must comply with the requirements for such tests set forth in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Part 40. In addition:
1.	The immediate supervisor of a driver shall not serve as either a collection site person for controlled substance testing or as a breath alcohol technician for alcohol testing of that driver.
2.	All testing shall be conducted in a private setting and, in the case of controlled substance testing, no direct observation of a driver's urination by a collection site person is permitted except for the reasons stated in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations, section 40.25, subdivision (e), and then only by a same gender collection site person who is not employed by the driver's employer.
3.	Except for a test requested by a driver for a test of the remainder of a split sample, the testing laboratory for controlled substance testing must be a forensic laboratory certified for such testing by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
4.	Any tests that do not comply with the requirements of this section shall be treated as negative tests.
H.	Positive Tests
1.	A positive test for alcohol must be a confirmation test by an evidential breath testing device capable of printout and sequential numbering and must show an alcohol concentration of 0.02 grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath or greater.
Such a test is positive even if that concentration is caused by prescribed medication.
2.	A positive test for controlled substances must be confirmed by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry techniques and must show one of the following:
a.	15 ng/ml (nanograms per milliliter) of marijuana metabolite;
103
AR 4020(e)
All Personnel
Drug and Alcohol Testing
Positive Tests (Continued)
b.	150 ng/ml of cocaine metabolite;
c.	300 ng/ml of either morphine or codeine;
d.	25 ng/ml of phencyclidine; or
e.	500 ng/ml of amphetamine or methamphetamine;
and, the medical review officer must conclude that there is no legitimate explanation, such as prescribed medication, for the result. The medical review officer can verify a positive test without communicating with the employee if, (1) the employee expressly declines the opportunity to discuss the matter or (2) the employer's designated representative has successfully made and documented a contact with the employee and instructed the employee to contact the medical review officer and 5 days have passed since that established contact.
3.	If the driver failed to provide an adequate breath or urine sample, failed to cooperate, or altered the specimen, the test is deemed to be positive.
4.	No positive test for controlled substances shall be reported to the employer until after
a.	The medical review officer has contacted the driver directly, on a confidential basis, and given the driver an opportunity to discuss the test results and driver's medical history, including medication, in confidence;
b.	The medical review officer has given the driver, within 72 hours of the driver's notification that the test was positive, an opportunity to request that the remainder of the split sample be tested by a different forensic laboratory, certified by the Department of Health and Human Services.
5.	If the medical review officer concludes that there is a legitimate explanation for the positive test, such as prescription or over-the-counter medication, an authenticated medical reason for not being able to provide an adequate sample, or a negative result in the test of the remainder of the spBt sample, the medical review officer must report the test to the employer as a negative test
104
AR 4020(f) All Personnel
Drug and Alcohol Testing
Positive Tests (Continued)
6.	The medical review officer shall be a licensed physician with knowledge of substance abuse disorders. The medical review officer shall not be an employee of the driver's employer.
7.	The cut-off levels in this section are those required by FHWA regulation. They will be automatically adjusted to be consistent with changes, if any, in the levels specified by those regulations. (See 49 C.F.R. 40.29, subd. (f).)
I-	Effects of a Positive Test
1.	If the positive test is an alcohol test showing an alcohol concentration of 0.02 or greater but less than 0.04, the driver will be placed on paid administrative leave charged to the employee's sick leave for 24 hours. The driver shall return to regular duty at the end of this 24 hour period.
2.	For all other positive tests, the driver shall be evaluate by a substance abuse professional who shall determine what assistance, if any, is needed to resolve alcohol or controlled substance problems. The driver shall not be returned to safety-sensitive duties until the driver has properly followed a prescribed rehabilitation program and has passed a return to duty test with an alcohol concentration of less than 0.02 or, in the case of a positive for controlled substances, until a retum-to-duty test indicates a verified negative result for controlled substance use.
3.	Drivers returning to duty after rehabifitstion shall be subject to unannounced follow-up testing of at least six tests in the first 12 months of return to duty.
4.	Drivers, in accordance with applicable California Education Code Regulations and Collective Bargaining Agreement provisions, will be subject to discipline for alcohol or controlled substance abuse if,
a.	The driver tests positive during the initial probation period;
b.	The driver refuses to submit to a test authorized by law,
105
AR 4020(g)
All Personnel
Drug and Alcohol Testing
Effects of a Positive Test (Continued)
c.	The driver foils to complete rehabilitation recommended by the substance abuse professional; or
d.	The driver tests positive again for alcohol or again for controlled substances within 12 months after a return to duty following completion of rehabilitation.
J. Miscellaneous
1.	Drives will receive their regular pay for time required to take the tests specified in this regulation. The employer will pay for these tests.
2.	The parties agree to treat all results as confidential medical records.
3.	All drivers subject to this article shall receive training cm alcohol misuse and controlled substance use.
4.	Prior to testing the employer shall inform the driver (in writing) of the right to have a union representative present throughout questioning by the employer. If a union representative is requested and one is not immediately available, the driver will not be returned to safety-sensitive duties until such questioning is complete The employer shall not use any information obtained in violation of this paragraph in action against the driver.
106
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE MORENO VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT AND THE CALIFORNIA SCHOOL EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION MORENO VALLEY CHAPTER 410
ARTICLE 6 - ASSOCIATION RIGHTS SECTION 11, PARAGRAPH 3
The CSEA Chapter President or designee shall have the right to return to his/her original classification/position and location held at the time of his/her designation to the release time provided in this section. This provision shall apply upon fulfillment of release time up to and including two (2) consecutive calendar years. Prior to the conclusio.n of the second year and annually thereafter, if applicable, a meeting shall be held with the administrator/manager, CSEA Chapter President and designee, if applicable, and Human Resources to determine if the released bargaining unit member’s original classification/position and location shall be held for an additional year. Absent agreement, the following paragraph shall apply.
Upon fulfillment of the term(s) of the release as stipulated above, the District shall place the bargaining unit member within the unit member’s last classification, at the same number of hours he/she previously held, if such a position exists. If such position does not exist at the time of the expiration of the leave, the District shall, to the extent practicable, place the bargaining unit member in any other available position within the unit member’s job family for which the unit member meets the minimum qualifications, or the District shall place the unit .member in any other position for which the unit member is qualified. A bargaining unit member not placed in a position of his/her former classification as a result of the above shall not suffer any loss of compensation, benefits, or seniority that he/she would have received in the former classification, and shall have the opportunity to return to a position within the former classification upon a vacancy becoming available prior to any other bargaining unit member movement or outside hire.
Where applicable, this agreement supersedes Article 6, Section 11, paragraph three.
California SpKools Employees Association
Interim Assistant Superintendent
Human Resources Division
Chapter 410 President
Date
107
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Between
THE CALIFORNIA SCHOOL EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION MORENO VALLEY CHAPTER 410
And
THE MORENO VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
February 10, 1999
The Moreno Valley Unified School District (District) and the California School Employees Association (CSEA) Moreno Valley Chapter 410 have agreed to the decision and effects of the reclassification of unit members in the classification of Pre-School Aide and the establishment of a Career Ladder for unit members under the Head Start/State Preschool program effective July 1, 1997 as follows:
1.	This agreement supersedes the side-letter agreement dated August 13,1997.
2.	Unit members in the classification of Pre-School Aide will be reclassified in Child
Development Assistant I (Range 9) effective July 1,1997.
3.	Unit members that have been reclassified to Child Development Assistant I and who have the required twelve (12) semester units of Early Childhood Education will be reclassified to Child Development Assistant II (Range 10) after thirty-one (31) calendar days from the initial reclassification.
4.	Unit members reclassified from Pre-School Aide to Child Development Assistant I will take their seniority with them to the new classification.
5.	The Child Development Assistant I classification will require six (6) semester units of Early Childhood Education from an accredited college or university. (See attached job description.)
6.	The Child Development Assistant II classification will require twelve (12) semester units of Early Childhood Education from an accredited college or university. (See attached job description.)
7.	Unit members in the Child Development Assistant I classification will automatically go the Child Development Assistant II classification upon proof of completion of the required twelve (12) semester units.
8.	Unit members, under the Head Start/State Preschool program, who have the required minimum education of six (6) semester units of Early Childhood Education from an accredited college or university are eligible to participate in a Career Ladder to obtain the unit requirements for the Childhood Education II classification and up to and including receiving a Bachelor’s Degree and credential/permit. This education will be paid for through funding designated by State and Federal funding sources specifically for college/university professional advancement. The parties shall meet annually to determine the means of distribution.
9.	The calendar year of these unit members will be 205 days. The program year may be adjusted annually in order to meet State and/or Federal Performance Standards. The 1997-98 program year will be 202 days. The difference between the program year and the calendar year if any will be inservice days for these unit members.
10.	This agreement is subject to the grievance procedure of the Collective Bargaining
Agreement.
11.	The parties may reopen this agreement upon thirty (30) days written notice to the other party to negotiate modification on this agreement.

CSEA Moreno Valley Chapter 410
Moreno Valley Unified School District Asst. Superintendent, Human Resources
President
108
The California School Employees Association and its Chapter 410 (Association) and the Moreno Valley Unified School District (District) agree, as a result of the impact of Proposition 227 to the District’s bilingual program, to the decision and effects of a title change and work assignment affecting unit members in the classification of Instructional Assistant-Bilingual as follows:
1.	Effective January 1,2000 the Instructional Assistant-Bilingual title shall change to Instructional Assistant-Transition Language Program and shall move from Range 8 to Range 10 on the salary schedule.
2.	Instructional Assistant-Transition Language Program unit members shall be assigned to a site instead of a teacher at a site. These unit members may be moved from classroom to classroom at their assigned site to provide continuity for the children/students they are assigned to by the District.
3.	The District shall comply with Article 22 - Transfers of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. Instructional Assistant-Transition Language Program unit members shall remain at the sites assigned prior to their title change unless voluntarily transferred.
4.	No other instructional assistants shall be affected by this agreement The practice of assignment to a teacher at a site without involuntary movement from classroom to classroom shall remain at status quo for instructional assistants other than provided for in this agreement.
This is a tentative agreement and is subject to ratification by CSEA Moreno Valley Chapter 410 members and approval of the Moreno Valley Unified School District Board of Education.
, r
Laura A. Rounsaville, CSEA President
Moreno Valley Chapter 410
Cindy M. Stewart, Ed.D.
Assistant Superintendent Human Resources
Moreno Valley Unified School District
109
110
EFFECTS AGREEMENT	,
BETWEEN CALIFORNIA SCHOOL EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION	z
MORENO VALLEY CHAPTER 410	-<? {qMa
AND
MORENO VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT	'
March 10, 2000	,
The Moreno Valley Unified School District (District) and the California School Employees Association (CSEA) Moreno Valley Chapter 410 enter into this agreement regarding the effects of converting Mountain View Middle School, Sunnymead Elementary School and Bear Valley Elementary School to year-round education (YRE) school year sites from traditional school year sites effective July 1,2000. The parties agree as follows:
1.	Effected unit members at the above schools shall have priority rights as follows:
>	Transfer requests shall be processed in accordance with the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
>	Unit members at the above schools shall have the right to remain at those sites.
>	Unit members at the above schools who do not wish to work at a school site designated as YRE shall receive priority based on seniority consistent with Article 22, Section 2 for open positions within their classification at traditional school sites.
>	Any transfers as a result of this agreement shall become effective with the 2000-2001 school year.
2.	Staffing:
>	Daily work hours shall remain at the minimum hours currently established.
>	Work years for all classifications, except Clerk Typist Ils, Clerk Typist Is, and Instructional Assistant classifications, at the above schools shall be increased to twelve months.
>	Work years for all Clerk Typist Ils and Clerk Typist Is shall be increased to Academic Year plus thirty-four (34) days.
>	Work years for Instructional Assistant classifications will remain at the same number of days, except the Instructional Assistant (RSP) classification shall increase to 200-210 days consistent with District practice at existing YRE sites.
>	Instructional Assistants shall have first right of refusal to work the same Track as their assigned teacher.
>	The period of time between the closing of the traditional year at the above school sites and the opening of the YRE program at those sites shall be staffed as determined by the District in accordance with the current Collective Bargaining Agreement Article 21 -Extended Assignments.
ill
3.	Scheduling:	'
>	Notice of assignments shall be given to unit members at the above sites by April 3, 20009^^1/4^ I > Unit members may exercise their first right of refusal rights in item 1 above by April 20, /H
2000.
>	The District shall notify unit members (who have exercised their first right of refusal rights) of their assignments for the 2000-2001 school year by May 30,2000.
• L
4.	Transportation	'	j
The work years of eight (8) Bus Driver positions shall be increased to twelve (12) months. Such positions shall be eight (8) hours per day.
5.	Nutritional Services
The work years of two (2) Nutritional Services Warehouseperson Us shall be increased to twelve (12) months. Such positions shall be eight (8) hours per day.
The work years of two Food Service Assistant Ills at the Central Kitchen shall be increase to twelve (12) months. Such positions shall be eight (8) hours per day.
The work year of one Food Service Assistant II at the Central Kitchen shall be increased to twelve (12) months. Such position shall be eight (8) hours per day.
6.	This Agreement shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
7.	This Agreement may be reopened by either party upon thirty (30) days written notice to the other party to negotiate the impact of the YRE program on work load and staffing. The intent of the parties is to review the impact of the YRE program through the summer of 2000 before invoking this provision.
This is a tentative agreement and is subject to ratification by CSEA Moreno Valley Chapter 410 members and approval of the Moreno Valley Unified School District Board of Education.
Karen Rumfola, CSEA Resident
Moreno Valley Chapter 410
Cindy M. Stewart, EcLD.
Assistant Superintendent Human Resources
Moreno Valley Unified School District
112
EFFECTS AGREEMENTS BETWEEN CALIFORNIA SCHOOL EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION MORENO VALLEY CHAPTER 410 AND MORENO VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
March 23, 2001
The Moreno Valley Unified School District (District) and the California School Employees Association (CSEA) Moreno Valley Chapter 410 enter into this agreement regarding the effects of convertingQ_/ Armada Elementary School, Cloverdale Elementary School, Edgemont Elementary School and Palm Middle School to year-round education (YRE) school year sites from traditional school year sites effective July 1,2001. The parties agree as follows:
1.	Affected unit members at the above schools shall have priority rights as follows:
•	Transfer requests shall be processed in accordance with the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
•	Unit members at the above schools shall have the right to remain at those sites.
•	Unit members at the above schools who do not wish to work at a school site designated as YRE shall receive priority based on seniority consistent with Article 22, Section 2 for open positions within their classification at traditional school sites.
•	Any transfers as a result of this agreement shall become effective with the 2001-2002 school year.
2.	Staffing:
•	Daily work hours shall remain at the minimum hours currently established.
•	Work years for all classifications, except Instructional Assistant classifications, at the above schools shall be increased to twelve months.
•	Work years for Instructional Assistant classifications will remain at the same number of days, except the Instructional Assistant (RSP) classification shall increase to 200-210 days consistent with District practice at existing YRE sites.
•	Instructional Assistants shall have first right of refusal to work the same Track as their assigned teacher.
•	The period of time between the closing of the traditional year at the above school sites and the opening of the YRE program at those sites shall be staffed as determined by the District in accordance with the current Collective Bargaining Agreement Article 21 - Extended Assignments.
3.	Scheduling:
•	Notice of assignments shall be given to unit members at the above sites by May 1, 2001.
•	Unit members may exercise their first right of refusal rights in item 1 above by May 15, 2001.
•	The District shall notify unit members (who have exercised their first right of refusal rights) of their assignments for the 2001 -2002 school year by May 30. 2001.
113
4.	Transportation
The work years of four (4) Bus Driver positions shall be increased to twelve (12) months. One (1) such position may be a Driver Trainer/Bus Driver. Such positions shall be eight (8) hours per day.
5.	Nutritional Services
The work year of the following Food Service Assistant Is at the Central Kitchen shall be increased to twelve (12) months.
Increase positions from academic to YRE (10 months to 12 months):
1-7 hour Food Service Assistant I
1-6 hour Food Service Assistant I
5-3 hour Food Service Assistants I
6.	This Agreement shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
7.	This Agreement may be reopened by either party upon thirty (30) days written notice to the other party to negotiate the impact of the YRE program on workload and staffing.
This is a tentative agreement and is subject to ratification by CSEA Moreno Valley Chapter 410 members and approval of the Moreno Valley Unified School District Board of Education.
Karen Rumfola. CSEA President Moreno Valley Chapter 410
Cindy M. Stewart, Ed.D.
Assistant Superintendent Human Resources Moreno Valley Unified School District
114
EFFECTS AGREEMENT BETWEEN MORENO VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT AND CALIFORNIA SCHOOL EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION MORENO VALLEY CHAPTER 410
February 28, 2002
X
The Moreno Valley Unified School District (District) and the California School Employees (T^L Association (CSEA) Moreno Valley Chapter 410 enter into this agreement regarding the effects z of converting Badger Springs Middle School and Vista Heights Middle School to Year Round Education (YRE) school year sites from traditional school year sites effective July 1, 2002.
The parties agree as follows:
1.	Affected unit members at the above schools shall have priority rights as follows:
•	Transfer requests shall be processed in accordance with the Collective Bargaining Agreement
•	Unit members at the above schools shall have the right to remain at those sites
•	Unit members at the above schools who do not wish to work at a school site designated as YRE shall receive priority based on seniority consistent with Article 22, Section 2 for open positions within their classification at traditional school sites
•	Any transfers as a result of this agreement shall become effective with the 2002-03 school year
2.
Staffing:
•	Daily work hours shall remain at the minimum hours currently established
•	Work years for all classifications, except Instructional Assistant classifications, at the above schools shall be increased to twelve months
•	Work years for Instructional Assistant classifications will remain at the same number of days, except the Instructional Assistant (RSP) classification shall increase to 200-210 days consistent with District practice at existing YRE sites
•	Instructional Assistants shall have first right of refusal to work the same Track as their assigned teacher
•	The period of time between the closing of the traditional year at the above school sites and the opening of the YRE program at those sites shall be staffed as determined by the District in accordance with the current Collective Bargaining Agreement Article 21 - Extended Assignments
115

4.
5.
Scheduling:
•	Notice of assignments shall be given to unit members at the above sites by May 1,2002
•	Unit members may exercise their first right of refusal rights in item 1 above by May 15, 2002
•	The District shall notify unit members (who have exercised their first right of refusal rights) of their assignments for the 2002-03 school year by May 30, 2002
Transportation:
Transportation will remain status quo
Nutrition Services
The work year of the following Nutrition Service Assistant III at the Central Kitchen shall be increased to twelve (12) months:
1-8 hour Nutrition Service Assistant III
6.	This Agreement shall be subject to the grievance procedure
7.	This Agreement may be reopened by either party upon thirty (30) days written notice to the other party to negotiate the impact of the YRE program on workload and staffing
This is a tentative agreement and is subject to ratification by CSEA, Moreno Valley Chapter 410 unit members and approval of the Moreno Valley Unified School District, Board of Education.
Karen Rumfola, CSEA President
Moreno Valley Chapter 410
Cindy M. Stewart, Ed.D.
Assistant Superintendent, Human Resources
116
Appendix E
MORENO VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT REPORT OF PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
EMPLOYEE NAME	STATUS	DATE
POSITION	SITE/DEPARTMENT		FROM (PERIOD)	TO
Ratings E = Exceeds Expectations M = Meets Expectations N = Needs Improvement N/A = Not Applicable U = Unsatisfactory		Use this space to describe employee’s strengths and/or weaknesses. Give examples of work well done and/or plan for improving performance. Needs Improvement and Unsatisfactory ratings shall be addressed by recommendations for improvement.
1.	QUALITY OF WORK
____Accurate
____Neat
Thorough
2.	QUANTITY OF WORK
____Fulfills Job Standards
____Complies with Schedules and Deadlines
3.	WORK HABITS
____Complies with Work Instructions
____Adapts to New and/or Emergency Conditions
_____Demonstrates Initiative
____Uses Good Judgment
____Follows Health and Safety Procedures
____Complies with Rules, Regulations, Policies and Procedures
____Utilizes Effective Organizational Skills
____Able to Work Without Direct Supervision
____Employs Efficient Planning Skills
____Properly Uses and Cares for Supplies & Equipment
____Communicates Effectively
_____Orally
_____In Writing
____Oversees Effectively the Work of Others (if applicable)
4.	PERSONAL QUALITIES
____Demonstrates Positive Attitude
____Demonstrates Dependability
____Maintains Professional Appearance
____Demonstrates Flexibility (able, willing to adapt)
____Demonstrates Leadership Ability
5.	INTERPERSONAL SKILLS
____Cooperative
____Respectful
____Courteous
____Tactful
6.	ATTENDANCE
Observes Assigned Work Hours
____Complies with Employee Rules and Regulations
____Regarding Attendance____________________________________________________________________________________
OVERALL PERFORMANCE EVALUATION (check one) _	Satisfactory or Better Performance __ Improvement Plan Implemented
1 do	, do not		 recommend this employee be granted permanent status. 	 /	 RATER’S SIGNATURE	DATE 	L	 PRINCIPAL OR SUPERVISOR’S SIGNATURE DATE WHITE * Human Resources	1 certify that this report has been discussed with me. 1 understand my signature does not necessarily indicate agreement. EMPLOYEE’S SIGNATURE DATE CANARY• Site/Department	PINK* Employee
117
MORENO VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT Classified Personnel Evaluation
Attendance Standards
The contribution of each employee is important. The evaluation focuses on the quality of performance. Additionally the employee’s attendance is a critical factor in evaluating his/her performance.
•	Evaluation of attendance shall be done in a fair and consistent manner for all employees
•	Reason for absence is more significant than length or number of absences.
•	Leaves of absence shall be used as intended (i.e., illness, personal necessity, personal business)
Evaluator:
Include a factual statement of current attendance in the comment section. The attendance history of the employee shall be considered when evaluating attendance.
118
INDEX
SUBJECT Abandonment of position	ARTICLE Article 25	SECTION 4a9	PAGE 32	
Academic year	Appendix A		65	
Academic year defined	Article 16	4	13	
Access to unit members	Article 6	3	3	
Additional hours	Article 18	6	19	
Additional release time	Article 6	12	4		
Advisory decision discipline	Article 25	4g	33	
Agreement, copy to unit of	Article 6	5	3	
Agreement date entered into	Article 1		1	
Alternate assignment, medical	Article 22	4a	25	
Anniversary date	Article 27	10	36	
Assignment of hours, days, week	Article 18	2	18	
Assignments	Article 17	1a	14	
Association dues	Article 7		5	
Association rights	Article 6		2	
Bargaining unit member	Article 8	5	7	
Bargaining unit work	Article 8		6	
Benefits, additional health plan	Article 44	4	61	
Benefits, Health and Welfare	Article 28		37	
Benefits less than four hours	Article 28	8	38	
Benefits, medical transfer	Article 22	4a	25	
Benefits, retirement	Article 33	1	46		
Benefits, short-term employees	Article 8	4b	6	
Benefits, summer assignment	Article 21	5	22	
Benefits, YRE	Article 28	9	38	
Bereavement leave	Article 31	11	43	
Binding arbitration	Article 40	6	58	
Board of Education agenda	Article 6	7	3	
Break time	Article 18	8	20	
Budget, District	Article 6	7	3	
Buildings, use of school	Article 6	1	2	
Bulletin boards	Article 6	2	2	
Bumping rights	Article 39	6	54	
Burden of proof	Article 25	6	33	
Bus driver certificate	Article 34	3a	47	
Calendar, winter/spring recess	Article 16	3	13	
Calendar year	Appendix A		65	
Certificate renewal	Article 34	3	47	
CFIER training	Article 4		1	
119
SUBJECT Changes to the agreement	INDEX ARTICLE Article 41	SECTION 2	PAGE 60	SUBJECT DOT Drug Testing, AR 4020		INDEX ARTICLE Appendix D	SECTION	PAGE 100	
Child care leave	Article 32	6	45	DOT Drug Testing, Side Letter		Appendix D		97	
Class defined	Article 39	1b	54	Drug offense		Article 25	8	33	
Classification titles	Appendix A		65	Duration and termination		Article 3		1	
College work-study program	Article 10	4	9	Educational leave		Article 32	4	45	
Communication, reimburse CSEA	Article 6	11	4	EERO meetings		Article 4	1	1	
Communication with unit members	Article 6	2	2	Effective date of agreement		Article 1		1	
Communications, YRE	Article 20	2	21	Effects Agreement 00-01		Appendix D		111	
Comp time	Article 19	4	21	Effects Agreement 01-02		Appendix D		113	
Complaints from the public	Article 26		33	Effects Agreement 02-03		Appendix D		115	
Conferences, attendance	Article 17	11d	17	Emergency defined		Article 5	2	2	
Corrective action, defined	Article 25	1b	30	Employer-Employee Relations		Article 4		1	 ;
Court appearance leave	Article 31	10b1	43	Equipment for job		Article 35	1	47	
CSEA staff	Article 6	9	3	Equipment, use of school		Article 6	1	2	
Date of hire	Article 14	1	11	Error in pay		Article 27	5	36	
Demoted during probation	Article 13	2	10	Evaluation, conducted by		Article 24	2	29	
Demotions, voluntary	Article 17	8	16	Evaluation form		Appendix E		117	
Derogatory material		Article 23	1,3,6	28	Evaluation, unscheduled		Article 24	3	29	
Derogatory statements		Article 23	1,3,6	28	Evaluations		Article 24		28	
Description of unit		Article 2	1	1	Exchange workdays		Article 17	11a	17	
Designation		Article 1		1	Extended assignments		Article 21		22	
Differential pay		Article 18	9	20	Extended illness leave		Article 32	7	45	
Disciplinary action materials		Article 23	1	28	Extended sick leave		Article 31	8	42	
Discipline		- Article 25	4	31	Extended year assignment		Article 21	8	23	
Discipline, defined		Article 25	1c	30	Extra time, authorized		Article 19	6	21	
Discipline, exchange workdays		Article 17	. 11c	17	Facilities, use of school		Article 6	1	2	
Discipline, hazard condition		Article 36	6	48	Federal grants		Article 13	5	10	
Discipline, involuntary transfer		Article 22	3a	24	Federally-funded work experience		Article 10	4	9	
Discipline, respecting picket		Article 42	3	60	Fees of arbitrator		Article 40	6c	59	
Discipline, use of evaluations		Article 24	6	29	Fees of hearing officer		Article 25	4d	32	
Discipline, violate no strike		Article 42	1	60	Fifty percent (50%) pay, leave		Article 31	8b	42	
j	Discipline, work without payment	Article 19	7	21	Final paycheck		Article 27	2c	35	
Discrimination		Article 9		8	Fingerprinting		Article 11	1	9	
Dismissal, medical release		Article 31	16	44	Flexible scheduling		Article 17	11	17	
Dismissal, probationary		Article 13	2	10	Food Handler’s examination		Article 34	6	47	
District directory		Article 6	7	3	Formal hearing		Article 25	4d	32	
District’s orientation program		Article 34	5	47	Grievance procedure		Article 40		57	
Doctor’s certificate/proof		Article 31	6	42	Handbooks		Article 44	5	61	
DOT Drug Testing		Article 11	3	9	Hearing officer		Article 25	4d	32	
120
121
SUBJECT Hearings	INDEX ARTICLE Article 25	SECTION 4d	PAGE 32	i— SUBJECT Management rights		INDEX ARTICLE Article 5	SECTION	PAGE 2	
Holiday paid status	Article 29	1	38	Maternity absences		Article 31	10b3	43	
Holidays	Article 29		38	Meal period		Article 18	7	19	
Holidays during vacation	Article 30	8	40	Mediation					Article 17	4c	16	
Holidays, YRE	Article 29	9	39	Mediation 		Article 40	5	58	
Hourly salary schedule	Appendix B		69	Medical examination		Article 11	2	9	
Hours	Appendix A		65	Medical transfers		Article 22	4	25	
Hours, daily	Article 18	4	19	Meetings, attendance		' Article 17	11d	17	
Human Resources minutes	Article 6	7	3	Meetings, called by Supervisors		Article 18	5a	19	
IBB problem solving	Article 4		1	Mental examinations		Article 12		10	
Immediate suspension	Article 25	7	33	Mileage compensation		Article 27	3	35	
Increased hours	Article 18	4a	19	Mileage reimbursement		Article 12	4	10	
Industrial illness or injury	Article 31	12	44	Mileage reimbursement		Article 17	14	18	
Informal conference, corrective	Article 25	3b	30	Military leave			Article 32	5	45	
Informal conference, discipline	Article 25	4e	32	Military service			Article 31	13	44	
Inservice, training	Article 34	1	47	Monthly salary schedule		Appendix B		70	
Insurance, YRE	Article 28	9	38	Negotiation procedures		Article 45		61	
Interest Based Bargaining	Article 4		1	New job classification		Article 17	5	16	
Intervention assignments		Article 21	8a	23	No strike-no lockout 		Article 42		60	
Interview panel		Article 15	2	11	Non-discrimination		Article 9		8	
Involuntary transfers		Article 22	3	24	Non-paid leaves of absence		Article 32		45	
Job benefits, leave		Article 31	15	44	Normal workday			Article 19	2	20	
Job description		Article 10	5	9	Notice, corrective action		Article 25	3b	30	
Job openings		Article 10	1	9	Notice during intervention		Article 20	2b	21	
Job skills enhancement		Article 38		51	Notice, job vacancy 		Article 10	2	9	
Job stewards		Article 6	10	3	Notice of assignment 		Article 18	1	18	
Job vacancy notice		Article 10	2	9	Notice of proposed discipline		Article 25	4c	32	
Jury duty		Article 31	14	44	Notice, off-trrack assignments		Article 20	2b	21	
Lavatory facilities		Article 18	10	20	Notice, promotional applicants		Article 15	5	12	
Layoff		Article 39		54	Notice, promotional opportunity, layoff	Article 39	7	55	
Layoffs			Article 22	4c	26	Notice, status of promotion		Article 15	4	12	
Leave for CSEA conference		Article 6	6	3	Notice, use of short-term 		Article 8	5	7	
Leave unpaid, benefit option		Article 28	7	38	Notice, YRE implementation		Article 20	1	21	
Leaves of absense, paid		Article 31		41	Notices of all job openings		Article 10	1	9	
Leaves unpaid		Article 32		45	Notices required by agreement		Article 6	4	3	
Longevity		Article 27	9	36	Notices, tests, vacancies, etc.		Article 10	3	9	
Loss or damage, personal items		Article 35	3	48	Nutrition Service course requirements	Article 17	10	17	
Lounge facilities		Article 18	10	20	One hundred (100) days, leave		Article 31	8b	42	
Mail boxes	Article 6	2	2	Openings, notice of		Article 10	3	9	
							
122
123
SUBJECT Orientation	INDEX ARTICLE Article 34	SECTION 1	PAGE 47	SUBJECT Probation, voluntary demotions		INDEX ARTICLE Article 17	SECTION 8b	PAGE 16
Orientation program	Article 34	5	47	Probationary period extensions		Article 13	1	10
Other leaves of absence	Article 32	8	45	Probationary period (new)		Article 13	1	10
Out of class assignments	Article 17	2d	15	Probationary period, promotion		Article 13	3	10
Out of class grievances	Article 17	2c	15	Probationary period, transfers		Article 22	1b	23
Out of classification pay	Article 17	2a	15	Probationary release		Article 13	2	10
Overtime, authorized	Article 19	6	21	Probationary status		Article 13		10
Overtime work	Article 19	1	20	Probationary unit member	'	Article 15	6	12
Paid leaves of absence	Article 31		41	Probationary unit members, evaluation	Article 24	1b	29
Paid service, vacation	Article 30	1	39	Professional growth		Article 38		49
Paid vacation	Article 30	1	39	Professional growth, funding		Article 38	2	51
Parity of work	Article 17	13	18	Program year		Appendix A		65
Parking space	Article 35	1b	48	Promotion		Article 15		11
Paternity absences	Article 31	10b3	43	Promotion consideration		Article 15	1	11
Pay differential	Article 18	9	20	Promotional examinations, layoff		Article 39	5a	54
Pay warrants, YRE	Article 27	11	36	Promotional positions, layoff		Article 39	7	55
Paychecks	Article 27	2	35	Psychiatric exams		Article 12	2	10
Payroll deductions, association dues	Article 7		5	Public materials or documents		Article 45	5	61
Performance evaluation	Article 24		28	Public materials or documents		Article 6	8	3
Permanent status	Article 13		10	Qualifications		Article 15	1	11
Permanent unit members, evaluation	Article 24	1a	28	Reclassification Committee		Article 17	4b	16
PERS contributions	Article 27	1b	35	Reclassifications		Article 17	3	15
Personal business leave	Article 31	10b2	43	Reclassified classification, layoff		Article 39	5b	54
Personal illness	Article 31	2	41	Recognition		Article 2		1
Personal items	Article 35	1a	47	Recruitment 		Article 10		9
Personal leave of absence	Article 32	3	45	Redistribution of work, transfers		Article 22	1a	23
Personal necessity	Article 31	2	41	Reduction in hours		Article 18	4	19
Personal necessity days	Article 31	10	43	Reduction of hours, Inst. Assts., layoff	Article 39	20	56
Personnel file access	Article 23	2	28	Reemployment		Article 39		54
Personnel files	Article 23		28	Reemployment, medical transfer		Article 22	4a,d	25
Physical examinations	Article 12		10	Reemployment/reinstatement		Article 39		54
Physical examintations	Article 12	3	10	Reemployment/reinstatement list		Article 30	13	40
Posting, intervention assignment	Article 21	8a	23	Reemployment/reinstatement list		Article 31	16	44
Posting, job openings	Article 10	1	9	Reimbursement program		Article 38	2	51
Posting of notices	Article 6	2	2	Reimbursements, training or workshop	Article 34	7	47
Posting, summer assignments	Article 21	1	22	Reinstatement		Article 39		54
							
Posting, YRE openings transfers	Article 22	5d	26	Reinstatement, medical transfer		Article 22	4a,d	25
Pregnancy leave	Article 31	9	42	Reinstatement to former position		Article 13	4	10
Probation, different class	Article 17	9	17	Release from duty to view personnel file	Article 23	3	28
124
125

INDEX			
SUBJECT Release of chapter president	ARTICLE Article 6	SECTION 11	PAGE 4
Release time	Article 22	5f	27
Release time	Article 40	4g	58
Release time at arbitration	Article 40	6c	59
Release time for EERC	Article 4	1	1
Release time, job stewards	Article 6	10a	4
Religious holidays	Article 31	10b4	43
Reopener negotiations	Article 44		61
Restroom facilities	Article 18	10	20
Retirement	Article 33		46
Retirement credits, sick leave	Article 31	4	41
Retirement enhancement	Article 27	12	36
Retirement in lieu of layoff	Article 39	13	55
Return to duty	Article 18	12	20
Return to work	Article 16	2	13
Review committee, professional growth	Article 38	2b	52
Safety, unit member	Article 36	1	48
Salaries	Article 27		35
Salary, changes in	Article 27	8	36
Salary, medical transfer	Article 22	4a,d	25
Salary schedule	Appendix B		69
Salary stipend, longevity	Article 27	9	36
Salary warrants	Article 27	4	35
Salary, YRE	Article 27	11	36
School Calendar, traditional 02-03	Appendix C		85
School calendar, traditional 03-04	Appendix C		93
School Calendar, year round 02-03	Appendix C		81
School calendar, year round 03-04	Appendix C		89
School year defined	Article 16	4	13
Scope of representation	Article 5	1	2
Selection of personnel	Article 10		9
Seniority	Article 14		11
Seniority, classification	Article 39	5b	54
Seniority, during paid leave	Article 31	15	44
Seniority, extended assignment	Article 21	8b	23
Seniority, in lieu of layoff	Article 39	5	54
Seniority, layoff	Article 39	16	56
Seniority, layoff order	Article 39	4	54
Seniority list	Article 14	2	11
INDEX			
SUBJECT Seniority list	ARTICLE Article 14	SECTION 3b	PAGE 11
Seniority numbers	Article 14	3c	11
Seniority, promotion criteria	Article 15	3c	11
Seniority, ranked, layoff	Article 39	8b	55
Seniority, summer assignment	Article 21	4	22
Seniority, transfer YRE		Article 22	5c2	26
Seniority, transfers	Article 22	3f	25
Seniority, vacation	Article 30	10	40
Sex offense	Article 25	8	33
Shift assignment	Article 17	1a	15
Short-term employee, summer	Article 21	6	22
Short-term employees/positions	Article 8	4a	6
Short-term work	Article 18	5b	19
Short-term work off time	Article 8	4b	6
Sick leave	Article 31	2	41
Side Letter, Association Rights		Appendix D		107
Side Letter, Child Development Assistant	Appendix D		108
Side Letter, Instructional Assistant TLP (EL)	Appendix D		109
Side Letter, Pre-School Aide	Appendix D		108
Special funds	Article 13	5	10
Split shift	Article 17	14	18
Spring recess	Article 16	3	13
State-funded work experience	Article 10	4	9
Statutory changes	Article 43		60
Storage, personal/District items	Article 35	1a,c	47
Student work-study program	Article 10	4	9
Student workers	Article 37	1c	49
Sub-differential	Article 31	7	42
Subcontract work	Article 8	1	6
Substitute, improper use	Article 8	3	6
Substitute salary schedule	Appendix B1		73
Substitute, unit member pay	Article 21	7	23
Substitute work for permanent members	Article 18	5b	19
Substitutes, employed 50 days	Article 8	8	7
Substitutes, unit member	Article 21	9	23
Substitutes, use of	Article 8	3	6
Summer assignment requirement	Article 21	3	22
Summer assignments, sick leave	Article 31	3d,e	41
Supervision of paid and non-paid students	Article 37		48
126
127
INDEX			
SUBJECT Supervision of paid and non-paid volunteer	ARTICLE Article 37	SECTION	PAGE 48
Suspension, probationary	Article 13	2	10
Suspension upon arrest	Article 25	8	33
TB testing	Article 12	1	10
Ten (10) hour four (4) day week	Article 19	8	21
Term of employment	Article 16		13
Termination, derogatory material	Article 23	1	28
Termination, medical transfers	Article 22	4d	26
Termination of agreement	Article 3		1
Termination, unused vacation	Article 30	6	40
Tests, notices	Article 10	3	9
Thirty-nine (39) month list	Article 31	16	44
Thirty-nine (39) month list	Article 39	10	55
Thirty-nine (39) month period	Article 39	7	55
Time limits, discipline	Article 25	5	33
Time lines, grievance	Article 40	7	59
Training, inservice	Article 34	1	47
Transcripts, grievance procedure	Article 40	6c	59
Transfer, assignments	Article 17	1a	14
Transfer, YRE	Article 22	5	26
Transfers	Article 22		23
Uniforms	Article 35	2	48
Unit member list	Article 6	7	3
Unit member safety	Article 36		48
Use of independent contractor	Article 8	5	7
Vacancies, notices	Article 10	3	9
Vacancy	Article 15	2	11
Vacancy, use of substitutes	Article 8	3	6
Vacant position, filled by volunteer	Article 37	4a	49
Vacant positions, hours	Article 18	3	19
Vacant positions, use of subs	Article 8	8	7
Vacation schedules	Article 30	3	39
Vacations	Article 30		39
Verbal abuse	Article 36	4	48
Voluntary demotions	Article 17	8	16
Voluntary demotions, layoff	Article 39	9	55
Voluntary reductions in time, layoff	Article 39	9	55
Voluntary transfer	Article 22	2	23
Volunteer layoff	Article 39	6	54
	INDEX		
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	SECTION	PAGE
Volunteer workers		Article 37	2	49
Voting		Article 18	11	20
Waiver, bargaining rights		Article 41		60
Waiver, duty to bargain		Article 4	1	1
Winter Recess		Article 16	3	13
Work at more than one school		Article 17	14	18	‘
Work in higher classification		Article 17	2a	14
Work loads		Article 17	13	18
Work place provisions		Article 35		47
Work week		Article 19	3	20
Work year		Article 16	1	13
Work year		Appendix A		65
Workday		Article 16	1	13
Workday		Article 18	2	18
Workers’ compensation		Article 31	12	44
Workers’ compensation, pay		Article 36	3a	48
Working days, grievance		Article 40	4k	58
Workshops, attendance		Article 17	11d	17
Workweek		Article 18	2	18
Written reprimand, defined		Article 25	1a	30
Written reprimands		Article 25	2	30
Year Round Education (YRE)		Article 20		21
Year round schools, vacations		Article 30	14	40
YRE termination		Article 20	3	22
128
129

Tentative Agreement Between Moreno Valley Unified School District And California School Employees Association Moreno Valley Chapter 410
APRIL 10,2003
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT FOR JULY 1,2002 TO JUNE 30, 2005
Moreno Valley Unified School District
Willie Hasson
Sandi Somerhalder
California School Employees Association
I i	The agreement was ratified by the Association on May 15. 2002__________________________
The agreement was adopted by the Board of Education on June 25, 2002___________________