Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Tampa, City of and Amalgamated Transit Union (ATU), AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 1464 (2002)
K#: 811490
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
THE
CITY OF TAMPA
AND
AMALGAMATED TRANSIT UNION LOCAL 1464
EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1, 2002 THROUGH SEPTEMBER 30, 2005
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article Number/Title of Article	Page
Preamble Agreement	1
1	Recognition	2
2	Non-Discrimination	3
3	City's Management Rights	4
4	Union Representatives	6
5	Dues Deduction	7
6	Grievance Procedure & Arbitration	8
7	Disciplinary Action	12
8	No Strike	15
9	Union Business	16
10	Annual Leave	19
11	Sick Leave	22
12	Absence Without Pay	25
13	Leave of Absence Without	Pay	26
14	Funeral & Bereavement Leave	30
15	Jury Duty/Court Attendance	32
16	Military Leave	34
17	Seniority	35
18	Layoff & Recall	37
19	Promotional Vacancy	40
20	Temporary Assignments	42
21	Wages	43
22	Shift Premium Incentive Pay	46
23	Recall I Standby Pay	47
24	Overtime Policy	48
25	Break Periods	49
26	Holidays	50
27	Longevity Award	53
28	Medical Insurance	55
ii
Article Number/Title of Article
Page
29	Life & Accidental Death & Dismemberment Insurance	57
30	Workers’ Compensation	58
31	Tuition Reimbursement	60
32	Mileage Reimbursement	61
33	Tool Allowance	62
34	City Training Programs	63
35	Parking I Bus Passes	65
36	Uniforms	66
37	Safety	74
38	Union Emblem	75
39	Bulletin Boards	76
40	Notification - Personnel Action	77
41	Employee Assistance Program	79
42	Drug Free Workplace	82
43	Labor Management Committee	89
44	Past Practices	90
45	Severability and Waiver	91
46	Contract Constitutes Entire Agreement of the Parties	92
47	Duration, Modification & Termination	93
Appendix I	Bargaining Unit Classes & Pay Grade
Appendix II	Salary Schedule for FY2003, FY2004 & FY2005
iii
P REAM B LE/AG RE EM ENT
This Agreement, made and entered into this October 3, 2002 by and between the City of Tampa, a municipal corporation of the State of Florida, herein referred to as the "City", and Local 1464, Amalgamated Transit Union, A.F.L.-C.I.O.-C.L.C., herein referred to as the "Union", acting as the exclusive bargaining representative for the employees as certified by the Public Employees Relations Commission in its Case No. 8H-RC-763-0135, Certification No. 421. It is the intent and purpose of this Agreement to assure a mutually beneficial working relationship between the parties, hereto, to provide an orderly and peaceful means of resolving any misunderstandings or differences which may arise, and to set forth herein full agreements between the parties concerning rates of pay, wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment. There shall be no individual arrangement contrary to the terms herein provided.
1
ARTICLE 1
RECOGNITION
1.1	Pursuant to the certification by the Public Employees Relations Commission dated August 2, 1978, the City of Tampa hereby recognizes the Amalgamated Transit Union, A.F.L.-C.I.O.-C.L.C., Local 1464, as the exclusive bargaining representative for the employees in the unit certified in case number 8H-RC-763-0135. The unit specifically covers full and part-time employees whose positions are listed in Appendix I. Excluded are all employees whose positions are confidential, temporary, or seasonal, along with persons employed under any federal, state or local job training or assistance program, game officials, co-op students, police and fire recruits, casual employees, professional/ administrative/ technical employees, supervisory employees, managerial employees, appointed unclassified employees, attorneys, sworn police officers or firefighters, and those employees included in other bargaining units certified under Chapter 447.
1.2	Should the City create new job classifications, which by the nature of the duties of the position, meet the bargaining unit definition, then that job classification shall be included in the bargaining unit. The City shall notify the Union of the addition of all new job classifications in a timely manner. Should the Union object to the exclusion of the position in the bargaining unit, it is the Union's responsibility to request determination of the bargaining unit status from the Public Employees Relations Commission.
2
ARTICLE 2
NON-DISCRIMINATION
2.1	The parties specifically agree that all provisions of this Agreement shall be applied in accordance with applicable law to all employees in the bargaining unit without regard to race, creed, color, national origin, religious affiliation, age, sex, disability marital status, sexual preference or membership/non-membership in any labor organization; except that the certified employee organization shall not be required to process grievances for employees who are not members of the organization.
2.2	It is agreed that no employee shall be required as a condition of employment or promotion within the bargaining unit to join or refrain from joining the Union. Furthermore, it is agreed that neither Union officers or representatives nor the City shall discriminate, interfere, or coerce any employees into joining or not joining the Union.
2.3	Employee allegations of discrimination may be filed through the grievance procedure (Article 6), the Federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the State’s Florida Commission on Human Rights, the City’s Department of Community Affairs, and/or any other procedure provided by law.
3
ARTICLE 3
CITY'S MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.1	Except as expressly limited by any provision of this Agreement, the City reserves and retains exclusively all of its normal and inherent rights with respect to the management of its operations, whether exercised or not, including, but not limited to, its rights to determine, and from time to time redetermine, the number, location and type of its various operations, functions and services; the methods, procedures and policies to be employed; to discontinue the conduct of any operation, function or service, in whole or in part; to transfer its operations, functions or services from or to, either in whole or in part, any of its departments or other divisions; to select and direct the working force in accordance with requirements determined by the City; to create, modify or discontinue jobs; to establish and change working rules and regulations; to establish and change work schedules and assignments; to transfer, or promote employees; to lay off, furlough, demote, terminate or otherwise relieve employees from work for lack of work, lack of funds, or other legitimate reasons; to suspend, discharge, demote or otherwise discipline employees for just cause; to subcontract; and to alter or vary past practices and otherwise to take such measures as the City may determine to be necessary to the orderly and efficient operation of its various operations, functions and services.
3.2	If in the sole discretion of the Mayor it is determined that civil emergency conditions exist, including riots, civil disorders, hurricane conditions, similar catastrophies or disorders, or public employee strikes, the provisions of this Agreement may be suspended by the Mayor during the time of the declared emergency, providing that wage rates and other direct monetary payments shall not be suspended and provided further that any disciplinary action taken during such declared emergency shall be grievable at the end of the declared emergency.
4
3.3	The exercise of the above enumerated rights shall not preclude employees or their representatives from raising grievances, should decisions on the above matters have the practical consequence of violating the terms and conditions of this collective bargaining agreement.
5
ARTICLE 4
UNION REPRESENTATIVES
4.1	The City shall deal with the Union only through its authorized officers and representatives in matters requiring mutual consent or other official action called for by this agreement. However, nothing shall be deemed to prevent an employee from discussing his/her working conditions with the appropriate City officials at appropriate times.
The Union shall notify the City, in writing, of its duly authorized officers and representatives immediately upon the election or appointment of same.
4.2	The City will distribute an A.T.U. informational flyer to new bargaining unit employees at the orientation session. The content of the flyer will be mutually agreed upon by the City and the A.T.U.
6
ARTICLE 5 DUES DEDUCTION
5.1	Authorization. The City agrees to deduct monthly dues including initiation fees, and uniform assessments owed by employees to the Union, provided that such deductions are properly authorized by the employee on the official DUES DEDUCTION AUTHORIZATION CARD. Deductions shall be forwarded to the President or Financial Secretary within five (5) days of said deduction. Any deductions for items other than union dues, initiation fees, or uniform assessments must be approved semi-annually by the Director of Administration.
5.2	Revocation. Any authorization for dues deduction may be cancelled by the employee upon thirty (30) days written notice to the City and the Union. The City shall not cancel the dues deduction until the notice to the Union has been provided and the Union processes the cancellation to the City. In the event that the Union fails to process to the City a dues cancellation request effective with the next deduction thirty days (30) from the date notice was served, then the Union shall refund the deduction(s) to the employee.
5.3	The Union shall indemnify and hold harmless the City from any and all claims, demands, or expenses in connection therewith based upon the City's participation in dues deductions under this article.
5.4	Any changes in the amount to be deducted for monthly dues shall be implemented after written notification from the Union is received by the City. Said notification shall be provided to the City a minimum of four (4) weeks prior to the first pay date on which the dues increase is to be effective.
5.5	The City shall charge the Union the cost of making said deductions, said cost to be 300 per member per deduction but not more than one percent (1%) of the amount deducted. The City will provide a separate list of employees who contribute to COPE.
7
ARTICLE 6
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATION
6.1	Definition. For the purpose of this Agreement, a grievance is any dispute or difference between the employee and the City involving the meaning, interpretation, or application of the provisions of this Agreement including discipline, or discharge, and working conditions.
6.2	Scope. All grievances shall be submitted in writing referring to the specific article and section of this Agreement upon which the grievance is based and shall include a requested remedy and a concise statement of the facts alleged to support the grievance. The grievance procedure contained herein may be utilized by any bargaining unit employee regardless of membership or non-membership in the Union. Union officers or representatives may file grievances on behalf of employees. Only those grievances filed on the agreed upon Grievance Form may use this grievance procedure. All such grievances shall be processed in accordance with the procedure contained herein and shall be determined by application of the terms of this Agreement, the laws of the United States, the State of Florida and the Charter and Ordinances of the City of Tampa.
6.3.1	Time Limits. The settlement of a grievance at its lowest possible step is encouraged by the City and the Union.
6.3.2	Extensions. The time limits contained herein shall be extended for five (5) working days upon written notification of either party. Any extension greater than five (5) working days requires mutual written consent for reasonable circumstances. If an employee fails to appeal a written grievance to the next step in the procedure within the time limit specified, the grievance shall be considered forfeited and no further action shall be taken. If the City fails to respond in Step 1, or 2, as hereinafter provided within the specified time limits, the grievance may be moved to the next successive step. However, the grieving employee and/or Union must notify the appropriate party that the time limit has expired. If
8
the City fails to respond within the time limits specified with respect to Step 3, the City will forfeit the grievance; however, such forfeiture shall not be considered as a decision on the merits of the grievance or in any way establish a precedent. Classified employees shall, in any matter involving suspension or dismissal, have the option of utilizing the Civil Service Appeal procedure or this grievance procedure, but not both.
6.3.3	Working Days - Definition. Working days are defined as those days on which an individual is scheduled and appears for work. They shall not include normal days off, paid leave, or holidays as designated in Article 26.
6.3.4	Exceptions. Upon timely request of the employee or the Union, written grievances involving suspensions, dismissals, city-wide issues affecting all bargaining unit members, class action, inter-departmental or other appropriate issues shall enter the grievance procedure at the second or third step as determined by the Director of Administration. Said grievance shall be filed with the immediate supervisor and copies of the grievance form distributed as indicated on the form.
6.4	Grievance Procedure.
STEP 1 - Immediate Supervisor
An employee who feels aggrieved may discuss the problem with the immediate supervisor. A union representative may be present if so requested by the employee. Any employee not satisfied with the results of the discussion may file a written grievance as hereinafter provided. The employee shall present a signed written grievance to the immediate supervisor within five (5) working days after the date of the occurrence or the date on which the employee knew or should have known of the action giving rise to the grievance. The supervisor shall investigate and answer the grievance in writing within five (5) working days after the receipt of the written grievance. The employee, at his option may pick up the grievance response.
9
STEP 2 - Division Head/Department Director
If the employee is not satisfied with the written response of the immediate supervisor, as specified in Step 1, the grievance shall be presented to the Department Director within five (5) working days after the receipt by the employee of the immediate supervisor's written response. The Department Director may designate departmental division heads or other designees to administer the grievance procedure at Step 2. The Department Director or designee, within five (5) working days after receipt of the grievance appeal, shall meet with the employee and a union representative, unless such meeting has been waived. After said meeting is held, the Department Director or designee must respond in writing to the grievance within five (5) working days. The employee, at this option, may pick up the grievance response.
STEP 3 - Director of Administration
If the employee is not satisfied with the written response of the department director, as specified in Step 2, the grievance shall be presented to the Director of Administration within five (5) working days after the department director's written response. The Director of Administration, or designee, within five (5) working days after receipt of the written grievance, shall meet with the employee and a union representative, unless such meeting has been waived. After said meeting is held, the Director of Administration or designee must respond in writing to the grievance within five (5) working days after said meeting is held.
6.5	Grievance Answers.
Copies of all grievance answers shall be provided to the grievant, the Union President, the Director of Administration, and the Department Director and the appropriate union executive board member.
6.6	Arbitration.
6.6.1	Any grievance not resolved in the grievance procedure, after having been fully processed, may be referred to final and binding arbitration. A written demand for arbitration must be made by the employee and/or the Union within five (5) working days
10
after receipt of the Step 3 answer from the Director of Administration or designee. Grievances which are filed by employees serving their entrance probationary period cannot be referred to arbitration.
6.6.2	Upon timely notice prior to the scheduling of hearings and when mutually agreed, the consolidating of one or more grievances based upon similar circumstances for hearing and resolution before the same arbitrator shall be permitted.
6.6.3	The Union shall request a list of arbitrators within thirty (30) working days. The City and the Union shall select the arbitrator from a list of not less than five (5) names submitted by the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS) or the American Arbitration Association (AAA) within ten (10) working days from receipt of said list. The selection shall be made by alternately striking names and the remaining name shall be the arbitrator.
The party requesting arbitration shall strike the first name. The Union shall provide payment of the FMCS or AAA filing fee, however should the arbitrator rule on behalf of the Union, the City shall pay one-half of the filing fee. In the event that the parties mutually agree, before any striking of names occurs, that the list of arbitrators is unsatisfactory, one additional panel may be requested.
6.6.4	As promptly as can be arranged, the arbitration hearing shall be held. The Arbitrator shall limit the decision strictly to the interpretation, application, or enforcement of specific articles of this Agreement and shall have no power to delete from, add to, change, or otherwise modify or alter this Agreement or any part thereof.
6.6.5	The parties shall jointly share the expenses of the hearing and the fees of the arbitrator.
11
ARTICLE 7
DISCIPLINARY ACTION
7.1	Purpose. The parties recognize that the interest of the community and the job security of the employees depend upon the City's success in providing proper and efficient services to the community.
To this end, the City and the Union encourage to the fullest degree, employee behavior which is positive and supportive of the goals of effective municipal management. The parties recognize the need for progressive and appropriate disciplinary action when an employee's conduct and job performance are inconsistent with said goals. Generally, employee misconduct should be dealt with according to the seriousness of the offense but not necessarily progressive. Exceptions to this progressive system may be made in cases of major misconduct and according to the seriousness of the offense. Written notice of the charges and disciplinary action shall be given to the employee.
It is agreed that the City shall consider the employee's assigned daily work schedule when determining the duration of a suspension. It is understood that eight hours is considered as one work day. Thus an employee who is assigned 10 hours a day and receives a one day suspension, will be suspended for only eight hours.
7.2	No employee shall be disciplined except for just cause. Written reprimands and notices of misconduct shall not be placed in the employee’s personnel files before the employee has been informed of such action. The employee shall date and sign all written reprimands and notices of misconduct; however, the signature does not imply agreement. If the employee refuses to sign a written reprimand or notice of misconduct, this action shall be noted on the document.
7.3	When administering disciplinary action, written reprimands and notices of minor misconduct shall not be considered if the employee has had no disciplinary actions against him/her within the past twelve (12) months. Written reprimands and documentation of
12
minor misconduct, including reprimands documenting Absences Without Leave ("AWL"), shall be indicated as void in the employee's personnel file, after a twelve (12) month period has elapsed without any documented infractions. Suspensions and terminations shall not be removed from the employee's personnel file.
Any suspension over a period of five years shall not be included in the current notice of discipline. This is contingent upon no disciplinary action in the previous 5 years.
For patterns of repeated unacceptable behavior, the progression of discipline may be accelerated, notwithstanding the expiration of previous discipline addressing that behavior.
Nothing herein will be construed as a limitation on the right of the City in imposing discipline based on repeated or reoccurring conduct or behavior, even if the conduct or behavior was the subject of any discipline which has expired as a result of this section.
7.4	Absence Wthout Leave. Absence Without Leave ("AWL") shall indicate that an absence is unauthorized and without pay. An absence without leave is only to be administered as part of an overall progressive/corrective disciplinary process. An employee who is absent without leave ("AWL") for three (3) consecutive days may be considered as "resigned without notice".
7.5	Disciplinary actions covered by this article are subject to the grievance procedures. The discipline may include but is not limited to the following:
(a)	Letter of Counseling
(b)	Written Reprimand
(c)	Suspension
(d)	Demotion
(e)	Dismissal
(f)	Payment for lost or damaged equipment due to negligence up to a maximum of $350.00. Such payment shall be made through payroll deductions not to exceed
13
two hours pay per payroll period. The employee may be assessed up to $350.00 in lieu of a suspension.
7.6	Any employee who is scheduled to be dismissed from the City of Tampa because of an arrest by any law enforcement agency, shall be placed on a personal leave of absence for a maximum of 60 days. Additional extensions may be requested and provided at the discretion of the Director of Administration in accordance with the policy on Personal Leave of Absences. At the expiration of the personal leave of absence, the employee will be terminated unless acquitted after a trial on the merits or all charges are dismissed by the State Attorney’s Office.
If this criminal matter is resolved as specified above, the employee shall notify the Director of Administration in writing and request reinstatement within five (5) working days following the determination of acquittal and shall include proof of the acquittal. Reinstatement will be to a comparable position in the City of Tampa.
7.7	An employee who is not incarcerated may request to use accumulated annual leave.
14
ARTICLE 8
NO STRIKE
8.1	The Union agrees that during the term of this Agreement, it shall not authorize, instigate, condone, excuse, ratify, support, or acquiesce in any strike, slowdown, picketing or work stoppage likely to interfere with the efficient operation of the City's affairs engaged in or supported by members of the Union and/or employees represented by the Union or other agents or representatives of the Union or its affiliates.
8.2	Should the Union breach this Article, the City may proceed to the appropriate court and, without notice, obtain an injunction against such breach; that the City may recover from the Union or its successor interest, such damages as may be incurred, together with punitive damages and attorney's fees; and that the City may take any other action authorized or required by law.
8.3	Should any employee participate in a breach of this article, they shall be subject to immediate disciplinary action up to and including dismissal. Re-employment of such individuals shall be consistent with Florida Statute, Chapter 447.
8.4	The question of whether this Article has been breached shall be subject to the grievance procedure contained herein.
15
ARTICLE 9
UNION BUSINESS
9.1	Employee Representation. The City agrees that employees will be afforded the right to have a union representative present at any investigatory interview when the employee reasonably believes that such an interview might result in disciplinary action. It will be the employee's responsibility to notify the union if representation is desired.
9.2	Neither union representatives nor unit employees shall leave their posts or work station for the purpose of investigating, presenting, handling or settling grievances during their assigned working hours unless union leave has been approved pursuant to 9.3 or other appropriate leave has been authorized in advance. Union representatives shall not contact or be contacted by any employee concerning grievance matters or union business during the working hours of the employee or the union representative without the express prior permission of the supervisors of the employees involved. When a grievance hearing is scheduled during the grievant's working hours, the grievant shall be allowed to attend the hearing without utilizing union leave, however, nothing contained herein shall obligate the City to compensate a grievant for attendance of his/her grievance hearing when scheduled during the grievant's non-working hours.
9.3	Union Leave With Pay. Union representatives shall have the right to request time off for the purpose of conducting Union business, including attending conventions, meetings, grievance hearings, contract negotiations, and City Council meetings regarding the resolution of collective bargaining impasse procedures, and other authorized Union business provided that the efficiency of the City operations shall not be interfered with. Union leave must be used for conducting union business related to City of Tampa labor relations matters and shall not be granted for lobbying or any other political activity. Such requests shall be submitted by the employee in writing to the employee's immediate supervisor at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance on a Request for Leave Form. Approval of union time requires authorization at least twenty-four hours in advance by the Union President and the Director of Administration or their designees. No reasonable
16
request will be denied. In an emergency situation, leave may be authorized verbally by the Director of Administration. Union leave shall not be considered approved unless final authorization has been granted by the Director of Administration. The failure of the employee and/or the Union to properly request union leave shall result in denial of the leave. Union leave is to be requested only for the employee's assigned work hours. There shall be no leave granted for time periods that the employee is not scheduled for City work. The maximum aggregate number of paid hours available for this purpose shall be two thousand seven hundred (2,700) hours during the fiscal year.
In the event that the Union does not use the entire number of hours provided by this Article in any one fiscal year, then it may carry the unused portion of those hours over to the following fiscal year, provided however, that no more than 200 unused hours may be carried forward and that such carry over shall be used before a charge is applied against the allotment for the new year. The official balance of union time shall be determined by the Director of Administration. The Union agrees to properly notify the City of the names of all eligible Union officers and representatives. Union leave shall be treated as all other approved leaves. Union leave, as with other approved leave, does not count as hours worked for the purpose of calculating overtime nor shall it be considered as premium hours for the purpose of payment of shift premium incentive pay.
9.4	Union Leave of Absence Without Pay. The City agrees to authorize an unpaid leave of absence for Union business. Such leave shall be granted unless the Director of Administration determines it will be harmful to the interests of the City. A leave of absence may be granted for a period of six (6) continuous calendar months and may be extended with permission of the Director of Administration for one additional period of six (6) months or less.
All employee benefits will cease during the Union leave of absence. Health and life insurance may be continued at the employee's expense. The length of the leave of absence shall not constitute a break in service but it shall not be credited towards continuous service for the purpose of calculating longevity award or anniversary dates.
17
No position held by an employee who is on a Union leave of absence may be filled on a permanent basis; however, the position may be filled on a limited term basis.
18
ARTICLE 10
ANNUAL LEAVE
10.1	Eligibility. Employees who are assigned to full time positions shall accrue annual leave for hours worked on the basis of 1.9 hours per weekly payroll period or 3.8 hours per bi-weekly payroll period. An employee's supervisor may authorize an employee to use accrued annual leave for any purpose as long as it has no direct conflict with employment. Annual leave may not be used by a candidate for public office or to cover tardiness. During the first six months of employment, the employee shall not be authorized the use of annual leave. An employee shall be granted at least 15 days of annual leave during any year, if properly requested. Annual leave must be requested on the appropriate form in advance and is not authorized without the express approval of the supervisor. Verbal approval by the supervisor is sufficient for emergencies. Properly submitted requests for annual leave shall not be unreasonably denied. Annual leave is accrued on the date it appears in the employee's paycheck leave balance. There shall be no advancement or borrowing of any type of leave.
Absence without pay ("AWP" time) shall not be authorized when an employee has accrued annual leave.
10.2	Bonus Leave Accrual. Bonus hours will be credited annually to the bargaining unit employee's annual leave account for each five (5) years of continuous service according to the following schedule:
For Service of At Least	But Less Than	Bonus Hours
5 years	10 years	16
10 years	15 years	24
15 years	20 years	48
20 years	25 years	56
25 years	30 years	72
30 years	35 years	80
35 years	40 years	88
19
40 years
45 years
45 years
50 years
96
104
Continuous service is defined as the period of employment not interrupted by resignation, dismissal, retirement, quitting without notice, or termination. The length of a leave of absence (except a Workers’ Compensation Leave of Absence), suspension, or layoff in excess of 30 calendar days shall not be credited towards continuous service for the purpose of calculating annual leave bonus days. Continuous service is not adjusted due to absences while on Workers’ Compensation.
Crediting of bonus hours shall occur on the first day of the employee's payroll cycle at the beginning of the calendar year.
10.3	Maximum Accumulation. A total of 240 hours of annual leave is the maximum that may be carried past the end of the calendar year. Any accumulation greater than the 240 hours maximum shall be transferred to the sick leave account at the end of the calendar year. This transfer will occur on the last day of the employee's last payroll cycle of the calendar year.
10.4	Partial Accumulation. In the event of a new hire or termination, partial annual leave shall accrue according to the first or last day the employee actually worked or was on paid leave.
10.5	Disqualification. Any time during which an employee is on any type of leave without pay (i.e., suspensions, leave of absence, unpaid military leave, absence without pay, or absence without leave) shall not be credited towards the calculation of annual leave accrual for the payroll period.
10.6	Advance Pay. Employees may request advance pay for annual leave that has been accrued prior to going on annual leave. Such requests must be for forty (40) or more hours of pay. Requests shall be honored when submitted to the department on the proper
20
form at least three (3) weeks in advance of going on annual leave. It shall be the responsibility of the employee to verify that the request is properly submitted and processed by their department to the Central Payroll Division a minimum of two (2) weeks prior to the first day of the scheduled annual leave. The employee shall also be responsible for maintaining an adequate annual leave balance to cover the request for leave. If properly requested, submitted and approved, the City shall make every reasonable effort to provide the employee's advance for annual leave pay on the last pay date preceding the date upon which the annual leave is scheduled to commence. The amount of the advance pay for annual leave shall equal the amount that the employee would have received had the employee not requested the advanced pay (i.e., gross pay minus payroll deductions scheduled for the leave period). If for any reason it is determined by the City that it is necessary to void a request for advance pay for annual leave, the request shall be cancelled.
10.7	Payment of Unused Annual Leave. Upon termination, a bargaining unit employee will be paid a lump sum for unused annual leave up to and not exceeding 240 hours at the rate of pay as of the date of termination. Except when an employee has less than six months of continuous service with the City; or fails to give 14 calendar days notice prior to termination in which case the employee shall have 8 hours of annual leave deducted for each calendar day short of 14 days.
21
ARTICLE 11
SICK LEAVE
11.1	Purpose. The City of Tampa grants sick leave to eligible employees to provide continued income during employee illnesses.
11.2	Leave Accrual. Employees who are assigned to full time positions shall accrue sick leave for hours worked on the basis of 1.9 hours per weekly payroll period or 3.8 hours per bi-weekly payroll period.
11.3	Partial Accumulation. In the event of a new hire or termination, partial sick leave shall accrue according to the first or last day the employee actually worked or was on paid leave.
11.4	Unlimited Accumulation. There is no maximum amount of sick leave which an employee may accumulate.
11.5	Disqualification. Any time during which an employee is on any type of leave without pay (i.e., suspensions, leave of absence, unpaid military leave, absence without pay or absence without leave) shall not be credited towards calculation of sick leave accrual for the payroll period.
11.6	When Sick Leave is Permissible. Sick leave shall be allowed in cases of actual sickness or disability of the employee, including necessary appointments with physicians, dentists, or professional health care providers. An employee may be granted a maximum of forty (40) hours use of sick leave per calendar year in order to provide care for an ill child, spouse, other legal dependent, parent or family member, or any other member of the employee’s immediate household.
22
The supervisor may require acceptable medical substantiation before authorizing sick leave, if the amount of sick leave requested exceeds three (3) days; or, if the supervisor feels the employee is abusing the use of sick leave.
Acceptable medical substantiation shall be required in the case of a concerted use of sick leave (i.e., a predetermined day that a group of employees request sick leave). An employee may be authorized the use of sick leave as soon as it is accrued on the date it appears on the employee's paycheck leave balance statement.
An employee who has been authorized the use of sick leave shall not later receive a negative comment concerning their attendance on the performance evaluation unless the employee had previously been notified of lacking acceptable medical substantiation, not adhering to procedures, or otherwise abusing sick leave.
The City will continue to require medical substantiation when any employee utilizes sick leave contiguous with separation from employment.
11.7	Request for Leave. The employee must call his/her immediate supervisor to request sick leave within 30 minutes of the start of the work shift, unless the department has established a written departmental policy which requires the employee to call prior to the employee's work day. In the case of an emergency, the supervisor may waive this requirement.
11.8	Illness During Authorized Annual Leave. An employee while on authorized annual leave may request that the annual leave be changed to sick leave when circumstances change and the employee would have been otherwise authorized for use of sick leave per 11.6.
11.9	When Sick Leave is Exhausted. When an employee exhausts his/her sick leave, there shall be no advancement or borrowing of any type of leave. The employee may be
23
authorized to use annual leave, absence without pay, and/or a medical leave of absence as provided in this Agreement. Employees shall be eligible for use of the sick leave bank in accordance with authorization of the Director of Administration.
11.10	Unused Sick Leave - Pay Off. Employees granted a longevity, deferred, or disability retirement from the General Employee's Pension Plan shall receive a lump sum payment equal to one-half of the employee's accumulated sick leave at the rate of pay as of the date of separation. Upon the death of an employee, his/her legal heirs shall receive a lump sum payment equal to 75% of the employee's accumulated sick leave at the employee's last rate of pay. An employee who is dismissed from the City and subsequently obtains any type of retirement is not eligible for this provision.
11.11	The City will continue to comply with the Family Medical Leave Act and in most cases exceeds its requirements (see B11.3 of the Personnel Manual).
24
ARTICLE 12
ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY
12.1	Absence Without Pay ("AWP") is an authorized absence for any part of the workday which is approved in writing. An Absence Without Pay is only to be administered on an emergency basis. It may not be used to cover repeated tardiness.
12.2	In the event that an employee has exhausted annual and/or sick leave balances, the supervisor may authorize an Absence Wthout Pay. A supervisor shall not authorize more than 16 hours of Absence Wthout Pay in a payroll calendar year. Additional Absences Wthout Pay may be authorized at the discretion of the department director, however, no employee shall be authorized more than eighty (80) hours of Absence Without Pay in a payroll calendar year. Additional absences without pay for extraordinary circumstances may be authorized by the Director of Administration. The "payroll calendar year" is the period of time from the first day of the employee's first payroll cycle of the calendar year through the last day of the employee's last payroll cycle of the calendar year.
25
ARTICLE 13
LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY
13.1	Definitions and Eligibility. A personal or medical leave of absence without pay may be granted to employees who have completed at least one year of continuous service and are assigned at least 40 hours of work per week. A leave of absence is a privilege the City may grant employees, not a right to which they are entitled. A personal leave of absence without pay may be granted to an employee for other approved reasons (for example, family illness, paternity, adoption). A medical leave of absence without pay may be granted to an employee for medical reasons as certified by a physician. A medical leave of absence request must include a physician's certification of illness or maternity and an expected return to work date. Medical leave shall be granted only after all sick leave benefits in excess of 40 hours have been exhausted. Medical leaves of absence for maternity reasons will be considered for only the period of actual employee disability as certified by a licensed physician. Employees may request a personal leave of absence, to commence upon the expiration of a medical leave of absence for maternity reasons, for the purpose of extended care of the infant.
13.2	Authorization. Prior to reinstatement from a medical leave of absence without pay, the City shall require acceptable medical authorization to return to work. Such authorization must be acceptable to the Director of Administration. A personal or medical leave of absence may be granted for a specific period greater than eighty (80) hours but not in excess of six (6) continuous calendar months. The Department Director may grant two (2) extension periods to each leave of absence that do not exceed three (3) months each, with the approval of the Director of Administration. A period of up to eighty (80) hours may be granted as excused Leave Without Pay ("AWP") at the discretion of the department director as provided in Article 12.
13.3	Benefits. All employee benefits, except as otherwise provided herein, shall cease during a personal leave of absence. Health and life insurance can be continued at the
26
employee's expense. In the event that an employee is granted a medical leave of absence, the employee shall continue to receive the same health and life insurance benefits as when the employee was active for a maximum of six (6) months. The total cost of this insurance shall become the expense of the employee if an extension to a leave of absence is granted. Failure of the employee to remit said costs to the City shall result in cancellation of insurance and the employee will be subject to any re-enrollment procedures required by the City's group insurance policies. Employees who are enrolled in dental and/or other optional insurance policies are responsible for contacting the applicable company to arrange for direct payments to continue coverage. Failure to make payments will result in the company canceling coverage. The length of any leave of absence (except for a Workers' Compensation Leave of Absence) in excess of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days shall not be credited towards continuous service for the purpose of calculating longevity awards, annual leave bonus days, salary review dates or seniority.
13.4	Reinstatement of Position. Upon the expiration of an approved leave of absence, the employee shall be reinstated to the position occupied at the time the leave was granted, or to a similar position in the same class at the same pay. Seniority, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, rate of pay, and other benefits shall commence upon return to work. No position held by an employee who is on an approved leave of absence may be filled on a permanent basis; however, the position may be filled on a limited term basis.
13.5	Termination of Leave. The failure of an employee to report promptly to duty at the expiration of the leave of absence shall be just cause for termination of the employment. An employee shall be subject to immediate termination if the employee accepts other employment during the approved leave of absence.
27
13.6.	1 Workers' Compensation Leave of Absence. A Workers'Compensation Leave of Absence is provided to an employee who, after having reached maximum medical improvement or after six (6) months of temporary total disability has not been able to perform the duties of his/her position; and who is otherwise eligible as specified herein. The workers' compensation leave of absence enables the employee to continue to recuperate and/or seek a position for which the employee is physically capable.
13.6.	2 Definitions. Maximum Medical Improvement - the date after which recovery or lasting improvement can no longer reasonably be anticipated. Only the examining physician is authorized to determine a maximum medical improvement date.
Temporary Total Disability - The recuperative period of time during which an individual is not able to perform duties at full capacity. Only the examining physician is authorized to determine the temporary total disability recovery date.
13.6.	3 Eligibility. All employees, regardless of length of service, are eligible for a workers' compensation leave of absence. The decision to place an employee on this leave is at the discretion of the department director with the concurrence of the Director of Administration. This action does not require a request from the employee.
13.6.	4 Benefits. Length and benefits shall be in accordance with medical leave of absence policies in 13.2 and 13.3. The position held by an employee on this leave may be filled on a temporary or permanent basis as determined by the Director of Administration.
13.6.	5 Reinstatement. Any reinstatement shall require medical substantiation by the examining physician. If the employee's physical condition is such that the employee is able to perform the job, the employee will be reinstated to the position occupied at the time the leave was granted or to a similar class and at the same rate of pay. Reinstatement to any other position must take place through the application, certification,
28
and selection process. All benefits shall commence again when an employee is reinstated to a former or new position.
13.6.	6 Termination of Leave. At the expiration of the workers' compensation leave of absence, an employee will be terminated unless the employee is physically able to and has returned to the former position or been employed in a new position; or has chosen to voluntarily resign or seek retirement. An employee shall be subject to immediate termination if the employee accepts other non-City employment without notification to the City and/or contrary to wage loss provisions of the Workers' Compensation Act during the approved leave of absence.
29
ARTICLE 14
FUNERAL AND BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
14.1	Funeral leave as provided herein is expressly for periods of bereavement and/or attending the funeral of a family member or relative.
14.2	Death In the Immediate Family.
A.	The immediate family is defined as spouse, son, daughter, brother, sister, father, mother, father-in-law, mother-in-law, or any other member of the employee's immediate household.
B.	In the event of a death among an employee's immediate family, the employee may be authorized a maximum of three (3) days of paid funeral leave. This leave is not deducted from the employee's accumulated sick or annual leave.
C.	Based on individual circumstances, the employee may request and the department head may extend funeral leave to five (5) days. The two (2) extra days are to be deducted from the employee's sick or annual leave at the employee's discretion.
14.3	Death of a Relative.
A.	A relative is defined as grandson, granddaughter, grandparents, aunt, uncle, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, nephew or niece.
B.	In the event of a death of a relative, the employee may be authorized a maximum of two (2) days of paid funeral leave. This leave is not to be deducted from his or her accumulated sick or annual leave.
C.	Based on individual circumstances, the employee may request and the department head may extend the funeral leave to four (4) days. The two (2)
30
extra days are to be deducted from the employee's sick or annual leave at the employee's discretion.
14.4	With the authorization of the Director of Administration, employees may be granted the use of sick leave to attend the funeral of family members not otherwise covered by this Article.
31
ARTICLE 15
JURY DUTY/COURT ATTENDANCE
15.1	Applicable Court Attendance. Any employee who is subpoenaed by a government unit to either serve as a juror or as a witness on behalf and at the request of a government jurisdiction (whether in court or through a sworn deposition) will receive full pay for the hours during which the employee is in attendance in such activities during the employee's regularly scheduled work hours.
A.	A governmental unit is defined as an agency or office of Federal, state, or municipal government.
B.	This policy does not apply when the employee is subpoenaed in the following instances:
1)	When an employee is a defendant or plaintiff in a civil suit or criminal case;
2)	When an employee is subpoenaed by a defendant's attorney in a criminal case;
3)	When an employee is subpoenaed by any party in a civil action in which a government is not a party;
4)	When an employee is subpoenaed by the non-government party in a civil action in which a government is a party.
15.2	Prior Notification. The employee will notify his or her immediate supervisor as far in advance as possible of the impending jury duty or court attendance so that work schedules can be adjusted.
15.3	Submission of Proof. The immediate supervisor may request that the employee present proof of the subpoena and attendance in court before authorizing payment for this leave.
32
15.4	Adjustment of Shift. Any employee working other than the normal day shift will have his or her shift changed to coincide with the hours of jury duty or court attendance.
15.5	Portions of the Workday. An employee who attends jury duty or court for only a portion of a regular work day will report to his or her supervisor when excused or released from the court.
15.6	Fees. The employee may retain all fees for jury duty, court attendance, or making a sworn deposition. Employees are prohibited from accepting "expert witness" fees for testimony related to their employment field. "Expert witness" fees shall be turned over to the City of Tampa treasurer's office.
15.7	Off-Duty Court Time. Employees who are required by the City to present court testimony related to their employment during their non-duty hours shall be paid a minimum of two and one-half (2.5) hours for the first off duty court appearance of each calendar day in addition to the normal witness fee. Such off duty appearance shall be counted as hours worked.
33
ARTICLE 16
MILITARY LEAVE
16.1	Annual Military Leave. Annual military leave due to the request of the armed forces to fulfill regular military duties, field training, and/or emergency military obligations, shall be granted according to state and Federal regulations. Currently leave is not to exceed seventeen (17) days.
(1)	All employee benefits, including pay, shall continue at the same rate during annual military leave.
(2)	Upon return from annual military leave, the employee shall return to the same position held prior to taking leave. An employee with temporary status shall be allowed to return to the position held prior to military leave, provided the position has not been eliminated during the leave.
16.2	Military Leave of Absence. A Military Leave of Absence shall be granted according to state and Federal regulations. The employee has the option to use all accumulated annual leave prior to the military leave of absence. Any sick leave accumulated prior to the military leave of absence shall remain available to the employee upon reinstatement.
34
ARTICLE 17 SENIORITY
17.1	Definition. Seniority is hereby defined as continuous length of service with the City of Tampa and/or within each operating department as follows:
A.	Total City seniority is total length of continuous service within the employment of the City of Tampa.
B.	Departmental seniority is total length of continuous service within an employee's current operating department.
C.	Continuous service is defined as the period of employment not interrupted by resignation, dismissal, retirement, or quitting without notice. Time spent greater than 30 calendar days on layoff or leave of absence (except for a Workers' Compensation Leave of Absence) shall not be considered a break in service or suspension but will not be credited in the calculation of seniority dates. Seniority dates are not adjusted due to absences while on Workers' Compensation.
17.2	Vacation and Annual Leave Selection. Departmental seniority shall be used to determine vacation selection of employees within work units consistent with the efficient operations of said unit. If employees in the same work unit have the same departmental seniority date, city seniority shall be used. When two or more employees within a work unit present a request for the same or overlapping dates for annual leave for less than one week and management determines that not all requests can be granted due to staffing needs, department seniority shall be used to determine the approval of the annual leave consistent with the efficient operation of said unit and provided that the requests have been submitted at least two weeks in advance.
17.3	Lav Off. Total City seniority shall determine department lay offs pursuant to Lay Off -Recall Article 18.
35
17.4	Job Assignments. Whereas management has the responsibility for efficient distribution of experience and special qualifications, job assignments are the domain of management. However, unless there are overriding factors, seniority and qualifications shall be factors in making specific job assignments within the various job classifications within departmental divisions, and seniority shall be considered as otherwise expressly provided by this Agreement. While management reserves the right and responsibility to assign personnel depending on the needs of the operations, management also recognizes that when all else is equal, personnel shall have the opportunity to work a shift conducive to their specific situation. Accordingly, seniority shall be considered and given preference when possible in the determination of the assignment of work schedules (including normal days off) and shift assignments.
17.5	Rosters. Within each work unit, there shall be posted a seniority list of bargaining unit employees. The list shall contain the names in rank of seniority, the date of hire, department, and total City seniority dates for all unit employees. The list shall be kept up-to-date and a copy of said list shall be furnished to the Union President at least semiannually by January 31 and July 31.
36
ARTICLE 18
LAY OFF AND RECALL
18.1	Definition. A lay off is a reduction in the number of employees within any department due to lack of work, lack of funds, or for any reason other than the acts or delinquencies of the employee. The City will lay off employees in reverse order of their seniority, as hereinafter provided.
18.2	Order Of Lay Off. Once the City has determined that selected positions shall be eliminated in a department, the City will lay off employees in said classification using their total City seniority. If one or more employees have the same amount of seniority, the City shall use Affirmative Action goals and requirements, quality of performance, and disciplinary records to break such ties. The seniority accumulated for time worked on a part-time basis shall be equal to one-half of the time spent in the part-time status; i.e., one year equals six months. An employee affected will first be given the opportunity to apply the employee's seniority into a lower classification in the department, provided the employee held regular status in the lower classification and can do the work, to keep from being laid off. Example: A Clerk III may accept a voluntary demotion to Clerk II provided that the employee has more total City seniority and previously held regular status as a Clerk II in the department and can perform the work of a Clerk II.
18.3	Notification. The City shall attempt to provide employees being laid off with as much notice as practicable in order to encourage and assist employees to apply for other positions prior to lay off. Written notice of lay off shall be given at least twenty one (21) calendar days in advance of such lay offs. The Union President shall be furnished a copy of such notice.
18.4	Unemployment. Employees laid off shall receive unemployment benefits according to applicable State of Florida regulations.
37
18.5	Re-Employment. Employees shall be recalled from lay-off provided that they are presently qualified to perform the work in the job classification to which they are recalled as provided by this article. The City will counsel employees as to the skills required to qualify for recall in vacant positions.
18.5.1	Same Class of Work. Employees who are laid off, unless they otherwise indicate, shall be automatically recorded on the preferential list for reemployment in the first position available in the classification within the Department which they occupied at the time of layoff. Said laid off employees will receive preferential consideration for openings in that classification in other Departments.
18.5.2	Abolition of A Class of Work. Persons laid off from a class of work which has been abolished shall receive preferential reemployment to those classes of equivalent or lower status within their Department for which they qualify. Preferential consideration will be given for equivalent or lower positions outside their Department for which they qualify. The City may, at its sole discretion, place employees who have been laid off due to abolition of a class of work in temporary vacant positions in an effort to provide training and experience along with continued employment while the employee seeks other City positions.
18.5.3	Other Classes of Work. If a laid-off employee qualifies for positions equivalent to or of lower status than the classification occupied at the time of lay-off, it is necessary for the person to complete and submit employment applications in order to be considered. If the City determines that the person is qualified for those classifications, the person will be placed on the eligibility list for those classifications.
18.6	Employment Status. An individual who has been laid off shall not be considered as having completely terminated from the City's employment so long as the individual remains on a preferential reemployment list. However, when an individual's name is
38
removed from the preferential list because he or she rejects an offer of reemployment with the City or requests that his or her name be removed from the lists because of no interest in reemployment or otherwise removed due to death or disability, the removal of the name from the lists shall constitute complete termination from employment.
18.7	Benefit Status. During the period during which an employee is laid-off and remains on preferential re-employment list the employee shall not receive termination payments (i.e., annual leave, sick leave, pension, longevity). All benefits shall cease during the lay off period. Health and life insurance may be continued at the employee's expense.
18.8	Retirement or Resignations. Individuals who are identified for lay-off who are eligible and choose to retire or take a deferred retirement shall not be placed on preferential reemployment lists. Employees who retire or resign will be treated as in normal policies.
18.9	Recall Notice. The City shall notify employees to be recalled by certified United States mail return receipt requested. All employees on lay off shall have the obligation of providing the City with their correct mailing address. A recalled employee shall immediately inform the City of his or her intent to accept or reject the recall order. An individual's name shall be removed from all preferential lists when: the employee fails to respond within seven (7) calendar days after the City's transmittal of the notice of recall; the employee notifies the City of acceptance of recall but fails to report at the specified time; the employee accepts or rejects any employment with the City; and/or the employee has been on lay off for a period of one year.
18.10	Recall Status. For purposes of benefits, a person rehired from a preferential reemployment list shall not suffer a break in service. However, the time spent on lay-off in excess of 30 calendar days shall not be credited towards continuous service for the purposes of calculating longevity awards, annual leave bonus days, salary review dates or seniority in the calculation of benefits. Employees rehired in different departments or different classifications within the same department must serve a probationary period.
39
ARTICLE 19 PROMOTIONAL VACANCY
19.1	The City shall continue the practice of filling promotional vacancies with certified eligibles in a manner consistent with affirmative action goals and requirements, seniority, quality of performance (including performance evaluations, attendance, and appropriate disciplinary records), examination, and other principles of a merit system of personnel selection and appointment. The selection of persons to fill vacant positions shall continue to be at the sole discretion of the City.
The City will continue the practice with respect to any employee in a bargaining unit position covered by this contract who is promoted to another bargaining position shall serve a promotional probationary period of six (6) months. During the promotional probationary period, the employee may be removed from the promoted position and returned to the previous position with cause. An employee serving a promotional probationary period shall have access to the grievance procedure with regard to the City's decision to remove the employee from the position which the promotion occurred. Grievances which are filed by employees serving their promotional probationary period cannot be referred to arbitration or the Civil Service Board. The action of the City in returning an employee serving a promotional probationary period to the previous position shall not be considered disciplinary action.
All of the above factors being equal, promotions shall be based on seniority.
Employees not selected for promotions will be provided career development counseling, and/or training by the Department of Administration.
19.2	Promotional opportunities and vacancies shall continue to be posted in all departments. However, employees are reminded that issuance of a formal employment
40
opportunity notice does not occur each time a vacancy occurs, particularly when current adequate eligible lists are available. Employees are encouraged to apply for classes of work to determine and/or maintain their eligibility so that they will be considered to fill vacancies as they occur. This information along with a listing of all bargaining unit positions will continue to be posted in all departments, said notice to be updated annually.
19.3	It is understood that promotion decisions are judgments which incorporate the criteria stated in 19.1 (above) and that only the promotional process, and not professional judgments, are grievable under the appropriate provisions of this Agreement.
41
ARTICLE 20
TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS
20.1	Temporary Assignments. Any employee within the bargaining unit who is required by the supervisor and authorized by the department director to perform the duties of a higher level classification on a temporary basis (temporary meaning for more than fifteen (15) consecutive work days for any reason) will be paid one pay step or pay grade higher than his or her regular rate of pay for all time worked including overtime. Temporary assignment pay shall not be included in any pay for time not worked.
An employee who works 15 consecutive days in a higher level position and later during the fiscal year works one or more days in the same position will be paid for hours worked as provided above.
20.2	In order to be eligible for this payment, duties assigned must be those of a budgeted position which is vacant due to a termination, or paid or unpaid leave, for more than 15 work days but less than 90 consecutive calendar days.
20.3	At the end of the 90-day period, the position shall be filled through the appropriate list of eligibles unless an extension has been approved for extraordinary circumstances. The employee who has performed a temporary assignment shall not be given any preference in the permanent filling of the vacant position.
20.4	At the end of the temporary assignment the employee will return to his or her previous rate of pay.
20.5	A temporary assignment does not affect the employee's seniority date or salary review date.
42
ARTICLE 21
WAGES
21.1	Wage Rates. Employees within the bargaining unit classifications and pay grades listed in Appendix I hereto and who are otherwise eligible shall be paid according to the wage schedule contained in the Appendices.
21.2	Merit/Step Increases - Performance Incentive Plan. Employees are awarded step increases upon the successful completion of the six (6) month entrance probationary period or the six (6) month promotional probationary period; and, annually thereafter on the Salary Review Date. Merit/step increases are based on the overall points scored on the applicable performance evaluation for the job classification held as follows:
Administrative/Clerical Performance Incentive Plan:
Performance Rating:	Points:	Steps Awarded:
Unsatisfactory	Less than 3.0	0
Fully Meets Expectations	3.0 to 3.9	.5
Excellent	4.0 to 4.4	1.0
Outstanding	4.5 to 5.0	1.5
Services/Trades - Performance Incentive Plan:		
Performance Rating:	Points:	Steps Awarded:
Unsatisfactory	Less than 36.0	0
Fully Meets Expectations	36.0 - 47.9	.5
Excellent	48.0 - 53.9	1.0
Outstanding	54.0 - 60.0	1.5
43
Professional/Technical - Performance Incentive Plan:
Performance Rating:	Points:	Steps Awarded:
Poor	Less than 33.0	0
Below Expectations	33.0 - 38.9	0
Fully Meets Expectations	39.0 - 51.9	.5
Excellent	52.0 - 60.9	1.0
Outstanding	61.0 - 65.0	1.5
21.2.1	The determination of point ranges for each rating is based on an expected distribution of employees based on appropriate and substantiated documentation of performance. In the event that ratings for the prior fiscal year indicate an altered overall distribution not related to valid reasons, point ranges for the succeeding fiscal year shall be adjusted by the Director of Administration to ensure that only those employees deserving the higher ratings are awarded the additional steps. Raters shall follow the procedures and requirements for proper completion of performance evaluations including substantiation and documentation of the selection of ratings. Raters are prohibited from selecting higher point ratings in order to make an employee eligible for additional steps when they are not merited. The Director of Administration (or designee) shall have the authority to alter the awarding of merit step increases for an employee when the rating is deemed inappropriate.
21.3	Salary administration for new hires, promotions, demotions and other transactions shall continue as specified in the City of Tampa Personnel Manual.
21.4	The City agrees that employees whose positions are classified as "GC" shall retain their current rate of pay until such time as the normal rate of pay for that classification is equal to or greater than the employee's "GC" rate. At such time, the City will place the employee into the normal job classification and pay grade without loss in pay.
44
21.5	Fleet Job Rate Program. Upon the date determined by the City with thirty days advance notice to employees and the Union, the City shall have the option to implement a Job Rate Program in the Fleet Division of the Public Works Department. Said Job Rate Program shall be developed with consultation with the employees and the Union.
45
ARTICLE 22
SHIFT PREMIUM INCENTIVE PAY
22.1	Full-time employees working at least forty (40) hours per week will be compensated for work performed in an irregular period as provided herein. Eligible employees may receive up to a maximum of forty (40) hours of shift premium incentive pay per week.
22.2	Definition. Shift Premium Incentive Pay is premium pay based on scheduled hours worked in one or more of the categories listed below:
A.	Night shift - Any shift starting between 3 p.m. and 3 a.m. is considered night shift work.
B.	Split shift - Any shift during a work day which is interrupted by a period of at least two (2) hours.
C.	Weekend shift - Any shift that begins on a Saturday or Sunday.
22.3	Eligibility. All full-time employees who work a regularly scheduled shift, which meets one or more of the above conditions are eligible. A regular schedule is any shift which is repeatedly and routinely scheduled by the department, in advance, as the normal course of work for employees. Regular part-time employees are excluded from this benefit.
22.4	Incentive Types are Non-Cumulative. In the event that more than one condition outlined in 22.2 hereof applies to any one shift, only one premium amount will be paid for each hour worked in that shift.
22.5	Rate of Compensation. Payment shall be .60 per hour and is provided on the basis of 400 per hour at 150% for the hours of premium work per week and will not be compounded by overtime. Payment for leave time shall be at the employee's regular rate of pay and shall not include any shift premium pay. Payment shall be to the employee actually working the premium shift.
46
ARTICLE 23
RECALL/STAND BY PAY
23.1	Definition - Recall. Employees who are recalled to work prior to 2.5 hours before their scheduled workday, or after having left for the day, or who are called in to work on a non-scheduled work day or leave day, shall be guaranteed a minimum of 2.5 hours work. In the event that an employee is recalled more than once, the employee shall be guaranteed the minimum of 2.5 hours work as specified herein for the first recall and shall be guaranteed a one (1) hour minimum of work for each subsequent recall during the same shift. For the purpose of this section, recall is defined as any time an employee is required to report in or show up for the assignment of work under the above conditions. Recall time actually worked shall be the time that the employee is actually present at the assigned work site in the performance of assigned duties.
23.2	Recall - Overtime. Recall pay counts as "hours worked" for the computation of overtime in accordance with Article 24.2.
23.3	Definition - Stand by. Stand by time is considered off duty time during which the City requires that the employee be constantly available for work, be easily accessible and be able to report for work within one hour. Time spent on stand by will be compensated at a rate of one and one-half (1.5) hour's pay for each eight (8) hours spent on stand by. Employees shall forfeit stand by pay and be subject to disciplinary action if they fail to report for work after being contacted. Employees who are actually called in for work while on stand by duty shall be compensated pursuant to recall pay above. Employees shall not receive recall pay and stand by pay for the same shift.
23.4	Stand by - Overtime. Stand by pay shall be counted as hours worked for purposes of calculating overtime.
47
ARTICLE 24
OVERTIME POLICY
24.1	Scheduling. Employees may be required to work overtime. The right to require and schedule employees for overtime work remains a management function. Overtime shall be distributed on a rotating basis beginning with the most senior employee within the work unit. No employee will be forced to work overtime if there are other qualified employees available who have not refused in the classification in the work unit to do the work. In work units which regularly schedule overtime, a list of the employees in the work unit, by classification and seniority, with the number of hours of overtime, recall, and standby pay worked in the fiscal year will be posted and updated on a monthly basis.
24.2	Overtime. Overtime is defined as hours actually worked, and approved in advance, in excess of forty (40) hours per work week.
24.3	Overtime Rate. Employees shall be paid overtime at the rate of 1.5 times their normal hourly rate of pay for the work week.
24.4	Hours Worked. Hours actually worked are those hours in which the employee is assigned and present at the job site in the performance of duties. Holiday pay, standby pay and recall pay count towards "hours actually worked" for the purposes of calculating overtime pay.
48
ARTICLE 25
BREAK PERIODS
25.1	Employees shall be given one (1) break or rest period per one-half (1/2) shift (work day) provided:
A.	The time and length of the break is determined by the employee's supervisor;
B.	The length of the break does not exceed fifteen (15) minutes; and
C.	The granting of the break does not adversely affect or interfere with the
operation of the City or the service to the public.
25.2	The City recognizes that the purpose and intent of granting breaks is to relieve fatigue and mental strain on the job. Employees are encourage to utilize breaks for this purpose; therefore:
A.	Combining two daily breaks into one thirty (30) minute break is not permitted.
B.	Accumulating breaks from day to day is not permitted.
C.	Using breaks to lengthen lunch hours, to cover tardiness, or to leave work
early is not permitted.
25.3	Overtime pay may not be granted for work performed during breaks.
49
ARTICLE 26
HOLIDAYS
26.1	Designated Holidays. The City of Tampa and its employees shall observe eleven (11) paid holidays per fiscal year as designated by the Mayor. Normally, an employee is not required to work on a designated holiday; however, in some cases it is necessary for City operations to continue delivery of municipal services. The following holidays have been designated for fiscal year 2003. These days shall be observed unless emergency conditions or any other legitimate reason cause proper adjustment by the mutual agreement of the parties.
Veterans’ Day
Thanksgiving
Thanksgiving
Christmas
Christmas
New Year’s Day
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Spring Day/Good Friday Memorial Day Independence Day
Labor Day
Holiday Schedule for FY2004
Veterans’ Day
Thanksgiving
Thanksgiving
Christmas
Christmas
New Year’s Day
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day
Monday, November 11, 2002 Thursday, November 28, 2002 Friday, November 29, 2002 Tuesday, December 24, 2002 Wednesday, December 25, 2002 Wednesday, January 1,2003 Monday, January 20, 2003
Friday, April 18, 2003 Monday, May 26, 2003
Friday, July 4, 2003
Monday, September 1, 2003
Tuesday, November 11, 2003 Thursday, November 27, 2003 Friday, November 28, 2003 Wednesday, December 24, 2003 Thursday, December 25, 2003 Thursday, January 1,2004 Monday, January 19, 2004
50
Spring Day/Good Friday Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Holiday Schedule for FY2005	Friday, April 9, 2004 Monday, May 31, 2004 Monday, July 5, 2004 Monday, September 6, 2004
Veterans’ Day	Thursday, November 11, 2004
Thanksgiving	Thursday, November 25, 2004
Thanksgiving	Friday, November 26, 2004
Christmas	Friday, December 24, 2004
Christmas	Monday, December 27, 2004
New Year’s Day	Friday, December 31, 2004
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day	Monday, January 17, 2005
Spring Day/Good Friday	Friday, March 25, 2005
Memorial Day	Monday, May 30, 2005
Independence Day	Monday, July 4, 2005
Labor Day	Monday, September 5, 2005
26.2	Holiday Pay Eligibility. In order for an employee to receive a holiday off with pay, the employee shall have worked the last scheduled work day before, and the first scheduled work day after the designated holiday, unless the absence has been authorized in writing by the department. Eligible full time employees who are not required to work on a holiday when it falls on a regularly scheduled work day shall receive eight (8) hours compensation at the regular rate of pay. Eligible part-time employees receive pro-rated holiday compensation.
26.3	Time Worked on a Holiday. Employees required to work on a designated holiday shall receive compensation for all hours worked in addition to eight (8) hours of holiday pay at the regular rate of pay. There shall be no guaranteed number of work hours on a
51
designated holiday. Holiday pay counts towards "hours worked" for the purpose of calculating overtime pay.
26.4	Annual and Sick Leave. In the event that a designated holiday occurs while an employee is on authorized sick or annual leave, the employee shall receive holiday compensation at the regular rate and will not be charged sick or annual leave for that day. Employees on any leave of absence shall not receive any holiday compensation.
26.5	Suspensions. In the event a holiday falls during a suspension period, the employee shall receive no compensation for the holiday; however, the holiday shall be counted as part of the suspension period.
52
ARTICLE 27
LONGEVITY AWARD
27.1	Eligibility. A full time regular employee on the payroll as of November 30 who has completed at least five years of continuous employment with the City of Tampa is eligible to receive an annual longevity award which is paid after November 30 of each year.
27.2	Definition. Continuous employment is defined as the period of employment not interrupted by resignation, dismissal, retirement, or quitting without notice.
27.3	Credit. An eligible employee is given credit for any period of temporary, part-time, or limited term status if the employment with the City has been continuous. Part-time service of at least twenty (20) hours per week shall be credited as one-half of full-time service.
27.4	Full Time Awards. An eligible employee who works full time at least forty (40) hours per week is awarded:
For Service of at Least	But Less Than	The Amount Is
5 years	10 years	. 1 % but not less than $500
10 years	15 years	.2% but not less than $750
15 years	20 years	.3% but not less than $1,000
20 years	25 years	.5% but not less than $1,250
25 years	—	.6% but not less than $1,500
The percentage amount of payment shall be calculated on the sum of the employee's gross pay inclusive of overtime for the prior fiscal year.
27.5	Pro-Rata Awards - Leave of Absence or Suspension.
If an eligible employee is suspended, on preferential recall status or on a leave of absence (except for a Workers’ Compensation Leave of Absence) for more than thirty (30)
53
consecutive calendar days during one year (from one November 30 to another November 30), the employee receives a pro-rated longevity award for that year. Awards are not adjusted due to absences while on Workers’ Compensation.
One-twelfth of the annual amount is deducted from the annual award for each month and any portion of the month that the employee is suspended, on preferential recall status or on a leave of absence (except for a Workers’ Compensation Leave of Absence) in excess of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days.
The total number of months that the eligible employee is on a leave of absence (except for a Workers’ Compensation Leave of Absence), on preferential recall status, or suspension is deducted from the number of months of continuous service when calculating future longevity awards and the pro-rated longevity award at the employee's termination.
27.6	Pro-Rata Awards - Termination. When an employee who has completed at least five (5) years of continuous service terminates employment with the City, he/she receives a pro-rated longevity award.
The amount equals one-twelfth of the yearly award per month of service from the first full month of original employment up to and including November plus one-twelfth of the yearly award for each month of service beginning with the previous December up to and including the last full month of employment.
An eligible employee who terminates after the anniversary of his/her 5th, 10th, 15th, or 20th year of employment but prior to November 30 receives a pro-rata award based on the number of years completed service and not the amount of the previous year's award. Prorata separation awards shall be based on the dollar amounts listed in 27.4.
54
ARTICLE 28
MEDICAL INSURANCE
28.1	Coverage. The City agrees to make available health and major medical insurance coverage for full time employees and their eligible dependents. Such coverage shall include hospitalization, medical, maternity, and major medical benefits. Consideration for providing this benefit is included in the determination of wage rates contained herein.
Due to the rising costs of health insurance, the City shall retain the right to develop a change in plan design to reduce costs.
28.2	The City agrees to continue to pay 100% for the employee's coverage and 50% for the cost of coverage for the employee's dependents for the health plan selected by the City. Any additional cost will be paid by the employee through payroll deductions.
28.3	The benefits provided by this article only apply to full time employees. A full time employee is any employee who is regularly scheduled to work forty (40) or more hours per week. In cases where both spouses are employed by the City of Tampa, only one family plan is provided.
28.4	Retirement Coverage. An employee who retires under the City of Tampa Pension Fund, or his/her spouse as long as the spouse receives pension payments, shall be allowed to retain the City's hospitalization coverage, provided that the cost of such coverage shall be deducted from the pension check.
28.5	The City at its discretion may make available alternative health insurance coverage plans in which employees may choose to enroll. The City shall pay up to $223.20 per month for the employee’s coverage which is the amount egual to the cost for single coverage provided in Article 28.2; the City shall pay up to $360.56 per month for dependent coverage (including the employee coverage) which is the amount egual to the cost for family coverage provided in Article 28.2. Effective January 1, 2003, the City shall
55
pay up to $261.14 per month for the employee’s coverage which is the amount equal to the cost for single coverage provided in Article 28.2; the City shall pay up to $421.85 per month for dependent coverage (including the employee coverage) which is the amount equal to the cost for family coverage provided in Article 28.2. Any increased costs above the amounts specified herein shall be paid 100% by the employee. Employee costs shall be paid by the employee through payroll deductions. The ATU shall continue to participate in the preparation of plan design and requests for proposals.
28.6	The City will permit part-time employees to participate in the City's group health insurance program with the requirement that the employee pay the full cost of insurance.
56
ARTICLE 29
LIFE AND ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT INSURANCE
29.1	The City agrees to continue to provide life and accidental death and dismemberment insurance for full-time employees in the coverage amounts listed below based on the employees annual salary as specified in the appendices of the contract:
Annual Salary
Life Insurance
AD & D Insurance
$10- $14,999
$15- $19,999
$20,000 and over
$18,750
$25,000
$37,500 to 50,000
$18,750
$25,000
$37,500 to 50,000
Consideration for providing this benefit is included in the determination of wage rates contained herein. The benefits provided by this article apply only to full-time employees. A full-time employee is any employee who is regularly scheduled to work forty (40) or more hours per week.
29.2	Retirement Coverage. An employee who retires under the City of Tampa Pension Fund shall have the right to retain the City's life insurance coverage in the amount of $4,000.00. The payment for such coverage shall be deducted from the retiree's monthly pension allotment.
57
ARTICLE 30
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
30.1	Workers' Compensation. Employees injured on duty shall receive all benefits provided by the Florida Statutes, Chapter 440, Workers' Compensation Law, which includes payment of travel and medical expenses. The City may, at its sole discretion, provide benefits which exceed legal requirements.
30.2	Reporting Procedures. Employees shall report all on-the-job injuries promptly to their supervisor to complete the required forms. Employees with questions concerning injury-on-duty benefits should call their department personnel office or the City of Tampa Workers' Compensation Section - Claims Office.
30.3	Workers' Compensation Light Duty. It is the policy of the City of Tampa that employees, who have had on-the-job injuries, be returned to work as soon as possible with a minimum of lost productivity and associated cost. In order to accomplish this, each major department shall appoint one member of their departmental safety committee to serve as the Modified Duty Coordinator (MDC). The MDC is responsible for maintaining communication with the physician, the employee, Risk Management, and all other parties involved in the return to work.
30.4	This program is intended to allow employees, under the care of a Workers' Compensation physician, to continue or return to work under the following circumstances: (1) The employee's current job may be modified to accommodate the employee's temporary medical restriction(s), or (2) The employee may perform other meaningful tasks until being released back to full duty.
The Workers' Compensation physician will indicate the work status of the employee on the Physician's Appointment Authorization form, DA36. The DA36 is presented to the
58
department by the employee following the medical examination. If appropriate, the physician will have indicated the status of light duty with any applicable restrictions.
30.5	When light duty is indicated, the department shall provide light duty work for up to seven (7) working days unless an exception is approved by Risk Management. If the employee has not been released by the physician after the seven (7) working days, the department may choose to discontinue light duty work and place the employee on Workers' Compensation, or extend the light duty work for an additional seven (7) working days. This may be appropriate after consultation with the treating physician regarding the expected time for recovery. The department director shall have the authority to extend light duty after the first seven (7) work day period. Light duty may be extended for subsequent seven (7) day periods at the discretion of the department director.
30.6	In the event that an employee is at any time determined by the City to be able to perform light duty work as a result of an on-the-job injury, the City will evaluate the specific light duty restrictions and may place the employee in any City light duty job if one is available. However, the City is under no obligation to create light duty for an employee. Should an employee be placed on light duty and such duty becomes subsequently no longer available, the City may terminate or change the light duty assignment. The provision of light duty for an employee shall not set precedent for provision of light duty for another employee.
30.7	This article shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
59
ARTICLE 31
TUITION REIMBURSEMENT
31.1	Amount. The City shall reimburse full-time employees for approved training up to a total amount of $1,200.00 per fiscal year for tuition fees. Effective October 1, 2003, tuition reimbursement will be increased to $1,500.00. The City will not reimburse an employee for books, materials, supplies, application fees, or transportation.
Approved training shall include courses which are related to the employee's present job or to a promotional position which is offered by an approved technical or trade school or an accredited college or university.
31.2	Recipients of Scholarships. An employee receiving a scholarship or grant for education may be eligible for reimbursement. Tuition reimbursement application and grant or scholarship documentation will be reviewed by the Training and Development Division for eligibility. Such scholarships and grants include, but are not limited to Gl benefits, Social Security benefits, and tuition waivers.
31.3	Cancellation of Approval. An employee who resigns or is dismissed from employment prior to the completion of an approved training course shall not be eligible for reimbursement. An employee who is laid off or retires during the training shall be eligible for reimbursement upon successful completion of the training.
31.4	Approval. In order to receive reimbursement, the employee must fulfill the requirements as outlined by the Training and Development Unit.
60
ARTICLE 32
MILEAGE REIMBURSEMENT
32.1	The City shall reimburse employees at the rate per mile established by City ordinance for use of the employee's own automobile after the employee has reported to work. Such mileage payments shall be accumulated and paid monthly.
61
ARTICLE 33
TOOL ALLOWANCE
33.1	Mechanics and Automotive Services Attendants II who are required to furnish their own tools will be given a tool allowance in the amount of $300 and $150 respectively, per fiscal year to maintain their tools. The Mechanics and Automotive Services Attendants II will be required to maintain an inventory of required tools as established by the department. The allowance will be paid to those employees who have the required inventory.
33.2	The City will continue its practice with respect to furnishing certain types of maintenance tools and equipment for the proper and efficient performance of work.
62
ARTICLE 34
CITY TRAINING PROGRAMS
34.1	The City of Tampa agrees to continue its career development program including employee training programs for the purpose of qualifying City employees for upward mobility within City employment. Departments will post the Training News Bulletin on their bulletin boards.
34.2	Employees who attend City job training programs will be compensated for time spent in such training programs as follows:
A.	Regular Work Hours. - Time spent during the employee's regular work hours shall be compensated at the employee's regular rate of pay regardless of whether the employee attends the training on a required or voluntary basis.
B.	Non-work Hours. -
1)	Voluntary training - Time spent beyond the employee's regular work hours shall not be compensated when the employee attends the training on a voluntary basis.
2)	Required training - Time spent beyond the employee's regular work hours shall be compensated at the employee's regular rate of pay when the employee attends the training on a required basis.
34.2.1	Overtime Calculation. Any time spent in training during regular work hours or required training beyond regular work hours shall be indicated as Tegular” time (REG) and shall be counted as hours worked for purposes of calculating overtime.
63
The payroll code “PRO” (Professional Leave) is no longer utilized.
34.2.2	The determination of whether training is voluntary or required and whether training occurs during normal work hours, beyond normal work hours, or is accommodated by rescheduling work hours is at the sole discretion of the department director with the concurrence of the Director of Administration and shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
34.3 When there are a limited number of openings in a City training program class, qualified applicants with the greatest total City seniority will be given first consideration if applicable to the class.
64
ARTICLE 35
PARKING/BUS PASSES
35.1	The City will continue its present practices with respect to furnishing parking to unit employees, insofar as practicable, for the term of this Agreement. This practice specifically provides that City owned/operated garage or parking facilities which are (or become) available to the general public shall be available to unit employees under the same conditions and rates provided to the public.
35.2	The City agrees to continue its present practice of participating in the HARTIine employer discount bus pass program. The City will provide a fifty percent (50%) subsidy for all HARTIine transit passes. This program shall be subject to the current and any future terms, conditions, arrangements, and rates required by HARTIine for its employer program and subject to those requirements as set forth by the Florida Department of Transportation (FDOT). This program will be funded from Congestion and Mitigation Air Quality (CMAQ) funds. In the event these funds are subsequently not available, the City reserves the right to discontinue the program.
65
ARTICLE 36
UNIFORMS
The City will provide uniforms to employees required to wear them. The uniforms will be replaced on an annual basis as needed unless otherwise specified herein. The employee must present the damaged uniform as proof of needed replacement. No additional uniforms will be provided beyond the total listed below.
36.1	FIRE
5 shirts	or	4 shirts
5 pants	4 pants
1 belt	1	jacket
36.2 SOLID WASTE
5 pants with 2 long and or short sleeve shirts
4 T-shirts
Code Inspectors
5 pants or shorts with 2 long and short sleeve shirts
4 T-shirts
4 pants with 2 long and
short sleeve shirts
4 T-shirts
1 jacket
or 4 pants or shorts with 2 long and short sleeve shirts
4 T-shirts
1 jacket
36.3 REVENUE & FINANCE
Utility Accounting Division
Water Meter Service Attendants I
5 shirts or	4 shirts
5 pants or shorts 4 pants or shorts
1 jacket
1 cap or cloth helmet
66
2 pair shoes (as needed)
Water Meter Service Attendants II
5 shirts or	4 shirts
5 pants or shorts	4 pants or shorts 1 jacket 1 rainsuit 1 cap or cloth helmet
Accounts Collector & Service Inspectors
5 shirts or	4 shirts
5 pants or shorts	4 pants or shorts 1 jacket 1 rainjacket 1 cap or cloth helmet
Inventory Administration
5 shirts or	4 shirts
5 pants	4 pants 1 jacket
Occupational License Inspectors
5 shirts or	4 shirts
5 pants	4 pants 1 jacket 1 tie
36.4 POLICE
Crime Scene Technicians
5 shirts
5 pants
1 jacket
Maintenance Personnel
5 shirts or 4 shirts
67
5 pants 4 pants
1 jacket
Property Section
5 shirts or 4 shirts
5 pants 4 pants
1 jacket Community Service Officers 5 shirts or	4 shirts
3 pants/skirts	4 pants/skirts
1 jacket	1 jacket
Records Personnel/Communications Tech. 5 shirts/blouses or 5 shirts/blouses 4 pants/slacks/skirts 3 pants/slacks/skirts 1 vest 1 Jacket
I.D. Section
Zipper coveralls or smocks available as needed
36.5 CONVENTION FACILITIES
5 shirts
5 pants
1 jacket 2 T-shirts
36.6 SANITARY SEWER Maintenance Yard 5 shirts or 4 shirts 5 pants 4 pants
1 jacket
Can substitute four T-shirts for one regular shirt.
68
Engineering Division
5 shirts or 4 shirts
5 pants 4 pants
1 jacket
Can substitute two coveralls for two shirts and pants.
Treatment Plant
5 shirts or 4 shirts
5 pants 4 pants
1 jacket
Can substitute two coveralls for two shirts and pants or 4 T-shirts for 1 regular shirt. Stormwater Division
5 shirts or 4 shirts
5 pants 4 pants
1 jacket
Can substitute four T-shirts for one regular shirt.
36.7 WATER DEPARTMENT
5 shirts or 4 shirts or 4 shirts
5 pants 4 pants	4 pants
1 jacket	1 coverall
Can substitute four T-shirts for one regular shirt.
Headgear provided as determined by department.
36.8 PUBLIC WORKS - CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION, TRANSPORTATION
5 shirts	or	4 shirts
5 pants	4 pants
1 hat	1	jacket
Can substitute one jumpsuit for one shirt and one pant; unlimited T shirts on an as needed basis.
69
Fleet Maintenance
5 shirts	or 4 shirts
5 pants 4 pants
1 jacket
Parking
Cashiers (Full-Time)
6 shirts	or 5 shirts
3 pants 5 pants
1 jacket - pre-collection only
1 pair of leather gloves (if requested)
Cashiers (Part-Time)
3 shirts
2 pants	1	jacket - pre-collection	only
Meter Mechanics
5 shirts	1	jacket
5 pants	1	cap
Parking Enforcement Specialist
5 shirts/blouses 1 pair of shorts
4 pants or skirts 1 cap
2 pair shoes (as needed)
1 all weather coat or jacket (replaced as needed)
1 belt
Security Guards
4 shirts
4 pants
Architectural Inspection
5 polo shirts	or	4	polo shirts
5 pants	4	pants
1 hat	1	jacket
1 belt
36.9 RECREATION
1 jacket; replaced as needed
5 collared shirts
2 shorts
Aquatics Division Maintenance Section
5 shirts 3 denim jeans
2 shorts 1 jacket, replaced as needed Aquatics Division Life Guard (permanent employee)
4 T-shirts or tank tops, replaced as needed
1 collared shirt, replaced as needed
1 sweatpants
1 jacket, replaced as needed
1 bathing suit
1 pair shoes (as needed)
36.10 PARKS
5 shirts or 4 shirts
5 pants 4 pants
1 jacket
36.11 BUSINESS & COMMUNITY SERVICE Standards & Enforcement Inspectors/Officers
5 shirts/blouses or 4 shirts/blouses
5 pants/skirts	4 pants/skirts
1 jacket
71
Inspectional Services - Inspectors
5 shirts or 4 shirts
5 pants	4 pants
1 jacket
36.12 CABLE COMMUNICATION
6 shirts
4 pants
1 jacket
1 pair lineman boots
1 cap
36.13 CITY CLERK/ARCHIVES AND RECORDS
5 shirts	1 jacket
5 pants	1 raincoat
1	pair of shoes
Reproduction Operators
1	lab coat
The following items will be issued to the employees on an as needed basis as determined by the City: safety shoes, safety glasses, hard hats, safety gloves, safety vest, safety goggles, bump caps, face shields, respirator, knee & shin guards, raingear, rain shoes, rubber or snake boots.
The City will provide safety shoes to each employee required to wear them. Replacement will be provided as necessary pursuant to safety requirements. If safety shoes or rain shoes need to be replaced because of abuse, the required replacement will be at the employee's own expense.
Longer style bermuda type shorts may be substituted for a portion of the allotment of uniform pants, at the employee's option, provided that such substitution meets the approval of the Department Director and does not interfere with the safe and efficient
72
performance of the employee's duties. The wearing of uniform shorts by employees who are approved to wear them shall not be restricted to the summer months unless required by the department director. T-shirts may be substituted for other shirts provided that such substitution meets with the approval of the Department Director.
73
ARTICLE 37
SAFETY
37.1	The City and the Union will cooperate in the continued objective of eliminating accidents and health hazards. The City shall continue to make reasonable provision for the safety and health of its employees during the hours of their employment in accordance with all applicable Federal, state and local laws. The Union will cooperate and encourage the employees to work in a safe manner. Employees are encouraged to advise the City of any safety concerns or suggestions in this regard through their supervisor.
37.2	No employee of the City shall be required or assigned to work in a hazardous situation without proper safety precautions being made, insofar as practicable.
37.3	Work locations and City maintained vehicles shall be equipped with an approved first aid kit.
37.4	The City agrees to provide cots for all departments which can be set up for an employee who becomes ill or injured while at work.
37.5	The Union may designate a representative who may meet on a monthly basis with the City's Chief Field Safety Inspector so that the Union may apprise the City of any safety concerns.
74
ARTICLE 38
UNION EMBLEM
38.1	Union members shall be permitted to wear the lapel or button-type emblem or a standard union pocket protector of the Union in a manner that is safe and inoffensive.
75
ARTICLE 39
BULLETIN BOARDS
39.1	The City agrees to provide a bulletin board or allow the Union to use an existing bulletin board in each work location for the posting of appropriate Union information bulletins. The size of the board or the space provided shall not be less than 30" X 30" where practicable. The space or the board shall be designated as "Union Bulletin Board."
39.2	No notice shall be posted unless it has been initialed by a duly authorized official of the Union and a copy delivered to the Director of Administration.
76
ARTICLE 40
NOTIFICATION-PERSONNEL ACTION
40.1	The City agrees to promptly notify the Union President on a weekly basis with regard to the following personnel actions with respect to each employee in the unit:
Employment
Discharge
Suspension
Demotion
Reprimand
Resignation
Retirement
Lay Off
Leave of Absence
Training News Bulletin
Injuries on the Job
Failure to notify because of mistake or omission shall in no way affect any personnel action taken by the City.
40.2	Personnel records shall be kept confidential and not be released to any person except officials of the City, or in response to Court Order, or as otherwise provided by law. However, employees may at their discretion waive this rule. It shall be the right of any employee, or their legal or Union representative, upon presentation of the employee's written authorization to Employee Relations, to inspect and make copies, at reasonable times, at their own expense, of the employee's personnel file. The cost of such copies shall be 150 per copy.
40.3	Copies of all bulletins relating to working conditions pertaining to bargaining unit employees that are to be posted shall be furnished to the appropriate Union representative and the Employee Relations Division.
77
40.4	The City shall provide to the Union a listing of bargaining unit employees which includes the following information: name, home address and telephone, employee identification number, department, and job classification title. Upon the Union's written request, said information will be updated and provided to the Union every six months at no charge.
40.5	Employees shall be informed of and given the opportunity to sign entries which are placed in their pending evaluation file.
78
ARTICLE 41
EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
41.1	Purpose. The City of Tampa and the A.T.U. recognize that an employee's personal problems may result in a less than optimum, and even a declining job performance. These personal problems may include, but are not limited to, emotional or behavioral problems, marital or family problems, legal problems, financial problems, alcohol abuse, or drug abuse. In keeping with the mission of the City to provide the finest of services to the citizens of Tampa and recognizing the importance of the City's human resources, the City has established an Employee Assistance Program (EAP). The goal of this program is to restore the employee to full productivity by offering guidance and referral to qualified, professional providers. It is the City's policy that an employee's participation in the EAP will not jeopardize his or her future opportunities with the City, however, the EAP shall not replace, alter or be used to circumvent the City's discipline administration policy.
41.1.1	Eligibility. Employees enrolled in the City's group health insurance plan are eligible for EAP services. Spouses and/or dependents of employees are eligible if the employee is enrolled in the City's group health insurance program with family coverage. Any eligible employee or family member may directly seek EAP services for any personal problem. Such problems may include, but are not limited to: depression, anxiety, stress or psychiatric illnesses, difficulties stemming from alcohol or drug abuse or the emotional impact of problems of another person.
41.2	Program Access. Eligible employees or family members may access EAP services by:
A.	Self-Referral. Employees or eligible family members experiencing personal problems may voluntarily and directly contact the EAP services with complete confidentiality (see Section 41.3).
79
B.	Supervisor/Department Director Mandatory Referral.
A supervisor/department director, noting a declining job performance on the part of an employee, may mandate referral of an employee to the EAP for assessment, further referral or counseling services.
1)	All mandatory referrals to the EAP must be coordinated through the City's Employee Relations Division.
2)	An employee's job will not be jeopardized by such a referral or by the employee's refusal to participate in the EAP. However, an employee's job may be jeopardized by failure to improve job performance, and such failure will be handled according to the City's Discipline Administration Policy.
41.3	Confidentiality. The confidentiality of EAP services is absolutely essential to the program's acceptance and success. Participants have the right to complete confidentiality concerning their use of the program, the content of the sessions, and all existing case information and records. Regardless of the nature of the referral, the EAP Counselor may not disclose any information about a participating employee to the City without the employee's written consent. In the case of a supervisory referral, the EAP Counselor may communicate to the City that the employee has or has not kept appointments. The EAP Counselor may also, with the employee's consent, work with the employee and the supervisor in defining the job performance difficulties and in setting work goals for improvement. All counseling records and information from employee visits are the property of the EAP.
41.4	Appointments. Appointments may be scheduled Monday through Friday between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. An EAP staff member is available on a 24 hour basis by beeper service for life threatening situations.
A. Employees and eligible family members may see an EAP staff member or other participating practitioner for up to three (3) sessions at no cost to the employee.
80
Subsequent treatment sessions are available to the participating employee or family member. The EAP will endeavor to refer participants to providers covered by the City's health insurance plan.
1)	Supervisory referrals may be scheduled during the employee's work hours. Self referrals are to be scheduled during the employee's own time through the use of paid or unpaid leave, as applicable.
81
ARTICLE 42
DRUG FREE WORKPLACE
42.1	Substance Abuse. The City of Tampa and the A.T.U. have grave concerns regarding the abuse of alcohol and other drug substances in the community. It is understood that City policy prohibits the consumption, possession, or being under the influence of drugs or intoxicating substances while on duty. The Police Department shall be notified in the event that an employee is in possession of an illegal substance and appropriate disciplinary action shall be taken.
42.2	Employees or eligible family members experiencing problems due to substance abuse may voluntarily contact the EAP in accordance with Article 41.
42.3	Mandatory Referral for Substance Abuse Testing. The City has the authority to require an employee to complete physical examinations to ensure that the employee is fit for duty. This includes, but is not limited to, physical examination to determine if a specified employee is under the influence of alcohol on duty; to determine any abuse of prescription or non-prescription drugs; and, to determine any use of illegal substances.
1)	Random drug testing will not be permitted except as provided by law. The requirement of an employee to complete a drug or alcohol screen or test shall be based on the standard of "reasonable suspicion." The reasonable suspicion standard requires that the City must have some "factual foundation and rationale which is interpreted in light of experience." In other words, a decision to test an employee shall be based on factors such as changes in job performance; physical symptoms commonly associated with drug usage such as slurred speech, altered motor skills and other changes; changes in attention span or attendance; reports or actual witnessing of possession or use of substances; changes in appetite or sleeping
82
habits; or other mannerisms or behavioral changes which indicate the suspicion of drug usage.
2)	The supervisor or employee having reasonable suspicion of the use of alcohol or drugs shall immediately contact the City's Employee Relations Division, who will make the decision to arrange for referral for testing and shall arrange to escort the employee to be tested.
3)	The City shall meet with and inform an employee that, in the opinion of the City, there is a basis for reasonable suspicion and of the City's intention to schedule a drug and/or alcohol screen or test. At said meeting, the City shall consider the comments from the employee regarding the matter and shall then make the determination of whether to proceed and require the screen or test. If it is determined, at the sole discretion of the City, that a drug test will be required, the employee shall be immediately escorted to the appropriate facility for tests. The employee shall not be allowed to drive. Prior to transport, the supervisor shall obtain the employee's signature on the "Consent to Perform" and obtain a witness of the signature. Refusal by an employee to submit to said test shall be grounds for dismissal.
4)	Pending the results of the test, the employee shall be placed on sick leave. If the employee does not have a sufficient sick leave balance, the employee shall be placed on annual leave or Absence Without Pay (AWP) when an insufficient annual leave balance exists. If an employee tests negative, any paid or unpaid leave utilized pending the test results shall be corrected to regular pay status.
5)	If an employee tests positive, the employee shall continue to be placed on sick leave (or a medical leave of absence if eligible when there is an insufficient leave balance) and shall be referred to the
83
City's Employee Assistance Program (EAP) for counseling, further drug testing, and/or enrollment in an appropriate program. Upon completion of the program, the City shall require medical substantiation regarding fitness for duty and resolution of drug or alcohol use or dependency prior to reinstatement from sick leave or the medical leave of absence. Reinstatement shall be conditioned on continued monitoring and testing to ensure continued and complete recovery. Only one such referral to the Employee Assistance Program shall be permitted. An employee who fails to complete the program or who resumes use of said substances after the original reinstatement to work shall be dismissed.
42.4	Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1991. This act requires the Department of Transportation to establish drug and alcohol testing and training regulations for all drivers of commercial motor vehicles. Under this Act, any City employee who is required to be readily available to drive a commercial motor vehicle shall be tested for drugs and alcohol as follows: (1) at random; (2) immediately after any commercial motor vehicle accident involving loss of life or a citation for a moving traffic violation; (3) before being returned to duty after a positive test; and (4) continuously after returning to work for a period determined by the City's Employee Assistance Program Coordinator.
1)	An employee who tests positive for drugs or alcohol will be mandatorily referred to the Employee Assistance Program (EAP). Driving privileges shall be suspended immediately which includes the operation of heavy construction equipment and light vehicles not requiring a commercial driver's license. Driving privileges shall not be reinstated until the employee is determined to be drug/alcohol free as certified by the City's Employee Assistance Program Coordinator.
2)	An employee who is absent as a result of a positive drug or alcohol test shall be placed on sick leave (or a medical leave of absence if eligible when there
84
is an insufficient leave balance) and shall be referred to the City's Employee Assistance Program (EAP) for counseling, further drug testing, and/or enrollment in an appropriate program. The City shall require medical substantiation regarding fitness for duty and resolution of drug or alcohol use or dependency prior to reinstatement from sick leave or the medical leave of absence. Reinstatement shall be conditioned on continued monitoring and testing to ensure continued and complete recovery. Only one such referral to the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) shall be permitted. An employee who fails to complete the program or who resumes use of said substances after the original reinstatement to work shall be dismissed.
3)	The employee's pay rate will be reduced by one step (1.0) for a period of thirty (30) days.
4)	Refusal of an employee to submit to a drug or alcohol test as specified by the Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act shall be grounds for dismissal.
42.5	Noncommercial Motor Vehicle Accidents. Any City employee who drives a motor vehicle on City business, other than a commercial motor vehicle, shall be tested for drugs and alcohol immediately after a vehicle accident whenever the employee receives a citation for a moving violation or is involved in an accident which results in loss of life.
1)	An employee who tests positive for drugs or alcohol will be mandatorily referred to the Employee Assistance Program (EAP). Driving privileges shall be suspended immediately and shall not be reinstated until the employee is determined to be drug/alcohol free as certified by the City's Employee Assistance Program Coordinator.
2)	An employee who is absent as a result of a positive drug or alcohol test shall be placed on sick leave (or a medical leave of absence if eligible when there
85
is an insufficient leave balance) and shall be referred to the City's Employee Assistance Program (EAP) for counseling, further drug testing, and/or enrollment in an appropriate program. The City shall require medical substantiation regarding fitness for duty and resolution of drug or alcohol use or dependency prior to reinstatement from sick leave or the medical leave of absence. Reinstatement shall be conditioned on continued monitoring and testing to ensure continued and complete recovery. Only one such referral to the Employee Assistance Program shall be permitted. An employee who fails to complete the program or who resumes use of said substances after the original reinstatement to work shall be dismissed.
3)	The employee's pay rate will be reduced by one step (1.0) for a period of thirty (30) days.
4)	Refusal of an employee to submit to a drug or alcohol test as specified above in 42.4 shall be grounds for dismissal.
42.6	Workers' Compensation Injuries. Any City employee who suffers an on-the-job injury when there is reasonable suspicion that the employee caused or contributed to an accident shall be tested for drugs and alcohol.
1)	An employee who receives a positive drug or alcohol test will be referred to the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) as specified in section 42.3.
86
2)	Refusal of an employee to submit to a drug or alcohol test as specified above in 42.4 shall be grounds for dismissal.
87
CONSENT TO PERFORM
I,, consent to a medical examination and the collection of blood and/or urine samples, as requested by the City of Tampa, for the purpose of determining the presence of alcohol and/or drugs, if any.
I furthermore authorize the release of any and all medical information obtained during the examination and testing procedure to the City of Tampa.
I understand that my alteration of this consent form, refusal to consent to or cooperate fully with a medical examination and the collection of the blood and/or urine samples; or my refusal to authorize release of information to the City of Tampa constitutes insubordination and is grounds for termination.
I also understand that a positive result for the drugs tested may be considered grounds for termination or may result in mandatory referral to the City of Tampa's Employee Assistance Program (EAP) and required satisfactory completion of any course of treatment prescribed by the EAP.
Employee Signature
Date
Witness
88
ARTICLE 43
LABOR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
43.1	The Labor Management Committee shall consist of four (4) non bargaining unit members appointed by the EEO/Labor Relations Manager and four (4) members appointed by the Union. The purpose of the committee is to investigate, study and discuss solutions to problems of a general nature, including safety, which may affect labor/management relations. Recommendations concerning resolution of any such problems shall be provided to the EEO/Labor Relations Manager for consideration.
43.2	The size of the committee, rules of operation and meeting schedules shall be determined by the Labor Management Committee. Inappropriate issues for discussion are active grievance, any topic covered by the provisions of the collective bargaining agreement and any proposed changes to current contract language.
43.3	The Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1464, and the City further agree to work together to develop innovative ideas to improve the workplace.
89
ARTICLE 44
PAST PRACTICES
44.1	All rights and working conditions enjoyed throughout the City by unit employees at the present time and generally known by the Department of Administration which are not specifically referred to in this Agreement shall not be changed by the City in an arbitrary and capricious manner, provided nothing herein shall limit the City's rights to establish or change rules and conditions.
90
ARTICLE 45
SEVERABILITY AND WAIVER
45.1	Any provisions of this Agreement in conflict with the provisions or the ordinances of the City of Tampa or statutes of the State of Florida or applicable rules and regulations thereunder shall not become effective until the ordinance, statute or rules and regulations has been amended to comply with this Agreement. The City agrees to meet with the Union and determine which provisions are to be amended or deleted. The City agrees to submit to the appropriate governmental body proposed amendments to permit full implementation of this Agreement.
45.2	Each and every clause of this Agreement shall be deemed separable from each and every other clause of this Agreement so that in the event any clause or clauses shall be finally determined to be in violation of any law, then in such event such clause or clauses only, to the extent only that any may be so in violation, shall be deemed of no force and effect and unenforceable without impairing the validity and enforceability of the rest of the contract including any and all provisions in the remainder of the clause, sentence or paragraph in which the offending language occurs.
91
ARTICLE 46
CONTRACT CONSTITUTES ENTIRE AGREEMENT OF THE PARTIES
46.1	The parties acknowledge and agree that, during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement, each had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or matter included by law within the area of collective bargaining and that all the understandings and agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement. Therefore, the City and the Union, for the life of this Agreement, each voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right to require further collective bargaining, and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated to bargain collectively with respect to any matter or subject not specifically referred to or covered by this Agreement, whether or not such matters have been discussed. This Agreement contains the entire contract, understanding, undertaking and agreement of collective bargaining for and during its term, except as mutually agreed by the Parties.
92
ARTICLE 47
DURATION, MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION
47.1	This Agreement shall be effective as of October 1, 2002 and shall continue in full force and effect until the 30th day of September 2005. At least one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the termination of this Agreement, either party hereto shall notify the other, in writing, of its intention to modify, amend, or terminate this Agreement. Failure to notify the other party of intention to modify, amend or terminate, as hereinabove set forth, will automatically extend the provisions and terms of this Agreement for a period of one (1) year, and each year thereafter absent notification.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have affixed their signatures below this 9th day of October, 2002.
AMALGAMATED TRANSIT UNION LOCAL 1464, AFL-CIO-CLC
Martha D. Stevens, President
Bernardo A. Menendez
Vice President
CITY OF TAMPA
Dick A. Greco, Mayor
Sarah F. Lang
Director of Administration
Kenneth J. Coleman
Financial Secretary/Treasurer
Kenneth C. Perry
EEO/Labor Relations Manager
Sandra Jones
Recording Secretary
93
August 19, 2002
Kenneth Perry
Employee Relations Manager
306 E. Jackson Street
Tampa, FL 33602
Dear Mr. Perry,
This is to confirm our agreement that during the life of the collective bargaining agreement we are currently negotiating, the City of Tampa and the ATU Local 1464 have agreed that all pension matters are subject to negotiation at any time upon the request of the ATU Local 1464 or the City.
This letter shall become a part of our contract and is subject to ratification by the parties.
Martha D. Stevens, President B/A ATU Local 1464
Kenneth Perry
Employee Relations Manager
94
October 3, 2002
Martha D. Stevens, President
Amalgamated Transit Union
Local 1464
1703 North Tampa Street
Tampa, FL 33602
Dear Ms. Stevens:
This letter is provided to set forth the mutual agreement of the City of Tampa and the Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1464 regarding its Agreement dated October 1, 2002 through September 30, 2005.
It is agreed that the attached policy, B1.2 - Discriminatory Conduct, continues to be incorporated in its entirely into our Agreement. The terms of the disciplinary action stated in B 1.2 are considered to be in full accord with Article 7, Disciplinary Action.
This letter of agreement does not effect nor change the provisions of Article 6 nor any other employee rights including those rights of appeal and other protection under applicable law.
The Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1464, and the City further agree to continue to vigorously support and enforce this policy by encouraging and promoting employee conduct which is at all times in conformance with the equal treatment of persons without regard to race, color, national origin, sex, religion, or age.
Sincerely,
Kenneth C. Perry
EEO/Labor Relations Manager
Martha D. Stevens, President
A.T.U. Local 1464
Date: ___________________
95
City of Tampa Personnel Manual
B. Directives and Benefits
B1.2 Discriminatory Conduct
Issue Date: 04/23/87
B1.2 Policy
1.	The City of Tampa is committed to the equal treatment of all persons, without regard to race, color, national origin, sex, religion, handicap or age. As part of that commitment, the City has forbidden its employees the use of slurs, derogatory comments, or any other physical or verbal conduct directed at or based upon another person's race, color, national origin, sex, religion, handicap or age.
2.	Such incidents threaten the safety, security and well being of not only those against whom they are directed, but all who live and work here as well. They give the erroneous impression that the City of Tampa and its officials and employees do not accept the concepts of equal opportunity and treatment under the law. For these reasons, the City considers these incidents to be among the most serious violations of City policy which an employee can commit and deserving of serious disciplinary action up to and including dismissal.
3.	Recent events have demonstrated a need to restate the City's policy in these areas, and to emphasize that the policy will be stringently and uniformly applied. The words and conduct treated in this policy have no place in the City of Tampa and will not be tolerated.
4.	Employees shall not engage in offensive verbal or physical conduct directed against an employee, a citizen, or any other person or member of the public based upon race, color, national origin, sex, religion, handicap or age. Employees shall not engage in such conduct at any time during working hours or on any City premises. Employees are also forbidden from such conduct while off duty, if such conduct adversely affects the employee's ability to perform his or her City duties.
5.	All managers and supervisors are expected and required to insure that this policy is fully implemented and vigorously enforced.
6.	Any complaints concerning employee violations will be thoroughly investigated by the Department of Administration for immediate and corrective action as warranted.
7.	Violation of this policy shall be grounds for immediate dismissal in the absence of extenuating circumstances, but in no case shall the disciplinary action for a violation be less than a suspension without pay for fifteen working days.
8.	Investigations and disciplinary action administered shall continue to be conducted in accordance with any applicable federal, state, or local laws regarding the methods of investigations, complaint reviews, and employee rights of appeal.
96
GRADE
016
018
099
024
027
019
026
028
018
022
024
022
025
016
019
022
019
017
015
028
032
022
028
028
030
027
022
025
027
019
022
025
025
018
030
028
027
024
022
029
APPENDIX I
Alphabetical Listing of Bargaining Unit Positions
TITLE
ACCOUNTING CLERK I ACCOUNTING CLERK II ACCOUNTING TECH 1 GC ACCOUNTING TECHNICIAN I ACCOUNTING TECHNICIAN II ACCOUNTS/PROPERTIES COLLECTOR ACQUISITION SPECIALIST I ACQUISITION SPECIALIST II AQUATICS LEADER II AQUATICS LEADER III AQUATICS LEADER IV ARMORER
ASST CRIME PREVENTION PROG COORD AUTOMOTIVE EQUIPMENT OPERATOR I AUTOMOTIVE EQUIPMENT OPERATOR II AUTOMOTIVE EQUIPMENT OPERATOR III AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE ATTENDANT II BRIDGE OPERATOR II BRUSH SITE ATTENDANT BUILDING INSPECTOR II BUILDING INSPECTOR II BUILDING MAINTENANCE CREW LEADER BUILDING MAINTENANCE INSPECTOR CERTIFIED CODE ENFRC OFCR CLAIMS INVESTIGATOR CLIMATE CONTROL OPERATOR I CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER I CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER II COMMERCIAL PERMIT TECH COMMUNICATIONS TECHNICIAN I COMMUNICATIONS TECHNICIAN II COMMUNICATIONS TECHNICIAN III COMMUNITY SERVICE REP COMMUNITY SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT TECHNICIAN CONSTRUCTION INVESTIGATOR CONTRACT SPECIALIST CRIME ANALYST I
CRIME PREV PRACTITIONER
CRIME PREVENTION PROGRAM COORD
97
024
027
018
013
014
016
018
021
024
028
021
026
022
033
099
019
032
023
030
032
027
030
033
031
024
029
030
029
019
099
023
028
032
025
017
020
023
023
026
026
024
020
026
027
030
022
CRIME SCENE TECHNICIAN I CRIME SCENE TECHNICIAN II CRIME SCENE TECHNICIAN TRAINEE CUSTODIAL ATTENDANT CUSTOMER SERVICE CLERK I CUSTOMER SERVICE CLERK II CUSTOMER SERVICE CLERK III CUSTOMER SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE I CUSTOMER SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE II DEPARTMENTAL COMPUTER SPECIALIST DISTRIBUTION TECHNICIAN I DISTRIBUTION TECHNICIAN!!
DOCK MASTER
DPW CONTRACT SPECIALIST DRAFT TECH III (NON-SUPV) - RC DRAFTING AIDE
DRAFTING TECH III (N/S) DRAFTING TECHNICIAN I DRAFTING TECHNICIAN II ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR II ELECTRICAL TECHNICIAN I ELECTRICAL TECHNICIAN II ELECTRICAL TECHNICIAN III ELECTRICIAN
ELECTRONICS TECHNICIAN I ELECTRONICS TECHNICIAN II ELECTRONICS TECHNICIAN III EMPLOYEE BENEFITS SPECIALIST ENGINEERING AIDE
ENGINEERING TECH III (N/S) - RC ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN I ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN II ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN III (N/S) ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNICIAN EQUIPMENT MECHANIC I EQUIPMENT MECHANIC II EQUIPMENT MECHANIC III EQUIPMENT MECHANIC III EQUIPMENT MECHANIC IV
EVENTS/SERVICE DESK REPRESENTATIVE EVIDENCE SPECIALIST EVIDENCE TECHNICIAN FIELD SAFETY INSPECTOR FIELD SERVICES TECHNICIAN I FIELD SERVICES TECHNICIAN II FITNESS & WELLNESS LD III
98
013
018
028
099
022
026
028
024
013
018
022
022
028
031
025
024
027
030
033
024
017
020
022
025
033
029
032
099
023
013
029
026
028
026
019
023
024
027
029
024
032
024
027
030
033
032
FITNESS & WELLNESS LDRI FITNESS & WELLNESS LEADER II FLEET INSPECTIONS/WORKLOAD TECH FLEET INSPS/WORKLOAD TECH - RC FLEET MECHANIC I FLEET MECHANIC II FLEET MECHANIC III GRAPHICS ARTIST I GYM INSTRUCTOR I GYM INSTRUCTOR II GYM INSTRUCTOR III HORTICULTURAL TECH II
HUMAN RESOURCES REPRESENTATIVE II I & C ELECTRICAL TECHNICIAN INFORMATION SYSTEMS ANALYST I INSPECTORI INSTRUMENTATION TECHNICIAN I INSTRUMENTATION TECHNICIAN II INSTRUMENTATION TECHNICIAN III INVENTORY SPECIALIST INVENTORY TECHNICIAN I INVENTORY TECHNICIAN II INVESTIGATIVE ASSISTANT LABORATORY TECHNICIAN II LATENT FINGERPRINT SPECIALIST LEAD COMM PERMIT TECH LEAD PLUMBING/GAS INSPECTOR LEAD PLUMBING/GAS INSPECTOR RC LEGAL SECRETARY LIFEGUARD
MACHINE SHOP MECHANIC MAINTENANCE ELECTRICIAN I MAINTENANCE ELECTRICIAN II MAINTENANCE PLUMBER MAINTENANCE REPAIRER I MAINTENANCE REPAIRER II MAINTENANCE REPAIRER III MASTER FLEET MECHANIC II MASTER FLEET MECHANIC III MATERIALS COORDINATOR MECHANICAL INSPECTOR II MECHANICAL TECHNICIAN I MECHANICAL TECHNICIAN II MECHANICAL TECHNICIAN III MECHANICAL TECHNICIAN IV MECHANICAL/ELECTRICAL TECH (TL)
99
021
024
099
099
099
099
015
018
021
024
026
020
024
021
017
033
028
025
027
021
024
024
027
027
032
019
019
027
025
029
020
033
027
030
022
023
024
027
030
032
027
017
023
026
030
033
MUSEUM SECURITY CHIEF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE INSPECTOR OFFICE SUPPORT SPEC I -RC OFFICE SUPPORT SPEC II - RC OFFICE SUPPORT SPEC III - RC OFFICE SUPPORT SPEC IV - RC OFFICE SUPPORT SPECIALIST I OFFICE SUPPORT SPECIALIST II OFFICE SUPPORT SPECIALIST III OFFICE SUPPORT SPECIALIST IV PAINT AND BODY MECHANIC PARK OPERATIONS SPECIALIST I PARK OPERATIONS SPECIALIST II PARKING ENFORCEMENT SPEC II PARKING ENFORCEMENT SPECIALIST PARKING EVENTS COORDINATOR PAVEMENT INSPECTION TECHNICIAN PERMIT TECHNICIAN I PERMIT TECHNICIAN II PERSONNEL ASSISTANT I PERSONNEL ASSISTANT II PERSONNEL TECHNICIAN II PERSONNEL TECHNICIAN III PLANT MECHANIC PLUMBING INSPECTOR II POLICE COMMUNITY SERVICE OFFICER POLICE DATA TERMINAL OPER POLICE FLEET SERVICES TCH POLICE PHOTO LAB TECHNICIAN I POLICE PHOTO LAB TECHNICIAN II POLICE SERVICE OFFICER POLYGRAPH SPECIALIST POWER FACILITY OPERATOR I POWER FACILITY OPERATOR II PRODUCTION TECH I (NO TRN) PRODUCTION TECH I (1/2 TRN) PRODUCTION TECHNICIAN I PRODUCTION TECHNICIAN II PRODUCTION TECHNICIAN III PRODUCTION TECHNICIAN IV (TL) PROPERTY CONTROL COORDINATOR PUMP STATION OPERATOR I PUMP STATION OPERATOR II PUMP STATION OPERATOR III RANGE MASTER REAL ESTATE CONTRACT SPECIALIST
100
013
013
018
022
024
024
019
023
022
019
029
027
027
015
020
014
015
017
099
018
020
022
024
026
032
027
025
027
022
024
029
018
022
024
013
020
032
029
017
023
018
013
018
022
024
099
RECREATION LEADER I
RECREATION LEADER I
RECREATION LEADER II
RECREATION LEADER III
RECREATION LEADER IV
REDEVELOPMENT COUNSELOR TRAINEE REFUSE COLLECTOR-DRIVER REFUSE SERVICE INSPECTOR
REPRO EQUIPMENT OPERATOR III REPRODUCTION EQUIPMENT OPERATOR II RESID COMP PLANS EXAMINER RESIDENTIAL PERMIT TECH RESIDENTIAL PLANS EXAMINR SECURITY GUARD SERVICE ATTENDANT II-SR SERVICES ATTENDANT I SERVICES ATTENDANT II SERVICES ATTENDANT III SERVICES ATTENDANT III - RC SERVICES CREW LEADER SERVICES CREW SUPVI SERVICES CREW SUPV II SERVICES CREW SUPV III SEWER SERVICE INSPECTOR SITE INSPECTOR II
SOL WASTE CONTRACT MONITR
SOLID WASTE CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER SOLID WASTE DRIVE LOADER-SR
SOLID WASTE DRIVER LOADER
SOLID WASTE LEAD DRIVER LOADER
SOLID WASTE LEAD DRIVER LOADER-SR SPECIAL PROGRAMS LDRII SPECIAL PROGRAMS LDR III SPECIAL PROGRAMS LDR IV SPECIAL PROGRAMS LEADER I SPECIALTY EQUIPMENT OPERATOR SPECIFICATIONS OFFICER STREETS/DRAINAGE EQUIP COORD SURVEY AIDE
SURVEY TECHNICIAN
TENNIS FACILITY LEADER
TENNIS INSTRUCTOR I
TENNIS INSTRUCTOR II
TENNIS INSTRUCTOR III TENNIS INSTRUCTOR IV TRAFFIC CONTROL TECH III - RC
101
023	TRAFFIC CONTROL TECHNICIAN I
026	TRAFFIC CONTROL TECHNICIAN II
018	TRAFFIC MAINTENANCE SPECIALIST I
099	TRAFFIC MTC SPECIALIST II- RC
024	TRANSFER STATION MONITOR
032	TRANSFORATION TECH III
099	TRANSFORATION TECH III (N/S) - RC
019	TRANSPORTATION AIDE
033	TRANSPORTATION PERMIT COORDINATOR
023	TRANSPORTATION TECHNICIAN I
028	TRANSPORTATION TECHNICIAN II
017	TREE TRIMMER I
019	TREE TRIMMER II
015	UTILITY SERVICES ASSISTANT
024	WASTEWATER PLANT OPERATOR I
027	WASTEWATER PLANT OPERATOR II
030	WASTEWATER PLANT OPERATOR III
015	WATER METER SERV ATTD I
017	WATER METER SERV ATTD II
019	WATER METER SERV ATTD III
015	WATER METER SERVICE ATTENDANT I
019	WATER METER SERVICE ATTENDANT II
024	WATER PLANT OPERATOR I
027	WATER PLANT OPERATOR II
030	WATER PLANT OPERATOR III
024	WATER SERVICES TECHNICIAN
019	WATER/WASTEWATER FACIL OPERATOR TR
023	WELDER METAL WORKER I
027	WMBE TECHNICIAN
030	WORK STATION SUPPORT TECH II
028	WORK STATION SUPPORT TECHNICIAN I
025	YELDER METAL WORKER II
Note: As adjustments are made in classifications, Appendix I will become out of date. Contact the Employee Relations Division for verification of classifications within the bargaining unit.
102
APPENDIX II
Effective October 6, 2002 provided that ratification occurs by City Council by October 10, 2002
STEP PAF	1.0 1	1.5 2	2.0 3	2.5 4	3.0 5	3.5 6	4.0 7	4.5 8	5.0 9	5.5 10	6.0 11	6.5 12	7.0 13	7.5 14	8.0 15	8.5 16	9.0 17	9.5 18	10.0 19
009	7.56	7.71	7.87	8.02	8.18	8.35	8.51	8.67	8.84	9.02	9.18	9.38	9.54	9.73	9.95	10.12	10.33	10.53	10.75	Hourly
	302.40	308.40	314.80	320.80	327.20	334.00	340.40	346.80	353.60	360.80	367.20	375.20	381.60	389.20	398.00	404.80	413.20	421.20	430.00 Weekly
	604.80	616.80	629.60	641.60	654.40	668.00	680.80	693.60	707.20	721.60	734.40	750.40	763.20	778.40	796.00	809.60	826.40	842.40	860.00 Bi-weekly
	15,724.80	16,036.80	16,369.60	16,681.60	17,014.40	17,368.00	17,700.80	18,033.60	18,387.20	18,761.60	19,094.40	19,510.40	19,843.20	20,238.40	20,696.00	21,049.60	21,486.40	21,902.40	22,360.00	Annual
010	7.87	8.02	8.18	8.35	8.51	8.67	8.84	9.02	9.18	9.38	9.54	9.73	9.95	10.12	10.33	10.53	10.75	10.96	11.19
	314.80	320.80	327.20	334.00	340.40	346.80	353.60	360.80	367.20	375.20	381.60	389.20	398.00	404.80	413.20	421.20	430.00	438.40	447.60
	629.60	641.60	654.40	668.00	680.80	693.60	707.20	721.60	734.40	750.40	763.20	778.40	796.00	809.60	826.40	842.40	860.00	876.80	895.20
	16,369.60	16,681.60	17,014.40	17,368.00	17,700.80	18,033.60	18,387.20	18,761.60	19,094.40	19,510.40	19,843.20	20,238.40	20,696.00	21,049.60	21,486.40	21,902.40	22,360.00	22,796.80	23,275.20
011	8.18	8.35	8.51	8.67	8.84	9.02	9.18	9.38	9.54	9.73	9.95	10.12	10.33	10.53	10.75	10.96	11.19	11.38	11.65
	327.20	334.00	340.40	346.80	353.60	360.80	367.20	375.20	381.60	389.20	398.00	404.80	413.20	421.20	430.00	438.40	447.60	455.20	466.00
	654.40	668.00	680.80	693.60	707.20	721.60	734.40	750.40	763.20	778.40	796.00	809.60	826.40	842.40	860.00	876.80	895.20	910.40	932.00
	17,014.40	17,368.00	17,700.80	18,033.60	18,387.20	18,761.60	19,094.40	19,510.40	19,843.20	20,238.40	20,696.00	21,049.60	21,486.40	21,902.40	22,360.00	22,796.80	23,275.20	23,670.40	24,232.00
012	8.51	8.67	8.84	9.02	9.18	9.38	9.54	9.73	9.95	10.12	10.33	10.53	10.75	10.96	11.19	11.38	11.65	11.88	12.06
	340.40	346.80	353.60	360.80	367.20	375.20	381.60	389.20	398.00	404.80	413.20	421.20	430.00	438.40	447.60	455.20	466.00	475.20	482.40
	680.80	693.60	707.20	721.60	734.40	750.40	763.20	778.40	796.00	809.60	826.40	842.40	860.00	876.80	895.20	910.40	932.00	950.40	964.80
	17,700.80	18,033.60	18,387.20	18,761.60	19,094.40	19,510.40	19,843.20	20,238.40	20,696.00	21,049.60	21,486.40	21,902.40	22,360.00	22,796.80	23,275.20	23,670.40	24,232.00	24,710.40	25,084.80
013	8.84	9.02	9.18	9.38	9.54	9.73	9.95	10.12	10.33	10.53	10.75	10.96	11.19	11.38	11.65	11.88	12.06	12.32	12.61
	353.60	360.80	367.20	375.20	381.60	389.20	398.00	404.80	413.20	421.20	430.00	438.40	447.60	455.20	466.00	475.20	482.40	492.80	504.40
	707.20	721.60	734.40	750.40	763.20	778.40	796.00	809.60	826.40	842.40	860.00	876.80	895.20	910.40	932.00	950.40	964.80	985.60	1,008.80
	18,387.20	18,761.60	19,094.40	19,510.40	19,843.20	20,238.40	20,696.00	21,049.60	21,486.40	21,902.40	22,360.00	22,796.80	23,275.20	23,670.40	24,232.00	24,710.40	25,084.80	25,625.60	26,228.80
014	9.18	9.38	9.54	9.73	9.95	10.12	10.33	10.53	10.75	10.96	11.19	11.38	11.65	11.88	12.06	12.32	12.61	12.80	13.08
	367.20	375.20	381.60	389.20	398.00	404.80	413.20	421.20	430.00	438.40	447.60	455.20	466.00	475.20	482.40	492.80	504.40	512.00	523.20
	734.40	750.40	763.20	778.40	796.00	809.60	826.40	842.40	860.00	876.80	895.20	910.40	932.00	950.40	964.80	985.60	1,008.80	1,024.00	1,046.40
	19,094.40	19,510.40	19,843.20	20,238.40	20,696.00	21,049.60	21,486.40	21,902.40	22,360.00	22,796.80	23,275.20	23,670.40	24,232.00	24,710.40	25,084.80	25,625.60	26,228.80	26,624.00	27,206.40
103
STEP PAF	1.0 1	1.5 2	2.0 3	2.5 4	3.0 5	3.5 6	4.0 7	4.5 8	5.0 9	5.5 10	6.0 11	6.5 12	7.0 13	7.5 14	8.0 15	8.5 16	9.0 17	9.5 18	10.0 19
015	9.54	9.73	9.95	10.12	10.33	10.53	10.75	10.96	11.19	11.38	11.65	11.88	12.06	12.32	12.61	12.80	13.08	13.36	13.58	Hourly
	381.60	389.20	398.00	404.80	413.20	421.20	430.00	438.40	447.60	455.20	466.00	475.20	482.40	492.80	504.40	512.00	523.20	534.40	543.20 Weekly
	763.20	778.40	796.00	809.60	826.40	842.40	860.00	876.80	895.20	910.40	932.00	950.40	964.80	985.60	1,008.80	1,024.00	1,046.40	1,068.80	1,086.40 Bi-weekly
	19,843.20	20,238.40	20,696.00	21,049.60	21,486.40	21,902.40	22,360.00	22,796.80	23,275.20	23,670.40	24,232.00	24,710.40	25,084.80	25,625.60	26,228.80	26,624.00	27,206.40	27,788.80	28,246.40 Annual
016	9.95	10.12	10.33	10.53	10.75	10.96	11.19	11.38	11.65	11.88	12.06	12.32	12.61	12.80	13.08	13.36	13.58	13.87	14.12
	398.00	404.80	413.20	421.20	430.00	438.40	447.60	455.20	466.00	475.20	482.40	492.80	504.40	512.00	523.20	534.40	543.20	554.80	564.80
	796.00	809.60	826.40	842.40	860.00	876.80	895.20	910.40	932.00	950.40	964.80	985.60	1,008.80	1,024.00	1,046.40	1,068.80	1,086.40	1,109.60	1,129.60
	20,696.00	21,049.60	21,486.40	21,902.40	22,360.00	22,796.80	23,275.20	23,670.40	24,232.00	24,710.40	25,084.80	25,625.60	26,228.80	26,624.00	27,206.40	27,788.80	28,246.40	28,849.60	29,369.60
017	10.33	10.53	10.75	10.96	11.19	11.38	11.65	11.88	12.06	12.32	12.61	12.80	13.08	13.36	13.58	13.87	14.12	14.42	14.70
	413.20	421.20	430.00	438.40	447.60	455.20	466.00	475.20	482.40	492.80	504.40	512.00	523.20	534.40	543.20	554.80	564.80	576.80	588.00
	826.40	842.40	860.00	876.80	895.20	910.40	932.00	950.40	964.80	985.60	1,008.80	1,024.00	1,046.40	1,068.80	1,086.40	1,109.60	1,129.60	1,153.60	1,176.00
	21,486.40	21,902.40	22,360.00	22,796.80	23,275.20	23,670.40	24,232.00	24,710.40	25,084.80	25,625.60	26,228.80	26,624.00	27,206.40	27,788.80	28,246.40	28,849.60	29,369.60	29,993.60	30,576.00
018	10.75	10.96	11.19	11.38	11.65	11.88	12.06	12.32	12.61	12.80	13.08	13.36	13.58	13.87	14.12	14.42	14.70	15.02	15.30
	430.00	438.40	447.60	455.20	466.00	475.20	482.40	492.80	504.40	512.00	523.20	534.40	543.20	554.80	564.80	576.80	588.00	600.80	612.00
	860.00	876.80	895.20	910.40	932.00	950.40	964.80	985.60	1,008.80	1,024.00	1,046.40	1,068.80	1,086.40	1,109.60	1,129.60	1,153.60	1,176.00	1,201.60	1,224.00
	22,360.00	22,796.80	23,275.20	23,670.40	24,232.00	24,710.40	25,084.80	25,625.60	26,228.80	26,624.00	27,206.40	27,788.80	28,246.40	28,849.60	29,369.60	29,993.60	30,576.00	31,241.60	31,824.00
019	11.19	11.38	11.65	11.88	12.06	12.32	12.61	12.80	13.08	13.36	13.58	13.87	14.12	14.42	14.70	15.02	15.30	15.59	15.91
	447.60	455.20	466.00	475.20	482.40	492.80	504.40	512.00	523.20	534.40	543.20	554.80	564.80	576.80	588.00	600.80	612.00	623.60	636.40
	895.20	910.40	932.00	950.40	964.80	985.60	1,008.80	1,024.00	1,046.40	1,068.80	1,086.40	1,109.60	1,129.60	1,153.60	1,176.00	1,201.60	1,224.00	1,247.20	1,272.80
	23,275.20	23,670.40	24,232.00	24,710.40	25,084.80	25,625.60	26,228.80	26,624.00	27,206.40	27,788.80	28,246.40	28,849.60	29,369.60	29,993.60	30,576.00	31,241.60	31,824.00	32,427.20	33,092.80
020	11.65	11.88	12.06	12.32	12.61	12.80	13.08	13.36	13.58	13.87	14.12	14.42	14.70	15.02	15.30	15.59	15.91	16.23	16.51
	466.00	475.20	482.40	492.80	504.40	512.00	523.20	534.40	543.20	554.80	564.80	576.80	588.00	600.80	612.00	623.60	636.40	649.20	660.40
	932.00	950.40	964.80	985.60	1,008.80	1,024.00	1,046.40	1,068.80	1,086.40	1,109.60	1,129.60	1,153.60	1,176.00	1,201.60	1,224.00	1,247.20	1,272.80	1,298.40	1,320.80
	24,232.00	24,710.40	25,084.80	25,625.60	26,228.80	26,624.00	27,206.40	27,788.80	28,246.40	28,849.60	29,369.60	29,993.60	30,576.00	31,241.60	31,824.00	32,427.20	33,092.80	33,758.40	34,340.80
021	12.06	12.32	12.61	12.80	13.08	13.36	13.58	13.87	14.12	14.42	14.70	15.02	15.30	15.59	15.91	16.23	16.51	16.86	17.23
	482.40	492.80	504.40	512.00	523.20	534.40	543.20	554.80	564.80	576.80	588.00	600.80	612.00	623.60	636.40	649.20	660.40	674.40	689.20
	964.80	985.60	1,008.80	1,024.00	1,046.40	1,068.80	1,086.40	1,109.60	1,129.60	1,153.60	1,176.00	1,201.60	1,224.00	1,247.20	1,272.80	1,298.40	1,320.80	1,348.80	1,378.40
	25,084.80	25,625.60	26,228.80	26,624.00	27,206.40	27,788.80	28,246.40	28,849.60	29,369.60	29,993.60	30,576.00	31,241.60	31,824.00	32,427.20	33,092.80	33,758.40	34,340.80	35,068.80	35,838.40
104
STEP PAF	1.0 1	1.5 2	2.0 3	2.5 4	3.0 5	3.5 6	4.0 7	4.5 8	5.0 9	5.5 10	6.0 11	6.5 12	7.0 13	7.5 14	8.0 15	8.5 16	9.0 17	9.5 18	10.0 19
022	12.61	12.80	13.08	13.36	13.58	13.87	14.12	14.42	14.70	15.02	15.30	15.59	15.91	16.23	16.51	16.86	17.23	17.52	17.89	Hourly
	504.40	512.00	523.20	534.40	543.20	554.80	564.80	576.80	588.00	600.80	612.00	623.60	636.40	649.20	660.40	674.40	689.20	700.80	715.60	Weekly
	1,008.80	1,024.00	1,046.40	1,068.80	1,086.40	1,109.60	1,129.60	1,153.60	1,176.00	1,201.60	1,224.00	1,247.20	1,272.80	1,298.40	1,320.80	1,348.80	1,378.40	1,401.60	1,431.20 Bi-weekly
	26,228.80	26,624.00	27,206.40	27,788.80	28,246.40	28,849.60	29,369.60	29,993.60	30,576.00	31,241.60	31,824.00	32,427.20	33,092.80	33,758.40	34,340.80	35,068.80	35,838.40	36,441.60	37,211.20	Annual
023	13.08	13.36	13.58	13.87	14.12	14.42	14.70	15.02	15.30	15.59	15.91	16.23	16.51	16.86	17.23	17.52	17.89	18.26	18.60
	523.20	534.40	543.20	554.80	564.80	576.80	588.00	600.80	612.00	623.60	636.40	649.20	660.40	674.40	689.20	700.80	715.60	730.40	744.00
	1,046.40	1,068.80	1,086.40	1,109.60	1,129.60	1,153.60	1,176.00	1,201.60	1,224.00	1,247.20	1,272.80	1,298.40	1,320.80	1,348.80	1,378.40	1,401.60	1,431.20	1,460.80	1,488.00
	27,206.40	27,788.80	28,246.40	28,849.60	29,369.60	29,993.60	30,576.00	31,241.60	31,824.00	32,427.20	33,092.80	33,758.40	34,340.80	35,068.80	35,838.40	36,441.60	37,211.20	37,980.80	38,688.00
024	13.58	13.87	14.12	14.42	14.70	15.02	15.30	15.59	15.91	16.23	16.51	16.86	17.23	17.52	17.89	18.26	18.60	18.98	19.35
	543.20	554.80	564.80	576.80	588.00	600.80	612.00	623.60	636.40	649.20	660.40	674.40	689.20	700.80	715.60	730.40	744.00	759.20	774.00
	1,086.40	1,109.60	1,129.60	1,153.60	1,176.00	1,201.60	1,224.00	1,247.20	1,272.80	1,298.40	1,320.80	1,348.80	1,378.40	1,401.60	1,431.20	1,460.80	1,488.00	1,518.40	1,548.00
	28,246.40	28,849.60	29,369.60	29,993.60	30,576.00	31,241.60	31,824.00	32,427.20	33,092.80	33,758.40	34,340.80	35,068.80	35,838.40	36,441.60	37,211.20	37,980.80	38,688.00	39,478.40	40,248.00
025	14.12	14.42	14.70	15.02	15.30	15.59	15.91	16.23	16.51	16.86	17.23	17.52	17.89	18.26	18.60	18.98	19.35	19.75	20.13
	564.80	576.80	588.00	600.80	612.00	623.60	636.40	649.20	660.40	674.40	689.20	700.80	715.60	730.40	744.00	759.20	774.00	790.00	805.20
	1,129.60	1,153.60	1,176.00	1,201.60	1,224.00	1,247.20	1,272.80	1,298.40	1,320.80	1,348.80	1,378.40	1,401.60	1,431.20	1,460.80	1,488.00	1,518.40	1,548.00	1,580.00	1,610.40
	29,369.60	29,993.60	30,576.00	31,241.60	31,824.00	32,427.20	33,092.80	33,758.40	34,340.80	35,068.80	35,838.40	36,441.60	37,211.20	37,980.80	38,688.00	39,478.40	40,248.00	41,080.00	41,870.40
026	14.70	15.02	15.30	15.59	15.91	16.23	16.51	16.86	17.23	17.52	17.89	18.26	18.60	18.98	19.35	19.75	20.13	20.53	20.91
	588.00	600.80	612.00	623.60	636.40	649.20	660.40	674.40	689.20	700.80	715.60	730.40	744.00	759.20	774.00	790.00	805.20	821.20	836.40
	1,176.00	1,201.60	1,224.00	1,247.20	1,272.80	1,298.40	1,320.80	1,348.80	1,378.40	1,401.60	1,431.20	1,460.80	1,488.00	1,518.40	1,548.00	1,580.00	1,610.40	1,642.40	1,672.80
	30,576.00	31,241.60	31,824.00	32,427.20	33,092.80	33,758.40	34,340.80	35,068.80	35,838.40	36,441.60	37,211.20	37,980.80	38,688.00	39,478.40	40,248.00	41,080.00	41,870.40	42,702.40	43,492.80
027	15.30	15.59	15.91	16.23	16.51	16.86	17.23	17.52	17.89	18.26	18.60	18.98	19.35	19.75	20.13	20.53	20.91	21.35	21.78
	612.00	623.60	636.40	649.20	660.40	674.40	689.20	700.80	715.60	730.40	744.00	759.20	774.00	790.00	805.20	821.20	836.40	854.00	871.20
	1,224.00	1,247.20	1,272.80	1,298.40	1,320.80	1,348.80	1,378.40	1,401.60	1,431.20	1,460.80	1,488.00	1,518.40	1,548.00	1,580.00	1,610.40	1,642.40	1,672.80	1,708.00	1,742.40
	31,824.00	32,427.20	33,092.80	33,758.40	34,340.80	35,068.80	35,838.40	36,441.60	37,211.20	37,980.80	38,688.00	39,478.40	40,248.00	41,080.00	41,870.40	42,702.40	43,492.80	44,408.00	45,302.40
028	15.91	16.23	16.51	16.86	17.23	17.52	17.89	18.26	18.60	18.98	19.35	19.75	20.13	20.53	20.91	21.35	21.78	22.19	22.64
	636.40	649.20	660.40	674.40	689.20	700.80	715.60	730.40	744.00	759.20	774.00	790.00	805.20	821.20	836.40	854.00	871.20	887.60	905.60
	1,272.80	1,298.40	1,320.80	1,348.80	1,378.40	1,401.60	1,431.20	1,460.80	1,488.00	1,518.40	1,548.00	1,580.00	1,610.40	1,642.40	1,672.80	1,708.00	1,742.40	1,775.20	1,811.20
	33,092.80	33,758.40	34,340.80	35,068.80	35,838.40	36,441.60	37,211.20	37,980.80	38,688.00	39,478.40	40,248.00	41,080.00	41,870.40	42,702.40	43,492.80	44,408.00	45,302.40	46,155.20	47,091.20
105
STEP PAF	1.0 1	1.5 2	2.0 3	2.5 4	3.0 5	3.5 6	4.0 7	4.5 8	5.0 9	5.5 10	6.0 11	6.5 12	7.0 13	7.5 14	8.0 15	8.5 16	9.0 17	9.5 18	10.0 19
029	16.51	16.86	17.23	17.52	17.89	18.26	18.60	18.98	19.35	19.75	20.13	20.53	20.91	21.35	21.78	22.19	22.64	23.10	23.56	Hourly
	660.40	674.40	689.20	700.80	715.60	730.40	744.00	759.20	774.00	790.00	805.20	821.20	836.40	854.00	871.20	887.60	905.60	924.00	942.40	Weekly
	1,320.80	1,348.80	1,378.40	1,401.60	1,431.20	1,460.80	1,488.00	1,518.40	1,548.00	1,580.00	1,610.40	1,642.40	1,672.80	1,708.00	1,742.40	1,775.20	1,811.20	1,848.00	1,884.80 Bi-weekly
	34,340.80	35,068.80	35,838.40	36,441.60	37,211.20	37,980.80	38,688.00	39,478.40	40,248.00	41,080.00	41,870.40	42,702.40	43,492.80	44,408.00	45,302.40	46,155.20	47,091.20	48,048.00	49,004.80	Annual
030	17.23	17.52	17.89	18.26	18.60	18.98	19.35	19.75	20.13	20.53	20.91	21.35	21.78	22.19	22.64	23.10	23.56	23.99	24.45
	689.20	700.80	715.60	730.40	744.00	759.20	774.00	790.00	805.20	821.20	836.40	854.00	871.20	887.60	905.60	924.00	942.40	959.60	978.00
	1,378.40	1,401.60	1,431.20	1,460.80	1,488.00	1,518.40	1,548.00	1,580.00	1,610.40	1,642.40	1,672.80	1,708.00	1,742.40	1,775.20	1,811.20	1,848.00	1,884.80	1,919.20	1,956.00
	35,838.40	36,441.60	37,211.20	37,980.80	38,688.00	39,478.40	40,248.00	41,080.00	41,870.40	42,702.40	43,492.80	44,408.00	45,302.40	46,155.20	47,091.20	48,048.00	49,004.80	49,899.20	50,856.00
031	17.89	18.26	18.60	18.98	19.35	19.75	20.13	20.53	20.91	21.35	21.78	22.19	22.64	23.10	23.56	23.99	24.45	24.99	25.47
	715.60	730.40	744.00	759.20	774.00	790.00	805.20	821.20	836.40	854.00	871.20	887.60	905.60	924.00	942.40	959.60	978.00	999.60	1,018.80
	1,431.20	1,460.80	1,488.00	1,518.40	1,548.00	1,580.00	1,610.40	1,642.40	1,672.80	1,708.00	1,742.40	1,775.20	1,811.20	1,848.00	1,884.80	1,919.20	1,956.00	1,999.20	2,037.60
	37,211.20	37,980.80	38,688.00	39,478.40	40,248.00	41,080.00	41,870.40	42,702.40	43,492.80	44,408.00	45,302.40	46,155.20	47,091.20	48,048.00	49,004.80	49,899.20	50,856.00	51,979.20	52,977.60
032	18.60	18.98	19.35	19.75	20.13	20.53	20.91	21.35	21.78	22.19	22.64	23.10	23.56	23.99	24.45	24.99	25.47	25.98	26.50
	744.00	759.20	774.00	790.00	805.20	821.20	836.40	854.00	871.20	887.60	905.60	924.00	942.40	959.60	978.00	999.60	1,018.80	1,039.20	1,060.00
	1,488.00	1,518.40	1,548.00	1,580.00	1,610.40	1,642.40	1,672.80	1,708.00	1,742.40	1,775.20	1,811.20	1,848.00	1,884.80	1,919.20	1,956.00	1,999.20	2,037.60	2,078.40	2,120.00
	38,688.00	39,478.40	40,248.00	41,080.00	41,870.40	42,702.40	43,492.80	44,408.00	45,302.40	46,155.20	47,091.20	48,048.00	49,004.80	49,899.20	50,856.00	51,979.20	52,977.60	54,038.40	55,120.00
033	19.35	19.75	20.13	20.53	20.91	21.35	21.78	22.19	22.64	23.10	23.56	23.99	24.45	24.99	25.47	25.98	26.50	27.01	27.54
	774.00	790.00	805.20	821.20	836.40	854.00	871.20	887.60	905.60	924.00	942.40	959.60	978.00	999.60	1,018.80	1,039.20	1,060.00	1,080.40	1,101.60
	1,548.00	1,580.00	1,610.40	1,642.40	1,672.80	1,708.00	1,742.40	1,775.20	1,811.20	1,848.00	1,884.80	1,919.20	1,956.00	1,999.20	2,037.60	2,078.40	2,120.00	2,160.80	2,203.20
	40,248.00	41,080.00	41,870.40	42,702.40	43,492.80	44,408.00	45,302.40	46,155.20	47,091.20	48,048.00	49,004.80	49,899.20	50,856.00	51,979.20	52,977.60	54,038.40	55,120.00	56,180.80	57,283.20
034	20.13	20.53	20.91	21.35	21.78	22.19	22.64	23.10	23.56	23.99	24.45	24.99	25.47	25.98	26.50	27.01	27.54	28.09	28.65
	805.20	821.20	836.40	854.00	871.20	887.60	905.60	924.00	942.40	959.60	978.00	999.60	1,018.80	1,039.20	1,060.00	1,080.40	1,101.60	1,123.60	1,146.00
	1,610.40	1,642.40	1,672.80	1,708.00	1,742.40	1,775.20	1,811.20	1,848.00	1,884.80	1,919.20	1,956.00	1,999.20	2,037.60	2,078.40	2,120.00	2,160.80	2,203.20	2,247.20	2,292.00
	41,870.40	42,702.40	43,492.80	44,408.00	45,302.40	46,155.20	47,091.20	48,048.00	49,004.80	49,899.20	50,856.00	51,979.20	52,977.60	54,038.40	55,120.00	56,180.80	57,283.20	58,427.20	59,592.00
035	20.91	21.35	21.78	22.19	22.64	23.10	23.56	23.99	24.45	24.99	25.47	25.98	26.50	27.01	27.54	28.09	28.65	29.22	29.80
	836.40	854.00	871.20	887.60	905.60	924.00	942.40	959.60	978.00	999.60	1,018.80	1,039.20	1,060.00	1,080.40	1,101.60	1,123.60	1,146.00	1,168.80	1,192.00
	1,672.80	1,708.00	1,742.40	1,775.20	1,811.20	1,848.00	1,884.80	1,919.20	1,956.00	1,999.20	2,037.60	2,078.40	2,120.00	2,160.80	2,203.20	2,247.20	2,292.00	2,337.60	2,384.00
	43,492.80	44,408.00	45,302.40	46,155.20	47,091.20	48,048.00	49,004.80	49,899.20	50,856.00	51,979.20	52,977.60	54,038.40	55,120.00	56,180.80	57,283.20	58,427.20	59,592.00	60,777.60	61,984.00
106
STEP PAF	1.0 1	1.5 2	2.0 3	2.5 4	3.0 5	3.5 6	4.0 7	4.5 8	5.0 9	5.5 10	6.0 11	6.5 12	7.0 13	7.5 14	8.0 15	8.5 16	9.0 17	9.5 18	10.0 19	
036	21.78	22.19	22.64	23.10	23.56	23.99	24.45	24.99	25.47	25.98	26.50	27.01	27.54	28.09	28.65	29.22	29.80	30.40	31.01	Hourly
	871.20	887.60	905.60	924.00	942.40	959.60	978.00	999.60	1,018.80	1,039.20	1,060.00	1,080.40	1,101.60	1,123.60	1,146.00	1,168.80	1,192.00	1,216.00	1,240.40	Weekly
	1,742.40	1,775.20	1,811.20	1,848.00	1,884.80	1,919.20	1,956.00	1,999.20	2,037.60	2,078.40	2,120.00	2,160.80	2,203.20	2,247.20	2,292.00	2,337.60	2,384.00	2,432.00	2,480.80	Bi-weekly
	45,302.40	46,155.20	47,091.20	48,048.00	49,004.80	49,899.20	50,856.00	51,979.20	52,977.60	54,038.40	55,120.00	56,180.80	57,283.20	58,427.20	59,592.00	60,777.60	61,984.00	63,232.00	64,500.80	Annual
037	22.64	23.10	23.56	23.99	24.45	24.99	25.47	25.98	26.50	27.01	27.54	28.09	28.65	29.22	29.80	30.40	31.01	31.63	32.26	
	905.60	924.00	942.40	959.60	978.00	999.60	1,018.80	1,039.20	1,060.00	1,080.40	1,101.60	1,123.60	1,146.00	1,168.80	1,192.00	1,216.00	1,240.40	1,265.20	1,290.40	
	1,811.20	1,848.00	1,884.80	1,919.20	1,956.00	1,999.20	2,037.60	2,078.40	2,120.00	2,160.80	2,203.20	2,247.20	2,292.00	2,337.60	2,384.00	2,432.00	2,480.80	2,530.40	2,580.80	
	47,091.20	48,048.00	49,004.80	49,899.20	50,856.00	51,979.20	52,977.60	54,038.40	55,120.00	56,180.80	57,283.20	58,427.20	59,592.00	60,777.60	61,984.00	63,232.00	64,500.80	65,790.40	67,100.80	
038	23.56	23.99	24.45	24.99	25.47	25.98	26.50	27.01	27.54	28.09	28.65	29.22	29.80	30.40	31.01	31.63	32.26	32.91	33.57	
	942.40	959.60	978.00	999.60	1,018.80	1,039.20	1,060.00	1,080.40	1,101.60	1,123.60	1,146.00	1,168.80	1,192.00	1,216.00	1,240.40	1,265.20	1,290.40	1,316.40	1,342.80	
	1,884.80	1,919.20	1,956.00	1,999.20	2,037.60	2,078.40	2,120.00	2,160.80	2,203.20	2,247.20	2,292.00	2,337.60	2,384.00	2,432.00	2,480.80	2,530.40	2,580.80	2,632.80	2,685.60	
	49,004.80	49,899.20	50,856.00	51,979.20	52,977.60	54,038.40	55,120.00	56,180.80	57,283.20	58,427.20	59,592.00	60,777.60	61,984.00	63,232.00	64,500.80	65,790.40	67,100.80	68,452.80	69,825.60	
107
Effective October 5, 2003
STEP PAF	1.0 1	1.5 2	2.0 3	2.5 4	3.0 5	3.5 6	4.0 7	4.5 8	5.0 9	5.5 10	6.0 11	6.5 12	7.0 13	7.5 14	8.0 15	8.5 16	9.0 17	9.5 18	10.0 19
009	7.82	7.98	8.15	8.30	8.47	8.64	8.81	8.97	9.15	9.34	9.50	9.71	9.87	10.07	10.30	10.47	10.69	10.90	11.13	Hourly
	312.80	319.20	326.00	332.00	338.80	345.60	352.40	358.80	366.00	373.60	380.00	388.40	394.80	402.80	412.00	418.80	427.60	436.00	445.20 Weekly
	625.60	638.40	652.00	664.00	677.60	691.20	704.80	717.60	732.00	747.20	760.00	776.80	789.60	805.60	824.00	837.60	855.20	872.00	890.40 Bi-weekly
	16,265.60	16,598.40	16,952.00	17,264.00	17,617.60	17,971.20	18,324.80	18,657.60	19,032.00	19,427.20	19,760.00	20,196.80	20,529.60	20,945.60	21,424.00	21,777.60	22,235.20	22,672.00	23,150.40 Annual
010	8.15	8.30	8.47	8.64	8.81	8.97	9.15	9.34	9.50	9.71	9.87	10.07	10.30	10.47	10.69	10.90	11.13	11.34	11.58
	326.00	332.00	338.80	345.60	352.40	358.80	366.00	373.60	380.00	388.40	394.80	402.80	412.00	418.80	427.60	436.00	445.20	453.60	463.20
	652.00	664.00	677.60	691.20	704.80	717.60	732.00	747.20	760.00	776.80	789.60	805.60	824.00	837.60	855.20	872.00	890.40	907.20	926.40
	16,952.00	17,264.00	17,617.60	17,971.20	18,324.80	18,657.60	19,032.00	19,427.20	19,760.00	20,196.80	20,529.60	20,945.60	21,424.00	21,777.60	22,235.20	22,672.00	23,150.40	23,587.20	24,086.40
011	8.47	8.64	8.81	8.97	9.15	9.34	9.50	9.71	9.87	10.07	10.30	10.47	10.69	10.90	11.13	11.34	11.58	11.78	12.06
	338.80	345.60	352.40	358.80	366.00	373.60	380.00	388.40	394.80	402.80	412.00	418.80	427.60	436.00	445.20	453.60	463.20	471.20	482.40
	677.60	691.20	704.80	717.60	732.00	747.20	760.00	776.80	789.60	805.60	824.00	837.60	855.20	872.00	890.40	907.20	926.40	942.40	964.80
	17,617.60	17,971.20	18,324.80	18,657.60	19,032.00	19,427.20	19,760.00	20,196.80	20,529.60	20,945.60	21,424.00	21,777.60	22,235.20	22,672.00	23,150.40	23,587.20	24,086.40	24,502.40	25,084.80
012	8.81	8.97	9.15	9.34	9.50	9.71	9.87	10.07	10.30	10.47	10.69	10.90	11.13	11.34	11.58	11.78	12.06	12.30	12.48
	352.40	358.80	366.00	373.60	380.00	388.40	394.80	402.80	412.00	418.80	427.60	436.00	445.20	453.60	463.20	471.20	482.40	492.00	499.20
	704.80	717.60	732.00	747.20	760.00	776.80	789.60	805.60	824.00	837.60	855.20	872.00	890.40	907.20	926.40	942.40	964.80	984.00	998.40
	18,324.80	18,657.60	19,032.00	19,427.20	19,760.00	20,196.80	20,529.60	20,945.60	21,424.00	21,777.60	22,235.20	22,672.00	23,150.40	23,587.20	24,086.40	24,502.40	25,084.80	25,584.00	25,958.40
013	9.15	9.34	9.50	9.71	9.87	10.07	10.30	10.47	10.69	10.90	11.13	11.34	11.58	11.78	12.06	12.30	12.48	12.75	13.05
	366.00	373.60	380.00	388.40	394.80	402.80	412.00	418.80	427.60	436.00	445.20	453.60	463.20	471.20	482.40	492.00	499.20	510.00	522.00
	732.00	747.20	760.00	776.80	789.60	805.60	824.00	837.60	855.20	872.00	890.40	907.20	926.40	942.40	964.80	984.00	998.40	1,020.00	1,044.00
	19,032.00	19,427.20	19,760.00	20,196.80	20,529.60	20,945.60	21,424.00	21,777.60	22,235.20	22,672.00	23,150.40	23,587.20	24,086.40	24,502.40	25,084.80	25,584.00	25,958.40	26,520.00	27,144.00
014	9.50	9.71	9.87	10.07	10.30	10.47	10.69	10.90	11.13	11.34	11.58	11.78	12.06	12.30	12.48	12.75	13.05	13.25	13.54
	380.00	388.40	394.80	402.80	412.00	418.80	427.60	436.00	445.20	453.60	463.20	471.20	482.40	492.00	499.20	510.00	522.00	530.00	541.60
	760.00	776.80	789.60	805.60	824.00	837.60	855.20	872.00	890.40	907.20	926.40	942.40	964.80	984.00	998.40	1,020.00	1,044.00	1,060.00	1,083.20
	19,760.00	20,196.80	20,529.60	20,945.60	21,424.00	21,777.60	22,235.20	22,672.00	23,150.40	23,587.20	24,086.40	24,502.40	25,084.80	25,584.00	25,958.40	26,520.00	27,144.00	27,560.00	28,163.20
108
STEP PAF	1.0 1	1.5 2	2.0 3	2.5 4	3.0 5	3.5 6	4.0 7	4.5 8	5.0 9	5.5 10	6.0 11	6.5 12	7.0 13	7.5 14	8.0 15	8.5 16	9.0 17	9.5 18	10.0 19
015	9.87	10.07	10.30	10.47	10.69	10.90	11.13	11.34	11.58	11.78	12.06	12.30	12.48	12.75	13.05	13.25	13.54	13.83	14.06	Hourly
	394.80	402.80	412.00	418.80	427.60	436.00	445.20	453.60	463.20	471.20	482.40	492.00	499.20	510.00	522.00	530.00	541.60	553.20	562.40 Weekly
	789.60	805.60	824.00	837.60	855.20	872.00	890.40	907.20	926.40	942.40	964.80	984.00	998.40	1,020.00	1,044.00	1,060.00	1,083.20	1,106.40	1,124.80 Bi-weekly
	20,529.60	20,945.60	21,424.00	21,777.60	22,235.20	22,672.00	23,150.40	23,587.20	24,086.40	24,502.40	25,084.80	25,584.00	25,958.40	26,520.00	27,144.00	27,560.00	28,163.20	28,766.40	29,244.80 Annual
016	10.30	10.47	10.69	10.90	11.13	11.34	11.58	11.78	12.06	12.30	12.48	12.75	13.05	13.25	13.54	13.83	14.06	14.36	14.61
	412.00	418.80	427.60	436.00	445.20	453.60	463.20	471.20	482.40	492.00	499.20	510.00	522.00	530.00	541.60	553.20	562.40	574.40	584.40
	824.00	837.60	855.20	872.00	890.40	907.20	926.40	942.40	964.80	984.00	998.40	1,020.00	1,044.00	1,060.00	1,083.20	1,106.40	1,124.80	1,148.80	1,168.80
	21,424.00	21,777.60	22,235.20	22,672.00	23,150.40	23,587.20	24,086.40	24,502.40	25,084.80	25,584.00	25,958.40	26,520.00	27,144.00	27,560.00	28,163.20	28,766.40	29,244.80	29,868.80	30,388.80
017	10.69	10.90	11.13	11.34	11.58	11.78	12.06	12.30	12.48	12.75	13.05	13.25	13.54	13.83	14.06	14.36	14.61	14.92	15.21
	427.60	436.00	445.20	453.60	463.20	471.20	482.40	492.00	499.20	510.00	522.00	530.00	541.60	553.20	562.40	574.40	584.40	596.80	608.40
	855.20	872.00	890.40	907.20	926.40	942.40	964.80	984.00	998.40	1,020.00	1,044.00	1,060.00	1,083.20	1,106.40	1,124.80	1,148.80	1,168.80	1,193.60	1,216.80
	22,235.20	22,672.00	23,150.40	23,587.20	24,086.40	24,502.40	25,084.80	25,584.00	25,958.40	26,520.00	27,144.00	27,560.00	28,163.20	28,766.40	29,244.80	29,868.80	30,388.80	31,033.60	31,636.80
018	11.13	11.34	11.58	11.78	12.06	12.30	12.48	12.75	13.05	13.25	13.54	13.83	14.06	14.36	14.61	14.92	15.21	15.55	15.84
	445.20	453.60	463.20	471.20	482.40	492.00	499.20	510.00	522.00	530.00	541.60	553.20	562.40	574.40	584.40	596.80	608.40	622.00	633.60
	890.40	907.20	926.40	942.40	964.80	984.00	998.40	1,020.00	1,044.00	1,060.00	1,083.20	1,106.40	1,124.80	1,148.80	1,168.80	1,193.60	1,216.80	1,244.00	1,267.20
	23,150.40	23,587.20	24,086.40	24,502.40	25,084.80	25,584.00	25,958.40	26,520.00	27,144.00	27,560.00	28,163.20	28,766.40	29,244.80	29,868.80	30,388.80	31,033.60	31,636.80	32,344.00	32,947.20
019	11.58	11.78	12.06	12.30	12.48	12.75	13.05	13.25	13.54	13.83	14.06	14.36	14.61	14.92	15.21	15.55	15.84	16.14	16.47
	463.20	471.20	482.40	492.00	499.20	510.00	522.00	530.00	541.60	553.20	562.40	574.40	584.40	596.80	608.40	622.00	633.60	645.60	658.80
	926.40	942.40	964.80	984.00	998.40	1,020.00	1,044.00	1,060.00	1,083.20	1,106.40	1,124.80	1,148.80	1,168.80	1,193.60	1,216.80	1,244.00	1,267.20	1,291.20	1,317.60
	24,086.40	24,502.40	25,084.80	25,584.00	25,958.40	26,520.00	27,144.00	27,560.00	28,163.20	28,766.40	29,244.80	29,868.80	30,388.80	31,033.60	31,636.80	32,344.00	32,947.20	33,571.20	34,257.60
020	12.06	12.30	12.48	12.75	13.05	13.25	13.54	13.83	14.06	14.36	14.61	14.92	15.21	15.55	15.84	16.14	16.47	16.80	17.09
	482.40	492.00	499.20	510.00	522.00	530.00	541.60	553.20	562.40	574.40	584.40	596.80	608.40	622.00	633.60	645.60	658.80	672.00	683.60
	964.80	984.00	998.40	1,020.00	1,044.00	1,060.00	1,083.20	1,106.40	1,124.80	1,148.80	1,168.80	1,193.60	1,216.80	1,244.00	1,267.20	1,291.20	1,317.60	1,344.00	1,367.20
	25,084.80	25,584.00	25,958.40	26,520.00	27,144.00	27,560.00	28,163.20	28,766.40	29,244.80	29,868.80	30,388.80	31,033.60	31,636.80	32,344.00	32,947.20	33,571.20	34,257.60	34,944.00	35,547.20
021	12.48	12.75	13.05	13.25	13.54	13.83	14.06	14.36	14.61	14.92	15.21	15.55	15.84	16.14	16.47	16.80	17.09	17.45	17.83
	499.20	510.00	522.00	530.00	541.60	553.20	562.40	574.40	584.40	596.80	608.40	622.00	633.60	645.60	658.80	672.00	683.60	698.00	713.20
	998.40	1,020.00	1,044.00	1,060.00	1,083.20	1,106.40	1,124.80	1,148.80	1,168.80	1,193.60	1,216.80	1,244.00	1,267.20	1,291.20	1,317.60	1,344.00	1,367.20	1,396.00	1,426.40
	25,958.40	26,520.00	27,144.00	27,560.00	28,163.20	28,766.40	29,244.80	29,868.80	30,388.80	31,033.60	31,636.80	32,344.00	32,947.20	33,571.20	34,257.60	34,944.00	35,547.20	36,296.00	37,086.40
109
STEP PAF	1.0 1	1.5 2	2.0 3	2.5 4	3.0 5	3.5 6	4.0 7	4.5 8	5.0 9	5.5 10	6.0 11	6.5 12	7.0 13	7.5 14	8.0 15	8.5 16	9.0 17	9.5 18	10.0 19
022	13.05	13.25	13.54	13.83	14.06	14.36	14.61	14.92	15.21	15.55	15.84	16.14	16.47	16.80	17.09	17.45	17.83	18.13	18.52	Hourly
	522.00	530.00	541.60	553.20	562.40	574.40	584.40	596.80	608.40	622.00	633.60	645.60	658.80	672.00	683.60	698.00	713.20	725.20	740.80 Weekly
	1,044.00	1,060.00	1,083.20	1,106.40	1,124.80	1,148.80	1,168.80	1,193.60	1,216.80	1,244.00	1,267.20	1,291.20	1,317.60	1,344.00	1,367.20	1,396.00	1,426.40	1,450.40	1,481.60 Bi-weekly
	27,144.00	27,560.00	28,163.20	28,766.40	29,244.80	29,868.80	30,388.80	31,033.60	31,636.80	32,344.00	32,947.20	33,571.20	34,257.60	34,944.00	35,547.20	36,296.00	37,086.40	37,710.40	38,521.60 Annual
023	13.54	13.83	14.06	14.36	14.61	14.92	15.21	15.55	15.84	16.14	16.47	16.80	17.09	17.45	17.83	18.13	18.52	18.90	19.25
	541.60	553.20	562.40	574.40	584.40	596.80	608.40	622.00	633.60	645.60	658.80	672.00	683.60	698.00	713.20	725.20	740.80	756.00	770.00
	1,083.20	1,106.40	1,124.80	1,148.80	1,168.80	1,193.60	1,216.80	1,244.00	1,267.20	1,291.20	1,317.60	1,344.00	1,367.20	1,396.00	1,426.40	1,450.40	1,481.60	1,512.00	1,540.00
	28,163.20	28,766.40	29,244.80	29,868.80	30,388.80	31,033.60	31,636.80	32,344.00	32,947.20	33,571.20	34,257.60	34,944.00	35,547.20	36,296.00	37,086.40	37,710.40	38,521.60	39,312.00	40,040.00
024	14.06	14.36	14.61	14.92	15.21	15.55	15.84	16.14	16.47	16.80	17.09	17.45	17.83	18.13	18.52	18.90	19.25	19.64	20.03
	562.40	574.40	584.40	596.80	608.40	622.00	633.60	645.60	658.80	672.00	683.60	698.00	713.20	725.20	740.80	756.00	770.00	785.60	801.20
	1,124.80	1,148.80	1,168.80	1,193.60	1,216.80	1,244.00	1,267.20	1,291.20	1,317.60	1,344.00	1,367.20	1,396.00	1,426.40	1,450.40	1,481.60	1,512.00	1,540.00	1,571.20	1,602.40
	29,244.80	29,868.80	30,388.80	31,033.60	31,636.80	32,344.00	32,947.20	33,571.20	34,257.60	34,944.00	35,547.20	36,296.00	37,086.40	37,710.40	38,521.60	39,312.00	40,040.00	40,851.20	41,662.40
025	14.61	14.92	15.21	15.55	15.84	16.14	16.47	16.80	17.09	17.45	17.83	18.13	18.52	18.90	19.25	19.64	20.03	20.44	20.83
	584.40	596.80	608.40	622.00	633.60	645.60	658.80	672.00	683.60	698.00	713.20	725.20	740.80	756.00	770.00	785.60	801.20	817.60	833.20
	1,168.80	1,193.60	1,216.80	1,244.00	1,267.20	1,291.20	1,317.60	1,344.00	1,367.20	1,396.00	1,426.40	1,450.40	1,481.60	1,512.00	1,540.00	1,571.20	1,602.40	1,635.20	1,666.40
	30,388.80	31,033.60	31,636.80	32,344.00	32,947.20	33,571.20	34,257.60	34,944.00	35,547.20	36,296.00	37,086.40	37,710.40	38,521.60	39,312.00	40,040.00	40,851.20	41,662.40	42,515.20	43,326.40
026	15.21	15.55	15.84	16.14	16.47	16.80	17.09	17.45	17.83	18.13	18.52	18.90	19.25	19.64	20.03	20.44	20.83	21.25	21.64
	608.40	622.00	633.60	645.60	658.80	672.00	683.60	698.00	713.20	725.20	740.80	756.00	770.00	785.60	801.20	817.60	833.20	850.00	865.60
	1,216.80	1,244.00	1,267.20	1,291.20	1,317.60	1,344.00	1,367.20	1,396.00	1,426.40	1,450.40	1,481.60	1,512.00	1,540.00	1,571.20	1,602.40	1,635.20	1,666.40	1,700.00	1,731.20
	31,636.80	32,344.00	32,947.20	33,571.20	34,257.60	34,944.00	35,547.20	36,296.00	37,086.40	37,710.40	38,521.60	39,312.00	40,040.00	40,851.20	41,662.40	42,515.20	43,326.40	44,200.00	45,011.20
027	15.84	16.14	16.47	16.80	17.09	17.45	17.83	18.13	18.52	18.90	19.25	19.64	20.03	20.44	20.83	21.25	21.64	22.10	22.54
	633.60	645.60	658.80	672.00	683.60	698.00	713.20	725.20	740.80	756.00	770.00	785.60	801.20	817.60	833.20	850.00	865.60	884.00	901.60
	1,267.20	1,291.20	1,317.60	1,344.00	1,367.20	1,396.00	1,426.40	1,450.40	1,481.60	1,512.00	1,540.00	1,571.20	1,602.40	1,635.20	1,666.40	1,700.00	1,731.20	1,768.00	1,803.20
	32,947.20	33,571.20	34,257.60	34,944.00	35,547.20	36,296.00	37,086.40	37,710.40	38,521.60	39,312.00	40,040.00	40,851.20	41,662.40	42,515.20	43,326.40	44,200.00	45,011.20	45,968.00	46,883.20
028	16.47	16.80	17.09	17.45	17.83	18.13	18.52	18.90	19.25	19.64	20.03	20.44	20.83	21.25	21.64	22.10	22.54	22.97	23.43
	658.80	672.00	683.60	698.00	713.20	725.20	740.80	756.00	770.00	785.60	801.20	817.60	833.20	850.00	865.60	884.00	901.60	918.80	937.20
	1,317.60	1,344.00	1,367.20	1,396.00	1,426.40	1,450.40	1,481.60	1,512.00	1,540.00	1,571.20	1,602.40	1,635.20	1,666.40	1,700.00	1,731.20	1,768.00	1,803.20	1,837.60	1,874.40
	34,257.60	34,944.00	35,547.20	36,296.00	37,086.40	37,710.40	38,521.60	39,312.00	40,040.00	40,851.20	41,662.40	42,515.20	43,326.40	44,200.00	45,011.20	45,968.00	46,883.20	47,777.60	48,734.40
110
STEP PAF	1.0 1	1.5 2	2.0 3	2.5 4	3.0 5	3.5 6	4.0 7	4.5 8	5.0 9	5.5 10	6.0 11	6.5 12	7.0 13	7.5 14	8.0 15	8.5 16	9.0 17	9.5 18	10.0 19
029	17.09	17.45	17.83	18.13	18.52	18.90	19.25	19.64	20.03	20.44	20.83	21.25	21.64	22.10	22.54	22.97	23.43	23.91	24.38	Hourly
	683.60	698.00	713.20	725.20	740.80	756.00	770.00	785.60	801.20	817.60	833.20	850.00	865.60	884.00	901.60	918.80	937.20	956.40	975.20 Weekly
	1,367.20	1,396.00	1,426.40	1,450.40	1,481.60	1,512.00	1,540.00	1,571.20	1,602.40	1,635.20	1,666.40	1,700.00	1,731.20	1,768.00	1,803.20	1,837.60	1,874.40	1,912.80	1,950.40 Bi-weekly
	35,547.20	36,296.00	37,086.40	37,710.40	38,521.60	39,312.00	40,040.00	40,851.20	41,662.40	42,515.20	43,326.40	44,200.00	45,011.20	45,968.00	46,883.20	47,777.60	48,734.40	49,732.80	50,710.40	Annual
030	17.83	18.13	18.52	18.90	19.25	19.64	20.03	20.44	20.83	21.25	21.64	22.10	22.54	22.97	23.43	23.91	24.38	24.83	25.31
	713.20	725.20	740.80	756.00	770.00	785.60	801.20	817.60	833.20	850.00	865.60	884.00	901.60	918.80	937.20	956.40	975.20	993.20	1,012.40
	1,426.40	1,450.40	1,481.60	1,512.00	1,540.00	1,571.20	1,602.40	1,635.20	1,666.40	1,700.00	1,731.20	1,768.00	1,803.20	1,837.60	1,874.40	1,912.80	1,950.40	1,986.40	2,024.80
	37,086.40	37,710.40	38,521.60	39,312.00	40,040.00	40,851.20	41,662.40	42,515.20	43,326.40	44,200.00	45,011.20	45,968.00	46,883.20	47,777.60	48,734.40	49,732.80	50,710.40	51,646.40	52,644.80
031	18.52	18.90	19.25	19.64	20.03	20.44	20.83	21.25	21.64	22.10	22.54	22.97	23.43	23.91	24.38	24.83	25.31	25.86	26.36
	740.80	756.00	770.00	785.60	801.20	817.60	833.20	850.00	865.60	884.00	901.60	918.80	937.20	956.40	975.20	993.20	1,012.40	1,034.40	1,054.40
	1,481.60	1,512.00	1,540.00	1,571.20	1,602.40	1,635.20	1,666.40	1,700.00	1,731.20	1,768.00	1,803.20	1,837.60	1,874.40	1,912.80	1,950.40	1,986.40	2,024.80	2,068.80	2,108.80
	38,521.60	39,312.00	40,040.00	40,851.20	41,662.40	42,515.20	43,326.40	44,200.00	45,011.20	45,968.00	46,883.20	47,777.60	48,734.40	49,732.80	50,710.40	51,646.40	52,644.80	53,788.80	54,828.80
032	19.25	19.64	20.03	20.44	20.83	21.25	21.64	22.10	22.54	22.97	23.43	23.91	24.38	24.83	25.31	25.86	26.36	26.89	27.43
	770.00	785.60	801.20	817.60	833.20	850.00	865.60	884.00	901.60	918.80	937.20	956.40	975.20	993.20	1,012.40	1,034.40	1,054.40	1,075.60	1,097.20
	1,540.00	1,571.20	1,602.40	1,635.20	1,666.40	1,700.00	1,731.20	1,768.00	1,803.20	1,837.60	1,874.40	1,912.80	1,950.40	1,986.40	2,024.80	2,068.80	2,108.80	2,151.20	2,194.40
	40,040.00	40,851.20	41,662.40	42,515.20	43,326.40	44,200.00	45,011.20	45,968.00	46,883.20	47,777.60	48,734.40	49,732.80	50,710.40	51,646.40	52,644.80	53,788.80	54,828.80	55,931.20	57,054.40
033	20.03	20.44	20.83	21.25	21.64	22.10	22.54	22.97	23.43	23.91	24.38	24.83	25.31	25.86	26.36	26.89	27.43	27.96	28.50
	801.20	817.60	833.20	850.00	865.60	884.00	901.60	918.80	937.20	956.40	975.20	993.20	1,012.40	1,034.40	1,054.40	1,075.60	1,097.20	1,118.40	1,140.00
	1,602.40	1,635.20	1,666.40	1,700.00	1,731.20	1,768.00	1,803.20	1,837.60	1,874.40	1,912.80	1,950.40	1,986.40	2,024.80	2,068.80	2,108.80	2,151.20	2,194.40	2,236.80	2,280.00
	41,662.40	42,515.20	43,326.40	44,200.00	45,011.20	45,968.00	46,883.20	47,777.60	48,734.40	49,732.80	50,710.40	51,646.40	52,644.80	53,788.80	54,828.80	55,931.20	57,054.40	58,156.80	59,280.00
034	20.83	21.25	21.64	22.10	22.54	22.97	23.43	23.91	24.38	24.83	25.31	25.86	26.36	26.89	27.43	27.96	28.50	29.07	29.65
	833.20	850.00	865.60	884.00	901.60	918.80	937.20	956.40	975.20	993.20	1,012.40	1,034.40	1,054.40	1,075.60	1,097.20	1,118.40	1,140.00	1,162.80	1,186.00
	1,666.40	1,700.00	1,731.20	1,768.00	1,803.20	1,837.60	1,874.40	1,912.80	1,950.40	1,986.40	2,024.80	2,068.80	2,108.80	2,151.20	2,194.40	2,236.80	2,280.00	2,325.60	2,372.00
	43,326.40	44,200.00	45,011.20	45,968.00	46,883.20	47,777.60	48,734.40	49,732.80	50,710.40	51,646.40	52,644.80	53,788.80	54,828.80	55,931.20	57,054.40	58,156.80	59,280.00	60,465.60	61,672.00
035	21.64	22.10	22.54	22.97	23.43	23.91	24.38	24.83	25.31	25.86	26.36	26.89	27.43	27.96	28.50	29.07	29.65	30.24	30.84
	865.60	884.00	901.60	918.80	937.20	956.40	975.20	993.20	1,012.40	1,034.40	1,054.40	1,075.60	1,097.20	1,118.40	1,140.00	1,162.80	1,186.00	1,209.60	1,233.60
	1,731.20	1,768.00	1,803.20	1,837.60	1,874.40	1,912.80	1,950.40	1,986.40	2,024.80	2,068.80	2,108.80	2,151.20	2,194.40	2,236.80	2,280.00	2,325.60	2,372.00	2,419.20	2,467.20
	45,011.20	45,968.00	46,883.20	47,777.60	48,734.40	49,732.80	50,710.40	51,646.40	52,644.80	53,788.80	54,828.80	55,931.20	57,054.40	58,156.80	59,280.00	60,465.60	61,672.00	62,899.20	64,147.20
Ill
STEP PAF	1.0 1	1.5 2	2.0 3	2.5 4	3.0 5	3.5 6	4.0 7	4.5 8	5.0 9	5.5 10	6.0 11	6.5 12	7.0 13	7.5 14	8.0 15	8.5 16	9.0 17	9.5 18	10.0 19
036	22.54	22.97	23.43	23.91	24.38	24.83	25.31	25.86	26.36	26.89	27.43	27.96	28.50	29.07	29.65	30.24	30.84	31.46	32.10	Hourly
	901.60	918.80	937.20	956.40	975.20	993.20	1,012.40	1,034.40	1,054.40	1,075.60	1,097.20	1,118.40	1,140.00	1,162.80	1,186.00	1,209.60	1,233.60	1,258.40	1,284.00 Weekly
	1,803.20	1,837.60	1,874.40	1,912.80	1,950.40	1,986.40	2,024.80	2,068.80	2,108.80	2,151.20	2,194.40	2,236.80	2,280.00	2,325.60	2,372.00	2,419.20	2,467.20	2,516.80	2,568.00 Bi-weekly
	46,883.20	47,777.60	48,734.40	49,732.80	50,710.40	51,646.40	52,644.80	53,788.80	54,828.80	55,931.20	57,054.40	58,156.80	59,280.00	60,465.60	61,672.00	62,899.20	64,147.20	65,436.80	66,768.00 Annual
037	23.43	23.91	24.38	24.83	25.31	25.86	26.36	26.89	27.43	27.96	28.50	29.07	29.65	30.24	30.84	31.46	32.10	32.74	33.39
	937.20	956.40	975.20	993.20	1,012.40	1,034.40	1,054.40	1,075.60	1,097.20	1,118.40	1,140.00	1,162.80	1,186.00	1,209.60	1,233.60	1,258.40	1,284.00	1,309.60	1,335.60
	1,874.40	1,912.80	1,950.40	1,986.40	2,024.80	2,068.80	2,108.80	2,151.20	2,194.40	2,236.80	2,280.00	2,325.60	2,372.00	2,419.20	2,467.20	2,516.80	2,568.00	2,619.20	2,671.20
	48,734.40	49,732.80	50,710.40	51,646.40	52,644.80	53,788.80	54,828.80	55,931.20	57,054.40	58,156.80	59,280.00	60,465.60	61,672.00	62,899.20	64,147.20	65,436.80	66,768.00	68,099.20	69,451.20
038	24.38	24.83	25.31	25.86	26.36	26.89	27.43	27.96	28.50	29.07	29.65	30.24	30.84	31.46	32.10	32.74	33.39	34.06	34.74
	975.20	993.20	1,012.40	1,034.40	1,054.40	1,075.60	1,097.20	1,118.40	1,140.00	1,162.80	1,186.00	1,209.60	1,233.60	1,258.40	1,284.00	1,309.60	1,335.60	1,362.40	1,389.60
	1,950.40	1,986.40	2,024.80	2,068.80	2,108.80	2,151.20	2,194.40	2,236.80	2,280.00	2,325.60	2,372.00	2,419.20	2,467.20	2,516.80	2,568.00	2,619.20	2,671.20	2,724.80	2,779.20
	50,710.40	51,646.40	52,644.80	53,788.80	54,828.80	55,931.20	57,054.40	58,156.80	59,280.00	60,465.60	61,672.00	62,899.20	64,147.20	65,436.80	66,768.00	68,099.20	69,451.20	70,844.80	72,259.20
112
Effective October 3, 2004
STEP PAF	1.0 1	1.5 2	2.0 3	2.5 4	3.0 5	3.5 6	4.0 7	4.5 8	5.0 9	5.5 10	6.0 11	6.5 12	7.0 13	7.5 14	8.0 15	8.5 16	9.0 17	9.5 18	10.0 19
009	8.05	8.22	8.39	8.55	8.72	8.90	9.07	9.24	9.42	9.62	9.79	10.00	10.17	10.37	10.61	10.78	11.01	11.23	11.46	Hourly
	322.00	328.80	335.60	342.00	348.80	356.00	362.80	369.60	376.80	384.80	391.60	400.00	406.80	414.80	424.40	431.20	440.40	449.20	458.40 Weekly
	644.00	657.60	671.20	684.00	697.60	712.00	725.60	739.20	753.60	769.60	783.20	800.00	813.60	829.60	848.80	862.40	880.80	898.40	916.80 Bi-weekly
	16,744.00	17,097.60	17,451.20	17,784.00	18,137.60	18,512.00	18,865.60	19,219.20	19,593.60	20,009.60	20,363.20	20,800.00	21,153.60	21,569.60	22,068.80	22,422.40	22,900.80	23,358.40	23,836.80 Annual
010	8.39	8.55	8.72	8.90	9.07	9.24	9.42	9.62	9.79	10.00	10.17	10.37	10.61	10.78	11.01	11.23	11.46	11.68	11.93
	335.60	342.00	348.80	356.00	362.80	369.60	376.80	384.80	391.60	400.00	406.80	414.80	424.40	431.20	440.40	449.20	458.40	467.20	477.20
	671.20	684.00	697.60	712.00	725.60	739.20	753.60	769.60	783.20	800.00	813.60	829.60	848.80	862.40	880.80	898.40	916.80	934.40	954.40
	17,451.20	17,784.00	18,137.60	18,512.00	18,865.60	19,219.20	19,593.60	20,009.60	20,363.20	20,800.00	21,153.60	21,569.60	22,068.80	22,422.40	22,900.80	23,358.40	23,836.80	24,294.40	24,814.40
011	8.72	8.90	9.07	9.24	9.42	9.62	9.79	10.00	10.17	10.37	10.61	10.78	11.01	11.23	11.46	11.68	11.93	12.13	12.42
	348.80	356.00	362.80	369.60	376.80	384.80	391.60	400.00	406.80	414.80	424.40	431.20	440.40	449.20	458.40	467.20	477.20	485.20	496.80
	697.60	712.00	725.60	739.20	753.60	769.60	783.20	800.00	813.60	829.60	848.80	862.40	880.80	898.40	916.80	934.40	954.40	970.40	993.60
	18,137.60	18,512.00	18,865.60	19,219.20	19,593.60	20,009.60	20,363.20	20,800.00	21,153.60	21,569.60	22,068.80	22,422.40	22,900.80	23,358.40	23,836.80	24,294.40	24,814.40	25,230.40	25,833.60
012	9.07	9.24	9.42	9.62	9.79	10.00	10.17	10.37	10.61	10.78	11.01	11.23	11.46	11.68	11.93	12.13	12.42	12.67	12.85
	362.80	369.60	376.80	384.80	391.60	400.00	406.80	414.80	424.40	431.20	440.40	449.20	458.40	467.20	477.20	485.20	496.80	506.80	514.00
	725.60	739.20	753.60	769.60	783.20	800.00	813.60	829.60	848.80	862.40	880.80	898.40	916.80	934.40	954.40	970.40	993.60	1,013.60	1,028.00
	18,865.60	19,219.20	19,593.60	20,009.60	20,363.20	20,800.00	21,153.60	21,569.60	22,068.80	22,422.40	22,900.80	23,358.40	23,836.80	24,294.40	24,814.40	25,230.40	25,833.60	26,353.60	26,728.00
013	9.42	9.62	9.79	10.00	10.17	10.37	10.61	10.78	11.01	11.23	11.46	11.68	11.93	12.13	12.42	12.67	12.85	13.13	13.44
	376.80	384.80	391.60	400.00	406.80	414.80	424.40	431.20	440.40	449.20	458.40	467.20	477.20	485.20	496.80	506.80	514.00	525.20	537.60
	753.60	769.60	783.20	800.00	813.60	829.60	848.80	862.40	880.80	898.40	916.80	934.40	954.40	970.40	993.60	1,013.60	1,028.00	1,050.40	1,075.20
	19,593.60	20,009.60	20,363.20	20,800.00	21,153.60	21,569.60	22,068.80	22,422.40	22,900.80	23,358.40	23,836.80	24,294.40	24,814.40	25,230.40	25,833.60	26,353.60	26,728.00	27,310.40	27,955.20
014	9.79	10.00	10.17	10.37	10.61	10.78	11.01	11.23	11.46	11.68	11.93	12.13	12.42	12.67	12.85	13.13	13.44	13.65	13.95
	391.60	400.00	406.80	414.80	424.40	431.20	440.40	449.20	458.40	467.20	477.20	485.20	496.80	506.80	514.00	525.20	537.60	546.00	558.00
	783.20	800.00	813.60	829.60	848.80	862.40	880.80	898.40	916.80	934.40	954.40	970.40	993.60	1,013.60	1,028.00	1,050.40	1,075.20	1,092.00	1,116.00
	20,363.20	20,800.00	21,153.60	21,569.60	22,068.80	22,422.40	22,900.80	23,358.40	23,836.80	24,294.40	24,814.40	25,230.40	25,833.60	26,353.60	26,728.00	27,310.40	27,955.20	28,392.00	29,016.00
113
STEP PAF	1.0 1	1.5 2	2.0 3	2.5 4	3.0 5	3.5 6	4.0 7	4.5 8	5.0 9	5.5 10	6.0 11	6.5 12	7.0 13	7.5 14	8.0 15	8.5 16	9.0 17	9.5 18	10.0 19
015	10.17	10.37	10.61	10.78	11.01	11.23	11.46	11.68	11.93	12.13	12.42	12.67	12.85	13.13	13.44	13.65	13.95	14.24	14.48	Hourly
	406.80	414.80	424.40	431.20	440.40	449.20	458.40	467.20	477.20	485.20	496.80	506.80	514.00	525.20	537.60	546.00	558.00	569.60	579.20 Weekly
	813.60	829.60	848.80	862.40	880.80	898.40	916.80	934.40	954.40	970.40	993.60	1,013.60	1,028.00	1,050.40	1,075.20	1,092.00	1,116.00	1,139.20	1,158.40 Bi-weekly
	21,153.60	21,569.60	22,068.80	22,422.40	22,900.80	23,358.40	23,836.80	24,294.40	24,814.40	25,230.40	25,833.60	26,353.60	26,728.00	27,310.40	27,955.20	28,392.00	29,016.00	29,619.20	30,118.40 Annual
016	10.61	10.78	11.01	11.23	11.46	11.68	11.93	12.13	12.42	12.67	12.85	13.13	13.44	13.65	13.95	14.24	14.48	14.79	15.05
	424.40	431.20	440.40	449.20	458.40	467.20	477.20	485.20	496.80	506.80	514.00	525.20	537.60	546.00	558.00	569.60	579.20	591.60	602.00
	848.80	862.40	880.80	898.40	916.80	934.40	954.40	970.40	993.60	1,013.60	1,028.00	1,050.40	1,075.20	1,092.00	1,116.00	1,139.20	1,158.40	1,183.20	1,204.00
	22,068.80	22,422.40	22,900.80	23,358.40	23,836.80	24,294.40	24,814.40	25,230.40	25,833.60	26,353.60	26,728.00	27,310.40	27,955.20	28,392.00	29,016.00	29,619.20	30,118.40	30,763.20	31,304.00
017	11.01	11.23	11.46	11.68	11.93	12.13	12.42	12.67	12.85	13.13	13.44	13.65	13.95	14.24	14.48	14.79	15.05	15.37	15.67
	440.40	449.20	458.40	467.20	477.20	485.20	496.80	506.80	514.00	525.20	537.60	546.00	558.00	569.60	579.20	591.60	602.00	614.80	626.80
	880.80	898.40	916.80	934.40	954.40	970.40	993.60	1,013.60	1,028.00	1,050.40	1,075.20	1,092.00	1,116.00	1,139.20	1,158.40	1,183.20	1,204.00	1,229.60	1,253.60
	22,900.80	23,358.40	23,836.80	24,294.40	24,814.40	25,230.40	25,833.60	26,353.60	26,728.00	27,310.40	27,955.20	28,392.00	29,016.00	29,619.20	30,118.40	30,763.20	31,304.00	31,969.60	32,593.60
018	11.46	11.68	11.93	12.13	12.42	12.67	12.85	13.13	13.44	13.65	13.95	14.24	14.48	14.79	15.05	15.37	15.67	16.02	16.32
	458.40	467.20	477.20	485.20	496.80	506.80	514.00	525.20	537.60	546.00	558.00	569.60	579.20	591.60	602.00	614.80	626.80	640.80	652.80
	916.80	934.40	954.40	970.40	993.60	1,013.60	1,028.00	1,050.40	1,075.20	1,092.00	1,116.00	1,139.20	1,158.40	1,183.20	1,204.00	1,229.60	1,253.60	1,281.60	1,305.60
	23,836.80	24,294.40	24,814.40	25,230.40	25,833.60	26,353.60	26,728.00	27,310.40	27,955.20	28,392.00	29,016.00	29,619.20	30,118.40	30,763.20	31,304.00	31,969.60	32,593.60	33,321.60	33,945.60
019	11.93	12.13	12.42	12.67	12.85	13.13	13.44	13.65	13.95	14.24	14.48	14.79	15.05	15.37	15.67	16.02	16.32	16.62	16.96
	477.20	485.20	496.80	506.80	514.00	525.20	537.60	546.00	558.00	569.60	579.20	591.60	602.00	614.80	626.80	640.80	652.80	664.80	678.40
	954.40	970.40	993.60	1,013.60	1,028.00	1,050.40	1,075.20	1,092.00	1,116.00	1,139.20	1,158.40	1,183.20	1,204.00	1,229.60	1,253.60	1,281.60	1,305.60	1,329.60	1,356.80
	24,814.40	25,230.40	25,833.60	26,353.60	26,728.00	27,310.40	27,955.20	28,392.00	29,016.00	29,619.20	30,118.40	30,763.20	31,304.00	31,969.60	32,593.60	33,321.60	33,945.60	34,569.60	35,276.80
020	12.42	12.67	12.85	13.13	13.44	13.65	13.95	14.24	14.48	14.79	15.05	15.37	15.67	16.02	16.32	16.62	16.96	17.30	17.60
	496.80	506.80	514.00	525.20	537.60	546.00	558.00	569.60	579.20	591.60	602.00	614.80	626.80	640.80	652.80	664.80	678.40	692.00	704.00
	993.60	1,013.60	1,028.00	1,050.40	1,075.20	1,092.00	1,116.00	1,139.20	1,158.40	1,183.20	1,204.00	1,229.60	1,253.60	1,281.60	1,305.60	1,329.60	1,356.80	1,384.00	1,408.00
	25,833.60	26,353.60	26,728.00	27,310.40	27,955.20	28,392.00	29,016.00	29,619.20	30,118.40	30,763.20	31,304.00	31,969.60	32,593.60	33,321.60	33,945.60	34,569.60	35,276.80	35,984.00	36,608.00
021	12.85	13.13	13.44	13.65	13.95	14.24	14.48	14.79	15.05	15.37	15.67	16.02	16.32	16.62	16.96	17.30	17.60	17.97	18.36
	514.00	525.20	537.60	546.00	558.00	569.60	579.20	591.60	602.00	614.80	626.80	640.80	652.80	664.80	678.40	692.00	704.00	718.80	734.40
	1,028.00	1,050.40	1,075.20	1,092.00	1,116.00	1,139.20	1,158.40	1,183.20	1,204.00	1,229.60	1,253.60	1,281.60	1,305.60	1,329.60	1,356.80	1,384.00	1,408.00	1,437.60	1,468.80
	26,728.00	27,310.40	27,955.20	28,392.00	29,016.00	29,619.20	30,118.40	30,763.20	31,304.00	31,969.60	32,593.60	33,321.60	33,945.60	34,569.60	35,276.80	35,984.00	36,608.00	37,377.60	38,188.80
114
STEP PAF	1.0 1	1.5 2	2.0 3	2.5 4	3.0 5	3.5 6	4.0 7	4.5 8	5.0 9	5.5 10	6.0 11	6.5 12	7.0 13	7.5 14	8.0 15	8.5 16	9.0 17	9.5 18	10.0 19
022	13.44	13.65	13.95	14.24	14.48	14.79	15.05	15.37	15.67	16.02	16.32	16.62	16.96	17.30	17.60	17.97	18.36	18.67	19.08	Hourly
	537.60	546.00	558.00	569.60	579.20	591.60	602.00	614.80	626.80	640.80	652.80	664.80	678.40	692.00	704.00	718.80	734.40	746.80	763.20 Weekly
	1,075.20	1,092.00	1,116.00	1,139.20	1,158.40	1,183.20	1,204.00	1,229.60	1,253.60	1,281.60	1,305.60	1,329.60	1,356.80	1,384.00	1,408.00	1,437.60	1,468.80	1,493.60	1,526.40 Bi-weekly
	27,955.20	28,392.00	29,016.00	29,619.20	30,118.40	30,763.20	31,304.00	31,969.60	32,593.60	33,321.60	33,945.60	34,569.60	35,276.80	35,984.00	36,608.00	37,377.60	38,188.80	38,833.60	39,686.40 Annual
023	13.95	14.24	14.48	14.79	15.05	15.37	15.67	16.02	16.32	16.62	16.96	17.30	17.60	17.97	18.36	18.67	19.08	19.47	19.83
	558.00	569.60	579.20	591.60	602.00	614.80	626.80	640.80	652.80	664.80	678.40	692.00	704.00	718.80	734.40	746.80	763.20	778.80	793.20
	1,116.00	1,139.20	1,158.40	1,183.20	1,204.00	1,229.60	1,253.60	1,281.60	1,305.60	1,329.60	1,356.80	1,384.00	1,408.00	1,437.60	1,468.80	1,493.60	1,526.40	1,557.60	1,586.40
	29,016.00	29,619.20	30,118.40	30,763.20	31,304.00	31,969.60	32,593.60	33,321.60	33,945.60	34,569.60	35,276.80	35,984.00	36,608.00	37,377.60	38,188.80	38,833.60	39,686.40	40,497.60	41,246.40
024	14.48	14.79	15.05	15.37	15.67	16.02	16.32	16.62	16.96	17.30	17.60	17.97	18.36	18.67	19.08	19.47	19.83	20.23	20.63
	579.20	591.60	602.00	614.80	626.80	640.80	652.80	664.80	678.40	692.00	704.00	718.80	734.40	746.80	763.20	778.80	793.20	809.20	825.20
	1,158.40	1,183.20	1,204.00	1,229.60	1,253.60	1,281.60	1,305.60	1,329.60	1,356.80	1,384.00	1,408.00	1,437.60	1,468.80	1,493.60	1,526.40	1,557.60	1,586.40	1,618.40	1,650.40
	30,118.40	30,763.20	31,304.00	31,969.60	32,593.60	33,321.60	33,945.60	34,569.60	35,276.80	35,984.00	36,608.00	37,377.60	38,188.80	38,833.60	39,686.40	40,497.60	41,246.40	42,078.40	42,910.40
025	15.05	15.37	15.67	16.02	16.32	16.62	16.96	17.30	17.60	17.97	18.36	18.67	19.08	19.47	19.83	20.23	20.63	21.05	21.45
	602.00	614.80	626.80	640.80	652.80	664.80	678.40	692.00	704.00	718.80	734.40	746.80	763.20	778.80	793.20	809.20	825.20	842.00	858.00
	1,204.00	1,229.60	1,253.60	1,281.60	1,305.60	1,329.60	1,356.80	1,384.00	1,408.00	1,437.60	1,468.80	1,493.60	1,526.40	1,557.60	1,586.40	1,618.40	1,650.40	1,684.00	1,716.00
	31,304.00	31,969.60	32,593.60	33,321.60	33,945.60	34,569.60	35,276.80	35,984.00	36,608.00	37,377.60	38,188.80	38,833.60	39,686.40	40,497.60	41,246.40	42,078.40	42,910.40	43,784.00	44,616.00
026	15.67	16.02	16.32	16.62	16.96	17.30	17.60	17.97	18.36	18.67	19.08	19.47	19.83	20.23	20.63	21.05	21.45	21.89	22.29
	626.80	640.80	652.80	664.80	678.40	692.00	704.00	718.80	734.40	746.80	763.20	778.80	793.20	809.20	825.20	842.00	858.00	875.60	891.60
	1,253.60	1,281.60	1,305.60	1,329.60	1,356.80	1,384.00	1,408.00	1,437.60	1,468.80	1,493.60	1,526.40	1,557.60	1,586.40	1,618.40	1,650.40	1,684.00	1,716.00	1,751.20	1,783.20
	32,593.60	33,321.60	33,945.60	34,569.60	35,276.80	35,984.00	36,608.00	37,377.60	38,188.80	38,833.60	39,686.40	40,497.60	41,246.40	42,078.40	42,910.40	43,784.00	44,616.00	45,531.20	46,363.20
027	16.32	16.62	16.96	17.30	17.60	17.97	18.36	18.67	19.08	19.47	19.83	20.23	20.63	21.05	21.45	21.89	22.29	22.76	23.22
	652.80	664.80	678.40	692.00	704.00	718.80	734.40	746.80	763.20	778.80	793.20	809.20	825.20	842.00	858.00	875.60	891.60	910.40	928.80
	1,305.60	1,329.60	1,356.80	1,384.00	1,408.00	1,437.60	1,468.80	1,493.60	1,526.40	1,557.60	1,586.40	1,618.40	1,650.40	1,684.00	1,716.00	1,751.20	1,783.20	1,820.80	1,857.60
	33,945.60	34,569.60	35,276.80	35,984.00	36,608.00	37,377.60	38,188.80	38,833.60	39,686.40	40,497.60	41,246.40	42,078.40	42,910.40	43,784.00	44,616.00	45,531.20	46,363.20	47,340.80	48,297.60
028	16.96	17.30	17.60	17.97	18.36	18.67	19.08	19.47	19.83	20.23	20.63	21.05	21.45	21.89	22.29	22.76	23.22	23.66	24.13
	678.40	692.00	704.00	718.80	734.40	746.80	763.20	778.80	793.20	809.20	825.20	842.00	858.00	875.60	891.60	910.40	928.80	946.40	965.20
	1,356.80	1,384.00	1,408.00	1,437.60	1,468.80	1,493.60	1,526.40	1,557.60	1,586.40	1,618.40	1,650.40	1,684.00	1,716.00	1,751.20	1,783.20	1,820.80	1,857.60	1,892.80	1,930.40
	35,276.80	35,984.00	36,608.00	37,377.60	38,188.80	38,833.60	39,686.40	40,497.60	41,246.40	42,078.40	42,910.40	43,784.00	44,616.00	45,531.20	46,363.20	47,340.80	48,297.60	49,212.80	50,190.40
115
STEP PAF	1.0 1	1.5 2	2.0 3	2.5 4	3.0 5	3.5 6	4.0 7	4.5 8	5.0 9	5.5 10	6.0 11	6.5 12	7.0 13	7.5 14	8.0 15	8.5 16	9.0 17	9.5 18	10.0 19
029	17.60	17.97	18.36	18.67	19.08	19.47	19.83	20.23	20.63	21.05	21.45	21.89	22.29	22.76	23.22	23.66	24.13	24.63	25.11	Hourly
	704.00	718.80	734.40	746.80	763.20	778.80	793.20	809.20	825.20	842.00	858.00	875.60	891.60	910.40	928.80	946.40	965.20	985.20	1,004.40 Weekly
	1,408.00	1,437.60	1,468.80	1,493.60	1,526.40	1,557.60	1,586.40	1,618.40	1,650.40	1,684.00	1,716.00	1,751.20	1,783.20	1,820.80	1,857.60	1,892.80	1,930.40	1,970.40	2,008.80 Bi-weekly
	36,608.00	37,377.60	38,188.80	38,833.60	39,686.40	40,497.60	41,246.40	42,078.40	42,910.40	43,784.00	44,616.00	45,531.20	46,363.20	47,340.80	48,297.60	49,212.80	50,190.40	51,230.40	52,228.80 Annual
030	18.36	18.67	19.08	19.47	19.83	20.23	20.63	21.05	21.45	21.89	22.29	22.76	23.22	23.66	24.13	24.63	25.11	25.57	26.07
	734.40	746.80	763.20	778.80	793.20	809.20	825.20	842.00	858.00	875.60	891.60	910.40	928.80	946.40	965.20	985.20	1,004.40	1,022.80	1,042.80
	1,468.80	1,493.60	1,526.40	1,557.60	1,586.40	1,618.40	1,650.40	1,684.00	1,716.00	1,751.20	1,783.20	1,820.80	1,857.60	1,892.80	1,930.40	1,970.40	2,008.80	2,045.60	2,085.60
	38,188.80	38,833.60	39,686.40	40,497.60	41,246.40	42,078.40	42,910.40	43,784.00	44,616.00	45,531.20	46,363.20	47,340.80	48,297.60	49,212.80	50,190.40	51,230.40	52,228.80	53,185.60	54,225.60
031	19.08	19.47	19.83	20.23	20.63	21.05	21.45	21.89	22.29	22.76	23.22	23.66	24.13	24.63	25.11	25.57	26.07	26.64	27.15
	763.20	778.80	793.20	809.20	825.20	842.00	858.00	875.60	891.60	910.40	928.80	946.40	965.20	985.20	1,004.40	1,022.80	1,042.80	1,065.60	1,086.00
	1,526.40	1,557.60	1,586.40	1,618.40	1,650.40	1,684.00	1,716.00	1,751.20	1,783.20	1,820.80	1,857.60	1,892.80	1,930.40	1,970.40	2,008.80	2,045.60	2,085.60	2,131.20	2,172.00
	39,686.40	40,497.60	41,246.40	42,078.40	42,910.40	43,784.00	44,616.00	45,531.20	46,363.20	47,340.80	48,297.60	49,212.80	50,190.40	51,230.40	52,228.80	53,185.60	54,225.60	55,411.20	56,472.00
032	19.83	20.23	20.63	21.05	21.45	21.89	22.29	22.76	23.22	23.66	24.13	24.63	25.11	25.57	26.07	26.64	27.15	27.70	28.25
	793.20	809.20	825.20	842.00	858.00	875.60	891.60	910.40	928.80	946.40	965.20	985.20	1,004.40	1,022.80	1,042.80	1,065.60	1,086.00	1,108.00	1,130.00
	1,586.40	1,618.40	1,650.40	1,684.00	1,716.00	1,751.20	1,783.20	1,820.80	1,857.60	1,892.80	1,930.40	1,970.40	2,008.80	2,045.60	2,085.60	2,131.20	2,172.00	2,216.00	2,260.00
	41,246.40	42,078.40	42,910.40	43,784.00	44,616.00	45,531.20	46,363.20	47,340.80	48,297.60	49,212.80	50,190.40	51,230.40	52,228.80	53,185.60	54,225.60	55,411.20	56,472.00	57,616.00	58,760.00
033	20.63	21.05	21.45	21.89	22.29	22.76	23.22	23.66	24.13	24.63	25.11	25.57	26.07	26.64	27.15	27.70	28.25	28.80	29.36
	825.20	842.00	858.00	875.60	891.60	910.40	928.80	946.40	965.20	985.20	1,004.40	1,022.80	1,042.80	1,065.60	1,086.00	1,108.00	1,130.00	1,152.00	1,174.40
	1,650.40	1,684.00	1,716.00	1,751.20	1,783.20	1,820.80	1,857.60	1,892.80	1,930.40	1,970.40	2,008.80	2,045.60	2,085.60	2,131.20	2,172.00	2,216.00	2,260.00	2,304.00	2,348.80
	42,910.40	43,784.00	44,616.00	45,531.20	46,363.20	47,340.80	48,297.60	49,212.80	50,190.40	51,230.40	52,228.80	53,185.60	54,225.60	55,411.20	56,472.00	57,616.00	58,760.00	59,904.00	61,068.80
034	21.45	21.89	22.29	22.76	23.22	23.66	24.13	24.63	25.11	25.57	26.07	26.64	27.15	27.70	28.25	28.80	29.36	29.94	30.54
	858.00	875.60	891.60	910.40	928.80	946.40	965.20	985.20	1,004.40	1,022.80	1,042.80	1,065.60	1,086.00	1,108.00	1,130.00	1,152.00	1,174.40	1,197.60	1,221.60
	1,716.00	1,751.20	1,783.20	1,820.80	1,857.60	1,892.80	1,930.40	1,970.40	2,008.80	2,045.60	2,085.60	2,131.20	2,172.00	2,216.00	2,260.00	2,304.00	2,348.80	2,395.20	2,443.20
	44,616.00	45,531.20	46,363.20	47,340.80	48,297.60	49,212.80	50,190.40	51,230.40	52,228.80	53,185.60	54,225.60	55,411.20	56,472.00	57,616.00	58,760.00	59,904.00	61,068.80	62,275.20	63,523.20
035	22.29	22.76	23.22	23.66	24.13	24.63	25.11	25.57	26.07	26.64	27.15	27.70	28.25	28.80	29.36	29.94	30.54	31.15	31.77
	891.60	910.40	928.80	946.40	965.20	985.20	1,004.40	1,022.80	1,042.80	1,065.60	1,086.00	1,108.00	1,130.00	1,152.00	1,174.40	1,197.60	1,221.60	1,246.00	1,270.80
	1,783.20	1,820.80	1,857.60	1,892.80	1,930.40	1,970.40	2,008.80	2,045.60	2,085.60	2,131.20	2,172.00	2,216.00	2,260.00	2,304.00	2,348.80	2,395.20	2,443.20	2,492.00	2,541.60
	46,363.20	47,340.80	48,297.60	49,212.80	50,190.40	51,230.40	52,228.80	53,185.60	54,225.60	55,411.20	56,472.00	57,616.00	58,760.00	59,904.00	61,068.80	62,275.20	63,523.20	64,792.00	66,081.60
116
STEP	1.0	1.5	2.0	2.5	3.0	3.5	4.0	4.5	5.0	5.5	6.0	6.5	7.0	7.5	8.0	8.5	9.0	9.5	10.0	
PAF	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	
036	23.22	23.66	24.13	24.63	25.11	25.57	26.07	26.64	27.15	27.70	28.25	28.80	29.36	29.94	30.54	31.15	31.77	32.40	33.06	Hourly
	928.80	946.40	965.20	985.20	1,004.40	1,022.80	1,042.80	1,065.60	1,086.00	1,108.00	1,130.00	1,152.00	1,174.40	1,197.60	1,221.60	1,246.00	1,270.80	1,296.00	1,322.40	Weekly
	1,857.60	1,892.80	1,930.40	1,970.40	2,008.80	2,045.60	2,085.60	2,131.20	2,172.00	2,216.00	2,260.00	2,304.00	2,348.80	2,395.20	2,443.20	2,492.00	2,541.60	2,592.00	2,644.80	Bi-weekly
	48,297.60	49,212.80	50,190.40	51,230.40	52,228.80	53,185.60	54,225.60	55,411.20	56,472.00	57,616.00	58,760.00	59,904.00	61,068.80	62,275.20	63,523.20	64,792.00	66,081.60	67,392.00	68,764.80	Annual
037	24.13	24.63	25.11	25.57	26.07	26.64	27.15	27.70	28.25	28.80	29.36	29.94	30.54	31.15	31.77	32.40	33.06	33.72	34.39	
	965.20	985.20	1,004.40	1,022.80	1,042.80	1,065.60	1,086.00	1,108.00	1,130.00	1,152.00	1,174.40	1,197.60	1,221.60	1,246.00	1,270.80	1,296.00	1,322.40	1,348.80	1,375.60	
	1,930.40	1,970.40	2,008.80	2,045.60	2,085.60	2,131.20	2,172.00	2,216.00	2,260.00	2,304.00	2,348.80	2,395.20	2,443.20	2,492.00	2,541.60	2,592.00	2,644.80	2,697.60	2,751.20	
	50,190.40	51,230.40	52,228.80	53,185.60	54,225.60	55,411.20	56,472.00	57,616.00	58,760.00	59,904.00	61,068.80	62,275.20	63,523.20	64,792.00	66,081.60	67,392.00	68,764.80	70,137.60	71,531.20	
038	25.11	25.57	26.07	26.64	27.15	27.70	28.25	28.80	29.36	29.94	30.54	31.15	31.77	32.40	33.06	33.72	34.39	35.08	35.78	
	1,004.40	1,022.80	1,042.80	1,065.60	1,086.00	1,108.00	1,130.00	1,152.00	1,174.40	1,197.60	1,221.60	1,246.00	1,270.80	1,296.00	1,322.40	1,348.80	1,375.60	1,403.20	1,431.20	
	2,008.80	2,045.60	2,085.60	2,131.20	2,172.00	2,216.00	2,260.00	2,304.00	2,348.80	2,395.20	2,443.20	2,492.00	2,541.60	2,592.00	2,644.80	2,697.60	2,751.20	2,806.40	2,862.40	
	52,228.80	53,185.60	54,225.60	55,411.20	56,472.00	57,616.00	58,760.00	59,904.00	61,068.80	62,275.20	63,523.20	64,792.00	66,081.60	67,392.00	68,764.80	70,137.60	71,531.20	72,966.40	74,422.40	
117