MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
By and Between
The City of Wichita, Kansas
jlj C I T Y O F
dJ UJICHITfl
and
Service Employees International Union Local 513 AFL-CIO, CLC Wichita, Kansas
This Memorandum of Agreement is entered into by and between the City of Wichita, hereinafter referred to as the City or Employer, and Service Employees International Union Local 513 AFL-CIO, CLC, hereinafter referred to as the Union.
Date Effective
Date Ending
February 16, 2016
December 14, 2018
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article
Page
PREAMBLE....................................................1
RECOGNITION.................................................1
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS...........................................2
EMPLOYEE RIGHTS.............................................2
NO STRIKE - LOCKOUT.........................................2
NONDISCRIMINATION...........................................3
STEWARDS....................................................3
PAYROLL DEDUCTION...........................................4
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.........................................5
MONETARY BENEFITS AND ALLOWANCES............................7
INSURANCE AND RETIREMENT....................................9
SENIORITY-DIVISIONAL.......................................10
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS........................................12
PROBATION...’............................................. 12
TIME OFF FOR EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION BUSINESS................13
INJURY LEAVE...............................................14
SICK LEAVE WITH PAY........................................15
LEAVES OF ABSENCES WITHOUT PAY.............................17
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE..........................................18
VACATION LEAVE.............................................18
HOLIDAYS...................................................19
MILITARY LEAVE.............................................20
EMPLOYEE BREAKS AND LUNCH PERIOD...........................20
LABOR/MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE.................................21
BULLETIN BOARDS............................................21
SAFETY.....................................................21
GENERAL PROVISIONS.........................................22
SUBSTANCE TESTING..........................................23
DURATION AND TERMINATION...................................24
PREAMBLE
1.00. This statement of understanding is made and entered into following meetings as specified in the Kansas Public Employee Relations Act. It is the desire of the parties to develop a harmonious and cooperative relationship that provides for mutual interests and efficient services for the citizens of Wichita.
This agreement has been ratified by the City of Wichita, Kansas, hereinafter called the “City1' and Service Employees International Union Local #513 AFL-CIO, hereinafter called ;‘the Union.1' This agreement shall constitute City policy for employees represented by Service Employees International Union Local #513.
The agreement between the City and the Union is to be for two years. This agreement is for the period beginning February 16, 2016, and ending December 14, 2018. By mutual agreement between the Union and the City, this agreement may be opened as to change or modification. Any subsequent statements of understanding which result from such reopening shall be set forth and made an amendment to this agreement and, when ratified by the Union and the City, shall constitute a change in policy for members represented by the bargaining unit.
RECOGNITION
2.00. The City recognizes the Union as the exclusive representative for the purpose of meeting and conferring and the settlement of grievances for those employees designated in the bargaining unit.
2.10. The bargaining unit consists of all full-time employees of the City of Wichita, as defined by the Act, who are not exempted as confidential, supervisory or professional employees. In accordance with the order of the Public Employees Relations Board of June 14, 1991, as amended and agreed to by Service Employees International Union #513 and the City of Wichita upon annual review, incorporated therein by reference, or who are not further excluded pursuant to the May 14, 1991, PERB order and amendments thereto, because they are employees of one of the following:
Library Board
Art Museum Board
Metropolitan Area Planning Department Wichita-Valley Center Flood Control Project Wichita Transit
Employees Represented by FOP, Local #5 Employees Represented by IAFF, Local #135 Employees Represented by Teamsters, Local #795
2.20 The June 14, 1991, PERB Unit Determination order and June 14, 1991, agreement excluding supervisory, confidential and professional employees are hereby incorporated by reference as though fully set out and contained herein. Appendix B reflects the 1991 Unit Determination with agreed to modifications. This list in no way limits the City from creating
1
new positions throughout the life of the contract and does not prevent removal of positions that are no longer budgeted.
2.30. This Agreement does not apply to part-time and limited employees.
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.00. The Union recognizes that except to the extent abridged by provisions of this Agreement, the City reserves and retains all of its rights to manage its own affairs. The rights of Management which are not abridged by this Agreement shall include, but are not limited to: its right to determine the services and level of services to be offered by the City of Wichita, Kansas, to establish or continue policies, practices and procedures for the conduct of the operation of the City and from time to time change or abolish such policies, practices and procedures; the right to determine and from time to time to re-determine the types of operations, methods, and processes to be employed; to discontinue processes or operation or to discontinue their performance by employees of the City; to determine the number and types of employees required; to assign work to such employees in accordance with requirements determined by the employer; to establish and change work schedules and assignments; to schedule and assign overtime as determined necessary; to transfer, promote or demote employees, or lay off, terminate or otherwise relieve employees for lack of work or other legitimate reasons; to determine the fact of lack of work; to discipline for just cause; and otherwise to take such measures as the employer may determine to be necessary for orderly and efficient operation of the public service.
The above rights, responsibilities and prerogatives are inherent in the City of Wichita and its management and cannot be subject to any grievance or arbitration proceedings except as specifically provided for in this Agreement.
EMPLOYEE RIGHTS
4.00. Public employees shall have the right to form, join and participate in the activities of employee organizations of their own choosing, for the purpose of meeting and conferring with public employers or their designated representative with respect to grievances and conditions of employment. Public employees also shall have the right to refuse to join or participate in the activities of the Union.
NO STRIKE - LOCKOUT
5.00 The Union shall not authorize, cause, aid, ratify, condone nor shall any bargaining unit employees take part in, aid, render assistance to, or support any strike, sit-down, slowdown, stoppage of work, boycott, picketing or other interruption of work at any facilities or in the operation of the City.
5.10. The City shall not institute any lockout as defined by K.S.A. 75-4322(s) during the term of this Agreement.
2
5.20. If it is necessary for any employee to cross a picket line at any business in the furtherance of the employee's duties, adequate precautions shall be taken by the City to insure the employee's safety when necessary.
NONDISCRIMINATION
6.00. No employee shall be discriminated against because of race, color, national origin, age, sex, religion, ancestry, sexual orientation, disability, marital status, political affiliation or other non-merit factors or because of union activity or non-union activity by either the City or the Union.
If any grievance is filed under this section and any complaint is filed with any other board, agency or court with concurrent jurisdiction concerning the same incident, said grievance and response times shall be held in abeyance until the other board, agency or court has rendered its decision. Regardless of the stage of proceedings in the grievance procedure, any responsive filing must be made within five (5) days of receipt by the employee of the decision of said other board, agency or court.
STEWARDS
7.00. The employer shall recognize only the job stewards and alternates, not to exceed one per 30 employees in the unit, whose names have been submitted to the City in writing by the Union.
7.10. The authority ofjob stewards and alternates so designated by the employee organization shall be limited to and shall not exceed the following duties and activities while in pay status:
(a)	The investigation and presentation of grievances in accordance with the provisions of the collective bargaining agreement.
(b)	The transmission of such messages and information which shall originate with, and are authorized by the union or its officers, provided such messages and information:
(1)	have been reduced to writing; or
(2)	if not reduced to writing, are of a routine nature and do not involve work stoppages, slowdowns, refusal to work or any other interference with the employer’s business.
(c)	Other duties are specifically provided for in this Agreement.
(d)	Upon requestjob stewards and/or representatives will be given 30 minutes prior to the end of the regular work shift to meet represented
3
employees in a work group in order to discuss or investigate grievances or discuss conditions of employment. The date must be scheduled with management in advance and after consideration of operational needs, will not be unreasonably denied. In the event that the meeting is to investigate a grievance or interview witnesses, management may provide space for confidential discussions if available. Nothing in this paragraph is intended to interfere with the right of job stewards or representatives to meet with employees during regular lunch breaks or before or after work.
7.15	. The job stewards shall not absent themselves from their place of work to attend to union business and grievance matters without the permission of their immediate supervisor. Requests for time to handle union business and grievance matters, below the level of the Employee Relations Officer, shall be granted at the discretion of the immediate supervisor. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld. Stewards shall be granted not to exceed three (3), forty five (45) minute periods per work week to attend to union business and grievance matters at the Division and Department level. The forty five (45) minutes shall be used at the end of the shift unless the immediate supervisor grants another time.
PAYROLL DEDUCTION
8.0	0. The City agrees that, whenever duly authorized by any employee on a form or forms appropriate for such purpose and consistent with the regulations established by the Human Resources Department, payroll deductions shall be made and paid over in accordance with such form or forms for any or all of the following purposes:
(a)	Donations to the Employee Assistance Fund.
(b)	Premiums for employee	benefits.
(c)	Deduction to Wichita Federal	Credit Union.
(d)	Union dues.
(e)	Deferred compensation.
(f)	And any other deduction approved by Union and the City.
8.10.	Any such authorized deduction shall become effective following the filing of the authorization or revocation card in accordance with procedures established hereunder by the Human Resources Department. An employee’s item (d) deduction shall continue until employment is terminated or by providing written notice to the employer during the month of December. The union dues deduction will be discontinued the first pay period following January I if possible.
8.20.	The union will indemnify, defend and hold the City harmless against any claims made and against any suits instituted against the City due to any action taken or not taken by the
4
City in good faith under the provisions of this article. In no event shall the City be liable for any damages concerning the Union dues of employees other than the collection and forwarding of dues that are duly authorized by the employee.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
9.00	. A grievance is defined as any dispute involving the application or alleged violation of any provision of this Agreement other than as stated herein. The grievance procedure shall not apply to discipline referred to as a letter of counseling or a verbal warning. In situations involving either letters of counseling or verbal warnings, the Employee Relations Officer may be asked to verify the existence of the policy or practice which was the basis for the letter of counseling or verbal warning. A work day is defined as Monday through Friday, excluding holidays.
9.10.	Any grievance as defined by Section 9.00 of this article shall be settled in the following manner:
(a)	The grievance shall be taken in writing to the employee’s division director within ten (10) work days after the grievance occurs or within ten (10) work days after notification of written reprimand, suspension, demotion, or termination by the aggrieved employee and/or union representative. The division director will render a decision within ten (10) work days. A copy of the grievance response will be mailed and faxed or e-mailed to the SEIU office within this ten (10) workday period.
(b)	Should the grievance not be resolved by the division director the employee and/or the union representative may take the grievance to the Department Director. The employee and/or the union representative must initiate the grievance in writing to the Department Director with ten (10) workdays from the date of receipt of the action of the division director. The Department Director will render a decision within ten (10) workdays. A copy of the grievance response will be mailed and faxed or e-mailed to the SEIU office within this ten (10) workday period.
(c)	Should the grievance not be resolved by the Department Director, the employee may, within ten (10) workdays of the completion of step (b), put the grievance in the form of a signed letter and send it to the Employee Relations Officer. The Employee Relations Officer shall require of the Department Director a letter to the Employee Relations Officer setting forth specific reasons for the decision made by the Department director. This letter must be submitted to the Employee Relations Officer within ten (10) workdays.
(d)	The Employee Relations Officer shall, within ten (10) workdays after receipt of the letter from the employee, contact the employee organization, the employee and all supervisory personnel concerned, and attempt to
5
resolve the grievance. The written results of the findings of the Employee Relations Officer will be given to the employee, the employee organization, and to the Human Resources director within fifteen (15) workdays of the receipt of the employee's original letter. Upon verba! request of the ERO a five (5) day extension of the time limit may be granted. A copy of the ERO’s grievance response will be mailed and faxed or e-mailed to the SEIU office within this fifteen (15) workday period.
(e)	If the grievant is not satisfied with the Employee Relations Officer’s finding, the grievant may within ten (10) work days appeal the grievance to the Grievance Board. The Grievance Board shall consist of two (2) persons selected by the Union and two (2) persons selected by the City. The Employee Relations Officer and the Union Business Agent shall select a fifth person to act as chairperson. Any costs for the services of the chairperson shall be shared equally by the Union and the City.
(1)	The purpose of the Grievance Board shall be to:
a.	Investigate and determine facts;
b.	Recommend settlement of the grievance consistent with the facts and the terms of the contract.
(2)	The Employee Relations Officer shall act as secretary to the Board, and shall handle all correspondence. The Board shall draw all necessary rules and regulations for conducting its fact-finding hearings. The rules and regulations shall provide for the grievant and the City to:
-	present evidence supporting their position.
-	call witnesses.
-	cross examine witnesses.
-	be represented by counsel at the hearing.
-	provide for a record of the hearing.
Said rules and regulations shall be reviewed and approved by the Union and management. The recommendation of the Board shall be forwarded to the City Manager within ten (10) work days of the conclusion of the hearing.
(f)	The City Manager shall render a decision within ten (10) work days of receipt of the Grievance Board recommendation and his/her decision is final. In the event the City Manager reverses the recommendation of the Grievance Board, the reason(s) and finding(s) will be provided to the grievant in writing.
6
(g)	In cases of termination, the grievant may proceed directly to step (d) of this procedure within ten (10) days from the employee's receipt of termination notice.
9.15.	When a matter subject to the Grievance Procedure has been grieved, and is then the subject of a prohibited practices complaint under the jurisdiction of the Public Employee Relations Board, said grievance and response time shall be held in abeyance until the Public Employee Relations Board has rendered its decision. Regardless of the stage of proceedings of the Grievance Procedure, any responsive filing must be made within five work days of the receipt by the union of the decision of the Public Relations Board. Nothing in this article shall relieve the employer or the Union of its responsibility to make initial filings under the grievance procedure within ten (10) work days of the occurrence of the grievance. Failure to file a grievance within the initial ten (10) work days of occurrence waives the right of the employee and the Union to grieve the matter after the Public Employee Relations Board has rendered its decision.
9.20.	Any letter of disciplinary action to be placed in an employee's personnel file shall specify the date when the letter is to be removed from the file (provided no subsequent discipline has been imposed during said period), or if appropriate, specify that the letter is permanent and shall not be removed from the file. Records of discipline involving no loss of pay will remain in an employee’s file for one year from the date of the violation and will be removed at the employee’s request if no other violations have occurred in that time period. Disciplinary action resulting in a loss of pay, injury to an employee, or damage to City property/ property of the general public/ City equipment/ equipment of the general public becomes part of the employee’s personnel record.
9.30.	When employees are scheduled by their supervisor and/or any other superior within their department, to attend a meeting concerning disciplinary action, or before a Safety Review Board, the person scheduling them shall advise them that they have the right to have a union representative attend the meeting with them. The employee will be allowed an appropriate amount of time for scheduling a union representative, overnight if necessary.
9.35.	Unpaid Suspensions. Employees receiving discipline in the form of unpaid suspensions from one (1) to five (5) days, may choose to continue to work by forfeiting the appropriate number of accrued paid vacation days in lieu of the unpaid suspension, not to exceed ten (10) working days per calendar year.
MONETARY BENEFITS AND ALLOWANCES
10.00	. Wages. Wages shall be increased 1.25 as set forth in Appendix A effective February 27, 2016. For the year 2017, wages will be increased 1.00 effective December 31, 2016. For the year 2018, wages will be increased 1.00 effective December 30, 2017.
10.10.	Overtime. Nonexempt employees will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week.
7
Except for holidays (Personal Holiday not included), injury leave and jury duty, leaves of absence will not be included as hours worked when computing eligibility for overtime even though the leave may have been paid leave. However, if an emergency exists as determined by the employee’s division director, the employee shall receive overtime pay at the rate of time and one-half of the regular rate of pay, providing that the employee is in pay status for the 40-hour work week. An emergency is defined as any situation that may result in damage or loss of property, injury to the public or endangerment to the public health.
An employee assigned to a ten-hour or twelve-hour day, who takes such work day as a Personal Holiday, shall be paid ten or twelve hours pay for said Personal Holiday, but the Personal Holiday shall not be considered as hours worked for overtime purposes.
10.20.	Work Week — Defined. For the purpose of this Agreement, a work week shall be defined as a 7-day period commencing at 12:01 a.m. Saturday, and ending at 12:00 midnight on Friday.
10.30.	Standby Pay. An employee who is on standby and is required to be available for duty, is required to have communication device in their possession. If an employee is required to report for duty, standby pay of $ 1.00 per hour will be continuous and be paid in addition to the hours actually worked.
10.31.	Call Back. An employee on standby, who is called back and reports to duty, shall be guaranteed two hours pay at the regular rate. Employees who are not on standby, but who are called back to duty, shall not be subject to discipline if not available.
10.40.	Within-Range Salary Increases. Frequency of Increases - Within range increases from A to B step, B to C step, C to D step, D to E step, E to F step, F to G step, G to H step, H to I step, I to J step, J to K step, K to L step, L to M step, M to N step, and N to O step may be granted after 12 months of satisfactory service in step. Effective December 31,2016, a new P step will be added.
10.45.	Merit Pay. The pay plan adopted by the City is a merit system. The union recognizes that merit increases are granted upon satisfactory completion of the required time in grade for each step and for work performance that meets or exceeds expectations of the position. The union recognizes that merit increases may also be deferred for work performance reasons. However, when a merit increase has been approved by the division/department and has not been processed so that the employee receives his/her increase at the scheduled pay period effective date, and where the processing delay was due to no fault of the employee, or circumstances beyond the control of the City, the employee shall be paid retroactively to the scheduled date of the increase. Exceptions must be approved by the Human Resources Director. For any merits that occurred between December 19, 2015 and February 15, 2016, employees will be paid retroactively upon receipt of the performance appraisal.
10.46.	Promotion. Employees who are promoted will be placed on the step of their new range on the salary schedule at the step that provides them at least a 3% pay increase.
8
10.47.	Acting Pay. An employee who is temporarily reassigned to perform the duties of a higher pay range for three consecutive months will receive at least a 3% pay increase retroactive to the start date of duties of the higher classification. The employee's pay will revert to the proper pay level in the job classification when reassigned to their former duties. The employee’s merit anniversary date will not change as a result of temporary reassignment and the employee will receive all merit increases for job performance that meets expectations.
10.48.	Reclassification. Employees who are reclassified to a higher pay range will be placed on the step of their new range on the schedule at the step that provides them at least a 3% pay increase. If a position is reclassified to a lower level, and the incumbent employee’s pay is more than the maximum salary in the new range, the pay will be reduced to the maximum for the new pay range. Employees reclassified to a lower pay range whose pay is below the range maximum of the new pay range will be placed on the step with pay closest to their current pay that is not a wage increase.
10.50.	Shift Differential. Employees shall receive $.75 per hour for time actually worked between 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. Payment shall be for time worked in increments of every 6 minutes. If employees work more than half the time between six minutes segments, they are paid at the next highest 6 minute segment, (e.g., If they work 9 minutes they are paid for 6 minutes of shift differential. If they work 10 minutes they receive 12 minutes of shift differential.)
10.60.	Longevity Pay. In consideration of long and faithful service, the City shall, in addition to regular salary, pay longevity pay to long-term employees. To receive longevity pay, the employee must have completed 6 years’ total accumulative service with the City. The monthly amount of this pay shall be $2.00 per month times the employee’s total years accumulative service with the City. For employees who have completed eleven (11) years total accumulative service with the City the amount shall be $5.00 per month times the employee’s total accumulative service with the City.
Rehired employees with prior creditable service will earn longevity pay based on their adjusted start-work date after completion of two years of continuous fulltime service after re-employment.
10.70.	Date of Pay. Employees will be paid on a biweekly basis. The pay day shall be on the Friday following the regularly-scheduled two-week pay period, and shall include pay for all time worked during the pay period. When the pay day falls on a regularly-established holiday, employees shall receive payment the preceding day. Payments shall be made available to all employees prior to the end of the shift on pay day. Employees who are separated or whose services are terminated may receive their pay only on the next established pay day.
10.80.	Allowances - Automobile Expenses. Employees shall be reimbursed for all travel and business expense in accordance with the City’s administrative policies and regulations governing reimbursements.
INSURANCE AND RETIREMENT
9
11.00. Health Benefits. The City will extend to all employee groups the same health insurance plan available to all full-time City Employees. For those participating in the City plan, the City will pay at least 80% of the health insurance premium of any health insurance plan offered by the City. The employee will pay up to 20% of health insurance costs of any health insurance plan offered by the City.
Participation in the health insurance plan is optional with each employee.
11.05. Life Insurance. The City agrees to provide group life insurance in the amount of two times the employee’s base annual salary, rounded up to the next higher thousand. The City and employees shall share equally in the cost of the life insurance plan. The life insurance program is optional with each employee.
11.10. Retirement Plan. Full-time employees shall come under the retirement system as set forth by City of Wichita ordinance. Union employees agree to be bound by any and all changes in the retirement system that are approved by the majority vote of ah employees covered by the system.
SENIORITY - DIVISIONAL
12.0	0. Seniority shall be defined as length of continuous service with the City.
12.10	. Divisional seniority is the length of time an employee has been in a division.
(a)	Divisional seniority shall control in case of shift change, transfer of location within the division, vacation scheduling and overtime rotation. Should realignment of City structure occur where employees would have to transfer from one division to another, divisional seniority will be considered. Seniority will be the determining factor in promotions when all factors considered in determining the best qualified employee are equal.
(b)	Layoffs - when a reduction in force becomes necessary because of phaseout of a program, reduction in funds or other similar reason, the following procedure will apply:
(I)	The Department Director will identify the specific number and type of job classifications to be reduced.
(2)	The Human Resources Department will develop a ranked list of employees in the affected job classification. Employees will be selected on the basis of inverse order of seniority with the City. Performance appraisals may be used if employees have same city seniority.
10
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
The list of job classifications and names of employees selected will then be submitted to the Human Resources Director. The Human Resources Director will obtain the approval of the Appointment Authority prior to lay-off. The Union will be provided a copy of the list of any bargaining unit employees selected for lay-off.
An attempt will be made to provide employees selected for layoff with two-weeks’ advance notice.
An employee who is to be laid off and who has previously occupied a lower position within the division can displace or "bump” an employee in that lower position with less seniority.
Employees may not “bump” an employee in another division regardless of seniority. If the employee elects to accept the lower position (optional) rather than being laid off the employee’s pay will be at the pay step closest to the previous pay that is not a pay increase.
Any bargaining unit employee whose position is eliminated, and who cannot take advantage of bumping rights, will be allowed to fill any vacant bargaining unit position for which the employee meets the minimum qualifications and which could not be a promotion for the employee whose position is to be eliminated. These employees will not be placed on a recall list.
Recall of employees shall be limited to the division of the City from which they were laid off. Recall shall be in reverse order of layoff (i.e., the first employee laid off will be the last to be recalled). Employees laid off while in probationary status have no rights to recall. Employees laid off shall remain on a recall list for six months, and are required to keep the Human Resources Department informed of their current address. Employees who refuse a recall or accept another position with the City shall be removed from the recall list.
During the recall period, laid off employees will receive first consideration in filling any job vacancies in the same job classification from which the employee was laid off, or any position in another job classification, that may occur and are advertised to the general public provided that the laid off employee makes application and is qualified to perform the job. Employees re-employed under this provision will be treated as rehired employees pursuant to the rehire provisions contained in the City’s Human Resources Manual. Any employee who is re-employed under this provision will be removed from the recall list.
11
12.20. Questions arising concerning divisional seniority of an employee shall be handled in the following manner: the business representative of Service Employees International Union shall contact the Human Resources Director, when a question of divisional seniority of an employee arises. The Human Resources director or the Human Resources Director’s appointee, upon request from the Union, shall furnish the available information from the City’s records. Personally identifiable confidential information will only be disclosed upon presentation of a signed request of the employee(s) involved.
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
13.00. The City shall establish an outline of duties for each job classification established by the City. Such job classification shall be of such a nature that insofar as possible, there shall be no overlap of duties. Furthermore, in all instances, each classification shall represent an easily understandable group ofjob duties.
13.10 The City will give first consideration to filling promotional SEIU job vacancies to qualified fulltime non-probationary employees. Job openings in Range 619 and above may be posted for five working days, however, the City reserves the right to reduce the posting to three days if advisable. The job opening shall list salary range, classification, brief job description, department, division and shift/work location if known. Posting of said jobs does not preclude the department or division director from considering employees within the department or division for promotion in keeping with normal career progression. Furthermore, when the intent is to fill said vacancy by internal promotion, the notice of said opening when posted shall state, “Employees within the department or division shall be given first consideration for the above position.”
13.20. Management has the right to transfer employees to vacant positions, which are not a promotion, without posting, for ADA or health related reasons.
PROBATION
14.00. Length of Probation. The probationary period shall be 6 months for new employees. An exception to the above may be made for a probationary employee who has:
(a)	been injured on the job or off the job and has missed more than two weeks of work; or
(b)	had a serious illness, major surgery, etc. and has missed more than two weeks of work.
With the concurrence of the Human Resources Director the probationary period may be extended for the length of the time missed. The extension of a probationary period shall not exceed 60 calendar days, and the employee shall be informed of the decision in writing.
12
14.10. An employee may be terminated at any time during the employee's probationary period. A probationary employee will not be permitted to grieve his/her release during the probationary period.
TIME OFF FOR EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION BUSINESS
15.00. The City recognizes the right of the Union to designate employee representatives pursuant to paragraph 7.00 herein. The Union will notify the Employee Relations Officer within ten days of the effective date of this Agreement of the names of the employee representatives. Changes in employee representatives must be reported to the Employee Relations Officer.
(a)	Time off with pay for Union business shall be allowed for the following purposes:
(1)	Negotiating a successor agreement with the City. This time off will be limited to the actual meeting time on the days when both negotiating teams are in session or caucus. The maximum number of hours of pay the City will provide to Union officers and stewards attending contract negotiations will be limited to 300 hours per contract.
(2)	Grievance hearings at the Employee Relations Officer and Grievance Board levels. If requested, and if reasonable, representatives will attend grievance hearings at these two levels. Representation is limited to one representative for the grievant and the two Union members on the grievance board. This time off is limited to actual Grievance Board hearing time and does not include pro or post hearing conferences with the grievant. If an employee representative is not available, a member of the Union office may be requested to attend.
(3)	City Labor-Management Committee meetings.
(4)	Time off without pay and without loss of seniority rights shall be allowed to three employees designated by the Union to attend labor conventions or serve in any capacity on official business of the Union not covered by subsection (c), provided that no employee shall be entitled to more than 40 work hours off under this provision in any calendar year. The Union shall give one week’s written notice of such leave request to the division head involved. The Union agrees that in making such request for time off under this provision, due consideration will be given to the number of employees affected in order that there shall be no disruption of the City’s operations because of a lack of available employees.
(b)	The representatives shall not absent themselves from their place of work to attend to contract negotiations without the permission of their
13
immediate supervisor. The request shall be in writing. The request shall be granted at the discretion of the immediate supervisor and shall not be denied unless reasonable work assignments prevent such permission from being granted.
(c)	The Union officers and designated stewards shall report the time of their departure to engage in Union business and the time of conclusion thereof. If the time of conclusion comes after the employee's regular shift ends, the end of the shift shall be recorded as the conclusion of the time off.
(d)	Union officers and designated stewards who wish to absent themselves from their place of work to attend to other Union business shall, after exhausting time allowed in 7.15, do so by using personal leave (vacation, well day, or personal holiday), with permission of their immediate supervisor.
(e)	Union officers and stewards who are permitted to be absent from their regular positions on personal leave and with permission of their immediate supervisor, shall use the time at the beginning or end of the shift unless the immediate supervisor grants another time.
INJURY LEAVE
16.00	. Full-time employees injured while performing their assigned duties may receive full salary for the first 90 consecutive days from the date of the injury. Probationary employees will be paid in accordance with provisions set forth by State Statute. In no event will the employee be permitted to receive an amount greater than regular pay.
16.10.	Injury leave of more than 90 consecutive days shall be handled in accordance with the provisions of the Workers’ Compensation Act. Employees shall use accrued Sick Leave and Vacation Leave to supplement Workers Compensation to allow employees to receive a check equivalent to their normal take-home pay. Benefits are not accrued on the portion of Workers' Compensation received. In the event all Sick Leave and Vacation Leave are taken, the employee will then be paid according to the terms set forth in the Workers' Compensation Act until the employee is released to return to work.
16.20.	Employees on long term Injury Leave will not receive merit increases. The advancement date will be adjusted by the length of time the employee is on Injury Leave.
16.30.	Heart and lung disease may only be considered as an injury when it can be attributed to an act of duty which cause is in the nature of a traumatic experience. Traumatic experience is defined as an experience above and beyond the normal call of duty that causes the injury resulting in heart or lung disease.
16.40.	Recurring Injury Leave. Recurring leave of absence relating to a previous injury shall be considered one and the same injury, if the injury occurs within 365 days, subject to
14
administrative analysis and diagnosis of the injury reported by the attending physician. However, if recurring leave related to a previous injury is required after one year (365 days) from date of release by the physician and return to work, such leave will be treated as a new injury.
16.50. Official Certified Appointed Physician. The Risk Manager will provide Department Directors, division directors and the Union with names of the doctors appointed to handle cases coming under the Workers’ Compensation Act.
An employee who sustains an injury while on the job shall first obtain permission from the employee’s supervisor before consulting or obtaining treatment for such injury from a physician, whether such physician is City appointed or the employee's personal physician. Workers’ Compensation requires notification of the employer within ten (10) days of the injury.
In the event of a life-threatening injury, 911 should be called to dispatch emergency medical personnel to treat and transport the injured employee to the nearest approved medical facility.
16.60. Use of Unauthorized Physician. The City is not responsible or liable for any physician’s bill for consultation or treatment of injuries which an employee sustains while the employee is not on the job.
If an employee on Injury Leave desires a second opinion, the employee may obtain a second opinion subject to the limitations of the Workers’ Compensation Act. Prior approval of the Workers’ Compensation Administrator is required. If the employee fails to obtain the Workers’ Compensation Administrator’s permission, the City shall not be liable or responsible to pay the physician’s bill.
Nothing herein shall be construed to negate the provisions of the Kansas Workers’ Compensation Act.
SICK LEAVE WITH PAY
17.00. Sick Leave.
(a)	Accrual. Upon appointment to the position, employees shall accrue Sick Leave at the rate of one-half day per month (6 days per year) for the first five years of creditable service. Beginning year six and through year fifteen of creditable service, Sick Leave will be accrued at the rate of one day per month (12 days per year). Beginning year sixteen of creditable service, Sick Leave will be accrued at the rate of 1.167 days per month (14 days per year).
Employees with prior creditable service are eligible to accrue Sick Leave benefits based on their adjusted start work date after two years of continuous service from the date of rehire.
15
(b)	Sick Leave Use. Sick Leave may be used for personal and immediate family illness, doctor appointments, surgery, disability (including maternity leave), paternity leave, off-the-job injury, on-job injury (when Injury Leave is exhausted), and enforced quarantine or for purpose allowed for Family and Medical Leave to the limits stated.
(1)	Dependent Illness. Sick leave may be used for illness of members of the employee's immediate family. Immediate family is defined as spouse, parent, children (including stepchildren). In addition, it includes any relative living in the employee’s home.
(2)	Enforced Quarantine. Sick Leave is allowed for enforced quarantine in accordance with community health regulations.
(3)	A probationary employee will not be paid for accrued Sick Leave used during the first six months of service. Payment for Sick Leave for other than probationary employees is in accordance with established policies previously defined. The accumulation of Sick Leave is unlimited.
(c)	When taking Sick Leave, an employee shall give notice to a supervisor by telephone or messenger prior to the employee’s time to report for duty that the employee will be absent because of personal or family illness or injury. When an employee has been on Sick Leave for 20 work days, the City may require the employee to be examined by a physician it designates at City expense.
(d)	A leave of absence shall be granted for maternity upon request. Such request must be presented in writing to the employee’s immediate supervisor, setting forth a date such leave is to begin, as soon as that date can be determined by the employee and the employee’s physician. Return to work shall be as soon as reasonable after delivery, as permitted by a signed release by the employee’s physician. Maternity leave shall be charged against accrued Sick Leave, and the Department Director or the Human Resources Director may require the employee to be examined by a physician of the City’s choice. If maternity leave extends beyond the employee’s accrued Sick Leave, leave may be granted in accordance with policies governing sick leave without pay.
(e)	A leave of absence shall be granted for paternity leave upon request. Such request must be presented in writing to the employee’s immediate supervisor, setting forth a date such leave is to begin, as soon as that date can be determined by the employee and the employee’s partner’s physician. Return to work shall be as soon as reasonable after delivery, up to a maximum of 12 weeks, as permitted under FMLA. Paternity leave may be charged against accrued sick and/or vacation leave.
16
17.20. Well Day. An additional day of leave shall be granted to an employee who has completed the payroll year as a full-time employee and who has not used more than 24 hours of Sick Leave in the preceding payroll year. Any employee who completed the previous payroll year as a full-time employee and who did not use any Sick Leave hours during the payroll year will receive one more additional day of leave. Well Day leave must be taken in increments of not less than thirty (30) minutes, or, according to department rules, with prior approval of the employee’s supervisor.
Well Day leave may be granted the second pay period of the following payroll year. It is not cumulative and is not charged against any leave accumulation.
17.30.	Reporting Sick Leave
(a)	Prior to the employee’s scheduled time to report for duty, the employee must notify the employee’s office or immediate superior by telephone or messenger that the employee will not work that day.
(b)	A doctor’s release to return to work must be submitted when the leave extends beyond five (5) consecutive calendar days (40 hours) or can be required if an employee has 48 or more undocumented sick leave hours in a calendar year. Employees are required to keep their supervisor appraised of their progress and anticipated return to work.
17.40.	Copies of any forms required under this provision or any other provisions of this contract will be furnished to the Union by the City.
17.50.	The City and Union agree to comply with the provisions of the Family and Medical Leave Act. The exact provisions are outlined in the Human Resources Manual.
Requests for leave under the Family and Medical Leave Act should be made to the employee’s immediate supervisor at least 30 days prior to the commencement of leave, or as soon as practical/possible in the case of unplanned emergencies. Application forms are available in the Human Resources Department.
17.60.	Sick Leave Without Pay. If an employee has exhausted all regular Sick Leave and all accrued vacation leave, the employee may be granted Sick Leave without pay, upon approval of the Department Director, for a period not to exceed sixty (60) calendar days. The sixty day period may be extended by the City Manager upon recommendation of the Department Director.
The procedure for reporting Sick Leave without pay is the same as for reporting Sick Leave with pay-
LEAVES OF ABSENCES WITHOUT PAY
17
18.00	. The City may grant leaves of absence without pay of up to sixty (60) calendar days, upon approval of the Department Director. However, this period may be extended by the City Manager on the recommendation of the Department Director. Leave of absence without pay will not be granted until all vacation leave has been exhausted.
Requests for leave of absence without pay shall be submitted in writing to the Department Director, stating reasons for the request, the date the leave shall begin and the probable date of return.
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
19.00	In the event of a death in an employee's immediate family: spouse, children, (stepchildren), parents, (stepparents), state-approved foster child, or any relative living in the employee’s home, the employee may be allowed a leave of absence with pay up to a maximum of five (5) work days to be taken within a two week period following the death of the family member. For the death of a brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparents, or grandchildren, employees may be allowed up to three (3) workdays to be taken within a two week period following the death of the family member. This leave must be approved by the department or division director, and is not charged against any leave accumulation. Documentation of funeral or death may be required.
19.10.	An employee who is unable to work because of a death in the immediate family must, prior to the employee’s scheduled time to report, notify the employee’s office or immediate supervisor by phone or messenger.
VACATION LEAVE
20.00	. City employees earn vacation on the basis of credited service in accordance with the following:
(a)	All full-time employees earn vacation benefits.
(b)	Vacation Leave will be earned on hours in pay status, exclusive of overtime, and will be calculated at the time the payroll is processed.
(c)	Base hours for computing Vacation Leave are 2,080 per year for employees of the unit.
(d)	The rate at which Vacation Leave is earned is determined by the startwork date or adjusted start-work date, except:
(e)	Employees with prior creditable service are not eligible to earn Vacation Leave based on their adjusted start-work date until after completion of two years of reemployment.
18
(0	Vacation Leave may not be taken in advance of vacation earned, nor prior to completion of the probationary period. Employees must have satisfactorily completed their probationary appointment and have been removed from probationary status before being eligible to take vacation or being paid for terminal vacation.
(g)	The vacation schedule for all employees is as follows: YEARS OF	DAYS OF SERVICE	VACATION <5	10 5-9	15 10-15	17 16-20	20 21 +	25
(h) (i)	An employee who goes on Military Leave for extended active duty, or is terminated will be paid for any unused Vacation Leave. Employees on Military Leave may choose to leave their unused Vacation Leave until they return to work or be paid for the accrued vacation at the time they start Military Leave. Employees must complete their probationary appointment to be eligible to receive terminal vacation pay. Vacation Leave is scheduled in the department according to the policies established by the Department Director. Vacation may not be taken in excess of the hours appearing on the payroll stub. Vacation Leave may be taken in thirty-minute increments unless precluded by department policy.
0)	Employees are allowed to accumulate and carry forward each year 240 hours of Vacation Leave. Employees will be required to use or lose vacation earned in excess of 240 hours before the end of the pay period in which their anniversary date occurs. HOLIDAYS
21.00	. Employees receive eleven holidays with pay observed by the City of Wichita. The City has adopted the federal long weekend plan, which means that the holiday is the day which is observed by the City.
21.10.	Holidays observed shall be New Year's Day, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s Birthday, President’s Day, Memorial Day. Independence Day, Labor Day, Veteran’s Day, Thanksgiving Day, Day after Thanksgiving, Christmas Day. and Personal Holiday. Personal holiday will be individually scheduled by the Department Director. Employees must have been removed from probationary status before being eligible to take a Personal Holiday.
19
21.15.	A 28-day period is established for scheduling an alternate holiday for S.E.I.U. represented employees of the Police Department and Airport Safety Division/Airport Operations Division whose job assignments are in the functions staffed with multiple shifts that are critical to the mission of the Police Department or Airport. The employee shall be granted the actual holiday off when law enforcement activities permit. If an employee is required to work on the holiday, the employee shall be given time off to be taken on a day selected by the employee within the 28-day work period in which the holiday falls, to be taken off as law enforcement or airport activities permit.
If a Police Department or Airport Safety/Airport Operations employee, as described above, cannot take an authorized holiday off within the 28-day work period in which the holiday falls, and is required to work, the employee shall be compensated in addition to his/her regular pay, at time and one-half for the hours worked.
21.20	Working on holidays. If an employee is required to work on the observed holiday, the employee will be paid time and one-half for the hours worked, in addition to holiday pay for the normal number of hours they are scheduled to work.
21.30.	Holiday Pay will be disallowed when an employee:
(a)	Does not comply with a request to work on a holiday.
(b)	Is not in pay status on the working day preceding and the working day
following the holiday.
21.40. Holidays while on leave. Holidays that are observed during an approved leave of absence with pay, except Injury Leave, are not charged as days of leave taken.
21.50 Additional holidays. When an additional non-working day is declared by the Appointing Authority, such non-working day shall be treated in accordance with the policy governing holidays.
21.60. Holidays falling on non-work days. When a legal holiday is observed on the first non-work day (employee’s Saturday), the preceding work day shall be observed; and when the holiday falls on the second non-work day (employee’s Sunday), the following work days shall be observed.
MILITARY LEAVE
22.00. Requests for military leave will be handled in accordance with Title 38, U.S. Code, Section 2021 et seq.
EMPLOYEE BREAKS AND LUNCH PERIOD
23.00. Employee Breaks. The rest break is recognized as a factor which contributes toward efficient employee output. To permit employees the full benefits of a break period and to
20
avoid any unfavorable impression which may be given when a number of employees congregate in public areas, the following policy shall regulate employee breaks.
(a)	Employees will be permitted a maximum fifteen minutes rest break each morning and each afternoon. Rest break time will not be accumulated.
(b)	Breaks will not be taken during the first or last hours of the work shift or used to extend lunch periods.
(c)	Rest breaks will be taken within the department or division areas or other areas provided by management for such purposes whenever possible.
(d)	Employees at a temporary work site will be expected to remain at the work site during their rest periods unless released by their supervisors. Complaints regarding unreasonableness of supervisors in regard to rest breaks may be brought to the attention of the division director by stewards. No grievance can be filed under this provision, however the employee or Union may request an informal review by the Employee Relations Officer.
23.10. Lunch Break. Each employee shall be allowed not less than one-half hour nor more than one hour per day as a lunch break. Said time is the time of the employee to be used in whatever manner the employee desires. However, the employee shall be back on the job by the end of the lunch period. The City will not be required to provide transportation for employees wishing to take their lunch period away from the job site.
LABOR/MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
24.00. Labor/Management Committee. The City-wide Labor/Management Committee has the support of both the Union and Management. The Labor/Management Committee is limited in its discussion to topics not covered by this Agreement. Furthermore, items under consideration by the parties during negotiations between the Union and the City are not proper subjects for discussion and are therefore prohibited. The operation and membership of the Labor/Management Committee is governed by the bylaws and practices of the Committee.
BULLETIN BOARDS
25.00. The City shall provide space on bulletin boards for the Union to post notices of meetings and notices of other Union business. City job postings shall be placed on said bulletin boards.
SAFETY
26.00. The City shall reimburse or furnish all safety devices which, by virtue of the employee’s employment with the City, the employee is required to possess.
21
26.05. Employees whose duties require that safety boots or other safety footwear be worn will be required to report to work in footwear that meets the City's specifications as developed by the City’s Safety Manual. Full-time employees required to purchase such footwear will be reimbursed the cost (not to exceed $150.00 annually) upon presentation of a paid receipt for the boots being utilized.
New employees will also be required to report in the appropriate footwear. Upon successful completion of the probationary period, and presentation of the paid receipt for the boots being utilized, the employee will be reimbursed the cost (not to exceed $150.00).
26.10. If the employee, through willful negligence or abuse, destroys, damages or loses such equipment, uniforms, etc., the employee shall replace the items at the employee's expense.
26.20. The City’s Safety Manual will include a provision defining weather conditions during which certain routine outdoor work activities should be curtailed for the safety of its employees and designating those individuals, by position, who have the authority to curtail such work.
26.30. The City shall provide a form on which any employee may, over his/her signature, report safety infractions to the immediate supervisor or directly to the City’s Safety Office.
26.50. The Union will be represented on all City Accident Review Boards. The Union’s representative will be appointed by the Unit Chair and will have voice but no vote in all deliberations and decisions made by an ARB.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
27.00. In no instance, except in case of emergency, shall the City force any employee to work in excess of 16 hours without at least an 8-hour break. Any employee who works in excess of 16 hours in a 24 hour period will receive a rest break of at least 8 consecutive hours. If any part of the eight consecutive hours of rest is during the employee’s scheduled hours, the employee shall receive paid straight time off for such hours as overlap with the employee’s regular work schedule hours (such hours shall not be charged to an employee’s accumulated vacation or sick leave).
27.05. The City and the Union agree that the use of demeaning, derogatory or belittling language by any employee in the workplace is unacceptable and may be proper cause for discipline.
27.10. Termination correspondence shall be sent directly to the City Human Resources Department.
22
27.20.	The City, whenever possible, shall rotate service calls for employees, so that within a period of time all involved employees shall receive approximately the same number of service calls.
27.30.	The City shall provide to the Union a list of all SEIU represented employees including separations upon request twice each calendar year. The list shall include the name, address and department of all employees within the bargaining unit. The Union shall not use the list or allow the list to be used by any other person, organization or company for any purpose other than Union business.
27.40.	At least once a year, employees shall have the opportunity to meet with their supervisors to review performance and make known their desires in respect to career changes or promotional advances.
27.50.	The City may, as is its right under the law, issue new work rules and other rules to govern the conduct of its employees. Such rules shall be given to the Union fourteen (14) days in advance of their implementation when possible.
27.60.	Employees, upon request of their supervisor, will sign any normal department form/document concerning their attendance, payroll, Sick Leave, vacation, accident report, evaluation, or request for service. It is understood that by signing documents pertaining to performance evaluation or disciplinary action, this is an acknowledgment of the employee’s awareness of the document and that the employee is not necessarily agreeing or disagreeing with the information it contains.
27.70.	If any provision of this Agreement should be held invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, or if compliance with or enforcement of any provision should be restrained by a tribunal, or where legal restrictions exist and those legal restrictions are removed by law, the remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby and the parties shall, at the request of either, enter into negotiation on that matter only.
27.80.	It is expressly understood between the City and the Union that all matters not included in this Agreement are by intention and design specifically excluded and fall within the powers, duties and responsibilities of the City.
27.90.	For emergency operations, employees in specified positions will be required to inform their immediate supervisors of their current address and local telephone number, and maintain a functioning phone.
27.95.	The City and the Union hereby agree to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
SUBSTANCE TESTING
28.00	. All safety sensitive employees shall be subject to random drug and alcohol testing as agreed upon by the City and the Union in April, 2007.
23
DURATION AND TERMINATION
29.00	. This Agreement shall take effect as of February 16, 2016, and shall continue in full force and effect until December 14, 2018. By mutual agreement between the parties, this Agreement may be opened as to any other change or modification. Any subsequent statements which result from such reopening shall be set forth and made an amendment to this Agreement, and when ratified by the parties shall constitute a change in policy.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE CITY and THE UNION have hereunto set their hands this
For Service Employees International Union Local 513 AFL-CIO
For the City of Wichita
Chris Bezruki,
Harold Schlechtweg, Business Representative
David Forbes, Negotiating Committee
Michelle Schell, Negotiating Committee
Mark Potter, Negotiating Committee
24
John GodwfafNegotiating Committee
Tim Zorn, Negotiating Committee
25
APPENDIX A
2016 Range	SEIU Step A	Step B	Step C	Step D	Step E	Step F	Step G	Step H	Step I	Step J	Step K	Step L	Step M	Step N	Step 0
609	9.8327	10.0786	10.3306	10.5889	10.8535	11.1249	11.4030	11.6881	11.9804	12.2799	12.5867	12.9014	13.2241	13.5546	13.8935
610	10.2364	10.3644	10.4939	10.6251	10.7579	10.8924	11.0285	11.1664	11.3060	11.4473	11.5904	11.7353	11.8819	12.0305	12.1809
611	10.6450	10.7781	10.9128	11.0492	11.1873	11.3272	11.4687	11.6121	11.7573	11.9042	12.0530	12,2037	12.3562	12.5107	12.6671
612	11.1019	11.3795	11.6638	11.9556	12.2545	12.5607	12.8749	13.1968	13.5266	13.8649	14.2115	14.5668	14.9309	15.3043	15.6868
613	11.5653	11.8544	12.1508	12.4545	12.7659	13.0851	13.4122	13,7476	14.0911	14.4434	14.8045	15.1747	15.5540	15.9429	16.3414
614	12.0675	12.2183	12.3711	12.5257	12.6823	12.8408	13.0013	13.1638	13.3284	13.4950	13.6637	13.8345	14.0074	14.1825	14.3598
615	12.6054	12.9206	13.2435	13.5745	13.9140	14.2618	14.6184	14.9838	15.3586	15.7424	16.1359	16.5392	16.9527	17.3767	17.8111
616	13.1673	13.4966	13.8339	14.1798	14.5342	14.8976	15.2701	15.6519	16.0431	16.4442	16.8552	17.2766	17.7087	18.1512	18.6051
617	13.7652	14.1093	14.4622	14.8238	15.1943	15.5741	15.9635	16.3626	16.7717	17.1909	17.6207	18.0611	18.5127	18.9756	19.4500
618	14.4003	14.7603	15.1293	15.5075	15.8953	16.2926	16.6997	17.1174	17.5454	17.9840	18.4336	18.8944	19.3667	19.8509	20.3473
619	15.0736	15.4504	15.8368	16.2327	16.6386	17.0543	17.4808	17.9178	18.3658	18.8249	19.2955	19.7779	20.2723	20.7792	21.2987
620	15.7701	16.1643	16.5685	16.9827	17.4073	17.8424	18.2884	18.7458	19.2145	19.6948	20.1871	20.6919	21.2091	21.7392	22.2827
621	16.5360	16.9494	17.3730	17.8074	18.2527	18.7088	19.1767	19.6561	20.1475	20.6512	21.1675	21.6967	22.2390	22.7950	23.3648
622	17.3355	17.7689	18.2130	18.6685	19.1352	19.6135	20.1038	20.6065	21.1216	21.6496	22.1909	22.7457	23.3144	23.8972	24.4946
623	18.1761	18.6305	19.0962	19.5737	20.0629	20.5646	21.0788	21.6058	22.1459	22.6995	23.2670	23.8487	24.4448	25.0559	25.6824
624	19.0811	19.5583	20.0472	20.5483	21.0621	21.5886	22.1283	22.6817	23.2486	23.8298	24.4255	25.0361	25.6622	26.3037	26.9612
625	20.0316	20.5323	21.0456	21.5718	22.1110	22.6638	23.2304	23.8111	24.4065	25.0165	25.6420	26.2830	26.9401	27.6137	28.3040
626	21.0400	21.5660	22.1052	22.6578	23.2243	23.8049	24.4001	25.0099	25.6352	26.2761	26.9331	27.6064	28.2965	29.0039	29.7290
626	21.0400	21.5660	22.1052	22.6578	23.2243	23.8049	24.4001	25.0099	25.6352	26.2761	26.9331	27.6064	28.2965	29.0039	29.7290
627	22.1091	22.6619	23.2283	23.8092	24.4042	25.0144	25.6398	26.2808	26.9379	27.6113	28.3017	29.0092	29.7344	30.4778	31.2396
630	25.6142	26.2545	26.9109	27.5837	28.2733	28.9801	29.7047	30.4472	31.2083	31.9886	32.7883	33.6080	34.4482	35.3095	36.1923
APPENDIX A 2017 SEIU	new 2017
Range	Step A	Step B	Step C	Step D	Step E	Step F	StepG	Step H	Step 1	Step J	Step K	Step L	Step M	Step N	Step 0	Step P
609	9.9310	10.1794	10.4339	10.6948	10.9620	11.2361	11.5170	11.8050	12.1002	12.4027	12.7126	13.0304	13.3563	13.6901	14.0324	14.3832
610	10.3388	10.4680	10.5988	10.7313	10.8655	11.0013	11.1388	11.2780	11.4190	11.5618	11.7063	11.8526	12.0008	12.1508	12.3027	12.6102
611	10.7515	10.8858	11.0219	11.1597	11.2992	11.4404	11.5834	11.7282	11.8748	12.0233	12.1736	12.3257	12.4798	12.6358	12.7937	13.1136
612	11.2129	11.4933	11.7804	12.0752	12.3770	12.6863	13.0036	13.3288	13.6619	14.0035	14.3536	14.7125	15.0802	15.4573	15.8437	16.2398
613	11.6810	11.9729	12.2723	12.5790	12.8936	13.2160	13.5463	13.8851	14.2320	14.5878	14.9525	15.3264	15.7095	16.1023	16.5048	16.9174
614	12.1882	12.3405	12.4948	12.6510	12.8091	12.9692	13.1313	13.2955	13.4617	13.6299	13.8003	13.9728	14.1475	14.3243	14.5034	14.8660
615	12.7315	13.0498	13.3759	13.7102	14.0531	14.4044	14.7646	15.1336	15.5122	15.8998	16.2973	16.7046	17.1222	17.5505	17.9892	18.4389
616	13.2990	13.6316	13.9722	14.3216	14.6795	15.0466	15.4228	15.8084	16.2035	16.6086	17.0238	17.4494	17.8858	18.3327	18.7912	19.2609
617	13.9029	14.2504	14.6068	14.9720	15.3462	15.7298	16.1231	16.5262	16.9394	17.3628	17.7969	18.2417	18.6978	19.1654	19.6445	20.1356
618	14.5443	14.9079	15.2806	15.6626	16.0543	16.4555	16.8667	17.2886	17.7209	18.1638	18.6179	19.0833	19.5604	20.0494	20.5508	21.0645
619	15.2243	15.6049	15.9952	16.3950	16.8050	17.2248	17.6556	18.0970	18.5495	19.0131	19.4885	19.9757	20.4750	20.9870	21.5117	22.0495
620	15.9278	16.3259	16.7342	17.1525	17.5814	18.0208	18.4713	18.9333	19.4066	19.8917	20.3890	20.8988	21.4212	21.9566	22.5055	23.0682
621	16.7014	17.1189	17.5467	17.9855	18.4352	18.8959	19.3685	19.8527	20.3490	20.8577	21.3792	21.9137	22.4614	23.0230	23.5984	24.1884
622	17.5089	17.9466	18.3951	18.8552	19.3266	19.8096	20.3048	20.8126	21.3328	21.8661	22.4128	22.9732	23.5475	24.1362	24.7395	25.3580
623	18.3579	18.8168	19.2872	19.7694	20.2635	20.7702	21.2896	21.8219	22.3674	22.9265	23.4997	24.0872	24.6892	25.3065	25.9392	26.5877
624	19.2719	19.7539	20.2477	20.7538	21.2727	21.8045	22.3496	22.9085	23.4811	24.0681	24.6698	25.2865	25.9188	26.5667	27.2308	27.9116
625	20.2319	20.7376	21.2561	21.7875	22.3321	22.8904	23.4627	24.0492	24.6506	25.2667	25.8984	26.5458	27.2095	27.8898	28.5870	29.3017
626	21.2504	21.7817	22.3263	22.8844	23.4565	24.0429	24.6441	25.2600	25.8916	26.5389	27.2024	27.8825	28.5795	29.2939	30.0263	30.7769
626	21.2504	21.7817	22.3263	22.8844	23.4565	24.0429	24.6441	25.2600	25.8916	26.5389	27.2024	27.8825	28.5795	29.2939	30.0263	30.7769
627	22.3302	22.8885	23.4606	24.0473	24.6482	25.2645	25.8962	26.5436	27.2073	27.8874	28.5847	29.2993	30.0317	30.7826	31.5520	32.3408
630	25.8703	26.5170	27.1800	27.8595	28,5560	29.2699	30.0017	30.7517	31.5204	32.3085	33.1162	33.9441	34.7927	35.6626	36.5542	37.4681
APPENDIX A
2018 Range	SEIU Step A	Step B	Step C	Step D	Step E	Step F	Step G	Step H	Step I	Step J	Step K	Step L	Step N!	Step N	Step 0	new 2017 Step P
609	10.0303	10.2812	10.5382	10.8017	11.0717	11.3485	11.6322	11.9230	12.2212	12.5267	12.8397	13.1607	13.4899	13.8270	14.1728	14.5271
610	10.4422	10.5727	10.7048	10.8386	10.9741	11.1113	11.2502	11.3908	11.5332	11,6774	11.8233	11.9711	12.1208	12.2723	12.4257	12.7363
611	10.8590	10.9947	11.1321	11.2713	11.4122	11.5548	11.6993	11.8455	11.9936	12.1435	12.2953	12.4490	12.6046	12.7621	12.9217	13.2447
612	11.3250	11.6082	11.8982	12.1959	12.5008	12.8132	13.1337	13.4621	13.7985	14.1436	14.4972	14.8596	15.2310	15.6119	16.0021	16.4022
613	11.7978	12.0927	12.3950	12.7048	13,0225	13.3481	13.6818	14.0239	14.3743	14.7337	15.1021	15.4797	15.8666	16.2634	16.6699	17.0866
614	12.3101	12.4639	12.6197	12.7775	12.9372	13.0989	13.2626	13.4284	13.5963	13.7662	13.9383	14.1125	14.2890	14.4676	14.6484	15.0146
615	12.8588	13.1803	13.5097	13.8473	14.1937	14.5485	14.9122	15.2850	15.6673	16.0588	16.4602	16.8716	17.2934	17.7260	18.1691	18.6233
616	13.4320	13.7679	14.1120	14.4648	14.8263	15.1970	15.5770	15.9665	16.3656	16.7747	17.1940	17.6239	18.0646	18.5160	18.9791	19.4535
617	14.0419	14.3929	14.7529	15.1218	15.4997	15.8871	16.2844	16.6915	17.1088	17.5364	17.9749	18.4241	18.8848	19.3570	19.8409	20.3370
618	14.6897	15.0570	15.4334	15.8192	16.2148	16.6201	17.0354	17.4615	17.8981	18.3455	18.8041	19.2742	19.7560	20.2499	20.7563	21.2752
619	15.3766	15.7610	16.1551	16.5590	16.9730	17.3971	17.8322	18.2779	18.7350	19.2033	19.6833	20.1754	20.6798	21.1969	21.7268	22.2700
620	16.0871	16.4892	16.9015	17.3241	17.7572	18.2010	18.6560	19.1226	19.6007	20.0907	20.5929	21.1078	21.6354	22.1762	22.7306	23.2988
621	16.8684	17.2901	17.7222	18.1653	18.6196	19.0848	19.5622	20.0512	20.5525	21.0663	21.5930	22.1328	22.6860	23.2532	23.8344	24.4303
622	17.6839	18.1261	18.5791	19.0437	19.5198	20.0077	20.5079	21.0207	21.5461	22.0848	22.6369	23.2029	23.7830	24.3775	24.9869	25.6116
623	18,5414	19.0050	19.4800	19.9671	20.4662	20.9779	21.5025	22.0401	22.5910	23.1558	23.7347	24.3281	24.9361	25.5595	26.1986	26.8536
624	19.4646	19,9514	20.4501	20.9613	21.4854	22.0225	22.5731	23.1376	23.7159	24.3088	24.9165	25.5393	26.1780	26.8324	27.5031	28.1907
625	20.4342	20.9450	21.4686	22.0054	22.5554	23.1193	23.6973	24.2897	24.8971	25.5193	26.1574	26.8113	27.4816	28.1687	28.8729	29.5947
626	21.4629	21.9995	22.5495	23.1132	23.6911	24.2834	24.8905	25.5126	26.1505	26.8042	27.4745	28.1613	28.8653	29.5869	30.3266	31.0847
626	21.4629	21.9995	22.5495	23.1132	23.6911	24.2834	24.8905	25.5126	26,1505	26.8042	27.4745	28.1613	28.8653	29.5869	30.3266	31.0847
627	22.5535	23.1174	23.6952	24.2878	24.8947	25.5172	26.1552	26.8090	27.4794	28.1663	28.8706	29.5923	30.3321	31.0904	31.8675	32.6642
630	26.1290	26.7822	27.4518	28.1381	28.8416	29.5626	30.3018	31.0592	31.8356	32.6316	33.4473	34.2835	35.1406	36.0192	36.9198	37.8428
Appendix B
1991 Perb Unit Determination with Modifications
Account Clerk I * Account Clerk II * Account Clerk Ell * Administrative Aide I * Administrative Secretary * Airport Operations Officer Airport Services Officer Animal Control Officer I Animal Control Officer II Animal Display Attendant Assistant Golf Course Maintenance Supervisor Body Shop Mechanic I Body Shop Mechanic II Building Attendant Building Permit Examiner Clerk I * Clerk II Clerk HI
Combination Inspector
Combination Neighborhood Inspector
Construction Inspector I Construction Inspector II Custodial Worker I Custodial Worker II Customer Service Clerk I * Customer Service Clerk II Docket Clerk Electrical & Elevator Inspector II Electrical & Elevator Inspector III Electrical Inspector Electrician I Electrician II Electronics Technician I Electronics Technician II Elevator Inspector I Engineering Aide I Engineering Aide II Engineering Aider III * Equipment Operator I
Equipment Operator II
Equipment Operator III Event Worker I Event Worker II Gardener I Gardener II Gardening Supervisor I Gardening Supervisor II General Supervisor II ** Greenskeeper Grounds Maintenance Supervisor Guard
Heating & Air Conditioning Mechanic
Helicopter Mechanic
Inspector
Laborer
Labor Supervisor I *
Laboratory Technician
Machinist Mechanic
Maintenance Specialist
Maintenance Worker
Mechanic I
Mechanic II
Mechanic HE
Mechanical Inspector I
Neighborhood Inspector I
Neighborhood Inspector II
Neighborhood Inspector HI Parts Clerk
Photo Technician
Photographer
Plant Operator
Plumber
Plumbing & Mechanical Inspector II
Plumbing & Mechanical Inspector HI
Plumbing Inspector
Property Clerk
Public Health Sanitation I
Radio Dispatcher
Rehabilitation Specialist I
Rehabilitation Specialist II
Secretary
Security Officer
Security Screener
Senior Building Permit Examiner
Senior Storekeeper
Service Attendant
Service Officer I
Service Officer II
Sewer Line Technician
Sign Painter
Signal Electrician
Special Water Service Representative
Spider Dispatcher
Storekeeper
Street Inspector
Traffic Signal Mechanic
Tree Maintenance Aide
Tree Maintenance Inspector
Tree Maintenance Worker I
Tree Maintenance Worker II
Water Line Technician
Water Meter Reader
Water Utility Worker
*Except occupants of the position who are excluded due to supervisory or confidential responsibilities.
**Century II Maintenance