Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Los Angeles, City of and Engineers and Architects Association, International Union of Police Associations (IUPA), AFL-CIO (2003) (MOA)
K#: 811825
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 21 FOR JOINT SUBMISSION TO THE CITY COUNCIL REGARDING THE TECHNICAL RANK AND FILE UNIT
THIS MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING (hereinafter "MOU") made and entered into this 2nd day of June 2003.
BY AND BETWEEN
THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS, OFFICES OR BUREAUS REPRESENTED HEREIN AND THE CITY ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER (hereinafter referred to as "Management")
AND THE
ENGINEERS AND ARCHITECTS ASSOCIATION, (hereinafter referred to as "Union")
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
1.0 GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.1	Recognition	1
1.2	Parties to Memorandum of Understanding	1
1.3	Implementation of Memorandum of Understanding	1
1.4	Full Understanding	2
1.5	Term	2
1.6	Calendar for Successor Memorandum of Understanding	2
1.7	Obligation to Support	2
1.8	Savings Clause	3
1.9	Management Rights	3
1.10	City-Union Relationship	4
1.11	Release Time	5
1.12	Amendment of MOU to Include New Classes	6
2.0 UNION SECURITY
2.1	Unit Membership List	6
2.2	New Employee Information	7
2.3	Work Access	7
2.4	Use of City Facilities	8
2.5	Bulletin Boards	8
2.6	Actions by Employee Relations Board	8
2.7	Employment Opportunities	9
2.8	Legislative Check-Off	9
2.9	Agency Shop	9
3.0 GRIEVANCES
3.1	Grievance Procedure	13
3.2	Grievance Representation	18
3.3	Grievances Regarding Suspensions	18
4.0 ON THE JOB
4.1	Safety	19
4.2	Personnel Folders	20
4.3	Out-of-Class Assignments	20
4.4	Rest Period	21
I
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
4.0 ON THE JOB
4.5	Rain Gear	21
4.6	Uniforms	22
4.7	Telecommuting	23
4.8	VDT Accessories	23
5.0 WORK SCHEDULES
5.1	Alternative Work Schedules	23
5.2	Deployment Period (Police Department)	25
5.3	Hours of Work for Polygraph Examiner	25
5.4	72-Hour Work Schedule	25
6.0 COMPENSATION
6.1	Salaries	25
6.2	Overtime	26
6.3	Shift Differential	27
6.4	Bilingual Differential	27
6.5	Sign Language Premium	28
6.6	Court Appearances	28
6.7	Civic Duty	31
6.8	Jury Service	31
6.9	Military Leave	31
6.10	Mileage	32
6.11	Call Back Pay	32
6.12	Disturbance Calls	33
6.13	On Call/Standby Compensation	34
6.14	Temporary Supervisory Pay	35
7.0 BENEFITS
7.1	Civilian Modified Flexible Benefits Plan (Health/Dental)	36
7.2	Retirement Benefits	40
7.3	Sick Leave Benefits	41
7.4	Family Illness	44
7.5	Holidays and Holiday Pay	45
7.6	Vacation	47
ii
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
7.0	BENEFITS
7.7	Bereavement Leave	48
7.8	Family and Medical Leave	49
7.9	Disability Insurance Plan	56
7.10	Dependent Care Reimbursement Account	56
7.11	Employee Assistance Program	57
7.12	Workers’ Compensation	57
7.13	Parking	58
8.0	REGISTRATION
8.1	State Registration Exams	59
8.2	Reimbursement for State License	59
8.3	Reimbursement for Drivers License Fee	59
Appendix A	Salaries effective	7/1/2001
Appendix B	Salaries effective	1/1/2002
Appendix C	Salaries effective	7/1/2002
Appendix D	Salaries effective	1/1/2003
Appendix E	Salaries effective	7/1/2003
Appendix F	Salaries effective	1/1/2004
iii
ARTICLE 1.0
GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1.1	RECOGNITION
Management hereby recognizes the Engineers and Architects Association (EAA), as the exclusive representative of the employees in the Technical Unit, for which EAA was certified as the majority representative by the Employee Relations Board on March 21, 1973. EAA shall be the exclusive representative of employees in the Technical Unit, subject to the right of each employee to represent himself/herself. The term "employee", as used herein, shall refer only to employees in the classifications listed in Appendices A through F, Salaries, as well as such classes as may be added hereafter to the Unit by the Employee Relations Board.
ARTICLE 1.2	PARTIES TO MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
This Memorandum of Understanding (hereinafter referred to as "MOU") is entered into on June 2nd, 2003 by the City Administrative Officer, as authorized management representative of the City Council, and the authorized management representatives of the Departments of Los Angeles World Airports, Animal Services, Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety, City Clerk, Community Development, Cultural Affairs, Fire, General Services, Harbor, Housing, Information Technology Agency, Library, Personnel, City Planning, Police, Public Works, Recreation and Parks, Transportation, (hereinafter referred to as "Management"), and authorized representatives of the Engineers and Architects Association (hereinafter referred to as "Union") as the exclusive recognized employee organization for the Technical Unit.
ARTICLE 1.3	IMPLEMENTATION OF MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
This Memorandum of Understanding constitutes a joint recommendation of Management and the Union. It shall not be binding in whole or in part on the parties listed below unless and until:
a.	The Union has notified the City Administrative Officer in writing that it has approved this Memorandum of Understanding in its entirety, and the City Administrative Officer has notified the Union in writing that the heads of those departments, offices or bureaus represented herein have approved this Memorandum of Understanding in its entirety in the manner required by law; and
b.	The City Council has approved this Memorandum of Understanding in its entirety. Where resolutions, ordinances or amendments to applicable codes are required, this Memorandum of Understanding shall not be binding, in whole or in part, until all such resolutions, ordinances, or amendments become effective.
1
ARTICLE 1.4
FULL UNDERSTANDING
Management and the Union acknowledge that during the meet and confer process, each had the unlimited right and the opportunity to make demands and proposals on any subject within the scope of representation and that this MOU constitutes the full and entire understanding of the parties regarding all such demands and proposals. The parties mutually understand that any prior or existing understandings or agreements by the parties, whether formal or informal, are hereby superseded or terminated.
The parties mutually agree that this MOU may not be opened at any time during its term for any reason, except by mutual consent of the parties hereto.
It is mutually understood that any changes mutually agreed to shall not be binding upon the parties unless and until they have been implemented in accordance with Article 1.3.
The waiver or breach of any term or condition of this MOU by any party hereto, shall not constitute a precedent in the future enforcement of any of its terms and provisions.
ARTICLE 1.5	TERM
The term of this MOU shall commence on the date when the terms and conditions for its effectiveness, as set forth in Article 1.3, Implementation of Memorandum of Understanding, are fully met, but in no event shall said MOU become effective prior to 12:01 a.m. on July 1, 2001. This MOU shall expire and otherwise be fully terminated at 11:59 p.m. on June 30, 2004.
ARTICLE 1.6	CALENDAR FOR SUCCESSOR MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
In the event the Union or Management desires a successor MOU, said party shall serve upon the other no later than March 1, 2004, its written proposals including proposals for fringe benefits for such successor MOU. The Union's salary proposals may be presented to Management subsequent to the presentation of the rest of the proposals, but not later than April 1,2004. Meet and confer sessions shall begin no later than thirty (30) calendar days following the receipt of the Union's proposals including the salary proposal.
ARTICLE 1.7	OBLIGATION TO SUPPORT
During the period of time the proposed MOU is being considered by the Mayor, City Council, Council Committees, or the Commissions of those departments where the Commission is the Department head, neither the Union nor Management, nor their authorized representatives, will appear before the Mayor, City Council, Council
2
Committees, or said Commissions, nor meet with the members of the City Council or said Commissioners individually to advocate any addition or deletion to the terms and conditions of this MOD. However, this Article shall not preclude the parties from appearing before the Mayor, City Council, Council Committees or said Commissions, nor meeting with individual members of the City Council or said Commissioners to advocate or urge the adoption of this MOU.
ARTICLE 1.8	SAVINGS CLAUSE
If any term or provision of this MOU is found to be in conflict with any City, State or Federal law, the parties agree to meet promptly, and as often as necessary, to expeditiously renegotiate this term or provision.
All other terms and provisions of this MOU shall remain in full force and effect during the period of such renegotiations and thereafter until their normal expiration date.
The parties understand that many of the employees covered by this MOU may also be covered by the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended, 29 U.S.C. Section 210 et seq. (FLSA). To the extent that any provision herein conflicts with the FLSA, employees covered by the FLSA shall receive benefits required thereunder and any additional benefits set forth herein if compatible with the FLSA.
ARTICLE 1.9	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
As the responsibility for the management of the City and direction of its work force is vested exclusively in its City officials and department heads whose powers and duties are specified by law, it is mutually understood that except as specifically set forth herein no provisions in this MOU shall be deemed to limit or curtail the City officials and department heads in any way in the exercise of the rights, powers and authority which they had prior to the effective date of this MOU. The Union recognizes that these rights, powers, and authority include but are not limited to, the right to determine the mission of its constituent departments, offices and boards, set standards of services to be offered to the public, exercise control and discretion over the City's organization and operations, take disciplinary action for proper cause, relieve City employees from duty because of lack of work, lack of funds or other legitimate reasons, determine the methods, means and personnel by which the City's operations are to be conducted, take all necessary actions to maintain uninterrupted service to the community and carry out its mission in emergencies; provided, however, that the exercise of these rights does not preclude employees and their representatives from consulting or raising grievances about the practical consequences that decisions on these matters may have on wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment.
3
ARTICLE 1.10	CITY-UNION RELATIONSHIP
A.	Continuity of Service to the Public
The City of Los Angeles is engaged in public services requiring continuous operations that are necessary to maintain the health and safety of all citizens. The obligation to maintain these public services is imposed both upon the City and the Union during the term of this MOU and the certification of the Union as the exclusive representative of the employees in this representation unit.
B.	Mutual Pledge of Accord
Inherent in the relationship between the City and its employees is the obligation of the City to deal justly and fairly with its employees and of the employees to cooperate with their fellow employees and the City in the performance of their public service obligation.
It is the purpose of this Memorandum to promote and ensure harmonious relations, cooperation and understanding between the City and the employees represented by the Union and to establish and maintain proper standards of wages, hours and other terms or conditions of employment.
C.	No Strike-No Lockout
In consideration of the mutual desire of the parties to promote and ensure harmonious relations and in consideration of the Mutual Pledge of Accord, the City agrees that there shall be no lockout or the equivalent of members of the Union, and the Union and its members agree that there shall be no strike or other concerted action resulting in the withholding of service by the members during the term of this MOU. Should such a strike or action by Union members occur, the Union shall immediately instruct its members to return to work. It is mutually understood and agreed that the City has the absolute right to impose discipline and, in that regard, shall have the right to take disciplinary action, including discharge, against any employee who participates in any manner in any strike or slowdown, withholding of services, picketing in support of a strike or other concerted action. The curtailing of operations by the City in whole or part for operational or economic reasons shall not be construed as a lockout.
The provisions of this Paragraph C shall not detract in any way from any restrictions imposed by law on strikes and other types of work stoppages by public employees.
4
ARTICLE 1.11	RELEASE TIME
The appointing authority may grant to elected officers or appointed representatives of the Engineers and Architects Association time off for employee organization representation activities. No more than one employee in a Department or Bureau of the Department Public Works, and no more than six employees for all bargaining units, shall be allowed release time under this Article.
A.	The employee shall submit the request for release at least 21 calendar days prior to the effective release date, specifying the starting and ending dates of release.
B.	The employee shall be paid the employee’s current salary by the City while the employee is performing these duties for EAA.
C.	Employees shall retain all of their existing benefits, including, but not limited to medical, dental, deferred compensation plan, retirement benefits, and seniority accrual in their civil service class.
D.	The EAA shall reimburse the City for all documented actual salary and benefits costs incurred as a result of release time, including but not limited to, vacation, sick leave, compensated time off, retirement, short-term disability, life insurance, medical, dental, and workers’ compensation. The benefits costs shall be based on the benefits rates established by the City Administrative Officer as contained in the City Budget in effect during the period of release time, and the cost of other benefits approved by the Joint Labor Management Benefits Committee that become effective during this period.
E.	Payment of any overtime worked while on release time shall be the responsibility of the EAA.
F.	The EAA shall make quarterly payments to the Controller of all reimbursable costs identified in Section D above.
G.	Employees on release time shall submit weekly timesheets (signed by the employee and the EAA Executive Director or Assistant Executive Director) to their respective Departmental Personnel Officer specifying the number of hours worked, and use of any sick leave, vacation time or compensated time off.
H.	Should an employee incur a work-related injury while on release time, he/she shall remain on release time with the EAA during the period of injury-on-duty (IOD), or until the release time has ended, and shall continue to be counted in determining the six employee maximum, as provided for above.
5
When the employee returns from release time, he/she shall return to his/her civil service classification and pay grade at the time of release.
J.	Release time shall be granted for a maximum of 12 months in any three-year period. Additional release time shall be permitted only with management’s approval.
K.	The employee must have passed probation in his/her current class to be eligible for release time.
L.	The EAA shall indemnify, defend and hold the City and its officers and employees harmless against any and all claims, suits, demands or other forms of liability that might arise out of or result from any action taken by an employee in the service of the EAA.
M.	The City Administrative Officer shall maintain a list of employees who have been approved for release time and the approved duration.
ARTICLE 1.12 AMENDMENT OF MOU TO INCLUDE NEW CLASSES
Upon written notification from the Office of the City Administrative Officer to the Controller, this MOU shall be amended to incorporate the class and salary of any class accreted to this bargaining unit after the adoption of this MOU.
ARTICLE 2.0	UNION SECURITY
ARTICLE 2.1	UNIT MEMBERSHIP LIST
Within thirty (30) days from the effective date of this MOU and each thirty (30) days thereafter, Management will provide the Union with an alphabetized list of employees subject to this MOU, which will include each employee's name, employee number, class title, EAA membership status, and location by department and division, where such information is available. Home addresses shall be provided within sixty (60) days from the effective date of this MOU and each ninety (90) days thereafter. Management will provide the Union in writing, within ninety (90) days from the effective date of this MOU and each ninety (90) days thereafter, an alphabetized list of employees subject to this MOU, grouped by class within departmental fund number and indicating each employee's name, employee number, class code, class title, membership status, and location by division, as applicable. This information will be provided either in the form of a computer tape or in a printed report as requested by the Union.
6
ARTICLE 2.2
NEW EMPLOYEE INFORMATION
Management will provide each new employee covered by this MOU a printed notice containing the following information only:
1.	"Your classification is included in one of the following units represented by the Engineers and Architects Association (EAA).
a.	Administrative Unit
b.	Technical Unit
c.	Supervisory Technical Unit
d.	Professional Engineering and Scientific	Unit
e.	Supervisory Professional Engineering	and	Scientific Unit
f.	Supervisory Administrative Unit
2.	The Engineers and Architects Association (EAA) has been certified to meet and confer with Management on matters pertaining to your wages, hours of work, employee benefits and other terms and conditions of employment, and is the exclusive recognized employee organization for all employees in the units listed above.
3.	For additional information, contact EAA during off duty hours at 350 South Figueroa Blvd., Suite 600, Los Angeles, CA 90071, Telephone (213) 620-6920."
Such notices shall be provided by the Union to City departments, offices and bureaus.
ARTICLE 2.3	WORK ACCESS
A full-time Union Staff Representative shall have access to the facilities of the departments, offices or bureaus represented herein during working hours for the purpose of assisting employees covered under this MOU in the adjusting of grievances when such Union assistance is requested by the grievant(s), or investigating matters arising out of the application of the provisions of this MOU. Said representative shall request authorization for such visit by contracting the designated representative of the head of the department, office or bureau of the facility that the representative desires to visit. In the event immediate access cannot be authorized, the Association staff representative shall be informed as to the time when access can be granted.
The Union shall give to all heads of departments, offices or bureaus represented herein and to the City Administrative Officer a written list of its full-time Union Staff Representatives, which shall be kept current by the Union.
7
This Article shall not be construed as a limitation on the power of the head of a department, office or bureau to restrict access to areas designated as security or confidential.
ARTICLE 2.4	USE OF CITY FACILITIES
The Union shall be permitted to use City facilities on prior approval for the purpose of holding meetings to the extent that such facilities are available to the public, and to the extent that such use of the facility will not interfere with normal departmental operations. Participating employees will attend said meetings on their own time.
If the use of a facility normally requires a fee for rental or special set-up, security, and/or cleanup service, the Union will provide or assume the cost of such service(s) or facility.
ARTICLE 2.5	BULLETIN BOARDS
Each department agrees to provide a bulletin board or space at each work location, which may be used by the Union for the following purposes:
a.	Notices of Union meetings.
b.	Notices of Union elections and their results.
c.	Notices of Union recreational and social events.
d.	Reports of official Union business.
e.	Any other communication or written material which has received the prior approval of the departmental or bureau management representative, or his/her designee.
All notices or other communications prior to being posted shall be identified with an official stamp of the Union, initialed by a full-time Union staff representative, and if requested by Management, submitted to the management representative of a department, office or bureau for posting.
It is further agreed that the Union representative shall place a removal date on all materials to be posted.
ARTICLE 2.6	ACTIONS BY EMPLOYEE RELATIONS BOARD
If any action(s) by the Employee Relations Board prior to the expiration of this MOU result in any significant changes to the composition of this representational unit, the parties to this
8
MOU will meet as soon as possible thereafter to consider any revisions or amendments thereto that may be required.
ARTICLE 2.7	EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES
The Personnel Department will mail to the Union copies of all recruitment bulletins. Tentative examination bulletins approved by the Head of the Selection Services Division of the Personnel Department will be mailed two (2) calendar days prior to the date that said bulletins are scheduled to be approved by the Civil Service Commission.
ARTICLE 2.8	LEGISLATIVE CHECK-OFF
During the term of this MOU, a payroll deduction will be established by the Union for the purpose of allowing employees in this unit to contribute towards the Union's federal legislative activities.
Said contributions shall be deducted by the Controller from twenty-four (24) biweekly payroll checks of each employee in this unit who voluntarily consents to said contribution by submitting a payroll deduction card signed by the individual employee. Remittance of the amount of said deductions shall be sent to the Union by the Controller within thirty (30) working days after the conclusion of the month in which said deductions were deducted.
A fee of nine cents ($.09) per deduction shall be assessed by the Controller for the processing of each payroll deduction taken. The Controller will deduct the aggregate amount of said fees on a biweekly basis.
Contributions shall be made payable as directed by the Union to the Federal Legislative Action Committee of the Union.
It is agreed that neither any employee nor the Union shall have any claim against the City for any deductions made or not made, as the case may be, unless a claim of error is made in writing to the Controller within thirty (30) calendar days after the date such deductions were or should have been made.
ARTICLE 2.9	AGENCY SHOP
The following agency shop provisions shall continue during the term of the MOU.
A.	DUES/FEES
1.	a. Each permanent employee* in this unit (who is not on a leave of absence) shall, as a condition of continued employment, become a
9
member of the certified representative of this unit, or pay the Union a service fee in an amount not to exceed periodic dues and general assessments of the Union for the term of this MOU, or a period of three (3) years from the operative date of this Article, whichever comes first. Such amounts shall be determined by the Union and implemented by Management in the first payroll period, which starts 30 days after written notice of the new amount is received by the Controller.
(*A permanent employee is defined as one who has completed six continuous months of City service from his/her original date of appointment and who is a member of the City Employees' Retirement System.)
b. Notwithstanding any provisions of Article 2, Section 4.203 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code to the contrary, during the term of this MOU, payroll deductions requested by employees in this Unit for the purpose of becoming a member and/or to obtain benefits offered by any qualified organization other than the Union will not be accepted by the Controller. For the purpose of this provision qualified organization means any organization of employees whose responsibility or goal is to represent employees in the City's meet and confer process.
2.	The CAO and the Union shall jointly notify all members of the representation unit that they are required to pay dues or a service fee as a condition of continued employment and that such amounts will be automatically deducted from their paychecks. The religious exclusion will also be explained. The cost of this communication and the responsibility for its distribution shall be borne by the City.
B.	EXCEPTIONS
1.	Management, Supervisory or Confidential Employees
In accordance with Section 3502.5(c) of the Government Code, the provisions of this Article shall not apply to management, confidential or supervisory employees.
a.	Management and confidential employees shall be as defined in Section
4.801 and designated in accordance with Section 4.830d of the Los Angeles Administrative Code.
10
b.	Supervisory employees shall be defined as follows:
"Supervisory employee" means any individual, regardless of the job description or title, having authority, in the interest of the employer, to hire, transfer suspend, lay off, recall, promote, discharge, assign, reward, or discipline other employees, or responsibility to direct them, or to adjust their grievances, or effectively to recommend such action, if, in connection with the foregoing, the exercise of such authority is not of a merely routine or clerical nature, but requires the use of independent judgement. Employees whose duties are substantially similar to those of their subordinates shall not be considered to be supervisory employees.
Management shall designate supervisory employees. Said designation or claim shall be reviewed jointly by Management and the Union. Any dispute shall be referred to the Employee Relations Board for resolution.
2.	Religious Objections
Any employee who is a member of a bonafide religion, body, or sect which has historically held conscientious objections to joining or financially supporting public employee organizations shall not be required to join or financially support the organization. Such employee shall, in lieu of periodic dues or agency shop fees, pay sums equal to said amounts to a non-religious, non-labor charitable fund exempt from taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, which has been selected by the employee from a list of such funds designated by the parties hereto in a separate agreement. Such payments shall be made by payroll deduction as a condition of continued exemption from the requirements of financial support to the Union and as a condition of continued employment.
C.	MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES
1.	The Controller shall cause the amount of the dues or service fee to be deducted from twenty-four (24) biweekly payroll checks of each employee in this unit as specified by the Union under the terms contained herein. "Dues," as distinct from "service fee," shall be the result of voluntary consent in the form of a payroll deduction card signed by the individual employee.
a.	Remittance of the aggregate amount of all dues, fees and other proper deductions made from the salaries of employees hereunder shall be made to the Union by the Controller within thirty (30) working days after the conclusion of the month in which said dues, fees and/or deductions were deducted.
11
b.	A fee of nine cents ($.09) per deduction shall be assessed by the City Controller for the processing of each payroll deduction taken. The City Controller will deduct the aggregate amount of said fees on a biweekly basis.
2.	The Controller shall also apply this provision to every permanent employee who, following the operative date of this Article, becomes a member of this representation unit, within sixty (60) calendar days of such reassignment or transfer. Such deduction shall be a condition of continued employment.
3.	Management will provide the Union with the name, home address, and employee number of each permanent employee.
4.	The Controller shall provide the organization, at least monthly, a status report showing all changes in the employment status of employees in this unit which affect the applicability of the provisions of this Article to those employees.
5.	Information detailed above shall be provided either in the form of a computer tape or in a printed report as requested by the Union.
D.	UNION RESPONSIBILITIES
1.	The organization shall keep an adequate itemized record of its financial transactions and shall make available annually to the City Clerk, and to all unit employees, within sixty (60) calendar days after the end of its fiscal year, a detailed written financial report thereof in the form of a balance sheet and an operating statement, certified as to its accuracy by its president and the treasurer or corresponding principal officer, or by a certified public accountant.
2.	The Union certifies to the City that it has adopted, implemented and will maintain constitutionally acceptable procedures to enable non-member agency shop service fee payers to meaningfully challenge the propriety of the uses to which service funds are put; and that those procedures are in accordance with the decision of the United States Supreme Court in Chicago Teachers Union, Local No. 1, AFT, AFL-CIO, etal. v. Hudson, 106 S. Ct. 1066(1986).
3.	The Union agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the City for any loss or damage arising from the operation of this article. It is also agreed that neither any employee nor the Union shall have any claim against the City for any deductions made or not made, as the case may be, unless a claim of error is made in writing to the
12
Controller within thirty (30) calendar days after the date such deductions were or should have been made.
E.	RESCISSION
The agency shop provisions herein may be rescinded in accordance with the procedures contained in Rule 12 of the Employee Relations Board adopted January 11, 1982.
In the event that this Article is overturned by employees in this representation unit, all other articles of the MOU shall remain in full force and the prior agreement, rules, regulations and past practices relating to organizational dues deductions authorizations shall be reinstated until a successor MOU or amendment shall have been approved.
ARTICLE 3.0	GRIEVANCES
ARTICLE 3.1	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section I	- Definition
A grievance is defined as any dispute concerning the interpretation or application of this written MOU or departmental rules and regulations governing personnel practices or working conditions applicable to employees covered by this MOU. An impasse in meeting and conferring upon the terms of a proposed MOU is not a grievance.
Section II	- Responsibilities and Rights
a.	Nothing in this grievance procedure shall be construed to apply to matters for which an administrative remedy is provided before the Civil Service Commission. Where a matter within the scope of this grievance procedure is alleged to be both a grievance and an unfair labor practice under the jurisdiction of the Employee Relations Board, the employee may elect to pursue the matter under either the grievance procedure herein provided, or by action before the Employee Relations Board. The employee's election of either procedure shall constitute a binding election of the remedy chosen and a waiver of the alternative remedy.
b.	No grievant shall lose the right to process a grievance because of Management-imposed limitations in scheduling meetings.
c.	The grievant has the responsibility to discuss the grievance informally with the immediate supervisor. The immediate supervisor will, upon request of a grievant,
13
discuss the grievance with the employee at a mutually satisfactory time. The grievant may be represented by a representative of the grievant’s choice in the informal discussion with the immediate supervisor and in all formal review levels and in arbitration. Operative the effective date of the MOU, when more than one employee in a department is aggrieved, and the facts and issues of the alleged grievance are the same, and if affected employees agree to waive their right to discuss the grievance with their immediate supervisor, a single immediate supervisor will be designated by department Management to discuss the grievance at the informal level with one affected employee designated to represent the grievance and the employees’ representative. Such grievance will be processed as a single grievance through all formal levels of review. All affected employees involved in the action must waive their respective rights to file an individual grievance on the same issue and to discuss the grievance at the informal level with the respective immediate supervisors on a form provided by Management prior to the discussion with the designated supervisor.
Operative the effective date of the MOU, in instances where more than one employee in a department is aggrieved, the Association may elect to file the grievance on behalf of the employees. The facts and issues of the alleged grievance must be the same. Such grievance must contain the names of all grievants and the specific facts pertaining to each grievant. At the time of filing the grievance, the Association may request that the first level of review be at a level higher than Step 1 and shall provide justification for such request. A single supervisor will be designated by department Management to discuss the grievance at each level with one affected employee designated to represent the grievance and the Association. Such grievance will be processed as a single grievance through all formal levels of review. All affected employees involved in the action must waive their respective rights to file an individual grievance on the same issue and to discuss the grievance at the informal level with their respective immediate supervisors on a form provided by Management prior to the discussion with the designated supervisor. Such form shall also include a statement that the employee understands that he/she is party to a grievance filed by the Association.
d.	The time limits between steps of the grievance procedure provided herein may be extended by mutual agreement, or by mutual agreement, the grievant and Management may waive one or more levels of review from this grievance procedure.
e.	Management shall notify the Union of any formal grievance filed that involves the interpretation and/or application of the provisions of this MOU, and a paid Union Staff Representative shall have the right to be present and participate in the discussion at any formal grievance meeting concerning such a grievance. The paid
14
Staff Representative who elects to attend the grievance meeting shall inform the head of the department, office or bureau.
The Union is to be notified of the resolution of all formal grievances.
Section III	- Procedure
The grievance procedure for employees covered by this MOU shall be as follows:
Step 1 - Informal Discussion
The grievant shall discuss the grievance with the immediate supervisor on an informal basis in an effort to resolve the grievance and said grievance shall be considered waived if not so presented to the immediate supervisor within ten (10) calendar days following the day during which the event upon which the grievance is based occurred.
The immediate supervisor shall respond within five (5) calendar days following the meeting with the grievant Failure of the immediate supervisor to respond within such time limit shall entitle the grievant to process the grievance at the next step.
Step 2 - First Level of Review
If the grievance is not settled at Step 1, the grievant may serve written notice of the grievance on a form provided by the department, office or bureau upon the person designated to review the grievance at Step 2 within seven (7) calendar days of receipt of the grievance response at Step 1. Failure of the grievant to serve such written notice shall constitute a waiver of the grievance.
If such written notice is served, said person shall meet with the grievant, and a written decision or statement of the facts and issues shall be rendered to the grievant and the representative, if any, within fifteen (15) calendar days from the date of service. Failure of Management to respond within such time limit shall entitle the grievant to process the grievance at the next level of review.
Step 3 - Second Level of Review
If the grievance is not settled at Step 2, the grievant may serve written notice of the grievance on a form provided by the department, office or bureau upon the person designated to review the grievance at Step 3 within seven (7) calendar days of receipt of the Step 2 grievance response. Failure of the grievant to serve such written notice shall constitute a waiver of the grievance.
15
If such written notice is served, said person shall meet with the grievant, and a written decision or statement of the facts and issues shall be rendered to the grievant and the representative, if any, within fifteen (15) calendar days from the date of service. Failure of Management to respond within such time limit shall entitle the grievant to process the grievance at the next level of review.
Step 4 - General Manager/Commission Review (Third Level of Review)
If the grievance is not settled at Step 3, the grievant may serve written notice of the grievance on said form upon the General Manager or designee within seven (7) calendar days following receipt of the grievance response at Step 3. Failure of the grievant to serve such notice shall constitute a waiver of the grievance.
If such notice is served, the grievance shall be heard by the General Manager or a designee, or in the case of the departments under the administrative control of a board of commissioners, by the Commission or the General Manager or their designee, as shall be determined by the head of the department involved. The General Manager/Commission or their designee will afford the parties an opportunity to present oral and/or written arguments on the merits of the grievance. Said person shall meet with the grievant and a written decision or statement of facts and issues shall be rendered to the grievant and the representative, if any, within one hundred and twenty (120) calendar days from the date of service. Failure of Management to respond within such time limit shall entitle the grievant to process the grievance at Step 5 (Mediation) and/or Step 6 (Arbitration).
Step 5 - Mediation
If the grievance is not settled at Step 4, within ten (10) calendar days of receiving the Step 4 response the Union and Management may mutually agree to request mediation. Either the Union or Management will notify the Employee Relations Board of such request by letter. The Employee Relations Board shall first attempt to obtain the services of a mediator from the State Mediation and Conciliation Service. The fees, if any, of such mediator shall be shared equally, by the Union and Management.
The primary effort of the mediator should be to assist the parties in settling the grievance in a mutually satisfactory fashion. The mediation procedure shall be informal. Court reporters shall not be allowed to be present, the rules of evidence shall not apply and no record shall be made. The mediator shall determine whether witnesses are necessary in the conduct of the proceedings.
If settlement is not possible, the mediator may be requested to provide the parties with an immediate oral opinion as to how the grievance would be decided if it went to arbitration. Such opinion shall be advisory only. Upon mutual agreement of the parties, the mediator
16
may be requested to furnish such opinion in writing, along with a brief statement of the reasons for the opinion. Such opinion, as well as anything said by the parties during mediation, shall not be used during any subsequent arbitration. Notwithstanding the above and Section 4.865 of the Employee Relations Ordinance, the parties may, upon mutual agreement, agree to accept the opinion of the mediator as binding, in lieu of arbitration.
Step 6 - Arbitration
If the written decision at Step 4 does not settle the grievance, or if Step 5 is waived or does not settle the grievance, the grievant and the Union jointly may serve upon the head of the department, office or bureau a written notice that a written request for arbitration has been filed with the Employee Relations Board. The request for arbitration must be filed with the Employee Relations Board within fifteen (15) calendar days following the date of service of the written decision of the General Manager/Commission or their designee at Step 4, or the date of the mediator’s opinion in Step 5. Failure of the grievant and the Union jointly to serve a written request for arbitration with the Employee Relations Board within said period shall constitute a waiver of the grievance.
If such written notice is served, the parties shall meet for the purpose of selecting an arbitrator from a list of seven (7) arbitrators furnished by the Employee Relations Board, within seven (7) calendar days following receipt of said list.
a.	Arbitration of a grievance hereunder shall be limited to the formal grievance originally filed by the employee to the extent that said grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with applicable rules and procedures adopted or specified by the Employee Relations Board, unless the parties hereto agree to other rules or procedures for the conduct of such arbitration. The fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be shared equally by the parties involved, it being mutually understood that all other expenses including, but not limited to, fees for witnesses, transcripts, and similar costs incurred by the parties during such arbitration, will be the responsibility of the individual party incurring same.
b.	The decision of an arbitrator resulting from any arbitration of a grievance hereunder shall be binding upon the parties concerned, except for grievances involving the Departments of Harbor, Library, and Pensions, which shall be advisory only.
c.	The decision of an arbitrator resulting from any arbitration of grievances hereunder shall not add to, subtract from, or otherwise modify the terms and conditions of this MOU.
17
ARTICLE 3.2
GRIEVANCE REPRESENTATION
The Union may designate a reasonable number of grievance representatives who must be members of the Unit, and shall provide all departments, offices or bureaus with a written list of employees who have been so designated. Management will semi-annually accept changes to the list presented by the Union. A grievance representative, if so requested, may represent a grievant at all levels of the grievance procedure.
The grievant and the representative may have a reasonable amount of paid time off for the purpose of presenting grievances. However, said representative will receive paid time off only if a member of the Union; is in the same Unit as the grievant; is employed by the same department, office or bureau as the grievant; and is employed within a reasonable distance from the work location of the grievant.
The grievant’s supervisor must concur regarding the necessary time off for presenting the grievance at the appropriate level. The grievant shall notify the representative of the meeting arrangements.
If a grievance representative must leave the work location to represent a grievant, permission shall first be obtained from the representative’s supervisor on a form provided for such purpose. Permission to leave will be granted unless such absence would cause an unreasonable interruption of work. If such permission cannot be granted promptly, the grievance representative will be informed when time can be made available. Such time will not be more than forty-eight (48) hours, excluding scheduled days off and/or legal holidays, after the time of the grievance representative's request unless otherwise mutually agreed to. Denial of permission to leave at the time requested will, upon mutual agreement, constitute an extension of time limits provided in the grievance procedure equal to the amount of the delay.
Time spent on grievances outside of regular working hours of the employee or the representative shall not be counted as work time for any purpose. Whenever a grievance is to be presented during the working hours of the grievant and/or the representative, only that amount of time necessary to bring about a prompt disposition of the grievance will be allowed.
ARTICLE 3.3 GRIEVANCES REGARDING SUSPENSIONS
Grievances involving suspensions of five (5) days or less in the aggregate during a twelve month period may be filed, by mutual agreement, at any Step of the Grievance Procedure, but at no Step lower than Step 2.
18
ARTICLE 4.0
ON THE JOB
ARTICLE 4.1 SAFETY
Section I
Safety clothing and devices currently provided by Management shall continue to be provided, as long as the need exists. The Union will encourage all members of the Unit to utilize said safety clothing and devices to the fullest extent possible.
Section II
Management will make every reasonable effort to provide safe working conditions. The Union will encourage all members in the Unit to perform their work in a safe manner. Each employee should be alert to unsafe practices, equipment and conditions, and should report any hazardous condition promptly to his/her immediate supervisor. Said Supervisor should:
a.	Correct or eliminate the hazardous condition if correction or elimination thereof is within the authority and capability of the supervisor; or
b.	Safeguard a hazardous condition in such a manner as to preclude injury to personnel and/or property damage, and promptly report the nature and location of the hazardous condition to the next level of supervision designated by departmental management for said purpose, if elimination of the hazardous condition is not within the immediate supervisor's capability.
c.	If elimination of the hazardous condition is not within the capability of the second level of supervision to correct, he/she shall promptly report the problem to the next designated level of supervision or inform the Departmental Safety Coordinator about the problem.
Section III
If the procedures for handling a reported hazardous condition are not initiated, or if initiated, fail to effect a satisfactory solution of the problem within a reasonable time, the employee or his/her representative may call the City Occupational Safety Office and report such hazard.
Unresolved complaints hereunder may be referred to the State Safety Engineer for processing under the CAL/OSHA rules and regulations.
19
ARTICLE 4.2
PERSONNEL FOLDERS
An employee shall be entitled to review the contents of any of his/her departmental personnel folder(s) at reasonable intervals, upon request, during hours when his/her personnel office is normally open for business. Such review shall not interfere with the normal business of the department, office or bureau.
No evaluatory or disciplinary document may be placed in an employee's personnel file without his/her review and a copy of the document presented to him/her for his/her records. The employee shall acknowledge that he/she has reviewed and received a copy of the document by signing it with the understanding that such signature does not necessarily indicate agreement with its contents.
A written reprimand or “Notice to Correct Deficiencies” will be sealed upon the written request of an affected employee if he/she has not been involved in any subsequent related incidents that resulted in written corrective counseling or other Management action for a period of five (5) years from the date the most recent notice was issued or Management action taken.
Pursuant to the above paragraph, those documents, either removed from the personnel file or sealed, shall be available upon subpoena or other appropriate legal request
ARTICLE 4.3 OUT-OF-CLASS ASSIGNMENT
Section I	- Definition
It is the intent of Management to avoid working an employee on an out-of-class assignment. An out-of-class assignment is defined as any assignment requiring substantial work in a higher level position which is not usually included within the scope of the duties and responsibilities as defined by the class specifications for the class to which the assigned employee's regular position is allocated.
Section II	- Waivers and Exceptions
a.	Nothing in this Article shall be construed as limiting Management's authority to make temporary assignments of qualified personnel during emergencies or unusual operating conditions. However, such assignments shall not be extended beyond the period of emergency or unusual operating conditions.
b.	Whenever an employee performs duties outside of the normal duties of his/her position for the purpose of training or providing experience, written confirmation of such performance will be placed in the employee's personnel file upon request by
20
the employee. Management shall designate a knowledgeable person to supervise said training or experience.
Section III	- Rate of Pay
An employee temporarily assigned higher level duties under the provisions of Section Ila will continue to receive the rate of pay for his/her regular classification and pay grade, unless or until he has been appointed to a higher classification or pay grade, except as provided for in Article 6.14. In the event that said assignment exceeds thirty (30) consecutive calendar days, Management will initiate a request to provide the higher level position authority, or initiate action to appoint a qualified employee to said position.
ARTICLE 4.4	REST PERIOD
Each employee shall be granted a minimum fifteen (15) minute rest period in each four (4) hour period; provided, however, that no such rest period shall be taken during the first or last hour of any employee's working day nor in excess of fifteen (15) minutes without the express consent of the designated supervisor.
Management reserves the right to suspend the rest period or any portion thereof during an emergency. Any rest period so suspended or not taken at the time permitted shall not be accumulated or carried over from one day to any subsequent day, or compensated for in any form.
ARTICLE 4.5	RAIN GEAR
Management will provide rain gear to employees in the classifications listed below who are required to work outside in inclement weather as a normal part of their job duties. Management shall replace such gear when no longer serviceable.
Class Code 1793-2 1793-3 2200-1 2200-2 2200-3 2200-4 4292 7228 7283 7286-1 7286-2	Class Title Photographer II Photographer III Forensic Print Specialist I Forensic Print Specialist II Forensic Print Specialist III Forensic Print Specialist IV Industrial Waste Inspector Field Engineering Aide Land Surveying Assistant Survey Party Chief I Survey Party Chief II
21
ARTICLE 4.6
UNIFORMS
Section I
The Department of Animal Regulation's present practices with regard to uniforms for the following classification will be continued during the term of this MOU.
Code	Title
2369	Veterinary Technician
Section II
Employees in the following classes and pay grades shall receive an allowance of $4.00 biweekly for the acquisition of uniform items required or approved by the Personnel Department.
Code	Title
2309-1	Physical Therapist I
2309-2	Physical Therapist II
2358-1	X-Ray and Laboratory	Technician	I
2358-2	X-Ray and Laboratory	Technician	II
Section III
The Zoo Department will provide each newly employed full-time Veterinary Technician a one-time, initial issue of wash and wear-type uniforms consisting of three shirts, three slacks and one jacket. These uniforms will be maintained, laundered or cleaned and replaced at the employee’s expense.
Each full-time Veterinary Technician (Code 2369) will receive a uniform maintenance allowance of $13.50 biweekly.
Section IV
Police Department employees in the following classes and pay grades shall receive an allowance of $3.50 biweekly for the acquisition and maintenance of uniform items approved by their department:
22
Code	Title
2200-1	Forensic	Print	Specialist	I
2200-2	Forensic	Print	Specialist	II
2200-3	Forensic	Print	Specialist	III
2200-4	Forensic	Print	Specialist	IV
Persons employed in the class of Photographer, Code 1793, in the Police Department shall receive an allowance of $10.00 biweekly for the acquisition and maintenance of uniform items approved by the Department.
Management shall also make available smocks for employees in the Scientific Investigation Division, Police Department, who require such clothing as a normal part of their job duties.
ARTICLE 4.7	TELECOMMUTING
The Engineers and Architects Association and Management acknowledge the City of Los Angeles Telecommuting Program (C.F. #93-225), and that employees of this Unit may be considered for eligibility by management of their respective departments/bureaus in accordance with the Telecommuting Action Plan.
Both parties agree to comply with this Plan, the provisions of which shall be superseded by any modifications adopted by the Joint Labor/Management Committee on Employee Parking and Transportation Options, or other body so authorized to make such modifications.
ARTICLE 4.8	VDT ACCESSORIES
Any employee in this Unit who is a frequent operator of VDT equipment may request that Management provide applicable accessories for his/her work station, e.g., copy holder, separate lamp, no-reflective glare filter and/or a hood to be attached to the display unit screen. Management will evaluate the request and will provide the necessary item(s) for the workstation, subject to availability of the item(s) requested and budgeted funds for this purpose.
ARTICLE 5.0	WORK SCHEDULES
ARTICLE 5.1	WORK SCHEDULES
Pursuant to the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), employees shall have a fixed workweek that consists of a regular recurring period of 168 consecutive hours (seven 24-hour periods) which can begin and end on any day of the week and at any time of the day. The
23
designated workweek for an employee may be changed only if the change is intended to be permanent and not designed to evade overtime requirements of the FLSA. Management may assign employees to work a four/ten, five/forty, nine/eighty or other work schedule. The Union will be entitled to consult with Management on the matter prior to the proposed action. The Union will also be entitled, upon request, to consult with Management if Management intends to deny a change in schedule to an employee. Management may require employees to change their work schedules (working hours or change days off, except the split day) within the same FLSA workweek, providing that the change is not arbitrary, capricious or discriminatory. In the event Management’s actions are shown to be arbitrary, capricious, or discriminatory before an arbitrator, the award of the arbitrator shall be to reverse the action of Management. However, the decision of the arbitrator shall be binding or advisory in accordance with Article 3.1. No employee shall be required to work a four/ten schedule against his or her will.
It is further agreed that Management shall retain the right to refuse an employee's request to work a four/ten, nine/eighty or other work schedule, and to require the reversion to a five/forty work schedule, providing that the exercise of such right is not arbitrary, capricious, or discriminatory. In the event Management's actions are shown to be arbitrary, capricious, or discriminatory before an arbitrator, the award of the arbitrator shall be to reverse the action of Management. However, the decision of the arbitrator shall be binding or advisory, in accordance with Article 3.1.
Employees on a nine/eighty modified work schedule shall have designated a regular day off (also known as 9/80 day off) which shall remain fixed. Temporary changes to the designated 9/80 day off at the request of Management or the employee are prohibited unless it is intended for the employee to work additional hours (overtime).
Employees on a four/ten work schedule shall work ten hours per day for a four day work week (or twelve hours per day for a three day work week in the Information Technology Agency only) exclusive of lunch periods. Employees shall be entitled to rest periods in accordance with the provisions of Article 4.4. Employees shall be compensated for 40 hours per week at the regular hourly rate for their class and pay grade.
EAA agrees that it is a management right to require employees who work on a four/ten, nine/eighty or three/twelve work schedule to work overtime on Saturday rather than on their day off which falls within the week. Employees who work on a schedule other than five/forty shall have their sick leave, vacation and holiday credits accrued at the same hourly rate as an employee on the five/forty schedule.
The City reserves the right to develop 26-week/1040 or 52-week/2080 hours’ work periods under FLSA Section 7(b) [29 USC §207(b)(1) and (2)] during the term of this MOU for the purpose of increasing scheduling flexibility. Implementation of this work schedule is subject
24
to agreement by the parties and certification of the Association as bona fide by the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB).
ARTICLE 5.2	DEPLOYMENT PERIOD (POLICE DEPARTMENT)
Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 4.108 (Regular Hours of Work) and 4.113 (Overtime) of the Los Angeles Administrative Code to the contrary, employees in this Unit who are employed in the Police Department shall have a work schedule consisting of twenty (20) days of work in each twenty-eight (28) day deployment period. Such day may be eight (8) hours, seven and one-half (7%) hours, or seven (7) hours as determined by the Chief of Police.
Said twenty (20) days of work or the equivalent number of days for an alternate work schedule may be scheduled at such time during two (2) biweekly pay periods as the Chief of Police may direct.
This Article shall not be construed to prohibit the implementation of flexible work schedules.
ARTICLE 5.3	HOURS OF WORK FOR POLYGRAPH EXAMINERS
All Polygraph Examiners will work an eight (8) hour shift, regardless as to whether they are assigned to work day, swing or graveyard.
ARTICLE 5.4	72-HOUR WORK SCHEDULE
Notwithstanding Section 4.108(a) of the Los Angeles Administrative Code, whenever a fulltime employee voluntarily reduces the number of his/her biweekly regular work hours from eighty (80) to a number not less than seventy-two (72) at the request of, or with the permission of, his/her appointing authority, such employee shall be credited with all rights and benefits as though he/she worked eighty (80) hours in the payroll period. The employee shall not be credited for overtime worked until more than forty (40) hours have been worked in the workweek. Compensation received under this Article shall be considered full compensation for all employees participating in the voluntary work hour reduction.
ARTICLE 6.0	COMPENSATION
ARTICLE 6.1	SALARIES
A.	The parties hereby agree that the salary ranges set forth in Appendix A will be operative on July 1, 2001.
25
B.	The parties hereby agree that the salary ranges set forth in Appendix B will be operative on January 1, 2002.
C.	The parties hereby agree that the salary ranges set forth in Appendix C will be operative on July 1, 2002.
D.	The parties hereby agree that the salary ranges set forth in Appendix D will be operative on January 1, 2003.
E.	The parties hereby agree that the salary ranges set forth in Appendix E will be operative on July 1, 2003.
F.	The parties hereby agree that the salary ranges set forth in Appendix E will be operative on January 1, 2004.
ARTICLE 6.2	OVERTIME
Section I	- Distribution of Overtime
Management will attempt to assign overtime work as equitably as possible among all qualified employees in the same classification in the same organizational unit and work location. However, Management may consider special skills required to perform particular work. No employee shall work overtime without prior approval from his or her supervisor. FLSA non-exempt employees may not work outside of scheduled working hours, or during unpaid meal periods, without the prior approval of a supervisor, consistent with department policy. Failure to secure prior approval may result in discipline. Working and not recording the time is similarly prohibited
Section II	- Non-emergency Overtime
Whenever Management deems it necessary to perform non-emergency work on an overtime basis, employees required to work will be given at least forty-eight (48) hours notice.
Section III	- Rate and Methods of Compensation-FLSA Non-Exempt Employees
Compensation for overtime worked by employees in classifications listed in Appendices A through F, herein, shall be for all hours worked in excess of 40 hours in a workweek, including all absences with pay authorized by law. Management shall have the discretion to determine whether overtime compensation shall be in cash or time-off. Overtime compensation shall be in time off at the rate of one-and-one-half (1%) hours for each hour
26
of overtime worked, or in cash at the rate of one-and-one-half (1%) times the employee's regular rate of pay.
Section IV	- Compensatory Time Off
Employees may, subject to Management discretion, be permitted to accumulate up to 80 hours of compensatory time off (CTO). Occasionally, employees may accumulate CTO in excess of 80 hours for a temporary period of time, not to exceed an additional fiscal year.
If an employee does not schedule and take CTO over 80 hours prior to the end of the fiscal year in which the overtime was worked, Management may require employees to use CTO prior to the end of the fiscal year; require employees to use such time in lieu of vacation (unless the mandatory use of CTO would result in the loss of vacation accumulation) or other leave time; or authorize cash payment. In the event sufficient funds are not available to provide cash compensation for all or a portion of the CTO hours in excess of 80, Management may extend the time limit for a period not to exceed one additional fiscal year. Notwithstanding the above, departments may exceed the overtime limits specified above during the term of the MOU only; departments must be in full compliance with these provisions by June 30, 2004.
In accordance with FLSA, no employee shall lose CTO. Employees shall be permitted to take CTO for overtime worked upon request unless granting of such time would unduly disrupt the operations of the City department. This standard does not apply to non-FLSA overtime (i.e., overtime earned pursuant to this agreement that does not meet the FLSA definition of overtime).
Under no circumstances shall compensated time off in excess of 240 hours be accumulated.
ARTICLE 6.3	SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
Notwithstanding the provisions of Note N of Schedule A of Section 4.61 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code, any employee, when required to work 50% or more of his/her time during his/her regular shift on any one day between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 8:00 a m., shall receive for each such day worked, salary at the second premium level rate above the appropriate step rate of the salary range prescribed for his/her classification. The procedure for the payment of adjusted compensation for work performed under the provisions of this Article shall be in accordance with Sections 4.72, 4.74, and 4.75 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code.
ARTICLE 6.4	BILINGUAL DIFFERENTIAL
Whenever an appointing authority determines that it is necessary or desirable that a position be filled by a person able to converse fluently in a language other than English, or write and interpret a language other than English, the appointing authority shall transmit
27
to the Controller a written statement approving payment of a bilingual premium, as provided by this Article to the person occupying such a position and possessing such bilingual skills.
After authorizing payment of a bilingual premium, the appointing authority shall certify to the Controller the name of an employee eligible for a bilingual premium and the Personnel Department shall certify to the Controller that the employee has qualified under its standards of fluency and proficiency for said language.
Persons certified as being qualified by the Personnel Department shall receive a bilingual premium of one premium level rate (2.75%) for duties requiring that they converse fluently in a language other than English, or of two premium level rates (5.5%) for duties requiring that they interpret a language other than English, in addition to conversing fluently in that other language.
Compensation provided for in this Article shall be retroactive to the employee's first day in a bilingual position.
ARTICLE 6.5	SIGN LANGUAGE PREMIUM
Any qualified employee covered by the provisions of the MOU who is requested by the deaf-mute assistance center to utilize sign language shall receive compensation equal to 2% percent of their salary or wages for each business day the skill is utilized. Such practices of additional compensation shall be in accordance with Section 4.84.1 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code.
ARTICLE 6.6	COURT APPEARANCES
Section I
The following court provisions will apply to all employees in the Unit, except those in the Police Department.
When an employee is required to appear in the Superior or Municipal Court in and for the County of Los Angeles outside of his/her normal duty hours, but on a matter arising within the scope of his/her employment, said employee shall be entitled to receive a minimum of one hour at VA times his/her regular rate of pay. Time spent in excess of the one-hour minimum guarantee shall also be at the rate of VA times the employee's regular rate of pay, payable in six (6) minute increments. No compensation shall be paid for the first forty-five (45) minutes of the Court's noon recess, provided, however, that no such compensation shall be allowed unless such employee is in actual attendance in court.
28
Such compensation for court appearances may be in either time off or cash. Call back provisions are not applicable to court appearances.
Section II
The following court provisions shall apply to employees in the Police Department and Transportation Investigators (Code 4271) and Senior Transportation Investigators (Code 4273) in the Department of Transportation. These provisions apply only for the payment of overtime for court appearances outside of the normal duty hours of employees. Call back provisions are not applicable to court appearances.
A.	Basic Compensation
Police Department Employees
An employee, at the employee's option, may report to court when subpoenaed or remain on call. If the employee elects to appear in court, the division supervisor must be notified, at the latest, one administrative day prior to the scheduled court appearance. If the employee wishes to remain on call, the employee must be able to appear in court not more than one hour after being notified that the employee's appearance is required in court. To appear in court more than an hour after having been notified will void the employee's right to on-call compensation. An employee need not remain at home, but must be available for telephonic notification at a location where the supervisor knows the employee can be reached.
Transportation Department Employees
Department Management shall determine if an employee reports to court or remains on an on-call status. If the employee is on an on-call status, the employee must be able to appear in court not more than one hour after being notified that the employee's appearance is required in court. To appear in court more than one hour after having been notified will void the employee's right to on-call compensation. An employee need not remain at home, but must be available for telephonic notification at a location where the supervisor knows the employee can be reached.
1.	An off-duty employee shall receive a minimum of two (2) hours overtime compensation for any court day he/she is subpoenaed to be on call or required to appear.
2.	An off-duty employee shall receive hour-for-hour overtime compensation for each additional hour of actual attendance in excess of the two (2) hour
29
minimum provided for in paragraph A(1) above, with the following noontime recess exceptions:
Length of Recess Forty-five (45) minutes or less
Amount of Compensation None
Forty-six (46) minutes or less
All time over forty-six (46) minutes (in six [6] minute increments).
NOTE: An employee shall not receive court on-call overtime compensation and hour-for-hour overtime compensation for the same time period.
B.	Multiple Cases
An off-duty employee who receives morning and afternoon subpoenas for separate cases on a court day shall receive overtime compensation as in paragraph A(1) above, for each case for a total of four (4) hours. In addition, he/she shall receive hour-for-hour overtime compensation for each additional hour of actual court attendance in excess of two (2) hours.
C.	Exceptions to the Two Hour Minimum
Management will attempt to adjust an employee's shift to accommodate court appearances or on-call status commencing two hours or less before or after the employee's regularly assigned shift begins or ends. If an employee's shift cannot be adjusted, the employee will be compensated as follows:
1.	Court appearances or on-call status commencing two (2) hours or less before the employee’s regularly assigned shift begins. Compensation will be for the actual time between the commencement of the court appearance or on-call and the beginning of the employee's assigned shift with the same noon recess provisions as outlined in paragraph A(2) above.
2.	Court appearances commencing two (2) hours or less after the employee's regularly assigned shift ends. Compensation will be for the actual time between the end of the employee's assigned shift and the termination of the court appearance with the same noon recess provisions as outlined in paragraph A(2) above.
30
3.	Court appearances or on-call that begin during an employee's regularly assigned shift. Compensation will be for the actual time between the end of the employee's assigned shift and the termination of the appearance or on-call status with the same noon recess provisions as outlined in paragraph A(2) above.
ARTICLE 6.7	CIVIC DUTY
Whenever an employee is served with a subpoena by a court of competent jurisdiction which compels his/her presence as a witness during his/her normal working period, unless he/she is a party to the litigation or an expert witness, such employee shall be granted time off with pay in the amount of the difference between the employee's regular earnings and any amount he/she receives for such appearance. This Article is not applicable to appearances for which the employee receives compensation in excess of his/her regular earnings.
A court of competent jurisdiction is defined as a court within the County in which the employee resides or if outside the county of residence, the place of appearance must be within 150 miles of the employee's residence.
ARTICLE 6.8	JURY SERVICE
Any employee who is duly summoned to attend any court for the purpose of performing jury service or has been nominated and selected to serve on a Grand Jury, shall, for those days during which jury service is actually performed and those days necessary to qualify for jury service, receive his/her regular salary. However, any jury attendance fees received by the employee, except for jury service fees received for service on a regular day off or holiday, shall be paid to the City. A prorated portion of jury service fees received by a halftime employee shall be paid to the City when those fees are received for jury service performed on days for which the employee is scheduled to work a portion of a day. The absence of any employee for the purpose of performing jury service shall be deemed to be an authorized absence with pay.
ARTICLE 6.9	MILITARY LEAVE
Every employee who qualifies for and is granted a military leave, whether temporary or otherwise, pursuant to the provisions of the Military and Veterans Code of the State of California, shall, before he/she is paid his/her salary or compensation during such leave, or any part thereof, as provided in said Code, furnish to his/her appointing authority two certified copies of his/her orders, one (1) copy to be filed in the department in which he/she is employed and the other with the Controller. In lieu of the orders, the employee shall furnish to the appointing authority, upon forms provided by the Controller, certified
31
evidence of his/her entry into active service in the armed forces of the United States and the date thereof. Any certification required by this Article may be made by any commissioned officer of such armed forces. The Controller shall have power at any time to require such additional satisfactory evidence of the entry of such employee into active service in such armed forces and of the actual performance by the employee of ordered military duty during all or any part of such leave.
In determining whether an employee has been in the service of the City for a period of not less than one year immediately prior to the date on which the absence begins, continuous service shall be required.
ARTICLE 6.10	MILEAGE
Each employee that is authorized to use his/her own vehicle, pursuant to Division 4, Chapter 5, Article 2 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code (LAAC), in the performance of his/her duties shall be reimbursed for transportation expenses at the rate of thirty-six cents (36.00) per mile for all miles traveled in any biweekly period, in addition to any and all salaries and other compensation otherwise provided for by law.
Notwithstanding Section 4.231 of the LAAC, effective the payperiod in which July 1, 2003 falls, employees authorized to use their personal vehicles pursuant to Section 4.229 of the LAAC who are required by Management to bring the vehicle to work each day shall receive a minimum payment of 10 miles per day, regardless of whether the vehicle is driven for City business.
During the term of this MOU, the cents per mile reimbursement shall be adjusted to an amount equal to the annual standard car mileage allowance as determined by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The City Administrative Officer shall certify to the Controller appropriate changes, if required, to become effective the beginning of the pay period in which the IRS change is effective.
ARTICLE 6.11	CALL BACK PAY
Section I
Whenever an employee is ordered by the administrative head of the department, office or bureau, or a designee, to return to duty following the termination of the work shift and departure from the work location, the employee shall receive minimum compensation equivalent to four (4) hours at the employee’s appropriate overtime rate. Call Back time contiguous to and continuing into a normal work shift will not be treated as Call Back for purposes of this Article, but will instead be compensated as hour for hour overtime.
32
Section II
Whenever an employee in the Police Department is ordered by a designated representative of the Chief of Police to return to duty following the termination of the employee's normal work shift and departure from the work location, the employee shall receive the sum of ten (10) dollars if the call is canceled prior to the time the employee reports to the telephonically assigned work location. The employee shall be entitled to only one such payment in each twenty-four (24) hour period commencing with the termination of the employee's normal work shift.
Section III
If an employee is called out, under the provisions of Section I, within four (4) hours of the first call out, the employee shall receive a second four (4) hours pay or eight (8) hours pay at the employee’s appropriate overtime rate.
ARTICLE 6.12	DISTURBANCE CALLS
The parties mutually agree that this Article applies to employees of the Scientific Investigation Division of the Police Department, of the Information Technology Agency, or the Bureau of Sanitation, employed in the following classes:
Photographer
Examiner of Questioned
Documents
Police Composite Artist
Industrial Waste Inspector
Computer Operator
Data Processing Technician Applications Programmer Senior Computer Operator Systems Programmer
Systems Programmer Assistant
Effective the payperiod in which the operative date of the MOU falls, this article shall apply to employees in the class of Firearms Examiner, (Code 2233) and employees in the class of Transportation Planning Associate II (Code 2480) assigned to the Charter Bus Program in the Department of Transportation.
Whenever such an employee is contacted while on off-duty status by the Department head, or designee, to furnish information needed to maintain the continuity of City business, without the necessity of having to personally report for duty, such employee shall receive compensation at the rate of one hour at the regular rate, subject to the following limitations:
a.	Only one such disturbance call shall be compensated in any one calendar day;
33
b.	Any employee receiving On Call/Standby Compensation for the same day shall not be eligible to receive compensation under this Article for that day;
c.	The Department head or designee may determine the method of compensation;
d.	An employee contacted while off-duty concerning subsequent work scheduling shall not be eligible to receive compensation under this Article.
The parties agree to reopen this Article during the term of this MOU to add classes, if necessary and desirable. The effective date for classes added to this Article, pursuant to reopening, shall be 60 calendar days prior to the effective date of the implementing ordinance.
ARTICLE 6.13	ON CALL/STANDBY COMPENSATION
Persons employed in the classes listed below in the Information Technology Agency, Department of Public Works, Bureau of Sanitation, and the Departments of Harbor and Airports, who are subject to call to correct or maintain the computer equipment, operating system software, or applications programs during the employee's off-duty hours on a regularly scheduled work day or anytime, shall receive, when assigned to standby for such purposes, in addition to any other compensation provided for herein, the sum of $12.50 for each day of such assignment.
Code	Title
1402	EDP Trainee
1427	Computer Operator
1428	Senior Computer Operator
1429	Applications Programmer
1455	Systems Programmer
1456	Systems Programmer Assistant
1470	Data Base Architect
Persons employed in the Police Department in the Photographer, Polygraph Examiner and Forensic Print Specialist series when required to be on standby by a designated representative of the Chief of Police, shall receive, in addition to any other compensation provided for herein, the sum of $12.50 for each day of such assignment.
Persons employed in the Department of Public Works, Bureau of Sanitation, as a Laboratory Technician (Code 7854) when assigned to standby during their off-duty hours shall receive, in addition to any other compensation provided for herein, the sum of $12.50 for each day of such assignment.
34
Employees in the class of Industrial Waste Inspector (Code 4292) working the Stormwater Management Division of the Bureau of Sanitation, Department of Public Works, when assigned to standby during their off-duty hours shall receive, in addition to any other compensation provided for herein, the sum of $12.50 for each day of such assignment.
Effective the payperiod in which the operative date of the MOU falls, all employees in the class of Industrial Waste Inspector (Code 4292) are eligible to receive pay under the provisions of this Article.
Effective the payperiod in which the operative date of the MOU falls, employees in the class of Firearms Examiner (Code 2233) and employees in the class of Transportation Planning Associate II (Code 2480) assigned to the Charter Bus Program in the Department of Transportation when assigned to standby during their off-duty hours shall receive, in addition to any other compensation provided for herein, the sum of $12.50 for each day of such assignment.
The parties agree to reopen this Article during the term of this MOU to add classes, if necessary and desirable. The effective date for classes added to this Article, pursuant to reopening, shall be 60 calendar days prior to the effective date of the implementing ordinance.
ARTICLE 6.14	TEMPORARY SUPERVISORY PAY
Section I
a.	Whenever Management assigns an employee to perform the full duties of a higher level supervisory position in the same class series in situations where the incumbent of the higher level position is temporarily absent, such employee shall become eligible for additional compensation upon completion of a qualifying period of 15 consecutive working days in such assignment at his/her regular rate of compensation. Paid leave time taken during a qualifying period shall extend the 15 day qualifying period by the length of the absence. All other absences shall constitute a disqualifying break in the 15-day qualifying period requirement, necessitating the initiation and completion of a new qualifying period.
Each temporary supervisory assignment shall require completion of a new qualifying period each fiscal year, except when such assignment is continuous and in the same work location.
b.	Whenever Management assigns an employee on a temporary basis to perform the full duties of a vacant higher level supervisory position in the same class series,
35
such employee shall become eligible for additional compensation on the first day of such assignment.
Section II
An employee qualifying for additional compensation as stated above shall receive salary at the second premium level (5.5%) above the appropriate biweekly rate for his/her class.
Section III
Management retains the right to determine whether a position is vacant or to be filled due to a temporary absence.
ARTICLE 7.0	BENEFITS
ARTICLE 7.1	CIVILIAN MODIFIED FLEXIBLE BENEFITS PROGRAM
During the term of this MOU, the City will provide benefits in accordance with the Civilian Modified Flexible Benefits Program (hereinafter Flex Program) and any modifications thereto as recommended by the Joint Labor-Management Benefits Committee and approved by the City Council.
The sections below are intended to reflect the Flex Program approved on July 17, 1996. If there are any discrepancies between the benefits described herein and the Flex Program approved by the Joint Labor-Management Benefits Committee, the Flex Program benefits will take precedence.
Section I	- Health Plans
The health plans offered and benefits provided by those plans shall be those approved by the City's Joint Labor-Management Benefits Committee and administered by the Personnel Department in accordance with Los Angeles Administrative Code Section 4.303.
Management agrees to contribute a monthly sum not to exceed $524.66 per month, effective January 1,2002, per full-time employee, effective the beginning of the pay period in which the Kaiser yearly premium rate change is implemented, toward the cost of a City-sponsored health plan for employees who are members of LACERS.
Effective January 1, 2002, for each half-time employee, as defined by Section 4.110 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code (LAAC) who becomes a member of LACERS following July 1, 1990, and for each employee who transfers from full-time to half-time status following the July 1, 1990, Management agrees to contribute a monthly subsidy not to exceed $201.80 per employee.
36
Management will apply this sum first to the employee's coverage. Any remaining balance will be applied toward the coverage of the employee's dependents under the plan.
During the term of this MOU, Management's monthly subsidy for full-time employees shall increase by the increase in the Kaiser Permanente family rate. For half-time employees, Management's monthly subsidy shall increase by the increase in the Kaiser Permanente Single Party Rate. Increases in the monthly subsidy shall be effective at the beginning of the pay period in which the Kaiser Permanente yearly premium rate change is implemented.
Half-time employees who, prior to July 1, 1990, were receiving the same subsidy as fulltime employees shall continue to receive the full-time employee subsidy and shall be eligible to receive any increases applied to that subsidy as provided in this Article.
Employees who transfer from full-time to half-time under the provisions of Article 7.8, Family and Medical Leave, shall continue to receive the same subsidy as full-time employees and shall be subject to any adjustments applied to that subsidy as provided in this Article.
During the term of this MOU, the Joint Labor-Management Benefits Committee will review all rate changes and their impact on the Health Plans.
Section II	- Dental Plans
The dental plans offered shall be those approved by the City's Joint Labor-Management Committee and administered by the Personnel Department in accordance with Los Angeles Administrative Code Section 4.303.
Management will expend for full-time employees in the classifications listed in this Unit, who are members of LACERS, the monthly sum necessary to cover the cost of employee only coverage under the City-sponsored Dental Plan Program. Coverage for dependents of eligible employees may be obtained in a City-sponsored plan at the employee's expense, provided that such sufficient enrollment is maintained to continue to make such coverage available.
For each half-time employee, as defined by Section 4.110 of the LAAC, who becomes a member of LACERS and for each employee who transfers from full-time to half-time status following July 1, 1990, Management will expend an amount equivalent to one-half of the cost of the employee only coverage of the most expensive plan under the City-sponsored Dental Program. Half-time employees who, prior to July 1, 1990, were receiving the full employee only subsidy shall continue to receive the full employee only subsidy.
37
During the term of this MOU, the Joint Labor-Management Benefits Committee will review all rate changes and their impact on the Dental Plans.
Union-Sponsored Dental Insurance
Employees may elect to be covered by one of the Union-sponsored dental insurance programs instead of by the City-sponsored dental insurance plan. The amount to be remitted for each employee covered by an Union sponsored plan shall be a maximum of $15.67 monthly. Enrollment in the Union plans shall be available to all employees regardless of Union membership or affiliation. Employees may not receive a subsidy for more than one of the City-sponsored or Union-sponsored dental plans.
If the monthly rate of any Union sponsored plan increases, the City will adjust its subsidy to the amount necessary to cover the employee only coverage; provided, however, that the monthly amount of the increased subsidy may not exceed the maximum cost of the employee only coverage at that time under the City plan or $18.00 per month, whichever is greater.
The parties mutually understand that the City will expend the above noted funds only for those employees who enroll in these plans and remain on active payroll status with the City, and that the City retains all rights to any unused funds which may be allocated for the purpose of implementing this Article.
The parties mutually understand that the City will provide the subsidy to the separate EAA dental carriers an aggregate amount equal to the sum of the subsidy paid for those employees enrolled in the Union-sponsored programs who are on the payroll during each payroll period for which the subsidy is paid together with a list of those employees for whom the subsidy was paid during said payroll period. Remittance of this aggregate amount will be made within 30-working days after the conclusion of the payroll period in which the subsidy was paid.
The parties further understand that for those employees enrolled in an Union-sponsored program, who authorized the City Controller to make a payroll deduction to cover any additional costs of said dental insurance plan, the City will remit to the carrier a separate amount and appropriate deduction list.
The parties mutually agree that the City is not responsible for, nor expected to provide, any additional accounting, administrative, bookkeeping, clerical or other services except as provided for in the above paragraphs, and that the Union assumes all responsibility for any services which may arise out of the administration of the Union-sponsored programs.
38
The Union shall indemnify, defend and hold the City harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability that shall arise out of or result from any action taken by the City for purposes of complying with this Article, or by failure of the Union or its dental insurance carrier to provide the coverage and services agreed to between the Union and the carrier.
Management will retain all duties and responsibilities it has had for the administration of the City's Dental Plan.
Section III	- Definition of Dependents
The definition of a dependent for health and dental plan coverage shall include the domestic partner of an employee and the dependents of such domestic partner. Any employee claiming a domestic partner and/or the dependents of such domestic partner for purposes of this Article shall complete a confidential affidavit to be filed in the Employee Benefits Office, Personnel Department, which shall be signed by the City employee and the domestic partner, declaring the existence of a domestic partnership.
By extending to an employee the specific benefits defined by this Article, the City does not intend to confer or imply any other unspecified benefits to such employee, or to the employee's domestic partner, or to the dependents of such domestic partner.
Section III - General Provisions
An open enrollment period of at least 30 days shall be declared by the Personnel Department each year. During this open period, employees may enroll themselves and, at their option, their dependents in the City-sponsored plan. Employees who fail to enroll during this open period will be ineligible to participate in City-sponsored plan unless another open enrollment period is subsequently declared by the Personnel Department. However, employees may enroll in Union-sponsored programs in accordance with the procedures of those programs.
Management will retain all duties and responsibilities it has had for the administration of the City’s Health and Dental Plans.
Section V - Subsidy During Family and Medical Leave
For an employee who is on family or medical leave, under the provisions of Article 7.8 of this MOU, Management shall continue the City's medical and dental plan subsidies. Employees shall be eligible for such continued subsidy for a maximum of nine (9) pay periods from the qualifying date of the family or medical leave, including the paid and the
39
unpaid portions of the leave. The continuation of the subsidy will be provided only under the following conditions:
a.	The employee shall have been employed continuously by the City for a one-year period prior to the beginning of the leave.
b.	The employee shall have been enrolled in a City health plan prior to the beginning of the leave to continue the health plan subsidy. The employee shall have been enrolled in a City dental plan prior to the beginning of the leave to continue the dental plan subsidy.
c.	The City will not continue the subsidy if the employee is covered under a non-City health or dental plan.
d.	The continuance of the health plan subsidy shall include coverage of any new dependent(s). Employees are responsible for notifying the Employee Benefits Office of any additional dependent(s).
e.	In accordance with the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA), employees on unpaid family or medical leave shall not be required to repay the City subsidy (1) upon return to work, or (2) if they terminate City employment following the leave due to a continuing serious health problem or other extenuating circumstances beyond the control of the employee. Should an employee fail to return to work for any other reason, then they shall be required to reimburse the City for the subsidy provided during the unpaid portion of their leave. Such reimbursement shall be deducted from any compensation owed to the employee upon termination of City employment.
ARTICLE 7.2	RETIREMENT BENEFITS
A. Benefits
Retirement benefits including the Beta Retirement Formula and the subsidy of one-half the employees’ retirement contribution rates will be continued during the term of this MOU. The City will further reduce, after the one-half subsidy, the employees' retirement contribution rate by two percent (2%) of his/her compensation eamable during the term of this MOU. The foregoing retirement rate subsidies shall not be applicable to employees hired January 1, 1983 and thereafter, who shall make a flat-rated employee retirement contribution of six percent (6%).
40
B.
Procedure for Benefits Modifications
Proposals for major retirement benefit modifications will be negotiated in joint meetings with the certified employee organizations whose memberships will be directly affected. Agreements reached between Management and organizations whereby a majority of the members in the LACERS are affected shall be recommended to the City Council by the City Administrative Officer as affecting the membership of all employees in LACERS. Such modifications need not be included in the MOU in order to be considered appropriately negotiated.
Proposals for minor benefit modifications and technical changes will be considered and reported on as appropriate, but no more than once a year, in a report from the City Administrative Officer to the City Council. Affected organizations shall be given the opportunity to review the proposed minor changes prior to the release of the report, and their views shall be included in the report.
If agreement is not reached between Management and the organizations representing a majority of the members in LACERS as to whether a particular proposal constitutes either a major or a minor modification, the proposal shall be treated as a major modification.
ARTICLE 7.3	SICK LEAVE BENEFITS
Every full-time employee shall be entitled to sick leave with pay if the employee is compelled to be absent from work due to any illness or injury other than that caused by or arising from the employee's own moral turpitude, or sustained in the course of or arising out of and proximately caused by the employee's duties as a City employee. Such sick leave shall be allowed as follows:
1.	Employees must complete six consecutive months of service without being absent without pay for more than a total of ten working days before accruing sick leave. At the completion of the qualifying period, such employees shall accrue one day of sick leave, and shall accrue one additional day at the end of each subsequent month worked until January 1 following completion of the six-month period. Such accrual will be on the first day of the pay period in which the employee's anniversary date falls. Beginning January 1 following completion of the qualifying period, employees shall be allowed 12 working days' leave at full pay and five working days at 75% of full pay each calendar year, plus the days of sick leave accrued and accumulated as provided in this Article. Any unused balance of sick leave at 50% of full pay accrued prior to January 1, 1998 shall be compensated by cash payment at 25% of the employee’s salary rate upon retirement or upon death if eligible to retire on the date of death.
41
2.
Changes in an employee's rate of accrual resulting from a change in his/her bargaining unit shall be adjusted on the January 1 following such change.
3. Half-time employees, as defined by Section 4.110 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code, must complete a period of six consecutive months of service, and must have been compensated for at least 500 hours before qualifying for sick leave. Upon completion of the qualifying period, a half-time employee will be allowed leave prorated on the basis of total number of hours scheduled in relationship to the total number of hours required for full-time employment.
No sick leave at partial pay shall be allowed any employee unless and until all sick leave with full pay to which the employee is entitled shall have been used.
All sick leave shall be taken in whole hour increments.
Payment for Unused Sick Leave
Any unused balance of sick leave at full pay at the end of any calendar year shall be carried over and accumulated from one calendar year to the next to a maximum of 100 working days, provided, however, that any sick leave at full pay remaining unused at the end of any calendar year, which if added to an employee's accumulated sick leave at full pay will exceed 100 working days, shall, as soon as practicable after the end of each calendar year, be compensated for by cash payment of 50% of the salary rate current at the date of payment.
If an employee retires from the service of the City, or if an employee who is eligible to retire on or after July 1, 1996 dies prior to retirement, any balance of accumulated sick leave at full pay remaining unused at the date of retirement or death shall be compensated to the employee, or in the event of the death of the employee, to his/her legal beneficiaries, by cash payment at 50% of the employee's salary rate on the date of retirement or death.
If an employee retires from the service of the City, or if an employee who is eligible to retire on or after January 1,1997 dies prior to retirement, any balance of accumulated sick leave at 50% of full pay remaining unused at the date of retirement or death shall be compensated to the employee, or in the event of the death of the employee, to his/her legal beneficiaries, by cash payment at 25% of the employee’s salary rate on the date of retirement or death.
The City Council may, by resolution, authorize cash payment to the legal beneficiaries of any City employee who, on or after January 1, 1990, is killed during the performance of
42
job-related duties for the balance of the employee’s accumulated full-pay sick leave at 100% of the employee’s salary rate on the date of his/her death.
In no instance shall an employee or his/her beneficiaries be compensated more than once for accumulated full pay sick leave any 50% sick leave upon retirement or death.
Any unused balance of sick leave at 75% of full pay at the end of any calendar year shall be carried over and accumulated from one calendar year to the next to a maximum of 100 working days at 75% pay. All accrued sick leave at partial pay in excess of such maximum amount shall be deemed waived and lost.
Preventive Medicine
Upon approval of the appointing authority, an employee may be allowed sick leave with full pay not to exceed an aggregate of sixteen hours in any one calendar year, but not less than one hour at any one time which shall be included in the allowance of sick leave at full pay under this Article for the purpose of securing preventive medical, dental, optical or other like treatment or examination for the employee and for the members of the employees immediate family, as defined in Article 7.4.
Doctor's Certificate Requirement
Payment for sick leave at full pay for any period of three consecutive working days or less may be allowed upon approval of the appointing authority. No payment, however, for sick leave in excess of three consecutive working days shall be made until a doctor's certificate or other suitable and satisfactory proof showing the fact of the illness and the necessity for the absence, together with such other satisfactory proof of the probity of the claim as may be required as been received, accepted and approved by the employee's appointing authority and reported to the Controller. Nothing in this Article shall prevent the appointing authority from requiring a doctor's certificate or proof of illness at any time.
Extended Sick Leave
When sick leave extends for more than 25 consecutive working days, the appointing authority shall initiate the following procedure:
1.	The appointing authority shall transmit a medical report of the employee's physician or such other evidence as he/she may have to the Personnel Department Examining Physician as to the medical necessity for such leave, estimated duration of the disability and any other pertinent medical facts in connection therewith. The General Manager of the Personnel Department may, if he/she deems it advisable,
43
order a medical examination or make other investigation of the employee for the purpose of said report by the Personnel Department Examining Physician.
2.	Upon receipt of the report from the Personnel Department Examining Physician, the General Manager of the Personnel Department shall submit the same to the appointing authority.
3.	The appointing authority, after considering such report, may approve further payment for such sick leave not to exceed 63 additional working days or may disapprove further payment for any such additional sick leave and shall so notify the office of the Controller.
In any case where use of sick leave with either full or partial pay, or both, extends for more than 63 consecutive working days beyond the first 25 consecutive working days, and for each successive period of 63 working days thereafter, the appointing authority shall reinstate the procedure set forth above before payment for more than each 63 consecutive days may be made.
Leave for Pregnancy
Every full-time and half-time employee shall be entitled to use sick leave accrued pursuant to this Article if that employee is unable to work due to the employee's own pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions.
ARTICLE 7.4	FAMILY ILLNESS
Any employee who is absent from work by reason of the illness or injury of a member of his/her immediate family, and who has accrued unused sick leave at full pay, shall, upon the approval of the appointing authority be allowed leave of absence will full pay for a maximum of 12 working days in any one calendar year. The appointing authority may require that the employee furnish a doctor's certificate or other suitable proof showing the nature and extent of the injury or illness to justify such absence.
"Immediate family" shall include the father, mother, brother, sister, spouse, child, grandparents, grandchildren, step-parents, step-children, foster child, the domestic partner of an employee and the children of the domestic partner.
Any employee claiming a domestic partner for purposes of this Article shall complete a confidential affidavit to be filed in the Employee Benefits Office, Personnel Department, which shall be signed by the City employee and the domestic partner, declaring the existence of a domestic partnership with a named domestic partner.
44
By extending to an employee the specific benefits defined by this Article, the City does not intend to confer or imply any other unspecified benefits to such employee, or to the employee's domestic partner, or to any other person.
Leave under this Article may be used for the adoption of a child.
ARTICLE 7.5	HOLIDAYS AND HOLIDAY PAY
A. The following days shall be treated as holidays:
Holiday	7/1/01 to 12/31/01	2002	2003	2004 and after
1. New Year’s Day		X	X	X
2. Martin Luther King’s Birthday (the third Monday in January)		X	X	X
3. Washington’s Birthday (the third Monday in February)		X	X	X
4. Cesar E. Chavez’ Birthday (the last Monday in March)				X
5. Memorial Day (the last Monday in May)		X	X	X
6. Independence Day (July 4)	X	X	X	X
7. Labor Day (the first Monday in September)	X	X	X	X
8. Columbus Day (the second Monday in October)	X	X	X	X
9. Veteran’s Day (November 11)	X	X	X	X
10. Thanksgiving Day (the fourth Thursday in November)	X	X	X	X
11. The Friday after Thanksgiving Day	X	X	X	X
12. Christmas Day (December 25)	X	X	X	X
13. The last four hours of an employee’s scheduled work shift on the last working day preceding Christmas Day	X	X	X	
14. Any day or portion thereof declared to be a holiday by proclamation of the Mayor and the concurrence of the City Council by resolution	X	X	X	X
15. One unspecified holidays (per calendar year)	X	X	X	X
B.	When any holiday from 1 through 12 above falls on a Sunday, it shall be observed on the following Monday.
45
C.	When any holiday from 1 through 12 above falls on a Saturday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday.
D.	Any holiday declared by proclamation of the Mayor, shall not be deemed to advance the last scheduled working day before a holiday for purposes of computing any additional time off.
E.	Whenever a holiday from 1 through 12 above occurs during an employee's regular scheduled work week, eight (8) hours of paid leave shall be credited for the purpose of computing overtime pay for work performed after forty (40) hours.
F.	Whenever a holiday listed under 13 and/or 14 above occurs during an employee's regularly scheduled work week, the appropriate number of hours of paid leave shall be credited for the purpose of computing overtime pay for work performed after forty (40) hours.
G.	Whenever a holiday falls on an employee’s 9/80 or modified day off, the employee shall take an alternate day off within the same calendar week as the holiday.
H.	Employees working (1) in excess of eight (8) hours on any holiday listed from 1 through 12 above, or (2) in excess of the last four (4) hours of an employee's assigned work shift on the last working day preceding Christmas Day (prior to 1/1/04), or (3) in excess of any day or portion thereof declared to be a holiday by proclamation of the Mayor, shall be paid at the appropriate holiday pay rate for his/her class. Hours worked in excess of the standard holiday hours as provided in (1), (2) and (3) above shall not be credited for determining an employee's basic forty (40) hour work week.
I.	An employee who works on any holiday above will be compensated at the rate of time and one-half (114) for each hour worked, in addition to his/her regular compensation for the day, provided, however, that the employee has (1) worked his/her assigned shift immediately before, and his/her assigned shift immediately after the holiday, or (2) prior to such holiday Management has authorized the employee to take paid leave time off in lieu of the requirement to work said shifts. Any employee who fails to meet these requirements will be paid at the rate of one hour for each hour worked.
J.	For each holiday listed above which results in time off with pay for employees working a Monday through Friday work week, employees who are scheduled to work other than the Monday through Friday work week shall be entitled to such day off with pay or shall be compensated in accordance with all pertinent provisions (B through I. above). If such holiday falls on the employee's scheduled day off, an
46
alternative day off in-lieu shall be scheduled within the same calendar week as the holiday.
K.	Management shall have the sole authority and responsibility to determine whether the compensation for any holiday worked shall be in cash or paid leave time off.
L.	The unspecified holiday shall be taken in accordance with the following requirements:
1.	The holiday must be taken in one full normal working day increment of eight (8) hours during the calendar year in which it is credited or it will be forfeited. The request for such time off, if timely submitted by the employee, will be promptly approved by Management subject to the operating needs of the employee's department, office or bureau. If an unforeseen operating requirement prevents the employee from taking such previously approved holiday, Management will reschedule the holiday so that it may be taken on some other reasonably satisfactory date within the calendar year.
2.	Any break in service (i.e., resignation, discharge, retirement) prior to taking the holiday shall forfeit any right thereto.
3.	The holiday shall not be utilized to extend the date of any layoff.
4.	No employee shall be entitled to an unspecified holiday until he/she has completed six months of satisfactory service.
5.	Employees who work in intermittent, on call, vacation relief, or seasonal positions shall not be entitled to an unspecified holiday.
6.	No employee shall receive more than one unspecified holiday each calendar year. Thus, (a) an employee transferring from the Department of Water and Power (DWP) to any other City department, office or bureau will not receive an unspecified holiday after taking such holiday prior to leaving the DWP, and (b) employees who resign or are terminated and then rehired during the same calendar year, will not receive an additional unspecified holiday when rehired.
ARTICLE 7.6 VACATION
Each employee in this unit shall be entitled to the following number of vacation days with full pay, based on the number of years of City service completed, accrued and credited at
47
the rates indicated, subject to deductions for absences as provided in Section 4.246 of the LAAC:
Years of Service Completed	Number of Vacation Days	Monthly Accrual Rate In Hours/Minutes
1	11	7.20
5	17	11.20
13	18	11.20
14	19	11.20
15	20	11.20
16	21	11.20
17	22	14.40
18	23	14.40
19	24	16.00
25	25	16.40
ARTICLE 7.7 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
An employee who is absent from work by reason of the death of a member of his/her immediate family shall, upon the approval of the appointing authority or the agent thereof designated to determine such matters, be allowed a leave of absence with full pay for a maximum of three working days for each occurrence of a death in the employee's immediate family. Such employees shall furnish a death certificate or other satisfactory proof of the death to justify the absence. "Immediate family" shall include, father, father-inlaw, mother, mother-in-law, brother, sister, spouse, child, grandfather, grandmother, stepparents, stepchildren, grandchildren, any relative who resided in the employee's household, the domestic partner of an employee, and the following relatives of an employee's domestic partner: child, grandchild, mother, father. For the purpose of this Article, simultaneous, multiple family deaths will be considered as one occurrence.
Any employee claiming a domestic partner for purposes of this Article shall complete a confidential affidavit to be filed in the Employee Benefits Office, Personnel Department, which shall be signed by the City employee only, declaring the existence of a domestic partnership with a named domestic partner. By extending to an employee the specific benefits defined by this Article, the City does not intend to confer or imply any other unspecified benefits to such employee, or to the employee's domestic partner, or to any other person.
48
In addition to the bereavement leave granted under this Article, upon the approval of the appointing authority, any employee who has accrued unused sick leave at full pay, shall be allowed sick leave with full pay not to exceed two working days per occurrence for the purpose of bereavement leave if it is necessary for the employee to travel a minimum of 1500 miles one way, as calculated by the Automobile Association of America (AAA). Employees requesting the use of sick leave under this provision shall furnish satisfactory proof to the appointing authority of the distance traveled. Use of sick leave hours for bereavement leave shall not be counted as sick leave in any department Sick Leave Use Monitoring Program.
ARTICLE 7.8 FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE
I.	Authorization for Leave
During the term of this MOU, up to four (4) months (nine [9] pay periods) of family or medical leave shall be provided for the purpose of childbirth, adoption, foster care of a child, or serious health condition of an immediate family member (as defined in Article 7.4), upon the request of the employee, or the designation of Management in accordance with applicable Federal or State law, notwithstanding any other provisions of this MOU or the Los Angeles Administrative Code to the contrary.
An employee may take leave under the provisions of this Article if he/she has a serious health condition that makes him/her unable to perform the functions of his/her position.
Leave under the provisions of this Article shall be limited to four (4) months (nine [9] pay periods) during a twelve (12) month period, regardless of the number of incidents. A 12-month period shall begin on the first day of leave for each individual taking such leave. The succeeding 12-month period will begin the first day of leave taken under the provisions of this Article after completion of the previous 12-month period.
II.	Definitions
A.	Spouse means a husband or wife as defined or recognized under State law for purposes of marriage in this state.
B.	Domestic partner means a named domestic partner in a confidential affidavit declaring the existence of said domestic partner and signed by the City employee, which is on file in the Employee Benefits Office, Personnel Department.
49
C.	Parent means a biological, step, adoptive or foster parent, an individual who stands or stood in loco parentis to an employee, or a legal guardian. This term does not mean parents-in-law.
D.	Son or daughter means a biological, adopted, or foster child, a stepchild, a legal ward or a child of a person standing in loco parentis, who is ether under age 18 or age 18 or older and incapable of self-care because of a mental or a physical disability.
E.	Persons who are in loco parentis include those with day-to-day responsibilities to care for and financially support a child or, in the case of an employee, who had such responsibility for the employee when the employee was a child. A biological or legal relationship is not necessary.
III.	Eligibility
A.	The provisions of this Article shall apply to all employees in this Unit in all City departments who have been employed by the City for at least 12 months and who have worked at least 1,040 hours during the 12 months immediately preceding the beginning of the leave.
Exception: In accordance with Pregnancy Disability Leave under the California Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA), on the first day of employment with the City pregnant employees are eligible for six (6) weeks (three [3] pay periods) of leave if not disabled due to pregnancy and up to four (4) months (nine [9] pay periods) of leave if disabled due to pregnancy, inclusive of the aforementioned six-week non-disability leave.
B.	Parents (including those who are domestic partners) who both work for the City may take leave under the provisions of this Article at the same time to care for a new child by birth or adoption or foster care of a child, however, the aggregate period of time to which both are entitled is limited to the time allowed for only one employee.
Spouses or domestic partners who both work for the City may take leave under the provisions of this Article at the same time to care for a sick parent, however, the aggregate period of time to which both are entitled is limited to the time allowed for only one employee.
Each employee must notify his/her employing department at the time the leave is requested of the name and department of the other City employee who is requesting leave for the same incident. Such notification must include
50
the starting and ending dates of the time period for which each employee is requesting leave.
The time limitation described above does not apply to leave taken by one spouse or domestic partner to care for the other who is seriously ill, or to care for a child with a serious health condition.
IV.	Conditions
A.	The start of a leave for a pregnant employee shall be:
1.	During or after the employee’s pregnancy where there is no disability, at the employee’s discretion; or
2.	At the beginning of the employee’s pregnancy-related disability that a doctor certifies as necessary.
B.	The start of a family leave for adoption or foster care shall begin on a date reasonably close to the date the child is placed in the custody of the employee. Leave may be granted prior to placement if an absence from work is required.
C.	The start of a family leave for a serious health condition of a family member shall begin on the date requested by the employee.
D.	The start of a leave for the employee's own serious health condition shall begin on the date requested by the employee.
E.	A serious health condition is defined as an illness, injury, impairment, or physical or mental condition that involves:
1.	Any period of incapacity or treatment connected with inpatient care in a hospital, hospice, or residential medical care facility; or
2.	A period of incapacity requiring an absence of greater than three calendar days involving continuing treatment by or under the supervision of a health care provider; or
3.	Any period of incapacity (or treatment resulting therefrom) due to a chronic or serious health condition; or
51
4.	A period of incapacity that is permanent or long-term due to a condition for which treatment may not be effective; or
5.	Any absences to receive multiple treatments (including any period of recovery therefrom) by, or on referral by, a health care provider for a condition that likely would result in incapacity or more than three consecutive days if left untreated; or
6.	Any period of incapacity due to pregnancy or for prenatal care.
F.	All leave granted under this Article shall normally be for a continuous period of time for each incident.
An employee shall be permitted to take intermittent leave or work on a reduced schedule to take care of a family member with a serious health condition or for his/her own serious health condition when it is medically necessary. Management may require the employee to transfer temporarily to an available alternative position with equivalent compensation for which the employee is qualified that accommodates recurring periods of leave better than the employee’s regular position. Employees who elect a part-time schedule shall receive prorated compensated time off benefits in accordance with Section 4.110 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code during the duration of their part-time schedule.
Intermittent leave or work on a reduced schedule for the birth, adoption or foster care of a child shall only be permitted at the discretion of Management.
G.	If any employee requires another leave for a separate incident under the provisions of this Article during the same 12 month period, a new request must be submitted.
H.	In accordance with Pregnancy Disability Leave under the California FEHA, pregnant employees not disabled by pregnancy are entitled to six (6) weeks (three [3] pay periods) of leave. Employees who are disabled due to pregnancy, child birth, or related medical conditions are eligible for up to four (4) months (nine [9] pay periods) of leave, inclusive of the aforementioned six-week, non-disability leave, with medical certification certifying the employee as unable to work due to a pregnancy-related condition. Pregnancy Disability Leave under the FEHA may be taken before or after the birth of the child. Pregnancy leave under the federal Family and Medical
52
Leave Act shall run concurrently with Pregnancy Disability Leave under the FEHA, and must be concluded within one year of the child’s birth.
Employees (either parent) are also eligible for family leave (“bonding”) under the California Family Rights Act, which shall be limited to four months (nine [9] pay periods) and must be concluded within one year of the child’s birth. (The administration of such leave shall be in accordance with Section III.B. of this Article.)
I.	A personal leave beyond the four (4) month (nine [9] pay periods) leave provided in this Article may be requested, subject to the approval of the appointing authority and, if required, the Personnel Department, as provided under other City leave provisions.
J.	An employee receiving temporary workers' compensation benefits (either IOD or the rate provided in Division IV of the California Labor Code) who meets the eligibility requirements in ILA. of this Article shall automatically be considered to be on family and medical leave, effective the first day of the employee's absence.
K.	Management has the right to verify the certification of a serious health condition by a health care provider for a leave under the provisions of this Article Management shall allow the employee at least 15 calendar days to obtain the medical certification.
L.	Upon return from family or medical leave, an employee shall be returned to his/her original job or to an equivalent job.
V.	Notice Requirements
A.	Employee
When an employee requests family or medical leave, he/she must state the reason for the requested leave (e.g., childbirth, to care for an immediate family member with a serious health condition, etc.). When the necessity for a leave is foreseeable, the employee must provide at least 30 days notice. However, if the leave must begin in less than 30 days, the employee must provide as much advance notice as is practicable.
B.	Management
In response to an employee’s request for family or medical leave, Management shall indicate whether or not the employee is eligible for such
53
leave, if such leave will be counted against the employee’s annual family or medical leave entitlement, and any requirement for the employee to furnish medical certification. Management shall notify an employee if it designates paid or unpaid leave as qualifying time taken by an employee as family or medical leave-qualifying regardless of whether or not the employee initiates a request to take family or medical leave,
VI.	Applicable Time Off
Employees who are granted leave in accordance with this Article shall take time off in the following order:
A.	Childbirth (Mother)
1.	Accrued sick leave (100% or 75%) for the entire period of disability that a health care provider certifies is necessary (including prenatal care or the mother’s inability to work prior to the birth), may be taken at the employee's discretion.
2.	For the non-disability portion of childbirth leave (before delivery or after [“bonding”]) accrued vacation available at the start of the leave shall be used prior to the use of time under 3, 4, 5, and 6 below.
3.	Accrued 100% sick leave. The use of sick leave under this subsection is at the employee's discretion.
4.	Accrued 75% sick leave, following use of all 100% sick leave. The use of sick leave under this subsection is at the employee’s discretion.
5.	Unpaid leave.
6.	Accrued compensatory time off may be used at the employee’s discretion, with Management approval, after exhaustion of 100% sick leave (No. 3 above). However, FLSA compensatory time off shall not be counted against the employee’s four-month (nine [9] pay period) family or medical leave entitlement. Therefore, any use of FLSA compensatory time off under this Section shall extend the employee’s family or medical leave by the total amount of FLSA compensatory time off used.
54
B.	Childbirth (Father), Adoption, Foster Care, or Family Illness
1.	Annual family illness sick leave up to twelve (12) days may be used at the employee's discretion. Such leave may be taken before or after the vacation described in 2 below.
2.	Accrued vacation available at the start of the leave shall be taken. Such time must be used prior to the use of time under 3, 4, 5, and 6 below.
3.	Accrued 100% sick leave. The use of sick leave under this subsection is at the employee's discretion.
4.	Accrued 75% sick leave following use of all 100% sick leave. The Use of sick leave under this subsection is at the employee’s discretion.
5.	Unpaid leave.
6.	Accrued compensatory time off may be used at the employee’s discretion, with Management approval, after exhaustion of 100% sick leave (No. 3 above). However, FLSA compensatory time off shall not be counted against the employee’s four-month (nine [9] pay period) family or medical leave entitlement. Therefore, any use of FLSA compensatory time off under this Section shall extend the employee’s family or medical leave by the total amount of FLSA compensatory time off used.
C.	Personal Medical Leave
1.	Accrued 100% sick leave may be used at the employee's discretion. Such leave may be taken before or after the vacation described in No. 3 below.
2.	Accrued 75% sick leave may be used following use of all 100% sick leave at the employee’s discretion. Such leave may be taken before or after the vacation described in No. 3 below.
3.	Accrued vacation time.
4.	Unpaid leave.
55
5.	Accrued compensatory time off may be used at the employee’s discretion, with Management approval, after exhaustion of 100% sick leave (No. 1 above). However, FLSA compensatory time off shall not be counted against the employee’s four-month (nine [9] pay period) family or medical leave entitlement. Therefore, any use of FLSA compensatory time off under this Section shall extend the employee’s family or medical leave by the total amount of FLSA compensatory time off used.
VI.	Sick Leave Rate of Pay
Payment for sick leave usage under VI. A, B, and C shall be at the regular accrued rate of 100% or 75%, as appropriate.
VII.	Monitoring
Management shall maintain such records as are required to monitor the usage of leave as defined in this Article. Such records are to be made available to the Union upon request.
It is the intent of the parties that the provisions and administration of this Article be in compliance with the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, the California Family Rights Act of 1993, and the Pregnancy Disability Leave provisions of the California Fair Employment and Housing Act.
ARTICLE 7.9	DISABILITY INSURANCE PLAN
Management shall expend for active employees of this unit who are members of LACERS the sum necessary to cover the cost of a basic disability insurance plan. Management shall also maintain a Supplemental Disability Insurance Plan, enrollment in which is at the discretion of each employee. The full cost of the Supplemental Disability Insurance Plan premiums shall be paid by the individual employees who enroll in the plan. The City's Joint Labor-Management Benefits Committee shall determine the benefits and provider of the plan.
ARTICLE 7.10	DEPENDENT CARE REIMBURSEMENT ACCOUNT
During the term of this MOU, Management agrees to maintain a Dependent Care Reimbursement Account (DCRA), qualified under Section 129 of the Internal Revenue Code, for active employees who are members of LACERS, provided that sufficient enrollment is maintained to continue to make the account available. Enrollment in the DCRA is at the discretion of each employee. All contributions into the DCRA and related
56
administrative fees shall be paid by employees who are enrolled in the plan. As a qualified Section 129 plan, the DCRA shall be administered according to the rules and regulations specified for such plans by the Internal Revenue Service.
ARTICLE 7.11	EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
Management will expend for active employees who are members LACERS, and their eligible dependents, the sum necessary to cover the cost of an Employee Assistance Program (EAP). The benefits and services of the EAP and the EAP provider shall be determined by the City's Joint Labor-Management Benefits Committee.
ARTICLE 7.12	WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Section I
Management agrees to continue providing Workers' Compensation benefits in accordance with Section 4.104 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code. During the term of this MOU, salary continuation payments during absences for temporary disability conditions shall be an amount equal to the employee's regular biweekly, take-home pay at the time of incurring the disability condition. For purposes of this Article, take-home pay shall be defined as an employee's biweekly gross salary rate less the mandatory deduction for Federal and State income tax withholding and employee retirement contributions. The employee will be able to make adjustments in his/her voluntary deductions while on temporary disability leave but will not be able to change the amount normally deducted for State and Federal income taxes, unless the employee has changed those deductions to those which he/she is legally entitled to take within ten (10) days of the commencement of any disability leave, or within ten (10) days of any change in dependents.
Section II
Section I of this Article shall not apply to employees who are certified off duty for temporary total disability resulting from a "sudden severe traumatic injury." Such an employee shall receive 90% of his/her regular salary at the salary rate in effect at the time of incurring the disability condition.
"Sudden severe traumatic injury" shall mean an on-duty injury received as a result of a sudden and unexpected physical trauma which results in hospitalization or immediate medical care. Examples of such an injury would include a gunshot wound, an injury from a blow or fall, an automobile accident, or an accident involving equipment failure. Examples of injuries which would not meet this definition would include communicable illnesses (except for illnesses contracted as the result of a sudden severe traumatic injury) or job
57
stress. The Occupational Health and Safety Division of the Personnel Department shall certify a "sudden severe traumatic injury" to the Controller.
Section III
When an employee is placed off-duty as the result of a reoccurrence of a previously certified injury on duty, the employee's disability pay will be based on the employee's salary as of the date of the reoccurrence.
Section IV
Notwithstanding Section 4.246 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code, employees who are certified off duty for temporary total disability shall continue to accrue vacation credit during the period of disability.
ARTICLE 7.13 PARKING
The provisions of the Special Memorandum of Understanding regarding City Employee Parking and Commute Options, including all existing and future amendments, shall apply to employees represented by the Engineers and Architects Association. All City-wide parking and transportation policies promulgated by either the Commute Options and Parking Section of the Personnel Department and/or the Joint Labor-Management Committee on Commute Options and Parking shall also apply, including the policies regarding appeals of employee parking issues. Such appeals shall not be grievable.
Temporary Parking - Occasional Mileage Assignment
Employees who are assigned to receive mileage on an occasional basis, and are not otherwise assigned a mileage parking permit may apply to Parking Services for a temporary parking pass (for one or more days), upon certification by a supervisor in advance that the employee will be assigned to mileage on a specific date(s). Such temporary pass may be requested in lieu of receiving reimbursement for parking on the date of the mileage assignment.
Such permits shall be available only for City owned lots for which temporary permits are normally available.
Temporary Parking - Office Relocation
It is the understanding of the parties that temporary transition parking for a function relocated to the civic center area may be provided under the condition that such temporary parking shall not exceed 30 days and no more than 10 permits shall be available at any time to any group of City employees.
58
The purpose of such transition parking is to provide affected employees with the opportunity to arrange carpools, vanpools or public transportation at their new work location.
Application for such permits shall be submitted by the General Manager of the relocated department on behalf of the group of affected employees. Such permits shall be made available to employees who do not immediately qualify for regular parking permits or a transportation subsidy. If the number of relocated employees exceeds 10, then it shall be the responsibility of the requesting department to determine eligibility, and such determination shall not be subject to grievance or appeal to Parking Services.
Such permits shall be available only for City-owned lots for which temporary permits are normally available. They will not be available to individual employees who transfer or promote between locations.
ARTICLE 8.0	REGISTRATION
ARTICLE 8.1	STATE REGISTRATION EXAMINATIONS
An employee may take time off with pay for the purpose of taking examinations for State registration as a Professional Land Surveyor, for State certification as a licensed Landscape Architect or Water Treatment Plant Operator, or for certification as an Engineer in Training. Such time off will only be permitted for an employee who would normally be required to work on a day on which the examination is actually given.
ARTICLE 8.2	REIMBURSEMENT FOR STATE LICENSE
All employees in the class of Polygraph Examiner, Code 3348, who are required to maintain a valid State of California Polygraph Examiners License as a condition of employment shall be reimbursed by the City for the cost of such license upon presentation by the employee of a paid receipt for such cost.
ARTICLE 8.3	REIMBURSEMENT FOR DRIVERS LICENSE FEE
Employees in the classes of Field Engineering Aide, Code 7228, Land Surveying Assistant, Code 7283, and Survey Party Chief, Code 7286, in the Department of Public Works, Bureau of Engineering, who are required by Management to maintain a California Class "B" Drivers License, shall be reimbursed by the City for the cost of such license upon presentation by the employee of a paid receipt for such cost.
MOU 21-04
59
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused their duly authorized representatives to execute this Memorandumof Understanding the day, month, and year first above written.
Engineers and Architects Association:
Robert G. Aquino Executive Director
City of Los Angeles Representatives: _____________________________________
William T Fdtffoka w
City Administrative Officer
Los Angeles World Airports
Department of Animal Services
Los Angeles Department of Building and
Safety
City Clerk
Personnel Department
Community Development Department
Controller’s Office
Cultural Affairs Department
Fire Department
General Services Department
Harbor Department
Information Technology Agency
Library Department
Planning Department
Police Department
Public Works Department
Recreation and Parks
Department of Transportation
For the City Attorney’s Office:
Date
MOU 21-04
SALARY NOTES
Note 1:	One person in the class of Photographer I, Code 1793-1, who is employed
in the Department of Building and Safety's Administrative Services Bureau and is assigned to perform aerial photography, shall, when so assigned, receive, in addition to his/her regular compensation, a premium of $25.00 biweekly.
One person in the class of Photographer I, Code 1793-1, who is employed in the Planning Department's Administrative Services Division and is assigned to perform aerial photography, shall when so assigned, receive, in addition to his/her regular compensation, a premium of $25.00 biweekly.
One person in the class of Photographer I, Code 1793-1, in the Department of Recreation and Parks who is assigned to perform aerial photography shall, when so assigned, receive, in addition to his/her regular compensation, a premium of $25.00 biweekly.
Note 2:	One person in the class of Photographer III, Code 1793-3, who is employed
in the Police Department and is assigned as an Aerial Photographer shall, when so assigned, receive, in addition to his/her regular compensation, a premium of $25.00 biweekly.
Five persons in the class of Photographer III, Code 1793-3, who are employed in the Police Department Special Projects Unit (Photography), shall, while so assigned, receive, in addition to his/her regular compensation, a premium of $16.00 biweekly.
Note 3:	Individuals in the class of Veterinary Technician, Code 2369, who are
registered with the State of California as Animal Health Technicians will receive salary at the second premium level rate above the appropriate step rate for the position when they are assigned to perform euthanasia as part of their duties in the Euthanasia by Injection Program.
Three individuals in this class who are registered with the State of California as Animal Health Technicians and are regularly assigned to the Spay and Neuter Clinic will receive salary at the second premium level rate above the appropriate step rate for the position for the entire day for each day or portion thereof when temporarily assigned to the Euthanasia by Injection Program.
Two individuals in this class when assigned to be an Acting Veterinary Technician Supervisor in the Department of Animal Services shall receive salary at the second premium level rate above the appropriate step rate for the position for each day so assigned.
Note 4:	When any employee in the classes of Cartographer, Code 7204, and Senior Cartographer, Code 7205, is regularly assigned to operate automated mapping equipment, or is assigned to operate such equipment more than 50% of his/her time in any one day, such employee shall receive salary at the second premium level rate above the appropriate step rate of the salary range for his/her class for each day so assigned.
Note 5:	When any employee in the classes of Civil Engineering Drafting Technician, Code 7232, Electrical Engineering Drafting Technician, Code 7532, Architectural Drafting Technician, Code 7922, Graphics Designer 1, II, III, Code 1670-1/2/3, Senior Civil Engineering Drafting Technician, Code 7207, Senior Architectural Drafting Technician, Code 7208, Senior Electrical Engineering Drafting Technician, Code 7209, and Senior Mechanical Engineering Drafting Technician, Code 7210, is regularly assigned to operate Computer Aided Drafting (CAD) equipment, or is assigned to operate such equipment more than 50% of his/her time in any one day, such employee shall receive salary at the second premium level rate above the appropriate step rate of the salary range for his/her class for each day so assigned.
Note 6:	Persons employed in the class of Veterinary Technician, Code 2369, at the Los Angeles Zoo shall receive salary at the second premium level rate above the appropriate step rate of the salary range for the class. One person employed in the class of Veterinary Technician, Code 2369, at the Los Angeles Zoo who is assigned to do laboratory work more than 50% of his/her time, shall receive, in addition to the bonus described above, salary at the second premium level rate above the appropriate step rate of the salary for the position.
Note 7:	One person employed by the Department of Recreation and Parks in the class of Equipment Specialist II, Code 3734-2, who is regularly assigned to supervise the Equipment Repair Section of the Metro Region, shall receive salary at the second premium level rate above the appropriate step rate prescribed for the position.
Note 8:	A person employed in the class of Survey Party Chief, Code 7286, for which a license as a Professional Land Surveyor issued by the California State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers, is not required, shall, while so licensed, receive compensation at the second premium level rate above the appropriate step rate of the salary range prescribed for the class. This bonus shall commence at the beginning of the payroll period next succeeding the date the person presents to the appropriate appointing authority a formal certificate, pocket identification card, or other such document or authorization for use of title as is satisfactory to the appointing authority.
Note 9:	Persons employed in the class of Materials Testing Technician, Code 7968, in the Soils Laboratory of the Department of General Services, who are responsible for the collection of toxic soils samples, when assigned to perform such duties during any part of the day shall receive compensation at the second premium level above the appropriate step rate of the salary range for the position for each day so assigned. Persons employed in the class of Materials Testing Technician, Code 7968, who are assigned to perform ultrasonic weld testing at City construction sites for more than 50% of any working day shall receive compensation at the second premium level above the appropriate step rate of the salary range for the position for each day so assigned.
Note 10:	When any person employed in the class of Field Engineering Aide, Code 7228, Land Surveying Assistant, Code 7283, or Survey Party Chief, Code 7286, is assigned to perform work in a sewer or catch basin, such employee shall receive salary at the second premium level rate above the appropriate step rate of the salary range for the position for each day so assigned.
Note 11:	Persons employed in the class of Laboratory Technician, Code 7854, in the Environmental Monitoring Division of the Bureau of Sanitation who are assigned to take air emission samples from sanitary landfills shall receive salary at the second premium level above the appropriate step rate for the position for each day so assigned. Persons employed in the class of Laboratory Technician, Code 7854, in the Bureau of Sanitation, who are assigned to test sludge or cesspool samples shall receive, in addition to his/her regular compensation, one dollar ($1.00) per hour for each full hour or portion thereof of such assignment. Persons employed in the class of Laboratory Technician, Code 7854, in the Environmental Monitoring Division of the Bureau of Sanitation, who are assigned for more than 50% of any work day to perform ocean monitoring activities on board a monitoring vessel in Santa Monica Bay shall receive salary at the second premium level above the appropriate step rate for the position for each day so assigned.
Note 12:	One person employed by the Department of Airports and one person employed by the Harbor Department in the class Senior Civil Engineering Drafting Technician, Code 7207, when regularly assigned to supervise a drafting pool, shall receive salary at the second premium level rate above the appropriate step rate of the salary range prescribed for the class of Civil Engineering Drafting Technician, Code 7232.
Note 13:	One person employed by the Harbor Department in the class of Senior Architectural Drafting Technician, Code 7208, when regularly assigned to
	supervise a drafting pool, shall receive salary at the second premium level rate above the appropriate step rate of the salary range prescribed for the class of Civil Engineering Drafting Technician, Code 7232.
Note 14:	One person employed by the Harbor Department in the class of Senior Electrical Engineering Drafting Technician, Code 7209, when regularly assigned to supervise a drafting pool, shall receive salary at the second premium level rate above the appropriate step rate of the salary range prescribed for the class of Electrical Engineering Drafting Technician, Code 7532.
Note 15:	Persons employed in the class of Transportation Investigator, Code 4271, and Senior Transportation Investigator, Code 4273, when performing field Bandit-Taxicab enforcement duties for more than 50% of any working day, shall be compensated for that day at the third premium level rate above the appropriate step rate for the position.
Note 16:	An employee who is appointed from a Civil Service eligible list or, receives an emergency appointment or a Charter Section 108 transfer, to the class of Planning Aide, Code 7943, whose hourly rate of compensation immediately prior to such appointment is higher than the 5th step hourly rate for Planning Aide shall continue to receive compensation at the same hourly rate that the employee was receiving on the date prior to such appointment. The employee shall continue to receive the hourly rate assigned upon appointment to the new class until such time as the prescribed hourly rate for the class of Planning Aide exceeds the salary assigned to the employee or the employee receives an appointment to a class and pay grade with a hourly rate higher than the hourly rate assigned upon appointment to Planning Aide. Persons employed in the class of Planning Aide on July 1, 1995, who were appointed from a Civil Service eligible list to that class, whose hourly rate of compensation immediately prior to their appointment to Planning Aide was higher than the 5th step hourly rate for Planning Aide, shall receive the prior higher hourly rate, effective the date of appointment to Planning Aide. These employees shall continue to receive such hourly rate of compensation until such time as the prescribed hourly rate for the class of Planning Aide exceeds the salary assigned to the employee or the employee receives an appointment to a class and pay grade with a hourly rate higher than the hourly rate assigned under the provisions of this Salary Note.
Note 17:	Employees in the class of Real Estate Officer, Code 1960, who are required by Department Management to sign documents as a certified Notary Public shall receive, in addition to their regular compensation, a premium of $25.00 biweekly for each pay period that the certification is maintained. This bonus shall commence at the beginning of the payroll period next succeeding the
Note 18:
Note 19:
Note 20:
Note 21:
date the employee presents satisfactory proof of certification as a certified California Notary Public to the appointing authority.
Effective 7/1/03, persons employed in the class of Materials Testing Technician I and II, Code 7968-1/ 2, who are assigned to use a nuclear test gauge for testing asphalt and soil compression shall receive salary at the second premium level above the appropriate step rate for the position for each day so assigned.
Effective 7/1/03, persons employed in the class of Materials Testing Technician I and II, Code 7968-1/ 2, who are assigned to perform electrical spark testing shall receive salary at the second premium level above the appropriate step rate for the position for each day so assigned.
Effective 7/1/03, persons employed in the Department of Airports in the class of Field Engineering Aide, Code 7228, Land Surveying Assistant, Code 7283, and Survey Party Chief, Code 7286, who are assigned to perform survey duties on a regular basis on or near airfields and runways shall receive salary at the first premium level above the appropriate step rate for the position.
Effective 7/1/03, an employee who is appointed from a Civil Service eligible list, receives an emergency appointment or a Charter Section 1014 transfer, to the class of Real Estate Trainee, Code 1937, whose hourly rate of compensation immediately prior to such appointment is higher than the 5th step hourly rate for Real Estate Trainee shall continue to receive compensation at the same hourly rate that the employee was receiving on the date prior to such appointment. The employee shall continue to receive the hourly rate assigned upon appointment to the new class until such time as the prescribed hourly rate for the class of Real Estate Trainee exceeds the salary assigned to the employee or the employee receives an appointment to a class and pay grade with a hourly rate higher than the hourly rate assigned upon appointment to Real Estate Trainee.
Persons employed in the class of Real Estate Trainee on July 1, 2003, who were appointed from a Civil Service eligible list to that class, whose hourly rate of compensation immediately prior to their appointment to Real Estate Trainee was higher than the 5th step hourly rate for Real Estate Trainee, shall receive the prior higher hourly rate, effective the date of appointment to Real Estate Trainee. These employees shall continue to receive such hourly rate of compensation until such time as the prescribed hourly rate for the class of Real Estate Trainee exceeds the salary assigned to the employee or the employee receives an appointment to a class and pay grade with a hourly rate higher than the hourly rate assigned under the provisions of this Salary Note.
Note 22: Employees covered by this MOU shall not be eligible for adjusted salary under the noise provisions of Note K of Schedule A of Section 4.61 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code.
LETTER OF INTENT
2001-2004 Memorandum of Understanding for the
Technical Unit
Supervisory Technical Unit Professional Engineering and Scientific Unit
In conjunction with the 2001-04 Memorandum of Understanding, Management and the Engineers and Architects Association (EAA) mutually agree to reopen the Technical Unit MOU and the Professional Engineering and Scientific MOU no later than six (6) months from the date of the City Council approval of these MOUs to review the recruitment and retention statistics and salaries for the classes of Data Base Architect, Systems Programmer, Programmer Analyst, Geographic Information Systems Specialist , and Geographic Information Supervisor to determine if special salary adjustments may be warranted.
FOR THE ASSOCIATION:
FOR MANAGEMENT:
Robert G. Aquino Executive Director
William T Fujioka
City Administrative Officer
Date
Date
APPENDIX A
Operative on July 1,2001
CLASS CODE		TITLE	SALARY RANGE
1951		Agricultural Land Developer	2488
1429		Applications Programmer	2094
7922	H	Architectural Drafting Technician - Harbor	2003
7922		Architectural Drafting Technician (Note 5)	1841
7224		Calligrapher	1946
7204		Cartographer (Note 4)	1841
1803		Channel Traffic & Info Coordinator	1963
7941		City Planning Associate	2628
7232		Civil Engineering Drafting Tech (Note 5)	1841
7232	A	Civil Engineering Drafting Technician - A & H	2003
1660	1	Computer Graphic Artist I	1692
1660	2	Computer Graphic Artist II	2052
1427	1	Computer Operatori	1618
1427	2	Computer Operator II	1754
3341		Construction Estimator	2613
1470		Data Base Architect	3369
1136	1	Data Processing Technician I	1618
1136	2	Data Processing Technician II	1754
1135	1	Documentation Technician I	1641
1135	2	Documentation Technician II	1787
7229		Drafting Aide	1558
3337		Electrical Construction Estimator	2613
7532		Electrical Engineering Drafting Tech (Note 5)	1841
7532	H	Electrical Engineering Drafting Tech - H (Note 5)	2003
7217		Engineering Designer	2235
7217	1	Engineering Designer I	2235
7217	2	Engineering Designer II	2409
7217	A	Engineering Designer-Airport	2488
3734	1	Equipment Specialist I	2276
3734	2	Equipment Specialist II (Note 7)	2523
3229	1	Examiner of Questioned Documents I	1767
3229	2	Examiner of Questioned Documents II	3123
2444		Exhibit Preparator	1577
7228		Field Engineering Aide (Note 10)	2214
1571		Finance Development Officer	2937
1571	1	Finance Development Officer I	2937
1571	2	Finance Development Officer II	3153
2233		Firearms Examiner	3123
2200	1	Forensic Print Specialist I	2094
2200	2	Forensic Print Specialist II	2305
2200	3	Forensic Print Specialist III	2709
2200	4	Forensic Print Specialist IV	2873
7213		Geographic Information Systems Specialist	2103
1670	1	Graphics Designer I (Note 5)	1692
1670	2	Graphics Designer II (Note 5)	2052
1670	2A	Graphics Designer Il-Airport (Note 5)	2120
1670	3	Graphics Designer III (Note 5)	2297
1562		Improvement Assessor	2052
7199	1	Improvement Bond Coordinator I	2120
7199	2	Improvement Bond Coordinator II	2357
APPENDIX A
Operative on July 1,2001
CLASS			SALARY	
CODE		TITLE	RANGE	
4292		Industrial Waste Inspector	2264	
9191	1	Industrial and Commercial Finance Officer I	2937	
9191	2	Industrial and Commercial Finance Officer II	3153	
1456		Information Services Specialist	2163	
7854	1	Laboratory Technician I (Note 11)	1600	
7854	2	Laboratory Technician II (Note 11)	1896	
7283		Land Surveying Assistant (Note 10)	2409	
7968	1	Materials Testing Technician I (Note 9)	1796	
7968	2	Materials Testing Technician II (Note 9)	2003	
3342		Mechanical Construction Estimator	2613	
7551		Mechanical Engineering Drafting Technician	1836	
7212	1	Office Engineering Technician I	1600	
7212	2	Office Engineering Technician II	1796	
7212	3	Office Engineering Technician III	2003	
1793	1	Photographer I (Note 1)	1836	
1793	2	Photographer II (Note 2)	2115	
1793	3	Photographer III	2229	
2309	1	Physical Therapist I	2063	
2309	2	Physical Therapist II	2169	
7943	1	Planning Aide I (Note 16)	1600	
7943	2	Planning Aide II (Note 16)	1841	
7939		Planning Assistant	2235	
6146		Playback Operator	1692	
1650		Police Composite Artist	2003	
2240	1	Polygraph Examiner I	2281	
2240	2	Polygraph Examiner II	2890	
2240	3	Polygraph Examiner III	3041	
2240	4	Polygraph Examiner IV	3499	
1941	1	Real Estate Associate I	1796	
1941	2	Real Estate Associate II	2120	
1960		Real Estate Officer (Note 17)	2557	
1960	A	Real Estate Officer-A & H (Note 17)	2785	
1960	1	Real Estate Officer I (Note 17)	2557	
1960	2	Real Estate Officer II (Note 17)	2785	
1937		Real Estate Trainee	1692	
7208		Senior Archl Drafting Tech (Notes 5&13)	2052	
7205		Senior Cartographer	2052	
7207		Senior Civil Eng Drafting Tech(Notes 5&12)	2052	
1428	1	Senior Computer Operator I	1896	
1428	2	Senior Computer Operator II	2181	
7209		Senior Electrical Drafting Tech (Notes 5&14)	2052	
7210		Senior Mechanical Drafting Tech (Note 5)	2235	
1947		Senior Title Examiner	2235	
4273		Senior Transportation Investigator	2169	
7286	1	Survey Party Chief I (Notes 8&10)	2695	
7286	2	Survey Party Chief II (Notes 8&10)	2902	
1455	1	Systems Programmer I	2999	
1455	2	Systems Programmer II	3228	
1455	3	Systems Programmer III	3494	
5943		Tank Farm Operator	2126	(5)
APPENDIX A
Operative on July 1,2001
CLASS CODE	TITLE	SALARY RANGE
7615	Television Engineer	2695
1943	Title Examiner	2003	(2)
7285 1	Transportation Engineering Aide I	1896
7285 2	Transportation Engineering Aide II	2120
4271	Transportation Investigator (Note 15)	1841
2480 1	Transportation Planning Associate I	2235
2480 2	Transportation Planning Associate II	2695
2369	Veterinary Technician (Notes 3&6)	1655
1802	Video Production Coordinator	1963
6145 1	Video Technician I	1963
6145 2	Video Technician II	2179
6149	Videotape Librarian	1799
2358 1	Xray & Laboratory Technician I	2008
2358 2	Xray & Laboratory Technician II	2120
APPENDIX A
Operative on July 1,2001
RANGE: 1558
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	15.58	16.45	17.37	18.34	19.36
BI-WEEKLY	1,246.40	1,316.00	1,389.60	1,467.20	1,548.80
MONTHLY	2,710.92	2,862.30	3,022.38	3,191.16	3,368.64
ANNUAL	32,531.04	34,347.60	36,268.56	38,293.92	40,423.68
	RANGE: 1577				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	15.77	16.65	17.58	18.56	19.59
BI-WEEKLY	1,261.60	1,332.00	1,406.40	1,484.80	1,567.20
MONTHLY	2,743.98	2,897.10	3,058.92	3,229.44	3,408.66
ANNUAL	32,927.76	34,765.20	36,707.04	38,753.28	40,903.92
	RANGE: 1600				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.00	16.89	17.83	18.82	19.87
BI-WEEKLY	1,280.00	1,351.20	1,426.40	1,505.60	1,589.60
MONTHLY	2,784.00	2,938.86	3,102.42	3,274.68	3,457.38
ANNUAL	33,408.00	35,266.32	37,229.04	39,296.16	41,488.56
	RANGE: 1618				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.18	17.08	18.03	19.04	20.10
BI-WEEKLY	1,294.40	1,366.40	1,442.40	1,523.20	1,608.00
MONTHLY	2,815.32	2,971.92	3,137.22	3,312.96	3,497.40
ANNUAL	33,783.84	35,663.04	37,646.64	39,755.52	41,968.80
	RANGE: 1641				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.41	17.32	18.29	19.31	20.39
BI-WEEKLY	1,312.80	1,385.60	1,463.20	1,544.80	1,631.20
MONTHLY	2,855.34	3,013.68	3,182.46	3,359.94	3,547.86
ANNUAL	34,264.08	36,164.16	38,189.52	40,319.28	42,574.32
APPENDIX A
Operative on July 1,2001
RANGE: 1655
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.55	17.47	18.44	19.47	20.56
BI-WEEKLY	1,324.00	1,397.60	1,475.20	1,557.60	1,644.80
MONTHLY	2,879.70	3,039.78	3,208.56	3,387.78	3,577.44
ANNUAL	34,556.40	36,477.36	38,502.72	40,653.36	42,929.28
	RANGE: 1692				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.92	17.86	18.86	19.91	21.02
BI-WEEKLY	1,353.60	1,428.80	1,508.80	1,592.80	1,681.60
MONTHLY	2,944.08	3,107.64	3,281.64	3,464.34	3,657.48
ANNUAL	35,328.96	37,291.68	39,379.68	41,572.08	43,889.76
	RANGE: 1754				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.54	18.52	19.55	20.64	21.79
BI-WEEKLY	1,403.20	1,481.60	1,564.00	1,651.20	1,743.20
MONTHLY	3,051.96	3,222.48	3,401.70	3,591.36	3,791.46
ANNUAL	36,623.52	38,669.76	40,820.40	43,096.32	45,497.52
	RANGE: 1767				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.67	18.66	19.70	20.80	21.96
BI-WEEKLY	1,413.60	1,492.80	1,576.00	1,664.00	1,756.80
MONTHLY	3,074.58	3,246.84	3,427.80	3,619.20	3,821.04
ANNUAL	36,894.96	38,962.08	41,133.60	43,430.40	45,852.48
	RANGE: 1787				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.87	18.87	19.92	21.03	22.20
BI-WEEKLY	1,429.60	1,509.60	1,593.60	1,682.40	1,776.00
MONTHLY	3,109.38	3,283.38	3,466.08	3,659.22	3,862.80
ANNUAL	37,312.56	39,400.56	41,592.96	43,910.64	46,353.60
APPENDIX A
Operative on July 1,2001
RANGE: 1796
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.96	18.96	20.02	21.14	22.32
BI-WEEKLY	1,436.80	1,516.80	1,601.60	1,691.20	1,785.60
MONTHLY	3,125.04	3,299.04	3,483.48	3,678.36	3,883.68
ANNUAL	37,500.48	39,588.48	41,801.76	44,140.32	46,604.16
	RANGE: 1799				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.99	18.99	20.05	21.17	22.35
BI-WEEKLY	1,439.20	1,519.20	1,604.00	1,693.60	1,788.00
MONTHLY	3,130.26	3,304.26	3,488.70	3,683.58	3,888.90
ANNUAL	37,563.12	39,651.12	41,864.40	44,202.96	46,666.80
	RANGE: 1836				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.36	19.38	20.46	21.60	22.80
BI-WEEKLY	1,468.80	1,550.40	1,636.80	1,728.00	1,824.00
MONTHLY	3,194.64	3,372.12	3,560.04	3,758.40	3,967.20
ANNUAL	38,335.68	40,465.44	42,720.48	45,100.80	47,606.40
	RANGE: 1841				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.41	19.44	20.52	21.66	22.87
BI-WEEKLY	1,472.80	1,555.20	1,641.60	1,732.80	1,829.60
MONTHLY	3,203.34	3,382.56	3,570.48	3,768.84	3,979.38
ANNUAL	38,440.08	40,590.72	42,845.76	45,226.08	47,752.56
	RANGE: 1896				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.96	20.02	21.14	22.32	23.56
BI-WEEKLY	1,516.80	1,601.60	1,691.20	1,785.60	1,884.80
MONTHLY	3,299.04	3,483.48	3,678.36	3,883.68	4,099.44
ANNUAL	39,588.48	41,801.76	44,140.32	46,604.16	49,193.28
APPENDIX A
Operative on July 1,2001
RANGE: 1946
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.46	20.55	21.70	22.91	24.19
BI-WEEKLY	1,556.80	1,644.00	1,736.00	1,832.80	1,935.20
MONTHLY	3,386.04	3,575.70	3,775.80	3,986.34	4,209.06
ANNUAL	40,632.48	42,908.40	45,309.60	47,836.08	50,508.72
	RANGE: 1963				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.63	20.72	21.88	23.10	24.39
BI-WEEKLY	1,570.40	1,657.60	1,750.40	1,848.00	1,951.20
MONTHLY	3,415.62	3,605.28	3,807.12	4,019.40	4,243.86
ANNUAL	40,987.44	43,263.36	45,685.44	48,232.80	50,926.32
	RANGE: 2003				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.03	21.15	22.33	23.58	24.89
BI-WEEKLY	1,602.40	1,692.00	1,786.40	1,886.40	1,991.20
MONTHLY	3,485.22	3,680.10	3,885.42	4,102.92	4,330.86
ANNUAL	41,822.64	44,161.20	46,625.04	49,235.04	51,970.32
	RANGE: 2008				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.08	21.20	22.38	23.63	24.95
BI-WEEKLY	1,606.40	1,696.00	1,790.40	1,890.40	1,996.00
MONTHLY	3,493.92	3,688.80	3,894.12	4,111.62	4,341.30
ANNUAL	41,927.04	44,265.60	46,729.44	49,339.44	52,095.60
	RANGE: 2052				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.52	21.66	22.87	24.15	25.50
BI-WEEKLY	1,641.60	1,732.80	1,829.60	1,932.00	2,040.00
MONTHLY	3,570.48	3,768.84	3,979.38	4,202.10	4,437.00
ANNUAL	42,845.76	45,226.08	47,752.56	50,425.20	53,244.00
APPENDIX A
Operative on July 1,2001
RANGE: 2063
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.63	21.78	22.99	24.27	25.62
BI-WEEKLY	1,650.40	1,742.40	1,839.20	1,941.60	2,049.60
MONTHLY	3,589.62	3,789.72	4,000.26	4,222.98	4,457.88
ANNUAL	43,075.44	45,476.64	48,003.12	50,675.76	53,494.56
	RANGE: 2094				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.94	22.11	23.34	24.64	26.01
BI-WEEKLY	1,675.20	1,768.80	1,867.20	1,971.20	2,080.80
MONTHLY	3,643.56	3,847.14	4,061.16	4,287.36	4,525.74
ANNUAL	43,722.72	46,165.68	48,733.92	51,448.32	54,308.88
	RANGE: 2103				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.03	22.20	23.44	24.75	26.13
BI-WEEKLY	1,682.40	1,776.00	1,875.20	1,980.00	2,090.40
MONTHLY	3,659.22	3,862.80	4,078.56	4,306.50	4,546.62
ANNUAL	43,910.64	46,353.60	48,942.72	51,678.00	54,559.44
	RANGE: 2115				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.15	22.33	23.58	24.89	26.28
BI-WEEKLY	1,692.00	1,786.40	1,886.40	1,991.20	2,102.40
MONTHLY	3,680.10	3,885.42	4,102.92	4,330.86	4,572.72
ANNUAL	44,161.20	46,625.04	49,235.04	51,970.32	54,872.64
	RANGE: 2120				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.20	22.38	23.63	24.95	26.34
BI-WEEKLY	1,696.00	1,790.40	1,890.40	1,996.00	2,107.20
MONTHLY	3,688.80	3,894.12	4,111.62	4,341.30	4,583.16
ANNUAL	44,265.60	46,729.44	49,339.44	52,095.60	54,997.92
APPENDIX A
Operative on July 1,2001
RANGE: 2126
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.26	22.45	23.70	25.02	26.42
BI-WEEKLY	1,700.80	1,796.00	1,896.00	2,001.60	2,113.60
MONTHLY	3,699.24	3,906.30	4,123.80	4,353.48	4,597.08
ANNUAL	44,390.88	46,875.60	49,485.60	52,241.76	55,164.96
	RANGE: 2163				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.63	22.84	24.11	25.45	26.87
BI-WEEKLY	1,730.40	1,827.20	1,928.80	2,036.00	2,149.60
MONTHLY	3,763.62	3,974.16	4,195.14	4,428.30	4,675.38
ANNUAL	45,163.44	47,689.92	50,341.68	53,139.60	56,104.56
	RANGE: 2169				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.69	22.90	24.18	25.53	26.95
BI-WEEKLY	1,735.20	1,832.00	1,934.40	2,042.40	2,156.00
MONTHLY	3,774.06	3,984.60	4,207.32	4,442.22	4,689.30
ANNUAL	45,288.72	47,815.20	50,487.84	53,306.64	56,271.60
	RANGE: 2179				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.79	23.00	24.28	25.63	27.06
BI-WEEKLY	1,743.20	1,840.00	1,942.40	2,050.40	2,164.80
MONTHLY	3,791.46	4,002.00	4,224.72	4,459.62	4,708.44
ANNUAL	45,497.52	48,024.00	50,696.64	53,515.44	56,501.28
	RANGE: 2181				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.81	23.03	24.31	25.67	27.10
BI-WEEKLY	1,744.80	1,842.40	1,944.80	2,053.60	2,168.00
MONTHLY	3,794.94	4,007.22	4,229.94	4,466.58	4,715.40
ANNUAL	45,539.28	48,086.64	50,759.28	53,598.96	56,584.80
APPENDIX A
Operative on July 1,2001
RANGE: 2214
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.14	23.37	24.67	26.05	27.50
BI-WEEKLY	1,771.20	1,869.60	1,973.60	2,084.00	2,200.00
MONTHLY	3,852.36	4,066.38	4,292.58	4,532.70	4,785.00
ANNUAL	46,228.32	48,796.56	51,510.96	54,392.40	57,420.00
	RANGE: 2229				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.29	23.53	24.84	26.22	27.68
BI-WEEKLY	1,783.20	1,882.40	1,987.20	2,097.60	2,214.40
MONTHLY	3,878.46	4,094.22	4,322.16	4,562.28	4,816.32
ANNUAL	46,541.52	49,130.64	51,865.92	54,747.36	57,795.84
	RANGE: 2235				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.35	23.60	24.92	26.31	27.78
BI-WEEKLY	1,788.00	1,888.00	1,993.60	2,104.80	2,222.40
MONTHLY	3,888.90	4,106.40	4,336.08	4,577.94	4,833.72
ANNUAL	46,666.80	49,276.80	52,032.96	54,935.28	58,004.64
	RANGE: 2264				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.64	23.90	25.23	26.64	28.13
BI-WEEKLY	1,811.20	1,912.00	2,018.40	2,131.20	2,250.40
MONTHLY	3,939.36	4,158.60	4,390.02	4,635.36	4,894.62
ANNUAL	47,272.32	49,903.20	52,680.24	55,624.32	58,735.44
	RANGE: 2276				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.76	24.03	25.37	26.78	28.27
BI-WEEKLY	1,820.80	1,922.40	2,029.60	2,142.40	2,261.60
MONTHLY	3,960.24	4,181.22	4,414.38	4,659.72	4,918.98
ANNUAL	47,522.88	50,174.64	52,972.56	55,916.64	59,027.76
APPENDIX A
Operative on July 1,2001
RANGE: 2281
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.81	24.08	25.42	26.84	28.34
BI-WEEKLY	1,824.80	1,926.40	2,033.60	2,147.20	2,267.20
MONTHLY	3,968.94	4,189.92	4,423.08	4,670.16	4,931.16
ANNUAL	47,627.28	50,279.04	53,076.96	56,041.92	59,173.92
	RANGE: 2297				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.97	24.25	25.60	27.03	28.54
BI-WEEKLY	1,837.60	1,940.00	2,048.00	2,162.40	2,283.20
MONTHLY	3,996.78	4,219.50	4,454.40	4,703.22	4,965.96
ANNUAL	47,961.36	50,634.00	53,452.80	56,438.64	59,591.52
	RANGE: 2305				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.05	24.34	25.70	27.13	28.64
BI-WEEKLY	1,844.00	1,947.20	2,056.00	2,170.40	2,291.20
MONTHLY	4,010.70	4,235.16	4,471.80	4,720.62	4,983.36
ANNUAL	48,128.40	50,821.92	53,661.60	56,647.44	59,800.32
	RANGE: 2357				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.57	24.88	26.27	27.73	29.28
BI-WEEKLY	1,885.60	1,990.40	2,101.60	2,218.40	2,342.40
MONTHLY	4,101.18	4,329.12	4,570.98	4,825.02	5,094.72
ANNUAL	49,214.16	51,949.44	54,851.76	57,900.24	61,136.64
	RANGE: 2409				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	24.09	25.43	26.85	28.35	29.93
BI-WEEKLY	1,927.20	2,034.40	2,148.00	2,268.00	2,394.40
MONTHLY	4,191.66	4,424.82	4,671.90	4,932.90	5,207.82
ANNUAL	50,299.92	53,097.84	56,062.80	59,194.80	62,493.84
APPENDIX A
Operative on July 1,2001
RANGE: 2488
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	24.88	26.27	27.73	29.28	30.91
BI-WEEKLY	1,990.40	2,101.60	2,218.40	2,342.40	2,472.80
MONTHLY	4,329.12	4,570.98	4,825.02	5,094.72	5,378.34
ANNUAL	51,949.44	54,851.76	57,900.24	61,136.64	64,540.08
	RANGE: 2523				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	25.23	26.64	28.13	29.70	31.36
BI-WEEKLY	2,018.40	2,131.20	2,250.40	2,376.00	2,508.80
MONTHLY	4,390.02	4,635.36	4,894.62	5,167.80	5,456.64
ANNUAL	52,680.24	55,624.32	58,735.44	62,013.60	65,479.68
	RANGE: 2557				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	25.57	27.00	28.51	30.10	31.78
BI-WEEKLY	2,045.60	2,160.00	2,280.80	2,408.00	2,542.40
MONTHLY	4,449.18	4,698.00	4,960.74	5,237.40	5,529.72
ANNUAL	53,390.16	56,376.00	59,528.88	62,848.80	66,356.64
	RANGE: 2613				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	26.13	27.59	29.13	30.75	32.46
BI-WEEKLY	2,090.40	2,207.20	2,330.40	2,460.00	2,596.80
MONTHLY	4,546.62	4,800.66	5,068.62	5,350.50	5,648.04
ANNUAL	54,559.44	57,607.92	60,823.44	64,206.00	67,776.48
	RANGE: 2628				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	26.28	27.75	29.30	30.93	32.65
BI-WEEKLY	2,102.40	2,220.00	2,344.00	2,474.40	2,612.00
MONTHLY	4,572.72	4,828.50	5,098.20	5,381.82	5,681.10
ANNUAL	54,872.64	57,942.00	61,178.40	64,581.84	68,173.20
APPENDIX A
Operative on July 1,2001
RANGE: 2695
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	26.95	28.45	30.04	31.71	33.48
BI-WEEKLY	2,156.00	2,276.00	2,403.20	2,536.80	2,678.40
MONTHLY	4,689.30	4,950.30	5,226.96	5,517.54	5,825.52
ANNUAL	56,271.60	59,403.60	62,723.52	66,210.48	69,906.24
	RANGE: 2709				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	27.09	28.60	30.19	31.87	33.65
BI-WEEKLY	2,167.20	2,288.00	2,415.20	2,549.60	2,692.00
MONTHLY	4,713.66	4,976.40	5,253.06	5,545.38	5,855.10
ANNUAL	56,563.92	59,716.80	63,036.72	66,544.56	70,261.20
	RANGE: 2785				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	27.85	29.40	31.04	32.77	34.60
BI-WEEKLY	2,228.00	2,352.00	2,483.20	2,621.60	2,768.00
MONTHLY	4,845.90	5,115.60	5,400.96	5,701.98	6,020.40
ANNUAL	58,150.80	61,387.20	64,811.52	68,423.76	72,244.80
	RANGE: 2873				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	28.73	30.33	32.02	33.81	35.70
BI-WEEKLY	2,298.40	2,426.40	2,561.60	2,704.80	2,856.00
MONTHLY	4,999.02	5,277.42	5,571.48	5,882.94	6,211.80
ANNUAL	59,988.24	63,329.04	66,857.76	70,595.28	74,541.60
	RANGE: 2890				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	28.90	30.51	32.21	34.01	35.91
BI-WEEKLY	2,312.00	2,440.80	2,576.80	2,720.80	2,872.80
MONTHLY	5,028.60	5,308.74	5,604.54	5,917.74	6,248.34
ANNUAL	60,343.20	63,704.88	67,254.48	71,012.88	74,980.08
APPENDIX A
Operative on July 1,2001
RANGE: 2902
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	29.02	30.64	32.35	34.15	36.05
BI-WEEKLY	2,321.60	2,451.20	2,588.00	2,732.00	2,884.00
MONTHLY	5,049.48	5,331.36	5,628.90	5,942.10	6,272.70
ANNUAL	60,593.76	63,976.32	67,546.80	71,305.20	75,272.40
	RANGE: 2937				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	29.37	31.01	32.74	34.57	36.50
BI-WEEKLY	2,349.60	2,480.80	2,619.20	2,765.60	2,920.00
MONTHLY	5,110.38	5,395.74	5,696.76	6,015.18	6,351.00
ANNUAL	61,324.56	64,748.88	68,361.12	72,182.16	76,212.00
	RANGE: 2999				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	29.99	31.66	33.43	35.29	37.26
BI-WEEKLY	2,399.20	2,532.80	2,674.40	2,823.20	2,980.80
MONTHLY	5,218.26	5,508.84	5,816.82	6,140.46	6,483.24
ANNUAL	62,619.12	66,106.08	69,801.84	73,685.52	77,798.88
	RANGE: 3041				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	30.41	32.11	33.90	35.79	37.79
BI-WEEKLY	2,432.80	2,568.80	2,712.00	2,863.20	3,023.20
MONTHLY	5,291.34	5,587.14	5,898.60	6,227.46	6,575.46
ANNUAL	63,496.08	67,045.68	70,783.20	74,729.52	78,905.52
	RANGE: 3123				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	31.23	32.97	34.81	36.75	38.80
BI-WEEKLY	2,498.40	2,637.60	2,784.80	2,940.00	3,104.00
MONTHLY	5,434.02	5,736.78	6,056.94	6,394.50	6,751.20
ANNUAL	65,208.24	68,841.36	72,683.28	76,734.00	81,014.40
APPENDIX A
Operative on July 1,2001
RANGE: 3153
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	31.53	33.29	35.15	37.11	39.18
BI-WEEKLY	2,522.40	2,663.20	2,812.00	2,968.80	3,134.40
MONTHLY	5,486.22	5,792.46	6,116.10	6,457.14	6,817.32
ANNUAL	65,834.64	69,509.52	73,393.20	77,485.68	81,807.84
	RANGE: 3228				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	32.28	34.08	35.98	37.99	40.11
BI-WEEKLY	2,582.40	2,726.40	2,878.40	3,039.20	3,208.80
MONTHLY	5,616.72	5,929.92	6,260.52	6,610.26	6,979.14
ANNUAL	67,400.64	71,159.04	75,126.24	79,323.12	83,749.68
	RANGE: 3369				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	33.69	35.57	37.55	39.64	41.85
BI-WEEKLY	2,695.20	2,845.60	3,004.00	3,171.20	3,348.00
MONTHLY	5,862.06	6,189.18	6,533.70	6,897.36	7,281.90
ANNUAL	70,344.72	74,270.16	78,404.40	82,768.32	87,382.80
	RANGE: 3494				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	34.94	36.89	38.95	41.12	43.41
BI-WEEKLY	2,795.20	2,951.20	3,116.00	3,289.60	3,472.80
MONTHLY	6,079.56	6,418.86	6,777.30	7,154.88	7,553.34
ANNUAL	72,954.72	77,026.32	81,327.60	85,858.56	90,640.08
	RANGE: 3499				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	34.99	36.94	39.00	41.17	43.47
BI-WEEKLY	2,799.20	2,955.20	3,120.00	3,293.60	3,477.60
MONTHLY	6,088.26	6,427.56	6,786.00	7,163.58	7,563.78
ANNUAL	73,059.12	77,130.72	81,432.00	85,962.96	90,765.36
APPENDIX B
Operative on January 1,2002
CLASS CODE		TITLE	SALARY RANGE
1951		Agricultural Land Developer	2538
1429		Applications Programmer	2135
7922	H	Architectural Drafting Technician - Harbor	2044
7922		Architectural Drafting Technician (Note 5)	1877
7224		Calligrapher	1986
7204		Cartographer (Note 4)	1877
1803		Channel Traffic & Info Coordinator	2003
7941		City Planning Associate	2680
7232		Civil Engineering Drafting Tech (Note 5)	1877
7232	A	Civil Engineering Drafting Technician - A & H	2044
1660	1	Computer Graphic Artist I	1726
1660	2	Computer Graphic Artist II	2094
1427	1	Computer Operatori	1650
1427	2	Computer Operator II	1790
3341		Construction Estimator	2664
1470		Data Base Architect	3436
1136	1	Data Processing Technician I	1650
1136	2	Data Processing Technician II	1790
1135	1	Documentation Technician I	1674
1135	2	Documentation Technician II	1822
7229		Drafting Aide	1589
3337		Electrical Construction Estimator	2664
7532		Electrical Engineering Drafting Tech (Note 5)	1877
7532	H	Electrical Engineering Drafting Tech - H (Note 5)	2044
7217		Engineering Designer	2281
7217	1	Engineering Designer I	2281
7217	2	Engineering Designer II	2457
7217	A	Engineering Designer-Airport	2538
3734	1	Equipment Specialist I	2322
3734	2	Equipment Specialist II (Note 7)	2574
3229	1	Examiner of Questioned Documents I	1803
3229	2	Examiner of Questioned Documents II	3185
2444		Exhibit Preparator	1608
7228		Field Engineering Aide (Note 10)	2258
1571		Finance Development Officer	2997
1571	1	Finance Development Officer I	2997
1571	2	Finance Development Officer II	3217
2233		Firearms Examiner	3185
2200	1	Forensic Print Specialist I	2135
2200	2	Forensic Print Specialist II	2352
2200	3	Forensic Print Specialist III	2762
2200	4	Forensic Print Specialist IV	2931
7213		Geographic Information Systems Specialist	2145
1670	1	Graphics Designer I (Note 5)	1726
1670	2	Graphics Designer II (Note 5)	2094
1670	2A	Graphics Designer Il-Airport (Note 5)	2163
1670	3	Graphics Designer III (Note 5)	2342
1562		Improvement Assessor	2094
7199	1	Improvement Bond Coordinator I	2163
7199	2	Improvement Bond Coordinator II	2404
APPENDIX B
Operative on January 1,2002
CLASS			SALARY	
CODE		TITLE	RANGE	
4292		Industrial Waste Inspector	2309	
9191	1	Industrial and Commercial Finance Officer I	2997	
9191	2	Industrial and Commercial Finance Officer II	3217	
1456		Information Services Specialist	2206	
7854	1	Laboratory Technician I (Note 11)	1632	
7854	2	Laboratory Technician II (Note 11)	1934	
7283		Land Surveying Assistant (Note 10)	2457	
7968	1	Materials Testing Technician I (Note 9)	1833	
7968	2	Materials Testing Technician II (Note 9)	2044	
3342		Mechanical Construction Estimator	2664	
7551		Mechanical Engineering Drafting Technician	1873	
7212	1	Office Engineering Technician I	1632	
7212	2	Office Engineering Technician II	1833	
7212	3	Office Engineering Technician III	2044	
1793	1	Photographer I (Note 1)	1873	
1793	2	Photographer II (Note 2)	2158	
1793	3	Photographer III	2272	
2309	1	Physical Therapist I	2103	
2309	2	Physical Therapist II	2214	
7943	1	Planning Aide I (Note 16)	1632	
7943	2	Planning Aide II (Note 16)	1877	
7939		Planning Assistant	2281	
6146		Playback Operator	1726	
1650		Police Composite Artist	2044	
2240	1	Polygraph Examiner I	2326	
2240	2	Polygraph Examiner II	2949	
2240	3	Polygraph Examiner III	3102	
2240	4	Polygraph Examiner IV	3569	
1941	1	Real Estate Associate I	1833	
1941	2	Real Estate Associate II	2163	
1960		Real Estate Officer (Note 17)	2610	
1960	A	Real Estate Officer-A & H (Note 17)	2841	
1960	1	Real Estate Officer I (Note 17)	2610	
1960	2	Real Estate Officer II (Note 17)	2841	
1937		Real Estate Trainee	1726	
7208		Senior Archl Drafting Tech (Notes 5&13)	2094	
7205		Senior Cartographer	2094	
7207		Senior Civil Eng Drafting Tech(Notes 5&12)	2094	
1428	1	Senior Computer Operator I	1934	
1428	2	Senior Computer Operator II	2225	
7209		Senior Electrical Drafting Tech (Notes 5&14)	2094	
7210		Senior Mechanical Drafting Tech (Note 5)	2281	
1947		Senior Title Examiner	2281	
4273		Senior Transportation Investigator	2214	
7286	1	Survey Party Chief I (Notes 8&10)	2749	
7286	2	Survey Party Chief II (Notes 8&10)	2960	
1455	1	Systems Programmer I	3059	
1455	2	Systems Programmer II	3292	
1455	3	Systems Programmer III	3564	
5943		Tank Farm Operator	2169	(5)
APPENDIX B
Operative on January 1,2002
CLASS CODE	TITLE	SALARY RANGE
7615	Television Engineer	2749
1943	Title Examiner	2044	(2)
7285 1	Transportation Engineering Aide I	1934
7285 2	Transportation Engineering Aide II	2163
4271	Transportation Investigator (Note 15)	1877
2480 1	Transportation Planning Associate I	2281
2480 2	Transportation Planning Associate II	2749
2369	Veterinary Technician (Notes 3&6)	1688
1802	Video Production Coordinator	2003
6145 1	Video Technician I	2003
6145 2	Video Technician II	2221
6149	Videotape Librarian	1836
2358 1	Xray & Laboratory Technician I	2049
2358 2	Xray & Laboratory Technician II	2163
APPENDIX B
Operative on January 1,2002
RANGE: 1589
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	15.89	16.78	17.72	18.71	19.75
BI-WEEKLY	1,271.20	1,342.40	1,417.60	1,496.80	1,580.00
MONTHLY	2,764.86	2,919.72	3,083.28	3,255.54	3,436.50
ANNUAL	33,178.32	35,036.64	36,999.36	39,066.48	41,238.00
	RANGE: 1608				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.08	16.98	17.93	18.93	19.99
BI-WEEKLY	1,286.40	1,358.40	1,434.40	1,514.40	1,599.20
MONTHLY	2,797.92	2,954.52	3,119.82	3,293.82	3,478.26
ANNUAL	33,575.04	35,454.24	37,437.84	39,525.84	41,739.12
	RANGE: 1632				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.32	17.23	18.19	19.20	20.27
BI-WEEKLY	1,305.60	1,378.40	1,455.20	1,536.00	1,621.60
MONTHLY	2,839.68	2,998.02	3,165.06	3,340.80	3,526.98
ANNUAL	34,076.16	35,976.24	37,980.72	40,089.60	42,323.76
	RANGE: 1650				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.50	17.42	18.39	19.42	20.50
BI-WEEKLY	1,320.00	1,393.60	1,471.20	1,553.60	1,640.00
MONTHLY	2,871.00	3,031.08	3,199.86	3,379.08	3,567.00
ANNUAL	34,452.00	36,372.96	38,398.32	40,548.96	42,804.00
	RANGE: 1674				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.74	17.67	18.66	19.70	20.80
BI-WEEKLY	1,339.20	1,413.60	1,492.80	1,576.00	1,664.00
MONTHLY	2,912.76	3,074.58	3,246.84	3,427.80	3,619.20
ANNUAL	34,953.12	36,894.96	38,962.08	41,133.60	43,430.40
APPENDIX B
Operative on January 1,2002
RANGE: 1688
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.88	17.82	18.81	19.86	20.97
BI-WEEKLY	1,350.40	1,425.60	1,504.80	1,588.80	1,677.60
MONTHLY	2,937.12	3,100.68	3,272.94	3,455.64	3,648.78
ANNUAL	35,245.44	37,208.16	39,275.28	41,467.68	43,785.36
	RANGE: 1726				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.26	18.22	19.24	20.31	21.44
BI-WEEKLY	1,380.80	1,457.60	1,539.20	1,624.80	1,715.20
MONTHLY	3,003.24	3,170.28	3,347.76	3,533.94	3,730.56
ANNUAL	36,038.88	38,043.36	40,173.12	42,407.28	44,766.72
	RANGE: 1790				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.90	18.90	19.95	21.06	22.23
BI-WEEKLY	1,432.00	1,512.00	1,596.00	1,684.80	1,778.40
MONTHLY	3,114.60	3,288.60	3,471.30	3,664.44	3,868.02
ANNUAL	37,375.20	39,463.20	41,655.60	43,973.28	46,416.24
	RANGE: 1803				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.03	19.04	20.10	21.22	22.40
BI-WEEKLY	1,442.40	1,523.20	1,608.00	1,697.60	1,792.00
MONTHLY	3,137.22	3,312.96	3,497.40	3,692.28	3,897.60
ANNUAL	37,646.64	39,755.52	41,968.80	44,307.36	46,771.20
	RANGE: 1822				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.22	19.24	20.31	21.44	22.64
BI-WEEKLY	1,457.60	1,539.20	1,624.80	1,715.20	1,811.20
MONTHLY	3,170.28	3,347.76	3,533.94	3,730.56	3,939.36
ANNUAL	38,043.36	40,173.12	42,407.28	44,766.72	47,272.32
APPENDIX B
Operative on January 1,2002
RANGE: 1833
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.33	19.35	20.43	21.57	22.77
BI-WEEKLY	1,466.40	1,548.00	1,634.40	1,725.60	1,821.60
MONTHLY	3,189.42	3,366.90	3,554.82	3,753.18	3,961.98
ANNUAL	38,273.04	40,402.80	42,657.84	45,038.16	47,543.76
	RANGE: 1836				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.36	19.38	20.46	21.60	22.80
BI-WEEKLY	1,468.80	1,550.40	1,636.80	1,728.00	1,824.00
MONTHLY	3,194.64	3,372.12	3,560.04	3,758.40	3,967.20
ANNUAL	38,335.68	40,465.44	42,720.48	45,100.80	47,606.40
	RANGE: 1873				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.73	19.77	20.87	22.03	23.26
BI-WEEKLY	1,498.40	1,581.60	1,669.60	1,762.40	1,860.80
MONTHLY	3,259.02	3,439.98	3,631.38	3,833.22	4,047.24
ANNUAL	39,108.24	41,279.76	43,576.56	45,998.64	48,566.88
	RANGE: 1877				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.77	19.82	20.93	22.10	23.33
BI-WEEKLY	1,501.60	1,585.60	1,674.40	1,768.00	1,866.40
MONTHLY	3,265.98	3,448.68	3,641.82	3,845.40	4,059.42
ANNUAL	39,191.76	41,384.16	43,701.84	46,144.80	48,713.04
	RANGE: 1934				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.34	20.42	21.56	22.76	24.03
BI-WEEKLY	1,547.20	1,633.60	1,724.80	1,820.80	1,922.40
MONTHLY	3,365.16	3,553.08	3,751.44	3,960.24	4,181.22
ANNUAL	40,381.92	42,636.96	45,017.28	47,522.88	50,174.64
APPENDIX B
Operative on January 1,2002
RANGE: 1986
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.86	20.97	22.14	23.37	24.67
BI-WEEKLY	1,588.80	1,677.60	1,771.20	1,869.60	1,973.60
MONTHLY	3,455.64	3,648.78	3,852.36	4,066.38	4,292.58
ANNUAL	41,467.68	43,785.36	46,228.32	48,796.56	51,510.96
	RANGE: 2003				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.03	21.15	22.33	23.58	24.89
BI-WEEKLY	1,602.40	1,692.00	1,786.40	1,886.40	1,991.20
MONTHLY	3,485.22	3,680.10	3,885.42	4,102.92	4,330.86
ANNUAL	41,822.64	44,161.20	46,625.04	49,235.04	51,970.32
	RANGE: 2044				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.44	21.58	22.78	24.05	25.39
BI-WEEKLY	1,635.20	1,726.40	1,822.40	1,924.00	2,031.20
MONTHLY	3,556.56	3,754.92	3,963.72	4,184.70	4,417.86
ANNUAL	42,678.72	45,059.04	47,564.64	50,216.40	53,014.32
	RANGE: 2049				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.49	21.63	22.84	24.11	25.45
BI-WEEKLY	1,639.20	1,730.40	1,827.20	1,928.80	2,036.00
MONTHLY	3,565.26	3,763.62	3,974.16	4,195.14	4,428.30
ANNUAL	42,783.12	45,163.44	47,689.92	50,341.68	53,139.60
	RANGE: 2094				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.94	22.11	23.34	24.64	26.01
BI-WEEKLY	1,675.20	1,768.80	1,867.20	1,971.20	2,080.80
MONTHLY	3,643.56	3,847.14	4,061.16	4,287.36	4,525.74
ANNUAL	43,722.72	46,165.68	48,733.92	51,448.32	54,308.88
APPENDIX B
Operative on January 1,2002
RANGE: 2103
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.03	22.20	23.44	24.75	26.13
BI-WEEKLY	1,682.40	1,776.00	1,875.20	1,980.00	2,090.40
MONTHLY	3,659.22	3,862.80	4,078.56	4,306.50	4,546.62
ANNUAL	43,910.64	46,353.60	48,942.72	51,678.00	54,559.44
	RANGE: 2135				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.35	22.54	23.80	25.13	26.53
BI-WEEKLY	1,708.00	1,803.20	1,904.00	2,010.40	2,122.40
MONTHLY	3,714.90	3,921.96	4,141.20	4,372.62	4,616.22
ANNUAL	44,578.80	47,063.52	49,694.40	52,471.44	55,394.64
	RANGE: 2145				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.45	22.65	23.91	25.24	26.65
BI-WEEKLY	1,716.00	1,812.00	1,912.80	2,019.20	2,132.00
MONTHLY	3,732.30	3,941.10	4,160.34	4,391.76	4,637.10
ANNUAL	44,787.60	47,293.20	49,924.08	52,701.12	55,645.20
	RANGE: 2158				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.58	22.78	24.05	25.39	26.81
BI-WEEKLY	1,726.40	1,822.40	1,924.00	2,031.20	2,144.80
MONTHLY	3,754.92	3,963.72	4,184.70	4,417.86	4,664.94
ANNUAL	45,059.04	47,564.64	50,216.40	53,014.32	55,979.28
	RANGE: 2163				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.63	22.84	24.11	25.45	26.87
BI-WEEKLY	1,730.40	1,827.20	1,928.80	2,036.00	2,149.60
MONTHLY	3,763.62	3,974.16	4,195.14	4,428.30	4,675.38
ANNUAL	45,163.44	47,689.92	50,341.68	53,139.60	56,104.56
APPENDIX B
Operative on January 1,2002
RANGE: 2169
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.69	22.90	24.18	25.53	26.95
BI-WEEKLY	1,735.20	1,832.00	1,934.40	2,042.40	2,156.00
MONTHLY	3,774.06	3,984.60	4,207.32	4,442.22	4,689.30
ANNUAL	45,288.72	47,815.20	50,487.84	53,306.64	56,271.60
	RANGE: 2206				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.06	23.29	24.59	25.96	27.41
BI-WEEKLY	1,764.80	1,863.20	1,967.20	2,076.80	2,192.80
MONTHLY	3,838.44	4,052.46	4,278.66	4,517.04	4,769.34
ANNUAL	46,061.28	48,629.52	51,343.92	54,204.48	57,232.08
	RANGE: 2214				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.14	23.37	24.67	26.05	27.50
BI-WEEKLY	1,771.20	1,869.60	1,973.60	2,084.00	2,200.00
MONTHLY	3,852.36	4,066.38	4,292.58	4,532.70	4,785.00
ANNUAL	46,228.32	48,796.56	51,510.96	54,392.40	57,420.00
	RANGE: 2221				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.21	23.45	24.76	26.14	27.60
BI-WEEKLY	1,776.80	1,876.00	1,980.80	2,091.20	2,208.00
MONTHLY	3,864.54	4,080.30	4,308.24	4,548.36	4,802.40
ANNUAL	46,374.48	48,963.60	51,698.88	54,580.32	57,628.80
	RANGE: 2225				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.25	23.49	24.80	26.18	27.64
BI-WEEKLY	1,780.00	1,879.20	1,984.00	2,094.40	2,211.20
MONTHLY	3,871.50	4,087.26	4,315.20	4,555.32	4,809.36
ANNUAL	46,458.00	49,047.12	51,782.40	54,663.84	57,712.32
APPENDIX B
Operative on January 1,2002
RANGE: 2258
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.58	23.84	25.17	26.57	28.05
BI-WEEKLY	1,806.40	1,907.20	2,013.60	2,125.60	2,244.00
MONTHLY	3,928.92	4,148.16	4,379.58	4,623.18	4,880.70
ANNUAL	47,147.04	49,777.92	52,554.96	55,478.16	58,568.40
	RANGE: 2272				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.72	23.99	25.33	26.74	28.23
BI-WEEKLY	1,817.60	1,919.20	2,026.40	2,139.20	2,258.40
MONTHLY	3,953.28	4,174.26	4,407.42	4,652.76	4,912.02
ANNUAL	47,439.36	50,091.12	52,889.04	55,833.12	58,944.24
	RANGE: 2281				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.81	24.08	25.42	26.84	28.34
BI-WEEKLY	1,824.80	1,926.40	2,033.60	2,147.20	2,267.20
MONTHLY	3,968.94	4,189.92	4,423.08	4,670.16	4,931.16
ANNUAL	47,627.28	50,279.04	53,076.96	56,041.92	59,173.92
	RANGE: 2309				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.09	24.38	25.74	27.18	28.70
BI-WEEKLY	1,847.20	1,950.40	2,059.20	2,174.40	2,296.00
MONTHLY	4,017.66	4,242.12	4,478.76	4,729.32	4,993.80
ANNUAL	48,211.92	50,905.44	53,745.12	56,751.84	59,925.60
	RANGE: 2322				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.22	24.51	25.88	27.32	28.84
BI-WEEKLY	1,857.60	1,960.80	2,070.40	2,185.60	2,307.20
MONTHLY	4,040.28	4,264.74	4,503.12	4,753.68	5,018.16
ANNUAL	48,483.36	51,176.88	54,037.44	57,044.16	60,217.92
APPENDIX B
Operative on January 1,2002
RANGE: 2326
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.26	24.56	25.93	27.38	28.91
BI-WEEKLY	1,860.80	1,964.80	2,074.40	2,190.40	2,312.80
MONTHLY	4,047.24	4,273.44	4,511.82	4,764.12	5,030.34
ANNUAL	48,566.88	51,281.28	54,141.84	57,169.44	60,364.08
	RANGE: 2342				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.42	24.73	26.11	27.57	29.11
BI-WEEKLY	1,873.60	1,978.40	2,088.80	2,205.60	2,328.80
MONTHLY	4,075.08	4,303.02	4,543.14	4,797.18	5,065.14
ANNUAL	48,900.96	51,636.24	54,517.68	57,566.16	60,781.68
	RANGE: 2352				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.52	24.83	26.21	27.67	29.21
BI-WEEKLY	1,881.60	1,986.40	2,096.80	2,213.60	2,336.80
MONTHLY	4,092.48	4,320.42	4,560.54	4,814.58	5,082.54
ANNUAL	49,109.76	51,845.04	54,726.48	57,774.96	60,990.48
	RANGE: 2404				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	24.04	25.38	26.80	28.29	29.87
BI-WEEKLY	1,923.20	2,030.40	2,144.00	2,263.20	2,389.60
MONTHLY	4,182.96	4,416.12	4,663.20	4,922.46	5,197.38
ANNUAL	50,195.52	52,993.44	55,958.40	59,069.52	62,368.56
	RANGE: 2457				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	24.57	25.94	27.39	28.92	30.53
BI-WEEKLY	1,965.60	2,075.20	2,191.20	2,313.60	2,442.40
MONTHLY	4,275.18	4,513.56	4,765.86	5,032.08	5,312.22
ANNUAL	51,302.16	54,162.72	57,190.32	60,384.96	63,746.64
APPENDIX B
Operative on January 1,2002
RANGE: 2538
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	25.38	26.80	28.29	29.87	31.54
BI-WEEKLY	2,030.40	2,144.00	2,263.20	2,389.60	2,523.20
MONTHLY	4,416.12	4,663.20	4,922.46	5,197.38	5,487.96
ANNUAL	52,993.44	55,958.40	59,069.52	62,368.56	65,855.52
	RANGE: 2574				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	25.74	27.18	28.70	30.30	31.99
BI-WEEKLY	2,059.20	2,174.40	2,296.00	2,424.00	2,559.20
MONTHLY	4,478.76	4,729.32	4,993.80	5,272.20	5,566.26
ANNUAL	53,745.12	56,751.84	59,925.60	63,266.40	66,795.12
	RANGE: 2610				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	26.10	27.56	29.10	30.72	32.43
BI-WEEKLY	2,088.00	2,204.80	2,328.00	2,457.60	2,594.40
MONTHLY	4,541.40	4,795.44	5,063.40	5,345.28	5,642.82
ANNUAL	54,496.80	57,545.28	60,760.80	64,143.36	67,713.84
	RANGE: 2664				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	26.64	28.13	29.70	31.36	33.11
BI-WEEKLY	2,131.20	2,250.40	2,376.00	2,508.80	2,648.80
MONTHLY	4,635.36	4,894.62	5,167.80	5,456.64	5,761.14
ANNUAL	55,624.32	58,735.44	62,013.60	65,479.68	69,133.68
	RANGE: 2680				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	26.80	28.29	29.87	31.54	33.30
BI-WEEKLY	2,144.00	2,263.20	2,389.60	2,523.20	2,664.00
MONTHLY	4,663.20	4,922.46	5,197.38	5,487.96	5,794.20
ANNUAL	55,958.40	59,069.52	62,368.56	65,855.52	69,530.40
APPENDIX B
Operative on January 1,2002
RANGE: 2749
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	27.49	29.02	30.64	32.35	34.15
BI-WEEKLY	2,199.20	2,321.60	2,451.20	2,588.00	2,732.00
MONTHLY	4,783.26	5,049.48	5,331.36	5,628.90	5,942.10
ANNUAL	57,399.12	60,593.76	63,976.32	67,546.80	71,305.20
	RANGE: 2762				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	27.62	29.16	30.79	32.51	34.32
BI-WEEKLY	2,209.60	2,332.80	2,463.20	2,600.80	2,745.60
MONTHLY	4,805.88	5,073.84	5,357.46	5,656.74	5,971.68
ANNUAL	57,670.56	60,886.08	64,289.52	67,880.88	71,660.16
	RANGE: 2841				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	28.41	29.99	31.66	33.43	35.29
BI-WEEKLY	2,272.80	2,399.20	2,532.80	2,674.40	2,823.20
MONTHLY	4,943.34	5,218.26	5,508.84	5,816.82	6,140.46
ANNUAL	59,320.08	62,619.12	66,106.08	69,801.84	73,685.52
	RANGE: 2931				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	29.31	30.94	32.67	34.49	36.41
BI-WEEKLY	2,344.80	2,475.20	2,613.60	2,759.20	2,912.80
MONTHLY	5,099.94	5,383.56	5,684.58	6,001.26	6,335.34
ANNUAL	61,199.28	64,602.72	68,214.96	72,015.12	76,024.08
	RANGE: 2949				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	29.49	31.13	32.87	34.70	36.63
BI-WEEKLY	2,359.20	2,490.40	2,629.60	2,776.00	2,930.40
MONTHLY	5,131.26	5,416.62	5,719.38	6,037.80	6,373.62
ANNUAL	61,575.12	64,999.44	68,632.56	72,453.60	76,483.44
APPENDIX B
Operative on January 1,2002
RANGE: 2960
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	29.60	31.25	32.99	34.83	36.77
BI-WEEKLY	2,368.00	2,500.00	2,639.20	2,786.40	2,941.60
MONTHLY	5,150.40	5,437.50	5,740.26	6,060.42	6,397.98
ANNUAL	61,804.80	65,250.00	68,883.12	72,725.04	76,775.76
	RANGE: 2997				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	29.97	31.64	33.40	35.26	37.23
BI-WEEKLY	2,397.60	2,531.20	2,672.00	2,820.80	2,978.40
MONTHLY	5,214.78	5,505.36	5,811.60	6,135.24	6,478.02
ANNUAL	62,577.36	66,064.32	69,739.20	73,622.88	77,736.24
	RANGE: 3059				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	30.59	32.30	34.10	36.00	38.01
BI-WEEKLY	2,447.20	2,584.00	2,728.00	2,880.00	3,040.80
MONTHLY	5,322.66	5,620.20	5,933.40	6,264.00	6,613.74
ANNUAL	63,871.92	67,442.40	71,200.80	75,168.00	79,364.88
	RANGE: 3102				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	31.02	32.75	34.58	36.51	38.55
BI-WEEKLY	2,481.60	2,620.00	2,766.40	2,920.80	3,084.00
MONTHLY	5,397.48	5,698.50	6,016.92	6,352.74	6,707.70
ANNUAL	64,769.76	68,382.00	72,203.04	76,232.88	80,492.40
	RANGE: 3185				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	31.85	33.63	35.51	37.49	39.58
BI-WEEKLY	2,548.00	2,690.40	2,840.80	2,999.20	3,166.40
MONTHLY	5,541.90	5,851.62	6,178.74	6,523.26	6,886.92
ANNUAL	66,502.80	70,219.44	74,144.88	78,279.12	82,643.04
APPENDIX B
Operative on January 1,2002
RANGE: 3217
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	32.17	33.96	35.85	37.85	39.96
BI-WEEKLY	2,573.60	2,716.80	2,868.00	3,028.00	3,196.80
MONTHLY	5,597.58	5,909.04	6,237.90	6,585.90	6,953.04
ANNUAL	67,170.96	70,908.48	74,854.80	79,030.80	83,436.48
	RANGE: 3292				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	32.92	34.76	36.70	38.75	40.91
BI-WEEKLY	2,633.60	2,780.80	2,936.00	3,100.00	3,272.80
MONTHLY	5,728.08	6,048.24	6,385.80	6,742.50	7,118.34
ANNUAL	68,736.96	72,578.88	76,629.60	80,910.00	85,420.08
	RANGE: 3436				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	34.36	36.28	38.30	40.44	42.69
BI-WEEKLY	2,748.80	2,902.40	3,064.00	3,235.20	3,415.20
MONTHLY	5,978.64	6,312.72	6,664.20	7,036.56	7,428.06
ANNUAL	71,743.68	75,752.64	79,970.40	84,438.72	89,136.72
	RANGE: 3564				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	35.64	37.63	39.73	41.95	44.29
BI-WEEKLY	2,851.20	3,010.40	3,178.40	3,356.00	3,543.20
MONTHLY	6,201.36	6,547.62	6,913.02	7,299.30	7,706.46
ANNUAL	74,416.32	78,571.44	82,956.24	87,591.60	92,477.52
	RANGE: 3569				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	35.69	37.68	39.78	42.00	44.34
BI-WEEKLY	2,855.20	3,014.40	3,182.40	3,360.00	3,547.20
MONTHLY	6,210.06	6,556.32	6,921.72	7,308.00	7,715.16
ANNUAL	74,520.72	78,675.84	83,060.64	87,696.00	92,581.92
APPENDIX C
Operative on July 1,2002
CLASS CODE		TITLE	SALARY RANGE
1951		Agricultural Land Developer	2590
1429		Applications Programmer	2179
7922	H	Architectural Drafting Technician - Harbor	2084
7922		Architectural Drafting Technician (Note 5)	1915
7224		Calligrapher	2025
7204		Cartographer (Note 4)	1915
1803		Channel Traffic & Info Coordinator	2044
7941		City Planning Associate	2735
7232		Civil Engineering Drafting Tech (Note 5)	1915
7232	A	Civil Engineering Drafting Technician - A & H	2084
1660	1	Computer Graphic Artist I	1761
1660	2	Computer Graphic Artist II	2135
1427	1	Computer Operatori	1683
1427	2	Computer Operator II	1825
3341		Construction Estimator	2718
1470		Data Base Architect	3505
1136	1	Data Processing Technician I	1683
1136	2	Data Processing Technician II	1825
1135	1	Documentation Technician I	1708
1135	2	Documentation Technician II	1859
7229		Drafting Aide	1623
3337		Electrical Construction Estimator	2718
7532		Electrical Engineering Drafting Tech (Note 5)	1915
7532	H	Electrical Engineering Drafting Tech - H (Note 5)	2084
7217		Engineering Designer	2326
7217	1	Engineering Designer I	2326
7217	2	Engineering Designer II	2506
7217	A	Engineering Designer-Airport	2590
3734	1	Equipment Specialist I	2369
3734	2	Equipment Specialist II (Note 7)	2627
3229	1	Examiner of Questioned Documents I	1839
3229	2	Examiner of Questioned Documents II	3250
2444		Exhibit Preparator	1641
7228		Field Engineering Aide (Note 10)	2303
1571		Finance Development Officer	3057
1571	1	Finance Development Officer I	3057
1571	2	Finance Development Officer II	3281
2233		Firearms Examiner	3250
2200	1	Forensic Print Specialist I	2179
2200	2	Forensic Print Specialist II	2398
2200	3	Forensic Print Specialist III	2818
2200	4	Forensic Print Specialist IV	2989
7213		Geographic Information Systems Specialist	2187
1670	1	Graphics Designer I (Note 5)	1761
1670	2	Graphics Designer II (Note 5)	2135
1670	2A	Graphics Designer Il-Airport (Note 5)	2206
1670	3	Graphics Designer III (Note 5)	2390
1562		Improvement Assessor	2135
7199	1	Improvement Bond Coordinator I	2206
7199	2	Improvement Bond Coordinator II	2453
APPENDIX C
Operative on July 1,2002
CLASS			SALARY	
CODE		TITLE	RANGE	
4292		Industrial Waste Inspector	2356	
9191	1	Industrial and Commercial Finance Officer I	3057	
9191	2	Industrial and Commercial Finance Officer II	3281	
1456		Information Services Specialist	2251	
7854	1	Laboratory Technician I (Note 11)	1665	
7854	2	Laboratory Technician II (Note 11)	1973	
7283		Land Surveying Assistant (Note 10)	2506	
7968	1	Materials Testing Technician I (Note 9)	1870	
7968	2	Materials Testing Technician II (Note 9)	2084	
3342		Mechanical Construction Estimator	2718	
7551		Mechanical Engineering Drafting Technician	1911	
7212	1	Office Engineering Technician I	1665	
7212	2	Office Engineering Technician II	1870	
7212	3	Office Engineering Technician III	2084	
1793	1	Photographer I (Note 1)	1911	
1793	2	Photographer II (Note 2)	2201	
1793	3	Photographer III	2318	
2309	1	Physical Therapist I	2145	
2309	2	Physical Therapist II	2258	
7943	1	Planning Aide I (Note 16)	1665	
7943	2	Planning Aide II (Note 16)	1915	
7939		Planning Assistant	2326	
6146		Playback Operator	1761	
1650		Police Composite Artist	2084	
2240	1	Polygraph Examiner I	2374	
2240	2	Polygraph Examiner II	3007	
2240	3	Polygraph Examiner III	3165	
2240	4	Polygraph Examiner IV	3641	
1941	1	Real Estate Associate I	1870	
1941	2	Real Estate Associate II	2206	
1960		Real Estate Officer (Note 17)	2663	
1960	A	Real Estate Officer-A & H (Note 17)	2897	
1960	1	Real Estate Officer I (Note 17)	2663	
1960	2	Real Estate Officer II (Note 17)	2897	
1937		Real Estate Trainee	1761	
7208		Senior Archl Drafting Tech (Notes 5&13)	2135	
7205		Senior Cartographer	2135	
7207		Senior Civil Eng Drafting Tech(Notes 5&12)	2135	
1428	1	Senior Computer Operator I	1973	
1428	2	Senior Computer Operator II	2269	
7209		Senior Electrical Drafting Tech (Notes 5&14)	2135	
7210		Senior Mechanical Drafting Tech (Note 5)	2326	
1947		Senior Title Examiner	2326	
4273		Senior Transportation Investigator	2258	
7286	1	Survey Party Chief I (Notes 8&10)	2804	
7286	2	Survey Party Chief II (Notes 8&10)	3019	
1455	1	Systems Programmer I	3120	
1455	2	Systems Programmer II	3359	
1455	3	Systems Programmer III	3636	
5943		Tank Farm Operator	2214	(5)
APPENDIX C
Operative on July 1,2002
CLASS CODE	TITLE	SALARY RANGE
7615	Television Engineer	2804
1943	Title Examiner	2084	(2)
7285 1	Transportation Engineering Aide I	1973
7285 2	Transportation Engineering Aide II	2206
4271	Transportation Investigator (Note 15)	1915
2480 1	Transportation Planning Associate I	2326
2480 2	Transportation Planning Associate II	2804
2369	Veterinary Technician (Notes 3&6)	1722
1802	Video Production Coordinator	2044
6145 1	Video Technician I	2044
6145 2	Video Technician II	2266
6149	Videotape Librarian	1873
2358 1	Xray & Laboratory Technician I	2090
2358 2	Xray & Laboratory Technician II	2206
APPENDIX C
Operative on July 1,2002
RANGE: 1623
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.23	17.13	18.09	19.10	20.16
BI-WEEKLY	1,298.40	1,370.40	1,447.20	1,528.00	1,612.80
MONTHLY	2,824.02	2,980.62	3,147.66	3,323.40	3,507.84
ANNUAL	33,888.24	35,767.44	37,771.92	39,880.80	42,094.08
	RANGE: 1641				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.41	17.32	18.29	19.31	20.39
BI-WEEKLY	1,312.80	1,385.60	1,463.20	1,544.80	1,631.20
MONTHLY	2,855.34	3,013.68	3,182.46	3,359.94	3,547.86
ANNUAL	34,264.08	36,164.16	38,189.52	40,319.28	42,574.32
	RANGE: 1665				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.65	17.58	18.56	19.59	20.68
BI-WEEKLY	1,332.00	1,406.40	1,484.80	1,567.20	1,654.40
MONTHLY	2,897.10	3,058.92	3,229.44	3,408.66	3,598.32
ANNUAL	34,765.20	36,707.04	38,753.28	40,903.92	43,179.84
	RANGE: 1683				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.83	17.77	18.76	19.81	20.91
BI-WEEKLY	1,346.40	1,421.60	1,500.80	1,584.80	1,672.80
MONTHLY	2,928.42	3,091.98	3,264.24	3,446.94	3,638.34
ANNUAL	35,141.04	37,103.76	39,170.88	41,363.28	43,660.08
	RANGE: 1708				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.08	18.03	19.04	20.10	21.22
BI-WEEKLY	1,366.40	1,442.40	1,523.20	1,608.00	1,697.60
MONTHLY	2,971.92	3,137.22	3,312.96	3,497.40	3,692.28
ANNUAL	35,663.04	37,646.64	39,755.52	41,968.80	44,307.36
APPENDIX C
Operative on July 1,2002
RANGE: 1722
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.22	18.18	19.19	20.26	21.39
BI-WEEKLY	1,377.60	1,454.40	1,535.20	1,620.80	1,711.20
MONTHLY	2,996.28	3,163.32	3,339.06	3,525.24	3,721.86
ANNUAL	35,955.36	37,959.84	40,068.72	42,302.88	44,662.32
	RANGE: 1761				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.61	18.59	19.63	20.72	21.88
BI-WEEKLY	1,408.80	1,487.20	1,570.40	1,657.60	1,750.40
MONTHLY	3,064.14	3,234.66	3,415.62	3,605.28	3,807.12
ANNUAL	36,769.68	38,815.92	40,987.44	43,263.36	45,685.44
	RANGE: 1825				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.25	19.27	20.34	21.47	22.67
BI-WEEKLY	1,460.00	1,541.60	1,627.20	1,717.60	1,813.60
MONTHLY	3,175.50	3,352.98	3,539.16	3,735.78	3,944.58
ANNUAL	38,106.00	40,235.76	42,469.92	44,829.36	47,334.96
	RANGE: 1839				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.39	19.42	20.50	21.64	22.85
BI-WEEKLY	1,471.20	1,553.60	1,640.00	1,731.20	1,828.00
MONTHLY	3,199.86	3,379.08	3,567.00	3,765.36	3,975.90
ANNUAL	38,398.32	40,548.96	42,804.00	45,184.32	47,710.80
	RANGE: 1859				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.59	19.63	20.72	21.88	23.10
BI-WEEKLY	1,487.20	1,570.40	1,657.60	1,750.40	1,848.00
MONTHLY	3,234.66	3,415.62	3,605.28	3,807.12	4,019.40
ANNUAL	38,815.92	40,987.44	43,263.36	45,685.44	48,232.80
APPENDIX C
Operative on July 1,2002
RANGE: 1870
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.70	19.74	20.84	22.00	23.23
BI-WEEKLY	1,496.00	1,579.20	1,667.20	1,760.00	1,858.40
MONTHLY	3,253.80	3,434.76	3,626.16	3,828.00	4,042.02
ANNUAL	39,045.60	41,217.12	43,513.92	45,936.00	48,504.24
	RANGE: 1873				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.73	19.77	20.87	22.03	23.26
BI-WEEKLY	1,498.40	1,581.60	1,669.60	1,762.40	1,860.80
MONTHLY	3,259.02	3,439.98	3,631.38	3,833.22	4,047.24
ANNUAL	39,108.24	41,279.76	43,576.56	45,998.64	48,566.88
	RANGE: 1911				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.11	20.18	21.31	22.50	23.75
BI-WEEKLY	1,528.80	1,614.40	1,704.80	1,800.00	1,900.00
MONTHLY	3,325.14	3,511.32	3,707.94	3,915.00	4,132.50
ANNUAL	39,901.68	42,135.84	44,495.28	46,980.00	49,590.00
	RANGE: 1915				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.15	20.22	21.35	22.54	23.80
BI-WEEKLY	1,532.00	1,617.60	1,708.00	1,803.20	1,904.00
MONTHLY	3,332.10	3,518.28	3,714.90	3,921.96	4,141.20
ANNUAL	39,985.20	42,219.36	44,578.80	47,063.52	49,694.40
	RANGE: 1973				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.73	20.83	21.99	23.22	24.51
BI-WEEKLY	1,578.40	1,666.40	1,759.20	1,857.60	1,960.80
MONTHLY	3,433.02	3,624.42	3,826.26	4,040.28	4,264.74
ANNUAL	41,196.24	43,493.04	45,915.12	48,483.36	51,176.88
APPENDIX C
Operative on July 1,2002
RANGE: 2025
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.25	21.38	22.57	23.83	25.16
BI-WEEKLY	1,620.00	1,710.40	1,805.60	1,906.40	2,012.80
MONTHLY	3,523.50	3,720.12	3,927.18	4,146.42	4,377.84
ANNUAL	42,282.00	44,641.44	47,126.16	49,757.04	52,534.08
	RANGE: 2044				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.44	21.58	22.78	24.05	25.39
BI-WEEKLY	1,635.20	1,726.40	1,822.40	1,924.00	2,031.20
MONTHLY	3,556.56	3,754.92	3,963.72	4,184.70	4,417.86
ANNUAL	42,678.72	45,059.04	47,564.64	50,216.40	53,014.32
	RANGE: 2084				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.84	22.00	23.23	24.53	25.90
BI-WEEKLY	1,667.20	1,760.00	1,858.40	1,962.40	2,072.00
MONTHLY	3,626.16	3,828.00	4,042.02	4,268.22	4,506.60
ANNUAL	43,513.92	45,936.00	48,504.24	51,218.64	54,079.20
	RANGE: 2090				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.90	22.07	23.30	24.60	25.97
BI-WEEKLY	1,672.00	1,765.60	1,864.00	1,968.00	2,077.60
MONTHLY	3,636.60	3,840.18	4,054.20	4,280.40	4,518.78
ANNUAL	43,639.20	46,082.16	48,650.40	51,364.80	54,225.36
	RANGE: 2135				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.35	22.54	23.80	25.13	26.53
BI-WEEKLY	1,708.00	1,803.20	1,904.00	2,010.40	2,122.40
MONTHLY	3,714.90	3,921.96	4,141.20	4,372.62	4,616.22
ANNUAL	44,578.80	47,063.52	49,694.40	52,471.44	55,394.64
APPENDIX C
Operative on July 1,2002
RANGE: 2145
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.45	22.65	23.91	25.24	26.65
BI-WEEKLY	1,716.00	1,812.00	1,912.80	2,019.20	2,132.00
MONTHLY	3,732.30	3,941.10	4,160.34	4,391.76	4,637.10
ANNUAL	44,787.60	47,293.20	49,924.08	52,701.12	55,645.20
	RANGE: 2179				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.79	23.00	24.28	25.63	27.06
BI-WEEKLY	1,743.20	1,840.00	1,942.40	2,050.40	2,164.80
MONTHLY	3,791.46	4,002.00	4,224.72	4,459.62	4,708.44
ANNUAL	45,497.52	48,024.00	50,696.64	53,515.44	56,501.28
	RANGE: 2187				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.87	23.09	24.38	25.74	27.18
BI-WEEKLY	1,749.60	1,847.20	1,950.40	2,059.20	2,174.40
MONTHLY	3,805.38	4,017.66	4,242.12	4,478.76	4,729.32
ANNUAL	45,664.56	48,211.92	50,905.44	53,745.12	56,751.84
	RANGE: 2201				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.01	23.24	24.54	25.91	27.35
BI-WEEKLY	1,760.80	1,859.20	1,963.20	2,072.80	2,188.00
MONTHLY	3,829.74	4,043.76	4,269.96	4,508.34	4,758.90
ANNUAL	45,956.88	48,525.12	51,239.52	54,100.08	57,106.80
	RANGE: 2206				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.06	23.29	24.59	25.96	27.41
BI-WEEKLY	1,764.80	1,863.20	1,967.20	2,076.80	2,192.80
MONTHLY	3,838.44	4,052.46	4,278.66	4,517.04	4,769.34
ANNUAL	46,061.28	48,629.52	51,343.92	54,204.48	57,232.08
APPENDIX C
Operative on July 1,2002
RANGE: 2214
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.14	23.37	24.67	26.05	27.50
BI-WEEKLY	1,771.20	1,869.60	1,973.60	2,084.00	2,200.00
MONTHLY	3,852.36	4,066.38	4,292.58	4,532.70	4,785.00
ANNUAL	46,228.32	48,796.56	51,510.96	54,392.40	57,420.00
	RANGE: 2251				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.51	23.77	25.10	26.50	27.98
BI-WEEKLY	1,800.80	1,901.60	2,008.00	2,120.00	2,238.40
MONTHLY	3,916.74	4,135.98	4,367.40	4,611.00	4,868.52
ANNUAL	47,000.88	49,631.76	52,408.80	55,332.00	58,422.24
	RANGE: 2258				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.58	23.84	25.17	26.57	28.05
BI-WEEKLY	1,806.40	1,907.20	2,013.60	2,125.60	2,244.00
MONTHLY	3,928.92	4,148.16	4,379.58	4,623.18	4,880.70
ANNUAL	47,147.04	49,777.92	52,554.96	55,478.16	58,568.40
	RANGE: 2266				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.66	23.92	25.25	26.66	28.15
BI-WEEKLY	1,812.80	1,913.60	2,020.00	2,132.80	2,252.00
MONTHLY	3,942.84	4,162.08	4,393.50	4,638.84	4,898.10
ANNUAL	47,314.08	49,944.96	52,722.00	55,666.08	58,777.20
	RANGE: 2269				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.69	23.96	25.30	26.71	28.20
BI-WEEKLY	1,815.20	1,916.80	2,024.00	2,136.80	2,256.00
MONTHLY	3,948.06	4,169.04	4,402.20	4,647.54	4,906.80
ANNUAL	47,376.72	50,028.48	52,826.40	55,770.48	58,881.60
APPENDIX C
Operative on July 1,2002
RANGE: 2303
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.03	24.31	25.67	27.10	28.61
BI-WEEKLY	1,842.40	1,944.80	2,053.60	2,168.00	2,288.80
MONTHLY	4,007.22	4,229.94	4,466.58	4,715.40	4,978.14
ANNUAL	48,086.64	50,759.28	53,598.96	56,584.80	59,737.68
	RANGE: 2318				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.18	24.47	25.83	27.27	28.79
BI-WEEKLY	1,854.40	1,957.60	2,066.40	2,181.60	2,303.20
MONTHLY	4,033.32	4,257.78	4,494.42	4,744.98	5,009.46
ANNUAL	48,399.84	51,093.36	53,933.04	56,939.76	60,113.52
	RANGE: 2326				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.26	24.56	25.93	27.38	28.91
BI-WEEKLY	1,860.80	1,964.80	2,074.40	2,190.40	2,312.80
MONTHLY	4,047.24	4,273.44	4,511.82	4,764.12	5,030.34
ANNUAL	48,566.88	51,281.28	54,141.84	57,169.44	60,364.08
	RANGE: 2356				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.56	24.87	26.26	27.72	29.27
BI-WEEKLY	1,884.80	1,989.60	2,100.80	2,217.60	2,341.60
MONTHLY	4,099.44	4,327.38	4,569.24	4,823.28	5,092.98
ANNUAL	49,193.28	51,928.56	54,830.88	57,879.36	61,115.76
	RANGE: 2369				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.69	25.01	26.40	27.87	29.42
BI-WEEKLY	1,895.20	2,000.80	2,112.00	2,229.60	2,353.60
MONTHLY	4,122.06	4,351.74	4,593.60	4,849.38	5,119.08
ANNUAL	49,464.72	52,220.88	55,123.20	58,192.56	61,428.96
APPENDIX C
Operative on July 1,2002
RANGE: 2374
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.74	25.06	26.46	27.94	29.50
BI-WEEKLY	1,899.20	2,004.80	2,116.80	2,235.20	2,360.00
MONTHLY	4,130.76	4,360.44	4,604.04	4,861.56	5,133.00
ANNUAL	49,569.12	52,325.28	55,248.48	58,338.72	61,596.00
	RANGE: 2390				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.90	25.23	26.64	28.13	29.70
BI-WEEKLY	1,912.00	2,018.40	2,131.20	2,250.40	2,376.00
MONTHLY	4,158.60	4,390.02	4,635.36	4,894.62	5,167.80
ANNUAL	49,903.20	52,680.24	55,624.32	58,735.44	62,013.60
	RANGE: 2398				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.98	25.32	26.73	28.22	29.79
BI-WEEKLY	1,918.40	2,025.60	2,138.40	2,257.60	2,383.20
MONTHLY	4,172.52	4,405.68	4,651.02	4,910.28	5,183.46
ANNUAL	50,070.24	52,868.16	55,812.24	58,923.36	62,201.52
	RANGE: 2453				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	24.53	25.90	27.34	28.86	30.47
BI-WEEKLY	1,962.40	2,072.00	2,187.20	2,308.80	2,437.60
MONTHLY	4,268.22	4,506.60	4,757.16	5,021.64	5,301.78
ANNUAL	51,218.64	54,079.20	57,085.92	60,259.68	63,621.36
	RANGE: 2506				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	25.06	26.46	27.94	29.50	31.14
BI-WEEKLY	2,004.80	2,116.80	2,235.20	2,360.00	2,491.20
MONTHLY	4,360.44	4,604.04	4,861.56	5,133.00	5,418.36
ANNUAL	52,325.28	55,248.48	58,338.72	61,596.00	65,020.32
APPENDIX C
Operative on July 1,2002
RANGE: 2590
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	25.90	27.34	28.86	30.47	32.17
BI-WEEKLY	2,072.00	2,187.20	2,308.80	2,437.60	2,573.60
MONTHLY	4,506.60	4,757.16	5,021.64	5,301.78	5,597.58
ANNUAL	54,079.20	57,085.92	60,259.68	63,621.36	67,170.96
	RANGE: 2627				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	26.27	27.73	29.28	30.91	32.63
BI-WEEKLY	2,101.60	2,218.40	2,342.40	2,472.80	2,610.40
MONTHLY	4,570.98	4,825.02	5,094.72	5,378.34	5,677.62
ANNUAL	54,851.76	57,900.24	61,136.64	64,540.08	68,131.44
	RANGE: 2663				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	26.63	28.11	29.68	31.33	33.08
BI-WEEKLY	2,130.40	2,248.80	2,374.40	2,506.40	2,646.40
MONTHLY	4,633.62	4,891.14	5,164.32	5,451.42	5,755.92
ANNUAL	55,603.44	58,693.68	61,971.84	65,417.04	69,071.04
	RANGE: 2718				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	27.18	28.70	30.30	31.99	33.77
BI-WEEKLY	2,174.40	2,296.00	2,424.00	2,559.20	2,701.60
MONTHLY	4,729.32	4,993.80	5,272.20	5,566.26	5,875.98
ANNUAL	56,751.84	59,925.60	63,266.40	66,795.12	70,511.76
	RANGE: 2735				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	27.35	28.87	30.48	32.18	33.97
BI-WEEKLY	2,188.00	2,309.60	2,438.40	2,574.40	2,717.60
MONTHLY	4,758.90	5,023.38	5,303.52	5,599.32	5,910.78
ANNUAL	57,106.80	60,280.56	63,642.24	67,191.84	70,929.36
APPENDIX C
Operative on July 1,2002
RANGE: 2804
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	28.04	29.60	31.25	32.99	34.83
BI-WEEKLY	2,243.20	2,368.00	2,500.00	2,639.20	2,786.40
MONTHLY	4,878.96	5,150.40	5,437.50	5,740.26	6,060.42
ANNUAL	58,547.52	61,804.80	65,250.00	68,883.12	72,725.04
	RANGE: 2818				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	28.18	29.75	31.41	33.16	35.01
BI-WEEKLY	2,254.40	2,380.00	2,512.80	2,652.80	2,800.80
MONTHLY	4,903.32	5,176.50	5,465.34	5,769.84	6,091.74
ANNUAL	58,839.84	62,118.00	65,584.08	69,238.08	73,100.88
	RANGE: 2897				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	28.97	30.59	32.30	34.10	36.00
BI-WEEKLY	2,317.60	2,447.20	2,584.00	2,728.00	2,880.00
MONTHLY	5,040.78	5,322.66	5,620.20	5,933.40	6,264.00
ANNUAL	60,489.36	63,871.92	67,442.40	71,200.80	75,168.00
	RANGE: 2989				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	29.89	31.56	33.32	35.18	37.14
BI-WEEKLY	2,391.20	2,524.80	2,665.60	2,814.40	2,971.20
MONTHLY	5,200.86	5,491.44	5,797.68	6,121.32	6,462.36
ANNUAL	62,410.32	65,897.28	69,572.16	73,455.84	77,548.32
	RANGE: 3007				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	30.07	31.75	33.52	35.39	37.36
BI-WEEKLY	2,405.60	2,540.00	2,681.60	2,831.20	2,988.80
MONTHLY	5,232.18	5,524.50	5,832.48	6,157.86	6,500.64
ANNUAL	62,786.16	66,294.00	69,989.76	73,894.32	78,007.68
APPENDIX C
Operative on July 1,2002
RANGE: 3019
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	30.19	31.87	33.65	35.53	37.51
BI-WEEKLY	2,415.20	2,549.60	2,692.00	2,842.40	3,000.80
MONTHLY	5,253.06	5,545.38	5,855.10	6,182.22	6,526.74
ANNUAL	63,036.72	66,544.56	70,261.20	74,186.64	78,320.88
	RANGE: 3057				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	30.57	32.27	34.07	35.97	37.98
BI-WEEKLY	2,445.60	2,581.60	2,725.60	2,877.60	3,038.40
MONTHLY	5,319.18	5,614.98	5,928.18	6,258.78	6,608.52
ANNUAL	63,830.16	67,379.76	71,138.16	75,105.36	79,302.24
	RANGE: 3120				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	31.20	32.94	34.78	36.72	38.77
BI-WEEKLY	2,496.00	2,635.20	2,782.40	2,937.60	3,101.60
MONTHLY	5,428.80	5,731.56	6,051.72	6,389.28	6,745.98
ANNUAL	65,145.60	68,778.72	72,620.64	76,671.36	80,951.76
	RANGE: 3165				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	31.65	33.41	35.27	37.24	39.32
BI-WEEKLY	2,532.00	2,672.80	2,821.60	2,979.20	3,145.60
MONTHLY	5,507.10	5,813.34	6,136.98	6,479.76	6,841.68
ANNUAL	66,085.20	69,760.08	73,643.76	77,757.12	82,100.16
	RANGE: 3250				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	32.50	34.31	36.22	38.24	40.37
BI-WEEKLY	2,600.00	2,744.80	2,897.60	3,059.20	3,229.60
MONTHLY	5,655.00	5,969.94	6,302.28	6,653.76	7,024.38
ANNUAL	67,860.00	71,639.28	75,627.36	79,845.12	84,292.56
APPENDIX C
Operative on July 1,2002
RANGE: 3281
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	32.81	34.64	36.57	38.61	40.76
BI-WEEKLY	2,624.80	2,771.20	2,925.60	3,088.80	3,260.80
MONTHLY	5,708.94	6,027.36	6,363.18	6,718.14	7,092.24
ANNUAL	68,507.28	72,328.32	76,358.16	80,617.68	85,106.88
	RANGE: 3359				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	33.59	35.46	37.44	39.53	41.73
BI-WEEKLY	2,687.20	2,836.80	2,995.20	3,162.40	3,338.40
MONTHLY	5,844.66	6,170.04	6,514.56	6,878.22	7,261.02
ANNUAL	70,135.92	74,040.48	78,174.72	82,538.64	87,132.24
	RANGE: 3505				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	35.05	37.00	39.06	41.24	43.54
BI-WEEKLY	2,804.00	2,960.00	3,124.80	3,299.20	3,483.20
MONTHLY	6,098.70	6,438.00	6,796.44	7,175.76	7,575.96
ANNUAL	73,184.40	77,256.00	81,557.28	86,109.12	90,911.52
	RANGE: 3636				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	36.36	38.39	40.53	42.79	45.18
BI-WEEKLY	2,908.80	3,071.20	3,242.40	3,423.20	3,614.40
MONTHLY	6,326.64	6,679.86	7,052.22	7,445.46	7,861.32
ANNUAL	75,919.68	80,158.32	84,626.64	89,345.52	94,335.84
	RANGE: 3641				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	36.41	38.44	40.58	42.84	45.23
BI-WEEKLY	2,912.80	3,075.20	3,246.40	3,427.20	3,618.40
MONTHLY	6,335.34	6,688.56	7,060.92	7,454.16	7,870.02
ANNUAL	76,024.08	80,262.72	84,731.04	89,449.92	94,440.24
APPENDIX D
Operative on January 1,2003
CLASS CODE		TITLE	SALARY RANGE
1951		Agricultural Land Developer	2667
1429		Applications Programmer	2221
7922	H	Architectural Drafting Technician - Harbor	2126
7922		Architectural Drafting Technician (Note 5)	1955
7224		Calligrapher	2066
7204		Cartographer (Note 4)	1955
1803		Channel Traffic & Info Coordinator	2084
7941		City Planning Associate	2789
7232		Civil Engineering Drafting Tech (Note 5)	1955
7232	A	Civil Engineering Drafting Technician - A & H	2126
1660	1	Computer Graphic Artist I	1796
1660	2	Computer Graphic Artist II	2179
1427	1	Computer Operatori	1716
1427	2	Computer Operator II	1860
3341		Construction Estimator	2773
1470		Data Base Architect	3575
1136	1	Data Processing Technician I	1716
1136	2	Data Processing Technician II	1860
1135	1	Documentation Technician I	1742
1135	2	Documentation Technician II	1896
7229		Drafting Aide	1655
3337		Electrical Construction Estimator	2773
7532		Electrical Engineering Drafting Tech (Note 5)	1955
7532	H	Electrical Engineering Drafting Tech - H (Note 5)	2126
7217		Engineering Designer	2374
7217	1	Engineering Designer I	2374
7217	2	Engineering Designer II	2556
7217	A	Engineering Designer-Airport	2642
3734	1	Equipment Specialist I	2416
3734	2	Equipment Specialist II (Note 7)	2679
3229	1	Examiner of Questioned Documents I	1876
3229	2	Examiner of Questioned Documents II	3315
2444		Exhibit Preparator	1674
7228		Field Engineering Aide (Note 10)	2349
1571		Finance Development Officer	3118
1571	1	Finance Development Officer I	3118
1571	2	Finance Development Officer II	3346
2233		Firearms Examiner	3315
2200	1	Forensic Print Specialist I	2221
2200	2	Forensic Print Specialist II	2447
2200	3	Forensic Print Specialist III	2874
2200	4	Forensic Print Specialist IV	3050
7213		Geographic Information Systems Specialist	2232
1670	1	Graphics Designer I (Note 5)	1796
1670	2	Graphics Designer II (Note 5)	2179
1670	2A	Graphics Designer Il-Airport (Note 5)	2251
1670	3	Graphics Designer III (Note 5)	2438
1562		Improvement Assessor	2179
7199	1	Improvement Bond Coordinator I	2251
7199	2	Improvement Bond Coordinator II	2502
APPENDIX D
Operative on January 1,2003
CLASS			SALARY	
CODE		TITLE	RANGE	
4292		Industrial Waste Inspector	2404	
9191	1	Industrial and Commercial Finance Officer I	3118	
9191	2	Industrial and Commercial Finance Officer II	3346	
1456		Information Services Specialist	2297	
7854	1	Laboratory Technician I (Note 11)	1698	
7854	2	Laboratory Technician II (Note 11)	2013	
7283		Land Surveying Assistant (Note 10)	2556	
7968	1	Materials Testing Technician I (Note 9)	1908	
7968	2	Materials Testing Technician II (Note 9)	2126	
3342		Mechanical Construction Estimator	2773	
7551		Mechanical Engineering Drafting Technician	1950	
7212	1	Office Engineering Technician I	1698	
7212	2	Office Engineering Technician II	1908	
7212	3	Office Engineering Technician III	2126	
1793	1	Photographer I (Note 1)	1950	
1793	2	Photographer II (Note 2)	2246	
1793	3	Photographer III	2364	
2309	1	Physical Therapist I	2187	
2309	2	Physical Therapist II	2303	
7943	1	Planning Aide I (Note 16)	1698	
7943	2	Planning Aide II (Note 16)	1955	
7939		Planning Assistant	2374	
6146		Playback Operator	1796	
1650		Police Composite Artist	2126	
2240	1	Polygraph Examiner I	2422	
2240	2	Polygraph Examiner II	3067	
2240	3	Polygraph Examiner III	3228	
2240	4	Polygraph Examiner IV	3712	
1941	1	Real Estate Associate I	1908	
1941	2	Real Estate Associate II	2251	
1960		Real Estate Officer (Note 17)	2716	
1960	A	Real Estate Officer-A & H (Note 17)	2955	
1960	1	Real Estate Officer I (Note 17)	2716	
1960	2	Real Estate Officer II (Note 17)	2955	
1937		Real Estate Trainee	1796	
7208		Senior Archl Drafting Tech (Notes 5&13)	2179	
7205		Senior Cartographer	2179	
7207		Senior Civil Eng Drafting Tech(Notes 5&12)	2179	
1428	1	Senior Computer Operator I	2013	
1428	2	Senior Computer Operator II	2315	
7209		Senior Electrical Drafting Tech (Notes 5&14)	2179	
7210		Senior Mechanical Drafting Tech (Note 5)	2374	
1947		Senior Title Examiner	2374	
4273		Senior Transportation Investigator	2303	
7286	1	Survey Party Chief I (Notes 8&10)	2860	
7286	2	Survey Party Chief II (Notes 8&10)	3080	
1455	1	Systems Programmer I	3184	
1455	2	Systems Programmer II	3425	
1455	3	Systems Programmer III	3710	
5943		Tank Farm Operator	2258	(5)
APPENDIX D
Operative on January 1,2003
CLASS CODE	TITLE	SALARY RANGE
7615	Television Engineer	2860
1943	Title Examiner	2126	(2)
7285 1	Transportation Engineering Aide I	2013
7285 2	Transportation Engineering Aide II	2251
4271	Transportation Investigator (Note 15)	1955
2480 1	Transportation Planning Associate I	2374
2480 2	Transportation Planning Associate II	2860
2369	Veterinary Technician (Notes 3&6)	1757
1802	Video Production Coordinator	2084
6145 1	Video Technician I	2084
6145 2	Video Technician II	2310
6149	Videotape Librarian	1911
2358 1	Xray & Laboratory Technician I	2132
2358 2	Xray & Laboratory Technician II	2251
APPENDIX D
Operative on January 1,2003
RANGE: 1655
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.55	17.47	18.44	19.47	20.56
BI-WEEKLY	1,324.00	1,397.60	1,475.20	1,557.60	1,644.80
MONTHLY	2,879.70	3,039.78	3,208.56	3,387.78	3,577.44
ANNUAL	34,556.40	36,477.36	38,502.72	40,653.36	42,929.28
	RANGE: 1674				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.74	17.67	18.66	19.70	20.80
BI-WEEKLY	1,339.20	1,413.60	1,492.80	1,576.00	1,664.00
MONTHLY	2,912.76	3,074.58	3,246.84	3,427.80	3,619.20
ANNUAL	34,953.12	36,894.96	38,962.08	41,133.60	43,430.40
	RANGE: 1698				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.98	17.93	18.93	19.99	21.10
BI-WEEKLY	1,358.40	1,434.40	1,514.40	1,599.20	1,688.00
MONTHLY	2,954.52	3,119.82	3,293.82	3,478.26	3,671.40
ANNUAL	35,454.24	37,437.84	39,525.84	41,739.12	44,056.80
	RANGE: 1716				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.16	18.12	19.13	20.20	21.33
BI-WEEKLY	1,372.80	1,449.60	1,530.40	1,616.00	1,706.40
MONTHLY	2,985.84	3,152.88	3,328.62	3,514.80	3,711.42
ANNUAL	35,830.08	37,834.56	39,943.44	42,177.60	44,537.04
	RANGE: 1742				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.42	18.39	19.42	20.50	21.64
BI-WEEKLY	1,393.60	1,471.20	1,553.60	1,640.00	1,731.20
MONTHLY	3,031.08	3,199.86	3,379.08	3,567.00	3,765.36
ANNUAL	36,372.96	38,398.32	40,548.96	42,804.00	45,184.32
APPENDIX D
Operative on January 1,2003
RANGE: 1757
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.57	18.55	19.58	20.67	21.82
BI-WEEKLY	1,405.60	1,484.00	1,566.40	1,653.60	1,745.60
MONTHLY	3,057.18	3,227.70	3,406.92	3,596.58	3,796.68
ANNUAL	36,686.16	38,732.40	40,883.04	43,158.96	45,560.16
	RANGE: 1796				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.96	18.96	20.02	21.14	22.32
BI-WEEKLY	1,436.80	1,516.80	1,601.60	1,691.20	1,785.60
MONTHLY	3,125.04	3,299.04	3,483.48	3,678.36	3,883.68
ANNUAL	37,500.48	39,588.48	41,801.76	44,140.32	46,604.16
	RANGE: 1860				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.60	19.64	20.74	21.90	23.12
BI-WEEKLY	1,488.00	1,571.20	1,659.20	1,752.00	1,849.60
MONTHLY	3,236.40	3,417.36	3,608.76	3,810.60	4,022.88
ANNUAL	38,836.80	41,008.32	43,305.12	45,727.20	48,274.56
	RANGE: 1876				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.76	19.81	20.91	22.08	23.31
BI-WEEKLY	1,500.80	1,584.80	1,672.80	1,766.40	1,864.80
MONTHLY	3,264.24	3,446.94	3,638.34	3,841.92	4,055.94
ANNUAL	39,170.88	41,363.28	43,660.08	46,103.04	48,671.28
	RANGE: 1896				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.96	20.02	21.14	22.32	23.56
BI-WEEKLY	1,516.80	1,601.60	1,691.20	1,785.60	1,884.80
MONTHLY	3,299.04	3,483.48	3,678.36	3,883.68	4,099.44
ANNUAL	39,588.48	41,801.76	44,140.32	46,604.16	49,193.28
APPENDIX D
Operative on January 1,2003
RANGE: 1908
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.08	20.14	21.26	22.45	23.70
BI-WEEKLY	1,526.40	1,611.20	1,700.80	1,796.00	1,896.00
MONTHLY	3,319.92	3,504.36	3,699.24	3,906.30	4,123.80
ANNUAL	39,839.04	42,052.32	44,390.88	46,875.60	49,485.60
	RANGE: 1911				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.11	20.18	21.31	22.50	23.75
BI-WEEKLY	1,528.80	1,614.40	1,704.80	1,800.00	1,900.00
MONTHLY	3,325.14	3,511.32	3,707.94	3,915.00	4,132.50
ANNUAL	39,901.68	42,135.84	44,495.28	46,980.00	49,590.00
	RANGE: 1950				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.50	20.59	21.74	22.95	24.23
BI-WEEKLY	1,560.00	1,647.20	1,739.20	1,836.00	1,938.40
MONTHLY	3,393.00	3,582.66	3,782.76	3,993.30	4,216.02
ANNUAL	40,716.00	42,991.92	45,393.12	47,919.60	50,592.24
	RANGE: 1955				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.55	20.64	21.79	23.00	24.28
BI-WEEKLY	1,564.00	1,651.20	1,743.20	1,840.00	1,942.40
MONTHLY	3,401.70	3,591.36	3,791.46	4,002.00	4,224.72
ANNUAL	40,820.40	43,096.32	45,497.52	48,024.00	50,696.64
	RANGE: 2013				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.13	21.25	22.43	23.68	25.00
BI-WEEKLY	1,610.40	1,700.00	1,794.40	1,894.40	2,000.00
MONTHLY	3,502.62	3,697.50	3,902.82	4,120.32	4,350.00
ANNUAL	42,031.44	44,370.00	46,833.84	49,443.84	52,200.00
APPENDIX D
Operative on January 1,2003
RANGE: 2066
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.66	21.81	23.03	24.31	25.67
BI-WEEKLY	1,652.80	1,744.80	1,842.40	1,944.80	2,053.60
MONTHLY	3,594.84	3,794.94	4,007.22	4,229.94	4,466.58
ANNUAL	43,138.08	45,539.28	48,086.64	50,759.28	53,598.96
	RANGE: 2084				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.84	22.00	23.23	24.53	25.90
BI-WEEKLY	1,667.20	1,760.00	1,858.40	1,962.40	2,072.00
MONTHLY	3,626.16	3,828.00	4,042.02	4,268.22	4,506.60
ANNUAL	43,513.92	45,936.00	48,504.24	51,218.64	54,079.20
	RANGE: 2126				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.26	22.45	23.70	25.02	26.42
BI-WEEKLY	1,700.80	1,796.00	1,896.00	2,001.60	2,113.60
MONTHLY	3,699.24	3,906.30	4,123.80	4,353.48	4,597.08
ANNUAL	44,390.88	46,875.60	49,485.60	52,241.76	55,164.96
	RANGE: 2132				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.32	22.51	23.77	25.10	26.50
BI-WEEKLY	1,705.60	1,800.80	1,901.60	2,008.00	2,120.00
MONTHLY	3,709.68	3,916.74	4,135.98	4,367.40	4,611.00
ANNUAL	44,516.16	47,000.88	49,631.76	52,408.80	55,332.00
	RANGE: 2179				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.79	23.00	24.28	25.63	27.06
BI-WEEKLY	1,743.20	1,840.00	1,942.40	2,050.40	2,164.80
MONTHLY	3,791.46	4,002.00	4,224.72	4,459.62	4,708.44
ANNUAL	45,497.52	48,024.00	50,696.64	53,515.44	56,501.28
APPENDIX D
Operative on January 1,2003
RANGE: 2187
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.87	23.09	24.38	25.74	27.18
BI-WEEKLY	1,749.60	1,847.20	1,950.40	2,059.20	2,174.40
MONTHLY	3,805.38	4,017.66	4,242.12	4,478.76	4,729.32
ANNUAL	45,664.56	48,211.92	50,905.44	53,745.12	56,751.84
	RANGE: 2221				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.21	23.45	24.76	26.14	27.60
BI-WEEKLY	1,776.80	1,876.00	1,980.80	2,091.20	2,208.00
MONTHLY	3,864.54	4,080.30	4,308.24	4,548.36	4,802.40
ANNUAL	46,374.48	48,963.60	51,698.88	54,580.32	57,628.80
	RANGE: 2232				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.32	23.56	24.87	26.26	27.72
BI-WEEKLY	1,785.60	1,884.80	1,989.60	2,100.80	2,217.60
MONTHLY	3,883.68	4,099.44	4,327.38	4,569.24	4,823.28
ANNUAL	46,604.16	49,193.28	51,928.56	54,830.88	57,879.36
	RANGE: 2246				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.46	23.71	25.03	26.43	27.90
BI-WEEKLY	1,796.80	1,896.80	2,002.40	2,114.40	2,232.00
MONTHLY	3,908.04	4,125.54	4,355.22	4,598.82	4,854.60
ANNUAL	46,896.48	49,506.48	52,262.64	55,185.84	58,255.20
	RANGE: 2251				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.51	23.77	25.10	26.50	27.98
BI-WEEKLY	1,800.80	1,901.60	2,008.00	2,120.00	2,238.40
MONTHLY	3,916.74	4,135.98	4,367.40	4,611.00	4,868.52
ANNUAL	47,000.88	49,631.76	52,408.80	55,332.00	58,422.24
APPENDIX D
Operative on January 1,2003
RANGE: 2258
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.58	23.84	25.17	26.57	28.05
BI-WEEKLY	1,806.40	1,907.20	2,013.60	2,125.60	2,244.00
MONTHLY	3,928.92	4,148.16	4,379.58	4,623.18	4,880.70
ANNUAL	47,147.04	49,777.92	52,554.96	55,478.16	58,568.40
	RANGE: 2297				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.97	24.25	25.60	27.03	28.54
BI-WEEKLY	1,837.60	1,940.00	2,048.00	2,162.40	2,283.20
MONTHLY	3,996.78	4,219.50	4,454.40	4,703.22	4,965.96
ANNUAL	47,961.36	50,634.00	53,452.80	56,438.64	59,591.52
	RANGE: 2303				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.03	24.31	25.67	27.10	28.61
BI-WEEKLY	1,842.40	1,944.80	2,053.60	2,168.00	2,288.80
MONTHLY	4,007.22	4,229.94	4,466.58	4,715.40	4,978.14
ANNUAL	48,086.64	50,759.28	53,598.96	56,584.80	59,737.68
	RANGE: 2310				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.10	24.39	25.75	27.19	28.71
BI-WEEKLY	1,848.00	1,951.20	2,060.00	2,175.20	2,296.80
MONTHLY	4,019.40	4,243.86	4,480.50	4,731.06	4,995.54
ANNUAL	48,232.80	50,926.32	53,766.00	56,772.72	59,946.48
	RANGE: 2315				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.15	24.44	25.80	27.24	28.76
BI-WEEKLY	1,852.00	1,955.20	2,064.00	2,179.20	2,300.80
MONTHLY	4,028.10	4,252.56	4,489.20	4,739.76	5,004.24
ANNUAL	48,337.20	51,030.72	53,870.40	56,877.12	60,050.88
APPENDIX D
Operative on January 1,2003
RANGE: 2349
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.49	24.80	26.18	27.64	29.18
BI-WEEKLY	1,879.20	1,984.00	2,094.40	2,211.20	2,334.40
MONTHLY	4,087.26	4,315.20	4,555.32	4,809.36	5,077.32
ANNUAL	49,047.12	51,782.40	54,663.84	57,712.32	60,927.84
	RANGE: 2364				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.64	24.96	26.35	27.82	29.37
BI-WEEKLY	1,891.20	1,996.80	2,108.00	2,225.60	2,349.60
MONTHLY	4,113.36	4,343.04	4,584.90	4,840.68	5,110.38
ANNUAL	49,360.32	52,116.48	55,018.80	58,088.16	61,324.56
	RANGE: 2374				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.74	25.06	26.46	27.94	29.50
BI-WEEKLY	1,899.20	2,004.80	2,116.80	2,235.20	2,360.00
MONTHLY	4,130.76	4,360.44	4,604.04	4,861.56	5,133.00
ANNUAL	49,569.12	52,325.28	55,248.48	58,338.72	61,596.00
	RANGE: 2404				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	24.04	25.38	26.80	28.29	29.87
BI-WEEKLY	1,923.20	2,030.40	2,144.00	2,263.20	2,389.60
MONTHLY	4,182.96	4,416.12	4,663.20	4,922.46	5,197.38
ANNUAL	50,195.52	52,993.44	55,958.40	59,069.52	62,368.56
	RANGE: 2416				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	24.16	25.51	26.93	28.43	30.02
BI-WEEKLY	1,932.80	2,040.80	2,154.40	2,274.40	2,401.60
MONTHLY	4,203.84	4,438.74	4,685.82	4,946.82	5,223.48
ANNUAL	50,446.08	53,264.88	56,229.84	59,361.84	62,681.76
APPENDIX D
Operative on January 1,2003
RANGE: 2422
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	24.22	25.57	27.00	28.51	30.10
BI-WEEKLY	1,937.60	2,045.60	2,160.00	2,280.80	2,408.00
MONTHLY	4,214.28	4,449.18	4,698.00	4,960.74	5,237.40
ANNUAL	50,571.36	53,390.16	56,376.00	59,528.88	62,848.80
	RANGE: 2438				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	24.38	25.74	27.18	28.70	30.30
BI-WEEKLY	1,950.40	2,059.20	2,174.40	2,296.00	2,424.00
MONTHLY	4,242.12	4,478.76	4,729.32	4,993.80	5,272.20
ANNUAL	50,905.44	53,745.12	56,751.84	59,925.60	63,266.40
	RANGE: 2447				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	24.47	25.83	27.27	28.79	30.40
BI-WEEKLY	1,957.60	2,066.40	2,181.60	2,303.20	2,432.00
MONTHLY	4,257.78	4,494.42	4,744.98	5,009.46	5,289.60
ANNUAL	51,093.36	53,933.04	56,939.76	60,113.52	63,475.20
	RANGE: 2502				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	25.02	26.42	27.89	29.45	31.09
BI-WEEKLY	2,001.60	2,113.60	2,231.20	2,356.00	2,487.20
MONTHLY	4,353.48	4,597.08	4,852.86	5,124.30	5,409.66
ANNUAL	52,241.76	55,164.96	58,234.32	61,491.60	64,915.92
	RANGE: 2556				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	25.56	26.99	28.49	30.08	31.76
BI-WEEKLY	2,044.80	2,159.20	2,279.20	2,406.40	2,540.80
MONTHLY	4,447.44	4,696.26	4,957.26	5,233.92	5,526.24
ANNUAL	53,369.28	56,355.12	59,487.12	62,807.04	66,314.88
APPENDIX D
Operative on January 1,2003
RANGE: 2642
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	26.42	27.89	29.45	31.09	32.82
BI-WEEKLY	2,113.60	2,231.20	2,356.00	2,487.20	2,625.60
MONTHLY	4,597.08	4,852.86	5,124.30	5,409.66	5,710.68
ANNUAL	55,164.96	58,234.32	61,491.60	64,915.92	68,528.16
	RANGE: 2667				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	26.67	28.16	29.73	31.39	33.14
BI-WEEKLY	2,133.60	2,252.80	2,378.40	2,511.20	2,651.20
MONTHLY	4,640.58	4,899.84	5,173.02	5,461.86	5,766.36
ANNUAL	55,686.96	58,798.08	62,076.24	65,542.32	69,196.32
	RANGE: 2679				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	26.79	28.28	29.86	31.52	33.28
BI-WEEKLY	2,143.20	2,262.40	2,388.80	2,521.60	2,662.40
MONTHLY	4,661.46	4,920.72	5,195.64	5,484.48	5,790.72
ANNUAL	55,937.52	59,048.64	62,347.68	65,813.76	69,488.64
	RANGE: 2716				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	27.16	28.67	30.27	31.96	33.74
BI-WEEKLY	2,172.80	2,293.60	2,421.60	2,556.80	2,699.20
MONTHLY	4,725.84	4,988.58	5,266.98	5,561.04	5,870.76
ANNUAL	56,710.08	59,862.96	63,203.76	66,732.48	70,449.12
	RANGE: 2773				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	27.73	29.28	30.91	32.63	34.45
BI-WEEKLY	2,218.40	2,342.40	2,472.80	2,610.40	2,756.00
MONTHLY	4,825.02	5,094.72	5,378.34	5,677.62	5,994.30
ANNUAL	57,900.24	61,136.64	64,540.08	68,131.44	71,931.60
APPENDIX D
Operative on January 1,2003
RANGE: 2789
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	27.89	29.45	31.09	32.82	34.65
BI-WEEKLY	2,231.20	2,356.00	2,487.20	2,625.60	2,772.00
MONTHLY	4,852.86	5,124.30	5,409.66	5,710.68	6,029.10
ANNUAL	58,234.32	61,491.60	64,915.92	68,528.16	72,349.20
	RANGE: 2860				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	28.60	30.19	31.87	33.65	35.53
BI-WEEKLY	2,288.00	2,415.20	2,549.60	2,692.00	2,842.40
MONTHLY	4,976.40	5,253.06	5,545.38	5,855.10	6,182.22
ANNUAL	59,716.80	63,036.72	66,544.56	70,261.20	74,186.64
	RANGE: 2874				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	28.74	30.34	32.03	33.82	35.71
BI-WEEKLY	2,299.20	2,427.20	2,562.40	2,705.60	2,856.80
MONTHLY	5,000.76	5,279.16	5,573.22	5,884.68	6,213.54
ANNUAL	60,009.12	63,349.92	66,878.64	70,616.16	74,562.48
	RANGE: 2955				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	29.55	31.20	32.94	34.78	36.72
BI-WEEKLY	2,364.00	2,496.00	2,635.20	2,782.40	2,937.60
MONTHLY	5,141.70	5,428.80	5,731.56	6,051.72	6,389.28
ANNUAL	61,700.40	65,145.60	68,778.72	72,620.64	76,671.36
	RANGE: 3050				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	30.50	32.20	34.00	35.90	37.90
BI-WEEKLY	2,440.00	2,576.00	2,720.00	2,872.00	3,032.00
MONTHLY	5,307.00	5,602.80	5,916.00	6,246.60	6,594.60
ANNUAL	63,684.00	67,233.60	70,992.00	74,959.20	79,135.20
APPENDIX D
Operative on January 1,2003
RANGE: 3067
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	30.67	32.38	34.19	36.10	38.11
BI-WEEKLY	2,453.60	2,590.40	2,735.20	2,888.00	3,048.80
MONTHLY	5,336.58	5,634.12	5,949.06	6,281.40	6,631.14
ANNUAL	64,038.96	67,609.44	71,388.72	75,376.80	79,573.68
	RANGE: 3080				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	30.80	32.52	34.33	36.24	38.26
BI-WEEKLY	2,464.00	2,601.60	2,746.40	2,899.20	3,060.80
MONTHLY	5,359.20	5,658.48	5,973.42	6,305.76	6,657.24
ANNUAL	64,310.40	67,901.76	71,681.04	75,669.12	79,886.88
	RANGE: 3118				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	31.18	32.92	34.76	36.70	38.75
BI-WEEKLY	2,494.40	2,633.60	2,780.80	2,936.00	3,100.00
MONTHLY	5,425.32	5,728.08	6,048.24	6,385.80	6,742.50
ANNUAL	65,103.84	68,736.96	72,578.88	76,629.60	80,910.00
	RANGE: 3184				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	31.84	33.62	35.49	37.47	39.56
BI-WEEKLY	2,547.20	2,689.60	2,839.20	2,997.60	3,164.80
MONTHLY	5,540.16	5,849.88	6,175.26	6,519.78	6,883.44
ANNUAL	66,481.92	70,198.56	74,103.12	78,237.36	82,601.28
	RANGE: 3228				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	32.28	34.08	35.98	37.99	40.11
BI-WEEKLY	2,582.40	2,726.40	2,878.40	3,039.20	3,208.80
MONTHLY	5,616.72	5,929.92	6,260.52	6,610.26	6,979.14
ANNUAL	67,400.64	71,159.04	75,126.24	79,323.12	83,749.68
APPENDIX D
Operative on January 1,2003
RANGE: 3315
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	33.15	35.00	36.95	39.01	41.19
BI-WEEKLY	2,652.00	2,800.00	2,956.00	3,120.80	3,295.20
MONTHLY	5,768.10	6,090.00	6,429.30	6,787.74	7,167.06
ANNUAL	69,217.20	73,080.00	77,151.60	81,452.88	86,004.72
	RANGE: 3346				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	33.46	35.33	37.30	39.38	41.58
BI-WEEKLY	2,676.80	2,826.40	2,984.00	3,150.40	3,326.40
MONTHLY	5,822.04	6,147.42	6,490.20	6,852.12	7,234.92
ANNUAL	69,864.48	73,769.04	77,882.40	82,225.44	86,819.04
	RANGE: 3425				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	34.25	36.16	38.18	40.31	42.56
BI-WEEKLY	2,740.00	2,892.80	3,054.40	3,224.80	3,404.80
MONTHLY	5,959.50	6,291.84	6,643.32	7,013.94	7,405.44
ANNUAL	71,514.00	75,502.08	79,719.84	84,167.28	88,865.28
	RANGE: 3575				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	35.75	37.74	39.84	42.06	44.41
BI-WEEKLY	2,860.00	3,019.20	3,187.20	3,364.80	3,552.80
MONTHLY	6,220.50	6,566.76	6,932.16	7,318.44	7,727.34
ANNUAL	74,646.00	78,801.12	83,185.92	87,821.28	92,728.08
	RANGE: 3710				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	37.10	39.17	41.35	43.66	46.09
BI-WEEKLY	2,968.00	3,133.60	3,308.00	3,492.80	3,687.20
MONTHLY	6,455.40	6,815.58	7,194.90	7,596.84	8,019.66
ANNUAL	77,464.80	81,786.96	86,338.80	91,162.08	96,235.92
APPENDIX D
Operative on January 1,2003
RANGE: 3712
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	37.12	39.19	41.38	43.69	46.13
BI-WEEKLY	2,969.60	3,135.20	3,310.40	3,495.20	3,690.40
MONTHLY	6,458.88	6,819.06	7,200.12	7,602.06	8,026.62
ANNUAL	77,506.56	81,828.72	86,401.44	91,224.72	96,319.44
APPENDIX E
Operative on July 1,2003
CLASS CODE		TITLE	SALARY RANGE
1951		Agricultural Land Developer	2721
1429		Applications Programmer	2266
7922	H	Architectural Drafting Technician - Harbor	2169
7922		Architectural Drafting Technician (Note 5)	1994
7224		Calligrapher	2108
7204		Cartographer (Note 4)	1994
1803		Channel Traffic & Info Coordinator	2126
7941		City Planning Associate	2844
7232		Civil Engineering Drafting Tech (Note 5)	1994
7232	A	Civil Engineering Drafting Technician - A & H	2169
1660	1	Computer Graphic Artist I	1833
1660	2	Computer Graphic Artist II	2221
1427	1	Computer Operatori	1751
1427	2	Computer Operator II	1897
3341		Construction Estimator	2828
1470		Data Base Architect	3757
1136	1	Data Processing Technician I	1751
1136	2	Data Processing Technician II	1897
1135	1	Documentation Technician I	1776
1135	2	Documentation Technician II	1934
7229		Drafting Aide	1688
3337		Electrical Construction Estimator	2828
7532		Electrical Engineering Drafting Tech (Note 5)	1994
7532	H	Electrical Engineering Drafting Tech - H (Note 5)	2169
7217		Engineering Designer	2422
7217	1	Engineering Designer I	2422
7217	2	Engineering Designer II	2609
7217	A	Engineering Designer-Airport	2695
3734	1	Equipment Specialist I	2465
3734	2	Equipment Specialist II (Note 7)	2733
3229	1	Examiner of Questioned Documents I	1913
3229	2	Examiner of Questioned Documents II	3381
2444		Exhibit Preparator	1708
7228		Field Engineering Aide (Note 10)	2395
1571		Finance Development Officer	3182
1571	1	Finance Development Officer I	3182
1571	2	Finance Development Officer II	3414
2233		Firearms Examiner	3381
2200	1	Forensic Print Specialist I	2266
2200	2	Forensic Print Specialist II	2496
2200	3	Forensic Print Specialist III	2932
2200	4	Forensic Print Specialist IV	3112
7213		Geographic Information Systems Specialist	2276
1670	1	Graphics Designer I (Note 5)	1833
1670	2	Graphics Designer II (Note 5)	2221
1670	2A	Graphics Designer Il-Airport (Note 5)	2297
1670	3	Graphics Designer III (Note 5)	2488
1562		Improvement Assessor	2221
7199	1	Improvement Bond Coordinator I	2297
7199	2	Improvement Bond Coordinator II	2553
APPENDIX E
Operative on July 1,2003
CLASS			SALARY	
CODE		TITLE	RANGE	
4292		Industrial Waste Inspector	2453	
9191	1	Industrial and Commercial Finance Officer I	3628	
9191	2	Industrial and Commercial Finance Officer II	3892	
1456		Information Services Specialist	2342	
7854	1	Laboratory Technician I (Note 11)	1731	
7854	2	Laboratory Technician II (Note 11)	2052	
7283		Land Surveying Assistant (Note 10)	2609	
7968	1	Materials Testing Technician I (Note 9)	1946	
7968	2	Materials Testing Technician II (Note 9)	2169	
3342		Mechanical Construction Estimator	2828	
7551		Mechanical Engineering Drafting Technician	1989	
7212	1	Office Engineering Technician I	1731	
7212	2	Office Engineering Technician II	1946	
7212	3	Office Engineering Technician III	2169	
1793	1	Photographer I (Note 1)	1989	
1793	2	Photographer II (Note 2)	2291	
1793	3	Photographer III	2412	
2309	1	Physical Therapist I	2232	
2309	2	Physical Therapist II	2349	
7943	1	Planning Aide I (Note 16)	1731	
7943	2	Planning Aide II (Note 16)	1994	
7939		Planning Assistant	2422	
6146		Playback Operator	1833	
1650		Police Composite Artist	2169	
2240	1	Polygraph Examiner I	2471	
2240	2	Polygraph Examiner II	3130	
2240	3	Polygraph Examiner III	3292	
2240	4	Polygraph Examiner IV	3788	
1941	1	Real Estate Associate I	1946	
1941	2	Real Estate Associate II	2297	
1960		Real Estate Officer (Note 17)	2770	
1960	A	Real Estate Officer-A & H (Note 17)	3015	
1960	1	Real Estate Officer I (Note 17)	2770	
1960	2	Real Estate Officer II (Note 17)	3015	
1937		Real Estate Trainee	1833	
7208		Senior Archl Drafting Tech (Notes 5&13)	2221	
7205		Senior Cartographer	2221	
7207		Senior Civil Eng Drafting Tech(Notes 5&12)	2221	
1428	1	Senior Computer Operator I	2052	
1428	2	Senior Computer Operator II	2361	
7209		Senior Electrical Drafting Tech (Notes 5&14)	2221	
7210		Senior Mechanical Drafting Tech (Note 5)	2422	
1947		Senior Title Examiner	2422	
4273		Senior Transportation Investigator	2467	
7286	1	Survey Party Chief I (Notes 8&10)	2917	
7286	2	Survey Party Chief II (Notes 8&10)	3142	
1455	1	Systems Programmer I	3345	
1455	2	Systems Programmer II	3598	
1455	3	Systems Programmer III	3898	
5943		Tank Farm Operator	2303	(5)
APPENDIX E
Operative on July 1,2003
CLASS CODE	TITLE	SALARY RANGE
7615	Television Engineer	2917
1943	Title Examiner	2169	(2)
7285 1	Transportation Engineering Aide I	2052
7285 2	Transportation Engineering Aide II	2297
4271	Transportation Investigator (Note 15)	2094
2480 1	Transportation Planning Associate I	2422
2480 2	Transportation Planning Associate II	2917
2369	Veterinary Technician (Notes 3&6)	1891
1802	Video Production Coordinator	2126
6145 1	Video Technician I	2126
6145 2	Video Technician II	2357
6149	Videotape Librarian	1950
2358 1	Xray & Laboratory Technician I	2176
2358 2	Xray & Laboratory Technician II	2297
APPENDIX E
Operative on July 1,2003
RANGE: 1688
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.88	17.82	18.81	19.86	20.97
BI-WEEKLY	1,350.40	1,425.60	1,504.80	1,588.80	1,677.60
MONTHLY	2,937.12	3,100.68	3,272.94	3,455.64	3,648.78
ANNUAL	35,245.44	37,208.16	39,275.28	41,467.68	43,785.36
	RANGE: 1708				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.08	18.03	19.04	20.10	21.22
BI-WEEKLY	1,366.40	1,442.40	1,523.20	1,608.00	1,697.60
MONTHLY	2,971.92	3,137.22	3,312.96	3,497.40	3,692.28
ANNUAL	35,663.04	37,646.64	39,755.52	41,968.80	44,307.36
	RANGE: 1731				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.31	18.28	19.30	20.38	21.52
BI-WEEKLY	1,384.80	1,462.40	1,544.00	1,630.40	1,721.60
MONTHLY	3,011.94	3,180.72	3,358.20	3,546.12	3,744.48
ANNUAL	36,143.28	38,168.64	40,298.40	42,553.44	44,933.76
	RANGE: 1751				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.51	18.49	19.52	20.61	21.76
BI-WEEKLY	1,400.80	1,479.20	1,561.60	1,648.80	1,740.80
MONTHLY	3,046.74	3,217.26	3,396.48	3,586.14	3,786.24
ANNUAL	36,560.88	38,607.12	40,757.76	43,033.68	45,434.88
	RANGE: 1776				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.76	18.75	19.80	20.90	22.07
BI-WEEKLY	1,420.80	1,500.00	1,584.00	1,672.00	1,765.60
MONTHLY	3,090.24	3,262.50	3,445.20	3,636.60	3,840.18
ANNUAL	37,082.88	39,150.00	41,342.40	43,639.20	46,082.16
APPENDIX E
Operative on July 1,2003
RANGE: 1833
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.33	19.35	20.43	21.57	22.77
BI-WEEKLY	1,466.40	1,548.00	1,634.40	1,725.60	1,821.60
MONTHLY	3,189.42	3,366.90	3,554.82	3,753.18	3,961.98
ANNUAL	38,273.04	40,402.80	42,657.84	45,038.16	47,543.76
	RANGE: 1891				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.91	19.96	21.07	22.24	23.48
BI-WEEKLY	1,512.80	1,596.80	1,685.60	1,779.20	1,878.40
MONTHLY	3,290.34	3,473.04	3,666.18	3,869.76	4,085.52
ANNUAL	39,484.08	41,676.48	43,994.16	46,437.12	49,026.24
	RANGE: 1897				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.97	20.03	21.15	22.33	23.58
BI-WEEKLY	1,517.60	1,602.40	1,692.00	1,786.40	1,886.40
MONTHLY	3,300.78	3,485.22	3,680.10	3,885.42	4,102.92
ANNUAL	39,609.36	41,822.64	44,161.20	46,625.04	49,235.04
	RANGE: 1913				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.13	20.20	21.33	22.52	23.78
BI-WEEKLY	1,530.40	1,616.00	1,706.40	1,801.60	1,902.40
MONTHLY	3,328.62	3,514.80	3,711.42	3,918.48	4,137.72
ANNUAL	39,943.44	42,177.60	44,537.04	47,021.76	49,652.64
	RANGE: 1934				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.34	20.42	21.56	22.76	24.03
BI-WEEKLY	1,547.20	1,633.60	1,724.80	1,820.80	1,922.40
MONTHLY	3,365.16	3,553.08	3,751.44	3,960.24	4,181.22
ANNUAL	40,381.92	42,636.96	45,017.28	47,522.88	50,174.64
APPENDIX E
Operative on July 1,2003
RANGE: 1946
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.46	20.55	21.70	22.91	24.19
BI-WEEKLY	1,556.80	1,644.00	1,736.00	1,832.80	1,935.20
MONTHLY	3,386.04	3,575.70	3,775.80	3,986.34	4,209.06
ANNUAL	40,632.48	42,908.40	45,309.60	47,836.08	50,508.72
	RANGE: 1950				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.50	20.59	21.74	22.95	24.23
BI-WEEKLY	1,560.00	1,647.20	1,739.20	1,836.00	1,938.40
MONTHLY	3,393.00	3,582.66	3,782.76	3,993.30	4,216.02
ANNUAL	40,716.00	42,991.92	45,393.12	47,919.60	50,592.24
	RANGE: 1989				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.89	21.00	22.17	23.41	24.72
BI-WEEKLY	1,591.20	1,680.00	1,773.60	1,872.80	1,977.60
MONTHLY	3,460.86	3,654.00	3,857.58	4,073.34	4,301.28
ANNUAL	41,530.32	43,848.00	46,290.96	48,880.08	51,615.36
	RANGE: 1994				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.94	21.05	22.22	23.46	24.77
BI-WEEKLY	1,595.20	1,684.00	1,777.60	1,876.80	1,981.60
MONTHLY	3,469.56	3,662.70	3,866.28	4,082.04	4,309.98
ANNUAL	41,634.72	43,952.40	46,395.36	48,984.48	51,719.76
	RANGE: 2052				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.52	21.66	22.87	24.15	25.50
BI-WEEKLY	1,641.60	1,732.80	1,829.60	1,932.00	2,040.00
MONTHLY	3,570.48	3,768.84	3,979.38	4,202.10	4,437.00
ANNUAL	42,845.76	45,226.08	47,752.56	50,425.20	53,244.00
APPENDIX E
Operative on July 1,2003
RANGE: 2094
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.94	22.11	23.34	24.64	26.01
BI-WEEKLY	1,675.20	1,768.80	1,867.20	1,971.20	2,080.80
MONTHLY	3,643.56	3,847.14	4,061.16	4,287.36	4,525.74
ANNUAL	43,722.72	46,165.68	48,733.92	51,448.32	54,308.88
	RANGE: 2108				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.08	22.26	23.50	24.81	26.19
BI-WEEKLY	1,686.40	1,780.80	1,880.00	1,984.80	2,095.20
MONTHLY	3,667.92	3,873.24	4,089.00	4,316.94	4,557.06
ANNUAL	44,015.04	46,478.88	49,068.00	51,803.28	54,684.72
	RANGE: 2126				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.26	22.45	23.70	25.02	26.42
BI-WEEKLY	1,700.80	1,796.00	1,896.00	2,001.60	2,113.60
MONTHLY	3,699.24	3,906.30	4,123.80	4,353.48	4,597.08
ANNUAL	44,390.88	46,875.60	49,485.60	52,241.76	55,164.96
	RANGE: 2169				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.69	22.90	24.18	25.53	26.95
BI-WEEKLY	1,735.20	1,832.00	1,934.40	2,042.40	2,156.00
MONTHLY	3,774.06	3,984.60	4,207.32	4,442.22	4,689.30
ANNUAL	45,288.72	47,815.20	50,487.84	53,306.64	56,271.60
	RANGE: 2176				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.76	22.97	24.25	25.60	27.03
BI-WEEKLY	1,740.80	1,837.60	1,940.00	2,048.00	2,162.40
MONTHLY	3,786.24	3,996.78	4,219.50	4,454.40	4,703.22
ANNUAL	45,434.88	47,961.36	50,634.00	53,452.80	56,438.64
APPENDIX E
Operative on July 1,2003
RANGE: 2221
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.21	23.45	24.76	26.14	27.60
BI-WEEKLY	1,776.80	1,876.00	1,980.80	2,091.20	2,208.00
MONTHLY	3,864.54	4,080.30	4,308.24	4,548.36	4,802.40
ANNUAL	46,374.48	48,963.60	51,698.88	54,580.32	57,628.80
	RANGE: 2232				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.32	23.56	24.87	26.26	27.72
BI-WEEKLY	1,785.60	1,884.80	1,989.60	2,100.80	2,217.60
MONTHLY	3,883.68	4,099.44	4,327.38	4,569.24	4,823.28
ANNUAL	46,604.16	49,193.28	51,928.56	54,830.88	57,879.36
	RANGE: 2266				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.66	23.92	25.25	26.66	28.15
BI-WEEKLY	1,812.80	1,913.60	2,020.00	2,132.80	2,252.00
MONTHLY	3,942.84	4,162.08	4,393.50	4,638.84	4,898.10
ANNUAL	47,314.08	49,944.96	52,722.00	55,666.08	58,777.20
	RANGE: 2276				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.76	24.03	25.37	26.78	28.27
BI-WEEKLY	1,820.80	1,922.40	2,029.60	2,142.40	2,261.60
MONTHLY	3,960.24	4,181.22	4,414.38	4,659.72	4,918.98
ANNUAL	47,522.88	50,174.64	52,972.56	55,916.64	59,027.76
	RANGE: 2291				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.91	24.19	25.54	26.96	28.46
BI-WEEKLY	1,832.80	1,935.20	2,043.20	2,156.80	2,276.80
MONTHLY	3,986.34	4,209.06	4,443.96	4,691.04	4,952.04
ANNUAL	47,836.08	50,508.72	53,327.52	56,292.48	59,424.48
APPENDIX E
Operative on July 1,2003
RANGE: 2297
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.97	24.25	25.60	27.03	28.54
BI-WEEKLY	1,837.60	1,940.00	2,048.00	2,162.40	2,283.20
MONTHLY	3,996.78	4,219.50	4,454.40	4,703.22	4,965.96
ANNUAL	47,961.36	50,634.00	53,452.80	56,438.64	59,591.52
	RANGE: 2303				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.03	24.31	25.67	27.10	28.61
BI-WEEKLY	1,842.40	1,944.80	2,053.60	2,168.00	2,288.80
MONTHLY	4,007.22	4,229.94	4,466.58	4,715.40	4,978.14
ANNUAL	48,086.64	50,759.28	53,598.96	56,584.80	59,737.68
	RANGE: 2342				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.42	24.73	26.11	27.57	29.11
BI-WEEKLY	1,873.60	1,978.40	2,088.80	2,205.60	2,328.80
MONTHLY	4,075.08	4,303.02	4,543.14	4,797.18	5,065.14
ANNUAL	48,900.96	51,636.24	54,517.68	57,566.16	60,781.68
	RANGE: 2349				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.49	24.80	26.18	27.64	29.18
BI-WEEKLY	1,879.20	1,984.00	2,094.40	2,211.20	2,334.40
MONTHLY	4,087.26	4,315.20	4,555.32	4,809.36	5,077.32
ANNUAL	49,047.12	51,782.40	54,663.84	57,712.32	60,927.84
	RANGE: 2357				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.57	24.88	26.27	27.73	29.28
BI-WEEKLY	1,885.60	1,990.40	2,101.60	2,218.40	2,342.40
MONTHLY	4,101.18	4,329.12	4,570.98	4,825.02	5,094.72
ANNUAL	49,214.16	51,949.44	54,851.76	57,900.24	61,136.64
APPENDIX E
Operative on July 1,2003
RANGE: 2361
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.61	24.93	26.32	27.79	29.34
BI-WEEKLY	1,888.80	1,994.40	2,105.60	2,223.20	2,347.20
MONTHLY	4,108.14	4,337.82	4,579.68	4,835.46	5,105.16
ANNUAL	49,297.68	52,053.84	54,956.16	58,025.52	61,261.92
	RANGE: 2395				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.95	25.29	26.70	28.19	29.76
BI-WEEKLY	1,916.00	2,023.20	2,136.00	2,255.20	2,380.80
MONTHLY	4,167.30	4,400.46	4,645.80	4,905.06	5,178.24
ANNUAL	50,007.60	52,805.52	55,749.60	58,860.72	62,138.88
	RANGE: 2412				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	24.12	25.46	26.88	28.38	29.96
BI-WEEKLY	1,929.60	2,036.80	2,150.40	2,270.40	2,396.80
MONTHLY	4,196.88	4,430.04	4,677.12	4,938.12	5,213.04
ANNUAL	50,362.56	53,160.48	56,125.44	59,257.44	62,556.48
	RANGE: 2422				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	24.22	25.57	27.00	28.51	30.10
BI-WEEKLY	1,937.60	2,045.60	2,160.00	2,280.80	2,408.00
MONTHLY	4,214.28	4,449.18	4,698.00	4,960.74	5,237.40
ANNUAL	50,571.36	53,390.16	56,376.00	59,528.88	62,848.80
	RANGE: 2453				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	24.53	25.90	27.34	28.86	30.47
BI-WEEKLY	1,962.40	2,072.00	2,187.20	2,308.80	2,437.60
MONTHLY	4,268.22	4,506.60	4,757.16	5,021.64	5,301.78
ANNUAL	51,218.64	54,079.20	57,085.92	60,259.68	63,621.36
APPENDIX E
Operative on July 1,2003
RANGE: 2465
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	24.65	26.02	27.47	29.00	30.62
BI-WEEKLY	1,972.00	2,081.60	2,197.60	2,320.00	2,449.60
MONTHLY	4,289.10	4,527.48	4,779.78	5,046.00	5,327.88
ANNUAL	51,469.20	54,329.76	57,357.36	60,552.00	63,934.56
	RANGE: 2467				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	24.67	26.05	27.50	29.03	30.65
BI-WEEKLY	1,973.60	2,084.00	2,200.00	2,322.40	2,452.00
MONTHLY	4,292.58	4,532.70	4,785.00	5,051.22	5,333.10
ANNUAL	51,510.96	54,392.40	57,420.00	60,614.64	63,997.20
	RANGE: 2471				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	24.71	26.09	27.54	29.08	30.70
BI-WEEKLY	1,976.80	2,087.20	2,203.20	2,326.40	2,456.00
MONTHLY	4,299.54	4,539.66	4,791.96	5,059.92	5,341.80
ANNUAL	51,594.48	54,475.92	57,503.52	60,719.04	64,101.60
	RANGE: 2488				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	24.88	26.27	27.73	29.28	30.91
BI-WEEKLY	1,990.40	2,101.60	2,218.40	2,342.40	2,472.80
MONTHLY	4,329.12	4,570.98	4,825.02	5,094.72	5,378.34
ANNUAL	51,949.44	54,851.76	57,900.24	61,136.64	64,540.08
	RANGE: 2496				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	24.96	26.35	27.82	29.37	31.01
BI-WEEKLY	1,996.80	2,108.00	2,225.60	2,349.60	2,480.80
MONTHLY	4,343.04	4,584.90	4,840.68	5,110.38	5,395.74
ANNUAL	52,116.48	55,018.80	58,088.16	61,324.56	64,748.88
APPENDIX E
Operative on July 1,2003
RANGE: 2553
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	25.53	26.95	28.45	30.04	31.71
BI-WEEKLY	2,042.40	2,156.00	2,276.00	2,403.20	2,536.80
MONTHLY	4,442.22	4,689.30	4,950.30	5,226.96	5,517.54
ANNUAL	53,306.64	56,271.60	59,403.60	62,723.52	66,210.48
	RANGE: 2609				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	26.09	27.54	29.08	30.70	32.41
BI-WEEKLY	2,087.20	2,203.20	2,326.40	2,456.00	2,592.80
MONTHLY	4,539.66	4,791.96	5,059.92	5,341.80	5,639.34
ANNUAL	54,475.92	57,503.52	60,719.04	64,101.60	67,672.08
	RANGE: 2695				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	26.95	28.45	30.04	31.71	33.48
BI-WEEKLY	2,156.00	2,276.00	2,403.20	2,536.80	2,678.40
MONTHLY	4,689.30	4,950.30	5,226.96	5,517.54	5,825.52
ANNUAL	56,271.60	59,403.60	62,723.52	66,210.48	69,906.24
	RANGE: 2721				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	27.21	28.73	30.33	32.02	33.81
BI-WEEKLY	2,176.80	2,298.40	2,426.40	2,561.60	2,704.80
MONTHLY	4,734.54	4,999.02	5,277.42	5,571.48	5,882.94
ANNUAL	56,814.48	59,988.24	63,329.04	66,857.76	70,595.28
	RANGE: 2733				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	27.33	28.85	30.46	32.16	33.95
BI-WEEKLY	2,186.40	2,308.00	2,436.80	2,572.80	2,716.00
MONTHLY	4,755.42	5,019.90	5,300.04	5,595.84	5,907.30
ANNUAL	57,065.04	60,238.80	63,600.48	67,150.08	70,887.60
APPENDIX E
Operative on July 1,2003
RANGE: 2770
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	27.70	29.24	30.87	32.59	34.41
BI-WEEKLY	2,216.00	2,339.20	2,469.60	2,607.20	2,752.80
MONTHLY	4,819.80	5,087.76	5,371.38	5,670.66	5,987.34
ANNUAL	57,837.60	61,053.12	64,456.56	68,047.92	71,848.08
	RANGE: 2828				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	28.28	29.86	31.52	33.28	35.14
BI-WEEKLY	2,262.40	2,388.80	2,521.60	2,662.40	2,811.20
MONTHLY	4,920.72	5,195.64	5,484.48	5,790.72	6,114.36
ANNUAL	59,048.64	62,347.68	65,813.76	69,488.64	73,372.32
	RANGE: 2844				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	28.44	30.03	31.70	33.47	35.34
BI-WEEKLY	2,275.20	2,402.40	2,536.00	2,677.60	2,827.20
MONTHLY	4,948.56	5,225.22	5,515.80	5,823.78	6,149.16
ANNUAL	59,382.72	62,702.64	66,189.60	69,885.36	73,789.92
	RANGE: 2917				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	29.17	30.80	32.52	34.33	36.24
BI-WEEKLY	2,333.60	2,464.00	2,601.60	2,746.40	2,899.20
MONTHLY	5,075.58	5,359.20	5,658.48	5,973.42	6,305.76
ANNUAL	60,906.96	64,310.40	67,901.76	71,681.04	75,669.12
	RANGE: 2932				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	29.32	30.95	32.68	34.50	36.42
BI-WEEKLY	2,345.60	2,476.00	2,614.40	2,760.00	2,913.60
MONTHLY	5,101.68	5,385.30	5,686.32	6,003.00	6,337.08
ANNUAL	61,220.16	64,623.60	68,235.84	72,036.00	76,044.96
APPENDIX E
Operative on July 1,2003
RANGE: 3015
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	30.15	31.83	33.60	35.47	37.45
BI-WEEKLY	2,412.00	2,546.40	2,688.00	2,837.60	2,996.00
MONTHLY	5,246.10	5,538.42	5,846.40	6,171.78	6,516.30
ANNUAL	62,953.20	66,461.04	70,156.80	74,061.36	78,195.60
	RANGE: 3112				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	31.12	32.86	34.69	36.62	38.66
BI-WEEKLY	2,489.60	2,628.80	2,775.20	2,929.60	3,092.80
MONTHLY	5,414.88	5,717.64	6,036.06	6,371.88	6,726.84
ANNUAL	64,978.56	68,611.68	72,432.72	76,462.56	80,722.08
	RANGE: 3130				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	31.30	33.05	34.89	36.84	38.89
BI-WEEKLY	2,504.00	2,644.00	2,791.20	2,947.20	3,111.20
MONTHLY	5,446.20	5,750.70	6,070.86	6,410.16	6,766.86
ANNUAL	65,354.40	69,008.40	72,850.32	76,921.92	81,202.32
	RANGE: 3142				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	31.42	33.17	35.02	36.97	39.03
BI-WEEKLY	2,513.60	2,653.60	2,801.60	2,957.60	3,122.40
MONTHLY	5,467.08	5,771.58	6,093.48	6,432.78	6,791.22
ANNUAL	65,604.96	69,258.96	73,121.76	77,193.36	81,494.64
	RANGE: 3182				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	31.82	33.59	35.46	37.44	39.53
BI-WEEKLY	2,545.60	2,687.20	2,836.80	2,995.20	3,162.40
MONTHLY	5,536.68	5,844.66	6,170.04	6,514.56	6,878.22
ANNUAL	66,440.16	70,135.92	74,040.48	78,174.72	82,538.64
APPENDIX E
Operative on July 1,2003
RANGE: 3292
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	32.92	34.76	36.70	38.75	40.91
BI-WEEKLY	2,633.60	2,780.80	2,936.00	3,100.00	3,272.80
MONTHLY	5,728.08	6,048.24	6,385.80	6,742.50	7,118.34
ANNUAL	68,736.96	72,578.88	76,629.60	80,910.00	85,420.08
	RANGE: 3345				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	33.45	35.32	37.29	39.37	41.57
BI-WEEKLY	2,676.00	2,825.60	2,983.20	3,149.60	3,325.60
MONTHLY	5,820.30	6,145.68	6,488.46	6,850.38	7,233.18
ANNUAL	69,843.60	73,748.16	77,861.52	82,204.56	86,798.16
	RANGE: 3381				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	33.81	35.70	37.69	39.79	42.01
BI-WEEKLY	2,704.80	2,856.00	3,015.20	3,183.20	3,360.80
MONTHLY	5,882.94	6,211.80	6,558.06	6,923.46	7,309.74
ANNUAL	70,595.28	74,541.60	78,696.72	83,081.52	87,716.88
	RANGE: 3414				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	34.14	36.04	38.05	40.17	42.41
BI-WEEKLY	2,731.20	2,883.20	3,044.00	3,213.60	3,392.80
MONTHLY	5,940.36	6,270.96	6,620.70	6,989.58	7,379.34
ANNUAL	71,284.32	75,251.52	79,448.40	83,874.96	88,552.08
	RANGE: 3598				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	35.98	37.99	40.11	42.35	44.71
BI-WEEKLY	2,878.40	3,039.20	3,208.80	3,388.00	3,576.80
MONTHLY	6,260.52	6,610.26	6,979.14	7,368.90	7,779.54
ANNUAL	75,126.24	79,323.12	83,749.68	88,426.80	93,354.48
APPENDIX E
Operative on July 1,2003
RANGE: 3628
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	36.28	38.30	40.44	42.69	45.07
BI-WEEKLY	2,902.40	3,064.00	3,235.20	3,415.20	3,605.60
MONTHLY	6,312.72	6,664.20	7,036.56	7,428.06	7,842.18
ANNUAL	75,752.64	79,970.40	84,438.72	89,136.72	94,106.16
	RANGE: 3757				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	37.57	39.66	41.87	44.20	46.66
BI-WEEKLY	3,005.60	3,172.80	3,349.60	3,536.00	3,732.80
MONTHLY	6,537.18	6,900.84	7,285.38	7,690.80	8,118.84
ANNUAL	78,446.16	82,810.08	87,424.56	92,289.60	97,426.08
	RANGE: 3788				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	37.88	39.99	42.22	44.57	47.06
BI-WEEKLY	3,030.40	3,199.20	3,377.60	3,565.60	3,764.80
MONTHLY	6,591.12	6,958.26	7,346.28	7,755.18	8,188.44
ANNUAL	79,093.44	83,499.12	88,155.36	93,062.16	98,261.28
	RANGE: 3892				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	38.92	41.09	43.38	45.80	48.35
BI-WEEKLY	3,113.60	3,287.20	3,470.40	3,664.00	3,868.00
MONTHLY	6,772.08	7,149.66	7,548.12	7,969.20	8,412.90
ANNUAL	81,264.96	85,795.92	90,577.44	95,630.40	100,954.80
	RANGE: 3898				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	38.98	41.15	43.44	45.86	48.42
BI-WEEKLY	3,118.40	3,292.00	3,475.20	3,668.80	3,873.60
MONTHLY	6,782.52	7,160.10	7,558.56	7,979.64	8,425.08
ANNUAL	81,390.24	85,921.20	90,702.72	95,755.68	101,100.96
APPENDIX F
Operative on January 1,2004
CLASS CODE		TITLE	SALARY RANGE
1951		Agricultural Land Developer	2803
1429		Applications Programmer	2334
7922	H	Architectural Drafting Technician - Harbor	2234
7922		Architectural Drafting Technician (Note 5)	2053
7224		Calligrapher	2172
7204		Cartographer (Note 4)	2053
1803		Channel Traffic & Info Coordinator	2190
7941		City Planning Associate	2931
7232		Civil Engineering Drafting Tech (Note 5)	2053
7232	A	Civil Engineering Drafting Technician - A & H	2234
1660	1	Computer Graphic Artist I	1888
1660	2	Computer Graphic Artist II	2288
1427	1	Computer Operatori	1804
1427	2	Computer Operator II	1956
3341		Construction Estimator	2914
1470		Data Base Architect	3868
1136	1	Data Processing Technician I	1804
1136	2	Data Processing Technician II	1956
1135	1	Documentation Technician I	1829
1135	2	Documentation Technician II	1992
7229		Drafting Aide	1739
3337		Electrical Construction Estimator	2914
7532		Electrical Engineering Drafting Tech (Note 5)	2053
7532	H	Electrical Engineering Drafting Tech - H (Note 5)	2234
7217		Engineering Designer	2495
7217	1	Engineering Designer I	2495
7217	2	Engineering Designer II	2687
7217	A	Engineering Designer-Airport	2776
3734	1	Equipment Specialist I	2538
3734	2	Equipment Specialist II (Note 7)	2814
3229	1	Examiner of Questioned Documents I	1972
3229	2	Examiner of Questioned Documents II	3484
2444		Exhibit Preparator	1760
7228		Field Engineering Aide (Note 10)	2467
1571		Finance Development Officer	3277
1571	1	Finance Development Officer I	3277
1571	2	Finance Development Officer II	3516
2233		Firearms Examiner	3484
2200	1	Forensic Print Specialist I	2334
2200	2	Forensic Print Specialist II	2571
2200	3	Forensic Print Specialist III	3019
2200	4	Forensic Print Specialist IV	3205
7213		Geographic Information Systems Specialist	2343
1670	1	Graphics Designer I (Note 5)	1888
1670	2	Graphics Designer II (Note 5)	2288
1670	2A	Graphics Designer Il-Airport (Note 5)	2367
1670	3	Graphics Designer III (Note 5)	2563
1562		Improvement Assessor	2288
7199	1	Improvement Bond Coordinator I	2367
7199	2	Improvement Bond Coordinator II	2629
APPENDIX F
Operative on January 1,2004
CLASS			SALARY	
CODE		TITLE	RANGE	
4292		Industrial Waste Inspector	2525	
9191	1	Industrial and Commercial Finance Officer I	3737	
9191	2	Industrial and Commercial Finance Officer II	4011	
1456		Information Services Specialist	2413	
7854	1	Laboratory Technician I (Note 11)	1785	
7854	2	Laboratory Technician II (Note 11)	2115	
7283		Land Surveying Assistant (Note 10)	2687	
7968	1	Materials Testing Technician I (Note 9)	2005	
7968	2	Materials Testing Technician II (Note 9)	2234	
3342		Mechanical Construction Estimator	2914	
7551		Mechanical Engineering Drafting Technician	2050	
7212	1	Office Engineering Technician I	1785	
7212	2	Office Engineering Technician II	2005	
7212	3	Office Engineering Technician III	2234	
1793	1	Photographer I (Note 1)	2050	
1793	2	Photographer II (Note 2)	2359	
1793	3	Photographer III	2485	
2309	1	Physical Therapist I	2298	
2309	2	Physical Therapist II	2420	
7943	1	Planning Aide I (Note 16)	1785	
7943	2	Planning Aide II (Note 16)	2053	
7939		Planning Assistant	2495	
6146		Playback Operator	1888	
1650		Police Composite Artist	2234	
2240	1	Polygraph Examiner I	2545	
2240	2	Polygraph Examiner II	3224	
2240	3	Polygraph Examiner III	3391	
2240	4	Polygraph Examiner IV	3901	
1941	1	Real Estate Associate I	2005	
1941	2	Real Estate Associate II	2367	
1960		Real Estate Officer (Note 17)	2853	
1960	A	Real Estate Officer-A & H (Note 17)	3104	
1960	1	Real Estate Officer I (Note 17)	2853	
1960	2	Real Estate Officer II (Note 17)	3104	
1937		Real Estate Trainee	1888	
7208		Senior Archl Drafting Tech (Notes 5&13)	2288	
7205		Senior Cartographer	2288	
7207		Senior Civil Eng Drafting Tech(Notes 5&12)	2288	
1428	1	Senior Computer Operator I	2115	
1428	2	Senior Computer Operator II	2432	
7209		Senior Electrical Drafting Tech (Notes 5&14)	2288	
7210		Senior Mechanical Drafting Tech (Note 5)	2495	
1947		Senior Title Examiner	2495	
4273		Senior Transportation Investigator	2540	
7286	1	Survey Party Chief I (Notes 8&10)	3005	
7286	2	Survey Party Chief II (Notes 8&10)	3237	
1455	1	Systems Programmer I	3447	
1455	2	Systems Programmer II	3707	
1455	3	Systems Programmer III	4015	
5943		Tank Farm Operator	2372	(5)
APPENDIX F
Operative on January 1,2004
CLASS CODE	TITLE	SALARY RANGE
7615	Television Engineer	3005
1943	Title Examiner	2234	(2)
7285 1	Transportation Engineering Aide I	2115
7285 2	Transportation Engineering Aide II	2367
4271	Transportation Investigator (Note 15)	2157
2480 1	Transportation Planning Associate I	2495
2480 2	Transportation Planning Associate II	3005
2369	Veterinary Technician (Notes 3&6)	1946
1802	Video Production Coordinator	2190
6145 1	Video Technician I	2190
6145 2	Video Technician II	2428
6149	Videotape Librarian	2009
2358 1	Xray & Laboratory Technician I	2241
2358 2	Xray & Laboratory Technician II	2367
APPENDIX F
Operative on January 1,2004
RANGE: 1739
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.39	18.36	19.38	20.46	21.60
BI-WEEKLY	1,391.20	1,468.80	1,550.40	1,636.80	1,728.00
MONTHLY	3,025.86	3,194.64	3,372.12	3,560.04	3,758.40
ANNUAL	36,310.32	38,335.68	40,465.44	42,720.48	45,100.80
	RANGE: 1760				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.60	18.58	19.62	20.71	21.86
BI-WEEKLY	1,408.00	1,486.40	1,569.60	1,656.80	1,748.80
MONTHLY	3,062.40	3,232.92	3,413.88	3,603.54	3,803.64
ANNUAL	36,748.80	38,795.04	40,966.56	43,242.48	45,643.68
	RANGE: 1785				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.85	18.85	19.90	21.01	22.18
BI-WEEKLY	1,428.00	1,508.00	1,592.00	1,680.80	1,774.40
MONTHLY	3,105.90	3,279.90	3,462.60	3,655.74	3,859.32
ANNUAL	37,270.80	39,358.80	41,551.20	43,868.88	46,311.84
	RANGE: 1804				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.04	19.05	20.11	21.23	22.41
BI-WEEKLY	1,443.20	1,524.00	1,608.80	1,698.40	1,792.80
MONTHLY	3,138.96	3,314.70	3,499.14	3,694.02	3,899.34
ANNUAL	37,667.52	39,776.40	41,989.68	44,328.24	46,792.08
	RANGE: 1829				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.29	19.31	20.39	21.53	22.73
BI-WEEKLY	1,463.20	1,544.80	1,631.20	1,722.40	1,818.40
MONTHLY	3,182.46	3,359.94	3,547.86	3,746.22	3,955.02
ANNUAL	38,189.52	40,319.28	42,574.32	44,954.64	47,460.24
APPENDIX F
Operative on January 1,2004
RANGE: 1888
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.88	19.93	21.04	22.21	23.45
BI-WEEKLY	1,510.40	1,594.40	1,683.20	1,776.80	1,876.00
MONTHLY	3,285.12	3,467.82	3,660.96	3,864.54	4,080.30
ANNUAL	39,421.44	41,613.84	43,931.52	46,374.48	48,963.60
	RANGE: 1946				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.46	20.55	21.70	22.91	24.19
BI-WEEKLY	1,556.80	1,644.00	1,736.00	1,832.80	1,935.20
MONTHLY	3,386.04	3,575.70	3,775.80	3,986.34	4,209.06
ANNUAL	40,632.48	42,908.40	45,309.60	47,836.08	50,508.72
	RANGE: 1956				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.56	20.65	21.80	23.02	24.30
BI-WEEKLY	1,564.80	1,652.00	1,744.00	1,841.60	1,944.00
MONTHLY	3,403.44	3,593.10	3,793.20	4,005.48	4,228.20
ANNUAL	40,841.28	43,117.20	45,518.40	48,065.76	50,738.40
	RANGE: 1972				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.72	20.82	21.98	23.21	24.50
BI-WEEKLY	1,577.60	1,665.60	1,758.40	1,856.80	1,960.00
MONTHLY	3,431.28	3,622.68	3,824.52	4,038.54	4,263.00
ANNUAL	41,175.36	43,472.16	45,894.24	48,462.48	51,156.00
	RANGE: 1992				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.92	21.03	22.20	23.44	24.75
BI-WEEKLY	1,593.60	1,682.40	1,776.00	1,875.20	1,980.00
MONTHLY	3,466.08	3,659.22	3,862.80	4,078.56	4,306.50
ANNUAL	41,592.96	43,910.64	46,353.60	48,942.72	51,678.00
APPENDIX F
Operative on January 1,2004
RANGE: 2005
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.05	21.17	22.35	23.60	24.92
BI-WEEKLY	1,604.00	1,693.60	1,788.00	1,888.00	1,993.60
MONTHLY	3,488.70	3,683.58	3,888.90	4,106.40	4,336.08
ANNUAL	41,864.40	44,202.96	46,666.80	49,276.80	52,032.96
	RANGE: 2009				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.09	21.21	22.39	23.64	24.96
BI-WEEKLY	1,607.20	1,696.80	1,791.20	1,891.20	1,996.80
MONTHLY	3,495.66	3,690.54	3,895.86	4,113.36	4,343.04
ANNUAL	41,947.92	44,286.48	46,750.32	49,360.32	52,116.48
	RANGE: 2050				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.50	21.64	22.85	24.12	25.46
BI-WEEKLY	1,640.00	1,731.20	1,828.00	1,929.60	2,036.80
MONTHLY	3,567.00	3,765.36	3,975.90	4,196.88	4,430.04
ANNUAL	42,804.00	45,184.32	47,710.80	50,362.56	53,160.48
	RANGE: 2053				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.53	21.67	22.88	24.16	25.51
BI-WEEKLY	1,642.40	1,733.60	1,830.40	1,932.80	2,040.80
MONTHLY	3,572.22	3,770.58	3,981.12	4,203.84	4,438.74
ANNUAL	42,866.64	45,246.96	47,773.44	50,446.08	53,264.88
	RANGE: 2115				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.15	22.33	23.58	24.89	26.28
BI-WEEKLY	1,692.00	1,786.40	1,886.40	1,991.20	2,102.40
MONTHLY	3,680.10	3,885.42	4,102.92	4,330.86	4,572.72
ANNUAL	44,161.20	46,625.04	49,235.04	51,970.32	54,872.64
APPENDIX F
Operative on January 1,2004
RANGE: 2157
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.57	22.77	24.04	25.38	26.80
BI-WEEKLY	1,725.60	1,821.60	1,923.20	2,030.40	2,144.00
MONTHLY	3,753.18	3,961.98	4,182.96	4,416.12	4,663.20
ANNUAL	45,038.16	47,543.76	50,195.52	52,993.44	55,958.40
	RANGE: 2172				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.72	22.93	24.21	25.56	26.99
BI-WEEKLY	1,737.60	1,834.40	1,936.80	2,044.80	2,159.20
MONTHLY	3,779.28	3,989.82	4,212.54	4,447.44	4,696.26
ANNUAL	45,351.36	47,877.84	50,550.48	53,369.28	56,355.12
	RANGE: 2190				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.90	23.12	24.41	25.77	27.21
BI-WEEKLY	1,752.00	1,849.60	1,952.80	2,061.60	2,176.80
MONTHLY	3,810.60	4,022.88	4,247.34	4,483.98	4,734.54
ANNUAL	45,727.20	48,274.56	50,968.08	53,807.76	56,814.48
	RANGE: 2234				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.34	23.59	24.91	26.30	27.77
BI-WEEKLY	1,787.20	1,887.20	1,992.80	2,104.00	2,221.60
MONTHLY	3,887.16	4,104.66	4,334.34	4,576.20	4,831.98
ANNUAL	46,645.92	49,255.92	52,012.08	54,914.40	57,983.76
	RANGE: 2241				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.41	23.66	24.98	26.37	27.84
BI-WEEKLY	1,792.80	1,892.80	1,998.40	2,109.60	2,227.20
MONTHLY	3,899.34	4,116.84	4,346.52	4,588.38	4,844.16
ANNUAL	46,792.08	49,402.08	52,158.24	55,060.56	58,129.92
APPENDIX F
Operative on January 1,2004
RANGE: 2288
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.88	24.16	25.51	26.93	28.43
BI-WEEKLY	1,830.40	1,932.80	2,040.80	2,154.40	2,274.40
MONTHLY	3,981.12	4,203.84	4,438.74	4,685.82	4,946.82
ANNUAL	47,773.44	50,446.08	53,264.88	56,229.84	59,361.84
	RANGE: 2298				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.98	24.26	25.61	27.04	28.55
BI-WEEKLY	1,838.40	1,940.80	2,048.80	2,163.20	2,284.00
MONTHLY	3,998.52	4,221.24	4,456.14	4,704.96	4,967.70
ANNUAL	47,982.24	50,654.88	53,473.68	56,459.52	59,612.40
	RANGE: 2334				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.34	24.64	26.01	27.46	28.99
BI-WEEKLY	1,867.20	1,971.20	2,080.80	2,196.80	2,319.20
MONTHLY	4,061.16	4,287.36	4,525.74	4,778.04	5,044.26
ANNUAL	48,733.92	51,448.32	54,308.88	57,336.48	60,531.12
	RANGE: 2343				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.43	24.74	26.12	27.58	29.12
BI-WEEKLY	1,874.40	1,979.20	2,089.60	2,206.40	2,329.60
MONTHLY	4,076.82	4,304.76	4,544.88	4,798.92	5,066.88
ANNUAL	48,921.84	51,657.12	54,538.56	57,587.04	60,802.56
	RANGE: 2359				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.59	24.91	26.30	27.77	29.32
BI-WEEKLY	1,887.20	1,992.80	2,104.00	2,221.60	2,345.60
MONTHLY	4,104.66	4,334.34	4,576.20	4,831.98	5,101.68
ANNUAL	49,255.92	52,012.08	54,914.40	57,983.76	61,220.16
APPENDIX F
Operative on January 1,2004
RANGE: 2367
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.67	24.99	26.38	27.85	29.40
BI-WEEKLY	1,893.60	1,999.20	2,110.40	2,228.00	2,352.00
MONTHLY	4,118.58	4,348.26	4,590.12	4,845.90	5,115.60
ANNUAL	49,422.96	52,179.12	55,081.44	58,150.80	61,387.20
	RANGE: 2372				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.72	25.04	26.44	27.91	29.47
BI-WEEKLY	1,897.60	2,003.20	2,115.20	2,232.80	2,357.60
MONTHLY	4,127.28	4,356.96	4,600.56	4,856.34	5,127.78
ANNUAL	49,527.36	52,283.52	55,206.72	58,276.08	61,533.36
	RANGE: 2413				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	24.13	25.48	26.90	28.40	29.98
BI-WEEKLY	1,930.40	2,038.40	2,152.00	2,272.00	2,398.40
MONTHLY	4,198.62	4,433.52	4,680.60	4,941.60	5,216.52
ANNUAL	50,383.44	53,202.24	56,167.20	59,299.20	62,598.24
	RANGE: 2420				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	24.20	25.55	26.97	28.47	30.06
BI-WEEKLY	1,936.00	2,044.00	2,157.60	2,277.60	2,404.80
MONTHLY	4,210.80	4,445.70	4,692.78	4,953.78	5,230.44
ANNUAL	50,529.60	53,348.40	56,313.36	59,445.36	62,765.28
	RANGE: 2428				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	24.28	25.63	27.06	28.57	30.16
BI-WEEKLY	1,942.40	2,050.40	2,164.80	2,285.60	2,412.80
MONTHLY	4,224.72	4,459.62	4,708.44	4,971.18	5,247.84
ANNUAL	50,696.64	53,515.44	56,501.28	59,654.16	62,974.08
APPENDIX F
Operative on January 1,2004
RANGE: 2432
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	24.32	25.68	27.11	28.62	30.22
BI-WEEKLY	1,945.60	2,054.40	2,168.80	2,289.60	2,417.60
MONTHLY	4,231.68	4,468.32	4,717.14	4,979.88	5,258.28
ANNUAL	50,780.16	53,619.84	56,605.68	59,758.56	63,099.36
	RANGE: 2467				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	24.67	26.05	27.50	29.03	30.65
BI-WEEKLY	1,973.60	2,084.00	2,200.00	2,322.40	2,452.00
MONTHLY	4,292.58	4,532.70	4,785.00	5,051.22	5,333.10
ANNUAL	51,510.96	54,392.40	57,420.00	60,614.64	63,997.20
	RANGE: 2485				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	24.85	26.24	27.70	29.24	30.87
BI-WEEKLY	1,988.00	2,099.20	2,216.00	2,339.20	2,469.60
MONTHLY	4,323.90	4,565.76	4,819.80	5,087.76	5,371.38
ANNUAL	51,886.80	54,789.12	57,837.60	61,053.12	64,456.56
	RANGE: 2495				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	24.95	26.34	27.81	29.36	31.00
BI-WEEKLY	1,996.00	2,107.20	2,224.80	2,348.80	2,480.00
MONTHLY	4,341.30	4,583.16	4,838.94	5,108.64	5,394.00
ANNUAL	52,095.60	54,997.92	58,067.28	61,303.68	64,728.00
	RANGE: 2525				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	25.25	26.66	28.15	29.72	31.38
BI-WEEKLY	2,020.00	2,132.80	2,252.00	2,377.60	2,510.40
MONTHLY	4,393.50	4,638.84	4,898.10	5,171.28	5,460.12
ANNUAL	52,722.00	55,666.08	58,777.20	62,055.36	65,521.44
APPENDIX F
Operative on January 1,2004
RANGE: 2538
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	25.38	26.80	28.29	29.87	31.54
BI-WEEKLY	2,030.40	2,144.00	2,263.20	2,389.60	2,523.20
MONTHLY	4,416.12	4,663.20	4,922.46	5,197.38	5,487.96
ANNUAL	52,993.44	55,958.40	59,069.52	62,368.56	65,855.52
	RANGE: 2540				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	25.40	26.82	28.32	29.90	31.57
BI-WEEKLY	2,032.00	2,145.60	2,265.60	2,392.00	2,525.60
MONTHLY	4,419.60	4,666.68	4,927.68	5,202.60	5,493.18
ANNUAL	53,035.20	56,000.16	59,132.16	62,431.20	65,918.16
	RANGE: 2545				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	25.45	26.87	28.37	29.95	31.62
BI-WEEKLY	2,036.00	2,149.60	2,269.60	2,396.00	2,529.60
MONTHLY	4,428.30	4,675.38	4,936.38	5,211.30	5,501.88
ANNUAL	53,139.60	56,104.56	59,236.56	62,535.60	66,022.56
	RANGE: 2563				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	25.63	27.06	28.57	30.16	31.84
BI-WEEKLY	2,050.40	2,164.80	2,285.60	2,412.80	2,547.20
MONTHLY	4,459.62	4,708.44	4,971.18	5,247.84	5,540.16
ANNUAL	53,515.44	56,501.28	59,654.16	62,974.08	66,481.92
	RANGE: 2571				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	25.71	27.14	28.65	30.25	31.94
BI-WEEKLY	2,056.80	2,171.20	2,292.00	2,420.00	2,555.20
MONTHLY	4,473.54	4,722.36	4,985.10	5,263.50	5,557.56
ANNUAL	53,682.48	56,668.32	59,821.20	63,162.00	66,690.72
APPENDIX F
Operative on January 1,2004
RANGE: 2629
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	26.29	27.76	29.31	30.94	32.67
BI-WEEKLY	2,103.20	2,220.80	2,344.80	2,475.20	2,613.60
MONTHLY	4,574.46	4,830.24	5,099.94	5,383.56	5,684.58
ANNUAL	54,893.52	57,962.88	61,199.28	64,602.72	68,214.96
	RANGE: 2687				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	26.87	28.37	29.95	31.62	33.38
BI-WEEKLY	2,149.60	2,269.60	2,396.00	2,529.60	2,670.40
MONTHLY	4,675.38	4,936.38	5,211.30	5,501.88	5,808.12
ANNUAL	56,104.56	59,236.56	62,535.60	66,022.56	69,697.44
	RANGE: 2776				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	27.76	29.31	30.94	32.67	34.49
BI-WEEKLY	2,220.80	2,344.80	2,475.20	2,613.60	2,759.20
MONTHLY	4,830.24	5,099.94	5,383.56	5,684.58	6,001.26
ANNUAL	57,962.88	61,199.28	64,602.72	68,214.96	72,015.12
	RANGE: 2803				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	28.03	29.59	31.24	32.98	34.82
BI-WEEKLY	2,242.40	2,367.20	2,499.20	2,638.40	2,785.60
MONTHLY	4,877.22	5,148.66	5,435.76	5,738.52	6,058.68
ANNUAL	58,526.64	61,783.92	65,229.12	68,862.24	72,704.16
	RANGE: 2814				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	28.14	29.71	31.37	33.12	34.97
BI-WEEKLY	2,251.20	2,376.80	2,509.60	2,649.60	2,797.60
MONTHLY	4,896.36	5,169.54	5,458.38	5,762.88	6,084.78
ANNUAL	58,756.32	62,034.48	65,500.56	69,154.56	73,017.36
APPENDIX F
Operative on January 1,2004
RANGE: 2853
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	28.53	30.12	31.80	33.57	35.44
BI-WEEKLY	2,282.40	2,409.60	2,544.00	2,685.60	2,835.20
MONTHLY	4,964.22	5,240.88	5,533.20	5,841.18	6,166.56
ANNUAL	59,570.64	62,890.56	66,398.40	70,094.16	73,998.72
	RANGE: 2914				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	29.14	30.76	32.48	34.29	36.20
BI-WEEKLY	2,331.20	2,460.80	2,598.40	2,743.20	2,896.00
MONTHLY	5,070.36	5,352.24	5,651.52	5,966.46	6,298.80
ANNUAL	60,844.32	64,226.88	67,818.24	71,597.52	75,585.60
	RANGE: 2931				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	29.31	30.94	32.67	34.49	36.41
BI-WEEKLY	2,344.80	2,475.20	2,613.60	2,759.20	2,912.80
MONTHLY	5,099.94	5,383.56	5,684.58	6,001.26	6,335.34
ANNUAL	61,199.28	64,602.72	68,214.96	72,015.12	76,024.08
	RANGE: 3005				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	30.05	31.73	33.50	35.37	37.34
BI-WEEKLY	2,404.00	2,538.40	2,680.00	2,829.60	2,987.20
MONTHLY	5,228.70	5,521.02	5,829.00	6,154.38	6,497.16
ANNUAL	62,744.40	66,252.24	69,948.00	73,852.56	77,965.92
	RANGE: 3019				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	30.19	31.87	33.65	35.53	37.51
BI-WEEKLY	2,415.20	2,549.60	2,692.00	2,842.40	3,000.80
MONTHLY	5,253.06	5,545.38	5,855.10	6,182.22	6,526.74
ANNUAL	63,036.72	66,544.56	70,261.20	74,186.64	78,320.88
APPENDIX F
Operative on January 1,2004
RANGE: 3104
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	31.04	32.77	34.60	36.53	38.57
BI-WEEKLY	2,483.20	2,621.60	2,768.00	2,922.40	3,085.60
MONTHLY	5,400.96	5,701.98	6,020.40	6,356.22	6,711.18
ANNUAL	64,811.52	68,423.76	72,244.80	76,274.64	80,534.16
	RANGE: 3205				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	32.05	33.84	35.73	37.72	39.82
BI-WEEKLY	2,564.00	2,707.20	2,858.40	3,017.60	3,185.60
MONTHLY	5,576.70	5,888.16	6,217.02	6,563.28	6,928.68
ANNUAL	66,920.40	70,657.92	74,604.24	78,759.36	83,144.16
	RANGE: 3224				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	32.24	34.04	35.94	37.94	40.06
BI-WEEKLY	2,579.20	2,723.20	2,875.20	3,035.20	3,204.80
MONTHLY	5,609.76	5,922.96	6,253.56	6,601.56	6,970.44
ANNUAL	67,317.12	71,075.52	75,042.72	79,218.72	83,645.28
	RANGE: 3237				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	32.37	34.17	36.08	38.09	40.21
BI-WEEKLY	2,589.60	2,733.60	2,886.40	3,047.20	3,216.80
MONTHLY	5,632.38	5,945.58	6,277.92	6,627.66	6,996.54
ANNUAL	67,588.56	71,346.96	75,335.04	79,531.92	83,958.48
	RANGE: 3277				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	32.77	34.60	36.53	38.57	40.72
BI-WEEKLY	2,621.60	2,768.00	2,922.40	3,085.60	3,257.60
MONTHLY	5,701.98	6,020.40	6,356.22	6,711.18	7,085.28
ANNUAL	68,423.76	72,244.80	76,274.64	80,534.16	85,023.36
APPENDIX F
Operative on January 1,2004
RANGE: 3391
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	33.91	35.80	37.80	39.91	42.14
BI-WEEKLY	2,712.80	2,864.00	3,024.00	3,192.80	3,371.20
MONTHLY	5,900.34	6,229.20	6,577.20	6,944.34	7,332.36
ANNUAL	70,804.08	74,750.40	78,926.40	83,332.08	87,988.32
	RANGE: 3447				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	34.47	36.39	38.42	40.56	42.82
BI-WEEKLY	2,757.60	2,911.20	3,073.60	3,244.80	3,425.60
MONTHLY	5,997.78	6,331.86	6,685.08	7,057.44	7,450.68
ANNUAL	71,973.36	75,982.32	80,220.96	84,689.28	89,408.16
	RANGE: 3484				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	34.84	36.78	38.83	41.00	43.29
BI-WEEKLY	2,787.20	2,942.40	3,106.40	3,280.00	3,463.20
MONTHLY	6,062.16	6,399.72	6,756.42	7,134.00	7,532.46
ANNUAL	72,745.92	76,796.64	81,077.04	85,608.00	90,389.52
	RANGE: 3516				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	35.16	37.12	39.19	41.38	43.69
BI-WEEKLY	2,812.80	2,969.60	3,135.20	3,310.40	3,495.20
MONTHLY	6,117.84	6,458.88	6,819.06	7,200.12	7,602.06
ANNUAL	73,414.08	77,506.56	81,828.72	86,401.44	91,224.72
	RANGE: 3707				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	37.07	39.14	41.32	43.62	46.05
BI-WEEKLY	2,965.60	3,131.20	3,305.60	3,489.60	3,684.00
MONTHLY	6,450.18	6,810.36	7,189.68	7,589.88	8,012.70
ANNUAL	77,402.16	81,724.32	86,276.16	91,078.56	96,152.40
APPENDIX F
Operative on January 1,2004
RANGE: 3737
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	37.37	39.45	41.65	43.97	46.42
BI-WEEKLY	2,989.60	3,156.00	3,332.00	3,517.60	3,713.60
MONTHLY	6,502.38	6,864.30	7,247.10	7,650.78	8,077.08
ANNUAL	78,028.56	82,371.60	86,965.20	91,809.36	96,924.96
	RANGE: 3868				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	38.68	40.84	43.12	45.52	48.06
BI-WEEKLY	3,094.40	3,267.20	3,449.60	3,641.60	3,844.80
MONTHLY	6,730.32	7,106.16	7,502.88	7,920.48	8,362.44
ANNUAL	80,763.84	85,273.92	90,034.56	95,045.76	100,349.28
	RANGE: 3901				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	39.01	41.19	43.49	45.91	48.47
BI-WEEKLY	3,120.80	3,295.20	3,479.20	3,672.80	3,877.60
MONTHLY	6,787.74	7,167.06	7,567.26	7,988.34	8,433.78
ANNUAL	81,452.88	86,004.72	90,807.12	95,860.08	101,205.36
	RANGE: 4011				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	40.11	42.35	44.71	47.20	49.83
BI-WEEKLY	3,208.80	3,388.00	3,576.80	3,776.00	3,986.40
MONTHLY	6,979.14	7,368.90	7,779.54	8,212.80	8,670.42
ANNUAL	83,749.68	88,426.80	93,354.48	98,553.60	104,045.04
	RANGE: 4015				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	40.15	42.39	44.75	47.25	49.88
BI-WEEKLY	3,212.00	3,391.20	3,580.00	3,780.00	3,990.40
MONTHLY	6,986.10	7,375.86	7,786.50	8,221.50	8,679.12
ANNUAL	83,833.20	88,510.32	93,438.00	98,658.00	104,149.44