Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Los Angeles, City of and All City Employees Association (ACEA), American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME), AFL-CIO, Local 3090 (2004) (MOA)
K#: 811827
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.comell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
MOU03-07
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 3 FOR JOINT SUBMISSION TO THE CITY COUNCIL REGARDING THE CLERICAL AND SUPPORT SERVICES UNIT
THIS MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING made and entered into this 30th day of June 2005.
BY AND BETWEEN
THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS, OFFICES OR BUREAUS REPRESENTED HEREIN (hereinafter referred to as "Management")
AND
THE ALL CITY EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION, Local 3090, AFSCME, AFL-CIO (hereinafter referred to as "Union")
July 1, 2004 through June 30, 2007
MOU03-07
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE TITLE
PAGE
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
Recognition	1
Implementation of Memorandum of Understanding	1
Parties to Memorandum of Understanding	1
Unit Membership List	2
Nondiscrimination	2
Bulletin Boards	2
Agency Shop Fees - Payroll Dues	Deductions	3
Rest Period	6
Employment Opportunities	6
Work Access	7
Use of City Facilities	7
Safety and Ergonomics	7
Notice of Changes in Work Rules	9
Personnel Folders	9
Uniforms	10
Rain Gear	13
Jury Service	13
Civic Duty	13
Grievance Procedure	14
Union Stewards	18
Employee Relations	19
Actions by Employee Relations Board	19
Calendar for Successor Memorandum of Understanding	19
Time Off for Oral and Written Promotional Examinations	19
Shift Differential	20
Vacations	20
Vacation Schedules	21
Bilingual Differential	21
Sign Language Premium	21
Civilian Modified Flexible Benefits Program	21
Holiday Pay	25
Regular Hours of Work	28
Overtime	30
Travel Allowance	32
Sick Leave Benefits	33
Family Illness	34
Bereavement Leave	35
Military Leave	36
Retirement Benefits	36
Mileage	37
Obligation to Support	37
MOU03-07
TABLE OF CONTENTS ARTICLE TITLE	PAGE
42	Provisions of Law and Separability	37
43	Term	38
44	Union Sponsored Life Insurance and Optical Programs	38
45	Compensation for Court Appearances (LAPD)	39
46	Career Development Funds	40
47	Federal Political Action Check-Off	41
48	VDT Optical Plan	42
49	Part Time Employment	43
50	Schedule Changes for Personal Business	47
51	Family and Medical Leave	48
52	Acting Pay Assignment	54
53	Salaries	56
54	Disability Insurance Plan	56
55	Dependent Care Reimbursement Account	56
56	Employee Assistance Program	56
57	Workers’ Compensation	57
58	Expanded Service Hours (Library Department)	57
59	Amendment of MOU to Include New Classes	58
60	Work Schedules	58
61	Union Release Time	58
62	Full Understanding	60
63	Continuation of Merit Principles	60
APPENDICES
Appendix A	- Salaries effective 7/1/04
Appendix B	- Salaries effective 7/1/05
Appendix C	- Salaries effective 7/1/06
Appendix D	- Salaries effective 1/1/07
Appendix E	- Salary Notes
Appendix F	- Ergonomics Study
Appendix G	- 7(b) Work Period
Letter of Intent- Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) Benefits
ii
MOU03-07
ARTICLE 1	RECOGNITION
The ACEA, Local 3090, American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, (AFSCME), AFL-CIO was certified on August 28,1981, by the Employee Relations Board, as the majority representative of City employees in the Clerical and Support Services Unit. Management hereby recognizes ACEA, Local 3090, AFSCME (hereinafter referred to as "Union") as the exclusive representative of the employees in the Unit.
The term "employee" or "employees" as used herein shall refer only to employees in the classifications listed in Appendices A through D, as well as such classes as may be added hereafter to the Unit by the Employee Relations Board.
ARTICLE 2	IMPLEMENTATION OF MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
This Memorandum of Understanding constitutes a joint recommendation of Management and ACEA/AFSCME. It shall not be binding in whole or in part on the parties listed below unless and until:
A.	ACEA/AFSCME has notified the City Administrative Officer in writing that it has approved this Memorandum of Understanding in its entirety, and
B.	The heads of those departments, offices or bureaus represented herein have approved this Memorandum of Understanding in its entirety in the manner required by law, and
C.	The City Council has approved this Memorandum of Understanding in its entirety.
Where resolutions, ordinances or amendments to applicable codes are required, those articles of this Memorandum of Understanding which require such resolutions, ordinances or amendmentswill become operative on the effective date of the resolution, ordinance or amendment unless otherwise specified.
ARTICLE 3	PARTIES TO MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
This Memorandum of Understanding is entered into on	, 2005, by the
City Administrative Officer, as authorized management representative of the City Council, and the authorized management representatives of the Departments of Aging, Airports, Animal Services, Building and Safety, City Administrative Officer, City Attorney, City Clerk, Commission for Children, Youth and Their Families, Commission on the Status of Women, Community Development, Controller, Convention Center, Cultural Affairs, Disability, El Pueblo, Emergency Preparedness, Environmental Affairs, Ethics Commission, Finance, Fire, Fire and Police Pension Systems (Pensions), General Services, Harbor, Housing, Human Relations Commission, Information Technology Agency, Library, Los Angeles City Employees' Retirement System (LACERS), Mayor, Neighborhood Empowerment, Personnel, Planning, Police, Public Works, Recreation and Parks, Transportation,
1
MOU03-07
Treasurer, Zoo (hereinafter referred to as "Management"), and authorized representatives of the All City Employees Association, Local 3090, AFSCME (hereinafter referred to as "Union") as the exclusive recognized employee organization for the Clerical and Support Services Unit.
ARTICLE 4	UNIT MEMBERSHIP LIST
Management will provide Union in writing, within thirty (30) days from the effective date of this Memorandum of Understanding and each 30 days thereafter an alphabetized list of employees subject to this Memorandum of Understanding, of such employee's name, employee number, class title, class code, Union membership status, and location by department and division, as applicable. Home addresses shall be provided within 60 days from the effective date of this Memorandum of Understanding and each 90 days thereafter.
ARTICLE 5	NONDISCRIMINATION
The parties mutually reaffirm their respective policies of nondiscrimination in the treatment of any employee because of race, religion, color, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, age, disability, union activity, national origin, creed or ancestry.
In accordance with this policy, Management agrees that no employee shall be interfered with, intimidated, restrained, coerced or discriminated against because of the exercise of his/her rights granted pursuant to Section 4.857 of the Employee Relations Ordinance.
In accordance with the above policy, Union agrees not to discriminate against an employee because of the exercise of his/her rights granted pursuant to Section 4.857 of the Employee Relations Ordinance, or with respect to admission to membership, and the rights of membership.
ARTICLE 6	BULLETIN BOARDS
Section I
Management will provide bulletin boards or space at locations reasonably accessible to Union members, which may be used by Union for the following purposes:
A.	Notices of Union meetings.
B.	Notices of Union elections and their results.
C.	Notices of Union recreational and social events.
D.	Notices of official Union business.
E.	Any other communication which has received the prior approval of the head of the department, office or bureau or his/her designated representative.
F.	Each department, office or bureau agrees to provide to Union a list of all bulletin board locations.
2
MOU03-07
Section II
All notices or other communications shall be identified with an official stamp of Union. Union shall place a removal date on all notices and other communications. If requested by Management all notices and other communications shall be submitted to the designated representative of management prior to posting; posting will occur within 24 hours of submission.
ARTICLE 7 AGENCY SHOP FEES - PAYROLL DUES AND DEDUCTIONS
The following agency shop provisions shall apply to employees in classifications listed in Appendices A through D, herein.
A.	DUES/FEES
1.	a. Each permanent employee* in this unit who is not on unpaid leave of absence shall, as a condition of continued employment, become a member of the appropriate local union represented in negotiations by the ACEA, Local 3090, American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (hereinafter referred to collectively as Union), or pay said Union a service fee in an amount not to exceed periodic dues and general assessments of the Union for the term of this MOU, ora period of three (3) years from the operative date of this article, whichever comes first; provided, however, that said fee shall not be assessed in any biweekly pay period in which the affected employee is not paid a minimum of 38 hours. Such amounts shall be determined by the Union and implemented by the City in the first payroll period, which starts 30 days after written notice of the new amount is received by the Controller. (*A permanent employee is defined as one who has completed six continuous months of City service from his/her original date of appointment.)
b. Notwithstanding any provisions of Article 2, Section 4.203 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code (LAAC) to the contrary, during the term of this MOU, payroll deductions requested by an employee in this Unit for the purpose of becoming a member and/or to obtain benefits offered by any qualified organization other than Union, will not be accepted by the Controller. For the purpose of this provision qualified organization means any organization of employees whose responsibility or goal is to represent employees in the City's meet and confer process.
2.	The CAO and the Union shall jointly notify all new members of the representation unit that they are required to pay dues or a service fee as a condition of continued employment and that such amounts will be
3
MOU03-07
automatically deducted from their paychecks. The religious exclusion will also be explained. The cost of this communication and the responsibility for its distribution shall be borne by the City.
B.	EXCEPTIONS
1.	Management, Supervisory or Confidential Employees
In accordance with Section 3502.5(c) of the Government Code, the provisions of this article shall not apply to management, confidential, or supervisory employees.
a.	Management and confidential employees shall be as defined in Section 4.801 and designated in accordance with Section 4.830.d. of the LAAC.
b.	Supervisory employees shall be defined as follows:
"Supervisory employee" means any individual, regardless of the job description or title, having authority, in the interest of the employer, to hire, transfer, suspend, lay off, recall, promote, discharge, assign, reward, or discipline other employees, or responsibility to direct them, or to adjust their grievances, or effectively to recommend such action, if, in connection with the foregoing, the exercise of such authority is not of a merely routine or clerical nature, but requires the use of independent judgment. Employees whose duties are substantially similar to those of their subordinates shall not be considered to be supervisory employees.
Management shall designate supervisory employees. Said designation or claim shall be reviewed jointly by the City and the Union. Any dispute shall be referred to the Employee Relations Board for resolution.
2.	Religious Objections
Any employee who is a member of a bonafide religion, body, or sect which has historically held conscientious objections to joining or financially supporting public employee organizations shall not be required to join or financially support the organization. Such employee shall in lieu of periodic dues or agency shop fees, pay sums equal to said amounts to a nonreligious, non-labor charitable fund exempt from taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, which has been selected by the employee from a list of such funds designated by the parties hereto in a separate agreement. Such payments shall be made by payroll deduction as a
4
MOU03-07
condition of continued exemption from the requirements of financial support to the Union and as a condition of continued employment.
C MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES
1.	The Controller shall cause the amount of the dues or service fee to be deducted from twenty-four (24) biweekly payroll checks of each employee in this unit as specified by the Union under the terms contained herein. "Dues," as distinct from "service fee," shall be the result of voluntary consent in the form of a payroll deduction card signed by the individual employee.
a.	Remittance of the aggregate amount of all dues, fees and other proper deductions made from the salaries of employees hereunder shall be made to the Union by the Controller within thirty (30) working days after the conclusion of the month in which said dues, fees and/or deductions were deducted.
b.	A fee of nine cents ($.09) per deduction shall be assessed by the City Controller for the processing of each payroll deduction taken. The City Controller will deduct the aggregate amount of said fees on a biweekly basis.
2.	The Controller shall also apply this provision to every permanent employee who, following the operative date of this article, becomes a member of this representation unit, within sixty (60) calendar days of such reassignment or transfer. Such deduction shall be a condition of continued employment.
3.	Management will provide the Union with the name, home address, and employee number of each permanent employee.
4.	The Controller shall provide the organization, at least monthly, a status report showing all changes in the employment status of employees in this unit which affect the applicability of the provisions of this Article to those employees.
D UNION RESPONSIBILITIES
1.	The Union shall keep an adequate itemized record of its financial transactions and shall make available annually to the City Clerk, and to all unit employees, within sixty (60) calendar days after the end of its fiscal year, a detailed written financial report thereof in the form of a balance sheet and an operating statement, certified as to its accuracy by its president and the treasurer or corresponding principal officer, or by a certified public accountant.
5
MOU03-07
2.	The Union certifies to the City that it has adopted, implemented and will maintain constitutionally acceptable procedures to enable non-member agency shop service fee payers to meaningfully challenge the propriety of the uses to which service funds are put. Those procedures shall be in accordance with the decision of the United States Supreme Court in Chicago Teachers Union, Local No. 1, AFT, AFL-CIO, et al. v. Hudson, 106 S. Ct. 1066(1986).
3.	Except for claims resulting from errors caused by defective City equipment, the Union agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the City against all other claims, including costs of suits and reasonable attorney’s fees and/or other forms of liability arising from the implementation of this Article. It is also agreed that neither any employee nor the Union shall have any claim against the City for any deductions made or not made, as the case may be, unless a claim of error is made in writing to the Controller within thirty (30) calendar days after the date such deductions were or should have been made.
E. RESCISSION
The agency shop provisions herein may be rescinded in accordance with the procedures contained in Rule 12 of the Employee Relations Board adopted January 11, 1982.
In the event that this Article is overturned by the employees in this representation unit, all other Articles of the MOU shall remain in full force and the prior agreement, rules, regulations and past practices relating to organizational dues deductions authorizations shall be reinstated until a successor MOU or amendment shall have been approved.
ARTICLE 8	REST PERIOD
Each employee shall be granted a minimum of fifteen (15) minutes rest period in each four (4) hour period; provided, however, that no such rest period shall be taken during the first or last hour of any employee's working day nor in excess of fifteen (15) minutes without the express consent of the designated supervisor.
Management reserves the right to suspend the rest period or any portion thereof during an emergency. Any rest period so suspended or not taken at the time permitted shall not be accumulated or carried over from one day to any subsequent day, or compensated for in any form.
ARTICLE 9	EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES
The Personnel Department will e-mail to the Union copies of all recruitment bulletins. Tentative examination bulletins, approved by the Head of the Examining Division of the
6
MOU03-07
Personnel Department will be e-mailed two (2) calendar days prior to the date that said bulletins are scheduled to be promulgated by the General Manager Personnel Department or approved by the Civil Service Commission.
ARTICLE 10	WORK ACCESS
Union Staff Representatives, Local Union Officers, Executive Board Members, and Local Union Stewards who are members of this Unit shall have access to the facilities of the departments, offices or bureaus represented herein during working hours for the purpose of assisting employees covered under this Memorandum of Understanding, in the adjusting of grievances when Union assistance is requested by the grievant(s), or investigating matters arising out of the application of the provisions of this Memorandum of Understanding. Said representatives shall request authorization for such visit by contacting the designated Management representative of the head of the department, office or bureau. In the event immediate access cannot be authorized, the designated Management representative shall inform the Union representative as to the earliest time when access can be granted.
Union shall give to all heads of departments, offices or bureaus represented herein and the City Administrative Officer a written list of its Union Staff Representatives, Local Union Officers, Executive Board Members and Local Union Stewards, which shall be kept current by the Union.
This Article shall not be construed as a limitation on the power of the head of a department, office or bureau to restrict access to areas designated as security or confidential.
ARTICLE 11	USE OF CITY FACILITIES
Union may use City facilities, on prior approval, for the purpose of holding meetings to the extent that such facilities can be made available, and to the extent that the use of a facility will not interfere with departmental operations. Participating employees will attend said meetings on their own time. If the use of a facility requires a fee for rental or special set-up, security, and/or cleanup service, Union will provide or assume the cost of such service(s) for the facility.
ARTICLE 12	SAFETY AND ERGONOMICS
Section I
Safety clothing and devices currently provided by Management shall continue to be provided, as long as the need exists; Union will encourage all members of the Unit to utilize said safety clothing and devices to the fullest extent possible.
7
MOU03-07
Section II
Management will make every reasonable effort to provide safe working conditions. Union will encourage all members in the Unit to perform their work in a safe manner. Each employee should be alert to unsafe practices, equipment and conditions, and should report any hazardous condition promptly to his/her immediate supervisor. Said supervisor must:
A.	Correct or eliminate the hazardous condition if correction or elimination thereof is within the authority and capability of the supervisor; or
B.	Safeguard a hazardous condition in such a manner as to preclude injury to personnel and/or property damage, and promptly report the nature and location of the hazardous condition to the next level of supervision designated by departmental management for said purpose, if elimination of the hazardous condition is not within the immediate supervisor's capability.
If elimination of the hazardous condition is not within the capability of the second level of supervision to correct, he/she shall promptly report the problem to the next designated level of supervision or inform the Departmental Safety Coordinator about the problem.
Section III
If the procedures for handling a reported hazardous condition are not initiated, or if initiated, fail to effect a satisfactory solution of the problem within a reasonable time, the employee or his/her representative may call the City Occupational Safety Office and report such hazard. Unresolved complaints hereunder may be referred to the State Safety Engineer for processing under the CAL/OSHA rules and regulations.
Section IV
Any pregnant employee whose job duties require frequent and extended operation of a video display terminal (VDT) may request a temporary reassignment of duties, if the employee’s treating physician certifies in writing that discontinuance or reduction of the employee’s operation of such VDT’s is medically indicated. In such event, Management will make a reasonable effort to realign the duties of the employee to perform other available and necessary duties, within the specifications of the employee’s class in the department in order to avoid such operation of VDT’s to the extent recommended by the treating physician.
Section V
Any employee in this Unit who is a frequent operator of VDT equipment may request Management to provide applicable accessories for the workstation (i.e. copy holder, separate lamp, non-reflective glare filter and/or a hood to be attached to the display unit
8
MOU03-07
screen). Management will evaluate the request and will provide the necessary item(s) for the workstation, subject to availability from City Stores and budgeted funds for this purpose.
Section VI
The parties will conduct an ergonomics pilot study in the Police Department as detailed in Appendix G. At the conclusion of the study, the Ergonomics Review Subcommittee shall develop and transmit to the City Safety Administrator, CAO, and AFSCME Local 3090 recommended guidelines for the following:
A.	Preventive measures for employees performing jobs which involve repetitive motion for extended periods and which may result in cumulative trauma disorders (CTD’s).
B.	Work site design, including but not limited to lighting, furniture and equipment type, arrangement and maintenance, and operator training.
C.	Work site evaluations.
D.	Purchase of equipment and determination of the most productive environment for that equipment.
ARTICLE 13	NOTICE OF CHANGES IN WORK RULES
Whenever written departmental working rules are established or changes are made to existing written departmental working rules which affect conditions of employment, Management shall, prior to the proposed implementation date, notify Union in writing and offer the opportunity for Union to meet and discuss the changes with Management.
Nothing contained in this Article shall be construed as a limitation of the right of Management to implement new written department working rules or make changes in such existing rules in cases of emergency. Provided, however, when such new work rules or changed existing work rules, as the case may be, must be adopted immediately, without prior notice to Union, notice shall be given and the opportunity for discussion shall be given at the earliest practical time following the adoption of such new work rules or changes in existing written department work rules, as the case may be.
Union agrees to notify Management promptly of its intent to exercise its rights granted under this Article.
ARTICLE 14	PERSONNEL FOLDERS
An employee shall be entitled to review the contents of his/her official departmental personnel folder at reasonable intervals, upon request, during hours when his/her personnel office is normally open for business. Such review shall not interfere with the normal business of the department, office or bureau.
9
MOU03-07
No disciplinary document shall be placed in an employee's official departmental personnel folder without providing said employee with a copy thereof. This provision shall not apply to documents placed in said folder prior to April 17, 1979.
After a disciplinary or adverse document has been in an employee's personnel folder for a period of one year, Management will look favorably upon the employee's request to place a statement in the employee's personnel folder, showing that the employee's performance has improved.
A written reprimand or "Notice to Correct Deficiencies" may be sealed upon the written request of an affected employee if he/she has not been involved in any subsequent incidents that resulted in written corrective counseling or other management action for a period of four (4) years from the date the most recent notice was issued or management action taken. (It is mutually understood that in the Police Department a "Notice to Correct Deficiencies" is not considered a form of discipline and a copy is not placed in the departmental personnel folder. Written reprimands will not be sealed in the Police Department. Employees may request, instead of sealing, that such documents be stored separately from the official departmental personnel folder. These documents shall be accessible only to selected departmental personnel.)
If sealing or removal to separate storage is not approved, the reason for denial of the request shall be discussed with the employee. Written requests and responses, and the reasons for not sealing the document(s) shall not be placed in the personnel folder and shall not be grievable.
The existence of all documents, including sealed or separately stored documents, must be acknowledged by the department and be available upon subpoena or other appropriate request.
ARTICLE 15	UNIFORMS
A.	Wash and Wear Type Uniforms
Uniforms required by Management will be maintained and cleaned at the employee’s expense. Management will give to each employee, in the classes listed below, an allowance for such maintenance and laundering of wash and wear type uniforms, as follows:
An allowance of seventeen dollars and fifty cents ($17.50) for each pay period will be given to each employee in the classes listed below.
Class
Code	Class
1121-1	Delivery Driver I
1121-2	Delivery Driver II
10
MOU03-07
Class
Code	Class
1121-3	Delivery Driver III
2412-1	Park Services Attendant I
2412-2	Park Services Attendant II
Each Delivery Driver I, II and III in the Department of General Services will receive an allowance of twenty dollars ($20.00) each pay period for the replacement, maintenance and laundering of wash and wear type uniforms.
An allowance of 11 cents per hour will be given to each employee in the classes listed below:
Class
Code	Class
2418-1	Assistant	Park Services Attendant I
2418-2	Assistant	Park Services Attendant II
Effective July 1,2005, an allowance of 11 cents per hour will be given to each employee in the class listed below employed in El Pueblo:
Class
Code	Class
2401	Museum Guide
B.	Dress Type Uniforms
Uniforms required by Management will be maintained and cleaned at the employee's expense. Management will give to each employee, in the classes listed below, an allowance for such maintenance and dry cleaning of dress type uniforms, as follows:
An allowance of thirty dollars ($30.00) each pay period will be given to each employee in the classes listed below:
1141	Clerk
(Van Nuys Flyaway Bus Terminal - Airports employees only)
1368	Senior Clerk Typist
(Van Nuys Flyaway Bus Terminal - Airports employees only)
An allowance of twenty-six dollars and fifty cents ($26.50) each pay period will be given to each employee in the following class:
11
MOU03-07
2207-1,2, 3 Police Service Representative I, II, & III
An allowance of twenty-six dollars and fifty cents ($26.50) each pay period will be given to each employee in the following class:
1461-1,2, 3 Communications Operator I, II & III (Recreation & Parks and Zoo only)
Effective July 1,2005, the above allowance shall be applicable to employees in the Department of General Services.
An allowance of thirty dollars ($30.00) each pay period will be given to each employee in the following class:
1368-3	Senior Clerk Typist - Harbor (Port Police Office
only)
Except for the employees in the classes in the Airports Department listed above, the provisions of this Article shall not apply to the Airports Department, which provides, maintains and replaces uniform items for those employees covered by this Article.
C.	Police Service Representative
Effective July 1, 2005, Management will provide to each employee in the class of Police Service Representative I, II, and III, Code 2207-1/2/3, a voucher in the amount of $325.00 for the purchase of replacement and/or additional uniform items, under the conditions listed below. The parties agree that for an employee to receive such a voucher, the employee shall have completed probation, or be on “independent status,” on July 1,2005, as designated by the Commanding Officer of Communications Division of the Police Department.
The uniform voucher shall be used by each employee at approved vendors for the acquisition and/or replacement of uniform items required or approved by the Police Department.
The voucher may be negotiated only by the employee to whom it is issued. The uniform voucher shall be used prior to June 30, 2007, or it shall be deemed void and the benefits conferred thereunder waived by the employee. The voucher shall not be convertible into cash, and it shall be nontransferable, non-assignable and non-negotiable except as specifically provided for in this Article at the specified vendors.
12
MOU03-07
ARTICLE 16	RAIN GEAR
Management shall provide rain gear for employees in those classifications listed below who are required to work outside in inclement weather as a normal part of their job duties. Management shall replace such gear when no longer serviceable.
Class Code
1111
1121-1
1121-2
1121-3
2412-1
2412-2
2418-1
2418-2
Class
Messenger Clerk
Delivery Driver I
Delivery Driver II
Delivery Driver III
Park Services Attendant I (Regular employees only)
Park Services Attendant II (Regular employee only) Assistant Park Services Attendant I
Assistant Park Services Attendant II
ARTICLE 17	JURY SERVICE
Any full-time or half-time employee, as defined by Article 49.1 A. of this MOU, who is duly summoned to attend any court for the purpose of performing jury service or has been nominated and selected to serve on a Grand Jury shall, for those days during which jury service is actually performed and those days necessary to qualify for jury service, receive his/her regular salary. Provided, however, that any jury attendance fees received by any employee who receives regular salary pursuant to this provision, except those fees received for jury service performed on a regular day off or a holiday shall be paid to the City and deposited in the General Fund. A prorated portion of jury service fees received by a half-time employee shall be paid to the City when those fees are received for jury service performed on days for which the employee is scheduled to work a portion of a day. The absence of any employee for the purpose of performing jury service shall be deemed to be an authorized absence with pay within the meaning of Section 4.75 of the LAAC. The absence of an intermittent employee as defined by Article 49.1.B. of this MOU for the purpose of performing jury service shall be deemed to be an authorized absence without pay. Any money received as compensation for mileage is not to be considered as a part of the employee’s pay for these purposes.
Employees summoned for jury service are not authorized to waive jury attendance fees and will be expected to remit the appropriate fees to the City upon completion of service pursuant to Section 4.111 of the LAAC.
ARTICLE 18	CIVIC DUTY
Any employee, who is served with a subpoena by a court of competent jurisdiction or an administrative body to appear as a witness during his/her scheduled working period, unless he/she is a party to the litigation or an expert witness, shall receive his/her regular salary.
13
MOU03-07
Provided, however, that any witness fees received by the employee who receives regular salary pursuant to these provisions, except those fees received for services performed on a regular day off or holiday, shall be paid to the City and deposited in the General Fund. The absence of any employee for the purpose of serving as a witness during his/her scheduled working period shall be deemed an authorized absence with pay. Any money received as compensation for mileage is not to be considered as a part of the employee's pay for these purposes.
A court of competent jurisdiction is defined as a court within the county in which the employee resides or if outside the county of residence, the place of appearance must be within 150 miles of the employee's residence.
ARTICLE 19	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section I	- Definitions
A grievance is defined as any dispute concerning the interpretation or application of this written Memorandum of Understanding or departmental rules and regulations governing personnel practices or working conditions applicable to employees covered by this Memorandum of Understanding. An impasse in meeting and conferring upon the terms of a proposed Memorandum of Understanding is not a grievance.
Section II	- Responsibilities and Rights
A.	Nothing in this grievance procedure shall be construed to apply to matters for which an administrative remedy is provided by the City Charter. Where a matter within the scope of this grievance procedure is alleged to be both a grievance and an unfair labor practice under the jurisdiction of the Employee Relations Board, the employee may elect to pursue the matter under either the grievance procedure herein provided, or by action before the Employee Relations Board. The employee's election of either procedure shall constitute a binding election of the remedy chosen and a waiver of the alternative remedy.
B.	No grievant shall lose his/her right to process his/her grievance because of Management-imposed limitations in scheduling meetings.
C.	The grievant has the responsibility to discuss his/her grievance informally with his/her immediate supervisor. The immediate supervisor will, upon request of a grievant, discuss the grievance with him/her at a mutually satisfactory time. The grievant may be represented by a representative of his/her choice in the informal discussion with his/her immediate supervisor, and in all formal review levels provided, however, that when more than one employee is aggrieved and the facts and issues of the alleged grievance are the same and if all affected employees agree to waive their right to discuss the grievance with their immediate supervisor, a single immediate supervisor will be designated to discuss the grievance at the
14
MOU03-07
informal level with one affected employee and the employee's representative. Such grievance will be processed as a single grievance through all formal levels of review.
All affected employees involved in the action must waive their respective right to discuss the grievance at the informal level with their immediate supervisor on a form provided by Management prior to the discussion with the designated supervisor.
D.	The time limits between steps of the grievance procedure provided herein may be extended by mutual agreement, or by mutual agreement, the grievant and Management may waive one level of review from this grievance procedure.
E.	Management shall notify Union of any formal grievance filed that involves the interpretation and/or application of the provisions of this Memorandum of Understanding, and a Union Staff Representative shall have the right to be present and participate in the discussion at any formal grievance meeting concerning such a grievance. If Union Staff Representative elects to attend said grievance meeting, he/she shall inform the head of the department, office or bureau of his/her intention. Union is to be notified of the resolution of all other formal grievances.
Section III	- Procedure
The grievance procedure for employees covered by this Memorandum of Understanding shall be as follows:
Step 1 - Informal Discussion
The grievant shall discuss his/her grievance with his/her immediate supervisor on an informal basis in an effort to resolve the grievance and said grievance shall be considered waived if not so presented to the immediate supervisor within ten (10) calendar days following the day during which the event upon which the grievance is based occurred.
The immediate supervisor shall respond within five (5) calendar days following his/her meeting with the grievant. Failure of the immediate supervisor to respond within such time limit shall entitle the grievant to process his/her grievance at the next step.
Step 2 - First Level of Review
If the grievance is not settled at Step 1, the grievant may serve written notice of the grievance on a form provided by the department, office or bureau upon the person designated to review the grievance at Step 2 within seven (7) calendar days of receipt of the grievance response at Step 1. Failure of the grievant to serve such written notice shall constitute a waiver of the grievance.
If such written notice is served, said person shall meet with the grievant, and a written decision or statement of the facts and issues shall be rendered to the grievant and his/her
15
MOU03-07
representative, if any, within fifteen (15) calendar days from the date of service. Failure of Management to respond within such time limit shall entitle the grievant to process his/her grievance at the next level of review.
Step 3 - Second Level of Review
If the grievance is not settled at Step 2, the grievant may serve written notice of the grievance on said form upon the person designated to review the grievance at Step 3 within seven (7) calendar days of receipt of the Step 2 grievance response. Failure of the grievant to serve such written notice shall constitute a waiver of the grievance.
If such written notice is served, said person shall meet with the grievant, and a written decision or statement of the facts and issues shall be rendered to the grievant and his/her representative, if any, within fifteen (15) calendar days from the date of service. Failure of Management to respond within such time limit shall entitle the grievant to process his/her grievance at the next level of review.
Step 4 - General Manager/Commission Review (Third Level of Review)
If the grievance is not settled at Step 3, the grievant may serve written notice of the grievance on said form upon his General Manager or designee within seven (7) calendar days following receipt of the grievance response at Step 3. Failure of the grievant to serve such notice shall constitute a waiver of the grievance. If such notice is served, the grievance shall be heard by the General Manager or his/her designee, or in the case of departments under the administrative control of a board of commissioners, by the Commission or the General Manager or their designee, as shall be determined by the head of the department involved. The General Manager/Commission or their designee will afford the parties an opportunity to present oral and/or written arguments on the merits of the grievance and shall render to the grievant and his/her representative, if any, a written decision within thirty (30) calendar days from the date said arguments were submitted.
Step 5 - Mediation
If the written decision at Step 4 does not settle the grievance, within ten (10) calendar days of receipt of such response, the grievant and Union jointly may request mediation by letter to the Employee Relations Officer. This step is optional. Either the grievant/Union or Management may waive mediation and proceed directly to arbitration. Within ten (10) calendar days of receipt of a request for mediation, the Employee Relations Officer shall either return the request without action or request that the Employee Relations Board appoint a mediator. The Employee Relations Board shall attempt to obtain the services of a mediator from the State Mediation and Conciliation Service. If a State mediator is unavailable, Union and Management may jointly agree to a mediator selected by the Executive Director of the Employee Relations Board. The fees of such mediator shall be shared equally by Union and Management.
16
MOU03-07
The primary effort of the mediator should be to assist the parties in settling the grievance in a mutually satisfactory fashion. The mediation procedure shall be informal. Court reporters shall not be allowed to be present, the rules of evidence shall not apply and no record shall be made. The mediator shall determine whether witnesses are necessary in the conduct of the proceedings.
If settlement is not possible, the mediator may be requested to provide the parties with an immediate oral opinion as to how the grievance would be decided if it went to arbitration. Such opinion shall be advisory only. Upon mutual agreement of the parties, the mediator may be requested to furnish such opinion in writing, along with a brief statement of the reasons for the opinion. Such opinion as well as anything said by the parties during mediation shall not be used during any subsequent arbitration. Notwithstanding the above, and Section 4.865 of the Employee Relations Ordinance, the parties may, upon mutual agreement, agree to accept the opinion of the mediator as binding, in lieu of arbitration.
Step 6 - Arbitration
If the written decision at Step 4 or mediation does not settle the grievance, the grievant and Union jointly may serve upon the head of the department, office or bureau a written notice that a written request for arbitration has been filed with the Employee Relations Board. The request for arbitration must be filed with the Employee Relations Board within fifteen (15) calendar days following the date of service of the written decision of the General Manager/Commission or their designee. Failure of the grievant and Union jointly to serve a written request for arbitration with the Employee Relations Board within said period shall constitute a waiver of the grievance.
If such written notice is served, the parties shall meet for the purpose of selecting an arbitrator from a list of seven arbitrators furnished by the Employee Relations Board, within seven (7) calendar days following receipt of said list.
A.	Arbitration of a grievance hereunder shall be limited to the formal grievance as originally filed by the employee to the extent that said grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with applicable rules and procedures adopted or specified by the Employee Relations Board, unless the parties hereto agree to other rules or procedures for the conduct of such arbitration. The fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be shared equally by the parties involved, it being mutually understood that all other expenses including, but not limited to, fees for witnesses, transcripts, and similar costs incurred by the parties during such arbitration, will be the responsibility of the individual party incurring same.
B.	The decision of an arbitrator resulting from any arbitration of a grievance hereunder
shall be binding upon the parties concerned, except for grievances involving the Harbor Department and Department of Pensions, which shall be advisory only.
17
MOU03-07
C.	The decision of an arbitrator resulting from any arbitration of grievances hereunder shall not add to, subtract from, or otherwise modify the terms and conditions of this Memorandum of Understanding.
ARTICLE 20	UNION STEWARDS
Union may designate a reasonable number of union stewards who must be members of the Unit. The Union shall provide all departments, offices or bureaus with a written list of employees who have been so designated. Management will quarterly accept changes to the list presented by the Union. A union steward may represent an employee in the presenting of grievances at all levels of the grievance procedure, or in pre-disciplinary meetings (Skelly) or pre-disciplinary interviews where there is a reasonable expectation that disciplinary action will follow.
The employee and his/her steward may have a reasonable amount of paid time off for presentation of grievances or participation in pre-disciplinary meetings or interviews. However, said steward will receive paid time off only if he/she is the representative of record, a member of the Union and the same Unit as the employee; is employed by the same department, office or bureau as the employee; and is employed within a reasonable distance from the work location of the employee.
If a steward must leave his/her work location to represent an employee, he/she shall first obtain permission from his/her supervisor. Permission to leave will be granted unless such absence would cause an undue interruption of work. If such permission cannot be granted promptly, the steward will be informed when time can be made available. Such time will not be more than forty-eight (48) hours, excluding scheduled days off and/or legal holidays, after the time of the steward’s request unless otherwise mutually agreed to. Denial of permission to leave at the time requested for representation of a grievance will automatically constitute an extension of time limits provided in the grievance procedure herein, equal to the amount of the delay. No time limit extensions will be provided for presentation of Skelly packages when a delay would affect the department’s ability to preserve a statute of limitations.
Before leaving his/her work location, the steward shall call the requesting employee’s supervisor to determine when the employee can be made available. Upon arrival, the steward will report to the employee’s supervisor who will make arrangements for the meeting requested.
Time spent on grievances or Skelly meetings outside of regular working hours of the employee and/or his/her steward shall not be counted as work time for any purpose. Whenever these activities occur during the working hours of the employee and/or his/her steward, only that amount of time necessary to bring about a prompt disposition of the matter will be allowed. City time, as herein provided, is limited to the actual representation of employees and does not include time for investigation, preparation or any other preliminary activity.
18
MOU03-07
ARTICLE 21	EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
Meetings at reasonable intervals will be scheduled at the request of a designated Union representative (paid Union staff representative or executive board member) or the Management representative of a department, office, or bureau, for the purpose of informally discussing employer-employee relations problems.
The Union shall give to all heads of departments, offices or bureaus represented herein and the City Administrative Officer a written list of its paid Union staff representatives and executive board members, which list shall be kept current by the Union.
ARTICLE 22	ACTIONS BY EMPLOYEE RELATIONS BOARD
If any action by the Employee Relations Board prior to the expiration of this Memorandum of Understanding results in any significant changes to the composition of this representational Unit, the parties to this Memorandum of Understanding will meet as soon as possible thereafter to consider any revisions or amendments thereto that may be required.
ARTICLE 23	CALENDAR FOR SUCCESSOR MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
In the event Union or Management desires a successor Memorandum of Understanding, said party shall serve upon the other during the period from February 15, 2007, through March 15, 2007, its written proposals for such successor Memorandum of Understanding with the exception of Union's salary proposals, which shall be presented to Management no later than April 1, 2007. Meet and confer sessions shall begin no later than thirty (30) calendar days following the receipt of Union's request for such meetings.
ARTICLE 24	TIME OFF FOR ORAL AND WRITTEN PROMOTIONAL EXAMINATIONS
Employees shall be granted reasonable time off with pay for the purpose of taking oral promotional examinations when such examinations are given by the City and scheduled during the employee's normal working period; provided, however, that each employee entitled to such time off with pay shall give reasonable advance notice to his/her supervisor. Such time off with pay shall include travel time.
Management agrees that any employee covered by this MOU, who may be assigned to work on a day that a written promotional examination is administered by the Personnel Department, and for which an employee has applied, shall be given priority in the scheduling of days off for that day.
19
MOU03-07
ARTICLE 25	SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
Notwithstanding the provisions of Note N of Schedule A of Section 4.61 of the LAAC, any employee who is assigned a work schedule that ends at 9:00 p.m. or later shall receive for each such day worked salary at the second premium level rate above the appropriate step rate of his/her salary range. The procedure for the payment of adjusted compensation for work performed under the provisions of this Article shall be in accordance with Sections 4.72, 4.74 and 4.75 of the LAAC.
ARTICLE 26	VACATIONS
Management's present practices with regard to vacations will be continued during the term of this Memorandum of Understanding. Such practices shall be in accordance with Sections 4.244-4.256 of the LAAC.
Each employee in this unit who has completed his/her qualifying year shall be entitled to the following number of vacation days with full pay, based on the number of years of City service completed, accrued and credited at the rates indicated:
Years of Service Com Dieted	Number of Vacation Davs	Monthly Accrual Rate In Hours/Minutes
1	11	7.20
5	17	11.20
13	18	11.20
14	19	11.20
15	20	11.20
16	21	11.20
17	22	14.40
18	23	14.40
19	24	16.00
25	25	16.40
At the completion of the fifth year of City service, employees receive 48 additional hours of vacation as a lump sum. At the completion of each year from the thirteenth through nineteenth year, and at the completion of the twenty-fifth year of City service, employees receive eight additional hours of vacation as a lump sum.
Vacation Accrual During Active Military Service
Employees called into active military service following their qualifying year of service for vacation shall continue to accrue vacation during their military service, subject to the same maximum accrual requirements as active City employees. To avoid reaching maximum
20
MOU03-07
accrual during an extended leave, employees may request cash payment of vacation hours accrued as of the date of the commencement of their military leave. Such request may be for all accrued time or a portion of the accrued time. The request shall be made prior to the employee’s first day of their leave of absence and shall be accompanied by orders or other evidence of entry into the armed forces of the United States. If an employee desires to cash out vacation during the period of the military leave, a signed authorization must be provided by the employee to his/her Department Personnel Section prior to the start of the leave allowing the Department to cash out specified amounts of vacation.
ARTICLE 27	VACATION SCHEDULES
Vacations will be scheduled in accordance with Section 4.250 of the LAAC and as far in advance as possible. Consideration shall be given to the efficient operation of the department, office or bureau, the desires of the employees, and seniority in grade of the employees represented herein.
ARTICLE 28	BILINGUAL DIFFERENTIAL
Management's present practices with regard to premium pay for employees required to use a language other than English will be continued during the term of this Memorandum of Understanding. Such practices of additional compensation for employees required to use a language other than English shall be in accordance with Section 4.84 of the LAAC.
Such compensation shall be retroactive to the employee's first day in a bilingual position. However, such compensation shall not be paid unless the employee has been properly certified in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.84 of the LAAC.
ARTICLE 29	SIGN LANGUAGE PREMIUM
Any qualified employee who is covered by the provisions of this Memorandum of Understanding and is requested by the Communications Assistance Center to utilize sign language shall receive compensation equal to the first premium level rate above the appropriate step rate of the salary range prescribed for his/her class for each business day the skill is used. Such practices of additional compensation shall be in accordance with Section 4.84.1 of the LAAC.
ARTICLE 30	CIVILIAN MODIFIED FLEXIBLE BENEFITS PROGRAM
During the term of this MOU, the City will provide benefits in accordance with the Civilian Modified Flexible Benefits Program (hereinafter Flex Program) and any modifications thereto as recommended by the Joint Labor-Management Benefits Committee and approved by the City Council.
21
MOU03-07
If there are any discrepancies between the benefits described herein and the Flex Program approved by the Joint Labor-Management Benefits Committee, the Flex Program benefits will take precedence.
Section I	- Health Plans
The health plans offered and benefits provided by those plans shall be those approved by the City’s Joint Labor-Management Benefits Committee and administered by the Personnel Department in accordance with LAAC Section 4.303.
Effective January 1,2004, Management agrees to contribute a monthly sum not to exceed $680.02 per month per full-time employee, effective the beginning of the pay period in which the Kaiser yearly premium rate change is implemented, toward the cost of a City-sponsored health plan for employees who are members of the Los Angeles City Employees' Retirement System (LACERS).
Effective January 1,2005, Management agrees to contribute for each full-time employee who is a member of LACERS a subsidy equal to the cost of his/her medical plan, not to exceed $747.40.
Management will apply the subsidy first to the employee's coverage. Any remaining balance will be applied toward the coverage of the employee's dependents under the plan.
During the term of this MOU, Management's monthly subsidy for full-time employees shall increase by the increase in the Kaiser Permanente family rate. Increases in this monthly subsidy shall be effective at the beginning of the pay period in which the Kaiser Permanente yearly premium rate change is implemented.
Management agrees to contribute for each half-time employee, as defined by Article 49 of this MOU, who became a member of LACERS following July 24, 1989, and for each employee who transfers from full-time to half-time status following July 24,1989, a monthly subsidy not to exceed $261.54, effective January 1,2004. Half-time employees who, prior to July 24,1989, were receiving the same subsidy as full-time employees shall continue to receive that subsidy and shall be eligible to receive any increases applied to that subsidy as provided in this Article.
Effective January 1,2005, Management agrees to contribute for each half-time employee a monthly subsidy not to exceed $287.46 per employee.
During the term of this MOU, Management's monthly subsidy for half-time employees shall increase by the increase in the Kaiser Permanente single-party rate. Increases in this monthly subsidy shall be effective at the beginning of the pay period in which the Kaiser Permanente yearly premium rate change is implemented.
22
MOU03-07
Any employee who was receiving a full health subsidy as of July 24, 1989, in accordance with this Article, who transfers to half-time status following that date shall continue to be eligible for the full subsidy and shall be subject to any adjustments applied to that subsidy as provided in this Article. This provision shall apply providing that such employee does not have a break in service subsequent to July 24,1989. Any half-time employee with a break in service after July 24, 1989, shall be subject to the partial subsidy provisions in this Article.
Employees who transfer from full-time to half-time under the provisions of Article 51, Family and Medical Leave, shall continue to receive the same subsidy as full-time employees and shall be subject to any adjustments applied to that subsidy as provided in this Article.
Further, any half-time employee receiving either a full or partial subsidy in accordance with this Article who, subsequent to July 24,1989, becomes an intermittent employee shall not be eligible for such subsidy, notwithstanding his/her status as a member of LACERS.
During the term of this MOU, the Joint Labor-Management Benefits Committee will review all rate changes and their impact on the Health Plans.
Section II	- Dental Plans
The dental plans offered and benefits provided by those plans shall be those approved by the City’s Joint Labor-Management Benefits Committee and administered by the Personnel Department in accordance with LAAC Section 4.303.
Management will expend for full-time employees in the classifications listed in this Unit, who are members of LACERS, the monthly sum necessary to cover the cost of the employee-only coverage under the City-sponsored Dental Plan Program. Coverage for dependents of eligible employees may be obtained in a City-sponsored plan at the employee's expense, provided that such sufficient enrollment is maintained to continue to make such coverage available.
For each half-time employee, as defined by Article 49 of this MOU, who becomes a member of LACERS and for each employee who transfers from full-time to half-time status following July 24,1989, Management will expend an amount equivalent to one-half of the cost of the employee-only coverage of the most expensive plan under the City-sponsored Dental Program. Half-time employees who, prior to July 24, 1989, were receiving the full employee-only subsidy shall continue to receive the full employee-only subsidy.
Any employee who was receiving a full employee-only dental subsidy as of July 24, 1989, in accordance with this Article, who transfers to half-time status following that date shall continue to be eligible for the full subsidy. This provision shall apply providing that such employee does not have a break in service subsequent to July 24, 1989. Any half-time employee with a break in service after July 24,1989 shall be subject to the partial subsidy provisions in this Article.
23
MOU03-07
Further, any half-time employee receiving either a full or partial subsidy in accordance with this Article who, subsequent to July 24,1989, becomes an intermittent employee shall not be eligible for such subsidy, notwithstanding his/her status as a member of LACERS.
During the term of this MOD, the Joint Labor-Management Benefits Committee will review all rate changes and their impact on the Dental Plans.
Section III	- Definition of Dependent
The definition of a dependent shall include the domestic partner of an employee and the dependents of such domestic partner. Any employee claiming a domestic partner and/or the dependents of such domestic partner for purposes of this Article shall complete a confidential affidavit to be filed in the Employee Benefits Office, Personnel Department, which shall be signed by the City employee and the domestic partner, declaring the existence of a domestic partnership.
By extending to an employee the specific benefits defined by this Article, the City does not intend to confer or imply any other unspecified benefits to such employee, or to the employee's domestic partner, or to the dependents of such domestic partner.
Section IV	- General Provisions
An open enrollment period of at least 30 days shall be declared by the Personnel Department each year. During this open period, employees may enroll themselves and, at their option, their dependents in the City-sponsored plan. Employees who fail to enroll during this open period will be ineligible to participate in a City-sponsored plan unless another open enrollment period is subsequently declared by the Personnel Department. Management will retain all duties and responsibilities it has had for the administration of the City's Health and Dental Plans.
Section V	- Subsidy During Family and Medical Leave
Foran employee who is on family or medical leave, under the provisions of Article 51 of this MOD, Management shall continue the City's medical and dental plan subsidies. Employees shall be eligible for such continued subsidy for a maximum of nine (9) pay periods from the qualifying date of the family or medical leave, including the paid and the unpaid portions of the leave. The continuation of the subsidies will be provided only under the following conditions:
A.	The employee shall have been employed continuously by the City for a one-year period prior to the beginning of the leave.
B.	The employee shall have been enrolled in a City health plan prior to the beginning of the leave to continue the health plan subsidy. The employee shall have been
24
MOU03-07
enrolled in a City dental plan prior to the beginning of the leave to continue the dental plan subsidy.
C.	The City will not continue the subsidies if the employee is covered undera non-City health or dental plan.
D.	The continuance of the health plan subsidy shall include coverage of any new dependent. Employees are responsible for notifying the Employee Benefits Office of any additional dependent(s). Dependents may be added only within 30 days of becoming dependents or during the City’s annual open enrollment period.
E.	In accordance with the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA), employees on unpaid family or medical leave shall not be required to repay the City subsidy (1) upon return to work, or (2) if they terminate City employment following the leave due to a continuing serious health problem or other extenuating circumstances beyond the control of the employee. Should an employee fail to return to work for any other reason, then he/she shall be required to reimburse the City for the subsidy provided during the unpaid portion of his/her leave. Such reimbursement shall be deducted from any compensation owed to the employee upon termination of City employment.
ARTICLE 31 HOLIDAY PAY
A.	The following days shall be treated as holidays during the term of this MOU.
1.	New Year’s Day
2.	Martin Luther King’s Birthday (the third Monday in January)
3.	President’s Day (the third Monday in February)
4.	Cesar E. Chavez Birthday (the last Monday in March)
5.	Memorial Day (the last Monday in May)
6.	Independence Day (July 4)
7.	Labor Day (the first Monday in September)
8.	Columbus Day (the second Monday in October)
9.	Veteran’s Day (November 11)
10.	Thanksgiving Day (the fourth Thursday in November)
11.	The Friday after Thanksgiving Day
12.	Christmas Day (December 25)
13.	Any day or portion thereof declared to be a holiday by proclamation of the Mayor and the concurrence of the City Council by resolution
14.	One unspecified holiday (per calendar year)
B.	When any holiday from 1 through 12 above falls on a Sunday, it shall be observed on the following Monday.
C.	When any holiday from 1 through 12 above falls on a Saturday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday.
25
MOU03-07
D.	Any holiday declared by proclamation of the Mayor shall not be deemed to advance the last scheduled working day before a holiday for purposes of computing any additional time off.
E.	Whenever a holiday from 1 through 12 above occurs during an employee’s regularly scheduled workweek, eight (8) hours of paid leave shall be credited for the purpose of computing overtime pay for work performed after forty (40) hours.
F.	Whenever a holiday listed under 13 or 14 above occurs during an employee’s regularly scheduled workweek, the appropriate number of hours of paid leave shall be credited for the purpose of computing overtime pay for work performed after (40) hours.
G.	Whenever an employee’s 9/80 or modified day off falls on a holiday, the employee shall take an alternate 9/80 day off within the same workweek and calendar week as the holiday.
H.	Holiday Premium Pay - Any employee in this unit who works on any holiday listed above will receive eight (8) hours (or portion thereof as specified above in A. 13) of holiday pay and one and one-half (V/z) the hourly rate for all hours worked on the observed holiday; provided, however, that the employee has (1) worked his/her assigned shift immediately before and his/her assigned shift immediately after the holiday, or, (2) prior to such holiday Management has authorized the employee to take paid leave time off in lieu of the requirement to work said shifts. Any employee who fails to meet these requirements will be paid at the rate of one hour for each hour worked. Employees shall not receive both overtime and holiday premium pay for the same hours.
I.	Employees working in excess of: eight (8) hours on any holiday listed from 1 through 12 above, or hours worked in excess of any day or portion thereof declared to be a holiday by proclamation of the Mayor shall be paid at the appropriate holiday premium pay rate for his/her class. Employees shall not receive both overtime and holiday premium pay for the same hours.
J.	For each holiday listed above which results in time off with pay for employees working a Monday through Friday work week, employees who are scheduled to work other than the Monday through Friday work week shall be entitled to such day off with pay or shall be compensated in accordance with all pertinent provisions (B through I above). If such holiday falls on an employee’s scheduled day off, an alternative day off in lieu shall be scheduled within the same calendar week as the holiday.
K.	The additional compensation for work performed on a holiday as provided herein shall not apply to employees whose regular rate of pay is bonused to include pay for holidays worked.
26
MOU03-07
L.	Management shall have the sole authority and responsibility to determine whether the compensation for any holidays worked shall be in cash or paid leave time off.
M.	The unspecified holiday shall be taken in accordance with the following requirements:
1.	The holiday must be taken in one full normal working day increment of eight (8) hours during the calendar year in which it is credited or it will be forfeited. The request for such time off, if timely submitted by the employee, will be promptly approved by Management subject to the operating needs of the employee's department, office or bureau. If an unforeseen operating requirement prevents the employee from taking such previously approved holiday, Management will reschedule the holiday so that it may be taken on some other reasonably satisfactory date within the calendar year.
2.	Any break in service (i.e., resignation, discharge, retirement) prior to taking the holiday shall forfeit any right thereto.
3.	The holiday shall not be utilized to extend the date of any layoff.
4.	No employee shall be entitled to an unspecified holiday until he/she has
completed six months of satisfactory service and has completed 500 hours of compensated time.
5.	No employee shall receive more than one unspecified holiday each calendar year. Thus, (a) an employee transferring from the Department of Water and Power (DWP) to any other City department, office or bureau will not receive an unspecified holiday after taking such holiday prior to leaving DWP, and (b) employees who resign or are terminated and then rehired during the same calendar year, will not receive an additional unspecified holiday when rehired.
N.	1. a. A half-time employee, as defined by Article 49.1.A. of this MOU, shall qualify for and receive the same holiday benefits as a full-time employee, including unspecified holidays except as noted in M.1.b. below; provided, however, that pay for such holiday shall be prorated on the basis of the number of hours normally scheduled to be worked in relationship to the number of hours required for full-time employment in the class of position.
b. Half-time employees who transfer to full-time or full-time employees who transfer to half-time are entitled to either a full unspecified holiday (8 hours) or a prorated unspecified holiday depending on their status at the time the holiday is taken. A full-time or half-time employee who transfers to intermittent without having taken any unspecified holiday shall not be entitled to such holiday while in intermittent status.
27
MOU03-07
2.	Intermittent employees, as defined by Article 49.1.B. of this MOU, shall not be entitled to holiday benefits. An intermittent employee who becomes fulltime or half-time and who has not previously qualified for the unspecified holiday benefit as a full or half-time employee shall be required to qualify by completing six consecutive months of service in the full-time or half-time status and to have been compensated for at least 500 hours. Upon completion of said qualifying period, a half-time employee will be allowed prorated benefits as described herein.
ARTICLE 32	REGULAR HOURS OF WORK
Police Department
A.	Regular Hours of Work
Pursuant to the provisions of Sections 4.108 (Regular Hours of Work) and 4.113 (Overtime) of the LAAC, and Section 7(a)(2)(c) [29 USC §207(a)(2)(c)] of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), each full time civilian employee of the Police Department shall be in actual attendance on duty for a minimum of eight hours on each day and forty (40) hours each week that the employee is assigned to work. Exception: Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 4.108 and 4.133 of the LAAC and as provided by Section 1.3 of the Police Department Personnel Ordinance, a day may be eight (8) hours, seven and one-half (7%) hours, or seven (7) hours as determined by the Chief of Police.
1.	Day Watch Schedule
Eight (8) hours of actual attendance of duty (excluding meal periods) constitutes a day's work and forty (40) hours of actual attendance constitutes a week's work for every such employee assigned to a day watch.
2.	Night Watch Schedule
Seven and one-half (754) hours of actual attendance on duty (excluding meal periods) constitutes a day's work and thirty-seven and one-half (37!4) hours of actual attendance on duty constitutes a week's work for every such employee assigned to a night watch.
3.	Morning Watch Schedule
Seven (7) hours of actual attendance on duty (excluding meal periods) constitutes a day's work and thirty-five (35) hours of actual attendance on duty constitutes a week's work for every such employee assigned to a morning watch.
28
MOU03-07
B.	Regular Rate of Pay
In accordance with Section 4.108 (Regular Hours of Work) of the LAAC, all employees of the City of Los Angeles are hired and compensated for being actually on duty a minimum of eight (8) hours a day or forty (40) hours a week. Any employee, unless otherwise excepted, who works fewer than these required hours per week shall be paid on a part-time basis.
As provided in Section 1.3 of the Department Personnel Ordinance, the compensation of persons employed in the same class of position, whether assigned to work during a day, night or morning watch, shall be the same and at the rate prescribed by each MOU as specified in Schedule ”A” of Section 4.61 of the LAAC for their respective positions.
In accordance with Schedule "A" of Section 4.61 and as excepted by Section 4.108 of the LAAC, compensation for clerical employees of the Police Department working abbreviated shifts (night and morning watches) shall be based on 40 hours of work. Employees working on abbreviated shifts are compensated for all hours of work up to and including 40 hours. The regular rate of pay shall be determined by dividing the biweekly compensation by 80 hours.
C.	Deployment Period - Police Service Representatives (PSR) Only (2080 Plan)
Pursuant to FLSA Section 7(b)(2) [29 DSC •207(b)(2)], the Police Department may elect to employ Police Service Representatives (PSR), Code 2207, for no more than 2,240 hours in any 52 consecutive week period beginning January 1 and ending December 31. Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 4.108 (Regular Hours of Work) and 4.113 (Overtime) of the LAAC to the contrary, and as provided by Section 1.3 of the Police Department Personnel Ordinance and FLSA Section 7(b)(2), PSR's, Code 2207, of the Police Department, shall have a work schedule consisting of twenty (20) days of work in each twenty-eight (28) day deployment period. Said twenty (20) days of work may be scheduled at such time during two (2) biweekly pay periods as the Chief of Police may direct.
The provisions of this section shall pertain to all PSRs regardless of pay grade.
Notwithstanding the aforementioned deployment period scheduling plan, Police Service Representatives assigned outside of the Central Dispatch Center shall not be precluded from working modified work schedules (9-80,4-10) in accordance with existing policy and with the approval of the Commanding Officer. The parties will review this policy for Communications Division when the staffing levels in the CDC reach appropriate levels as determined by the Commanding Officer.
29
MOU03-07
Harbor Department - Port Pilot Dispatchers
Regular Hours of Work
Effective the first full payroll period following the approval of this MOU by the City Council, the Union and Management agree that, pursuant to FLSA Section 7(b)(2) [29USC §207(b)(2)] (see Appendix H), the Harbor Department may elect to employ Senior Clerk Typists assigned to the Port Pilot Dispatcher positions to work a 52-week wori< period. Such employees will work no more than 2,240 hours in any 52 consecutive week period beginning July 1 and ending June 30.
ARTICLE 33	OVERTIME
A.	Assignment of Overtime
Management will attempt to assign overtime work as equitably as possible among all qualified employees in the same classification, in the same organizational unit and work location. In the assignment of overtime under this provision, however, Management may consider special skills required to perform particular work. The parties understand that no employee shall work overtime without prior approval from his or her supervisor and that unofficial overtime “white time” is absolutely prohibited; all hours worked by employees in this Unit shall be recorded on their time sheet. Employees in this Unit may not work outside of scheduled working hours, or during unpaid meal periods, without the prior approval of a supervisor consistent with department policy. Failure to secure prior approval may result in discipline.
B.	Non-emerqencv Overtime
Whenever Management deems it necessary to perform non-emergency work on an overtime basis, employees required to work will be given at least forty-eight (48) hours notices whenever possible.
C.	Rate and Method of Overtime Compensation
Compensation for overtime for employees in this Unit shall be for all hours worked in excess of 40 hours in a workweek including all absences with pay authorized by law. All employees in this Unit shall be compensated in time off at the rate of one and one half (134) hours for each hour of overtime worked or in cash at one and one-half times the employee’s regular rate of pay, at the discretion of Management.
D.	Compensated Time Off
Employees may, subject to Management discretion, be permitted to accumulate up to 80 hours of compensatory time off (CTO). On occasion, employees may accumulate CTO in excess of 80 hours for a temporary period of time. If an
30
MOU03-07
employee does not schedule and take CTO over 80 hours prior to the end of the fiscal year, Management may require employees to use CTO prior to the end of the fiscal year; require employees to use such time in lieu of vacation (unless the mandatory use of CTO would result in the loss of vacation accumulation) or other leave time; or authorize cash payment. In the event sufficient funds are not available to provide cash compensation for all or a portion of the CTO hours in excess of 80, Management may extend the time limit for a period not to exceed one year.
In accordance with FLSA, no employee shall lose CTO. An employee who has requested the use of CTO must be permitted by Management to use such time within a reasonable time period after making the request unless the use of the CTO within a reasonable period unduly disrupts the operations of the City department. This standard does not apply to non-FLSA overtime (i.e. overtime earned pursuant to this agreement that does not meet the FLSA definition of overtime).
Under no circumstances shall compensated time off (CTO) in excess of 240 hours be accumulated.
E.	1040/2080 Plan
Management reserves the right to develop 26 week/1040 hour or 52 week/2080 hour work periods under FLSA Section 7(b) [29 USC §207(b)(1) and (2)] during the term of this MOU for the purpose of increasing scheduling flexibility. Implementation of this work schedule is subject to agreement by the parties.
F.	Police Department - Police Service Representative (PSR) Only
1.	2080 Plan (Deployment Period)
Pursuant to FLSA Section 7(b)(2) [29 USC §207(b)(2)] (see Appendix H), the Police Department may elect to employ Clerical Unit employees known as PSR’s, Code 2207-1 -2-3, for no more than 2240 hours in any 52 consecutive week period beginning January 1 and ending December 31. In accordance with Section 7(b)(2) and notwithstanding LAAC Sections 4.113-4.116, compensation for overtime worked, whether in cash or compensatory time off, will be paid after an employee has worked one hundred and sixty (160) hours during such deployment period, excluding overtime work, but including all absences with pay authorized by law.
2.	Police Service Representative
If Management is aware that any employee(s) in the class of Police Service Representative, Code 2207-1 -2-3, will be required to “hold over” at the end of watch to work overtime, and Management has this knowledge for more than two hours before end of watch and fails to provide at least two hours
31
MOU03-07
notification before end of watch to the Police Service Representative(s) who is/are required to work the overtime, then said Police Service Representative(s) will receive the sum of twenty dollars ($20) in addition to all other compensation.
G.	Harbor Department - Port Pilot Dispatchers Only
2080 Plan
In accordance with FLSA Section 7(b)(2) and notwithstanding the above and LAAC Sections4.113-4.116, overtime compensation for these employees shall be in time off at the rate of one and one-half hours for each hour of overtime worked or in cash at one and one-half times the employee’s regular rate of pay, at the discretion of management. FLSA overtime shall be paid in accordance with FLSA Section 7(b)(2) [29 USC §207(b)(2)] (see Appendix H) for all hours worked. Compensation for MOU overtime shall be for all hours worked in excess of 80 hours in a pay period including all absences with pay authorized by law and less FLSA overtime.
ARTICLE 34	TRAVEL ALLOWANCE
Section I
Notwithstanding Section 4.222 of the LAAC, whenever an employee is required to travel directly between his/her home and place of temporary assignment, as provided in Section 4.221 of the LAAC, he/she shall receive payment at the rate of two dollars ($2.00) for each day that such travel occurs. Effective July 1, 2005, the rate shall increase to three dollars ($3.00) for each day that travel occurs. The parties agree that all other provisions of Section 4.220 - 4.226 of the LAAC, which relate to payment for travel of certain employees from their homes to temporary job locations remain unchanged.
Section II
Notwithstanding Section 4.22.1 of the LAAC, whenever an employee is required to travel from one job site to another within a workday, he/she shall receive payment at the rate of two dollars ($2.00) for each day that such travel occurs. Effective July 1, 2005, the rate shall increase to three dollars ($3.00) for each day that travel occurs.
Section III
Where an employee qualifies under both Sections I and II above, such employee shall be entitled to receive three dollars ($3.00) per day. Effective July 1, 2005, the rate shall increase to four dollars ($4.00) per day.
32
MOU03-07
ARTICLE 35	SICK LEAVE BENEFITS
Management's practices with regard to sick leave benefits will be continued during the term of this Memorandum of Understanding. Such practices shall be in accordance with Sections 4.126, 4.126.2, and 4.128 of the LAAC.
A.	Preventive Medical Treatment
Notwithstanding Section 4.126(d) of the LAAC, twenty-four (24) hours of one hundred percent (100%) sick leave may be used to secure preventive medical treatment for the employee and for the members of the employee's immediate family.
B.	Sick Leave Benefit - Part-Time Employees
Half-time employees as defined by Article 49.1.A. of this Memorandum of Understanding must complete a period of six consecutive months of service, and have been compensated for at least 500 hours before qualifying for sick leave. Upon completion of said qualifying period, a half-time employee will be allowed sick leave prorated on the basis of total number of hours scheduled in relationship to the total number of hours required for full-time employment.
Intermittent employees as defined by Article 49.1.B. of this MOU shall not be entitled to accrue or use sick leave benefits.
When a full-time or half-time employee becomes an intermittent employee, all accrued and accumulated sick leave for which he/she has been credited shall remain credited to the employee but frozen in the amounts so accrued and accumulated without increase or decrease because of the change in work schedule. Such benefits may only be used if the employee becomes a half-time or full-time employee.
An intermittent employee who becomes a full-time or half-time employee, who has not previously qualified for sick leave benefits as a full or half-time employee, shall be required to complete the six month qualifying period and to have been compensated for at least 500 hours in accordance with this Article.
C.	Sick Leave Benefit for Pregnancy
Every full-time and half-time employee in any Department of the City shall be entitled to use sick leave accrued pursuant to this Article if that employee is unable to work on account of her pregnancy, childbirth or related medical conditions.
33
MOU03-07
D.	Discontinuance of 50% Sick Leave
Beginning January 1, 1998, employees shall be allowed 12 working days leave at full pay and five working days at 75% of full pay each calendar year plus the days of sick leave accrued and accumulated as provided herein. As of January 1,1998, any unused balance of sick leave at 50% of full pay shall be frozen with no further credits or withdrawals permitted.
If an employee becomes separated from the service of the City by reason of retirement on or after January 1, 1997, any balance of accumulated sick leave at 50% of full pay remaining unused at the date of separation shall be compensated by cash payment at 25% of the employee’s salary rate current at such date of separation. In no instance will an employee be compensated more than once for accumulated full pay sick leave and 50% sick leave upon retirement.
ARTICLE 36	FAMILY ILLNESS
Management's present practices of allowances for leave for illness in family will be continued during the term of this Memorandum of Understanding. The aggregate number of working days allowed in any one calendar year with full pay shall not exceed twelve (12) days. Such practice of allowance for leave for illness in family shall be in accordance with Section 4.127 of the LAAC. Upon the adoption of a child, an employee will be a permitted to use twelve (12) days of family illness sick leave.
The definition of "immediate family" shall include the father, father-in-law, mother, motherin-law, brother, sister, spouse, child, foster child, grandparents, grandchild, step-parents, step-children of any employee of the City, the domestic partner of the employee, a household member (any person residing in the immediate household of the employee at the time of the illness or injury) and the following relatives of an employee's domestic partner: child, grandchild, mother, father.
Any employee claiming a domestic partner for purposes of this Article shall complete a confidential affidavit to be filed in the Employee Benefits Office, Personnel Department, which shall be signed by the City employee and the domestic partner, declaring the existence of a domestic partnership with a named domestic partner. No affidavit is required to secure family illness benefits arising from the illness or injury of a household member (any person residing in the immediate household of the employee at the time of the illness or injury). By extending to an employee the specific benefits defined by this Article, the City does not intend to confer or to imply any other unspecified benefits to such employee, or to the employee's domestic partner, or to the employee's household members, or to any other person.
34
MOU03-07
ARTICLE 37	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
Management's present practices with regard to allowances for leave because of family deaths will be continued during the term of this Memorandum of Understanding. Such practices of allowances for leave because of family deaths shall be in accordance with Section 4.127.1 a-d of the LAAC. Upon the approval of department management, an employee will be allowed leave with pay for a maximum of three working days for each occurrence of a death in the employee’s immediate family.
For the purposes of this Article, the definition of an immediate family member, as defined in Section 4.127.1 of the LAAC, shall include the father, father-in-law, mother, mother-in-law, brother, sister, spouse, child, grandparents, grandchildren, step-parents, step-children, great-grandparents, foster parents, foster children, a domestic partner, any relative who resided in the employee's household, a household member (any person residing in the immediate household of the employee at the time of death) and the following relatives of an employee’s domestic partner: child, grandchild, mother, father. For purposes of this Article, simultaneous, multiple family deaths will be considered as one occurrence.
Intermittent employees as defined by Article 49.1 B. of this MOU shall not be entitled to compensated leave because of family deaths.
Any employee claiming a domestic partner for purposes of this Article shall complete a confidential affidavit to be filed in the Employee Benefits Office, Personnel Department, which shall be signed by the City employee and the domestic partner, declaring the existence of a domestic partnership with a named domestic partner. No affidavit is required to secure bereavement leave benefits arising from the death of a household member (any person residing in the immediate household of the employee at the time of death). By extending to an employee the specific benefits defined by this Article, the City does not intend to confer or to imply any other unspecified benefits to such employee, or to the employee's domestic partner, or to the employee's household members, or to any other person.
In addition to the bereavement leave granted under this Article, upon the approval of the appointing authority, any employee who has accrued unused sick leave at full pay shall be allowed sick leave with full pay not to exceed two working days per occurrence for the purpose of bereavement leave if it is necessary for the employee to travel a minimum of 1,500 miles one way, as calculated by the Automobile Association of America (AAA). Employees requesting the use of sick leave under this provision shall furnish satisfactory proof to the appointing authority of the distance traveled. Use of sick leave hours for bereavement leave shall not be counted as sick leave in any department Sick Leave Use Monitoring Program.
35
MOU03-07
ARTICLE 38	MILITARY LEAVE
Management's present practices with regard to military leave with pay will be continued during the term of this Memorandum of Understanding. Such practices shall be in accordance with Section 4.123 of the LAAC.
ARTICLE 39	RETIREMENT BENEFITS
A.	Benefits
For employees hired prior to January 1,1983, retirement benefits including the Beta Retirement Formula and subsidies of: 1) one-half the employees’ retirement contribution rates, and 2) an additional two percent (2%) of compensation earnable after the one-half subsidy, shall be continued during the term of this MOU. For employees hired January 1,1983, and thereafter, the Beta Retirement Formula and a flat-rated employee retirement contribution of six percent (6%) shall be continued.
B.	Procedure for Benefits Modifications
Proposals for major retirement benefit modifications will be negotiated in joint meetings with the certified employee organizations whose memberships will be directly affected. Agreements reached between Management and organizations whereby a majority of the members in the LACERS are affected shall be recommended to the City Council by the CAO as affecting membership of all employees in the LACERS. Such modifications need not be included in the MOU in order to be considered appropriately negotiated.
Proposals for minor benefit modifications and technical changes will be considered and reported on as appropriate, but no more than once a year, in a report from the CAO to the City Council. Affected organizations shall be given the opportunity to review the proposed minor changes prior to the release of the report, and their views shall be included in the report.
If agreement is not reached between Management and the organizations representing a majority of the members in the LACERS as to whether a particular proposal constitutes either a major or a minor modification, the proposal shall be treated as a major modification.
C.	Half-Time Employees
1.	Half-time employees in this Unit eligible for membership in LACERS shall, upon written request to the appointing authority, be certified as LACERS members upon appointment, or anytime thereafter. This provision shall apply to half-time employees hired in accordance with Civil Service provisions of
36
MOU03-07
the Charter and to exempt employees appointed to regular and continuous half-time schedules.
Halftime employees who are exempt from Civil Service shall be certified following two years of continuous half-time service of at least 1000 compensated hours during each of the two years.
2.	This provision shall not apply to employees certified as LACERS members prior to July 24, 1989.
ARTICLE 40	MILEAGE
Each employee who is authorized to use his/her own vehicle, pursuant to Division 4, Chapter 5, Article 2 of the LAAC, in the performance of his/her duties shall be reimbursed for transportation expenses for all miles traveled in any biweekly period, in addition to any and all salaries and other compensation otherwise provided for by law.
During the term of this MOU, the cents per mile reimbursement rate shall be in accordance with an amount equal to the annual standard car mileage allowance as determined by the Internal Revenue Service. The City Administrative Officer shall certify to the Controller appropriate changes, if required, to become effective the beginning of the pay period in which January 1 falls.
ARTICLE 41	OBLIGATION TO SUPPORT
The parties agree that prior to the implementation of this Memorandum of Understanding and during the period of time it is being considered by the Mayor, City Council, Council Committees and the heads of those departments represented herein for action, neither Union nor Management, nor their authorized representatives, will appear before the Mayor, City Council, Council Committees or said department heads, nor meet with the Mayor, members of the City Council or said department heads individually to advocate any addition or deletion to the terms and conditions of this Memorandum of Understanding. However, this Article shall not preclude the parties from appearing before the Mayor, City Council, Council Committees or department heads nor meeting with individual members of the City Council or department heads to advocate or urge the adoption and approval of this Memorandum of Understanding.
ARTICLE 42	PROVISIONS OF LAW AND SEPARABILITY
It is understood and agreed that this Memorandum of Understanding is subject to all applicable Federal and State laws, City ordinances and regulations, the Charter of the City of Los Angeles, and any lawful rules and regulations enacted by the City's Civil Service Commission, Employee Relations Board, or the Library Commission. If any part or provision of this Memorandum of Understanding is in conflict or inconsistent with such applicable provisions of Federal, State, or local law or regulations, or is otherwise held to be
37
MOU03-07
invalid or unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction, such part or provisions shall be suspended and superseded by such applicable law or regulations and the remainder of this Memorandum of Understanding shall not be affected thereby; the parties agree to negotiate promptly a replacement for such part or provision.
The parties understand that many of the employees covered by this Memorandum of Understanding may also be covered by the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended, 29 U.S.C. Section 201 et seq. FLSA). To the extent that any provision herein conflicts with the FLSA, employees covered by the FLSA shall receive benefits required thereunder and any additional benefits set forth herein if compatible with the FLSA.
ARTICLE 43	TERM
The term of this Memorandum of Understanding shall commence on the date when the terms and conditions for its effectiveness, as set forth in Article 2, Implementation of Memorandum of Understanding, are fully met, but in no event shall said Memorandum of Understanding become effective prior to 12:01 a.m. on July 1,2004. This Memorandum of Understanding shall expire and otherwise be fully terminated at 11:59 p.m. on June 30, 2007.
Notwithstanding the above, the provisions of this MOU shall remain in effect until a successor MOU is implemented or impasse proceedings are completed as long as the parties have met their obligations under the provisions of Article 23, Calendar for Successor Memorandum of Understanding, to their mutual satisfaction and are continuing to meet and confer in good faith.
ARTICLE 44	UNION-SPONSORED LIFE INSURANCE AND OPTICAL PROGRAMS
It is mutually understood that each employee whose class is listed in Appendices A through D and who is a member of LACERS, will be enrolled in the Union's life insurance and optical programs.
The City will forward four dollars ($4.00) biweekly for each such employee on City paid status to the Union to finance these programs. Operative July 1,2005, the City will forward four dollars and eighty cents ($4.80) biweekly for each such employee on City paid status to the Union to finance these programs.
The Union agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the City against all claims, including costs of suits and reasonable attorney fees and/or other forms of liability arising from the implementation of the provisions of this Article.
38
MOU03-07
ARTICLE 45	COMPENSATION FOR COURT APPEARANCES (POLICE DEPARTMENT)
The following court provisions shall apply to employees in the Police Department only. These provisions apply only for the payment of overtime for court appearances outside of the normal duty hours of employees.
A.	Basic Compensation
An employee, at the employee's option, may report to court when subpoenaed or remain on call. If the employee elects to appear in court, the division supervisor must be notified, at the latest, one administrative day prior to the scheduled court appearance. If the employee wishes to remain on call, the employee must be able to appear in court not more than one hour after being notified that the employee's appearance is required in court. To appear in court more than an hour after having been notified will void the employee's right to on call compensation. An employee need not remain at home, but must be available for telephonic notification at a location where the supervisor knows the employee can be reached.
1.	An off-duty employee shall receive a minimum of two (2) hours overtime compensation for any court day he/she is subpoenaed to be on call or required to appear.
2.	An off-duty employee shall receive hour-for-hour overtime compensation for each additional hour of actual attendance in excess of the two (2) hour minimum provided for in Paragraph A (1) above, with the following noontime recess exceptions:
Length of Recess
Forty-five (45) minutes or less
Amount of Compensation
None
Forty-six (46) minutes or more
All time over forty-six (46) minutes in six (6) minute increments.
Note: An employee shall not receive court on call overtime compensation and hour-for-hour overtime compensation for the same time period.
B.	Multiple Cases
An off-duty employee who receives morning and afternoon subpoenas for separate cases on a court day shall receive overtime compensation as in Paragraph A(1) above, for each case for a total of four (4) hours. In addition, he/she shall receive
39
MOU03-07
hour-for-hour overtime compensation for each additional hour of actual court attendance in excess of two (2) hours.
C.	Exceptions to the Two-Hour Minimum
1.	Court appearances or on call status commencing two (2) hours or less before the employee's regularly assigned shift begins
Compensation will be for the actual time between the commencement of the court appearance or on call and the beginning of the employee's assigned shift with the same noon recess provisions as outlined in Paragraph A(2) above.
2.	Court appearances commencing two (2) hours or less after the employee's regularly assigned shift ends
Compensation will be for the actual time between the end of the employee's assigned shift and the termination of the court appearance with the same noon recess provisions as outlined in Paragraph A(2) above.
3.	Court appearances or on call status that begin during an employee’s regularly assigned shift
Compensation will be for the actual time between the end of the employee's assigned shift and the termination of the court appearance or on call status with the same noon recess provisions as outlined in Paragraph A(2) above.
Note: 1. Compensation for on call status shall not exceed two (2) hours.
Note: 2. Past practices relating to compensation for court appearances shall apply to all departments, offices or bureaus other than the Police Department.
ARTICLE 46	CAREER DEVELOPMENT FUNDS
During the term of this MOU, Management agrees to provide an appropriation of $120,000 to the Personnel Department for the exclusive purpose of funding training programs for members of this Unit. Any training proposed must be of direct value to the City and will provide special knowledge and skills to the trainee which cannot be provided through other available in-service programs.
Unit Responsibilities
1.	Identify the career development needs of the Unit members.
2.	Propose training programs to meet those needs.
40
MOU03-07
3.	Assist the Personnel Department in developing a career counseling program for Unit members.
4.	Disseminate information on available programs to Unit members.
Management Responsibilities
1.	Consult with Unit representatives in developing training proposals.
2.	Approve all training programs.
3.	Coordinate the administration of all training programs.
4.	Administer the training funds.
5.	Provide career counseling to Unit members.
It is understood by both parties that:
1.	Programs will be designed for maximum participation, but not all members of the Unit may be able to participate in training;
2.	Cost of training will include, but not be limited to, instructor fees, training aids and materials, training site rentals, and other training-related costs;
3.	Once contracts are signed for training, the necessary payments will be charged to this account;
4.	Any leftover funds at the end of the MOU term will be encumbered for this special use;
5.	The provisions of this article are not grievable;
6.	Release time for employees to attend approved programs will be subject to departmental workload and operating needs.
ARTICLE 47	FEDERAL POLITICAL ACTION CHECK-OFF
During the term of this MOU, a payroll deduction will be continued by the Union for the purpose of allowing employees in this Unit to contribute towards the Union's federal election activities.
Said contributions shall be deducted by the Controller from twenty-four (24) biweekly payroll checks of each employee in this Unit who voluntarily consents to said contribution by submitting a payroll deduction card signed by the individual employee. Remittance of the amount of said deductions shall be sent to the Union by the Controller within thirty (30) working days after the conclusion of the month in which said deductions were deducted. Contributions shall be made payable as directed by the Union to the Political Action Committee, P.E.O.P.L.E., of the Union.
A fee of nine cents ($.09) per deduction shall be assessed by the Controller for the processing of each payroll deduction taken. The Controller will deduct the aggregate amount of said fees on a biweekly basis.
41
MOU03-07
It is agreed that neither any employee nor the Union shall have any claim against the City for any deductions made or not made, as the case may be, unless a claim of error is made in writing to the Controller within thirty (30) calendar days after the date such deductions were or should have been made.
ARTICLE 48	VDT OPTICAL PLAN
The City of Los Angeles and the All City Employees Association, Local 3090, AFSCME, AFL-CIO recognize that employees of this Unit who operate Video Display Terminal (VDT) equipment should have a complete eye exam by an optometrist trained in the VDT field.
The Union shall contract with a VDT Optical Plan provider. The service provider shall employ qualified professional staff to provide an optometric exam containing these elements:
1.	Unaided Visual Acuity (letter chart test)
2.	Refractive Findings (are glasses required?)
3.	Corrected Visual Acuity (using glasses if required)
4.	Amplitude Accommodation (fine focus)
5.	Suppression (squint or "lazy eye")
6.	Distance Muscle Balance (Maddox Rod)
7.	One Metre Muscle Balance (Maddox Rod)
8.	Near Muscle Balance (Maddox Wing)
9.	Slit Lamp Biomicroscopy - For lens and lens capsule changes (cataracts, opacities, roughening, thickening)
The service provider shall also provide to each employee special glasses for VDT work, when necessary.
The Union shall have the responsibility to ensure that only the employees of this Unit who operate City VDT equipment shall be eligible for this optometric exam and the special glasses. Each eligible employee may be examined by the service provider only once every two years. The Union shall also have the responsibility to notify the employees of this Unit as to the availability of the VDT Optical Plan.
Thirty days after the effective date of this MOU, the City Controller will pay to the Union the sum of $167,000 for fiscal years 2004-05 and 2005-06 to cover the cost of the VDT Optical Plan. The City Controller will pay the sum of $91,000 on or about July 1,2006 for fiscal year 2006-07 to cover the cost of the VDT Optical Plan.
The Union may expend a portion of these funds to contract for VDT ergonomics training for employees of this Unit. Any training to be provided must be approved by the Safety Administrator and the CAO. An employee may attend the training course on City time, subject to the approval of the supervisor.
42
MOU03-07
The VDT Optical Plan shall perform an annual audit of its expenditures, to be conducted by an independent qualified CPA firm. The VDT Optical Plan shall provide copies of said audit report to the City Administrative Officer.
The VDT Optical Plan shall also provide an annual report listing the following information:
1.	Names of City employees that were examined.
2.	Social Security number of the employee.
3.	Date of examination.
These reports shall be submitted to the City Administrative Officer by July 31,2005, for the 2004-05 fiscal year, and by July 31,2006, for the 2005-06 fiscal year. The payments made for the 2004-05, 2005-06 and 2006-07 fiscal yearswill be limited to funding the cost of VDT optometric exams, glasses and ergonomic training.
The Union agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the City against all claims, demands, suits, including costs of suits and reasonable attorney fees, and/or other forms of liability arising from the implementation of these provisions and the operation of the VDT Optical Plan.
If, in the City's opinion, the Union and/or the VDT Optical Plan commits a major breach of the provisions of this agreement, the City may, at its discretion, discontinue further payments in support of the VDT Optical Plan. Reasons for discontinuing payments include, but are not limited to: (1) failure of the Union and/or the VDT Optical Plan to cooperate with the reasonable requests of City representatives regarding annual audit information; (2) failure of the Union to indemnify the City of any and all liability arising from the implementation of these provisions and from the operation of the VDT Optical Plan; or (3) failure of the Union and/or the VDT Optical Plan to comply with the restrictions placed on its operations by this agreement.
Any disputes between the parties concerning compliance with the provisions of this agreement, or the reasonableness of requests by City representatives, may be appealed to binding arbitration unless some other forum for resolution is agreed upon. The costs of any such appeal shall be shared equally by the Union and the City.
ARTICLE 49 PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4.110 of the LAAC, the following provisions shall apply to part-time employees covered by this MOU.
General Provisions
1.	Except as otherwise provided in Section 4.117 of the LAAC and in any Departmental Personnel Ordinances to the contrary, a work schedule of less than the number of
43
MOU03-07
hours of full-time employment shall be considered part-time employment. The following categories of part-time employment are hereby defined:
A.	Half-time: Half-time employees are employees regularly assigned to a work schedule of half-time (1040 hours) or more in any calendar year, but less than full-time. Compensation shall be prorated on the basis of the total number of hours scheduled to be worked in relationship to the total number of hours required for full-time employment in the class of position. Benefits for such half-time employees provided in this MOU apply to these employees on a prorated basis.
Note: Only civil service half-time employees are eligible to work more than a half-time schedule in any calendar year.
B.	Intermittent: Intermittent employees are employees assigned to a regular or on-call work schedule of less than half-time of the available working time (less than 1040 hours) in a service year. Compensation as established in Appendices A through D of this MOU shall be considered full remuneration for intermittent employees defined by this Article. Employees who are compensated by the session and employees who hold more than one intermittent position concurrently, regardless of total number of hours scheduled, shall be considered intermittent employees.
2.	It is hereby agreed that all part-time employees that are hired after July 24, 1989, into classifications in this bargaining unit shall be notified at the time of hire whether such appointment is half-time or intermittent. Half-time employees shall be advised of their eligibility for prorated benefits, and intermittent employees shall be notified that they shall not be entitled to benefits, except as described in paragraph 7b below.
3.	It is understood that Management has the right to determine the work schedules and
hours of all intermittent and half-time employees. However, when an employee has been working a consistent half-time or more work schedule, departments will provide reasonable opportunities for the employee to make up unpaid absences due to authorized leave or holidays in order to maintain half-time status. Such accommodation shall be subject to budgetary and workload considerations.
4.	Any changes to sick leave, vacation, and holiday benefits for part-time employees contained in this MOU shall apply to employees hired subsequent to July 24, 1989. Intermittent employees receiving such benefits prior to July 24, 1989, shall be eligible to continue to receive them, as long as these employees retain their intermittent status without a break in service.
44
MOU03-07
Benefits for Half-time Employees
5.	Benefits of half-time employees are normally calculated on the basis of the number of hours an employee is regularly assigned to work. Civil service half-time employees may be assigned to work and be compensated for hours in excess of those regularly assigned. Such hours are referred to as extra-time hours. Half-time employees shall receive prorated benefits for extra-time hours under the following conditions:
A.	Prorated extra-time benefits are additional sick and vacation leave for regular civil service half-time employees who are compensated in excess of their regularly assigned 1040 hours during the year but less than full-time. The year is defined as the Controller’s 12-month W-2 calendar year.
B.	Extra-time benefits shall only be calculated for employees who remain in halftime status for the entire year. Employees who change between half-time and full-time during the W-2 year shall not be eligible for extra-time benefits.
C.	Employees shall not receive more than ninety-six (96) hours of 100% sick leave and forty (40) hours of 75% sick leave in any W-2 calendar year, regardless of status or number of hours worked.
D.	In accordance with Administrative Code Section 4.254, employees are permitted to accumulate vacation not to exceed two (2) annual vacation periods, and all accumulated vacation not to exceed two (2) annual vacation periods, and all accumulated vacation leave in excess of such amount shall be deemed waived and lost. Employees will be notified of their extra-time vacation two pay periods prior to the actual accrual.
Employees who are awarded additional vacation time benefits as a result of extra-time worked will be responsible for the monitoring of their time. All awards in excess of maximum accumulation will be lost and cannot be reinstated.
E.	All prorated sick and vacation leave benefits will be determined by reports prepared by the Controller’s Office following the end of the Controller’s W-2 calendar year. The implementation of all benefits will be subject to the receipt of the required reports from the Controller’s Office to determine the appropriate benefits for all affected employees.
F.	Extra-time benefits shall become effective upon the date the MOU is implemented. Under no circumstances will there be any benefits provided for extra-time hours worked prior to that date. Prorated extra-time vacation and sick leave benefits will not be awarded until the Controller has provided
45
MOU03-07
sufficient documentation for the departments to verify extra time vacation and sick leave benefits.
6.	Half-time employees who immediately prior to such appointment were on intermittent status, and who completed six consecutive months of City service and were compensated for less than 2,000 hours during the preceding two years, shall be allowed to carry over into the 100% sick leave bank upto a maximum of 16 hours of unused compensated personal time off (CPTO). Any unused CPTO in excess of 16 hours shall be deemed waived and lost. Such employees shall immediately begin accruing vacation and sick leave and become eligible to use sick leave and holiday benefits at the appropriate prorated rate. Employees shall not be eligible to use vacation benefits until one year from their anniversary date. Their anniversary date shall be based upon the date they were designated as half-time employees. No such benefits shall be provided retroactively. This paragraph shall not preclude an appointing authority from changing an intermittent employee’s status to half-time anytime following appointment.
Benefits for Intermittent Employees
7.	A. Intermittent employees, except those employees who are receiving benefits in accordance with Section 5f of this Article, shall be eligible to accrue compensated personal time off (CPTO) at a rate of 2.75 minutes for every hour compensated. Employees must complete a period of six consecutive months of City service and must have been compensated for at least 500 hours before qualifying to use the CPTO. This benefit may be used in no less than one-hour increments for the following:
1	.) Sick leave;
2	.) Personal business, subject to approval of the supervisor;
3	.) Holidays assigned off. When a holiday falls on an employee’s assigned schedule and the employee is not required to work on that holiday, an employee may request to use CPTO. If the qualifying employees choose not to use CPTO for the holiday, the employees may be allowed, subject to the approval of the supervisor, to adjust their work schedules and make up the time in full not later than the next succeeding payroll period.
CPTO may be accumulated for up to a maximum of 48 hours. Any time accumulated in excess of such amount shall be deemed waived and lost.
There shall be no payment of any form for unused personal time upon separation from City service for any reason.
46
MOU03-07
Employees who hold more than one intermittent position concurrently shall be eligible to accrue CPTO in only one position. Employees should designate a primary employing department in writing with their primary and secondary employing departments and with the Controller’s Office. If an employee fails to designate a primary employing department, the Controller’s Office will designate the first department to hire the employee as the primary employing department. Employees may change their designated primary department during the Open Enrollment period of October 1 - 31. If an employee changes departments outside the Open Enrollment period, the Controller’s Office will designate the first department to hire the employee as the primary employing department, unless the employee notifies the Controller’s Office otherwise within 30 calendar days of the effective date of the change.
Employees who are paid per diem or by the session shall not be eligible to accrue CPTO.
7. B. Notwithstanding paragraph 2 above, an employee hired on an intermittent basis who, following two consecutive years of City service, has been compensated for 1000 or more hours during each of the two consecutive service years shall be considered a half-time employee and become entitled to qualify for prorated benefits provided to half-time employees. Upon designation as half-time under these circumstances, such employees shall be allowed to carry over into the 100% sick leave bank up to a maximum of 16 hours of unused CPTO. Any unused CPTO in excess of 16 hours shall be deemed waived and lost. Such employees shall immediately begin accruing vacation and sick leave, and become eligible to use vacation, sick leave and holiday benefits at the appropriate prorated rate. Their anniversary date shall be based upon the date they are designated as half-time employees. No such benefits shall be provided retroactively. This paragraph shall not preclude an appointing authority from changing an intermittent employee’s status to half-time anytime following appointment to an intermittent position.
ARTICLE 50	SCHEDULE CHANGES FOR PERSONAL BUSINESS
Management may allow an employee time off with pay, not to exceed eight hours in any one payroll period for personal business (except for changes on the 9/80 day off or the split day) provided that such time off so allowed shall either be made up in full within the same workweek that time is taken or charged against the employee’s accrued and unused vacation or overtime bank on an hourly basis. Employees on a FLSA 7(b) work period shall either make up this time in full within the same pay period that the time is taken (as long as hours worked do not exceed 56 hours in a workweek or 12 hours in a day) or charged against the employee’s accrued and unused vacation or overtime bank on an hourly basis.
47
MOU03-07
ARTICLE 51	FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE
I.	Authorization for Leave
Up to four (4) months (nine [9] pay periods) of family or medical leave shall be provided for the purpose of childbirth, adoption, foster care of a child, or serious health condition of an immediate family member (as defined in Article 36), upon the request of the employee, or the designation of Management in accordance with applicable Federal or State law, notwithstanding any other provisions of this MOU or the LAAC to the contrary.
An employee may take leave under the provisions of this Article if he/she has a serious health condition that makes him/her unable to perform the functions of his/her position.
Leave under the provisions of this Article shall be limited to four (4) months (nine [9] pay periods) during a twelve (12) month period, regardless of the number of incidents. A12-month period shall begin on the first day of leave for each individual taking such leave. The succeeding 12-month period will begin the first day of leave taken under the provisions of this Article after completion of the previous 12-month period.
II.	Definitions
The following definitions are included to clarify family relationships as defined in the Family and Medical Leave Act and the California Family Rights Act.
A.	Spouse means a husband or wife as defined or recognized under State law for purposes of marriage in this State.
B.	Domestic partner means a named domestic partner in a confidential affidavit declaring the existence of said domestic partner and signed by the City employee, which is on file in the Employee Benefits Office, Personnel Department.
C.	Parent means a biological, step-, adoptive or foster parent, an individual who stands or stood in loco parentis to an employee or a legal guardian. This term does not include parents “in law”.
D.	Son or daughter means a biological, adopted, or foster child, a stepchild, a legal ward, or a child of a person standing in loco parentis, who is either under age 18, or age 18 or older and incapable of self-care because of a mental or physical disability.
48
MOU03-07
E.	Persons who are in loco parentis include those with day-to-day responsibilities to care for and financially support a child or, in the case of an employee, who had such responsibility for the employee when the employee was a child. A biological or legal relationship is not necessary.
III.	Eligibility
A.	The provisions of this Article shall apply to all employees in this Unit in all City departments who have been employed by the City for at least 12 months and who have worked for at least 1,040 hours (half-time employees may include all compensated time off except IOD) during the 12 months immediately preceding the beginning of the leave.
Exception: In accordance with Pregnancy Disability Leave under the California Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA), on the first day of employment with the City, pregnant employees are eligible for six (6) weeks (three [3] pay periods) of leave if not disabled due to pregnancy and up to four (4) months (nine [9] pay periods) of leave if disabled due to pregnancy, inclusive of the aforementioned six-week, non-disability leave.
B.	Parents (including those who are domestic partners) who both work for the City may take leave under the provisions of this Article at the same time to care for a new child by birth, adoption or foster care of a child. However, the aggregate period of time to which both are entitled is limited to the time allowed for only one employee. Spouses or domestic partners who both work for the City may take leave under the provisions of this Article at the same time to take care of a sick parent. However, the aggregate period of time to which both are entitled is limited to the time allowed for only one employee.
Each employee must notify his/her employing department at the time the leave is requested of the name and department of the other City employee who is requesting leave for the same incident. Such notification must include the starting and ending dates of the time period for which each employee is requesting leave.
The time limitation for spouses or domestic partners does not apply to leave taken by one employee to care for the other who is seriously ill, or to care for a child with a serious health condition.
IV.	Conditions
A.	The start of leave for a pregnant employee shall be:
1.	During or after the employee’s pregnancy where there is no disability, at the employee’s discretion; or
49
MOU03-07
2.	At the beginning of the employee’s pregnancy-related disability that a doctor certifies as necessary.
B.	The start of a family leave for adoption or foster care of a child shall begin on
a date reasonably close to the date the child is placed in the custody of the employee. Leave may be granted prior to placement if an absence from work is required.
C.	The start of a family leave for a serious health condition of a family member shall begin on the date requested by the employee.
D.	The start of a leave for the employee's own serious health condition shall begin on the date requested by the employee.
E.	A serious health condition is defined as an illness, injury, impairment, or physical or mental condition that involves:
1.	Any period of incapacity or treatment connected with inpatient care in a hospital, hospice or residential medical care facility; or
2.	A period of incapacity requiring an absence of greater than three calendar days involving continuing treatment by or under the supervision of a health care provider; or
3.	Any period of incapacity (or treatment therefore) due to a chronic serious health condition: or
4.	A period of incapacity that is permanent or long-term due to a condition for which treatment may not be effective; or
5.	Any absences to receive multiple treatments (including any period of recovery therefrom) by, or on referral by, a health care provider for a condition that likely would result in incapacity for more than three consecutive days if left untreated; or
6.	Any period of incapacity due to pregnancy or for prenatal care.
F.	All leave granted under this Article shall normally be for a continuous period of time for each incident.
An employee shall be permitted to take intermittent leave or work on a reduced schedule to take care of a family member with a serious health condition or for his/her own serious health condition when it is medically necessary. Management may require the employee to transfer temporarily to an available alternative position with equivalent compensation for which the
50
MOU03-07
employee is qualified that accommodates recurring periods of leave better than the employee’s regular position. Employees who elect a part-time schedule shall receive prorated compensated time off benefits in accordance with Section 4.110 of the LAAC during the duration of their part-time schedule.
Intermittent leave or work on a reduced work schedule for the birth, adoption or foster care of a child shall only be permitted at the discretion of Management.
G.	If any employee requires another leave for a separate incident under the provisions of this Article during the same 12-month period, a new request must be submitted.
H.	In accordance with Pregnancy Disability Leave under the California FEHA, pregnant employees not disabled by pregnancy are entitled to six (6) weeks (three [3] pay periods) of leave. Employees who are disabled due to pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions are eligible for up to four (4) months (nine [9] pay periods) of leave, inclusive of the aforementioned six-week, non-disability leave, with medical certification certifying the employee as unable to work due to a pregnancy-related condition. Pregnancy Disability Leave under the FEHA may be taken before or after the birth of the child. Pregnancy leave under the federal Family and Medical Leave Act shall run concurrently with Pregnancy Disability Leave under the FEHA, and must be concluded within one year of the child’s birth.
In addition, employees (either parent) are also eligible for family leave (“bonding”) under the California Family Rights Act, which shall be limited to four months (nine [9] pay periods) and must be concluded within one year of the child’s birth. (The administration of such leave shall be in accordance with Section III.B. of this Article.)
I.	A personal leave beyond the four (4) month (nine [9] pay period) leave provided in this Article may be requested, subject to the approval of the appointing authority and, if required, the Personnel Department, as provided under other City leave provisions.
J.	Management has the right to verify the certification of a serious health condition by a health care provider for a leave under the provisions of this Article. Management shall allow the employee at least 15 calendar days to obtain the medical certification.
K.	Upon return from family or medical leave, an employee shall be returned to his/her original job or to an equivalent job.
51
MOU03-07
V.	Notice Requirements
A.	Employee
When an employee requests family or medical leave, he/she must state the reason for the requested leave (e g., childbirth, to care for an immediate family member with a serious health condition, etc.). When the necessity for a leave is foreseeable, the employee must provide at least 30 days notice. However, if the leave must begin in less than 30 days, the employee must provide as much advance notice as is practicable.
B.	Management
In response to an employee’s request for family or medical leave, Management shall indicate whether or not the employee is eligible for such leave, if such leave will be counted against the employee’s annual family or medical leave entitlement, and any requirement for the employee to furnish medical certification. Management shall also notify an employee if it designates paid or unpaid leave as qualifying time taken by an employee as family or medical leave qualifying regardless of whether or not the employee initiates a request to take family or medical leave.
VI.	Applicable Time Off
Employees who are granted leave in accordance with this Article shall take time off in the following order:
A.	Childbirth (Mother)
1.	Accrued sick leave (100% and 75%) or vacation for the entire period of disability that a health care provider certifies is necessary (including prenatal care or the mother’s inability to work prior to the birth) may be taken at the employee's discretion.
2.	For the non-disability portion of childbirth leave (before delivery or after [“bonding”]), accrued vacation available at the start of the leave shall be used prior to the use of time under 3, 4, 5 and 6 below.
3.	Accrued 100% sick leave. The use of sick leave under this subsection is at the employee's discretion.
4.	Accrued 75% sick leave, following use of all 100% sick leave. The use of sick leave under this subsection is at the employee’s discretion.
5.	Unpaid leave.
52
MOU03-07
6.	Accrued compensatory time off may be used at the employee’s discretion, with management approval, after exhaustion of 100% sick leave (No. 3 above). However, FLSA compensatory time off shall not be counted against the employee’s four (4) month (nine [9] pay period) family or medical leave entitlement. Therefore, any use of FLSA compensatory time off under this Section shall extend the employee’s family or medical leave by the total amount of FLSA compensatory time off used.
B.	Childbirth (Father or Domestic Partner), Adoption, Foster Care or Family Illness
1.	Annual family illness sick leave up to twelve (12) days may be used at the employee's discretion. Such leave may be taken before or after the vacation described in 2 below.
2.	Accrued vacation available at the start of the leave shall be taken. Such time must be used prior to the use of time under 3, 4, 5 and 6 below.
3.	Accrued 100% sick leave. The use of sick leave under this subsection is at the employee's discretion.
4.	Accrued 75% sick leave, following use of all 100% sick leave. The use of sick leave under this subsection is at the employee’s discretion.
5.	Unpaid leave.
6.	Accrued compensatory time off may be used at the employee’s discretion, with management approval, after exhaustion of 100% sick leave (No. 3 above). However, FLSA compensatory time off shall not be counted against the employee’s four (4) month (nine [9] pay period) family or medical leave entitlement. Therefore, any use of FLSA compensatory time off under this Section shall extend the employee’s family or medical leave by the total amount of FLSA compensatory time off used.
C.	Personal Medical Leave
1.	Accrued 100% sick leave may be used at the employee's discretion. Such leave may be taken before or after the vacation described in No. 3 below.
53
MOU03-07
2.	Accrued 75% sick leave may be used following use of all 100% sick leave at the employee’s discretion. Such leave may be taken before or after the vacation described in No. 3 below.
3.	Accrued vacation time.
4.	Unpaid leave.
5.	Accrued compensatory time off may be used at the employee’s discretion, with management approval, after exhaustion of 100% sick leave (No. 1 above). However, FLSA compensatory time off shall not be counted against the employee’s four (4) month (nine [9] pay period) family or medical leave entitlement. Therefore, any use of FLSA compensatory time off under this Section shall extend the employee’s family or medical leave by the total amount of FLSA compensatory time off used.
(Note: An employee under A, B or C above may use compensatory time off after depletion of accrued sick leave and vacation to continue paid leave during the four-month family and medical leave period.)
VII.	Sick Leave Rate of Pay
Payment for sick leave usage under VLA, B and C shall be at the regular accrued rate of 100% or 75% as appropriate.
VIII.	Monitoring
Management shall maintain such records as are required to monitor the usage of leave as defined in this Article. Such records are to be made available to the Union upon request.
It is the intent of the parties that the provisions and administration of this Article be in compliance with the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, the California Family Rights Act of 1993, and the Pregnancy Disability Leave provisions of the California Fair Employment and Housing Act.
ARTICLE 52	ACTING PAY ASSIGNMENT
A.	Absence at Higher Level Position
Whenever Management assigns an employee to perform the full range of duties of a higher level position (in a class for which the duties and responsibilities of the current class would provide qualifying experience for the higher level class*) due to the temporary absence of the higher level incumbent, such employee shall become
54
MOU03-07
eligible for additional compensation upon completion of a qualifying period of fifteen (15) consecutive working days in such assignment at his/her regular rate of compensation. Management shall not divide or alternate the assignment of higher level duties during the qualifying period. Such additional compensation shall begin on the 16th consecutive working day in such assignment. For employees assigned to a modified work schedule, such as 9/80 or 4/10, compensation shall begin on the next day following the completion of 120 consecutive hours of assignment.
Approved leave time off taken during a qualifying period shall extend the 15-day (or 120 hour) qualifying period by the length of absence. All other absences shall constitute a disqualifying break in the qualifying period requirement, necessitating the initiation and completion of a new qualifying period.
Each subsequent acting assignment following the employee’s return to his/her regular assignment, shall require completion of a new qualifying period, except when Management reassigns the same employee to the same acting assignment due to the absence of the regular incumbent within the same fiscal year. In such cases, the employee shall become eligible for such compensation on the first day of the reassignment.
B.	Vacant Higher Level Position
Whenever Management assigns an employee on a temporary basis to perform the full range of duties of a vacant higher level position (in a class for which the duties and responsibilities of the current class would provide qualifying experience for the higher level class*), such employee shall become eligible for additional compensation on the first day of said assignment. In the event that said assignment exceeds 30 consecutive calendar days, Management will initiate action to appoint a qualified employee to said position.
‘Management will not assign higher level duties to an employee who does not meet the criteria.
C.	Compensation
An employee qualifying for additional compensation as stated above shall receive salary at the second premium level above the appropriate step rate of the salary range prescribed for his/her class, for each day on duty (present for 50% or more of the work day) in an acting assignment. However, the maximum pay rate for such duty shall be limited to the top step of the salary range that has been established as compensation for the higher level position to which the employee has been assigned.
55
MOU03-07
ARTICLE 53	SALARIES
A.	The parties to this Memorandum of Understanding jointly recommend to the City Council approval of the salary ranges set forth in Appendices A through D, Salaries.
B.	The salaries for employees within the Unit, as set forth in Appendix A, shall become operative July 1,2004; and as set forth in Appendix B, shall become operative July 1,2005; and as set forth in Appendix C, shall become operative July 1,2006; and as set forth in Appendix D, shall become operative January 1, 2007.
ARTICLE 54	DISABILITY INSURANCE PROGRAM
During the term of this MOU, Management agrees to maintain a Disability Insurance Plan for employees who are members of the Los Angeles City Employee's Retirement System (LACERS), provided that sufficient enrollment is maintained to continue to make the plan available. The City's Joint Labor-Management Committee shall determine the benefits and provider of the plan.
Management shall expend for active employees of this unit who are members of LACERS the sum necessary to cover the cost of a basic disability insurance plan. Management shall also maintain a Supplemental Disability Insurance Plan, enrollment in which is at the discretion of each employee. The full cost of the Supplemental Disability Insurance Plan premiums shall be paid by the individual employees who enroll in the plan.
ARTICLE 55	DEPENDENT CARE REIMBURSEMENT ACCOUNT
During the term of this MOU, Management agrees to maintain a Dependent Care Reimbursement Account (DCRA), qualified under Section 129 of the Internal Revenue Code, for employees who are members of the Los Angeles City Employee's Retirement System (LACERS), provided that sufficient enrollment is maintained to continue to make the account available. Enrollment in the DCRA is at the discretion of each employee. All contributions into the DCRA and related administrative fees shall be paid by employees who are enrolled in the plan.
As a qualified Section 129 plan, the DCRA shall be administered according to the rules and regulations specified for such plans by the Internal Revenue Service.
ARTICLE 56	EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
Management will expend for employees who are members of the Los Angeles City Employee's Retirement System (LACERS), and their eligible dependents, the sum necessary to cover the cost of an Employee Assistance Program (EAP). The benefits and services of the EAP provider shall be determined by the City's Joint Labor-Management Benefits Committee.
56
MOU03-07
ARTICLE 57	WORKERS' COMPENSATION
Management shall provide Workers' Compensation benefits in accordance with Section 4.104 of the LAAC, except that salary continuation payments during absences for temporary disability conditions shall be in an amount equal to the employee's regular biweekly, take-home pay at the time of incurring the disability condition. For purposes of this Article, take-home pay shall be defined as an employee's biweekly gross salary rate less the mandatory deduction for Federal and State income tax withholding and employee retirement contributions. The employee will be able to make adjustments in his/her voluntary deductions while on temporary disability leave but will not be able to change the amount normally deducted for State and Federal income taxes, unless the employee has changed those deductions to those which he/she is legally entitled to take within ten (10) days of the commencement of any disability leave, or within ten (10) days of any change in dependents.
ARTICLE 58	EXPANDED SERVICE HOURS - LIBRARY DEPARTMENT
The Library Department will expand hours of operation on an agency-by-agency basis and maintain the expanded hours in a manner consistent with the terms as set forth in the agreement. The resources that will be used on a system-wide basis may include, but not be limited to, agency regular staffing, use of substitutes, part-time employees working extra time, and the use of overtime for regular full-time employees. Under the expanded hours of service proposed for the Los Angeles Public Library, all Clerical and Support Services Unit employees will be required to work no more than a one-in-four rotation of Sunday work assignments, except for emergency situations.
It is the understanding of the parties to this MOU that the Sunday work shift shall normally consist of five hours of work and that full-time employees scheduled to work the Sunday shift shall be compensated for a full workday (8 hours). Employees who work the reduced 72 hours per pay period schedule for the purpose of this agreement shall be considered full-time employees. Part-time employees shall be compensated for only the hours that they work. Sunday compensation shall not be considered as a premium or bonus compensation, unless it results in overtime as defined in Article 33 of this MOU, and the employee’s hourly rate shall not change as a result of the reduced hour shift. It is also understood that if an employee is required to work more than five hours on Sunday, no additional compensation for full-time employees will be provided, as long as the Sunday shift does not exceed eight hours.
The Board of Library Commissioners is committed to providing the fairest work schedules possible to its employees, while providing the highest level of public service possible with the resources available. However, notwithstanding any of the above stated terms and conditions, nothing contained in this MOU shall be construed to limit the Board or the Library Department’s ability to adequately staff and provide public service at all of its agencies. Nor shall it be construed that, by entering into this agreement, the Board or the Department will relinquish any of its management rights to assign staff as required to serve
57
MOU03-07
the needs of the City during the term of this MOU or after it has expired. Nor by this agreement shall it be construed that the Clerical and Support Services Unit has relinquished any of its rights under the City’s Employee Relations Ordinance or applicable law during the term of this MOU or after it has expired.
ARTICLE 59	AMENDMENT OF MOU TO INCLUDE NEW CLASSES
Upon written notification from the CAO to the Controller, this MOU shall be amended to incorporate the class and salary of any class accreted to this bargaining unit after the adoption of the MOU.
ARTICLE 60	WORK SCHEDULES
Pursuant to FLSA, employees shall have a fixed workweek that consists of a regular recurring period of 168 consecutive hours (seven 24-hour periods) which can begin and end on any day of the week and at any time of the day. The designated workweek for an employee may be changed only if the change is intended to be permanent and not designed to evade overtime requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act.
Management may assign employees to work a five/forty, four/ten, nine/eighty, or other work schedule. Employees may request modified work schedules, if such schedules are generally available in the employee’s department/work group. Management may refuse such requests, or require employees to revert to a five/forty work schedule, provided the exercise of this right is not arbitrary, capricious or discriminatory. In the event Management’s actions are shown to be arbitrary, capricious, or discriminatory before an arbitrator, the award of the arbitrator shall be to reverse the action of Management. However, the decision of the arbitrator shall be binding or advisory, in accordance with Article 19 (Grievance Procedure).
Employees on a nine/eighty modified work schedule shall have designated a regular day off (also known as a 9/80 day off) which shall remain fixed. Temporary changes to the designated 9/80 day off at the request of Management or the employee is prohibited unless it is intended for the employee to work additional hours (overtime).
ARTICLE 61	UNION RELEASE TIME
The appointing authority may grant to elected officers or appointed representatives of the Union time off for employee organization representation activities. No more than one employee in a Department or Bureau of the Department of Public Works unless approved by the CAO and affected departments, and no more than 4 employees for this MOU shall be allowed release time under this Article.
A.	The employee shall submit the request for release at least 21 calendar days prior to the effective release date, specifying the starting and ending dates of release.
58
MOU03-07
B.	Release time shall be granted for a maximum of one year in any three-year period unless approved by the CAO and the affected departments.
C.	The employee shall be paid the employee’s current salary by the City while the employee is performing these duties for the Union.
D.	Employees shall retain all of their existing benefits, including, but not limited to medical, dental, deferred compensation plan, retirement benefits and seniority accrual in their civil service class.
E.	The Union shall reimburse the City for all salary and benefits costs incurred as a result of release time, including but not limited to, vacation, sick leave, compensated time off, retirement, short-term disability, life insurance, medical, dental and workers’ compensation. The benefits cost shall be based on the benefits rates established by the City Administrative Officer as contained in the City Budget in effect during the period of release time, and the cost of other benefits approved by the Joint Labor Management Benefits Committee that become effective during this period.
F.	Payment of any overtime worked while on release time shall be the responsibility of the Union.
G.	The Union shall make quarterly payments to the Controller of all reimbursable costs identified in Section E above.
H.	Employees on release time shall submit weekly timesheets signed by the employee
and the Union (Executive Director or his/her designee) to their respective Departmental Personnel Officer specifying the number of hours worked and use of any sick leave, vacation time or compensated time off.
I.	Should an employee incur a work-related injury while on release time, he/she shall remain on release time with the Union during the period of injury-on-duty (IOD), or until the release time has ended, and shall continue to be counted in determining the 4 employee maximum, as provided for above. The Union will reimburse the City for all IOD and Workers’ Compensation related costs.
J.	When the employee returns from release time, he/she shall return to his/her civil service classification and pay grade at the time of release.
K.	The employee must have passed probation in his/her current class to be eligible for release time.
L.	The Union shall indemnify, defend and hold the City and its officers and employees harmless against any and all claims, suits, demands or other forms of liability that might arise out of or result from any action taken by an employee in the service of the Union.
59
MOU03-07
M.	The City Administrative Officer shall maintain a list of employees who have been approved for release time and the approved duration.
ARTICLE 62	FULL UNDERSTANDING
A.	This MOU sets forth the full and entire understanding of the parties regarding the matters set forth herein, and any other prior or existing understandings or agreements by the parties, whether formal or informal, regarding any such matters are hereby superseded or terminated in their entirety.
B.	Except as specifically provided for herein, the parties to this MOU, voluntarily and unqualifiedly waive their respective rights to meet and confer in good faith during the term of this MOU, with respect to any subject or matter covered herein, or with respect to any other matters within the scope of the meet and confer in good faith process. However, this Article shall not be deemed to preclude mutually agreed upon meet and confer in good faith sessions for the purpose of altering, waiving, modifying, or amending this MOU.
Notwithstanding the foregoing:
C.	No alteration, variation, waiver, modification or amendment of any of the Articles, terms or provisions requiring approval of the Council contained herein, shall in any manner be binding upon Union or Management unless and until jointly recommended in writing to the Council and approved and implemented in accordance with Article 2.
D.	The waiver of any breach, term or condition of this MOU by any party to this MOU shall not constitute a precedent in the future enforcement of all its Articles, terms and provisions.
ARTICLE 63	CONTINUATION OF MERIT PRINCIPLES
1.	Statement of Intent. At the time of execution of this MOU, applications for special reorganization of the City of Los Angeles have been filed in regard to the San Fernando Valley and Harbor Area and are being processed by the Los Angeles County Local Agency Formation Commission (“LAFCO”). The completion of these proceedings could result in bargaining unit employees being transferred to another public entity during the term of this MOU (hereinafter referred to as “Transferred Employees”). Former California Government Code §56844.2 provides:
Status of public employees under special reorganization; Collective bargaining agreement; Retiree benefits; Representation
(a)	This section shall only apply to a special reorganization.
60
MOU03-07
(b)	All public employees to which Chapter 10 (commencing with Section 3500) of Division 4 of Title 1 applies shall continue to be deemed public employees of the original local agency or of the newly incorporated local agency for all the purposes of that chapter, including, but not limited to, the continuation and application of any collective bargaining agreement that applies to these employees, and all representational and collective bargaining rights under that chapter.
(c)	Any existing collective bargaining agreement shall remain in effect and be fully binding on the original local agency or on the newly incorporated local agency, and on the employee organizations that are parties to the agreement for the balance of the term of the agreement, and until a subsequent agreement has been established.
(d)	Any existing retiree benefits, including, but not limited to, health, dental, and vision care benefits, shall not be diminished.
(e)	Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an employee organization that has been recognized as the exclusive representative of local agency public employees affected by a special reorganization shall retain exclusive representation of the unit employees of the original local agency, or of the newly incorporated local agency.
In consideration of this provision of law, it is the intent of the parties to this MOU to provide in this article, to the extent permitted by law, that Transferred Employees will enjoy certain substantially similar civil service and other protections for the term of the MOU, as described in paragraph 2 below, as they would have enjoyed if they had not been transferred, without unduly constraining the operations of the new jurisdiction. In the event that this article, or any part of this article is found invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, that event shall not affect the validity of enforceability of the other articles of this MOU. However, if any provision of this article is judicially determined to be invalid, said provision or part shall be deemed invalid and unenforceable but the remainder shall not be affected thereby.
2.	Merit Principles. If a new jurisdiction that has become subject to this MOU pursuant to former California Government Code §56844.2 fails to adopt or enforce laws which provide, in substance for the employment principles listed below, or those laws do not remain in effect for Transferred Employees during the entire term of this MOU, the following provisions shall apply to Transferred Employees:
A.	Examinations: All appointments shall be based on merit. All candidates taking a competitive examination shall be given a score and placed in a rank based on the whole score. The appointing authority shall select from the top three ranks. Applicants who receive a passing score on the examination shall be given a 5% credit added to their whole score for military service, if such
61
MOU03-07
persons have served in the armed forces of the United States during time of war or armed insurrection, or during any time when the United States engaged in active military operations against any foreign power, provided such person has been honorably discharged from active service during the five years preceding the examination. All candidates taking a competitive examination for promotion shall receive a credit for past service, the amount of which may be determined by the new jurisdiction prior to the examination.
B.	Probation: The probationary period for persons appointed in the class of Police Officer shall be eighteen months, measured from the commencement of recruit training. The probationary period for persons appointed in management classes shall be twelve months. The probationary period for persons appointed to entry level positions shall be six months, except that the new jurisdiction may establish a longer period, not to exceed 12 months, if the period is set in advance of the examination and after public hearing. The probationary period for all other non-entry level positions shall be six months, except that the new jurisdiction may establish a shorter period, if the period is set in advance of the examination and after public hearing.
C.	Transfer: An employee shall be allowed to transfer into an equal or lower
paying class without further examination, provided he or she possesses the minimum qualifications and the capability of performing the required duties, in the following situations: (a) the employee is incapable of performing his or her duties because of injury, sickness, or disability; or (b) the employee has completed a probationary period.
D.	Layoffs: Any layoff shall be based on seniority in that the employee with the least amountof seniority within theclass-group shall be laid off first. Seniority shall be calculated as including all service within the class-group plus any service in a higher class. Any employee laid off shall have the right to revert to a vacant position or displace (“bump”) a person in a lower class-group if there are no vacant positions, provided the displacing employee has (a) prior service in the lower class-group and (b) greater seniority than the employee being displaced.
E.	Discipline: An appointing authority may suspend or discharge an employee but only for cause.
F.	Military Leave: An employee who leaves his or her position to serve in the armed forces of the United States shall be entitled to a leave of absence and, upon returning from military service, restoration to his or her position, subject to applicable state and federal law and as further provided by ordinance.
62
MOU03-07
G.	Non-discrimination in benefits: There shall be no discrimination in the provision of employee benefits between employees with spouses and employees with domestic partners.
These provisions (A-G) shall be deemed to be modified to conform to Los Angeles City law in effect on the effective date of the special reorganization.
3.	Disputes. The grievance procedure shall not apply to disputes concerning the interpretation or application of this article, unless any such dispute would be grievable by a Los Angeles City employee as a matter of law. The new city may directly and immediately incorporate the limitation in the preceding sentence into its Employee Relations Ordinance or Resolution. Such incorporation does not preclude the Union thereafter from seeking its modification or removal.
4.	No Waiver. Except as provided in 1J3, this article shall not be construed as a waiver by the Union of any right it might have under law to meet and confer over the impact that any transfer of employees to another public entity may have on wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment.
MOU3-07
63
MOU03-07
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused their duly authorized representatives to execute this Memorandum of Understanding the day, month, and year first above written.
ACEA, Local 3090, AFSCME Clerical and Support Services Unit Representatives Alice Goff, President Local 3090 /Cheryl Pari^ Executive Director AFSCME Council 36 Jeanette Argentin AFSCME Team Member Carmen Hayes - Walker AFSCME Team Member Sheila R. Hurrel AFSCME Team Member Sheryl Moore AFSCME Team Member Kathy Peters AFSCME Team Member Dolores Spears AFSCME Team Member	City of Los Angeles Representatives William T Fujiokav City Administrative Officer Department of Aging Department of Airports Department of Animal Services Department of Building and Safety City Clerk's Office L.A. City Employees’ Retirement System Commission for Children, Youth and Their Families
MOU03-07
Myra Vines	Community Development Department
AFSCME Team Member
Controller’s Office
Convention Center
Cultural Affairs Department
Department on Disability
El Pueblo Historical Monument
Department of Environmental Affairs
Ethics Commission
Finance
Fire Department
Department of General Services
MOU03-07
Harbor Department
Housing Department
Human Relations Commission
Information Technology Agency
Library Department
Mayor’s Office
Neighborhood Empowerment
Department of Pensions
Personnel Department
City Planning Department
Police Department
MOU03-07
Public Works Department
Department of Recreation and Parks
Department of Transportation
Treasurer’s Office
Los Angeles Zoo
As to form and legality:
City Attorney’s Office
Date
MOU3-07
APPENDIX A
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2004
CLASS CODE	TITLE		SALARY RANGE	ANNUAL RANGE	
1223	1	Accounting Clerk I	1840	38,419-	47,732
1223	2	Accounting Clerk II	1944	40,590-	50,425
3201		Airport Information Aide	1655	34,556-	42,929
2418	1	Assistant Park Services Attendant I	11.12 HR		
2418	2	Assistant Park Services Attendant II	0.00 HR		
0559		City Attorney Accounting Clerk	1843	38,481-	47,836
1141		Clerk	1432	29,900-	37,146
1321		Clerk Stenographer	1606	33,533-	41,676
1358		Clerk Typist	1492	31,152-	38,712
1461	1	Communications Operator I	1655	34,556-	42,929
1461	2	Communications Operator II	1712	35,746-	44,391
1461	3	Communications Operator III	1840	38,419-	47,732
1112		Community and Administrative Support Worker I	6.75 HR		
1113		Community and Administrative Support Wbrker II	11.12 HR		
1114		Community and Administrative Support Wbrker III	13.86 HR		
1137	1	Data Control Assistant I	1938	40,465-	50,258
1137	2	Data Control Assistant II	2036	42,511-	52,847
1433	1	Data Entry Operator I	1601	33,428-	41,509
1433	2	Data Entry Operator II	1694	35,370-	43,932
1121	1	Delivery Driver I	1448	30,234-	37,563
1121	2	Delivery Driver II	1581	33,011-	41,008
1121	3	Delivery Driver III	1709	35,683-	44,328
1493	1	Duplicating Machine Operator I	1486	31,027-	38,524
1493	2	Duplicating Machine Operator II	1569	32,760-	40,674
1493	3	Duplicating Machine Operator III	1655	34,556-	42,929
6143		Film Inspector	1354	28,271 -	35,120
1127		Finance Clerk	1581	33,011-	41,008
1157	1	Fingerprint Identification Expert I	1925	40,194-	49,924
1157	2	Fingerprint Identification Expert II	2032	42,428-	52,701
1157	3	Fingerprint Identification Expert III	2145	44,787-	55,645
1326		Hearing Reporter	2406	50,237-	62,431
0585		Legal Clerk I	1432	29,900-	37,146
0586		Legal Clerk II	1581	33,011-	41,008
0580		Legal Secretary I	1878	39,212-	48,734
0581		Legal Secretary II	2052	42,845-	53,244
0582		Legal Secretary III	2172	45,351-	56,355
1172	1	Library Assistant I	1840	38,419-	47,732
1172	2	Library Assistant II	2166	45,226-	56,209
1140		Library Clerical Assistant	1432	29,900-	37,146
1140	1	Library Clerical Assistant I	1432	29,900-	37,146
1140	2	Library Clerical Assistant II	1492	31,152-	38,712
0844		Locker Room Attendant	10.85 HR		
1130	1	Medical Secretary I	1840 (2)	40,570-	47,732
1130	2	Medical Secretary II	2052 (3)	47,753-	53,244
1111		Messenger Clerk	1162	24,262-	30,130
2401		Museum Guide	11.69 HR		
1360		Office Services Assistant	1492	31,152-	38,712
1101		Office Trainee	890 (5)	23,072-	23,072
2412	1	Park Services Attendant I	1162	24,262-	30,130
2412	2	Park Services Attendant II	1655	34,556-	42,929
APPENDIX A
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2004
CLASS CODE	TITLE		SALARY RANGE	ANNUAL RANGE	
2202		Police Service Assistant	1840	38,419-	47,732
2207	1	Police Service Representative I	2046	42,720-	53,056
2207	2	Police Service Representative II	2160	45,100-	56,021
2207	3	Police Service Representative III	2472	51,615-	64,143
1336		Principal Clerk Stenographer	2166	45,226-	56,209
3162	1	Reprographics Operator I	1552	32,405-	40,257
3162	1A	Reprographics Operator I - Airports	1569	32,760-	40,674
3162	2	Reprographics Operator II	1760	36,748-	45,644
1116		Secretary	1998	41,718-	51,824
1143		Senior Clerk	1840	38,419-	47,732
1323		Senior Clerk Stenographer	1840	38,419-	47,732
1368		Senior Clerk Typist	1840	38,419-	47,732
1368	3	Senior Clerk Typist	2176	45,434-	56,439
1123		Senior Delivery Driver	1709	35,683-	44,328
1500		Senior Duplicating Machine Operator	1853	38,690-	48,066
1128	1	Senior Finance Clerk I	1840	38,419-	47,732
1128	2	Senior Finance Clerk II	1938	40,465-	50,258
0587		Senior Legal Clerk I	1840	38,419-	47,732
0588		Senior Legal Clerk II	1938	40,465-	50,258
1357	1	Senior Tax Renewal Assistant I	1135 (5)	29,441 -	29,441
1357	2	Senior Tax Renewal Assistant II	1223 (5)	31,717-	31,717
1357	3	Senior Tax Renewal Assistant III	1477 (5)	38,315-	38,315
1192		Senior Teller	1938	40,465-	50,258
0532		Senior Witness Service Coordinator	2046	42,720-	53,056
1131	1	Swimming Pool Clerk I	958 (5)	24,826-	24,826
1131	2	Swimming Pool Clerk II	1188 (5)	30,819-	30,819
1356	1	Tax Renewal Assistant I	10.85 HR		
1356	2	Tax Renewal Assistant II	933 (5)	24,200-	24,200
1356	3	Tax Renewal Assistant III	991 (5)	25,703-	25,703
1356	4	Tax Renewal Assistant IV	1117 (5)	28,961 -	28,961
1146		Title Transfer Coordinator	2046	42,720-	53,056
7279		Traffic Checker	1506	31,445-	39,087
6403		Transit Document Control Assistant	1840	38,419-	47,732
6404		Transit Police Dispatcher	2160	45,100-	56,021
6400		Transit Secretary	1998	41,718-	51,824
1190	1	Wharfinger I	2128	44,432-	55,207
1190	2	Wharfinger II	2427	50,675-	62,953
0531		Witness Service Coordinator	1886	39,379-	48,922
1775		Workers Compensation Claims Assistant	1971	41,154-	51,114
APPENDIXA
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2004
RANGE:	890
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	8.90	9.40	9.92	10.47	11.05
BI-WEEKLY	712.00	752.00	793.60	837.60	884.00
MONTHLY	1,548.60	1,635.60	1,726.08	1,821.78	1,922.70
ANNUAL	18,583.20	19,627.20	20,712.96	21,861.36	23,072.40
	RANGE:	933				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	9.33	9.85	10.40	10.98	11.59
BI-WEEKLY	746.40	788.00	832.00	878.40	927.20
MONTHLY	1,623.42	1,713.90	1,809.60	1,910.52	2,016.66
ANNUAL	19,481.04	20,566.80	21,715.20	22,926.24	24,199.92
	RANGE:	958				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	9.58	10.11	10.67	11.26	11.89
BI-WEEKLY	766.40	808.80	853.60	900.80	951.20
MONTHLY	1,666.92	1,759.14	1,856.58	1,959.24	2,068.86
ANNUAL	20,003.04	21,109.68	22,278.96	23,510.88	24,826.32
	RANGE:	991				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	9.91	10.46	11.04	11.66	12.31
BI-WEEKLY	792.80	836.80	883.20	932.80	984.80
MONTHLY	1,724.34	1,820.04	1,920.96	2,028.84	2,141.94
ANNUAL	20,692.08	21,840.48	23,051.52	24,346.08	25,703.28
	RANGE: 1117				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	11.17	11.79	12.45	13.14	13.87
BI-WEEKLY	893.60	943.20	996.00	1,051.20	1,109.60
MONTHLY	1,943.58	2,051.46	2,166.30	2,286.36	2,413.38
ANNUAL	23,322.96	24,617.52	25,995.60	27,436.32	28,960.56
APPENDIXA
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2004
RANGE: 1135
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	11.35	11.98	12.65	13.36	14.10
BI-WEEKLY	908.00	958.40	1,012.00	1,068.80	1,128.00
MONTHLY	1,974.90	2,084.52	2,201.10	2,324.64	2,453.40
ANNUAL	23,698.80	25,014.24	26,413.20	27,895.68	29,440.80
	RANGE: 1162				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	11.62	12.27	12.95	13.67	14.43
BI-WEEKLY	929.60	981.60	1,036.00	1,093.60	1,154.40
MONTHLY	2,021.88	2,134.98	2,253.30	2,378.58	2,510.82
ANNUAL	24,262.56	25,619.76	27,039.60	28,542.96	30,129.84
	RANGE: 1188				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	11.88	12.54	13.24	13.98	14.76
BI-WEEKLY	950.40	1,003.20	1,059.20	1,118.40	1,180.80
MONTHLY	2,067.12	2,181.96	2,303.76	2,432.52	2,568.24
ANNUAL	24,805.44	26,183.52	27,645.12	29,190.24	30,818.88
	RANGE: 1223				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	12.23	12.91	13.63	14.39	15.19
BI-WEEKLY	978.40	1,032.80	1,090.40	1,151.20	1,215.20
MONTHLY	2,128.02	2,246.34	2,371.62	2,503.86	2,643.06
ANNUAL	25,536.24	26,956.08	28,459.44	30,046.32	31,716.72
	RANGE: 1354				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	13.54	14.29	15.09	15.93	16.82
BI-WEEKLY	1,083.20	1,143.20	1,207.20	1,274.40	1,345.60
MONTHLY	2,355.96	2,486.46	2,625.66	2,771.82	2,926.68
ANNUAL	28,271.52	29,837.52	31,507.92	33,261.84	35,120.16
APPENDIXA
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2004
RANGE: 1432
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	14.32	15.12	15.96	16.85	17.79
BI-WEEKLY	1,145.60	1,209.60	1,276.80	1,348.00	1,423.20
MONTHLY	2,491.68	2,630.88	2,777.04	2,931.90	3,095.46
ANNUAL	29,900.16	31,570.56	33,324.48	35,182.80	37,145.52
	RANGE: 1448				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	14.48	15.29	16.14	17.04	17.99
BI-WEEKLY	1,158.40	1,223.20	1,291.20	1,363.20	1,439.20
MONTHLY	2,519.52	2,660.46	2,808.36	2,964.96	3,130.26
ANNUAL	30,234.24	31,925.52	33,700.32	35,579.52	37,563.12
	RANGE: 1477				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	14.77	15.59	16.46	17.38	18.35
BI-WEEKLY	1,181.60	1,247.20	1,316.80	1,390.40	1,468.00
MONTHLY	2,569.98	2,712.66	2,864.04	3,024.12	3,192.90
ANNUAL	30,839.76	32,551.92	34,368.48	36,289.44	38,314.80
	RANGE: 1486				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	14.86	15.69	16.56	17.48	18.45
BI-WEEKLY	1,188.80	1,255.20	1,324.80	1,398.40	1,476.00
MONTHLY	2,585.64	2,730.06	2,881.44	3,041.52	3,210.30
ANNUAL	31,027.68	32,760.72	34,577.28	36,498.24	38,523.60
	RANGE: 1492				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	14.92	15.75	16.63	17.56	18.54
BI-WEEKLY	1,193.60	1,260.00	1,330.40	1,404.80	1,483.20
MONTHLY	2,596.08	2,740.50	2,893.62	3,055.44	3,225.96
ANNUAL	31,152.96	32,886.00	34,723.44	36,665.28	38,711.52
APPENDIXA
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2004
RANGE: 1506
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	15.06	15.90	16.79	17.73	18.72
BI-WEEKLY	1,204.80	1,272.00	1,343.20	1,418.40	1,497.60
MONTHLY	2,620.44	2,766.60	2,921.46	3,085.02	3,257.28
ANNUAL	31,445.28	33,199.20	35,057.52	37,020.24	39,087.36
	RANGE: 1552				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	15.52	16.39	17.30	18.26	19.28
BI-WEEKLY	1,241.60	1,311.20	1,384.00	1,460.80	1,542.40
MONTHLY	2,700.48	2,851.86	3,010.20	3,177.24	3,354.72
ANNUAL	32,405.76	34,222.32	36,122.40	38,126.88	40,256.64
	RANGE: 1569				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	15.69	16.56	17.48	18.45	19.48
BI-WEEKLY	1,255.20	1,324.80	1,398.40	1,476.00	1,558.40
MONTHLY	2,730.06	2,881.44	3,041.52	3,210.30	3,389.52
ANNUAL	32,760.72	34,577.28	36,498.24	38,523.60	40,674.24
	RANGE: 1581				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	15.81	16.69	17.62	18.60	19.64
BI-WEEKLY	1,264.80	1,335.20	1,409.60	1,488.00	1,571.20
MONTHLY	2,750.94	2,904.06	3,065.88	3,236.40	3,417.36
ANNUAL	33,011.28	34,848.72	36,790.56	38,836.80	41,008.32
	RANGE: 1601				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.01	16.90	17.84	18.83	19.88
BI-WEEKLY	1,280.80	1,352.00	1,427.20	1,506.40	1,590.40
MONTHLY	2,785.74	2,940.60	3,104.16	3,276.42	3,459.12
ANNUAL	33,428.88	35,287.20	37,249.92	39,317.04	41,509.44
APPENDIXA
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2004
RANGE: 1606
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.06	16.96	17.91	18.91	19.96
BI-WEEKLY	1,284.80	1,356.80	1,432.80	1,512.80	1,596.80
MONTHLY	2,794.44	2,951.04	3,116.34	3,290.34	3,473.04
ANNUAL	33,533.28	35,412.48	37,396.08	39,484.08	41,676.48
	RANGE: 1655				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.55	17.47	18.44	19.47	20.56
BI-WEEKLY	1,324.00	1,397.60	1,475.20	1,557.60	1,644.80
MONTHLY	2,879.70	3,039.78	3,208.56	3,387.78	3,577.44
ANNUAL	34,556.40	36,477.36	38,502.72	40,653.36	42,929.28
	RANGE: 1694				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.94	17.88	18.88	19.93	21.04
BI-WEEKLY	1,355.20	1,430.40	1,510.40	1,594.40	1,683.20
MONTHLY	2,947.56	3,111.12	3,285.12	3,467.82	3,660.96
ANNUAL	35,370.72	37,333.44	39,421.44	41,613.84	43,931.52
	RANGE: 1709				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.09	18.04	19.05	20.11	21.23
BI-WEEKLY	1,367.20	1,443.20	1,524.00	1,608.80	1,698.40
MONTHLY	2,973.66	3,138.96	3,314.70	3,499.14	3,694.02
ANNUAL	35,683.92	37,667.52	39,776.40	41,989.68	44,328.24
	RANGE: 1712				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.12	18.07	19.08	20.14	21.26
BI-WEEKLY	1,369.60	1,445.60	1,526.40	1,611.20	1,700.80
MONTHLY	2,978.88	3,144.18	3,319.92	3,504.36	3,699.24
ANNUAL	35,746.56	37,730.16	39,839.04	42,052.32	44,390.88
APPENDIXA
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2004
RANGE: 1760
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.60	18.58	19.62	20.71	21.86
BI-WEEKLY	1,408.00	1,486.40	1,569.60	1,656.80	1,748.80
MONTHLY	3,062.40	3,232.92	3,413.88	3,603.54	3,803.64
ANNUAL	36,748.80	38,795.04	40,966.56	43,242.48	45,643.68
	RANGE: 1840				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.40	19.43	20.51	21.65	22.86
BI-WEEKLY	1,472.00	1,554.40	1,640.80	1,732.00	1,828.80
MONTHLY	3,201.60	3,380.82	3,568.74	3,767.10	3,977.64
ANNUAL	38,419.20	40,569.84	42,824.88	45,205.20	47,731.68
	RANGE: 1843				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.43	19.46	20.55	21.70	22.91
BI-WEEKLY	1,474.40	1,556.80	1,644.00	1,736.00	1,832.80
MONTHLY	3,206.82	3,386.04	3,575.70	3,775.80	3,986.34
ANNUAL	38,481.84	40,632.48	42,908.40	45,309.60	47,836.08
	RANGE: 1853				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.53	19.56	20.65	21.80	23.02
BI-WEEKLY	1,482.40	1,564.80	1,652.00	1,744.00	1,841.60
MONTHLY	3,224.22	3,403.44	3,593.10	3,793.20	4,005.48
ANNUAL	38,690.64	40,841.28	43,117.20	45,518.40	48,065.76
	RANGE: 1878				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.78	19.83	20.94	22.11	23.34
BI-WEEKLY	1,502.40	1,586.40	1,675.20	1,768.80	1,867.20
MONTHLY	3,267.72	3,450.42	3,643.56	3,847.14	4,061.16
ANNUAL	39,212.64	41,405.04	43,722.72	46,165.68	48,733.92
APPENDIXA
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2004
RANGE: 1886
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.86	19.91	21.02	22.19	23.43
BI-WEEKLY	1,508.80	1,592.80	1,681.60	1,775.20	1,874.40
MONTHLY	3,281.64	3,464.34	3,657.48	3,861.06	4,076.82
ANNUAL	39,379.68	41,572.08	43,889.76	46,332.72	48,921.84
	RANGE: 1925				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.25	20.32	21.45	22.65	23.91
BI-WEEKLY	1,540.00	1,625.60	1,716.00	1,812.00	1,912.80
MONTHLY	3,349.50	3,535.68	3,732.30	3,941.10	4,160.34
ANNUAL	40,194.00	42,428.16	44,787.60	47,293.20	49,924.08
	RANGE: 1938				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.38	20.46	21.60	22.80	24.07
BI-WEEKLY	1,550.40	1,636.80	1,728.00	1,824.00	1,925.60
MONTHLY	3,372.12	3,560.04	3,758.40	3,967.20	4,188.18
ANNUAL	40,465.44	42,720.48	45,100.80	47,606.40	50,258.16
	RANGE: 1944				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.44	20.52	21.66	22.87	24.15
BI-WEEKLY	1,555.20	1,641.60	1,732.80	1,829.60	1,932.00
MONTHLY	3,382.56	3,570.48	3,768.84	3,979.38	4,202.10
ANNUAL	40,590.72	42,845.76	45,226.08	47,752.56	50,425.20
	RANGE: 1971				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.71	20.81	21.97	23.19	24.48
BI-WEEKLY	1,576.80	1,664.80	1,757.60	1,855.20	1,958.40
MONTHLY	3,429.54	3,620.94	3,822.78	4,035.06	4,259.52
ANNUAL	41,154.48	43,451.28	45,873.36	48,420.72	51,114.24
APPENDIXA
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2004
RANGE: 1998
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.98	21.09	22.27	23.51	24.82
BI-WEEKLY	1,598.40	1,687.20	1,781.60	1,880.80	1,985.60
MONTHLY	3,476.52	3,669.66	3,874.98	4,090.74	4,318.68
ANNUAL	41,718.24	44,035.92	46,499.76	49,088.88	51,824.16
	RANGE: 2032				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.32	21.45	22.65	23.91	25.24
BI-WEEKLY	1,625.60	1,716.00	1,812.00	1,912.80	2,019.20
MONTHLY	3,535.68	3,732.30	3,941.10	4,160.34	4,391.76
ANNUAL	42,428.16	44,787.60	47,293.20	49,924.08	52,701.12
	RANGE: 2036				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.36	21.50	22.70	23.97	25.31
BI-WEEKLY	1,628.80	1,720.00	1,816.00	1,917.60	2,024.80
MONTHLY	3,542.64	3,741.00	3,949.80	4,170.78	4,403.94
ANNUAL	42,511.68	44,892.00	47,397.60	50,049.36	52,847.28
	RANGE: 2046				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.46	21.60	22.80	24.07	25.41
BI-WEEKLY	1,636.80	1,728.00	1,824.00	1,925.60	2,032.80
MONTHLY	3,560.04	3,758.40	3,967.20	4,188.18	4,421.34
ANNUAL	42,720.48	45,100.80	47,606.40	50,258.16	53,056.08
	RANGE: 2052				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.52	21.66	22.87	24.15	25.50
BI-WEEKLY	1,641.60	1,732.80	1,829.60	1,932.00	2,040.00
MONTHLY	3,570.48	3,768.84	3,979.38	4,202.10	4,437.00
ANNUAL	42,845.76	45,226.08	47,752.56	50,425.20	53,244.00
APPENDIXA
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2004
RANGE: 2128
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.28	22.47	23.72	25.04	26.44
BI-WEEKLY	1,702.40	1,797.60	1,897.60	2,003.20	2,115.20
MONTHLY	3,702.72	3,909.78	4,127.28	4,356.96	4,600.56
ANNUAL	44,432.64	46,917.36	49,527.36	52,283.52	55,206.72
	RANGE: 2145				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.45	22.65	23.91	25.24	26.65
BI-WEEKLY	1,716.00	1,812.00	1,912.80	2,019.20	2,132.00
MONTHLY	3,732.30	3,941.10	4,160.34	4,391.76	4,637.10
ANNUAL	44,787.60	47,293.20	49,924.08	52,701.12	55,645.20
	RANGE: 2160				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.60	22.80	24.07	25.41	26.83
BI-WEEKLY	1,728.00	1,824.00	1,925.60	2,032.80	2,146.40
MONTHLY	3,758.40	3,967.20	4,188.18	4,421.34	4,668.42
ANNUAL	45,100.80	47,606.40	50,258.16	53,056.08	56,021.04
	RANGE: 2166				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.66	22.87	24.15	25.50	26.92
BI-WEEKLY	1,732.80	1,829.60	1,932.00	2,040.00	2,153.60
MONTHLY	3,768.84	3,979.38	4,202.10	4,437.00	4,684.08
ANNUAL	45,226.08	47,752.56	50,425.20	53,244.00	56,208.96
	RANGE: 2172				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.72	22.93	24.21	25.56	26.99
BI-WEEKLY	1,737.60	1,834.40	1,936.80	2,044.80	2,159.20
MONTHLY	3,779.28	3,989.82	4,212.54	4,447.44	4,696.26
ANNUAL	45,351.36	47,877.84	50,550.48	53,369.28	56,355.12
APPENDIXA
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2004
RANGE: 2176
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.76	22.97	24.25	25.60	27.03
BI-WEEKLY	1,740.80	1,837.60	1,940.00	2,048.00	2,162.40
MONTHLY	3,786.24	3,996.78	4,219.50	4,454.40	4,703.22
ANNUAL	45,434.88	47,961.36	50,634.00	53,452.80	56,438.64
	RANGE: 2406				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	24.06	25.40	26.82	28.32	29.90
BI-WEEKLY	1,924.80	2,032.00	2,145.60	2,265.60	2,392.00
MONTHLY	4,186.44	4,419.60	4,666.68	4,927.68	5,202.60
ANNUAL	50,237.28	53,035.20	56,000.16	59,132.16	62,431.20
	RANGE: 2427				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	24.27	25.62	27.05	28.56	30.15
BI-WEEKLY	1,941.60	2,049.60	2,164.00	2,284.80	2,412.00
MONTHLY	4,222.98	4,457.88	4,706.70	4,969.44	5,246.10
ANNUAL	50,675.76	53,494.56	56,480.40	59,633.28	62,953.20
	RANGE: 2472				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	24.72	26.10	27.56	29.10	30.72
BI-WEEKLY	1,977.60	2,088.00	2,204.80	2,328.00	2,457.60
MONTHLY	4,301.28	4,541.40	4,795.44	5,063.40	5,345.28
ANNUAL	51,615.36	54,496.80	57,545.28	60,760.80	64,143.36
APPENDIX B
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2005
CLASS CODE	TITLE		SALARY RANGE	ANNUAL RANGE	
1223	1	Accounting Clerk I	1876	39,170-	48,671
1223	2	Accounting Clerk II	1981	41,363-	51,386
3201		Airport Information Aide	1687	35,224-	43,764
2418	1	Assistant Park Services Attendant I	11.33 HR		
2418	2	Assistant Park Services Attendant II	14.13 HR		
0559		City Attorney Accounting Clerk	1880	39,254-	48,776
1141		Clerk	1460	30,484-	37,876
1321		Clerk Stenographer	1639	34,222-	42,491
1358		Clerk Typist	1520	31,737-	39,421
1461	1	Communications Operator I	1687	35,224-	43,764
1461	2	Communications Operator II	1876	39,170-	48,671
1461	3	Communications Operator III	2018	42,135-	52,346
1112		Community and Administrative Support Worker I	6.75 HR		
1113		Community and Administrative Support Wbrker II	11.33 HR		
1114		Community and Administrative Support Wbrker III	14.13 HR		
1137	1	Data Control Assistant I	1975	41,238-	51,240
1137	2	Data Control Assistant II	2078	43,388-	53,891
1433	1	Data Entry Operator I	1632	34,076-	42,324
1433	2	Data Entry Operator II	1727	36,059-	44,788
1121	1	Delivery Driver I	1476	30,818-	38,294
1121	2	Delivery Driver II	1611	33,637-	41,802
1121	3	Delivery Driver III	1742	36,372-	45,184
1493	1	Duplicating Machine Operator I	1515	31,633-	39,275
1493	2	Duplicating Machine Operator II	1599	33,387-	41,468
1493	3	Duplicating Machine Operator III	1687	35,224-	43,764
6143		Film Inspector	1380	28,814-	35,809
1127		Finance Clerk	1611	33,637-	41,802
1157	1	Fingerprint Identification Expert I	1962	40,966-	50,885
1157	2	Fingerprint Identification Expert II	2071	43,242-	53,724
1157	3	Fingerprint Identification Expert III	2186	45,643-	56,710
1326		Hearing Reporter	2454	51,239-	63,642
0585		Legal Clerk I	1460	30,484-	37,876
0586		Legal Clerk II	1611	33,637-	41,802
0580		Legal Secretary I	1915	39,985-	49,694
0581		Legal Secretary II	2093	43,701 -	54,288
0582		Legal Secretary III	2215	46,249-	57,462
1172	1	Library Assistant I	1876	39,170-	48,671
1172	2	Library Assistant II	2210	46,144-	57,316
1140		Library Clerical Assistant	1460	30,484-	37,876
1140	1	Library Clerical Assistant I	1460	30,484-	37,876
1140	2	Library Clerical Assistant II	1520	31,737-	39,421
0844		Locker Room Attendant	11.06 HR		
1130	1	Medical Secretary I	1876 (2)	41,363-	48,671
1130	2	Medical Secretary II	2093 (3)	48,713-	54,288
1111		Messenger Clerk	1183	24,701-	30,714
2401		Museum Guide	11.91 HR		
1360		Office Services Assistant	1520	31,737-	39,421
1101		Office Trainee	907 (5)	23,511-	23,511
2412	1	Park Services Attendant I	1183	24,701-	30,714
2412	2	Park Services Attendant II	1687	35,224-	43,764
APPENDIX B
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2005
CLASS CODE	TITLE		SALARY RANGE	ANNUAL RANGE	
2202		Police Service Assistant	1876	39,170-	48,671
2207	1	Police Service Representative I	2085	43,534-	54,100
2207	2	Police Service Representative II	2201	45,956-	57,107
2207	3	Police Service Representative III	2521	52,638-	65,396
1336		Principal Clerk Stenographer	2210	46,144-	57,316
3162	1	Reprographics Operator I	1583	33,053-	41,050
3162	1A	Reprographics Operator I - Airports	1599	33,387-	41,468
3162	2	Reprographics Operator II	1793	37,437-	46,521
1116		Secretary	2036	42,511-	52,847
1143		Senior Clerk	1876	39,170-	48,671
1323		Senior Clerk Stenographer	1876	39,170-	48,671
1368		Senior Clerk Typist	1876	39,170-	48,671
1368	3	Senior Clerk Typist	2217	46,290-	57,545
1123		Senior Delivery Driver	1742	36,372-	45,184
1500		Senior Duplicating Machine Operator	1890	39,463-	49,005
1128	1	Senior Finance Clerk I	1876	39,170-	48,671
1128	2	Senior Finance Clerk II	1975	41,238-	51,240
0587		Senior Legal Clerk I	1876	39,170-	48,671
0588		Senior Legal Clerk II	1975	41,238-	51,240
1357	1	Senior Tax Renewal Assistant I	1156 (5)	29,984-	29,984
1357	2	Senior Tax Renewal Assistant II	1246 (5)	32,301 -	32,301
1357	3	Senior Tax Renewal Assistant III	1505 (5)	39,066-	39,066
1192		Senior Teller	1975	41,238-	51,240
0532		Senior Witness Service Coordinator	2085	43,534-	54,100
1131	1	Swimming Pool Clerk I	976 (5)	25,307-	25,307
1131	2	Swimming Pool Clerk II	1211 (5)	31,404-	31,404
1356	1	Tax Renewal Assistant I	11.06 HR		
1356	2	Tax Renewal Assistant II	951 (5)	24,659-	24,659
1356	3	Tax Renewal Assistant III	1011 (5)	26,204-	26,204
1356	4	Tax Renewal Assistant IV	1138 (5)	29,524-	29,524
1146		Title Transfer Coordinator	2085	43,534-	54,100
7279		Traffic Checker	1536	32,071-	39,839
6403		Transit Document Control Assistant	1876	39,170-	48,671
6404		Transit Police Dispatcher	2201	45,956-	57,107
6400		Transit Secretary	2036	42,511-	52,847
1190	1	Wharfinger I	2257	47,126-	58,548
1190	2	Wharfinger II	2573	53,724-	66,732
0531		Witness Service Coordinator	1923	40,152-	49,861
1775		Workers Compensation Claims Assistant	2009	41,947-	52,116
APPENDIX B
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2005
RANGE:	907
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	9.07	9.58	10.11	10.67	11.26
BI-WEEKLY	725.60	766.40	808.80	853.60	900.80
MONTHLY	1,578.18	1,666.92	1,759.14	1,856.58	1,959.24
ANNUAL	18,938.16	20,003.04	21,109.68	22,278.96	23,510.88
	RANGE:	951				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	9.51	10.04	10.60	11.19	11.81
BI-WEEKLY	760.80	803.20	848.00	895.20	944.80
MONTHLY	1,654.74	1,746.96	1,844.40	1,947.06	2,054.94
ANNUAL	19,856.88	20,963.52	22,132.80	23,364.72	24,659.28
	RANGE:	976				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	9.76	10.30	10.87	11.48	12.12
BI-WEEKLY	780.80	824.00	869.60	918.40	969.60
MONTHLY	1,698.24	1,792.20	1,891.38	1,997.52	2,108.88
ANNUAL	20,378.88	21,506.40	22,696.56	23,970.24	25,306.56
	RANGE: 1011				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	10.11	10.67	11.26	11.89	12.55
BI-WEEKLY	808.80	853.60	900.80	951.20	1,004.00
MONTHLY	1,759.14	1,856.58	1,959.24	2,068.86	2,183.70
ANNUAL	21,109.68	22,278.96	23,510.88	24,826.32	26,204.40
	RANGE: 1138				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	11.38	12.01	12.68	13.39	14.14
BI-WEEKLY	910.40	960.80	1,014.40	1,071.20	1,131.20
MONTHLY	1,980.12	2,089.74	2,206.32	2,329.86	2,460.36
ANNUAL	23,761.44	25,076.88	26,475.84	27,958.32	29,524.32
APPENDIX B
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2005
RANGE: 1156
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	11.56	12.20	12.88	13.60	14.36
BI-WEEKLY	924.80	976.00	1,030.40	1,088.00	1,148.80
MONTHLY	2,011.44	2,122.80	2,241.12	2,366.40	2,498.64
ANNUAL	24,137.28	25,473.60	26,893.44	28,396.80	29,983.68
	RANGE: 1183				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	11.83	12.49	13.19	13.93	14.71
BI-WEEKLY	946.40	999.20	1,055.20	1,114.40	1,176.80
MONTHLY	2,058.42	2,173.26	2,295.06	2,423.82	2,559.54
ANNUAL	24,701.04	26,079.12	27,540.72	29,085.84	30,714.48
	RANGE: 1211				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	12.11	12.79	13.50	14.25	15.04
BI-WEEKLY	968.80	1,023.20	1,080.00	1,140.00	1,203.20
MONTHLY	2,107.14	2,225.46	2,349.00	2,479.50	2,616.96
ANNUAL	25,285.68	26,705.52	28,188.00	29,754.00	31,403.52
	RANGE: 1246				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	12.46	13.15	13.88	14.65	15.47
BI-WEEKLY	996.80	1,052.00	1,110.40	1,172.00	1,237.60
MONTHLY	2,168.04	2,288.10	2,415.12	2,549.10	2,691.78
ANNUAL	26,016.48	27,457.20	28,981.44	30,589.20	32,301.36
	RANGE: 1380				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	13.80	14.57	15.38	16.24	17.15
BI-WEEKLY	1,104.00	1,165.60	1,230.40	1,299.20	1,372.00
MONTHLY	2,401.20	2,535.18	2,676.12	2,825.76	2,984.10
ANNUAL	28,814.40	30,422.16	32,113.44	33,909.12	35,809.20
APPENDIX B
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2005
RANGE: 1460
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	14.60	15.41	16.27	17.18	18.14
BI-WEEKLY	1,168.00	1,232.80	1,301.60	1,374.40	1,451.20
MONTHLY	2,540.40	2,681.34	2,830.98	2,989.32	3,156.36
ANNUAL	30,484.80	32,176.08	33,971.76	35,871.84	37,876.32
	RANGE: 1476				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	14.76	15.58	16.45	17.37	18.34
BI-WEEKLY	1,180.80	1,246.40	1,316.00	1,389.60	1,467.20
MONTHLY	2,568.24	2,710.92	2,862.30	3,022.38	3,191.16
ANNUAL	30,818.88	32,531.04	34,347.60	36,268.56	38,293.92
	RANGE: 1505				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	15.05	15.89	16.78	17.72	18.71
BI-WEEKLY	1,204.00	1,271.20	1,342.40	1,417.60	1,496.80
MONTHLY	2,618.70	2,764.86	2,919.72	3,083.28	3,255.54
ANNUAL	31,424.40	33,178.32	35,036.64	36,999.36	39,066.48
	RANGE: 1515				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	15.15	15.99	16.88	17.82	18.81
BI-WEEKLY	1,212.00	1,279.20	1,350.40	1,425.60	1,504.80
MONTHLY	2,636.10	2,782.26	2,937.12	3,100.68	3,272.94
ANNUAL	31,633.20	33,387.12	35,245.44	37,208.16	39,275.28
	RANGE: 1520				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	15.20	16.05	16.94	17.88	18.88
BI-WEEKLY	1,216.00	1,284.00	1,355.20	1,430.40	1,510.40
MONTHLY	2,644.80	2,792.70	2,947.56	3,111.12	3,285.12
ANNUAL	31,737.60	33,512.40	35,370.72	37,333.44	39,421.44
APPENDIX B
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2005
RANGE: 1536
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	15.36	16.22	17.12	18.07	19.08
BI-WEEKLY	1,228.80	1,297.60	1,369.60	1,445.60	1,526.40
MONTHLY	2,672.64	2,822.28	2,978.88	3,144.18	3,319.92
ANNUAL	32,071.68	33,867.36	35,746.56	37,730.16	39,839.04
	RANGE: 1583				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	15.83	16.71	17.64	18.62	19.66
BI-WEEKLY	1,266.40	1,336.80	1,411.20	1,489.60	1,572.80
MONTHLY	2,754.42	2,907.54	3,069.36	3,239.88	3,420.84
ANNUAL	33,053.04	34,890.48	36,832.32	38,878.56	41,050.08
	RANGE: 1599				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	15.99	16.88	17.82	18.81	19.86
BI-WEEKLY	1,279.20	1,350.40	1,425.60	1,504.80	1,588.80
MONTHLY	2,782.26	2,937.12	3,100.68	3,272.94	3,455.64
ANNUAL	33,387.12	35,245.44	37,208.16	39,275.28	41,467.68
	RANGE: 1611				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.11	17.01	17.96	18.96	20.02
BI-WEEKLY	1,288.80	1,360.80	1,436.80	1,516.80	1,601.60
MONTHLY	2,803.14	2,959.74	3,125.04	3,299.04	3,483.48
ANNUAL	33,637.68	35,516.88	37,500.48	39,588.48	41,801.76
	RANGE: 1632				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.32	17.23	18.19	19.20	20.27
BI-WEEKLY	1,305.60	1,378.40	1,455.20	1,536.00	1,621.60
MONTHLY	2,839.68	2,998.02	3,165.06	3,340.80	3,526.98
ANNUAL	34,076.16	35,976.24	37,980.72	40,089.60	42,323.76
APPENDIX B
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2005
RANGE: 1639
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.39	17.30	18.26	19.28	20.35
BI-WEEKLY	1,311.20	1,384.00	1,460.80	1,542.40	1,628.00
MONTHLY	2,851.86	3,010.20	3,177.24	3,354.72	3,540.90
ANNUAL	34,222.32	36,122.40	38,126.88	40,256.64	42,490.80
	RANGE: 1687				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.87	17.81	18.80	19.85	20.96
BI-WEEKLY	1,349.60	1,424.80	1,504.00	1,588.00	1,676.80
MONTHLY	2,935.38	3,098.94	3,271.20	3,453.90	3,647.04
ANNUAL	35,224.56	37,187.28	39,254.40	41,446.80	43,764.48
	RANGE: 1727				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.27	18.23	19.25	20.32	21.45
BI-WEEKLY	1,381.60	1,458.40	1,540.00	1,625.60	1,716.00
MONTHLY	3,004.98	3,172.02	3,349.50	3,535.68	3,732.30
ANNUAL	36,059.76	38,064.24	40,194.00	42,428.16	44,787.60
	RANGE: 1742				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.42	18.39	19.42	20.50	21.64
BI-WEEKLY	1,393.60	1,471.20	1,553.60	1,640.00	1,731.20
MONTHLY	3,031.08	3,199.86	3,379.08	3,567.00	3,765.36
ANNUAL	36,372.96	38,398.32	40,548.96	42,804.00	45,184.32
	RANGE: 1793				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.93	18.93	19.99	21.10	22.28
BI-WEEKLY	1,434.40	1,514.40	1,599.20	1,688.00	1,782.40
MONTHLY	3,119.82	3,293.82	3,478.26	3,671.40	3,876.72
ANNUAL	37,437.84	39,525.84	41,739.12	44,056.80	46,520.64
APPENDIX B
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2005
RANGE: 1876
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.76	19.81	20.91	22.08	23.31
BI-WEEKLY	1,500.80	1,584.80	1,672.80	1,766.40	1,864.80
MONTHLY	3,264.24	3,446.94	3,638.34	3,841.92	4,055.94
ANNUAL	39,170.88	41,363.28	43,660.08	46,103.04	48,671.28
	RANGE: 1880				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.80	19.85	20.96	22.13	23.36
BI-WEEKLY	1,504.00	1,588.00	1,676.80	1,770.40	1,868.80
MONTHLY	3,271.20	3,453.90	3,647.04	3,850.62	4,064.64
ANNUAL	39,254.40	41,446.80	43,764.48	46,207.44	48,775.68
	RANGE: 1890				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.90	19.95	21.06	22.23	23.47
BI-WEEKLY	1,512.00	1,596.00	1,684.80	1,778.40	1,877.60
MONTHLY	3,288.60	3,471.30	3,664.44	3,868.02	4,083.78
ANNUAL	39,463.20	41,655.60	43,973.28	46,416.24	49,005.36
	RANGE: 1915				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.15	20.22	21.35	22.54	23.80
BI-WEEKLY	1,532.00	1,617.60	1,708.00	1,803.20	1,904.00
MONTHLY	3,332.10	3,518.28	3,714.90	3,921.96	4,141.20
ANNUAL	39,985.20	42,219.36	44,578.80	47,063.52	49,694.40
	RANGE: 1923				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.23	20.30	21.43	22.62	23.88
BI-WEEKLY	1,538.40	1,624.00	1,714.40	1,809.60	1,910.40
MONTHLY	3,346.02	3,532.20	3,728.82	3,935.88	4,155.12
ANNUAL	40,152.24	42,386.40	44,745.84	47,230.56	49,861.44
APPENDIX B
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2005
RANGE: 1962
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.62	20.71	21.86	23.08	24.37
BI-WEEKLY	1,569.60	1,656.80	1,748.80	1,846.40	1,949.60
MONTHLY	3,413.88	3,603.54	3,803.64	4,015.92	4,240.38
ANNUAL	40,966.56	43,242.48	45,643.68	48,191.04	50,884.56
	RANGE: 1975				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.75	20.85	22.01	23.24	24.54
BI-WEEKLY	1,580.00	1,668.00	1,760.80	1,859.20	1,963.20
MONTHLY	3,436.50	3,627.90	3,829.74	4,043.76	4,269.96
ANNUAL	41,238.00	43,534.80	45,956.88	48,525.12	51,239.52
	RANGE: 1981				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.81	20.91	22.08	23.31	24.61
BI-WEEKLY	1,584.80	1,672.80	1,766.40	1,864.80	1,968.80
MONTHLY	3,446.94	3,638.34	3,841.92	4,055.94	4,282.14
ANNUAL	41,363.28	43,660.08	46,103.04	48,671.28	51,385.68
	RANGE: 2009				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.09	21.21	22.39	23.64	24.96
BI-WEEKLY	1,607.20	1,696.80	1,791.20	1,891.20	1,996.80
MONTHLY	3,495.66	3,690.54	3,895.86	4,113.36	4,343.04
ANNUAL	41,947.92	44,286.48	46,750.32	49,360.32	52,116.48
	RANGE: 2018				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.18	21.31	22.50	23.75	25.07
BI-WEEKLY	1,614.40	1,704.80	1,800.00	1,900.00	2,005.60
MONTHLY	3,511.32	3,707.94	3,915.00	4,132.50	4,362.18
ANNUAL	42,135.84	44,495.28	46,980.00	49,590.00	52,346.16
APPENDIX B
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2005
RANGE: 2036
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.36	21.50	22.70	23.97	25.31
BI-WEEKLY	1,628.80	1,720.00	1,816.00	1,917.60	2,024.80
MONTHLY	3,542.64	3,741.00	3,949.80	4,170.78	4,403.94
ANNUAL	42,511.68	44,892.00	47,397.60	50,049.36	52,847.28
	RANGE: 2071				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.71	21.86	23.08	24.37	25.73
BI-WEEKLY	1,656.80	1,748.80	1,846.40	1,949.60	2,058.40
MONTHLY	3,603.54	3,803.64	4,015.92	4,240.38	4,477.02
ANNUAL	43,242.48	45,643.68	48,191.04	50,884.56	53,724.24
	RANGE: 2078				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.78	21.94	23.16	24.45	25.81
BI-WEEKLY	1,662.40	1,755.20	1,852.80	1,956.00	2,064.80
MONTHLY	3,615.72	3,817.56	4,029.84	4,254.30	4,490.94
ANNUAL	43,388.64	45,810.72	48,358.08	51,051.60	53,891.28
	RANGE: 2085				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.85	22.01	23.24	24.54	25.91
BI-WEEKLY	1,668.00	1,760.80	1,859.20	1,963.20	2,072.80
MONTHLY	3,627.90	3,829.74	4,043.76	4,269.96	4,508.34
ANNUAL	43,534.80	45,956.88	48,525.12	51,239.52	54,100.08
	RANGE: 2093				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.93	22.10	23.33	24.63	26.00
BI-WEEKLY	1,674.40	1,768.00	1,866.40	1,970.40	2,080.00
MONTHLY	3,641.82	3,845.40	4,059.42	4,285.62	4,524.00
ANNUAL	43,701.84	46,144.80	48,713.04	51,427.44	54,288.00
APPENDIX B
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2005
RANGE: 2186
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.86	23.08	24.37	25.73	27.16
BI-WEEKLY	1,748.80	1,846.40	1,949.60	2,058.40	2,172.80
MONTHLY	3,803.64	4,015.92	4,240.38	4,477.02	4,725.84
ANNUAL	45,643.68	48,191.04	50,884.56	53,724.24	56,710.08
	RANGE: 2201				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.01	23.24	24.54	25.91	27.35
BI-WEEKLY	1,760.80	1,859.20	1,963.20	2,072.80	2,188.00
MONTHLY	3,829.74	4,043.76	4,269.96	4,508.34	4,758.90
ANNUAL	45,956.88	48,525.12	51,239.52	54,100.08	57,106.80
	RANGE: 2210				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.10	23.33	24.63	26.00	27.45
BI-WEEKLY	1,768.00	1,866.40	1,970.40	2,080.00	2,196.00
MONTHLY	3,845.40	4,059.42	4,285.62	4,524.00	4,776.30
ANNUAL	46,144.80	48,713.04	51,427.44	54,288.00	57,315.60
	RANGE: 2215				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.15	23.39	24.69	26.07	27.52
BI-WEEKLY	1,772.00	1,871.20	1,975.20	2,085.60	2,201.60
MONTHLY	3,854.10	4,069.86	4,296.06	4,536.18	4,788.48
ANNUAL	46,249.20	48,838.32	51,552.72	54,434.16	57,461.76
	RANGE: 2217				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.17	23.41	24.72	26.10	27.56
BI-WEEKLY	1,773.60	1,872.80	1,977.60	2,088.00	2,204.80
MONTHLY	3,857.58	4,073.34	4,301.28	4,541.40	4,795.44
ANNUAL	46,290.96	48,880.08	51,615.36	54,496.80	57,545.28
APPENDIX B
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2005
RANGE: 2257
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.57	23.83	25.16	26.56	28.04
BI-WEEKLY	1,805.60	1,906.40	2,012.80	2,124.80	2,243.20
MONTHLY	3,927.18	4,146.42	4,377.84	4,621.44	4,878.96
ANNUAL	47,126.16	49,757.04	52,534.08	55,457.28	58,547.52
	RANGE: 2454				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	24.54	25.91	27.35	28.87	30.48
BI-WEEKLY	1,963.20	2,072.80	2,188.00	2,309.60	2,438.40
MONTHLY	4,269.96	4,508.34	4,758.90	5,023.38	5,303.52
ANNUAL	51,239.52	54,100.08	57,106.80	60,280.56	63,642.24
	RANGE: 2521				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	25.21	26.62	28.10	29.67	31.32
BI-WEEKLY	2,016.80	2,129.60	2,248.00	2,373.60	2,505.60
MONTHLY	4,386.54	4,631.88	4,889.40	5,162.58	5,449.68
ANNUAL	52,638.48	55,582.56	58,672.80	61,950.96	65,396.16
	RANGE: 2573				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	25.73	27.16	28.67	30.27	31.96
BI-WEEKLY	2,058.40	2,172.80	2,293.60	2,421.60	2,556.80
MONTHLY	4,477.02	4,725.84	4,988.58	5,266.98	5,561.04
ANNUAL	53,724.24	56,710.08	59,862.96	63,203.76	66,732.48
APPENDIX C
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2006
CLASS CODE	TITLE		SALARY RANGE	ANNUAL RANGE	
1223	1	Accounting Clerk I	1913	39,943-	49,653
1223	2	Accounting Clerk II	2019	42,156-	52,409
3201		Airport Information Aide	1721	35,934-	44,641
2418	1	Assistant Park Services Attendant I	11.56 HR		
2418	2	Assistant Park Services Attendant II	14.41 HR		
0559		City Attorney Accounting Clerk	1918	40,047-	49,757
1141		Clerk	1489	31,090-	38,649
1321		Clerk Stenographer	1671	34,890-	43,347
1358		Clerk Typist	1551	32,384-	40,215
1461	1	Communications Operator I	1721	35,934-	44,641
1461	2	Communications Operator II	1913	39,943-	49,653
1461	3	Communications Operator III	2058	42,971-	53,390
1112		Community and Administrative Support Worker I	6.75 HR		
1113		Community and Administrative Support Wbrker II	11.56 HR		
1114		Community and Administrative Support Wbrker III	14.41 HR		
1137	1	Data Control Assistant I	2015	42,073-	52,263
1137	2	Data Control Assistant II	2119	44,244-	54,977
1433	1	Data Entry Operator I	1665	34,765-	43,180
1433	2	Data Entry Operator II	1761	36,769-	45,685
1121	1	Delivery Driver I	1505	31,424-	39,066
1121	2	Delivery Driver II	1643	34,305-	42,637
1121	3	Delivery Driver III	1776	37,082-	46,082
1493	1	Duplicating Machine Operator I	1545	32,259-	40,069
1493	2	Duplicating Machine Operator II	1631	34,055-	42,303
1493	3	Duplicating Machine Operator III	1721	35,934-	44,641
6143		Film Inspector	1408	29,399-	36,540
1127		Finance Clerk	1643	34,305-	42,637
1157	1	Fingerprint Identification Expert I	2001	41,780-	51,908
1157	2	Fingerprint Identification Expert II	2113	44,119-	54,810
1157	3	Fingerprint Identification Expert III	2230	46,562-	57,838
1326		Hearing Reporter	2502	52,241 -	64,916
0585		Legal Clerk I	1489	31,090-	38,649
0586		Legal Clerk II	1643	34,305-	42,637
0580		Legal Secretary I	1955	40,820-	50,697
0581		Legal Secretary II	2134	44,557-	55,374
0582		Legal Secretary III	2260	47,188-	58,610
1172	1	Library Assistant I	1913	39,943-	49,653
1172	2	Library Assistant II	2253	47,042-	58,464
1140		Library Clerical Assistant	1489	31,090-	38,649
1140	1	Library Clerical Assistant I	1489	31,090-	38,649
1140	2	Library Clerical Assistant II	1551	32,384-	40,215
0844		Locker Room Attendant	11.28 HR		
1130	1	Medical Secretary I	1913 (2)	42,178-	49,653
1130	2	Medical Secretary II	2134 (3)	49,674-	55,374
1111		Messenger Clerk	1208	25,223-	31,320
2401		Museum Guide	12.15 HR		
1360		Office Services Assistant	1551	32,384-	40,215
1101		Office Trainee	925 (5)	23,991-	23,991
2412	1	Park Services Attendant I	1208	25,223-	31,320
2412	2	Park Services Attendant II	1721	35,934-	44,641
APPENDIX C
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2006
CLASS CODE	TITLE		SALARY RANGE	ANNUAL RANGE	
2202		Police Service Assistant	1913	39,943-	49,653
2207	1	Police Service Representative I	2127	44,411-	55,186
2207	2	Police Service Representative II	2246	46,896-	58,255
2207	3	Police Service Representative III	2572	53,703-	66,712
1336		Principal Clerk Stenographer	2253	47,042-	58,464
3162	1	Reprographics Operator I	1614	33,700-	41,864
3162	1A	Reprographics Operator I - Airports	1631	34,055-	42,303
3162	2	Reprographics Operator II	1829	38,189-	47,460
1116		Secretary	2079	43,409-	53,912
1143		Senior Clerk	1913	39,943-	49,653
1323		Senior Clerk Stenographer	1913	39,943-	49,653
1368		Senior Clerk Typist	1913	39,943-	49,653
1368	3	Senior Clerk Typist	2263	47,251-	58,694
1123		Senior Delivery Driver	1776	37,082-	46,082
1500		Senior Duplicating Machine Operator	1928	40,256-	49,987
1128	1	Senior Finance Clerk I	1913	39,943-	49,653
1128	2	Senior Finance Clerk II	2015	42,073-	52,263
0587		Senior Legal Clerk I	1913	39,943-	49,653
0588		Senior Legal Clerk II	2015	42,073-	52,263
1357	1	Senior Tax Renewal Assistant I	1180 (5)	30,589-	30,589
1357	2	Senior Tax Renewal Assistant II	1270 (5)	32,949-	32,949
1357	3	Senior Tax Renewal Assistant III	1536 (5)	39,839-	39,839
1192		Senior Teller	2015	42,073-	52,263
0532		Senior Witness Service Coordinator	2127	44,411-	55,186
1131	1	Swimming Pool Clerk I	995 (5)	25,808-	25,808
1131	2	Swimming Pool Clerk II	1234 (5)	32,030-	32,030
1356	1	Tax Renewal Assistant I	11.28 HR		
1356	2	Tax Renewal Assistant II	970 (5)	25,160-	25,160
1356	3	Tax Renewal Assistant III	1030 (5)	26,726-	26,726
1356	4	Tax Renewal Assistant IV	1161 (5)	30,109-	30,109
1146		Title Transfer Coordinator	2127	44,411-	55,186
7279		Traffic Checker	1567	32,718-	40,632
6403		Transit Document Control Assistant	1913	39,943-	49,653
6404		Transit Police Dispatcher	2246	46,896-	58,255
6400		Transit Secretary	2079	43,409-	53,912
1190	1	Wharfinger I	2303	48,086-	59,738
1190	2	Wharfinger II	2625	54,810-	68,090
0531		Witness Service Coordinator	1961	40,945-	50,864
1775		Workers Compensation Claims Assistant	2050	42,804-	53,160
APPENDIX C
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2006
RANGE:	925
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	9.25	9.77	10.31	10.88	11.49
BI-WEEKLY	740.00	781.60	824.80	870.40	919.20
MONTHLY	1,609.50	1,699.98	1,793.94	1,893.12	1,999.26
ANNUAL	19,314.00	20,399.76	21,527.28	22,717.44	23,991.12
	RANGE:	970				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	9.70	10.24	10.81	11.41	12.05
BI-WEEKLY	776.00	819.20	864.80	912.80	964.00
MONTHLY	1,687.80	1,781.76	1,880.94	1,985.34	2,096.70
ANNUAL	20,253.60	21,381.12	22,571.28	23,824.08	25,160.40
	RANGE:	995				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	9.95	10.50	11.09	11.71	12.36
BI-WEEKLY	796.00	840.00	887.20	936.80	988.80
MONTHLY	1,731.30	1,827.00	1,929.66	2,037.54	2,150.64
ANNUAL	20,775.60	21,924.00	23,155.92	24,450.48	25,807.68
	RANGE: 1030				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	10.30	10.87	11.48	12.12	12.80
BI-WEEKLY	824.00	869.60	918.40	969.60	1,024.00
MONTHLY	1,792.20	1,891.38	1,997.52	2,108.88	2,227.20
ANNUAL	21,506.40	22,696.56	23,970.24	25,306.56	26,726.40
	RANGE: 1161				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	11.61	12.26	12.94	13.66	14.42
BI-WEEKLY	928.80	980.80	1,035.20	1,092.80	1,153.60
MONTHLY	2,020.14	2,133.24	2,251.56	2,376.84	2,509.08
ANNUAL	24,241.68	25,598.88	27,018.72	28,522.08	30,108.96
APPENDIX C
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2006
RANGE: 1180
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	11.80	12.46	13.15	13.88	14.65
BI-WEEKLY	944.00	996.80	1,052.00	1,110.40	1,172.00
MONTHLY	2,053.20	2,168.04	2,288.10	2,415.12	2,549.10
ANNUAL	24,638.40	26,016.48	27,457.20	28,981.44	30,589.20
	RANGE: 1208				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	12.08	12.75	13.46	14.21	15.00
BI-WEEKLY	966.40	1,020.00	1,076.80	1,136.80	1,200.00
MONTHLY	2,101.92	2,218.50	2,342.04	2,472.54	2,610.00
ANNUAL	25,223.04	26,622.00	28,104.48	29,670.48	31,320.00
	RANGE: 1234				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	12.34	13.03	13.76	14.53	15.34
BI-WEEKLY	987.20	1,042.40	1,100.80	1,162.40	1,227.20
MONTHLY	2,147.16	2,267.22	2,394.24	2,528.22	2,669.16
ANNUAL	25,765.92	27,206.64	28,730.88	30,338.64	32,029.92
	RANGE: 1270				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	12.70	13.41	14.16	14.95	15.78
BI-WEEKLY	1,016.00	1,072.80	1,132.80	1,196.00	1,262.40
MONTHLY	2,209.80	2,333.34	2,463.84	2,601.30	2,745.72
ANNUAL	26,517.60	28,000.08	29,566.08	31,215.60	32,948.64
	RANGE: 1408				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	14.08	14.87	15.70	16.58	17.50
BI-WEEKLY	1,126.40	1,189.60	1,256.00	1,326.40	1,400.00
MONTHLY	2,449.92	2,587.38	2,731.80	2,884.92	3,045.00
ANNUAL	29,399.04	31,048.56	32,781.60	34,619.04	36,540.00
APPENDIX C
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2006
RANGE: 1489
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	14.89	15.72	16.60	17.53	18.51
BI-WEEKLY	1,191.20	1,257.60	1,328.00	1,402.40	1,480.80
MONTHLY	2,590.86	2,735.28	2,888.40	3,050.22	3,220.74
ANNUAL	31,090.32	32,823.36	34,660.80	36,602.64	38,648.88
	RANGE: 1505				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	15.05	15.89	16.78	17.72	18.71
BI-WEEKLY	1,204.00	1,271.20	1,342.40	1,417.60	1,496.80
MONTHLY	2,618.70	2,764.86	2,919.72	3,083.28	3,255.54
ANNUAL	31,424.40	33,178.32	35,036.64	36,999.36	39,066.48
	RANGE: 1536				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	15.36	16.22	17.12	18.07	19.08
BI-WEEKLY	1,228.80	1,297.60	1,369.60	1,445.60	1,526.40
MONTHLY	2,672.64	2,822.28	2,978.88	3,144.18	3,319.92
ANNUAL	32,071.68	33,867.36	35,746.56	37,730.16	39,839.04
	RANGE: 1545				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	15.45	16.31	17.22	18.18	19.19
BI-WEEKLY	1,236.00	1,304.80	1,377.60	1,454.40	1,535.20
MONTHLY	2,688.30	2,837.94	2,996.28	3,163.32	3,339.06
ANNUAL	32,259.60	34,055.28	35,955.36	37,959.84	40,068.72
	RANGE: 1551				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	15.51	16.37	17.28	18.24	19.26
BI-WEEKLY	1,240.80	1,309.60	1,382.40	1,459.20	1,540.80
MONTHLY	2,698.74	2,848.38	3,006.72	3,173.76	3,351.24
ANNUAL	32,384.88	34,180.56	36,080.64	38,085.12	40,214.88
APPENDIX C
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2006
RANGE: 1567
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	15.67	16.54	17.46	18.43	19.46
BI-WEEKLY	1,253.60	1,323.20	1,396.80	1,474.40	1,556.80
MONTHLY	2,726.58	2,877.96	3,038.04	3,206.82	3,386.04
ANNUAL	32,718.96	34,535.52	36,456.48	38,481.84	40,632.48
	RANGE: 1614				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.14	17.04	17.99	18.99	20.05
BI-WEEKLY	1,291.20	1,363.20	1,439.20	1,519.20	1,604.00
MONTHLY	2,808.36	2,964.96	3,130.26	3,304.26	3,488.70
ANNUAL	33,700.32	35,579.52	37,563.12	39,651.12	41,864.40
	RANGE: 1631				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.31	17.22	18.18	19.19	20.26
BI-WEEKLY	1,304.80	1,377.60	1,454.40	1,535.20	1,620.80
MONTHLY	2,837.94	2,996.28	3,163.32	3,339.06	3,525.24
ANNUAL	34,055.28	35,955.36	37,959.84	40,068.72	42,302.88
	RANGE: 1643				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.43	17.35	18.32	19.34	20.42
BI-WEEKLY	1,314.40	1,388.00	1,465.60	1,547.20	1,633.60
MONTHLY	2,858.82	3,018.90	3,187.68	3,365.16	3,553.08
ANNUAL	34,305.84	36,226.80	38,252.16	40,381.92	42,636.96
	RANGE: 1665				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.65	17.58	18.56	19.59	20.68
BI-WEEKLY	1,332.00	1,406.40	1,484.80	1,567.20	1,654.40
MONTHLY	2,897.10	3,058.92	3,229.44	3,408.66	3,598.32
ANNUAL	34,765.20	36,707.04	38,753.28	40,903.92	43,179.84
APPENDIX C
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2006
RANGE: 1671
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.71	17.64	18.62	19.66	20.76
BI-WEEKLY	1,336.80	1,411.20	1,489.60	1,572.80	1,660.80
MONTHLY	2,907.54	3,069.36	3,239.88	3,420.84	3,612.24
ANNUAL	34,890.48	36,832.32	38,878.56	41,050.08	43,346.88
	RANGE: 1721				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.21	18.17	19.18	20.25	21.38
BI-WEEKLY	1,376.80	1,453.60	1,534.40	1,620.00	1,710.40
MONTHLY	2,994.54	3,161.58	3,337.32	3,523.50	3,720.12
ANNUAL	35,934.48	37,938.96	40,047.84	42,282.00	44,641.44
	RANGE: 1761				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.61	18.59	19.63	20.72	21.88
BI-WEEKLY	1,408.80	1,487.20	1,570.40	1,657.60	1,750.40
MONTHLY	3,064.14	3,234.66	3,415.62	3,605.28	3,807.12
ANNUAL	36,769.68	38,815.92	40,987.44	43,263.36	45,685.44
	RANGE: 1776				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.76	18.75	19.80	20.90	22.07
BI-WEEKLY	1,420.80	1,500.00	1,584.00	1,672.00	1,765.60
MONTHLY	3,090.24	3,262.50	3,445.20	3,636.60	3,840.18
ANNUAL	37,082.88	39,150.00	41,342.40	43,639.20	46,082.16
	RANGE: 1829				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.29	19.31	20.39	21.53	22.73
BI-WEEKLY	1,463.20	1,544.80	1,631.20	1,722.40	1,818.40
MONTHLY	3,182.46	3,359.94	3,547.86	3,746.22	3,955.02
ANNUAL	38,189.52	40,319.28	42,574.32	44,954.64	47,460.24
APPENDIX C
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2006
RANGE: 1913
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.13	20.20	21.33	22.52	23.78
BI-WEEKLY	1,530.40	1,616.00	1,706.40	1,801.60	1,902.40
MONTHLY	3,328.62	3,514.80	3,711.42	3,918.48	4,137.72
ANNUAL	39,943.44	42,177.60	44,537.04	47,021.76	49,652.64
	RANGE: 1918				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.18	20.25	21.38	22.57	23.83
BI-WEEKLY	1,534.40	1,620.00	1,710.40	1,805.60	1,906.40
MONTHLY	3,337.32	3,523.50	3,720.12	3,927.18	4,146.42
ANNUAL	40,047.84	42,282.00	44,641.44	47,126.16	49,757.04
	RANGE: 1928				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.28	20.35	21.48	22.68	23.94
BI-WEEKLY	1,542.40	1,628.00	1,718.40	1,814.40	1,915.20
MONTHLY	3,354.72	3,540.90	3,737.52	3,946.32	4,165.56
ANNUAL	40,256.64	42,490.80	44,850.24	47,355.84	49,986.72
	RANGE: 1955				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.55	20.64	21.79	23.00	24.28
BI-WEEKLY	1,564.00	1,651.20	1,743.20	1,840.00	1,942.40
MONTHLY	3,401.70	3,591.36	3,791.46	4,002.00	4,224.72
ANNUAL	40,820.40	43,096.32	45,497.52	48,024.00	50,696.64
	RANGE: 1961				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.61	20.70	21.85	23.07	24.36
BI-WEEKLY	1,568.80	1,656.00	1,748.00	1,845.60	1,948.80
MONTHLY	3,412.14	3,601.80	3,801.90	4,014.18	4,238.64
ANNUAL	40,945.68	43,221.60	45,622.80	48,170.16	50,863.68
APPENDIX C
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2006
RANGE: 2001
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.01	21.13	22.31	23.55	24.86
BI-WEEKLY	1,600.80	1,690.40	1,784.80	1,884.00	1,988.80
MONTHLY	3,481.74	3,676.62	3,881.94	4,097.70	4,325.64
ANNUAL	41,780.88	44,119.44	46,583.28	49,172.40	51,907.68
	RANGE: 2015				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.15	21.27	22.46	23.71	25.03
BI-WEEKLY	1,612.00	1,701.60	1,796.80	1,896.80	2,002.40
MONTHLY	3,506.10	3,700.98	3,908.04	4,125.54	4,355.22
ANNUAL	42,073.20	44,411.76	46,896.48	49,506.48	52,262.64
	RANGE: 2019				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.19	21.32	22.51	23.77	25.10
BI-WEEKLY	1,615.20	1,705.60	1,800.80	1,901.60	2,008.00
MONTHLY	3,513.06	3,709.68	3,916.74	4,135.98	4,367.40
ANNUAL	42,156.72	44,516.16	47,000.88	49,631.76	52,408.80
	RANGE: 2050				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.50	21.64	22.85	24.12	25.46
BI-WEEKLY	1,640.00	1,731.20	1,828.00	1,929.60	2,036.80
MONTHLY	3,567.00	3,765.36	3,975.90	4,196.88	4,430.04
ANNUAL	42,804.00	45,184.32	47,710.80	50,362.56	53,160.48
	RANGE: 2058				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.58	21.73	22.94	24.22	25.57
BI-WEEKLY	1,646.40	1,738.40	1,835.20	1,937.60	2,045.60
MONTHLY	3,580.92	3,781.02	3,991.56	4,214.28	4,449.18
ANNUAL	42,971.04	45,372.24	47,898.72	50,571.36	53,390.16
APPENDIX C
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2006
RANGE: 2079
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.79	21.95	23.17	24.46	25.82
BI-WEEKLY	1,663.20	1,756.00	1,853.60	1,956.80	2,065.60
MONTHLY	3,617.46	3,819.30	4,031.58	4,256.04	4,492.68
ANNUAL	43,409.52	45,831.60	48,378.96	51,072.48	53,912.16
	RANGE: 2113				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.13	22.31	23.55	24.86	26.25
BI-WEEKLY	1,690.40	1,784.80	1,884.00	1,988.80	2,100.00
MONTHLY	3,676.62	3,881.94	4,097.70	4,325.64	4,567.50
ANNUAL	44,119.44	46,583.28	49,172.40	51,907.68	54,810.00
	RANGE: 2119				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.19	22.37	23.62	24.94	26.33
BI-WEEKLY	1,695.20	1,789.60	1,889.60	1,995.20	2,106.40
MONTHLY	3,687.06	3,892.38	4,109.88	4,339.56	4,581.42
ANNUAL	44,244.72	46,708.56	49,318.56	52,074.72	54,977.04
	RANGE: 2127				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.27	22.46	23.71	25.03	26.43
BI-WEEKLY	1,701.60	1,796.80	1,896.80	2,002.40	2,114.40
MONTHLY	3,700.98	3,908.04	4,125.54	4,355.22	4,598.82
ANNUAL	44,411.76	46,896.48	49,506.48	52,262.64	55,185.84
	RANGE: 2134				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.34	22.53	23.79	25.12	26.52
BI-WEEKLY	1,707.20	1,802.40	1,903.20	2,009.60	2,121.60
MONTHLY	3,713.16	3,920.22	4,139.46	4,370.88	4,614.48
ANNUAL	44,557.92	47,042.64	49,673.52	52,450.56	55,373.76
APPENDIX C
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2006
RANGE: 2230
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.30	23.54	24.85	26.24	27.70
BI-WEEKLY	1,784.00	1,883.20	1,988.00	2,099.20	2,216.00
MONTHLY	3,880.20	4,095.96	4,323.90	4,565.76	4,819.80
ANNUAL	46,562.40	49,151.52	51,886.80	54,789.12	57,837.60
	RANGE: 2246				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.46	23.71	25.03	26.43	27.90
BI-WEEKLY	1,796.80	1,896.80	2,002.40	2,114.40	2,232.00
MONTHLY	3,908.04	4,125.54	4,355.22	4,598.82	4,854.60
ANNUAL	46,896.48	49,506.48	52,262.64	55,185.84	58,255.20
	RANGE: 2253				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.53	23.79	25.12	26.52	28.00
BI-WEEKLY	1,802.40	1,903.20	2,009.60	2,121.60	2,240.00
MONTHLY	3,920.22	4,139.46	4,370.88	4,614.48	4,872.00
ANNUAL	47,042.64	49,673.52	52,450.56	55,373.76	58,464.00
	RANGE: 2260				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.60	23.86	25.19	26.59	28.07
BI-WEEKLY	1,808.00	1,908.80	2,015.20	2,127.20	2,245.60
MONTHLY	3,932.40	4,151.64	4,383.06	4,626.66	4,884.18
ANNUAL	47,188.80	49,819.68	52,596.72	55,519.92	58,610.16
	RANGE: 2263				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.63	23.89	25.22	26.63	28.11
BI-WEEKLY	1,810.40	1,911.20	2,017.60	2,130.40	2,248.80
MONTHLY	3,937.62	4,156.86	4,388.28	4,633.62	4,891.14
ANNUAL	47,251.44	49,882.32	52,659.36	55,603.44	58,693.68
APPENDIX C
MOU03-07
Operative on July 1,2006
RANGE: 2303
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.03	24.31	25.67	27.10	28.61
BI-WEEKLY	1,842.40	1,944.80	2,053.60	2,168.00	2,288.80
MONTHLY	4,007.22	4,229.94	4,466.58	4,715.40	4,978.14
ANNUAL	48,086.64	50,759.28	53,598.96	56,584.80	59,737.68
	RANGE: 2502				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	25.02	26.42	27.89	29.45	31.09
BI-WEEKLY	2,001.60	2,113.60	2,231.20	2,356.00	2,487.20
MONTHLY	4,353.48	4,597.08	4,852.86	5,124.30	5,409.66
ANNUAL	52,241.76	55,164.96	58,234.32	61,491.60	64,915.92
	RANGE: 2572				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	25.72	27.15	28.66	30.26	31.95
BI-WEEKLY	2,057.60	2,172.00	2,292.80	2,420.80	2,556.00
MONTHLY	4,475.28	4,724.10	4,986.84	5,265.24	5,559.30
ANNUAL	53,703.36	56,689.20	59,842.08	63,182.88	66,711.60
	RANGE: 2625				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	26.25	27.71	29.26	30.89	32.61
BI-WEEKLY	2,100.00	2,216.80	2,340.80	2,471.20	2,608.80
MONTHLY	4,567.50	4,821.54	5,091.24	5,374.86	5,674.14
ANNUAL	54,810.00	57,858.48	61,094.88	64,498.32	68,089.68
APPENDIX D
MOU03-07
Operative on January 1, 2007
CLASS CODE	TITLE		SALARY RANGE	ANNUAL RANGE	
1223	1	Accounting Clerk I	1958	40,883-	50,780
1223	2	Accounting Clerk II	2066	43,138-	53,599
3201		Airport Information Aide	1760	36,748-	45,644
2418	1	Assistant Park Services Attendant I	11.82 HR		
2418	2	Assistant Park Services Attendant II	14.73 HR		
0559		City Attorney Accounting Clerk	1961	40,945-	50,864
1141		Clerk	1523	31,800-	39,526
1321		Clerk Stenographer	1709	35,683-	44,328
1358		Clerk Typist	1586	33,115-	41,134
1461	1	Communications Operator I	1760	36,748-	45,644
1461	2	Communications Operator II	1958	40,883-	50,780
1461	3	Communications Operator III	2105	43,952-	54,601
1112		Community and Administrative Support Worker I	6.75 HR		
1113		Community and Administrative Support Wbrker II	11.82 HR		
1114		Community and Administrative Support Wbrker III	14.73 HR		
1137	1	Data Control Assistant I	2060	43,012-	53,432
1137	2	Data Control Assistant II	2166	45,226-	56,209
1433	1	Data Entry Operator I	1702	35,537-	44,161
1433	2	Data Entry Operator II	1801	37,604-	46,709
1121	1	Delivery Driver I	1539	32,134-	39,943
1121	2	Delivery Driver II	1681	35,099-	43,597
1121	3	Delivery Driver III	1817	37,938-	47,126
1493	1	Duplicating Machine Operator I	1579	32,969-	40,967
1493	2	Duplicating Machine Operator II	1668	34,827-	43,263
1493	3	Duplicating Machine Operator III	1760	36,748-	45,644
6143		Film Inspector	1441	30,088-	37,396
1127		Finance Clerk	1681	35,099-	43,597
1157	1	Fingerprint Identification Expert I	2047	42,741 -	53,077
1157	2	Fingerprint Identification Expert II	2161	45,121-	56,042
1157	3	Fingerprint Identification Expert III	2279	47,585-	59,132
1326		Hearing Reporter	2558	53,411-	66,378
0585		Legal Clerk I	1523	31,800-	39,526
0586		Legal Clerk II	1681	35,099-	43,597
0580		Legal Secretary I	1999	41,739-	51,845
0581		Legal Secretary II	2183	45,581-	56,647
0582		Legal Secretary III	2309	48,211-	59,926
1172	1	Library Assistant I	1958	40,883-	50,780
1172	2	Library Assistant II	2305	48,128-	59,800
1140		Library Clerical Assistant	1523	31,800-	39,526
1140	1	Library Clerical Assistant I	1523	31,800-	39,526
1140	2	Library Clerical Assistant II	1586	33,115-	41,134
0844		Locker Room Attendant	11.53 HR		
1130	1	Medical Secretary I	1958 (2)	43,159-	50,780
1130	2	Medical Secretary II	2183 (3)	50,822-	56,647
1111		Messenger Clerk	1234	25,765-	32,030
2401		Museum Guide	12.42 HR		
1360		Office Services Assistant	1586	33,115-	41,134
1101		Office Trainee	945 (5)	24,534-	24,534
2412	1	Park Services Attendant I	1234	25,765-	32,030
2412	2	Park Services Attendant II	1760	36,748-	45,644
APPENDIX D
MOU03-07
Operative on January 1, 2007
CLASS CODE	TITLE		SALARY RANGE	ANNUAL RANGE	
2202		Police Service Assistant	1958	40,883-	50,780
2207	1	Police Service Representative I	2176	45,434-	56,439
2207	2	Police Service Representative II	2296	47,940-	59,571
2207	3	Police Service Representative III	2629	54,893-	68,215
1336		Principal Clerk Stenographer	2305	48,128-	59,800
3162	1	Reprographics Operator I	1650	34,452-	42,804
3162	1A	Reprographics Operator I - Airports	1668	34,827-	43,263
3162	2	Reprographics Operator II	1871	39,066-	48,525
1116		Secretary	2126	44,390-	55,165
1143		Senior Clerk	1958	40,883-	50,780
1323		Senior Clerk Stenographer	1958	40,883-	50,780
1368		Senior Clerk Typist	1958	40,883-	50,780
1368	3	Senior Clerk Typist	2313	48,295-	60,009
1123		Senior Delivery Driver	1817	37,938-	47,126
1500		Senior Duplicating Machine Operator	1971	41,154-	51,114
1128	1	Senior Finance Clerk I	1958	40,883-	50,780
1128	2	Senior Finance Clerk II	2060	43,012-	53,432
0587		Senior Legal Clerk I	1958	40,883-	50,780
0588		Senior Legal Clerk II	2060	43,012-	53,432
1357	1	Senior Tax Renewal Assistant I	1206 (5)	31,278-	31,278
1357	2	Senior Tax Renewal Assistant II	1300 (5)	33,700-	33,700
1357	3	Senior Tax Renewal Assistant III	1570 (5)	40,737-	40,737
1192		Senior Teller	2060	43,012-	53,432
0532		Senior Witness Service Coordinator	2176	45,434-	56,439
1131	1	Swimming Pool Clerk I	1017 (5)	26,392-	26,392
1131	2	Swimming Pool Clerk II	1264 (5)	32,782-	32,782
1356	1	Tax Renewal Assistant I	11.53 HR		
1356	2	Tax Renewal Assistant II	992 (5)	25,724-	25,724
1356	3	Tax Renewal Assistant III	1054 (5)	27,353-	27,353
1356	4	Tax Renewal Assistant IV	1186 (5)	30,777-	30,777
1146		Title Transfer Coordinator	2176	45,434-	56,439
7279		Traffic Checker	1602	33,449-	41,551
6403		Transit Document Control Assistant	1958	40,883-	50,780
6404		Transit Police Dispatcher	2296	47,940-	59,571
6400		Transit Secretary	2126	44,390-	55,165
1190	1	Wharfinger I	2355	49,172-	61,095
1190	2	Wharfinger II	2683	56,021-	69,614
0531		Witness Service Coordinator	2004	41,843-	52,012
1775		Workers Compensation Claims Assistant	2096	43,764-	54,351
APPENDIX D
MOU03-07
Operative on January 1,2007
RANGE:	945
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	9.45	9.98	10.54	11.13	11.75
BI-WEEKLY	756.00	798.40	843.20	890.40	940.00
MONTHLY	1,644.30	1,736.52	1,833.96	1,936.62	2,044.50
ANNUAL	19,731.60	20,838.24	22,007.52	23,239.44	24,534.00
	RANGE:	992				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	9.92	10.47	11.05	11.67	12.32
BI-WEEKLY	793.60	837.60	884.00	933.60	985.60
MONTHLY	1,726.08	1,821.78	1,922.70	2,030.58	2,143.68
ANNUAL	20,712.96	21,861.36	23,072.40	24,366.96	25,724.16
	RANGE: 1017				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	10.17	10.74	11.34	11.97	12.64
BI-WEEKLY	813.60	859.20	907.20	957.60	1,011.20
MONTHLY	1,769.58	1,868.76	1,973.16	2,082.78	2,199.36
ANNUAL	21,234.96	22,425.12	23,677.92	24,993.36	26,392.32
	RANGE: 1054				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	10.54	11.13	11.75	12.41	13.10
BI-WEEKLY	843.20	890.40	940.00	992.80	1,048.00
MONTHLY	1,833.96	1,936.62	2,044.50	2,159.34	2,279.40
ANNUAL	22,007.52	23,239.44	24,534.00	25,912.08	27,352.80
	RANGE: 1186				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	11.86	12.52	13.22	13.96	14.74
BI-WEEKLY	948.80	1,001.60	1,057.60	1,116.80	1,179.20
MONTHLY	2,063.64	2,178.48	2,300.28	2,429.04	2,564.76
ANNUAL	24,763.68	26,141.76	27,603.36	29,148.48	30,777.12
APPENDIX D
MOU03-07
Operative on January 1,2007
RANGE: 1206
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	12.06	12.73	13.44	14.19	14.98
BI-WEEKLY	964.80	1,018.40	1,075.20	1,135.20	1,198.40
MONTHLY	2,098.44	2,215.02	2,338.56	2,469.06	2,606.52
ANNUAL	25,181.28	26,580.24	28,062.72	29,628.72	31,278.24
	RANGE: 1234				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	12.34	13.03	13.76	14.53	15.34
BI-WEEKLY	987.20	1,042.40	1,100.80	1,162.40	1,227.20
MONTHLY	2,147.16	2,267.22	2,394.24	2,528.22	2,669.16
ANNUAL	25,765.92	27,206.64	28,730.88	30,338.64	32,029.92
	RANGE: 1264				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	12.64	13.34	14.08	14.87	15.70
BI-WEEKLY	1,011.20	1,067.20	1,126.40	1,189.60	1,256.00
MONTHLY	2,199.36	2,321.16	2,449.92	2,587.38	2,731.80
ANNUAL	26,392.32	27,853.92	29,399.04	31,048.56	32,781.60
	RANGE: 1300				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	13.00	13.72	14.48	15.29	16.14
BI-WEEKLY	1,040.00	1,097.60	1,158.40	1,223.20	1,291.20
MONTHLY	2,262.00	2,387.28	2,519.52	2,660.46	2,808.36
ANNUAL	27,144.00	28,647.36	30,234.24	31,925.52	33,700.32
	RANGE: 1441				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	14.41	15.21	16.06	16.96	17.91
BI-WEEKLY	1,152.80	1,216.80	1,284.80	1,356.80	1,432.80
MONTHLY	2,507.34	2,646.54	2,794.44	2,951.04	3,116.34
ANNUAL	30,088.08	31,758.48	33,533.28	35,412.48	37,396.08
APPENDIX D
MOU03-07
Operative on January 1,2007
RANGE: 1523
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	15.23	16.08	16.98	17.93	18.93
BI-WEEKLY	1,218.40	1,286.40	1,358.40	1,434.40	1,514.40
MONTHLY	2,650.02	2,797.92	2,954.52	3,119.82	3,293.82
ANNUAL	31,800.24	33,575.04	35,454.24	37,437.84	39,525.84
	RANGE: 1539				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	15.39	16.25	17.16	18.12	19.13
BI-WEEKLY	1,231.20	1,300.00	1,372.80	1,449.60	1,530.40
MONTHLY	2,677.86	2,827.50	2,985.84	3,152.88	3,328.62
ANNUAL	32,134.32	33,930.00	35,830.08	37,834.56	39,943.44
	RANGE: 1570				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	15.70	16.58	17.50	18.48	19.51
BI-WEEKLY	1,256.00	1,326.40	1,400.00	1,478.40	1,560.80
MONTHLY	2,731.80	2,884.92	3,045.00	3,215.52	3,394.74
ANNUAL	32,781.60	34,619.04	36,540.00	38,586.24	40,736.88
	RANGE: 1579				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	15.79	16.67	17.60	18.58	19.62
BI-WEEKLY	1,263.20	1,333.60	1,408.00	1,486.40	1,569.60
MONTHLY	2,747.46	2,900.58	3,062.40	3,232.92	3,413.88
ANNUAL	32,969.52	34,806.96	36,748.80	38,795.04	40,966.56
	RANGE: 1586				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	15.86	16.74	17.67	18.66	19.70
BI-WEEKLY	1,268.80	1,339.20	1,413.60	1,492.80	1,576.00
MONTHLY	2,759.64	2,912.76	3,074.58	3,246.84	3,427.80
ANNUAL	33,115.68	34,953.12	36,894.96	38,962.08	41,133.60
APPENDIX D
MOU03-07
Operative on January 1,2007
RANGE: 1602
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.02	16.91	17.85	18.85	19.90
BI-WEEKLY	1,281.60	1,352.80	1,428.00	1,508.00	1,592.00
MONTHLY	2,787.48	2,942.34	3,105.90	3,279.90	3,462.60
ANNUAL	33,449.76	35,308.08	37,270.80	39,358.80	41,551.20
	RANGE: 1650				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.50	17.42	18.39	19.42	20.50
BI-WEEKLY	1,320.00	1,393.60	1,471.20	1,553.60	1,640.00
MONTHLY	2,871.00	3,031.08	3,199.86	3,379.08	3,567.00
ANNUAL	34,452.00	36,372.96	38,398.32	40,548.96	42,804.00
	RANGE: 1668				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.68	17.61	18.59	19.63	20.72
BI-WEEKLY	1,334.40	1,408.80	1,487.20	1,570.40	1,657.60
MONTHLY	2,902.32	3,064.14	3,234.66	3,415.62	3,605.28
ANNUAL	34,827.84	36,769.68	38,815.92	40,987.44	43,263.36
	RANGE: 1681				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	16.81	17.75	18.74	19.78	20.88
BI-WEEKLY	1,344.80	1,420.00	1,499.20	1,582.40	1,670.40
MONTHLY	2,924.94	3,088.50	3,260.76	3,441.72	3,633.12
ANNUAL	35,099.28	37,062.00	39,129.12	41,300.64	43,597.44
	RANGE: 1702				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.02	17.97	18.97	20.03	21.15
BI-WEEKLY	1,361.60	1,437.60	1,517.60	1,602.40	1,692.00
MONTHLY	2,961.48	3,126.78	3,300.78	3,485.22	3,680.10
ANNUAL	35,537.76	37,521.36	39,609.36	41,822.64	44,161.20
APPENDIX D
MOU03-07
Operative on January 1,2007
RANGE: 1709
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.09	18.04	19.05	20.11	21.23
BI-WEEKLY	1,367.20	1,443.20	1,524.00	1,608.80	1,698.40
MONTHLY	2,973.66	3,138.96	3,314.70	3,499.14	3,694.02
ANNUAL	35,683.92	37,667.52	39,776.40	41,989.68	44,328.24
	RANGE: 1760				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	17.60	18.58	19.62	20.71	21.86
BI-WEEKLY	1,408.00	1,486.40	1,569.60	1,656.80	1,748.80
MONTHLY	3,062.40	3,232.92	3,413.88	3,603.54	3,803.64
ANNUAL	36,748.80	38,795.04	40,966.56	43,242.48	45,643.68
	RANGE: 1801				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.01	19.01	20.07	21.19	22.37
BI-WEEKLY	1,440.80	1,520.80	1,605.60	1,695.20	1,789.60
MONTHLY	3,133.74	3,307.74	3,492.18	3,687.06	3,892.38
ANNUAL	37,604.88	39,692.88	41,906.16	44,244.72	46,708.56
	RANGE: 1817				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.17	19.18	20.25	21.38	22.57
BI-WEEKLY	1,453.60	1,534.40	1,620.00	1,710.40	1,805.60
MONTHLY	3,161.58	3,337.32	3,523.50	3,720.12	3,927.18
ANNUAL	37,938.96	40,047.84	42,282.00	44,641.44	47,126.16
	RANGE: 1871				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	18.71	19.75	20.85	22.01	23.24
BI-WEEKLY	1,496.80	1,580.00	1,668.00	1,760.80	1,859.20
MONTHLY	3,255.54	3,436.50	3,627.90	3,829.74	4,043.76
ANNUAL	39,066.48	41,238.00	43,534.80	45,956.88	48,525.12
APPENDIX D
MOU03-07
Operative on January 1,2007
RANGE: 1958
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.58	20.67	21.82	23.04	24.32
BI-WEEKLY	1,566.40	1,653.60	1,745.60	1,843.20	1,945.60
MONTHLY	3,406.92	3,596.58	3,796.68	4,008.96	4,231.68
ANNUAL	40,883.04	43,158.96	45,560.16	48,107.52	50,780.16
	RANGE: 1961				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.61	20.70	21.85	23.07	24.36
BI-WEEKLY	1,568.80	1,656.00	1,748.00	1,845.60	1,948.80
MONTHLY	3,412.14	3,601.80	3,801.90	4,014.18	4,238.64
ANNUAL	40,945.68	43,221.60	45,622.80	48,170.16	50,863.68
	RANGE: 1971				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.71	20.81	21.97	23.19	24.48
BI-WEEKLY	1,576.80	1,664.80	1,757.60	1,855.20	1,958.40
MONTHLY	3,429.54	3,620.94	3,822.78	4,035.06	4,259.52
ANNUAL	41,154.48	43,451.28	45,873.36	48,420.72	51,114.24
	RANGE: 1999				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	19.99	21.10	22.28	23.52	24.83
BI-WEEKLY	1,599.20	1,688.00	1,782.40	1,881.60	1,986.40
MONTHLY	3,478.26	3,671.40	3,876.72	4,092.48	4,320.42
ANNUAL	41,739.12	44,056.80	46,520.64	49,109.76	51,845.04
	RANGE: 2004				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.04	21.16	22.34	23.59	24.91
BI-WEEKLY	1,603.20	1,692.80	1,787.20	1,887.20	1,992.80
MONTHLY	3,486.96	3,681.84	3,887.16	4,104.66	4,334.34
ANNUAL	41,843.52	44,182.08	46,645.92	49,255.92	52,012.08
APPENDIX D
MOU03-07
Operative on January 1,2007
RANGE: 2047
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.47	21.61	22.81	24.08	25.42
BI-WEEKLY	1,637.60	1,728.80	1,824.80	1,926.40	2,033.60
MONTHLY	3,561.78	3,760.14	3,968.94	4,189.92	4,423.08
ANNUAL	42,741.36	45,121.68	47,627.28	50,279.04	53,076.96
	RANGE: 2060				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.60	21.75	22.96	24.24	25.59
BI-WEEKLY	1,648.00	1,740.00	1,836.80	1,939.20	2,047.20
MONTHLY	3,584.40	3,784.50	3,995.04	4,217.76	4,452.66
ANNUAL	43,012.80	45,414.00	47,940.48	50,613.12	53,431.92
	RANGE: 2066				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.66	21.81	23.03	24.31	25.67
BI-WEEKLY	1,652.80	1,744.80	1,842.40	1,944.80	2,053.60
MONTHLY	3,594.84	3,794.94	4,007.22	4,229.94	4,466.58
ANNUAL	43,138.08	45,539.28	48,086.64	50,759.28	53,598.96
	RANGE: 2096				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	20.96	22.13	23.36	24.66	26.03
BI-WEEKLY	1,676.80	1,770.40	1,868.80	1,972.80	2,082.40
MONTHLY	3,647.04	3,850.62	4,064.64	4,290.84	4,529.22
ANNUAL	43,764.48	46,207.44	48,775.68	51,490.08	54,350.64
	RANGE: 2105				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.05	22.22	23.46	24.77	26.15
BI-WEEKLY	1,684.00	1,777.60	1,876.80	1,981.60	2,092.00
MONTHLY	3,662.70	3,866.28	4,082.04	4,309.98	4,550.10
ANNUAL	43,952.40	46,395.36	48,984.48	51,719.76	54,601.20
APPENDIX D
MOU03-07
Operative on January 1,2007
RANGE: 2126
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.26	22.45	23.70	25.02	26.42
BI-WEEKLY	1,700.80	1,796.00	1,896.00	2,001.60	2,113.60
MONTHLY	3,699.24	3,906.30	4,123.80	4,353.48	4,597.08
ANNUAL	44,390.88	46,875.60	49,485.60	52,241.76	55,164.96
	RANGE: 2161				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.61	22.81	24.08	25.42	26.84
BI-WEEKLY	1,728.80	1,824.80	1,926.40	2,033.60	2,147.20
MONTHLY	3,760.14	3,968.94	4,189.92	4,423.08	4,670.16
ANNUAL	45,121.68	47,627.28	50,279.04	53,076.96	56,041.92
	RANGE: 2166				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.66	22.87	24.15	25.50	26.92
BI-WEEKLY	1,732.80	1,829.60	1,932.00	2,040.00	2,153.60
MONTHLY	3,768.84	3,979.38	4,202.10	4,437.00	4,684.08
ANNUAL	45,226.08	47,752.56	50,425.20	53,244.00	56,208.96
	RANGE: 2176				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.76	22.97	24.25	25.60	27.03
BI-WEEKLY	1,740.80	1,837.60	1,940.00	2,048.00	2,162.40
MONTHLY	3,786.24	3,996.78	4,219.50	4,454.40	4,703.22
ANNUAL	45,434.88	47,961.36	50,634.00	53,452.80	56,438.64
	RANGE: 2183				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	21.83	23.05	24.34	25.70	27.13
BI-WEEKLY	1,746.40	1,844.00	1,947.20	2,056.00	2,170.40
MONTHLY	3,798.42	4,010.70	4,235.16	4,471.80	4,720.62
ANNUAL	45,581.04	48,128.40	50,821.92	53,661.60	56,647.44
APPENDIX D
MOU03-07
Operative on January 1,2007
RANGE: 2279
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.79	24.06	25.40	26.82	28.32
BI-WEEKLY	1,823.20	1,924.80	2,032.00	2,145.60	2,265.60
MONTHLY	3,965.46	4,186.44	4,419.60	4,666.68	4,927.68
ANNUAL	47,585.52	50,237.28	53,035.20	56,000.16	59,132.16
	RANGE: 2296				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	22.96	24.24	25.59	27.02	28.53
BI-WEEKLY	1,836.80	1,939.20	2,047.20	2,161.60	2,282.40
MONTHLY	3,995.04	4,217.76	4,452.66	4,701.48	4,964.22
ANNUAL	47,940.48	50,613.12	53,431.92	56,417.76	59,570.64
	RANGE: 2305				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.05	24.34	25.70	27.13	28.64
BI-WEEKLY	1,844.00	1,947.20	2,056.00	2,170.40	2,291.20
MONTHLY	4,010.70	4,235.16	4,471.80	4,720.62	4,983.36
ANNUAL	48,128.40	50,821.92	53,661.60	56,647.44	59,800.32
	RANGE: 2309				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.09	24.38	25.74	27.18	28.70
BI-WEEKLY	1,847.20	1,950.40	2,059.20	2,174.40	2,296.00
MONTHLY	4,017.66	4,242.12	4,478.76	4,729.32	4,993.80
ANNUAL	48,211.92	50,905.44	53,745.12	56,751.84	59,925.60
	RANGE: 2313				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.13	24.42	25.78	27.22	28.74
BI-WEEKLY	1,850.40	1,953.60	2,062.40	2,177.60	2,299.20
MONTHLY	4,024.62	4,249.08	4,485.72	4,736.28	5,000.76
ANNUAL	48,295.44	50,988.96	53,828.64	56,835.36	60,009.12
APPENDIX D
MOU03-07
Operative on January 1,2007
RANGE: 2355
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	23.55	24.86	26.25	27.71	29.26
BI-WEEKLY	1,884.00	1,988.80	2,100.00	2,216.80	2,340.80
MONTHLY	4,097.70	4,325.64	4,567.50	4,821.54	5,091.24
ANNUAL	49,172.40	51,907.68	54,810.00	57,858.48	61,094.88
	RANGE: 2558				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	25.58	27.01	28.52	30.11	31.79
BI-WEEKLY	2,046.40	2,160.80	2,281.60	2,408.80	2,543.20
MONTHLY	4,450.92	4,699.74	4,962.48	5,239.14	5,531.46
ANNUAL	53,411.04	56,396.88	59,549.76	62,869.68	66,377.52
	RANGE: 2629				
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	26.29	27.76	29.31	30.94	32.67
BI-WEEKLY	2,103.20	2,220.80	2,344.80	2,475.20	2,613.60
MONTHLY	4,574.46	4,830.24	5,099.94	5,383.56	5,684.58
ANNUAL	54,893.52	57,962.88	61,199.28	64,602.72	68,214.96
	RANGE: 2683				
	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
HOURLY	26.83	28.33	29.91	31.58	33.34
BI-WEEKLY	2,146.40	2,266.40	2,392.80	2,526.40	2,667.20
MONTHLY	4,668.42	4,929.42	5,204.34	5,494.92	5,801.16
ANNUAL	56,021.04	59,153.04	62,452.08	65,939.04	69,613.92
MOU03-07
Appendix E
MOU 3
NOTES TO SALARY APPENDICES
The following notes shall apply to all eligible employees:
A.	Notwithstanding Section 4.61, Salary Notes Applicable to the Library Department, Note 5 and Section 4.92(d)(2), Salary Step Advancement, the initial salary step advancement for a part-time employee (half-time or more but less than full-time) exempted from Civil Service provisions by Charter Section 1001(d)(4) in a position compensated on salary range shall be in the payroll period following the completion of 520 hours and six months of service. Each subsequent step advancement shall be in the payroll period following the completion of 1040 additional hours and one additional year of service. Hours of service in excess of those required for step advancement in a time period shall be carried forward for credit in the next time period.
Intermittent employees shall be paid a rate corresponding to the entering step in the salary range for the classification in which the employee is employed. Full-time or half-time employees changing to intermittent status in the same civil service class shall continue to be paid at the same rate as which they were last paid while a full/half-time employee. Employees who are being compensated on a step in a salary range higher than that prescribed in this MOU shall receive salary at their existing rate until that rate meets or exceeds the rate prescribed by this MOU.
B.	Any employee who displaces, reverts or transfers to another classification to avoid layoff from the class of Data Entry Operator, Code 1433-1-2, shall receive salary at the rate of Data Entry Operator for a maximum of three years from the date of displacement, reversion or transfer. At the end of that three-year period such employee shall receive the salary for the position in which he/she is employed.
C.	All employees in the class of Community and Administrative Support Worker I, Code 1112, shall be paid at the appropriate minimum wage as set forth by the Federal and State Government, whichever is higher.
Any person employed in the class of Community and Administrative Support Worker I, Code 1112, in the Department of Aging who is a Program Monitor Trainee enrolled in the Senior Community Service Employment Program shall receive, in addition to his/her regular compensation, one dollar and seventy-five cents ($1.75) per hour.
D.	Employees covered by this MOU shall not be eligible for adjusted salary under the provisions of LAAC Section 4.61, Schedule A, Note K.
MOU03-07
Appendix E
E.	Effective July 1, 2005, any employee in the class of Communications Operator III, Code 1461-3, assigned to a safety dispatch function in the Department of Transportation, Department of Airports, or Department of General Services who is required to train new employees more than 50% of the time in any one day shall receive salary at the first premium level rate (2.75%) above the appropriate step rate of the salary range for the class for each day so assigned.
The following note shall apply to employees in the Department of General Services only:
F.	Two employees in the class of Duplicating Machine Operator when regularly assigned to operate the four color printer shall receive salary at the first premium level (2.75%) above the appropriate step rate of the salary range prescribed for the class.
The following notes shall apply to employees in the Harbor Department only:
G.	One employee in the class of Wharfinger I, Code 1190-1, who is assigned the duties of translating manifests and/or bills of lading received in Spanish to the English language, shall receive salary while so assigned, at the second premium level rate (5.5%) above the appropriate step rate of the salary range for the class.
H.	The salary range for the class of Senior Clerk Typist, Code 1368-3, includes full compensation for night shift differentials and all time worked on holidays. Any person in the class of Senior Clerk Typist, filling a position of Senior Clerk Typist, Code 1368-3, either from reassignment from within the Harbor Department, or transfer from any other City Department shall retain his/her present salary step and anniversary date upon such appointment.
I.	Senior Clerk Typists, Code 1368-3, assigned as Port Pilot Dispatchers shall receive salary at the second premium level (5.5%) above the appropriate step rate of the salary range prescribed for the class. In addition, these employees will be compensated for each hour of work in excess of eighty (80) hours in the pay period at the overtime rate of time and one-half.
J.	Effective July 1, 2005, Senior Clerk Typists, Code 1368-3, assigned as Port Police Dispatchers shall receive salary at the second premium level (5.5%) above the appropriate step rate of the salary range prescribed for the class. In addition, these employees will be compensated for each hour or work in excess of forty (40) hours in a workweek, including all absences with pay authorized by law, at the rate of time and one-half hours for each hour of overtime worked.
MOU03-07
Appendix E
The following notes shall apply to employees in the Office of Finance only:
K.	Any person employed in the class of Clerk Typist, Code 1358, when assigned duties as a cashier at least 80% of his/her time in any one day, shall receive salary at the fourth premium level rate above the appropriate step rate of the salary range prescribed for that class.
L.	Effective July 1, 2005, any Senior Clerk Typist, Code 1368, or Clerk Typist, Code 1358, who is assigned by Management in the Office of Finance to provide direct services to taxpayers for 50% or more of his/her time in any one day at the Central, One Stop, San Pedro, Westchester, Watts, Hollywood, West Los Angeles, Van Nuys offices, or other Management designated sites, shall receive salary at the second premium level rate above the appropriate step of the salary range prescribed for the class for each day so assigned. Direct Services involve real-time communication either in person or via the telephone to perform the following duties: establishing and processing new, renewal, change or cancellation of business tax accounts and permits and/or advising applicants or taxpayers concerning the interpretation and application of ordinances and government codes which pertain to the classification and issuance of business tax certificates, licenses or permits.
The following notes shall apply to employees in the Police Department only:
M.	When an employee in the class of Senior Clerk Typist, Code 1368, who is regularly assigned to the Police Department Records and Identification Division or Information Technology Division, Operations Support Unit, is regularly assigned to operate a remote data entry and recall system (e.g., Video 370 CRT), such employee shall receive salary at the first premium level rate (2.75%) above the appropriate step rate of the salary range for his/her class.
N.	Effective July 1,2005, employees in the class of Clerk Typist, Code 1358, and Senior Clerk Typist, Code 1368, who are regularly assigned to an Area Records Unit shall receive salary at the third premium level rate (8.25%) above the appropriate step rate of the salary range for the class.
O.	When assigned (permanent or temporary) to the Metropolitan Dispatch Center (MDC) or Valley Dispatch Center (VDC) working as an Auxiliary Telephone Operator, Emergency Board Operator, Radio Telephone Operator, or Instructor/Bureau Communications Coordinator, employees in the class and pay grade of Police Service Representative II and III, Codes 2207-2 and 2207-3, shall be eligible for one “Dispatch Floor” bonus, as follows:
1.	Employees with more than five (5) years of aggregate service in the Central Dispatch Center (CDC), MDC, and/or VDC working the above-listed assignments, shall receive salary at the second premium level (5.5%) above
MOU03-07
Appendix E
the appropriate step rate of the salary range prescribed for their class and pay grade. For the purpose of determining eligible years of service in CDC/MDC/VDC, absences during a qualifying assignment of up to seven consecutive deployment periods shall be included in the qualifying years of service. However, absences contiguous to, and in excess of, seven consecutive deployment periods shall be excluded from the qualifying time and must be made up before being eligible to receive the bonus. (Absences include paid or unpaid time off due to family/medical leave, sick leave, lOD/Workers’ Compensation, jury duty, military leave, and personal leaves of absence.)
2.	Employees with more than seven (7) years of aggregate service in the CDC, MDC, and/or VDC working the above-listed assignments, shall receive salary at the third premium level (8.25%) above the appropriate step rate of the salary range prescribed for their class and pay grade. After qualifying for the five-year “Dispatch Floor” bonus described in M.1. above, for the purpose of determining eligible years of service in CDC/MDC/VDC for the sixth and seventh years, absences during a qualifying assignment of up to seven consecutive deployment periods shall be included in the qualifying years of service. However, absences contiguous to, and in excess of, seven consecutive deployment periods shall be excluded from the qualifying time (during the sixth and seventh years) and must be made up before being eligible to receive the bonus. (Absences include paid or unpaid time off due to family/medical leave, sick leave, lOD/Workers’ Compensation, jury duty, military leave, and personal leaves of absence.)
3.	Employees with more than nine (9) years of aggregate service in the CDC, MDC, and/or VDC working the above-listed assignments, shall receive salary at the fourth premium level (11.0%) above the appropriate step rate of the salary range prescribed for their class and pay grade. After qualifying for the seven-year “Dispatch Floor” bonus described in M.2. above, for the purpose of determining eligible years of service in CDC/MDC/VDC.for the eighth and ninth years, absences during a qualifying assignment of up to seven consecutive deployment periods shall be included in the qualifying years of service. However, absences contiguous to, and in excess of, seven consecutive deployment periods shall be excluded from the qualifying time (during the eighth and ninth years) and must be made up before being eligible to receive the bonus. (Absences include paid or unpaid time off due to family/medical leave, sick leave, lOD/Workers’ Compensation, jury duty, military leave, and personal leaves of absence.)
Police Service Representatives II and III who qualify for the “Dispatch Floor” bonus, as described above, shall continue receiving said bonus when they are loaned to a non-floor function, other than Classroom Instruction/Simulator (Police Service Representative III only) or Tape Room, in MDC or VDC for a period of time not to exceed
MOU03-07
Appendix E
two deployment periods. Police Service Representatives II who qualify for the “Dispatch Floor” bonus and who are loaned to the Tape Room, shall continue to receive said bonus for a period of time not to exceed twenty-six (26) deployment periods. During the loan periods described herein, members shall continue to accrue years of service for purposes of qualifying for either the five, seven, or nine year “Dispatch Floor” bonus. Members who elect to remain in a non-floor MDC or VDC assignment beyond the two (2) deployment period, or twenty-six (26) deployment period for the Tape Room, shall not be entitled to receive any “Dispatch Floor” bonus, and accrual time for said bonus shall cease. Absent exigent circumstances Management will not require non-floor loans beyond two deployment periods (except the Tape Room which will not exceed 26 deployment periods). Should an employee request to remain in a non-floor loan assignment beyond these prescribed time periods, then the Dispatch Floor bonus will cease.
Effective July 1,2002, the “Dispatch Floor"’ bonus described above shall apply to Police Service Representatives assigned to the Transition Team (Lutricia Casaway, Maria Guerrero, Michele Hagerty, Leticia Ortiz, Maria Ramos, Linda Shepperd, Leslie Smith, and Mary Vega)and the Configuration Unit (Alessandra Casilio, Dora Corral, Alma Moore, Zena Racely). It is intended that the Transition Team and Configuration Unit assignments are temporary.
P.	Any employee in the class of Police Service Representative, Code 2207, who is assigned to the Emergency Board in the Central Dispatch Center, and communicates with the public in the Spanish language, shall receive salary at the first premium level rate (2.75%) above the appropriate step rate of the salary range for the class, in addition to any other compensation provided to the employee under provisions of Section 4.84 of the LAAC.
Q.	Any employee in the class of Police Service Representative, Code 2207, assigned to the Central Dispatch Center in the Communications Division who, prior to July 5,1995 received salary at the first premium level rate (2.75%) above the appropriate step rate of the salary range for the class for the training of citizen volunteers who communicate in the Spanish language, and who is still employed as a PSR in the Central Dispatch Center, shall continue to receive that one premium level rate (2.75%). Further, any employee hired into the class of Police Service Representative, Code 2207, for that purpose prior to July 5, 1995 shall also continue to receive that one premium level rate. Employees hired into the class of Police Service Representative, Code 2207, subsequent to July 5,1995 will not be eligible for the additional compensation provided under this note. All employees who receive the additional compensation under this note shall be considered to be on call for as-needed training of citizen volunteers, and shall not qualify for any other additional compensation for that duty.
R.	Three employees in the class of Senior Clerk Typist, Code 1368, who are assigned to the Training Division and are required to train department personnel in the use
MOU03-07
Appendix E
of automated systems, each such employee shall receive salary at the second premium level rate (5.5%) above the appropriate step rate of the salary range for the class.
S.	Notwithstanding Section 4.91 of the LAAC, any employee, who after having occupied a position in the class of Police Service Representative, Code 2207, for less than one year is assigned or appointed to a position in a class covered by this MOU in a lower salary range than Police Service Representative, shall upon such assignment be entitled to receive salary at the step to which such employee would have been eligible had he/she not occupied a position in the class of Police Service Representative.
The following note shall apply to employees in the Zoo Department only:
T.	When an employee in the class of Communications Operator I, Code 1461 -1, assigned to the Zoo, and is assigned to train other personnel in the class of Communications Operator more than 50% of the time in any one day, such employee shall receive salary at the first premium level rate (2.75%) above the appropriate step rate of the salary range for the class for each day so assigned.
The following note shall apply to employees in the Department of Recreation and Parks only:
U.	Whenever a Communications Operator, Code 1461, in the Department of Recreation and Parks, is designated and assigned by Management to act as lead over another Communications Operator for over 50 percent of their work shift, he/she shall receive compensation at the second premium level rate above the appropriate step of the salary range prescribed for the class while so assigned. The designation, re-designation or removal of a lead assignment shall be a Management prerogative and may occur any time Management deems it appropriate.
Effective July 1, 2005, the above note shall apply to employees in the Department of General Services.
The following notes shall apply to employees in the Department of Public Works only:
V.	Any employee in the class of Clerk Typist, Code 1358, or Clerk Stenographer, Code 1321, who is regularly assigned to process requests for service, or who is assigned to process requests for service more than 50% of his/her time in any one day, in the Service Request Section of the Bureau of Street Services, Department of Public Works, shall receive salary at the fifth premium level above the appropriate step rate of the salary range prescribed for the class.
Any employee in the class of Clerk Typist, Code 1358, who is regularly assigned to process requests for service, or who is assigned to process requests for
MOU03-07
Appendix E
service more than 50% of his/her time in any one day, through the 800 Hotline phone number in the Solid Resources Collection Division of the Bureau of Sanitation, Department of Public Works, shall receive salary at the fifth premium level above the appropriate step rate of the salary range prescribed for the class.
Any employee in the class of Clerk Typist, Code 1358, who is regularly assigned to process requests for service, or who is assigned to process requests for service more than 50% of his/her time in any one day, in the Sewer Service Charge (SSC) Refund and Public Information Section (Financial Management Division) of the Bureau of Sanitation, Department of Public Works, shall receive salary at the fifth premium level above the appropriate step rate of the salary range prescribed for the class.
Any employee in the class of Senior Clerk Typist, Code 1368, who is regularly assigned to supervise and process requests for service, or who is assigned to supervise and process requests for service more than 50% of his/her time in any one day, in the Service Request Section of the Bureau of Street Services, Department of Public Works, shall receive salary at the fifth premium level above the appropriate step rate of the salary range prescribed for the class.
Any employee in the class of Senior Clerk Typist, Code 1368, who is regularly assigned to supervise and process requests for service, or who is assigned to supervise and process requests for service more than 50% of his/her time in any one day, through the 800 Hotline phone number in the Solid Resources Collection Division of the Bureau of Sanitation, Department of Public Works, shall receive salary at the fifth premium level above the appropriate step rate of the salary range prescribed for the class.
Any employee in the classof Senior Clerk Typist, Code 1368, who is regularly assigned to supervise and process requests for service, or who is assigned to supervise and process requests for service more than 50% of his/her time in any one day, in the Sewer Service Charge (SSC) Refund and Public Information Section (Financial Management Division) of the Bureau of Sanitation, Department of Public Works, shall receive salary at the fifth premium level above the appropriate step rate of the salary range prescribed for the class.
Effective July 1,2005, Clerk Typists who were compensated in accordance with Note V on June 30, 2005, will receive salary at the appropriate step of the salary range for Communications Operator II, Code 1461-2, in lieu of the salary provided for in Note V.
W.	Effective July 1,2005, one employee assigned to the West Los Angeles Office of the Bureau of Engineering and one employee assigned to the Valley Office of the Bureau of Engineering in the class of Senior Clerk Typist, Code 1368, when assigned by Management to interpret the permit related provisions of the Municipal Code, the Bureau Permit Manuals and Policies, and to independently issue S, A, B, Street Use, and S FC permits based on authority from engineering staff for 50% or more of his/her time in any
MOU03-07
Appendix E
one day shall be compensated at the second premium level above the appropriate step of the salary range prescribed for the class for each day so assigned.
The following notes shall apply to employees in the Library Department only:
X.	Any Library Department employee in the class of Delivery Driver I, Code 11211, or Delivery Driver II, Code 1121-2, who is assigned as a relief driver of a bookmobile shall, for each day so assigned, receive salary at the rate of the entering step of the salary range for the class of Truck Operator, Code 3583.
Y.	Any person in the class of Delivery Driver II, Code 1121-2, when assigned as a relief driver to drive a vehicle weighing two tons or more, on a delivery run which includes loading and unloading of that vehicle, within the same working day, for each day so assigned shall receive salary at the second premium rate (5.5%) above the appropriate step rate of the salary range for the class. This provision shall be limited to a maximum of two (2) persons in the class of Delivery Driver II, per vehicle, per working day, when so assigned.
Z. Any employee assigned by Management to perform duties related to the acquisition or cataloging of Library materials which require the use of a language other than English for the translation or transliteration of such materials, shall receive, in addition to his/her regular compensation, seven dollars ($7.00) for each day so assigned.
The following notes shall apply to employees in the Department of Building and Safety only:
AA. Any person employed in the class of Clerk Typist, Code 1358, when assigned duties as a cashier at least 80% of the time in any one day, shall receive salary at the fourth premium level rate above the appropriate step rate of the salary range prescribed for the class.
BB. Any person employed in the class of Clerk Typist, Code 1358, when assigned as a relief cashier on an intermittent basis, less than 80% of the time as indicated in Note "Y" above, shall receive salary at the second premium level rate above the appropriate step rate of the salary range prescribed for the class, for each hour worked in such assignment.
Note: Only one Clerk Typist in each district and branch office will be assigned as the office relief cashier and will be eligible to receive this bonus. A Clerk Typist being trained, as a relief cashier, shall also be eligible to receive this bonus for each hour worked in such training.
CC. Any employee in the class of Clerk Typist, Code 1358, or Clerk Stenographer, Code 1321 who is regularly assigned to process requests for service, or who is assigned to process requests for service more than 50% of his/her time in any one day, through the
MOU03-07
Appendix E
800/888 Customer Service phone number for the Department of Building & Safety, shall receive salary at the fifth premium level above the appropriate step rate of the salary range prescribed for the class.
Any employee in the class of Senior Clerk Typist, Code 1368, who is regularly assigned to supervise and process requests for service, or who is assigned to supervise and process requests for service more than 50% of his/her time in any one day, through the 800/888 Customer Service phone number for the Department of Building & Safety, shall receive salary at the fifth premium level above the appropriate step rate of the salary range prescribed for the class.
Effective July 1,2005, Clerk Typists who were compensated in accordance with Note CC on June 30,2005 will be compensated on the appropriate step of the salary range for Communications Operator II, Code 1461-2, in lieu of the compensation provided for in Note CC.
DD. Effective July 1, 2005, the following note shall apply to employees of the Department of Building and Safety Express Permits only:
Any employee in the class of Clerk Typist, Code 1358, who is regularly assigned to process and approve the issuance of building, electrical, plumbing, and mechanical Express Permits involving the knowledge of the City of Los Angeles and State of California regulations related to the issuance of Express Permits, more than 50% of his/her time in any one day, shall receive salary at the second premium level rate above the appropriate step rate of the salary range of the assigned class.
Any employee in the class of Clerk Typist, Code 1358, who is regularly assigned to process and approve the issuance of building, electrical, plumbing, and mechanical Express Permits involving the knowledge of the City of Los Angeles and State of California regulations related to the issuance of Express Permits, less than 50% of his/her time in any one day, shall receive salary at the second premium level rate above the appropriate step rate of the salary range of the assigned class for each hour or portion thereof worked in the Express Permits function of the Department of Building and Safety.
Any employee in the classof Senior Clerk Typist, Code 1368, who is regularly assigned to process and approve the issuance of building, electrical, plumbing, and mechanical Express Permits involving the knowledge of the City of Los Angeles and State of California regulations related to the issuance of Express Permits, more than 50% of his/her time in any one day, or supervise employees performing this work more than 50% of their work day, shall receive salary at the second premium level rate above the appropriate step rate of the salary range of the assigned class.
Any employee in the class of Senior Clerk Typist, Code 1368, who is assigned to process and approve the issuance of building, electrical, plumbing, and mechanical
MOU03-07
Appendix E
Express Permits involving the knowledge of the City of Los Angeles and State of California regulations related to the issuance of Express Permits, less than 50% of his/her time in any one day, or supervise employees performing this work, shall receive salary at the second premium level rate above the appropriate step rate of the salary range of the assigned class for each hour or portion thereof worked in the Express Permits function of the Department of Building and Safety.
A Clerk Typist or Senior Clerk Typist is eligible to receive only one bonus under this section.
The following note shall apply to employees of the Department of Airports only:
EE. Any employee in the class of Clerk, Code 1141 or Senior Clerk Typist, Code1368 assigned to the Flyaway Terminal, when assigned duties as a cashier or assigned to supervise such duties at least 80% of the time in any consecutive two week period, shall receive salary at the second premium level rate above the appropriate step rate of the salary range prescribed for the class.
The following notes shall apply to employees of El Pueblo de Los Angeles State Historic Monument only:
FF. Members of this Unit who were employed by El Pueblo de Los Angeles State Historic Monument between May 17,1977 and June 30,1995 and who became members of LACERS on July 1, 1995 and who are not vested in LACERS at the time they separate from City service, but whose age and combined service with El Pueblo during the specified period and any other City service would have made him or her eligible for an unreduced retirement (had all of the time been covered under LACERS) shall be compensated for the balance of accumulated sick leave at full pay and 50% of full pay remaining unused at the date of separation in the same manner provided under LAAC Section 4.126 for retirements.
GG. One position of Senior Clerk Typist at El Pueblo occupied by Julie Sandoval while she is regularly assigned to coordinate part-time staff and dissemination of El Pueblo Historical Monument literature shall receive salary at the fifth premium level above the appropriate step rate of the salary range for the class, inclusive of all bonuses, for the period July 1,2002, through December 31,2004.
The following note shall apply to employees in the Department of General Services only:
HH. Effective July 1,2005, Accounting Clerks I and II, Code 1223-1-2, assigned to the Payment Services Division of the Department of General Services shall receive salary at the fourth premium level rate above the appropriate step rate for the class of Accounting Clerk I. This note shall expire at such time as the employees in these positions are
MOU03-07
Appendix E
reallocated and found legally employed in another classification, and a salary for that classification has been approved by the City Council.
Effective July 1,2005, eight (8) employees in the class of Accounting Clerk II, Code 1223-2, who are regularly assigned to perform SMS Paycycle functions, conduct training of SMS Accounts, or review work completed by other SMS Payment Clerks, shall receive salary at the sixth premium level rate above the appropriate rate of the salary range prescribed for the class of Accounting Clerk I, Code 1223-1.
MOU3-07
MOU03-07
Appendix F
ERGONOMICS PILOT STUDY
In the 2001-04 MOU, the parties agreed to implement a two-year pilot study to determine the effectiveness of training and workstation modification in promoting a safer environment and reducing work place injuries. The pilot study took place in the Police Department’s (LAPD) Records and Identification Division (R & I).
The pilot study consisted of the following:
1.	The Ergonomics Review Subcommittee
•	Composed of three bargaining unit members (selected by AFSCME), and three management representatives (selected by LAPD), and a non-voting Risk Management Safety expert.
•	Reviewed Workers Compensation claims for R & I to establish a baseline of claims and costs.
•	Reviewed the results of the ergonomic assessment of R&l workstations and prepared a report of the findings and recommendations.
•	Provided annual reports regarding the progress and results of the pilot study to the City Safety Administrator, CAO Employee Relations Division, and AFSCME Local 3090. These reports also included an accounting of funds spent to date on the pilot study.
•	Provided a final report regarding the results and conclusions of the pilot study to the City Safety Administrator, CAO Employee Relations Division, and AFSCME Local 3090. This report also included an accounting of all funds spent on the pilot study.
2.	Risk Management
•	Provided ergonomics training to all R & I employees within funds budgeted for the Safety Academy to the extent that they were available.
•	Provided orientation training to the Ergonomics Review Subcommittee within funds budgeted for the Safety Academy.
•	In conjunction with Ergonomic Team members, workstations occupied by bargaining unit members were ergonomically assessed within funds provided below.
•	Established training goals that provided the employee with sufficient knowledge about health issues, correct workstation adjustment and use.
MOU03-07
Appendix F
•	Provided training for supervisors that enabled them to recognize improper setup and use of ergonomic workstations. Instructed them to modify workstations and informed them of equipment available to correct improper workstations. Instructed supervisors how to recognize health-related concerns for computer users.
3.	Omega Solutions/AFSCME Health and Safety Coordinator
•	Arranged and coordinated the orientation training, the ergonomics training and the workstation assessments (approximately 100 stations to be assessed).
•	Established and coordinated the meeting schedules, agendas and meeting minutes for the subcommittee.
4.	LAPD
•	Established and appointed an Ergonomic team of three R & I employees or supervisors who received training at a level which enabled them to make basic workstation evaluations and recommendations.
•	Assigned appropriate supervisors and managers to attend subcommittee meetings and participate as necessary.
•	Implemented any changes recommended as a result of the workstation assessments to the extent funds were available.
•	Made every effort to implement administrative changes recommended subject to availability of funds.
5.	Ergonomics Team
•	Consisted of three employees or supervisors.
•	Team members received training provided by Omega Solutions to enable them to make workstation basic evaluations and recommendations.
6.	City of Los Angeles/CAO
•	The City reprogrammed $70,000 in funds ($50,000 from Office of Finance contractual services account and $20,000 from the Human Resources Trust Fund originally budgeted for the VDT optical plan in FY 02) for costs associated with this pilot study as described above. The funds will be used for workstation assessments and concomitant upgrades, and staffing to compile baseline and study statistics.
MOU03-07
Appendix F
•	The parties agree that the information gleaned from the pilot study will be used to support the appropriation of funds for similar programs in other City departments, but the City is not obligated to appropriate additional funds.
7.	During the term of the 2004-2007 MOU, the Ergonomic Pilot Study will:
•	Continue to actively participate in the ergonomic pilot study activities, such as educational training sessions, ergonomic tram meetings, and safety awareness.
•	Track employee participation of safe work behaviors learned in the ergonomic training sessions.
•	Continue ergonomic team monthly meetings.
•	Continue ergonomic team activities, such as workstation assessments, equipment modification requests, equipment training, safe behavior observations, etc.
•	Implement a continuous ergonomic training assessment and training module in order to maintain an awareness of injury prevention.
•	Incorporate ergonomic training into new employee orientation.
$274,000 will be included in the 2005-06 Police Department Budget for the upgrade of equipment and furniture modification that was recommended in the Work Risk analysis report generated by the consultant, Omega Solutions in Ergonomics.
At the conclusion of the study, a report will be generated as set forth in Article 12, Section VI.
MOU03-07
Appendix G
7(b) WORK PERIOD
In conjunction with the overtime provisions of Article 33, employees on a 7(b) work period shall be paid FLSA overtime in accordance with FLSA Section 7(b)(2)[29 U.S.C. §207(b)(2)] for all hours worked in excess of the following thresholds:
1.	All hours worked over 12 hours per day or 56 hours of work per week (whichever results in greater benefit to the employee) up until the number of hours guaranteed (up to 2,080).
2.	All hours worked over 40 in a workweek after the guaranteed number of hours have been worked, if the hours guaranteed for a 52-week period are less than 2,080. Also, the hours guaranteed must not be less than 1,840.
3.	All hours worked beyond 2,080 hours up to 2,240 hours.
4.	Employees will not work over 2,240 hours in a 52-week period. If an employee works over 2,240 hours in the 52-week period, overtime is paid for all hours worked over 40 in each workweek during the 52-week period less straight-time and overtime pay previously paid.
FLSA overtime compensation for these employees shall be in time off at the rate of one and one-half hours for each hour of overtime worked or in cash at one and one-half times the employee’s regular rate of pay, at the discretion of Management.
MOU03-07
LETTER OF INTENT
2004-07 MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 3
FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (FMLA) BENEFITS
The undersigned parties agree that, notwithstanding Section V (B) “Management Notification" of the Family and Medical Leave articles in MOUs 3 (Clerical), 6 (Librarian), 16 (Supervisory Librarian), 10 (Professional Medical Services), 11 (Recreational), 37 (Executive Administrative Assistant), and 7 (Recreation Assistant), said Family and Medical Leave article will not be implemented in a manner that will discontinue the City health insurance subsidy for an employee due to his or her own catastrophic illness or injury after the exhaustion of compensated time, if requested by the employee. Accordingly, an employee may request the use of Family or Medical Leave after the exhaustion of compensated time for a period not to exceed nine (9) pay periods for the purpose of extending the City health insurance subsidy due to his or her own catastrophic illness or injury. This Letter of Intent will expire at the conclusion of the MOU term or when the Joint Labor-Management Benefits Committee provides an alternative method to continue the health insurance subsidy for employees with catastrophic illnesses or injuries, whichever occurs sooner.
FOR THE UNION:
Alice Goff, President AFSCME Local 3090
Date
Executive Director
AFSCME Council 36
,/Cheryl Parj
FOR MANAGEMENT:
William Tsujioka 1
City Administrative Officer
i-u-or
Date
Date:
MOU03-07
LETTER OF INTENT 2004-07 MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 3 ECONOMIC EMERGENCY
The undersigned parties agree that during the term of the 2004-07 MOU, the MOU may be re-opened on economic issues if the Mayor and Council officially declare an economic emergency. The parties further agree that an economic emergency will be declared only after notifying the union. The declaration of an economic emergency shall not be subject to any grievance or arbitration procedure.
In the event the Mayor and Council declare an economic emergency the parties agree to immediately begin to meet and confer to address possible measures to help ameliorate the fiscal crisis. If, following a 90-day period, the parties are unable to reach agreement the meet and confer process shall be deemed to have been completed. The impasse shall then be presented to the City Council for final determination.
The parties further agree that if the economic circumstances of the City rapidly and dramatically improve, the City agrees to re-open the MOUs on economic issues to discuss possible enhancements, including wages. Specifically, if the City’s reserve fund actual “Balance Available, July 1" (a combination of the Emergency Reserve and Contingency Reserve), as detailed in the Appendix III of the Budget Resolution prepared for the purpose of adopting a Budget for the City of Los Angeles, Reserve Fund Schedule, in any fiscal year during the term of this MOU reaches or exceeds $275 million then the City will notify the Union and immediately begin to meet and confer. If, following a 90-day period, the parties are unable to reach agreement the meet and confer process shall be deemed to have been completed. The impasse shall then be presented to the City Council for final determination.
FOR AFSCME:
AFSCME Council 36, Executive Director
FOR THE CITY:
William T Fctfioka 1
City Administrative Officer
7- )5-QS
Date
Date
MOU03-07
LETTER OF AGREEMENT 2004-07 MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 3 PART TIME TRANSITION
The parties agree that the City will transition employees from intermittent to exempt halftime status (1040 hours in a service year) who have worked 952 or more hours in any two of the last three service years or who worked 1040 hours or more in any of the last three service years, are on the payroll as of the date that the MOU is approved by the City Council, and are working in positions where a half-time schedule can be maintained.
This one-time qualifying provision shall be applicable for employees on active payroll status on the date this Agreement is approved by the City Council.
FOR AFSCME:
Cheryl Pari AFSCME Council 36, Executive Director
FOR THE CITY:
William T Fujioka
City Administrative Officer
7-/3- Ob
Date
Date
MOU03-07
LETTER OF AGREEMENT 2004*07 MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 3 COMMUNICATIONS OPERATORS
The parties agree that Management may assign employees in the class of Communications Operator, Code 1461, to day, evening, or graveyard shifts. The parties will meet and confer over the impact of reassigning day shift employees currently employed in the Department of Building and Safety and Bureau of Sanitation to evening or graveyard shifts at such time as Management determines there is a need for the reassignment.
FOR THE CITY:
FOR AFSCME:
AFSCME Council 36, Executive Director
7-/3- 0‘S Date
Fujioka *
William T
City Administrative Officer
n-u-K
Date
MOU03-07
LETTER OF AGREEMENT 2004-2007 MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 3 HOUSING DEPARTMENT SPECIALIZED ASSIGNMENT POSITIONS
The parties agree that the City will conduct a study of Clerical and Support Services Unit positions in the Housing Department that are assigned to determine qualification for Rent Stabilization, interpret ordinances for eviction regulations, habitability, code enforcement and register buildings to determine the appropriate classification and whether any bonuses may be warranted.
This study will be completed no later than 60 days from the date that the City Council approves this MOU. The City will meet with the union to review and discuss the results of the study.
AFSCME Council 36, Executive Director
Date
FOR THE CITY:
William T Fujioka l|
City Administrative Officer
Date
MOU03-07
LETTER OF INTENT 2004-07 MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 3 REOPENERS
1.	The parties agree to reopen Article 35, Sick Leave, at such time as the Joint Labor Management Benefits Committee makes a recommendation to unfreeze the 50% sick leave banks on a case by case basis for employees who need additional service credit for retirement.
2.	The parties agree to reopen Article 12, Safety and Ergonomics, after completion of the Ergonomics Training program and completion of the report by the UCLA health and safety experts. The report will provide findings based on a survey of City employees in this bargaining unit.
FOR AFSCME:
Cheryl Parisi <7
AFSCME Council 36, Executive Director
7~/3~19< Date
FOR THE CITY:
—
WilliamT Fujioka I City Administrative Officer
Date
MOU03-07
LETTER OF INTENT 2004-07 MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 3 PAYROLL SYSTEM
Increments of Compensated Time Off - Due to the limitations of the current payroll system (Legacy) employees can only use compensated time off (vacation, sick, and CPTO) in increments of one hour. The new payroll system (PaySR) will be able to accept compensated time off in increments of 30 minutes (1/2 hour). During the term of the 200407 MOU, at such time as the PaySR system is implemented, the parties agree to make any necessary technical corrections to the MOU provisions to allow employees to use compensated time off in increments of 30 minutes (1/2 hour).
FOR AFSCME:
Cheryl Parisi^
AFSCME Council 36, Executive Director
FOR THE CITY:
William T Fujioka V City Administrative Officer
Date
Date
MOU03-07
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
2004-07 MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 3
HOLIDAY PREMIUM PAY
The City and AFSCME agree that the intent of the modifications to Article 31, Holiday Pay, Sections H and I, is to define and clarify Holiday Premium Pay. It is mutually agreed that the modifications are not meant to change the current practice and/or policy regarding the payment of employees who work on a holiday.
FOR AFSCME:
FOR THE CITY:
Cheryl Parisiu
AFSCME Council 36, Executive Director

City Administrative Officer
Date
Date
MOU03-07
AMENDMENT NO. 1
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 3 REGARDING THE CLERICAL AND SUPPORT SERVICES UNIT
THIS AMENDMENT NO. 1 to the Clerical and Support Services Unit Memorandum of Understanding No. 3 is made and entered into thlsA^ oav of 71# item < 2005.
BY AND BETWEEN
THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS, OFFICES, AND BUREAUS REPRESENTED HEREIN BY THE CITY ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER (hereinafter referred to as “The City”)
AND
THE ALL CITY EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION, Local 3090, AFSCME, AFL-CIO (hereinafter referred to as “Union”)
JULY 1, 2004 THROUGH JUNE 30, 2007
MOU03-07
APPENDIX E NOTES TO SALARY APPENDICES
Effective January 1, 2006, the following salary notes shall be added:
Note C-1
Nothwithstanding the provisions of Article 26 (Vacation), Article 31 (Holiday Pay), and Article 35 (Sick Leave Benefits) the following shall apply to employees in the class of Community and Administrative Support Worker I, Code 1112, employed in the Department of Aging:
A.	Vacation
1.	Vacation shall continue to be credited on a monthly basis at the rates indicated in Article 26.
2.	On June 30 of each year all unused vacation hours will be compensated to the employee by cash payment at the salary rate current at the date of payment.
B.	Sick Leave
1.	Sick Leave hours at 100% pay will be credited on a monthly basis. The hours shall be pro-rated in accordance with the provisions of Article 49.
2.	No Sick Leave hours at 75% pay will be credited.
3.	On June 30 of each year all unused Sick Leave hours will be forfeited.
C.	Holiday Pay
1.	Pro-rated Holiday pay shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of Article 31 and Article 49.
2.	The unspecified holiday shall be used no later than June 30 of each year or it will be forfeited.
Note C-2
A.	When employed as a Community and Administrative Support Worker I, Code 1112, regularly assigned to provide administrative support for Department of Aging (DOA) programs and services by assisting in identifying needs, describing DOA programs and referring participants to services, Barbara Isaacs shall be paid at the hourly salary rate assigned to the class of Community and Administrative Support Worker II, Code 1113.
B.	When employed as a Community and Administrative Support Worker I, Code 1112, regularly assigned to provide administrative support for the Senior Community Service Employment Program by assisting in recruitment, conducting program orientation, assessing eligibility for the program, identifying needs, referring participants to services and preparing reports, Moyra Alpert, Lucy Crump, Policronio Domingo, Hermila Gomez, Dolores Jones, Nick Ro, Ramona Rodriguez, and Ethel Washington, shall be paid at the hourly salary rate assigned to the class of Community and Administrative Support Worker III, Code 1114.
MOU03-07
Except for the Appendix specifically amended herein, all other Appendices, Articles and/or provisions of the 2004-2007 MOU No. 3 shall remain in full force and effect during the term of the MOU.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused their duly authorized representative to execute this Amendment No. 1 to MOU No. 3, the day, month and year written below.
Local 3090
FOR THE CITY:
City Administrative Officer
Date
lores Spears
AFSCME Representative
Approved as to form and legality:
City^Attorffgy’s Office
ll-
Date
MOU03-07
AMENDMENT NO. 2
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 3 REGARDING THE CLERICAL AND SUPPORT SERVICES UNIT
THIS AMENDMENT NO. 2 to the Clerical and Support Services UnlLMemorandum of Understanding No. 3 is made and entered into this^ aav of y	.
2006.	V O'
BY AND BETWEEN
THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS, OFFICES, AND BUREAUS REPRESENTED HEREIN BY THE CITY ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER (hereinafter referred to as “The City”)
AND
THE ALL CITY EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION, Local 3090, AFSCME, AFL-CIO (hereinafter referred to as “Union”)
JULY 1, 2004 THROUGH JUNE 30, 2007
MOU03-07
Add the following class and salaries as indicated below:
Appendix B - Salaries Effective July 1,2005
Class
Code Title	Salary Range
1214 SMS Payment Clerk 2091
Appendix C - Salaries Effective July 1, 2006
Class
Code Title	Salary Range
1214 SMS Payment Clerk	2132
Appendix D - Salaries Effective January 1, 2007
Class
Code Title	Salary Range
1214 SMS Payment Clerk 2181
Add the following salary note as indicated below:
Appendix E - Notes to Salary Appendices
J J. Eight employees in the class of SMS Payment Clerk, Code 1214, who are regularly assigned to perform SMS Paycycle functions, conduct training of SMS Accounts, or review work completed by other SMS Payment Clerks, shall receive salary at the second premium level rate above the appropriate rate of the salary range prescribed for the class of SMS Payment Clerk, Code 1214.
MOU03-07
Except for the Appendices specifically amended herein, all other Appendices, Articles and/or provisions of the 2004-2007 MOU No. 3 shall remain in full force and effect during the term of the MOU.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused their duly authorized representative to execute this Amendment No. 2 to MOU No. 3, the day, month and year written below.
Executive Director
FOR THE CITY:
William T Fujioka
City Administrative Officer
AFSCME District Council 36
13 -Ofc
Date
Local 3090
AFSCME Representative
Approved as to form and legality:
Date